<text>
I am a king's forester, and they may
consider me as an enemy, and who knows how I may be treated by them
Spare not to rub down, my men
for we have
tried the mettle of our horses, and have now but one half-hour's
breathing-time. We must be on, for the work of the Lord must be done
They say that this forest is many miles in length and breadth
and we may ride many a mile to no
purpose; but here is James Southwold, who once was living in it as a
verderer; nay, I think that he said that he was born and bred in these
woods. Was it not so, James Southwold
It is even as you say
I was
born and bred in this forest, and my father was a verderer before me
he was a good lad
and now
he is a traitor and a hypocrite
If born and bred in this forest, James Southwold
you must fain know all its mazes and paths. Now, call to
mind, are there no secret hiding-places in which people may remain
concealed; no thickets which may cover both man and horse? Peradventure
thou mayest point out the very spot where this man Charles may be
hidden
I do know one dell, within a mile of Arnwood
which might cover double our troop from the eyes of the
most wary
We will ride there, then
Arnwood, sayest thou?
is not that the property of the Malignant Cavalier Beverley, who was
shot down at Naseby
Even so
and many is the time -- that is, in the
olden time, before I was regenerated -- many is the day of revelry that I
have passed there; many the cup of good ale that I have quaffed
And thou shalt quaff it again
Good ale was not
intended only for Malignants, but for those who serve diligently. After
we have examined the dell which thou speakest of, we will direct our
horses' heads toward Arnwood
Who knows but what the man Charles may be concealed in the Malignant's
house
In the day I should say no
but in the night the
Cavaliers like to have a roof over their heads; and, therefore, at
night, and not before, will we proceed thither
I have searched many of their abodes
but search
is almost in vain. What with their spring panels, and secret doors,
their false ceilings, and double walls, one may ferret forever, and
find nothing
Yes
their abodes are full of these popish
abominations; but there is one way which is sure; and if the man
Charles be concealed in any house, I venture to say that I will find
him. Fire and smoke will bring him forth; and to every Malignant's
house within twenty miles will I apply the torch; but it must be at
night, for we are not sure of his being housed during the day. James
Southwold, thou knowest well the mansion of Arnwood
I know well my way to all the offices below -- the buttery, the cellar,
and the kitchen; but I can not say that I have ever been into the
apartments of the upper house
That it needeth not; if thou canst direct us to the lower entrance it
will be sufficient
That can I, Master Ingram
and to where the best
ale used to be found
Enough, Southwold, enough; our work must be done, and diligently. Now,
my men, tighten your girths; we will just ride to the dell: if it
conceals not whom we seek, it shall conceal us till night, and then the
country shall be lighted up with the flames of Arnwood, while we
surround the house and prevent escape. Levelers, to horse
There's providence in this; yes, and there's
providence in my not having my dog with me, for he would not have
remained quiet for so long a time. Who would ever have thought that
James Southwold would have turned a traitor! more than traitor, for he
is now ready to bite the hand that has fed him, to burn the house that
has ever welcomed him. This is a bad world, and I thank Heaven that I
have lived in the woods. But there is no time to lose
And so the king has escaped
and he
may be in the forest! Who knows but he may be at Arnwood, for he must
hardly know where to go for shelter? I must haste and see Miss Judith
immediately. 'Levelers, to horse!' the fellow said. What's a Leveler
I shall have a difficult job with the stiff old lady
I don't believe that she would
rise out of her high chair for old Noll and his whole army at his back.
But we shall see
Benjamin
I must speak
with the old lady
Have you brought any venison, Jacob
else,
I reckon, you'll not be over welcome
No, I have not; but it is an important business, so send Agatha to her
directly
I will; and I'll not say any thing about the venison
You have important business with us, I am told
Most important, madam
In the first place, it is
right that you should be informed that his majesty, King Charles, has
escaped from Hampton Court
His majesty escaped
Yes; and is supposed to be secreted somewhere in this neighborhood.
His majesty is not in this house, madam, I presume
Jacob, his majesty is not in this house: if he were, I would suffer my
tongue to be torn out sooner than I would confess it, even to you
But I have more for your private ear, madam
Agatha, retire; and Agatha, be mindful that you go down stairs, and do
not remain outside the door
Ill-mannered girl
Now, Jacob Armitage, you
may proceed
And where am I to go to, Jacob
I hardly know, madam; there is my cottage; it is but a poor place, and
not fit for one like you
So I should presume, Jacob Armitage, neither shall I accept your
offer. It would ill befit the dignity of a Villiers to be frightened
out of her abode by a party of rude soldiers. Happen what will, I shall
not stir from this -- no, not even from this chair. Neither do I consider
the danger so great as you suppose. Let Benjamin saddle, and be
prepared to ride over to Lymington immediately. I will give him a
letter to the magistrate there, who will send us protection
But, madam, the children can not remain here. I will not leave them
here. I promised the colonel
Will the children be in more danger than I shall be, Jacob Armitage
They dare not ill-treat me -- they may
force the buttery and drink the ale -- they may make merry with that and
the venison which you have brought with you, I presume, but they will
hardly venture to insult a lady of the House of Villiers
I fear they will venture any thing, madam. At all events, they will
frighten the children, and for one night they will be better in my
cottage
Well, then, be it so; take them to your cottage, and take Martha to
attend upon the Miss Beverleys. Go down now, and desire Agatha to come
to me, and Benjamin to saddle as fast as he can
I'll not stay to be burned to death
Well, Mr. Armitage, this is pretty news you have brought.
What does my lady say
She desires that Benjamin saddles immediately, to carry a letter to
Lymington; and you, Agatha, are to go up stairs to her
But what does she mean to do? Where are we to go
Miss Judith intends to remain where she is
Then she will remain alone, for me
Its bad enough to have little victuals and no
wages, but as for being burned to death -- Benjamin, put a pillion behind
your saddle, and I'll go to Lymington with you. I won't be long in
getting my bundle
They'll all leave her
well, my duty is plain; I'll
not leave the children in the house
Now, Mr. Edward
you must prove yourself your father's own
son. We must leave this house immediately; come up with me to your
rooms, and help me to pack up yours and your sisters' clothes, for we
must go to my cottage this night. There is no time to be lost
But why, Jacob; I must know why
Because the Parliamentary troopers will burn it down this night
Burn it down! Why, the house is mine, is it not? Who dares to burn
down this house
They will dare it, and will do it
But we will fight them, Jacob; we can bolt and bar; I can fire a gun,
and hit too, as you know; then there's Benjamin and you
And what can you and two men do against a troop of horse, my dear boy?
If we could defend the place against them, Jacob Armitage would be the
first; but it is impossible, my dear boy. Recollect your sisters. Would
you have them burned to death, or shot by these wretches? No, no, Mr.
Edward; you must do as I say, and lose no time. Let us pack up what
will be most useful, and load White Billy with the bundles; then you
must all come to the cottage with me, and we will make it out how we
can
That will be jolly
come, Edward
Your aunt said Martha was to go with your sisters, but I doubt if she
will
and I think we shall have no room for her, for
the cottage is small enough
Oh no, we don't want her
Alice always dresses Edith
and herself too, ever since mamma died
Now we will carry down the bundles, and you make them fast on the pony
while I go for your sisters
But where does aunt Judith go
She will not leave the house, Master Edward; she intends to stay and
speak to the troopers
And so an old woman like her remains to face the enemy, while I run
away from them
I will not go
Well, Master Edward
you must do as you please; but
it will be cruel to leave your sisters here; they and Humphrey must
come with me, and I can not manage to get them to the cottage without
you go with us; it is not far, and you can return in a very short time
Now, Master Edward
will you take your sisters by the
hand and lead them to the cottage? Here is the key of the door; Master
Humphrey can lead the pony; and Master Edward
I'll tell you one thing which I will not mention before
your brother and sisters: the troopers are all about the New Forest,
for King Charles has escaped, and they are seeking for him. You must
not, therefore, leave your brother and sisters till I return. Lock the
cottage-door as soon as it is dark. You know where to get a light, over
the cupboard; and my gun is loaded, and hangs above the mantlepiece.
You must do your best if they attempt to force an entrance; but above
all, promise me not to leave them till I return. I will remain here to
see what I can do with your aunt, and when I come back we can then
decide how to act
Why, where can Martha be going
Will she be back when we
come home to-morrow
Well, she has taken plenty of
clothes in that huge bundle for one night, at least
Have you seen Miss Judith, Agatha
Yes; and she told me that she should remain, and that I should stand
behind her chair that she might receive the troopers with dignity; but
I don't admire the plan. They might leave her alone, but I am sure that
they will be rude to me
When did Benjamin say he would be back
He don't intend coming back. He said he would not, at all events, till
to-morrow morning, and then he would ride out this way, to ascertain if
the report was false or true. But Martha has gone with him
I wish I could persuade the old lady to leave the house
I fear they will not pay her the respect that she
calculates upon. Go up, Agatha, and say I wish to speak with her
No, not I; I must be off, for it is dark already
And where are you going, then
To Gossip Allwood's. It's a good mile, and I have to carry my things
Well, Agatha, if you'll take me up to the old lady, I'll carry your
things for you
I wish, madam
you would be persuaded to leave the house
for this night
Jacob Armitage, leave this house I will not, if it were filled with
troopers; I have said so
But, madam
No more, sir; you are too forward
But, madam
Leave my presence, Jacob Armitage, and never appear again. Quit the
room, and send Agatha here
She has left, madam, and so has the cook, and Martha went away behind
Benjamin; when I leave, you will be alone
They have dared to leave
They dared not stay, madam
Leave me, Jacob Armitage, and shut the door when you go out
Obey me instantly
But, mercy on us! what will become of the children
Poor things! and Martha has left them
Yes, indeed; what will become of the dear babes
Who would hurt such young children as those? No, no, they are safe
enough; even the troopers would protect them
I should hope so
You may be sure of that; no man would hurt babies
The troopers will take them with them to Lymington, I suppose. I've no
fear for them; it's the proud old lady whom they will be uncivil to
You are going to Arnwood, I know
and I have heard who
you are in search of. Well, Southwold, I'll give you a hint. I may be
wrong; but if you should fall in with an old lady or something like one
when you go to Arnwood, mount her on your crupper and away with her to
Lymington as fast as you can ride. You understand me
One word, Jacob Armitage; if I succeed in the capture by your means,
it is but fair that you should have something for your hint. Where can
I find you the day after to-morrow
I am leaving the country this night, and I must go. I am in trouble,
that's the fact; when all is blown over, I will find you out. Don't
speak to me any more just now
It is done
My sisters are in bed and fast asleep, Jacob
and
Humphrey has been nodding this half hour; had he not better go to bed
before we go back
Come out, Master Edward
and look
I told you that it would be so, and you would all have been burned in
your beds, for they did not enter the house to see who was in it, but
fired it as soon as they had surrounded it
And my aunt
Is safe, Master Edward, and by this time at Lymington
We will go to her to-morrow
I fear not; you must not risk so much, Master Edward. These Levelers
spare nobody, and you had better let it be supposed that you are all
burned in the house
But my aunt knows the contrary, Jacob
Very true; I quite forgot that
Well, Master Edward, I will go to Lymington to-morrow and see the old
lady; but you must remain here, and take charge of your sisters till I
come back, and then we will consider what is to be done. The flames are
not so bright as they were
No. It is my house that these Roundheads have burned down
It was your house, Master Edward, and it was your property, but how
long it will be so remains to be seen. I fear that it will be
forfeited
Woe to the people who dare take possession of it
I
shall, if I live, be a man one of these days
Yes, Master Edward, and then you will reflect more than you do now,
and not be rash. Let us go into the cottage, for it's no use remaining
out in the cold; the frost is sharp to-night
Forgive us as we forgive them who
trespass against us
Well, Benjamin, this is a woeful sight. What is the news from
Lymington
Lymington is full of troopers, and they are not over-civil
And the old lady -- where is she
Ah, that's a sad business
and the poor children,
too. Poor Master Edward! he would have made a brave gentleman
But the old lady is safe
Did you see her
Yes, I saw her; they thought she was King Charles -- poor old soul
But they have found out their mistake by this time
Yes, and James Southwold has found it out too
to
think of the old lady breaking his neck
Breaking his neck? You don't say so! How was it
Why, it seems that Southwold thought that she was King Charles dressed
up as an old woman, so he seized her and strapped her fast behind him,
and galloped away with her to Lymington; but she struggled and kicked
so manfully, that he could not hold on, and off they went together, and
he broke his neck
Indeed! A judgment -- a judgment upon a traitor
They were picked up, strapped together as they were, by the other
troopers, and carried to Lymington
Well, and where is the old lady, then? Did you see and speak to her
I saw her, Jacob, but I did not speak to her. I forgot to say that,
when she broke Southwold's neck, she broke her own too
Then the old lady is dead
Yes, that she is
but who cares about her? it's
the poor children that I pity. Martha has been crying ever since
I don't wonder
I was at the Cavalier, and the troopers were there, and they were
boasting of what they had done, and called it a righteous work. I could
not stand that, and I asked one of them if it were a righteous work to
burn poor children in their beds? So he turned round, and struck his
sword upon the floor, and asked me whether I was one of them --'Who are
you, then?' and I -- all my courage went away, and I answered, I was a
poor rat-catcher. 'A rat-catcher; are you? Well, then, Mr. Ratcatcher,
when you are killing rats, if you find a nest of young ones, don't you
kill them too? or do you leave them to grow, and become mischievous,
eh?' 'I kill the young ones, of course,' replied I. 'Well, so do we
Malignants whenever we find them.' I didn't say a word more, so I went
out of the house as fast as I could
Have you heard any thing about the king
No, nothing; but the troopers are all out again, and, I hear, are gone
to the forest
Well, Benjamin, good-by, I shall be off from this part of the
country -- it's no use my staying here. Where's Agatha and cook
They came to Lymington early this morning
Wish them good-by for me, Benjamin
Where are you going, then
I can't exactly say, but I think London way. I only staid here to
watch over the children; and now that they are gone, I shall leave
Arnwood forever
Well
I'm sorry for the poor old lady, but still, perhaps,
it's all for the best. Who knows what they might do with these
children! Destroy the nest as well as the rats, indeed! they must find
the nest first
I can hunt for them, and
provide for them
and I have a little money, when it is
required; and I will teach them to be useful; they must learn to
provide for themselves. There's the garden, and the patch of land: in
two or three years, the boys will be able to do something. I can't
teach them much; but I can teach them to fear God. We must get on how
we can, and put our trust in Him who is a father to the fatherless
Down, Smoker, good dog! Well, Mr. Edward, I have been as quick as I
could. How have Mr. Humphrey and your sisters behaved? But we must not
remain outside to-day, for the troopers are scouring the forest, and
may see you. Let us come in directly, for it would not do that they
should come here
Will they burn the cottage down
Yes, my dear, I think they would, if they found that you and your
brothers were in it; but we must not let them see you
Now, let's see what we can have for dinner -- there's venison left, I
know
come, we must all be useful. Who will be cook
I will be cook
if you will show me how
So you shall, my dear
and I will show you how. There's
some potatoes in the basket in the corner, and some onions hanging on
the string; we must have some water -- who will fetch it
I will
Now I'll cut up the onions, for they will make your eyes water
I don't care
I'll cut and cry at the same time
You are a fine fellow, Humphrey
Now we'll put the
onions in, and let it all boil up together. Now you see, you have
cooked your own dinner; ain't that pleasant
Yes
and we will eat our own dinners as soon as it
is ready
Then, Humphrey, you must get some of the platters down which are on
the drawer; and, Alice, you will find some knives in the drawer. And
let me see, what can little Edith do? Oh, she can go to the cupboard
and find the salt-cellar. Edward, just look out, and if you see any
body coming or passing, let me know. We must put you on guard till the
troopers leave the forest
Now, this is jolly
Here are
troopers galloping in the forest
My dear
children, those men may come and search the cottage; you must do as I
tell you, and mind that you are very quiet. Humphrey, you and your
sisters must go to bed, and pretend to be very ill. Edward, take off
your coat and put on this old hunting-frock of mine. You must be in the
bedroom attending your sick brother and sisters. Come, Edith, dear, you
must play at going to bed, and have your dinner afterward
Come in
Who are you, my friend
A poor forester, sir
under great trouble
What trouble, my man
I have the children all in bed with the small-pox
Nevertheless, we must search your cottage
You are welcome
only don't frighten the children, if
you can help it
It's no use remaining here
Shall we be
off! I'm tired and hungry with the ride
So am I, and there's something that smells well
What's this, my good man
My dinner for a week
I have no one to cook for me
now, and can't light a fire every day
Well, you appear to live well, if you have such a mess as that every
day in the week. I should like to try a spoonful or two
And welcome, sir
I will cook some more for myself
Well
they are very welcome to the dinner; I little
thought to get off so cheap
They're gone now
And our dinners are gone
Yes; but we can cook another, and that will be more play you know
Edward, go for the water; Humphrey, cut the onions; Alice,
wash the potatoes; and Edith, help everybody, while I cut up some more
meat
I hope it will be as good
that other did smell
so nice
Quite as good, if not better; for we shall improve by practice, and we
shall have a better appetite to eat it with
Nasty men eat our dinner
Shan't have any more. Eat this
ourselves
This is jolly
Yes, Master Humphrey. I doubt if King Charles eats so good a dinner
this day. Mr. Edward, you are very grave and silent
Yes, I am, Jacob. Have I not cause? Oh, if I could but have mauled
those troopers
But you could not; so you must make the best of it. They say that
every dog has his day, and who knows but King Charles may be on the
throne again
Now, recollect, you are all my grandchildren
for I
shall no longer call you Miss and Master -- that we never do in a
cottage. You understand me, Edward, of course
I must bring them up to be useful -- to depend
upon themselves; there is not a moment to be lost, and not a moment
shall be lost; I will do my best, and trust to God; I ask but two or
three years, and by that time I trust that they will be able to do
without me. They must commence to-morrow the life of foresters'
children
My dear children, you know that you must remain in this cottage, that
the wicked troopers may not find you out; they killed your father, and
if I had not taken you away, they would have burned you in your beds.
You must, therefore, live here as my children, and you must call
yourselves by the name of Armitage, and not that of Beverley; and you
must dress like children of the forest, as you do now, and you must do
as children of the forest do -- that is, you must do every thing for
yourselves, for you can have no servants to wait upon you. We must all
work -- but you will like to work if you all work together, for then the
work will be nothing but play. Now, Edward is the oldest, and he must
go out with me in the forest, and I must teach him to kill deer and
other game for our support; and when he knows how, then Humphrey shall
come out and learn how to shoot
Yes
I'll soon learn
But not yet, Humphrey, for you must do some work in the mean time; you
must look after the pony and the pigs, and you must learn to dig in the
garden with Edward and me when we do not go out to hunt; and sometimes
I shall go by myself, and leave Edward to work with you when there is
work to be done. Alice, dear, you must, with Humphrey, light the fire
and clean the house in the morning. Humphrey will go to the spring for
water, and do all the hard work; and you must learn to wash, my dear
Alice -- I will show you how; and you must learn to get dinner ready with
Humphrey, who will assist you; and to make the beds. And little Edith
shall take care of the fowls, and feed them every morning, and look for
the eggs -- will you, Edith
Yes
and feed all the little chickens when they are
hatched, as I did at Arnwood
Yes, dear, and you'll be very useful. Now you know that you can not do
all this at once. You will have to try and try again; but very soon you
will, and then it will be all play. I must teach you all, and every day
you will do it better, till you want no teaching at all. And now, my
dear children, as there is no chaplain here, we must read the Bible
every morning. Edward can read, I know; can you, Humphrey
Yes, all except the big words
Well, you will learn them by-and-by. And Edward and I will teach Alice
and Edith to read in the evenings, when we have nothing to do. It will
be an amusement. Now tell me, do you all like what I have told you
Yes
Now, Edward, we are going after a fine stag, if we can find him, which
I doubt not; but the difficulty is, to get within shot of him.
Recollect that you must always be hid, for his sight is very quick;
never be heard, for his ear is sharp; and never come down to him with
the wind, for his scent is very fine. Then you must hunt according to
the hour of the day. At this time he is feeding; two hours hence he
will be lying down in the high fern. The dog is no use unless the stag
is badly wounded, when the dog will take him. Smoker knows his duty
well, and will hide himself as close as we do. We are now going into
the thick wood ahead of us, as there are many little spots of cleared
ground in it where we may find the deer; but we must keep more to the
left, for the wind is to the eastward, and we must walk up against it.
And now that we are coming into the wood, recollect, not a word must be
said, and you must walk as quietly as possible, keeping behind me.
Smoker, to heel
You see, Edward, that it requires patience to stalk a deer. What a
princely fellow! but he has probably been alarmed this morning, and is
very uneasy. Now we must go through the woods till we come to the lee
of him on the other side of the dell. You see he has led the does close
to the thicket, and we shall have a better chance when we get there, if
we are only quiet and cautious
What startled him, do you think
I think, when you were crawling through the fern after me, you broke a
piece of rotten stick that was under you. Did you not
Yes, but that made but little noise
Quite enough to startle a red deer, Edward, as you will find out
before you have been long a forester. These checks will happen, and
have happened to me a hundred times, and then all the work is to be
done over again. Now then to make the circuit -- we had better not say a
word. If we get safe now to the other side, we are sure of him
Edward, you must learn your craft
never do that again;
never shout in that way -- on the contrary, you should have remained
still in the fern
Why so?-- the stag is dead
Yes, my dear boy, that stag is dead; but how do you know but what
there may be another lying down in the fern close to us, or at some
distance from us, which you have alarmed by your shout? Suppose that we
both had guns, and that the report of mine had started another stag
lying in the fern within shot, you would have been able to shoot it; or
if a stag was lying at a distance, the report of the gun might have
started him so as to induce him to move his head without rising. I
should have seen his antlers move and have marked his lair, and we
should then have gone after him and stalked him too
I see
I was wrong; but I shall know better another
time
That's why I tell you, my boy
Now let us go to our
quarry. Ay, Edward, this is a noble beast. I thought that he was a hart
royal, and so he is
What is a hart royal, Jacob
Why, a stag is called a brocket until he is three years old, at four
years he is a staggart; at five years a warrantable stag; and after
five years he becomes a hart royal
And how do you know his age
By his antlers: you see that this stag has nine antlers; now, a
brocket has but two antlers, a staggart three, and a warrantable stag
but four; at six years old, the antlers increase in number until they
sometimes have twenty or thirty. This is a fine beast, and the venison
is now getting very good. Now you must see me do the work of my craft
Are you tired, Edward
No, not the least
Well, then, we are now, I should think, about four or five miles from
the cottage. Could you find your way home? but that is of no
consequence -- Smoker will lead you home by the shortest path. I will
stay here, and you can saddle White Billy and come back with him, for
he must carry the venison back. It's more than we can manage -- indeed,
as much as we can manage with White Billy to help us. There's more than
twenty stone of venison lying there, I can tell you
Edward, you must not think of showing yourself at Lymington, or any
where else, for a long while, until you are grown out of memory. It
would be folly, and you would risk your sisters' and brother's lives,
perhaps, as well as your own. Never mention it again: the time will
come when it will be necessary, perhaps; if so, it can not be helped.
At present you would be known immediately. No, Edward, I tell you what
I mean to do: I have a little money left, and I intend to buy you a
gun, that you may learn to stalk deer yourself without me; for,
recollect, if any accident should happen to me, who is there but you to
provide for your brother and sisters? At Lymington I am known to many;
but out of all who know me, there is not one who knows where my cottage
is; they know that I live in the New Forest, and that I supply them
venison, and purchase other articles in return. That is all that they
know: and I may therefore go without fear. I shall sell the venison
to-morrow, and bring you back a good gun; and Humphrey shall have the
carpenters' tools which he wishes for, for I think, by what he does
with his knife, that he has a turn that way, and it may be useful. I
must also get some other tools for Humphrey and you, as we shall then
be able to work all together; and some threads and needles for Alice,
for she can sew a little, and practice will make her more perfect
I believe, Edward, that you will find that a good one, for I know
where it came from. It belonged to one of the rangers, who was reckoned
the best shot in the Forest. I know the gun, for I have seen it on his
arm, and have taken it in my hand to examine it more than once. He was
killed at Naseby, with your father, poor fellow! and his widow sold the
gun to meet her wants
Well
I thank you much, Jacob, and I will try if I
can not kill as much venison as will pay you back the purchase-money -- I
will, I assure you
I shall be glad if you do, Edward; not because I want the money back,
but because then I shall be more easy in my mind about you all, if any
thing happens to me. As soon as you are perfect in your woodcraft, I
shall take Humphrey in hand, for there is nothing like having two
strings to your bow. To-morrow we will not go out: we have meat enough
for three weeks or more; and now the frost has set in, it will keep
well. You shall practice at a mark with your gun, that you may be
accustomed to it; for all guns, even the best, require a little
humoring
I wish you would let me go out by myself
You would bring home nothing, boy
No, no, you have a
great deal to learn yet; but I tell you what you shall do: any time
that we are not in great want of venison, you shall have the first
fire
Well, that will do
I wish, Jacob
that I was able to build a cart, for
it would be very useful, and White Billy would then have something to
do; but I can't make the wheels, and there is no harness
That's not a bad idea of yours, Humphrey
we will
think about it. If you can't build a cart, perhaps I can buy one. It
would be useful if it were only to take the dung out of the yard on the
potato-ground, for I have hitherto carried it out in baskets, and it's
hard work
Yes, and we might saw the wood into billets, and carry it home in the
cart, instead of dragging it in this way; my shoulder is quite sore
with the rope, it cuts me so
Well, when the weather breaks up, I will see what I can do, Humphrey;
but just now the roads are so blocked up, that I do not think we could
get a cart from Lymington to the cottage, although we can a horse,
perhaps
And now, Edward
we will
try for venison again to sell at Lymington, for I must purchase
Humphrey's cart and harness; so let us get our guns, and go out this
fine morning. The stags are mostly by themselves at this season, for
the does are with their young calves. We must find the slot of a deer,
and track him to his lair, and you shall have the first shot if you
like; but, that, however, depends more upon the deer than upon me
We must now track him to his lair, Edward
Here he is, you see, Edward; let me now see if he is harbored
Now, Edward, do you stay here while I go back to the lee side of the
covert: I will enter it with Smoker, and the stag will, in all
probability, when he is roused, come out to breast the wind. You will
then have a good shot at him; recollect to fire so as to hit him behind
the shoulder: if he is moving quick, fire a little before the
shoulders; if slow, take aim accurately; but recollect, if I come upon
him in the covert, I shall kill him if I can, for we want the venison,
and then we will go after another to give you a chance
Well done, Edward
I think I see something there -- look Edward, your eyes are
younger than mine. Is that the branch of a tree in the fern, or is it
not
I see what you mean
It is not, it moves
I thought so, but my eyes are not so good as they once were. It's
another stag, depend upon it; but how are we to get near him? We never
can get across this patch of clear grass without being seen
No, we can not get at him from this spot
but if we
were to fall back to leeward, and gain the forest again, I think that
there are thorns sufficient from the forest to where he lies, to creep
from behind one to the other, so as to get a shot at him, don't you
It will require care and patience to manage that; but I think it might
be done. I will try it; it is my turn now, you know. You had better
stay here with the dog, for only one can hide from thorn to thorn
Down, Smoker
He's hard hit, Edward
and Smoker will have him; but we
must follow as fast as we can
We shan't have far to go, Edward; the animal is done up: Smoker has
him at bay
Mind, Edward, now, how I go up to him, for the wound from the horn of
the deer is very dangerous
He is a fine beast, and we have done well to-day, but
we shall have two journeys to make to get all this venison home. I
could not get a fair shot at him -- and see, I have hit him here in the
flank
And here is my ball in his throat
So it is. Then it was a good shot that you made, and you are master of
the hunt this day, Edward. Now, I'll remain, and you go home for White
Billy. Humphrey is right about the cart. If we had one, we could have
carried all home at once; but I must go now and cut the throat of the
other stag which you killed so cleverly. You will be a good hunter one
of these days, Edward. A little more knowledge, and a little more
practice, and I will leave it all to you, and hang up my gun over the
chimney
Well, Edward, the venison paid for the cart at all events
and now, I will tell you all the news I collected while I was
at Lymington. Captain Burly, who attempted to incite the people to
rescue the king, has been hung, drawn, and quartered, as a traitor
They are traitors who condemned him
Yes, so they are; but there is better news, which is, that the Duke of
York has escaped to Holland
Yes, that is good news; and the king
He is still a prisoner in Carisbrook Castle. There are many rumors and
talks, but no one knows what is true and what is false; but depend upon
it, this can not last long, and the king will have his rights yet
I trust in Heaven we all shall have our rights yet, Jacob
I wish I was a man
I'll tell you what we want
we want a cow
Oh yes, a cow
I have plenty of time to milk her
Whose cows are those which I see in the forest sometimes
If they belong to any body, they belong to the king
but they are cattle which have strayed and found their way to the
forest, and have remained here ever since. They are rather wild and
savage, and you must be careful how you go too near them, as the bulls
will run at you. They increase very fast: there were but six a few
years ago, and now there are at least fifty in the herd
Well, I'll try and get one, if I can
You will be puzzled to do that, boy
and as I said
before, beware of the bulls
I don't want a bull
but a cow would give us milk,
and then we should have more manure for the garden. My garden will then
grow more potatoes
Well, Humphrey, if you can catch a cow, no one will interfere; but I
think you will not find it very easy, and you may find it very
dangerous
I'll look out for one
any how. Alice, if we only
had a cow, wouldn't that be jolly
But where is the cow to come from, Humphrey
Where the venison comes from
out of the forest
Oh, depend upon it, he'll come back and bring the cow with him
Now then, Jacob and Edward, come with me; we must put Billy in the
cart, and take Smoker and a rope with us. Take your guns too, for fear
of accident
Why, what's the matter
I'll tell you as we go along; but I must put Billy in the cart, for
there is no time to be lost
What can it be
It can be nothing but the cow he is so mad about
However, when he comes with the pony, we shall know; let us take our
guns and the dog Smoker as he wishes
Well, I suppose you'll tell us now what we are going for
Yes, I will. You know I've been watching the cattle for a long while,
because I wanted a cow. I have been in a tree when they have passed
under me several times, and I observed that one or two of the heifers
were very near calving. Yesterday evening I thought one could not help
calving very soon indeed, and as I was watching, I saw that she was
uneasy, and that she at last left the herd and went into a little copse
of wood. I remained three hours to see if she came out again, and she
did not. It was dark when I came home, as you know. This morning I
went before daylight and found the herd. She is very remarkable, being
black and white spotted; and, after close examination, I found that she
was not with the herd; so I am sure that she went into the copse to
calve, and that she has calved before this
Well, that may be
but now I do not understand what
we are to do
Nor I
Well, then, I'll tell you what I hope to do. I have got the pony and
cart to take the calf home with us, if we can get it -- which I think we
can. I have got Smoker to worry the heifer and keep her employed, while
we put the calf in the cart; a rope that we may tie the cow if we can;
and you with your guns must keep off the herd if they come to her
assistance. Now do you understand my plan
Yes, and I think it very likely to succeed, Humphrey
and I give you credit for the scheme. We will help you all we can.
Where is the copse
Not half a mile farther
We shall soon be there
Now
I and Edward will enter into the copse with Smoker,
and you follow us, Humphrey. I will make Smoker seize the heifer, if
necessary; at all events he will keep her at bay -- that is, if she is
here. First, let us walk round the copse and find her _slot_, as we
call the track of a deer. See, here is her footing. Now let us go in
Now then, Edward and Humphrey
lift up the calf between you and put it in the
cart. Leave Smoker and me to manage the mother
Hold her, Smoker
Hold her, boy. Is the calf in the cart
Yes, and tied fast
and we are in the cart, too
That's right
Now I'll get in too, and let us drive
off. She'll follow us, depend upon it. Here, Smoker! Smoker! let her
alone
Drive off, Humphrey
I think I heard the lowing of the
heifer answered by some of the herd, and the sooner we are off the
better
Edward, get your gun ready, for I think the herd is following. Do not
fire, however, until I tell you. We must be governed by circumstances.
It won't do to lose the pony, or to run any serious risk, for the sake
of the heifer and calf. Drive fast, Humphrey
There's only one, after all
I suppose the heifer is his
favorite. Well, we can manage him. Smoker, come in. Come in, sir,
directly
Now, Edward, do you fire first -- aim for his shoulder. Humphrey, pull
up
That will do
drive on again, Humphrey; we will have a
look at that fellow by-and-by. At present we had better get home, as
others may come. He's up again, but he is at a stand-still. I have an
idea that he is hit hard
Now, then, what shall we do
Come, Humphrey, you have
had all the ordering of this, and have done it well
Well, Jacob, we must now drive the cart into the yard, and shut the
gate upon the cow, till I am ready
That's easy done, by setting Smoker at her
but,
mercy on us, there's Alice and Edith running out!-- the heifer may kill
them. Go back, Alice, run quite into the cottage, and shut the door
till we come
Well, Humphrey, what next
Why, now lift the calf out, and put it into the cow-house. I will go
into the cow-house with a rope and a slip-knot at the end of it, get
upon the beam above, and drop it over her horns as she's busy with the
calf, which she will be as soon as you let her in. I shall pass the end
of the rope outside for you to haul up when I am ready, and then we
shall have her fast, till we can secure her properly. When I call out
Ready, do you open the gate and let her in. You can do that and jump
into the cart afterward, for fear she may run at you; but I don't think
that she will, for it's the calf she wants, and not either of you
That will do
now make the rope fast,
and then you may come in
Well, Humphrey, that's very clever; but now what is to be done
First, I'll saw off the tips of her horns, and then if she does run at
us, she won't hurt us much. Wait till I go for the saw
There
now time and patience must do the rest. We
must coax her and handle her, and we soon shall tame her. At present
let us leave her with the calf. She has a yard of rope, and that is
enough for her to lick her calf, which is all that she requires at
present. To-morrow we will cut some grass for her
Well, Humphrey, you've beat us after all, and have the laugh on your
side now
Where there's a will, there's a way,' that's
certain; and I assure you, that when you were making so much hay, and
gathering so much litter, and building a cow-house, I had no more idea
that we should have a cow than that we should have an elephant; and I
will say that you deserve great credit for your way of obtaining it
That he certainly does
You have more genius than I
have, brother. But dinner must be ready, if Alice has done her duty.
What think you Jacob, shall we after dinner go and look after that
bull
Yes, by all means. He will not be bad eating, and I can sell all I can
carry in the cart at Lymington. Besides, the skin is worth money
It's my idea that he has nearly bled to death
but
there's nothing like making sure. Edward, put a bullet just three
inches behind his shoulder, and that will make all safe
It is a noble beast
I wonder we never thought of
killing one before
They aren't game, Edward
No, they are not now, Jacob
as you and Edward claim
all the game, I shall claim the cattle as my portion of the forest.
Recollect, there are more, and I mean to have more of them yet
Well, Humphrey, I give you up all my rights, if I have any
And I, all mine
Be it so. Some day you'll see what I shall do
Recollect, I am to sell the cattle for my own self-advantage until I
buy a gun, and one or two things which I want
I agree to that too, Humphrey
and now to skin the
beast
She will be tame to-morrow morning, depend upon it
But if you give her nothing to eat, will not the calf die
Oh no, I should think not. I shall not starve her, but I will make her
thankful for her food before she gets it. I shall cut her some grass
to-morrow morning
Jacob
when do you go to Lymington again
Why, I do not know. The end of August, as it is now, and the month of
September, is not good for venison; and, therefore, I do not see what I
shall have to go for
Well, I wish when you do go, you would get something for Alice and
something for me
And what is it that Alice wants
She wants a kitten
Well, I think I may find that. And what do you want, Humphrey
I want a dog. Smoker is yours altogether; I want a dog for myself, to
bring up after my own fashion
Well, I ought to look out for another dog: although Smoker is not old,
yet one ought to have two dogs to one's gun in case of accident
I think so too
see if you can get two puppies, one
for Humphrey and one for myself
Well, I must not go to Lymington for them. I must cross the forest, to
see some friends of mine whom I have not seen for a long while, and I
may get some of the right sort of puppies there, just like Smoker. I'll
do that at once, as I may have to wait for them, even if I do have the
promise
May I go with you, Jacob
Why, I would rather not; they may ask questions
And so would I rather he would not, for he will shirk his work here
Why, what is there to do, Humphrey
Plenty to do, and hard work, Edward; the acorns are fit for beating
down, and we want a great many bushels for the pigs. We have to fatten
three, and to feed the rest during the winter. I can not get on well
with only Alice and Edith; so if you are not very lazy, you will stay
with us and help us
Humphrey, you think of nothing but your pigs and farmyard
And you are too great a hunter to think of any thing but a stag; but a
bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, in my opinion; and I'll make
more by my farmyard than you ever will by the forest
Humphrey has nothing to do with the poultry and eggs, has he, Edward?
they belong to Edith and me, and Jacob shall take them to Lymington and
sell them for us, and get us some new clothes for Sunday, for these
begin to look rather worn -- and no wonder
No, dearest, the poultry are yours, and I will sell them for you as
soon as you please, and buy what you wish with the money
Let Humphrey make all the money he can with his pigs
Yes; and the butter belongs to me, if I make it
No no
that's not fair; I find cows, and get
nothing for them. We must go halves Alice
Well, I've no objection to that
because you find the
cows and feed them. I made a pound of butter yesterday, just to try
what I could do; but it's not firm, Jacob. How is that
I have seen the women make butter, and know how, Alice; so next time I
will be with you. I suppose you did not wash your butter-milk well out,
nor put any salt in it
I did not put any salt in it
But you must, or the butter will not keep
You must be careful, Edward, how you go about the forest now
I have no wish to go
as we can not hunt, it is no
use; but in November we shall begin again
Yes
that will be soon enough. To-morrow I will help
you with the acorns, and the day afterward, if I am spared, I will take
Alice's poultry to Lymington for her
Yes, and when you come back you will help me to churn for then I shall
have a good deal of cream
And don't forget to buy the kitten, Jacob
What's the good of a kitten
she will
only steal your cream and eat up your birds
No, she won't; for we'll shut the door fast where the milk and cream
are, and we'll hang the cages so high that Miss Puss won't be able to
get at them
Well, then, a kitten will be useful
for she will teach
you to be careful
My coat is a little the worse for wear, and so is yours, Edward. We
must try if we can not, like Alice, find means to pay for another
Humphrey
I'll buy all you want, and trust to you for
paying me again as soon as you can
That's just what I want
Then you must buy me a
gun and a new suit of clothes first; when I've paid for them, I shall
want some more tools, and some nails and screws, and two or three other
things; but I will say nothing about them just now. Get me my gun, and
I'll try what the forest will do for me -- especially after I have my
dog
Well, we shall see; perhaps you'll like to come out with me sometimes
and learn woodcraft, for Edward knows as much as I do now, and can go
out by himself
Of course I will, Jacob: I want to learn every thing
Well, there's a little money left in the bag yet, and I will go to
Lymington to-morrow. Now I think it is time we were in bed; and if you
are all as tired as I am, you will sleep soundly
Why so, Jacob
If you can not guess, I won't tell you till the time comes
Well then, Humphrey must help us
and we will do what
we can. I will try, now that we have some meat, to make a grand dinner
And now I'll tell you
why I asked
you for a feast this day. It is because exactly on this day twelvemonth
I brought you all to the cottage. Now you know
I did not know it, certainly, but I dare say you are right
And now, children, tell me
has not this year passed
very quickly and very happily -- quite as quickly and quite as happily as
if you had been staying at Arnwood
Yes, more so
for then very often I did not know
what to do to amuse myself, and since I have been here the days have
always been too short
I agree with Humphrey
And I am sure I do
I'm always busy and always happy,
and I'm never scolded about dirtying my clothes or tearing them, as I
used to be
And what does little Edith say
I like to help Alice, and I like to play with the kitten
Well, my children
depend upon it, you are most happy
when your days pass quickest, and that is only the case when you have
plenty to do. Here you are in peace and safety; and may it please God
that you may continue so! We want very few things in this world -- that
is, we really want very few things, although we wish and sigh for many.
You have health and spirits, which are the greatest blessings in life.
Who would believe, to look at you all, that you were the same children
that I brought away from Arnwood? You were then very different from
what you are now. You are strong and healthy, rosy and brown, instead
of being fair and delicate. Look at your sisters, Edward. Do you think
that any of your former friends -- do you think that Martha, who had the
care of them, would know them
Certainly not; especially in their present
dresses
Nor would, I think, Humphrey be known again. You, Edward, were always
a stout boy; and, except that you have grown very much, and are more
brown, there is no great difference. You would be known again, even in
your present forester's dress; but what I say is, that we ought to be
thankful to the Almighty that you, instead of being burned in your
beds, have found health, and happiness, and security, in a forester's
hut; and I ought to be, and am, most thankful to Heaven, that it has
pleased it to spare my life, and enable me to teach you all to the
present, how to gain your own livelihoods after I am called away. I
have been able so far to fulfill my promise to your noble father; and
you know not what a heavy load on my mind is every day lessened, as I
see each day that you are more and more able to provide for yourselves.
God bless you, dear children, and may you live to see many returns, and
happy returns, of the day
It's an experiment that I am trying
If it answers, you shall know: if it does not, I've only
had a little trouble for nothing. Jacob, I hope you will not forget the
salt to-morrow when you go to Lymington, for my pigs are ready for
killing, and we must salt the greatest part of the pork. After the legs
and shoulders have lain long enough in salt, I mean to try if I can not
smoke them, and if I do, I'll then smoke some bacon. Won't that be
jolly, Alice? Won't you like to have a great piece of bacon hanging up
there, and only to have to get on a stool to cut off what you want,
when Edward and I come home hungry, and you've nothing to give us to
eat
I shall be very glad to have it, and I think so will you too, by the
way you talk
I shall, I assure you. Jacob, didn't you say the ash sticks were the
best to smoke bacon with
Yes, boy: when you are ready, I'll tell you how to manage. My poor
mother used to smoke very well up this very chimney
I think that will do
but to-morrow I shall find out
But what is it for, Humphrey
Go away, puss, and play with your kitten
I've a great deal on my
hands now, but I must kill my pigs before I think of any thing else
There
my spring has answered, and this is the first fruits
of it. Now I'll make some more, and we will have something by way of a
change for dinner
How did you find out how to make it
Why, I read in the old book of travels which Jacob brought home with
him last summer, of people catching rabbits and hares in some way like
this; I could not make it out exactly, but it gave me the idea
Edward, I have caught something larger than a hare or a rabbit, and
you must come and help me, and we must take our guns. Jacob, I suppose
your rheumatism is too bad to let you come too
No; I think I can manage. It's the damp that hurts me so much. This
frosty air will do me good, perhaps. I have been much better since the
snow fell. Now, then, let us see what you have caught
You will have to walk two miles
I can manage it, Humphrey, so lead the way
There's my large trap
and see what I have caught in
it
Now, what are we to do? I don't think it is hurt. Can we get it out
No, not very well. If it was a calf, we might; but it is too heavy,
and if we were to get it out alive, we must kill it after ward, so we
had better shoot it at once
So I think
But how did you catch him
I read of it in the same book I did about the traps for hares
I dug out the pit and covered it with brambles, and
then put snow at the top. This is the thicket that the herd comes to
chiefly in winter time; it is large and dry, and the large trees
shelter it; so that is why I chose this spot. I took a large bundle of
hay, put some on the snow about the pit, and then strewed some more
about in small handfuls, so that the cattle must find it, and pick it
up, which I knew they would be glad to do, now that the snow is on the
ground. And now, you see, I have succeeded
Well, Humphrey, you beat us, I will say
Shall I shoot
him
Yes, now that he is looking up
I will do it easier next time
I will make a windlass
as soon as I can, and we will soon hoist out another, like they turn a
bucket of water up from a well
It's nice young meat
not
above eighteen months old, I should think. Had it been a full-grown
one, like that we shot, it must have remained where it was, for we
never could have got it out
Yes, Jacob, we should, for I should have gone down and cut it up in
the pit, so that we would have handed it out by bits, if we could not
have managed him whole
This will go far to pay for the gun, Humphrey
if it
don't pay for more
I am glad of it
but I hope it will not be the last
which I take
That reminds me, Humphrey, of one thing; I think you must come back
with the cart and carry away all the entrails of the beast, and remove
all the blood which is on the snow, for I've observed that cattle are
very scared with the smell and sight of blood. I found that out by once
or twice seeing them come to where I have cut the throat of a stag, and
as soon as they have put their noses down to where the blood was on the
ground, they have put their tails up and galloped away, bellowing at a
terrible rate. Indeed, I've heard say, that if a murder has been
committed in a wood, and you want to find the body, that a herd of
cattle drove into it will serve you better than even a bloodhound
Thank you for telling me that, Jacob, for I should never have supposed
it, and I'll tell you what I'll also do; I'll load the cart with fern
litter, and put it at the bottom of the pit, so that if I could get a
heifer or calf worth taking, it may not be hurt by the fall
It must have taken you a long while to dig that pit, Humphrey
Yes, it did, and as I got deeper the work was harder, and then I had
to carry away all the earth and scatter it about. I was more than a
month about it from the time that I began till it was finished, and I
had a ladder to go up and down by at last, and carried the baskets of
earth up, for it was too deep to throw it out
Nothing like patience and perseverance, Humphrey. You've more than I
have
I'm sure he has more than I have, or shall ever have, I'm afraid
that he'd be better
soon
I wish I was going with you
I wish you were, Humphrey: for my part, I feel as if I were a slave
set at liberty. I do justice to old Jacob's kindness and good will, and
acknowledge how much we are indebted to him; but still to be housed up
here in the forest, never seeing or speaking to any one, shut out from
the world, does not suit Edward Beverley. Our father was a soldier, and
a right good one, and if I were old enough I think even now I should
escape and join the royal party, broken as it may be and by all
accounts is, at this moment. Deer stalking is all very well, but I fly
at higher game
I feel the same as you do
but recollect, Edward,
that the old man's very infirm, and what would become of our sisters if
we were to leave them
I know that well, Humphrey -- I have no idea of leaving them, you may be
sure; but I wish they were with our relations in safety, and then we
should be free to act
Yes, we should, Edward; but recollect that we are not yet men, and
boys of fifteen and thirteen can not do much, although they may wish to
do much
It's true that I am only fifteen
but I am strong
enough, and so are you. I think if I had a fair cut at a man's head I
would make him stagger under it, were he as big as a buffalo. As young
as I have been to the wars, that I know well; and I recollect my father
promising me that I should go with him as soon as I was fifteen
What puzzles me
is, the fear that old Jacob has
of our being seen at Lymington
Why, what fear is there
I can not tell more than you; in my opinion, the fear is only in his
own imagination. They surely would not hurt us (if we walked about
without arms like other people) because our father had fought for the
king? That they have beheaded some people it is true, but then they
were plotting in the king's favor, or in other ways opposed to
Parliament. This I have gathered from Jacob: but I can not see what we
have to fear if we remain quiet. But now comes the question, Edward,
for Jacob has, I believe, said more to me on one subject than he has to
you. Suppose you were to leave the forest, what would be the first step
which you would take
I should, of course, state who I was, and take possession of my
father's property at Arnwood, which is mine by descent
Exactly; so Jacob thinks, and he says that would be your ruin, for the
property is sequestered, as they call it, or forfeited to the
Parliament, in consequence of your father having fought against it on
the king's side. It no longer belongs to you, and you would not be
allowed to take it: on the contrary, you would, in all probability, be
imprisoned, and who knows what might then take place? You see there is
danger
Did Jacob say this to you
Yes, he did: he told me he dare not speak to you on the subject, you
were so fiery; and if you heard that the property was confiscated, you
would certainly do some rash act, and that any thing of the kind would
be a pretense for laying hold of you; and then he said that he did not
think that he would live long, for he was weaker every day; and that he
only hoped his life would be spared another year or two, that he might
keep you quiet till better times came. He said that if they supposed
that we were all burned in the house when it was fired, it would give
them a fair opportunity of calling you an impostor and treating you
accordingly, and that there were so many anxious to have a gift of the
property, that you would have thousands of people compassing your
death. He said that your making known yourself and claiming your
property would be the very conduct that your enemies would wish you to
follow, and would be attended with most fatal consequences; for he
said, to prove that you were Edward Beverley, you must declare that I
and your sisters were in the forest with him, and this disclosure would
put the whole family in the power of their bitterest enemies; and what
would become of your sisters, it would be impossible to say, but most
likely they would be put under the charge of some Puritan family who
would have a pleasure in ill-treating and humiliating the daughters of
such a man as Colonel Beverley
And why did he not tell me all this
He was afraid to say any thing to you; he thought that you would be so
mad at the idea of this injustice that you would do something rash: and
he said, I pray every night that my otherwise useless life may be
spared; for, were I to die, I know that Edward would quit the forest
Never, while my sisters are under my protection
were they safe, I would be out of it to-morrow
I think, Edward, that there is great truth in what Jacob says; you
could do no good (for they would not restore your property) by making
your seclusion known at present, and you might do a great deal of
harm --'bide your time' is good advice in such troubled times. I
therefore think that I should be very wary if I were you; but I still
think that there is no fear of either you or I going out of the forest,
in our present dresses and under the name of Armitage. No one would
recognize us; you are grown tall and so am I, and we are so tanned and
sunburned with air and exercise, that we do look more like Children of
the Forest than the sons of Colonel Beverley
Humphrey, you speak very sensibly, and I agree with you. I am not
quite so fiery as the old man thinks; and if my bosom burns with
indignation, at all events I have sufficient power to conceal my
feelings when it is necessary; I can oppose art to art, if it becomes
requisite, and which, from what you have said, I believe now is really
so. One thing is certain, that while King Charles is a prisoner, as he
now is, and his party dispersed and gone abroad, I can do nothing, and
to make myself known would only be to injure myself and all of us. Keep
quiet, therefore, I certainly shall, and also remain as I am now, under
a false name; but still I must and will mix up with other people and
know what is going on. I am willing to live in this forest and protect
my sisters as long as it is necessary so to do; but although I will
reside here, I will not be confined to the forest altogether
That's exactly what I think too, Edward -- what I wish myself; but let
us not be too hasty even in this. And now, I will wish you a pleasant
ride; and, Edward, if you can, procure of the keepers some small shot
for me; I much wish to have some
I will not forget; good-by, brother
Is Oswald Partridge at home, maiden
No, young man, he is not. He is in the forest
When will he return
Toward the evening is his time, unless he is more than usually
successful
I have come some distance to find him
and it would
vex me to return without seeing him. Has he a wife, or any one that I
could speak to
He has no wife; but I am willing to deliver a message
I am come about some dogs which he promised to Jacob Armitage, my
relation; but the old man is too unwell, and has been for some time, to
come himself for them, and he has sent me
There are dogs, young and old, large and small, in the kennels; so far
do I know, and no more
I fear, then, I must wait till his return
I will speak to my father
if you will wait
one moment
Here is the youth, father
What is your business, young man
I came, sir, on private business with the keeper, Oswald Partridge, to
obtain two young hounds, which he promised to my grandfather, Jacob
Armitage
Armitage
Armitage -- Jacob -- yes -- I see he is one of the verderers. Why has he not
been here to call upon me
For what reason should he call upon you, sir
Simply, young man, because the New Forest is, by the Parliament,
committed to my charge. Notice has been given for all those who were
employed to come here, that they might be permitted to remain, or be
discharged, as I may deem most advisable
Jacob Armitage has heard nothing of this, sir
He
was a keeper, appointed under the king; for two or three years his
allowances have never been paid, and he has lived on his own cottage,
which was left to him by his father, being his own property
And pray, may I ask, young man, do you live with Jacob Armitage
I have done so for more than a year
And as your relation has received no pay and allowances, as you state,
pray by what means has he maintained himself
How have the other keepers maintained themselves
Do not put questions to me, sir
but be
pleased to reply to mine. What has been the means of subsistence of
Jacob Armitage
If you think he has no means of subsistence, sir, you are mistaken
We have land of our own, which we cultivate; we have
our pony and our cart; we have our pigs and our cows
And they have been sufficient
Had the patriarchs more
You are pithy at reply, young man; but I know something of Jacob
Armitage, and we know
with whom he has associated,
and with whom he has served. Now allow me to put one question. You have
come, you say, for two young hounds. Are their services required for
your pigs and cows, and to what uses are they to be put
We have as good a dog as there is in the forest
but
we wished to have others in case we should lose him
As good a dog as in the forest -- good for what
For hunting
Then you acknowledge that you do hunt
I acknowledge nothing for Jacob Armitage; he may answer for himself
but allow me to assure you that if he has killed
venison, no one can blame him
Perhaps you will explain why
Nothing is more easy. Jacob Armitage served King Charles, who employed
him as a verderer in the forest, and paid him his wages. Those who
should not have done so rebelled against the king, took his authority
from him, and the means of paying those he employed. They were still
servants of the king, for they were not dismissed; and, having no other
means of support, they considered that their good master would be but
too happy that they should support themselves by killing, for their
subsistence, that venison which they could no longer preserve for him
without eating some themselves
Then you admit that Jacob Armitage has killed the deer in the forest
I admit nothing for Jacob Armitage
You admit that you have killed it yourself
I shall not answer that question, sir; in the first place, I am not
here to criminate myself; and, in the next, I must know by what
authority you have the right to inquire
Young man
if you wish to know
my authority, malapert as you are (at this remark Edward started, yet,
recollecting himself, he compressed his lips and stood still), this is
my commission, appointing me the agent of Parliament to take charge and
superintend the New Forest, with power to appoint and dismiss those
whom I please. I presume you must take my word for it, as you can not
read and write
You have stated what is correct, sir
and the date of it is, I perceive, on the 20th of the last
month -- December. It is, therefore, but eighteen days old
And what inference would you draw from that, young man
Simply this, sir -- that Jacob Armitage has been laid up with the
rheumatism for three months, during which time he certainly has not
killed any venison. Now, sir, until the Parliament took the forest into
their hands, it undoubtedly belonged to his majesty, if it does not
now; therefore Jacob Armitage, for whatever slaughter he may have
committed, is, up to the present, only answerable to his sovereign,
King Charles
It is easy to perceive the school in which you have been brought up,
young man, even if there was not evidence on this paper that your
forefather served under the Cavalier, Colonel Beverley, and has been
brought up to his way of thinking
Sir, it is a base dog that bites the hand that feeds him
Jacob Armitage, and his father before him, were
retainers in the family of Colonel Beverley; they were indebted to him
for the situation they held in the forest; indebted to him for every
thing; they revere his name, they uphold the cause for which he fell,
as I do
Young man, if you do not speak advisedly, at all events you speak
gratefully; neither have I a word of disrespect to offer to the memory
of Colonel Beverley, who was a gallant man, and true to the cause which
he espoused, although it was not a holy one; but, in my position, I can
not, in justice to those whom I serve, give places and emolument to
those who have been, and still are, as I may judge by your expressions,
adverse to the present government
Sir
your language, with respect to Colonel
Beverley, has made me feel respect for you, which I confess I did not
at first; what you say is very just, not that I think you harm Jacob
Armitage, as, in the first place, I know that he would not serve under
you; and, in the next, that he is too old and infirm to hold the
situation; neither has he occasion for it, as his cottage and land are
his own, and you can not remove him
He has the title, I presume
He has the title given to his grandfather, long before King Charles
was born, and I presume the Parliament do not intend to invalidate the
acts of former kings
May I inquire what relation you are to Jacob Armitage
I believe I have said before, his grandson
You live with him
I do
And if the old man dies, will inherit his property
Now, I ask you, maiden, if your father does not presume upon his
office
He is in authority
Not over me, certainly, and not over my grandfather, for he has
dismissed him
Were you brought up at the cottage, young man
No, sir, I was brought up at Arnwood. I was playmate of the children
of Colonel Beverley
Educated with them
Yes, for as far as my willfulness would permit, the chaplain was
always ready to give me instruction
Where were you when Arnwood was burned down
I was at the cottage at that time
Nay, nay, I can forgive any expression of feeling on your part, young
man, when that dreadful and disgraceful deed is brought to your memory.
It was a stain that can never be effaced -- a deed most diabolical, and
what we thought would call down the vengeance of Heaven. If prayers
could avert, or did avert it, they were not wanting on our side
When I came here, sir, it was to seek Oswald Partridge, and obtain the
hounds which he had promised us; but I presume that my journey is now
useless
Why so
Because you have the control of the forest, and will not permit dogs
for the chase to be given away to those who are not employed by the
powers that now govern
You have judged correctly, in so far that my duty is to prevent it;
but as the promise was made previous to the date of my commission, I
presume
you think I have no right to interfere, as
it will be an _ex post facto_ case if I do: I shall not, therefore,
interfere, only I must point out to you that the laws are still the
same relative to those who take the deer in the forest by stealth -- you
understand me
Yes, sir, I do; and if you will not be offended, I will give you a
candid reply
Speak, then
I consider that the deer in this forest belong to King Charles, who is
my lawful sovereign, and I own no authority but from him. I hold myself
answerable to him alone for any deer I may kill, and I feel sure of his
permission and full forgiveness for what I may do
That may be your opinion, my good sir, but it will not be the opinion
of the ruling powers; but if caught, you will be punished, and that by
me, in pursuance of the authority vested in me
Well, sir, if so, so be it. You have dismissed the Armitages on
account of their upholding the king, and you can not, therefore, be
surprised that they uphold him more than ever. Nor can you be surprised
if a dismissed verderer becomes a poacher
Nor can you be surprised, if a poacher is caught, that he incurs the
penalty
So now there's an end of our
argument. If you go into the kitchen you will find wherewithal to
refresh the outward man, and if you wish to remain till Oswald
Partridge comes home, you are welcome
Well
I came here for two puppies,
and I have found a Roundhead. I don't know how it is, but I am not
angry with him as I thought I should be. That little girl had a nice
smile -- she was quite handsome when she smiled. Oh, this is the kitchen,
to which
the Lord of Arnwood is dismissed by a
Covenanter and Roundhead, probably a tradesman or outlaw, who has
served the cause. Well, be it so; as Humphrey says, 'I'll bide my
time.' But there is no one here, so I'll try if there is a stable for
White Billy, who is tired, I presume, of being at the gate
I am afraid, young sir, you have had but sorry welcome in the kitchen,
as there was no one to receive you. I was not aware that Phoebe had
gone out. If you will come with me, I may perhaps find you refreshment
Thanks, maiden, you are kind and considerate to an avowed poacher
Oh, but you will not poach, I'm sure; and if you do, I'll beg you off
if I can
There
that is all that I can
find
Your father's name is Heatherstone, I believe. It was so on the
warrant
Yes, it is
And yours
The same as my father's, I should presume
Yes, but your baptismal name
You ask strange questions, young sir; but still I will answer you
that: my baptismal name is Patience
I thank you for your condescension
You live here
For the present, good sir; and now I leave you
That's a nice little girl, thought Edward, although she is the
daughter of a Roundhead; and she calls me 'Sir.' I can not, therefore,
look like Jacob's grandson, and must be careful
Oswald Partridge is now coming home
I thank you, maiden
May I ask a question of you?
Where is the king now
I have heard that he resides at Hurst Castle
but
all attempts to see him would be
useless and only hurt him and those who made the attempt
I did not know that Jacob had a grandson: indeed I never knew
that he had a son. Have you been living with him long
More than a year
before that, I was in the
household at Arnwood
Then you are of the king's side, I presume
To death
when the time comes
And I am also; that you may suppose, for never would I give a hound to
any one that was not. But we had better go to the kennels. Dogs may
hear, but they can't repeat
I little thought to have met any one but you here when I came
and I will now tell you all that passed between me and the new
intendant
You have been bold
but perhaps it is all the better. I
am to retain my situation, and so are two others; but there are many
new hands coming in as rangers. I know nothing of them, but that they
are little fitted for their places, and rail against the king all day
long, which, I suppose, is their chief merit in the eyes of those who
appoint them. However, one thing is certain, that if those fellows can
not stalk a deer themselves, they will do all they can to prevent
others; so you must be on the alert, for the punishment is severe
I fear them not; the only difficulty is, that we shall not be able to
find a sale for the venison now
Oh never fear that; I will give you the names of those who will take
all your venison off your hands without any risk on your part, except
in the killing of it. They will meet you in the park, lay down ready
money, and take it away. I don't know, but I have an idea, that this
new intendant, or what you may call him, is not so severe as he
pretends to be. Indeed, his permitting you to say what he did, and his
own words relative to the colonel, convince me that I am right in the
opinion that I formed
Do you know who he is
Not much about him, but he is a great friend of General Cromwell, and
they say has done good service to the Parliamentary cause; but we shall
meet again, for the forest is free at all events
If you come here
do not carry your gun -- and see
that you are not watched home. There are the dogs for your grandfather.
Why, how old must you be, for Jacob is not more than sixty or
thereabout
I am fifteen, past, nevertheless
I should have put you down for eighteen or nineteen at least. You are
well grown indeed for that age. Well, nothing like a forest life to
turn a boy into a man! Can you stalk a deer
I seldom go out without bringing one down
Indeed! That Jacob is a master of his craft, is certain; but you are
young to have learned it so soon. Can you tell the slot of a brocket
from a stag
Yes, and the slot of a brocket from a doe
Better still. We must go out together; and besides, I must know where
the old man's cottage is (for I do not exactly), in the first place,
because I may want to come to you, and in the next, that I may put
others on a false scent. Do you know the clump of large oaks which they
call the Clump Royal
Yes, I do
Will you meet me there the day after to-morrow, at early dawn
If I live and do well
That's enough. Take the dogs in the leashes, and go away now
Many thanks; but I must not leave the pony, he is in the stable
If any thing happens to me
Humphrey will still
be at the cottage to take care of my sisters; and if I am obliged to
fly the country, it will suit well my feelings, as I can then offer my
services to those who still support the king
You have been more bold than prudent, Edward
but I
could not expect you to have spoken otherwise. You are too proud and
too manly to tell a lie, and I am glad that it is so. As for your
upholding the king, although he is now a prisoner in their hands, they
can not blame you or punish you for that, as long as you have not
weapons in your hands; but now that they have taken the forest under
their jurisdiction, you must be careful, for they are the ruling powers
at present, and must be obeyed, or the forfeit must be paid. Still I do
not ask you to promise me this or that; I only point out to you that
your sisters will suffer by any imprudence on your part; and for their
sakes be careful. I say this, Edward, because I feel that my days are
numbered, and that in a short time I shall be called away. You will
then have all the load on your shoulders which has been latterly on
mine. I have no fear for the result if you are prudent; these few
months past, during which I have only been a burden to you, have proved
that you and Humphrey can find a living here for yourselves and your
sisters; and it is fortunate, now that the forest laws are about to be
put in force, that you have made the farm so profitable. If I might
advise, let your hunting in the forest be confined to the wild cattle;
they are not game, and the forest laws do not extend to them, and the
meat is as valuable as venison -- that is to say, it does not sell so
dear, but there is more of it; but stick to the farm as much as you
can; for you see, Edward, you do not look like a low-born forester, nor
ought you to do so; and the more quiet you keep the better. As for
Oswald Partridge, you may trust him; I know him well; and he will prove
your friend for my sake, as soon as he hears that I am dead. Leave me
now -- I will talk to you again in the evening. Send Alice to me, my dear
boy
Go, my boy
be as intimate with him as you can, and make
a friend of him -- nay, if it should be necessary, you may tell him who
you are; I did think of telling him myself, as it might be important to
you one day as evidence. I think you had better bring him here
to-morrow night, Edward; tell him I am dying, and wish to speak to him
before I go. Alice will read the Bible to me now, and I will talk with
you another time
Welcome, Oswald
And welcome to you also, my fine lad
I have been
hard questioned about you since we parted -- first by the Roundhead
Heatherstone, who plied me in all manner of ways to find out whether
you are what you assert, the grandson of Jacob -- or some other person. I
really believe that he fancies you are the Duke of York -- but he, could
not get any more from me than what I knew. I told him that your
grandfather's cottage was his own property, and a grant to his
forefathers; that you were brought up at Arnwood, and had joined your
grandfather after the death of the colonel, and the murderous burning
of the house and all within it by his party. But the pretty little
daughter was more curious still. She cross-questioned me in every way
when her father was not present, and at last begged me as a favor to
tell you not to take the deer, as her father was very strict in his
duty, and, if caught, you would be imprisoned
Many thanks to her for her caution, but I hope to take one to-day,
nevertheless
a hart royal is not meat for
Roundheads, although the king's servants may feast on them
That's truly said. Well, now I must see your woodcraft. You shall be
the leader of the chase
Think you we can harbor a stag about here
Yes, in this month, no doubt
Let us walk on
The wind is fresh from the eastern
quarter; we will face it, if you please -- or, rather, keep it blowing on
our right cheek for the present
'Tis well
This is the slot of a doe
yonder thicket is a likely harbor for the stag
He is here
He has soiled
and now you may go in and kill him
How did you happen to miss him
for these are my shots
Because I never fired at him
my quarry lies dead in
the fern -- and a fine fellow he is
This is a warrantable stag
Yes, but mine is a hart royal, as you will see when we go back
Where did you hit him, Edward
I could only see his eye through the fern, and I must have hit him
thereabouts
Well
you made me suppose that you knew something of our
craft, but I did not believe that you were so apt as you thought
yourself to be. I now confess that you are a master, as far as I can
see, in all branches of the craft. This is indeed a hart royal.
Twenty-five antlers, as I live! Come, out with your knife, and let us
finish; for if we are to go to the cottage, we have no time to lose. It
will be dark in half an hour
That will do capitally
and here we are, if I recollect
right, and I hope there is something to eat
No fear of that -- Alice will be prepared for us
I was
not aware with whom I was in company, sir, as you may well imagine; but
the knowledge of it has made my heart glad
Nay, Oswald
remember that I am still Edward
Armitage, and that we are the grandchildren of old Jacob
Certainly, sir, I will, for your own sake, not forget that such is to
be supposed to be the case. I assure you, I think it very fortunate
that Jacob has confided the secret to me, as it may be in my power to
be useful. I little thought that I should ever have had my dinner
cooked by the daughter of Colonel Beverley
It proves that the young man has had much practice, at all events
He has been living at the king's
expense, but he must not follow it up at the cost of the Parliament. It
would be well to take this young man as a ranger if we could; for
although he is opposed to us, yet, if he once took our service, he
would be faithful, I am sure. You can propose it to him, Oswald. The
hunches of that hart royal must be sent up to General Cromwell
to-morrow: the remainder we will give directions for, as soon as I have
made up my mind how to dispose of it
General Cromwell is to
have the hunches of your stag
and the
intendant proposes that you should take service as one of the rangers
I thank you
but I've no fancy to find venison for
General Cromwell and his Roundheads; and so, you may tell the
intendant, with many thanks for his good-will toward me, nevertheless
I thought as much, but the man meant kindly, that I really think. Now,
Phoebe, what can you give us to eat, for we are hungry
You shall be served directly
I have some steaks on
the fire
And you must find a bed for my young friend here
I have none in the house, but there is plenty of good straw over the
stables
That will do
I'm not particular
I suppose not. Why should you be
If you mount the ladder that you will see against
the wall, you will find a good bed when you are at the top of it
Fire! fire
Save her! my daughter is in the room
Oh, save her, or let me do so
Oswald
let the people pass the water up to me
as fast as possible. They can do no good looking on
My daughter! my
child!-- burned -- burned to death
There were four burned
at Arnwood
God of Heaven
Oh, sir
this is dreadful! and such a sweet young
lady too
She is safe and well
I think so, at least. I
brought her down the ladder, and put her in the stable before I
attempted to put out the fire. See, there she is; she has not recovered
yet from her swoon. Bring some water. She breathes! thank God! There,
that will do, Oswald, she is recovering. Now let us cover her up in
your cloak, and carry her to your cottage. We will recover her there
Where is my father
He is safe and well, miss
Is the house burned down
No. The fire is all out again
Who saved me? tell me
Young Armitage, miss
Who is he? oh, I recollect now; but I must go to my father. Where is
he
In the other cottage, miss
I can't stand
Bring
my father to me
I will, miss
Will you stay here, Edward
Yes
The fire is all out, sir
I care not for that. My poor, poor child
Your child is safe, sir
Safe, did you say
Safe!
where
In my cottage. She has sent me for you
Had it not been for the ill-nature of that woman Phoebe, in sending me
to sleep where there was no straw, they would all have been burned
She gave you an opportunity of rewarding good for evil
Yes, but I am burned very much in my arm
Have you any
thing that will be good for it
Yes, I think I have: wait a moment
How grateful the intendant ought to be -- and will be, I have no doubt
And for that very reason I shall saddle my pony and ride home as fast
as I can; and, do you hear, Oswald, do not show him where I live
I hardly know how I can refuse him, if he requires it
But you must not. He will be offering me a situation in the forest, by
way of showing his gratitude, and I will accept of none. I have no
objection to save his daughter, as I would save the daughter of my
worst enemy, or my worst enemy himself, from such a dreadful death; but
I do not want their thanks or offers of service. I will accept nothing
from a Roundhead; and as for the venison in the forest, it belongs to
the king, and I shall help myself whenever I think proper. Good-by,
Oswald, you will call and see us when you have time
I will be with you before the week is out, depend upon it
Is your arm very painful
Yes, it is, indeed
but it can't be helped
No, of course not, but it may be made more easy. I know what will do
it some good; for I recollect, when Benjamin burned his hand at
Arnwood, what they applied to it, and it gave him great relief
Yes, very likely; but I am not aware that we have any drugs or
medicine in the cottage. But here we are: will you take Billy to the
stable, while I go on to old Jacob?

"Thank God that you are come, Edward
for I
was anxious to see you before I die; and something tells me that I have
but a short time to remain here
Why should you say so! Do you feel very ill
No, not ill; but I feel that I am sinking fast. Recollect that I am an
old man, Edward
Not so very old, Jacob; Oswald said that you were not more than sixty
years old
Oswald knows nothing about it. I am past seventy-six, Edward; and you
know, Edward, the Bible says that the days of man are threescore years
and ten; so that I am beyond the mark. And now, Edward, I have but few
words to say. Be careful -- if not for your own sake, at least for your
little sisters'. You are young, but you are strong and powerful above
your years, and can better protect them than I could. I see darker days
yet coming -- but it is His will, and who shall doubt that that is right?
I pray you not to make your birth and lineage known as yet -- it can do
no good, and it may do harm -- and if you can be persuaded to live in the
cottage, and to live on the farm, which will now support you all, it
will be better. Do not get into trouble about the venison, which they
now claim as their own. You will find some money in the bag in my
chest, sufficient to buy all you want for a long while -- but take care
of it; for there is no saying but you may require it. And now, Edward,
call your brother and sisters to me, that I may bid them farewell. I
am, as we all are, sinful, but I trust in the mercy of God through
Jesus Christ. Edward, I have done my duty toward you, as well as I have
been able; but promise me one thing -- that you will read the Bible and
prayers every morning and evening, as I have always done, after I am
gone; promise me that, Edward
I promise you that it shall be done, Jacob
and I
will not forget your other advice
God bless you, Edward. Now call the children
Humphrey, my good boy
recollect, that in the midst of
life we are in death; and that there is no security for young or old.
You or your brother may be cut off in your youth; one may be taken, and
the other left. Recollect, your sisters depend upon you, and do not
therefore be rash: I fear that you will run too much risk after the
wild cattle, for you are always scheming after taking them. Be careful,
Humphrey, for you can ill be spared. Hold to the farm as it now is: it
will support you all. My dear Alice and Edith, I am dying; very soon I
shall be laid by your brothers in my grave. Be good children, and look
up to your brothers for every thing. And now kiss me, Alice; you have
been a great comfort to me, for you have read the Bible to me when I
could no longer read myself. May your death-bed be as well attended as
mine has been, and may you live happily, and die the death of a
Christian! Good-by, and may God bless you. Bless you, Edith; may you
grow up as good and as innocent as you are now. Farewell,
Humphrey -- farewell, Edward -- my eyes are dim -- pray for me, children. O
God of mercy, pardon my many sins, and receive my soul, through Jesus
Christ. Amen, Amen
You hurt poor Edward's
arm -- you don't know how painful it is! Come, dears, let us go into the
other room, and get something to take the pain away
Come, Alice, dear, you and Edith must go to bed
Humphrey
the sooner all this is over the better. As
long as poor Jacob's body remains in the cottage there will be nothing
but distress with the poor girls
I agree with you
where shall we bury him
Under the great oak-tree, at the back of the cottage
One day the old man said to me, that he should like to be buried under
one of the oaks of the forest
Well then, I will go and dig his grave to-night
the moon is bright, and I shall have it finished before morning
I am sorry that I can not help you, Humphrey
I am sorry that you are hurt; but I want no help, Edward. If you will
lie down a little, perhaps you will be able to sleep. Let us change the
potato poultice before you go on
All is ready, Edward; but I fear you
must help me to put poor Jacob in the cart: do you think you can
Oh, yes; my arm is much easier, and I feel very different from what I
did last night. If you will go and get the cart, I will see what I can
do in the mean time
Now, Edward, shall we call our sisters
No, not yet; let us have the body laid in the grave first, and then we
will call them
Are there not prayers proper for reading over the dead
I believe that there are, but they are not in the Bible, so we must
read some portion of the Bible
Yes, I think there is one of the Psalms which it would be right to
read, Edward
here it is, the
ninetieth, in which you recollect it says, 'that the days of man are
threescore years and ten
Yes
and we will read this one also, the 146th
Are our sisters risen, do you think
I am sure that they are
and I will go to them
Alice -- Alice and Edith -- come out
immediately
Kneel down
I'm glad it's over
Poor old Jacob!
I'll put a paling round his grave
Come in, Humphrey
Alice and Edith, my dear little sisters, we have lost a good friend,
and one to whose memory we can not be too grateful. He saved us from
perishing in the flames which burned down our father's house, and has
protected us here ever since. He is gone, for it has pleased God to
summon him to him, and we must bow to the will of Heaven; and here we
are, brother and sisters, orphans, and with no one to look to for
protection but Heaven. Here we are away from the rest of the world,
living for one another. What, then, must we do? We must love one
another dearly, and help one another. I will do my part, if my life is
spared, and so will Humphrey, and so will you my dear sisters. I can
answer for all. Now it is no use to lament -- we must all work, and work
cheerfully; and we will pray every morning and every night that God
will bless our endeavors and enable us to provide for ourselves, and
live here in peace and safety. Kiss me, dear Alice and Edith, and kiss
Humphrey, and kiss one another. Let these kisses be the seals to our
bond; and let us put our trust in Him who only is a father to the widow
and the orphan. And now let us pray
Jacob Armitage
Surely this is a great sum of money
I don't know
what is the price of things; but it appears to me, that it ought to
last us a long while
I think so too
I wish Oswald Partridge would come,
for I want to ask him many questions. I don't know the price of flour,
or anything else we have to purchase, nor do I know what I ought to be
paid for venison. I don't like to go to Lymington till I see him for
that reason. If he does not come soon, I shall ride over and see what
is the matter
How is the old man, sir
He was buried a few days after you left
I expected as much
Peace be with him -- he was a
good man. And how is your arm
Nearly well
Now sit down, Oswald, for I have a
great deal to say to you; and first, let me ask you what has detained
you from coming here according to your promise
Simply, and in few words -- murder
Murder
Yes, deliberate murder, sir; in short, they have beheaded King
Charles, our sovereign
Have they dared to do it
They have
We in the forest know little that is
going on; but when I saw you last, I heard that he was then in London,
and was to be tried
Tried
How could they try a king? by the laws of
our country, a man must be tried by his equals; and where were his
equals
Majesty becomes naught, I suppose
but still it is
as I say. Two days after you left, the intendant hastened up to London,
and, from what I have understood, he was strongly opposed to the deed,
and did all he could to prevent it; but it was of no use. When he left,
he gave me strict injunctions not to go away from the cottage for an
hour, as his daughter was left alone; and as I promised, I could not
come to you; but, nevertheless, Patience received letters from him, and
told me what I tell you
You have not dined, Oswald
No, that I have not
Alice, dear, get some dinner, will you? And Oswald, while you dine,
excuse me if I leave you for a while. Your intelligence has so
astounded me that I can listen to nothing else till I have had a little
while to commune with myself and subdue my feelings
Murdered at last
Yes, well may it be called murder,
and no one to save him -- not a blow struck in his defense -- not an arm
raised. How much gallant blood has been shed in vain! Spirit of my
fathers, didst thou leave none of thy mettle and thy honour behind
thee; or has all England become craven? Well, the time will come, and
if I can no longer hope to fight for my king, at all events I can fight
against those who have murdered him
Yes, or I should not have been here
He came back
yesterday, looking most disconsolate and grave, and I hear that he
returns to London in a few days. Indeed, he told me so himself, for I
requested permission to come over to see your grandfather. He said that
I might go, but must return soon, as he must go back to London. I
believe, from what Miss Patience told me, and what I have seen myself,
that he is sincerely amazed and vexed at what has taken place; and so,
indeed, are many more, who, although opposed to the king's method of
government, never had an idea that things should have turned out as
they have done. I have a message from him to you, which is, that he
begs you will come to see him, that he may thank you for the
preservation of his child
I will take his thanks from you, Oswald: that will do as well as if he
gave them me in person
Yes, perhaps so; but I have another message from another party, which
is -- the young lady herself. She desires me to tell you that she will
never be happy till she has seen you, and thanked you for your courage
and kindness; and that you have no right to put her under such an
obligation, and not give her an opportunity of expressing what she
feels. Now, Mr. Edward, I am certain that she is earnest in what she
says, and she made me promise that I would persuade you to come. I
could not refuse her, for she is a dear little creature; as her father
will go to London in a few days, you may ride over and see her without
any fear of being affronted by any offers which he may make to you
Well
I have no great objection to see her again,
for she was very kind to me; and as you say that the intendant will not
be there, I perhaps may come. But now I must talk to you about other
matters
Should the intendant come back before he
is expected I will come over and let you know; but I think, from what I
heard him say he expected to be at least a month in London
Humphrey
I have made up my
mind to go to Lymington to-morrow We must have some flour, and many
other articles, which Alice says she can no longer do without
Why should we not both go, Edward
No, not this time
I have to find out many things
and many people, and I had rather go by myself; besides, I can not
allow my sisters to be left alone. I do not consider there is any
danger, I admit; but should any thing happen to them, I should never
forgive myself. Still, it is necessary that you should go to Lymington
with me some time or another, that you may know where to purchase and
sell, if required. What I propose is, that I will ask Oswald to come
and stay here a couple of days. We will then leave him in charge of our
sisters, and go to Lymington together
You are right, Edward, that will be the best plan
I will tell you why I have returned, Mr. Edward
It is
of no consequence whether I return now or to-morrow. It is now early,
and as you intend going to Lymington, it occurred to me that I had
better go with you. I can then show you all you want, which will be
much better than going by yourself
Thank you, Oswald, I am much obliged to you
Humphrey, we will get the cart out immediately, or we shall be late.
Will you get it, Humphrey, for I must go for some money, and speak to
Alice
Oswald, you must not call me Mr. Edward, even when we are alone: if
you do you will be calling me so before other people, and, therefore,
recollect in future, it must be plain Edward
Since you wish it, certainly
indeed it would be
better, for a slip of the tongue before other people might create
suspicion
Would you have found your way to Lymington
Yes; I think so
but I must have first gone to
Arnwood. Indeed, had I been alone I should have done so; but we have
made a much shorter cut
I did not think that you would have liked to have seen the ruins of
Arnwood
Not a day passes without my thinking of them
I
should like to see them. I should like to see if any one has taken
possession of the property, for they say it is confiscated
I heard that it was to be, but not that it was yet
but
we shall know more when we get to Lymington. I have not seen it for
more than a year. I hardly think that any one will recognize you
I should think not; but I care little if they do. Indeed, who is thee
to know me
Well, my introduction of you will save some surmises, probably; and I
shall not take you among those who may be inclined to ask questions.
See, there is the steeple; we have not more than a quarter of an hour's
drive
Well, Master Andrew, how fare you
Let me see
Why, Oswald
Partridge, as I am a born man. Where have you been this many a day
In the forest, Master Andrew, where there are no few chops and
changes
Yes, you have a sort of Parliamentary keeper, I'm told; and who is
this with you
The grandson of an old friend of yours, now dead, poor old Jacob
Armitage
Jacob dead, poor fellow! As true as flint was Jacob Armitage, as I'm a
born man! And so he is dead! Well, we all owe Heaven a death. Foresters
and landlords, as well as kings, all must die
I have brought Edward Armitage over here to introduce him to you,
Master Andrew. Now that the old man is dead, you must look to him for
forest meat
Oh, well, well, it is scarce now. I have not had any for some time.
Old Jacob brought me the last. You are not one of the Parliamentary
foresters, then, I presume
No
I kill no venison for Roundheads
Right, my sapling; right and well said. The Armitages were all good
men and true, and followed the fortunes of the Beverleys; but there are
no Beverleys to follow now. Cut off -- root and branch -- more's the pity.
That was a sad business. But come in; we must not talk here, for walls
have ears, they say, and one never knows who one dares to speak before
now
What sword is that
It's not my sword, exactly
and yet I can not
return it to its owner or to the family. It was brought me to be
cleaned by one of Colonel Beverley's people, and before it was called
for the house was burned, and every soul perished. It was one of the
colonel's swords, I am sure, as there is E. B. on a silver plate
engraved on it. I have a bill owing me for work done at Arnwood, and I
have no chance of its being paid now; so, whether I am to sell the
sword, or what to do, I hardly know
To be candid with you, I am, and
all my family have been, followers of the Beverley family, and I should
be sorry if the colonel's sword was to fall into any other hands. I
think, therefore, if I pay the bill which is due, you may safely let me
hold the sword as a security for the money, with the express
understanding that if it is ever claimed by the Beverley family I am to
give it up
Certainly
nothing can be fairer or more clearly put
I think so, too, young man
Of course you
will leave your name and address
Yes; and my friend here will vouch for its being correct
Oswald
I would not part with it for thousands of
pounds. I never will part with it but with my life
I believe so
and I believe more, that it will never
be disgraced in your hands; but do not talk so loud, for there are
listeners and spies everywhere. Is there any thing else that you
require
No, I think not; the fact is, that this sword has put every thing out
of my head. If there was anything else, I have forgotten it. Let us go
back to the inn, and we will harness the pony, and call for the flour
and oatmeal
Why that was Colonel Beverley's, my old master's sword. I knowed it
again directly. I took it to Phillips, the gun maker, to be cleaned
Indeed
I pray, what may be your name
Benjamin White
I served at Arnwood till the night
it was burned down; and I have been here ever since
And what are you doing now
I'm tapster at the 'Commonwealth,' in Fish-street -- not much of a
place
Well, well, you stand by the pony, and look that nobody takes any
thing out of the cart, while I go in for some parcels
Yes, to be sure I will; but, I say, forester, how came you by that
sword?'

"I will tell you when I come out again
He will certainly know you, sir, and you must not come out till I can
get him away
You are right, Oswald; but before he goes, ask him what became of my
aunt, and where she was buried; and also ask him where the other
servants are -- perhaps they are at Lymington as well as he
I will find it all out
I never knew that he had one
nor did I know that
old Jacob was dead
What became of all the women who were at Arnwood
Why, Agatha married one of the troopers, and went away to London
And the others
Why, cook went home to her friends, who live about ten miles from
here, and I have never heard of her since
But there were three of them
Oh, yes; there was Phoebe
She married a trooper -- the jilt!-- and went off to London when Agatha
did. If I'd have thought that she would have done so, I would not have
earned her away from Arnwood behind me, on a pillion, as I did; she
might have been burned with the poor children, for all as I cared
Was not the old lady killed
Yes; that is to say, she killed herself, rather than not kill
Southwold
Where was she buried
In the church-yard at St. Faith's, by the mayor and the corporation;
for there was not money enough found upon her person to pay the
expenses of her burial
And so you are tapster at the Commonwealth. Is it a good inn
Can't say much for it. I shan't stay longer than I can help, I can
tell you
Well, but you must have an easy place, if you can stay away as long as
you do now
Won't I be mobbed when I go back! but that's always the case, make
haste or not, so it's all one. However, I do think I must be agoing
now, so good-by, Mr. Forester; and tell Jacob Armitage's grandson that
I shall be glad to see him, for old Jacob's sake; and it's hard, but
I'll find him something to drink when he calls
I will: I shall see him to-morrow
so good-by, Benjamin
What do you think he is, Edward
Some poor beggar lad, who has been crossing the forest
No, not exactly: he appears to me to be one of the Zingaros or
Gipsies, as they call them: he is very dark, and has black eyes and
white teeth, just like those I saw once near Arnwood, when I was out
with Jacob. Jacob said that no one knew where they came from, but that
they were all over the country, and that they were great thieves, and
told fortunes, and played all manner of tricks
Perhaps it may be so; I do not think that he can speak English
I am most thankful to Heaven that I chanced this morning to visit the
pitfall. Only suppose that I had found the poor boy starved and dead! I
should have been very unhappy, and never should have had any pleasure
in looking at the cows, as they would always have reminded me of such a
melancholy accident
Very true, Humphrey; but you have been saved that misfortune, and
ought to be grateful to Heaven that such is the case. What shall we do
with him now we have him
Why if he chooses to remain with us, he will be very useful in the
cow-yard
Of course
as he was taken in the
pit-fall, he must go into the yard with all the others who were
captured in the same way
Well, Edward, let us get him all right again first, and then we will
see what is to be done with him; perhaps he will refuse to remain with
us
What's your name
Pablo
Can you speak English
Yes, little
How did you happen to fall into the pit
Not see hole
Are you a gipsy
Yes, gitano -- same thing
Will you be honest, if we keep you, and not tell lies
Well, Pablo, we will try you, and if you are a good lad we will do all
we can to make you happy
but if you behave ill we shall
be obliged to turn you out of doors: do you understand
Be as good as I can
I really think, Edward
that the lad may be very useful to us, and
I sincerely hope that he may prove honest and true. We must first get
him into health and spirits, and then I will see what he can do
The fact is, my dear Humphrey, we can do no otherwise; he is separated
from his friends, and does not know where to go. It would be inhuman,
as we have been the cause of his misfortune, to turn him away; but
although I feel this, I do not feel much security as to his good
behavior and being very useful. I have always been told that these
gipsies were vagrants, who lived by stealing all they could lay their
hands upon; and, if he has been brought up in that way, I fear that he
will not easily be reformed. However, we can but try, and hope for the
best
What you say is very just, Edward; at the same time there is an honest
look about this lad, although he is a gipsy, that makes me put a sort
of confidence in him. Admitting that he has been taught to do wrong, do
you not think that when told the contrary he may be persuaded to do
right
It is not impossible, certainly
but, Humphrey, be
on the safe side, and do not trust him too far until you know more of
him
That I most certainly will not
When do you
purpose going over to the keepers cottage, Edward
In a day or two; but I am not exactly in a humor now to be very civil
to the Roundheads, although the one I have promised to visit is a lady,
and a very amiable, pretty little girl in the bargain
Why, Edward, what has made you feel more opposed to them than usual
In the first place, Humphrey, the murder of the king -- for it was
murder and nothing better -- I can not get that out of my head; and
yesterday I obtained what I consider as almost a gift from Heaven, and
if it is so it was not given but with the intention that I should make
use of it
And what was that, Edward
Our gallant father's sword, which he drew so nobly and so well in
defense of his sovereign, Humphrey, and which I trust his son may one
day wield with equal distinction, and, it may be, better fortune. Come
in with me, and I will show it to you
See, Humphrey, this was our father's sword; and
I trust I may be permitted to draw it to revenge
his death, and the death of one whose life ever should have been
sacred
I trust that you will, my dear brother
you will
have a strong arm and a good cause. Heaven grant that both may prosper!
But tell me how you came by it
Humphrey, have you any idea where the herd of cattle are feeding at
this time
I know where they were feeding yesterday and the day before, and I do
not think that they will have changed their ground, for the grass is
yet very young and only grown on the southern aspects. Depend upon it
we shall fall in with them not four miles from where we now are, if not
nearer
We must stalk them as we do the deer, must we not? They won't allow us
to approach within shot, Humphrey, will they
We have to take our chance, Edward; they will allow us to advance
within shot, but the bulls will then advance upon us, while the herd
increase their distance. On the other hand, if we stalk them, we may
kill one, and then the report of the gun will frighten the others away.
In the first instance there is a risk; in the second there is none, but
there is more fatigue and trouble. Choose as you please; I will act as
you decide
Well, Humphrey, since you give me the choice, I think that this time I
shall take the bull by the horns, as the saying is; that is, if there
are any trees near us, for if the herd are in an open place I would not
run such a risk; but if we can fire upon them and fall back upon a tree
in case of a bull charging, I will take them openly
With all my heart, Edward; I think it will be very hard if, with our
two guns and Smoker to back us, we do not manage to be masters of the
field. However, we must survey well before we make our approach; and if
we can get within shot without alarming or irritating them, we, of
course, will do so
The bulls are very savage at this spring time
They are so at all times, as far as I can see of them
but we are near to them now, I should think -- yes, there is
the herd
There they are, sure enough
now we have not to do
with deer, and need not to be so very cautious; but still the animals
are wary, and keep a sharp look-out. We must approach them quietly, by
slipping from tree to tree. Smoker, to heel!-- down --- quiet,
Smoker!-- good dog
Humphrey
one thing is clear -- as the herd is placed at
present, we must have a bull or nothing. It is impossible to get within
shot of the others without passing a bull, and depend upon it, our
passage will be disputed; and moreover the herd will take to flight,
and we shall get nothing at all
Well
beef is beef; and, as they say, beggars must
not be choosers, so let it be a bull if it must be so
Let us get nearer to them, and then we will decide what we shall do.
Steady, Smoker
Now, Edward, I think that it would be best to separate. You can fire
from where we are, and I will crawl through the fern, and get behind
another tree
Very well, do so
if you can manage, get to that
tree with the low branches, and then perhaps you will be within shot of
the white bull, which is coming down in this direction. Smoker, lie
down! He can not go with you, Humphrey; it will not be safe
A narrow escape, Humphrey
Yes, indeed, we may thank Heaven for our preservation
and poor Smoker! let us see if he is much hurt
I trust not
It is there where the horn of the bull took him
Yes
and he has two of his
ribs broken. Humphrey, see if you can get him a little water, that will
recover him more than any thing else; the bull has knocked the breath
out of his body. I think he will soon be well again, poor fellow
He will do now
we must give him time to recover
himself. Now then, let us examine our quarry. Why, Humphrey, what a
quantity of meat we have here! It will take three journeys to Lymington
at least
Yes, and no time to lose, for the weather is getting warm already,
Edward. Now what to do? Will you remain while I go home for the cart
Yes, it's no use both going; I will stay here and watch poor Smoker,
and take off the skins ready by the time you are back again. Leave me
your knife as well as my own, for one will soon be blunt
Is it good
Yes; not have so good supper in pithole
We made a good day's work, Edward
We earned it with some risk, at all events
and now,
Humphrey, I think it is time that I keep my promise to Oswald, and go
over to the intendant's house, and pay my visit to the young lady, as I
presume she is -- and certainly she has every appearance of being one. I
want the visit to be over, as I want to be doing
How do you mean, Edward
I mean that I want to go out and kill some deer, but I will not do it
till after I have seen her: when I shall have acquitted myself of my
visit, I intend to defy the intendant and all his verderers
But why should this visit prevent you going out this very day, if so
inclined
I don't know, but she may ask me if I have done so, and I do not want
to tell her that I have; neither do I want to say that I have not, if I
have; and therefore I shall not commence till after I have seen her
When will you set off
To-morrow morning; and I shall take my gun, although Oswald desired me
not; but after the fight we had with the wild cattle the other day, I
don't think it prudent to be unarmed; indeed, I do not feel comfortable
without I have my gun, at any time
Well, I shall have plenty to do when you are away -- the potatoes must
be hoed up, and I shall see what I can make of Master Pablo. He appears
well enough, and he has played quite long enough, so I shall take him
with me to the garden to-morrow, and set him to work. What a quantity
of fruit there is a promise of in the orchard this year! And Edward, if
this boy turns out of any use, and is a help to me, I think that I
shall take all the orchard into garden, and then inclose another piece
of ground, and see if we can not grow some corn for ourselves. It is
the greatest expense that we have at present, and I should like to take
my own corn to the mill to be ground
But will not growing corn require plow and horses
No; we will try it by hand: two of us can dig a great deal at odd
times, and we shall have a better crop with the spade than with the
plow. We have now so much manure that we can afford it
Well, if it is to be done, it should be done at once, Humphrey, before
the people from the other side of the forest come and find us out, or
they will dispute our right to the inclosure
The forest belongs to the king, brother, and not to the Parliament;
and we are the king's liege men, and only look to him for permission
but what you say is true: the sooner it is done the
better, and I will about it at once
How much do you propose fencing in
About two or three acres
But that is more than you can dig this year or the next
I know that; but I will manure it without digging, and the grass will
grow so rich to what it will outside of the inclosure, that they will
suppose it has been inclosed a long while
That's not a bad idea, Humphrey; but I advise you to look well after
that boy, for he is of a bad race, and has not been brought up, I am
afraid, with too strict notions of honesty. Be careful, and tell your
sisters also to be cautious not to let him suppose that we have any
money in the old chest, till we find out whether he is to be trusted or
not
Better not let him know it under any circumstances
he may continue honest, if not tempted by the knowledge that there is
any thing worth stealing
You are right, Humphrey. Well, I will be off to-morrow morning and get
this visit over. I hope to be able to get all the news from her, now
that her father is away.

"I hope to get some work out of this Pablo
how
many things I could do, if he would only work! Now, I'll tell you one
thing -- I will dig a sawpit and get a saw, and then I can cut out boards
and build any thing we want. The first time I go to Lymington I will
buy a saw -- I can afford it now; and I'll make a carpenter's bench for
the first thing, and then, with some more tools, I shall get on; and
then, Edward, I'll tell you what else I will do
Then, Humphrey
you must tell me some
other time, for it is now very late, and I must go to bed, as I have to
rise early. I know you have so many projects in your mind that it would
take half the night to listen to them
Well, I believe what you say is true
and it will
be better to do one thing at a time than to talk about doing a hundred;
so we will, as you say, to bed
No, not much; suppose you pray sun to shine
No, Pablo
pray to God to make us good
You bad then
me not bad
Yes, Pablo, every body very bad
but if we try to be
good, God forgives us
How now, young fellow, what are you doing here
I am walking across the forest, as you may perceive
Yes, I perceive you are walking, and you are walking with a dog and a
gun: you will now be pleased to walk with me. Deer-stealers are not any
longer permitted to range this forest
I am no deer-stealer
It will be quite sufficient to
give me that title when you find me with venison in my possession; and
as for going with you, that I certainly shall not. Sheer off, or you
may meet with harm
Why, you young good-for-nothing, if you have not venison, it is not
from any will not to take it; you are out in pursuit of it, that is
clear. Come, come, you've the wrong person to deal with; my orders are
to take up all poachers, and take you I will
If you can
but you must first prove that you are
able so to do; my gun is as good and my aim is as sure as yours,
whoever you may be. I tell you again, I am no poacher, nor have I come
out to take the deer, but to cross over to the intendant's cottage,
whither I am now going. I tell you thus much, that you may not do any
thing foolish; and having said this, I advise you to think twice before
you act once. Let me proceed in peace, or you may lose your place, if
you do not, by your own rashness, lose your life
You tell me that you are going to the intendant's
house; you have business there, I presume? If I took you prisoner, it
is there I should have conducted you, so, young man, you may now walk
on before me
I thank you
but walk on before you I will not: but
if you choose to half-cock your gun again, and walk by my side, I will
do the same. Those are my terms, and I will listen to no other; so be
pleased to make up your mind, as I am in haste
Be it so
You tell me you are
going to the intendant's house; he is not at home
But young Mistress Patience is, I presume
Yes
Yes, she is
at home, for I saw her in the garden this morning
And Oswald, is he at home
Yes, he is. You appear to know our people, young man; who may you be,
if it is a fair question
It would have been a fair question had you treated me fairly
but as it is no concern of yours, I shall leave you to find it
out
I have now arrived at my destination, and am going into that house, as
I told you. Do you choose to enter it with me, or will you go to Oswald
Partridge and tell him that you have met with Edward Armitage in the
forest, and that I should be glad to see him? I believe you are under
his orders, are you not
Yes I am
and as I suppose that all's right, I
shall go and deliver your message
Oh, how glad I am to see
you! Come in
And now
thanks, many
thanks, for your preserving me from so dreadful a death. You don't know
how unhappy I have been at not being able to give you my poor thanks
for your courageous behavior
You rate what I did too highly
I would have done
the same for any one in such distress: it was my duty as a -- man
Sit down
nay, no ceremony; I can not
treat as an inferior one to whom I owe such a debt of gratitude
My father is as grateful to you as I am -- I'm sure that he is -- for I
heard him, when at prayer, call down blessings on your head. What can
he do for you? I begged Oswald Partridge to bring you here that I might
find out. Oh, sir, do, pray, let me know how we can show our gratitude
by something more than words
You have shown it already, Mistress Patience
have
you not honored a poor forester with your hand in friendship, and even
admitted him to sit down before you
He who has preserved my life at the risk of his own becomes to me as a
brother -- at least I feel as a sister toward him: a debt is still a
debt, whether indebted to a king or to a
Forester, Mistress Patience; that is the real word that you should not
have hesitated to have used. Do you imagine that I am ashamed of my
calling
To tell you candidly the truth, then
I can not
believe that you are what you profess to be. I mean to say that,
although a forester now, you were never brought up as such. My father
has an opinion allied to mine
I thank you both for your good opinion of me, but I fear that I can
not raise myself above the condition of a forester; nay, from your
father's coming down here, and the new regulations, I have every chance
of sinking down to the lower grade of a deer-stealer and poacher;
indeed, had it not been that I had my gun with me, I should have been
seized as such this very day as I came over
But you were not shooting the deer, were you, sir
No, I was not; nor have I killed any since last I saw you
I am glad that I can say that to my father
it
will much please him. He said to me that he thought you capable of much
higher employment than any that could be offered here, and only wished
to know what you would accept. He has interest -- great
interest -- although just now at variance with the rulers of this
country, on account of the
Murder of the king, you would or you should have said, Mistress
Patience. I have heard how much he was opposed to that foul deed, and I
honor him for it
How kind, how truly kind you are to say so
what pleasure to hear my father's conduct
praised by you
Why, of course, Mistress Patience, all of my way of thinking must
praise him. Your father is in London, I hear
Yes, he is; and that reminds me that you must want some refreshment
after your walk. I will call Phoebe
Nay, do not go yet -- I have much to say first; let me again ask you how
we can serve you
I never can take any office under the present rulers of the nation, so
that question is at rest
I was afraid that you would answer so
do
not think I blame you; for many are there already who would gladly
retrace their steps if it were possible. They little thought, when they
opposed the king, that affairs would have ended as they have done.
Where do you live, sir
At the opposite side of the forest, in a house belonging to me now,
but which was inherited by my grandfather
Do you live alone -- surely not
No, I do not
Nay, you may tell me any thing, for I would never repeat what might
hurt you, or you might not wish to have known
I live with my brother and two sisters, for my grandfather is lately
dead
Is your brother younger than you are
He is
And your sisters, what are their ages
They are younger still
You told my father that you lived upon your farm
We do
Is it a large farm
No; very small
And does that support you
That and killing wild cattle has lately
Yes, and killing deer also, until lately
You have guessed right
You were brought up at Arnwood, you told my father; did you not
Yes, I was brought up there, and remained there until the death of
Colonel Beverley
And you were educated, were you not
Yes; the chaplain taught me what little I do know
Then, if you were brought up in the house and educated by the
chaplain, surely Colonel Beverley never intended you for a forester
He did not; I was to have been a soldier as soon as I was old enough
to bear arms
Perhaps you are distantly related to the late Colonel Beverley
No; I am not _distantly_ related
but still, had Colonel
Beverley been alive, and the king still required his services, I have
no doubt that I should have been serving under him at this time. And
now, Mistress Patience, that I have answered so many questions of
yours, may I be permitted to ask a little about yourself in return?
Have you any brothers
None; I am an only child
Have you only one parent alive
Only one
What families are you connected with
My mother's name was Cooper; she was sister to Sir Anthony Ashley
Cooper, who is a person well known
Indeed! then you are of gentle blood
I believe so
Thank you for your condescension, Mistress Patience; and now, if you
will permit me, I will take my leave
Before you go, let me once more thank you for saving a worthless
life
Well, you must come again, when my father is
here; he will be but too glad to have an opportunity of thanking one
who has preserved his only child. Indeed, if you knew my father, you
would feel as much regard for him as I do. He is very good, although he
looks so stern and melancholy; but he has seldom smiled since my poor
mother's death
As to your father, Mistress Patience, I will think as well as I can of
one who is joined to a party which I hold in detestation; I can say no
more
I must not say all that I know, or you would, perhaps, find out that
he is not quite so wedded to that party as you suppose. Neither his
brother-in-law nor he are great friends of Cromwell's, I can assure
you; but this is in confidence
That raises him in my estimation; but why then does he hold office
He did not ask it; it was given to him, I really believe, because they
wished him out of the way; and he accepted it because he was opposed to
what was going on, and wished himself to be away. At least I infer so
much from what I have learned. It is not an office of power or trust
which leagues him with the present government
No; only one which opposes him to me and my malpractices
Well, Mistress Patience, you have shown great
condescension to a poor forester, and I return you many thanks for your
kindness toward me: I will now take my leave
And when will you come and see my father
I can not say; I fear that I shall not be able very soon to look in
his injured face, and it will not be well for a poacher to come near
him
however, some day I may be taken and brought
before you as a prisoner, you know, and then he is certain to see me
I will not tell you to kill deer
but if you do
kill them no one shall harm you -- or I know little of my power or my
father's. Farewell then, sir, and once more gratitude and thanks
You have had a long talk with Mistress Patience
and I am glad of it, as it gives you consequence
here. The Roundhead rascal whom you met was inclined, to be very
precise about doing his duty, and insisted that he was certain that you
were on the look-out for deer; but I stopped his mouth by telling him
that I often took you out with me, as you were the best shot in the
whole forest, and that the intendant knew that I did so. I think that
if you were caught in the act of killing a deer, you had better tell,
them that you killed it by my request, and I will bear you out if they
bring you to the intendant, who will, I'm sure, thank me for saying so;
you might kill all the deer in the forest, after what you have done for
him
Many thanks; but I do not think I can take advantage of your offer.
Let them catch me if they can, and if they do catch me, let them take
me if they can
I see, sir, that you will accept no favor from the Roundheads
However, as I am now head keeper, I shall take care
that my men do not interfere with you, if I can help it; all I wish is
to prevent any insult or indignity being offered to you, they not being
aware who you are, as I am
Many thanks, Oswald; I must take my chance
What is the name of the verderer whom I met in the forest
James Corbould; he was discharged from the army
I do not like his appearance
No; his face tells against him
but I know nothing
of him; he has been here little more than a fortnight
Can you give me a corner to put my head in to-night, Oswald? for I
shall not start till to-morrow morning
You may command all I have, sir
but I fear there is
little more than a hearty welcome; I have no doubt that you could be
lodged at the intendant's house if you choose
No, Oswald, the young lady is alone, and I will not trust to Phoebe's
accommodation again; I will stay here, if you will permit me
And welcome, sir; I will put your puppy in the kennel at once
That's a very nice little girl
and she is of
a grateful disposition, or she would not have behaved as she has done
toward me -- supposing me to be of mean birth
I am not likely to
see her again very soon
unless, indeed, I am brought
to the intendant as a prisoner
That man has
come out after me, that I am certain; and as there are no witnesses, he
may be inclined to be mischievous, for a more wretched-looking person I
never saw. Had he been deer-hunting, he would have brought his dog; but
he is man-hunting, that is evident. Now I will leave him, and should he
fall in with anything, he will not kill at first shot, that's certain;
and if he follows me, I shall have the same chance of escape as
anything else he may fire at
Indeed, younker! it may be the worse for you
It might have been if your gun had gone off
I did not aim at you. I aimed at the dog, and I will kill the brute if
I can
Not without danger to yourself; but it was not him that you aimed
at -- your gun was not pointed low enough to hit the dog -- it was leveled
at me, you sneaking wretch; and I have only to thank my own prudence
and your sleepy head for having escaped with my life. I tell you
candidly, that I threw the powder out of your pan while you were
asleep. If I served you as you deserve, I should now put my bullet into
you; but I can not kill a man who is defenseless -- and that saves your
life; but set off as fast as you can away from me, for if you follow me
I will show no more forbearance. Away with you directly
if you do not be off, I'll fire
That man must be of a very
wicked disposition, for I have offended him in nothing except in not
submitting to be made his prisoner; and is that an offense to take a
man's life for? He is a dangerous man, and will be more dangerous after
being again foiled by me as he has been to-day. I doubt if he will go
home; I am almost sure that he will turn and follow me when he thinks
that he can without my seeing him; and if he does, he will find out
where our cottage is -- and who knows what mischief he may not do, and
how he may alarm my little sisters? I'll not go home till dark; and
I'll now walk in another direction, that I may mislead him
Oh, you are there
now will I give you a nice dance, and we will see whose legs are tired
soonest. Let me see, where am I
That
will do
come along, my fine fellow
That will do
now you
may lie there as long as the gipsy did, and that will cool your
courage. Humphrey's pitfall is full of adventure. In this case it has
done me a service. Now I may turn and go home as fast as I can. Come
Holdfast, old boy, we both want our suppers. I can answer for one, for
I could eat the whole of that pasty which Oswald set before me this
morning
Give me my
supper, my dear girls
and then you shall know all about
it
Now he is in the pit, to-morrow morning I take gun and shoot him
No, no, Pablo, you must not do that
Pablo
go and sit down; you must not shoot
people
He shoot master then
he very bad man
But if you shoot him, you will be a bad boy, Pablo
But, Edward
what do you propose to do
I hardly know; my idea was to let him remain there for a day or two,
and then send to Oswald to let him know where the fellow was
The only objection to that is
that you say his
gun went off as he fell into the pit; it may be probable that he is
wounded, and if so, he might die if he is left there
You are right, Humphrey, that is possible; and I would not have the
life of a fellow-creature on my conscience
I think it would be advisable, Edward, that I should set off early
to-morrow on the pony, and see Oswald, tell him all that has occurred,
and show him where the pitfall is
I believe that would be the best plan, Humphrey
Yes
it would be dreadful that a man should die in so
wicked a state; let him be taken out, and perhaps he will repent
Won't God punish him, brother
Yes, my dear; sooner or later the vengeance of Heaven overtakes the
wicked. But I am very tired after so long a walk to Prayers, and then
to bed
Who's there
It's me, it's Corbould
Are you hurt
Yes, badly
when I fell, my gun went off, and the
ball has gone through my thigh. I have almost bled to death
Now, what's to be done
we can never get him home
I will tell you
It will not
do for any of these men to know our cottage, and we can not take them
there. Desire them to remain with the man, while you go for a cart to
carry him home. We will go to the cottage, give Billy his supper, and
then return with him in the cart, and bring your men something to eat.
Then I will go with you, and bring the cart back again before daylight.
It will be a night's work, but it will be the safest plan
I think so, too
It's almost a pity that he had not killed himself outright
it would have been justice to him, for attempting your life
without any cause; he is a bloodthirsty scoundrel, and I wish he was
any where but where he is. However, the intendant shall know of it, and
I have no doubt that he will be discharged.

"Do nothing in a hurry, Oswald
at present let him
give his own version of the affair, for he may prove more dangerous
when discharged than when under your control. Now sit down and take
your supper. Billy must have an hour to get his, and therefore there is
no hurry for you
That is your gipsy lad, Edward, is he not
Yes
I like the boy's looks; but they are a queer race. You must not trust
him too much
until you have tried
him, and are satisfied of his fidelity. They are very excitable, and
capable of strong attachment if well treated. That I know, for I did a
gipsy a good turn once, and it proved to be the saving of my life
afterward
Oh, tell us how, Oswald
It is too long a story now, my dear little lady
but
I will another time. Whatever he may do, do not strike him; for they
never forgive a blow, I am told by those who know them, and it never
does them any good; as I said before, they are a queer race
He will not be beaten by us
depend upon it,
unless Edith slaps him, for she is the one who takes most pains with
him, and I presume he would not care much about her little hand
No, no
Edith may do as she pleases. What
does he do for you
Oh, nothing as yet, for he is hardly recovered, poor fellow
He follows Edith, and helps her to look for the eggs; and
last night he set some springes after his own fashion, and certainly
beat me, for he took three rabbits and a hare, while I, with all my
traps, only took one rabbit
I think you had better leave that part of your livelihood entirely to
him; he has been bred up to it, Humphrey, and it will be his amusement.
You must not expect him to work very hard; they are not accustomed to
it. They live a roving and never work if they can help it: still, if
you can make him fond of you, he may be very useful, for they are very
clever and handy
I hope to make him useful
but still I will not
force him to do what he does not like. He is very fond of the pony
already, and likes to take care of him
Bring him over to me one of these days, so that he may know where to
find me. It may prove of consequence if you have a message to send, and
can not come yourselves
That is very true
I shall not forget it. Humphrey,
shall you or I go with the cart
Humphrey, by all means; it will not do for them to suppose I had the
cart from you, Edward; they do not know Humphrey, and he will be off
again in the morning before they are up
Very true
And it is time for us to set off
Will Mistress
Alice oblige me with something for my men to eat, for they have fasted
the whole day
Yes
I will have it ready before the pony is in the
cart. Edith, dear, come with me
I will let you know how he gets on, Humphrey, and what account he
gives of his falling into the pit; but you must not expect me for a
fortnight at least
Horses,
and all animals indeed, know that there is no place like home; it is a
pity that men who consider themselves much wiser, have not the same
consideration
I really think that I should be more comfortable
if Edward was away. I am always in a fidget about him. I wish the new
king, who is now in France would raise an army and come over. It is
better that Edward should be fighting in the field than remain here and
risk being shot as a deer-stealer, or put in prison. The farm is
sufficient for us all; and when I have taken in more ground it will be
much more than sufficient, even if I do not kill the wild cattle. I am
fit for the farm, but Edward is not. He is thrown away, living in this
obscurity, and he feels it. He will always be in hot water some way or
another, that is certain. What a narrow escape he has had with that
scoundrel, and yet how little he cares for it! He was intended for a
soldier, that is evident; and, if ever he is one, he will be in his
element, and distinguish himself, if it pleases God to spare his life.
I'll persuade him to stay at home a little while to help me to inclose
the other piece of ground; and, after that is done, I'll dig a saw-pit,
and see if I can coax Pablo to saw with me. I must go to Lymington and
buy a saw. If I once could get the trees sawed up into planks, what a
quantity of things I could make, and how I could improve the place
You've just come in time, Humphrey; I have some provision for Alice's
larder. I took my gun and came on the path which I knew you would
return by, and I have killed a young buck. He is good meat, and we are
scarce of provisions
Now, Humphrey, what do you propose to do
This
I have marked out three acres or thereabout
of the land running in a straight line behind the garden. There is not
a tree on it, and it is all good feeding-ground. What I intend to do is
to inclose it with the spruce-fir posts and rails that we are about to
cut down, and then set a hedge upon a low bank which I shall raise all
round inside the rails. I know where there are thousands of
seedling-thorns, which I shall take up in the winter, or early in the
spring, to put in, as the bank will be ready for them by that time
Well, that's all very good; but I fear it will be a long while before
you have such a quantity of land dug up
Yes, of course it will; but, Edward, I have plenty of manure to spare,
and I shall put it all over this land, and then it will become a rich
pasture, and also an earlier pasture than what we can get from the
forest, and will be very handy to turn the cows and the calves upon; or
even Billy, if we want him in a hurry
All that is very true
so that it will be useful at
all events, if you do not dig it up
Indeed it will
I only wish it were six acres
instead of three
I can't say I do
you are too grand in
your ideas; only think what a quantity of spruces we shall have to cut
down on it, to post and rail what you just propose. Let it be three
acres first, Humphrey; and when they are inclosed, you may begin to
talk of three more
Well, perhaps you are right, Edward
Why, here's Pablo coming after us; he's not coming to work, I presume,
but to amuse himself by looking on
I don't think he's strong enough to do much hard work, Humphrey,
although he appears very ingenious
No, I agree with you; and if he is to work, depend upon it it must not
be by having work set out for him; he would take a disgust to it
directly. I have another plan for him
And what is that, Humphrey
I shall not set him any thing to do, and shall make him believe that I
do not think he is able to do any thing. That will pique him, and I
think by that means I shall get more work out of him than you would
think, especially when, after he has done it, I express my wonder and
give him praise
Not a bad idea, that; you will work upon his pride, which is probably
stronger than his laziness
I do not think him lazy, but I think him unused to hard work, and
having lived a life of wandering and idleness, not very easy to be
brought to constant and dayly work, except by degrees, and by the means
which I propose. Here we are
now for an
hour or two's fulfillment of the sentence of our first parents -- to wit,
'the sweat of the brow
Well, Pablo
I suppose you think
looking on better than cutting down trees; and so it is
What cut down trees for
To make posts and rails to fence in more ground. I shall not leave the
boughs on
No cut them off by-and-by, and then put poles on the cart and carry
them home
Hard work, Pablo
Yes, very hard work; Pablo not strong enough
Oh no, you are not able to do any thing of this kind, I know. No work
this for gipsies; they take birds' nests and catch rabbits
Yes
and you eat them
So he does, Pablo
so you are useful in your way; for
if he had nothing to eat, he would not be able to work. Strong man cut
down trees, weak man catch rabbits
Both good
Yes, but strong man like work; not strong man not like work, Pablo. So
now look on again, for we must have another spell
Strong man cut down trees, not strong man cut off branches
Why, Pablo, have you been at work
Yes, little missy, work all the morning
Indeed he has, and has worked very well, and been very useful
It has given you an appetite for your dinner, Pablo, has it not
Have that without work
Pablo, you are a very good gipsy boy
I shall let you walk out with me and carry the
basket to put the eggs in when you come home in the evening
That is a reward
There
that's a good job over; many thanks, Edward,
for your assistance; and thank you, too, Pablo, for you really have
helped us very much indeed, and are a very useful, good boy. Now for
raising the bank; that I must do when I can spare time; but my garden
is overrun with weeds, and I must get Edith and Alice to help me there
If you don't want me any longer, Humphrey
I think I
shall go over to see Oswald, and take Pablo with me. I want to know how
that fellow Corbould is, and what he says; and whether the intendant
has come back; not that I shall go near him or his good little
daughter, but I think I may as well go, and it will be a good
opportunity of showing Pablo the way to Oswald's cottage
I think so too; and when you come back, Edward, one of us must go to
Lymington, for I require some tools, and Pablo is very ragged. He must
have some better clothes than these old ones of ours, if he is to be
sent messages. Don't you think so
Certainly I do
And I want a thousand things
Indeed, mistress, won't less than a thousand content you
Yes, perhaps not quite a thousand, but I really do want a great many,
and I will make you a list of them. I have not pans enough for my milk;
I want salt; I want tubs; but I will make out a list, and you will find
it a very long one
Well, I hope you have something to sell to pay for them
Yes; I have plenty of butter salted down
What have you, Edith
Oh, my chickens are not large enough yet; as soon as they are Humphrey
must get me some ducks and geese; for I mean to keep some; and
by-and-by I will have some turkeys, but not yet. I must wait till
Humphrey builds me the new house for them he has promised me
I think you are right, Edith, about the ducks and geese; they will do
well on the water behind the yard, and I will dig you out a bigger pool
for them
Edith, my dear, your little fingers are just made to weed my onions
well, and I wish you would do it to-morrow morning, if you have time
Yes, Humphrey, but my little fingers won't smell very nice afterward
Not till you have washed them, I guess; but there is soap and water,
you know
Yes, I know there is; but if I weed the onions, I can not help Alice
to make the butter; however, if Alice can do without me, I will do it
I want some more seeds sadly
and I must make out my
list. I must go to Lymington myself this time, Edward, for you will be
puzzled with all our wants
Not if I know exactly what you do want; but as I really do not, and
probably should make mistakes, I think it will be better if you do go.
But it is bedtime, and as I shall start early, good-night, sisters; I
beg you will let me have something to eat before I start. I shall try
for some venison as I come back, and shall take Smoker with me; he is
quite well again, and his ribs are as stout as ever
And, Edward
I wish, when you kill any venison, that you
would bring home some of those parts which you usually throw away, for
I assure you, now that we have three dogs, I hardly know how to find
enough for them to eat
I'll not fail, Alice
and now once more good-night
We can not stop now, Pablo
Humphrey would like to have
the calf, and we must take our chance of its remaining by its mother
till we come back. I think it will for a day or two, so let us push on
But I will put on my hood and see
I am glad that you have come, sir
as I have just seen the intendant, and he has been asking
many questions about you. I am certain he thinks that you are not the
grandson of Jacob Armitage, and that he supposes I know who you are. He
asked me where your cottage was, and whether I could take him to it, as
he wished to speak to you, and said that he felt great interest about
you
And what did you say
I said that your cottage was a good day's journey from here, and I was
not certain that I knew the exact way, as I had been there but seldom,
but that I knew where to find it after I saw the forests of Arnwood; I
told him about Corbould and his attempt upon you, and he was very
wroth. I never saw him moved before; and young Mistress Patience, she
was indeed angry and perplexed, and begged her father to send the
assailant away as soon as he could be moved. Master Heatherstone
replied, 'Leave it to me, my dear;' and then asked me what account
Corbould gave of himself, and his falling into the pit. I told him that
Corbould stated that he was following a deer, which he had severely
wounded about noonday, and having no dog with him he could not overtake
it, although he knew by its bleeding track that it could not hold out
much longer. That he followed it until nightfall, and had it in view
and close to him, when he fell into the pit
Well, the story was not badly made up
only for _a
deer_ read _man:_ and what did the intendant say to that
He said that he believed you, and that Corbould's story was false -- as,
if it had been a stag that he was following, no one would have known
that he had fallen into the pit, and he would have remained there till
now. I quite forgot to say, that when the intendant said that he wished
to call at your cottage, the young mistress said that she wished to go
with him, as you had told her that you had two sisters living with you,
and she wished very much to see them and make their acquaintance
I am afraid that we shall not be able to prevent this visit, Oswald
He is in command here, and the forest is in his
charge. We must see to it. I only should like, if possible, to have
notice of his coming, that we may be prepared
You need no preparation, sir, if he should come
Very true
we have nothing to conceal, and if he finds
us in a pickle, it is of no consequence
Rather the better, sir
Let your sisters be at the
wash-tub, and you and your brother carting manure; he will then be more
likely to have no suspicion of your being otherwise than what you
assume to be
Have you heard any news from London, Oswald
Not as yet. I was away yesterday evening, when Master Heatherstone
came back, and I have not seen his man this morning. While you eat your
dinner, I will go into the kitchen; and if he is not there, Phoebe will
be sure to tell me all that she has heard
Do not say that I am here, Oswald, as I do not wish to see the
intendant
Mum's the word, sir; but you must stay in the cottage, or others will
see you, and it may come to his ears
What do you say, Pablo? do you think you can walk back to-night
Yes; like walking at night. My people always do; sleep in a daytime
Well, I think it will be better to go home: Oswald has only one bed,
and I do not wish them to know that I am here; so, Pablo, eat heartily,
and then we shall not be so tired. I want to get home, that I may send
Humphrey after the calf
One bed here; you stay
I go home, and tell Master
Humphrey
Do you think you would be able to find your way, Pablo
Once go one way, always know same way again
You are a clever fellow, Pablo, and I have a mind to try you. Now
drink some beer. I think, Pablo, you shall go home, and tell Humphrey
that I and Smoker will be where the heifer lies dead, and have it
skinned by nine o'clock tomorrow morning; so, if he comes, he will find
me there
Yes, I go now
No, not now; you must rest yourself a little more
Pablo not tired
be back before
supper. As I go along, look at calf and dead cow -- see if calf stay with
mother
Very well, then, if you wish it, you may go now
Is the boy gone
Yes; he is gone back to the cottage
I've an idea that you will find that boy very useful, if he is
properly managed
I think so too
and I am glad to perceive that he is
already attached to all of us. We treat him as ourselves
You are right; and now for the news that I have to tell you. The Duke
Hamilton, the Earl of Holland, and Lord Capel have been tried,
condemned, and executed
More murder! but we must expect it from those who have
murdered their king. Is that all
No. King Charles the Second has been proclaimed in Scotland, and
invited to come over
That is indeed news
Where is he now
At the Hague; but it was said that he was going to Paris
That is all that you have heard
Yes; that was what was current when Master Heatherstone, was in town.
His man, Samson, gave me the news; and he further said, 'that his
master's journey to London was to oppose the execution of the three
lords; but it was all in vain
Well
if the king does come over,
there will be some work cut out for some of us, I expect. Your news has
put me in a fever
I thought it would
but until the time comes, the
more quiet you keep the better
Yes, Oswald; but I can't talk any more; I must be left alone to think.
I will go to bed, as I shall be off early in the morning. Is that
fellow, Corbould, getting well
Yes, sir; he is out of bed, and walks a little with a stick; but he is
still very lame, and will be for some time
Good-night, Oswald; if I have any thing to say, I will write and send
the boy. I do not want to be seen here any more
It will be best, sir. Good-night; I will put Smoker in the kennel to
the right, as he will not be friendly with the other dogs
He will surely come
and
he will have an army round him as soon as he lands
Good-morning, Humphrey
I am almost ready for you; but
the question is, how are we to take the calf? It is as wild as a deer
It will be a puzzler, without Smoker can run it down
I take him, with Smoker
How will you take it
This way I take him, suppose I get near enough. This way take bulls in
Spain; call him Lasso. Now come with me
Now tell Smoker
Well done, Pablo! you are a clever fellow
and this
calf shall be yours
It is a cow calf
which I am glad of. Pablo, you did
that well, and, as Edward says, the calf belongs to you
Where can I have been
wandering to
I never fell in with any of the forest
ponies before; I must, therefore, have walked in a direction quite
contrary to what I usually do. I do not know where I am -- the scenery is
new to me. What a fool I am! It's lucky that nobody except Humphrey
digs pitfalls, or I should probably have been in one by this time; and
I've brought out my gun and left the dog at home. Well, I suppose I can
find my way back
Now I'll puzzle Humphrey when I go back
He says
that Billy is getting old, and that he wishes he could get another
pony. I will tell him what a plenty there are, and propose that he
should invent some way of catching one. That will be a poser for him;
yet I'm sure that he will try, for he is very ingenious. And now, which
way am I to turn to find my way home? I think it ought to be to the
north; but which is north? for there is no sun out, and now I perceive
it looks very like rain. I wonder how long I have been walking! I am
sure I don't know
The king proclaimed in Scotland! he will come over of course: I will
join his army, and then
I must dream no more
or if I do indulge
in any more daydreams, I certainly shall neither sleep nor dream
to-night. It is getting dark already, and here I am lost in the forest,
and all through my own foolishness. If the stars do not shine, I shall
not know how to direct my steps; indeed, if they do, I don't know
whether I have walked south or north, and I am in a pretty pickle; not
that I care for being out in the forest on a night like this, but my
sisters and Humphrey will be alarmed at my absence. The best thing that
I can do, is to decide upon taking some straight line, and continue in
it: I must then get out the forest at last, even if I walk right across
it. That will be better than going backward and forward, or round and
round, as I shall otherwise do, just like a puppy running alter its own
tail. So now shine out, stars
They have no dog
or it would have growled before
this; and it's lucky that I have none either
It is not time yet! No, no: too soon by half an hour or more. The
people from Lymington, who buy him what he wants, always bring it to
him at night, that his retreat may not be discovered. They sometimes do
not leave the cottage till two hours after dark, for they do not leave
Lymington to go there till it is dark
Do you know who it is who supplies him with food
Yes, the people at the inn in Parliament-street -- I forget the sign
Oh, I know. Yes, the landlord is a downright Malignant in his heart!
We might squeeze him well, if we dared show ourselves in Lymington
Yes, but they would squeeze our necks tighter than would be agreeable,
I expect
Are you sure that he has money
Quite sure; for I peeped through the chinks of the window-shutters,
and I saw him pay for the things brought to him; it was from a canvas
bag, and it was gold that he took out
And where did he put the bag after he had paid them
That I can't tell, for, as I knew that they would come out as soon as
they were paid, I was obliged to beat a retreat, lest I should be seen
Well, then, how is it to be managed
We must first tap at the door, and try if we can get in as benighted
travelers; if that won't do -- and I fear it will not -- while you remain
begging for admittance at the door, and keep him occupied, I will try
the door behind, that leads into the garden; and if not the door, I
will try the window. I have examined them both well, and have been
outside when he has shut up his shutters, and I know the fastenings.
With a pane out, I could open them immediately
Is there any body else besides him in the cottage
Yes, a lad who attends him, and goes to Lymington for him
No women
Not one
But do you think we two are sufficient? Had we not better get more
help? There is Broom, and Black the gipsy, at the rendezvous. I can go
for them, and be back in time; they are stout and true
Stout enough, but not true. No, no, I want no sharers in this
business, and you know how ill they behaved in the last affair. I'll
swear that they only produced half the swag. I like honor between
gentlemen and soldiers; and that's why I have chosen you. I know I can
trust you, Benjamin. It's time now -- what do you say? We are two to one,
for I count the boy as nothing. Shall we start
I am with you. You say there's a bag of gold, and that's worth
fighting for
Yes, Ben, and I'll tell you: with what I've got buried, and my share
of that bag, I shall have enough, I think; and I'll start for the Low
Countries, for England's getting rather too warm for me
Well, I shan't go yet
I don't like your foreign
parts; they have no good ale, and I can't understand their talk. I'd
sooner remain in jolly old England with a halter twisted ready for me,
than pass my life with such a set of chaps, who drink nothing but
scheidam, and wear twenty pair of breeches. Come, let's be off; if we
get the money, you shall go to the Low Countries, Will, and I'll start
for the North, where they don't know me; for if you go, I won't stay
here
They are getting in behind
Don't be alarmed, I am a friend
Rise up, my lad
and let me see if I can be of any use
Ah, no
he bleeds to death
Bring me some water, quick
there's a good lad, while I
see where he is hurt
I
understand you; you wish me to take care of your boy when you are gone.
Is it not so
I promise you I will do so. I will take him into my own family, and he
shall share with us
He is gone
and now what is to be done? I must first
ascertain whether the two villains are dead or not. Edward took a light
and examined the body of Ben, lying over the threshold of the door; the
man was quite dead, the ball having entered his brain. He was
proceeding round the outside of the cottage to examine the state of the
other man, whom he had shot himself; but the wind nearly blew out the
light, and he therefore returned to the chamber and placed it on the
floor, near to where the boy lay insensible over the corpse of the man
who had died in the arms of Edward; and then went out without a light,
and with his gun, to the other side of the cottage, where the other
robber had fallen. As he approached the man, a faint voice was heard to
say --

"Ben, Ben! some water, for the love of God! Ben, I'm done for
Ben, I can speak now, but I
shan't long
I feel -- that I'm bleeding -- to
death -- inside
You know the oak -- struck by
lightning -- a mile north -- of this. Oh! I'm going fast. Three yards from
it south -- I buried all my -- money; it's yours. Oh! another drink
Alas
the family of Arnwood
appear not to be the only people who are in disguise in this forest.
That poor boy! he must not remain there
How strange
it is, that I
should feel so little as I do now, surrounded by death, compared to
what I did when good old Jacob Armitage died! Then I felt it deeply,
and there was an awe in death. Now I no longer dread it. Is it because
I loved the good old man, and felt that I had lost a friend? No, that
can not be the cause; I may have felt more grief, but not awe or dread.
Or is it because that was the first time that I had seen death, and it
is the first sight of death which occasions awe? or is it because that
every day I have fancied myself on the battle-field, with hundreds
lying dead and wounded around me, in my dreamings? I know not. Poor old
Jacob died peaceably in his bed, like a good Christian and trusting,
after a blameless life, to find mercy through his Savior. Two of these
who are now dead, out of the three, have been, summoned away in the
height of their wickedness, and in the very commission of crime; the
third has been foully murdered, and out of three lying dead, one has
fallen by my own hand, and yet I feel not so much as when I attended
the couch, and listened to the parting words of a dying Christian! I
cannot account for it, or reason why; I only know that it is so, and I
now look upon death unconcerned. Well, this is a kind of preparation
for the wholesale murder and horrors of the battlefield, which I have
so long sighed for: God forgive me if I am wrong! And this poor boy! I
have promised to protect him, and I will. Could I fail my promise, I
should imaging the spirit of his father (as I presume he was) looking
down and upbraiding me. No, no, I will protect him. I and my brother
and sisters have been preserved and protected, and I were indeed vile
if I did not do to others as I have been done by. And now let me
reflect what is to be done. I must not take the boy away, and bury the
bodies; this person has friends at Lymington, and they will come here.
The murder has taken place in the forest: then I must let the intendant
know what has occurred. I will send over to Oswald; Humphrey shall go.
Poor fellow! what a state of anxiety must he and my little sisters be
in, at my not returning home! I had quite forgotten that, but it can
not be helped. I will wait till sunrise, and then see if the boy will
be more himself, and probably from him I shall be able to find out what
part of the forest I am in
Poor fellow
he has for a time forgotten his misery. What a beautiful boy
he is! I long to know his history. Sleep on, my poor fellow! it will do
you service
I have earned my supper
and I will not,
therefore, deny myself
It is long since I have tasted wine
and it maybe long ere I drink it again. I have little
relish for it now: it is too fiery to the palate. I recollect, when a
child, how my father used to have me at the table, and give me a stoup
of claret, which I could hardly lift to my lips, to drink to the health
of the king
Father
What a place for
concealment
but still these prowling thieves
discovered it. Why, troops of horse might scour the forest for months,
and never discover such a hiding-place
I must
question the boy
I will go back and wake him up, for
it is time that I was moving
Oh, Edward, let me first thank God
What a night we have passed! What
has happened? That dear fellow, Pablo, thought of putting Smoker on the
scent; he brought out your jacket and showed it to Smoker, and gave it
him to smell, and then led him along till he was on your footsteps; and
the dog followed him, it seems, although it has been round and round in
every direction, till at last he has brought us to you
How far are we from
the cottage, Humphrey
About eight miles, I should say, Edward; not more
Well, I have much to tell you, and I must tell it to you in few words
before I go farther, and afterward I will tell you all in detail
But now, Humphrey, about this boy; we can not leave him here
Where is he
He still sleeps, I believe. The question is, whether you should ride
over with the pony, or walk, and leave Pablo to return with the pony
and cart; for I will not take the boy away, or leave the house myself,
without removing the property which belongs to the boy, and of which I
will make inquiry when he awakes. Besides, there is money, by what the
robbers stated in my hearing, which of course must be taken care of for
him
I think it will be best for me to walk over, Edward. If I ride, I
should arrive too late in the afternoon for any thing to be done till
next morning, and if I walk I shall be in time enough; so that is
settled. Besides, it will give you more time to remove the boy's
property, which, as his father was in all probability a Malignant, and
denounced man, they might think right to secure for the government
Very true; then be it so. Do you start for the intendant's; and,
Pablo, go home and fetch the pony and cart, while I remain here with
the boy, and get every thing ready
Come, you must get up now. You know that what's done can not be
undone; and if you are a good boy, and have read the Bible, you must
know that we must submit to the will of God, who is our kind father in
heaven
Ah me
I know
well it is my duty, but it is a hard duty, and I am heartbroken. I have
lost my father, the only friend I had in the world; who is there to
love and to cherish me now? What will become of me
I promised your father, before he died, that I would take care of you,
my poor fellow; and a promise is sacred with me, even if it were not
made to a dying man. I will do my best, depend upon it, for I have
known myself what it is to want and to find a protector. You shall live
with me and my brother and sisters, and you shall have all we have
Have you sisters, then
Yes; I have sent for the cart to take you away from this, and to-night
you shall be in our cottage; but now tell me -- I do not ask who your
father was, or why he was living here in secret, as I found it out by
what I overheard the robbers say to one another -- but how long have you
lived here
More than a year
Whose cottage is it
My father bought it when he came, as he thought it safer so, that he
might not be discovered or betrayed; for he had escaped from prison
after having been condemned to death by the Parliament
Then he was a loyal man to his king
Yes, he was, and that was his only crime
Then fear not, my good boy; we are all loyal as well as he was, and
will never be otherwise. I tell you this that you may safely trust to
us. Now, if the cottage was his, the furniture and property were his
also
Yes, all was his
And it is now yours, is it not
I suppose so
Then listen to me: your father is safe from all persecution now; he
is, I trust, in heaven; and you they can not touch, as you have done
nothing to offend them; but still they will take possession of your
father's property as soon as they know of his death, and find out who
he was. This, for your sake I wish to prevent them from doing, and have
therefore sent for the cart, that I may remove to my cottage every
thing that is of value, that it may be held for your benefit; some day
or another you may require it. The murder having been committed in the
forest, and I having been a witness and, moreover, having shot one of
the robbers, I have considered it right to send to the intendant of the
forest, to give him notice of what has taken place within his
jurisdiction. I do not think he is so bad a man as the rest; but still,
when he comes here, he may consider it his duty to take possession of
every thing for the Parliament, as I have no doubt such are his orders,
or will be when he communicates with the Parliament. Now this is a
robbery which I wish to prevent, by carrying away your property before
they come over, which they will to-morrow; and I propose that you shall
accompany me, with all that you can take away, or that may be useful,
this evening
You are very kind
I will do all you wish, but I
feel very weak, and very unwell
You must exert yourself, for your own sake, my poor fellow. Come, now,
sit up and put all your own clothes together. Collect every thing in
this room, while I look about the house. And tell me, had not your
father some money? for the robbers said that they saw him counting it
out of a sack, through the chinks of the shutters, and that was why
they made the attack
Hateful money
Yes, he had, I believe, a great deal
of money; but I can not say how much
Now get up, and do as I request, my dear boy
when your grief is lessened, you may have many
happy days yet in store for you; you have a Father in heaven that you
must put your trust in, and with him you will find peace
I do put my trust in Heaven, good sir
for it has
already sent me a kind friend in my distress. You are good, I am sure;
I see that in your face. Alas! how much more wretched would have been
my condition if you had not fortunately come to our assistance! too
late indeed to save my poor father, but not too late to succor and
console his child. I will go away with you, for I can not stay here
Have you put up all that you want in the bedchamber
Yes, I have put up every thing
Then we will bring them out. Come, Pablo, you must help us
First pull body away from this
Yes
we must do so
Yes, I am willing
but let me see
him once more
Come, then
Now then
we must go, or we shall be late. My poor
little sisters have been dreadfully alarmed at my not having come home
last night, and I long to clasp them in my arms
Indeed you must
and I am
very selfish; let us go on
No room for cart to get through wood
hard work, cart
empty -- more hard work, cart full
You naughty Edward, to frighten us so
Look, Edith, I have brought you a nice little playfellow. Welcome him,
dearest
He is a pretty boy, Edward, much prettier than Pablo
No, Missy Edith
Pablo more man than he
Yes, you may be more man, Pablo; but you are not so pretty
And where is Alice
She was getting supper ready, and I did not tell her that I saw you
coming, because I wanted first kiss
You little jealous thing! but here comes Alice. Dear Alice, you have
been very uneasy, but it was not my fault
If I had not been where I was, this poor boy would have been killed as
well as his father. Make him welcome, Alice, for he is an orphan now,
and must live with us. I have brought many things in the cart, and
tomorrow we will bring more, for we have no bed for him, and to-night
he must sleep with me
We will make him as happy as we can, Edward; and we will be sisters to
him
How old
are you, and what is your name
I shall be thirteen years old next January
And your Christian name
I will tell you by-and-by
Edward, she's a girl
A girl
Yes, she has told me so, and wished me to tell you
But why does she wear boys' clothes
It was her father's wish, as he was very often obliged to send her to
Lymington to a friend's house, and he was afraid of her getting into
trouble; but she has not told me her story as yet -- she says that she
will to-night
Well, then
you must make up a bed for her in your
room to-night. Take Pablo's bed, and he shall sleep with me. To-morrow
morning I will bring some more bedding from her cottage
How Humphrey will be surprised when he comes back
Yes; she will make a nice little wife for him some years hence; and
she may prove an heiress, perhaps, for there is an iron chest with
money in it
Well, Pablo, I suppose you will allow that, now that you know she is a
girl, she is handsomer than you
Oh yes
very handsome girl; but too much girl for
handsome boy
So I find that I am to have another sister instead of another brother.
Now you will tell me your name
Yes; Clara is my name
And why did you not tell me that you were a girl
I did not like, because I was in boys' clothes, and felt ashamed;
indeed I was too unhappy to think about what I was. My poor dear
father
We have much to be thankful for, my dears
I am sure I
feel that I have been in great danger, and I only wish that I had been
more useful than I have been; but it has been the will of God, and we
must not arraign his decrees. Let us return thanks for his great
mercies, and bow in submission to his dispensations, and pray that he
will give peace to poor little Clara, and soften her affliction
By whose hand did that man fall
By the hand of the party who lived in the cottage
And this man was slain by my hand
We have one more body to see
Cover it
up
And how was this found
I neither saw this person killed, nor the robber you first saw, but I
heard the report of the firearms at almost the same moment, and I
presume that they fell by each other's hands
Edward Armitage, we will now take down your deposition as to what has
occurred
that he was out in the forest and
had lost his way, and was seeking a path home
You were out in the forest during the night?

"Yes, sir, I was
With your gun
I always carry my gun
In pursuit of game
No, sir; I was not. I have never been out in pursuit of game during
night-time in my life
What were you then about? you did not go out for nothing
I went out to commune with my own thoughts; I was restless, and I
wandered about without knowing where I went, and that is the reason why
I lost my way
And pray what may have excited you
I will tell you: I was over with Oswald Partridge the day before; you
had just arrived from London, and he gave me the news that King Charles
had been proclaimed in Scotland, and that news unsettled me
Well, proceed
if he could read and write
I should hope so
People in your condition do not often
know how to read and write, Mr. Forester, and therefore you need not be
offended at the question
Very true
May I ask if my presence is considered
any longer to be necessary
You stated that there was a boy in the house, young man
what has become of him
He is removed to my cottage
Why did you do so
Because when his father died I promised to him that I would take care
of his child; and I intend to keep my word
You had spoken with him, then, before he died
Not so; it was all carried on by signs on his part, but it was as
intelligible as if he spoke, and what I replied he well understood; and
I really think I removed a great anxiety off his mind by giving him the
promise
I perceive that some articles
have been removed -- the bedding, for instance -- have you taken any thing
away
I have removed bedding, for I had no bed to offer to the lad, and he
told me that the cottage and furniture belonged to his father; of
course by his father's death it became his, and I felt that I was
warranted in so doing
May I ask, did you remove any papers
I can not tell; the lad packed up his own things; there were some
boxes removed, which were locked up, and the contents are to me wholly
unknown. I could not leave the boy here in this scene of death, and I
could not well leave the property belonging to him to be at the mercy
of any other plunderers of the forest. I did as I considered right for
the benefit of the boy, and in accordance with the solemn promise which
I made to his father
Still the property should not have been removed. The party who now
lies dead there is a well-known Malignant
How do you know that, sir
did you recognize him
when you saw the body
I did not say that I did
You either must have so done, sir
or you must have
been aware that he was residing in this cottage: you have to choose
between
You are bold, young man
and I will reply to
your observation. I did recognize the party when I saw his face, and I
knew him to be one who was condemned to death, and who escaped from
prison a few days before the one appointed for his execution. I heard
search had been made for him, but in vain, and it was supposed that he
had escaped beyond the seas. Now his papers may be the means of giving
the Parliament information against others as well as himself
And enable them to commit a few more murders
Silence, young man; the authorities must not be spoken of in so
irreverent a manner. Are you aware that your language is treasonable
According to act of Parliament, as now present constituted, it may
be
but as a loyal subject of King Charles the
Second, I deny it
I have no concern with your loyalty, young man, but I will not admit
any language to be uttered in my presence against the ruling powers.
The inquest is over. Let every one leave the house except Edward
Armitage, to whom I would speak alone
Excuse me one moment, sir
and I will return
Contrive to slip away unperceived; here are the keys; haste to
the cottage as fast as you can; look for all tho papers you can find in
the packages taken there; bury them and the iron chest in the garden,
or anywhere where they can not be discovered
Edward Armitage, that you have been brought up very superior to your
station in life is certain; and that you are loyal, bold, and resolute
is equally so; you have put me under an obligation which I never can
repay, even if you allowed me to exert myself in your behalf. I take
this opportunity of acknowledging it; and now allow me to say, that,
for these times, you are much too frank and impetuous. This is no time
for people to give vent to their feelings and opinions. Even I am as
much surrounded with spies as others, and am obliged to behave myself
accordingly. Your avowed attachment to the king's cause has prevented
me from showing that more than cordiality that I really feel for you,
and to which you are in every way entitled
I can not conceal my opinions, sir; I was brought up in the house of a
loyal Cavalier, and never will be otherwise
Granted -- why should you be? but do you not yourself see that you do
the cause more harm than good by thus avowing your opinions when such
avowal is useless? If every other man in the county, who is of your
opinion, was to express himself, now that your cause is hopeless, as
you have done, the prisons would be crowded, the executions would be
dayly, and the cause would be, in proportion, weakened by the loss of
the most daring. 'Bide your time' is a good motto, and I recommend it
to you. You must feel that, however we may be at variance in our
opinions, Edward Armitage, my hand and my authority never can be used
against one to whom I am so indebted; and, feeling this, you compel me,
in the presence of others, to use a harshness and coldness toward you,
contrary, wholly contrary, to what, you may believe me when I say it, I
really feel for one who so nobly rescued my only child
I thank you, sir, for your advice, which I feel to be good, and for
your good opinion, which I value
And which I feel that you deserve; and you shall have, young as you
are, my confidence, which I know you will not abuse. I did know this
man who now lies dead before us, and I did also know that he was
concealed in this cottage; Major Ratcliffe was one of my earliest and
dearest friends, and until this unhappy civil war, there never was any
difference between us, and even afterward only in politics, and the
cause we each espoused. I knew, before I came down here as intendant,
where his place of concealment was, and have been most anxious for his
safety
Excuse me, Mr. Heatherstone, but each day I find more to make me like
you than I did the day before; at first I felt most inimical; now I
only wonder how you can be leagued with the party you now are
Edward Armitage, I will now answer for myself and thousands more. You
are too young a man to have known the cause of the insurrection, or,
rather, opposition, to the unfortunate King Charles. He attempted to
make himself absolute, and to wrest the liberties from the people of
England: that his warmest adherents will admit. When I joined the party
which opposed him, I little thought that matters would have been
carried so far as they have been; I always considered it lawful to take
up arms in defense of our liberties, but at the same time I equally
felt that the person of the king was sacred
I have heard so, sir
Yes, and in truth; for never did any people strive more zealously to
prevent the murder of the king -- for murder it was -- than my relative
Ashley Cooper and myself -- so much so, indeed, as to have incurred not
only the suspicion but the ill-will of Cromwell, who, I fear, is now
making rapid advances toward that absolute authority for which the king
has suffered, and which he would now vest in his own person. I
considered that our cause was just; and, had the power been left in the
hands of those who would have exercised it with discretion and
moderation, the king would even now have been on the throne, and the
liberties of his subjects sacred; but it is easier to put a vast and
powerful engine into motion than to stop it, and such has been the case
in this unfortunate civil war. Thousands who took an active part
against the king will, when the opportunity is ripe, retrace their
steps; but I expect that we have much to suffer before that time will
come. And now, Edward Armitage, I have said more to you than I have to
any person breathing, except my own kinsman
I thank you for your confidence, sir, which not only will not be
betrayed, but will act as a warning to guide my future conduct
I meant it should. Be no longer rash and careless in avowing your
opinions. You can do no good to the cause, and may do yourself much
harm. And now I must ask you another question, which I could not before
the other people. You have surprised me by stating that Major Ratcliffe
had a son here; there must be some mistake, or the boy must be an
impostor. He had a daughter, an only daughter, as I have; but he never
had a son
It is a mistake that I fell into, sir, by finding a boy here, as I
stated to you at the inquest; and I considered it to be a boy, until I
brought her home, and she then discovered to my sisters that she was a
girl dressed in boys' clothes. I did not give that as explanation at
the inquest, as it was not necessary
I am right, then. I must relieve you of that charge, Edward Armitage;
she shall be to me as a daughter, and I trust that you will agree with
me, without any disparagement to your feelings, that my house will be a
more fit residence for her than your cottage
I will not prevent her going, if she wishes it, after your explanation
and confidence, Mr. Heatherstone
One thing more. As I said to you before, Edward Armitage, I believe
many of these verderers, all of which have been selected from the army,
are spies upon me: I must therefore be careful. You said that you were
not aware that there were any papers
I saw none, sir; but I suspect, from the many locked-up trunks and
small boxes, that there may be; but when I went out with the others
from the inquest, I dispatched my brother Humphrey to the cottage,
advising him to open all the locks and to remove any papers which he
might find
Well, if such is the case, we have only to go to your cottage and make
an examination. We shall find nothing, and I shall have performed my
duty. I was not aware that your brother was here. I presume it was the
young man who walked with Oswald Partridge
It was, sir
By his appearance, I presume that he, also, was brought up at Arnwood
He was, sir, as well as I
Well, then, I have but one word more to say -- recollect, if I appear
harsh and severe in the presence of others, it is only assumed toward
you, and not real. You understand that
I do, sir, and beg you will exercise your discretion
It appears from
what I can extract from this lad Armitage, that there are boxes which
he removed to his cottage; we will go there to see what they may
contain. It is now noon. Have you any refreshment to offer us in your
cottage, young man, when we arrive
I keep no hostelry, sir
my own
labor and my brother's is sufficient for the support of my own family,
but no more
Let us move on; and two of you keep your eye upon that young man
These are my sisters, sir
Where is Clara, Alice
She is alarmed, and has gone into our bedroom
I hope you are not alarmed at my presence
It is my duty which obliges me to
pay this visit; but you have nothing to fear. Now, Edward Armitage, you
must produce all the boxes and packages which you took from the
cottage
I will, sir
and here are the keys. Humphrey, do you
and Pablo bring them out
I must now send in two of my people to search the house
Had you not better go to the little girl, that she may not
be frightened
I will go to her
It is sufficient
undoubtedly there
are no papers; but I must, before I go, interrogate this child who has
been removed thus; but she will be frightened, and I shall obtain no
answer from her, if we are so many, so let every body leave the cottage
while I speak to her
Come here, Clara
you do not know
perhaps that I am your sincere friend; and now that your father is
dead, I want you to come and live with my daughter, who will be
delighted to have you as a companion. Will you go with me, and I will
take care of you and be a father to you
I do not like to leave Alice and Edith; they treat me so kindly, and
call me sister
I am sure they do, and that you must be fond of them already, but
still it is your duty to come with me; and if your father could speak
to you now, he would tell you so. I will not force you away; but
remember, you are born a lady, and must be brought up and educated as a
lady, which can not be the case in this cottage, although they are very
kind to you, and very nice young people. You do not recollect me,
Clara; but you have often sat on my knee when you were a little girl
and when your father lived in Dorsetshire. You recollect the great
walnut-tree by the sitting-room window, which looked out in the garden;
don't you
Yes
Yes, so do I too, and how you used to sit on my knee; and do you
remember Jason, the big mastiff, and how you used to ride upon his
back
Yes
I do; but he died a long while ago
He did, when you were not more than six years old. And now tell me,
where did the old gardener bury him
Under the mulberry-tree
Yes, so he did, and I was there when poor Jason was buried. You don't
recollect me. But I will take off my hat, for I did not wear the same
dress that I do now. Now look, Clara, and see if you remember me
You called my father Philip, and he used to call you
Charles
You are right, my sweet one
I did so, and we were great friends. Now, will you come
with me? and I have a little girl, older than you by three or four
years, who will be your companion, and love you dearly
May I come and see Alice and Edith sometimes
Yes, you shall, and she will come with you and make their
acquaintance, if their brother will permit it. I will not take you away
now, dearest; you shall remain here for a few days, and then we will
come over and fetch you. I will send Oswald Partridge over to let you
know the day, Edward Armitage, when we will come for her. Good-by, dear
Clara; and good-by, my little girls. Humphrey Armitage, good-by. Who is
this lad you have here
He is a gipsy whom Humphrey trapped in his pitfall, sir, and we have
soon tamed him
Well, then, Edward Armitage, good-by
we must meet soon again
I shall keep a sharp look-out on
your proceedings, sir, depend upon it; I tell you so decidedly, so fare
you well
What made him speak so sharply to you, Edward
Because he means kindly, but does not want other people to know it
Come in, Humphrey; I have much to tell you and much to
surprise you with
I have been surprised already
How did this
Roundhead know Clara's father so well
I will explain all before we go to bed
let us go in
now
It's my opinion, Edward
that he thinks matters have
been carried too far, and that he is sorry that he belongs to the
Parliamentary party. He finds out, now that it is too late, that he has
allied himself with those who have very different feelings and motives
than his own, and has assisted to put power into the hands of those who
have not the scruples which he has
Yes, and in ridding themselves of one tyranny, as they considered it,
they have every prospect of falling into the hands of a greater tyrant
than before; for, depend upon it, Cromwell will assume the sovereign
power, and rule this kingdom with a rod of iron
Well, many more are, I have no doubt, or soon will be, of his opinion;
and the time will come, be it sooner or later, when the king will have
his own again. They have proclaimed him in Scotland already. Why does
he not come over and show himself? His presence would, I think, induce
thousands to flock to him; I'm sure that it would me
I am very glad of this good intelligence with the intendant, Edward,
as it will not now be necessary for us to be so careful; we may go and
come when we please. I almost wish you could be persuaded to accept any
eligible offer he may make you. Many, no doubt, are in office, and
serving the present government, who have the same feelings as the
intendant, or even feelings as strong as your own
I can not bear the idea of accepting any thing from them or their
instruments, Humphrey; nor, indeed, could I leave my sisters
On that score you may make your mind easy: Pablo and I are quite
sufficient for the farm, or any thing else we may want to do. If you
can be more useful elsewhere, have no scruple in leaving us. If the
king was to come and raise an army, you would leave us, of course; and
I see no reason why, if an eligible offer is made you, you should not
do it now. You and your talents are thrown away in this forest; and you
might serve the king and the king's cause better by going into the
world and watching the times than you ever can by killing his venison
Certainly
I do not much help his cause by
killing his deer, that must be admitted; all I shall say is this, if
any thing is offered to me which I can accept without injury to my
feelings and my honor, I shall not decline it, provided that I may, by
accepting it, prove of service to the king's cause
That is all I wish, Edward. And now I think we had better go to bed
I should think all these jewels worth a great deal of money,
Humphrey
if so, all the better for poor little Clara. I
am sorry to part with her, although we have known her so short a time;
she appears to be such an amiable and affectionate child
That she is; and certainly the handsomest little girl I ever saw. What
beautiful eyes! Do you know that on one of her journeys to Lymington
she was very nearly taken by a party of gipsies? and by what Pablo can
make out, it would appear that it was by the party to which he
belonged
I wonder at her father permitting her to go alone such a distance
Her father could not do otherwise. Necessity has no law. He could
trust no other person, so he put her in boys' clothes that there might
be less risk. Still, she must have been very intelligent to have done
the office
She is thirteen years old, although she is small
And intelligent she certainly is, as you may see by her countenance.
Who would ever have imagined that our sisters would have been able to
do what they are doing now? It's an old saying, 'We never know what we
can do till we try.' By-the-by Humphrey, I met a famous herd of forest
ponies the other day, and I said to myself, 'I wonder whether Humphrey
will be clever enough to take one of them, as he has the wild cattle?'
For Billy is getting old, and we want a successor
We want more than a successor to Billy, Edward: we want two more to
help him -- and I have the means of maintaining two more ponies if I
could catch them
I fear that you will never manage that, Humphrey
I know well what you mean
you wish to dare me to
it -- well. I won't be dared to any thing, and I most certainly will try
to catch a pony or two; but I must think about it first, and when I
have arranged my plan in my mind, I will then make the attempt
When I see the ponies in the yard, I will believe it, Humphrey. They
are as wild as deer and as fleet as the wind, and you can not catch
them in a pitfall
I know that, good brother; but all I can say is, that I will try what
I can do, and I can do no more -- but not at present, for I am too busy
And how is she to go
He will bring a little nag for her, if she can ride -- if she can not,
she must ride in the cart which will come for the baggage
Clara, can you ride a horse
Yes
if it does not jump about too much. I always
rode one when I lived in Dorsetshire
This won't jump about, my little lady
for he is thirty
years old, I believe, and as steady as an old gentleman ought to be
I have had some conversation with Master Heatherstone
He is much pleased with you, I can tell you. He said
that in times like these he required young men like you about him; and
that, as you would not take the berth of verderer, he must find one
better suited for you; for he said you were too good for such an
office
Many thanks to him for his good opinion
but I do
not think that he has any office in his gift which I can accept
So I thought, but I said nothing. He again asked many questions
relative to old Jacob Armitage, and he pressed me very hard. He said
that Humphrey was as much above his position in appearance as you were,
but as he was brought up at Arnwood, he presumed that he had had the
same advantages. And then he said --'But were his two sisters brought up
at Arnwood also?' I replied, that I believed not, although they were
often there, and were allowed to play with the children of the house.
He looked at me steadfastly, as if he would read my thoughts, and then
went on writing. I can not help thinking that he has a suspicion that
you are not the grandchildren of old Jacob; but at the same time I do
not think that he has an idea who you really are
You must keep our secret, Oswald
I have a very good
opinion of the intendant, I acknowledge; but I will trust nobody
As I hope for future mercy, sir, I never will divulge it until you bid
me
I trust to you, Oswald, and so there's an end of the matter. But tell
me, Oswald, what do they say about his taking charge of this little
girl
Why, they did begin to talk about it; but when he gave out that it was
the order of Parliament that the child should remain with him until
further directions, of course they said nothing, for they dared not. It
seems that the Ratcliffe property is sequestrated, but not yet granted
to any one; and the Parliament will most likely, as soon as she is old
enough, give her as a wife, with the property, to one of their party;
they have done it before now, as it secures the property under all
changes
I perceive
When did you hear that the little girl
was to live with him
Not till yesterday morning; and it was not till the evening that we
knew it was the order of Parliament
I presumed that the child would not be permitted to remain
on our hands
You do me much honor, Mistress Patience
I can not forget that I owe my life to you, Master Armitage
and I can not be too grateful. May I request another favor
of you
Certainly, if it is in my power to do as you wish
It is this
that you will not hastily
reject any overtures which may be made to you by my father; that is
all. And now let me go in and see your sisters, for my father has
praised them very much, and I wish to know them
I fear, sir, that the cart will hardly hold all the goods
I do not intend to take away the heavy or more bulky articles, such as
the bedding, armor, &amp;c. I will only take Clara's own packages, and the
valuables and papers. The remainder may stay here, as they can be of no
use, till they are demanded from you. Where is Oswald Partridge
In the stable with the horses, sir
Then, when the cart is loaded -- and it had better be done by you while
the men are in the stable -- Oswald shall take charge of it, and take the
things to my house
Here are the keys, sir
Good. And now, Edward Armitage, that we are alone, I want to have a
little conversation with you. You are aware how much I feel indebted to
you for the service you have rendered me, and how anxious I am to show
my gratitude. You are born for better things than to remain an obscure
forester, and perhaps a deer-stalker. I have now an offer to make to
you, which I trust, upon reflection, you will not refuse -- and I say
reflection, because I do not wish you to give an answer till you have
well reflected. I know that you will not accept any thing under the
present government; but a private situation you can raise no objection
to; the more so as, so far from leaving your family, you will be more
in a position to protect them. I am in want of a secretary, and I wish
you to accept that office, to live entirely in my house, and to receive
a handsome salary for your services, which will not, I trust, be too
heavy. You will be near to your family here in the cottage, and be able
to protect them and assist them; and what is more, you will mix with
the world and know what is going on, as I am in the confidence of the
government. Of course, I put implicit confidence in you, or I would not
offer the situation. But you will not be always down here: I have my
correspondents and friends, to whom I shall have to send you
occasionally on most trusty missions. You, I am sure, will suit me in
every respect, and I hope you will undertake the post which I now offer
to you. Give me no answer just now; consult with your brother, and give
the offer due consideration, and when you have made up your mind you
can let me know
I have been praising your sisters' house-keeping, Armitage
Your farm appears to be very productive
Alice expected Miss Heatherstone, sir
and made an
unusual provision. You must not think that we live on such fare every
day
No
on other days I dare say you have
other fare. I would almost make a bet that there is a pasty in the
cupboard which you dare not show to the intendant of the New Forest
You are mistaken, sir, for once
Alice knows well
how to make one, but she has not one just now
Well, I must believe you, Master Humphrey
And now, my dear child, we must think of going, for it is a long ride,
and the little girl is not used to a horse
Mistress Alice, many thanks for your hospitality; and now, farewell.
Edith, good-by, dear. Now, Clara, are you quite ready
I hope you will accept my father's offer -- you will oblige me so much
if you do
I will give it every consideration it deserves
Indeed, it will depend more upon my brother than myself whether I
accept it or not
Your brother is a very sensible young man, sir; therefore, I have
hopes
A quality which it appears you do not give me credit for, Miss
Heatherstone
Not when pride or vindictive feelings obtain the mastery
Perhaps you will find that I am not quite so proud, or bear such
ill-will, as I did when I first saw your father, Miss Heatherstone; and
some allowance should be made, even if I did show such feelings, when
you consider that I was brought up at Arnwood
True -- most true, Master Armitage. I had no right to speak so boldly,
especially to you, who risked your own life to save the daughter of one
of those Roundheads who treated the family of your protector so
cruelly. You must forgive me; and now, farewell
My opinion is made up, Edward, which is that you should accept it
immediately. You are under no obligation to the government, and you
have already conferred such an obligation upon the intendant that you
have a right to expect a return. Why stay here, when you can safely mix
with the world and know how things are going on? I do not require your
assistance, now that I have Pablo, who is more useful every day. Do not
lose such an opportunity of making a friend for yourself and all of
us -- a protector, I may say -- and who is, by what he has confided to you,
any thing but approving of the conduct of the present government. He
has paid you a deserved compliment by saying that he can and will trust
you. You must not refuse the offer, Edward -- it would really be folly if
you did
I believe you are right, Humphrey; but I have been so accustomed to
range the forest -- I am so fond of the chase -- I am so impatient of
control or confinement, that I hardly know how to decide. A secretary's
life is any thing but pleasing to me, sitting at a table writing and
reading all day long. The pen is a poor exchange for the long-barreled
gun
It does more execution, nevertheless
if what I
have read is true. But you are not to suppose that your life will be
such a sedentary one. Did he not say that he would have to trust you
with missions of importance? Will you not, by going to London and other
places, and mixing with people of importance, be preparing yourself for
your proper station in life, which I trust that one day you will
resume? And does it follow, that because you are appointed a secretary,
you are not to go out in the forest and shoot a deer with Oswald, if
you feel inclined -- with this difference, that you may do it then
without fear of being insulted or persecuted by such a wretch as that
Corbould? Do not hesitate any longer, my dear brother; recollect that
our sisters ought not to live this forest life as they advance in
years -- they were not born for it, although they have so well conformed
to it. It depends upon you to release them eventually from their false
position; and you can never have such an opening as is now offered you,
by one whose gratitude alone will make him anxious to serve you
You are right, Humphrey, and I will accept the offer; I can but return
to you if things do not go on well
I thank you sincerely for your decision, Edward
What a sweet girl that Patience Heatherstone is! I think I never saw
such an enchanting smile
Why, brother, you are really in love with the intendant's daughter
Not so, my dear brother; but I am in love with her goodness and
sweetness of disposition, and so are Alice and Edith, I can tell you.
She has promised to come over and see them, and bring them flowers for
their garden, and I hardly know what; and I am very glad of it, as my
sisters have been buried here so long, that they can not but gain by
her company now and then. No! I will leave Mistress Heatherstone for
you; I am in love with little Clara
Not a bad choice, Humphrey: we both aspire high, for two young
foresters, do we not? However, they say 'Every dog has his day,' and
Cromwell and his Parliament may have theirs. King Charles may be on his
throne again now, long before you catch a forest pony, Humphrey
I hope he will, Edward; but recollect how you laughed at the idea of
my catching a cow -- you may be surprised a second time. 'Where there is
a will there is a way,' the saying is. But I must go and help Alice
with the heifer: she is not very quiet yet, and I see her going out
with her pail
I shall live with her, and be continually in her company
Well, I would take a less pleasing office if only for that. She
requested me to accept it to oblige her, and I will do so. How hasty we
are in our conclusions! When I first saw her father, what an aversion I
felt for him! Now, the more I know him the more I like him, nay,
more -- respect him. He said that the king wished to be absolute, and
wrest the liberties from his subjects, and that they were justified in
opposing him; I never heard that when at Arnwood
If so, was it lawful so to do
I think it was, but not to murder him; that I can never admit, nor
does the intendant; on the contrary, he holds his murderers in as great
detestation as I do. Why, then, we do not think far apart from one
another. At the commencement, the two parties were those who supported
him, not admitting that he was right, but too loyal to refuse to fight
for their king; and those who opposed, hoping to force him to do right;
the king for his supposed prerogatives, the people for their liberties.
The king was obstinate, the people resolute, until virulent warfare
inflamed both parties, and neither would listen to reason; and the
people gained the upper hand -- they wreaked their vengeance, instead of
looking to the dictates of humanity and justice. How easy it had been
to have deposed him, and have sent him beyond the seas! instead of
which they detained him a prisoner and then murdered him. The
punishment was greater than the offense, and dictated by malice and
revenge; it was a diabolical act, and will soil the page of our
nation's history
Edward
scold Pablo; he has been ill-treating my poor
cat; he is a cruel boy
See, Edward, he's laughing; put him in the pitfall again, and let him
stay there till he says he's sorry
I very sorry now, Missy Edith -- but cat bite me
Well, if pussy did, it didn't hurt you much; and what did I tell you
this morning out of the Bible?-- that you must forgive them who behave
ill to you
Yes, Missy Edith, you tell me all that, and so I do; I forgive pussy
'cause she bite me, but I kick her for it
That's not forgiveness, is it, Edward? You should have forgiven it at
once, and not kicked it at all
Miss Edith, when pussy bite me, pussy hurt me, make me angry, and I
give her a kick; then I think what you tell me, and I do as you tell
me. I forgive pussy with all my heart
I think you must forgive Pablo, Edith
if it is only to
set him a good example
Well, I will this time; but if he kicks pussy again he must be put in
the pitfall -- mind that, Pablo
Yes, Missy Edith, I go into pitfall, and then you cry, and ask Master
Edward to take me out. When you have me put in pitfall, then you not
good Christian, 'cause you not forgive; when you cry and take me out,
then you good Christian once more
Not exactly
but I think, from what I heard Miss
Patience say, it is to offer you some situation, if you could be
prevailed upon to accept it
Very true
he offers me the post of secretary. What
do you think
Why, sir, I think I would accept it; at all events, I would take it on
trial -- there can be no harm done. If you do not like it, you can only
go back to the cottage again. One thing I am sure of, which is, that
Master Heatherstone will make it as pleasant to you as he can, for he
is most anxious to serve you
That I really believe
and I have pretty well made
up my mind to accept the office. It is a post of confidence, and I
shall know all that is going on, which I can not do while I am secluded
in the forest; and, depend upon it, we shall have stirring news
I suppose you think that the king will come over
I feel certain of it, Oswald; and that is the reason why I want to be
where I can know all that is going on
Well, sir, it is my opinion that the king will come over, as well as
yours; yet I think at present he stands but a poor chance; but Master
Heatherstone knows more on that score than any one, I should think; but
he is very close
Edward Armitage, I am glad to see you, and shall be still more so if I
find that you have made up your mind to accept my proposition. What is
your reply
I am very thankful to you for the offer, sir
and
will accept it if you think that I am fitting for it, and if I find
that I am equal to it; I can but give it a trial, and leave if I find
it too arduous or too irksome
Too arduous it shall not be -- that shall be my concern; and too irksome
I hope you will not find it. My letters are not so many but that I
could answer them myself, were it not that my eyes are getting weak,
and I wish to save them as much as possible. You will therefore have to
write chiefly what I shall dictate; but it is not only for that I
require a person that I can confide in. I very often shall send you to
London instead of going myself, and to that I presume you will have no
objection
Certainly none, sir
Well, then, it is no use saying any more just now; you will have a
chamber in this house, and you will live with me, and at my table
altogether. Neither shall I say any thing just now about remuneration,
as I am convinced that you will be satisfied. All that I require now
is, to know the day that you will come, that every thing may be ready
I suppose, sir, I must change my attire
that will hardly accord with the office of
secretary
I agree with you that it will be better to keep that dress for your
forest excursions, as I presume you will not altogether abandon them
You can provide yourself with a suit at
Lymington. I will furnish you the means
I thank you, sir, I have means, much more than sufficient
although not quite so wealthy as little Clara appeared to be
Wealthy, indeed
I had no idea that poor
Ratcliffe possessed so much ready money and jewels. Well, then, this is
Wednesday; can you come over next Monday
Yes, sir
I see no reason to the contrary
Well, then, that is settled, and I suppose you would like to see your
accommodation. Patience and Clara are in the next room. You can join
them, and you will make my daughter very happy by telling her that you
are to become a resident with us. You will, of course, dine with us
to-day, and sleep here to-night
My dear, I leave you to entertain Edward Armitage till
dinner time
Then you have consented
Yes, I could not refuse such kindness
And when do you come
On Monday night, if I can be ready by that time
Why, what have you to get ready
I must not appear in a forester's dress, my little Clara. I can wear
that with a gun in my hand, but not with a pen: so I must go to
Lymington and see what a tailor can do for me
You will feel as strange in a secretary's dress as I did in boys'
clothes
Perhaps I may
You will be able to watch over your sisters, Mr. Armitage, as well
here, almost, as if you were at the cottage. You do not return till
to-morrow? How did you come over
I rode the pony Billy, Mistress Patience
Why do you call her Mistress Patience, Edward
You call
me Clara; why not call her Patience
You forget that I am only a forester, Clara
No, you are a secretary now
Mistress Patience is older than you by several years. I call you
Clara, because you are but a little girl; but I must not take that
liberty with Mistress Heatherstone
Do you think so, Patience
I certainly do not think that it would be a liberty in a person, after
being well acquainted with me, to call me Patience
especially when that person lives in the house with us, eats and
associates with us as one of the family, and is received on an
equality; but I dare say, Clara, that Master Armitage will be guided by
his own feelings, and act as he considers to be proper
But you give him leave, and then it is proper
Yes, if he gave himself leave, Clara
But we will now
show him his own room, Clara
Will you follow us, sir
This is your future lodging
I hope you will like it
Why, he never saw any thing like it before
Yes I have, Clara
Where did you
At Arnwood; the apartments were on a much larger scale
Arnwood! oh yes, I have heard my father speak of it
Yes, it was burned down,
and all the children burned to death
So they say, Clara; but I was not there when it was burned
Where were you then
I was at the cottage where I now live
Do you doubt what I say
No, indeed
I have no doubt that you were at the cottage
at the time; but I was thinking that if the apartments at Arnwood were
more splendid, those at your cottage are less comfortable. You have
been used to better and to worse, and therefore will, I trust, be
content with these
I trust I have shown no signs of discontent. I should indeed be
difficult to please if an apartment like this did not suit me. Besides,
allow me to observe, that although I stated that the apartments at
Arnwood were on a grander scale, I never said that I had ever been a
possessor of one of them
Now that you know your way to your apartment, Master Armitage, we
will, if you please, go back to the sitting-room
When you come over on Monday, you will, I presume, bring your clothes
in a cart? I ask it, because I promised some flowers and other things
to your sisters, which I can send back by the cart
You are very kind to think of them, Mistress Patience
they are fond of flowers, and will be much pleased with
possessing any
You sleep here to-night, I think my father said
He did make the proposal, and I shall gladly avail myself of it, as I
am not to trust to Phoebe's ideas of comfort this time
Yes, that was a cross action of Phoebe's; and I can tell you, Master
Armitage, that she is ashamed to look you in the face ever since; but
how fortunate for me that she was cross, and turned you out as she did!
You must forgive her, as she was the means of your performing a noble
action; and I must forgive her, as she was the means of my life being
saved
I have no feeling except kindness toward Phoebe
indeed I ought to feel grateful to her; for if she had not given me so
bad a bed that night, I never should have been so comfortably lodged as
it is proposed that I shall be now
I hope you are hungry, Edward
dinner is almost ready
I dare say I shall eat more than you do, Clara
So you ought, a great big man like you. How old are you, Edward
I am thirteen; Patience is past sixteen: now, how old are you
I am not yet eighteen, Clara, so that I can hardly be called a man
Why, you are as tall as Mr. Heatherstone
Yes, I believe I am
And can't you do every thing that a man can do
I really don't know; but I certainly shall always try so to do
Well, then, you must be a man
Well, Clara, if it pleases you, I will be a man
Here comes Mr. Heatherstone, so I know dinner is ready; is it not,
sir
Yes, my child, it is
so
let us all go in
I have not two men that can stalk a deer
the men
appointed here as verderers and keepers have not one of them been
brought up to the business. Most of them are men who have been in the
army, and I believe have been appointed to these situations to get rid
of them because they were troublesome; and they are any thing but good
characters: the consequence is, that we kill but few deer, for I have
so much to attend to here, as none of them know their duties, that I
can seldom take my own gun out. I stated so to the intendant, and he
said that if you accepted an offer he had made you, and came over here,
we should not want venison; so it is clear that he does not expect you
to have your pen always in your hand
I am glad to hear that
depend upon it, his own
table, at all events, shall be well supplied. Is not that fellow
Corbould, who is leaning against the wall
Yes; he is to be discharged as he can not walk well, and the surgeon
says he will always limp. He owes you a grudge, and I am glad that he
is going away, for he is a dangerous man. But the sun is setting, Mr.
Edward, and supper will soon be on the table; you had better go back to
the house
Do you know, Edward
what I am going to try and
purchase? I will tell you: as many kids as I can, or goats and kids, I
don't care which
Why, have you not stock enough already? You will this year have four
cows in milk, and you have two cow calves bringing up
That is very true; but I do not intend to have goats for their milk,
but simply for eating in lieu of mutton. Sheep I can not manage, but
goats, with a little hay in winter, will do well, and will find
themselves in the forest all the year round. I won't kill any of the
females for the first year or two, and after that I expect we shall
have a flock sufficient to meet any demand upon it
It is not a bad idea, Humphrey; they will always come home if you have
hay for them during the winter
Yes, and a large shed for them to lie in when the snow is on the
ground
Now I recollect, when we used to go to Lymington, I saw a great many
goats, and I have no doubt that they are to be purchased. I will soon
ascertain that for you, from the landlord of the hostelry
We will drive there first, as I must ask him to recommend me
to a tailor
I am most puzzled about a hat, Humphrey
I hate those
steeple-crowned hats worn by the Roundheads; yet the hat and feather is
not proper for a secretary
I would advise you to submit to wear the steeple-crowned hats,
nevertheless
Your dress, as I consider, is a sort of
disgrace to a Cavalier born, and the heir of Arnwood; why not,
therefore, take its hat as well? As secretary to the intendant, you
should dress like him; if not, you may occasion remarks, especially
when you travel on his concerns
You are right, Humphrey, I must not do things by halves; and unless I
wear the hat, I might be suspected
I doubt if the intendant wears it for any other reason
At all events, I will not go to the height of the fashion
Some of the hats are not quite so tall as the
others
Here is the shop for the hat and for the sword-belt
We have dipped somewhat into the bag to-day, Edward
but the money is well spent
I think so, Humphrey; but I have no doubt that I shall be able to
replace the money very soon, as the intendant will pay me for my
services. The tailor has promised the clothes on Saturday without fail,
so that you or I must go for them
I will go, Edward; my sisters will wish you to stay with them now, as
you are so soon to leave them; and I will take Pablo with me, that he
may know his way to the town; and I will show him where to buy things,
in case he goes there by himself
It appears to me to have been a most fortunate thing, your having
caught Pablo as you did, Humphrey, for I do not well know how I could
have left you, if you had not
At all events, I can do much better without you than I should have
done
although I think now that I could get on by
myself; but still, Edward, you know we can not tell what a day may
bring forth, and I might fall sick, or something happen which might
prevent my attending to any thing; and then, without you or Pablo,
every thing might have gone to rack and ruin. Certainly, when we think
how we were left, by the death of old Jacob, to our own resources, we
have much to thank God for, in having got on so well
I agree with you, and also that it has pleased Heaven to grant us all
such good health. However, I shall be close at hand if you want me, and
Oswald will always call and see how you get on
I hope you will manage that he calls once a-week
I will if I can, Humphrey, for I shall be just as anxious as you are
to know if all goes on well. Indeed, I shall insist upon coming over to
you once a-fortnight; and I hardly think the intendant will refuse
me -- indeed, I am sure that he will not
So am I
I am certain that he wishes us all well,
and has, in a measure, taken us under his protection; but, Edward,
recollect, I shall never kill any venison after this, and so you may
tell the intendant
I will, and that will be an excuse for him to send some over, if he
pleases. Indeed, as I know I shall be permitted to go out with Oswald,
it will be hard if a stray buck does not find its way to the cottage
Well, Humphrey, have you brought my geese and ducks
You must wait till I go
to Lymington again on Saturday, Alice, and then I hope to bring them
with me. As it is, look how poor Billy is loaded. Where's Pablo
In the garden. He has been working there all day, and Edith is with
him
Well, then, we will unload the cart, while you get us something to
eat, Alice, for we are not a little hungry. I can tell you
I have some rabbit-stew on the fire, Humphrey, all ready for you, and
you will find it very good
Nothing I like better, my dear girl. Pablo won't thank me for bringing
this home
he will have to go to the bottom of the pit again, as soon as the pit
is made
Goat very good, kid better; always eat kid in Spain
Were you born in Spain, Pablo
Not sure, but I think so. First recollect myself in that country
Do you recollect your father
No; never see him
Did your mother never talk about him
Call her mother, but think no mother at all. Custom with Gitanas
Why did you call her mother
Cause she feed me when little, beat me when I get big
All mothers do that. What made you come to England
I don't know, but I hear people say, plenty of money in
England -- plenty to eat -- plenty to drink; bring plenty money back to
Spain
How long have you been in England
One, two, three year; yes, three year and a bit
Which did you like best -- England or Spain
When with my people, like Spain best; warm sun -- warm night. England,
little sun, cold night, much rain, snow, and air always cold; but now I
live with you, have warm bed, plenty victuals, like England best
But when you were with the gipsies, they stole every thing, did they
not
Not steal every thing
sometimes take and
no pay when nobody there; farmer look very sharp -- have big dog
Did you ever go out to steal
Make me go out. Not bring back something, beat me very hard; suppose
farmer catch me, beat hard too; nothing but beat, beat, beat
Then they obliged you to steal
Suppose bring nothing home, first beat, and then not have to eat for
one, two, three days. How you like that, Master Humphrey? I think you
steal, after no victuals for three days
I should hope not
although I have never been so
severely punished: and I hope, Pablo, you will never steal any more
Why steal any more
I not like to steal, but because
hungry I steal. Now, I never hungry, always have plenty to eat; no one
beat me now; sleep warm all night. Why I steal, then? No, Master
Humphrey, I never steal more, 'cause I have no reason why, and 'cause
Missy Alice and Edith tell me how the good God up there say must not
steal
I am glad to hear you give that as a reason, Pablo
as it proves that my sisters have not been teaching you in vain
Like to hear Missy Alice talk; she talk grave. Missy Edith talk too,
but she laugh very much; very fond Missy Edith, very happy little girl;
jump about just like one of these kids we drive home; always merry.
Hah! see cottage now; soon get home, Massa Humphrey. Missy Edith like
see kids very much. Where we put them
We will put them into the yard for the present. I mean that Holdfast
shall take charge of them by-and-by. I will soon teach him
Yes, he take charge of coat, or any thing I tell him; why not take
charge of goats. Clever dog, Holdfast. Massa Humphrey, you think Massa
Edward take away both his dogs, Smoker and Watch? I say better not take
puppy. Take Smoker, and leave puppy
I agree with you, Pablo. We ought to have two dogs here. I will speak
to my brother. Now run forward and open the gate of the yard, and throw
them some hay, Pablo, while I go and call my sisters
Who would ever have believed this
that I should put myself under the roof and under the
protection of a Roundhead -- one in outward appearance, and in the
opinion of the world at least, if he is not so altogether in opinions.
There is surely some spell upon me, and I almost feel as if I were a
traitor to my principles. Why I know not, I feel a regard for that man,
and a confidence in him. And why should I not? He knows my principles,
my feelings against his party, and he respects them. Surely he can not
wish to gain me over to his party; that were indeed ridiculous -- a young
forester -- a youth unknown. No, he would gain nothing by that, for I am
nobody. It must be from goodwill, and no other feeling. I have obliged
him in the service I rendered his daughter, and he is grateful
Should I have been on
such friendly terms with the intendant -- should I have accepted his
offer, if there had been no Patience Heatherstone
Massa Edward, you not like leave home -- you think
very much. Why you go there
I certainly do not like to leave home, Pablo, for I am very fond of my
brother and sisters; but we can not always do as we wish in this world,
and it is for their sakes, more than from my own inclinations, that I
have done so
Can't see what good you do Missy Alice and Missy Edith 'cause you go
away. How it possible do good, and not with them? Suppose bad accident,
and you away, how you do good? Suppose bad accident, and you at
cottage, then you do good. I think, Massa Edward, you very foolish
It
is very true, Pablo, that I can not watch over my sisters, and protect
them in person, when I am away; but there are reasons why I should go,
nevertheless, and I may be more useful to them by going than by
remaining with them. If I did not think so, I would not leave them.
They know nobody, and have no friends in the world. Suppose anything
was to happen to me -- suppose both Humphrey and I were to die -- for you
know that we never know how soon that event may take place -- who would
there be to protect my poor sisters, and what would become of them? Is
it not, therefore, wise that I should procure friends for them, in case
of accident, who would look after them and protect them? and it is my
hope, that by leaving them now, I shall make powerful and kind friends
for them. Do you understand me
Yes, I see now; you think more than me, Massa Edward. I say just now,
you foolish; I say now, Pablo great fool
Besides, Pablo, recollect that I never would have left them as long as
there was only Humphrey and I to look after them, because an accident
might have happened to one of us; but when you came to live with us,
and I found what a good, clever boy you were, and that you were fond of
us all, I then said, 'Now I can leave my sisters, for Pablo shall take
my place, and assist Humphrey to do what is required, and to take care
of them.' Am I not right, Pablo
Yes, Massa Edward
you
quite right. Pablo does love Missy Alice, Missy Edith, Massa Humphrey,
and you, Massa Edward; he love you all very much indeed; he love you so
much that he die for you! Can do no more
That is what I really thought of you, Pablo, and yet I am glad to hear
it from your own mouth. If you had not come to live with us, and not
proved so faithful, I could not have left to benefit my sisters; but
you have induced me to leave, and they have to thank you if I am able
to be of any service to them
Well, Massa Edward, you go; never mind us, we make plenty of work; do
every thing all the same as you
I think you will, Pablo, and that is the reason why I have agreed to
go away. But, Pablo, Billy is growing old, and you will want some more
ponies
Yes, Massa Edward; Massa Humphrey talk to me about ponies last night,
and say plenty in the forest. Ask me if I think us able catch them. I
say yes, catch one, two, twenty, suppose want them
Ah! how will you do that, Pablo
Massa Edward, you tell Massa Humphrey no possible, so I no tell you
how
Some day you come and see us, see five
ponies in the stable. Massa Humphrey and I, we talk about, find out
how; you see
Well, then, I shall ask no more questions, Pablo; and when I see the
ponies in the stable, then I'll believe it, and not before
Suppose you want big horse for ride, catch big horse, Massa Edward,
you see. Massa Humphrey very clever, he catch cow
Catch gipsy
Yes
catch cow, catch gipsy, and by-and-by
catch horse
Well, Edward, you do look like a
Like a secretary, I hope
Well, you don't look like a forester; does he, Patience
You must not judge of people by their clothes, Clara
Nor do I
Those clothes would not look well upon
Oswald, or the other men, for they would not suit them; but they do
suit you: don't they, Patience
Why don't you answer me, Patience
My dear Clara, it's not the custom for young maidens to make remarks
upon people's attire. Little girls like you may do so
Why, did you not tell Pablo that he looked well in his new clothes
Yes, but Pablo is not Mr. Armitage, Clara. That is very different
Well, it may be, but still you might answer a question, if put to you,
Patience: and I ask again, does not Edward look much better in the
dress he has on than in the one that he has generally worn
I think it a becoming dress, Clara, since you will have an answer
Fine feathers make fine birds, Clara
and so
that is all we can say about it
Why do you always call Patience Mistress Heatherstone? Ought he not to
call her Patience, sir
That must depend upon his own feelings, my dear Clara
It is my intention to wave ceremony as much as possible.
Edward Armitage has come to live with us as one of the family, and he
will find himself treated by me as one of us. I shall, therefore, in
future address him as Edward; and he has my full permission, and I may
say it is my wish, that he should be on the same familiar terms with us
all. When Edward feels inclined to address my daughter as he does you,
by her name of baptism, he will, I dare say, now that he has heard my
opinion, do so; and reserve 'Mistress Heatherstone,' for the time when
they have a quarrel
Then I hope he will never again address me that way
for I am under too great obligations to him to bear even the
idea of being on bad terms with him
Do you hear that, Edward
Yes, I do, Clara, and after such a remark you may be sure that I shall
never address her in that way again
How pleasant it will be, if we are to see you and Clara whenever we
see Edward
So far from being sorry that
Edward is with you, I shall be quite glad of it
I water the flowers every day
and they make the garden
look so gay
I will bring you plenty more in the autumn, Edith; but this is not the
right time for transplanting flowers yet
And now,
Alice, you must take me to see your farm, for when I was here last I
had no time; let us come now, and show me every thing
But my dinner, Patience; I can not leave it, or it will be spoiled,
and that will never do. You must either go with Edith now, or wait till
after dinner, when I can get away
Well, then, we will stay till after dinner, Alice, and we will help
you to serve it up
Thank you; Pablo generally does that, for Edith can not reach down the
things. I don't know where he is
He went away with Edward and Humphrey I think
I'll
scold him when he comes back, for being out of the way
Never mind, Edith, I can reach the dishes
and you
and Clara can then take them, and the platters, and put them on the
table for Alice
Well, Humphrey how do you get on
Very well
I have just finished a very tough job.
I have dug out the saw-pit, and have sawed the slabs for the sides of
the pit, and made it quite secure. The large fir-tree that was blown
down is now at the pit, ready for sawing up into planks, and Pablo and
I are to commence to-morrow. At first we made but a bad hand of sawing
off the slabs, but before we had cut them all, we got on pretty well
Pablo don't much like it, and indeed no more do I much, it is such
mechanical work, and so tiring; but he does not complain -- I do not
intend that he shall saw more than two days in a week; that will be
sufficient: we shall get on fast enough.

"You are right, Humphrey; it is an old saying, that you must not work a
willing horse to death. Pablo is very willing, but hard work he is not
accustomed to.

"Well, now you must come and look at my flock of goats, Edward, they
are not far off. I have taught Holdfast to take care of them, and he
never leaves them now, and brings them home at night. Watch always
remains with me, and is an excellent dog, and very intelligent
You have indeed a fine flock, Humphrey
Yes, and they are improved in appearance already since they have been
here. Alice has got her geese and ducks, and I have made a place large
enough for them to wash in, until I have time to dig them out a pond
I thought we had gathered more hay than you required; but with this
addition, I think you will find none to spare before the spring
So far from it, that I have been mowing down a great deal more,
Edward, and it is almost ready to carry away. Poor Billy has had hard
work of it, I assure you, since he came back, with one thing and
another
Poor fellow! but it won't last long, Humphrey
the other horses will soon take his place
I trust they will
at all events by next spring;
before that I do not expect that they will
By-the-by, Humphrey, you recollect what I said to you that the robber
I shot told me just before he died
Yes, I do recollect it now
but I had quite
forgotten all about it till you mentioned it now, although I wrote it
down that we might not forget it
Well, I have been thinking all about it, Humphrey. The robber told me
that the money was mine, taking me for another person; therefore I do
not consider it was given to me, nor do I consider that it was his to
give. I hardly know what to do about it, nor to whom the money can be
said to belong
Well, I think I can answer that question. The property of all
malefactors belongs to the king; and therefore this money belongs to
the king; and we may retain it for the king, or use it for his service
Yes, it would have belonged to the king, had the man been condemned,
and hung on the gallows as he deserved; but he was not, and therefore I
think that it does not belong to the king
Then it belongs to whoever finds it, and who keeps it till it is
claimed -- which will never be
I think I must speak to the intendant about it
I
should feel more comfortable
Then do so
I think you are right to have no
concealments from him
But, Humphrey
what silly fellows we are!
we do not yet know whether we shall find any thing; we must first see
if there is any thing buried there; and when we have done so, then we
will decide how to act. I shall, if it please God, be over again in a
fortnight, and in the mean time, do you find out the place, and
ascertain if what the fellow said is true
I will
I will go to-morrow, with Billy and the
cart, and take a spade and pickax with me. It may be a fool's errand,
but still they say, and one would credit, for the honor of human
nature, that the words of a dying man are those of truth. We had better
go back now, for I think dinner must be ready
Come again soon! Patience, you
must come again soon
Have you heard the news, sir
Nothing very particular
I know that General
Cromwell is over in Ireland, and they say very successful; but I have
cared little for particulars
They say a great deal more, sir
they say that the
king is in Scotland, and that the Scotch have raised an army for him
Indeed
that is news indeed! The intendant has never
mentioned it to me
I dare say not, sir; for he knows your feelings, and would sorry to
part with you
I will certainly speak to him on the subject
risk of his displeasure; and join the army I will, if I find what you
say is true. I should hold myself a craven to remain here while the
king is fighting for his own, and not to be at his side
Well, sir, I think it is true, for I heard that the Parliament had
sent over for General Cromwell to leave Ireland, and lead the troops
against the Scotch army
You drive me mad, Oswald! I will go to the intendant immediately
Edward, you are excited, I presume, from hearing the news which has
arrived
Yes, sir, I am very much so; and I regret very much that I should be
the last to whom such important news is made known
It is, as you say, important news
but if you
will sit down, we will talk a little upon the subject
I have no doubt that your present feeling is to go to Scotland, and
join the army without delay
Such is my intention, I candidly confess, sir. It is my duty
Perhaps you may be persuaded to the contrary before we part
The first duty you owe is to your family in their
present position; they depend upon you; and a false step on your part
would be their ruin. How can you leave them, and leave my employ,
without it being known for what purpose you are gone? It is impossible!
I must myself make it known, and even then it would be very injurious
to me, the very circumstance of my having one of your party in my
service. I am suspected by many already, in consequence of the part I
have taken against the murder of the late king, and also of the lords
who have since suffered. But, Edward, I did not communicate this
intelligence to you for many reasons. I knew that it would soon come to
your ears, and I thought it better that I should be more prepared to
show you that you may do yourself and me harm, and can do no good to
the king. I will now show you that I do put confidence in you; and if
you will read these letters, they will prove to you that I am correct
in what I assert
You are no politician, Edward
You must admit that, in showing
you these letters, I have put the utmost confidence in you
You have, indeed, sir; and, thanking you for having so done, I need
hardly add that your confidence will never be betrayed
That I am sure of; and I trust you will now agree with me and my
friends that the best thing is to remain quiet
Certainly, sir, and in future I will be guided by you
That is all I require of you; and, after that promise, you shall hear
all the news as soon as it arrives. There are thousands who are just as
anxious to see the king on the throne again as you are, Edward -- and you
now know that I am one of them; but the hour is not yet come, and we
must bide our time. Depend upon it, General Cromwell will scatter that
army like chaff. He is on his march now. After what has passed between
us this day, Edward, I shall talk unreserved to you on what is going
on
I thank you, sir, and I promise you faithfully, as I said before, not
only to be guided by your advice, but to be most secret in all that you
may trust me with
I have confidence in you, Edward Armitage; and now we will drop the
subject for the present; Patience and Clara want you to walk with them,
so good-by for the present
This bodes no good
That Corbould we know has vowed vengeance against Edward, and all of
us; and has, no doubt, joined those robbers -- for robbers they must
be -- that he may fulfill his vow. It is fortunate that I have made the
discovery and I will send over immediately to the intendant
They have discovered
me
and I must be off as soon as I can
You'll not catch me
and your guns are not loaded, so I'll tantalize you a little
Now
those fellows will wonder
what I have been digging up. The villains little think that I know
where to find them, and they have proved what they are by firing at me.
Now, what must I do? They may follow me to the cottage, for I have no
doubt that they know where we live, and that Edward is at the
intendant's. They may come and attack us, and I dare not leave the
cottage tonight, or send Pablo away, in case they should; but I will
tomorrow morning
Where is Pablo
He has been working in the garden with Edith all the day
Well, dear, I hope they will not come tonight: tomorrow I will have
them all in custody; but if they do come, we must do our best to beat
them off. It is fortunate that Edward left the guns and pistols which
he found in Clara's cottage, as we shall have no want of firearms; and
we can barricade the doors and windows, so that they can not get in in
a hurry; but I must have Pablo to help me, for there is no time to be
lost
But can not I help you, Humphrey
Surely I can do
something
We will see, Alice; but I think I can do without you. We have still
plenty of daylight. I will take the box into your room
Pablo
we must bring to the cottage some of the large
pieces we sawed out for rafters; for I should not be surprised if the
cottage were attacked this night
You see, Pablo, I dare not send to the intendant to-night, in
case the robbers should come here
No, not send to-night
stay here and fight them; first
make door fast, then cut hole to fire through
Yes, that was my idea. You don't mind fighting them, Pablo
No; fight hard for Missy Alice and Missy Edith
fight
for you too, Massa Humphrey, and fight for myself
That will do
and now get me the small saw, Pablo,
and I will cut a hole or two to fire through
Now we are all ready, Alice, so let us have our supper
We will make a fight for it, and they shall not get in so
easily as they think
Yes, Humphrey, we will go to bed, but we will not undress, for if they
come, I must be up to help you. I can load a gun, you know, and Edith
can take them to you as fast as I load them. Won't you, Edith
Yes, I will bring you the guns, Humphrey, and you shall shoot them
I would not wake you, Humphrey, as you had been sitting up so long.
The robbers have not made their appearance, that is clear; shall we
unbar the door and window-shutters now
Yes, I think we may. Here, Pablo
Yes
what the matter? thief
come
No
thief not come, but sun shine, and lazy Pablo not
get up
Up now, Missy Edith
Yes, but not awake yet
Yes, Missy Edith, quite awake
Well, then, help me to undo the door, Pablo
They won't come now, at all events, I should think
but there is no saying -- they may be prowling about, and may
think it easier to get in during daytime than at night. Go out, Pablo,
and look about every where; take a pistol with you, and fire it off if
there is any danger, and then come back as fast as you can
Now, Pablo, get your breakfast, while I write the letter to the
intendant
and then you must saddle Billy, and go over
to him as fast as you can with the letter. You can tell him all I have
not said in it. I shall expect you back at night, and some people with
you
I see
Somebody come
That he never opened the door at that hour of the night, and that it
was useless their remaining
I think that will do
we must not take more life than
is necessary. I had rather that you had fired through his arm -- it would
have disabled him, and that would have sufficed
Kill much better
Corbould shot through leg, come again
to rob; suppose shot dead, never rob more
Why you do that, Massa Humphrey? nobody there
I know that, Pablo; but if the people are coming from the intendant's,
they will see the flash and perhaps hear the report, and it will let
them know what is going on
There is another gun loaded, Humphrey
Thanks, love; but you and Edith must not remain here; sit down on the
hearth, and then you will be sheltered from any bullet which they may
fire into the house. I have no fear of their getting in, and we shall
have help directly, I have no doubt. Pablo, I shall fire through the
back door; they must be there, for the dogs have their noses under it,
and are so violent. Do you fire another gun, as a signal, through the
hole in the front door
No fear, Missy Edith, I know where find every thing
Great many robbers here
The intendant's people are come
I am sure of it
Get a light, Alice, dear
we are all safe now. I will
open the door directly, Edward, but in the dark I can not see the
fastenings
Are you all safe, Humphrey
Yes, all safe, Edward. Wait till Alice brings a light
You have settled somebody there, at all events
Bind that fellow fast, Oswald
Get another light,
Pablo; let us see who it is that lies outside the door
First see who is in my bedroom, Edward
for the dogs are
still there
In your bedroom, dearest? Well, then, let us go there first
Corbould, as I live
Yes
he has gone to his account. God forgive him
I wish you had said nothing to me about it
although I am pleased with your open and fair dealing. I can not say
any thing, except that you had better let Humphrey keep it till it is
claimed -- which, of course, it never will be. But, Edward, Humphrey must
come over here and make his deposition, as I must report the capture of
these robbers, and send them to trial. You had better go with the clerk
and take the depositions of Pablo and your sisters, while Humphrey
comes here. You can stay till his return. Their depositions are not of
so much consequence as Humphrey's, as they can only speak as to the
attack, but Humphrey's I must take down myself
Now, Pablo, we must make a trial
You must get your
lassoes ready, in case they should be required. We must go to the
avenue before daylight, with the two dogs, tie one upon one side of the
avenue and the other on the other, that they may bark and prevent the
ponies from attempting to escape through the thicket. Then we must get
the ponies between us and the drift of snow which lies across the
avenue, and try if we can not draw them into the drift. If so, they
will plunge in so deep that some of them will not be able to get out
before we have thrown the ropes round their necks
I see
very good -- soon catch them
Got them now, Massa Humphrey
Yes; but our work is not yet over, Pablo; we must get them home; how
shall we manage that
Suppose they no eat to-day and to-morrow, get very tame
I believe that will be the best way; they can not get loose again, do
all they can
No, sir; but get one home to-day. This very fine pony; suppose we try
him
Now, Massa Humphrey, we get him home somehow. First I go loose the
dogs; he 'fraid of the dogs, and run t'other way
I think, Edward
that the king's affairs do now
wear a more promising aspect; but there is plenty of time yet. I know
your anxiety to serve your king, and I can not blame it. I shall not
prevent your going, although, of course, I must not appear to be
cognizant of your having so done. When the winter breaks up I shall
send you to London. You will then be better able to judge of what is
going on, and your absence will not create any suspicion; but you must
be guided by me
I certainly will, sir
I should, indeed, like to
strike one blow for the king, come what will
All depends upon whether they manage affairs well in Scotland; but
there is so much jealousy and pride, and, I fear, treachery also, that
it is hard to say how matters may end
The plot thickens
and by this letter from my
correspondent, Ashley Cooper, I find that the king's army is well
appointed, and that David Lesley is lieutenant-general; Middleton
commands the horse, and Wemyss the artillery. That Wemyss is certainly
a good officer, but was not true to the late king: may he behave better
to the present! Now, Edward, I shall send you to London, and I will
give you letters to those who will advise you how to proceed. You may
take the black horse; he will bear you well. You will of course write
to me, for Sampson will go with you, and you can send him back when you
consider that you do not require or wish for his presence: there is no
time to be lost, for, depend upon it, Cromwell, who is still at
Edinburgh, will take the field as soon as he can. Are you ready to
start to-morrow morning
Yes, sir, quite ready
I fear that you can not go over to the cottage to bid farewell to your
sisters; but, perhaps, it is better that you should not
I think so too, sir
now that the snow has nearly
disappeared, I did think of going over, having been so long absent, but
I must send Oswald over instead
Well, then, leave me to write my letters, and do you prepare your
saddle-bags. Patience and Clara will assist you. Tell Sampson to come
to me
How long do you remain, Edward
I can not tell; Sampson goes with me, and I must, of course, be guided
by your father. Do you know where the saddle-bags are, Patience
Yes; Phoebe shall bring them to your room
And you and Clara must come and give me your assistance
Certainly we will, if you require it; but I did not know that your
wardrobe was so extensive
You know that it is any thing but extensive, Patience; but that is the
reason why your assistance is more required. A small wardrobe ought at
least to be in good order; and what I would require is, that you would
look over the linen, and where it requires a little repair, you will
bestow upon it your charity
That we will do, Clara
so get your needles and
thread, and let us send him to London with whole linen. We will come
when we are ready, sir
I don't like his going to London at all
we shall be so
lonely when he is gone
God grant that I may do credit to it, and prove
as worthy to wield it as was my brave father
I was not aware of
your presence, Patience. Your foot is so light
Whose sword is that, Edward
It is mine; I bought it at Lymington
But what makes you have such an affection for that sword
Affection for it
Yes; as I came into the room you kissed it as fervently as
As a lover would his mistress, I presume you would say
Nay, I meant not to use such vain words. I was about to say, as a
devout Catholic would a relic. I ask you again, Why so? A sword is but
a sword. You are about to leave this on a mission of my father's. You
are not a soldier, about to engage in strife and war; if you were, why
kiss your sword
I will tell you. I do love this sword. I purchased it, as I told you,
at Lymington, and they told me that it belonged to Colonel Beverley. It
is for his sake that I love it. You know what obligations our family
were under to him
This sword was then wielded by Colonel Beverley, the celebrated
Cavalier, was it
Yes, it was; and here, you see, are his initials upon the hilt
And why do you take it to London with you? Surely it is not the weapon
which should be worn by a secretary, Edward; it is too large and
cumbrous, and out of character
Recollect, that till these last few months I have been a forester,
Patience, and not a secretary. Indeed, I feel that I am more fit for
active life than the situation which your father's kindness has
bestowed upon me. I was brought up, as you have heard, to follow to the
wars, had my patron lived
If you should leave London, there will be no occasion -- nay, it would
be dangerous to write to me. I shall take it for granted that you will
retain Sampson till your departure, and when he returns here I shall
presume that you have gone north. I will not detain you longer, Edward:
may Heaven bless and protect you
Kind and generous man
how much did I mistake you
when we first met
I rose early, Edward, because, when I took leave of you last night, I
forgot a little parcel that I wanted to give you before you went. It
will not take much room, and may beguile a weary hour. It is a little
book of meditations. Will you accept it, and promise me to read it when
you have time
I certainly will, my dear Patience -- if I may venture on the
expression -- read it, and think of you
Nay, you must read it, and think of what it contains
I will, then. I shall not need the book to remind me of Patience
Heatherstone, I assure you
And now, Edward, I do not pretend to surmise the reason of your
departure, nor would it be becoming in me to attempt to discover what
my father thinks proper to be silent upon; but I must beg you to
promise one thing
Name it, dear Patience
my heart is so full at the
thought of leaving you, that I feel I can refuse you nothing
It is this: I have a presentiment, I know not why, that you are about
to encounter danger. If so, be prudent -- be prudent for the sake of your
dear sisters -- be prudent for the sake of all your friends, who would
regret you -- promise me that
I do promise you, most faithfully, Patience, that I will ever have my
sisters and you in my thoughts, and will not be rash under any
circumstances
Thank you, Edward; may God bless you and preserve you
And where are we to lodge, Sampson
The best hotel that I know of for man and beast is the 'Swan with
Three Necks,' in Holborn. It is not over-frequented by roisterers, and
you will there be quiet, and, if your affairs demand it, unobserved
That will suit me, Sampson: I wish to observe and not be observed,
during my stay in London
You are right welcome, Master Armitage
I find
that, young as you appear to be, you are in the whole confidence of our
mutual friend, Master Heatherstone. He hints at your being probably
obliged to take a journey to the north, and that you will be glad to
take charge of any letters which I may have to send in that direction.
I will have them ready for you; and, in case of need, they will be such
as will give a coloring to your proceeding, provided you may not choose
to reveal your true object. How wears our good friend Heatherstone and
his daughter
Quite well, sir
And he told me in one of his former letters that he had the daughter
of our poor friend Ratcliffe with him. Is it not so
It is, Master Langton; and a gentle, pretty child as you would wish to
see
When did you arrive in London
Yesterday evening, sir
And do you purpose any stay
That I can not answer, sir; I must be guided by your advice. I have
naught to do here, unless it be to deliver some three or four letters,
given me by Mr. Heatherstone
It is my opinion, Master Armitage, that the less you are seen in this
city the better; there are hundreds employed to find out new-comers,
and to discover, from their people, or by other means, for what purpose
they may have come; for you must be aware, Master Armitage, that the
times are dangerous, and people's minds are various. In attempting to
free ourselves from what we considered despotism, we have created for
ourselves a worse despotism, and one that is less endurable. It is to
be hoped that what has passed will make not only kings but subjects
wiser than they have been. Now, what do you propose -- to leave this
instantly
Certainly, if you think it advisable
My advice, then, is to leave London immediately. I will give you
letters to some friends of mine in Lancashire and Yorkshire; in either
county you can remain unnoticed, and make what preparations you think
necessary. But do nothing in haste -- consult well, and be guided by
them, who will, if it is considered advisable and prudent, join with
you in your project. I need say no more. Call upon me to-morrow
morning, an hour before noon, and I will have letters ready for you
Farewell, Master Armitage
to-morrow, at the eleventh
hour
When do you set out, and to what town do you go
That I can not well tell until to-morrow
Call before you leave this, and I will find some means of providing
for you as you wish
As you wish, sir
When am I to go back
You may leave to-morrow as soon as you please. I have no letter to
send. You may tell them that I am well, and will write as soon as I
have any thing positive to communicate
I am all ready for you, Master Armitage; there is a letter to two
Catholic ladies in Lancashire, who will take great care of you; and
here is one to a friend of mine in Yorkshire. The ladies live about
four miles from the town of Bolton, and my Yorkshire friend in the city
of York. You may trust to any of them. And now, farewell; and, if
possible, leave London before nightfall -- the sooner the better. Where
is your servant
He has returned to Master Heatherstone this morning
You have done right. Lose no time to leave London; and don't be in a
hurry in your future plans. You understand me. If any one accosts you
on the road, put no trust in any professions. You, of course, are going
down to your relations in the north. Have you pistols
Yes, sir; I have a pair which did belong to the unfortunate Mr.
Ratcliffe
Then they are good ones, I'll answer for it; no man was more
particular about his weapons, or knew how to use them better. Farewell,
Master Armitage, and may success attend you
That's a fine horse you were riding, sir. Has he much speed
He has
Going north, sir
Not exactly
The Roundhead is on the stilts
Yes
it is easy to see that he has not been
accustomed to be addressed by gentlemen; for half a pin I would slit
his ears
Now you'll clear out of this as fast as you can; be off with you, and
go to the stables, or I'll send for somebody whom you will not like
I am sorry, young master, that these roisterers should have affronted
you, as my wife tells me that they have. I did not know that they were
in the house. We can not well refuse to take in their horses; but we
know well who they are, and, if you are traveling far, you had better
ride in company
Thank you for your caution, my good host
I thought
that they were highwaymen, or something of that sort
You have made a good guess, sir; but nothing has yet been proved
against them, or they would not be here. In these times we have strange
customers, and hardly know who we take in. You have a good sword there,
sir, I have no doubt; but I trust that you have other arms
I have
That's right, sir. Will you take any thing before you go to bed
Indeed I will, for I am hungry; any thing will do, with a pint of
wine
Well, now you see what you have
to expect, if you try your trade with me
I am very
glad that you have been spying
I
presume we shall meet again
I have to thank you, sir, for your timely aid; for these rascals were
too many for me
You are not hurt, I trust, sir
No, not the least;
the fellow singed my curls though, as you may perceive. They attacked
me about half a mile from here. I was proceeding north when I heard the
clatter of hoofs behind me; I looked round and saw at once what they
were, and I sprung my horse out of the road to a thicket close to it,
that they might not surround me. One of the three rode forward to stop
my passage, and the other two rode round to the back of the thicket to
get behind me. I then saw that I had separated them, and could gain a
start upon them by riding back again, which I did, as fast as I could,
and they immediately gave chase. The result you saw. Between us we have
broken up the gang; for both these fellows seem dead, or nearly so
What shall we do with them
Leave them where they are
I am in a hurry to
get on. I have important business at the city of York, and can not
waste my time in depositions, and such nonsense. It is only two
scoundrels less in the world, and there's an end of the matter
I am also going north
and am anxious to get there
as soon as I can
With your permission we will ride together
I
shall be the gainer, as I shall feel that I have one with me who is to
be trusted to in case of any further attacks during our journey
Master Armitage, we have traveled together for some time,
interchanging thoughts and feelings, but with due reserve as respects
ourselves and our own plans. Is this to continue? If so, of course you
have but to say so; but if you feel inclined to trust me, I have the
same feeling toward you. By your dress I should imagine that you
belonged to a party to which I am opposed; but your language and
manners do not agree with your attire; and I think a hat and feathers
would grace that head better than the steeple-crowned affair which now
covers it. It may be that the dress is only assumed as a disguise: you
know best. However, as I say, I feel confidence in you, to whatever
party you may belong, and I give you credit for your prudence and
reserve in these troubled times. I am a little older than you, and may
advise you; and I am indebted to you, and can not therefore betray
you -- at least I trust you believe so
I do believe it
and I will so far answer you,
Master Chaloner, that this attire of mine is not the one which I would
wear, if I had my choice
I believe that
and I can not help thinking you
are bound north on the same business as myself, which is, I confess to
you honestly, to strike a blow for the king. If you are on the same
errand, I have two old relations in Lancashire, who are stanch to the
cause; and I am going to their house to remain until I can join the
army. If you wish it, you shall come with me, and I will promise you
kind treatment and safety while under their roof
And the names of these relatives of yours, Master Chaloner
Nay, you shall have them; for when I trust, I trust wholly. Their name
is Conynghame
To the worthy Mistress
Conynghame, of Portlake, near Bolton, county of Lancashire
It is to that address that I am going myself
Whether it is the party you refer to, you best know
This is excellent! Two people meet, both bound on the same business,
both going to the same rendezvous, and for three days do not venture to
trust each other
The times require caution
You are right
and you are of my opinion. I know
now that you have both prudence and courage. The first quality has been
scarcer with us Cavaliers than the last; however, now, all reserve is
over, at least on my part
And on mine also
My father fell at the battle of Naseby, at the head of his retainers
and they have contrived to fine the
property, so that it has dwindled from thousands down to hundreds.
Indeed, were it not for my good old aunts, who will leave me their
estates, and who now supply me liberally, I should be but a poor
gentleman
Your father fell at Naseby
Were you there
I was
My father also fell at Naseby
Your father did
I do not recollect the
name -- Armitage -- he was not in command there, was he
Yes, he was
There was none of that name among the officers that I can recollect,
young sir
Surely you have
been misinformed
I have spoken the truth
and have now said so much
that I must, to remove your suspicion say more than perhaps I should
have done. My name is not Armitage, although I have been so called for
some time. You have set me the example of confidence, and I will follow
it. My father was Colonel Beverley, of Prince Rupert's troop
I'm sure that what you say is true
for I was
thinking who it was that you reminded me of. You are the very picture
of your father. Although a boy at the time, I knew him well, Master
Beverley; a more gallant Cavalier never drew sword. Come, we must be
sworn friends in life and death, Beverley
We all heard of the firing of Arnwood, and it is at this moment
believed that all the children perished. It is one of the tales of woe
that our nurses repeat to the children, and many a child has wept at
your supposed deaths. But tell me, now, had you not fallen in with me,
was it your intention to have joined the army under your assumed name
of Armitage
I hardly know what I intended to do. I wanted a friend to advise me
And you have found one, Beverley. I owe my life to you, and I will
repay the debt as far as is in my power. You must not conceal your name
to your sovereign; the very name of Beverley is a passport, but the son
of Colonel Beverley will be indeed welcomed. Why, the very name will be
considered as a harbinger of good fortune. Your father was the best and
truest soldier that ever drew sword; and his memory stands unrivaled
for loyalty and devotion. We are near to the end of our journey; yonder
is the steeple of Bolton church. The old ladies will be out of their
wits when they find that they have a Beverley under their roof
And something did very nearly happen to me
had it
not been for the timely assistance of my friend here, who,
notwithstanding his Puritan attire, I hardly need tell you, is a
Cavalier devoted to the good cause, when I state that he is the son of
Colonel Beverley, who fell at Naseby with my good father
No one can be more welcome, then
Our horses will be well attended to, Edward
we need
not any longer look after them ourselves. And now, good aunts, have you
no letters for me
Yes, there are several; but you had better eat first
Not so; let me have the letters; we can read them before supper, and
talk them over when at table
You see that they have marched already
and I think
the plan is a good one, and it has put General Cromwell in an awkward
position. Our army is now between his and London, with three days'
march in advance. And we shall now be able to pick up our English
adherents, who can join us without risk, as we go along. It has been a
bold step, but a good one; and if they only continue as well as they
have begun, we shall succeed. The Parliamentary army is not equal to
ours in numbers, as it is; and we shall add to ours dayly. The king has
sent to the Isle of Man for the Earl of Derby, who is expected to join
to-morrow
And where is the army at this moment
They will be but a few miles from us to-night, their march is so
rapid; to-morrow we will join, if it pleases
Most willingly
I have wanted you, Chaloner
we are raising a troop
of horse; the Duke of Buckingham commands it, but Massey will be the
real leader of it; you have influence in this county, and will, I have
no doubt, bring us many good hands
Where is the Earl of Derby
Joined us this morning; we have marched so quick that we have not had
time to pick our adherents up
And General Leslie
Is by no means in good spirits: why, I know not. We have too many
ministers with the army, that is certain, and they do harm; but we can
not help ourselves. His majesty must be visible by this time; if you
are ready, I will introduce you; and, when that is done, we will talk
matters over
Allow me, your majesty
to present to you Major Chaloner, whose father's name is
not unknown to you
On the contrary, well known to us
as a loyal and
faithful subject whose loss we must deplore. I have no doubt that his
son inherits his courage and his fidelity
And now, your majesty will be surprised that I should present to you
one of a house supposed to be extinct -- the eldest son of Colonel
Beverley
Indeed
I heard that all his family perished at
the ruthless burning of Arnwood. I hold myself fortunate, as a king,
that even one son of so loyal and brave a gentleman as Colonel Beverley
has escaped. You are welcome, young sir -- most welcome to us; you must
be near us; the very name of Beverley will be pleasing to our ears by
night or day
What can we do for a Beverley? let us know, that we may show our
feelings toward his father's memory
All I request is, that your majesty will allow me to be near you in
the hour of danger
A right Beverley reply
and so we shall see to it,
Middleton
I have orders to send in for his majesty's signature your commission
as captain of horse, and attached to the king's personal staff; it is a
high compliment to the memory of your father, sir, and, I may add, your
own personal appearance. Chaloner will see to your uniforms and
accouterments; you are well mounted, I believe; you have no time to
lose, as we march to-morrow for Warrington, in Cheshire
Has any thing been heard of the Parliamentary army
Yes; they are on the march toward London by the Yorkshire road,
intending to cut us off if they can. And now, gentlemen, farewell; for
I have no idle time, I assure you
This is bad news, Chaloner
Yes; it is more than bad
we have lost our best
officers, who never should have left the army; and now the consequences
of the defeat will be, that we shall not have any people come forward
to join us. The winning side is the right side in this world; and there
is more evil than that; the Duke of Buckingham has claimed the command
of the army, which the king has refused, so that we are beginning to
fight among ourselves. General Leslie is evidently dispirited, and
thinks bad of the cause. Middleton is the only man who does his duty.
Depend upon it, we shall have Cromwell upon us before we are aware of
it; and we are in a state of sad confusion: officers quarreling, men
disobedient, much talking, and little doing. Here we have been five
days, and the works which have been proposed to be thrown up as
defenses, not yet begun
I can not but admire the patience of the king, with so much to harass
and annoy him
He must be patient, perforce
he plays for a
crown, and it is a high stake; but he can not command the minds of men,
although he may the persons. I am no croaker, Beverley, but if we
succeed with this army, as at present disorganized, we shall perform a
miracle
We must hope for the best
common danger may cement
those who would otherwise be asunder; and when they have the army of
Cromwell before them, they may be induced to forget their private
quarrels and jealousies, and unite in the good cause
I wish I could be of your opinion, Beverley
but I
have mixed with the world longer than you have, and I think otherwise
Follow me
we will see what the enemy are about. I do not think they
pursue, and if so, we may yet rally from this foolish panic
It appears to me
that the danger of this
campaign of ours will consist in getting back again to our own homes,
for I can most safely assert that I have not as yet struck a blow for
the king
That is true enough, Beverly. When do you purpose going back to the
New Forest? I think, if you will permit me, I will accompany you
All the pursuit will be to the northward, to intercept and
overtake the retreat into Scotland. I can not therefore go to
Lancashire; and, indeed, as they know that I am out, they will be
looking for me every where
Then come with me
I will find you protection till you
can decide what to do. Let us ride on away from this, and we will talk
over the matter as we go; but depend upon it, the further south we get
the safer we shall be, but still not safe, unless we can change our
costume. There will be a strict search for the king to the south, as
they will presume that he will try to get safe to France. Hark! what is
that? I heard the report of arms. Let us ride up this hill and see what
is going on
Come, Chaloner, let us at all events have one blow
Agreed
Thanks, Chaloner! thanks, Beverley
These fellows with me were just about to run, if you had not
come to our aid. I will remain with them no longer, but join you if you
will permit me. At all events, remain here till they go away -- I will
send them off
My lads, you must all separate, or
there will be no chance of escape. No more than two should ride
together. Depend upon it, we shall have more of the troops here
directly
Now, what I propose
is this: let us do what we can for
those who are wounded, and then strip off the dresses and accouterments
of those Parliamentary dragoons who are dead, and dress ourselves in
them, accouterments and all. We can then pass through the country in
safety, as we shall be supposed to be one of the parties looking for
the king
That is a good idea
and the sooner it is done the
better
Well
I will take the spoils of this fellow nearest to
me: he fell by my hand, and I am entitled to them by the laws of war
and chivalry; but first, let us dismount and look to the wounded
We must be insolent and brutal in our manners, or we shall be
suspected
Very true
First, let us take our horses to the stables, Humphrey
and then we will come and partake
of any thing that Alice can prepare for us, for we have not fared over
well for the last three days
And now, Humphrey, my advice is this. My two friends can not remain in
this cottage, for many reasons; but we have the key of Clara's cottage,
and they can take up their lodging there, and we can supply them with
all they want, until they find means of going abroad, which is their
intention. I must be off to the intendant's to-morrow, and the day
after I will come over to you. In the mean time, our guests can remain
here, while you and Pablo prepare the cottage for them; and when I
return every thing shall be settled, and we will conduct them to it. I
do not think there is much danger of their being discovered while they
remain there, certainly not so much as if they were here; for we must
expect parties of troops in every direction now, as they were when the
king's father made his escape from Hampton Court. And now to bed, my
good brother; and call me early, for I much fear that I shall not wake
up if you do not
I am now come to bring the news to the intendant, Oswald. You
understand me, of course
Of course I do, Master Edward, and will take care that it is well
known that you have been fighting by the side of Cromwell all this
time. I should recommend you to show yourself in this dress for the
remainder of the day, and then every one will be satisfied. Shall I go
to the intendant's before you
No, no, Oswald; the intendant does not require me to be introduced to
him, of course. I must now gallop up to his house and announce myself.
Farewell for the present -- I shall see you during the day
Who is there
Edward Armitage
My dear Edward, I am glad to see you in any dress, but this requires
explanation. Sit down and tell me all
All is soon told, sir
You have done very prudently
and you have
probably saved me; at all events, you have warded off all suspicion,
and those who are spies upon me will now have nothing to report, except
to my favor. Your absence has been commented upon, and made known at
high quarters, and suspicion has arisen in consequence. Your return as
one of the Parliamentary forces will now put an end to all ill-natured
remarks. My dear Edward, you have done me a service. As my secretary,
and having been known to have been a follower of the Beverleys, your
absence was considered strange, and it was intimated at high quarters
that you had gone to join the king's forces, and that with my knowledge
and consent. This I have from Langton; and it has in consequence
injured me not a little: but now your appearance will make all right
again. Now we will first to prayers, and then to breakfast; and after
that we will have a more detailed account of what has taken place since
your departure. Patience and Clara will not be sorry to recover their
companion; but how they will like you in that dress I can not pretend
to say. However, I thank God that you have returned safe to us; and I
shall be most happy to see you once more attend in the more peaceful
garb of a secretary
I will, with your permission, sir, not quit this costume for one day,
as it may be as well that I should be seen in it
You are right, Edward: for this day retain it; to-morrow you will
resume your usual costume. Go down to the parlor; you will find
Patience and Clara anxiously waiting for you, I have no doubt. I will
join you there in ten minutes
Edward, you must now perceive that, for the present, nothing more can
be done; if it pleases the Lord, the time will come when the monarch
will be reseated on his throne; at present, we must bow to the powers
that be; and I tell you frankly, it is my opinion that Cromwell aims at
sovereignty and will obtain it. Perhaps it may be better that we should
suffer the infliction for a time, as for a time only can it be upheld,
and it may be the cause of the king being more schooled and more fitted
to reign than, by what you have told me in the course of your
narrative, he at present appears to be
Perhaps so, sir
I must say that the short campaign
I have gone through has very much opened my eyes. I have seen but
little true chivalric feeling, and much of interested motives, in those
who have joined the king's forces. The army collected was composed of
most discordant elements, and were so discontented, so full of jealousy
and ill-will, that I am not surprised at the result. One thing is
certain, that there must be a much better feeling existing between all
parties before such a man as Cromwell can ever be moved from his
position; and, for the present, the cause may be considered as lost
You are right, Edward
I would they were
better, but as they are, let us make the best of them. You have now
seen enough to have subdued that fiery zeal for the cause which
previously occupied your whole thoughts; now let us be prudent, and try
if we can not be happy
Now, Humphrey, as you have pretty well heard all my adventures since
our separation, let me hear what you have been doing
I have no such tales of stirring interest to narrate as Chaloner has
been doing as your deputy, Edward
All I can say
is, that we have had no visitors -- that we have longed for your
return -- and that we have not been idle since you quitted us
What horses were those in the stable
that you turned
out to make room for ours when we arrived
Well, you really deserve credit, Humphrey, and certainly were not born
to be secluded in this forest
I rather think that I have found that I was born for it
although, I must confess, that since you have quitted us, I
have not felt so contented here as I did before. You have returned, and
you have no idea what an alteration I see in you since you have mixed
with the world, and have been a party in such stirring scenes
Perhaps so, Humphrey
and yet do you know, that,
although I so ardently wished to mix with the world, and to follow the
wars, I am any thing but satisfied with what I have seen of it; and so
far from feeling any inclination to return to it, I rather feel more
inclined to remain here, and remain in quiet and in peace. I have been
disappointed, that is the truth. There is a great difference between
the world such as we fancy it when we are pining for it, and the world
when we actually are placed within the vortex, and perceive the secret
springs of men's actions. I have gained a lesson, but not a
satisfactory one, Humphrey; it may be told in a very few words. It is a
most deceitful and hollow world! and that is all said in a few words
What very agreeable, pleasant young men are Master Chaloner and
Grenville
Chaloner I know well
he is to be trusted, and he is
the only one in whom I have been able to place confidence, and
therefore I was most fortunate in falling in with him as I did on my
first starting. Grenville, I know little about; we met often, it is
true, but it was in the presence of the king, being both of us on his
staff; at the same time, I must acknowledge that I know nothing against
him; and this I do know, which is, that he is brave
Talking about that, Edward, do you not think it likely that we shall
have the troopers down here in search of the king
I wonder you have not had them already
And what shall we do if they arrive
That is all prepared for
although, till you
mentioned it, I had quite forgotten it. The intendant was talking with
me on the subject last night, and here is an appointment for you as
verderer, signed by him, which you are to use as you may find
necessary; and here is another missive, ordering you to receive into
your house two of the troopers who may be sent down here, and find them
quarters and victuals, but not to be compelled to receive more. Until
the search is over, Chaloner and Grenville must retain their
accouterments and remain with us. And, Humphrey, if you have not made
any use of the clothes which I left here -- I mean the first dress I had
made when I was appointed secretary, and which I thought rather too
faded to wear any longer -- I will put it on now, as should any military
come here as scouters to the intendant, I shall have some authority
over them
It is in your chest, where you left it, Edward. The girls did propose
to make two josephs out of it for winter wear, but they never have
thought of it since, or have not had time. By-the-by, you have not told
me what you think of Alice and Edith after your long absence
I think they are both very much grown and very much improved
but I must confess to you that I think it is high time that
they were, if possible, removed from their present homely occupations,
and instructed as young ladies should be
But how, Edward, is that to be
That I can not yet tell, and it grieves me that I can not; but still I
see the necessity of it, if ever we are to return to our position in
society
And are we ever to return
I don't know. I thought little of it before I went away and mixed in
society; but since I have been in the world, I have been compelled to
feel that my dear sisters are not in their sphere, and I have resolved
upon trying if I can not find a more suitable position for them. Had we
been successful I should have had no difficulty, but now I hardly know
what to do
I have not inquired about Mistress Patience, brother; how is she
She is as good and as handsome as ever, and very much grown; indeed,
she is becoming quite womanly
And Clara
Oh, I do not perceive any difference in her: I think she is grown, but
I hardly observed her. Here comes Chaloner; we will tell him of our
arrangements in case we are disturbed by the military parties
It is a most excellent arrangement
and it was a lucky day when I first fell in
with you, Beverley
Not Beverley, I pray you; that name is to be forgotten; it was only
revived for the occasion
Very true; then, Master Secretary Armitage, I think the arrangement
excellent: the only point will be to find out what troops are sent down
in this direction, as we must of course belong to some other regiment,
and have been pursued from the field of battle. I should think that
Lambert's squadrons will not be this way
We will soon ascertain that; let your horses be saddled and
accoutered, so that should any of them make their appearance, the
horses may be at the door. It is my opinion that they will be here some
time to-day
I fear that it will be almost impossible for the king to escape
I hardly know what to think of his leaving us in
that way
I have reflected upon it
and I think it was perhaps
prudent: some were to be trusted and some not; it was impossible to
know who were and who were not -- he therefore trusted nobody. Besides,
his chance of escape, if quite alone, is greater than if in company
And yet I feel a little mortified that he did not trust me
my life was at his service
He could no more read your heart, than he could mine or others
and any selection would have been invidious: on the
whole, I think he acted wisely, and I trust that it will prove so. One
thing is certain, which is, that all is over now, and that for a long
while we may let our swords rest in their scabbards. Indeed, I am
sickened with it, after what I have seen, and would gladly live here
with you, and help to till the land, away from the world and all its
vexations. What say you, Edward; will you and your brother take me as a
laborer till all is quiet again
You would soon tire of it, Chaloner; you were made for active exertion
and bustling in the world
Nevertheless, I think, under two such amiable and pretty mistresses, I
could stay well contented here; it is almost Arcadian. But still it is
selfish for me to talk in this way; indeed, my feelings are contrary to
my words
How do you mean, Chaloner
To be candid with you, Edward, I was thinking what a pity it is that
two such sweet girls as your sisters should be employed here in
domestic drudgery, and remain in such an uncultivated state -- if I may
be pardoned for speaking so freely -- but I do so because I am convinced
that, if in proper hands, they would grace a court; and you must feel
that I am right
Do you not think that the same feelings have passed in my mind,
Chaloner? Indeed, Humphrey will tell you that we were speaking on the
same subject but an hour ago. You must, however, be aware of the
difficulty I am in: were I in possession of Arnwood and its domain,
then indeed -- but that is all over now, and I presume I shall shortly
see my own property, whose woods are now in sight of me, made over to
some Roundhead, for good services against the Cavaliers at Worcester
Edward
I have this to say to you, and I can say
it because you know that I am indebted to you for my life, and that is
a debt that nothing can cancel: if at any time you determine upon
removing your sisters from this, recollect my maiden aunts at Portlake.
They can not be in better hands, and they can not be in the hands of
any person who will more religiously do their duty toward them, and be
pleased with the trust confided to them. They are rich, in spite of
exactions; but in these times, women are not fined and plundered as men
are; and they have been well able to afford all that has been taken
from them, and all that they have voluntarily given to the assistance
of our party. They are alone, and I really believe that nothing would
make them more happy than to have the care of the two sisters of Edward
Beverley -- be sure of that. But I will be more sure of it if you will
find means of sending to them a letter which I shall write to them. I
tell you that you will do them a favor, and that if you do not accept
the offer, you will sacrifice your sisters' welfare to your own
pride -- which I do not think you would do
Most certainly I will not do that
and I am fully
sensible of your kind offer; but I can say no more until I hear what
your good aunts may reply to your letter. You mistake me much,
Chaloner, if you think that any sense of obligation would prevent me
from seeing my sisters removed from a position so unworthy of them, but
which circumstances have driven them to. That we are paupers, is
undeniable, but I never shall forgot that my sisters are the daughters
of Colonel Beverley
I am delighted with your reply, Edward, and I fear not that of my good
aunts. It will be a great happiness to me when I am wandering abroad to
know that your sisters are under their roof, and are being educated as
they ought to be
What's the matter, Pablo
Soldiers
plenty of them, gallop this way -- gallop every
way
Now, Chaloner, we must get ourselves out of this scrape, and I trust
that afterward all be well
Bring the horses out to the
door; and, Chaloner, you and Grenville must wait within; bring my horse
out also, as it will appear as if I had just ridden over. I must in to
change my dress. Humphrey, keep a look-out and let us know when they
come
I am one of the verderers of the forest, sir
And whose cottage is that? and who have you there
The cottage is mine, sir; two of the horses at the door belong to two
troopers who have come in quest of those who fled from Worcester, the
other horse belongs to the secretary of the intendant of the forest,
Master Heatherstone, who has come over with directions from the
intendant as to the capture of the rebels
This is the secretary, sir, Master Armitage
Master Heatherstone, the intendant, has sent me over here to make
arrangements for the capture of the rebels. This man is ordered to
lodge two troopers as long as they are considered necessary to remain;
and I have directions to tell any officer whom I may meet, that Master
Heatherstone and his verderers will take good care that none of the
rebels are harbored in this direction; and that it will be better that
the troops scour the southern edge of the forest, as it is certain that
the fugitives will try all that they can to embark for France
What regiment do the troopers belong to that you have here
I believe to Lambert's troop, sir; but they shall come out and answer
for themselves. Tell those men to come out
Yes, sir, but they are hard to wake, for they have ridden from
Worcester; but I will rouse them
Nay, I can not wait
I know none of Lambert's
troops, and they have no information to give
Could you not take them with you, sir, and leave two of your men
instead of them; for they are troublesome people to a poor man, and
devour every thing
No, no
we all know Lambert's
people -- a friend or enemy is much the same to them. I have no power
over them, and you must make the best of it. Forward! men
That's well over
Chaloner and Grenville are too
young-looking and too good-looking for Lambert's villains; and a sight
of them might have occasioned suspicion. We must, however, expect more
visits. Keep a good look-out, Pablo
Why, Alice, dearest! you look quite pale
I feared for our guests, Edward. I'm sure that if they had come into
the cottage, Master Chaloner and Master Grenville would never have been
believed to be troopers
We thank you for the compliment, Mistress Alice
but
I think, if necessary, I could ruffle and swear with the best, or
rather the worst of them. We passed for troopers very well on the road
here
Yes, but you did not meet any other troopers
That's very true, and shows your penetration. I must acknowledge that,
with troopers, there would have been more difficulty; but still, among
so many thousands, there must be many varieties, and it would be an
awkward thing for an officer of one troop to arrest upon suspicion the
men belonging to another. I think when we are visited again I shall
sham intoxication -- that will not be very suspicious
No, not on either side
Come, Alice, we will eat
what dinner you may have ready for us
Here's a letter I have received from the government, Edward, highly
commending my vigilance and activity in pursuit of the fugitives. It
appears that the officers you fell in with have written up to state
what admirable dispositions we had made. It is a pity, is it not,
Edward, that we are compelled to be thus deceitful in this world?
Nothing but the times, and the wish to do good, could warrant it. We
meet the wicked, and fight them with their own weapons; but although it
is treating them as they deserve, our conscience must tell us that it
is not right
Surely, sir, to save the lives of people who have committed no other
fault except loyalty to their king, will warrant our so doing -- at
least, I hope so
According to the Scriptures, I fear it will not, but it is a
difficult, question for us to decide. Let us be guided by our own
consciences; if they do not reproach us, we can not be far from right
I see
I can forward these through Langton. I
presume it is to obtain credit for money. It shall go on Thursday
You are very grave, Edward, and have been very grave ever since your
return; have you any thing to vex you beyond the failure of the
attempt
Yes, I have, Patience. I have much on my conscience, and do not know
how to act. I want an adviser and a friend, and know not where to find
one
Surely, Edward, my father is your sincere friend, and not a bad
adviser
I grant it; but the question is between your father and me, and I can
not advise with him for that reason
Then advise with me, Edward, if it is not a secret of such moment that
it is not to be trusted to a woman; at all events it will be the advice
of a sincere friend; you will give me credit for that
Yes, and for much more; for I think I shall have good advice, and will
therefore accept your offer. I feel, Patience, that although I was
justified, on my first acquaintance with your father, in not making
known to him a secret of some importance, yet now that he has put such
implicit confidence, in me, I am doing him and myself an injustice in
not making the communication -- that is, as far as confidence in him is
concerned. I consider that he has a right to know all, and yet I feel
that it would be prudent on my part that he should not know all, as the
knowledge might implicate him with those with whom he is at present
allied. A secret sometimes is dangerous; and if your father could not
say that on his honor he knew not of the secret, it might harm him if
the secret became afterward known. Do you understand me
I can not say that I exactly do; you have a secret that you wish to
make known to my father, and you think the knowledge of it may harm
him. I can not imagine what kind of secret that may be
Well, I can give you a case in point. Suppose now that I knew that
King Charles was hidden in your stable-loft: such might be the case,
and your father be ignorant of it, and his assertion of his ignorance
would be believed; but if I were to tell your father that the king was
there, and it was afterward discovered, do you not see that, by
confiding such a secret to him, I should do harm, and perhaps bring him
into trouble
I perceive now, Edward; do you mean to say that you know where the
king is concealed? for, if you do, I must beg of you not let my father
know any thing about it. As you say, it would put him in a difficult
position, and must eventually harm him much. There is a great
difference between wishing well to a cause and supporting it in person.
My father wishes the king well, I believe, but, at the same time, he
will not take an active part, as you have already seen; at the same
time, I am convinced that he would never betray the king if he knew
where he was. I say, therefore, if that is your secret, keep it from
him, for his sake and for mine, Edward, if you regard me
You know not how much I regard you, Patience. I saw many highborn
women when I was away, but none could I see equal to Patience
Heatherstone, in my opinion; and Patience was ever in my thoughts
during my long absence
I thank you for your kind feelings toward me
but,
Master Armitage, we were talking about your secret
Master Armitage
how well you know how to remind
me, by that expression, of my obscure birth and parentage, whenever I
am apt to forget the distance which I ought to observe
You are wrong
but you flattered me so grossly,
that I called you Master Armitage to show that I disliked flattery,
that was all. I dislike flattery from those who are above me in rank,
as well as those who are below me; and I should have done the same to
any other person, whatever his condition might be. But forget what I
said, I did not mean to vex you, only to punish you for thinking me so
silly as to believe such nonsense
Your humility may construe that into flattery which was said by me in
perfect sincerity and truth-that I can not help
I
might have added much more, and yet have been sincere; if you had not
reminded me of my not being of gentle birth, I might have had the
presumption to have told you much more; but I have been rebuked
I will not say who is wrong, Edward; but this I do know, that the one
who first offers the olive branch after a misunderstanding, can not but
be right. I offer it now, and ask you whether we are to quarrel about
one little word. Let me ask you, and give me a candid answer: Have I
ever been so base as to treat as an inferior one to whom I have been so
much obliged
It is I who am in fault, Patience
I have been
dreaming for a long while, pleased with my dreams, and forgetting that
they were dreams, and not likely to be realized. I must now speak
plainly. I love you, Patience; love you so much, that to part from you
would be misery-to know that my love was rejected, as bitter as death.
That is the truth, and I can conceal it no longer. Now I admit you have
a right to be angry
I see no cause for anger, Edward
I have not
thought of you but as a friend and benefactor; it would have been wrong
to have done otherwise. I am but a young person, and must be guided by
my father. I would not offend him by disobedience. I thank you for your
good opinion of me, and yet I wish you had not said what you have
Am I to understand from your reply, that, if your father raised no
objection, my lowly birth would be none in your opinion
Your birth has never come into my head, except when reminded of it by
yourself
Then, Patience, let me return for the present to what I had to confide
to you. I was
Here comes my father, Edward
Surely I have done
wrong, for I feel afraid to meet him
I have been looking for you: I have news from London which has
rejoiced me much. I have at last obtained what I have some time been
trying for; and, indeed, I may say, that your prudence and boldness in
returning home as a trooper, added to your conduct in the forest, has
greatly advanced, and ultimately obtained for me, my suit. There was
some suspense before that, but your conduct has removed it; and now we
shall have plenty to do
There is a grant to me of a property which I have long solicited for
my services -- read it
We will ride to-morrow, Edward, and look it over. I intend to rebuild
the house
Are you not well
Yes, sir
I am well, I believe; but I confess to you
that I am disappointed. I did not think that you would have accepted a
property from such a source, and so unjustly sequestrated
I am sorry, Edward
that I should have fallen
in your good opinion; but allow me to observe that you are so far right
that I never would have accepted a property to which there were living
claimants; but this is a different case. For instance, the Ratcliffe
property belongs to little Clara, and is sequestrated. Do you think I
would accept it? Never! But here is property without an heir; the whole
family perished in the flames of Arnwood! There is no living claimant!
It must be given to somebody, or remain with the government. This
property, therefore, and this property only, out of all sequestrated, I
selected, as I felt that, in obtaining it, I did harm to no one. I have
been offered others, but have refused them. I would accept of this, and
this only; and that is the reason why my applications have hitherto
been attended with no success. I trust you believe me, Edward, in what
I assert
First answer me one question, Mr. Heatherstone. Suppose it were proved
that the whole of the family did not, as it is supposed, perish at the
conflagration of Arnwood? Suppose a rightful heir to it should at any
time appear, would you then resign the property to him
As I hope for Heaven, Edward, I would
I then should think that
I had been an instrument to keep the property out of other hands less
scrupulous, and should surrender it as a trust which had been confided
to me for the time only
With such feelings, Mr. Heatherstone, I can now congratulate you upon
your having obtained possession of the property
And yet I do not deserve so much credit, as there is little chance of
my sincerity being put to the test, Edward. There is no doubt that the
family all perished; and Arnwood will become the dower of Patience
Heatherstone
Oh that I had never left the cottage
I
might then, at least, have become resigned and contented with my lot.
Now I am miserable, and, whichever way I turn, I see no prospect of
being otherwise. One thing only I can decide upon, which is, that I
will not remain any longer than I can help under this roof. I will go
over and consult with Humphrey; and if I can only place my sisters as I
want, Humphrey and I will seek our fortunes
What is the matter, my dear brother
I will tell you all. Listen to me
Now, Humphrey, you know
all; and what shall I do? remain there I can not
If Patience Heatherstone had professed regard for you
the affair had been simple enough. Her father could have no
objections to the match; and he would at the same time have acquitted
his conscience as to the retaining of the property: but you say she
showed none
She told me very calmly that she was sorry that I had said what I did
But do women always mean what they say, brother
She does, at all events
she is truth itself. No, I
can not deceive myself. She feels a deep debt of gratitude for the
service I rendered her; and that prevented her from being more harsh in
her reply than what she was
But if she knew that you were Edward Beverley, do you not think it
would make a difference in her
And if it did, it would be too humiliating to think that I was only
married for my rank and station
But, considering you of mean birth, may she not have checked those
feelings which she considered under the circumstances improper to
indulge
Where there is such a sense of propriety there can be little
affection
I know nothing about these things, Edward
but I
have been told that a woman's heart is not easily read; or if I have
not been told it, I have read it or dreamed it
What do you propose to do
What I fear you will not approve of, Humphrey; it is to break up our
establishment altogether. If the answer is favorable from the Misses
Conynghame my sisters shall go to them; but that we had agreed upon
already. Then for myself -- I intend to go abroad, resume my name, and
obtain employment in some foreign service. I will trust to the king for
assisting me to that
That is the worst part of it, Edward; but if your peace of mind
depends upon it, I will not oppose it
You, Humphrey, may come with me and share my fortunes, or do what you
think more preferable
I think then, Edward, that I shall not decide rashly. I must have
remained here with Pablo if my sisters had gone to the Ladies
Conynghame and you had remained with the intendant; I shall, therefore,
till I hear from you, remain where I am, and shall be able to observe
what is going on here, and let you know
Be it so
let me only see my sisters well placed,
and I shall be off the next day. It is misery to remain there now
Thank God for that
With your leave, sir, I will
to-morrow deliver this letter to the party to whom it is addressed, as
I know it to be of consequence
I am much indebted to you, Chaloner
I will send my
brother off with my sisters as soon as possible. You will soon think of
returning to France; and if you will permit me, I will accompany you
You, Edward! that will be delightful; but you had no idea of the kind
when last we met. What has induced you to alter your mind
I will tell you by-and-by; I do not think I shall be here again for
some days. I must be a great deal at the cottage when Humphrey is away,
for Pablo will have a great charge upon him -- what with the dairy, and
horses, and breed of goats, and other things -- more than he can attend
to; but as soon as Humphrey returns, I will come to you and make
preparations for our departure. Till then, farewell, both of you. We
must see to provision you for three weeks or a month, before Humphrey
starts
You may leave
I am his brother
It was, indeed, an unhappy day when you came to this house
my poor, poor Edward
If he has raved in this manner
he has not many
secrets left to disclose. I will not leave him, and will keep others
away if I can
I am his brother, sir
Then, my good sir, if you perceive any signs of perspiration -- and I
think now that there is a little -- keep the clothes on him and let him
perspire freely. If so, his life will be saved
Thank Heaven! there are then hopes
Did you say there were hopes
Yes
there are
hopes, by what the surgeon said to me -- hopes that he may yet be able to
quit this house which he was so unfortunate as to enter
She can not be so bad
He has got Arnwood: that is enough for him
but my
hand in friendship he shall not receive
I thank thee, O God! for all thy mercies, and that thou hast been
pleased to spare this valuable life. How are your sisters, Master
Humphrey
my daughter bade me inquire. I will
send over to them and let them know that your brother is better, if you
do not leave this for the cottage yourself after the surgeon has called
again
My sisters are no longer at the cottage, Master Heatherstone
they have gone to some friends who have taken charge of
them. I saw them safe to London myself, or I should have known of my
brother's illness and have been here before this
You indeed tell me news, Master Humphrey
With whom, may I ask, are your sisters placed, and in what capacity
are they gone
They found it lonely in the forest, Master Heatherstone, and wished to
see London; so we have taken them there, and put them into the care of
those who have promised that they shall be well placed
Oh, Humphrey, I had quite forgotten where I was -- I'm so sleepy
Master Humphrey, they say that all danger is over now, but that you
have remained here all night. I will relieve you now if you will let
me. Go and take a walk in the fresh air -- it will revive you
I will, Oswald, and many thanks. My brother has woke up once, and, I
thank God, is quite sensible. He will know you when he wakes again, and
then do you send for me
How d'ye do, Humphrey
and how is your brother this
morning
He is better, Clara, and I hope now out of danger
But, Humphrey
when we came into the room last
night, what made you say what you did
I do not recollect that I said any thing
Yes, you did; you said that there were now hopes that your brother
would be able soon to quit this house which he had been so unfortunate
as to enter. Do you recollect
I may have said so, Clara
it was only speaking my
thoughts aloud
But why do you think so, Humphrey? Why has Edward been unfortunate in
entering this house? That is what I want to know. Patience cried so
much after she left the room because you said that. Why did you say so?
You did not think so a short time ago
No, my dear Clara, I did not, but I do now, and I can not give you my
reasons; so you must say no more about it
Patience tells me that your sisters have gone away from the cottage.
You told her father so
It is very true; they have gone
But why have they gone? What have they gone for? Who is to look after
the cows, and goats, and poultry? Who is to cook your dinner, Humphrey?
What can you do without them, and why did you send them away without
letting me or Patience know that they were going, so that at least we
might have bid them farewell
My dear Clara
you know that you are the daughter of a
gentleman, and so is Patience Heatherstone. You are both of gentle
birth, but my sisters, you know, are only the daughters of a forester,
and my brother Edward and I are no better. It does not become Mistress
Patience and you to be intimate with such as we are, especially now
that Mistress Patience is a great heiress; for her father has obtained
the large property of Arnwood, and it will be hers after his death. It
is not fit that the heiress of Arnwood should mix herself up with
foresters' daughters; and as we had friends near Lymington, who offered
to assist us, and take our sisters under their charge, we thought it
better that they should go; for what would become of them, if any
accident was to happen to Edward or to me? Now they will be provided
for. After they have been taught, they will make very nice tirewomen to
some lady of quality
Don't you think
they will, my pretty Clara
You are very unkind, Humphrey
You had no right to send
away your sisters. I don't believe you -- that's more
My dear Humphrey, I shall soon be well now, and able, I trust, to quit
this house. What I fear is, that some explanation will be asked for by
the intendant, not only relative to my sisters having left us, but also
upon other points. This is what I wish to avoid without giving offense.
I do not think that the intendant is so much to blame in having
obtained my property, as he does not know that a Beverley existed; but
I can not bear to have any further intimacy with him, especially after
what has taken place between me and his daughter. What I have to
request is, that you will never quit this room while I am still here
unless you are relieved by Oswald; so that the intendant or any body
else may have no opportunity of having any private communication with
me, or forcing me to listen to what they may have to say. I made this
known to Oswald before you came in
Depend upon it, it shall be so, Edward, for I am of your opinion.
Clara came to me just now, and I had much trouble, and was compelled to
be harsh, to get rid of her importunity
Humphrey
I feel like an
emancipated slave. Thank God! my sickness has cured me of all my
complaints, and all I want now is active employment. And now, Humphrey,
Chaloner and Grenville are not a little tired of being mured up in the
cottage, and I am as anxious as they are to be off. What will you do?
Will you join us, or will you remain at the cottage
I have reflected upon it, Edward, and I have come to the determination
of remaining at the cottage. You will find it expensive enough to
support one where you are going, and you must appear as a Beverley
should do. We have plenty of money saved to equip you, and maintain you
well for a year or so, but after that you may require more. Leave me
here. I can make money now that the farm is well stocked; and I have no
doubt that I shall be able to send over a trifle every year, to support
the honor of the family. Besides, I do not wish to leave this for
another reason. I want to know what is going on, and watch the motions
of the intendant and the heiress of Arnwood. I also do not wish to
leave the country until I know how my sisters get on with the Ladies
Conynghame: it is my duty to watch over them. I have made up my mind,
so do not attempt to dissuade me
I shall not, my dear Humphrey, as I think you have decided properly;
but I beg you will not think of laying by money for me-a very little
will suffice for my wants
Not so, good brother; you must and shall, if I can help you, ruffle it
with the best. You will be better received if you do; for, though
poverty is no sin, as the saying is, it is scouted as sin should be,
while sins are winked at. You know that I require no money, and,
therefore, you must and shall, if you love me, take it all
As you will, my dear Humphrey. Now then, let us put our horses to
speed, for, if possible, we will, to-morrow morning, leave the forest
Oh, Massa Humphrey
Missy Alice and
Missy Edith go away-I wish go with them. Massa Edward go away -- I wish
go with him. You stay at cottage -- I wish stay with you. Pablo can not
be in three places
No, Pablo; all you can do is to stay where you can be most useful
Yes, I know that. You want me at cottage very much. Missy Alice and
Edith and Massa Edward no want me, so I stay at cottage
Yes, Pablo, we will stay at the cottage, but we can't do every thing
now. I think we must give up the dairy, now that my sisters are gone.
I'll tell you what I have been thinking of, Pablo. We will make a large
inclosed place, to coax the ponies into during the winter, pick out as
many as we think are good, and sell them at Lymington. That will be
better than churning butter
Yes, I see; plenty of work for Pablo
And plenty for me, too, Pablo; but you know when the inclosure is once
made it will last for a long while; and we will get the wild cattle
into it if we can
Yes, I see
I like that very much; only not like trouble
to build place
We shan't have much trouble, Pablo; if we fell the trees inside the
wood at each side, and let them lie one upon the other, the animals
will never break through them
That very good idea -- save trouble
And what you do with
cows, suppose no make butter
Keep them, and sell their calves; keep them to entice the wild cattle
into the pen
Yes, that good. And turn out old Billy to 'tice ponies into pen
Yes, we will try it
Gone! is he actually gone
Yes, sir, before daylight this morning
And why was I not informed of it
why have
you been a party to this proceeding, being my servant?-- may I inquire
that
I knew Master Edward before I knew you, sir
Then you had better follow him
Very well, sir
Good Heaven! how all my plans have been frustrated
Circumstances had occurred of
which no explanation could be given by him.' I do not comprehend
that -- I must see Patience
Patience
Edward has left the house this
morning; here is a letter which he has written to me. Read it, and let
me know if you can explain some portion of it, which to me is
incomprehensible. Sit down and read it attentively
Patience, has any thing passed between you and Edward Armitage
Now tell me, my child, what passed between Edward and you
He told me, just before you came up to us that evening, that he loved
me
And what was your reply
I hardly know, my dear father, what it was that I said. I did not like
to be unkind to one who saved my life, and I did not choose to say what
I thought because -- because -- because he was of low birth; and how could
I give encouragement to the son of a forester without your permission
Then you rejected him
I suppose I did, or that he considered that I did so. He had a secret
of importance that he would have confided to me had you not interrupted
us
And now, Patience, I must request you to answer me one question
candidly. I do not blame you for your conduct, which was correct under
the circumstances. I also had a secret which I perhaps ought to have
confided; but I did consider that the confidence and paternal kindness
with which I treated Edward would have been sufficient to point out to
you that I could not have been very averse to a union; indeed, the
freedom of communication which I allowed between you, must have told
you so: but your sense of duty and propriety has made you act as you
ought to have done, I grant, although contrary to my real wishes
Your wishes, my father
Yes -- my wishes; there is nothing that I so ardently desired as a union
between you and Edward; but I wished you to love him for his own
merits
I have done so, father
although I
did not tell him so
There is no cause for further concealment, Patience; I have only to
regret that I was not more explicit sooner. I have long suspected, and
have since been satisfied, that Edward Armitage is Edward Beverley, who
with his brothers and sisters were supposed to have been burned to
death at Arnwood
I tell you that I had a strong suspicion of it, my dear child, first,
from the noble appearance, which no forest garb could disguise; but
what gave me further conviction was, that when at Lymington I happened
to fall in with one Benjamin, who had been a servant at Arnwood, and
interrogated him closely. He really believed that the children were
burned; it is true that I asked him particularly relative to the
appearance of the children -- how many were boys, and how many were
girls, their ages, &amp;c.-- but the strongest proof was, that the names of
the four children corresponded with the names of the Children of the
Forest, as well as their ages, and I went to the church register and
extracted them. Now this was almost amounting to proof; for it was not
likely that four children in the forest cottage should have the same
ages and names as those of Arnwood. After I had ascertained this point,
I engaged Edward, as you know, wishing to secure him, for I was once
acquainted with his father, and at all events well acquainted with the
colonel's merits. You remained in the house together, and it was with
pleasure that I watched the intimacy between you; and then I exerted
myself to get Arnwood restored to him. I could not ask it for him, but
I prevented it being given to any other by laying claim to it myself.
Had Edward remained with us, all might have succeeded as I wished; but
he would join in the unfortunate insurrection. I knew it was useless to
prevent him, so I let him go. I found that he took the name of Beverley
during the time he was with the king's army, and when I was last in
town I was told so by the commissioners, who wondered where he had come
from; but the effect was that it was now useless for me to request the
estate for him, as I had wished to do -- his having served in the royal
army rendered it impossible. I therefore claimed it for myself, and
succeeded. I had made up my mind that he was attached to you, and you
were equally so to him; and as soon as I had the grant sent down, which
was on the evening he addressed you, I made known to him that the
property was given to me; and I added, on some dry questions being put
to me by him, relative to the possibility of there being still existing
an heir to the estate, that there was no chance of that, and that you
would be the mistress of Arnwood. I threw it out as a hint to him,
fancying that, as far as you were concerned, all would go well, and
that I would explain to him my knowledge of who he was, after he had
made known his regard for you
Yes, I see it all now
in one hour he is rejected
by me, and in the next he is told that I have obtained possession of
his property. No wonder that he is indignant, and looks upon us with
scorn. And now he has left us; we have driven him into danger, and may
never see him again. Oh, father! I am very, very miserable
We must hope for the best, Patience. It is true that he has gone to
the wars, but it does not therefore follow that he is to be killed. You
are both very young -- much too young to marry -- and all may be explained.
I must see Humphrey and be candid with him
But Alice and Edith -- where are they gone, father
That I can inform you. I have a letter from Langton on the subject,
for I begged him to find out. He says that there are two young ladies
of the name of Beverley, who have been placed under the charge of his
friends, the Ladies Conynghame, who is aunt to Major Chaloner, who has
been for some time concealed in the forest. But I have letters to
write, my dear Patience. To-morrow, if I live and do well, I will ride
over to the cottage to see Humphrey Beverley
And now
if he really loves me, and hears my father's explanation,
he will come back again
You have to choose between two generals, both great in the art of
war -- Conde and Turenne. I have no doubt that they will be opposed to
each other soon -- that will be the better for you, as you will learn
tactics from such great players
Which would your majesty recommend me to follow
Conde is my favorite, and he will soon be opposed to this truculent
and dishonest court, who have kept me here as an instrument to
accomplish their own wishes, but who have never intended to keep their
promises, and place me on the English throne. I will give you letters
to Conde; and, recollect that whatever general you take service under,
you will follow him without pretending to calculate how far his
movements may be right or wrong -- that is not your affair. Conde is just
now released from Vincennes, but depend upon it he will be in arms very
soon
You are here highly spoken of
for so young a man.
So you were at the affair of Worcester? We will retain you, for your
services will be wanted by-and-by. Can you procure any of your
countrymen
I know but of two that I can recommend from personal knowledge; but
these two officers I can venture to pledge myself for
Any more
That I can not at present reply to your highness; but I should think
it very possible
Bring me the officers to-morrow at this hour, Monsieur Beverley -- _au
revoir_
I am fortunate, gentlemen
in securing the services
of such fine young men. You will oblige me by enlisting as many of your
countrymen as you may consider likely to do good service, and then
follow me to Guienne, to which province I am now about to depart. Be
pleased to put yourself into communication with the parties named in
this paper, and after my absence you will receive from them every
assistance and necessary supplies which may be required
It may be years before I
see her again
and who knows what may happen
Look, Edward
at those lovely girls at yon window. Do
you recognize them
Indeed I do not. Are they any of our Paris beauties
Why, thou insensible and unnatural animal! they are thy sisters, Alice
and Edith; and do you not recognize behind them my good aunts
Conynghame
It is so, I believe
Yes, now that Edith smiles, I'm
sure it is them
Yes
there can be no doubt of that; but will
they, think you, recognize us
We shall see
Is it possible
that these can be the two girls in
russet gowns, that I left at the cottage? And yet it must be. Well,
Chaloner, to all appearance, your good aunts have done justice to their
charge
Nature has done more, Edward. I never thought that they would have
grown into such lovely girls as they have, although I always thought
that they were handsome
Alice, that's Edward
Are those your sisters, Edward
They are, your majesty
We shall have some court beauties, Beverley
Now, Edward, who do you think was here to-day -- the reigning belle, and
the toast of all the gentlemen
Indeed! I must be careful of my heart. Dear Edith, who is she
No less than one with whom you were formerly well acquainted,
Edward -- Patience Heatherstone
Patience Heatherstone
the toast of all London
Yes; and deservedly so, I can assure you; but she is as good as she is
handsome, and, moreover, treats all the gay gallants with perfect
indifference. She is staying with her uncle, Sir Ashley Cooper; and her
father is also in town, for he called here with her to-day
When did you hear from Humphrey, Edith
A few days back. He has left the cottage now, altogether
Indeed? Where does he reside then
At Arnwood. The house has been rebuilt, and I understand is a very
princely mansion. Humphrey has charge of it until it is ascertained to
whom it is to belong
It belongs to Mr. Heatherstone, does it not
How can you say so, Edward! You received Humphrey's letters a long
while ago
Yes, I did; but let us not talk about it any more, my dear Edith. I am
in great perplexity
Nay, dear brother, let us talk about it
What is your
perplexity
Well
since it is to be so, let us sit down and talk
over the matter. I acknowledge the kindness of Mr. Heatherstone, and
feel that all he asserted to Humphrey is true: still I do not like that
I should be indebted to him for a property which is mine, and that he
has no right to give. I acknowledge his generosity, but I do not
acknowledge his right of possession. Nay, much as I admire, and I may
say, fond as I am (for time has not effaced the feeling) of his
daughter, it still appears to me that, although not said, it is
expected that she is to be included in the transfer; and I will accept
no wife on such conditions
That is to say, because all you wish for, your property and a woman
you love, are offered you in one lot, you will not accept them; they
must be divided, and handed over to you in two
You mistake, dearest; I am not so foolish; but I have a certain pride,
which you can not blame. Accepting the property from Mr. Heatherstone
is receiving a favor were it given as a marriage portion with his
daughter. Now, why should I accept as a favor what I can claim as a
right! It is my intention of appealing to the king and demanding the
restoration of my property. He can not refuse it
Put not your trust in princes, brother
I doubt if
the king, or his council, will consider it advisable to make so many
discontented as to restore property which has been so long held by
others, and by so doing create a host of enemies. Recollect also that
Mr. Heatherstone, and his brother-in-law, Sir Ashley Cooper, have done
the king much more service than you ever have or can do. They have been
most important agents in his restoration, and the king's obligations to
them are much greater than they are to you. Besides, merely for what
may be called a point of honor, for it is no more, in what an
unpleasant situation will you put his majesty! At all events, Edward,
recollect you do not know what are the intentions of Mr. Heatherstone;
wait and see what he proffers first
But, my dear sister, it appears to me that his intentions are evident.
Why has he rebuilt Arnwood? He is not going to surrender my property
and make me a present of the house
The reason for rebuilding the mansion was good. You were at the wars;
it was possible that you might, or might not return. He said this to
Humphrey, who has all along been acting as his factotum in the
business; and recollect, at the time that Mr. Heatherstone commenced
the rebuilding of the mansion, what prospect was there of the
restoration of the king, or of your ever being in a position to apply
for the restoration of your property! I believe, however, that Humphrey
knows more of Mr. Heatherstone's intentions than he has made known to
us; and I therefore say again, my dear Edward, make no application till
you ascertain what Mr. Heatherstone's intentions may be
Your advice is good, my dear Alice, and I will be guided by it
And now let me give you some advice for your friends, Masters Chaloner
and Grenville. That much of their property has been taken away and put
into other hands, I know; and probably they expect it will be restored
upon their application to the king. Those who hold the property think
so too, and so far it is fortunate. Now, from wiser heads than mine, I
have been told that these applications will not be acceded to, HM is
supposed; but, at the same time, if they were to meet the parties, and
close with them at once, before the king's intentions are known, they
would recover their property at a third or a quarter of the value. Now
is their time: even a few days' delay may make a difference. They can
easily obtain a delay for the payment of the moneys. Impress that upon
them, my dear Edward, and let them, if possible, be off to their
estates to-morrow and make the arrangements
That is advice which must be followed
We must go
now, and I will not fail to communicate it to them this very night
My obligations to your father are great. I trust that the daughter
will often grace our court
Alice and I have seen Patience, and I fear I must surrender at
discretion. Mr. Heatherstone may make his own terms; I must wave all
pride rather than lose her. I thought that I had more control over
myself; but I have seen her, and feel that my future happiness depends
upon obtaining her as a wife. Let her father but give me her, and
Arnwood will be but a trifle in addition
With respect to the conditions upon which you are to possess Arnwood
I can inform you what they are. They are wholly
unshackled, further than that you are to repay by installments the
money expended in the building of the house. This I am empowered to
state to you, and I think you will allow that Mr. Heatherstone has
fully acted up to what he stated were his views when he first obtained
a grant of the property
He has, indeed
As for his daughter, Edward, you have yet to 'win her and wear her,'
as the saying is. Her father will resign the property to you as yours
by right, but you have no property in his daughter, and I suspect that
she will not be quite so easily handed over to you
But why should you say so, Humphrey? Have we not been attached from
our youth
Yes, it was a youthful passion, I grant; but recollect nothing came of
it, and years have passed away. It is now seven years since you quitted
the forest, and in your letters to Mr. Heatherstone you made no remark
upon what had passed between you and Patience. Since that, you have
never corresponded or sent any messages; and you can hardly expect that
a girl, from the age of seventeen to twenty-four, will cherish the
image of one, who, to say the least, had treated her with indifference.
That is my view of the matter, Edward. It may be wrong
And it may be true
Well, my view is different
You know, Humphrey, how
many offers Patience Heatherstone has had, and has every day, I may
say. Why has she refused them all I In my opinion, because she has been
constant to a proud brother of mine, who does not deserve her
It may be so, Edith
Women are riddles -- I only
argued upon the common sense of the thing
Much you know about women
To be sure, you do not
meet many in the New Forest, where you have lived all your life
Very true, my dear sister; perhaps that is the reason that the New
Forest has had such charms for me
After that speech, sir, the sooner you get back again the better
Have you seen the intendant, Humphrey
No; I was about to call upon him, but I wanted to see you first
I will go with you. I have not done him justice
and
yet I hardly know how to explain to him
Say nothing, but meet him cordially; that will be explanation
sufficient
I shall meet him as one whom I shall always revere and feel that I owe
a deep debt of gratitude. What must he think of my not having called
upon him
Nothing. You hold a place at court. You may not have known that he was
in London, as you have never met him; your coming with me will make it
appear so. Tell him that I have just made known to you his noble and
disinterested conduct
You are right -- I will. I fear, however, Humphrey, that you are right
and Edith wrong as regards his daughter
Nay, Edward, recollect that I have, as Edith observed, passed my life
in the woods
You may think me impetuous, sir, but I trust you will believe me
grateful
Could loyalty
be better rewarded
</text>
