<text>
Me want to see Hetty
No, no; not this morning, Miss Nan, dear
Me do want to see Hetty
Me want Hetty, me do
Let her come to me
So you have found me, my precious, my dearest!  Brave, plucky little
Nan, you have got away from Nurse and found me out!  Come into the
study, now, darling, and you shall have some breakfast
Me want a bicky, Hetty
Here are two biscuits, Nan.  Nan, look me in the face -- here, sit steady
on my knee; you lose me, don't you Nan
Course me do
And I'm going away from you, Nan, darling.  For months and months I
won't see anything of you.  My heart will be always with you, and I
shall think of you morning, noon, and night.  I love no one as I love
you, Nan.  You will think of me, and love me too; won't you, Nan
Me will
me want more bicky, Hetty
Yes, yes
put your arms tight round my neck, and you
shall have sugar, too.  Tighter than that, Nan, and you shall have two
lumps of sugar -- oh, yes, you shall -- I don't care if it makes you sick --
you shall have just what you want the last moment we are together
More, Hetty
me'll skeeze 'oo vedy tight for more
Well, I never! and so you found your way all downstairs by yourself,
you little toddle.  Now, Miss Hetty, I hope you haven't been giving the
precious lamb sugar; you know it never does suit the little dear.  Oh,
fie! baby; and what sticky hands!  Miss Hetty, she has crumpled all your
crape frills
What matter
I wanted a good hug, and I gave her three
or four lumps.  Babies won't squeeze you tight for nothing.  There, my
Nancy, go back to Nurse.  Nurse, take her away; I'll break down in a
minute if I see her looking at me with that little pout
Good-bye, Miss Hester, dear.  Try to be a good girl at school.  Take my
word, missy -- things won't be as dark as they seem
Good-bye, Nurse
Is that you, father? are you
calling me
For Ladies only
The guard will take care of you, Hester.  I am giving him full
directions, and he will come to you at every station, and bring you tea
or any refreshment you may require.  This train takes you straight to
Sefton, and Mrs Willis will meet you, or send for you there.  Good-bye,
my love; try to be a good girl, and curb your wild spirits.  I hope to
see you very much improved when you come home at Midsummer.  Good-bye,
dear, good-bye.  Ah, you want to kiss me -- well, just one kiss.  There --
oh, my dear! you know I have a great dislike to emotion in public
You are not worthy to speak of my mother
My mother is an angel now, and you -- oh, you are not
fit to breathe her name
God bless mother
Thank God for making mother into a beautiful angel
Me like that, Hetty -- me'll be angel too, Hetty, same as mamma
You will, perhaps, prefer a cake, my dear
My sister Agnes has got some delicious queen-cakes in
her basket -- will you eat one
Ah, that is much better
Come to
this side of the carriage, my love; we are just going to pass through a
lovely bit of country, and you will like to watch the view.  See; if you
place yourself here, my sister Agnes's basket will be just at your feet,
and you can help yourself to a queen-cake whenever you are so disposed
Thank you
your queen-cakes are very nice, and I liked that one,
but one is quite enough, thank you.  It is Nan who is so particularly
fond of queen-cakes
And who is Nan, my dear
She is my dear little baby sister
Ah, and it was about her you were crying just now
Never mind us, dear, we have
seen a great many tears -- a great many.  They are the way of the world.
Women are born to them.  As Kingsley says --&bquo;women must weep.'  It was
quite natural that you should cry about your sweet little Nan, and I
wish we could send her some of these queen-cakes that you say she is so
fond of.  Are you going to be long away from her, love
Oh, yes, for months and months
I did not know
that it was such a common thing to cry.  I never used to
Ah, you have had other trouble, poor child
Yes, it is since then I have cried so often.  Please, I would rather
not speak about it
Quite right, my love, quite right
We will turn the conversation now to something
inspiriting.  Jane is quite right, there are plenty of tears in the
world; but there is also a great deal of sunshine and heaps of laughter,
merry laughter -- the laughter of youth, my child.  Now, I dare say,
though you have begun your journey so sadly, that you are really bound
on quite a pleasant little expedition.  For instance, you are going to
visit a kind aunt, or some one else who will give you a delightful
welcome
No
I am not.  I am going to a dreadful place, and the
thought of that, and parting from little Nan, are the reasons why I
cried.  I am going to prison -- I am, indeed
Oh, my dear love
You have really taken Jane's breath away --
quite.  Yes, Jane, I see that you are in for an attack of palpitation.
Never mind her, dear, she palpitates very easily; but I think you must
be mistaken, my love, in mentioning such an appalling word as &bquo;prison.'
Yes, now I come to think of it, it is absolutely certain that you must
be mistaken; for if you were going to such a terrible place of
punishment you would be under the charge of a policeman.  You are given
to strong language, dear, like other young folk
Well, I call it prison
it has a dreadful sound,
hasn't it?  I call it prison, but father says I am going to school -- you
can't wonder that I am crying, can you?  Oh! what is the matter
My darling
We are so relieved and delighted!
your strong language startled us, and school is anything but what you
imagine, dear.  Ah, Jane! can you ever forget our happy days at school
I am glad I shall be near you, at least
Yes, my dear
We attend the same church, and I
shall look out for you on Sunday, and
perhaps Mrs Willis will allow
you to visit us occasionally
I'll come to-morrow, if you like
Well, dear, well -- that must be as Mrs Willis thinks best.  Ah, here we
are at Sefton at last.  We shall look out for you in church on Sunday,
my love
Come now, missy
come out, and you'll be
warm and snug in a minute.  Dear, dear!  I expect you're nearly froze
up, poor little miss, and it _is_ a most bitter cold night
She's come
Welcome to Lavender House, miss.  If you'll step into the porter's room
for one moment, there is a good fire there, and I'll acquaint Miss
Danesbury that you have arrived
Rather tall for her age, but I fear, I greatly fear, a little sulky
Annie Forest, how very naughty of you to hide behind the door!  You are
guilty of disobedience in coming into the room without leave.  I must
report you, my dear; yes, I really must.  You lose two good conduct
marks for this, and will probably have thirty lines in addition to your
usual quantity of French poetry
But she won't tell on me, she won't, dear old Danesbury
she couldn't be so hard-hearted, the precious love, particularly
as curiosity happens to be one of her own special little virtues!  Take
a kiss, Danesbury, and now, a you love me you'll be merciful
What a horrid, vulgar, low-bred girl
I hope she'll get a lot of punishment -- I hope you are not going to
forgive her
Oh, my dear, my dear! we should all be forgiving
Welcome to Lavender House, love; I am
sorry I was not in the hall to receive you.  Had I been, this little
_rencontre_ would not have occurred.  Annie Forest meant no harm,
however -- she's a wild little sprite, but affectionate.  You and she will
be the best friends possible by-and-by.  Now, let me take you to your
room; the gong for tea will sound in exactly five minutes, and I am sure
you will be glad of something to eat
Do you see this baize door, dear
This is the entrance to
the school part of the house.  This part that we are now in belongs
exclusively to Mrs Willis, and the girls are never allowed to come here
without leave.  All the school-life is lived at the other side of this
baize door, and a very happy life I assure you it is for those little
girls who make up their minds to be brave and good.  Now kiss me, my
dear, and let me bid you welcome once again to Lavender House
Are you our principal teacher, then
I? oh dear, no, my love.  I teach the younger children English, and I
look after the interests and comforts of all.  I am a very useful sort
of person, I believe, and I have a motherly heart, dear, and it is a way
with little girls to come to me when they are in trouble.  Now, my love,
we must not chatter any longer.  Take my hand, and let us get to your
room as fast as possible
32
This is your bedroom, dear
and to-night
you will not be sorry to have it alone.  Mrs Willis received a telegram
from Susan Drummond, your room-mate, this afternoon, and she will not
arrive until to-morrow
Now, dear, this is your room.  As you have arrived first you can choose
your own bed and your own chest of drawers.  Ah, that is right, Ellen
has unfastened your portmanteau; she will unpack your trunk to-night,
and take it to the box-room.  Now, dear, smooth your hair and wash your
hands.  The gong will sound instantly.  I will come for you when it
does
I will introduce you to your school-fellows, and I hope your future
friends
After tea you will come with me to see
Mrs Willis -- she is never in the school-room at tea-time.  Mdlle.
Perier or Miss Good usually superintends.  Now, my dear, come along --
why, surely you are not frightened
Oh, please, may I sit near you
No, my love; I take care of the little ones, and they are at a table by
themselves.  Now, come in at once -- the moment you dread will soon be
over, and it is nothing, my love -- really nothing
Eat that
I know the other is horrid.  It's a
shame of Perier to give such stuff to a stranger
Mdlle.  Cecile, you are transgressing: you are talking English
You lose a
conduct mark, ma'amselle
We may speak English now for half an hour
and most of us
are going to the play-room.  We generally tell stories round the fire
upon these dark winter's nights.  Would you like to come with me
to-night?  Shall we be chums for this evening
I don't know what &bquo;chums' are
but
I shall be very
glad to go with you
Come then
This is my cosy corner
and you shall sit with me in it
to-night.  You see
each of us girls has her own partition,
and we can do exactly what we like in it.  We can put our own
photographs, our own drawings, our own treasures on our panels.  Under
each division is our own little work-table, and, in fact, our own
individual treasures lie round us in the enclosure of this dear little
rail.  The centre of the room is common property, and you see what a
great space there is round each fire-place where we can chatter and
talk, and be on common ground.  The fire-place at the end of the room
near the door is reserved especially for the little ones, but we elder
girls sit at the top.  Of course you will belong to us.  How old are
you
Twelve
Oh, well, you are so tall that you cannot possibly be put with the
little ones, so you must come in with us
And shall I have a railed-in division and a panel of my own
It sounds a very nice arrangement.  I hope my department will
be close to yours, Miss
Temple is my name
but you need not call me that.  I am
Cecil to all my friends, and you are my friend this evening, for you are
my chum, you know.  Oh, you were asking me about our departments -- you
won't have any at first, for you have got to earn it, but I will invite
you to mine pretty often.  Come now, let us go inside.  Is not it just
like the darlingest little drawing-room?  I am so sorry that I have only
one easy chair, but you shall have it to-night, and I will sit on this
three-legged stool.  I am saving up my money to buy another armchair,
and Annie has promised to upholster it for me
Is Annie one of the maids
Oh, dear, no!-- she's dear old Annie Forest, the liveliest girl in the
school.  Poor darling, she's seldom out of hot water; but we all love
her, we can't help it.  Poor Annie, she hardly ever has the luxury of a
department to herself, so she is useful all round.  She's the most
amusing and good-natured dear pet in Christendom
I don't like her at all
I did not know you were talking
of her -- she is a most rude, uncouth girl
It is a pity to draw hasty conclusions
There is no girl
more loved in the school than Annie Forest.  Even the teachers, although
they are always punishing her, cannot help having a soft corner in their
hearts for her.  What can she possibly have done to offend you?-- but
oh!-- hush -- don't speak -- she is coming into the room
Hold on, Janny love; keep your arms well round me, Mabel.  Now then,
here we go -- twice up the room and down again.  No more, as I'm alive.
I've got to attend to other matters than you
Annie, come here -- Annie, darling, give me your opinion about this --
Annie, my precious, naughty creature, come and tell me about your last
scrape
The Temple requires me
my beloved
friends, the Temple as usual is vouchsafing its sacred shelter to the
stranger
You dear stranger
I do declare I have been punished for the intense
ardour with which I longed to embrace you.  Has she told you, Cecil
darling, what I did in her behalf?  How I ventured beyond the sacred
precincts of the baize door and hid inside the porter's room?  Poor
dear, she jumped when she heard my friendly voice, and as I spoke Miss
Danesbury caught me in the very act.  Poor old dear, she cried when she
complained of me, but duty is Danesbury's motto; she would go to the
stake for it, and I respect her immensely.  I have got my twenty lines
of that horrible French poetry, to learn -- the very thought almost
strangles me, and I foresee plainly that I shall do something terribly
naughty within the next few hours; I must, my love -- I really must.  I
have just come here to shake hands with Miss Thornton, and then I must
away to my penance.  Ah, how little I shall learn, and how hard I shall
think!  Welcome to Lavender House, Miss Thornton; look upon me as your
devoted ally, and if you have a spark of pity in your breast, feel for
the girl whom you got into a scrape the very moment you entered these
sacred walls
I don't understand you
I
think you were very rude to startle me, and make personal remarks the
very moment I came into the house
Oh, dear!-- I only said you were tall, and looked rather sulky, love --
you did, you know, really
It was very rude of you
Well, my dear, I meant no harm; shake hands, now, and let us make
friends
Never mind her
She can't be at all nice -- she would not even shake hands with Annie.
Fancy her turning against our Annie in that way
I have brought Hester Thornton to see you, Mrs Willis, according to
your wish
Your mother was one of my earliest pupils, Hester
and you
are -- no
you are not very like her.  You are her
child, however, my dear, and as such you have a warm welcome from me.
Now, come and sit by the fire, and let us talk
I did not think you were old enough to have taught my mother
I am sixty, dear, and I have kept this school for thirty years.  Your
mother was not the only pupil who sent her children to be taught by me
when the time came.  Now, you can sit on this stool by the fire and tell
me about your home.  Your mother -- ah, poor child, you would rather not
talk about her just yet.  Helen's daughter must have strong feelings --
ah, yes; I see, I see.  Another time, darling, when you know me better.
Now tell me about your little sister, and your father.  You do not know,
perhaps, that I am Nan's godmother
I will try to be good at school
but, oh, please,
Mrs Willis, it does not seem to me to-night as if school-life could be
happy
It has its trials, Hester; but the brave and the noble girls often find
this time of discipline one of the best in their lives -- good at the
time, very good to look back on by-and-by.  You will find a miniature
world around you; you will be surrounded by temptations; and you will
have rare chances of proving whether your character can be strong and
great and true.  I think, as a rule, my girls are happy, and as a rule
they turn out well.  The great motto of life here, Hester, is
earnestness.  We are earnest in our work, we are earnest in our play.  A
half-hearted girl has no chance at Lavender House.  In play-time, laugh
with the merriest, my child: in school-hours, study with the most
studious.  Do you understand me
I try to, a little
but it seems all very strange just
now
No doubt it does, and at first you will have to encounter many
perplexities and to fight many battles.  Never mind, if you have the
right spirit within you, you will come out on the winning side.  Now,
tell me, have you made any acquaintances as yet among the girls
Yes -- Cecil Temple has been kind to me
Cecil is one of my dearest pupils; cultivate her friendship, Hester --
she is honourable, she is sympathising.  I am not afraid to say that
Cecil has a great heart
There is another girl
who has spoken to me.  I
need not make her my friend, need I
Who is she, dear
Miss Forest -- I don't like her
What! our school favourite.  You will change your mind, I expect -- but
that is the gong for prayers.  You shall come with me to chapel,
to-night, and I will introduce you to Mr Everard
This is my new pupil, Mr Everard, or rather I should say, our new
pupil.  Her education depends as much on you as on me
This little face does not seem quite strange to me
Have I
ever seen you before, my dear
No, sir
You have seen her mother
Do you remember your
favourite pupil, Helen Anstey, of long ago
Ah! indeed -- indeed!  I shall never forget Helen.  And are you her
child, little one
Oh, I am unhappy
without my mother!  Please, please,
don't talk to me about my mother
Now, love, you shall have some hot gruel.  No, not a word.  You ate
little or no tea, to-night -- I watched you from my distant table.  Half
your loneliness is caused by want of food -- I know it, my love; I am a
very practical person.  Now, eat your gruel, and then shut your eyes and
go to sleep
You are very kind to me
and so is Mrs Willis, and so
is Mr Everard, and I like Cecil Temple -- but, oh.  I wish Annie Forest
was not in the school
Hush, my dear, I implore of you.  You pain me by these words.  I am
quite confident that Annie will be your best friend yet
What odious hours they keep in this horrid place
Well, well, I always did know that school would be unendurable
For your sake, darling
Mr Everard at least will read through that girl
he could not possibly endure any one so loud.  Yes, I am sure that my
only friend at home, Cecilia Day, would call Annie very loud.  I wonder
Mrs Willis can endure her.  Mrs Willis seems so ladylike herself,
but -- Oh, I beg your pardon, what's the matter
But, mademoiselle, you are doing nothing!  This cannot for a moment be
permitted.  Pardonnez-moi, you know not the French?  Here is a little
easy lesson.  Study it, mademoiselle, and don't let your eyes wander a
moment from the page
They will like to have me with them
Poor
little dots, they always like big girls to notice them, and didn't they
make a fuss about Miss Forest last night!  Well, Nan is fond enough of
me, and little children find out so quickly what one is really like
I know a little girl who had a doll like that
Poor dolly's b'oke
You _are_ such a breaker, you know, Annie
Please tell us about the little girl what had the doll wifout the
head
Oh, it was taken to a hospital, and got back its head
it became quite well again, and was a more beautiful
doll than ever
The fairy queen has just paid me a visit.  Who wants sweeties from the
fairy queen
Here comes Annie
Follow me, Miss Thornton
I must now find out as quickly as possible what you know, Hester, in
order to place you in the most suitable class
On the whole I am pleased with your general intelligence, and I think
you have good capacities, Hester
I shall ask
Miss Good, our very accomplished English teacher, to place you in the
third-class.  You will have to work very hard, however, at your French,
to maintain your place there.  But Mdlle.  Perier is kind and
painstaking, and it rests with yourself to quickly acquire a
conversational acquaintance with the language.  You are aware that,
except during recreation, you are never allowed to speak in any other
tongue.  Now, go back to the school-room, my dear
One moment, please
I want to ask you
a question, please
Is it about your lessons
No -- oh, no; it is
Then pardon me, my dear
I sit in my room
every evening from eight to half-past, and I am then at liberty to see a
pupil on any subject which is not trifling.  Nothing but lessons are
spoken of in lesson hours, Hester.  Ah, here comes Miss Good.  Miss
Good, I should wish you to place Hester Thornton in the third-class.
Her English is up to the average.  I will see Mdlle.  Perier about her
at twelve o'clock
Julius
Caesar
I particularly requested you not to sketch in any of the shadows, Miss
Thornton.  Did you not hear me say that my lesson to-day was in outline?
I gave you a shaded piece to copy in outline -- did you not understand
This is my first day at school
No one to-night, then
I'm going, Miss Danesbury
You need not show me the way; I
can find it alone
How terrible
oh, what a girl! and I cannot
sleep in the room with any one who snores -- I really cannot
Are you my new school-mate
Yes
I am sorry to say I am
Oh, don't be sorry, there's a good creature; there's nothing to be
sorry about.  I'll stop snoring when I turn on my side -- it's all right.
I always snore for half an hour to rest my back, and the time is nearly
up.  Don't trouble me to open my eyes, I am not the least curious to see
you.  You have a cross voice, but you'll get used to me after a bit
But you're in my bed
Will you please to get into your
own
Oh, no, don't ask me; I like your bed best.  I slept in it the whole of
last term.  I changed the sheets myself, so it does not matter.  Do you
mind putting my muddy boots outside the door, and folding up my
stockings?  I forgot them, and I shall have a bad mark if Danesbury
comes in.  Good-night -- I'm turning on my side -- I won't snore any more
You are awake, miss
Oh, yes
Well, that's all right
Now I must try and rouse
Miss Drummond, and she always takes a deal of waking; and if you don't
mind, miss, it will be an act of kindness to call out to her in the
middle of your own dressing -- that is, if I don't wake her effectual
Miss Drummond, wake, miss; it's half-past six.  Wake up, miss -- I have
brought your hot water
Eh?-- what
don't bother me,
Hannah -- I -- I've determined not to ride this morning; go away
Tell Percy he can't bring the dogs
in here
I ain't neither your Hannah, nor your Percy, nor one of the dogs
There, get up, miss, do.  I never see
such a young lady for sleeping, never
I won't be bothered
There's no help for it
I have to do it nearly every
morning, so don't you be startled, miss.  Poor thing, she would never
have a good conduct mark but for me.  Now then, here goes.  You needn't
be frightened, miss -- she don't mind it the least bit in the world
Oh, thank you, Alice.  So I'm back at this horrid, detestable school
again
Get your feet well on the carpet, Miss Drummond, before you falls off
again
Now then, you'd better get dressed as fast
as possible, miss -- you have lost five minutes already
So you are my new room-mate
What's your name
Hester Thornton
Oh -- I'm Susy Drummond -- you may call me Susy if you like
Had not you better get dressed
Dressed!  So I will, dear creature.  Have the sweet goodness to hand me
my clothes
Where are they
They are over there, on a chair, in that lovely heap with a shawl flung
over them.  There, toss them this way -- I'll get into them somehow
Now, that's a comfort
I'm in my clothes.  How bitter it
is!  There's one comfort, the chapel will be warm.  I often catch forty
winks in chapel -- that is, if I'm lucky enough to get behind one of the
tall girls, where Mrs Willis won't see me.  It does seem to me
the strangest thing why girls are
not allowed sleep enough
A penny for your thoughts.  Miss Prunes and Prism
Why do you call me that
Because you look like it, sweet.  Now, don't be cross, little pet -- no
one ever yet was cross with sleepy Susy Drummond.  Now, tell me, love,
what had you for breakfast yesterday
I'm sure I forget
You _forget_?-- how extraordinary!  You're sure that it was not buttered
scones?  We have them sometimes, and I tell you they are enough even to
keep a girl awake.  Well, at least you can let me know if the eggs were
very stale, and the coffee very weak, and whether the butter was
second-rate Dorset, or good and fresh.  Come now -- my breakfast is of
immense importance to me, I assure you
I dare say
You can see for yourself this morning
what is on the table -- I can only inform you that it was good enough for
me, and that I don't remember what it was
Oh, dear
I'm afraid she has a little
temper of her own -- poor little room-mate.  I wonder if chocolate-creams
would sweeten that little temper
Please don't talk -- I'm going to say my prayers
Thank you, love
Eat your
lollipops, and look at me; I'm going to sleep.  Please pull my toe when
Danesbury comes in.  Oh, fie!  Prunes and Prisms -- not so cross -- eat your
lollipops; they will sweeten the expression of that -- little -- face
face
I always find it works best to trust them.  If a girl is found to be
utterly untrustworthy.  I don't expel her, but I request her parents to
remove her to a more strict school
Your influence must be the mainspring.  At supreme moments I will
help you with personal influence, but otherwise, except for my nightly
prayers with your girls, and my weekly class, and the teachings which
they with others hear from my lips Sunday after Sunday, they had better
look to you
For the elder girls
there is no pleasure so great as
having, however small the spot, a little liberty hall of their own.  In
her compartment each girl is absolute monarch.  No one can enter inside
the little curtained rail without her permission.  Here she can show her
individual taste, her individual ideas.  Here she can keep her
most-prized possessions.  In short, her compartment in the play-room is
a little home to her
Girls
good-bye to Japan.  I gave
her leave to do it -- the care of an empire is more than I can manage
The Better Land
Prove your love to me, Annie, by going downstairs and keeping the
school rules as perfectly as possible
I will -- I will never break a rule again as long as I live, if you get
better, Mrs Willis
Oh, may I be permitted to enter the shrine
Certainly, Annie
I have got
another cup and saucer, and there is a little tea left in the tea-pot
I will give her the present this day week
I
have quite made up my mind.  Will any one join me
But there is nothing special about this day week, Annie
It will neither be Mrs Willis's birthday, nor Christmas Day,
nor New Year's Day, nor Easter Day.  Next Wednesday will be just like
any other Wednesday.  Why should we make Mrs Willis a present
Oh, because she looks as if she wanted one, poor dear.  I thought she
looked sad this morning; her eyes drooped and her mouth was down at the
corners.  I am sure she's wanting something from us all by now, just to
show that we love her, you know
Pshaw
Why do you say that
You've no right to be so contemptuous when I speak about
our -- our head-mistress.  Oh, Cecil
do let us give her
a little surprise -- some spring flowers, or something just to show her
that we love her
But _you_ don't love her
You are cruel
How could you
Annie is not
the girl to be driven, and, in any case, it is not for you to correct
her.  Oh, Mrs Willis would have been so pained had she heard you -- you
were not _kind_, Miss Thornton.  There, I don't wish to be rude, but I
fear I must leave you and Miss Russell -- I must try and find Annie
I'm going back to my own drawing-room
Perhaps
you will come and see me there, after tea, this
evening
Forgive me, Cecil
I did not mean to be unkind, but
it is really quite ridiculous the way you all spoil that girl -- you know
as well as I do that she is a very naughty girl.  I suppose it is
because of her pretty face
that you are all so
unjust, and so blind to her faults
You are prejudiced the other way, Hester
You have disliked Annie from the first.  There, don't keep me -- I
must go to her now.  There is no knowing what harm your words may have
done.  Annie is not like other girls.  If you knew her story, you would
perhaps be kinder to her
I want to tell you
that I quite agree with you in your opinion
of Miss Forest.  I think you were very brave to speak to her as you did
to-day.  As a rule, I never trouble myself with what the little girls in
the third-class do, and of course Annie seldom comes under my notice;
but I think she is a decidedly spoiled child, and your rebuff will
doubtless do her a great deal of good
Oh, I am so glad you think so
You see
at home I always associated with girls who were perfect
ladies
Yes, any one can see that
And I do think Annie underbred
I cannot
understand
why Miss Temple likes her so much
Oh, Cecil is so amiable; she sees good in every one
Annie is evidently not a lady, and I am glad at last to find
some one of the girls who belong to the middle school capable of
discerning this fact.  Of course, we of the first-class have nothing
whatever to say to Miss Forest, but I really think Mrs Willis is not
acting quite fairly by the other girls when she allows a young person of
that description into the school.  I wish to assure you, Miss Thornton,
that you have at least my sympathy, and I shall be very pleased to see
you in my drawing-room now and then
Who is there
It is just as I told you
What _are_ you doing on the floor, Susan
That's nothing to you
I do wish
that you
would go round to your side of the room and leave me alone; I sha'n't
have done what I want to do before Danesbury comes in to put out the
candle
What _are_ you doing
Oh, what a spy you are
I want to wake, that's all; and
whenever I turn in bed that string will tug at my toe, and, of course,
I'll rouse up.  If you were more good-natured, I'd give the other end of
the string to you; but, of course, that plan would never answer
No, indeed
I am not going to trouble myself to wake
you.  You must trust to your sponge of cold water in the morning, unless
your own admirable device succeeds
I'm going to sleep now, at any rate
I'm on my back,
and I'm beginning to snore; good-night
Pull the string at the foot of the bed, Alice
she
fastened a string to her toe, and twisted the other end round the
bed-post, last night -- pull it, Alice, it may effect its purpose
The house maid who dusts the school-room found this book on the floor
It lay beside a desk near the top of the room.
I see the name has been torn out, so I cannot tell who is the owner.  I
must request her, however, to step forward and take possession of her
property.  If there is the slightest attempt at concealment, the whole
matter will be laid before Mrs Willis at noon to-day
Come, young ladies
the owner has surely no difficulty in
recognising her own property.  I give you exactly thirty seconds more;
then, if no one claims the book, I place the affair in Mrs Willis's
hands
I had no idea of concealing the fact that &bquo;Jane Eyre' belongs to me.  I
was only puzzled for a moment to know how it got on the floor.  I placed
it carefully in my desk last night.  I think this circumstance ought to
be inquired into
Oh! oh
whoever would have supposed that Dora Russell would be obliged to
humble herself in this way
Attention, young ladies
no talking, if you please.
Do I understand, Miss Russell, that &bquo;Jane Eyre' is yours
Yes, Miss Good
Why did you keep it in your desk -- were you reading it during
preparation
On, yes, certainly
You are, of course, aware that you were breaking two very stringent
rules of the school.  In the first place, no story-books are allowed to
be concealed in a school-desk, or to be read during preparation.  In the
second place, this special book is not allowed to be read at any time in
Lavender House.  You know these rules, Miss Russell
Yes, Miss Good
I must retain the book -- you can return now to your place in class
Cecil
What is it, Hetty?-- oh, I am so sorry you must stay in this lovely
bright day
I have done nothing wrong
I never blotted this
exercise-book; I never tore this page.  It is most unjust not to believe
my word; it is most unjust to punish me for what I have not done
I must not stay to talk to you now, Hester
I am
breaking the rules.  You can come to my drawing-room by-and-by, and we
will discuss this matter
No
such deceit is not in Annie's nature.  I would do
anything to help you, Hester; but I can't, and I won't, believe that
Annie tried deliberately to do you any harm
I am quite certain she did
and from this moment I
refuse to speak to her until she confesses what she has done and
apologises to me.  Indeed, I have a great mind to go and tell everything
to Mrs Willis
Oh, I would not do that
none of your school-fellows
would forgive you if you charged such a favourite as Annie with a crime
which you cannot in the least prove against her.  You must be patient,
Hester, and if you are, I will take your part, and try to get at the
bottom of the mystery
Turkish delight
Will you please come and see something in my desk, Miss Good
The thing cannot go on any longer, Miss Good
there is a
girl in this school who ought to be expelled from it, and I for one
declare openly that I will not submit to associate with a girl who is
worse than unladylike.  If you will permit me, Miss Good, I will carry
these things at once to Mrs Willis, and beg of her to investigate the
whole affair, and bring the culprit to justice, and to turn her out of
the school
Stay, Miss Russell
you strangely and
completely forget yourself.  You are provoked.  I own, but you have no
right to stand up and absolutely hoist the flag of rebellion in the
faces of the other girls.  I cannot excuse your conduct.  I will myself
take away these parcels which were found in your desk, and will report
the affair to Mrs Willis.  She will take what steps she thinks right in
bringing you to order, and in discovering the author of this mischief.
Return instantly to your desk, Miss Russell; you strangely forget
yourself
Stay one moment, young ladies
I have a word or two to say
to you all.  Miss Good has just brought me a painful story of wanton and
cruel mischief.  There are fifty girls in this school, who, until
lately, lived happily together.  There is now one girl among the fifty
whose object it is to sow seeds of discord and misery among her
companions.  Miss Good has told me of three different occasions on which
mischief has been done to different girls in the school.  Twice Miss
Russell's desk has been disturbed, once Miss Thornton's.  It is possible
that other girls may also have suffered who have been noble enough not
to complain.  There is, however, a grave mischief, in short, a moral
disease in our midst.  Such a thing is worse than bodily illness -- it
must be stamped out instantly and completely at the risk of any personal
suffering.  I am now going to ask you, girls, a simple question, and I
demand instant truth without any reservation.  Miss Russell's desk has
been tampered with -- Miss Thornton's desk has been tampered with.  Has
any other girl suffered injury -- has any other girl's desk been touched
I insist upon knowing the exact truth, my dear children
My desk has also been tampered with
Come here, Miss Temple
Your desk has also been tampered with, you say
Yes, madam
When did you discover this
To-day, Mrs Willis
You kept it to yourself
Yes
Will you now repeat in the presence of the school, and in a loud enough
voice to be heard by all here, exactly what was done
Pardon me
I cannot do that
You deliberately disobey me, Cecil
Yes, madam
You are one of my best pupils, Cecil
At such a
moment as this honour requires you to stand by your mistress.  I must
insist on your telling me here and now exactly what has occurred
I cannot tell you
it breaks my heart, but I cannot
tell you
You have defied me, Cecil
I must, my dear, insist on your obedience, but not now.  Miss Good,
will you take Miss Temple to the chapel?  I will come to you, Cecil, in
an hour's time
This thing, this wicked, mischievous thing has gone deeper than I
feared
Only some very strong motive would make Cecil Temple behave as she is
now doing.  She is influenced by a mistaken idea of what is right; she
wishes to shield the guilty person.  I may as well tell you all, young
ladies, that, dear as Cecil is to me, she is now under the ban of my
severe displeasure.  Until she confesses the truth and humbles herself
before me, I cannot be reconciled to her.  I cannot permit her to
associate with you.  She has done very wrong, and her punishment must be
proportionately severe.  There is one chance for her, however.  Will the
girl whom she is mistakenly, though generously, trying to shield, come
forward and confess her guilt, and so release poor Cecil from the
terrible position in which she has placed herself?  By doing so, the
girl who has caused all this misery will at least show me that she is
trying to repent
The culprit is not noble enough
Now, girls, I must
ask each of you to come up one by one and deny or confess this charge.
As you do so, you are silently to leave the school-room and go up to
your rooms, and prepare for the walk which has been so painfully
delayed.  Miss Conway, you are at the head of the school, will you set
the example
Are you guilty
No
little standard-bearer
The girls who fill this class have come to a turning-point -- they have
come to the age when resolves may be made for life, and kept.  The good
third-class girl is very unlikely to degenerate as she passes through
the second and first classes.  On the other hand, there is very little
hope that the idle or mischievous third-class girl will mend her ways as
she goes higher in the school
I have kept you waiting longer than I intended, my dear
I
was unexpectedly interrupted, and I am sorry; but you have had more time
to think, Cecil
Yes, I have thought
And, perhaps
in this quiet and beautiful
and sacred place, my dear pupil has also prayed
I have prayed
Then you have been guided, Cecil
We do not come to God in our distress without being shown the
right way.  Your doubts have been removed, Cecil; you can now speak
fully to me; can you not, dear
I have asked God to tell me what is right
I don't
pretend to know.  I am very much puzzled.  It seems to me that more good
would be done if I concealed what you asked me to confess in the
school-room.  My own feeling is that I ought not to tell you.  I know
this is great disobedience, and I am quite willing to receive any
punishment you think right to give me.  Yes, I think I am quite willing
to receive _any_ punishment
Ordinary punishments are not likely to affect you, Cecil
on you I have no idea of inflicting extra lessons, or depriving you of
half-holidays, or even taking away your drawing-room.  But there is
something else you must lose, and that I know will touch you deeply -- I
must remove from you my confidence
And your love, too
oh,
surely not your love as well
I ask you frankly, Cecil
can perfect love exist
without perfect confidence?  I would not willingly deprive you of my
love, but of necessity the love I have hitherto felt for you must be
altered -- in short, the old love which enabled me to rest on you and
trust you, will cease
This punishment is very cruel
You are right; it reaches
down to my very heart.  But
I will try and bear it, and some day you will
understand
Listen, Cecil
you have just told me you have
prayed to God, and have asked Him to show you the right path.  Now, my
dear, suppose we kneel together, and both of us ask Him to show us the
way out of this difficult matter.  I want to be guided to use the right
words with you, Cecil.  You want to be guided to receive the instruction
which I, as your teacher and mother-friend, would give you
Now, Cecil
you must remember in listening to me
that I am speaking to you as I believe God wishes me to.  If I can
convince you that you are doing wrong in concealing what you know from
me, will you act as I wish in the matter
I long to be convinced
That is right, my dear; I can now speak to you with perfect freedom.
My words you will remember, Cecil, are now, I firmly believe, directed
by God; they are also the result of a large experience.  I have trained
many girls.  I have watched the phases of thought in many young minds.
Cecil, look at me.  I can read you like a book
Your motive for this concealment is as clear as the daylight, Cecil.
You are keeping back what you know because you want to shield some one.
Am I not right, my dear
The girl you want to defend
is one whom you and I both love; is one for whom
we both have prayed; is one for whom we would both gladly sacrifice
ourselves if necessary -- her name is
Oh, don't
don't say her name; you have no
right to suspect her
I must say her name, Cecil dear.  If you suspect Annie Forest, why
should not I?  You do suspect her, do you not, Cecil
I know it
Now, Cecil, we will suppose,
terrible as this suspicion is, fearfully as it pains us both, that Annie
Forest _is_ guilty.  We must suppose for the sake of my argument that
this is the case.  Do you not know, my dear Cecil, that you are doing
the falsest, cruellest thing by dear Annie in trying to hide her sin
from me?  Suppose, just for the sake of our argument, that this cowardly
conduct on Annie's part was never found out by me; what effect would it
have on Annie herself
It would save her in the eyes of the school
Just so, but God would know the truth.  Her next downfall would be
deeper.  In short, Cecil, under the idea of friendship you would have
done the cruellest thing in all the world for your friend
This is one way to look at it
but there are
many other points from which this case ought to be viewed.  You owe much
to Annie, but not all -- you have a duty to perform to your other
school-fellows.  You have a duty to perform to me.  If you possess a
clue which will enable me to convict Annie Forest of her sin, in common
justice you have no right to withhold it.  Remember that while she goes
about free and unsuspected some other girl is under the ban -- some other
girl is watched and feared.  You fail in your duty to your
school-fellows when you keep back your knowledge, Cecil.  When you
refuse to trust me, you fail in your duty to your mistress; for I cannot
stamp out this evil and wicked thing from our midst unless I know all.
When you conceal your knowledge, you ruin the character of the girl you
seek to shield.  When you conceal your knowledge, you go against God's
express wish.  There -- I have spoken to you as He directed me to speak
I never thought of all these things
You are right, but it
is very hard, and mine is only a suspicion.  Oh, do be tender to her,
and -- forgive me -- may I go away now
We are all discussing the mystery, darling
we have
discussed it, and literally torn it to shreds, and yet never got at the
kernel.  We have guessed and guessed what your motive can be in
concealing the truth from Mrs Willis, and we all unanimously vote that
you are a dear old martyr, and that you have some admirable reason for
keeping back the truth.  You cannot think what an excitement we are in --
even Susy Drummond has stayed awake to listen to our chatter.  Now,
Cecil, do come and sit here in this most inviting little armchair, and
tell us what our dear head-mistress said to you in the chapel.  It did
seem so awful to send you to the chapel, poor dear Cecil
Here's your throne, Queen Cecil
How nice that you have come, Cecil
I really think, we all think, that you were very brave to stand
out against Mrs Willis as you did.  Of course we are devoured with
curiosity to know what it means; aren't we, Flo
Yes, we're in agonies
You will tell exactly what Mrs Willis said, darling heroine
You concealed your
knowledge, didn't you? you were very firm, weren't you? dear, brave
love
For my part, I think Cecil Temple the soul of brave firmness
I fancy she's as hard and firm in herself
when she wants to conceal a thing as that rocky sweetmeat which always
hurts our teeth to get through.  Yes, I do fancy that
Oh, Susy, what a horrid metaphor
I think, if you will allow her, that Cecil has got something to say
Thank you, Hester
I won't keep you a moment, girls.  I
cannot offer to throw any light on the mystery which makes us all so
miserable to-day; but I think it right to undeceive you with regard to
myself.  I have not concealed what I know from Mrs Willis.  She is in
possession of all the facts, and what I found in my desk this morning is
now in her keeping.  She has made me see that in concealing my knowledge
I was acting wrongly, and whatever pain has come to me in the matter,
she now knows all
Cecil is not
like the rocky sweetmeat; I was mistaken in her
May I come in
Yes
Cecil
you're in great trouble.  I am a
giddy, reckless thing, I know, but I don't laugh at people when they are
in real trouble.  Won't you tell me all about it, Cecil
I will, Annie.  Sit down there and I will tell you everything.  I think
you have a right to know, and I am glad you have come to me.  I thought,
perhaps -- but no matter.  Annie, can't you guess what I am going to say
No, I'm sure I can't
I saw for a moment or two to-day
that some of those absurd girls suspected me of being the author of all
this mischief.  Now, you know, Cecil, I love a bit of fun beyond words.
If there's any going on I feel nearly mad until I am in it; but what was
done to-day was not at all in accordance with my ideas of fun.  To tear
up Miss Russell's essay and fill her desk with stupid plum-cake and
Turkish delight seems to me but a sorry kind of jest.  Now, if I had
been guilty of that sort of thing, I'd have managed something far
cleverer than that.  If _I_ had tampered with Dora Russell's desk, I'd
have done the thing in style.  The dear, sweet, dignified creature
should have shrieked in real terror.  You don't know perhaps, Cecil,
that our admirable Dora is no end of a coward.  I wonder what she would
have said if I had put a little nest of field-mice in her desk.  I saw
that the poor thing suspected me, as she gave way to her usual little
sneer about the &bquo;underbred girl:' but, of course, _you_ know me, Cecil.
Why, my dear Cecil, what is the matter?  How white you are, and you are
actually crying!  What is it, Cecil? what is it, Cecil, darling
You know my pet copy of Mrs Browning's poems, don't you, Annie
Oh, yes, of course.  You lent it to me one day.  Don't you remember how
you made me cry over that picture of little Alice, the over-worked
factory girl?  What about the book, Cecil
I found the book in my desk
I found the book in my
desk, although I never keep it there; for it is quite against the rules
to keep our recreation books in our school-desks, and you know, Annie, I
always think it is so much easier to keep these little rules.  They are
matters of duty and conscience after all.  I found my copy of Mrs
Browning in my desk this morning with the cover torn off, and with a
very painful and ludicrous caricature of our dear Mrs Willis sketched
on the title-page
What
No, no; impossible
You know nothing about it do you, Annie
I never put it there, if that's what you mean
I see
you, too, suspected me, Cecil,
and that is why you tried to conceal the thing.  You know that I am the
only girl in the school who can draw caricatures, but did you suppose
that I would show _her_ dishonour?  Of course things look ugly for me,
if this is what you found in your book; but I did not think that _you_
would suspect me, Cecil
I will believe you, Annie
I long beyond words
to believe you.  With all your faults, no one has ever yet found you out
in a lie.  If you look at me, Annie, and tell me honestly that you know
nothing whatever about that caricature, I will believe you.  Yes, I will
believe you fully, and I will go with you to Mrs Willis and tell her
that, whoever did the wrong, you are innocent in this matter.  Say you
know nothing about it, dear, dear Annie, and take a load off my heart
I never put the caricature into your book, Cecil
And you know nothing about it
I cannot say that; I never -- never put it in your book
Oh, Annie, exclaimed poor Cecil, you are trying to deceive me.  Why
won't you be brave?  Oh, Annie, I never thought you would stoop to a
lie
I'm telling no lie
I do know
something about the caricature, but I never put it into that book.
There! you doubt me, you have ceased to believe me, and I won't waste
any more words on the matter
send her to Coventry
of course Annie
had done it
There is not room for a single doubt on the subject
there -- look at her now
sent to Coventry
What's Coventry
Oh, a nasty place, Phena
And who is going there
Why, I am afraid it is naughty Annie Forest
She's not naughty!  Annie sha'n't go to any nasty place.  I hate you,
Mary Bell
It was stupid of you to say that, Mary
Well
I suppose it is all settled, and poor Annie, to
say the least of it, is not a lady.  For my own part, I always thought
her great fun, but if she is proved guilty of this offence I wash my
hands of her
We all wash our hands of her
What do you say, Susy
you have not opened your
lips all this lime
I -- eh?-- what
oh, about
Annie Forest -- I suppose you are right, girls.  Is not that the tea-gong?
I'm awfully hungry
Come in
I want you
to take these flowers
from me to Miss Agnes and Miss Jane Bruce.  It will be very kind of you
if you will take them.  I am sorry to have interrupted you -- thank you
very much
Is there any message with the flowers
Oh, no -- only Annie Forest's love.  They'll understand
Poor dear little girl
You will kindly give this to your schoolfellow, Miss Forest, Hester
dear
We have not got to the bottom of that mystery about Annie Forest yet.
Mrs Willis can evidently make nothing of her, and I believe Mr Everard
is going to talk to her after prayers to-night
Here is a parcel for you, Miss Forest
Breaking the rules, Miss Thornton
all right, toss it
here
Bring me that parcel, Annie Forest
Your governess has asked me to speak to you, my dear
she wants us to discuss this thing which is
making you so unhappy quite fully together
Perhaps, however, you have something to say to me which
will throw light on this mystery
No, sir, I have nothing to say
Poor child
Perhaps, Annie
you do
not quite understand me -- you do not quite read my motive in talking to
you to-night.  I am not here in any sense to reprove you.  You are
either guilty of this sin, or you are not guilty.  In either case I pity
you; it is very hard, very bitter, to be falsely accused -- I pity you
much if this is the case; but it is still harder, Annie, still more
bitter, still more absolutely crushing to be accused of a sin which we
are trying to conceal.  In that terrible case God Himself hides His
face.  Poor child, poor child, I pity you most of all if you are
guilty
I felt very bitter at your coming to speak to me
Mrs
Willis has always sent for you when everything else has failed with us
girls, and I did not think she would treat me so.  I was determined not
to say anything to you.  Now, however, you have spoken good words to me,
and I can't turn away from you.  I will tell you all that is in my
heart.  I will promise before God to conceal nothing, if only you will
do one thing for me
What is that, my child
Will you believe me
Undoubtedly
Ah, but you have not been tried yet.  I thought Mrs Willis would
certainly believe; but she said the circumstantial evidence was too
strong -- perhaps it will be too strong for you
I promise to believe you, Annie Forest; if, before God, you can assure
me that you are speaking the whole truth, I will fully believe you
This is the truth before God
I have always loved Mrs Willis.  I have reasons for loving her which
the girls don't know about.  The girls don't know that when my mother
was dying she gave me into Mrs Willis's charge, and she said, &bquo;You must
keep Annie until her father comes back.'  Mother did not know where
father was; but she said he would be sure to come back some day, and
look for mother and me: and Mrs Willis said she would keep me
faithfully until father came to claim me.  That is four years ago, and
my father has never come, nor have I heard of him, and I think, I am
almost sure, that the little money which mother left must be all used
up.  Mrs Willis never says anything about money, and she did not wish
me to tell my story to the girls.  None of them know except Cecil
Temple.  I am sure some day father will come home, and he will give Mrs
Willis back the money she has spent on me; but never, never, never can
he repay her for her goodness to me.  You see I cannot help loving Mrs
Willis.  It is quite impossible for any girl to have such a friend and
not to love her.  I know I am very wild, and that I do all sorts of mad
things.  It seems to me that I cannot help myself sometimes: but I would
not willingly, indeed, I would not willingly hurt anybody.  Last
Wednesday, as you know, there was a great disturbance in the school.
Dora Russell's desk was tampered with, and so was Cecil Temple's.  You
know, of course, what was found in both the desks.  Mrs Willis sent for
me, and asked me about the caricature which was drawn in Cecil's book.
I looked at it and I told her the truth.  I did not conceal one thing.
I told her the whole truth as far as I knew it.  She did not believe me.
She said so.  What more could I do then
Do you mind repeating to me exactly what you said to your governess
I said this, sir.  I said, &bquo;Yes, Mrs Willis, I did draw that
caricature.  You will scarcely understand how I, who love you so much,
could have been so mad and ungrateful as to do anything to turn you into
ridicule.  I would cut off my right hand now not to have done it; but I
did do it, and I must tell you the truth.'  &bquo;Tell me, dear,' she said,
quite gently then.  &bquo;It was one wet afternoon about a fortnight ago,' I
said to her; &bquo;a lot of us middle-school-girls were sitting together, and
I had a pencil and some bits of paper, and I was making up funny little
groups of a lot of us, and the girls were screaming with laughter, for
somehow I managed to make the likeness that I wanted in each case.'  It
was very wrong of me, I know.  It was against the rules; but I was in
one of my maddest humours, and I really do not care what the
consequences were.  At last one of the girls said: &bquo;You won't dare to
make a picture like that of Mrs Willis, Annie -- you know you won't
dare.'  The minute she said that name I began to feel ashamed.  I
remembered I was breaking one of the rules, and I suddenly tore up all
my bits of paper and flung them into the fire, and I said, &bquo;No, I would
not dare to show her dishonour.'  Well, afterwards, as I was washing my
hands for tea up in my room, the temptation came over me so strongly
that I felt I could not resist it, to make a funny little sketch of Mrs
Willis.  I had a little scrap of thin paper, and I took out my pencil
and did it all in a minute.  It seemed to me very funny, and I could not
help laughing at it; and then I thrust it into my private writing-case,
which I always keep locked, and I put the key in my pocket and ran
downstairs.  I forgot all about the caricature.  I had never shown it to
anyone.  How it got into Cecil's book is more than I can say.  When I
had finished speaking Mrs Willis looked very hard at the book.  &bquo;You
are right,' she said; &bquo;this caricature is drawn on a very thin piece of
paper, which has been cleverly pasted on the title-page.'  Then, Mr
Everard, she asked me a lot of questions.  Had I ever parted with my
keys?  Had I ever left my desk unlocked?  &bquo;No,' I said, &bquo;my desk is
always locked, and my keys are always in my pocket.  Indeed,' I added,
&bquo;my keys were absolutely safe for the last week, for they went in a
white petticoat to the wash, and came back as rusty as possible.'  I
could not open my desk for a whole week, which was a great nuisance.  I
told all this story to Mrs Willis, and she said to me, &bquo;You are
positively certain that this caricature has been taken out of your desk
by somebody else, and pasted in here?  You are sure that the caricature
you drew is not to be found in your desk?'  &bquo;Yes,' I said; &bquo;how can I be
anything but sure; these are my pencil marks, and that is the funny
little turn I gave to your neck which made me laugh when I drew it.
Yes; I am certainly sure.'

"&bquo;I have always been told, Annie,' Mrs Willis said, &bquo;that you are the
only girl in the school who can draw these caricatures.  You have never
seen an attempt at this kind of drawing amongst your school-fellows, or
amongst any of the teachers?'

"&bquo;I have never seen any of them try this special kind of drawing,' I
said.  &bquo;I wish I was like them.  I wish I had never, never done it.'

"&bquo;You have got your keys now?'  Mrs Willis said.

"&bquo;Yes,' I answered, pulling them all covered with rust out of my pocket.

"Then she told me to leave the keys on the table, and to go upstairs and
fetch down my little private desk.

"I did so, and she made me put the rusty key in the lock and open the
desk, and together we searched through its contents.  We pulled out
everything, or rather I did, and I scattered all my possessions about on
the table, and then I looked up almost triumphantly at Mrs Willis.

"&bquo;You see the caricature is not here,' I said, &bquo;somebody picked the lock
and took it away.'

"&bquo;This lock has not been picked,' Mrs Willis said, &bquo;and what is that
little piece of white paper sticking out of the private drawer?'

"&bquo;Oh, I forgot my private drawer,' I said; &bquo;but there is nothing in it --
nothing whatever,' and then I touched the spring, and pulled it open,
and there lay the little caricature which I had drawn in the bottom of
the drawer.  There it lay, not as I had left it, for I had never put it
into the private drawer.  I saw Mrs Willis's face turn very white, and
I noticed that her hands trembled.  I was all red myself, and very hot,
and there was a choking lump in my throat, and I could not have got a
single word out even if I had wished to.  So I began scrambling the
things back into my desk, as hard as ever I could, and then I locked it,
and put the rusty keys back in my pocket.

"&bquo;What am I to believe now, Annie?'  Mrs Willis said.

"&bquo;Believe anything you like now,' I managed to say; and then I took my
desk and walked out of the room, and would not wait even though she
called me back.

"That is the whole story, Mr Everard
I have no
explanation whatever to give.  I did make the one caricature of my dear
governess.  I did not make the other.  The second caricature is
certainly a copy of the first, but I did not make it.  I don't know who
made it.  I have no light whatever to throw on the subject.  You see
after all
it is impossible for you to believe me.  Mrs Willis does not
believe me, and you cannot be expected to.  I don't suppose you are to
be blamed.  I don't see how you can help yourself
The circumstantial evidence is very strong against you, Annie
still, I promised to believe, and I have no intention of
going back from my word.  If, in the presence of God in this little
church you would willingly and deliberately tell me a lie I should never
trust human being again.  No, Annie Forest, you have many faults, but
you are not a liar.  I see the impress of truth on your brow, in your
eyes, on your lips.  This is a very gainful mystery, my child; but I
believe you.  I am going to see Mrs Willis now.  God bless you, Annie.
Be brave, be courageous, don't foster malice in your heart to any
unknown enemy.  An enemy has truly done this thing, poor child; but God
Himself will bring this mystery to light.  Trust Him, my dear; and now I
am going to see Mrs Willis
Let me stay here a little longer
I think, my dear madam
that you
must believe your pupil.  She has not refused to confess to you from any
stubbornness, but from, the simple reason that she has nothing to
confess.  I am firmly convinced that things are as she stated them, Mrs
Willis.  There is a mystery here which we neither of us can explain, but
which we must unravel
I wish to tell you all, young ladies
that I completely and
absolutely exonerate Annie Forest from having any part in the
disgraceful occurrence which took place in this school-room a short time
ago.  I allude, of course, as you all know, to the book which was found
tampered with in Cecil Temple's desk.  Some one else in this room is
guilty, and the mystery has still to be unravelled, and the guilty girl
has still to come forward and declare herself.  If she is willing at
this moment to come to me here, and fully and freely confess her sin, I
will quite forgive her
No
the guilty girl
prefers waiting until God discovers her sin for her.  My dear, whoever
you are, that hour is coming, and you cannot escape from it.  In the
meantime, girls, I wish you all to receive Annie Forest as quite
innocent.  I believe in her, so does Mr Everard, and so must you.
Anyone who treats Miss Forest except as a perfectly innocent and
truthful girl incurs my severe displeasure.  My dear, you may return to
your seat
Why did she ever make a caricature of one who has been as a mother to
her?  If she made one caricature, could she not make another?  Above all
things, if _she_ did not do it, who did
Oh, no
I hate being still; I am in no humour for a talk.
Another time, Cecil, another time.  Now then, Sybil, my beauty, get well
on my back, and I'll be the willing dog carrying you round and round the
room
That's to congratulate you, Miss
you're a very lucky
girl to have escaped as you did
What have I escaped from
Oh, dear me
I -- ah
I only meant you were very near getting into an ugly
scrape.  It's no affair of mine, I'm sure; only I thought you'd like the
lollipops
No, I don't like them at all
nor you either.  Go back to
your own companions, please
Now, little darlings
you mustn't eat those.  No, no, they
are not good at all; and they have come from one of Annie's enemies.
Most likely they are full of poison.  Let us collect them all, every
one, and we will throw them into the fire before we go to tea
But I don't think there's any poison in them
they are all big, and fat, and bursty, and _so_ sweet,
Annie, dear
Never mind, Janie, they are dangerous sweeties all the same.  Come,
come, throw them into my apron, and I will run over and toss them into
the fire, and we'll have time for a game of leap-frog before tea; oh,
fie, Judy
you would not
eat the sweeties of one of Annie's enemies
So much for _that_ overture, Miss Drummond
Oh, Cecil, believe in me
I -- I -- I don't know that I don't
No, Cecil, you don't -- not in your heart of hearts.  Neither you nor
Mrs Willis -- you neither of you believe in me from the very bottom of
your hearts; oh, it is hard
Annie
Annie Forest
I never liked her
I never even from the very first
pretended to like her.  I think she is underbred, and not fit to
associate with the other girls in the school-room
She is treated with most unfair partiality
I have not the smallest doubt, not
the smallest, that she was guilty of putting those messes into my desk,
of destroying my composition, and of caricaturing Mrs Willis in Cecil
Temple's book.  I wonder after that Mrs Willis did not see through her,
but it is astonishing to what lengths favouritism will carry one.  Mrs
Willis and Mr Everard are behaving in a very unfair way to the rest of
us in upholding this commonplace, disagreeable girl; but it will be to
Mrs Willis's own disadvantage.  Hester, I am, as you know, leaving
school at Midsummer, and I shall certainly use all my influence to
induce my father and mother not to send the younger girls here; they
could not associate with a person like Miss Forest
I never take much notice of her
but of course what you
say is quite right, Dora.  You have great discrimination, and your
sisters might possibly be taken in by her
Oh, not at all, I assure you; they know a true lady when they see her.
However, they must not be imperilled.  I will ask my parents to send
them to Mdlle.  Lablanche.  I hear that her establishment is most
_recherche_
Mrs Willis is very nice herself, and so are most of the girls
I don't think Annie is the favourite she was with the girls
Oh, of course not; they all, in their heart of hearts, know she is
guilty.  Will you come indoors, and have tea with me in my drawing-room,
Hester
Oh, how cruel of father
how am I to live without ever
going home -- how am I to endure life without seeing my little Nan
Nan is coming, Susy
dear, darling, lovely little Nan
is coming -- oh, I am so happy
Little Nan is coming to-night
Who _is_ little Nan
My little sister, of course
I have often talked to
you about her, Dora.  Are you not glad she is coming
No, my dear child, I can't say that I am.  If you wish to retain my
friendship, Hester, you must be careful to keep the little mite away
from me; I can't bear small children
I am awfully good-natured not to be as cross as two sticks, Hetty
for I am being turned out of my comfortable room; and whose
room do you suppose I am now to share? why, that little imp Annie
Forest's
Me like 'oo, Hetty
See, how pretty that dimple in her chin is
and oh, my pet,
your eyes look wiser, and bigger, and saucier than ever.  Look at me,
Nan; look at your own Hetty
Dat a pitty toy
Dat a pitty lady
and dat a pitty, tibby &lsqb;little&rsqb;
toy; Nan go see
She'll get her, you'll see, Hester
she'll soon be much fonder of Annie Forest than of you.  Annie wins the
heart of every little child in the school
She won't win my Nan's from me
Nan, you are sleepy, you must go to bed
No, no, Hetty; me not s'eepy, me kite awake; go 'way, Hetty, Nan want
to see the pitty tibby toy
The play is all over to-night, little darling
give Annie
Forest one kiss, and run to bed with sister Hester
Dat a vedy pitty p'ay
and me like
'oo, me do
You are very silly to try for that, Hetty
for Mrs
Willis has such queer ideas with regard to English composition.  Of
course, we go in for it in a general way, and learn the rules of grammar
and punctuation, and so forth, but Mrs Willis says that school-girls'
themes are so bad and affected, as a rule, and she says she does not
think anyone will go in for her pet prize who has not natural ability.
In consequence, she gives only one prize for composition between the
three first classes.  You had better change your mind, Hetty, before it
is too late, for much older girls will compete with you, and there are
several who are going to try
We have all said what we would like, and we none of us appear to have
thought of anything at all worth having
but you have not
spoken at all, Annie.  Give us an idea, dear -- you know you originated
the fancy ball last year
These preparations seem to me to be much ado about nothing; they lake
up a lot of our time, and the results aren't worth the trouble -- I have
nothing particular to say.  Oh, well, yes, if you like -- let's have blind
man's buff and a magic lantern
Insufferable girl
I wonder you try to draw her
out, Cecil.  You know perfectly that we none of us care to have anything
to do with her
I know perfectly that you are all doing your best to make her life
miserable
No one in this school has
obeyed Mrs Willis's command to treat Annie as innocent -- you are
practically sending her to Coventry, and I think it is unjust and
unfair.  You don't know, girls, that you are ruining poor Annie's
happiness
Oh, dear! she doesn't seem at all dull
I do think she's a hardened little wretch
Little you know about her
The injustice of the whole
thing is that in this treatment of Annie you break the spirit of Mrs
Willis's command -- you, none of you, certainly tell her that she is
guilty, but you treat her as such
I don't believe Mrs Willis in her heart of hearts considers Annie
guiltless
At any rate
It is unfortunate
for the success of our entertainment that there should be all this
discussion and bad feeling with regard to Miss Forest.  For my own part,
I cannot make out why the poor little creature should be hunted down, or
what affair it is of ours whether she is innocent or not.  If Mr
Everard and Mrs Willis says she is innocent, is not that enough?  The
fact of her guilt or innocence can't hurt us one way or another.  It is
a great pity, however, for our own sakes, that we should be out with her
now, for, whatever her faults, she is the only one of us who is ever
gifted with an original thought.  But, as we can't have her, let us set
to work without her -- we really can't waste the whole evening over this
sort of talk
Well, my dear child
where are you running to?  But I suppose I must not ask; you are, of
course, one of the busy and secret conclave in the South Parlour
No.  I have left them
Left them
you mean, dear, that they have sent
you for some message
No.  I am not one of them.  May I go into the garden, Mrs Willis
Certainly, my dear
Where dat pitty toy
some one did buy dat toy, and it's vedy pitty, and me wants it -- where's
dat toy
You shall have the toy for your very own, Nan, if you will do something
for me
Me will
me want dat toy
Put your arms round me, little darling, and give me a great, tight
hug
Dere
will dat do
Yes, you little treasure, and you'll try to love me, won't you
Me do
You won't catch me helping you in any of your larks.  I've had trouble
enough on that score as it is
But I thought you hated Dora and Hester
I'm sure they hate
you
You do hate them, don't you
It's nothing to you what I feel toward them, Susy
Please don't disturb me with any more of your chatter; I am very
sleepy, and you are keeping me awake
We'll light a fire in the wood, Nan, and hang a kettle over it, and
make tea -- such good tea; won't it be nice
And may I take out my little ummabella
(umbrella), case it might wain
You funny darling
Oh, we shall have such a day!  You'll
be with your own Hetty all day long -- your own Hetty; won't you be glad
Me am
own Hetty, and own Annie; me am glad
Miss Danesbury will take the little children
Mrs
Willis says that all the little ones are to be in Miss Danesbury's
charge
Oh, please
may Nan come with me, Miss Good?
She'll be so disappointed if she doesn't, and I'll take such care of
her
Oh, dear, Miss Danesbury should have brought her here by now
Do you know where Miss Nan is, Alice?  She is to go to Burn Castle with
me, and I want to dress her, for it is nearly time to go
If you please, Miss
I think Miss Nan has just gone
What do you mean, Alice?  Miss Good said especially she was to go with
me
I know nothing about that, Miss; I only know that I saw Miss Forest
carrying her downstairs in her arms about three minutes ago, and they
went off in the waggonette with all the other little children and Miss
Danesbury
That will do, Alice; thank you for letting me know
Why
I thought you were going to bring that dear baby sister with you,
Hester.  Oh, I do hope there is nothing the matter with her
Nan has gone on in the first waggonette with the little children
I saw Annie Forest rushing down the stairs with little Nan, and Nan had
her arms round her neck, and was laughing merrily.  You need not be
anxious about Nan, Hester; she was quite content to go with Annie
I did not say I was anxious
How
very beautiful that avenue of beech trees is, Cecil
But Annie heard Miss Good say that you were to take Nan
She could not but have noticed it, for you did flush up
so, Hester, and looked so eager.  I never saw anyone more in earnest
about a trifle in my life; it was impossible for Annie not to have
heard
The great thing is that Nan is happy
Do let us change the subject, girls
Now, of course, the first thing is to find little Nan
she'll be missing you dreadful, Hetty
I'm tired
I daresay we shall find Nan presently.  She is
sure to be safe, as she is under Miss Danesbury's care
Oh, do come quick
it is such a pretty sight
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall,
  Humpty Dumpty had a great fall
Me no fall, Annie
Isn't it pretty?  Isn't Annie sweet with children
Be careful of her!  How wicked of you to put her like that on your
shoulder!  She will fall -- yes, I know she will fall; oh, do be careful
Humpty Dumpty got a great fall
Don't touch her
don't touch
her -- don't dare!  It was your doing; you did it on purpose -- you wished
to do it
You are unjust
Nan was perfectly safe
until you startled her.  Like all the rest you are unjust.  Nan would
have come to no harm if you had not spoken
I hope -- I trust she is not much hurt
but I
think it safest to take her home at once.  Cecil, dear, can you do
anything about fetching a waggonette round to the stile at the entrance
of the wood?  Now the puzzle is, who is to take care of the rest of the
little children?  If only they were under Miss Good's care, I should
breathe more easily
I am going home with Nan
Of course, my love: no one would think of parting you from your little
sister
If you please, Miss Danesbury
will
you trust me with the little ones?  If you do, I will promise to take
them straight to Miss Good, and to be most careful of them
Thank you, Annie -- of course I trust you, dear.  Take the children at
once to the meeting-place under the great oak, and wait there until Miss
Good appears
Miss Danesbury, you comfort me
My little darling is all right, is she not
Oh, I was so
terrified -- oh, how thankful I am no harm has been done
You must be careful to keep the sun off her, dear -- hold your parasol
well down -- just so.  That is better.  When we get home, I will put her
to bed at once.  Please God, there _is_ nothing wrong; cut one cannot be
too careful
Just as I feared
there is some little mischief --
not much, I hope -- but we must instantly send for the doctor
She's not in danger
if she is,
Annie is guilty of murder
Don't, my dear
you must keep quiet for Nan's
sake.  Please God, she will soon be better.  All I really apprehend is a
little excitement and feverishness, which will pass off in a few days
with care.  Hester, my dear, I suddenly remember that the house is
nearly empty, for all the servants are also enjoying a holiday.  I think
I must send you for Dr Mayflower.  The waggonette is still at the door.
Drive at once to town, my dear, and ask the coachman to take you to
Number 10, The Parade.  If you are very quick, you will catch Dr
Mayflower before he goes out on his afternoon rounds
I will take the best care of her
don't lose an instant, dear
Please God, let me find the doctor
You are to come with me; please, you are to come
at once.  Little Nan is ill -- she is hurt.  Please, you are to come at
once
Eh! young lady
Oh!  I see; you are one
of the little girls from Lavender House.  Is anything wrong there,
dear
Jump out, young lady
I will drive you back in my brougham.
Masters
to Lavender House
We always take precisely twenty minutes to drive from the Parade to
Lavender House -- twenty minutes, neither more nor less.  We shall be
there now in exactly ten minutes
Come into this room, my child
My dear, you will be ill
yourself if you give way like this.  Pooh! pooh! this agitation is
extreme -- is uncalled for.  You have got a shock.  I shall prescribe a
glass of sherry at once.  Come downstairs with me, and I will see that
you get one
But how is she, sir -- how is she
Oh! the little one -- sweet, pretty, little darling.  I did not know she
was your sister -- a dear little child.  She got an ugly fall, though --
came on a nasty place
But, please, sir, how is she?  She -- she -- she is not in danger
Danger? by no means, unless you put her into it.  She must be kept very
quiet, and, above all things, not excited.  I will come to see her again
to-morrow morning.  With proper care she ought to be quite herself in a
few days.  Ah! now you've got a little colour in your cheek, come down
with me and have that glass of sherry, and you will feel all right
Darling
this is a grievous anxiety for you; no words can
express my sorrow and my sympathy; but the doctor is quite hopeful,
Hester, and, please God, we shall soon have the little one as well as
ever
You are really sorry for me
Of course, dear; need you ask
Then you will have that wicked Annie Forest punished -- well punished --
well punished
Sometimes, Hester
God takes the
punishment of our wrongdoings into His own hands.  Annie came home with
me.  Had you seen her face as we drove together you would not have asked
_me_ to punish her
Unjust, always unjust
Please may I go to little Nan
Certainly, Hester -- some tea shall be sent up to you presently
The prayer-gong is not to be sounded to-night.  Will you come to the
chapel now?  Mrs Willis sent me to ask
I cannot
tell her I cannot come
Oh, I am so sorry
is Nan very bad
I don't know: I hope not.  Good-night
Me want my Annie
me do, me do.  No, no; go
'way, naughty Daybury, me want my Annie; me do want her
What is it, Miss Danesbury
She is very much excited, Hester; she is calling for Annie Forest
Oh, that is quite impossible
Annie can't come here.  The doctor specially said that none of
the girls were to come near Nan
Me want Annie; me want my own Annie
Give me my dressing-gown, please, Miss Danesbury, and I will go to
her
Go 'way, go 'way, naughty Hetty -- Nan want Annie; Annie sing, Annie p'ay
with Nan -- go 'way, go 'way, Hetty
Annie!-- Annie!-- Annie! me want 'oo; Nan want 'oo -- poor tibby Nan want
'oo, Annie
My dear
the child's wish must be gratified.  Annie has an
extraordinary power over children, and under the circumstances I shall
take it upon me to disobey the doctor's directions.  The child must be
quieted at all hazards.  Run for Annie, dear -- you know her room.  I had
better stay with little Nan, for, though she loves you best, you don't
soothe her at present -- that is often so with a fever case
One moment
Hetty is going to fetch Annie for Nan.  Will Nan give her own Hetty one
kiss
Me like 'oo now, dood Hetty.  Go for Annie, dood Hetty
Annie you are to come to Nan
Coming
You are dressed
I could not undress -- I lay down as I was.  I fancied I heard Nan's
voice calling me.  I guessed I should be sent for
Well, come now
You were only sent
for because Nan must be quieted at any risk.  Come, and see if you can
quiet her.  I don't suppose
that you will
succeed
I think so
Little darling, Annie has come
Me like 'oo
Sing &bquo;Four-and-twenty,' Annie; sing &bquo;Four-and-twenty
Four-and-twenty blackbirds baked in a pie
Me don't want dat 'dain; sing &bquo;Boy Blue,' Annie
Tree Little Kittens,' Annie
Sing, Annie -- sing
Baby Bun,' now
Bye baby bunting,
  Daddy's gone a-hunting --
  He's gone to fetch a rabbit-skin,
  To place the baby bunting in
Sing, Annie -- sing &bquo;Baby Bun
Baby Bunting
Sing, Annie
Poor Annie; poor tibby Annie
thanks
Tic, tac, too,
  The little horse has lost his shoe
Come with me, Nan
I have got something to show you
Me tum; Annie tumming too
Pitty 'oom
Nan likes this 'oom.  Me'll stay
here, and so will Annie
Pitty tibby pussy
Turn back, puss, puss -- turn back, poor tibby puss -- Nan loves 'oo.
Annie, go fetch puss for Nan
Want
any milk
Poor tibby zug b'oke
Nan, dear
shut up that book at once.  Nan mustn't touch.
Shut the book, darling, and go and sit on the floor, and look at your
nice-coloured pictures
Me won't
Come, Nan
Me want Annie
Pitty bow vow
oh,
pitty bow woo, Nan loves 'oo
Nan, dear
it is naughty to disobey.  Sit down by your
picture-book, and be a good girl
Me won't
Naughty lady, me don't like 'oo; go 'way.  Nan want Annie -- Nan do want
Annie.  Me don't love 'oo, naughty lady; go 'way
Annie, Annie, Annie
Good-bye, dear
good-bye, all my dear girls; I will
try and be back to-morrow night.  Remember, my children, during my
absence I trust you
Come, Annie -- come at once, Annie, darling
The basket has come; it's under the thick laurel-tree in the
back avenue.  We are all waiting for you; we none of us will open it
till you arrive
Then we won't lose a moment, Phyllis
we'll see what that
duck of a Betty has done for us
Now, is the coast clear? yes, I think so.  Come, Susie, greedy as you
are, you must take your part.  You alone of all of us can cackle with
the exact imitation of an old hen: get behind that tree at once and
watch the yard.  Don't forget to cackle for your life if you even see
the shadow of a footfall.  Norah, my pretty birdie, you must be the
thrush for the nonce; here, lake your post, watch the lawn and the front
avenue.  Now then, girls, the rest of us can see what spoils Betty has
provided for us
On, oh!  I say, cherries! and what a lot!  Good Betty! dear, darling
Betty! you gathered those from your own trees, and they are as ripe as
your apple-blossom cheeks!  Now then, what next?  I do declare,
meringues!  Betty knew my weakness.  Twelve meringues -- that is one and a
half apiece; Susan Drummond sha'n't have more than her share.  Meringues
and cheesecakes and -- tartlets -- oh! oh! what a duck Betty is!  A
plum-cake -- good, excellent Betty, she deserves to be canonised!  What
have we here?  Roast chickens -- better and better!  What is in this
parcel?  Slices of ham; Betty knew she dare not show her face again if
she forgot the ham.  Knives and forks, spoons -- fresh rolls -- salt and
pepper, and a dozen bottles of ginger-beer, and a little corkscrew in
case we want it
At twelve to-night, then, girls -- oh, yes, I have managed the key
Danesbury is always the last to go to bed
I can get up presently
I shall have fine work now
and shall probably have to
resort to cold water.  Really, if Susy proves too hard to wake, I shall
let her sleep on -- her drowsiness is past bearing
Why, Susy, where have you been
Fancy you being
awake a moment before it is necessary
For once in a way I was restless
so I thought
I would get up, and take a turn in the passage outside.  The house is
perfectly quiet, and we can come now; most of the girls are already
waiting at the side door
Rover is our one last danger now
Put on your shoes, girls, and let me out
first; I think I can manage him
Oh, Annie, oh, love, suppose he seizes on you, and knocks you down -- oh,
dare you venture
Let me go
you don't suppose I am
afraid
He is one of us, girls
come out.  Rover will be as naughty as the rest of us, and go with us
as our bodyguard to the fairies' field.  Now, I will lock the door on
the outside, and we can be off.  Ah, the moon is getting up splendidly,
and when we have secured Betty's basket, we shall be quite out of reach
of danger
Now, girls, quick; open the basket.  Yes, I'm going to rest.  I have
organised the whole thing, and I'm fairly tired; so I'll just sit
quietly here, and Rover will take care of me while you set things
straight.  Ah! good Betty; she did not even forget the white
table-cloth
Don't croak, Mary Morris.  Out with the chickens, lay the ham in this
corner, and the cherries will make a picturesque pile in the middle.
Twelve meringues in all, that means a meringue and a half each.  We
shall have some difficulty in dividing.  Oh, dear! oh, dear! how hungry
I am!  I was far too excited to eat anything at supper-time
So was I
I do
think Miss Danesbury cuts the bread and butter too thick -- don't you,
Annie?  I could not eat mine at all, to-night, and Cecil Temple asked me
if I was not well
Those who don't want chicken hold up their hands
Pass the salt, please
Pepper this way, if you've no objection
How
good chicken tastes in fairy-land
I wish the fairies would come out
Oh, don't
Annie, darling, do tell us a ghost story
Behold, girls, the goblin of the woods
Quiet, Rover;
stand still
If you don't let us pass at once
I'll set Rover
at you
I mean you no harm, young ladies; I'm only a gypsy-mother from the
tents yonder.  You are welcome to get back to Lavender House.  I have
then one course plain before me
Come on, girls
Look here, young ladies
I don't
mean you no harm, my pretties, and it's no affair of mine telling the
good ladies at Lavender House what I've seen.  You cross my hand, dears,
each of you, with a bit of silver, and all I'll do is to tell your
pretty fortunes, and mum is the word with the gypsy-mother as far as
this night's prank is concerned
We had better do it, Annie -- we had better do it
If this was found out by Mrs Willis we might be expelled -- we might,
indeed; and that horrid woman is sure to tell of us -- I know she is
Quite sure to tell, dear
Quite sure to tell, and to be expelled is the very least
that could happen to such naughty little ladies.  Here's a nice little
bit of clearing in the wood, and we'll all come over, and Mother Rachel
will tell your fortunes in a twinkling, and no one will be the wiser.
Sixpence apiece, my dears -- only sixpence apiece
Oh, come; do, do come
You'll have suffering before you, miss; some suspicion, and danger even
to life itself.  But you'll triumph, my dear, you'll triumph.  You're a
plucky one, and you'll do a brave deed.  There -- good-night, young
ladies; you have nothing more to fear from Mother Rachel
good-night
Never was there so much written and printed
but can anyone show me a book with thoughts in it?  Can anyone
show me, unless as a rare exception, a book which will live?  Oh, yes,
these books which issue from the press in thousands are, many of them,
very smart, a great many of them clever, but they are thrown off too
quickly.  All great things, great books amongst them, must be evolved
slowly
In these days
all girls are what is called highly
educated.  Girls and boys alike must go in for competitive examinations,
must take out diplomas, and must pass certain standards of excellence.
The system is cramming from beginning to end.  There is no time for
reflection.  In short, my dear girls, you swallow a great deal, but you
do not digest your intellectual food
Never mind
here is an idea -- or at least half an idea.
This little bit of composition is original, and not, at best, a poor
imitation of Sir Walter Scott or Lord Macaulay
You won't like to be beaten, Dora, say, by Annie Forest
Why do you try for it, Dora
The River
Clear and
cool
The River
Now, Hester, dear
you are the only girl in the school to whom I could
confide the subject of my great essay.  I really believe that I have hit
on something absolutely original.  My dear child, I hope you won't allow
yourself to be discouraged.  I fear that you won't have much heart to go
on with your theme after you have read my words; but, never mind, dear,
it will be good practice for you, and you know it _was_ rather silly to
go in for a prize which I intended to compete for
May I read your essay, please, Dora
I am very much
interested in my own study, and, whether I win the prize or not, I shall
always remember the pleasure I took in writing it
What subject did you select, dear
Well, I am attempting a little sketch of Marie Antoinette
Ah, hackneyed, my dear girl -- terribly hackneyed; but, of course, I
don't mean to discourage you.  _Now_!-- I draw a life -- picture, and I
call it &bquo;The River.'  See how it begins -- why, I declare I know the words
by heart, &bquo;_As our eyes rest on this clear and limpid stream, as we see
the sun sparkle_.'  My dear Hester, you shall read me my essay aloud.  I
shall like to hear my own words from your lips, and you have really a
pretty accent, dear
Did you not tell me that your essay was called &bquo;The River
Yes, dear; the full title is &bquo;The Windings of a Noble River
That's very odd
What I see here is &bquo;The Meanderings
of a Muddy Stream.' &bquo;_As our dull orbs rest on this turbid water on
which the sun cannot possibly shine_.'  Why, Dora, this cannot be your
essay, and yet, surely, it is your handwriting
The Meanderings of a Muddy
Stream
Hester, you must help me in this.  The most dreadful, the most
atrocious fraud has been committed.  Some one has been base enough,
audacious enough, wicked enough, to go to my desk privately, and take
away my real essay -- my work over which I have laboured and toiled.  The
expressions of my -- my -- yes, I will say it -- my genius, have been
ruthlessly burnt, or otherwise made away with, and _this_ thing has been
put in their place.  Hester, why don't you speak -- why do you stare at me
like this
I am puzzled by the writing
the writing is yours
The writing is mine!-- oh, you wicked girl!  The writing is an imitation
of mine -- a feeble and poor imitation.  I thought, Hester, that by this
time you knew your friend's handwriting.  I thought that one in whom I
have confided -- one whom I have stooped to notice because I fancied we
had a community of soul, would not be so ridiculous and so silly as to
mistake this writing for mine.  Look again, please, Hester Thornton, and
tell me if I am ever so vulgar as to cross my _t's_.  You know I
_always_ loop them; and do I make a capital B in this fashion?  And do I
indulge in flourishes?  I grant you that the general effect to a casual
observer would be something the same, but you, Hester -- I thought you
knew me better
It is a forgery, most cleverly done
There is such a
thing, Hester, as being wickedly clever.  This spiteful, cruel attempt
to injure another can have but proceeded from one _very_ low order of
mind.  Hester, there has been plenty of favouritism in this school, but
do you suppose I shall allow such a thing as this to pass over
unsearched into?  If necessary, I shall ask my father to interfere.
This is a slight -- an outrage; but the whole mystery shall at last be
cleared up.  Miss Good and Miss Danesbury shall be informed at once, and
the very instant Mrs Willis returns she shall be told what a serpent
she has been nursing in this false, wicked girl, Annie Forest
Stop, Dora
What is it, Hester
What were you going to say?  You
surely know nothing about this
Well, Dora, I am not the guilty person.  I was only going to remark
that you cannot be _sure_ it is Annie Forest
Oh, so you are going to take that horrid girl's part now?  I wonder at
you!  She all but killed your little sister, and then stole her love
away from you.  Did you see the little thing now, how she flew to her?
Why, she never kisses you like that
I know -- I know
You'll have your triumph, Hester, when Miss Forest is publicly
expelled
You will be miserable: you will be miserable
I said I would revenge myself, and this is my opportunity
Silence -- just simply silence -- will be my revenge
I'm awfully afraid of Mother Rachel
I should faint if I saw her again, I know I should while the
other girls always went out provided with stray sixpences, in case the
gypsy-mother should start up from some unexpected quarter and demand
black-mail
She's down there by the copse, and she's beckoning to us!  Oh, do come
with us -- do, darling, dear Annie
There's no use in it
Mother Rachel wants money, and I
am not going to give her any.  Don't be afraid of her, girls, and don't
give her money.  After all, why should she tell on us? she would gain
nothing by doing so
Oh, yes, she would, Annie -- she would, Annie
oh, do come with us, do!  We must pacify her, we
really must
I can't come now
hark! some one is calling me.  Yes,
Miss Danesbury -- what is it
Mrs Willis wishes to see you at once, Annie, in her private
sitting-room
But where is the use of regretting what is done
I know I can never be good -- never, never
Come here, Annie dear
Come here, Annie
I want to speak to you.
Something very dishonourable and disgraceful has been done in my
absence
I shall expect the truth at any cost, my dear.  Look at this
manuscript-book.  Do you know anything of the handwriting
Why, it is yours, of course, Dora
It is _not_ mine
Allow me to speak, Miss Russell.  I can best explain matters.  Annie,
during my absence some one has been guilty of a very base and wicked
act.  One of the girls in this school has gone secretly to Dora
Russell's desk, and taken away ten pages of an essay which she had
called &bquo;The River,' and which she was preparing for the prize
competition next month.  Instead of Dora's essay this that you now see
was put in its place.  Examine it, my dear.  Can you tell me anything
about it
Is it meant for a parody
it sounds
ridiculous.  No, Mrs Willis, I know nothing whatever about it; some one
has imitated Dora's handwriting.  I cannot imagine who is the culprit
I suppose it is meant for a clever parody
at least it
is amusing
We have not sent for you, Annie
to ask you your
opinion of the parody, but to try and get you to throw light on the
subject.  We must find out, and at once, who has been so wicked as to
deliberately injure another girl
But why have you sent for _me_
Because
because you alone can throw light on it -- because you alone in
the school are base enough to do anything so mean -- because you alone can
caricature
Oh, that is it
you suspect me, then.  Do _you_ suspect
me, Mrs Willis
My dear -- what can I say
Nothing, if you do.  In this school my word has long gone for nothing.
I am a naughty, headstrong, wilful girl, but in this matter I am
perfectly innocent.  I never saw that essay before; I never in all my
life went to Dora Russell's desk.  I am headstrong and wild, but I don't
do spiteful things.  I have no object in injuring Dora; she is nothing
to me -- nothing.  She is trying for the essay prize, but she has no
chance of winning it.  Why should I trouble myself to injure her? why
should I even take the pains to parody her words and copy her
handwriting?  Mrs Willis, you need not believe me -- I see you do not
believe me -- but I am quite innocent
I will do all I can for you, Dora
I will do everything in my power to find out who has
injured you.  Annie has absolutely denied the accusation you bring
against her, and unless her guilt can be proved it is but right to
believe her innocent.  There are many other girls in Lavender House; and
to-morrow morning I will sift this unpleasant affair to the very bottom.
Go, now, my dear, and if you have sufficient self-command and
self-control, try to have courage to write your essay over again.  I
have no doubt that your second rendering of your subject will be more
attractive than the first.  Beginners cannot too often re-write their
themes
I've had it all out with Mrs Willis, and there is no doubt she will be
exposed to-morrow morning
Who will be exposed
Oh, how stupid you are growing, Hester Thornton
why,
that horrid Annie Forest, of course -- but really I have no patience to
talk to you; you have lost all your spirit.  I was very foolish to
demean myself by taking so much notice of one of the little girls
Now, girls
you have each of you denied this
charge.  Such a thing as has happened to Dora could not have been done
without hands.  The teachers in the school are above suspicion; the
servants are none of them clever enough to perform this base trick.  I
suspect one of you, and I am quite determined to get at the truth.
During the whole of this half-year there has been a spirit of
unhappiness, of mischief, and of suspicion in our midst.  Under these
circumstances love cannot thrive; under these circumstances the true and
ennobling sense of brotherly kindness, and all those feelings which real
religion prompt must languish.  I tell you all now plainly that I will
not have this thing in Lavender House.  It is simply disgraceful for one
girl to play such tricks on her fellows.  This is not the first time nor
the second time that the school-desks have been tampered with.  I will
find out -- I am determined to find out, who this dishonest person is; and
as she has not chosen to confess to me, as she has preferred falsehood
to truth, I will visit her, when I do discover her, with my very gravest
displeasure.  In this school I have always endeavoured to inculcate the
true principles of honour and of trust.  I have laid down certain broad
rules, and expect them to be obeyed; but I have never hampered you with
petty and humiliating restraints.  I have given you a certain freedom,
which I believed to be for your best good, and I have never suspected
one of you until you have given me due cause.

"Now, however, I tell you plainly that I alter all my tactics.  One girl
sitting in this room is guilty.  For her sake I shall treat you all as
guilty, and punish you accordingly.  For the remainder of this term, or
until the hour when the guilty girl chooses to release her companions,
you are all, with the exception of the little children and Miss Russell,
who can scarcely have played this trick on herself, under punishment.  I
withdraw your half-holidays -- I take from you the use of the South
Parlour for your acting, and every drawing-room in the play-room is
confiscated.  But this, is not all that I do.  In taking from you my
trust, I must treat you as untrustworthy -- you will no longer enjoy the
liberty you used to delight in -- everywhere you will be watched.  A
teacher will sit in your play-room with you, a teacher will accompany
you into the grounds, and I tell you plainly, girls, that chance words
and phrases which drop from your lips shall be taken up, and used, if
necessary, to the elucidation of this disgraceful mystery
the muddy stream
Why should we try to conceal the thing
Susy, let's go, all of us, and tell the miserable truth to Mrs Willis;
it will be much the best way.  We did not do the other thing, and when
we have confessed about this our hearts will be at rest
No, we did not do the other thing
but confess about this, Annie Forest!-- I think
you are mad.  You dare not tell
All right
I won't, unless you all agree to it
Oh
she's not out and out shabby; she says she
won't tell unless we all wish it.  But what is to become of the basket
Come, come, young ladies; no whispering, if you please
Susan, you are looking pale and
cold, walk up and down that path half-a-dozen times, and then go into
the house.  Phyllis and Nora, you can come with me as far as the lodge.
I want to take a message from Mrs Willis to Mary Martin about the fowl
for to-morrow's dinner
What have you got to tempt me with to-day, Betty
You shall have it, my pretties -- you shall have it
You leave it
to Betty, my little loves; you leave it to Betty
Suppose she ran as fast as
possible to Betty's little cottage, and begged of the old woman to come
by the first light in the morning and fetch away the basket
Eh, dear -- and is that you, my pretty Missy
Oh, Betty, are you ill
I came to tell you you
have forgotten the basket
No, my dear, no -- not forgot.  By no means that, lovey; but I has been
took with the rheumatism this past week, and can't move hand nor foot.
I was wondering how you'd do without your cakes and tartlets, dear, and
to think of them cherries lying there good for nothing on the ground is
enough to break one's 'eart
So it is
They are beautiful cherries, and full of juice, I am sure.  I'll
take a few, Betty, as I am going out, and pay you for them another day.
But what I have come about now is the basket.  You must get the basket
away, however ill you are.  If the basket is discovered we are all lost,
and then good-bye to your gains
Well, Missy, dear, if I could crawl on my hands and knees I'd go and
fetch it, rather than you should be worried; but I can't set fool to the
ground at all.  The doctor says as 'tis somethink like rheumatic fever
as I has
Oh, dear, oh, dear
What _is_ to be done?
I tell you, Betty, if that basket is found we are all lost
But the laurel is very thick, lovey; it ain't likely to be found -- it
ain't, indeed
I tell you it _is_ likely to be found, you tiresome old woman, and you
really must go for it or send for it.  You really must
There's Moses
he's a
'cute little chap, and he might go.  He lives in the fourth cottage
along the lane.  Moses is his name -- Moses Moore.  I'd give him a pint of
cherries for the job.  If you wouldn't mind sending Moses to me, Miss
Susan, why, I'll do my best; only it seems a pity to let anybody into
your secrets, young ladies, but old Betty herself
It is a pity
but, under the circumstances, it can't be
helped.  What cottage did you say this Moses lived in
The fourth from here, down the lane, lovey -- Moses is the lad's name;
he's a freckled boy, with a cast in one eye.  You send him up to me,
dearie, but don't mention the cherries, or he'll be after stealing them.
He's a sad rogue, is Moses; but I think I can tempt him with the
cherries
good-bye
going down
hill
Annie, Annie
I owe everything to Mrs Willis;
we knew each other long ago when we were girls, and she has come to me
now and made everything easy.  When I am gone she will take care of you.
Oh, my child, I cannot repay her; but will you try
Yes, mother
I'll -- I'll love her, mother; I'll give her
lots and lots of love
Me tumming -- me tumming, Annie
Me yiding from naughty nurse -- me 'tay with 'oo, Annie -- me love 'oo,
Annie
Why ky
dere, poor ickle Annie -- me love 'oo -- me buy 'oo a new doll
Dearest little darling
Come, Nan
you and I will have such a race
Who dat
Go 'way, naughty woman
A pretty little dear
Yes, truly now, a pretty little
winsome dear; and oh, what shoes! and little open-work socks! and I
don't doubt real lace trimming on all her little garments -- I don't doubt
it a bit
Go 'way -- me don't like 'oo
Let's wun back -- gee, gee
Yes, Nan; in one minute
Please, Mother Rachel, what are
you doing here
Only waiting to see you, pretty Missie
You
are the dear little lady who crossed my hand with silver that night in
the wood.  Eh, but it was a bonny night, with a bonny bright moon, and
none of the dear little ladies meant any harm -- no, no.  Mother Rachel
knows that
Look here
I'm not going to be afraid of you.  I have no
more silver to give you.  If you like, you may go up to the house and
tell what you have seen.  I am very unhappy, and whether you tell or not
can make very little difference to me now.  Good-night; I am not the
least afraid of you -- you can do just as you please about telling Mrs
Willis
Eh, my dear
do you think I'd work you any harm -- you,
and the seven other dear little ladies?  No, not for the world, my
dear -- not for the world.  You don't know Mother Rachel when you think
she'd be that mean
Well, don't come here again
Good-night
Go 'way, naughty woman -- Nan don't love 'oo, 'tall, 'tall
Oh, no
the little Missy thinks she
ain't afraid of me; but she be.  Trust Mother Rachel for knowing that
much.  I make no doubt
that the little one's
clothes are trimmed with real lace.  Well, little Missie Annie Forest, I
can see with half an eye that you set store by that baby-girl.  You had
better not cross Mother Rachel's whims, or she can punish you in a way
you don't think of
My own wish is that this should be found out.  As a matter of course, I
sha'n't betray you, girls; but as things now stand I am anxious that
Mrs Willis should know the very worst of me
Give me the b-basket
and let me g-g-go
You may certainly go, you little tramp
but Jim and me
will keep the basket.  I much misdoubt me if there isn't mischief here.
What's the basket put hiding here for, and who does it belong to
Old B-B-Betty
Well, let old Betty fetch it herself.  Mrs Willis will keep it for
her
Come along, Jim, get to your weeding, do.  There,
little scamp, you had better make yourself scarce
There's been deep work going on, Jim, and my Missis ought to know
A soul which has sinned and is pardoned again
Oh, Susy, I do wish Mrs Willis could know about our going to the
fairy-field; I do so want God to forgive me
I think you have quite taken leave of your senses, Annie Forest
A soul which has sinned and is pardoned again
I want to ask you a question, Miss Drummond.  Will you please just
stand up in your place in class and answer me without a moment's
hesitation
Yes, madam
My friends, the Misses Bruce, came to call on me yesterday evening,
Susan, and told me that they saw you running very quickly on the high
road in the direction of the village.  You, of course, know that you
broke a very distinct rule when you left the grounds without leave.
Tell me at once where you were going
I was going to see old Betty
The cake-woman
Yes
What for
I -- I heard she was ill
Indeed -- you may sit down.  Miss Drummond.  Miss Good, will you ask
Michael to step for a moment into the school-room
Michael
I wish you to tell the young ladies
exactly how you found the basket this morning.  Stand by my side,
please, and speak loud enough for them to hear
That will do, Michael; you can now go
It is not quite a fortnight since I stood where I now stand, and asked
one girl to be honourable and to save her companions.  One girl was
guilty of sin and would not confess, and for her sake all her companions
are now suffering.  I am tired of this sort of thing -- I am tired of
standing in this place and appealing to your honour, which is dead, to
your truth, which is nowhere.  Girls, you puzzle me -- you half break my
heart.  In this case more than one is guilty.  How many of the girls in
Lavender House are going to tell me a lie this morning
I am the most guilty of all
Annie
have
you come to your senses at last
Oh, I'm so glad to be able to speak the truth
Please
punish me very, very hard; I am the most guilty of all
What did you do with this basket
We took it for a picnic -- it was my plan, I led the others
Where was your picnic
In the fairies' field
Ah!  At what time
At night -- in the middle of the night -- the night you went to London
I trusted my girls
You had companions in this wickedness -- name them
Yes, I had companions; I led them on
Name them, Miss Forest
Oh, won't they tell
themselves
Susan Drummond
come here
Susan
I don't ask you if you are guilty; I fear,
poor miserable girl, that if I did you would load your conscience with a
fresh lie.  I don't ask you if you are guilty because I know you are.
The fact of your running without leave to see old Betty is
circumstantial evidence.  I judge you by that and pronounce you guilty.
Now, young ladies, you who have treated me so badly, who have betrayed
my trust, who have been wanting in honour, I must think, I must ask God
to teach me how to deal with you.  In the meantime, you cannot associate
with your companions.  Miss Good, will you take each of these eight
girls to their bedrooms
Ah, Cecil! is that you
I am always glad to see
you, dear; but I happen to be particularly busy to-night.  Have you
anything in particular to say to me
I only wanted to talk about Annie, Mrs Willis.  You believe in her at
last, don't you
Believe in her at last
No, Cecil, my dear; you ask too much of my
faith.  I do not believe in Annie
Perhaps
you have not seen
her since this morning
No; I have been particularly busy.  Besides, the eight culprits are
under punishment; part of their punishment is that I will not see them
Don't you think, Mrs Willis
that Annie made rather a
brave confession this morning
I admit, my dear, that Annie spoke in somewhat of her old impulsive
way; she blamed herself, and did not try to screen her -- misdemeanours
behind her companions.  In this one particular she reminded me of the
old Annie who, notwithstanding all her faults.  I used to trust and
love.  But as to her confession being very brave, my dear Cecil, you
must remember that she did not _confess_ until she was obliged; she
knew, and so did all the other girls, that I could have got the truth
out of old Betty had they chosen to keep their lips sealed.  Then, my
dear, consider what she did.  On the very night that I was away she
violated the trust I had in her -- she bade me &bquo;good-bye' with smiles and
sweet glances, and then she did this in my absence.  No, Cecil, I fear
poor Annie is not what we thought her.  She has done untold mischief
during the half-year, and has willfully lied and deceived me.  I find,
on comparing dates, that it was on the very night of the girls picnic
that Dora's theme was changed.  There is no doubt whatever that Annie
was the guilty person.  I did my best to believe in her, and to depend
on Mr Everard's judgment of her character, but I confess I can do so no
longer.  Cecil, dear, I am not surprised that you look pale and sad.
No, we will not give up this poor Annie; we will try to love her even
through her sin.  Ah! poor child, poor child! how much I have prayed for
her!  She was to me as a child of my own.  Now, dear Cecil, I must ask
you to leave me
I can't get Mrs Willis to see it
What
Why, that we have got our old Annie back again; that she did take the
girls out to that picnic, and was as wild, and reckless, and naughty as
possible about it; and then, just like the old Annie I have always
known, the moment the fun was over she began to repent, and that she has
gone on repenting ever since, which has accounted for her poor, sad
little face and white cheeks.  Of course she longed to tell -- Nora and
Phyllis have told me so -- but she would not betray them.  Now at last
there is a load off her heart, and, though she is in great disgrace and
punishment, she is not very unhappy.  I went to see her an hour ago, and
I saw in her face that my own darling Annie has returned.  But what do
you think Mrs Willis does, Hester?  She is so hurt and disappointed,
that she believes Annie is guilty of the other thing -- she believes that
Annie stole Dora's theme, and that she caricatured her in my book some
time ago.  She believes it -- she is sure of it.  Now, do you think,
Hester, that Annie's face would look quite peaceful and happy to-night
if she had only confessed half her faults -- if she had this meanness,
this sin, these lies still resting on her soul?  Oh!  I wish Mrs Willis
would see her!  I wish -- I wish I but I can do nothing.  You agree with
me, don't you, Hester?  Just put yourself in Annie's place, and tell me
if _you_ would feel happy, and if your heart would be at rest, if you
had only confessed half your sin, and if through you all your
school-fellows were under disgrace and suspicion?  You could not, could
you, Hester?  Why, Hester, how white you are
You are so metaphysical
you quite puzzle me.
How can I put myself in your friend Annie's place?  I never understood
her -- I never wanted to.  Put myself in her place?-- no, certainly that
I'm never likely to.  I hope that I shall never be in such a
predicament
The present fun is not worth the after-pain
It is an old saying that stolen waters are sweet, but only at the time:
afterwards only those who drink of them know the full extent of their
bitterness
She still refuses to confess her sin
but, unless
another girl proclaims herself guilty, and proves to me beyond doubt
that she drew the caricature which was found in Cecil Temple's book, and
that she changed Dora Russell's essay, and, imitating her hand, put
another in its place, I proclaim the guilty person to be Annie Forest,
and on her alone I visit my displeasure.  You can retire to your rooms,
young ladies.  To-morrow morning Lavender House resumes its old
cheerfulness
Me so 'nug, 'nug
Oh, Hetty, Hetty, there's a wy on
the teiling
Me like wies
and me like 'oo, Hetty, and me love -- me love
Annie
She is nothing, after all, but a charity child, and Mrs Willis has
supported her for years for nothing
Yes, and she's too clever by half; eh, poor old Muddy Stream
By the way, Dora, dear, how goes the river now?--
has it lost itself in the arms of mother ocean yet
There, I have silenced her for a bit; I do hate the way she talks about
charity children.  Whatever her faults, Annie is the sweetest and
prettiest girl in the school, in my opinion
I hear say that that naughty Miss Forest has done something out-and-out
disgraceful
Oh, don't
Why should everyone throw mud at
a girl when she is down?  If poor Annie is naughty and guilty, she is
suffering now
Annie _not_ naughty
Me love my own Annie; me do,
me do
And you love your own poor old nurse, too
Oh, Hester, Hester
What is the matter, Susan
What
have you come into my room for?  Are you going into a fit of hysterics?
You had better control yourself, for the dinner gong will sound
directly
Now I can speak
I ran so fast that my breath quite left
me.  Hester, put on your walking things or go without them, just as you
please -- only go at once if you would save her
Save whom
Your little sister -- little Nan.  I -- I saw it all.  I was in the
hammock, and nobody knew I was there, and somehow I wasn't so sleepy as
usual, and I heard Nan's voice, and I looked over the side of the
hammock, and she was sitting on the grass picking daisies, and her nurse
was with her, and presently you came up.  I heard you calling me, but I
wasn't going to answer.  I felt too comfortable.  You stayed with Nan
and her nurse for a little, and then went away; and I heard Nan's nurse
say to her: &bquo;Sit here, Missy, till I come back to you; I am going to
fetch another reel of sewing cotton from the house.  Sit still, Missy;
I'll be back directly.'  She went away, and Nan went on picking her
daisies.  All on a sudden I heard Nan give a sharp little cry, and I
looked over the hammock, and there was a tall dark woman, with such a
wicked face, and she snatched up Nan in her arms, and put a thick shawl
over her face, and ran off with her.  It was all done in an instant.  I
shouted, and I scrambled out of the hammock, and I rushed down the path;
but there wasn't a sign of anybody there.  I don't know where the woman
went -- it seemed as if the earth swallowed up both her and little Nan.
Why, Hester, are you going to faint
Water
one sip -- now let me go
Without any doubt
we shall soon have our little
Nan back again; it is quite impossible that the woman, whoever she is,
can have taken her so far away in so short a time
Oh, something so dreadful
a wicked, wicked woman has
stolen little Nan Thornton.  She ran off with her just where the
undergrowth is so thick at the end of the shady walk.  It happened to
her half an hour ago, and they are all looking, but they cannot find the
woman or little Nan anywhere.  Oh, it is so dreadful!  Is that you,
Mary
The gipsy
the tall, dark gipsy has taken little Nan
Dear Mother-friend,-- However badly you think of Annie, Annie loves you
with all her heart.  Forgive me, I must go myself to look for little
Nan.  That tall, dark woman is a gipsy -- I have seen her before; her name
is Mother Rachel.  Tell Hetty I won't return until I bring her little
sister back.-- Your repentant and sorrowful Annie
Look here
I want to make such a pretty play by-and-by -- I
want to play that I'm a gipsy girl.  Will you give me your clothes, if I
give you mine?  See, mine are neat, and this sash is very handsome.
Will you have them?  Do.  I am so anxious to play at being a gipsy
The little lady wants to change
You don't mean it, surely
Eh, but I'm uncommon willing
Yes, I certainly mean it
You are a dear, good, obliging
girl, and how nice you will look in my pretty blue cotton!  I like that
striped petticoat of yours, too, and that gay handkerchief you wear
round your shoulders.  Thank you so very much.  Now, do I look like a
real, real gipsy
Your hair ain't ragged enough, miss
Oh, clip it, then; clip it away.  I want to be quite the real thing.
Have you got a pair of scissors
Now, miss, you look much more like, only your arms are a bit too white.
Stay, we has got some walnut-juice; we was just a-using of it.  I'll
touch you up fine, miss
You're, a dear, good girl
What can I
get for you, miss
Go away at once, little girl; we don't allow beggars here; leave the
shop instantly.  No, I have nothing for you
Here is a penny for you, little girl
You can get a nice
hunch of stale bread for a penny in the shop at the corner of the High
Street
My dear
did you notice the
extraordinary likeness that little gipsy girl bore to Annie Forest
Not particularly, love
but I
scarcely looked at her.  I wonder if our dear little Annie is any
happier than she was.  Ah, I think we have done here.  Good afternoon,
Mrs Tremlett
You're one of the gipsies, my dear
I saw them
passing in their caravans an hour back.  No doubt you are for taking up
your old quarters in the copse, just alongside of Squire Thompson's long
acre field.  How is it you are not with the rest of them, child
I was late in starting
Can you tell me the best way to
get from here to the long acre field
Oh! you take that turn-stile, child, and keep in the narrow path by the
cornfields; it's two miles and a half from here as the crow flies.  No,
no, my dear, I don't want your pennies; but you might humour my little
girl here by telling her fortune -- she's wonderful taken by the gipsy
folk
Eh! but that's a fine lot, is yours, Peggy
She didn't tell no proper fortune
She didn't speak about no crosses, and no biting
disappointments, and no bleeding wounds.  I don't believe in her, I
don't.  I like fortunes mixed, not all one way; them fortunes ain't
natural, and I don't believe she's no proper gipsy girl
Annie has gone herself to bring back Nan to you, Hester
It was I told her, and I know now by her face that she must have made
up her mind at once
Very disobedient of her to go
Disobedient or not, it was brave -- it was really very plucky
It is my opinion
that if anyone in the world can find
little Nan it will be Annie.  You remember.  Phyllis, how often she has
talked to us about gipsies, and what a lot she knows about them
Oh, yes; she'll be better than fifty policemen
You'll have to love Annie now; you'll
have to admit that there is something good in our Annie when she brings
your little Nan home again
There is no news yet, Hester
but Mrs Willis has just
gone herself into Sefton, and will not lose an hour in getting further
help.  Mrs Willis looks quite haggard.  Of course she is very anxious
both about Annie and Nan
Oh, Annie is safe enough
I don't know; Annie is very impulsive, and very pretty; the gipsies may
like to steal her too -- of course she has gone straight to one of their
encampments.  Naturally Mrs Willis is most anxious
We are all so sorry for you, dear
Thank you -- being sorry for one does not do a great deal of good, does
it
I thought sympathy always did good
Thank you
Oh!  I can't bear it -- little Nan, little Nan!  Cecil, I am very, very
unhappy
I know it, darling
Oh, Hester! don't turn away from me; do let us be unhappy
together
But you did not care for Nan
I did -- we all loved the pretty darling
Suppose I never see her again
Oh, Cecil!
and mother left her to me! mother gave her to me to take care of, and to
bring to her some day in heaven.  Oh, little Nan, my pretty, my love, my
sweet!  I think I could better bear her being dead than this
You could, Hester
if she was never to be found; but I
don't think God will give you such a terrible punishment.  I think
little Nan will be restored to you.  Let us ask God to do it, Hetty -- let
us kneel down now, we two little girls, and pray to Him with all our
might
I can't pray; don't ask me
Then I will
But not here, Cecil.  Cecil, I am not good -- I am not good enough to
pray
We don't want to be good to pray
We want perhaps to be
unhappy -- perhaps sorry; but if God waited just for goodness, I don't
think He would get many prayers
Well, I am unhappy, but not sorry.  No, no; don't ask me, I cannot
pray
good-night
What is the matter?  Is that you, Hester Thornton?  Have you got any
news of little Nan?  Has Annie come back
No, they are both still away.  Susy, I want to speak to you
Dear me! what for? must you speak in the middle of the night
Yes, for I don't want anyone else to know.  Oh, Susan, please don't go
to sleep
My dear, I won't, if I can help it.  Do you mind throwing a little cold
water over my face and head?  There is a can by the bed-side.  I always
keep one handy.  Ah, thanks -- now I am wide awake.  I shall probably
remain so for about two minutes.  Can you get your say over in that
time
I wonder, Susan
if you have got any heart -- but heart or
not, I have just come here to-night to tell you that I have found you
out.  You are at the bottom of all this mischief about Annie Forest
Oh, you are mean
You pretend to be innocent, but you are
the deepest and wickedest girl in the school.  I tell you, Susan, I have
found you out -- you put that caricature of Mrs Willis into Cecil's book;
you changed Dora's theme.  I don't know why you did it, nor how you did
it, but you are the guilty person, and you have allowed the sin of it to
remain on Annie's shoulders all this time.  Oh, you are the very meanest
girl I ever heard of
Dear, dear
I wish I had not asked you to throw cold
water over my head and face, and allow myself to be made very wet and
uncomfortable, just to be told I am the meanest girl you ever met.  And
pray what affair is this of yours?  You certainly don't love Annie
Forest
I don't, but I want justice to be done to her.  Annie is very, very
unhappy.  Oh, Susy, won't you go and tell Mrs Willis the truth
Really, my dear Hester, I think you are a little mad.  How long have
you known all this about me, pray
Oh, for some time since -- since the night the essay was changed
Ah, then, if what you stale is true, you told Mrs Willis a lie, for
she distinctly asked you if you knew anything about the &bquo;Muddy Stream,'
and you said you didn't.  I saw you -- I remarked how very red you got
when you plumped out that great lie!  My dear, if I am the meanest and
wickedest girl in the school, prove it -- go, tell Mrs Willis what you
know.  Now, if you will allow me, I will get back into the land of
dreams
A soul which has sinned and is pardoned again
Please, my Father in heaven,
help me to find little Nan
Poor
fellow
Come, poor fellow
Stay with me, dear dog
We want a woman who calls herself Mother Rachel
She
belongs to this encampment.  We know her: let her come forward at once;
we wish to question her
We must search the tents.  We won't stir from the spot until we have
had an interview with Mother Rachel
Mother Rachel
Come, Tiger
Mother Rachel!  Mother Rachel
Tiger
I want to go right down into that hole in the
ground, and you are to come with me.  Don't let us lose a moment, good
dog
Go first, Tiger, please
We'll go on, Tiger
Thank God
Me want to go home -- go 'way, naughty woman, me want my Annie
Little darling
Turn in, Annie -- me here, Annie -- little Nan want 'oo
Coming, darling
Now, little precious, we will get out of this as fast as we can
Turn, Annie -- turn home, Annie
Tiger
Nan and I want to go out of this
We are hungry, Tiger, and we want something to eat, and you'd like a
bone, wouldn't you
There's no use going back that way, dear dog
The door is
fastened, Tiger, and we can't get out.  We can't get out because the
door is shut
Now, Tiger
we must get out.  Nan and I are hungry, and you want your bone.  Take
us out the other way, good Tiger -- the other way, dear dog
The other way
Quite right, Tiger, we won't go that way
Find a way -- And a way out, Tiger
Oh, Tiger
Come, Nan
Tiger has saved us; these steps must
lead us out
Me want my bekfas', me want my nursie, me want Hetty
Oh, Nan
have you not got your own Annie?
Oh, Nan, dear little Nan, Annie feels so ill
Oo better now
Yes, darling
we will try and get home.  Come, Tiger.
Tiger, dear, I don't want to go back to the gipsies; take me the other
way -- take me to Oakley
Where 'oo s'oes
Gone, Nan -- gone.  Never mind, I've got you.  My little treasure, my
little love, you're safe at last
Mother
I said she warn't a real gipsy: she's a-coming
back, and her face is all streaked like, and she has a little 'un along
with her, and a dawg, and the only one as is gipsy is the dawg.  Come
and look at her, mother; oh, she is a fine take-in
Cross the road, and come to the stile, mother
oh, there she be a-creeping along -- oh, ain't she a take-in
Sakes alive
the girl is ill! why, she
can't keep herself steady!  There!  I knew she'd fall; ah! poor little
thing -- poor little thing
When the little one is found, Miss Hetty will be quite well again
That girl has got something on her mind; she is grieving for more than
the loss of her little sister
I don't think the doctor is satisfied about Hester.  Perhaps I ought
not to have listened, but I heard him talking to Miss Danesbury just
now; he said she must be got to sleep somehow, and she is to have a
composing draught to-night
I wish poor Hetty would not turn away from us all
I wish
she would not quite give up hope; I do feel sure that Nan and Annie will
be found yet
Have you been praying about it, Cecil
Do you say this because you have faith
I have prayed, and I have faith
Why, Dora, what is the matter
Only that it's horrid to leave like this
I -- I thought my
last day at school would have been so different, and somehow I am sorry
I spoke so much against that poor little Annie
Thank you, Dora
I love you for those words
Here comes Susy
I really don't think
_anything_ would move Susy; she's just as stolid and indifferent as
ever.  Ah, Susy, here's a place for you -- oh, what _is_ the matter with
Phyllis? see how she's rushing toward us!  Phyllis, my dear, don't break
your neck
I think
I really, really do think that news has come
of Annie's father.  Nora said that Janet told her that a foreign letter
came this morning to Mrs Willis, and somebody saw Mrs Willis talking
to Miss Danesbury -- oh, I forgot, only I know that the girls of the
school are whispering the news that Mrs Willis cried, and Miss
Danesbury said, &bquo;After waiting for him four years, and now, when he
comes back, he won't find her!'  Oh, dear, oh, dear! there is Danesbury.
Cecil, darling love, go to her, and find out the truth
It is true
there came a letter this morning from
Captain Forest; he will be at Lavender House in a week.  Miss Danesbury
says it is a wonderful letter, and he has been shipwrecked, and on an
island by himself for ever so long; but he is safe now, and will soon be
in England.  Miss Danesbury says Mrs Willis can scarcely speak about
that letter; she is in great, great trouble, and Miss Danesbury
confesses that they are all more anxious than they dare to admit about
Annie and little Nan
Only the little Misses Bruce in their basket-carriage -- what
dull-looking women they are
Hetty
News has come
news -- news at last!  Nan is found!-- and
Annie -- they are both found -- but Annie is dying.  Come, Susan, come this
moment; we must both tell what we know now
I -- I must speak to you
Susan and I have got something to say, and we must say it here, now at
once
No, not now, Hester
Whatever you and Susan Drummond have to
tell cannot be listened to by me at this moment.  I have not an instant
to lose
You are going to Annie
Yes; don't keep me.  Good-bye, my dears; good-bye
Take us with you, take Susy and me with you -- we must we must see Annie
before she dies
Hush, my child
try to calm yourself.
Whatever you have got to say shall be listened to later on -- now moments
are precious, and I cannot attend to you.  Calm yourself, Hester, and
thank God for your dear little sister's safety.  Prepare yourself to
receive her, for the carriage which takes me to Annie will bring little
Nan home
I may go now, I suppose, Hester?  You are not quite determined to make
a fool of me, are you
I have determined to expose you, you coward, you mean, mean girl
Come, I have no idea of
letting you go.  Mrs Willis won't listen -- we will find Mr Everard
I thought it best, my dear
to go at once for our good clergyman; you can tell him all that
is in your heart, and I will leave you.  Before I go, however.  I should
like to tell you how I found Annie and little Nan
The story can be told in a few words, dear
A
work-woman of the name of Williams, whom my sister and I have employed
for years, and who lives near Oakley, called on us this morning to
apologise for not being able to finish some needlework.  She told us
that she had a sick child, and also a little girl of three, in her
house.  She said she had found the child, in ragged gipsy garments,
fainting in a field.  She took her into her house, and, on undressing
her, found that she was no true gipsy, but that her face and hands and
arms had been dyed; she said the little one had been treated in a
similar manner.  Jane's suspicions and mine were instantly roused, and
we went back with the woman to Oakley, and round, as we had anticipated,
that the children were little Nan and Annie.  The sad thing is that
Annie is in high fever, and knows no one.  We waited there until the
doctor arrived, who spoke very, very seriously of her case.  Little Nan
is well, and asked for you
Now, Susan
come, let us
tell Mr Everard of our wickedness.  Oh, sir
if Annie dies I shall go mad.  Oh, I
cannot, cannot bear life if Annie dies
Tell me what is wrong, my poor child
From the day Nan was lost
it has been all agony
and all repentance; but, oh, I was too proud to tell!  I was too proud
to humble myself to the very dust
But not now
No, no; not now.  I care for nothing now in all the world except that
Annie may live
You don't mind the fact that Mrs Willis and all your school-fellows
must know of this, and must -- must judge you accordingly
They can't think worse of me than I think of myself.  I only want Annie
to live
No, Hester
you want more than that -- you want
far more than that.  It may be that God will take Annie Forest away.  We
cannot tell.  With Him alone are the issues of life or death.  What you
really want, my child, is the forgiveness of the little girl you have
wronged, and the forgiveness of your Father in heaven
If -- if she dies -- may I see her first
Yes; I will try and promise you that.  Now, will you go to your room?
I must speak to Miss Drummond alone; she is a far worse culprit than
you
Meet me in the chapel to-night
I will
talk with you and pray with you there
This narrative of Hester Thornton's is, of course, quite true, Miss
Drummond
Oh, yes; there seems to be no use in denying that
I must insist on your telling me the exact story of your sin.  There is
no use in your attempting to deny anything; only the utmost candour on
your part can now save you from being publicly expelled
I am willing to tell
I meant no harm; it was done
as a bit of fun.  I had a cousin at home who was very clever at drawing
caricatures, and I happened to have nothing to do one day, and I was
alone in Annie's bedroom, and I thought I'd like to see what she kept in
her desk.  I always had a fancy for collecting odd keys, and I found one
on my bunch which fitted her desk exactly.  I opened it, and I found
such a smart little caricature of Mrs Willis.  I sent the caricature to
my cousin, and begged of her to make an exact copy of it.  She did so,
and I put Annie's back in her desk, and pasted the other into Cecil's
book.  I didn't like Dora Russell, and I wrapped up the sweeties in her
theme; but I did the other for pure fun, for I knew Cecil would be so
shocked; but I never guessed the blame would fall on Annie.  When I
found it did, I felt inclined to tell once or twice, but it seemed too
much trouble, and, besides, I knew Mrs Willis would punish me, and, of
course, I didn't wish that.

"Dora Russell was always very nasty to me, and when I found she was
putting on such airs, and pretending she could write such a grand essay
for the prize, I thought I'd take down her pride a bit.  I went to her
desk, and I got some of the rough copy of the thing she was calling &bquo;The
River,' and I sent it off to my cousin, and my cousin made up such a
ridiculous paper, and she hit off Dora's writing to the life, and, of
course, I had to put it into Dora's desk and tear up her real copy.  It
was very unlucky Hester being in the room.  Of course I never guessed
that, or I wouldn't have gone.  That was the night we all went with
Annie to the fairies' field.  I never meant to get Hester into a scrape,
nor Annie either, for that matter; but, of course, I couldn't be
expected to tell on myself
I took a great deal of trouble
It was really nothing but a joke, and I don't
see why such a fuss should have been made.  I know I lost a great deal
of sleep trying to manage that twine business round my foot.  I don't
think I shall trouble myself playing any more tricks upon school-girls --
they are not worth it
You'll never play any more tricks on these girls
I take it upon
me, in the absence of your mistress, to pronounce your punishment.  You
leave Lavender House in disgrace this evening.  Miss Good will take you
home, and explain to your parents the cause of your dismissal.  You are
not to see _any_ of your school-fellows again.  Your meanness, your
cowardice, your sin require no words on my part to deepen their
vileness.  Through pure wantonness you have cast a cruel shadow on an
innocent young life.  If that girl dies, you indeed are not blameless in
the cause of her early removal, for through you her heart and spirit
were broken.  Miss Drummond, I pray God you may at least repent and be
sorry.  There are some people mentioned in the Bible who are spoken of
as past feeling.  Wretched girl, while there is yet time, pray that you
may not belong to them.  Now I must leave you, but I shall lock you in.
Miss Good will come for you in about an hour to take you away
She has no call on you
Why should you put yourself out just for a sick lass?
and she'll be much better on in the workhouse infirmary
Eh
but the poor lamb needs a good bit of mothering, and I
misdoubt me she wouldn't get much of that in the infirmary
I didn't make that caricature; I took the girls into the fairies'
field, but I never pasted that caricature into Cecil's book.  I know you
don't believe me, Cecil; but do you think I would really do anything so
mean about one whom I love?  No, no!  I am innocent!  God knows it.
Yes, I am glad of that -- God knows it
God knows I am innocent
I have found out the truth about Annie; I have come at once to tell
you
God help me for having misjudged her
good-night
They believe me
guilty -- Mrs Willis does -- they all do
Not now, my dear
God has shown your governess the truth, and she believes in you
Is that really you
I am here, my darling
And you believe in me
I do most absolutely
God does, too, you know
They believe me
guilty
I know you
are innocent
Is this Lavender House, little girl
Yes, sir
And can you tell me -- but of course you know -- you are one of the young
ladies who live here, eh
Then you can tell me if Mrs Willis is at home -- but of course she is
No, sir
I am sorry to tell you that Mrs Willis is
away.  She has been called away on very, very sad business; she won't
come back to-night
See, here, Miss
Thornton
Yes, Miss -- Miss Thornton, perhaps you can manage for me as well as Mrs
Willis; after all I don't particularly want to see her.  If you belong
to Lavender House, you, of course, know my -- I mean you have a
school-mate here, a little, pretty gipsy rogue called Forest -- little
Annie Forest.  I want to see her -- can you take me to her
You are her father
Yes, my dear child, I am her father.  Now you can take me to her at
once
Oh, I cannot
I cannot take you to Annie.  Oh, sir, if you
knew all, you would feel inclined to kill me.  Don't ask me about
Annie -- don't, don't
Me'll lake 'oo to my Annie
mine poor Annie.  Annie's vedy
sick, but me'll take 'oo
Sick, is she
Look here young lady
whatever you have got to say, I am sure you will try and say
it; you will pity a father's anxiety and master your own feelings.
Where _is_ my little girl
She is in a cottage near Oakley, sir
Indeed!  Oakley is some miles from here
And she is very ill
What of
Fever; they -- they fear she may die
Take me to her
If she is ill and dying she wants
me.  Take me to her at once.  Here, jump on the dog-cart; and, little
one, you shall come too
Hester
you here?  I was coming for you
Oh, then she is worse
She is conscious, and has asked for you.  Yes, she is very, very ill
Mr Everard, this gentleman is Annie's father
You have come back at a sad hour, sir
But no, it cannot
harm her to see you.  Come with me
Oh, if you would only spare Annie
She sleeps
there is a shadow of hope.  Little Nan has done
it.  Nan asked to lie down beside her and she said, &bquo;Poor Annie! poor
Annie!' and stroked her cheek; and in some way, I don't know how, the
two have gone to sleep together.  Annie did not even glance at her
father; she was quite taken up with Nan.  You can come to the door and
look at her, Hester
I -- I could even give her the heart of little Nan to keep her here
My dears
I intend now, before our first day of lessons
begins, to distribute those prizes which would have been yours, under
ordinary circumstances, on the twenty-first of June.  The prizes will be
distributed during the afternoon recess: but here, and now, I wish to
say something about -- and also to give away -- the prize for English
composition.  Six essays, all written with more or less care, have been
given to me to inspect.  There are reasons which we need not now go into
which made it impossible to me to say anything in favour of a theme
called &bquo;The River,' written by my late pupil, Miss Russell: but I can
cordially praise a very nice historical sketch of Marie Antoinette, the
work of Hester Thornton.  Mary Price has also written a study which
pleases me much, as it shows thought and even a little originality.  The
remainder of the six essays simply reach an ordinary average.  You will
be surprised therefore, my dears, to learn that I do not award the prize
to any of these themes, but rather to a seventh composition, which was
put into my hands yesterday by Miss Danesbury.  It is crude and
unfinished, and doubtless but for her recent illness would have received
many corrections: but these few pages, which are called &bquo;A Lonely
Child,' drew tears from my eyes; crude as they are, they have the merit
of real originality.  They are too morbid to read to you, girls, and I
sincerely trust and pray the young writer may never pen anything so sad
again.  Such as they are, however, they rank first in the order of
merit, and the prize is hers.  Annie, my dear, come forward
After all, think of our Annie Forest turning out clever, as well as
being the prettiest and dearest girl in the school I exclaimed several
or her companions
Only I do wish
that Mrs Willis had let us see the essay.
Annie, treasure, come here; tell us what the &bquo;Lonely Child' was about
I don't remember
I don't know what loneliness means
now, so how can I describe it
</text>
