<text>
T IS OPPORTUNE TO LOOK BACK UPON OLD TIMES, AND
     CONTEMPLATE OUR FOREFATHERS.  GREAT EXAMPLES GROW
     THIN, AND TO BE FETCHED FROM THE PASSED WORLD.
     SIMPLICITY FLIES AWAY, AND INIQUITY COMES AT LONG
     STRIDES UPON US
just choosing so
Where's Harold
Oh, he's just playin' muffin-man, as usual
Fancy wanting to be a muffin-man on a whole holiday
And Edward, where is he
He's coming along by the road
He'll be crouching
in the ditch when we get there, and he's going to be a grizzly bear and
spring out on us, only you mustn't say I told you, 'cos it's to be a
surprise
All right
Come on and let's be surprised
What would you do
what would you do if you saw two lions in the road, one on each
side, and you didn't know if they was loose or if they was chained up
Do
I should -- I should -- I should
Dunno what I should do
Shouldn't do anything
If it came to DOING
the lions would
do all the doing there was to do, wouldn't they
But if they was GOOD lions
they would do as they
would be done by
Ah, but how are you to know a good lion from a bad one
The books don't tell you at all, and the lions ain't marked any
different
Why, there aren't any good lions
Oh yes, there are, heaps and heaps
Nearly all
the lions in the story-books are good lions. There was Androcles' lion,
and St. Jerome's lion, and -- and -- the Lion and the Unicorn
He beat the Unicorn
all round the town
That PROVES he was a good lion
But the
question is, how are you to tell 'em when you see 'em
_I_ should ask Martha
Look here
let's play at lions, anyhow, and I'll run on to that corner and
be a lion,-- I'll be two lions, one on each side of the road,-- and
you'll come along, and you won't know whether I'm chained up or not, and
that'll be the fun
No, thank you
you'll be chained up till
I'm quite close to you, and then you'll be loose, and you'll tear me in
pieces, and make my frock all dirty, and p'raps you'll hurt me as well.
_I_ know your lions
No, I won't; I swear I won't
I'll be quite a new
lion this time,-- something you can't even imagine
Take me for guide to-day
Other holidays you have tramped it in the track of the
stolid, unswerving sun; a belated truant, you have dragged a weary foot
homeward with only a pale, expressionless moon for company. To-day
why not I, the trickster, the hypocrite? I, who whip round corners and
bluster, relapse and evade, then rally and pursue! I can lead you the
best and rarest dance of any; for I am the strong capricious one, the
lord of misrule, and I alone am irresponsible and unprincipled, and obey
no law
Death-in-Life
Life-in-Death
like a fountain's sickening pulse
Well, h' are y' all
Glad to see me, eh
I took the old fellow to the station
and as we went along
I told him all about the station-master's family, and how I had seen
the porter kissing our housemaid, and what a nice fellow he was, with
no airs, or affectation about him, and anything I thought would be of
interest; but he didn't seem to pay much attention, but walked along
puffing his cigar, and once I thought -- I'm not certain, but I THOUGHT -- I
heard him say, 'Well, thank God, that's over!' When we got to the
station he stopped suddenly, and said, 'Hold on a minute!' Then he
shoved these into my hand in a frightened sort of way; and said, 'Look
here, youngster! These are for you and the other kids. Buy what you
like -- make little beasts of yourselves -- only don't tell the old people,
mind! Now cut away home!' So I cut
I didn't know
that there were such good men
anywhere in the world. I hope he'll die to-night, for then he'll go
straight to heaven
I'll tell you what we'll do
We'll christen the piebald pig after
him -- the one that hasn't got a name yet. And that'll show we're sorry
for our mistake
I -- I christened that pig this morning
I
christened it after the curate. I'm very sorry -- but he came and bow'ed
to me last night, after you others had all been sent to bed early -- and
somehow I felt I HAD to do it
Oh, but that doesn't count
because we weren't
all there. We'll take that christening off, and call it Uncle William.
And you can save up the curate for the next litter
Let's pretend
that we're Cavaliers and Roundheads;
and YOU be a Roundhead
O bother
we pretended that yesterday; and it's
not my turn to be a Roundhead, anyhow
Well, then
let's pretend we're Knights of the Round
Table; and (with a rush) _I'll_ be Lancelot
I won't play unless I'm Lancelot
O PLEASE
You know when Edward's here I never get a
chance of being Lancelot. I haven't been Lancelot for weeks
All right
I'll be Tristram
O, but you can't
Charlotte has always been Tristram. She won't play unless she's allowed
to be Tristram! Be somebody else this time
I don't care
I'll be anything. I'll be Sir Kay. Come on
You're hurting me,
I tell you! and you're tearing my frock
What is it
Soldiers
Is there going to be a battle
Of course there is
We're just in time. Come on
Won't Edward be sorry
that he's begun that beastly
Latin
Age
carries its penalties
Will they be Indians
or
Roundheads, or what
They won't be Indians
nor yet Roundheads. There
haven't been any Roundheads seen about here for a long time. They'll be
Frenchmen
All right
Frenchmen'll do; but I did
hope they'd be Indians
If they were going to be Indians
I -- I don't think I'd
go on. Because when Indians take you prisoner they scalp you first, and
then burn you at a stake. But Frenchmen don't do that sort of thing
Are you quite sure
Quite
Frenchmen only shut you up in a thing called the
Bastille; and then you get a file sent in to you in a loaf of bread,
and saw the bars through, and slide down a rope, and they all fire at
you -- but they don't hit you -- and you run down to the seashore as hard as
you can, and swim off to a British frigate, and there you are
If they try to take us prisoner
we -- we won't run, will we
Are they charging
I think not
When there's going to be a charge,
the officer always makes a speech, and then they draw their swords and
the trumpets blow, and -- but let's try a short cut. We may catch them up
yet
Have you been there
Was it a jolly fight? who beat? were there many people killed
I see
Well, the fact is, there isn't going to be any battle to-day.
It's been put off, on account of the change in the weather. You will
have due notice of the renewal of hostilities. And now you'd better jump
in and I'll drive you home. You've been running a fine rig! Why, you
might have both been taken and shot as spies
gone into tables
tables
Hallo, sprat
where do you spring
from
I came up the stream
and I
was only looking for the Princess
Then you are a water-baby
And what do you think of the
Princess, now you've found her
I think she is lovely
But she's wide-awake, so I suppose somebody has
kissed her
Come along, then
and you too, Water-baby;
come and have something solid. You must want it
All
right, Water-baby; you came up the stream, and that's good enough for
us
I suppose you
two are going to get married
Because if you aren't
you really ought to
Now, I'm going to begin where I left off
and you must
pay attention, 'cos this is a treat, to have a story told you before
you're put to bed. Well, so the White Rabbit scuttled off down the
passage and Alice hoped he'd come back 'cos he had a waistcoat on and
her flamingo flew up a tree -- but we haven't got to that part yet -- you
must wait a minute, and -- where had I got to
O Jerry
if you're not going to be good, how ever shall I tell you my
story
Blame if you like, Madam
the eternal laws of gravitation, but not a helpless
puppet, who is also an orphan and a stranger in the land
Now we'll go on
So she got into the
garden at last -- I've left out a lot, but you won't care, I'll tell you
some other time -- and they were all playing croquet, and that's where the
flamingo comes in, and the Queen shouted out, 'Off with her head
If you'd been in the garden
and
flopped down like that when the Queen said 'Off with his head!' she'd
have offed with your head; but Alice wasn't that sort of girl at all.
She just said, 'I'm not afraid of you, you're nothing but a pack of
cards'-- oh, dear! I've got to the end already, and I hadn't begun
hardly! I never can make my stories last out! Never mind, I'll tell you
another one
If it wasn't so near your bedtime
I'd tell you a nice story with a bogy in it. But you'd be frightened,
and you'd dream of bogies all night. So I'll tell you one about a White
Bear, only you mustn't scream when the bear says 'Wow,' like I used to,
'cos he's a good bear really
It's all your fault, Jerry
Rosa's as good as gold, except
when you make her wicked. I'd put you in the corner, only a stump hasn't
got a corner -- wonder why that is? Thought everything had corners. Never
mind, you'll have to sit with your face to the wall -- SO. Now you can
sulk if you like
If
you'll say you're sorry. Jerome
I'll say I'm sorry, too
Anybody who likes
can feed my rabbits
As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be
high and
disposedly
Apollyon
Straddling Right across the Way
It's surprising to me
how my
eldest nephew, Edward, despises little girls. I heard him tell Charlotte
the other day that he wished he could exchange her for a pair
of Japanese guinea-pigs. It made the poor child cry. Boys are so
heartless
Now this boy here
Now this boy
is more human
altogether. Only yesterday he took his sister to the baker's shop, and
spent his only penny buying her sweets. I thought it showed such a nice
disposition. I wish Edward were more like him
I believe the
new curate's rather gone on Aunt Maria
Why, she's quite old
Of course she is
It's not her, it's her
money he's after, you bet
Didn't know she had any money
Sure to have
Heaps and heaps
Bobby Ferris told me
that there was a
fellow spooning his sister once
What's spooning
Oh, _I_ dunno
It's -- it's -- it's just a
thing they do, you know. And he used to carry notes and messages and
things between 'em, and he got a shilling almost every time
What, from each of 'em
Girls never have any money
But she did his exercises and got him out of rows,
and told stories for him when he needed it -- and much better ones than he
could have made up for himself. Girls are useful in some ways. So he
was living in clover, when unfortunately they went and quarrelled about
something
Don't see what that's got to do with it
Nor don't I
But anyhow the notes and things
stopped, and so did the shillings. Bobby was fairly cornered, for he
had bought two ferrets on tick, and promised to pay a shilling a week,
thinking the shillings were going on for ever, the silly young ass. So
when the week was up, and he was being dunned for the shilling, he went
off to the fellow and said, 'Your broken-hearted Bella implores you to
meet her at sundown,-- by the hollow oak, as of old, be it only for
a moment. Do not fail!' He got all that out of some rotten book, of
course. The fellow looked puzzled and said,--

"'What hollow oak? I don't know any hollow oak.'

"'Perhaps it was the Royal Oak?' said Bobby promptly, 'cos he saw he
had made a slip, through trusting too much to the rotten book; but this
didn't seem to make the fellow any happier
Should think not
the Royal Oak's an awful low sort of pub
I know
Well, at last the fellow said, 'I think I know
what she means: the hollow tree in your father's paddock. It happens to
be an elm, but she wouldn't know the difference. All right: say I'll be
there.' Bobby hung about a bit, for he hadn't got his money. 'She was
crying awfully,' he said. Then he got his shilling
And wasn't the fellow riled
when he got to the place and
found nothing
He found Bobby
Young Ferris was a
gentleman, every inch of him. He brought the fellow another message from
Bella: 'I dare not leave the house. My cruel parents immure me closely
If you only knew what I suffer. Your broken-hearted Bella.' Out of the
same rotten book. This made the fellow a little suspicious, 'cos it was
the old Ferrises who had been keen about the thing all through: the
fellow, you see, had tin
But what's that got to
Oh, _I_ dunno
I'm telling you just what
Bobby told me. He got suspicious, anyhow, but he couldn't exactly call
Bella's brother a liar, so Bobby escaped for the time. But when he was
in a hole next week, over a stiff French exercise, and tried the same
sort of game on his sister, she was too sharp for him, and he got caught
out. Somehow women seem more mistrustful than men. They're so beastly
suspicious by nature, you know
_I_ know
But did the two -- the fellow and the sister -- make it
up afterwards
I don't remember about that
but Bobby
got packed off to school a whole year earlier than his people meant to
send him,-- which was just what he wanted. So you see it all came right
in the end
If we only knew what
they were talking about
you'd soon see whether I was right
or not. Look here! Let's send the kid down by the porch to reconnoitre
Harold's asleep
it seems rather a shame
Oh, rot
he's the youngest, and he's got to do as
he's told
Now, you
young
tell us what you mean by it
Well, leggo of my ear then
and I'll tell you the
solemn truth
Very well
now go ahead, and don't
lie more than you can help
I had just finished saying my prayers
when I happened to look out of the window, and on the lawn I
saw a sight which froze the marrow in my veins! A burglar was
approaching the house with snake-like tread! He had a scowl and a dark
lantern, and he was armed to the teeth
Go on
Pausing in his stealthy career
he gave a low
whistle. Instantly the signal was responded to, and from the adjacent
shadows two more figures glided forth. The miscreants were both armed to
the teeth
Excellent
proceed
The robber chief
joined
his nefarious comrades, and conversed with them in silent tones. His
expression was truly ferocious, and I ought to have said that he was
armed to the t
There, never mind his teeth
there's
too much jaw about you altogether. Hurry up and have done
I was in a frightful funk
but just then the drawing-room window opened, and
you and Aunt Maria came out -- I mean emerged. The burglars vanished
silently into the laurels, with horrid implications
Why did you not alarm the house
Cos I was afraid
that p'raps they mightn't
believe me
But how did you get down here, you naughty little boy
O Mr. Hodgitts
you are brave! for my sake do
not be rash
Mr. Hodgitts! you are brave! for my sake, do
not be rash
A field or, semee, with garbs of the same
those mortal bugs o' the field
even so
might Mungo Park have threaded the
trackless African forest and
I ask a
thousand pardons, sir
I am really so very absent-minded. I
trust you will forgive me
I perceive
that we have something in common. I,
an old man, dream dreams; you, a young one, see visions. Your lot is
the happier. And now
you are hot, it is easily seen; the day is advanced, Virgo
is the Zodiacal sign. Perhaps I may offer you some poor refreshment, if
your engagements will permit
Venit Hesperus ite, capellae: come,
little kid
Heaps o' books
Want to strum
O, but may I
At home I'm not allowed to -- only
beastly exercises
Well, you can strum here, at all events
But as for these Germans
the scholarship
is there, I grant you; but the spark, the fine perception, the happy
intuition, where is it? They get it all from us
They get nothing whatever from US
You think not
Well, I applaud such fairness and temperance in so young a
critic. They are qualities -- in youth -- as rare as they are pleasing. But
just look at Schrumpffius, for instance -- how he struggles and wrestles
with a simple {GREEK gar} in this very passage here
Precisely
To you, who possess the natural
scholar's faculty in so happy a degree, there is no difficulty at
all. But to this Schrumpffius
Your tea is in the garden
I've put some cakes and things for the little
gentleman; and you'd better drink it before it gets cold
You'd better drink it before it
gets cold
Perhaps a little tea would be rather nice
See
how this
strange thing, this love of ours, lives and shines out in the
unlikeliest of places! You have been in the fields in early morning?
Barren acres, all! But only stoop -- catch the light thwartwise -- and all
is a silver network of gossamer! So the fairy filaments of this strange
thing underrun and link together the whole world. Yet it is not the old
imperious god of the fatal bow --{GREEK}not that -- nor even the placid
respectable {GREEK}-- but something still unnamed, perhaps more
mysterious, more divine! Only one must stoop to see it, old fellow, one
must stoop
all furred in black sheep-skins,
and a russet gown, with a bow and arrows, and bearing wild geese in his
hand
Here be I, King Gearge the Third
Do you
mean to say it's all lies
These stories had their origin, my dear
in a
mistaken anthropomorphism in the interpretation of nature. But though we
are now too well informed to fall into similar errors, there are still
many beautiful lessons to be learned from these myths
But how can you learn anything
from what
doesn't exist
Don't you mind HER
how can she know anything
about it? Why, she can't even throw a stone properly
Edward says they're all rot, too
Edward says everything's rot
now he thinks he's going
into the Army. If a thing's in a book it MUST be true, so that settles
it
The sky's
a-falling
I must go and tell the king
And he vanished anon
and so he heard
an horne blow, as it had been the death of a beast. 'That blast,' said
Balin, 'is blowen for me, for I am the prize, and yet am I not dead
I know a jolly story
Aunt Eliza told it me. It was when
she was somewhere over in that beastly abroad
and there was a fellow there who had
got two storks. And one stork died -- it was the she-stork
What did
it die of
And the other stork was quite sorry, and
moped, and went on, and got very miserable. So they looked about and
found a duck, and introduced it to the stork. The duck was a drake, but
the stork didn't mind, and they loved each other and were as jolly
as could be. By and by another duck came along,-- a real she-duck this
time,-- and when the drake saw her he fell in love, and left the stork,
and went and proposed to the duck: for she was very beautiful. But the
poor stork who was left, he said nothing at all to anybody, but just
pined and pined and pined away, till one morning he was found quite
dead! But the ducks lived happily ever afterwards
I want a live dragon
you've got to be my dragon
Leave me go, will you
I'm
playin' at something else. How can I be a dragon and belong to all the
clubs
But wouldn't you like to be a nice scaly dragon, all green
with a curly tail and red eyes, and
breathing real smoke and fire
Now I want a Princess
and YOU can be the doctor, and heal me from the dragon's deadly wound
sliding athwart a sunbeam
Hurry up, can't you
what are you girls always so
beastly particular for
Martha says
that
if you swallow a bit of cork, it swells, and it swells, and it swells
inside you, till you
O bosh
O, it's all very well to say bosh
but every
one knows it's true but you. Why, when Uncle Thomas was here last, and
they got up a bottle of wine for him, he took just one tiny sip out of
his glass, and then he said, 'Poo, my goodness, that's corked!' And he
wouldn't touch it. And they had to get a fresh bottle up. The funny part
was, though, I looked in his glass afterwards, when it was brought out
into the passage, and there wasn't any cork in it at all! So I drank it
all off, and it was very good
You'd better be careful, young man
D' you remember that night when the Mummers were here,
and they had mulled port, and you went round and emptied all the glasses
after they had gone away
Ow! I did feel funny that night
Thought the house
was comin' down, it jumped about so; and Martha had to carry me up to
bed, 'cos the stairs was goin' all waggity
She's off with those Vicarage girls again
She goes out with
them every day now; and as soon as ever they start, all their heads go
together and they chatter, chatter, chatter the whole blessed time!
I can't make out what they find to talk about. They never stop; it's
gabble, gabble, gabble right along, like a nest of young rooks
P'raps they talk about birds'-eggs
and about ships, and
buffaloes, and desert islands; and why rabbits have white tails; and
whether they'd sooner have a schooner or a cutter; and what they'll be
when they're men -- at least, I mean there's lots of things to talk about,
if you WANT to talk
Yes; but they don't talk about those sort of things at all
How CAN they? They don't KNOW anything; they can't DO
anything -- except play the piano, and nobody would want to talk about
THAT; and they don't care about anything -- anything sensible, I mean. So
what DO they talk about
I asked Martha once
and she said, 'Never YOU mind;
young ladies has lots of things to talk about that young gentlemen can't
understand
I don't believe it
Well, that's what she SAID, anyway
What DO they talk about, Charlotte
You go out with them sometimes
I don't know
They make me walk
behind, 'cos they say I'm too little, and mustn't hear. And I DO want to
so
When any lady comes to see Aunt Eliza
they both talk
at once all the time. And yet each of 'em seems to hear what the other
one's saying. I can't make out how they do it. Grown-up people are so
clever
The Curate's the funniest man
He's always saying things
that have no sense in them at all, and then laughing at them as if they
were jokes. Yesterday, when they asked him if he'd have some more tea
he said 'Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more,' and
then sniggered all over. I didn't see anything funny in that. And then
somebody asked him about his button-hole and he said ''Tis but a little
faded flower,' and exploded again. I thought it very stupid
O HIM
he can't help it, you know; it's a
sort of way he's got. But it's these girls I can't make out. If they've
anything really sensible to talk about, how is it nobody knows what it
is? And if they haven't -- and we know they CAN'T have, naturally -- why
don't they shut up their jaw? This old rabbit here -- HE doesn't want to
talk. He's got something better to do
O but rabbits DO talk
I've watched them often
in their hutch. They put their heads together and their noses go up and
down, just like Selina's and the Vicarage girls'. Only of course I can t
hear what they're saying
Well, if they do
I'll bet they don't talk
such rot as those girls do
Confidence
is a plant of
slow growth
What rot are you playing at now
I'm Jason
and this is the Argo. The other
fellows are here too, only you can't see them; and we're just going
through the Hellespont, so don't you come bothering
Pretty sort of Argo you've got
I can't help it
It's the
best sort of Argo I can manage, and it's all right if you only pretend
enough; but YOU never could pretend one bit
Look here
why shouldn't we get
hold of Farmer Larkin's boat, and go right away up the river in a real
Argo, and look for Medea, and the Golden Fleece, and everything? And
I'll tell you what, I don't mind your being Jason, as you thought of it
first
But we
aren't allowed to go on the water by ourselves
No
we aren't allowed; and Jason wasn't
allowed either, I daresay -- but he WENT
And now
who's to ask Farmer Larkin? I can't; last time
I saw him he said when he caught me again he'd smack my head. YOU'LL
have to
You know those precious calves of his
All right
then we won't ask him
at all. It doesn't much matter. He'd only be annoyed, and that would be
a pity. Now let's set off
river
TIME: TRYETH: TROTHE
I wonder what that
means
You needn't take on so about him
He'll cry for
just one minute, and then he'll be all right
O you boys
Where have you dropped from? How dirty you are! I've been shut up here
for a thousand years, and all that time I've never seen any one under a
hundred and fifty! Let's play at something, at once
Rounders is a good game
Girls can play at rounders. And
we could serve up to the sun-dial here. But you want a bat and a ball,
and some more people
I haven't a bat
or a ball, or more people, or anything sensible whatever. Never mind;
let's play at hide-and-seek in the kitchen garden. And we'll race there,
up to that walnut-tree; I haven't run for a century
Time tryeth trothe. Please, I want to know
what that means
That's what I'm here for
They shut me up here -- they think I'll forget -- but
I never will -- never, never! And he, too -- but I don't know -- it is so
long -- I don't know
Lucy
You've been crying
And pray who are these exceedingly dirty little boys
Friends of mine, aunt
I -- I've known them a long time. I asked them to come
You must come indoors, dear
and lie down. The sun will give you a headache. And you little boys had
better run away home to your tea. Remember, you should not come to pay
visits without your nursemaid
What an old
dragon
Wasn't she a beast
Fancy the sun giving any one a
headache! But Medea was a real brick. Couldn't we carry her off
We could if Edward was here
Shove her off
That was just like a bit out of Westward Ho
But what had you been doing to her
Hadn't been doing anything
I went
up into the village and explored, and it was a very nice one, and the
people were very polite. And there was a blacksmith's forge there, and
they were shoeing horses, and the hoofs fizzled and smoked, and smelt so
jolly! I stayed there quite a long time. Then I got thirsty, so I asked
that old woman for some water, and while she was getting it her cat came
out of the cottage, and looked at me in a nasty sort of way, and
said something I didn't like. So I went up to it just to -- to teach it
manners, and somehow or other, next minute it was up an apple-tree,
spitting, and I was running down the lane with that old thing after me
The Knights' Road
All roads lead to Rome
Fine afternoon we're having: going far to-day
No, I'm not going any farther than this
I WAS thinking of
going on to Rome but I've put it off
Pleasant place, Rome
you'll like it
But I wouldn't go just now, if I were
you,-- too jolly hot
YOU haven't been to Rome, have you
Rather
I live there
But you don't really live there, do you
Well
I live there as much as l live anywhere,-- about half the year
sometimes. I've got a sort of a shanty there. You must come and see it
some day
But do you live anywhere else as well
O yes, all over the place
And I've got a
diggings somewhere off Piccadilly
Where's that
Where's what
Oh, Piccadilly! It's in London
Have you a large garden
and how many pigs have you got
I've no garden at all
and they don't allow me to
keep pigs, though I'd like to, awfully. It's very hard
But what do you do all day, then
and where do you go and
play, without any garden, or pigs, or things
When I want to play
I have to go and play in the
street; but it's poor fun, I grant you. There's a goat, though, not far
off, and sometimes I talk to him when I'm feeling lonely; but he's very
proud
Goats ARE proud
There's one lives near here, and if you
say anything to him at all, he hits you in the wind with his head. You
know what it feels like when a fellow hits you in the wind
I do, well
And have you been to any other places
besides Rome and Piccy-what's-his-name
Heaps
I'm a sort of Ulysses -- seen men and cities, you know.
In fact, about the only place I never got to was the Fortunate Island
Wouldn't you like
to find a city without any people in
it at all
I'm afraid I don't quite understand
I mean
a city where you walk in at the gates, and
the shops are all full of beautiful things, and the houses furnished as
grand as can be, and there isn't anybody there whatever! And you go into
the shops, and take anything you want -- chocolates and magic lanterns and
injirubber balls -- and there's nothing to pay; and you choose your own
house and live there and do just as you like, and never go to bed unless
you want to
That WOULD be a nice city
Better than Rome. You can't do that sort of thing in Rome,-- or in
Piccadilly either. But I fear it's one of the places I've never been
to
And you'd ask your friends
only
those you really like, of course,-- and they'd each have a house to
themselves,-- there'd be lots of houses,-- and no relations at all, unless
they promised they'd be pleasant, and if they weren't they'd have to
go
So you wouldn't have any relations
Well, perhaps
you're right. We have tastes in common, I see
I'd have Harold
and Charlotte. They'd like
it awfully. The others are getting too old. Oh, and Martha -- I'd have
Martha, to cook and wash up and do things. You'd like Martha. She's ever
so much nicer than Aunt Eliza. She's my idea of a real lady
Then I'm sure I should like her
and when I
come to -- what do you call this city of yours? Nephelo -- something, did
you say
I -- I don't know
I'm afraid it hasn't got a
name -- yet
The poet says, dear city of
Cecrops
and wilt not thou say, dear
city of Zeus?' That's from Marcus Aurelius
You don't know him, I suppose; you will some day
Who's he
Oh, just another fellow who lived in Rome
O dear
What a lot of people seem to live
at Rome, and I've never even been there! But I think I'd like MY city
best
And so would I
But Marcus Aurelius
wouldn't, you know
Then we won't invite him
will we
_I_ won't if you won't
Do you know
I've met one or two fellows from
time to time who have been to a city like yours,-- perhaps it was the
same one. They won't talk much about it -- only broken hints, now and
then; but they've been there sure enough. They don't seem to care about
anything in particular -- and every thing's the same to them, rough or
smooth; and sooner or later they slip off and disappear; and you never
see them again. Gone back, I suppose
Of course
Don't see what they ever came away for; _I_
wouldn't,-- to be told you've broken things when you haven't, and stopped
having tea with the servants in the kitchen, and not allowed to have a
dog to sleep with you. But _I've_ known people, too, who've gone there
Well, there's Lancelot
The book says he died, but it
never seemed to read right, somehow. He just went away, like Arthur. And
Crusoe, when he got tired of wearing clothes and being respectable. And
all the nice men in the stones who don't marry the Princess, 'cos only
one man ever gets married in a book, you know. They'll be there
And the men who never come off
who try like the rest, but
get knocked out, or somehow miss,-- or break down or get bowled over in
the melee,-- and get no Princess, nor even a second-class kingdom,-- some
of them'll be there, I hope
Yes, if you like
if they're
friends of yours, we'll ask 'em, of course
What a time we shall have
and how
shocked old Marcus Aurelius will be
I've enjoyed our conversation very much
That was an
interesting subject you started, and we haven't half exhausted it. We
shall meet again, I hope
Of course we shall
In Rome, perhaps
Yes, in Rome
or Piccy-the-other-place, or somewhere
Or else
in that other city,-- when we've found the way
there. And I'll look out for you, and you'll sing out as soon as you see
me. And we'll go down the street arm-in-arm, and into all the shops, and
then I'll choose my house, and you'll choose your house, and we'll live
there like princes and good fellows
Oh, but you'll stay in my house, won't you
wouldn't ask
everybody; but I'll ask YOU
Right
I believe you
mean it, and I WILL come and stay with you. I won't go to anybody else,
if they ask me ever so much. And I'll stay quite a long time, too, and I
won't be any trouble
H'm! Sheraton
Fine bit of inlay
good work, all of it. I know the sort. There's a secret drawer in there
somewhere
By Jove, I do want to smoke
secret drawer
keepings
She's going
to-day
She's going to-day
Now, my lads, come with me,
             Out in the morning early
She's going to-day
So she is
Fired their ringing shot and passed,
         Hotly charged and sank at last
What a lark it'll be when
she's really gone
Grand fun
Shall you run it up
when the fly starts, or -- or wait a
little till it's out of sight
We're going to have some rain, I
think
and -- and it's a new flag. It would be a pity to spoil
it. P'raps I won't run it up at all
I've
polished up the cannons
and they look grand! Mayn't I load
'em now
You leave 'em alone
or you'll be blowing
yourself up
Don't touch the gunpowder till you're told, or you'll get your
head smacked
She wants me to write to
her
Says she doesn't mind the spelling, it I'll
only write. Fancy her saying that
Oh, shut up, will you
Let's go off to the copse
and cut more new bows and
arrows
She gave me a knife my last birthday
It wasn't much of a knife -- but I wish I hadn't lost it
When my legs used to ache
she sat up half the night, rubbing
stuff on them. I forgot all about that till this morning
There's the fly
I can hear it scrunching on
the gravel
I've been chopping up wood
What for
There's piles and piles of it chopped
up already
I know
but there's no harm in having a bit over.
You never can tell what may happen. But what have you been doing all
this digging for
You said it was going to rain
so I thought
I'd get the digging done before it came. Good gardeners always tell you
that's the right thing to do
It did look like rain at one time
but it's passed
off now. Very queer weather we're having. I suppose that's why I've felt
so funny all day
Yes, I suppose it's the weather
_I've_ been feeling funny
too
Charming
quite too charming and
delightful
What an
exquisite bit
fifteenth century,-- no,-- yes, it is
Ah
and
that field now -- backed by the downs -- with the rain-cloud brooding over
it,-- that's all David Cox -- every bit of it
That field belongs to Farmer Larkin
I'll take you over to Farmer
Cox's to-morrow, if he's a friend of yours; but there's nothing to see
there
What sort of lunatic have we got here
It has the true pastoral character, this country of yours
with just that added touch in cottage and farmstead,
relics of a bygone art, which makes our English landscape so divine, so
unique
You can see the house now
and that's Selina,
chasing the donkey in the paddock,-- or is it the donkey chasing Selina?
I can't quite make out; but it's THEM, anyhow
Exquisite
so mellow and harmonious! and so entirely
in keeping
Such possibilities of romance, now, in those
old gables
If you mean the garrets
there's a lot of old furniture
in them; and one is generally full of apples; and the bats get
in sometimes, under the eaves, and flop about till we go up with
hair-brushes and things and drive 'em out; but there's nothing else in
them that I know of
Oh, but there must be more than bats
Don't tell me there
are no ghosts. I shall be deeply disappointed if there aren't any
ghosts
I was wondering
when you were going to wake
It's no good trying to sleep
through this. I vote we get up and do something
I'm game
Let's play at being in a ship at sea
and we can be wrecked on an island, or left on a raft,
whichever you choose; but I like an island best myself, because there's
more things on it
It would make too much noise
There's no fun playing at ships, unless you can make a
jolly good row
Thought I heard you talking
We don't like it; we're
afraid -- Selina too. She'll be here in a minute. She's putting on her new
dressing-gown she's so proud of
Look here
now we're all together, I vote we go and
explore
You're always wanting to explore
What on earth is there to
explore for in this house
Biscuits
Hooray! Come on
But we'll take the short cut through the Blue Room
Of course
I forgot about that. Now then!
You lead the way
It's a funny thing
how; I hate this room
in the daytime. It always means having your face washed, and your hair
brushed, and talking silly company talk. But to-night it's really quite
jolly. Looks different, somehow
I never can make out
what people come here to tea for.
They can have their own tea at home if they like,-- they're not poor
people,-- with jam and things, and drink out of their saucer, and suck
their fingers and enjoy themselves; but they come here from a long way
off, and sit up straight with their feet off the bars of their chairs,
and have one cup, and talk the same sort of stuff every time
You don't know anything about it
In society you have to call on each other. It's the proper thing
to do
Pooh! YOU'RE not in society
and, what's more,
you never will be
Yes, I shall, some day
but I shan't ask you to come
and see me, so there
Wouldn't come if you did
Well, you won't get the chance
I don 't like society people
There were some of 'em here this afternoon, when
you two had gone off to the station. Oh, and I found a dead mouse on the
lawn, and I wanted to skin it, but I wasn't sure I knew how, by myself;
and they came out into the garden and patted my head,-- I wish people
wouldn't do that,-- and one of 'em asked me to pick her a flower. Don't
know why she couldn't pick it herself; but I said, 'All right, I will if
you'll hold my mouse.' But she screamed, and threw it away; and Augustus
(the cat) got it, and ran away with it. I believe it was really his
mouse all the time, 'cos he'd been looking about as if he had lost
something, so I wasn't angry with HIM; but what did SHE want to throw
away my mouse for
You have to be careful with mice
they're such
slippery things. Do you remember we were playing with a dead mouse once
on the piano, and the mouse was Robinson Crusoe, and the piano was the
island, and somehow Crusoe slipped down inside the island, into its
works, and we couldn't get him out, though we tried rakes and all sorts
of things, till the tuner came. And that wasn't till a week after, and
then
By Jove
I forgot all about it. The new tutor's sleeping in
the Blue Room
Lucky he didn't wake up and catch us
Case III
The following particulars were communicated by
a young member of the Society, of undoubted probity and earnestness,
and are a chronicle of actual and recent experience
I know what she wants most
She wants that set of
tea-things in the toy-shop window, with the red and blue flowers on 'em;
she's wanted it for months, 'cos her dolls are getting big enough to
have real afternoon tea; and she wants it so badly that she won't walk
that side of the street when we go into the town. But it costs five
shillings
Why, Master Harold!
whatever be the matter? Baint runnin' away, be ee
You can always run away, you know
Then you must be a low Radical
Edward
Please
Would you mind fetchin'
that ball
</text>
