<text>
Young heads are giddy, and young hearts are warm,
  And make mistakes for manhood to reform
Of all the paper I have blotted, I have written nothing without the
    intention of some good. Whether I have succeeded or not, is for
    others to judge
the young idea how to shoot
the last
man
the last boy
those boys whose names appear most frequently in the
black book of transgression, would sometimes deserve to be also most
commonly recorded, if a book were kept for warm affections and generous
actions
a little learning is a
dangerous thing
Will you tell me a story
any amusement which is innocent, is better than
none; as the writing of a book, the building of a house, the laying out
of a garden, the digging of a fish-pond, even the raising of a
cucumber
go to a shop and buy a new
mama
wisdom's
ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace
even a child is known by his doings,
whether his work be pure, and whether it be right
That is the thing I am almost afraid of
Uncles and grandmamas are only too kind, and my small family will be
quite spoiled by indulgence
Not if you leave that old vixen, Mrs. Crabtree, as governor of the
nursery
She ought to have been the
drummer of a regiment, she is so fond of the rod! I believe there never
was such a tyrant since the time when nursery-maids were invented. Poor
Harry would pass his life in a dark closet, like Baron Trenck, if Mrs.
Crabtree had her own way
She means it all well. I am certain that Mrs. Crabtree is devotedly
fond of my children, and would go through fire and water to serve them;
but she is a little severe perhaps. Her idea is, that if you never
forgive a first fault, you will never hear of a second, which is
probably true enough. At all events, her harshness will be the best
remedy for your extreme indulgence; therefore let me beg that you and my
mother will seldom interfere with her 'method,' especially in respect to
Harry and Laura. As for Frank, if all boys were like him, we might make
a bonfire of birch rods and canes. He is too old for nursery discipline
now, and must be flogged at school, if deserving of it at all, till he
goes to sea next year with my friend Gordon, who has promised to rate
him as a volunteer of the first class, on board the Thunderbolt
spare the
rod will spoil the child
if those children were
shut up in a dark room alone, with nothing to do, they would still find
some way of being mischievous, and of deserving to be punished
Harry
you remind me of a monkey which
belonged to the colonel of our regiment formerly. He was famous for
contriving to play all sorts of pranks when no one supposed them to be
possible, and I recollect once having a valuable French clock, which the
malicious creature seemed particularly determined to break. Many a time
I caught him in the fact, and saved my beautiful clock; but one day,
being suddenly summoned out of the room, I hastily fastened his chain to
a table, so that he could not possibly, even at the full extent of his
paw, so much as touch the glass case. I observed him impatiently
watching my departure, and felt a misgiving that he expected to get the
better of me; so after shutting the door, I took a peep through the
key-hole, and what do you think Jack had done, Harry? for, next to Mr.
Monkey himself, you are certainly the cleverest contriver of mischief I
know
What did he do
did he throw a stone at the
clock
No! but his leg was several inches longer than his arm, so having
turned his tail towards his object, he stretched out his hind-paw, and
before I could rush back, my splendid alabaster clock had been upset and
broken to shivers
Nasty, useless vermin
What business have they in
the world! coming into other people's houses, with nothing to do! They
sting and torment every body! Bees are very different, for they make
honey
And wasps make jelly
birds in the air, fish in the sea, and beasts in the
desert
Now, Mrs. Crabtree!
look what a good boy I am going to be
You a good boy
No! no! the world will be
turned into a cream-cheese first
for
their good
wind without rain
Your hair does curl like a cork-screw
If I
want to draw a cork out of a beer bottle any day, I shall borrow one of
those ringlets, Laura
You may laugh, Frank, for it is fun to you and death to me
I wish we were all bald,
like uncle David! During the night, I cannot lie still on account of
those tiresome curls, and all day I dare not stir for fear of spoiling
them, so they are never out of my head
Nor off your head! How pleasant it must be to have Mrs. Crabtree
combing and scolding, and scolding and combing, for hours every day!
Poor Laura! we must get Dr. Bell to say that they shall be taken off on
pain of death, and then, perhaps, grandmama would order some Irish
reapers to cut them down with a sickle
Frank! what a lucky boy you are to be at school, and not in the
nursery! I wish next year would come immediately, for then I shall have
a governess, after which good-bye to Mrs. Crabtree, and the wearisome
curl-papers
I don't like school
It is perfect nonsense to plague me
with lessons now. All big people can read and write, so, of course, I
shall be able to do like others. There is no hurry about it
if that boy had only sixpence in the world, he
would lay it all out on penny tarts to distribute among half-a-dozen of
his friends
Mrs. Crabtree! I wish you
health to wear it, strength to tear it, and money to buy another
Laura
have you
heard all the new rules that Mrs. Crabtree has made
No
what are they
In the first place, you are positively not to tear and destroy above
three frocks a-day; secondly, you and Harry must never get into a
passion, unless you are angry; thirdly, when either of you take
medicine, you are not to make wry faces, except when the taste is bad;
fourthly, you must never speak ill of Mrs. Crabtree herself, until she
is out of the room; fifthly, you are not to jump out of the windows, as
long as you can get out at the door
Yes
and sixthly, when uncle David is
joking, we are not to be frightened by anything he says
Seventhly, when next you spill grandmama's bottle of ink, Harry must
drink up every drop
Very well! he may swallow a sheet of blotting paper afterwards, to put
away the taste
I wish every body who writes a book, was obliged to swallow it
It is such a waste of time reading, when we might be amusing
ourselves. Frank sat mooning over a book for two hours yesterday when we
wanted him to play. I am sure, some day his head will burst with
knowledge
That can never happen to you, Master Harry
you have a head, and so has a pin, but there is not much furniture in
either of them
Now, children! I have only one piece of serious, important advice to
give you all, so attend to me!-- never crack nuts with your teeth
Now, Harry and Laura, listen both of you!-- here is a grand opportunity
to show everybody, that we can be trusted to ourselves, without getting
into any scrapes, so that if grandmama is ever ill again, and obliged to
go away, she need not feel so sad and anxious as she did to-day. I mean
to become nine times more attentive to my lessons than usual this
morning, to show how trust-worthy we are, and if you are wise, pray
march straight up to the nursery yourselves. I have arranged a gown and
cap of Mrs. Crabtree's on the large arm-chair, to look as like herself
as possible, that you may be reminded how soon she will come back, and
you must not behave like the mice when the cat is out. Good bye! Say the
alphabet backward, and count your fingers for half-an-hour, but when
Mrs. Crabtree appears again, pray do not jump out of the window for
joy
Oh! what fun
I wish Frank had
been here, and crowds of little boys and girls, to play with us all day!
It would be a good joke, Laura, to write and ask all our little cousins
and companions to drink tea here to-morrow evening! Their mamas could
never guess we had not leave from grandmama to invite everybody, so I
dare say we might gather quite a large party! oh! how enchanting
What are you about there, Master Graham
how dare any body venture to touch your grandmama's letters
They are not for grandmama!-- they are all for us!-- every one of them
Look at this direction! For Master and Miss Graham! put
on your spectacles, and read it yourself, Mrs. Crabtree! What delightful
fun! the house will be as full as an egg
Only think Mrs. Crabtree! here is every body
coming to tea with us!-- all my cousins, besides Peter Grey, Robert
Stewart, Charles Forrester, Adelaide Cunninghame, Diana Wentworth, John
Fordyce, Edmund Ashford, Frank Abercromby, Ned Russel, and Tom
The boy is distracted
What does all this mean, Master Harry
And who gave you leave to invite company into your grandmama's house
I never heard of such things in all my life before,
Master Harry! but as sure as eggs is eggs, you shall repent of this, for
not one morsel of cake, or anything else shall you have to give any of
the party; no! not so much as a crust of bread, or a thimbleful of tea
Therefore say no more about it
I am your best
friend, Master Harry, trying to teach you and Miss Laura your duty, so
save your breath to cool your porridge
What is to be done
If Mama had been at home, she would
gladly have sent whatever you liked for tea, but unluckily she is dining
out! I saw a loaf of bread lying on a table at home this evening, which
she would make you quite welcome to! Shall I run home, as fast as
possible, to fetch it? That would, at any rate, be better than nothing
Stop, Mr. Charles! stop! sure you are not running away with the loaf
for my tea, and the parrot must have her supper too. What do you want
with that there bread
Never mind, Mrs. Comfit
Polly is getting too fat, so she
will be the better of fasting for this one day
Peter Grey
you are an exceedingly naughty boy, to help yourself! As a
punishment for being so rude, you shall have nothing more to eat all
this evening
If I do not help myself, nobody else seems likely to give me any
supper! I appear to be the only person who is to taste anything
to-night
Here's to your very good health,
Miss Laura, and an excellent appetite to everybody
Famine Castle
We must learn to live upon air, and here are some spoons to eat it
with
Harry! shall I help you to a mouthful of
moonshine
Peter! would you like a roasted fly
I dare say it is excellent for hungry people,-- or a
slice of buttered wall
Or a stewed spider
Shall we all be cannibals, and eat
one another
What is the use of all those forks, when there is nothing to stick upon
them
No
buns!-- no fruit!-- no cakes!-- no nothing
What are we to do with those tea-cups, when there is no tea
meal mob
the police-officer
the
bailiff
What is all this
has
bedlam broke loose! who smashed these cups? I'll break his head for him,
let me tell you that! Master Peter! you should be hissed out of the
world for your misconduct; but I shall certainly whip you round the room
like a whipping-top
good bye
if he had read in the
newspapers the melancholy accounts about several of his little
companions, who were ill and confined to bed from having ate too much at
a certain tea-party on Saturday last. Poor Peter Grey has been given
over, and Charles Forrester, it is feared, may not be able to eat
another loaf of bread for a fortnight
Oh! uncle David! it makes me ill whenever I think of that party
that was the most miserable evening
of my life
I must say it was not quite fair in Mrs. Crabtree to starve all the
strange little boys and girls, who came as visitors to my house, without
knowing who had invited them
Probably those
unlucky children will never forget, as long as they live, that scanty
supper in our dining-room
When
are you going to give us another

                              "GRAND FEAST
What can be the matter
The very house is coming down about your ears, Laura
I should like to be Andrew, now,
for five minutes, that I might answer those fifty bells, and see what
has happened. Uncle David must be wanting coals, candles, tea, toast,
and soda water, all at once! What a bustle everybody is in! There! the
bells are ringing again, worse than ever! Something wonderful is going
on! what can it be
You should give all this hair to Mr. Mills the upholsterer, to stuff
grandmama's arm-chair with! At any rate, Laura, if Mrs. Crabtree is ever
so angry, she can hardly pull you by the hair of the head again! What a
sound sleep you will have to-night, with no hard curl-papers to torment
you
What is the matter
Has
anything dreadful happened? Why do you look so frightened and so
surprised
Oh dear! oh dear! what shall I do
I don't know what to do, Laura
What can be the matter! do tell me at once, Harry
Speak as fast as you can
Will you not tell Mrs. Crabtree, nor grandmama, nor anybody else
I am so very, very sorry, and so
frightened! Laura! do you know, I took a candle into the next room,
merely to play with it
Well! go on, Harry! go on! what did you do with the candle
I only put it on the bed for a single minute, to see how the flame
would look there,-- well! do you know it blazed away famously, and then
all the bed clothes began burning too! Oh! there is such a terrible fire
in the next room! you never saw anything like it! what shall we do? If
old Andrew were to come up, do you think he could put it out? I have
shut the door that Mrs. Crabtree may not see the flames. Be sure, Laura,
to tell nobody but Andrew
Fire! fire! fire
Why! who on earth is that! Laura! my dear child! what has become of all
your hair? Were your curls burned off in the fire? or did the fright
make you grow bald? What is the meaning of all this
My hair has not been burned off,
grandmama! but -- but
Well, child! speak out
did some
hair-dresser come to the house and rob you
Or are you like the ladies of Carthage who gave their long hair for
bows and arrows
I never saw such a little fright
in my life as you look now; but tell us all about it
I have been quite as naughty as Harry
I was cutting off my hair with Mrs.
Crabtree's scissors all the time that he was setting the nursery on
fire
Did any mortal ever hear of two such little torments
I wonder if anybody else in the
world has such mischievous children
It is certainly very strange, that you and Harry never can contrive to
be three hours out of a scrape
now Frank,
on the contrary, never forgets what I bid him do. You might suppose he
carried Mrs. Crabtree in his pocket, to remind him constantly of his
duty; but there are not two such boys in the world as Frank
No
Harry set the house on fire, and Frank will
set the Thames on fire
That coach-wheel is, of course, meant for me
It cannot
possibly be intended for our little hair-dresser here
Yes, it is
I have some thoughts of
excusing Laura this time, because she always tells me the truth, without
attempting to conceal any foolish thing she does. It will be very long
before she has any hair to cut off again, so I hope she may be older and
wiser by that time, especially considering that every looking-glass she
sees for six months will make her feel ashamed of herself. She certainly
deserves some reward for having prevented the house to-night from being
burned to the ground
I am glad you think so, because here is a shilling that has been
burning in my pocket for the last few minutes, as I wished to bestow it
on Laura for having saved all our lives, and if she had behaved still
better, I might perhaps have given her a gold watch
If you please, my lady! where can Master Harry be? I cannot find him in
any corner!-- we have been searching all over the house, up stairs and
down stairs, in vain. Not a garret or a closet but has been ransacked,
and nobody can guess what has become of him
Did you look up the chimney, Mrs. Crabtree
Indeed, Sir! it is no joke
I am
almost afraid Master Harry has been burned in the fire! The last time
Betty saw him, he was throwing a jug of water into the flames, and no
one has ever seen or heard of him since! There is a great many ashes and
cinders lying about the room, and
Do you think, in sober seriousness, Mrs. Crabtree, that Harry would
melt away like a wax doll, without asking any body to extinguish him
No! no! little boys are not quite so easily
disposed of. I shall find Harry in less than five minutes, if he is
above ground
Not a mouse is stirring
This is very strange! The house-door is
locked, therefore, unless Harry made his escape through the key-hole, he
must be here! It is most unaccountable what the little pickle can have
done with himself
Hollo, Harry! hollo!
Come here, my boy! Nobody shall hurt you! Harry! where are you
Indeed, my lady! Master Harry is just like a bad shilling that is sure
to come back
The truth is, I just spoil and indulge the children too much, my lady
I really blame
myself often for being over easy and kind
You have nothing to accuse yourself of in that respect
Your ladyship is very good to say so. Major Graham is so fond of our
young people, that it is lucky they have some one to keep them in order.
I shall make a duty, my lady, of being more strict than ever. Master
Harry must be made an example of this time
I shall teach him to
remember this day the longest hour he has to live
Harry will not forget it any how
Perhaps, Mrs. Crabtree, we might as well not be severe with the poor
boy on this occasion. As the old proverb says, 'there is no use in
pouring water on a drowned mouse.' Harry has got a sad fright for his
pains, and at all events you must find him first, before he can be
punished. Where can the poor child be hid
I would give sixpence to find out that, my lady
Master Harry cares no more for me than the poker cares for the tongs,
but I shall teach him another story soon
It must surely be a cat in the room
That tiresome little animal will
make such a noise, I shall not be able to sleep all night
Come now, Mrs. Crabtree
put up the tawse for
this time; you are rather too fond of the leather. Harry seems really
sorry and frightened, so we must be merciful. That cataract of tears he
is shedding now, would have extinguished the fire if it had come in
time! Harry is like a culprit with the rope about his neck; but he shall
not be executed. Let me be judge and jury in this case; and my sentence
is a very dreadful one. Harry must sleep all to-night in the burned
nursery, having no other covering than the burned blankets, with large
holes in them, that he may never forget

                              "THE TERRIBLE FIRE
Many people can get a
shilling, Laura
but the difficulty is to keep it;
for you know the old proverb tells that 'a fool and his money are soon
parted
Yes, Miss! so give it to me, and I shall take care of your shilling
Children have no use for money! that shilling will only burn
a hole in your purse, till it is spent on some foolish thing or other.
You will be losing your thimble soon, or mislaying your gloves; for all
these things seem to fly in every direction, as if they got legs and
wings as soon as they belong to you; so then that shilling may replace
what is lost
No! no! this is mine! Uncle David never thought of my shilling being
taken care of! He meant me to do whatever I liked with it! Uncle David
says he cannot endure saving children, and that he wishes all money were
turned into slates, when little girls keep it longer than a week
I like that
it is so pleasant to spend money,
when the shopkeeper bows to me over the counter so politely, and asks
what I please to want
Older people than you like spending money, Master Harry, and spend
whether they have it or no; but the greatest pleasure is to keep it. For
instance, Miss Laura, whatever she sees worth a shilling in any shop,
might be hers if she pleases; so then it is quite as good as her own. We
shall look in at the bazaar every morning, to fix upon something that
she would like to have, and then consider of it for two or three days
I am sure, Harry
if this money had been yours, you
would have said the same thing, and given the half of what you got to
me; so now let us say no more about that, but tell me what would be the
best use to make of my sixpence
You might buy that fine red morocco purse we saw in the shop window
yesterday
Do you remember how much we both wished to have it
But what is the use of a purse, with no money to keep in it
Think again of
something else
Would you like a new doll
Yes; but I have nothing to dress her with
Suppose you buy that pretty geranium in a red flower-pot at the
gardener's
If it would only live for a week, I might be tempted to try; but
flowers will always die with me. They seem to wither when I so much as
look at them. Do you remember that pretty fuchsia that I almost drowned
the first day grandmama gave it me; and we forgot for a week afterwards
to water it at all. I am not a good flower doctor
Then buy a gold watch at once
or a fine pony,
with a saddle, to ride on
Now, Harry, pray be quite in earnest. You know I might as well attempt
to buy the moon as a gold watch; so think of something else
It is very difficult to make a good use of money
Do you know, Laura, I once found
out that you could have twelve of those large ship biscuits we saw at
the baker's shop for sixpence. Only think! you could feed the whole
town, and make a present to everybody in the house besides! I dare say
Mrs. Crabtree might like one with her tea. All the maids would think
them a treat. You could present one to Frank, another to old Andrew, and
there would still be some left for these poor children at the cottage
Oh! that is the very thing
Come here, Harry! look at old Andrew! he is carrying something tied up
in a towel, as large as his own head! what can it be
That is all for me! these are my biscuits
Oh fancy! how perfect
this is very
good fun
Here are provisions for a siege
You have at least got
enough for your money, Laura
Take one yourself, Frank
You should have bought me a pound of sugar, Miss Laura, and that might
have been a present worth giving
You are too sweet already, Mrs. Crabtree
I
shall send you a sugar-cane from the West Indies, to beat Harry and
Laura with, and a whole barrel of sugar for yourself, from my own
estate
None of your nonsense, Master Frank! Get out of the nursery this
moment! You with an estate indeed! You will not have a place to put your
foot upon soon except the topmast in a man-of-war, where all the bad
boys in a ship are sent
Perhaps, as you are not to be the captain, I may escape, and be dining
with the officers sometimes! I mean to send you home a fine new India
shawl, Mrs. Crabtree, the very moment I arrive at Madras, and some china
tea-cups from Canton
Fiddlesticks and nonsense
Keep all them rattle-traps till you are a
rich nabob, and come home to look for Mrs. Frank,-- a fine wife she will
be! Ladies that get fortunes from India are covered all over with gold
chains, and gold muslins, and scarlet shawls. She will eat nothing but
curry and rice, and never put her foot to the ground except to step into
her carriage
I hope you are not a gipsey, to tell fortunes
Frank would die rather than take such a wife
Or, at least, I would rather have a tooth drawn than do it
Perhaps I may prefer to marry one of those old wives on
the chimney-tops; but it is too serious to say I would rather die,
because nobody knows how awful it is to die, till the appointed day
comes
Very true and proper, Master Frank
you speak
like a printed book sometimes, and you deserve a good wife
Then I shall return home some day with chests of gold, and let you
choose one for me, as quiet and good-natured as yourself, Mrs.
Crabtree
the
Professor
Now show me, Frank
how do you advance
three steps backwards
That is quite impossible, unless you turn me into a crab
Tell me, then, which is the principal town in Caffraria
Is there any town there? I do not recollect it
Then so much the worse!-- how are you ever to get through life without
knowing the chief town in Caffraria! I am quite ashamed of your
ignorance. Now let us try a little arithmetic! Open the door of your
understanding and tell me, when wheat is six shillings a bushel, what is
the price of a penny loaf. Take your slate and calculate that
Yes, uncle David, if you will find out, when gooseberries are two
shillings the pint, what is the price of a threepenny tart. You remind
me of my old nursery song --

  'The man in the wilderness asked me,
  How many strawberries grew in the sea;
  I answered him, as I thought it good,
  As many red herrings as grew in the wood
What a pity your sixpence is gone! but
as Mrs. Crabtree says, 'we cannot both eat our cake and have it
No
but why do you so particularly wish my money back to-day
Because such a very nice, funny thing is to be done this morning. You
and I are asked to join the party, but I am afraid we cannot afford it!
All our little cousins and companions intend going with Mr. Harwood, the
tutor, at twelve o'clock, to climb up to the very top of Arthur's Seat,
where they are to dine and have a dance. There will be about twenty boys
and girls of the party, but every body is to carry a basket filled with
provisions for dinner, either cakes, or fruit, or biscuits, which are to
be eat on the great rock at the top of the hill. Now grandmama says we
ought to have had money enough to supply what is necessary, and then we
might have gone, but no one can be admitted who has not at least
sixpence to buy something
Oh! how provoking
I wonder when we shall learn
always to follow grandmama's advice, for that is sure to turn out best
in the end. I never take my own way without being sorry for it
afterwards, so I deserve now to be disappointed and remain at home; but,
Harry, your sixpence is still safe, so pray join this delightful party,
and tell me all about it afterwards
If it could take us both, I should be very happy, but I will not go
without you, Laura, after you were so good to me, and gave me this in a
present. No, no! I only wish we could do like the poor madman grandmama
mentioned, who planted sixpences in the ground that they might grow into
shillings
Pray! what are you two looking so solemn about
Are you talking of
some mischief that has been done already, or only about some mischief
you are intending to do soon
Neither the one nor the other
But, oh! Frank, I am
sure you will be sorry for us, when we tell you of our sad
disappointment
Let me see this poor little
sixpence of yours! I am a very clever conjuror, and could perhaps turn
it into a shilling
Nonsense, Frank
you might as well turn Harry
into uncle David
Well! we shall see
I have
put the money into this box!-- rattle it well!-- once! twice!
thrice!-- there, peep in!-- now it is a shilling! I told you so
It is more blessed to give than to receive
You will be spoiling all your clothes, and getting yourselves into a
heat! I wonder her ladyship allows this! How much better you would be
taking a quiet walk with me in the gardens! I shall really speak to Lady
Harriet about it! The air must be very cold on the top of them great
mountains! I am sure you will both have colds for a month after this
Tom-foolery
Oh no, Mrs. Crabtree! I promise not to catch cold
and, besides, you can scarcely prevent our going now, for
grandmama has set out on her long airing in the carriage, so there is
nobody for you to ask about keeping us at home, except uncle David
a ploy
You will come
back, turned into scare-crows, with all your nice clean clothes in
tatters
but if there is so much as a speck upon
this best new jacket and trowsers, I shall know the reason why
What a comfort it would be, if there were no such things in the world
as 'new clothes,' for I am always so much happier in the old ones
People at the shops should sell clothes that will never either
dirty or tear
You ought to be dressed in fur, like Robinson Crusoe, or sent out
naked, like the little savages
or painted black
and blue like them wild old Britons that lived here long ago
I am black and blue sometimes, without being painted
Good-bye, Mrs. Crabtree! I hope you will not die
of weariness without us! On our return we shall tell you all our
delightful adventures
Mr.
Punctuality
Remember!
sharp twelve
I shall reach the top of Arthur's Seat first
All of
you follow me, for I know the shortest way. It is only a hop, step, and
a jump
Rather a long step
But I could lead you a much
better way, though I shall show it to nobody but myself
We must certainly drink water at St. Anthony's Well
because whatever any one wishes for when he tastes it, is sure to
happen immediately
Then I shall wish that some person may give me a new doll
My old one is only fit for being lady's maid to a fine new
doll
I am in ninety-nine minds what to wish for
we must
take care not to be like the foolish old woman in the fairy tale, who
got only a yard of black pudding
I shall ask for a piebald pony, with a whip, a saddle, and a bridle
and for a week's holidays,-- and a new watch,-- and a
spade,-- and a box of French plums,-- and to be first at the top of
Arthur's Seat,-- and -- and
Stop, Peter!-- stop! you can only have one wish at St. Anthony's Well
If you ask more, you lose all
That is very hard, for I want everything
What are you
wishing for, Sir
What shall I ask for
I have
not a want in the world
O yes, Sir! you must wish for something
Do invent something to ask, Mr. Harwood
Then I wish you may all behave well till we reach the top of Arthur's
Seat, and all come safely down again
You may be sure of that already
I set such a
very good example to all my companions, that they never behave ill when
I am present,-- no! not even by accident! When Dr. Algebra examined our
class to-day, he asked Mr. Lexicon, 'What has become of the best boy in
your school this morning?' and the answer was, 'Of course your mean
Peter Grey! He is gone to the top of Arthur's Seat with that excellent
man, Mr. Harwood
Indeed!-- and pray, Master Peter, what bird whispered this story into
your ear, seeing it has all happened since we left home!-- but people who
are praised by nobody else, often take to praising themselves
Who knows better!-- and here is Harry Graham, the very ditto of
myself,-- so steady he might be fit to drill a whole regiment. We shall
lead the party quite safely up the hill, and down again, without any
ladders
And without wings
but what are we to draw
water out of the well with?-- here are neither buckets, nor tumblers, nor
glasses
I could lend you my thimble
That
will hold enough of water for one wish, and every person may have the
loan of it in turn
This is the very first time your thimble has been of use to anybody
but I dare say it is not worn into holes with too
much sewing, therefore it will make a famous little magical cup for St.
Anthony's Well. You know the fairies who dance here by moonlight, lay
their table-cloth upon a mushroom, and sit round it, to be merry, but I
never heard what they use for a drinking cup
Now for the top of Arthur's Seat, and I
shall grow dry with the fatigue of climbing
Oh, Harry
If this were not a party of pleasure, I think
we are sometimes quite as happy in our own gardens! People must be very
miserable at home, before they come here to be amused! I wish we were
cats, or goats, or any thing that can stand upon a hill without feeling
giddy
I think this is very good fun
you would like perhaps to be back in
the nursery with Mrs. Crabtree
No! no! I am not quite so bad as that! But Harry! do you ever really
expect to reach the top? for I never shall; so I mean to sit down
quietly here, and wait till you all return
I have a better plan than that, Laura! you shall sit upon the highest
point of Arthur's Seat as well as anybody, before either of us is an
hour older! Let me go first, because I get on famously, and you must
never look behind, but keep tight hold of my jacket, so then every step
I advance will pull you up also
Now, for business
I
suppose nobody is hungry after our long walk! Let us see what all the
baskets contain
savages
Peter! Peter! you shabby fellow
you should be put in the tread-mill as a sturdy
beggar
Or thrown down from the top of this precipice
I wonder you can look any of us in the face, Peter
I have heard
that a stone is shown in Ireland,
called 'the stone of Blarney,' and whoever kisses it, is never
afterwards ashamed of any thing he does. Our friend Peter has probably
passed that way lately
At any rate, I am not likely to be starved to death amongst you all
No
I could swallow Arthur's Seat if it were turned into a plum-pudding
Has any one any thing
more to spare
Did you ever hear
that a pigeon eats its own
weight of food every day? Now, I am sure, you and I know one boy in the
world, Peter, who could do as much
What is to be done with that prodigious cake you carried up here, Mr.
Harwood
the crust
seems as hard as a rhinoceros' skin, but I dare say it is very good. One
could not be sure though, without tasting it! I hope you are not going
to take the trouble of carrying that heavy load back again
How very polite you are become all on a sudden, Peter
I should be very sorry to attempt carrying that cake to the
bottom of the hill, for we would both roll down, the shortest way,
together
I am not over-anxious to try it either
Even Peter, though his mouth is constantly ajar,
would find that cake rather heavy to carry, either as an inside or an
outside passenger
I can scarcely lift it at all
what can be done
Here is the very best plan
Now for a race
The first
boy or girl who reaches that cake shall have it all to himself
Hollo! young gentleman! what shall I do to you for beginning this
uproar? As the old proverb says, 'one fool makes many.' How dare you
roll my fine cake down the hill in this way, and send everybody rolling
after it? Look me in the face, and say you are ashamed of yourself
Master Graham! you must send a new frock to every little girl of the
party, and a suit of clothes to each of the boys, for having caused
theirs to be all destroyed. I really meant to punish you severely for
beginning such a riot, but something has made me change my mind. In
almost every moment of our lives, we either act amiably of unamiably,
and I observed you treat Miss Laura so kindly and properly all this
morning, that I shall say not another word about

                              "THE PRODIGIOUS CAKE
For
I'm really remarkably fond of the water
Well, you little imps of mischief! what have I to scold you for now
Is it something that
I shall be obliged to take the trouble of punishing you for? We ought to
live in the Highlands, where there are whole forests of birch ready for
use? Why are your ears like a bell-rope, Harry? because they seem made
to be pulled. Now, go on with your story. What is the matter
We were playing about the room, uncle David, and Laura lost her ball,
so she crept under that big table which has only one large leg. There is
a brass button below, so we were trying if it would come off, when all
on a sudden, the table fell quite to one side, as you see it now,
tumbling down those prodigious books and tin boxes on the floor! I
cannot think how this fine new table could be so easily broken; but
whenever we even look at anything, it seems to break
Yes, Harry! You remind me of Meddlesome Matty in the nursery rhymes,

  "Sometimes she'd lift the teapot lid
  To peep at what was in it,
  Or tilt the kettle, if you did
  But turn your back a minute.
  In vain you told her not to touch,
  Her trick of meddling grew so much
Perhaps the carpenter could do it to-morrow
Or, perhaps uncle David could do it this moment
Did I ever
so we have
suffered all our fright for nothing, and the table was not really
broken! I shall always run to you, uncle David, when we are in a scrape,
for you are sure to get us off
Do not reckon too certainly on that, Master Harry; it is easier to get
into one than to get out of it, any day; but I am not so seriously angry
at the sort of scrapes Laura and you get into, because you would not
willingly and deliberately do wrong. If any children commit a mean
action, or get into a passion, or quarrel with each other, or omit
saying their prayers and reading their Bibles, or tell a lie, or take
what does not belong to them, then it might be seen how extremely angry
I could be; but while you continue merely thoughtless and forgetful, I
mean to have patience a little longer before turning into a cross old
uncle with a pair of tawse
As Mrs. Crabtree says
we cannot put an old
head on young shoulders;' and it would certainly look very odd if you
could
I think we might
surely take Laura with us
Yes
both the children have been invited, and
are behaving wonderfully well of late, but Lord Rockville has such a
dislike to noise, that I dare not venture to take more than one at a
time. Poor Laura has a very severe cough, so she may be recovered by
change of air. As for Harry, he is quite well, and therefore he can stay
at home
for fear of catching cold
How do you do
Quite well, I
thank you
It is pleasant to see so joyous a face
I almost
envy you, Laura, for being so happy
Oh! I quite envy myself! but I shall write a long letter every day to
poor Harry, telling him all the news, and all my adventures
Nonsense! Miss Laura! wait till you come home
Who do you think is going to pay postage for so many foolish letters
I shall
I have got sixpence, and two pence, and a
half penny, so I shall buy every one of Laura's letters from the
postman, and write her an answer immediately afterwards. She will like
to hear, Mrs. Crabtree, how very kind you are going to be, when I am
left by myself here. Perhaps you will play at nine pins with me, and
Laura can lend you her skipping rope
You might as well offer uncle David a hobby-horse
No, Harry! you
shall belong to me now. Grandmama says you may go every day to my
play-ground, where all the school-boys assemble, and you can have plenty
of fun till Laura comes back. We shall jump over the moon every morning,
for joy
You will tire of sitting so long idle! It is a pity we did not think of
bringing a few lesson-books in the carriage to amuse you, Laura
A piece of needle-work might have beguiled the way. I
once knew an industrious lady who made a ball dress for herself in the
carriage during a journey
How very stupid of her to miss seeing all the pretty trees, and
cottages, and farm-houses! I do like to watch the little curly-headed,
dirty children, playing on the road, with brown faces, and hair bleached
white in the sun; and the women hanging out their clothes on the hedges
to dry; and the blacksmith shoeing horses, and the ducks swimming in the
gutters, and the pigs thrusting their noses out of the sty, and the old
women knitting stockings, and the workmen sitting on a wall to eat their
dinners! It looks all so pretty, and so pleasant
What a picture of rural felicity! You ought to be a poet or a painter,
Laura
But I believe poets always call this a miserable world: and I think it
the happiest place I have ever been in, uncle David! Such fun during the
holidays! I should go wild altogether, if Mrs. Crabtree were not rather
cross sometimes
Or very cross always
But here we are, Laura,
near our journey's end. Allow me to introduce you to Holiday House! Why,
you are staring at it like a dog looking at a piece of cold beef! My
dear girl, if you open your eyes so wide, you will never be able to shut
them again
Oh! I am too
happy! I scarcely know what to do with so much happiness. How delightful
it would be to stay here all my life, and never to go to bed, nor say
any more lessons as long as I live
What a useless, stupid girl you would soon become
Do you think, Laura, that lessons were invented for no other
purpose but to torment little children
No, grandmama; not exactly! They are of use also to keep us quiet
Come here, little madam, and listen to me. I shall soon be very old,
Laura, and not able to read my Bible, even with spectacles; for, as the
Scriptures told us, in that affecting description of old age, which I
read to you yesterday, 'the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the
grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the
windows be darkened:' what then do you think I can do, because the Bible
now is my best comfort, which I shall need more and more every day, to
tell me all about the eternal world where I am going, and to shew me the
way
Grandmama! you promised long ago to let me attend on you when you grow
old and blind! I shall be very careful, and very -- very -- very kind. I
almost wish you were old and blind now, to let you feel how much I love
you, and how anxious I am to be as good to you as you have always been
to me. We shall read the Bible together every morning, and as often
afterwards as you please
Thank you, my dear child! but you must take the trouble of learning to
read well, or we shall be sadly puzzled with the difficult words. A
friend of mine once had nobody that could read to her when she was ill,
but the maid, who bargained that she might leave out every word above
one syllable long, because they were too hard for her; and you could
hardly help laughing at the nonsense it sometimes made; but I hope you
will manage better
O certainly, grandmama! I can spell chrononhotonthologos, and all the
other five-cornered words in my 'Reading Made Easy,' already
Besides that, my dear Laura! unless you learn to look over my bills, I
may be sadly cheated by servants and shop-keepers. You must positively
study to find out how many cherries make five
Ah! grandmama! nobody knows better than I do, that two and two make
four. I shall soon be quite able to keep your accounts
Very well! but you have not yet heard half the trouble I mean to give
you. I am remarkably fond of music, and shall probably at last be
obliged to hire every old fiddler as he passes in the street, by giving
him sixpence in order to enjoy some of my favourite tunes
No, grandmama! you shall hear them all from me. I can play Malbrook,
and Auld Robin Grey, already; and Frank says if I practise two hours
every day for ten years, I shall become a very tolerable player, fit for
you and uncle David to hear, without being disagreeable
Then that will be more than seven thousand hours of musical lessons
which you have yet to endure, Laura! There are many more things of
still greater importance to learn also, if you wish to be any better
than a musical snuff-box. For instance, when visitors come to see me,
they are often from France or Italy; but perhaps you will not mind
sitting in the room as if you were deaf and dumb, gazing at those
foreigners, while they gaze at you, without understanding a syllable
they say, and causing them to feel strange and uncomfortable as long as
they remain in the house
No! I would not for the world seem so unkind and uncivil. Pray, let me
learn plenty of languages
Very well! but if you study no geography, what ridiculous blunders you
will be falling into! asking the Italians about their native town
Madrid, and the Americans if they were born at Petersburgh. You will be
fancying that travellers go by steam-boats to Moscow, and travel in a
day from Paris, through Stockholm to Naples. How ashamed I should be of
such mistakes
And so should I, grandmama, still more than you; for it would be quite
a disgrace
Do you remember, Laura, your uncle David laughing, when he last went to
live at Leamington, about poor Mrs. Marmalade coming up stairs to say,
she did not wish to be troublesome, but should feel greatly obliged if
he would call at Portsmouth occasionally to see her son Thomas. And when
Captain Armylist's regiment was ordered last winter to the village of
Bathgate near this, he told me they were to march in the course of that
morning, all the way to Bagdad
Yes, grandmama! and Mrs. Crabtree said some weeks ago, that if her
brother went to Van Dieman's Land, she thought he would of course in
passing, take a look at Jerusalem; and Frank was amused lately to hear
Peter Grey maintain, that Gulliver was as great a man as Columbus,
because he discovered Liliput
Quite like him! for I heard Peter ask one day lately, what side
Bonaparte was on at the battle of Leipsic? We must include a little
history I think, Laura, in our list of studies, or you will fancy that
Lord Nelson fought at the battle of Blenheim, and that Henry VIII. cut
off Queen Mary's head
Not quite so bad as that, grandmama! I seem to have known all about
Lord Nelson and Queen Mary, ever since I was a baby in long frocks! You
have shewn me, however, that it would be very foolish not to feel
anxious for lessons, especially when they are to make me a fit companion
for you at last
Yes, Laura! and not only for me, but for many whose conversation will
entertain and improve you more than any books. The most delightful
accomplishment that a young person can cultivate, is that of conversing
agreeably; and it is less attended to in education than any other. You
cannot take a harp or piano about with you, but our minds and tongues
are always portable, and accompany us wherever we go. If you wish to be
loved by others, and to do good to your associates, as well as to
entertain them, take every opportunity of conversing with those who are
either amiable or agreeable; not only attending to their opinions, but
also endeavouring to gain the habit of expressing your own thoughts with
ease and fluency; and then rest assured, that if the gift of
conversation be rightly exercised, it is the most desirable of all, as
no teaching can have greater influence in leading people to think and
act aright, than the incidental remarks of an enlightened Christian,
freely and unaffectedly talking to his intimate friends
Well, grandmama! the moral of all this is, that I shall become busier
than any body ever was before, when we get home; but in the meantime, I
may take a good dose of idleness now at Holiday House, to prepare me for
settling to very hard labour afterwards
I wonder if I shall ever be as merry and happy again
Laura
in Switzerland a lady's wardrobe descends
to many generations; but nobody will envy your successor! One might
fancy that a wild beast had torn you to pieces every day! I wonder what
an old clothesman would give for your whole baggage! It is only fit for
being used as rags in a paper manufactory
My dear girl! I have warned you very often lately that we are not at
home, where your frocks could be washed and mended as soon as they were
spoiled; but without considering this you have, every day, destroyed
several, so now the maid finds, on examining your drawers, that there is
only one clean frock remaining
I do not wish to make a prisoner of you at home during this very fine
weather, yet in five minutes after leaving the house, you will, of
course, become unfit to be seen, which I should very much regret, as a
number of fine people are coming to dinner, whom you would like to see.
The great General Courteney, and all his Aide-de-Camps, intend to be
here on their way from a review, besides many officers and ladies who
know your papa very well, and wish to see my little grand-daughter; but
I would not on any account allow you to appear before them, looking like
a perfect tatterdemalion, as you too often do. They would suppose you
had been drawn backwards through a hedge! Now my plan is, that you shall
wear this old pink gingham for romping all morning in the garden, and
dress in your last clean frock for dinner; but remember to keep out of
sight till then. Remain within the garden walls, as none of the company
will be walking there, but be sure to avoid the terrace and shrubberies
till you are made tidy, for I shall be both angry and mortified if your
papa's friends see you for the first time looking like rag-fair
I should like so much to go, if it were only for five minutes, on the
terrace
How much pleasanter it is than this.
Grandmama did not care where I went, provided nobody saw me! I may at
least take a peep to see if any one is there
What crowds of fine people are walking about on the terrace
It looks as gay as a fair! Who can that officer be in a red coat,
and cocked hat with white feathers. Probably General Courteney paying
attention to Lady Rockville. There is a lady in a blue cloak and blue
flowers! how very pretty! Everybody is so exceedingly smart! and I see
some little boys too! Grandmama never told me any children were coming!
I wonder how old they are, and if they will play with me in the evening!
It would be very amusing to venture a little nearer, and get a better
glimpse of them all
There is surely something very odd about that plant! I see large pink
spots between the leaves
Oh no, Captain Digby, you are quite mistaken
I see
nothing particular there! only a common ugly bush of holly! I wonder you
ever thought of noticing it
But, Miss Perceval! there certainly is something very curious behind!
I would bet five to one there is
What have we here! a ragged
little girl, I do believe! in a pink frock
Tally-ho! a race for a thousand pounds
My dear girl! you must, of course, be severely punished for this act of
disobedience, and it is not so much on account of feeling angry at your
misconduct that I mean to correct you, but because I love you, and wish
to make you behave better in future. Parents are appointed by God to
govern their children as he governs us, not carelessly indulging their
faults, but wisely correcting them, for we are told that our Great
Father in heaven chastens those whom he loves, and only afflicts us for
great and wise purposes. I have suffered many sorrows in the world, but
they always made me better in the end, and whatever discipline you meet
with from me, or from that Great Being who loves you still more than I
do, let it teach you to consider your ways, to repent of your
wilfulness, and to pray that you may be enabled to act more properly in
future
Yes, grandmama
I am quite
willing to be punished, for it was very wrong indeed to make you so
vexed and ashamed, by disobeying your orders
Then here is a long task which you must study before dinner, as a
penalty for trespassing bounds. It is a beautiful poem on the death of
Sir John Moore, which every school-girl can repeat, but being rather
long, you will scarcely have time to learn it perfectly, before coming
down to dessert, therefore, that you may be quite ready, I shall ring
now for Lady Rockville's maid, and have you washed and dressed
immediately. Remember this is your last clean frock, and be sure not to
spoil it
How I should like to examine those large, white, beautiful birds, a
little nearer
I wonder if they could swim
or fly!-- oh! how perfect they would look, floating like water-lilies on
the river, and then I might take a bit of bread to throw in, and they
would all rush after it
What noise can that be!-- a loud scream in the water
Oh dear, no! it was only one of those horrid peacocks
They are the most
disagreeable, noisy creatures in the world! If mama ever keeps one, I
shall get him a singing-master, or put a muzzle on his mouth
But surely there is something splashing in the river at a great
distance. Do you not see that!-- what can it be
Nothing at all, depend upon it! I could bet the value of my pocket
handkerchief, ten guineas, that it is nothing. Officers who live
constantly in barracks are so unaccustomed to the country, that they
seem to expect something wonderful shall happen every minute! That is
probably a salmon or a minnow
I am determined, however, to see. If you are quite sure this is a
salmon, will you promise to eat for your dinner whatever we find,
provided I can catch it
Certainly! unless you catch a whale! Oh! I have dropped my pocket
handkerchief,-- pray pick it up
Why, here you are again!-- the very same little girl that I caught in
the morning
We have had a complete game at bo-peep
to-day, my friend! but here comes a lady who has promised to eat you up,
therefore I shall have no more trouble
What is the matter! Who is this
Laura!! Impossible
Let me put on a pair of spectacles, for I cannot believe my eyes
without them
Ah! sure enough it is Laura, and
such a looking Laura as I never saw before. You must have had a nice
cold bath
I have heard
that naughty people are often
ducked in the water as a punishment, and in that respect I am sure Laura
deserves what she has got, and a great deal more
She reminds me
of the Chinese bird which has
no legs, so it constantly flies about from place to place, never a
moment at rest
Follow me, Laura
that I may hear whether you have
anything to say for yourself on this occasion. It is scarcely possible
that there can be any excuse, but nobody should be condemned unheard
Indeed, my dear Lady Rockville! I might perhaps have agreed to your
wishes
particularly as Laura seems sincerely
sorry, and did not premeditate her disobedience; but she actually has
not a tolerable frock to appear in now
I must lend her one of my velvet dresses to destroy next
Uncle David's Mackintosh cloak would be the fittest thing for her to
wear
Laura, you must
learn a double task now! Here it is! and at Lady Rockville's request I
excuse you this once; though I am sorry that, for very sufficient
reasons, we cannot see you at dessert, which otherwise I should have
been most happy to do
You see, Miss
when people doesn't behave well, they
must expect to be punished
So they should
and I dare say it will make me better!
I would not pass such a miserable day as this again, for the world; but
I deserve to be more punished than I am
That's right, Miss
Punishment is as sure to do us good when we are
naughty, as physic when we are ill. But now you'll go down to dessert,
and forget it all
No! grandmama would have allowed me, and Lady Rockville and every body
was so very kind about inviting me down; but my last clean frock is
quite unfit to be seen, so I have none to put on. Oh, dear! what a
thousand million of pities
Is that all, Miss! Then dry your eyes, and I can wash the frock in ten
minutes. Give it to me, and learn your lesson, so as to be ready when I
come back
How did you get here, child
Am I never to see the last of you
to-day! Where did you get that frock! It must have dropped from the
clouds! Or did some good fairy give you a new one
That good fairy was Nelly the housemaid
She first
tossed my frock into a washing-tub; and then at the great kitchen fire
she toasted it, and
And buttered it, I hope
Come here, Laura! I
can read what is written in your grandmama's face at this moment; and it
says, 'you are a tiresome little puss, that nobody can keep in any order
except uncle David;' therefore sit down beside him, and eat as many
almonds and raisins as he bids you
You are a nice, funny uncle David
nobody will need a tongue
now, if you can read so exactly what we are all thinking
But here is Miss Perceval, still more wonderful; for she knows by the
bumps on your head, all that is contained inside. Let me see if I could
do so! There is a large bump of reading, and a small one of writing and
arithmetic. Here is a terrible organ of breaking dolls and destroying
frocks. There is a very small bump of liking uncle David, and a
prodigious one of liking almonds and raisins
No! you are quite mistaken! It is the largest bump for loving uncle
David, and the small one for every thing else
I shall draw a map of my head some day, to show you how it is
all divided
And leave no room for any thing naughty or foolish! Your head should be
swept out, and put in order every morning, that not a single cobweb may
remain in your brains. What busy brains they must be for the next ten
years! But in the meantime let us hope that you will never again be
reduced to your

                              "LAST CLEAN FROCK
I wonder how iced porridge would taste
I put mine at the
open window to cool, but that only made it seem hotter. We were talking
of the gentleman you mentioned yesterday, who toasted his muffins at a
volcano; and certainly yours might almost be done at the drawing-room
window this morning
Wait till you arrive at the countries I have visited, where, as
somebody remarked, the very salamanders die of heat. At Agra, which is
the hottest part of India, we could scarcely write a letter, because the
ink dries in the pen before you can get it to the paper. I was obliged,
when our regiment was there, to lie down in the middle of the day,
during several hours, actually gasping for breath; and to make up for
that, we all rose at midnight. An officer of ours, who lived long in
India, got up always at three in the morning, after we returned home,
and walked about the streets of Portsmouth, wondering what had become of
everybody
I shall try not to grumble about weather any more
We
seem no worse off than other people
Or rather we are a great deal better off! At Bermuda, where my regiment
stopped on the way to America, the inhabitants are so tormented with
high winds, that they build 'hurricane houses'-- low, flat rooms, where
the families must retire when a storm comes on, as trees, houses,
people, and cattle, are all whirled about with such violence, that not a
life is safe on the island while it lasts
That reminds me
of a droll mistake made yesterday
by the African camel, when he landed at Leith. His keepers were leading
him along the high road to be made a show of in Edinburgh, at a time
when the wind was particularly high; and the poor animal encountering
such clouds of dust, thought this must be a simoon of the desert, and
threw himself flat down, burying his nose in the ground, according to
custom on those occasions. It was with great difficulty that he could at
last be induced to face the danger, and proceed
Quite a compliment to our dust
But really in such a
hot day, the kangaroos and tigers might feel perfectly at home here.
Oh! how I should like to visit the GEOlogical Gardens in London
Then suppose we set off immediately
Your grandmama's donkey-carriage holds two
Ah! but you could carry the donkey-carriage more easily than it could
carry you
Shall I try? Well, if we go, who is to pay the turnpikes, for I
remember the time, not a hundred years ago, when Harry and you both
thought that paying the gates was the only expense of travelling. You
asked me then how poor grandmama could afford so many shillings and
sixpences
We know all about every thing now though
I can tell exactly how much time it takes going
by the public coach to London, and it sleeps only one night on the
road
Sleeps
What! it puts on a night-cap, and goes to
bed
Yes! and it dines and breakfasts too, Mr. uncle David, for I heard Mrs.
Crabtree say so
Never name anybody, unless you wish to see her immediately
As sure as you mention an
absent person, if he is supposed to be fifty miles off at the time, it
is rather odd, but he instantly appears
Then there is somebody that I shall speak about very often
Who can this Mr. Somebody be
A foolish
person that spoils you both I dare say, and gives you large slices of
bread and jelly like this. Hold them carefully! Now, good bye, and joy
be with you
This day is so very cold and so very shivering
that I suppose you will make Laura wear at least fifty shawls
Not above twenty
Give me no more of
your nonsense, Master Harry! This is no business of yours! I was in the
world long before you were born, and must know best; so hold your
tongue. None but fools and beggars need ever be cold
Mrs. Crabtree
did you hear uncle David's funny story
yesterday? One hot morning a gentleman was watching an ant's nest, when
he observed, that every little insect, as it came out, plucked a small
leaf, to hold over its head, as a parasol! I wish we could find leaves
large enough for us
You must go to the Botanical Gardens, where one leaf of a palm-tree was
shown to grandmama, which measured fourteen feet long
How horrid these very warm countries must be, where the heat is all the
year round like this
You may well say that
I would not go to them
East Indies -- no! not if I were Governess-General,-- to be running away
with a tiger at your back, and sleeping with real live serpents twisted
round the bed-post, and scorpions under your pillow! Catch me there! I'm
often quite sorry for Master Frank, to think that his ship is maybe
going that way! I'm told the very rats have such a smell in that
outlandish place, that if they touch the outside of a bottle with their
tails, it tastes of musk ever after; and when people are sitting
comfortably down, expecting to enjoy their dinner, a swarm of great ants
will come, and fall, an inch thick, on all the side-dishes. I've no
desire whatever to see foreign parts
But I wish to see every country in the universe
and I
hope there will be a rail-road all round the world before I am grown up.
Only think, Mrs. Crabtree, what fun lion-hunting must be, and catching
dolphins, and riding on elephants
What happy people
I would
be a haymaker for nothing, if anybody would employ me; would not you,
Peter
It is very strange
why little ladies and gentlemen
seem always obliged to endure a perfectly useless walk every day, as you
and Laura are doing now. You never saw animals set out to take a stroll
for the good of their healths! How odd it would be to see a couple of
dogs set off for a country walk
Miss Laura
Master Harry may rest here for a
minute or two with Master Peter, and let them count their fingers, while
you come with Betty and me to visit a sick old aunt of mine who lives
round the corner; but be sure, boys, you do not presume to wander about,
or I shall punish you most severely. We are coming back in two minutes
Only see how very lucky this is! The
haymakers have left their long ladder, standing on purpose for us! The
window of that loft is wide open, and I must climb up immediately to
peep in, because never, in all my life, did I see the inside of a
hay-loft before
Nor I
Uncle David says, that all round the floor there
are deep holes, called mangers, down which food is thrown for the
horses, so that they can thrust their heads in, to take a bite, whenever
they choose
How I should hate to have my dinner hung up always before my nose in
that way! Suppose the kitchen were placed above your nursery, and that
Mrs. Marmalade showered down tarts and puddings, which were to remain
there till you ate them, you would hate the sight of such things at
last. But now, Harry, for the hay-loft
You never saw such a nice, clean, funny place as this, in all
your life!-- make haste!-- come faster!-- never mind crushing your hat or
tearing your jacket,-- I'll put it all to rights. Ah! there!-- that's the
thing!-- walk up, gentlemen! walk up!-- the grand show!-- sixpence each,
and children half-price
rafters dirled
How lucky that we came here
I should like to stay an
hour at least
Oh! two hours,-- or three,-- or all day
But what shall we
do about Mrs. Crabtree? She has not gone to settle for life with that
old sick aunt, so I am afraid we must really be hurrying back, in case
she may find out our expedition, and that, you know, Peter, would be
dreadful
Only fancy, Harry, if she sees you and me clinging to the ladder, about
half way down! what a way she would be in
We had better make haste
What would
grandmama say!-- I wish we had never come up
Where in all
the world can those troublesome boys be gone! I must tether them to a
tree the next time they are left together! Why! sure! they would not
venture up that long ladder in the hay-loft! If they have, they had
better never come down again, for I shall shew who is master here
Peter Grey would run up a ladder to the stars, if he could find one
Here are Master Harry's gloves lying at the bottom of
it. They can be gone nowhere else, for I have searched every other
place. We must send the town-crier with his bell after them, if they are
not found up there
Oh, Peter! what a pity it is ever to be naughty, for we are always
found out, and always so much happier when we are good
I wonder how Mrs. Crabtree will get up the long ladder
I would give my little finger, and one of my ears, to
see her and Betty scrambling along
Why, sure! there's nobody here
And what a disorderly place this is! I thought a hay-loft was always
kept in such nice order, with the floor all swept! but here is a fine
mess! Those two great lumps of hay in the corner look as if they were
meant for people to sleep upon
They must have been stolen by a gipsey, or perhaps fallen into a well
I always
thought Master Peter would break his neck, or something of that kind.
Poor thing! how distressed his papa will be
Hold your tongue
I wish people
would either speak sense, or not speak at all! Did you hear a noise
among the hay
Rats, I dare say! or perhaps a dog
I
certainly thought something moved in yon far corner
Where can that little shrimp of a boy be hid
He must have obedience knocked like a nail into his head,
with a few good severe blows. I shall beat him to powder when once we
catch him
You may depend upon it
that some gipsey has got the
boys for the sake of their clothes. It will be a great pity, because
Master Harry had on his best blue jacket and trowsers
Now, you are the besiegers, and I am the garrison
We must make a
treaty of peace together, for I could tumble you over in a minute, by
merely pushing this end a very little more to one side
Do not touch it, Master Peter
There is a good boy,-- be quiet
A good boy
What a fright Mrs. Crabtree
must be in, before she said that
Master Harry Graham
Miss Laura Graham
A letter for me
What can it be about! I like getting
a letter very much! Is it from papa? Did the postman bring it
Yes, he did
and he left a message that you must
pay a hundred pounds for it to-morrow
Very likely, indeed
you should pay that for telling me
such a fine story; but my letter is worth more than a hundred pounds,
for it is inviting me to spend another delightful week at Holiday
House
I am asked too! and not Mrs. Crabtree
If that be meant as a specimen of how you intend to behave at Holiday
House, we had better send your apology at once
Lord Rockville is very particular about never hearing any
noise, and the slamming of a door, or even the creaking of a pair of
unruly shoes, would put him distracted
Yes
Holiday House is as quiet as Harry's drum
with a hole in it. If a pin drops in any part of the mansion, Lord
Rockville becomes annoyed, and the very wasps scarcely dare to buz at
his window so loud as at any other person's. You will feel quite
fish-out-of-water-ish, trying to be quiet and hum-drum for a whole week,
so let me advise you not to go
The meaning of advice always is something that one would rather wish
not to do
I never in my life was advised to
enjoy anything pleasant! Taking physic -- or learning lessons -- or staying
at home, are very often advised, but never playing -- or having a
holiday -- or amusing ourselves
You know, Laura! that Harry's little Shetland pony, Tom Thumb, in my
field, is of no use at present, but kicks, and capers, and runs about
all day; yet presently he will be led out fastened to a rope, and made
to trot round and round in a circle, day after day, till he has no
longer a will of his own,-- that is education. Afterwards he shall have a
bridle put in his mouth, which some little girls would be much the
better of also, when he shall be carefully guided ever afterwards in the
best ways; and you likewise will go much more steadily for all the
reining-in and whipping you have got from Mrs. Crabtree and me, which
may, perhaps, make you keep in the road of duty more easily hereafter
Uncle David
we have read in the Arabian
Nights, about people being turned into animals, but I never thought you
would turn Laura into a horse! What shall we do with my little Shetland
pony if I go away next week
I have thought of a capital plan for making Tom Thumb useful during the
whole winter! Your grandmama wants a watch-dog in the country, so we
shall build him a kennel -- put a chain round his neck, and get some one
to teach him to bark
Uncle David should be Professor of Nonsense at the University
But, my dear children, if you are allowed to pay
this visit at Holiday House, I hope you will endeavour to behave
creditably
Yes
I understand that Lord Rockville wished to
have some particularly quiet children there, for a short time, so he
fixed upon Harry and Laura! Poor, mistaken Lord Rockville! But, my good
friends, try not to break all his china ornaments the first day -- spare a
few jars and tea-cups -- leave a pane of glass or two in the windows, and
throw none of your marbles at the mirrors
I remember hearing
that when Miss Pelham was
married last year, her old aunt, Mrs. Bouverie, sent for her and said,
that as she could not afford to give baubles or trinkets, she would give
her a very valuable piece of advice; and what do you think it was,
Laura
I have no idea! Do tell me
Then I shall bestow it on you, as the old lady did on her niece --'Be
careful of china, paper and string, for they are all very transitory
possessions in this world
Very true! and most judicious
I
certainly know several persons who must have served an apprenticeship
under that good lady. Many gentlemen now, who despatch all their
epistles from the club, because there the paper costs them nothing, and
a number of ladies, who, for the same good reason, never write letters
till they are visiting in a country house
Thank you, my Lord!
We are ready to think it hot or cold, just as you please
it rained cats and dogs
single
misfortunes never come alone
That boy has a voice
that might do for the town-crier! He laughs so loud, it is enough to
crack every glass in the room! I wish he were condemned to pass a week
in those American prisons where no one is allowed to speak. In short, he
would be better anywhere than here, for I might as well live with a
hammer and tongs, as with the two children together. They are more
restless than the quicksilver figures from China, and I wish they were
as quiet, but my only comfort is, that at any rate they come home
punctually to dinner at five. Nothing is so intolerable as people
dropping in too late and disordering the table
Hush, Harry!-- hush!-- I hear a very strange noise. It sounds like some
wild beast! What can that be
Hollo, Laura! are you hiding in a
cart rut
The bull
will soon find you there! Come! come! as fast as possible! we must have
a race for it yet! That terrible beast can scarcely make his way through
the trees and branches, they grow so closely! Perhaps we may get on as
fast as he
Oh, Harry
you must get on alone! I am
so weak with terror, it is impossible to run a step farther
Do not waste your breath with talking
How can you suppose I would be so shabby as to make
my escape without you! No! no! we must either both be caught, or both
get off
That fence will puzzle Mr. Bull
We can push through places where his great hoof could
scarcely be thrust! I saw him coming along, with his heels high in the
air, and his head down, like an enormous wheel-barrow
Run for your life, Laura
There is safety, if we reach it
Laura
you
see, as uncle David says, whatever danger people are in, it is foolish
to be quite in despair, but we should rather think what it is best to
do, and do it directly
Yes, Harry! and I shall never forget that you would not forsake me,
but risked your own life, like a brave brother, in my defence. I should
like to do as much for you another time
Thank you, Laura, as much as if you had, but I hope we shall never be
in such a scrape again! If Frank were here, he would put us both in mind
to thank a merciful God for taking so much care of us, and bringing us
safely home
Yes, Harry! It is perhaps a good thing being in danger sometimes, to
remind us that we cannot be safe or happy an hour without God's care, so
in our prayers to-night we must remember what has happened, and return
thanks very particularly
My dear children! you ought to return home before the dinner hour, and
not keep his Lordship waiting
Pshaw!-- nonsense
The bull
would have done you no harm! He is a most respectable, quiet,
well-disposed animal, and brought an excellent character from his last
place! I never heard a complaint of him before
It is curious
that all bulls are reckoned peaceable
and tame, till they have tossed two or three people, and killed them
I thought
that Harry was grown more a man than to be so easily put to flight.
When a bull, another time, threatens to toss you, seize hold of his
tail,-- or toss him!-- or, in short, do anything rather than run away the
first time an animal looks at you. This is a mere cock-and-a-bull story,
to excuse your keeping me waiting almost a quarter of an hour for my
dinner!-- you should be made guard of a mail-coach for a month, to teach
you punctuality, Master Graham
What can be the matter
This is
very odd! His Lordship is as punctual as the postman in general!
especially for supper; and here is Lord Rockville's favourite dish of
sago and wine, which will become uneatably cold in ten minutes, if he
does not return home to enjoy it
What in all the world has happened to you this evening, my Lord
I never saw you in such a way before! Your eyes are perfectly
blood-shot -- your dress strangely disordered -- and you seem so hot and so
fatigued! Tell me!-- what is the matter
Nothing
I guess you've seen the bull? Oh! I am sure you did! Pray tell us if
you have? Did he run after you,-- and did you run away
most respectable, quiet, well-disposed animal,

                              "THE MAD BULL
I pardon beg
Oh! uncle David! uncle David
I would jump out of the carriage window with joy to see
you again; only the persons passing in the street might be surprised
Not at all! They are quite accustomed to see people jumping out of the
windows with joy, whenever I appear
We have so much to tell you
we hardly know where to begin
Ladies and gentlemen! If you both talk at once, I must get a new pair
of ears! So you have not been particularly miserable at Holiday House
No! no! uncle David! we did not think there had been so much happiness
in the world
The last two days we could do
nothing but play and laugh, and
And grow fat! Why! you both look so well fed, you are just fit for
killing! I shall be obliged to shut you up two or three days, without
anything to eat, as is done to pet lap-dogs, when they are getting
corpulent and gouty
Then we shall be like bears living on our paws
and
uncle David! I would rather do that, than be a glutton like Peter Grey.
He went to a cheap shop lately, where old cheese-cakes were sold at
half-price, and greedily devoured nearly a dozen, thinking that the dead
flies scattered on the top were currants, till Frank shewed him his
mistake
Frank should have let him eat in peace! There is no accounting for
tastes. I once knew a lady who liked to swallow spiders! She used to
crack and eat them with the greatest delight, whenever she could catch
one
Oh! what a horrid woman! That is even worse than grandmama's story
about Dr. Manvers having dined on a dish of mice, fried in crumbs of
bread
You know the old proverb, Harry, 'one man's meat is another man's
poison.' The Persians are disgusted at our eating lobsters; and the
Hindoos think us scarcely fit to exist, because we live on beef; while
we are equally amazed at the Chinese for devouring dog pies, and
birds'-nest soup. You turn up your nose at the French for liking frogs;
and they think us ten times worse with our singed sheep's head, oat
cakes, and haggis
That reminds me
that when Charles X. lived in
what he called the 'dear Canongate,' His Majesty was heard to say, that
he tried every sort of Scotch goose, 'the solan goose, the wild goose,
and the tame goose; but the best goose of all, was the hag-goose
Very polite, indeed, to adopt our national taste so completely
When my regiment was quartered in Spain,
an officer of ours, a great epicure, and not quite so complaisant, used
to say that the country was scarcely fit to live in, because there it is
customary to dress almost every dish with sugar. At last, one day, in a
rage, he ordered eggs to be brought up in their shells for dinner,
saying, 'that is the only thing the cook cannot possibly spoil.' We
played him a trick, however, which was very like what you would have
done, Harry, on a similar occasion. I secretly put pounded sugar into
the salt-cellar, and when he tasted his first mouthful, you should have
seen the look of fury with which he sprung off his seat, exclaiming,
'the barbarians eat sugar even with their eggs
That would be the country for me to travel in
I could
live in a barrel of sugar; and my little pony, Tom Thumb, would be happy
to accompany me there, as he likes anything sweet
All animals are of the same opinion. I remember the famous rider,
Ducrow, telling a brother-officer of mine, that the way in which he
gains so much influence over his horses, is merely by bribing them with
sugar. They may be managed in that way like children, and are quite
aware, if it be taken from them as a punishment for being restive
Oh! those beautiful horses at Ducrow's! How often I think of them since
we were there
They were quite like fairies, with
fine arched necks, and long tails
I never heard before of a fairy with a long tail, Master Harry; but
perhaps in the course of your travels you may have seen such a thing
How I should like to ride upon Tom Thumb, in Ducrow's way, with my toe
on the saddle
Fine doings indeed
Have you forgotten already, Master Harry, how many of
the nursery plates you broke one day when I was out, in trying to copy
that there foolish Indian juggler, who tossed his plates in the air, and
twirled them on his thumb! There must be no more such nonsense; for if
once your neck is broke by a fall off Tom Thumb, no doctor that I know
of can mend it again. Remember what a terrible tumble you had off Jessy
last year
You are always speaking about that little overturn, Mrs. Crabtree; and
it was not worth recollecting above a week! Did you never see a man
thrown off his horse before
A man and horse indeed
You and your charger were hardly large enough then for a
toy-shop; and you must grow a little more, Captain Gulliver, before you
will be fit for a dragoon regiment
You will be taken ill of the multiplication table some day, and
confined to bed with a violent fit of geography! Pray take care of
yourselves, and do not devour above three books at once
Here is an
invitation that I suppose you are both too busy to accept, so perhaps I
might as well send an apology; eh, Harry
An invitation! Oh! I like an invitation so very
much! Pray tell us all about it
Perhaps it is an invitation to spend a month with Dr. Lexicon. What
would you say to that? They breakfast upon Latin grammars at school, and
have a dish of real French verbs, smothered in onions, for dinner every
day
But in downright earnest, uncle David! where are we going
Must I tell you? Well! that good-natured old lady, Mrs. Darwin, intends
taking a large party of children next week, in her own carriage, to pass
ten days at Ivy Lodge, a charming country house about twenty miles off,
where you are all to enjoy perfect happiness. I wish I could be ground
down into a little boy myself, for the occasion! Poor good woman! what a
life she will lead! There is only one little drawback to your delight,
that I am almost afraid to announce
What is that, uncle David
Are we to bite off our own
noses before we return
Not exactly; but somebody is to be of the party who will do it for you.
Mrs. Darwin has heard that there are certain children who become
occasionally rather unmanageable! I cannot think who they can be, for it
is certainly nobody we ever saw; so she has requested that Mrs. Crabtree
will follow in the mail-coach
Yes! with a large slice of raw meat in his beak
I dare say he lives much better here,
than he would do killing his own mutton up in the clouds there, or
taking his chance of a dead horse on the sea-shore occasionally
a patent appetite
I hope, my dear! your egg is all right
Most excellent indeed
Is it quite fresh
Perfectly! I dare say it was laid only a minute before it was boiled
I have seen the eggs much larger than that
Yes! but then I believe they are rather coarse,-- at least we think so,
when Mrs. Crabtree gives us a turkey egg at dinner
If you prefer them small, perhaps you would like a guinea-fowl's egg
Thank you! but this one is just as I like them
It looks rather over-done! If you think so, we could get another in a
minute
No! they are better well boiled
Then probably it is not enough done. Some people like them quite hard,
and I could easily pop it into the slop-basin for another minute
I am really obliged to you, but it could not be improved
Do you not take any more salt with your egg
No, I thank you
A few more grains would improve it
If you say so, I dare say they will
Ah! now I am afraid you have put in too much! pray do get another
To be delivered
immediately
Grandmama allowed me to stay here till Friday!-- and I was invited to
stay,-- and I will not go anywhere else
Oh fie, Master Harry
Do not talk so! You ought
to know better! I shall soon teach you, however, to do as you are bid
Hollo! Mr. King of Spades! If I were to let myself drop very gently
down from the window, could you catch me in your arms
Mr. Harry! Mr. Harry! if you dare
You'll be broken in pieces like a tea-pot, you'll be made
as flat as a pancake! Stay where you are! Do ye hear
Oh Harry! you will be killed
Stop! stop! Harry, are
you mad? can nobody stop him
Do not
be frightened, Laura! I have behaved very ill, and deserve the worst
that can happen. If I do break my head, it will save Mrs. Crabtree the
trouble of breaking it for me, after I come down
Yes! and a hundred lashes besides
Pray
touch him up well, Mrs. Crabtree, when you are about it. There is no law
against cruelty to boys
the confessions of Master Harry Graham
I have
always thought that boys are like cats, with nine lives at least! You
should be hung up in a basket, Harry, as they do with unruly boys in the
South Sea Islands, where such young gentlemen as you are left dangling
in the air for days together without a possibility of escape
I would not care for that compared with being teazed and worried by
Mrs. Crabtree. I really wish, uncle David, that Dr. Bell would order me
never to be scolded any more! It is very bad for me! I generally feel an
odd sort of over-all-ish-ness as soon as she begins; and I am getting
too big now, for any thing but a birch-rod like Frank. How pleasant it
is to be a grown-up man, uncle David, as you are, sitting all day at the
club with your hat on your head, and nothing to do but look out of the
window. That is what I call happiness
But once upon a time, Harry
when I stopped in the
carriage for your uncle David at the club, he was in the middle of such
a yawn at the window, that he very nearly dislocated his jaw! it was
quite alarming to see him, and he told me in a great secret, that the
longest and most tiresome hours of his life are, when he has nothing
particular to do
Now, at this moment, I have nothing particular to do
therefore I shall tell you a wonderful story, children, about
liking to be idle or busy, and you must find out the moral for
yourselves
A story! a story
Now let it be all about
very bad boys, and giants, and fairies
Pie-crust and pastry-crust, that was the wall;
  The windows were made of black-puddings and white,
  And slated with pancakes -- you ne'er saw the like
Papa!
may I take this piece of cake? Aunt Sarah! will you give me an apple?
Mama! do send me the whole of that plum-pudding
In my house
you shall be taught to find pleasure
in every sort of exertion, for I delight in activity and diligence. My
young friends rise at seven every morning, and amuse themselves with
working in a beautiful garden of flowers,-- rearing whatever fruit they
wish to eat,-- visiting among the poor,-- associating pleasantly
together,-- studying the arts and sciences,-- and learning to know the
world in which they live, and to fulfil the purposes for which they have
been brought into it. In short, all our amusements tend to some useful
object, either for our own improvement or the good of others, and you
will grow wiser, better, and happier every day you remain in the Palace
of Knowledge
But in Castle Needless where I live
we
never think of exerting ourselves for anything. You may put your head in
your pocket, and your hands in your sides as long as you choose to
stay. No one is ever even asked a question, that he may be spared the
trouble of answering. We lead the most fashionable life that can be
imagined, for nobody speaks to anybody! Each of my visitors is quite an
exclusive, and sits with his back to as many of the company as possible,
in the most comfortable arm-chair that can be imagined. There, if you
are only so good as to take the trouble of wishing for anything, it is
yours, without even turning an eye round to look where it comes from.
Dresses are provided of the most magnificent kind, which go on of
themselves, without your having the smallest annoyance with either
buttons or strings,-- games which you can play without an effort of
thought,-- and dishes dressed by a French cook, smoking hot and hot under
your nose, from morning till night,-- while any rain we have, is either
made of cherry brandy, lemonade, or lavender water,-- and in winter it
generally snows iced-punch for an hour during the forenoon
preserve
That little
man does me great credit!-- he has only been fed for a week, and is as
fat already as a prize ox! What a dainty morsel he will be! When do you
dine to-day, in case I should have time to look in upon you
Thank you, a hundred times over, uncle David
I shall take care not to be found hanging any day
on a hook in the larder! Certainly, Frank, you must have spent a month
with the good fairy; and I hope she will some day invite me to be made a
scholar of too, for Laura and I still belong to the No-book family
It is very important. Harry, to choose the best course from the
beginning
Good or bad habits grow stronger and
stronger every minute, as if an additional string were tied on daily, to
keep us in the road where we walked the day before; so those who mistake
the path of duty at first, find hourly increasing difficulty in turning
round
But grandmama
you have put up some finger-posts to
direct us right; and whenever I see 'no passage this way,' we shall
wheel about directly
As Mrs. Crabtree has not tapped at the door yet, I shall describe the
progress of a wise and a foolish man, to see which Harry and you would
prefer copying
The fool begins, when
he is young, with hating lessons, lying long in bed, and spending all
his money on trash. Any books he will consent to read, are never about
what is true or important; but he wastes all his time and thoughts on
silly stories that never could have happened. Thus he neglects to learn
what was done, and thought, by all the great and good men who really
lived in former times, while even his Bible, if he has one, grows dusty
on the shelf. After so bad a beginning, he grows up with no useful or
interesting knowledge; therefore his whole talk is to describe his own
horses, his own dogs, his own guns, and his own exploits; boasting of
what a high wall his horse can leap over, the number of little birds he
can shoot in a day, and how many bottles of wine he can swallow without
tumbling under the table. Thus, 'glorying in his shame,' he thinks
himself a most wonderful person, not knowing that men are born to do
much better things than merely to find selfish pleasure and amusement
for themselves. Presently he grows old, gouty, and infirm -- no longer
able to do such prodigious achievements; therefore now his great delight
is, to sit with his feet upon the fender, at a club all day, telling
what a famous rider, shooter, and drinker, he was long ago; but nobody
cares to hear such old stories; therefore he is called a 'proser,' and
every person avoids him. It is no wonder a man talks about himself, if
he has never read or thought about any one else. But at length his
precious time has all been wasted, and his last hour comes, during which
he can have nothing to look back upon but a life of folly and guilt. He
sees no one around who loves him, or will weep over his grave; and when
he looks forward, it is towards an eternal world which he has never
prepared to enter, and of which he knows nothing
What a terrible picture, grandmama
I
hope there are not many people like that, or it would be very sad to
meet with them. Now pray let us have a pleasanter description of the
sort of persons you would like Harry and me to become
The first foundation of all is, as you already know, Frank, to pray
that you may be put in the right course and kept in it, for of ourselves
we are so sinful and weak that we can do no good thing. Then feeling a
full trust in the Divine assistance, you must begin and end every day
with studying your Bible, not merely reading it, but carefully
endeavouring to understand and obey what it contains. Our leisure should
be bestowed on reading of wiser and better people than ourselves, which
will keep us humble while it instructs our understandings, and thus we
shall be fitted to associate with persons whose society is even better
than books. Christians who are enlightened and sanctified in the
knowledge of all good things, will show us an example of carefully using
our time, which is the most valuable of all earthly possessions. If we
waste our money, we may perhaps get more -- if we lose our health, it may
be restored -- but time squandered on folly, must hereafter be answered
for, and can never be regained. Whatever be your station in life, waste
none of your thoughts upon fancying how much better you might have acted
in some other person's place, but see what duties belong to that station
in which you live, and do what that requires with activity and
diligence. When we are called to give an account of our stewardship, let
us not have to confess at the last that we wasted our one talent,
because we wished to have been trusted with ten; but let us prepare to
render up what was given to us, with joy and thankfulness, perfectly
satisfied that the best place in life is where God appoints, and where
He will guide us to a safe and peaceful end
Yes
You have two eyes in your minds as well as
in your bodies. With one of these we see all that is good or agreeable
in our lot -- with the other we see all that is unpleasant or
disappointing, and you may generally choose which eye to keep open. Some
of my friends always peevishly look at the troubles and vexations they
endure, but they might turn them into good, by considering that every
circumstance is sent from the same hand, with the same merciful
purpose -- to make us better now and happier hereafter
Well! my dear children
it is time now for
retiring to Bedfordshire; so good night
If you please, grandmama! not yet
Give us
five minutes longer
And then in the morning you will want to remain five minutes more in
bed. That is the way people learn to keep such dreadfully late hours at
last, Harry! I knew one very rich old gentleman formerly, who always
wished to sit up a little later every night, and to get up a little
later in the morning, till at length, he ended by hiring a set of
servants to rise at nine in the evening, as he did himself, and to
remain in bed all day
People should regulate their sleep very conscientiously
so as to waste as little time as possible; and our good king
George III. set us the example, for he remarked, that six hours in the
night were quite enough for a man -- seven hours for a woman, and eight
for a fool. Or perhaps, Harry, you might like to live by Sir William
Jones' rule:

  'Six hours to read, to soothing slumber seven,
  Ten to the world allot -- and all to Heaven
_disjune_
It looks like that grand public dinner we saw at the Assembly Rooms
one day
We must have
speeches and toasts like real gentlemen and officers. Peter! if you will
make a fine oration, full of compliments to me, I shall say something
wonderful about you, and then Laura must beat upon the table with a
stick, to show that she agrees to all that we observe in praise of each
other
Or suppose we all take the names of some great personages
I shall be the Duke of Wellington, and Laura, you must be Joseph
Hume, and Harry, you are Sir Francis Burdett, that we may seem as
different as possible; but here comes the usher of the black rod to
disperse us all! Mrs. Crabtree hurrying into the square, her very gown
flaming with rage! what can be the matter! she must have smelled the
sugar-plums a mile off! one comfort is, if Harry and Laura are taken
away, we shall have the fewer people to divide these cakes among, and I
could devour every one of them, for my own share
I knew how it would be, as soon as I saw whose company you were in,
Master Harry! Peter Grey is the father of mischief! he ought to be put
into the monkey's cage at the GEOlogical gardens! I would not be your
maid, Master Grey, for a hundred a-year
You would need to buy a thrashing machine immediately
what a fine time I should have of it! you would scarcely
allow me, I suppose, to blow my porridge! how long would it take you,
Mrs. Crabtree, to make quite a perfectly good boy of me? Perhaps a
month, do you think? or to make me as good as Frank, it might possibly
require six weeks
Six weeks
six years, or sixty, would be too
short. You are no more like Mr. Frank than a shilling is to a guinea, or
a wax light to a dip. If the news were told that you had been a good boy
for a single day, the very _statutes_ in the streets would come running
along to see the wonder. No! no! I have observed many surprising things
in my day, but them great pyramuses in Egypt will turn upside down
before you turn like Mr. Frank
How delightful! and walking out in the dark to see it
that will be best of all! oh! and a whole holiday! I hardly know
whether I am in my right wits, or my wrong wits, for joy! I wish we
gained a victory every day
What a warrior you would be, Harry! Caesar was nothing to you
We might be satisfied with one good battle in a year,
considering how many are killed and wounded
Yes, but I hope all the wounded soldiers will recover
Or get pensions
It is a grand sight, Frank, to
see a whole nation rejoicing at once! In general, when you walk out and
meet fifty persons in the street, they are all thinking of fifty
different things, and each intent on some business of his own, but on
this occasion all are of one mind and one heart
Such a waste of candles
can't people be
happy in the dark
No, Mrs. Crabtree
They cannot be happy in
the dark! People's spirits are always in exact proportion to the number
of lights. If you ever feel dull with one candle, light another; and if
that does not do, try a third, or a fourth, till you feel merry and
cheerful. We must not let you be candle-snuffer to-night, or you will be
putting them all out. You would snuff out the sun itself, to save a
shilling
The windows might perhaps be broken
for whatever pane
of glass does not exhibit a candle, is to have a stone sent through it.
Harry says the mob are all glaziers, who break them on purpose to mend
the damage next day, which they will be paid handsomely for doing
You see
there is a fit emblem of the difference between earth
and heaven. These lights nearer and brighter to us at present; but when
they have blazed and glittered for one little hour, they come to an end;
while those above, which we see so dimly now, will continue to shine
for ages and generations hereafter, till time itself is no more
Harry! you heedless, mischievous boy! will you never learn to consider
a moment before you do what is wrong? I am exceedingly displeased with
you for this! What business is it of yours whether that house be lighted
up or not
But, uncle David! surely it is very wrong not to obey the government,
and to be happy like everybody else! Besides, you see the mob will break
those windows at any rate, so it is no matter if I help them
Then, for the same reason, if they were setting the house on fire, I
suppose you would assist the conflagration, Harry. Your excuse is a very
bad one; and when you hear what I have to say about this house, let it
be a lesson for the rest of your life, never to judge hastily, nor to
act rashly. The officer to whom it belonged, has been killed in the
great battle abroad; and while we are rejoicing in the victory that his
bravery helped to gain, his widow and children are weeping within those
walls, for the husband and father who lies buried on a foreign shore.
Think what a contrast these shouts of joy must be to their grief
Oh, uncle David! how sorry I am
I deserve to go home
this moment, and not to see a candle again for a week. It was very wrong
of me indeed. I shall walk all the way home, with my eyes shut, if you
will only excuse me
No, no, Harry! that is not necessary! If the eyes of your mind are
open, to see that you have acted amiss, then try to behave better in
future. When people are happy themselves, they are too apt to forget
that others may be in distress, and often feel quite surprised and
provoked at those who appear melancholy; but our turn must come like
theirs. Life is made up of sunshine and shadow, both of which are sent
for our good, and neither of them last, in this world, for ever; but we
should borrow part of our joys, and part of our sorrows, from sympathy
with all those we see or know, which will moderate the excess of
whatever is our own portion in life
If we feel so much sorrow for this one officer and his family, it
shows
what a dreadful thing war is, which costs the lives
of thousands and tens of thousands in every campaign, by sickness and
fatigue, and the other sources of misery that accompany every army
Yes, Frank! and yet there has scarcely been a year on earth, while the
world has existed, without fighting in some country or another, for,
since the time when Cain killed Abel, men have been continually
destroying each other. Animals only fight in temporary irritation when
they are hungry, but pride, ambition, and folly of every kind, have
caused men to hate and massacre each other. Even religion itself has
caused the fiercest and most bloody conflicts, though, if that were only
understood and obeyed as it ought to be, the great truths of Scripture
would produce peace on earth, and good-will among all the children of
men
Stop thief! stop
thief
Stop thief
There's a brave little gentleman
You ought to be knighted for
fighting so well! This boy you have taken is a sad fellow! He broke his
poor mother's heart a year since by his wicked ways, and I have long
wished to catch him. A few weeks on the tread-mill now, may save him
from the gallows in future
He seems well practised in his business
I
almost deserved; however, to lose my pocket-book for bringing it out in
a night of so much crowding and confusion. Some lucky person will be all
the richer, though I fear it is totally lost to me
But here is your pocket-handkerchief, uncle David, if you mean to shed
any tears for your misfortune
how very lucky that
you felt it going
Yes, and very surprising too, for the trick was so cleverly executed!
That little rascal might steal the teeth out of one's head, without
being noticed! When I was in India, the thieves there were so expert
that they really could draw the sheets from under a person sleeping in
bed, without disturbing his slumbers
With me, any person could do that, because I sleep so very soundly
You might beat a military drum at my ear, as they do in
the boy's sleeping rooms at Sandhurst, and it would not have the
smallest effect. I scarcely think that even a gong would do
How very different from me
Last night I was awakened
by the scratching of a mouse nibbling in the wainscoat, and soon after
it ran across my face
Then pray sleep to-night with your mouth open, and a piece of toasted
cheese in it, to catch the mouse
That is the best
trap I know
Uncle David
if
there is any hope of that wicked boy being reformed, will you try to
have him taught better? Being so very young, he must have learned from
older people to steal
Certainly he must! It is melancholy to know how carefully mere children
are trained to commit the very worst crimes, and how little the mind of
any young boy can be a match for the cunning of old, experienced
villains like those who lead them astray. When once a child falls into
the snare of such practised offenders, escape becomes as impossible as
that of a bird from a limed twig
So I believe
Grandmama told me that the very youngest
children of poor people, when first sent to school in London, are often
waylaid by those old women who sell apples in the street, and who
pretend to be so good-natured that they make them presents of fruit. Of
course these are very acceptable, but after some time, those wicked
wretches propose that the child in return shall bring them a book, or
anything he can pick up at home, which shall be paid for in apples and
pears. Few little boys have sufficient firmness not to comply, whether
they like it or not, and after that the case is almost hopeless,
because, whenever the poor victim hesitates to steal more, those cruel
women threaten to inform the parents of his misconduct, which terrifies
the boy into doing anything rather than be found out
Oh, how dreadful
It all begins so smoothly! No poor
little boy could suspect any danger, and then he becomes a hardened
thief at once
Grandmama says, too, that pick-pockets, in London used to have the
stuffed figure of a man hung from the roof of their rooms, and covered
all over with bells, for the boys to practise upon, and no one was
allowed to attempt stealing on the streets, till he could pick the
pocket of this dangling effigy, without ringing one of the many bells
with which it was ornamented
I think
when the young thieves saw that figure hanging
in the air, it might have reminded them how soon they would share the
same fate. Even crows take warning when they see a brother crow hanging
dead in a field
It is a curious thing of crows, Harry, that they certainly punish
thieves among themselves
In a large rookery,
some outcasts are frequently to be observed living apart from the rest,
and not allowed to associate with their more respectable brethren. I
remember hearing formerly, that in the great rookery at --------, when
all the other birds were absent, one solitary crow was observed to
linger behind, stealing materials for his nest from those around, but
next morning a prodigious uproar was heard among the trees,-- the cawing
became so vociferous, that evidently several great orators were
agitating the crowd, till suddenly the enraged crows flew in a body upon
the nest of their dishonest associate, and tore it in pieces
Bravo
I do like to hear about all the odd ways of birds
and animals! Grandmama mentioned lately, that, if you catch a crow, and
fasten him down with his back to the ground, he makes such an outcry,
that all his black brothers come wheeling about the place, till one of
them at last alights to help him. Immediately the treacherous prisoner
grapples hold of his obliging friend, and never afterwards lets him
escape; so, by fastening down one after another, we might entrap the
whole rookery
I shall try it some day
What fun to hear
them all croaking and cawing
We shall be croaking ourselves soon with colds, if we do not hurry
home
There is not a thimbleful of light remaining,
and your grandmama will be impatient to hear all the news. This has
really been a most adventurous night, and I am sure none of us will soon
forget it
What mischief have you been in now, Mr. Harry
you will not leave a whole bone in your body, nor a whole
shirt in your drawer
These are honourable scars, Mrs. Crabtree
Harry has been fighting my battles, and gained a great victory! we must
illuminate the nursery
Meet
me by moonlight
Never mind, grandmama! do not be afraid! it is only us
surely you know me
You
Harry and
Laura!! impossible! how in all the world did you get here? I thought you
were both in bed half an hour ago! Tiresome boy! you will be the death
of me some time or other! I wonder when you will ever pass a day without
deserving the bastinado
Do you not remember the good day last month, grandmama, when I had a
severe toothache, and sat all morning beside the fire? Nobody found
fault with me then, and I got safe to bed, without a single Oh fie! from
noon till night
Wonderful, indeed! what a pity I ever allowed that tooth to be drawn,
but you behaved very bravely on the occasion of its being extracted. Now
take yourselves off! I feel perfectly certain you will tell Mrs.
Crabtree the exact truth about where you have been, and if she punishes
you, remember that it is no more than you both deserve. People who
behave ill are their own punishers, and should be glad that some one
will kindly take the trouble to teach them better
Well, old fellow
That is the situation where the poor
little dwarf, Baron Borowloski was always put by his tall wife, when she
wished to keep him out of mischief, and I wonder Mrs. Crabtree never
thought of the same plan for you
Luckily there is no fire, or Harry would soon be roasted for the Giant
Snap-'em-up's dinner
he looks up there like a
China Mandarin. Shake your head, Harry, and you will do quite as well
Uncle David
pray let me see you stand for one
moment as you do at the club on a cold day, with your feet upon the rug,
your back to the fire, and your coat-tails under your arms! Pray do,
for one minute
Then I hope his majesty gets as good an appetite with his romp as I
have done
None of your tea and
toast for me! that is only fit for ladies. Frank, reach me these
beef-steaks, and a cup of chocolate
There is a fat cook with a basket under her arm, going to market
Did you ever observe when Mrs. Marmalade comes home, she says to
grandmama, 'I have desired a leg of mutton to come here, my lady! and I
told a goose to be over also,' as if the leg of mutton and the goose
walked here, arm-in-arm, of themselves
Look at those children, going to see the wild beasts
and this little girl is on her way to buy a new frock. I am sure she
needs one! that old man is hurrying along because he is too late for the
mail-coach; and this lady with a gown like a yellow daffodil, is going
to take root in the Botanical Gardens
Uncle David! there is the very poorest boy I ever saw
he has been standing in the cold here, for ten
minutes, looking the picture of misery! he wears no hat, and has pulled
his long lank hair to make a bow, about twenty times. Do come and look
at him! he is very pale, and his clothes seem to have been made before
he began to grow, for they are so much too small, and he is making us
many signs to open the window. May I do it
No! no! I never give to chance beggars of that kind, especially young
able-bodied fellows like that, because there are so many needy,
deserving people whom I visit, who worked as long as they could, and
whom I know to be sober and honest. Most of the money we scatter to
street beggars goes straight to the gin-shop, and even the very youngest
children will buy or steal, to get the means of becoming intoxicated.
Only last week, Harry, the landlord of an ale-house at Portobello was
seen at the head of a long table, surrounded with ragged beggar boys
about twelve or fourteen years of age, who were all perfectly drunk, and
probably your friend there might be of the party
Oh no! uncle David! this boy seems quite sober and exceedingly clean,
though he is so very poor
his black trowsers are
patched and repatched, his jacket has faded into fifty colours, and his
shoes are mended in every direction, but still he looks almost
respectable. His face is so thin you might use it for a hatchet. I wish
you would take one little peep, for he seems so anxious to speak to us
I daresay that! we all know what the youngster has to tell! Probably a
wife and six small children at home, or, if you like it better, he will
be a shipwrecked sailor at your service. I know the whole affair
already; but if you have sixpence to spare, Laura, come with me after
breakfast, and we shall bestow it on poor blind Mrs. Wilkie, who has
been bed-ridden for the last ten years; or old paralytic Jemmy Dixon the
porter, who worked hard as long as he was able. If you had twenty more
sixpences, I could tell you of twenty more people who deserve them as
much
Very true
Street beggars, who are young and able
to work, like that boy, it is cruelty to encourage. Parents bring up
their children in profligate idleness, hoping to gain more money by
lying and cheating, than by honest industry, and they too often succeed,
especially when the wicked mothers also starve and disfigure these poor
creatures, to excite more compassion. We must relieve real distress,
Harry, and search for it as we would for hidden treasures, because thus
we show our love to God and man; but a large purse with easy strings
will do more harm than good
Do you remember, Frank, how long I suspected that old John Davidson was
imposing upon me
He told such a dismal story
always, that I never liked to refuse him some assistance; but yesterday,
when he was here, the thought struck me by chance to say, 'What a fine
supper you had last night, John!' You should have seen the start he
gave, and his look of consternation, when he answered, 'Eh, Sir! how did
ye hear of that! We got the turkey very cheap, and none of us took more
than two glasses of toddy
That boy is pointing to his pockets, and making more signs for us to
open the window
What can it all mean! he seems so
very anxious
What do you want, you idle fellow? It is a perfect shame
to see you standing there all morning! Surely you don't mean to say that
an active youngster like you would disgrace yourself by begging
No, Sir! I want nothing
I never asked for money in my life, and I never
will
That's right, my good boy
What brings you here then
Please, Sir, your servants shut the door in my face, and every body is
so hasty like, that I don't know what to do. I can't be listened to for
a minute, though I have got something very particular to say, that some
one would be glad to hear
Well, my lad! Is there anything I can do for you
What is your name
Evan Mackay, at your service. Please, Sir, did you lose a pocket-book
last Thursday, with your name on the back, and nine gold sovereigns
inside
Yes! that I did, to my cost! Have you heard anything of it
Stop, Evan! Stop a moment!
That parcel seems to contain all my uncle's money. Where did you get it?
Who sent it here
I brought it, Sir! The direction is on the pocket-book, so there could
be no mistake
Did you find it yourself then
Yes! it was lying in the street that night when I ran for a Doctor to
see my mother, who is dying. She told me now to come back directly, Sir,
so I must be going
But let us give you something for being so honest
You
are a fine fellow, and you deserve to be well rewarded
I only did my duty, Sir. Mother always says we should do right for
conscience' sake, and not for a reward
Yes! but you are justly entitled to this
I shall do more for you yet, but in the
meantime here is what you have honestly earned to-day
If I thought so, Sir
If I was quite sure there could be no harm ----, but I
must speak first to mother about it, Sir! She has seen better days once,
and she is sadly afraid of my ever taking charity. Mother mends my
clothes, and teaches me herself, and works very hard in other ways, but
she is quite bed-ridden, and we have scarcely anything but the trifle I
make by working in the fields. It is very difficult to get a job at all
sometimes, and if you could put me in the way of earning that money,
Sir, it would make mother very happy. She is a little particular, and
would not taste a morsel that I could get by asking for it
That is being very proud
No, Sir! it is not from pride
but mother says a
merciful God has provided for her many years, and she will not begin to
distrust Him now. Her hands are always busy, and her heart is always
cheerful. She rears many little plants by her bedside, which we sell,
and she teaches a neighbour's children, besides sewing for any one who
will employ her, for mother's maxim always was, that there can be no
such thing as an idle Christian
Very true
Even the apostles were mending their
nets and labouring hard, whenever they were not teaching. Either the
body or the mind should always be active
If you saw mother, that is exactly her way, for she does not eat the
bread of idleness. Were a stranger to offer us a blanket or a dinner in
charity, she would rather go without any than take it. A very kind lady
brought her a gown one day, but mother would only have it if she were
allowed to knit as many stockings as would pay for the stuff. I dare not
take a penny more for my work than is due, for she says, if once I begin
receiving alms, I might get accustomed to it
That is the good old Scotch feeling of former days
It was sometimes carried too far then, but there is not enough
of it now. Your mother should have lived fifty years ago
You may say so, indeed, Sir! We never had a drop of broth from the
soup-kitchen all winter, and many a day we shivered without a fire,
though the society offered her sixpence a-week for coals, but she says
'the given morsel is soon done;' and now, many of our neighbours who
wasted what they got, feel worse off than we, who are accustomed to
suffer want, and to live upon our honest labour. Long ago, if mother
went out to tea with any of our neighbours, she always took her own tea
along with us
But that is being prouder than anybody else
If my grandmama goes out to a tea-party, she allows her friends to
provide the fare
Very likely, Sir! but that is different when people can give as good as
they get. Last week a kind neighbour sent us some nice loaf bread, but
mother made me take it back, with her best thanks, and she preferred our
own oat cake. She is more ready to give than to take, Sir, and divides
her last bannock, sometimes, with anybody who is worse off than
ourselves
Poor fellow
how much you must often
have suffered
Suffered
Yes! I have suffered! It
matters nothing to be clothed in rags,-- to be cold and hungry now! There
are worse trials than that! My father died last year, crushed to death
in a moment by his own cart-wheels,-- my brothers and sisters have all
gone to the grave, scarcely able to afford the medicines that might have
cured them,-- and I am left alone with my poor dying mother. It is a
comfort that life is not very long, and we may trust all to God while it
lasts
Could you take us to see Mrs. Mackay
Laura, get your bonnet
Oh, Sir! that young lady could not stay half a minute in the place
where my poor mother lives now. It is not a pretty cottage such as we
read of in tracts, but a dark cold room, up a high stair, in the
narrowest lane you ever saw, with nothing to sit on but an old chest
Never mind that, Evan
You and your mother have
a spirit of honour and honesty that might shame many who are lying on
sofas of silk and damask. I respect her, and shall assist you if it be
possible. Show us the way
When from the dust of death I rise,
  To claim my mansion in the skies,
  This, this shall be my only plea,
  Jesus has liv'd and died for me
Mother
Look, mother
Good day, Mrs. Mackay
I
have come to thank you for restoring my purse this morning
You are kindly welcome, Sir! What else could we do
The money was yours, and the sooner it went
out of our hands the better
It was perfectly safe while it stayed there
Your little boy's pocket seems to be as safe as the Bank of
Scotland
That is very true, Sir! My boy is honest; and it is well to keep a good
conscience, as that is all he has in this world to live for. Many have a
heavy conscience to carry with a heavy purse; but these he need not
envy. If we are poor in this world, we are rich in faith; and I trust
the money was not even a temptation to Evan, because he has learned from
the best of all teachers, that it would 'profit him nothing to gain the
whole world, and lose his own soul
True, Mrs. Mackay! most true! We have come here this morning to request
that you and he will do me the favour to accept of a small recompense
We are already rewarded, Sir! This has been an opportunity of
testifying to our own hearts that we desire to do right in the eye of
God. At the same time, it was Providence who kindly directed my son's
steps to the place where that money was lying; and if anything seems
justly due to poor Evan, let him have it. My wants are few, and must
soon be ended. But oh! when I look at that boy, and think of the long
years he may be struggling with poverty and temptation, my heart melts
within me, and my whole spirit is broken. Faith itself seems to fail,
and I could be a beggar for him now! It is not money I would ask, Sir,
because that might soon be spent; but get him some honest employment,
and I will thank you on my very knees
Bodily suffering, and many a year of care and sorrow, are fast closing
their work on me. The moments are passing away like a weaver's shuttle;
and if I had less anxiety about Evan, how blessed a prospect it would
appear; but that is the bitterness of death to me now. My poor, poor
boy! I would rather hear he was in the way of earning his livelihood,
than that he got a hundred a-year. Tell me, Sir!-- and oh! consider you
are speaking to a dying creature -- can you possibly give him any
creditable employment, where he might gain a crust of bread, and be
independent
I honour your very proper feeling on the subject, Mrs. Mackay, and
shall help Evan to the best of my ability
To judge by these fine geraniums, he
must be fond of cultivating plants; and we want an under-gardener in the
country; therefore he shall have that situation without loss of time
Oh, mother! mother! speak no more of dying! You will surely get better
now
Try now to get better! I never could work
as well, if you were not waiting to see me come home! We shall be so
happy now
Yes! I am happy
The last cord is cut
that bound me to the earth; and may you, Sir, find hereafter the
blessings that are promised to those who visit the fatherless and widows
in their affliction
I was so glad to have some
money! I could spare it quite well. There is no greater pleasure in
being rich than to help such poor people as Evan Mackay and his poor
sick mother
Yes, Frank, I often wonder that any enjoyment of wealth can be
considered equal to the exercise of kind feelings, for surely the most
delightful sensation in this world is, to deserve and receive the
grateful affection of those around us
What a
wretched being Robinson Crusoe was on the desert island alone, though he
found chests of gold, and yet many people are as unblessed in the midst
of society, who selfishly hoard fortunes for themselves, unmindful of
the many around who ought to be gratefully receiving their daily
benefits
I was laughing to read lately of the West India slaves, who collected
money all their lives in an old stocking
and who watched
with delight as it filled from year to year; but the bank is only a
great stocking, where misers in this country lay up treasures for
themselves which they are never to enjoy, though too often they lay up
no treasures for themselves in a better world
I frequently think, Frank, if all men were as liberal, kind, and
forbearing to each other as the Holy Scriptures enjoin, and if we lived
as soberly, temperately, and godly together, what a paradise this world
would become, for many of our worst sufferings are brought on by our own
folly, or the unkindness of others. And certainly, if we wished to fancy
the wretchedness of hell itself, it would only be necessary to imagine
what the earth would become if all fear of God and man were removed, and
every person lived as his own angry, selfish passions would dictate.
Great are the blessings we owe to Christianity, for making the world
even what it is now, and yet greater would those blessings be, if we
obeyed it better
That is exactly what grandmama says, and that we must attend to the
Gospel from love and gratitude to God, rather than from fear of
punishment or hope of reward, which is precisely what we saw in poor
widow Mackay and Evan, who seemed scarcely to expect a recompense for
behaving so honestly
That was the more remarkable in them, as few Christians now are above
receiving a public recompense for doing their duty to God. Men of the
world have long rewarded each other with public dinners and pieces of
plate, to express the utmost praise and admiration, but of late I never
open a newspaper without reading accounts of one clergyman or another,
who has been 'honoured with a public breakfast!' when he is presented
by an admiring circle with 'a gold watch and appendages!' or a Bible
with a complimentary inscription, or a gown, or a pair of bands, worked
by the ladies of his congregation! and all this, for labouring among his
own people, in his own sphere of duty! What would Archbishop Leighton
and the old divines have said to any one who attempted to rouse their
vanity in this way, with the praise of men
What you say reminds me, uncle David
that we have been
asked to present our Universal-Knowledge-Master with a silver snuff-box,
as a testimonial from the scholars in my class, because he is going soon
to Van Dieman's Land, therefore I hope you will give me half-a-crown to
subscribe, or I shall be quite in disgrace with him
Not one shilling shall you receive from me, my good friend, for any
such purpose! a snuff-box, indeed! your master ought to show his
scholars an example of using none! a filthy waste of health, money, and
time. Such testimonials should only be given, as Archbishop Magee says,
to persons who have got into some scrape, which makes their
respectability doubtful. If my grocer is ever publicly presented with a
pair of silver sugar tongs, I shall think he has been accused of
adulterating the sugar, and give over employing him directly
Laura
you will be having a silver thimble voted to you
for hemming six pocket-handkerchiefs in six years
I know one clergyman, Dr. Seton, who conscientiously refused a piece of
plate, which was about to be presented in this way
he accidentally heard that such a subscription was begun among
the rich members of his congregation, and instantly stopped it, saying,
'Let your testimonial consist in a regular attendance at church, and let
my sole reward be enjoyed hereafter, when you appear as my crown of joy
and rejoicing in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming
Now you are an
officer and a gentleman, entitled therefore to be treated with new
respect and attention, by all your brother officers, naval or military,
in his Majesty's service
Frank
you have no idea how beautiful I looked
in uniform to-day! I tried mine on, and felt so impatient to use my
dirk, I could have eat my dinner with it, instead of employing a common
knife
You never forget to be hungry, Peter
But now
you are like the old Lord Buchan, who used to say he could cook his
porridge in his helmet, and stir it with his broad-sword
I hope
you both intend to become very
distinguished officers, and to leave a name at which the world grows
pale
Certainly
All the old heroes we read of shall be
mere nobodies compared to me! I mean to lose a leg or an arm in every
battle
Till nothing is left of you but your shirt-collar and shoe-strings
No! No! What remains of me at last shall die a Peer of the realm
We must climb to the top of the tree, Frank! What
title do you think I should take
Lord Cockpit would suit you best for some time, Peter! It will not be
so easy a business to rise as you think. Every one can run a race, but
very few can win
The rarest thing on earth is
to succeed in being both conspicuous and respectable. Any dunce may
easily be either the one or the other, but the chief puzzle with most
men is, how to be both. In your profession there are great
opportunities, but at the same time let me warn you, that the sea is not
a bed of roses
No, uncle David! but I hope it will become a field of laurels to us
Now tell me in real earnest who you think was
the greatest of our naval heroes till now, when Peter is to cut them all
out
He must wait a few years. It is a long ladder to run up before reaching
the top. In France, the king's sons are all born Field Marshals, but
nobody in this country is born an Admiral. The great Lord Duncan served
during half-a-century before gaining his most important victory, but
previous to that, he paved the way to success, not by mere animal
courage alone, but by being so truly good and religious a man, that his
extraordinary firmness and benevolence of character gained the
confidence and respect of all those who served with him, and therefore
half his success in battle was owing to his admirable conduct during
peace
So I have heard
and when there was mutiny in every
other ship, the Admiral's own crew remained faithful to him. How much
better it is to be obeyed from respect and attachment than from fear,
which is a mean feeling that I hope neither to feel myself, nor to
excite in others. I wish to be like Nelson, who asked, 'What is fear? I
never saw it
Yes, Frank! Nelson was said to be 'brave as a lion, and gentle as a
lamb.' Certainly both he and Lord Duncan were pre-eminently great; but
neither Lord Duncan, nor any other enlightened Christian, would have
said what Lord Nelson did, with his latent breath --'I have not been a
great sinner!' No mortal could lift up his eyes at the day of judgment,
and repeat those words again; for every man that breathes the breath of
life is a great sinner. We are living in God's own world without
remembering him, continually; and amidst thousands of blessings we
disobey him. The chief purpose for which men are created, is to glorify
God, and to prepare for entering his presence in a better world; but
instead of doing so, we live as if there were no other object to live
for, than our own pleasures and amusements on earth. How, then, can we
be otherwise than great sinners? I hope, Frank, that you will endeavour
to be, like Lord Duncan, not merely a good officer, but also a good
Christian; for, besides fighting the battles of your country, you must
gain a great victory over yourself, as all men must either conquer their
own evil dispositions, or perish for ever
a wise son maketh a glad father
the father of the
righteous shall greatly rejoice
Tell us of every thing that interests you, and even all about the
spouting whales, flying fish, and dying dolphins, which you will of
course see
Be sure to write us also, how many albatrosses
you shoot, and whether you are duly introduced to Neptune at the Cape
Yes, Laura! but Bishop Heber's Journal, or any other book describing a
voyage to the Cape, mentions exactly the same thing. It will quite bring
me home again when I speak to you all on paper; and I shall be able to
fancy what everybody will say when my letter is read. Mrs. Darwin sent
for me this morning on particular business; and it was to say that she
wished me, in all the strange countries where the Thunderbolt touched,
to employ my spare moments in chasing butterflies, that as many as
possible might be added to her museum
Capital! How like Mrs. Darwin
You
will of course be running all over Africa, hat in hand, pursuing painted
butterflies, till you get a _coup de soleil_, like my friend Watson, who
was killed by one. Poor fellow! I was with him then, and it was a
frightful scene. He wheeled round several times, in a sort of
convulsion, till he dropped down dead in my arms
I shall gild the legs and bills of some ducks before leaving home, and
send them to her as a present from Sierra Leone
The wings
might be died scarlet, which would look quite foreign; and if an
elephant falls in my way, it shall be stuffed and forwarded by express
Uncle David! Do you remember what fun we had, when you sent Mrs. Darwin
that stuffed bear in a present! I was desired to announce that a
foreigner of distinction had arrived to stay at her house. What a bustle
she was in on hearing that he brought letters of introduction from you,
and intended to remain some time. Then we told her that he could not
speak a word of English, and brought 'a Pole' with him; besides which he
had once been a great dancer. Oh! how amusing it was, when she at last
ventured into the passage to be introduced, and saw her fine stuffed
bear
Whatever people collect
every good-natured person
assists. I mean to begin a collection of crooked sixpences immediately;
therefore, pray never spend another, but give me as many as you can
spare; and the more crooked the better
Sing a song a sixpence
Laura should begin to
collect diamonds for a necklace, and perhaps it might be all ready
before she comes out. I shall return home on purpose to see you then,
Laura
Pray do, Master Frank
we shall have great rejoicings on the occasion of seeing you
back -- an ox roasted alive, as they do in England, and all them sort of
Tom-fooleries. I'll dance a jig then myself for joy -- you certainly are a
wonderful good boy, considering that I had not the managing of you
Frank Graham deserved any
reward, because he learned his lessons so perfectly, that he could not
say them wrong even if he wished
It seems almost a pity that this young gentleman -- already so very
accomplished a scholar -- who is, I may say, a perfect _multum in parvo_,
should prematurely pause in his classical career to enter the navy; but
in every situation of life his extraordinary activity of mind, good
temper, courage and ability, must render him an honour to his country
and his profession
First
prize for Greek -- Master Graham
First prize for Latin!-- Master Graham! First for algebra,-- first for
geography,-- first for mathematics,-- all Master Graham!!!-- and last, not
least, a medal for general good conduct, which the boys are allowed to
bestow upon the scholar they think most deserving,-- and here stands the
name of Master Graham again
That is my brother
Perhaps we never may
meet again
Perhaps we never may meet again
My dear -- dear boy! what has happened
Tell me, dear Harry, has any
thing distressed you
I don't know very well, Frank! but you are going away,-- and -- and -- I
wish I had been a better boy! I would do any thing you bid me now!-- but
I shall never be so happy again -- no! never, without you
But, dear Harry! you will have Laura and grandmama, and uncle David,
all left, and I am coming back some day! Oh! what a happy meeting we
shall have then
I am very -- very anxious for you and Laura to be happy
but, dear Harry, will you not take more
care to do as you are bid, and not always to prefer doing what you like!
Mrs. Crabtree would not be half so terrible if you did not provoke her
by some new tricks every day. I almost like her myself; for as the old
proverb says, 'her bark is worse than her bite;' and she often reminds
me of that funny old fable, where the mice were more afraid of the loud,
fierce-looking cock, than of the sleek, smooth-looking cat, for there
are people carrying gentler tongues yet quite as difficult to deal with.
At the same time, seeing how uncomfortable you and Laura both feel with
Mrs. Crabtree, I have written a letter to papa, asking, as my last and
only request on leaving home, that he will make a change of ministry,
and he is always so very kind, that I feel sure he will grant it
How good of you, Frank
I am sure it is our own faults
very often when we are in disgrace, for we are seldom punished till we
deserve it; but I am so sorry you are going away, that I can think of
nothing else
So am I, very sorry indeed; but my best comfort, when far from home,
would be, to think that you and Laura are happy, which will be the case
when you become more watchful to please grandmama
That is very true, Frank! and I would rather offend twenty Mrs.
Crabtrees than one grandmama; but perhaps uncle David may send me to
school now, when I shall try to be like you, sitting at the top of the
class, and getting prizes for good behaviour
Well, Harry! my pleasantest days at school have been those when I was
busiest, and you will find the same thing. How delightful it was, going
over and over my tasks till they were quite perfect, and then rushing
out to the play-ground, where my mind got a rest, while my body was
active; you know it is seldom that both mind and body work at once, and
the best way of resting the one is, to make the other labour. That is
probably the reason, Harry, why games are never half so pleasant as
after hard study
Perhaps
but I always hate any thing that
I am obliged to do
Then never be a sailor, as I shall be obliged to do fifty things a-day
that I would rather not; for instance, to get up in the middle of the
night, when very likely dreaming about being at home again; but, as
grandmama says, it is pleasant to have some duties, for life would not
get on well without them
Yes -- perhaps -- I don't know!-- we could find plenty to do ourselves,
without anybody telling us. I should like to-morrow, to watch the boys
playing at cricket, and to see the races, and the Diorama, and in the
evening to shoot our bows and arrows
My good Sir! what the better would you, or anybody else, be of such a
life as that! Not a thing in this world is made to be useless, Harry;
the very weeds that grow in the ground are for some serviceable purpose,
and you would not wish to be the only creature on earth living entirely
for yourself. It would be better if neither of us had ever been born,
than that the time and opportunities which God gives us for improving
ourselves and doing good to others, should all be wasted. Let me hope,
Harry, when I am away, that you will often consider how dull grandmama
may then feel, and how happy you might make her by being very attentive
and obedient
Yes, Frank! but I could never fill your place!-- that is quite
impossible! Nobody can do that
Try!-- only try, Harry! grandmama is very easily pleased when people do
their best. She would not have felt so well satisfied with me, if that
had not been the case
Frank
I feel as if ten brothers were going
away instead of one, for you are so good to me! I shall be sure to
mention you in my prayers, because that is all I can do for you now
Not all, Harry! though that is a great deal; you must write to me
often, and tell me what makes you happy or unhappy, for I shall be more
interested than ever, now that we are separated. Tell me everything
about my school-fellows, too, and about Laura. There is no corner of the
wide world where I shall not think of you both every day, and feel
anxious about the very least thing that concerns you
My dear boys
it is fortunate that you have both lived always in the same
home, for that will make you love each other affectionately as long as
you live. In England, children of one family are all scattered to
different schools, without any one to care whether they are attached or
not, therefore their earliest and warmest friendships are formed with
strangers of the same age, whom they perhaps never see again, after
leaving school. In that case, brothers have no happy days of childhood
to talk over in future life, as you both have,-- no little scrapes to
remember, that they got into together -- no pleasures enjoyed at the same
moment to smile at the recollection of, and no friction of their tempers
in youth, such as makes every thing go on smoothly between brothers when
they grow older; therefore, when at last grown up and thrown together,
they scarcely feel more mutual friendship and intimacy than any other
gentlemen testify towards each other
I dare say that is very true
Tom Brownlow tells me when
his three brothers come home from Eton, Harrow, and Durham, they quarrel
so excessively, that sometimes no two of them are on speaking terms
Not at all improbable
In every thing we see
how much better God's arrangements are than our own. Families were
intended to be like a little world in themselves -- old people to govern
the young ones -- young people to make their elders cheerful -- grown-up
brothers and sisters to show their juniors a good example -- and children
to be playthings and companions to their seniors, but that is all at an
end in the present system
Old Andrew says that large families 'squander' themselves all over the
earth now
Yes! very young children are thrust into preparatory schools -- older
boys go to distant academies -- youths to College -- and young men are
shipped off abroad, while who among them all can say his heart is in his
own home? Parents in the meantime, finding no occupation or amusement in
educating their children, begin writing books, perhaps theories of
education, or novels; and try to fill up the rest of their useless hours
with plays, operas, concerts, balls, or clubs. If people could only know
what is the best happiness of this life, it certainly depends on being
loved by those we belong to; for nothing can be called peace on earth,
which does not consist in family affection, built upon a strong
foundation of religion and morality
Frank's first prize-money
Frank scarcely remembers there is such a person
as himself in the world, therefore it is astonishing how he contrives to
exist at all
If that be his worst fault, you shew him a very opposite example,
Peter
number one is a great favourite
with you
Frank is also very obliging
he would do anything
for any body
Ah, poor fellow! he can't help that
Some people are born with that sort of desperate activity -- flying to
assist every one -- running up stairs for whatever is wanted -- searching
for whatever is lost -- and picking up whatever has been dropped. I have
seen several others like Frank, who were troubled with that sort of
turn. He is indulging his own inclination in flying about everywhere for
everybody, as much as I do in sitting still!-- it is all nature!-- you
know tastes differ, for some people like apples and some like onions
I need nothing to
remind me of you, dear Frank
and this is a sad
exchange, the shadow for the substance
a stitch in time saves nine
Grandmama
we shall meet again; perhaps very soon
There is no union here of hearts,
  That finds not here an end
But, grandmama! you are not so very old
Lord Rockville was born ten years sooner, and besides, young people
sometimes die before older people
Yes, Laura! young people may die, but old people must. It is not
possible that this feeble aged frame of mine can long remain in the
visible world. 'The eye of him that hath seen me shall me no more.' I
have many more friends under the earth now, than on it. The streets of
this city would be crowded, if all those I once knew and still remember,
could be revived; but my turn is fast coming, like theirs, and Frank
knows, as all of you do, where it is my hope and prayer that we may
certainly meet again
Grandmama
it wants but an
hour to the time of my departure; I should like much if the servants
were to come up now for family prayers and if uncle David would read us
the 14th chapter of St. John
Poor grandmama! and Harry and Laura
Oh! when shall I see them all again
My dear boy
do you think
nobody ever left home before? One would suppose you never expected to
come back! Three years seem an age when we look forward, but are nothing
after they have fled. The longer we live, the shorter every year
appears, and it will seem only the day after to-morrow when you are
rushing into the house again, and all of us standing at the door to
welcome you back. Think what a joyous moment that will be! There is a
wide and wonderful world for you to see first, and then a happy home
afterwards to revisit
Yes, dear, good, kind uncle David! no one ever had a happier home; and
till the east comes to the west, I shall never cease to think of it with
gratitude to you and grandmama. We shall surely all meet again. I must
live upon that prospect. Hope is the jewel that remains wherever we go,
and the hope to which grandmama has directed me, is truly compared to a
rainbow, which not only brightens the earth, but stretches to heaven
I am told that the races take place at Musselburgh to-day
It is a cruel amusement, derived from the sufferings of
noble animals; they have as good a right to be happy in the world as
ourselves, Laura; but we shall pass that way, so Harry and you will
probably see the crowds of carriages
Oh, how enchanting!-- I never saw a race-course in my life
Harry! Harry! we are going
to the races
Hurra
what a delightful
surprise! Oh! I am so dreadfully happy
After all, my dear Lady Rockville
what
have horses got legs for, except to run
Yes, but not at such a pace! It always shocked me -- formerly at
Doncaster, where the jockeys were sometimes paid &pound;1000 for winning -- to
see how the poor animals were lashed and spurred along the course,
foaming with fatigue, gasping till they nearly expired. Horses, poor
creatures, from the hour of their birth till their death, have a sad
time of it
Grandmama once read me a beautiful description of a wild horse in his
natural state of liberty
Among the South American forests
he was to be seen carrying his head erect, with sparkling eyes, flowing
mane, and splendid tail, trotting about among the noble trees, or
cropping the grass at his feet, looking quite princely, and doing
precisely what he pleased
Then look at the contrast
Animals are all meant for the use of man, but not to be abused, like
these poor creatures
As for racing
a thorough-bred horse enters into
the spirit of it quite as much as his rider. Did you never hear of
Quin's celebrated steed, which became so eager to win, that when his
antagonist passed he seized him violently by the leg, and both jockeys
had to dismount that the furious animal might be torn away. The famous
horse Forester, too, caught hold of his opponent by the jaw, and could
scarcely be disengaged
Think of all the cruel training these poor creatures went through
before they came to that
of the way in which
horses are beaten, spurred, and severely cut with the whip; then, after
their strength fails, like the well-known 'high-mettled racer,' the poor
animal is probably sold at last to perpetual hard labour and ill-usage
Uncle David shewed me yesterday
that horrid picture
which you have probably seen, by Cruickshanks, of the Knackers' Yards in
London, where old horses are sent to end their miserable days, after it
is impossible to torture them any longer into working. Oh! it was
dreadful! and yet grandmama said the whole sketch had been taken from
life
I know that
In these places the wretched
animals are literally put to death by starvation, and may be seen
gnawing each other's manes in the last agonies of hunger
My dear Lady Rockville
how can
you talk of such unpleasant things!-- there is an Act of Parliament
against cruelty to animals, so of course no such thing exists now. Many
gentlemen are vastly kind to old horses, turning them out to grass for
years, that they may enjoy a life of elegant leisure and rural
retirement, to which, no doubt, some are well entitled; for instance,
the famous horse Eclipse, which gained his owner &pound;25,000! I wish he had
been mine
But think how many are ruined when one is enriched, and indeed both are
ruined in morals and good feeling; therefore I am glad that our sex have
never yet taken to the turf. It is bad enough, my dear Miss Perceval, to
see that they have taken to the moors; for were I to say all I think of
those amazons who lately killed their six brace of grouse on the 12th of
August, they would probably challenge me to single combat. Lord
Rockville says, 'What with gentlemen doing worsted work, and ladies
shouldering double-barrelled guns, he scarcely thinks this can be the
same world he was born in long ago
A tipsy coachman! Dear Lady Rockville, do let me out! We shall
certainly be killed in this crowd of carriages! I can walk home! Pray
stop him, Miss Laura! I came to look on at a race, but not to run one
myself! This fast driving is like a railroad, only not quite so
straight! I do verily believe we are run off with! Stop,
coachman!-- stop
if your ladyship is not pleased with
my driving, you may drive yourself
I would
bet this half-crown upon the pink jacket
Done
The yellow dress and green cap for my
money
Then I shall soon have five shillings
Pay your debt of honour, Master Harry! It is rather
fortunate I won, seeing that not one sixpence had I to have paid you
with! not a penny to jingle on a mile-stone. You had more money than
wit, and I had more wit than money, so we are well met. Did you not see
that the grey horse had fallen lame? Good-bye, youngster! I shall tell
all the giants and wild beasts to expect you another day
Harry
it is a foolish fish that is caught with every bait! I am
quite relieved that you lost that money. This is an early lesson against
gambling, and no one can ever be rich or happy who becomes fond of it.
We were wrong to bring you here at all; and I now see you could easily
be led into that dreadful vice, which has caused misery and ruin to
thousands of young men. If you had possessed an estate, it would have
been thrown away quite as foolishly as the poor half-crown, making you
perhaps miserable afterwards for life
I thought myself quite sure to win
I would rather have
thrown my money into the sea than given it to Peter
Think, too, how many pleasanter and better ways there are, in which you
might have spent it
Look at that poor blind man
whom you could have relieved, or consider what a nice present you should
have given to Laura! But there seem to be no more brains in your head,
Harry, than in her thimble
Peter is quite a little black-leg already
I
never saw such a boy! So fond of attracting notice, that he would put on
a cap and bells if that would make him stared at. Last Saturday he
undertook for a bet to make a ceremonious bow to every lamp-post along
Prince's Street, and I wish you could have seen the wondering crowd that
gradually collected as he went along, performing his task with the most
perfect composure and impudence
For cool assurance, I hope there are not many boys equal to him
He scattered out of the window lately several red-hot
half-pence, among some beggars, and I am told they perfectly stuck to
the poor creatures' fingers when trying to pick them up; and he was sent
a message, on his pony, one very cold day lately, to Lady De Vere's, who
offered, when he was taking leave, to cut him one of her finest
camellias, to which he replied, 'I would much rather you offered me a
hot potatoe
Peter feels no sympathy in your disappointment, Harry
but we might as well expect wool on a dog, as friendship from
a gambler, who would ruin his own father, and always laughs at those who
lose
Go and cut your wisdom teeth, Harry
Any
one must have been born blind not to observe that the grey horse was
falling behind; but you have bought half-a-crown's worth of wisdom by
experience, and I hope it will last for life. Never venture to bet even
that your own head is on your shoulders, or it may turn out a mistake
Harry is now the monkey that has seen the world, and I think it will be
a whole year of Saturdays before he ever commits such a blunder again
We must for this once, not complain of what
has occurred to Lady Harriet, because she would be exceedingly
displeased, but certainly you are a most ingenious little gentleman for
getting into scrapes
merely as an experiment
like that man in the menagerie, who
put his head into the lion's mouth, without feeling quite sure whether
it would be bit off the next moment or not
I am afraid
you are not well, Mrs. Crabtree! Grandmama will send for a doctor when
she comes home. Shall I ask her
You are very kind, Miss Laura!-- never mind me! Your grandmama knows
what is the matter. It will be all one a hundred years hence
This is a thing you will be very
glad to hear!-- you must prepare to be told some good news
Well, children! Lady Harriet
was so kind as to promise that my secret should be kept till I pleased,
and that no one should mention it to you but myself. I am going away
You
Are
you going away
Yes, Master Harry,-- I leave this house to-day! Now, don't pretend to
look sorry! I know you are not! I can't bear children to tell stories.
Who would ever be sorry for a cross old woman like me
But perhaps I am sorry! Are you in real earnest going away
Oh no! it is only a joke
Do I look as if this were a joke
No, no! I am come to bid you
both a long farewell. A fine mess you will get into now! All your things
going to rack and ruin, with nobody fit to look after them
But, Mrs. Crabtree! we do not like you to go away
Why are you leaving us all on a sudden? it is very odd! I never was so
surprised in my life
Your papa's orders are come. He wrote me a line some weeks ago, to say
that I have been too severe. Perhaps that is all true. I meant it well,
and we are poor creatures, who can only act for the best. However, it
can't be helped now! There's no use in lamenting over spilt cream.
You'll be the better behaved afterwards. If ever you think of me again,
children, let it be as kindly as possible. Many and many a time I shall
remember you both. I never cared for any young people but yourselves,
and I shall never take charge of any others. Master Frank was the best
boy in the world, and you would both have been as good under my
care,-- but it is no matter now
But it does matter a very great deal
You must
stay here, Mrs. Crabtree, as long as you live, and a great deal longer!
I shall write a letter to papa all about it. We were very troublesome,
and it was our own faults if we were punished. Never mind, Mrs.
Crabtree, but take off your bonnet and sit down! I am going to do some
dreadful mischief to-night, so you will be wanted to keep me in order
Who would ever believe I
should make such a fool of myself! Farewell to you both! and let nobody
speak ill of me after I am gone, if you can help it
Is Mrs. Crabtree at home
Grandmama says we may stay here for an hour, while she drives along the
shore
And how do you do, Mrs. Crabtree
Very well, Miss Laura, and very happy to see you. What a tall girl you
are become! and Master Harry too! looking quite over his own shoulders
the holiday-maker
the copper captain
the puir thing was perfectly deaved wi'
edication
put your toe upon 'dis
note! I tell you, put your toe upon 'dis note
My finger, I suppose you mean
Ah! fingare and toe! dat is all one! Speak not a word! take hold of
your tongue
Laura
I would as soon hear a gong
sounded at my ear for half an hour, as most of the fine pieces you
perform now. Taste and expression are quite out of date, but the chief
object of ambition is, to seem as if you had four hands instead of two,
from the torrent of notes produced at once. If ever you wish to please
my old-fashioned ears, give me melody,-- something that touches the heart
and dwells in the memory,-- then years afterwards, when we hear it again,
the language seems familiar to our feelings, and we listen with deep
delight to sounds recalling a thousand recollections of former days,
which are brought back by music (real music) with distinctness and
interest which nothing else can equal
Please to pay
Master Harry and Miss Laura Graham the sum of five shillings on my
account. Francis Arthur Graham
This is by no means
so bad! and whatever change takes place now, will probably be for the
better. Sunshine is as sure to come as Christmas, if you only wait for
it, and in the meantime we are all more comfortably off than St.
Patrick, when he had to swim across a stormy sea, with his head under
his arm
When thou passest
through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they
shall not overflow thee; when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt
not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. For I am the
Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour
I would give all I possess on earth, and ten times more,
if I had it, to see my dear grandmother as well, and to meet her once
more
The post-mark is
Portsmouth, Sir
therefore
you must all unite a prayer for my
recovery, with a thanksgiving for my return, and I can scarcely regret
an illness that restores me to home. My heart is already with you all,
but my frail shattered body must rest some days in London, as the voyage
from Sierra Leone has been extremely fatiguing and tedious
Desire
John to inquire immediately whether any steam-boat sails for London
to-day
You are right
Oh! that I could accompany
you! But bring him to me if possible. I dare not hope to go. Surely we
shall meet at last. Now indeed I feel my own weakness, when I cannot fly
to see him. But he will be quite able for the journey. Frank had an
excellent constitution,-- he -- he was
Frank
Home is anywhere that my own family live with me
It is not where I am, but who I see, that signifies; and
this meeting with you, uncle David, did me more good than an ocean of
physic. Oh! if I could only converse with grandmama for half-an-hour,
and speak to dear Harry and Laura, it would be too much happiness. I
want to see how much they are both grown, and to hear their merry laugh
again. Perhaps I never may! But if I get worse, they must come here. I
have many things to say! Why should they not set off now?-- immediately!
If I recover, we might be such a happy party to Scotland again. For
grandmama, I know it is impossible; but will you write and ask her about
Harry and Laura? The sooner the better, uncle David, because I often
think it probable
There is one person more, far distant, and little thinking of what is
to come, who must be told. You have always been a father to me, uncle
David, but he also would wish to be here now. Little as we have been
together, I know how much he loves me
I declare these little narrow beds are no better than coffins! I never
saw such places! and the smell is like singed blankets and cabbages
boiled in melted oil! It is enough to make anybody ill! Mary! go and
fetch me a cup of tea, and, do you hear! tell those people on deck not
to make such a noise -- it gives me a headache! Be sure you say that I
shall complain to the Captain. Reach me some bread and milk for the
parrot,-- fetch my smelling bottle,-- go to the saloon for that book I was
reading,-- and search again for the pocket-handkerchief I mislaid. It
cost ten guineas, and must be found. I hope no one has stolen it! Now do
make haste with the tea! What are you dawdling there for? If you do not
stop that noise on deck, Mary, I shall be exceedingly displeased! Some
of those horrid people in the steerage were smoking too, but tell the
Captain that if I come up he must forbid them. It is a trick to make us
all sick and save provisions. I observed a gun-case in the saloon too,
which is a most dangerous thing, for guns always go off when you least
expect. If any one fires, I shall fall into hysterics. I shall, indeed!
What a creaking noise the vessel makes! I hope there is no danger of its
splitting! We ought not to go on sailing after dusk. The Captain must
positively cast anchor during the night, that we may have no more of
this noise or motion, but sleep in peace and quietness till morning
I am certain it was her
almost certain
Who
I am sorry you observed me, Master Harry! I did not intend to trouble
you and Miss Laura during the voyage
I shall not be at all in your way, children, but I ---- ---- I
must see Master Frank again. He was always too good for this world, and
he'll not be here long -- Andrew told me all about it, and I could not
stay behind. I wish we were all as well prepared, and then the sooner we
die the better
Miss Laura! if you want any help in undressing, call to me at any time.
I was sure that doited body Harrison could be of no service. She never
was fit to take care of herself, and far less of such as you. It put me
wild to think of your coming all this way with nobody fit to look after
you, and then the distress that must follow
But surely, Mrs. Crabtree, you do not think Frank so very ill
he had recovered from the fever, but is only rather too
weak for travelling
Well, Miss Laura! grief always comes too soon, and I would have held my
tongue had I thought you did not know the worst already. If I might
order as in former days, it would be to send you both down directly, out
of this heavy fog and cold wind
But you may order us, Mrs. Crabtree
we are very glad to see you again! and I shall do whatever
you bid me! So you came all this way on purpose for us! How very kind
Master Harry, I would go round the wide world to serve any one of you!
who else have I to care for? But it was chiefly to see Master Frank. Let
us hope the best, and pray to be prepared for any event that may come.
All things are ordained for good, and we can only make the best of what
happens. The world must go round,-- it must go round, and we can't
prevent it
Indeed, ladies! many a brave man, and
noblemen's sons too, have laid their heads on the green grass, fighting
for you, so we should put up with a hard bed patiently for one night
Mary, tell the Captain that when I looked
out last, there was scarcely any smoke coming out of the funnel, so I am
sure he is saving fuel, and not keeping good enough fires to carry us
on! I never knew such shabbiness! Tell the engineer, that I insist on
his throwing on more coals immediately. Bring me some hot water, as fast
as possible! These towels are so coarse, I cannot, on any account, use
them. After being accustomed to such pocket-handkerchiefs as mine, at
ten guineas each, one does become particular. Can you not find a larger
basin? This looks like a soup-plate, and it seems impossible here to get
enough of hot water to wash comfortably
She should be put into the boiler of the steam-boat
I wish them animal-magnifying doctors would put the young
lady to sleep till we arrive in London
Now
get me another cup of tea. The last was
too sweet, the one before not strong enough, and the first half cold,
but this is worse than any. Do remember to mention, that yesterday night
the steward sent up a tin tea-pot, a thing I cannot possibly suffer
again. We must have the urn, too, instead of that black tea-kettle; and
desire him to prepare some butter-toast -- I am not hungry, so three
rounds will be enough. Let me have some green tea this time; and see
that the cream is better than last night, when I am certain it was
thickened with chalk or snails. The jelly, too, was execrable, for it
tasted like sticking-plaster -- I shall starve if better can't be had; and
the table-cloth looked like a pair of old sheets. Tell the steward all
this, and say, he must get my breakfast ready on deck in half an hour;
but meantime, I shall sit here with a book while you brush my hair
Well! I declare! was there ever anything so
odd
How very strange! What can
be the matter with Mary! There is no end to the plague of servants
Or rather to the plague of mistresses
a capful of wind
stiff breeze
storm
Are there enough of 'hands' on board? Is there any danger? Are you sure
the boiler will not burst? I wish steam-boats had never been invented!
People are sure to be blown up to the clouds, or sunk to the bottom of
the ocean, or scalded to death like so many lobsters. I cannot stand
this any longer! Stop the ship, and set me on shore instantly
fun
Steward
Steward! here is water
pouring down the sky-lights like a shower-bath! Look at my band-box
swimming on the floor! Mary! Tiresome creature! don't you see that? My
best bonnet will be destroyed! Send the Captain here! He must positively
stop that noise on deck; it is quite intolerable. My head aches, as if
it would burst like the boiler of a steam-boat! Stupid man! Can't he put
into some port, or cast anchor? How can he keep us all uncomfortable in
this way! Mary! Mary, I say! are you deaf? Steward! send one of the
sailors here to take care of this dog! I declare poor Frisk is going to
be sick! Mary! Mary! This is insufferable! I wish the Captain would come
and help me to scold my maid! I shall certainly give you warning, Mary
Don't be afraid, ladies! There is no
danger
But I must come up and see what you are about, Captain
You had better be still, ma'am
It is as well
to be drowned in bed as on deck
Now I feel sure the danger is over
otherwise
that man could not have the heart to sing! If I live a century, I shall
always like a sailor's song for the future
now, at last, we are going to see Frank
Oh! what a lovely cottage
That is such
a place as I have often dreamed of, but never saw before! It seems made
for perfect happiness
Yes! how delightful to live here with Frank and uncle David
We shall be sailing on the water all day
Where is Frank
Why is he not
here? Call him down! Tell him we are come
My dear Harry and Laura
you have never known grief
till now, but if you love me, listen with composure. I have sad news to
tell, yet it is of the very greatest consequence that you should bear up
with fortitude. Frank is extremely ill; and the joy he felt about your
coming, has agitated him so much, that he is worse than you can possibly
conceive. It probably depends upon your conduct now, whether he survives
this night or not. Frank knows you are here; he is impatient for you to
embrace him; he becomes more and more agitated every moment the meeting
is delayed; yet if you give way to childish grief, or even to childish
joy, upon seeing him again, the Doctors think it may cause his immediate
death. You might hear his breathing in any part of this house. He is in
the lowest extreme of weakness! It will be a dreadful scene for you
both. Tell me, Harry and Laura, can you trust yourselves? Can you, for
Frank's own sake, enter his room this moment, as quietly as if you had
seen him yesterday, and speak to him with composure
Uncle David! we are able,-- God will strengthen us. I dare not think a
moment. The sooner it is done the better. Let us go now
Remember you will scarcely know him
but a single expression of emotion may
be fatal. Show your love for Frank now, my dear children. Spare him all
agitation,-- forget your own feelings for his sake
Go
away, Laura!-- oh go away just now! I cannot bear it yet!-- leave
me!-- leave me
Do not think,
dear sister, that I always suffer as you see me now. This joy has been
too much for me. I shall soon feel easier
Alas
how truly did grandmama say, 'If the sorrows of this
world are called 'light afflictions,' what must be those from which
Christ died to save us!' It is merciful that we are not forbid to weep,
for, oh! who ever lost such a brother?-- the kindest -- the best of
brothers!-- dear, dear Frank!-- can nothing be done! Uncle David
oh! say
something to us about Frank getting better,-- do you think he will? May
we have a hope?-- one single hope to live upon, that Frank may possibly
be spared; do not turn away -- do not look so very sad -- think how young
Frank is,-- and the Doctors are so skilful -- and -- and oh, uncle David! he
is dying! I see it! I must believe it
You cannot give us one word of hope, though the whole
world would be nothing without him
My dear,-- my very dear Laura! remember that consoling text in holy
Scripture, 'Be still, and know that I am God;'-- we have no idea what He
can do in saving us from sorrow, or in comforting us when it comes,
therefore let us seek peace from Him, and believe that all shall indeed
be ordered well, even though our own hearts were to be broken with
affliction. Frank has seen old nurse Crabtree, and is now in a
refreshing sleep, therefore I wish you to take the opportunity of
sitting in his room, and accustoming yourselves, if possible, to the
sight of his altered appearance. He is sometimes very cheerful, and
always patient, therefore we must keep up our own spirits, and try to
assist him in bearing his sufferings, rather than increase them, by
showing what we feel ourselves. I was pleased with you both this
morning -- that meeting was no common effort, and now we must show our
submission to the Divine will, difficult as that may be, by a deep,
heartfelt resignation to whatever He ordains
It was only a dream! I have often dreamed the same thing, when far away
at sea,-- that would have been too much happiness! I fancied Harry and
Laura were here
It was no dream, dear Frank! we are here
My dear sister! then all is well! but pray sit always where I can see
you. After wishing so long for our meeting, it appears nearly impossible
that we are together at last
Weeping endureth for a night, but joy cometh in the morning
We know
that if our earthly house of this tabernacle be dissolved, we have a
building of God, an house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens
Weep ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him; _but_ weep sore for him
that goeth away: for he shall return no more, nor see his native
country
Behold, God taketh
away! who can hinder him? who will say unto him, What doest thou
Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils
Those who are prepared for
the change
can neither live too long, nor die too
soon; for when God gives us His blessing, He then sends heaven, as it
were, into the soul before the soul ascends to heaven; and I trust to
being gifted with faith and submission for all that may be ordained
during my few remaining hours upon earth
If I
could only see grandmama again, I should feel quite well
Home! sweet home
Home! That happy home! Oh! never -- never more,-- _my_ home is in the
grave
I shall still
be remembered -- still lamented -- you must not love me too well,
Laura,-- not as I love you, or your sorrow would be too great; but long
hence, when Harry and you are happy together, surrounded with friends,
think sometimes of one who must for ever be absent,-- who loved you
better than them all,-- whose last prayer will be for you both. Oh! who
can tell what my feelings are! I can do nothing now but cause distress
and anguish to those who love me best
Frank, I would not exchange your affection for the wealth of worlds. As
long as I live, it will be my greatest earthly happiness to have had
such a brother; and if we are to suffer a sorrow that I cannot name, and
dare not think of, you are teaching me how to bear it, and leaving us
the only comfort we can have, in knowing that you are happy
Many plans and many hopes I had for the future, Laura
but there is no future to me now in this world. Perhaps I may escape a
multitude of sorrows, but how gladly would I have shared all yours, and
ensured my best happiness by uniting with Harry and you in living to
God. If you both learn more by my death than by my life, then, indeed, I
do rejoice. With respect to myself, it matters but little a few years or
hours sooner, for I may say, in the words of Job, 'though He slay me,
yet will I trust in Him
I know it is my duty to take whatever you prescribe, and
I certainly shall, but if we can do without opiates, let me entreat you
to refrain from them. Often formerly at sea I used to think it very sad
how few of those I attended in sickness were allowed by the physician to
die in possession of their senses, on account of being made to take
laudanum, which gave them false spirits and temporary ease. Let me
retain my faculties as long as they are mercifully granted to me. I can
bear pain,-- at least, God grant me strength to do so,-- but I cannot
willingly enter the presence of my Creator in a state little short of
intoxication
God have mercy upon my soul
Oh! I am so glad you are come at
last
At last, Miss!! I am as early as usual
It's not
many poor folks that gets up so soon to their work, and if you had to
labour as hard as me all day, you would maybe think the morning came too
soon
I am seldom in bed all night
My poor sick
brother cannot rest till this milk is brought, and I wait with him, hour
after hour till daylight, wearying for you to come
Let me see this kind good dairyman, to thank him myself
May be, Ma'am, the
poor young gentleman would not like to see a stranger like me
No one is a stranger who feels for him as you have done
You look very poorly, Sir! I'm afraid,
indeed, you are sadly ill
That I am! as ill as any one can be on this side of eternity! My tale
is told, my days are numbered; but I would not go out of this world
without saying how grateful we both feel for your attention. As a cup of
cold water given in Christian kindness shall hereafter be rewarded, I
trust also that your attention to me may not be forgotten
You are heartily welcome, Sir! It is a great honour for a poor old man
like me to oblige anybody. I shall not long be able for work now, seeing
that I am upwards of threescore and ten, and my days are already full of
labour and sorrow
To both of us, then, the night is far spent, and the day is at hand
How strange it seems, that, old as you are. I am still
older; my feeble frame will be sooner worn out, and my body laid at rest
in the grave! Let me hope that you have already applied your heart to
wisdom, for every child of earth must, sooner or later, find how short
is every thing but eternity. While I appear before you here as a
spectacle of mortality, think how soon and how certainly you must
follow. May you then find, as I do, that even in the last extreme of
sickness and sorrow, there is comfort in looking forward to such
blessings as 'eye hath not seen, nor ear heard.' Farewell, my kind
friend! In this world we shall meet no more, but there is another and a
better
No
then what do you
put them up at the window for? There is no use pretending to keep a
shop, if you will not sell what is in it! Give me these strawberries
this minute, and here's your five shillings
It's quite impossible
You see, ma'am, every day last week a little Master and Miss came to
this here shop, buying my strawberries for a young gentleman who is very
ill; and they look both so sweet and so mournful-like, that I would not
disappoint them for all the world. They seem later to-day than usual,
and are, may be, not coming at all; but if I lose my day's profits, it
can't be helped. They shall not walk here for nothing, if they please to
come
as in Adam all die, so in
Christ are all made alive
Tell grandmama, that though my days have been few upon the earth, they
were happy! When you think of me, uncle David, after my sufferings are
over, it may well be a pleasing remembrance, that you were always the
best, the kindest of friends. Oh! how kind! but I must not -- cannot speak
of that ----. This is my birth-day!-- my last birth-day! Many a joyous one
we kept together, but those merry days are over, and these sadder ones
too shall cease; yet the time is fast approaching, so welcome to us
both,

  'When death-divided friends at last
  Shall meet to part no more
My possessions are not valuable, but these are for some old friends and
messmates, who will be pleased to receive a trifling memorial of one who
loved them. Send my dirk to Peter Grey, who is much reformed now. Here
are all the letters any of you ever sent me; how very often they have
been read! but now, even that intercourse must end; keep them, for they
were the dearest treasures I possessed. At Madras, formerly, I remember
hearing of a nabob who was bringing his whole fortune home in a chest of
gold, but the ropes for hoisting his treasure on board were so
insufficient, that the whole gave way, and it fell into the ocean, never
to be recovered. That seemed a very sudden termination of his hopes and
plans, but scarcely more unexpected than my own. 'We are a wind that
passeth away and cometh not again.' Many restless nights are ordained
for me now, probably that I may find no resource but prayer and
meditation. Others can afford time to slumber, but I so soon shall sleep
the sleep of death, that it becomes a blessing to have such hours of
solitary thought, for preparing my heart and establishing my faith,
during this moment of need
Yes, Frank! but your prayers are not solitary, for ours are joined to
yours
I read in an old author lately, that Christian
friends in this world might be compared to travellers going along the
same road in separate carriages -- sometimes they are together -- often they
are apart -- sometimes they can exchange assistance, as we do now -- and
often they jostle against each other, till at last, having reached the
journey's end, they are removed out of these earthly vehicles into a
better state, where they shall look back upon former circumstances, and
know even as they are known
Pray shut the window, Laura
and be so kind as to close the shutters
Why, Frank?-- you never used to be alarmed by thunder
Never mind me, Frank
I have got over all that
folly. When real fears and sorrows come, we care no more about those
that were imaginary
True, my dear sister; and there is no courage or fortitude like that
derived from faith in a superintending providence. Though all creation
reel, we may sleep in peace, for to Christians 'danger is safe, and
tumult calm
Those joyous little birds!-- their song makes me cheerful
I have been in countries where the birds
never sing, and the leaves never fade; but they excited no sympathy or
interest. Here we have notes of gladness both in sunshine and storm,
teaching us a lesson of grateful contentment,-- while those drooping
roses preach a sermon to me, for as easily might they recover freshness
and bloom as myself. We shall both lie low before long in the dust, yet
a spring shall come hereafter to revive even 'the ashes of the urn.'
Then, uncle David, we meet again,-- not as now, amidst sorrow and
suffering, with death and separation before us,-- but blessed by the
consciousness that our sins are forgiven,-- our trials all ended,-- and
that our afflictions which were but for a moment, have worked out for us
a far more exceeding, even an eternal weight of glory
I feel easier and better to-day, Doctor, than at any time since my
illness
Do you think this
eruption will do me good? Life has much that would be dear to me, while
I have friends like these to live for. Can it be possible that I may yet
recover
I see how it is!-- God's will be done
Edward! is it possible! This is
indeed a consolation! you are still in time
In time
Do you mean to say that Frank is yet in danger
Worn out, as I
am, in mind and body, I needed not this to destroy me! Say at once,
brother, is there any hope
None, my dear Edward! None! Even now he is insensible, and I fear with
little prospect of ever becoming conscious again
Get more candles! how very dark it is
Who are all those
people? Send away everybody but grandmama! I must speak to her alone.
Never tell papa of all this, it would only distress him -- say nothing
about me. Why do Harry and Laura never come? They have been absent more
than a week! Who took away uncle David too
Oh
Frank! dear Frank! have you forgotten poor Laura
Not till I am dead
Laura! we meet again
We are indeed mere atoms in the world
If Harry and I had
both been dead also, the sun would have shone as brightly, the birds
sung as joyfully, and those people been all as gay and happy as ever!
Nobody is thinking of Frank -- nobody knows our misery -- the world is going
on as if nothing had happened, and we are breaking our hearts with
grief
In an hour that ye think
not, the Son of man cometh
forgetting those things which are behind, and
reaching forth unto those things which are before,-- pressing toward the
mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus
call upon
the Lord while He is near, and to seek Him while he may yet be found
Uncle David
Mrs. Crabtree first endeavoured to lead us aright by
severity,-- you and grandmama then tried what kindness could do, but
nothing was effectual till now, when God Himself has laid His hand upon
us. Oh! what a heavy stroke was necessary to bring me to my right mind,
but now, while we weep many bitter tears, Harry and I often pray
together that good may come out of evil, and that 'we who mourn so
deeply, may find our best, our only comfort from above
</text>
