<text>
Eyes and no Eyes
Well, Robert, where have you been walking this afternoon
So it is.  One man walks through the world with his eyes open, another
with his eyes shut; and upon this difference depends all the superiority
of knowledge which one man acquires over another.  I have known sailors
who had been in all the quarters of the world, and could tell you nothing
but the signs of the tippling-houses, and the price and quality of the
liquor.  On the other hand, Franklin could not cross the Channel without
making observations useful to mankind.  While many a vacant thoughtless
youth is whirled through Europe without gaining a single idea worth
crossing the street for, the observing eye and inquiring mind find matter
of improvement and delight in every ramble.  You, then, William, continue
to use your eyes.  And you, Robert, learn that eyes were given to you to
use
good boys
Why and Because
The Reason Why
Why and Because
How and So
The Way in which they happen
Why did we go out to-day
Because we opened the door
How did we go out
Because we
chose to take a walk
Why does fire burn you
Because it is hot
Fire burns because the vibratory motion of the
molecules of the heated substance communicates itself to the molecules of
my skin, and so destroys their tissue
If that is not the reason why fire burns, what is
Like mistress, like servant
What can't be cured
   Must be endured
Don't you see, you stupid man, that the stream has made the glen, and
the earth which runs down the stream was all once part of the hill on
which you stand
awfully jolly
Water, water, you
stupid man
Prove all things: hold fast that which is good
verifying my theory
Running water
The Lord possessed me in the beginning of His way, before His works of
old.

"I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth
was.

"When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no
fountains abounding with water.

"Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth:

"While as yet He had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest
part of the dust of the world.

"When He prepared the heavens, I was there: when He set a compass upon
the face of the depth:

"When He established the clouds above: when He strengthened the fountains
of the deep:

"When He gave to the sea His decree, that the waters should not pass His
commandment: when He appointed the foundations of the earth:

"Then I was by Him, as one brought up with Him: and I was daily His
delight, rejoicing always before Him:

"Rejoicing in the habitable part of His earth; and my delights were with
the sons of men.

"Now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed are they that
keep my ways
We see
as in a glass darkly, and only know in part
For who
has known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been His
counsellor? . . . For of Him, and through Him, and to Him, are all
things: to whom be glory for ever and ever.  Amen
final causes
My child, this world is a new place, and strange,
and often terrible: but be not afraid.  All will come right at last.  Rest
will conquer Restlessness; Faith will conquer Fear; Order will conquer
Disorder; Health will conquer Sickness; Joy will conquer Sorrow; Pleasure
will conquer Pain; Life will conquer Death; Right will conquer Wrong.  All
will be well at last.  Keep your soul and body pure, humble, busy,
pious -- in one word, be good: and ere you die, or after you die, you may
have some glimpse of Me, the Everlasting Why: and hear with the ears, not
of your body but of your spirit, men and all rational beings, plants and
animals, ay, the very stones beneath your feet, the clouds above your
head, the planets and the suns away in farthest space, singing eternally,

"'Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour and power, for
Thou hast created all things, and for Thy pleasure they are and were
created
tempting
God
You must leave this country: or
perish
The voice of God revealed in facts
What
had the rattling of the lid of the kettle to do with Hartford Bridge Flat
being lifted out of the ancient sea
It is only an earthquake
Ah! bah! ce
n'etait qu'un tremblement de terre; il y en a ici toutes les six
semaines
Ah
now I think I have Madam How's answer.  The lid of one of her
great steam boilers is rather shaky and cracked just here, because the
granite has broken and torn the limestone as it lifted it up; and here is
the hot water out of the boiler actually oozing out of the crack; and the
earthquake I heard last night was simply the steam rumbling and thumping
inside, and trying to get out
If that stream had been a little, only a little stronger, or if
the rock above it had been only a little weaker, it would have been no
laughing matter then; the village might have been shaken to the ground;
the rocks hurled into the torrent; jets of steam and of hot water, mixed,
it may be, with deadly gases, have roared out of the riven ground; that
might have happened here, in short, which has happened and happens still
in a hundred places in the world, whenever the rocks are too weak to
stand the pressure of the steam below, and the solid earth bursts as an
engine boiler bursts when the steam within it is too strong
young earthquakes
Madam How's boilers
It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not
consumed
a fool's eyes are in the ends of the earth
The water is sinking and leaving the ball dry
Ah!
here is the water rising again
continues in one stay
Phenomena of Volcanic
Action
the path which no fowl
knoweth, and which the vulture's eye hath not seen: the lion's whelp hath
not trodden it, nor the fierce lion passed by it.  There He putteth forth
His hand upon the rock; He overturneth the mountain by the roots; He
cutteth out rivers among the rocks; and His eye seeth every precious
thing
The Battle of the Lake Regillus
in an eruption
rosy pink below
faint greenish or blueish silver of indescribable
beauty, from the light of the moon
Each
explosion
was like a vast girandole of rockets, with a noise
(such as rockets would make) like the waves on a beach, or the wind
blowing through shrouds.  The mountain was trembling the whole time.  So
it went on for two hours and more; sometimes eight or ten explosions in a
minute, and more than 1000 stones in each, some as large as two bricks
end to end.  The largest ones mostly fell back into the crater; but the
smaller ones being thrown higher, and more acted on by the wind, fell in
immense numbers on the leeward slope of the cone
golden, and they spotted the black cone over with their
golden showers, the smaller ones stopping still, the bigger ones rolling
down, and jumping along just like hares
A wonderful pedestal
for the explosion which surmounted it
There was generally one which went much higher
than the rest, and pierced upwards towards the moon, who looked calmly
down, mocking such vain attempts to reach her
only just appeared over
the rim of the cone, above which they came floating leisurely up, to show
their brilliant forms and intense white light for an instant, and then
subside again
The
organ is in no case the power which works by it
confound the organ with the power
That you cannot make broth out
of whinstones
The volcano of St. Vincent must have broken out, and
these are the ashes from it
Like to the baseless fabric of a vision,
   The cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces,
   The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
   Yea, all things which inherit, shall dissolve,
   And, like an unsubstantial pageant faded,
   Leave not a rack behind
Oh, that it would be always winter
And exactly like what I have been seeing
in every gravel-pit round here, and trying to guess how they could have
been made by currents of water, and yet never could make any guess which
would do
Honour to the man who has let Madam How teach him what she had been
trying to teach me for fifteen years, while I was too stupid to learn it.
Now I am certain, as certain as I can be of any earthly thing, that the
whole of these Windsor Forest Flats were ages ago ploughed and harrowed
over and over again, by ice-floes and icebergs drifting and stranding in
a shallow sea
I suspect these
were brought here by icebergs
Now
I am sure.  For I know where these flints must
have come from
Some time or other, icebergs have been floating northward
from the Hog's Back over Aldershot and Farnborough, and have been trying
to get into the Vale of Thames by the slope at Wellington College
station; and they have stranded, and dropped these flints
roches moutonnees
I am
perfectly certain that this great basin between me and Lochnagar, which
is now 3000 feet deep of empty air was once filled up with ice to the
height of the hills on which I stand -- about 1700 feet high -- and that that
ice ran over into Glen Muick, between these pretty knolls, and covered
the ground where Birk Hall now stands
The seeds of these plants
were brought by the ice ages and ages since from off the mountain range
of Lochnagar, and left here, nestling among the rocks, to found a fresh
colony, far from their old mountain home
tomans
It grew wondrous cold,
   And ice mast-high came floating by,
      As green as emerald
When things come to the worst
they commonly mend
kjokken-moddings
kitchen-middens
kitchen-dirtheaps
like an ape,
   With forehead villainous low
Truth
is stranger than fiction
Marchen allen Marchen
fairy halls
dazzling splendours
magic transformations
brilliant elves
This is the true wonder.  This is the true glory.  The theatre last
night was the fairy land of man; but this is the fairy land of God
Only a chalk-cart
Learn from the
thing that lies nearest you
Do the duty which lies
nearest you
chalk-hill blues
marbled
whites
spotted burnets
Oh, if there were but springs and brooks in the Downs, as there are
at home
Water, water, every where,
   Nor any drop to drink
I chatter over stony ways,
   In little sharps and trebles,
   I bubble into eddying bays,
   I babble on the pebbles
I wind about, and in and out,
   With here a blossom sailing,
   And here and there a lusty trout,
   And here and there a grayling,

   "'And here and there a foamy flake
   Upon me, as I travel
   With many a silvery waterbreak
   Above the golden gravel,

   "'And draw them all along, and flow
   To join the brimming river,
   For men may come and men may go,
   But I go on for ever
Open Sesame
226 avenues, 47 domes, 8
cataracts, 23 pits, and several rivers
gentlemen,
and come of decent people
My child, before you can say that, you must
remember a hundred things which you are forgetting, and learn a hundred
thousand things which you do not know
a bed of chalk
full of
Foraminifera, and shells of Pteropods
the Globigerina-mud is not merely _a_
chalk formation, but a continuation of _the_ chalk formation, so _that we
may be said to be still living in the age of Chalk_
Great anchors, heaps of pearl
To them the love of woman hath gone down,
   Dark roll their waves o'er manhood's noble head.
   O'er youth's bright locks, and beauty's flowing crown;
   Yet shall they hear a voice, 'Restore the dead.'
   Earth shall reclaim her precious things from thee.
   Give back the dead, thou Sea
Do you expect us to
believe that?  That is much more wonderful than that the swallows should
sleep in the pond
Fly_
Suppose
one of those beautiful South Sea Islands, like Tahiti, the Queen of
Isles, with its ring of coral-reef all round its shore, began sinking
slowly under the sea.  The land, as it sunk, would be gone for good and
all: but the coral-reef round it would not, because the coral polypes
would build up and up continually upon the skeletons of their dead
parents, to get to the surface of the water, and would keep close to the
top outside, however much the land sunk inside; and when the island had
sunk completely beneath the sea, what would be left?  What must be left
but a ring of coral reef, around the spot where the last mountain peak of
the island sank beneath the sea
There is a bit of
old coral-reef rising up to the surface
Impossible!  That
would be to paddle over the tops of high mountains; over the top of the
Peak in Derbyshire, over the top of High Craven and Whernside and Pen-y-
gent and Cross Fell, and to paddle too over the Cheviot Hills, which part
England and Scotland
the
mill-stone grit
Oh for Madam How to cure that ignorance!  Oh for Lady
Why to cure that barbarism!  Oh that Madam How would teach them that
machinery must always be cheaper in the long run than human muscles and
nerves!  Oh that Lady Why would teach them that a woman is the most
precious thing on earth, and that if she be turned into a beast of
burden, Lady Why -- and Madam How likewise -- will surely avenge the wrongs
of their human sister
talk over their heads
Rest beneath the Cross
The human
plant, like the vegetables, can only flower in sunshine
Wald
Feld
That crop has taken a good deal out of
the land
Be not anxious what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, or wherewithal
you shall be clothed.  For after all these things do the heathen seek,
and your Heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.  But
seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these
things shall be added to you
Would God all the Lord's
people did prophesy
roches
moutonnees
Health to the oak of the mountains; he trusts to the might of the
   rock-clefts.
   Deeply he mines, and in peace feeds on the wealth of the stone
A long time ago the world began,
   With heigh ho, the wind and the rain
a man might do what was right in
the sight of his own eyes, and what was wrong too, as he liked it
Means of Grace
Whoso is simple let him turn in hither
Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine
which I have mingled
Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have strength.
By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.  By me princes rule, and
nobles, even all the judges of the earth.  I love them that love me; and
those that seek me early shall find me.  Riches and honour are with me;
yea, durable riches and righteousness
Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and
no man regarded; but ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would have
none of my reproof
songs
without words
Be still.  The fulness of joy is peace
Hoch
marrock
murres
marrocks
fry
Hoch
flukes
rudiments
Hush,
Hush
That is something like Madam How's work
unconformably
Coprolites
chiffoniers
You will go through so many feet of Bagshot sand; and so many feet of
London clay; and so many feet of the Thanet beds between them and the
chalk: and then you will win water, at about 412 feet; but not, I think,
till then
He had no opinion of
geologists, and such-like.  He never found any clay in England but what
he could get through in 150 feet
Lightening
</text>
