<text>
_If I might buffet for my love, or bound my horse for her
     favors, I could lay on like a butcher, and sit like a
     Jackanapes, never off_
The Green
in
a mixed assembly
last Michaelmas
the
Michaelmas before that
the Michaelmas before the Michaelmas
before that
Ga, ga
trying times
Bony
shall have you
You leave off crying this minnit, Miss Jane, or I'll give you right
away to that horrid wicked officer. Jemima! just look out o' the
windy, if you please, and see if the Black Cap'n's a-com-ing with his
horse to carry away Miss Jane
trying times
A soldier
is a bloodthirsty, unsettled sort
of a rascal; that the peaceable, home-loving, bread-winning citizen
can never conscientiously look on as a brother, till he has beaten his
sword into a ploughshare, and his spear into a pruning-hook
The political men declare war, and generally for
commercial interests; but when the nation is thus embroiled with its
neighbors the soldier ... draws the sword, at the command of his
country.... One word as to thy comparison of military and commercial
persons. What manner of men be they who have supplied the Caffres with
the firearms and ammunition to maintain their savage and deplorable
wars? Assuredly they are not military.... Cease then, if thou would'st
be counted among the just, to vilify soldiers
trying times
Ga, ga
Will she never come back
Oh, no
Bony never brings people back
Not never no more
He has taken her to a Green
A Goose Green
No. A Gretna Green. Don't ask so many questions, child
trying times
Is there news
Don't agitate yourself, my dear
I will read it
aloud, and then we can enjoy it together; a far more comfortable
method, my love, than when you go up the village, and come home out of
breath, having snatched half the news as you run
I am all attention, dear aunt
DOWNING STREET,

"_June_ 22, 1815, 1 A.M
That's one in the morning
beg your pardon,
mum
Glorious victory
Two hundred pieces of
artillery
Immense quantity of ammunition
The loss of the British Army upon this occasion has
     unfortunately been most severe. It had not been possible to
     make out a return of the killed and wounded when Major Percy
     left headquarters. The names of the officers killed and
     wounded, as far as they can be collected, are annexed.

"I have the honor
The list, aunt! Read the list
My love -- my darling -- let us go in and
No. Now! now
Brunswick's fated chieftain
Will he live, Doctor
Live? GOD bless my soul, ma'am! Look at him! The young Jackanapes
Baby! Baby! Jackanapes! Jackanapes
Quawk
That the girls should have purity, and the boys courage, is what you
would say, good Father
Nature has done that
I meant what I said
I'm afraid
if you please, I'm very much afraid that
Tony Johnson's dying in the churchyard
You naughty, naughty boys! Do you mean to tell me that you've been
smoking
Not pipes
upon my honor, Aunty, not pipes. Only
segars like Mr. Johnson's! and only made of brown paper with a very,
very little tobacco from the shop inside them
delicate
Fiddlestick
Treaclestick
Royal Theayter, Master Jackanapes, in the old place, but be careful
o' them seats, sir; they're rickettier than ever. Two sweets and a
ginger-beer under the oak tree, and the Flying Boats is just a-coming
along the road
What's the use'
    Said the Goose
Do you mean to kill the little fine gentleman, and swing us all on
the gibbet, you rascal
He would get on
It'll not kill him. He'll fall on
his yellow head, and it's as tough as a cocoanut
Lollo
Is his name Lollo
Yes
What does Lollo mean
Red
Is Lollo your pony
No. My father's
Lollo is your pony, isn't he
Yes
He's a very nice one
He's a racer
You don't want to sell him, do you
Fifteen pounds
You are apt to be giddy, Jackanapes
Yes aunt
You are a good boy, Jackanapes. Thank GOD, I can tell your
grandfather that. An obedient boy, an honorable boy, and a
kind-hearted boy. But you are -- in short, you _are_ a Boy, Jackanapes.
And I hope
that the General knows that Boys will be Boys
It's the wind that blows it, Aunty
I'll send by the coach for some bear's-grease
Mons'ous pretty place this
You should see it in Fair-week, sir
A fine time that, eh
I enjoyed this last one the best
of all
I'd so much money
By George, it's not a common complaint in these bad times. How much
had ye
I'd two shillings. A new shilling Aunty gave me, and elevenpence I
had saved up, and a penny from the Postman -- _sir_
And how did ye spend it -- _sir_
Watch-stand for Aunty, threepence. Trumpet for myself, twopence,
that's fivepence. Ginger-nuts for Tony, twopence, and a mug with a
Grenadier on for the Postman, fourpence, that's elevenpence.
Shooting-gallery a penny, that's a shilling. Giddy-go-round, a penny,
that's one and a penny. Treating Tony, one and twopence. Flying Boats
(Tony paid for himself), a penny, one and threepence. Shooting-gallery
again, one and fourpence; Fat Woman a penny, one and fivepence.
Giddy-go-round again, one and sixpence. Shooting-gallery, one and
sevenpence. Treating Tony, and then he wouldn't shoot, so I did, one
and eightpence. Living Skeleton, a penny -- no, Tony treated me, the
Living Skeleton doesn't count. Skittles, a penny, one and ninepence.
Mermaid (but when we got inside she was dead), a penny, one and
tenpence. Theatre, a penny (Priscilla Partington, or the Green Lane
Murder. A beautiful young lady, sir, with pink cheeks and a real
pistol), that's one and elevenpence. Ginger beer, a penny (I _was_ so
thirsty!) two shillings. And then the Shooting-gallery man gave me a
turn for nothing, because, he said, I was a real gentleman, and spent
my money like a man
So you do, sir, so you do
Why, sir, you spend
it like a prince.-- And now I suppose you've not got a penny in your
pocket
Yes I have
Two pennies. They are saving up
You don't want money except at fair-times, I suppose
If I could have as much as I want, I should know what to buy
And how much do you want, if you could get it
Wait a minute, sir, till I think what twopence from fifteen pounds
leaves. Two from nothing you can't, but borrow twelve. Two from
twelve, ten, and carry one. Please remember ten, sir, when I ask you.
One from nothing you can't, borrow twenty. One from twenty, nineteen,
and carry one. One from fifteen, fourteen. Fourteen pounds nineteen
and -- what did I tell you to remember
Ten
Fourteen pounds nineteen shillings and tenpence then, is what I
want
Bless my soul, what for
To buy Lollo with. Lollo means red, sir. The Gipsy's red-haired pony,
sir. Oh, he is beautiful! You should see his coat in the sunshine! You
should see his mane! You should see his tail! Such little feet, sir,
and they go like lightning! Such a dear face, too, and eyes like a
mouse! But he's a racer, and the Gipsy wants fifteen pounds for him
If he's a racer, you couldn't ride him. Could you
No -- o, sir, but I can stick to him. I did the other day
You did, did you? Well, I'm fond of riding myself, and if the beast
is as good as you say, he might suit me
You're too tall for Lollo, I think
I can double up my legs, I suppose. We'll have a look at him
to-morrow
Don't you weigh a good deal
Chiefly waistcoats
We'll have the little racer on the Green the
first thing in the morning. Glad you mentioned it, grandson. Glad you
mentioned it
Jackanapes
Yes, sir
I've bought Lollo, but I believe you were right. He hardly stands
high enough for me. If you can ride him to the other end of the Green,
I'll give him to you
If you want to make Lollo go fast, my little gentleman
_I_ can make him go
Good, my little gentleman, good
You were born to
the saddle. You've the flat thigh, the strong knee, the wiry back,
and the light caressing hand, all you want is to learn the whisper.
Come here
What was that dirty fellow talking about, grandson
I can't tell you, sir. It's a secret
You must love your aunt very much, Jackanapes
I do, sir
And whom do you love next best to your aunt
The Postman
Why the Postman
He knew my father
and he tells me about him, and
about his black mare. My father was a soldier, a brave soldier. He
died at Waterloo. When I grow up I want to be a soldier too
So you shall, my boy. So you shall
Thank you, grandfather. Aunty doesn't want me to be a soldier for
fear of being killed
Bless my life! Would she have you get into a feather-bed and stay
there? Why, you might be killed by a thunderbolt, if you were a
butter-merchant
So I might. I shall tell her so. What a funny fellow you are, sir! I
say, do you think my father knew the Gipsy's secret? The Postman says
he used to whisper to his black mare
Your father was taught to ride as a child, by one of those horsemen
of the East who swoop and dart and wheel about a plain like swallows
in autumn. Grandson! Love me a little too. I can tell you more about
your father than the Postman can
I do love you
Before you came I was frightened.
I'd no notion you were so nice
Love me always, boy, whatever I do or leave undone. And -- GOD help
me -- whatever you do or leave undone, I'll love you! There shall never be
a cloud between us for a day; no, sir, not for an hour. We're imperfect
enough, all of us, we needn't be so bitter; and life is uncertain enough
at its safest, we needn't waste its opportunities. Look at me! Here sit
I, after a dozen battles and some of the worst climates in the world,
and by yonder lych gate lies your mother, who didn't move five miles, I
suppose, from your aunt's apron-strings,-- dead in her teens; my
golden-haired daughter, whom I never saw
Don't cry, grandfather
I will love you very much, and I will try to be very good. But
I should like to be a soldier
You shall, my boy, you shall. You've more claims for a commission
than you know of. Cavalry, I suppose; eh, ye young Jackanapes? Well,
well; if you live to be an honor to your country, this old-heart
shall grow young again with pride for you; and if you die in the
service of your country -- GOD bless me, it can but break for ye
Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his
     life for his friends
the military
Sound Retire
Tain't a pretty tune
the young
gentlemen's regiment
_Jackanapes_! _GOD bless you_! It's my left leg. If you could get me
on
Hold on anyhow, and stick your spur in. I'll lead him. Keep your head
down, they're firing high
Jackanapes! It won't do. You and Lollo must go on. Tell the fellows I
gave you back to them, with all my heart. Jackanapes, if you love me,
leave me
_Leave you?_ To save my skin? No, Tony, not to save my soul
I am going to my Father's.... My Sword I
     give to him that shall succeed me in my Pilgrimage, and my
     Courage and Skill to him that can get it
Grave, where is thy Victory
Well
Beg pardon, Major. Didn't see you. Oh, compound fracture and bruises,
but it's all right. He'll pull through
Thank GOD
Didn't think he'd as much pluck about him as he has. He'll do all
right if he doesn't fret himself into a fever about poor Jackanapes
Whom are you talking about
Young Johnson. He
What about Jackanapes
Don't you know? Sad business. Rode back for Johnson, and brought him
in; but, monstrous ill-luck, hit as they rode. Left lung
Will he recover
No. Sad business
What a frame -- what limbs -- what health -- and what
good looks? Finest young fellow
Where is he
In his own tent
Can I do anything else for you
Nothing, thank you. Except -- Major! I wish I could get you to
appreciate Johnson
This is not an easy moment, Jackanapes
Let me tell you, sir -- _he_ never will -- that if he could have driven
me from him, he would be lying yonder at this moment, and I should be
safe and sound
I've known old Tony from a child. He's a fool on impulse, a good man
and a gentleman in principle. And he acts on principle, which it's not
every -- some water, please! Thank you, sir. It's very hot, and yet
one's feet get uncommonly cold. Oh, thank you, thank you. He's no
fire-eater, but he has a trained conscience and a tender heart, and
he'll do his duty when a braver and more selfish man might fail you.
But he wants encouragement; and when I'm gone
He shall have encouragement. You have my word for it. Can I do
nothing else
Yes, Major. A favor
Thank you, Jackanapes
Be Lollo's master, and love him as well as you can. He's used to it
Wouldn't you rather Johnson had him
Tony _rides_ on principle, Major. His legs are bolsters, and will be
to the end of the chapter. I couldn't insult dear Lollo, but if you
don't care
Whilst I live -- which will be longer than I desire or deserve -- Lollo
shall want nothing, but -- you. I have too little tenderness for -- my
dear boy, you're faint. Can you spare me for a moment
No, stay -- Major
What? What
My head drifts so -- if you wouldn't mind
Yes! Yes
Say a prayer by me. Out loud please, I am getting deaf
My dearest Jackanapes -- my dear boy
One of the Church Prayers -- Parade Service, you know
I see. But the fact is -- GOD forgive me, Jackanapes -- I'm a very
different sort of fellow to some of you youngsters. Look here, let me
fetch
Pon my soul I can only remember the little one at the end
Please
The Grace of our Lord Jesus Christ
The love of GOD
Und so ist der blaue Himmel grosser als jedes
    Gewolk darin, und dauerhafter dazu
Whosoever will save his life shall lose it; and whosoever will lose
his life for My sake shall find it
But she's a noble, unselfish woman
and she
taught Jackanapes to be the same, and that's how it is that my Tony
has been spared to me. And it must be sheer goodness in Miss
Jessamine, for what can she know of a mother's feelings? And I'm sure
most people seem to think that if you've a large family you don't know
one from another any more than they do, and that a lot of children are
like a lot of store-apples, if one's taken it won't be missed
wonderfully
the old lady seems quite lively with her
military beaux again
the good of
</text>
