<text>
Oh, come now
why don't you go away, little girl? Come, come; you're
staying too long, you know
I'm just going, sir
only it's raining cats and
dogs outside; and mother's been away all night, and she took the key
with her; and it's so nice to smell the coffee; and the police has left
off worriting me while I've been here. He thinks I'm a customer taking
my breakfast
You've had no breakfast, I suppose
No
and I shall want my dinner dreadful bad
afore I get it, I know. You don't often feel dreadful hungry, do you,
sir? I'm not griped yet, you know; but afore I taste my dinner it'll be
pretty bad, I tell you. Ah! very bad indeed
Slip in here
here's a little
coffee left and a few crusts. There. You must never come again, you
know. I never give to beggars; and if you'd begged I'd have called the
police. There; put your poor feet towards the fire. Now, aren't you
comfortable
What's your name
but there, never mind! I
don't care what it is. What's your name to do with me, I wonder
It's Jessica
but mother and every body calls me
Jess. You'd be tired of being called Jess, if you were me. It's Jess
here, and Jess there: and every body wanting me to go errands. And they
think nothing of giving me smacks, and kicks, and pinches. Look here
I wish I could stay here for ever and ever, just as I am
But you're going away, I know; and I'm never to come again, or you'll
set the police on me
Yes
if you'll
promise not to come again for a whole week, and not to tell any body
else, you may come once more. I'll give you one other treat. But you
must be off now
I'm off, sir
but if you've a errand I could go
on I'd do it all right, I would. Let me carry some of your things
No, no
you run away, like a good girl; and, mind!
I'm not to see you again for a whole week
All right
What's your name
Why
my christened name is Daniel
And where do you live, Mr. Dan'el
Oh, come now
if you're going to be impudent, you'd
better march off. What business is it of yours where I live? I don't
want to know where you live, I can tell you
I didn't mean no offence
only I thought I'd like
to know where a good man like you lived. You're a very good man, aren't
you, Mr. Dan'el
I don't know
I'm afraid I'm not
Oh, but you are, you know
You make good
coffee; prime! And buns too! And I've been watching you hundreds of
times afore you saw me, and the police leaves you alone, and never
tells you to move on. Oh, yes! you must be a very good man
What's this
Please, Mr. Dan'el
it dropped, and you didn't hear
it
Jess
tell me all about it
Oh, please
I never had a penny of my own but once; and
it rolled close to my foot; and you didn't see it; and I hid it up
sharp; and then I thought how kind you'd been, and how good the coffee
and buns are, and how you let me warm myself at your fire; and, please,
I couldn't keep the penny any longer. You'll never let me come again, I
guess
Jess
I could never have done it myself. But you may come
here every Wednesday morning, as this is a Wednesday, and there'll
always be a cup of coffee for you
I couldn't have done it myself: I never could
have done it myself
Come, now
you must take yourself out of this. This isn't any
place for such as you. It's for ladies and gentlemen; so you must run
away sharp before any body comes. How did you ever find your way here
Mother beat me
and turned me into the streets, and I see
you there, so I followed you up. I'll run away this minute, Mr. Daniel;
but it's a nice place. What do the ladies and gentlemen do when they
come here? Tell me, and I'll be off sharp
They come here to pray
What is pray
Bless the child
Why, they kneel down
in those pews; most of them sit, though; and the minister up in the
pulpit tells God what they want
What is a minister and God
and do ladies and gentlemen
want any thing? I thought they'd every thing they wanted, Mr. Daniel
Oh
you must be off, you know. They'll be coming in a
minute, and they'd be shocked to see a ragged little heathen like you.
This is the pulpit, where the minister stands and preaches to 'em; and
there are the pews, where they sit to listen to him, or to go to sleep,
may be; and that's the organ to play music to their singing. There,
I've told you every thing, and you must never come again; never
Mr. Daniel
I don't know nothing about it. Isn't there
a dark little corner somewhere that I could hide in
No, no
we couldn't do with such
a little heathen, with no shoes or bonnet on. Come, now, it's only a
quarter to the time, and somebody will be here in a minute. Run away,
do
Let us call Daniel Standring
Oh, don't have me drove away
I'm a very poor little
girl, and it's all the pleasure I've got. I've seen you lots of times,
with that tall gentleman as stoops, and I didn't think you'd have me
drove away. I don't do any harm behind the door, and if Mr. Daniel
finds me out he wont give me any more coffee
Little girl
we don't mean to be unkind to you; but what do you come here for, and
why do you hide yourself behind the door
I like to hear the music
and I want to find out
what pray is, and the minister, and God. I know it's only for ladies
and gentlemen, and fine children like you; but I'd like to go inside,
just for once, and see what you do
You shall come with us into our pew
Jane
this was papa's text a little while ago: 'For if there come
unto your assembly a man with a gold ring, in goodly apparel, and there
come in also a poor man in vile raiment; and ye have respect to him
that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a
good place; and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my
footstool; are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become judges
of evil thoughts?' If we don't take this little girl into our pew we
'have the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with
respect of persons
I don't know what to do
the Bible
seems plain, but I'm sure papa would not like it. Let us ask the
chapel-keeper
Oh, no, no
don't let Mr. Daniel catch me here. I
wont come again, indeed; and I'll promise not to try to find out about
God and the minister, if you'll only let me go
But, little girl
we ought
to teach you about God, if you don't know him. Our papa is the
minister, and if you'll come with us we'll ask him what we must do
Will Mr. Daniel see me
Nobody but papa is in the vestry
and he'll tell us
all, you and us, what we ought to do. You'll not be afraid of him, will
you
No
He is not such a terrible personage
Come in
Come here, little girl
What is your name, my child
Jessica
Jessica
that is a strange name
Mother used to play 'Jessica' at the theatre, sir
and I
used to be a fairy in the pantomime, till I grew too tall and ugly. If
I'm pretty when I grow up mother says I shall play too; but I've a
long time to wait. Are you the minister, sir
Yes
What is a minister
A servant
Papa
Please, sir, whose servant are you
The servant of God and of man
Jessica, I am
your servant
Who is God
When mother's in a good temper,
sometimes she says 'God bless me!' Do you know him, please, minister
Jessica
there is a place close under my pulpit where you
shall sit, and where I can see you all the time. Be a good girl, and
listen, and you will hear something about God. Standring, put this
little one in front of the pews by the pulpit steps
Lord, these are the lambs of thy flock. Help me to
feed thy lambs
Children
it is no
easy thing to know God. But this one thing we know, that he is our
Father -- my Father and your Father, Jessica. He loves you, and cares for
you more than I do for my little girls here
I never had any father
God is your Father
he knows all about you,
because he is present everywhere. We cannot see him, but we have only
to speak and he hears us, and we may ask him for whatever we want
Will he let me speak to him, as well as these fine children, that are
clean and have got nice clothes
Yes
you
may ask him this moment for what you want
O
God! I want to know about you. And please pay Mr. Daniel for all the
warm coffee he's give me
Mr. Daniel
has God paid you for my sups of coffee yet
Paid me
God? No
Well, he will
don't you be
afraid for your money, Mr. Daniel; I've asked him a many times, and the
minister says he's sure to do it
Jess
have you been and told the minister
about my coffee-stall
No
but I've told God lots and
lots of times since Sunday, and he's sure to pay in a day or two
Jess
you're a sharp little girl, I
see; and now, mind, I'm going to trust you. You're never to say a word
about me or my coffee-stall; because the folks at our chapel are very
grand, and might think it low and mean of me to keep a coffee-stall.
Very likely they'd say I mustn't be chapel-keeper any longer, and I
should lose a deal of money
Why do you keep the stall then
Don't you see what a many pennies I get every morning
I get a good deal of money that way in a year
What do you want such a deal of money for
do you give
it to God
No, no, Mr. Daniel
I don't want you to give me any of
your pennies. I want God to pay you
Ay, he'll pay me
there'll be a day of reckoning
by and by
Does God have reckoning days
I used to like
reckoning days when I was a fairy
Ay, ay
but there's few folks like God's reckoning
days
But you'll be glad; wont you
Mr. Daniel
if you wouldn't mind, I'd
like to come and buy a cup of coffee to-morrow, like a customer, you
know; and I wont let out a word about the stall to the minister next
Sunday. Don't you be afraid
Jessica
is this where you live
Yes
but we'd a nicer room than this when I was a
fairy and mother played at the theatre; we shall be better off when I'm
grown up, if I'm pretty enough to play like her
My child
I'm come to ask your mother to let you go to
school in a pleasant place down in the country. Will she let you go
No
mother says she'll never let me learn to
read, or go to church; she says it would make me good for nothing. But
please, sir, she doesn't know any thing about your church, it's such
a long way off, and she hasn't found me out yet. She always gets very
drunk of a Sunday
What can I do
Nothing, please, sir
only let me come to hear
you of a Sunday, and tell me about God. If you was to give me fine
clothes -- like your little girls'-- mother 'ud only pawn them for gin.
You can't do any thing more for me
Where is your mother
Out on a spree
She wont be home for a day or two.
She'd not hearken to you, sir. There's the missionary came, and she
pushed him down the ladder till he was nearly killed. They used to call
mother 'the vixen' at the theatre, and nobody durst say a word to her
Who is Mr. Daniel, Jessica
Oh
he's only a friend of mine as gives me sups
of coffee. You don't know all the folks in London, sir
No
but does he keep a coffee-stall
How much does a cup of coffee cost
A full cup's a penny
but you can have half a
cup; and there are half-penny and penny buns
Good coffee and buns
Prime
Well
tell your friend to give you a full
cup of coffee and a penny bun every morning, and I'll pay for them as
often as he chooses to come to me for the money
Please, sir
I'm sure he couldn't come; oh! he couldn't.
It's such a long way, and Mr. Daniel has plenty of customers. No, he
never would come to you for money
Jessica
I will tell you what I will do. I will trust
you with a shilling every Sunday, if you'll promise to give it to your
friend the very first time you see him. I shall be sure to know if you
cheat me
I can do nothing else for you
No, minister
only tell me about God
I will tell you one thing about him now
If I took you
to live in my house with my little daughters you would have to be
washed and clothed in new clothing to make you fit for it. God wanted
us to go and live at home with him in heaven, but we were so sinful
that we could never have been fit for it. So he sent his own Son to
live among us, and die for us, to wash us from our sins, and to give us
new clothing, and to make us ready to live in God's house. When you ask
God for any thing you must say, 'For Jesus Christ's sake.' Jesus Christ
is the Son of God
God bless you, my child
Well, Standring
Sir
I'm uncomfortable about that little girl, and I know
you've been once to see after her; she told me about it; and so I make
bold to ask you where she lives, and I'll see what's become of her
Right, Standring
I am troubled about the
child, and so are my little girls. I thought of going myself, but my
time is very much occupied just now
I'll go, sir
Our Father
please to send somebody to me,
for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen
I'm here, Jess
Oh
it's Mr. Daniel! Has
God told you to come here, Mr. Daniel
Yes
What did he say to you
He told me I was a great sinner
He told me I
loved a little bit of dirty money better than a poor, friendless,
helpless child, whom he had sent to me to see if I would do her a
little good for his sake. He looked at me, or the minister did, through
and through, and he said, 'Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be
required of thee: then whose shall those things be which thou hast
provided?' And I could answer him nothing, Jess. He had come to a
reckoning with me, and I could not say a word to him
Aren't you a good man, Mr. Daniel
No; I'm a wicked sinner
I've been constant at God's house, but only to get money;
I've been steady and industrious, but only to get money; and now God
looks at me, and he says, 'Thou fool!' Oh, Jess, Jess, you're more fit
for heaven than I ever was in my life
Why don't you ask him to make you good for Jesus Christ's sake
I can't
I've been kneeling down Sunday after Sunday
when the minister's been praying, but all the time I was thinking
how rich some of the carriage people were. I've been loving money and
worshipping money all along, and I've nearly let you die rather than
run the risk of losing part of my earnings. I'm a very sinful man
But you know what the minister often says
Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent
his Son to be the propitiation for our sins
I've heard it so often that I don't feel it
I used to
like to hear the minister say it, but now it goes in at one ear and out
at the other. My heart is very hard, Jessica
God
please to make Mr. Daniel's heart soft, for Jesus
Christ's sake. Amen
Forasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my
brethren, ye have done it unto me
God be merciful to me, a sinner
D. STANDRING.

"P. S. Jessica desires her best love and duty to Miss Jane and Winny
Oh, minister
God has given me every thing I wanted
except paying Mr. Daniel for the coffee he used to give me
Ah! but God has paid me over and over again
He's given me my own soul in exchange for it.
Let me make bold to speak to you this once, sir. You're a very learned
man, and a great preacher, and many people flock to hear you till I'm
hard put to it to find seats for them at times; but all the while,
hearkening to you every blessed Sabbath, I was losing my soul, and you
never once said to me, though you saw me scores and scores of times,
'Standring, are you a saved man
Standring
I always took it for granted that you were a Christian
Ah
but God wanted somebody to ask
me that question, and he did not find anybody in the congregation, so
he sent this poor little lass to me. Well, I don't mind telling now,
even if I lose the place; but for a long time, nigh upon ten years,
I've kept a coffee-stall on week-days in the city, and cleared,
one week with another, about ten shillings: but I was afraid the
chapel-wardens wouldn't approve of the coffee business, as low, so I
kept it a close secret, and always shut up early of a morning. It's me
that sold Jessica her cup of coffee, which you paid for, sir
There's no harm in it, my good fellow
you
need make no secret of it
Well
the questions this poor little creature has
asked me have gone quicker and deeper down to my conscience than all
your sermons, if I may make so free as to say it. She's come often and
often of a morning, and looked into my face with those clear eyes of
hers, and said, 'Don't you love Jesus Christ, Mr. Daniel?' 'Doesn't
it make you very glad that God is your Father, Mr. Daniel?' 'Are we
getting nearer heaven every day, Mr. Daniel?' And one day says she,
'Are you going to give all your money to God, Mr. Daniel?' Ah, that
question made me think indeed, and it's never been answered till this
day. While I've been sitting beside the bed here I've counted up all my
savings: &pound;397 18s. it is; and I've said, 'Lord, it's all thine; and I'd
give every penny of it rather than lose the child, if it be thy blessed
will to spare her life
Our Father
I asked you to let me come home
to heaven; but if Mr. Daniel wants me, please to let me stay a little
longer, for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen
The child is not dead, but is only asleep
Jessica
I am sorrowful to-night, and I have great heaviness of
heart. Tell me, my child, do you understand what I preach about in my
pulpit
Oh, no, no
only
when you say God, and Jesus Christ, and heaven! I know what you mean
by them
Do you
and do I say
them often, Jessica
Sometimes they come over and over again
and then I
feel very glad, because I know what you are preaching about. There is
always God in your sermon, but sometimes there isn't Jesus Christ and
heaven
And what do I mean by God, and Jesus Christ, and heaven
I don't know anything but what you've taught me
you've told me that
God is the Father of our souls, and Jesus Christ is our elder brother,
who came down from heaven to save us, and heaven is the home of God,
where we shall all go if we love and serve him. I don't know any more
than that
It is enough
one soul has learned the truth from me. God bless you, Jessica,
and keep you in his fear and love for evermore
There's a vast crush of people to-night, sir
the aisles
and the galleries are all full, and there's a many standing at the door
yet who will have to go away, for there's no room for them
Standring
I have something of importance to say to you
after the service this evening, so come back here as soon as the
congregation is gone. And, Jessica, take care to sit in your own
place, where I can see you; for I will preach about Jesus Christ and
heaven to-night
I will preach
to this people from the saying of Christ, 'He calleth His own sheep by
name, and leadeth them out
It is not death, but a stroke
Miss Winny
the doctor says it's
nothing but a stroke. He isn't taken with death, Miss Jane; it's only a
stroke
What is a stroke, Jessica
I don't hardly know
I know what strokes used to
be when I lived with mother; but this is different, Miss Jane; this
stroke comes from God, and it cannot be very bad
Let Jessica come home with us, nurse
You mustn't leave us yet
Papa is not come
home, and I'm a little bit afraid. Aren't you afraid, Jessica
No
It can't be anything dreadful bad
You must come in and stay with us
Nurse, we will take Jessica
into papa's study till he comes home
Papa always used to read and talk to us on a Sunday night after we had
come home
Does a stroke last long, Jessica
I'm not sure
Mother's strokes were sharp and soon
over, but the smart lasted a long while. Maybe the stroke is now over,
but perhaps the smart will last a little while. God knows
Yes
and God knows what
is best for papa and us. We've known that a long time, but now we must
believe it with our hearts
Believing is a deal harder than knowing
Oh, Standring
tell us
everything about papa
Come, come, you needn't be frightened, my little ladies
Please God, your papa will be all right again in a
week or two. The doctors say he's been studying too much to make his
grand sermons, and he hasn't given his brain rest enough. But he'll
come all right again by and by, or I don't know whatever will become of
the chapel
He won't die
Die!-- oh, no
Why, my dears, you're all of a tremble.
It would be the best for you to go to bed, for you can't do any good
sitting up
Standring
I wish you'd let Jessica stay all night with
us. She could sleep with nurse; and our room is inside nurse's, and if
we leave the door open we could talk to one another
She may stay and welcome, if nurse likes, Miss Winny
Come, come
you've no business here, you know; so you'd
better get up and go home. You don't belong to this place, and you've
made a mistake coming here. This is my house
I don't belong to any place
and I haven't made a mistake in coming here. You're Daniel Standring,
and I'm Jessica's mother
I've nearly had the door down
till
all your neighbors came out to see what was the matter; but I scared
them in again. The police himself turned tail like a coward
I want my daughter
my Jessica, my
daughter. Where is she, you scoundrel
Come, now, then
this behavior won't do. Jessica isn't here; so you'd better take
yourself off. I wouldn't give her up to you if she was here; but she
isn't here, and there's an end of it
If you go in, I go in
and if I stay out, you
stay out. I want my Jessica
You're not drunk, are you
Neither sup nor drop has passed my lips to-day
Well, well!-- come in
and you too, Mr. Brookes, if you
please. I'm not myself at all to-night; and it 'ud hearten me to have
somebody to back me. Come in
And this is Jessica's home
and a very comfortable home too. Eh! but I'm a lucky mother, and she's
a lucky girl. Will she be in to-night, Mr. Standring
No
Well, I can make myself comfortable
I dare say her bed is softer than any I've slept
on of late. Last night I slept under a scaffolding on some shavings.
Don't put yourself out about me. I can make myself comfortable
But you cannot stay here all night
And why not
I suppose I'm as good as my daughter. Ah,
she'll never be the woman I've been! I rode in my carriage once, man,
I can tell you. And what should hinder me staying a night, or a week,
or a month in your paltry little house? No, no! you'll not see my back
to-night, I promise you
I wouldn't give you a night's lodging for five shillings
I not going to give you five farthings for it
Jessica's home is my home. If you turn me out, out she goes with me
What am I to do with her
I wouldn't have her stop
here for anything. Jessica is staying all night with the minister's
children; but she'll come back to-morrow. Whatever am I to do
Give her some money to go away
Now
if you won't go away peaceable I'll send for a
policeman, as sure as I'm the chapel-keeper of St. John's Chapel. I
don't want to be violent with you, for I'm a Christian man; but I don't
know that a Christian man is bound to give you a lodging in his own
house. I should rather think he wasn't. But if you will go away quiet,
here is a shilling to pay for a bed and breakfast elsewhere. That's all
I can do or say. It's that, or the police
He isn't going to die
he is
only resting himself, the doctor says, and then he will know us again,
and speak to us all
To think
that he should have
spoken thousands and thousands of words, ay! millions! and I scarce
gave an ear to them; and now I'd almost offer a golden guinea for every
word he could speak to me! Ay! Jessica, so that he spoke pretty short
and simple, I'd give a guinea a word if he could tell me what I ought
to do
Do you want him to say something particular
Ay! very particular
Couldn't you ask God
Well
of course I could; but then there's
no direct answer, which I couldn't mistake. My mother used to open her
Bible and take the first words she set her eyes on for answer; and very
queer answers they were sometimes. I'm not good enough yet to expect a
very clear answer to my prayers
Jessica
the trouble I'd like to talk to him about is that
your mother's come back again
Doesn't God know that mother's come back
Do you know where mother is
No, deary
I gave her a shilling last night to pay
for her lodging and breakfast. She told me she'd had nothing to eat
or drink all day; but the nurse said she'd been to see the minister
yesterday afternoon and had a good meal. She's sure to come again
Ay, she's sure to come again
And so
nurse and me have agreed you'd better stay
with the young ladies for a bit, out of the way like, till I can see
how I can settle with your mother. You'd be glad to stay with Miss
Jane and Winny, Jessica
Yes
but I'd like to see my mother
See your mother
whatever for, Jessica
She's my mother
and the Lord Jesus Christ had a
mother. Oh! I'd like to see her again, and tell her about God, and
Jesus Christ, and heaven. Perhaps she'd become a good woman
Choose for yourself, deary
come home with me,
and run the chance of your mother coming again soon; or go back to Miss
Jane and Winny, who are so fond of you, and where everything is fine,
and you'll be in such good company. Choose for yourself
I'll go home with you
I couldn't think this morning who'd sweep the kitchen,
and get the breakfast. I'd rather go home with you, if you please
Mother! mother
She's a little drunk, you know
but she isn't very bad
yet. She isn't furious. What shall we do
Mother
this isn't your house at all, and you can't stay here. It's Mr.
Daniel's house: but I dare say he'll let me give you some supper, and
then you'd better go away, and come to see me again when you're quite
yourself
Oh! I wish I was a better woman
I've been driven to it,
Jessica. But I'm coming to live here with you now, and be decent like
the rest of you. I'm going to turn over a new leaf, and you'll see how
steady I'll be. I'll be no disgrace to any of you
But, mother
you can't live here, because it's Mr.
Daniel's house, and he only took me out of charity, when I was ill and
you left me. We can't look for him to take you
If you stay, I stay
or, if I go, you go. I'd like to know who'd have the heart
to separate a mother from her own child
I don't think she ever knew that God is our Father
Mr. Daniel
you mustn't go to take
mother in out of charity, as well as me. That 'ud never do. So I'll go
away with her to-night, and in the morning, when she's sober, I'll
tell her all about God, and Jesus Christ, and heaven. She doesn't know
it yet, but maybe when she hears every thing she'll be a different
woman; like me, you know; and then we can all help her to be good. Only
I must go away with her to-night, or she'll get into a raging fury like
she used to do
No, no, no
I couldn't let you go, dear.
Why, Jessica, I love you more than my money, don't I? God knows I
love you better. I'd rather lose all my money, ay, and my place as
chapel-keeper, than lose you
You aren't going to lose me
I'm only going away for a little
while with my mother. She's my mother, and I want to tell her all
I know -- that she may go to heaven as well as us. I'll come back
to-morrow
She shall stay here
No, no
that 'ud never do. She'll be for stopping
always if you give in once. You'd better let me go with her this one
night; and to-morrow morning, when she's all right, I'll tell her
everything. She'll be very low then, and she'll hearken to me. Mother!
I'm ready to go with you
Stop a minute, Jessica
I'll let you go with her this once,
only there's a lodging-house not far off, and I'll come with you and
see you safe for the night, and pay your lodgings
All right
Good-night
you don't feel as if you'd like to come back with me, now
we've seen your mother comfortable, do you
No
I think
I'm doing what God would like me to do; aren't I? He knows she is my
mother
Ay, God bless you, my dear
I'm sure
I don't know how a Christian ought to act in this case; and there's
nobody to go and ask now
Mr. Daniel
when mother awoke this
morning I told her everything about Jesus Christ, and God, and heaven;
and she knew it all before! Before I was born, she said
Ah
Yes
she knew about
it, and she never told me; never! She never spoke of God at all, only
when she was cursing. I don't know now anything that'll make her a good
woman. I thought that if she only heard what I said she'd love God, but
she only laughed at me, and said it's an old story. I don't know what
can be done for her now
If the minister could only see her
He speaks as if he
had seen God, and talked to him sometimes; and she'd be sure to believe
him. I don't know how to say the right things
No, no
She saw him on Sunday, before he had the
stroke, and he talked a long time to her. No! she won't be changed by
him
She's my mother, you know
Ay
and that puzzles me, Jessica; I don't know what to
do
Couldn't we pray to God
now, before we go
on any farther
Maybe it would be the best thing to do
Lord, thou knowest that Jessica's mother is come back, and what a
drunken and disorderly woman she is, and we don't know what to do with
her, and the minister cannot give us his advice. Sometimes I'm afraid
I love my money too much yet, but, Lord, if it's that, or anything
else that's hard in my heart, so as to hinder me from doing what the
Saviour, Jesus Christ, would do if he was in my place, I pray thee to
take it away, and make me see clearly what my Christian duty is. Dear
Lord, I beseech thee, keep both me and Jessica from evil
What think you Christ would have done with this woman
Daniel, Daniel
what
would thy Lord have done
Jessica
God has shown me what to do
Perhaps it'll be better than the minister himself
Ay
I don't think the minister could have told
me plainer. Why, Jessica, suppose the Lord had been living here, and
your mother had come to his door, wouldn't he have cared for her, and
grieved over her, and done everything he could to prevent her going on
in sin? Well, dear, it seems to me it wouldn't be altogether right to
take her to live with us all at once, because you are a young girl and
ought not to see such ways, and I might get angry with her; but I'll
hire a room for her somewhere, that shall be always kept for her, and
whenever she comes to it there will be a bed, and a meal for her; and
we'll be very kind to her, and see if by any means we can help to make
her good
Why, now, now, my dear
what ails you, Jessica?
Wouldn't the Lord Jesus have made a plan something like that? Come,
come; we'll pray to him to make her a good woman, and then -- who
knows?-- she may come here to live with us
She's my own mother, you know
Yes
and we must do our best for her. Jessica, I
know now that I love God more than aught else in this world or the
next
Nurse thinks
that, if papa knew, he would like us to
sit with him this Sunday evening; and sometimes we think he does know,
though he never speaks, and he seems to be asleep all the time. We
are to read our chapter and say our hymns just as if he could hear.
And nurse says he told your mother only last Sunday that he loves you
almost like one of his own little girls. So we said we should like you
to come and read with us; for you are not a bit afraid, Jessica
He is talking to God
Jessica
I can't help thinking
about Paul, when he was caught up into the third heaven and heard
unspeakable words. I think perhaps he looked like my father
It was just this time last Sunday
when papa had the
stroke. He was just going to pray when the chapel-clock struck seven
I wonder what he was going to say
Our Father
Do you know us again
do
you know who we are, minister
Jessica, and my children
He is come back
Let us make haste and tell the others. Maybe
he is hungry and weak and faint. But he knows us -- he is come back to us
again
Jessica's mother
Because thou
hast been faithful unto death, I will give thee a crown of life
Help me, or I shall die before morning
Let the doctor see me first
and tell me whether I am
likely to die or live
I'm a Christian man
and I'm not afraid to die. But if
you think there's no chance for me I'd rather go home. I've a little
girl at home who'd like to be with me all the time till I'm taken away
from her. The key of my house is in my pocket. Let me be taken home
I will rest here, and stay with you for an hour
It is the last hour
Be it so
I too have looked death in the face
My power is taken from me
the Almighty has stricken me in
the pride of my heart. I shall never more speak as I used to do, of his
glory and majesty, and the greatness of his salvation
You can speak of his love
Yes
but only as a child speaks. I shall
never stir the hearts of the congregation again. My speech will be
contemptible
Jessica, tell him what you and I have been talking about
We were talking how he'd never be the chapel-keeper any more, and go
up into the pulpit to carry the books before you; and then we thought
it was true, maybe, what the doctor says, that you'd never be well
enough again to preach in such a big chapel; and so we went on talking
about the time when we shall all be in heaven. We said that perhaps God
would give you more beautiful thoughts there, and grander words, and
you'd still be our minister; and the angels 'ud all come thronging up
in crowds all about you and us to hearken to what you'd thought about
Jesus Christ and about God; and there'd be a great congregation again.
Only whenever you were silent for a minute we could look up and see the
Saviour himself listening to us all
There is one thing still I want to say
I've made my
will, and left all I had to Jessica; but I don't know where she'll find
a home. If you'd look out for her
Jessica shall come home to me
I'm a Christian man
I know that I love God, and
that he has made me something like himself. There's a verse about it in
the Bible
now are we the sons of God, and it
doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall
appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is
It's time to take up the books, for the congregation is waiting, and
the minister is ready. I will take them up to heaven
</text>
