<text>
Augrh
It is time to
hunt again
Good luck go with you, O
Chief of the Wolves. And good luck and strong white teeth go with noble
children that they may never forget the hungry in this world
Enter, then, and look
but there is no food
here
For a wolf, no
but for so mean a person as myself a
dry bone is a good feast. Who are we, the Gidur-log &lsqb;the jackal people&rsqb;,
to pick and choose
All thanks for this good meal
How
beautiful are the noble children! How large are their eyes! And so young
too! Indeed, indeed, I might have remembered that the children of kings
are men from the beginning
Shere Khan, the Big One, has shifted his hunting grounds. He will hunt
among these hills for the next moon, so he has told me
He has no right
By the Law of the Jungle
he has no right to change his quarters without due warning. He will
frighten every head of game within ten miles, and I -- I have to kill for
two, these days
His mother did not call him Lungri &lsqb;the Lame One&rsqb; for nothing
He has been lame in one foot from his birth. That
is why he has only killed cattle. Now the villagers of the Waingunga are
angry with him, and he has come here to make our villagers angry.
They will scour the jungle for him when he is far away, and we and our
children must run when the grass is set alight. Indeed, we are very
grateful to Shere Khan
Shall I tell him of your gratitude
Out
Out and hunt with thy master. Thou hast
done harm enough for one night
I go
Ye can hear Shere Khan below in the
thickets. I might have saved myself the message
The fool
To begin a night's work with that noise!
Does he think that our buck are like his fat Waingunga bullocks
H'sh. It is neither bullock nor buck he hunts to-night
It is Man
Man
Faugh! Are there
not enough beetles and frogs in the tanks that he must eat Man, and on
our ground too
Aaarh
He has
missed
What is it
The fool has had no more sense than to jump at a woodcutter's campfire,
and has burned his feet
Tabaqui is
with him
Something is coming uphill
Get
ready
Man
A man's cub. Look
Is that a man's cub
I have never seen one. Bring
it here
How little! How naked, and -- how bold
Ahai! He is taking his meal with the others. And so this is a man's
cub. Now, was there ever a wolf that could boast of a man's cub among
her children
I have heard now and again of such a thing, but never in our Pack or in
my time
He is altogether without hair, and I
could kill him with a touch of my foot. But see, he looks up and is not
afraid
My lord, my lord, it went in here
Shere Khan does us great honor
What does Shere Khan need
My quarry. A man's cub went this way
Its parents
have run off. Give it to me
The Wolves are a free people
They take orders from
the Head of the Pack, and not from any striped cattle-killer. The man's
cub is ours -- to kill if we choose
Ye choose and ye do not choose! What talk is this of choosing? By the
bull that I killed, am I to stand nosing into your dog's den for my fair
dues? It is I, Shere Khan, who speak
And it is I, Raksha &lsqb;The Demon&rsqb;, who answers. The man's cub is mine,
Lungri -- mine to me! He shall not be killed. He shall live to run with
the Pack and to hunt with the Pack; and in the end, look you, hunter of
little naked cubs -- frog-eater -- fish-killer -- he shall hunt thee! Now get
hence, or by the Sambhur that I killed (I eat no starved cattle), back
thou goest to thy mother, burned beast of the jungle, lamer than ever
thou camest into the world! Go
Each dog barks in his own yard! We will see what the Pack will say to
this fostering of man-cubs. The cub is mine, and to my teeth he will
come in the end, O bush-tailed thieves
Shere Khan speaks this much truth. The cub must be shown to the Pack.
Wilt thou still keep him, Mother
Keep him
He came naked, by night, alone and very hungry;
yet he was not afraid! Look, he has pushed one of my babes to one side
already. And that lame butcher would have killed him and would have run
off to the Waingunga while the villagers here hunted through all our
lairs in revenge! Keep him? Assuredly I will keep him. Lie still, little
frog. O thou Mowgli -- for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee -- the time will
come when thou wilt hunt Shere Khan as he has hunted thee
But what will our Pack say
Ye know
the Law -- ye know the Law. Look well, O Wolves
Look -- look well, O Wolves
Mowgli the Frog
Look well
The cub is mine. Give him to
me. What have the Free People to do with a man's cub
Look well, O Wolves! What have
the Free People to do with the orders of any save the Free People? Look
well
What have the Free People to
do with a man's cub
Who speaks for this cub
Among the Free People who
speaks
The man's cub -- the man's cub
I speak for the man's cub.
There is no harm in a man's cub. I have no gift of words, but I speak
the truth. Let him run with the Pack, and be entered with the others. I
myself will teach him
We need yet another
Baloo has spoken, and he is our
teacher for the young cubs. Who speaks besides Baloo
O Akela, and ye the Free People
I have no right in your
assembly, but the Law of the Jungle says that if there is a doubt which
is not a killing matter in regard to a new cub, the life of that cub may
be bought at a price. And the Law does not say who may or may not pay
that price. Am I right
Good! Good
Listen to
Bagheera. The cub can be bought for a price. It is the Law
Knowing that I have no right to speak here, I ask your leave
Speak then
To kill a naked cub is shame. Besides, he may make better sport for you
when he is grown. Baloo has spoken in his behalf. Now to Baloo's word
I will add one bull, and a fat one, newly killed, not half a mile
from here, if ye will accept the man's cub according to the Law. Is it
difficult
What matter? He will
die in the winter rains. He will scorch in the sun. What harm can
a naked frog do us? Let him run with the Pack. Where is the bull,
Bagheera? Let him be accepted
Look well -- look well, O Wolves
Ay, roar well
for the time will
come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune, or I
know nothing of man
It was well done
Men and their cubs are very wise. He
may be a help in time
Truly, a help in time of need; for none can hope to lead the Pack
forever
Take him away
and train him as befits one of
the Free People
Come
along, Little Brother
All the jungle
is thine
and thou canst kill everything that thou art
strong enough to kill; but for the sake of the bull that bought thee
thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old. That is the Law of
the Jungle
They tell me
that at Council ye dare
not look him between the eyes
I have the Pack and I have
thee; and Baloo, though he is so lazy, might strike a blow or two for my
sake. Why should I be afraid
Little Brother, how
often have I told thee that Shere Khan is thy enemy
As many times as there are nuts on that palm
What of it? I am sleepy, Bagheera, and
Shere Khan is all long tail and loud talk -- like Mao, the Peacock
But this is no time for sleeping. Baloo knows it; I know it; the Pack
know it; and even the foolish, foolish deer know. Tabaqui has told thee
too
Ho! ho
Tabaqui came to me not long ago with some rude
talk that I was a naked man's cub and not fit to dig pig-nuts. But I
caught Tabaqui by the tail and swung him twice against a palm-tree to
teach him better manners
That was foolishness, for though Tabaqui is a mischief-maker, he would
have told thee of something that concerned thee closely. Open those
eyes, Little Brother. Shere Khan dare not kill thee in the jungle. But
remember, Akela is very old, and soon the day comes when he cannot kill
his buck, and then he will be leader no more. Many of the wolves that
looked thee over when thou wast brought to the Council first are old
too, and the young wolves believe, as Shere Khan has taught them, that
a man-cub has no place with the Pack. In a little time thou wilt be a
man
And what is a man that he should not run with his brothers
I was born in the jungle. I have obeyed the Law of the Jungle,
and there is no wolf of ours from whose paws I have not pulled a thorn.
Surely they are my brothers
Little Brother
feel under my jaw
There is no one in the jungle that knows that I, Bagheera, carry that
mark -- the mark of the collar; and yet, Little Brother, I was born among
men, and it was among men that my mother died -- in the cages of the
king's palace at Oodeypore. It was because of this that I paid the price
for thee at the Council when thou wast a little naked cub. Yes, I too
was born among men. I had never seen the jungle. They fed me behind
bars from an iron pan till one night I felt that I was Bagheera -- the
Panther -- and no man's plaything, and I broke the silly lock with one
blow of my paw and came away. And because I had learned the ways of men,
I became more terrible in the jungle than Shere Khan. Is it not so
Yes
all the jungle fear Bagheera -- all except Mowgli
Oh, thou art a man's cub
And
even as I returned to my jungle, so thou must go back to men at last -- to
the men who are thy brothers -- if thou art not killed in the Council
But why -- but why should any wish to kill me
Look at me
That is why
Not even I can
look thee between the eyes, and I was born among men, and I love thee,
Little Brother. The others they hate thee because their eyes cannot meet
thine; because thou art wise; because thou hast pulled out thorns from
their feet -- because thou art a man
I did not know these things
What is the Law of the Jungle? Strike first and then give tongue. By
thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man. But be wise. It is
in my heart that when Akela misses his next kill -- and at each hunt
it costs him more to pin the buck -- the Pack will turn against him and
against thee. They will hold a jungle Council at the Rock, and then -- and
then -- I have it
Go thou down quickly to
the men's huts in the valley, and take some of the Red Flower which they
grow there, so that when the time comes thou mayest have even a stronger
friend than I or Baloo or those of the Pack that love thee. Get the Red
Flower
The Red Flower
That grows outside their huts in the
twilight. I will get some
There speaks the man's cub
Remember that it
grows in little pots. Get one swiftly, and keep it by thee for time of
need
Good
I go. But art thou sure, O my Bagheera
art thou sure that all this is Shere Khan's doing
By the Broken Lock that freed me, I am sure, Little Brother
Then, by the Bull that bought me, I will pay Shere Khan full tale for
this, and it may be a little over
That is a man. That is all a man
Oh, Shere Khan, never was a blacker hunting than that frog-hunt
of thine ten years ago
What is it, Son
Some bat's chatter of Shere Khan
I hunt among the
plowed fields tonight
Akela! Akela! Let the Lone Wolf show his
strength. Room for the leader of the Pack! Spring, Akela
Bagheera spoke truth
To-morrow is one day both for Akela and
for me
Is that all
If a cub can do it, there is nothing to
fear
They are very like me
This thing will die if I do not give it things to
eat
Akela has missed
They would have killed him last
night, but they needed thee also. They were looking for thee on the
hill
I was among the plowed lands. I am ready. See
Good! Now, I have seen men thrust a dry branch into that stuff, and
presently the Red Flower blossomed at the end of it. Art thou not
afraid
No. Why should I fear? I remember now -- if it is not a dream -- how,
before I was a Wolf, I lay beside the Red Flower, and it was warm and
pleasant
He has no right
Say so. He is a dog's son. He
will be frightened
Free People
does Shere Khan
lead the Pack? What has a tiger to do with our leadership
Seeing that the leadership is yet open, and being asked to speak
By whom
Are we all jackals, to fawn on this cattle
butcher? The leadership of the Pack is with the Pack alone
Silence, thou man's cub
Let him speak. He has
kept our Law
Let the
Dead Wolf speak
Free People, and ye too, jackals of Shere Khan, for twelve seasons I
have led ye to and from the kill, and in all that time not one has been
trapped or maimed. Now I have missed my kill. Ye know how that plot
was made. Ye know how ye brought me up to an untried buck to make my
weakness known. It was cleverly done. Your right is to kill me here on
the Council Rock, now. Therefore, I ask, who comes to make an end of the
Lone Wolf? For it is my right, by the Law of the Jungle, that ye come
one by one
Bah! What have we to do with this
toothless fool? He is doomed to die! It is the man-cub who has lived too
long. Free People, he was my meat from the first. Give him to me. I
am weary of this man-wolf folly. He has troubled the jungle for ten
seasons. Give me the man-cub, or I will hunt here always, and not give
you one bone. He is a man, a man's child, and from the marrow of my
bones I hate him
A man! A man! What has a man to do
with us? Let him go to his own place
And turn all the people of the villages against us
No, give him to me. He is a man, and none of us can look him
between the eyes
He has eaten our food. He has
slept with us. He has driven game for us. He has broken no word of the
Law of the Jungle
Also, I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted. The worth of a
bull is little, but Bagheera's honor is something that he will perhaps
fight for
A bull paid ten years ago
What do we care for
bones ten years old
Or for a pledge
Well are ye called the Free People
No man's cub can run with the people of the jungle
Give him to me
He is our brother in all but blood
and ye would kill
him here! In truth, I have lived too long. Some of ye are eaters of
cattle, and of others I have heard that, under Shere Khan's teaching,
ye go by dark night and snatch children from the villager's doorstep.
Therefore I know ye to be cowards, and it is to cowards I speak. It is
certain that I must die, and my life is of no worth, or I would offer
that in the man-cub's place. But for the sake of the Honor of
the Pack,-- a little matter that by being without a leader ye have
forgotten,-- I promise that if ye let the man-cub go to his own place, I
will not, when my time comes to die, bare one tooth against ye. I will
die without fighting. That will at least save the Pack three lives.
More I cannot do; but if ye will, I can save ye the shame that comes of
killing a brother against whom there is no fault -- a brother spoken for
and bought into the Pack according to the Law of the Jungle
He is a man -- a man -- a man
Now the business is in thy hands
We can do
no more except fight
Listen you
There is no need for this dog's
jabber. Ye have told me so often tonight that I am a man (and indeed I
would have been a wolf with you to my life's end) that I feel your words
are true. So I do not call ye my brothers any more, but sag &lsqb;dogs&rsqb;, as
a man should. What ye will do, and what ye will not do, is not yours
to say. That matter is with me; and that we may see the matter more
plainly, I, the man, have brought here a little of the Red Flower which
ye, dogs, fear
Thou art the master
Save Akela from
the death. He was ever thy friend
Good
I see that ye are dogs. I go
from you to my own people -- if they be my own people. The jungle is shut
to me, and I must forget your talk and your companionship. But I will be
more merciful than ye are. Because I was all but your brother in blood,
I promise that when I am a man among men I will not betray ye to men as
ye have betrayed me
There shall be no war between any of us in the Pack. But here
is a debt to pay before I go
Up, dog
Up,
when a man speaks, or I will set that coat ablaze
This cattle-killer said he would kill me in the Council because he had
not killed me when I was a cub. Thus and thus, then, do we beat dogs
when we are men. Stir a whisker, Lungri, and I ram the Red Flower down
thy gullet
Pah! Singed jungle cat -- go now! But remember when next I come to the
Council Rock, as a man should come, it will be with Shere Khan's hide
on my head. For the rest, Akela goes free to live as he pleases. Ye will
not kill him, because that is not my will. Nor do I think that ye
will sit here any longer, lolling out your tongues as though ye were
somebodies, instead of dogs whom I drive out -- thus! Go
What is it? What is it
I do not wish to leave the jungle,
and I do not know what this is. Am I dying, Bagheera
No, Little Brother. That is only tears such as men use
Now I know thou art a man, and a man's cub no longer. The jungle is
shut indeed to thee henceforward. Let them fall, Mowgli. They are only
tears
Now
I will go to men. But first I must say farewell to my
mother
Ye will not forget me
Never while we can follow a trail
Come to the foot of
the hill when thou art a man, and we will talk to thee; and we will come
into the croplands to play with thee by night
Come soon
Oh, wise little frog, come again soon;
for we be old, thy mother and I
Come soon
little naked son of mine. For, listen,
child of man, I loved thee more than ever I loved my cubs
I will surely come
And when I come it will be to lay
out Shere Khan's hide upon the Council Rock. Do not forget me! Tell them
in the jungle never to forget me
There is none like to me
Feet that make no noise; eyes that can see in
the dark; ears that can hear the winds in their lairs, and sharp white
teeth, all these things are the marks of our brothers except Tabaqui the
Jackal and the Hyaena whom we hate
Give
me leave to hunt here because I am hungry
Hunt
then for food, but not for pleasure
A man's cub is a man's cub, and he must learn all the Law
of the Jungle
But think how small he is
How can his little head carry
all thy long talk
Is there anything in the jungle too little to be killed? No. That is
why I teach him these things, and that is why I hit him, very softly,
when he forgets
Softly! What dost thou know of softness, old Iron-feet
His face is all bruised today by thy -- softness. Ugh
Better he should be bruised from head to foot by me who love him than
that he should come to harm through ignorance
I am now teaching him the Master Words of the Jungle that
shall protect him with the birds and the Snake People, and all that hunt
on four feet, except his own pack. He can now claim protection, if he
will only remember the words, from all in the jungle. Is not that worth
a little beating
Well, look to it then that thou dost not kill the man-cub. He is no
tree trunk to sharpen thy blunt claws upon. But what are those Master
Words? I am more likely to give help than to ask it
still I should like to know
I will call Mowgli and he shall say them -- if he will. Come, Little
Brother
My head is ringing like a bee tree
I come for Bagheera and not for thee,
fat old Baloo
That is all one to me
Tell Bagheera, then, the Master Words of the Jungle that I have taught
thee this day
Master Words for which people
The jungle has many tongues. I know them all
A little thou knowest, but not much. See, O Bagheera, they never thank
their teacher. Not one small wolfling has ever come back to thank
old Baloo for his teachings. Say the word for the Hunting-People,
then -- great scholar
We be of one blood, ye and I
Good. Now for the birds
Now for the Snake-People
There -- there! That was worth a little bruise
Some day thou wilt remember me
No one then is to be feared
Except his own tribe
Have a care for my ribs, Little Brother! What is all this
dancing up and down
And so I shall have a tribe of my
own, and lead them through the branches all day long
What is this new folly, little dreamer of dreams
Yes, and throw branches and dirt at old Baloo
They
have promised me this. Ah
Whoof
Mowgli
thou hast been talking with the Bandar-log -- the
Monkey People
Thou hast been with the Monkey People -- the gray apes -- the people
without a law -- the eaters of everything. That is great shame
When Baloo hurt my head
I
went away, and the gray apes came down from the trees and had pity on
me. No one else cared
The pity of the Monkey People
The stillness of the
mountain stream! The cool of the summer sun! And then, man-cub
And then, and then, they gave me nuts and pleasant things to eat, and
they -- they carried me in their arms up to the top of the trees and said
I was their blood brother except that I had no tail, and should be their
leader some day
They have no leader
They lie. They have always lied
They were very kind and bade me come again. Why have I never been taken
among the Monkey People? They stand on their feet as I do. They do
not hit me with their hard paws. They play all day. Let me get up! Bad
Baloo, let me up! I will play with them again
Listen, man-cub
I have taught thee all the Law of the Jungle for all the
peoples of the jungle -- except the Monkey-Folk who live in the trees.
They have no law. They are outcasts. They have no speech of their own,
but use the stolen words which they overhear when they listen, and peep,
and wait up above in the branches. Their way is not our way. They are
without leaders. They have no remembrance. They boast and chatter and
pretend that they are a great people about to do great affairs in the
jungle, but the falling of a nut turns their minds to laughter and all
is forgotten. We of the jungle have no dealings with them. We do not
drink where the monkeys drink; we do not go where the monkeys go; we do
not hunt where they hunt; we do not die where they die. Hast thou ever
heard me speak of the Bandar-log till today
No
The Jungle-People put them out of their mouths and out of their minds.
They are very many, evil, dirty, shameless, and they desire, if they
have any fixed desire, to be noticed by the Jungle People. But we do not
notice them even when they throw nuts and filth on our heads
The Monkey-People are forbidden
forbidden to the
Jungle-People. Remember
Forbidden
but I still think Baloo should have warned
thee against them
I -- I? How was I to guess he would play with such dirt. The Monkey
People! Faugh
What the Bandar-log think now
the jungle will think later
He has noticed us! Bagheera has noticed us. All the Jungle-People
admire us for our skill and our cunning
We be of one blood, thou and I
Mark
my trail
Tell Baloo of the Seeonee Pack and Bagheera
of the Council Rock
In whose name, Brother
Mowgli, the Frog. Man-cub they call me! Mark my trail
They never go far
They never do what they
set out to do. Always pecking at new things are the Bandar-log. This
time, if I have any eye-sight, they have pecked down trouble for
themselves, for Baloo is no fledgling and Bagheera can, as I know, kill
more than goats
Why didst thou not warn the man-cub
What
was the use of half slaying him with blows if thou didst not warn him
Haste! O haste! We -- we may catch them yet
At that speed! It would not tire a wounded cow. Teacher of the
Law -- cub-beater -- a mile of that rolling to and fro would burst thee
open. Sit still and think! Make a plan. This is no time for chasing.
They may drop him if we follow too close
Arrula! Whoo! They may have dropped him already, being tired of
carrying him. Who can trust the Bandar-log? Put dead bats on my head!
Give me black bones to eat! Roll me into the hives of the wild bees
that I may be stung to death, and bury me with the Hyaena, for I am most
miserable of bears! Arulala! Wahooa! O Mowgli, Mowgli! Why did I not
warn thee against the Monkey-Folk instead of breaking thy head? Now
perhaps I may have knocked the day's lesson out of his mind, and he will
be alone in the jungle without the Master Words
At least he gave me all the Words correctly a little time ago
Baloo, thou hast neither memory nor respect. What
would the jungle think if I, the Black Panther, curled myself up like
Ikki the Porcupine, and howled
What do I care what the jungle thinks? He may be dead by now
Unless and until they drop him from the branches in sport, or kill him
out of idleness, I have no fear for the man-cub. He is wise and well
taught, and above all he has the eyes that make the Jungle-People
afraid. But (and it is a great evil) he is in the power of the
Bandar-log, and they, because they live in trees, have no fear of any of
our people
Fool that I am! Oh, fat, brown, root-digging fool that I am
it is true what Hathi the Wild
Elephant says: &bquo;To each his own fear'; and they, the Bandar-log, fear
Kaa the Rock Snake. He can climb as well as they can. He steals the
young monkeys in the night. The whisper of his name makes their wicked
tails cold. Let us go to Kaa
What will he do for us? He is not of our tribe, being footless -- and
with most evil eyes
He is very old and very cunning. Above all, he is always hungry
Promise him many goats
He sleeps for a full month after he has once eaten. He may be asleep
now, and even were he awake what if he would rather kill his own goats
Then in that case, thou and I together, old hunter, might make him see
reason
He has not eaten
Be careful,
Bagheera! He is always a little blind after he has changed his skin, and
very quick to strike
Good
hunting
Good hunting for us all
Oho, Baloo, what dost thou do
here? Good hunting, Bagheera. One of us at least needs food. Is there
any news of game afoot? A doe now, or even a young buck? I am as empty
as a dried well
We are hunting
Give me permission to come with you
A blow more or less is
nothing to thee, Bagheera or Baloo, but I -- I have to wait and wait for
days in a wood-path and climb half a night on the mere chance of a
young ape. Psshaw! The branches are not what they were when I was young.
Rotten twigs and dry boughs are they all
Maybe thy great weight has something to do with the matter
I am a fair length -- a fair length
But
for all that, it is the fault of this new-grown timber. I came very
near to falling on my last hunt -- very near indeed -- and the noise of my
slipping, for my tail was not tight wrapped around the tree, waked the
Bandar-log, and they called me most evil names
Footless, yellow earth-worm
Sssss! Have they ever called me that
Something of that kind it was that they shouted to us last moon, but we
never noticed them. They will say anything -- even that thou hast lost all
thy teeth, and wilt not face anything bigger than a kid, because (they
are indeed shameless, these Bandar-log)-- because thou art afraid of the
he-goat's horns
The Bandar-log have shifted their grounds
When I
came up into the sun today I heard them whooping among the tree-tops
It -- it is the Bandar-log that we follow now
Beyond doubt then it is no small thing that takes two such
hunters -- leaders in their own jungle I am certain -- on the trail of the
Bandar-log
Indeed
I am no more than the old and sometimes very
foolish Teacher of the Law to the Seeonee wolf-cubs, and Bagheera
here
Is Bagheera
The trouble is this, Kaa. Those
nut-stealers and pickers of palm leaves have stolen away our man-cub of
whom thou hast perhaps heard
I heard some news from Ikki (his quills make him presumptuous) of a
man-thing that was entered into a wolf pack, but I did not believe. Ikki
is full of stories half heard and very badly told
But it is true. He is such a man-cub as never was
The
best and wisest and boldest of man-cubs -- my own pupil, who shall
make the name of Baloo famous through all the jungles; and besides,
I -- we -- love him, Kaa
Ts! Ts
I also have known what
love is. There are tales I could tell that
That need a clear night when we are all well fed to praise properly
Our man-cub is in the hands of the Bandar-log
now, and we know that of all the Jungle-People they fear Kaa alone
They fear me alone. They have good reason
Chattering,
foolish, vain -- vain, foolish, and chattering, are the monkeys. But a
man-thing in their hands is in no good luck. They grow tired of the nuts
they pick, and throw them down. They carry a branch half a day, meaning
to do great things with it, and then they snap it in two. That man-thing
is not to be envied. They called me also --&bquo;yellow fish' was it not
Worm -- worm -- earth-worm
as well as other things which
I cannot now say for shame
We must remind them to speak well of their master. Aaa-ssp! We must
help their wandering memories. Now, whither went they with the cub
The jungle alone knows. Toward the sunset, I believe
We
had thought that thou wouldst know, Kaa
I? How? I take them when they come in my way, but I do not hunt the
Bandar-log, or frogs -- or green scum on a water-hole, for that matter
Up, Up! Up, Up! Hillo! Illo! Illo, look up, Baloo of the Seeonee Wolf
Pack
What is it
I have seen Mowgli among the Bandar-log. He bade me tell you. I
watched. The Bandar-log have taken him beyond the river to the monkey
city -- to the Cold Lairs. They may stay there for a night, or ten nights,
or an hour. I have told the bats to watch through the dark time. That is
my message. Good hunting, all you below
Full gorge and a deep sleep to you, Rann
I will
remember thee in my next kill, and put aside the head for thee alone, O
best of kites
It is nothing. It is nothing. The boy held the Master Word. I could
have done no less
He has not forgotten to use his tongue
To think of one so young remembering the Master Word for the
birds too while he was being pulled across trees
It was most firmly driven into him
But I am proud of
him, and now we must go to the Cold Lairs
It is half a night's journey -- at full speed
I will go as fast as I can
We dare not wait for thee. Follow, Baloo. We must go on the
quick-foot -- Kaa and I
Feet or no feet, I can keep abreast of all thy four
By the Broken Lock that freed me
thou art no slow goer
I am hungry
Besides, they called me speckled frog
Worm -- earth-worm, and yellow to boot
All one. Let us go on
There is no one in the
jungle so wise and good and clever and strong and gentle as the
Bandar-log
I wish to eat
I am a stranger in this part of the
jungle. Bring me food, or give me leave to hunt here
All that Baloo
has said about the Bandar-log is true
They
have no Law, no Hunting Call, and no leaders -- nothing but foolish words
and little picking thievish hands. So if I am starved or killed here,
it will be all my own fault. But I must try to return to my own jungle.
Baloo will surely beat me, but that is better than chasing silly rose
leaves with the Bandar-log
We are great. We are free. We are wonderful.
We are the most wonderful people in all the jungle! We all say so, and
so it must be true
Now as you are a new listener and
can carry our words back to the Jungle-People so that they may notice us
in future, we will tell you all about our most excellent selves
This is true; we all say so
Tabaqui the Jackal must have bitten all these
people
and now they have madness. Certainly this
is dewanee, the madness. Do they never go to sleep? Now there is a cloud
coming to cover that moon. If it were only a big enough cloud I might
try to run away in the darkness. But I am tired
I will go to the west wall
and come down swiftly with
the slope of the ground in my favor. They will not throw themselves upon
my back in their hundreds, but
I know it
Would that Baloo were here, but we must do
what we can. When that cloud covers the moon I shall go to the terrace.
They hold some sort of council there over the boy
Good hunting
There is only one here! Kill him! Kill
Stay there
till we have killed thy friends, and
later we will play with thee -- if the Poison-People leave thee alive
We be of one blood, ye and I
Even ssso! Down hoods all
Stand still, Little Brother, for
thy feet may do us harm
Baloo must be at hand; Bagheera would not have come alone
To the tank, Bagheera. Roll to the
water tanks. Roll and plunge! Get to the water
Bagheera
I am
here. I climb! I haste! Ahuwora! The stones slip under my feet! Wait my
coming, O most infamous Bandar-log
We
be of one blood, ye and I
Kaa! It is Kaa! Run! Run
Get the man-cub out of that trap; I can do no more
Let us take the man-cub and go. They may attack again
They will not move till I order them. Stay you sssso
I could not come before, Brother, but I
think I heard thee call
I -- I may have cried out in the battle
Baloo, art
thou hurt?

"I am not sure that they did not pull me into a hundred little
bearlings
Wow! I
am sore. Kaa, we owe thee, I think, our lives -- Bagheera and I
No matter. Where is the manling
Here, in a trap. I cannot climb out
Take him away. He dances like Mao the Peacock. He will crush our
young
Hah
he has friends everywhere, this
manling. Stand back, manling. And hide you, O Poison People. I break
down the wall
Art thou hurt
I am sore, hungry, and not a little bruised. But, oh, they have handled
ye grievously, my Brothers! Ye bleed
Others also
It is nothing, it is nothing, if thou art safe, oh, my pride of all
little frogs
Of that we shall judge later
But here is Kaa to whom we owe the battle
and thou owest thy life. Thank him according to our customs, Mowgli
So this is the manling
Very soft is his skin, and he is
not unlike the Bandar-log. Have a care, manling, that I do not mistake
thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly changed my coat
We be one blood, thou and I
I take my life from
thee tonight. My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry, O Kaa
All thanks, Little Brother
And
what may so bold a hunter kill? I ask that I may follow when next he
goes abroad
I kill nothing,-- I am too little,-- but I drive goats toward such as can
use them. When thou art empty come to me and see if I speak the truth.
I have some skill in these &lsqb;he held out his hands&rsqb;, and if ever thou art
in a trap, I may pay the debt which I owe to thee, to Bagheera, and to
Baloo, here. Good hunting to ye all, my masters
Well said
A brave heart and a courteous tongue
They shall
carry thee far through the jungle, manling. But now go hence quickly
with thy friends. Go and sleep, for the moon sets, and what follows it
is not well that thou shouldst see
The moon sets
Is there yet light enough to see
We see, O
Kaa
Good. Begins now the dance -- the Dance of the Hunger of Kaa. Sit still
and watch
Bandar-log
can ye stir foot or hand
without my order? Speak
Without thy order we cannot stir foot or hand, O Kaa
Good! Come all one pace nearer to me
Nearer
Keep thy hand on my shoulder
Keep it there, or I
must go back -- must go back to Kaa. Aah
It is only old Kaa making circles on the dust
Let us
go
Whoof
Never
more will I make an ally of Kaa
He knows more than we
In a little time,
had I stayed, I should have walked down his throat
Many will walk by that road before the moon rises again
He will have good hunting -- after his own fashion
But what was the meaning of it all
I saw no more than a big
snake making foolish circles till the dark came. And his nose was all
sore. Ho! Ho
Mowgli
his nose was sore on thy account, as
my ears and sides and paws, and Baloo's neck and shoulders are bitten
on thy account. Neither Baloo nor Bagheera will be able to hunt with
pleasure for many days
It is nothing
we have the man-cub again
True, but he has cost us heavily in time which might have been spent in
good hunting, in wounds, in hair -- I am half plucked along my back -- and
last of all, in honor. For, remember, Mowgli, I, who am the Black
Panther, was forced to call upon Kaa for protection, and Baloo and I
were both made stupid as little birds by the Hunger Dance. All this,
man-cub, came of thy playing with the Bandar-log
True, it is true
I am an evil man-cub, and
my stomach is sad in me
Mf! What says the Law of the Jungle, Baloo
Sorrow never stays punishment.
But remember, Bagheera, he is very little
I will remember. But he has done mischief, and blows must be dealt now.
Mowgli, hast thou anything to say
Nothing. I did wrong. Baloo and thou are wounded. It is just
Now
jump on my back, Little Brother, and we will go
home
Tiger! Tiger
Umph
So men are afraid of the People
of the Jungle here also
They have no manners, these Men Folk
Only
the gray ape would behave as they do
What is there to be afraid of
Look at the marks on
his arms and legs. They are the bites of wolves. He is but a wolf-child
run away from the jungle
Arre! Arre
To be bitten by wolves,
poor child! He is a handsome boy. He has eyes like red fire. By my
honor, Messua, he is not unlike thy boy that was taken by the tiger
Let me look
Indeed he
is not. He is thinner, but he has the very look of my boy
What the jungle has taken the jungle has restored.
Take the boy into thy house, my sister, and forget not to honor the
priest who sees so far into the lives of men
By the Bull that bought me
but all this
talking is like another looking-over by the Pack! Well, if I am a man, a
man I must become
Nathoo, O Nathoo
Dost thou not remember the day when I gave thee thy new
shoes
No
those feet have never worn shoes, but thou art
very like my Nathoo, and thou shalt be my son
What is the
good of a man
if he does not understand
man's talk? Now I am as silly and dumb as a man would be with us in the
jungle. I must speak their talk
Give him his will
Remember he can never till now have slept on a bed.
If he is indeed sent in the place of our son he will not run away
Phew
This is a poor reward for following thee twenty miles. Thou smellest
of wood smoke and cattle -- altogether like a man already. Wake, Little
Brother; I bring news
Are all well in the jungle
All except the wolves that were burned with the Red Flower. Now,
listen. Shere Khan has gone away to hunt far off till his coat grows
again, for he is badly singed. When he returns he swears that he will
lay thy bones in the Waingunga
There are two words to that. I also have made a little promise. But
news is always good. I am tired to-night,-- very tired with new things,
Gray Brother,-- but bring me the news always
Thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf? Men will not make thee
forget
Never. I will always remember that I love thee and all in our cave. But
also I will always remember that I have been cast out of the Pack
And that thou mayest be cast out of another pack. Men are only men,
Little Brother, and their talk is like the talk of frogs in a pond. When
I come down here again, I will wait for thee in the bamboos at the edge
of the grazing-ground
And I know that this is
true
because Purun Dass always limped from the blow that he
got in a riot when his account books were burned, and the tiger that I
speak of he limps, too, for the tracks of his pads are unequal
True, true, that must be the truth
Are all these tales such cobwebs and moon talk
That
tiger limps because he was born lame, as everyone knows. To talk of the
soul of a money-lender in a beast that never had the courage of a jackal
is child's talk
Oho! It is the jungle brat, is it
If thou art so
wise, better bring his hide to Khanhiwara, for the Government has set
a hundred rupees on his life. Better still, talk not when thy elders
speak
All the evening I have lain here listening
and, except once or twice, Buldeo has
not said one word of truth concerning the jungle, which is at his very
doors. How, then, shall I believe the tales of ghosts and gods and
goblins which he says he has seen
It is full time that boy went to herding
Ah
I have waited here very many days. What is the
meaning of this cattle-herding work
It is an order
I am a village herd for a while. What
news of Shere Khan
He has come back to this country, and has waited here a long time for
thee. Now he has gone off again, for the game is scarce. But he means to
kill thee
Very good
So long as he is away do thou or one of the
four brothers sit on that rock, so that I can see thee as I come out of
the village. When he comes back wait for me in the ravine by the dhak
tree in the center of the plain. We need not walk into Shere Khan's
mouth
He has hidden for a month to throw thee off thy guard. He crossed the
ranges last night with Tabaqui, hot-foot on thy trail
I am not afraid of Shere Khan, but Tabaqui is very
cunning
Have no fear
I met
Tabaqui in the dawn. Now he is telling all his wisdom to the kites, but
he told me everything before I broke his back. Shere Khan's plan is to
wait for thee at the village gate this evening -- for thee and for no one
else. He is lying up now, in the big dry ravine of the Waingunga
Has he eaten today, or does he hunt empty
He killed at dawn,-- a pig,-- and he has drunk too. Remember, Shere Khan
could never fast, even for the sake of revenge
Oh! Fool, fool! What a cub's cub it is! Eaten and drunk too, and he
thinks that I shall wait till he has slept! Now, where does he lie up?
If there were but ten of us we might pull him down as he lies. These
buffaloes will not charge unless they wind him, and I cannot speak their
language. Can we get behind his track so that they may smell it
He swam far down the Waingunga to cut that off
Tabaqui told him that, I know. He would never have thought of it
alone
The big
ravine of the Waingunga. That opens out on the plain not half a mile
from here. I can take the herd round through the jungle to the head of
the ravine and then sweep down -- but he would slink out at the foot. We
must block that end. Gray Brother, canst thou cut the herd in two for
me
Not I, perhaps -- but I have brought a wise helper
Akela! Akela
I might have known
that thou wouldst not forget me. We have a big work in hand. Cut the
herd in two, Akela. Keep the cows and calves together, and the bulls and
the plow buffaloes by themselves
What orders
They are trying to join again
Drive the bulls away to the left,
Akela. Gray Brother, when we are gone, hold the cows together, and drive
them into the foot of the ravine
How far
Till the sides are higher than Shere Khan can jump
Keep them there till we come down
Well done! Another charge and they are fairly started. Careful,
now -- careful, Akela. A snap too much and the bulls will charge. Hujah!
This is wilder work than driving black-buck. Didst thou think these
creatures could move so swiftly
I have -- have hunted these too in my time
Shall I turn them into the jungle
Ay! Turn. Swiftly turn them! Rama is mad with rage. Oh, if I could only
tell him what I need of him to-day
Let them breathe, Akela
They have not
winded him yet. Let them breathe. I must tell Shere Khan who comes. We
have him in the trap
Who calls
I, Mowgli. Cattle thief, it is time to come to the Council Rock!
Down -- hurry them down, Akela! Down, Rama, down
Ha! Ha
Now thou knowest
Quick, Akela! Break them up. Scatter them, or they will be fighting one
another. Drive them away, Akela. Hai, Rama! Hai, hai, hai! my children.
Softly now, softly! It is all over
Brothers, that was a dog's death
But he would never have shown fight. His hide will look well on the
Council Rock. We must get to work swiftly
What is this folly
To think that thou canst
skin a tiger! Where did the buffaloes kill him? It is the Lame Tiger
too, and there is a hundred rupees on his head. Well, well, we will
overlook thy letting the herd run off, and perhaps I will give thee one
of the rupees of the reward when I have taken the skin to Khanhiwara
Hum
So thou wilt take the hide to Khanhiwara for the reward, and
perhaps give me one rupee? Now it is in my mind that I need the skin for
my own use. Heh! Old man, take away that fire
What talk is this to the chief hunter of the village? Thy luck and the
stupidity of thy buffaloes have helped thee to this kill. The tiger has
just fed, or he would have gone twenty miles by this time. Thou canst
not even skin him properly, little beggar brat, and forsooth I, Buldeo,
must be told not to singe his whiskers. Mowgli, I will not give thee one
anna of the reward, but only a very big beating. Leave the carcass
By the Bull that bought me
must I stay babbling to an old ape all noon? Here, Akela,
this man plagues me
Ye-es
Thou art altogether right, Buldeo.
Thou wilt never give me one anna of the reward. There is an old war
between this lame tiger and myself -- a very old war, and -- I have won
Maharaj! Great King
Yes
I am an old man. I did not know that thou wast anything more than a
herdsboy. May I rise up and go away, or will thy servant tear me to
pieces
Go, and peace go with thee. Only, another time do not meddle with my
game. Let him go, Akela
Now we must hide this and take the buffaloes home! Help me to herd
them, Akela
That is because I have killed Shere Khan
Sorcerer! Wolf's brat! Jungle demon! Go away! Get
hence quickly or the priest will turn thee into a wolf again. Shoot,
Buldeo, shoot
More sorcery
He can turn bullets. Buldeo,
that was thy buffalo
Now what is this
They are not unlike the Pack, these brothers of thine
It is in my head that, if bullets mean
anything, they would cast thee out
Wolf! Wolf's cub! Go away
Again? Last time it was because I was a man. This time it is because I
am a wolf. Let us go, Akela
Oh, my son,
my son! They say thou art a sorcerer who can turn himself into a beast
at will. I do not believe, but go away or they will kill thee. Buldeo
says thou art a wizard, but I know thou hast avenged Nathoo's death
Come back, Messua
Come back, or we will stone
thee
Run back, Messua. This is one of the foolish tales they tell
under the big tree at dusk. I have at least paid for thy son's life.
Farewell; and run quickly, for I shall send the herd in more swiftly
than their brickbats. I am no wizard, Messua. Farewell
Now, once more, Akela
Bring the herd in
Keep count
It may be that I have stolen
one of them. Keep count, for I will do your herding no more. Fare you
well, children of men, and thank Messua that I do not come in with my
wolves and hunt you up and down your street
No more sleeping in traps for me,
Akela. Let us get Shere Khan's skin and go away. No, we will not hurt
the village, for Messua was kind to me
They have cast me out from the Man-Pack, Mother
but
I come with the hide of Shere Khan to keep my word
I told him on that day, when he crammed his head and shoulders into
this cave, hunting for thy life, Little Frog -- I told him that the hunter
would be the hunted. It is well done
Little Brother, it is well done
We were lonely in the jungle without thee
Look -- look well, O Wolves
Look well, O Wolves. Have I kept my word
Yes
Lead us again, O Akela. Lead us again, O Man-cub, for we be sick of
this lawlessness, and we would be the Free People once more
Nay
that may not be. When ye are full-fed, the
madness may come upon you again. Not for nothing are ye called the Free
People. Ye fought for freedom, and it is yours. Eat it, O Wolves
Man-Pack and Wolf-Pack have cast me out
Now I will hunt
alone in the jungle
And we will hunt with thee
Late as usual. Where have you been
How
thoughtful of you. You've taken the old place again
I should think I had
Look at me
Oh, you men, you men
Why can't you be sensible and settle your places quietly? You
look as though you had been fighting with the Killer Whale
I haven't been doing anything but fight since the middle of May. The
beach is disgracefully crowded this season. I've met at least a hundred
seals from Lukannon Beach, house hunting. Why can't people stay where
they belong
I've often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out at Otter
Island instead of this crowded place
Bah! Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island. If we went there they
would say we were afraid. We must preserve appearances, my dear
Sea Catch
our baby's going to be white
Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed
There never has
been such a thing in the world as a white seal
I can't help that
there's going to be now
So long as you
don't lie in muddy water and get mange, or rub the hard sand into a cut
or scratch, and so long as you never go swimming when there is a heavy
sea, nothing will hurt you here
I'm the King of the Castle
Next year
you will be a holluschickie; but this year you must
learn how to catch fish
feel of the water
In a little time
you'll know where to swim to, but just
now we'll follow Sea Pig, the Porpoise, for he is very wise
How do you know where to go
to
My tail tingles, youngster
That means there's a gale
behind me. Come along! When you're south of the Sticky Water &lsqb;he meant
the Equator&rsqb; and your tail tingles, that means there's a gale in front
of you and you must head north. Come along! The water feels bad here
Greeting, Kotick! This year we are
all holluschickie, and we can dance the Fire-dance in the breakers off
Lukannon and play on the new grass. But where did you get that coat
Swim quickly! My bones are aching for the land
Out of the way, youngsters!
The sea is deep and you don't know all that's in it yet. Wait till
you've rounded the Horn. Hi, you yearling, where did you get that white
coat
I didn't get it
It grew
Ho
Look! There's a white seal
Don't touch him, Patalamon. There has never been a white seal
since -- since I was born. Perhaps it is old Zaharrof's ghost. He was lost
last year in the big gale
I'm not going near him
He's unlucky. Do you really
think he is old Zaharrof come back? I owe him for some gulls' eggs
Don't look at him
Head off that drove of
four-year-olds. The men ought to skin two hundred to-day, but it's the
beginning of the season and they are new to the work. A hundred will do.
Quick
I am going to follow
The white seal is coming after us
That's the first
time a seal has ever come to the killing-grounds alone
Hsh! Don't look behind you
It is Zaharrof's ghost! I
must speak to the priest about this
Let go
What's here
Scoochnie! Ochen scoochnie
I'm lonesome, very lonesome
They're killing all the holluschickie on all the beaches
Nonsense
Your
friends are making as much noise as ever. You must have seen old Kerick
polishing off a drove. He's done that for thirty years
It's horrible
Well done for a yearling
I suppose it is rather awful from your way of looking at it,
but if you seals will come here year after year, of course the men get
to know of it, and unless you can find an island where no men ever come
you will always be driven
Isn't there any such island
I've followed the poltoos &lsqb;the halibut&rsqb; for twenty years, and I can't
say I've found it yet. But look here -- you seem to have a fondness for
talking to your betters -- suppose you go to Walrus Islet and talk to
Sea Vitch. He may know something. Don't flounce off like that. It's a
six-mile swim, and if I were you I should haul out and take a nap first,
little one
Wake up
Hah! Ho! Hmph! What's that
Hi! It's me
Well! May I be -- skinned
Isn't there any place
for seals to go where men don't ever come
Go and find out
Run away. We're
busy here
Clam-eater! Clam-eater
Clam-eater! Stareek &lsqb;old man
Now will you tell
Go and ask Sea Cow
If he is living still, he'll be
able to tell you
How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him
He's the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch
Uglier, and with
worse manners! Stareek
What you must do
is to grow up and be a big seal like your father, and have
a nursery on the beach, and then they will leave you alone. In another
five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself
You will never be able to stop the killing.
Go and play in the sea, Kotick
Now
I am going back to Novastoshnah, and if I am driven to the killing-pens
with the holluschickie I shall not care
Try once more. I am the last of the Lost Rookery of
Masafuera, and in the days when men killed us by the hundred thousand
there was a story on the beaches that some day a white seal would come
out of the North and lead the seal people to a quiet place. I am old,
and I shall never live to see that day, but others will. Try once more
I am the
only white seal that has ever been born on the beaches, and I am the
only seal, black or white, who ever thought of looking for new islands
Give me another season
Remember, Mother, it is
always the seventh wave that goes farthest up the beach
Hm, tide's running strong tonight
By the Great Combers of Magellan
Who
in the Deep Sea are these people
Ahem
Good sport, gentlemen
Messy style of feeding, that
Very good
If you do happen
to have an extra joint in your front flipper you needn't show off so. I
see you bow gracefully, but I should like to know your names
Well
You're the only people I've ever met uglier than
Sea Vitch -- and with worse manners
People who are such idiots as
these are would have been killed long ago if they hadn't found out some
safe island. And what is good enough for the Sea Cow is good enough for
the Sea Catch. All the same, I wish they'd hurry
My wig
It was a long dive, but it was worth it
It's Novastoshnah over again, but ten times better
Sea
Cow must be wiser than I thought. Men can't come down the cliffs, even
if there were any men; and the shoals to seaward would knock a ship to
splinters. If any place in the sea is safe, this is it
This is all very well, Kotick, but you
can't come from no one knows where and order us off like this. Remember
we've been fighting for our nurseries, and that's a thing you never did.
You preferred prowling about in the sea
I've no nursery to fight for
I only want to show you
all a place where you will be safe. What's the use of fighting
Oh, if you're trying to back out, of course I've no more to say
Will you come with me if I win
Very good
If you win, I'll come
I've done
my best for you these five seasons past. I've found you the island where
you'll be safe, but unless your heads are dragged off your silly necks
you won't believe. I'm going to teach you now. Look out for yourselves
He may be a fool, but he is the best fighter on the
beaches! Don't tackle your father, my son! He's with you
Now
I've taught
you your lesson
My wig
The Killer Whale himself could not have cut them up
worse. Son, I'm proud of you, and what's more, I'll come with you to
your island -- if there is such a place
Hear you, fat pigs of the sea. Who comes with me to the Sea Cow's
tunnel? Answer, or I shall teach you again
We will come
We will follow
Kotick, the White Seal
Rikki-Tikki-Tavi
Nag, come up and dance with death
Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk
Here's a dead mongoose. Let's have a funeral
No
let's take him in and dry him. Perhaps he isn't
really dead
Now
don't frighten him, and we'll see what he'll do
Run and find out
Don't be frightened, Teddy
That's his way of making
friends
Ouch! He's tickling under my chin
Good gracious
and that's a wild creature! I
suppose he's so tame because we've been kind to him
All mongooses are like that
If Teddy doesn't pick
him up by the tail, or try to put him in a cage, he'll run in and out of
the house all day long. Let's give him something to eat
There are more things to find out about in this house
than all my family could find out in all their lives. I shall
certainly stay and find out
I don't like that
He may bite the
child
He'll do no such thing
Teddy's safer with
that little beast than if he had a bloodhound to watch him. If a snake
came into the nursery now
This
is a splendid hunting-ground
What is the matter
We are very miserable
One of our babies fell out of the
nest yesterday and Nag ate him
H'm
that is very sad -- but I am a stranger here.
Who is Nag
Who is Nag
I am Nag. The great God Brahm put his mark upon
all our people, when the first cobra spread his hood to keep the sun off
Brahm as he slept. Look, and be afraid
Well
marks
or no marks, do you think it is right for you to eat fledglings out of a
nest
Let us talk
You eat eggs. Why should not I eat birds
Behind you! Look behind you
Wicked, wicked Darzee
Be careful. I am Death
Oh, look here! Our mongoose is killing a
snake
What is the use of that
I have settled it all
Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk
Don't kill me
Rikki-tikki, don't
kill me
Do you think a snake-killer kills muskrats
Those who kill snakes get killed by snakes
And how am I to be sure that Nag won't mistake
me for you some dark night
There's not the least danger
But Nag is in the
garden, and I know you don't go there
My cousin Chua, the rat, told me
Told you what
H'sh! Nag is everywhere, Rikki-tikki. You should have talked to Chua in
the garden
I didn't -- so you must tell me. Quick, Chuchundra, or I'll bite you
I am a very poor man
I never had spirit enough to run out
into the middle of the room. H'sh! I mustn't tell you anything. Can't
you hear, Rikki-tikki
That's Nag or Nagaina
and he is crawling into
the bath-room sluice. You're right, Chuchundra; I should have talked to
Chua
When the house is emptied of people
he
will have to go away, and then the garden will be our own again. Go in
quietly, and remember that the big man who killed Karait is the first
one to bite. Then come out and tell me, and we will hunt for Rikki-tikki
together
But are you sure that there is anything to be gained by killing the
people
Everything. When there were no people in the bungalow, did we have any
mongoose in the garden? So long as the bungalow is empty, we are king
and queen of the garden; and remember that as soon as our eggs in the
melon bed hatch (as they may tomorrow), our children will need room and
quiet
I had not thought of that
I will go, but there is no need
that we should hunt for Rikki-tikki afterward. I will kill the big man
and his wife, and the child if I can, and come away quietly. Then the
bungalow will be empty, and Rikki-tikki will go
Now, if I kill him here, Nagaina will know; and if I fight him on
the open floor, the odds are in his favor. What am I to do
That is good
Now, when Karait was killed, the big man had a stick. He may
have that stick still, but when he comes in to bathe in the morning he
will not have a stick. I shall wait here till he comes. Nagaina -- do you
hear me?-- I shall wait here in the cool till daytime
If I don't break his back at the first
jump
he can still fight. And if he fights -- O Rikki
It must be the head
the head above the hood. And,
when I am once there, I must not let go
It's the mongoose again, Alice. The little chap has saved our lives
now
Now I have Nagaina to settle with, and she will be worse than five
Nags, and there's no knowing when the eggs she spoke of will hatch.
Goodness! I must go and see Darzee
Oh, you stupid tuft of feathers
Is this
the time to sing
Nag is dead -- is dead -- is dead
The valiant Rikki-tikki
caught him by the head and held fast. The big man brought the
bang-stick, and Nag fell in two pieces! He will never eat my babies
again
All that's true enough. But where's Nagaina
Nagaina came to the bathroom sluice and called for Nag
and Nag came out on the end of a stick -- the sweeper picked him up
on the end of a stick and threw him upon the rubbish heap. Let us sing
about the great, the red-eyed Rikki-tikki
If I could get up to your nest, I'd roll your babies out
You don't know when to do the right thing at the right
time. You're safe enough in your nest there, but it's war for me down
here. Stop singing a minute, Darzee
For the great, the beautiful Rikki-tikki's sake I will stop
What is it, O Killer of the terrible Nag
Where is Nagaina, for the third time
On the rubbish heap by the stables, mourning for Nag. Great is
Rikki-tikki with the white teeth
Bother my white teeth! Have you ever heard where she keeps her eggs
In the melon bed, on the end nearest the wall, where the sun strikes
nearly all day. She hid them there weeks ago
And you never thought it worth while to tell me? The end nearest the
wall, you said
Rikki-tikki, you are not going to eat her eggs
Not eat exactly; no. Darzee, if you have a grain of sense you will fly
off to the stables and pretend that your wing is broken, and let Nagaina
chase you away to this bush. I must get to the melon-bed, and if I went
there now she'd see me
Oh, my wing is broken! The boy in the house threw a stone at me and
broke it
You warned Rikki-tikki when I
would have killed him. Indeed and truly, you've chosen a bad place to
be lame in
The boy broke it with a stone
Well! It may be some consolation to you when you're dead to know that I
shall settle accounts with the boy. My husband lies on the rubbish heap
this morning, but before night the boy in the house will lie very still.
What is the use of running away? I am sure to catch you. Little fool,
look at me
I was not a day too soon
Rikki-tikki, I led Nagaina toward the house, and she has gone into the
veranda, and -- oh, come quickly -- she means killing
Son of the big man that killed Nag
stay still. I am not
ready yet. Wait a little. Keep very still, all you three! If you move I
strike, and if you do not move I strike. Oh, foolish people, who killed
my Nag
Sit still, Teddy. You mustn't move. Teddy, keep still
Turn round, Nagaina. Turn and
fight
All in good time
I will settle my
account with you presently. Look at your friends, Rikki-tikki. They are
still and white. They are afraid. They dare not move, and if you come a
step nearer I strike
Look at your eggs
in the melon bed near the wall.
Go and look, Nagaina
Ah-h!
Give it to me
What price for a snake's egg? For a young cobra? For a
young king cobra? For the last -- the very last of the brood? The ants are
eating all the others down by the melon bed
Tricked! Tricked! Tricked! Rikk-tck-tck
The
boy is safe, and it was I -- I -- I that caught Nag by the hood last night
in the bathroom
He threw me to and fro, but he
could not shake me off. He was dead before the big man blew him in two.
I did it! Rikki-tikki-tck-tck! Come then, Nagaina. Come and fight with
me. You shall not be a widow long
Give me the egg, Rikki-tikki. Give me
the last of my eggs, and I will go away and never come back
Yes, you will go away, and you will never come back. For you will go
to the rubbish heap with Nag. Fight, widow! The big man has gone for his
gun! Fight
It is all over with Rikki-tikki! We must sing his death song. Valiant
Rikki-tikki is dead! For Nagaina will surely kill him underground
It is all over
The widow will never come out again
Now
I will go back to the house. Tell the
Coppersmith, Darzee, and he will tell the garden that Nagaina is dead
Ding-dong-tock! Nag is dead -- dong! Nagaina is dead!
Ding-dong-tock
He saved our lives and Teddy's life
Just
think, he saved all our lives
Oh, it's you
What are you bothering for? All the cobras are
dead. And if they weren't, I'm here
Yes
there is nothing that the Black Snake fears except me.
He has seen three generations of us feed him and groom him, and he will
live to see four
He is afraid of me also
Yes
he is afraid of me
Wah
thou art a big elephant
The Government may pay for elephants,
but they belong to us mahouts. When thou art old, Kala Nag, there will
come some rich rajah, and he will buy thee from the Government, on
account of thy size and thy manners, and then thou wilt have nothing
to do but to carry gold earrings in thy ears, and a gold howdah on thy
back, and a red cloth covered with gold on thy sides, and walk at the
head of the processions of the King. Then I shall sit on thy neck, O
Kala Nag, with a silver ankus, and men will run before us with golden
sticks, crying, &bquo;Room for the King's elephant!' That will be good, Kala
Nag, but not so good as this hunting in the jungles
Umph
Thou art a boy, and as wild as a buffalo-calf.
This running up and down among the hills is not the best Government
service. I am getting old, and I do not love wild elephants. Give me
brick elephant lines, one stall to each elephant, and big stumps to tie
them to safely, and flat, broad roads to exercise upon, instead of this
come-and-go camping. Aha, the Cawnpore barracks were good. There was a
bazaar close by, and only three hours' work a day
Mael, mael, Kala Nag! (Go on, go on, Black Snake!) Dant do!
(Give him the tusk!) Somalo! Somalo! (Careful, careful!) Maro! Mar! (Hit
him, hit him!) Mind the post! Arre! Arre! Hai! Yai! Kya-a-ah
Are not good brick
elephant lines and a little tent carrying enough, that thou must needs
go elephant catching on thy own account, little worthless? Now those
foolish hunters, whose pay is less than my pay, have spoken to Petersen
Sahib of the matter
What -- what will happen
Happen! The worst that can happen. Petersen Sahib is a madman. Else why
should he go hunting these wild devils? He may even require thee to be
an elephant catcher, to sleep anywhere in these fever-filled jungles,
and at last to be trampled to death in the Keddah. It is well that this
nonsense ends safely. Next week the catching is over, and we of the
plains are sent back to our stations. Then we will march on smooth
roads, and forget all this hunting. But, son, I am angry that thou
shouldst meddle in the business that belongs to these dirty Assamese
jungle folk. Kala Nag will obey none but me, so I must go with him into
the Keddah, but he is only a fighting elephant, and he does not help
to rope them. So I sit at my ease, as befits a mahout,-- not a mere
hunter,-- a mahout, I say, and a man who gets a pension at the end of
his service. Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden
underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah? Bad one! Wicked one! Worthless son!
Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears, and see that there are no
thorns in his feet. Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and
make thee a wild hunter -- a follower of elephant's foot tracks, a jungle
bear. Bah! Shame! Go
No matter
They
have said my name to Petersen Sahib, and perhaps -- and perhaps -- and
perhaps -- who knows? Hai! That is a big thorn that I have pulled out
There goes one piece of good elephant stuff at least. 'Tis a pity to
send that young jungle-cock to molt in the plains
What is that?
I did not know of a man among the plains-drivers who had wit enough to
rope even a dead elephant
This is not a man, but a boy. He went into the Keddah at the last
drive, and threw Barmao there the rope, when we were trying to get that
young calf with the blotch on his shoulder away from his mother
He throw a rope? He is smaller than a picket-pin. Little one, what is
thy name
Oho
and why
didst thou teach thy elephant that trick? Was it to help thee steal
green corn from the roofs of the houses when the ears are put out to
dry
Not green corn, Protector of the Poor,-- melons
He is Toomai, my son, Sahib
He is a very
bad boy, and he will end in a jail, Sahib
Of that I have my doubts
A boy who can face a
full Keddah at his age does not end in jails. See, little one, here are
four annas to spend in sweetmeats because thou hast a little head under
that great thatch of hair. In time thou mayest become a hunter too
Remember, though, that Keddahs are not
good for children to play in
Must I never go there, Sahib
Yes
When thou hast seen the elephants
dance. That is the proper time. Come to me when thou hast seen the
elephants dance, and then I will let thee go into all the Keddahs
And when didst thou see the elephants dance
What did Petersen Sahib mean by the elephant dance
That thou shouldst never be one of
these hill buffaloes of trackers. That was what he meant. Oh, you in
front, what is blocking the way
Bring up Kala Nag, and knock this youngster of mine into good
behavior. Why should Petersen Sahib have chosen me to go down with you
donkeys of the rice fields? Lay your beast alongside, Toomai, and
let him prod with his tusks. By all the Gods of the Hills, these new
elephants are possessed, or else they can smell their companions in the
jungle
We have swept the hills of wild
elephants at the last catch. It is only your carelessness in driving.
Must I keep order along the whole line
Hear him
We have swept the hills! Ho! Ho! You
are very wise, you plains people. Anyone but a mud-head who never saw
the jungle would know that they know that the drives are ended for the
season. Therefore all the wild elephants to-night will -- but why should I
waste wisdom on a river-turtle
What will they do
Ohe, little one. Art thou there? Well, I will tell thee, for thou hast
a cool head. They will dance, and it behooves thy father, who has
swept all the hills of all the elephants, to double-chain his pickets
to-night
What talk is this
For forty years, father and son,
we have tended elephants, and we have never heard such moonshine about
dances
Yes; but a plainsman who lives in a hut knows only the four walls
of his hut. Well, leave thy elephants unshackled tonight and see what
comes. As for their dancing, I have seen the place where -- Bapree-bap!
How many windings has the Dihang River? Here is another ford, and we
must swim the calves. Stop still, you behind there
Tend to him if he grows restless in the night
tang
Kala Nag! Kala Nag! Take me with you, O Kala Nag
Ai
The elephant-folk are
out tonight. It is the dance, then
Wah
Kala Nag, my
lord, let us keep by Pudmini and go to Petersen Sahib's camp, or I shall
drop from thy neck
The dance -- the elephant dance! I
have seen it, and -- I die
Now, if I lie in one word, send men to see, and they will find that the
elephant folk have trampled down more room in their dance-room, and
they will find ten and ten, and many times ten, tracks leading to that
dance-room. They made more room with their feet. I have seen it. Kala
Nag took me, and I saw. Also Kala Nag is very leg-weary
The child speaks truth
All this was done last night, and
I have counted seventy tracks crossing the river. See, Sahib, where
Pudmini's leg-iron cut the bark of that tree! Yes; she was there too
Forty years and five
have I followed my lord, the
elephant, but never have I heard that any child of man had seen what
this child has seen. By all the Gods of the Hills, it is -- what can we
say
Listen, my brothers. Listen, too,
you my lords in the lines there, for I, Machua Appa, am speaking! This
little one shall no more be called Little Toomai, but Toomai of the
Elephants, as his great-grandfather was called before him. What never
man has seen he has seen through the long night, and the favor of the
elephant-folk and of the Gods of the Jungles is with him. He shall
become a great tracker. He shall become greater than I, even I, Machua
Appa! He shall follow the new trail, and the stale trail, and the mixed
trail, with a clear eye! He shall take no harm in the Keddah when he
runs under their bellies to rope the wild tuskers; and if he slips
before the feet of the charging bull elephant, the bull elephant
shall know who he is and shall not crush him. Aihai! my lords in the
chains
here is the little one
that has seen your dances in your hidden places,-- the sight that never
man saw! Give him honor, my lords! Salaam karo, my children. Make your
salute to Toomai of the Elephants! Gunga Pershad, ahaa! Hira Guj, Birchi
Guj, Kuttar Guj, ahaa! Pudmini,-- thou hast seen him at the dance, and
thou too, Kala Nag, my pearl among elephants!-- ahaa! Together! To Toomai
of the Elephants. Barrao
Master, of a million mouths, is not one unfed
All have had their part,
     Even he, the little one, hidden 'neath thy heart
Get out, quick!
They're coming! My tent's gone
What shall I do? Where shall I go? I have fought with a white
thing that waved, and it took a stick and hit me on the neck
Shall we run on
Oh, it was you
you and your friends, that have
been disturbing the camp? All right. You'll be beaten for this in the
morning. But I may as well give you something on account now
Another time
you'll know better than to run through a mule battery at night,
shouting &bquo;Thieves and fire!' Sit down, and keep your silly neck quiet
It's disgraceful
Those camels
have racketed through our lines again -- the third time this week. How's a
horse to keep his condition if he isn't allowed to sleep. Who's here
I'm the breech-piece mule of number two gun of the First Screw
Battery
and the other's one of your friends. He's
waked me up too. Who are you
Number Fifteen, E troop, Ninth Lancers -- Dick Cunliffe's horse. Stand
over a little, there
Oh, beg your pardon
It's too dark to see much. Aren't
these camels too sickening for anything? I walked out of my lines to get
a little peace and quiet here
My lords
we dreamed bad dreams in the night,
and we were very much afraid. I am only a baggage camel of the 39th
Native Infantry, and I am not as brave as you are, my lords
Then why didn't you stay and carry baggage for the 39th Native
Infantry, instead of running all round the camp
They were such very bad dreams
I am sorry. Listen!
What is that? Shall we run on again
Sit down
or you'll snap your long stick-legs between
the guns
Bullocks
Gun
bullocks. On my word, you and your friends have waked the camp very
thoroughly. It takes a good deal of prodding to put up a gun-bullock
Billy
That's one of our recruits
He's calling for me. Here, youngster, stop squealing. The dark never
hurt anybody yet
Things
Fearful and horrible, Billy! They came into our
lines while we were asleep. D'you think they'll kill us
I've a very great mind to give you a number-one kicking
The idea of a fourteen-hand mule with your training disgracing the
battery before this gentleman
Gently, gently
Remember they are always like
this to begin with. The first time I ever saw a man (it was in Australia
when I was a three-year-old) I ran for half a day, and if I'd seen a
camel, I should have been running still
True enough
Stop shaking, youngster. The first time
they put the full harness with all its chains on my back I stood on
my forelegs and kicked every bit of it off. I hadn't learned the real
science of kicking then, but the battery said they had never seen
anything like it
But this wasn't harness or anything that jingled
You know I don't mind that now, Billy. It was Things like trees, and
they fell up and down the lines and bubbled; and my head-rope broke, and
I couldn't find my driver, and I couldn't find you, Billy, so I ran off
with -- with these gentlemen
H'm
As soon as I heard the camels were loose I came away
on my own account. When a battery -- a screw-gun mule calls gun-bullocks
gentlemen, he must be very badly shaken up. Who are you fellows on the
ground there
The
seventh yoke of the first gun of the Big Gun Battery. We were asleep
when the camels came, but when we were trampled on we got up and walked
away. It is better to lie quiet in the mud than to be disturbed on good
bedding. We told your friend here that there was nothing to be afraid
of, but he knew so much that he thought otherwise. Wah
That comes of being afraid
You get laughed at by
gun-bullocks. I hope you like it, young un
Now, don't be angry after you've been afraid. That's the worst kind
of cowardice
Anybody can be forgiven for being
scared in the night, I think, if they see things they don't understand.
We've broken out of our pickets, again and again, four hundred and fifty
of us, just because a new recruit got to telling tales of whip snakes at
home in Australia till we were scared to death of the loose ends of our
head-ropes
That's all very well in camp
I'm not above stampeding
myself, for the fun of the thing, when I haven't been out for a day or
two. But what do you do on active service
Oh, that's quite another set of new shoes
Dick
Cunliffe's on my back then, and drives his knees into me, and all I have
to do is to watch where I am putting my feet, and to keep my hind legs
well under me, and be bridle-wise
What's bridle-wise
By the Blue Gums of the Back Blocks
do you
mean to say that you aren't taught to be bridle-wise in your business?
How can you do anything, unless you can spin round at once when the
rein is pressed on your neck? It means life or death to your man, and of
course that's life and death to you. Get round with your hind legs under
you the instant you feel the rein on your neck. If you haven't room to
swing round, rear up a little and come round on your hind legs. That's
being bridle-wise
We aren't taught that way
We're taught
to obey the man at our head: step off when he says so, and step in when
he says so. I suppose it comes to the same thing. Now, with all this
fine fancy business and rearing, which must be very bad for your hocks,
what do you do
That depends
Generally I have to go in among a
lot of yelling, hairy men with knives -- long shiny knives, worse than
the farrier's knives -- and I have to take care that Dick's boot is just
touching the next man's boot without crushing it. I can see Dick's lance
to the right of my right eye, and I know I'm safe. I shouldn't care to
be the man or horse that stood up to Dick and me when we're in a hurry
Don't the knives hurt
Well, I got one cut across the chest once, but that wasn't Dick's
fault
A lot I should have cared whose fault it was, if it hurt
You must
If you don't trust your man, you may
as well run away at once. That's what some of our horses do, and I don't
blame them. As I was saying, it wasn't Dick's fault. The man was lying
on the ground, and I stretched myself not to tread on him, and he
slashed up at me. Next time I have to go over a man lying down I shall
step on him -- hard
H'm
It sounds very foolish. Knives are dirty things
at any time. The proper thing to do is to climb up a mountain with a
well-balanced saddle, hang on by all four feet and your ears too, and
creep and crawl and wriggle along, till you come out hundreds of feet
above anyone else on a ledge where there's just room enough for your
hoofs. Then you stand still and keep quiet -- never ask a man to hold your
head, young un -- keep quiet while the guns are being put together, and
then you watch the little poppy shells drop down into the tree-tops ever
so far below
Don't you ever trip
They say that when a mule trips you can split a hen's ear
Now and again perhaps a badly packed saddle will upset a mule, but it's
very seldom. I wish I could show you our business. It's beautiful. Why,
it took me three years to find out what the men were driving at. The
science of the thing is never to show up against the sky line, because,
if you do, you may get fired at. Remember that, young un. Always keep
hidden as much as possible, even if you have to go a mile out of your
way. I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of climbing
Fired at without the chance of running into the people who are firing
I couldn't stand that. I should
want to charge -- with Dick
Oh, no, you wouldn't. You know that as soon as the guns are in
position they'll do all the charging. That's scientific and neat. But
knives -- pah
I -- I -- I have fought a little, but not in that climbing way or that
running way
No. Now you mention it
you don't look as though you were
made for climbing or running -- much. Well, how was it, old Hay-bales
The proper way
We all sat down
Oh, my crupper and breastplate
Sat down
We sat down -- a hundred of us
in a big square, and
the men piled our packs and saddles, outside the square, and they fired
over our backs, the men did, on all sides of the square
What sort of men? Any men that came along
They
teach us in riding school to lie down and let our masters fire across
us, but Dick Cunliffe is the only man I'd trust to do that. It tickles
my girths, and, besides, I can't see with my head on the ground
What does it matter who fires across you
There are
plenty of men and plenty of other camels close by, and a great many
clouds of smoke. I am not frightened then. I sit still and wait
And yet
you dream bad dreams and upset the camp at
night. Well, well! Before I'd lie down, not to speak of sitting down,
and let a man fire across me, my heels and his head would have something
to say to each other. Did you ever hear anything so awful as that
This is very foolish indeed. There is only one way
of fighting
Oh, go on
Please don't mind me. I suppose you fellows
fight standing on your tails
Only one way
This is that way. To put all twenty yoke of us to the big gun as soon
as Two Tails trumpets
Two Tails
What does Two Tails trumpet for
To show that he is not going any nearer to the smoke on the other
side. Two Tails is a great coward. Then we tug the big gun all
together -- Heya -- Hullah! Heeyah! Hullah! We do not climb like cats nor
run like calves. We go across the level plain, twenty yoke of us, till
we are unyoked again, and we graze while the big guns talk across the
plain to some town with mud walls, and pieces of the wall fall out, and
the dust goes up as though many cattle were coming home
Oh! And you choose that time for grazing
That time or any other. Eating is always good. We eat till we are yoked
up again and tug the gun back to where Two Tails is waiting for it.
Sometimes there are big guns in the city that speak back, and some of
us are killed, and then there is all the more grazing for those that are
left. This is Fate. None the less, Two Tails is a great coward. That is
the proper way to fight. We are brothers from Hapur. Our father was a
sacred bull of Shiva. We have spoken
Well, I've certainly learned something tonight
Do you gentlemen of the screw-gun battery feel inclined to eat when you
are being fired at with big guns, and Two Tails is behind you
About as much as we feel inclined to sit down and let men sprawl all
over us, or run into people with knives. I never heard such stuff. A
mountain ledge, a well-balanced load, a driver you can trust to let you
pick your own way, and I'm your mule. But -- the other things -- no
Of course
everyone is not made in the same
way, and I can quite see that your family, on your father's side, would
fail to understand a great many things
Never you mind my family on my father's side
My father
was a Southern gentleman, and he could pull down and bite and kick into
rags every horse he came across. Remember that, you big brown Brumby
skate
See here, you son of an imported Malaga jackass
I'd have you know that I'm related on my mother's side to
Carbine, winner of the Melbourne Cup, and where I come from we aren't
accustomed to being ridden over roughshod by any parrot-mouthed,
pig-headed mule in a pop-gun pea-shooter battery. Are you ready
On your hind legs
Children, what are you
fighting about there? Be quiet
It's Two Tails
I can't stand him. A tail at
each end isn't fair
My feelings exactly
We're very alike in some things
I suppose we've inherited them from our mothers
It's not worth quarreling about. Hi! Two Tails, are you tied up
Yes
I'm picketed for
the night. I've heard what you fellows have been saying. But don't be
afraid. I'm not coming over
Afraid of Two Tails -- what
nonsense
We are sorry that you heard, but
it is true. Two Tails, why are you afraid of the guns when they fire
Well
I don't quite know whether you'd
understand
We don't, but we have to pull the guns
I know it, and I know you are a good deal braver than you think
you are. But it's different with me. My battery captain called me a
Pachydermatous Anachronism the other day
That's another way of fighting, I suppose
You don't know what that means, of course, but I do. It means betwixt
and between, and that is just where I am. I can see inside my head what
will happen when a shell bursts, and you bullocks can't
I can
At least a little bit. I try not to
think about it
I can see more than you, and I do think about it. I know there's a
great deal of me to take care of, and I know that nobody knows how to
cure me when I'm sick. All they can do is to stop my driver's pay till I
get well, and I can't trust my driver
Ah
That explains it. I can trust Dick
You could put a whole regiment of Dicks on my back without making me
feel any better. I know just enough to be uncomfortable, and not enough
to go on in spite of it
We do not understand
I know you don't. I'm not talking to you. You don't know what blood
is
We do
It is red stuff that soaks into the ground
and smells
Don't talk of it
I can smell it now, just thinking of it.
It makes me want to run -- when I haven't Dick on my back
But it is not here
Why are you so
stupid
It's vile stuff
I don't want to run, but I don't want to
talk about it
There you are
Surely. Yes, we have been here all night
Oh, I'm
not talking to you. You can't see inside your heads
No. We see out of our four eyes
We see straight
in front of us
If I could do that and nothing else, you wouldn't be needed to pull the
big guns at all. If I was like my captain -- he can see things inside his
head before the firing begins, and he shakes all over, but he knows too
much to run away -- if I was like him I could pull the guns. But if I were
as wise as all that I should never be here. I should be a king in the
forest, as I used to be, sleeping half the day and bathing when I liked.
I haven't had a good bath for a month
That's all very fine
But giving a thing a long name
doesn't make it any better
H'sh
I think I understand what Two Tails
means
You'll understand better in a minute
Now you
just explain to me why you don't like this
Stop that
I shan't stop
Won't you explain that, please?
Hhrrmph! Rrrt! Rrrmph! Rrrhha
Go away, little dog
Don't snuff at my ankles, or I'll kick at you. Good little dog -- nice
little doggie, then! Go home, you yelping little beast! Oh, why doesn't
someone take her away? She'll bite me in a minute
Seems to me
that our friend Two Tails
is afraid of most things. Now, if I had a full meal for every dog I've
kicked across the parade-ground I should be as fat as Two Tails nearly
Extraordinary! Most extraordinary
It runs in our family.
Now, where has that nasty little beast gone to
We all seem to be affected in various ways
Now, you gentlemen were alarmed, I believe, when I trumpeted
Not alarmed, exactly
but it made me feel as
though I had hornets where my saddle ought to be. Don't begin again
I'm frightened of a little dog, and the camel here is frightened by bad
dreams in the night
It is very lucky for us that we haven't all got to fight in the same
way
What I want to know
what I want to know is, why we have to fight at all
Because we're told to
Orders
Hukm hai
Hukm hai
Yes, but who gives the orders
The man who walks at your head -- Or sits on your back -- Or holds the nose
rope -- Or twists your tail
But who gives them the orders
Now you want to know too much, young un
and that is one
way of getting kicked. All you have to do is to obey the man at your
head and ask no questions
He's quite right
I can't always obey, because I'm
betwixt and between. But Billy's right. Obey the man next to you who
gives the order, or you'll stop all the battery, besides getting a
thrashing
Morning is coming
We will
go back to our lines. It is true that we only see out of our eyes, and
we are not very clever. But still, we are the only people to-night who
have not been afraid. Good-night, you brave people
Where's that little dog? A dog means a man somewhere about
Here I am
under the gun tail with my man. You big,
blundering beast of a camel you, you upset our tent. My man's very
angry
Phew
He must be white
Of course he is
Do you suppose I'm looked after by a
black bullock-driver
Huah! Ouach! Ugh
Let us get away quickly
Now you have done it
Don't struggle. You're hung
up till daylight. What on earth's the matter
You'll break your necks in a minute
What's the
matter with white men? I live with 'em
They -- eat -- us! Pull
May I be flogged with my own pad-chains! Who'd have thought of two big
lumps like those losing their heads
Never mind. I'm going to look at this man. Most of the white men, I
know, have things in their pockets
I'll leave you, then. I can't say I'm over-fond of 'em myself. Besides,
white men who haven't a place to sleep in are more than likely to be
thieves, and I've a good deal of Government property on my back. Come
along, young un, and we'll go back to our lines. Good-night, Australia!
See you on parade to-morrow, I suppose. Good-night, old Hay-bale!-- try
to control your feelings, won't you? Good-night, Two Tails! If you pass
us on the ground tomorrow, don't trumpet. It spoils our formation
I'm coming to the parade to-morrow in my dog-cart
Where
will you be
On the left hand of the second squadron. I set the time for all my
troop, little lady
Now I must go back to Dick. My
tail's all muddy, and he'll have two hours' hard work dressing me for
parade
Bonnie Dundee
Now
in what manner was this wonderful thing done
An order was given, and they obeyed
But are the beasts as wise as the men
They obey, as the men do. Mule, horse, elephant, or bullock, he
obeys his driver, and the driver his sergeant, and the sergeant his
lieutenant, and the lieutenant his captain, and the captain his major,
and the major his colonel, and the colonel his brigadier commanding
three regiments, and the brigadier the general, who obeys the Viceroy,
who is the servant of the Empress. Thus it is done
Would it were so in Afghanistan
for there we obey
only our own wills
And for that reason
your Amir whom you do not obey must come here and take orders from our
Viceroy
</text>
