<text>
smallish in stature
There is one Alan Stewart, a distant
friend of the late Ardshiel's, who is in the French service, and came
over in March last, as he said to some, in order to settle at home; to
others, that he was to go soon back; and was, as I hear, the day that
the murder was committed, seen not far from the place where it happened,
and is not now to be seen; by which it is believed he was the actor. He
is a desperate foolish fellow; and if he is guilty, came to the country
for that very purpose. He is a tall, pock-pitted lad, very black hair,
and wore a blue coat and metal buttons, an old red vest, and breeches of
the same colour
a blue coat with silver buttons, a red waistcoat, black shag breeches,
tartan hose, and a feathered hat, with a big coat, dun coloured
French cloathes which were
remarkable
declared
also That the said Alan Breck threatened that he would challenge
Ballieveolan and his sons to fight because of his removing the
declarant last year from Glenduror
Duncan Campbell,
change-keeper at Annat, aged thirty-five years, married, witness cited,
sworn, purged and examined ut supra, depones, That, in the month of
April last, the deponent met with Alan Breck Stewart, with whom he was
not acquainted, and John Stewart, in Auchnacoan, in the house of the
walk miller of Auchofragan, and went on with them to the house: Alan
Breck Stewart said, that he hated all the name of Campbell; and the
deponent said, he had no reason for doing so: But Alan said, he had very
good reason for it: that thereafter they left that house; and, after
drinking a dram at another house, came to the deponent's house, where
they went in, and drunk some drams, and Alan Breck renewed the former
Conversation; and the deponent, making the same answer, Alan said, that,
if the deponent had any respect for his friends, he would tell them,
that if they offered to turn out the possessors of Ardshiel's estate, he
would make black cocks of them, before they entered into possession by
which the deponent understood shooting them, it being a common phrase in
the country
Red
Fox
The Pedigree of
the Family of Appine
Alan 3rd Baron of Appine
was not killed at Flowdoun, tho there, but lived to a great old age. He
married Cameron Daughter to Ewen Cameron of Lochiel
John Stewart 1st of Ardsheall of his
descendants Alan Breck had better be omitted. Duncan Baan Stewart in
Achindarroch his father was a Bastard
Rabbits, and
Chickens mumbled, Pickled Samphire, Skirret Pye, Baked Tansy
Just what
I wanted
Lily of the Valley
Water
Well, Davie, lad
I will go with you as far as the ford, to
set you on the way
Are ye sorry to leave Essendean
Why, sir
if I knew where I was going, or what was likely
to become of me, I would tell you candidly. Essendean is a good place
indeed, and I have been very happy there; but then I have never been
anywhere else. My father and mother, since they are both dead, I shall
be no nearer to in Essendean than in the Kingdom of Hungary, and, to
speak truth, if I thought I had a chance to better myself where I was
going I would go with a good will
Ay
Very well, Davie. Then it behoves me to tell
your fortune; or so far as I may. When your mother was gone, and your
father (the worthy, Christian man) began to sicken for his end, he gave
me in charge a certain letter, which he said was your inheritance. 'So
soon,' says he, 'as I am gone, and the house is redd up and the gear
disposed of' (all which, Davie, hath been done), 'give my boy this
letter into his hand, and start him off to the house of Shaws, not far
from Cramond. That is the place I came from,' he said, 'and it's where
it befits that my boy should return. He is a steady lad,' your father
said, 'and a canny goer; and I doubt not he will come safe, and be well
lived where he goes
The house of Shaws
What had my poor father to do with the
house of Shaws
Nay
who can tell that for a surety? But the name
of that family, Davie, boy, is the name you bear -- Balfours of Shaws:
an ancient, honest, reputable house, peradventure in these latter
days decayed. Your father, too, was a man of learning as befitted his
position; no man more plausibly conducted school; nor had he the manner
or the speech of a common dominie; but (as ye will yourself remember)
I took aye a pleasure to have him to the manse to meet the gentry; and
those of my own house, Campbell of Kilrennet, Campbell of Dunswire,
Campbell of Minch, and others, all well-kenned gentlemen, had pleasure
in his society. Lastly, to put all the elements of this affair before
you, here is the testamentary letter itself, superscrived by the own
hand of our departed brother
To the hands
of Ebenezer Balfour, Esquire, of Shaws, in his house of Shaws, these
will be delivered by my son, David Balfour
Mr. Campbell
and if you were in my shoes, would you
go
Of a surety
that would I, and without pause.
A pretty lad like you should get to Cramond (which is near in by
Edinburgh) in two days of walk. If the worst came to the worst, and
your high relations (as I cannot but suppose them to be somewhat of your
blood) should put you to the door, ye can but walk the two days back
again and risp at the manse door. But I would rather hope that ye shall
be well received, as your poor father forecast for you, and for anything
that I ken come to be a great man in time. And here, Davie, laddie
it lies near upon my conscience to improve this parting, and
set you on the right guard against the dangers of the world
Be soople, Davie, in things immaterial
Bear ye this in
mind, that, though gentle born, ye have had a country rearing. Dinnae
shame us, Davie, dinnae shame us! In yon great, muckle house, with all
these domestics, upper and under, show yourself as nice, as circumspect,
as quick at the conception, and as slow of speech as any. As for the
laird -- remember he's the laird; I say no more: honour to whom honour.
It's a pleasure to obey a laird; or should be, to the young
Well, sir
it may be; and I'll promise you I'll try to make
it so
Why, very well said
And now to come
to the material, or (to make a quibble) to the immaterial. I have here
a little packet which contains four things
Of
these four things, the first is your legal due: the little pickle money
for your father's books and plenishing, which I have bought (as I have
explained from the first) in the design of re-selling at a profit to
the incoming dominie. The other three are gifties that Mrs. Campbell and
myself would be blithe of your acceptance. The first, which is round,
will likely please ye best at the first off-go; but, O Davie, laddie,
it's but a drop of water in the sea; it'll help you but a step, and
vanish like the morning. The second, which is flat and square and
written upon, will stand by you through life, like a good staff for the
road, and a good pillow to your head in sickness. And as for the last,
which is cubical, that'll see you, it's my prayerful wish, into a better
land
Davie, Davie
was ever seen such black ingratitude? Can
you forget old favours and old friends at the mere whistle of a name?
Fie, fie; think shame
TO MAKE LILLY OF THE VALLEY WATER.-- Take the flowers of lilly of the
valley and distil them in sack, and drink a spooneful or two as there is
occasion. It restores speech to those that have the dumb palsey. It is
good against the Gout; it comforts the heart and strengthens the memory;
and the flowers, put into a Glasse, close stopt, and set into ane hill
of ants for a month, then take it out, and you will find a liquor which
comes from the flowers, which keep in a vial; it is good, ill or well,
and whether man or woman
Likewise for sprains, rub it in; and for the cholic, a great spooneful
in the hour
What for
It's a great house
Doubtless
The house is a big, muckle house
Ay
but the folk that are in it
Folk
Are ye daft? There's nae folk there -- to call folk
What
not Mr. Ebenezer
there's the laird, to be sure, if it's him
you're wanting. What'll like be your business, mannie
I was led to think that I would get a situation
What
Well, mannie
it's nane of my affairs;
but ye seem a decent-spoken lad; and if ye'll take a word from me, ye'll
keep clear of the Shaws
Hoot, hoot, hoot
nae kind of a man, nae kind of a
man at all
That
That is the house of
Shaws
Blood built it; blood stopped the building of it;
blood shall bring it down. See here
I spit upon
the ground, and crack my thumb at it! Black be its fall! If ye see the
laird, tell him what ye hear; tell him this makes the twelve hunner and
nineteen time that Jennet Clouston has called down the curse on him
and his house, byre and stable, man, guest, and master, wife, miss, or
bairn -- black, black be their fall
It's loaded
I have come here with a letter
to Mr. Ebenezer Balfour of
Shaws. Is he here
From whom is it
That is neither here nor there
Well
ye can put it down upon the doorstep, and be off
with ye
I will do no such thing
I will deliver it into Mr.
Balfour's hands, as it was meant I should. It is a letter of
introduction
A what
Who are ye, yourself
I am not ashamed of my name
They call me David Balfour
Is your father dead
Ay
he'll be dead, no doubt; and that'll be what
brings ye chapping to my door
Well, man
I'll let ye in
Go into the kitchen and touch naething
Are ye sharp-set
Ye can eat that drop parritch
O
I can do fine wanting it. I'll take the ale, though, for
it slockens (moistens) my cough
Let's see the letter
And who do ye think I am
Give me Alexander's letter
You know my father's name
It would be strange if I didnae
for he was my born
brother; and little as ye seem to like either me or my house, or my good
parritch, I'm your born uncle, Davie, my man, and you my born nephew. So
give us the letter, and sit down and fill your kyte
Do ye ken what's in it
You see for yourself, sir
that the seal has not been
broken
Ay
but what brought you here
To give the letter
No
but ye'll have had some hopes, nae doubt
I confess, sir
when I was told that I had kinsfolk
well-to-do, I did indeed indulge the hope that they might help me in
my life. But I am no beggar; I look for no favours at your hands, and
I want none that are not freely given. For as poor as I appear, I have
friends of my own that will be blithe to help me
Hoot-toot
dinnae fly up in the snuff at me.
We'll agree fine yet. And, Davie, my man, if you're done with that bit
parritch, I could just take a sup of it myself. Ay
they're fine,
halesome food -- they're grand food, parritch
Your father was very fond of his meat, I mind;
he was a hearty, if not a great eater; but as for me, I could never
do mair than pyke at food
If ye're dry ye'll find water behind the door
Your father's been long dead
Three weeks, sir
He was a secret man, Alexander -- a secret, silent man
He never said muckle when he was young. He'll never have spoken muckle
of me
I never knew, sir, till you told it me yourself, that he had any
brother
Dear me, dear me
Nor yet of Shaws, I dare say
Not so much as the name, sir
To think o' that
A strange nature of a man
We'll agree fine yet
I'm just as glad I let you in. And
now come awa' to your bed
Hoot-toot
there's a fine moon
Neither moon nor star, sir, and pit-mirk
I cannae see the
bed
Hoot-toot, hoot-toot
Lights in a house is a thing I dinnae
agree with. I'm unco feared of fires. Good-night to ye, Davie, my man
wash my face there, if I wanted
Na, na
I'll deny you nothing in reason
And your mother
Ay, she was a bonnie lassie
Whae were these friends o' yours
Davie, my man
ye've come to the right bit when ye came to your uncle Ebenezer.
I've a great notion of the family, and I mean to do the right by you;
but while I'm taking a bit think to mysel' of what's the best thing to
put you to -- whether the law, or the meenistry, or maybe the army, whilk
is what boys are fondest of -- I wouldnae like the Balfours to be humbled
before a wheen Hieland Campbells, and I'll ask you to keep your tongue
within your teeth. Nae letters; nae messages; no kind of word to
onybody; or else -- there's my door
Uncle Ebenezer
I've no manner of reason to suppose you mean
anything but well by me. For all that, I would have you to know that I
have a pride of my own. It was by no will of mine that I came seeking
you; and if you show me your door again, I'll take you at the word
Hoots-toots
ca' cannie,
man -- ca' cannie! Bide a day or two. I'm nae warlock, to find a fortune
for you in the bottom of a parritch bowl; but just you give me a day or
two, and say naething to naebody, and as sure as sure, I'll do the right
by you
Very well
enough said. If you want to help me, there's no
doubt but I'll be glad of it, and none but I'll be grateful
Is this my house or yours
Na, na
I didnae mean that. What's mine
is yours, Davie, my man, and what's yours is mine. Blood's thicker than
water; and there's naebody but you and me that ought the name
The limmer
Twelve hunner and fifteen -- that's every day
since I had the limmer rowpit!* Dod, David, I'll have her roasted on red
peats before I'm by with it! A witch -- a proclaimed witch! I'll aff and
see the session clerk
I cannae leave you by yoursel' in the house
I'll have to
lock you out
If you lock me out
it'll be the
last you'll see of me in friendship
This is no the way
this is no the way to win my favour, David
Sir
with a proper reverence for your age and our common
blood, I do not value your favour at a boddle's purchase. I was brought
up to have a good conceit of myself; and if you were all the uncle, and
all the family, I had in the world ten times over, I wouldn't buy your
liking at such prices
Well, well
we must bear and forbear. I'll no go; that's all
that's to be said of it
Uncle Ebenezer
I can make nothing out of this. You use me
like a thief; you hate to have me in this house; you let me see it,
every word and every minute: it's not possible that you can like me; and
as for me, I've spoken to you as I never thought to speak to any man.
Why do you seek to keep me, then? Let me gang back -- let me gang back to
the friends I have, and that like me
Na, na; na, na
I like you fine; we'll agree
fine yet; and for the honour of the house I couldnae let you leave the
way ye came. Bide here quiet, there's a good lad; just you bide here
quiet a bittie, and ye'll find that we agree
Well, sir
I'll stay awhile. It's more just I should be helped by my own blood
than strangers; and if we don't agree, I'll do my best it shall be
through no fault of mine
To my brother Ebenezer on his
fifth birthday
Alexander? No him
I was far quicker mysel'; I was a
clever chappie when I was young. Why, I could read as soon as he could
What gars ye ask that
What do you mean
Take your hand from my jacket. This is
no way to behave
Dod man, David
ye should-nae speak to me about your father. That's where the
mistake is
He was all
the brother that ever I had
Davie
I've been thinking
There's a wee bit siller that I half promised ye before
ye were born
promised it to your father. O, naething
legal, ye understand; just gentlemen daffing at their wine. Well, I
keepit that bit money separate -- it was a great expense, but a promise
is a promise -- and it has grown by now to be a matter of just
precisely -- just exactly
of just
exactly forty pounds
Scots
O, think again, sir! Pounds sterling, I believe
That's what I said
pounds sterling! And if you'll
step out-by to the door a minute, just to see what kind of a night it
is, I'll get it out to ye and call ye in again
There
that'll show you! I'm a queer man, and strange wi'
strangers; but my word is my bond, and there's the proof of it
No a word
Nae thanks; I want nae thanks. I do my duty. I'm
no saying that everybody would have done it; but for my part (though
I'm a careful body, too) it's a pleasure to me to do the right by my
brother's son; and it's a pleasure to me to think that now we'll agree
as such near friends should
And see here
tit for tat
Well
let's begin
There
there's the key of the stair-tower at the far end of
the house. Ye can only win into it from the outside, for that part of
the house is no finished. Gang ye in there, and up the stairs, and bring
me down the chest that's at the top. There's papers in't
Can I have a light, sir
Na
Nae lights in my house
Very well, sir
Are the stairs good
They're grand
Keep to the wall
there's nae bannisters. But the stairs are grand underfoot
perhaps
Ah
Come, come
sit up
Are ye alive
O man, are ye alive
That am I
Small thanks to you
The blue phial
in the aumry -- the blue phial
It's the trouble
I have a trouble,
Davie. It's the heart
Is
that because it is true
I'll tell ye the morn
as sure as death I will
Well, sir
have you nothing more to say
to me
It will be time,
I think, to understand each other
You took me for
a country Johnnie Raw, with no more mother-wit or courage than a
porridge-stick. I took you for a good man, or no worse than others at
the least. It seems we were both wrong. What cause you have to fear me,
to cheat me, and to attempt my life
What cheer, mate
O, pleasure
For it's my delight, of a shiny night,
     In the season of the year
Well
if you have no business at all, I will even be so
unmannerly as to shut you out
Stay, brother
Have you no fun about you? or do you want
to get me thrashed? I've brought a letter from old Heasyoasy to Mr.
Belflower
And I say, mate
I'm mortal hungry
Well
come into the house, and you shall have a bite if I go
empty for it
Read that
ELIAS HOSEASON
You see, Davie
I have a venture with this man Hoseason, the captain of a trading brig,
the Covenant, of Dysart. Now, if you and me was to walk over with
yon lad, I could see the captain at the Hawes, or maybe on board the
Covenant if there was papers to be signed; and so far from a loss of
time, we can jog on to the lawyer, Mr. Rankeillor's. After a' that's
come and gone, ye would be swier* to believe me upon my naked word; but
ye'll believe Rankeillor. He's factor to half the gentry in these parts;
an auld man, forby: highly respeckit, and he kenned your father
Very well
let us go to the Ferry
crack on all sail into the day of judgment
He ain't no seaman
That's Mr.
Shuan that navigates the brig; he's the finest seaman in the trade, only
for drink; and I tell you I believe it! Why, look'ere
He done that -- Mr. Shuan done it
What
do you take such savage usage at his hands? Why, you
are no slave, to be so handled
No
and so he'll
find. See'ere
O
let me see him try; I dare him to; I'll do
for him! O, he ain't the first
Have you no friends
He was a fine man, too
but he's dead
In Heaven's name
can you find no reputable life on shore
O, no
they would put me to a
trade. I know a trick worth two of that, I do
And then it's not all as bad as that
there's worse off than me: there's the twenty-pounders. O, laws!
you should see them taking on. Why, I've seen a man as old as you, I
dessay
ah, and he had a beard, too -- well, and
as soon as we cleared out of the river, and he had the drug out of his
head -- my! how he cried and carried on! I made a fine fool of him, I tell
you! And then there's little uns, too: oh, little by me! I tell you, I
keep them in order. When we carry little uns, I have a rope's end of
my own to wollop'em
I think it right to tell
you, sir
there's nothing that will bring me on board that
Covenant
Eh
What's that
Well, well
we'll have to please ye, I suppose. But what
are we standing here for? It's perishing cold; and if I'm no mistaken,
they're busking the Covenant for sea
I am proud to see you, Mr. Balfour
and glad that ye are here in time. The wind's fair, and the
tide upon the turn; we'll see the old coal-bucket burning on the Isle of
May before to-night
Captain Hoseason
you keep your room unco hot
It's a habit I have, Mr. Balfour
I'm a cold-rife
man by my nature; I have a cold blood, sir. There's neither fur,
nor flannel -- no, sir, nor hot rum, will warm up what they call
the temperature. Sir, it's the same with most men that have been
carbonadoed, as they call it, in the tropic seas
Well, well, captain
we must all be the way we're
made
run
down-stairs and play myself awhile
But a glass of ale you may have,
and welcome
Hoot, ay
and a very honest man. And, O, by-the-by
was it you that came in with Ebenezer
Ye'll be no friend of his
I thought not
and yet ye have a kind of gliff* of Mr.
Alexander
Nae doubt
He's a wicked auld man, and there's
many would like to see him girning in the tow*. Jennet Clouston and mony
mair that he has harried out of house and hame. And yet he was ance
a fine young fellow, too. But that was before the sough** gaed abroad
about Mr. Alexander, that was like the death of him
And what was it
Ou, just that he had killed him
Did ye never hear
that
And what would he kill him for
And what for, but just to get the place
The place
The Shaws
Nae other place that I ken
Ay, man
Is that so? Was my -- was Alexander the eldest son
Deed was he
What else would he have killed him
for
Sir
Mr. Balfour tells me great things of you; and for my
own part, I like your looks. I wish I was for longer here, that we might
make the better friends; but we'll make the most of what we have. Ye
shall come on board my brig for half an hour, till the ebb sets, and
drink a bowl with me
Ay, ay
he passed me word of that. But, ye see, the boat'll
set ye ashore at the town pier, and that's but a penny stonecast from
Rankeillor's house
Take care of the old tod;* he means mischief. Come aboard till
I can get a word with ye
But, come, what can I
bring ye from the Carolinas? Any friend of Mr. Balfour's can command.
A roll of tobacco? Indian feather-work? a skin of a wild beast? a stone
pipe? the mocking-bird that mews for all the world like a cat? the
cardinal bird that is as red as blood?-- take your pick and say your
pleasure
But where is my uncle
Ay
that's the point
Help,
help! Murder
Well
how goes it
Ay
a sore dunt*. What, man? Cheer up! The world's no done;
you've made a bad start of it but you'll make a better. Have you had any
meat
Now, sir, you see for yourself
a high fever, no
appetite, no light, no meat: you see for yourself what that means
I am no conjurer, Mr. Riach
Give me leave, sir
you've a good head upon your
shoulders, and a good Scotch tongue to ask with; but I will leave you no
manner of excuse; I want that boy taken out of this hole and put in the
forecastle
What ye may want, sir, is a matter of concern to nobody but yoursel
but I can tell ye that which is to be. Here he
is; here he shall bide
Admitting that you have been paid in a proportion
I
will crave leave humbly to say that I have not. Paid I am, and none too
much, to be the second officer of this old tub, and you ken very well if
I do my best to earn it. But I was paid for nothing more
If ye could hold back your hand from the tin-pan, Mr. Riach, I would
have no complaint to make of ye
and instead
of asking riddles, I make bold to say that ye would keep your breath to
cool your porridge. We'll be required on deck
Admitting that you have been paid to do a murder
What's that
What kind of talk is that
It seems it is the talk that you can understand
Mr. Riach, I have sailed with ye three cruises
In all that time, sir, ye should have learned to know me: I'm a stiff
man, and a dour man; but for what ye say the now -- fie, fie!-- it comes
from a bad heart and a black conscience. If ye say the lad will die
Ay, will he
Well, sir, is not that enough
Flit him where ye
please
A clour* on the head was
naething. Man
it was me that gave it ye
at a word and a blow
young
by him
the only seaman of the whole
jing-bang, and none such a bad man when he was sober
The North
Countrie
And in the meantime
keep your heart up. You're not the only
one, I'll tell you that. There's many a man hoeing tobacco over-seas
that should be mounting his horse at his own door at home; many and
many! And life is all a variorum, at the best. Look at me: I'm a laird's
son and more than half a doctor, and here I am, man-Jack to Hoseason
Never had one
I like fun, that's all
Shuan had done for him at last
My man
we want ye to serve in the round-house. You and
Ransome are to change berths. Run away aft with ye
Run away aft; run away aft with ye
How is he
Sit down
Ye sot and swine, do ye know what ye've
done? Ye've murdered the boy
Well
he brought me a dirty pannikin
Ah
ye should have interfered
long syne. It's too late now
Mr. Riach
this night's work must never be kennt
in Dysart. The boy went overboard, sir; that's what the story is; and I
would give five pounds out of my pocket it was true
What made ye throw the good bottle away
There was
nae sense in that, sir. Here, David, draw me another. They're in the
bottom locker
Ye'll need a glass yourself,
sir
Yon was an ugly thing to see
You were not here before
No, sir
There was another boy
Ah
I thought that
for breakers
She's struck
No, sir
We've only run a boat down
I'm vexed, sir, about the boat
There are some pretty men gone to the bottom
that
I would rather see on the dry land again than half a score of boats
Friends of yours
You have none such friends in your country
They would
have died for me like dogs
Well, sir
there are more men
in the world than boats to put them in
And that's true, too
and ye seem to be a gentleman
of great penetration
I have been in France, sir
Well, sir
and so has many a pretty man, for the
matter of that
No doubt, sir
and fine coats
Oho
is that how the wind sets
Don't be hasty
Don't do a mischief before ye
see the need of it. Ye've a French soldier's coat upon your back and a
Scotch tongue in your head, to be sure; but so has many an honest fellow
in these days, and I dare say none the worse of it
So
are ye of the honest party
Why, sir
I am a true-blue Protestant, and I
thank God for it
But, for all that
I can be sorry to see another
man with his back to the wall
Can ye so, indeed
Well, sir, to be quite plain
with ye, I am one of those honest gentlemen that were in trouble about
the years forty-five and six; and (to be still quite plain with ye) if
I got into the hands of any of the red-coated gentry, it's like it would
go hard with me. Now, sir, I was for France; and there was a French ship
cruising here to pick me up; but she gave us the go-by in the fog -- as I
wish from the heart that ye had done yoursel'! And the best that I can
say is this: If ye can set me ashore where I was going, I have that upon
me will reward you highly for your trouble
In France
No, sir; that I cannot do. But where ye
come from -- we might talk of that
Half of it
and I'm your man
I have told ye sir
that not one doit
of it belongs to me. It belongs to my chieftain
and while I would be but a silly messenger to grudge some of
it that the rest might come safe, I should show myself a hound indeed if
I bought my own carcase any too dear. Thirty guineas on the sea-side, or
sixty if ye set me on the Linnhe Loch. Take it, if ye will; if not, ye
can do your worst
Ay
And if I give ye over to the soldiers
Ye would make a fool's bargain
My chief, let me tell
you, sir, is forfeited, like every honest man in Scotland. His estate
is in the hands of the man they call King George; and it is his officers
that collect the rents, or try to collect them. But for the honour of
Scotland, the poor tenant bodies take a thought upon their chief lying
in exile; and this money is a part of that very rent for which King
George is looking. Now, sir, ye seem to me to be a man that understands
things: bring this money within the reach of Government, and how much of
it'll come to you
Little enough, to be sure
if they knew
But I think, if I was to try, that I could hold my tongue
about it
Ah, but I'll begowk* ye there
Play me false,
and I'll play you cunning. If a hand is laid upon me, they shall ken
what money it is
Well
what must be must. Sixty guineas, and
done. Here's my hand upon it
And here's mine
And so you're a Jacobite
Ay
And you, by your long face, should be
a Whig
Betwixt and between
And that's naething
But I'm saying, Mr.
Betwixt-and-Between
this bottle of yours is dry; and it's
hard if I'm to pay sixty guineas and be grudged a dram upon the back of
it
I'll go and ask for the key
Couldn't we
wile him out of the round-house
He's better where he is
he hasn't room to use his
sword
Well, that's true
but he's hard to come at
Hut
We can get the man in talk, one upon each side,
and pin him by the two arms; or if that'll not hold, sir, we can make a
run by both the doors and get him under hand before he has the time to
draw
Captain
the gentleman is seeking a dram, and the bottle's
out. Will you give me the key
Why, here's our chance to get the firearms
Hark ye, David
do ye ken where
the pistols are
Ay, ay
David kens; David's a good lad. Ye see,
David my man, yon wild Hielandman is a danger to the ship, besides being
a rank foe to King George, God bless him
The trouble is
that all our firelocks, great
and little, are in the round-house under this man's nose; likewise the
powder. Now, if I, or one of the officers, was to go in and take them,
he would fall to thinking. But a lad like you, David, might snap up a
horn and a pistol or two without remark. And if ye can do it cleverly,
I'll bear it in mind when it'll be good for you to have friends; and
that's when we come to Carolina
Very right, sir
And see here,
David, yon man has a beltful of gold, and I give you my word that you
shall have your fingers in it
Do ye want to be killed
O
they're all murderers here; it's a ship full of them!
They've murdered a boy already. Now it's you
Ay, ay
but they have n't got me yet
Will ye stand with me
That will I
I am no thief, nor yet murderer. I'll stand by
you
Why, then
what's your name
David Balfour
of Shaws
My name is Stewart
Alan Breck, they
call me. A king's name is good enough for me, though I bear it plain and
have the name of no farm-midden to clap to the hind-end of it
David
for I cannae bring to mind the name of your landed
estate, and so will make so bold as to call you David -- that door, being
open, is the best part of my defences
It would be yet better shut
Not so, David
Ye see, I have but one face; but so long as
that door is open and my face to it, the best part of my enemies will be
in front of me, where I would aye wish to find them
And that will be better work, let me tell you
for a
gentleman of decent birth, than scraping plates and raxing* drams to a
wheen tarry sailors
I must stick to the point
and that's a
pity, too. It doesn't set my genius, which is all for the upper guard.
And, now
do you keep on charging the pistols, and give heed
to me
First of all
how many are against us
Fifteen
Well
that can't be cured. And now follow me.
It is my part to keep this door, where I look for the main battle. In
that, ye have no hand. And mind and dinnae fire to this side unless they
get me down; for I would rather have ten foes in front of me than one
friend like you cracking pistols at my back
And that's very bravely said
There's many a pretty gentleman that wouldnae dare to say it
But then, sir
there is the door behind you, which they may
perhaps break in
Ay
and that is a part of your work. No sooner the pistols
charged, than ye must climb up into yon bed where ye're handy at the
window; and if they lift hand against the door, ye're to shoot. But
that's not all. Let's make a bit of a soldier of ye, David. What else
have ye to guard
There's the skylight
But indeed, Mr. Stewart, I would need
to have eyes upon both sides to keep the two of them; for when my face
is at the one, my back is to the other
And that's very true
But have ye no ears to your head
To be sure
I must hear the bursting of the glass
Ye have some rudiments of sense
Stand
A naked sword
This is a strange return for hospitality
Do ye see me
I am come of kings; I bear a king's name. My
badge is the oak. Do ye see my sword? It has slashed the heads off mair
Whigamores than you have toes upon your feet. Call up your vermin to
your back, sir, and fall on! The sooner the clash begins, the sooner
ye'll taste this steel throughout your vitals
David
I'll mind this
And now
let your hand keep your head, for the grip is
coming
That's him that killed the boy
Look to your window
Take that
There's one of your Whigs for ye
And I've settled two
No, there's not enough blood let;
they'll be back again. To your watch, David. This was but a dram before
meat
It was Shuan bauchled* it
Wheesht, man! He's paid the piper
It's what we have to pray for
Unless we can give them a
good distaste of us, and done with it, there'll be nae sleep for either
you or me. But this time, mind, they'll be in earnest
Come to my arms
David
I love
you like a brother. And O, man
am I no
a bonny fighter
This is the song of the sword of Alan; The smith made it, The fire set
it; Now it shines in the hand of Alan Breck.

"Their eyes were many and bright, Swift were they to behold, Many the
hands they guided: The sword was alone.

"The dun deer troop over the hill, They are many, the hill is one; The
dun deer vanish, The hill remains.

"Come to me from the hills of heather, Come from the isles of the sea. O
far-beholding eagles, Here is your meat
I'll take the first watch
Ye've done well by me, David,
first and last; and I wouldn't lose you for all Appin -- no, nor for
Breadalbane
And depend upon it
we shall hear more of them ere long.
Ye may keep a man from the fighting, but never from his bottle
I had them
from my father, Duncan Stewart; and now give ye
one of them to be a keepsake for last night's work. And wherever ye go
and show that button, the friends of Alan Breck will come around you
This is a bad job
It was none of our choosing
The captain
would like to speak with your friend. They
might speak at the window
And how do we know what treachery he means
He means none, David
and if he did, I'll tell ye
the honest truth, we couldnae get the men to follow
Is that so
I'll tell ye more than that
It's not only the men; it's me.
I'm frich'ened, Davie
No
what we want is to be shut of him
Put that thing up
Have I not passed my word, sir?
or do ye seek to affront me
Captain
I doubt your word is a breakable. Last night ye
haggled and argle-bargled like an apple-wife; and then passed me your
word, and gave me your hand to back it; and ye ken very well what was
the upshot. Be damned to your word
Well, well, sir
ye'll get little good by
swearing
But we have other things to speak
Ye've made a sore hash of my brig; I haven't hands enough left to work
her; and my first officer (whom I could ill spare) has got your sword
throughout his vitals, and passed without speech. There is nothing left
me, sir, but to put back into the port of Glasgow after hands; and there
(by your leave) ye will find them that are better able to talk to you
Ay
and faith, I'll have a talk with them mysel'! Unless
there's naebody speaks English in that town, I have a bonny tale for
them. Fifteen tarry sailors upon the one side, and a man and a halfling
boy upon the other! O, man, it's peetiful
No
that'll no do. Ye'll just have to set me ashore
as we agreed
Ay
but my first officer is dead -- ye ken best how.
There's none of the rest of us acquaint with this coast, sir; and it's
one very dangerous to ships
I give ye your choice
Set me on dry ground in Appin,
or Ardgour, or in Morven, or Arisaig, or Morar; or, in brief, where ye
please, within thirty miles of my own country; except in a country of
the Campbells. That's a broad target. If ye miss that, ye must be as
feckless at the sailoring as I have found ye at the fighting. Why, my
poor country people in their bit cobles* pass from island to island in
all weathers, ay, and by night too, for the matter of that
A coble's not a ship, sir
It has nae draught of
water
Well, then, to Glasgow if ye list
We'll have the laugh of
ye at the least
My mind runs little upon laughing
But all this
will cost money, sir
Well, sir
I am nae weathercock. Thirty guineas, if ye land
me on the sea-side; and sixty, if ye put me in the Linnhe Loch
But see, sir, where we lie, we are but a few hours' sail from
Ardnamurchan
Give me sixty, and I'll set ye there
And I'm to wear my brogues and run jeopardy of the red-coats to please
you
No, sir; if ye want sixty guineas earn them, and set
me in my own country
It's to risk the brig, sir
and your own lives
along with her
Take it or want it
Could ye pilot us at all
Well, it's doubtful
I'm more of a fighting man (as ye
have seen for yoursel') than a sailor-man. But I have been often enough
picked up and set down upon this coast, and should ken something of the
lie of it
If I had lost less money on this unchancy cruise
I would
see you in a rope's end before I risked my brig, sir. But be it as ye
will. As soon as I get a slant of wind (and there's some coming, or I'm
the more mistaken) I'll put it in hand. But there's one thing more. We
may meet in with a king's ship and she may lay us aboard, sir, with no
blame of mine: they keep the cruisers thick upon this coast, ye ken who
for. Now, sir, if that was to befall, ye might leave the money
Captain
if ye see a pennant, it shall be your part to
run away. And now, as I hear you're a little short of brandy in the
fore-part, I'll offer ye a change: a bottle of brandy against two
buckets of water
Why
he is a man you should be proud to give your hand to
I know nothing I would help a Campbell to
unless it was a
leaden bullet. I would hunt all of that name like blackcocks. If I lay
dying, I would crawl upon my knees to my chamber window for a shot at
one
Why, Alan
what ails ye at the Campbells
Well
ye ken very well that I am an Appin Stewart, and the
Campbells have long harried and wasted those of my name; ay, and got
lands of us by treachery -- but never with the sword
There's more than that
and all in the
same story: lying words, lying papers, tricks fit for a peddler, and the
show of what's legal over all, to make a man the more angry
You that are so wasteful of your buttons
I can hardly think
you would be a good judge of business
Ah
I got my wastefulness from
the same man I got the buttons from; and that was my poor father, Duncan
Stewart, grace be to him! He was the prettiest man of his kindred; and
the best swordsman in the Hielands, David, and that is the same as to
say, in all the world, I should ken, for it was him that taught me.
He was in the Black Watch, when first it was mustered; and, like other
gentlemen privates, had a gillie at his back to carry his firelock for
him on the march. Well, the King, it appears, was wishful to see Hieland
swordsmanship; and my father and three more were chosen out and sent to
London town, to let him see it at the best. So they were had into the
palace and showed the whole art of the sword for two hours at a stretch,
before King George and Queen Carline, and the Butcher Cumberland, and
many more of whom I havenae mind. And when they were through, the King
(for all he was a rank usurper) spoke them fair and gave each man three
guineas in his hand. Now, as they were going out of the palace, they
had a porter's lodge to go by; and it came in on my father, as he was
perhaps the first private Hieland gentleman that had ever gone by that
door, it was right he should give the poor porter a proper notion of
their quality. So he gives the King's three guineas into the man's hand,
as if it was his common custom; the three others that came behind him
did the same; and there they were on the street, never a penny the
better for their pains. Some say it was one, that was the first to fee
the King's porter; and some say it was another; but the truth of it is,
that it was Duncan Stewart, as I am willing to prove with either sword
or pistol. And that was the father that I had, God rest him
I think he was not the man to leave you rich
And that's true
He left me my breeks to cover me, and
little besides. And that was how I came to enlist, which was a black
spot upon my character at the best of times, and would still be a sore
job for me if I fell among the red-coats
What
were you in the English army
That was I
But I deserted to the right side at Preston
Pans -- and that's some comfort
Dear, dear
the punishment is death
if they got hands on me, it would be a short shrift and
a lang tow for Alan! But I have the King of France's commission in my
pocket, which would aye be some protection
I misdoubt it much
I have doubts mysel
And, good heaven, man
you that are a condemned rebel, and a
deserter, and a man of the French King's -- what tempts ye back into this
country? It's a braving of Providence
Tut
I have been back every year since forty-six
And what brings ye, man
Well, ye see, I weary for my friends and country
France is
a braw place, nae doubt; but I weary for the heather and the deer. And
then I have bit things that I attend to. Whiles I pick up a few lads
to serve the King of France: recruits, ye see; and that's aye a
little money. But the heart of the matter is the business of my chief,
Ardshiel
I thought they called your chief Appin
Ay, but Ardshiel is the captain of the clan
Ye see, David, he that was all his life so great a
man, and come of the blood and bearing the name of kings, is now brought
down to live in a French town like a poor and private person. He that
had four hundred swords at his whistle, I have seen, with these eyes
of mine, buying butter in the market-place, and taking it home in a
kale-leaf. This is not only a pain but a disgrace to us of his family
and clan. There are the bairns forby, the children and the hope of
Appin, that must be learned their letters and how to hold a sword, in
that far country. Now, the tenants of Appin have to pay a rent to King
George; but their hearts are staunch, they are true to their chief; and
what with love and a bit of pressure, and maybe a threat or two, the
poor folk scrape up a second rent for Ardshiel. Well, David, I'm the
hand that carries it
Do they pay both
Ay, David, both
What! two rents
Ay, David
I told a different tale to yon captain man; but
this is the truth of it. And it's wonderful to me how little pressure
is needed. But that's the handiwork of my good kinsman and my father's
friend, James of the Glens: James Stewart, that is: Ardshiel's
half-brother. He it is that gets the money in, and does the management
I call it noble
I'm a Whig, or little better; but I call it
noble
ye're a Whig, but ye're a gentleman; and that's what does
it. Now, if ye were one of the cursed race of Campbell, ye would gnash
your teeth to hear tell of it. If ye were the Red Fox
And who is the Red Fox
Who is he
Well, and I'll tell you that. When the men of
the clans were broken at Culloden, and the good cause went down, and the
horses rode over the fetlocks in the best blood of the north, Ardshiel
had to flee like a poor deer upon the mountains -- he and his lady and his
bairns. A sair job we had of it before we got him shipped; and while he
still lay in the heather, the English rogues, that couldnae come at his
life, were striking at his rights. They stripped him of his powers; they
stripped him of his lands; they plucked the weapons from the hands of
his clansmen, that had borne arms for thirty centuries; ay, and the very
clothes off their backs -- so that it's now a sin to wear a tartan plaid,
and a man may be cast into a gaol if he has but a kilt about his legs.
One thing they couldnae kill. That was the love the clansmen bore their
chief. These guineas are the proof of it. And now, in there steps a man,
a Campbell, red-headed Colin of Glenure
Is that him you call the Red Fox
Will ye bring me his brush
Ay, that's the man.
In he steps, and gets papers from King George, to be so-called King's
factor on the lands of Appin. And at first he sings small, and is
hail-fellow-well-met with Sheamus -- that's James of the Glens, my
chieftain's agent. But by-and-by, that came to his ears that I have just
told you; how the poor commons of Appin, the farmers and the crofters
and the boumen, were wringing their very plaids to get a second rent,
and send it over-seas for Ardshiel and his poor bairns. What was it ye
called it, when I told ye
I called it noble, Alan
And you little better than a common Whig
But when it
came to Colin Roy, the black Campbell blood in him ran wild. He sat
gnashing his teeth at the wine table. What! should a Stewart get a bite
of bread, and him not be able to prevent it? Ah! Red Fox, if ever I
hold you at a gun's end, the Lord have pity upon ye
Well, David, what does he do? He declares all
the farms to let. And, thinks he, in his black heart, 'I'll soon get
other tenants that'll overbid these Stewarts, and Maccolls, and Macrobs'
(for these are all names in my clan, David); 'and then,' thinks he,
'Ardshiel will have to hold his bonnet on a French roadside
Well
what followed
Ay
ye'll never guess that! For these same Stewarts, and
Maccolls, and Macrobs (that had two rents to pay, one to King George
by stark force, and one to Ardshiel by natural kindness) offered him a
better price than any Campbell in all broad Scotland; and far he
sent seeking them -- as far as to the sides of Clyde and the cross of
Edinburgh -- seeking, and fleeching, and begging them to come, where there
was a Stewart to be starved and a red-headed hound of a Campbell to be
pleasured
Well, Alan
that is a strange story, and a fine one, too. And
Whig as I may be, I am glad the man was beaten
Him beaten
It's little ye ken of Campbells, and less
of the Red Fox. Him beaten? No: nor will be, till his blood's on the
hillside! But if the day comes, David man, that I can find time and
leisure for a bit of hunting, there grows not enough heather in all
Scotland to hide him from my vengeance
Man Alan
ye are neither very wise nor very Christian to
blow off so many words of anger. They will do the man ye call the Fox no
harm, and yourself no good. Tell me your tale plainly out. What did he
next
And that's a good observe, David
Troth and indeed,
they will do him no harm; the more's the pity! And barring that about
Christianity (of which my opinion is quite otherwise, or I would be nae
Christian), I am much of your mind
Opinion here or opinion there
it's a kent thing that
Christianity forbids revenge
it's well seen it was a Campbell taught ye! It would be
a convenient world for them and their sort, if there was no such a thing
as a lad and a gun behind a heather bush! But that's nothing to the
point. This is what he did
come to that
Well, David
since he couldnae be rid of the loyal commons
by fair means, he swore he would be rid of them by foul. Ardshiel was to
starve: that was the thing he aimed at. And since them that fed him in
his exile wouldnae be bought out -- right or wrong, he would drive them
out. Therefore he sent for lawyers, and papers, and red-coats to stand
at his back. And the kindly folk of that country must all pack and
tramp, every father's son out of his father's house, and out of the
place where he was bred and fed, and played when he was a callant. And
who are to succeed them? Bare-leggit beggars! King George is to whistle
for his rents; he maun dow with less; he can spread his butter thinner:
what cares Red Colin? If he can hurt Ardshiel, he has his wish; if he
can pluck the meat from my chieftain's table, and the bit toys out of
his children's hands, he will gang hame singing to Glenure
Let me have a word
Be sure, if they take less rents, be
sure Government has a finger in the pie. It's not this Campbell's fault,
man -- it's his orders. And if ye killed this Colin to-morrow, what better
would ye be? There would be another factor in his shoes, as fast as spur
can drive
Ye're a good lad in a fight
but, man! ye have Whig blood
in ye
It's easier than ye would think
A bare hillside (ye see)
is like all one road; if there's a sentry at one place, ye just go by
another. And then the heather's a great help. And everywhere there are
friends' houses and friends' byres and haystacks. And besides, when folk
talk of a country covered with troops, it's but a kind of a byword at
the best. A soldier covers nae mair of it than his boot-soles. I have
fished a water with a sentry on the other side of the brae, and killed a
fine trout; and I have sat in a heather bush within six feet of another,
and learned a real bonny tune from his whistling. This was it
And then, besides
it's no sae bad now as it was in
forty-six. The Hielands are what they call pacified. Small wonder, with
never a gun or a sword left from Cantyre to Cape Wrath, but what tenty*
folk have hidden in their thatch! But what I would like to ken, David,
is just how long? Not long, ye would think, with men like Ardshiel in
exile and men like the Red Fox sitting birling the wine and oppressing
the poor at home. But it's a kittle thing to decide what folk'll bear,
and what they will not. Or why would Red Colin be riding his horse all
over my poor country of Appin, and never a pretty lad to put a bullet in
him
Here
come out and see if ye can pilot
Is this one of your tricks
Do I look like tricks
I have other things to
think of -- my brig's in danger
What do ye call that
The sea breaking on a reef
And now ye ken where it is;
and what better would ye have
Ay
if it was the only one
There
Ye see for yourself. If I had kent of these
reefs, if I had had a chart, or if Shuan had been spared, it's not sixty
guineas, no, nor six hundred, would have made me risk my brig in sic a
stoneyard! But you, sir, that was to pilot us, have ye never a word
I'm thinking
these'll be what they call the Torran
Rocks
Are there many of them
Truly, sir, I am nae pilot
but it sticks in my mind there
are ten miles of them
There's a way through them, I suppose
Doubtless
but where? But it somehow runs in my mind once
more that it is clearer under the land
So
We'll have to haul our wind then, Mr. Riach; we'll
have to come as near in about the end of Mull as we can take her, sir;
and even then we'll have the land to kep the wind off us, and that
stoneyard on our lee. Well, we're in for it now, and may as well crack
on
The sea to the south is thick
it
does seem clearer in by the land
Well, sir
we'll try your way of it. But I
think I might as well trust to a blind fiddler. Pray God you're right
Pray God I am
But where did I hear it? Well, well,
it will be as it must
Ochone, David
this is no the kind of death I fancy
What, Alan
you're not afraid
No
but you'll allow, yourself, it's a
cold ending
Ye were right
Ye have saved the brig, sir.
I'll mind that when we come to clear accounts
Keep her away a point
Reef to windward
For God's sake, hold on
Well
if I cannot get as far as that, it's
strange
Whatever
Yes, yes -- yes, yes
I told you I spoke English
tide
Do you mean when the tide is out
Yes, yes
Tide
Was there one
dressed like a gentleman
Ah
and he would have a feathered hat
Why, yes
Well, then
I have a word for you, that you
are to follow your friend to his country, by Torosay
If these are the wild Highlanders, I could wish my
own folk wilder
locked up
I care very little for that
since you are going with me
My fine fellow
I know very well your English comes and goes.
Tell me what will bring it back? Is it more money you wish
Five shillings mair
and hersel' will bring ye there
for luck
Ha
have you no more English
No
Was it too much
Too much
Why, I will guide you to Torosay myself for a
dram of brandy. And give you the great pleasure of my company (me that
is a man of some learning) in the bargain
In the Isle of Mull, at least
where I know every stone and
heather-bush by mark of head. See, now
down there a burn is running; and at the head
of it there stands a bit of a small hill with a stone cocked upon the
top of that; and it's hard at the foot of the hill, that the way runs by
to Torosay; and the way here, being for droves, is plainly trodden, and
will show grassy through the heather
Ha
that's nothing. Would ye believe me now, that before
the Act came out, and when there were weepons in this country, I could
shoot? Ay, could I
If ye had such a
thing as a pistol here to try with, I would show ye how it's done
That is a very dangerous man
Duncan
Mackiegh is his name; he can shoot by the ear at several yards, and has
been often accused of highway robberies, and once of murder
The cream of it is
that he called himself a catechist
And why should he not
when that is what he is. It was
Maclean of Duart gave it to him because he was blind. But perhaps it was
a peety
for he is always on the road, going from
one place to another to hear the young folk say their religion; and,
doubtless, that is a great temptation to the poor man
And what for no
I am seeking somebody
and it comes in my mind that you will
have news of him. Alan Breck Stewart is his name
I am very much affronted
and this is
not the way that one shentleman should behave to another at all. The man
you ask for is in France; but if he was in my sporran
and
your belly full of shillings, I would not hurt a hair upon his body
Aweel, aweel
and I think ye might have begun with that
end of the stick, whatever! But if ye are the lad with the silver
button, all is well, and I have the word to see that ye come safe. But
if ye will pardon me to speak plainly
there is a name that
you should never take into your mouth, and that is the name of Alan
Breck; and there is a thing that ye would never do, and that is to offer
your dirty money to a Hieland shentleman
red-soldiers
for it was never
chancy to meet in with them
It's wonderful
where the
tenants find the money, for their life is mere starvation. (Ye don't
carry such a thing as snuff, do ye, Mr. Balfour? No. Well, I'm better
wanting it.) But these tenants (as I was saying) are doubtless partly
driven to it. James Stewart in Duror (that's him they call James of the
Glens) is half-brother to Ardshiel, the captain of the clan; and he is
a man much looked up to, and drives very hard. And then there's one they
call Alan Breck
Ah
what of him
What of the wind that bloweth where it listeth
He's
here and awa; here to-day and gone to-morrow: a fair heather-cat. He
might be glowering at the two of us out of yon whin-bush, and I wouldnae
wonder! Ye'll no carry such a thing as snuff, will ye
It's highly possible
But it seems strange ye
shouldnae carry it. However, as I was saying, this Alan Breck is a bold,
desperate customer, and well kent to be James's right hand. His life
is forfeit already; he would boggle at naething; and maybe, if a
tenant-body was to hang back he would get a dirk in his wame
You make a poor story of it all, Mr. Henderland
If it is all
fear upon both sides, I care to hear no more of it
Na
but there's love too, and self-denial that
should put the like of you and me to shame. There's something fine about
it; no perhaps Christian, but humanly fine. Even Alan Breck, by all that
I hear, is a chield to be respected. There's many a lying sneck-draw
sits close in kirk in our own part of the country, and stands well in
the world's eye, and maybe is a far worse man, Mr. Balfour, than yon
misguided shedder of man's blood. Ay, ay, we might take a lesson by
them.-- Ye'll perhaps think I've been too long in the Hielands
Ay
that's true. It's a fine blood
And what is the King's agent about
Colin Campbell
Putting his head in a bees' byke
He is to turn the tenants out by force, I hear
Yes
but the business has gone back and forth, as folk say.
First, James of the Glens rode to Edinburgh, and got some lawyer (a
Stewart, nae doubt -- they all hing together like bats in a steeple) and
had the proceedings stayed. And then Colin Campbell cam' in again, and
had the upper-hand before the Barons of Exchequer. And now they tell me
the first of the tenants are to flit to-morrow. It's to begin at Duror
under James's very windows, which doesnae seem wise by my humble way of
it
Do you think they'll fight
Well
they're disarmed -- or supposed to be -- for
there's still a good deal of cold iron lying by in quiet places. And
then Colin Campbell has the sogers coming. But for all that, if I was
his lady wife, I wouldnae be well pleased till I got him home again.
They're queer customers, the Appin Stewarts
No they
And that's the worst part of it. For if Colin Roy
can get his business done in Appin, he has it all to begin again in the
next country, which they call Mamore, and which is one of the countries
of the Camerons. He's King's Factor upon both, and from both he has to
drive out the tenants; and indeed, Mr. Balfour (to be open with ye),
it's my belief that if he escapes the one lot, he'll get his death by
the other
whom
I will make bold to call that sweet singer of our covenanted
Zion
It's a vow I took
I took a vow upon me that I wouldnae
carry it. Doubtless it's a great privation; but when I think upon
the martyrs, not only to the Scottish Covenant but to other points of
Christianity, I think shame to mind it
Mungo
there's many a man would think
this more of a warning than two pyats. Here am I on my road to Duror on
the job ye ken; and here is a young lad starts up out of the bracken,
and speers if I am on the way to Aucharn
Glenure
this is an ill subject for jesting
And what seek ye in Aucharn
The man that lives there
James of the Glens
Is he gathering his people, think ye
Anyway
we shall do better to bide where we are, and
let the soldiers rally us
If you are concerned for me
I am neither of his people nor
yours, but an honest subject of King George, owing no man and fearing no
man
Why, very well said
But if I may make so bold as
ask, what does this honest man so far from his country? and why does
he come seeking the brother of Ardshiel? I have power here, I must tell
you. I am King's Factor upon several of these estates, and have twelve
files of soldiers at my back
I have heard a waif word in the country
that you were a hard man to drive
Well
your tongue is bold; but I am no unfriend to
plainness. If ye had asked me the way to the door of James Stewart on
any other day but this, I would have set ye right and bidden ye God
speed. But to-day -- eh, Mungo
O, I am dead
Take care of yourselves
I am dead
The
murderer! the murderer
Here
I see him
Why should I come back
Come you on
Ten pounds if ye take that lad
He's an accomplice.
He was posted here to hold us in talk
Jock* in here among the trees
Come
Now
it's earnest. Do as I do, for your life
Well
yon was a hot burst, David
Are ye still wearied
No
no, I am not wearied
now, and I can speak. You and me must twine
I liked you very
well, Alan, but your ways are not mine, and they're not God's: and the
short and the long of it is just that we must twine
I will hardly twine from ye, David, without some kind of reason for
the same
If ye ken anything against
my reputation, it's the least thing that ye should do, for old
acquaintance' sake, to let me hear the name of it; and if ye have only
taken a distaste to my society, it will be proper for me to judge if I'm
insulted
Alan
what is the sense of this? Ye ken very well yon
Campbell-man lies in his blood upon the road
Did ever ye hear tell of the
story of the Man and the Good People
No
nor do I want to hear it
With your permission, Mr. Balfour, I will tell it you, whatever
The man, ye should ken, was cast upon a rock in the sea, where
it appears the Good People were in use to come and rest as they went
through to Ireland. The name of this rock is called the Skerryvore, and
it's not far from where we suffered ship-wreck. Well, it seems the man
cried so sore, if he could just see his little bairn before he died!
that at last the king of the Good People took peety upon him, and sent
one flying that brought back the bairn in a poke* and laid it down
beside the man where he lay sleeping. So when the man woke, there was a
poke beside him and something into the inside of it that moved. Well, it
seems he was one of these gentry that think aye the worst of things; and
for greater security, he stuck his dirk throughout that poke before he
opened it, and there was his bairn dead. I am thinking to myself, Mr.
Balfour, that you and the man are very much alike
Do you mean you had no hand in it
I will tell you first of all, Mr. Balfour of Shaws, as one friend to
another
that if I were going to kill a gentleman, it would
not be in my own country, to bring trouble on my clan; and I would not
go wanting sword and gun, and with a long fishing-rod upon my back
Well
that's true
And now
I swear upon the Holy Iron I had neither art
nor part, act nor thought in it
I thank God for that
And here is a great deal of work about a Campbell
They are
not so scarce, that I ken
At least
you cannot justly blame me, for you know very
well what you told me in the brig. But the temptation and the act are
different, I thank God again for that. We may all be tempted; but
to take a life in cold blood, Alan
And do you know who did it
Do you know that man in
the black coat
I have nae clear mind about his coat
but it
sticks in my head that it was blue
Blue or black, did ye know him
I couldnae just conscientiously swear to him
He gaed very
close by me, to be sure, but it's a strange thing that I should just
have been tying my brogues
Can you swear that you don't know him, Alan
Not yet
but I've a grand memory for forgetting, David
And yet there was one thing I saw clearly
and that was, that
you exposed yourself and me to draw the soldiers
It's very likely
and so would any gentleman. You and me
were innocent of that transaction
The better reason, since we were falsely suspected, that we should get
clear
The innocent should surely come before the guilty
Why, David
the innocent have aye a chance to get assoiled
in court; but for the lad that shot the bullet, I think the best place
for him will be the heather. Them that havenae dipped their hands in any
little difficulty, should be very mindful of the case of them that have.
And that is the good Christianity. For if it was the other way round
about, and the lad whom I couldnae just clearly see had been in our
shoes, and we in his (as might very well have been), I think we would be
a good deal obliged to him oursel's if he would draw the soldiers
Alan
I'll not say it's the good Christianity as I understand
it, but it's good enough. And here I offer ye my hand for the second
time
O
I have no fear of the
justice of my country
As if this was your country
Or as if ye would be tried
here, in a country of Stewarts
It's all Scotland
Man, I whiles wonder at ye
This is a Campbell that's been
killed. Well, it'll be tried in Inverara, the Campbells' head place;
with fifteen Campbells in the jury-box and the biggest Campbell of all
(and that's the Duke) sitting cocking on the bench. Justice, David?
The same justice, by all the world, as Glenure found awhile ago at the
roadside
Hoot
the man's a Whig, nae doubt; but I would never deny
he was a good chieftain to his clan. And what would the clan think if
there was a Campbell shot, and naebody hanged, and their own chief
the Justice General? But I have often observed
that you
Low-country bodies have no clear idea of what's right and wrong
Na, na
we're in the Hielands, David; and when I tell ye
to run, take my word and run. Nae doubt it's a hard thing to skulk and
starve in the Heather, but it's harder yet to lie shackled in a red-coat
prison
to the Lowlands
I'll chance it, Alan
I'll go with you
But mind you
it's no small thing. Ye maun lie bare and
hard, and brook many an empty belly. Your bed shall be the moorcock's,
and your life shall be like the hunted deer's, and ye shall sleep with
your hand upon your weapons. Ay, man, ye shall taigle many a weary foot,
or we get clear! I tell ye this at the start, for it's a life that I ken
well. But if ye ask what other chance ye have, I answer: Nane. Either
take to the heather with me, or else hang
And that's a choice very easily made
And now let's take another keek at the red-coats
Ay
they'll be gey weary before they've got to the end of
that employ! And so you and me, David, can sit down and eat a bite, and
breathe a bit longer, and take a dram from my bottle. Then we'll strike
for Aucharn, the house of my kinsman, James of the Glens, where I must
get my clothes, and my arms, and money to carry us along; and then,
David, we'll cry, 'Forth, Fortune!' and take a cast among the heather
And then
the little man with the red head -- I havenae mind
of the name that he is called
Riach
Riach! Well, it was him that took up the clubs for me,
asked the men if they werenae feared of a judgment, and, says he 'Dod,
I'll put my back to the Hielandman's mysel'.' That's none such an
entirely bad little man, yon little man with the red head
He has some spunks of decency
Well
he was kind to me in his way
And so he was to Alan
and by my troth, I found his way a
very good one! But ye see, David, the loss of the ship and the cries of
these poor lads sat very ill upon the man; and I'm thinking that would
be the cause of it
Well, I would think so
for he was as keen as any of the rest
at the beginning. But how did Hoseason take it
It sticks in my mind that he would take it very ill
But
the little man cried to me to run, and indeed I thought it was a good
observe, and ran. The last that I saw they were all in a knot upon the
beach, like folk that were not agreeing very well together
What do you mean by that
Well, the fists were going
and I saw one man go down like
a pair of breeks. But I thought it would be better no to wait. Ye see
there's a strip of Campbells in that end of Mull, which is no good
company for a gentleman like me. If it hadnae been for that I would have
waited and looked for ye mysel', let alone giving a hand to the little
man
So
I set my best foot forward, and whenever I met in with any
one I cried out there was a wreck ashore. Man, they didnae stop to fash
with me! Ye should have seen them linking for the beach! And when they
got there they found they had had the pleasure of a run, which is aye
good for a Campbell. I'm thinking it was a judgment on the clan that the
brig went down in the lump and didnae break. But it was a very unlucky
thing for you, that same; for if any wreck had come ashore they would
have hunted high and low, and would soon have found ye
James must have tint his wits
If this was the soldiers
instead of you and me, he would be in a bonny mess. But I dare say he'll
have a sentry on the road, and he would ken well enough no soldiers
would find the way that we came
James Stewart
I will ask ye to speak in Scotch, for here
is a young gentleman with me that has nane of the other. This is him
a young gentleman of the
Lowlands, and a laird in his country too, but I am thinking it will be
the better for his health if we give his name the go-by
This has been a dreadful accident
It will bring trouble on
the country
Hoots
ye must take the sour with the sweet, man. Colin
Roy is dead, and be thankful for that
and by my troth, I wish he was alive again! It's all
very fine to blow and boast beforehand; but now it's done, Alan; and
who's to bear the wyte* of it? The accident fell out in Appin -- mind ye
that, Alan; it's Appin that must pay; and I am a man that has a family
What's that the lassie has
We're just setting the house in order, Alan
They'll search Appin with candles,
and we must have all things straight. We're digging the bit guns and
swords into the moss, ye see; and these, I am thinking, will be your ain
French clothes. We'll be to bury them, I believe
Bury my French clothes
Troth, no
I am but poor company altogether, sir
but I can think of nothing but this dreadful accident, and the
trouble it is like to bring upon quite innocent persons
Are you gone gyte
Do you wish to hang your father
This'll no do
Ye must find a safe bit somewhere near by
and get word
sent to me. Ye see, ye'll have to get this business prettily off, Alan.
This is no time to be stayed for a guinea or two. They're sure to get
wind of ye, sure to seek ye, and by my way of it, sure to lay on ye the
wyte of this day's accident. If it falls on you, it falls on me that am
your near kinsman and harboured ye while ye were in the country. And if
it comes on me
It would be a painful thing for our friends if I was to hang
It would be an ill day for Appin
It's a day that sticks in my throat
O man, man, man -- man
Alan! you and me have spoken like two fools
Well, and that's true, too
and my friend from the
Lowlands here
gave me a good word upon that head, if I
would only have listened to him
But see here
if they lay
me by the heels, Alan, it's then that you'll be needing the money. For
with all that I have said and that you have said, it will look very
black against the two of us; do ye mark that? Well, follow me out, and
ye'll, I'll see that I'll have to get a paper out against ye mysel';
have to offer a reward for ye; ay, will I! It's a sore thing to do
between such near friends; but if I get the dirdum* of this dreadful
accident, I'll have to fend for myself, man. Do ye see that
I see that
And ye'll have to be clear of the country, Alan -- ay, and clear of
Scotland -- you and your friend from the Lowlands, too. For I'll have to
paper your friend from the Lowlands. Ye see that, Alan -- say that ye see
that
This is unco hard on me that brought him
here, James
It's like making me a
traitor
Now, Alan, man
Look things in the face! He'll be
papered anyway; Mungo Campbell'll be sure to paper him; what matters
if I paper him too? And then, Alan, I am a man that has a family
And, Alan, it'll be a jury of
Campbells
There's one thing
that naebody kens his name
Nor yet they shallnae, Alan! There's my hand on that
But just the habit he was in, and what he looked like, and
his age, and the like? I couldnae well do less
I wonder at your father's son
Would ye sell the
lad with a gift? Would ye change his clothes and then betray him
No, no, Alan
No, no: the habit he took off -- the habit
Mungo saw him in
Well, sir
what say ye to that? Ye are here
under the safeguard of my honour; and it's my part to see nothing done
but what shall please you
I have but one word to say
for to all this dispute I am a
perfect stranger. But the plain common-sense is to set the blame where
it belongs, and that is on the man who fired the shot. Paper him, as ye
call it, set the hunt on him; and let honest, innocent folk show their
faces in safety
Ye havenae surely thought of that
Very well, then
paper me, if you please, paper Alan, paper
King George! We're all three innocent, and that seems to be what's
wanted. But at least, sir
I am Alan's friend, and if I can be helpful to
friends of his, I will not stumble at the risk
As for you, Alan, it was no more than your bounden duty
But for this lad that has come here and seen us at our worst, and seen
the goodman fleeching like a suitor, him that by rights should give his
commands like any king -- as for you, my lad
my heart is wae
not to have your name, but I have your face; and as long as my heart
beats under my bosom, I will keep it, and think of it, and bless it
Hoot, hoot
The day comes unco soon
in this month of July; and to-morrow there'll be a fine to-do in Appin,
a fine riding of dragoons, and crying of 'Cruachan!' * and running of
red-coats; and it behoves you and me to the sooner be gone
This is no fit place for you and me
This is a place they're
bound to watch
Hang or drown
now we have a chance
Ye're no very gleg* at the jumping
Hoots! small blame to ye! To be feared of a thing and yet to do it, is
what makes the prettiest kind of a man. And then there was water there,
and water's a thing that dauntons even me. No, no
it's no
you that's to blame, it's me
Why
I have proved myself a gomeral this night. For first
of all I take a wrong road, and that in my own country of Appin; so that
the day has caught us where we should never have been; and thanks to
that, we lie here in some danger and mair discomfort. And next (which is
the worst of the two, for a man that has been so much among the heather
as myself) I have come wanting a water-bottle, and here we lie for a
long summer's day with naething but neat spirit. Ye may think that a
small matter; but before it comes night, David, ye'll give me news of
it
I wouldnae waste the good spirit either
It's been a good
friend to you this night; or in my poor opinion, ye would still be
cocking on yon stone. And what's mair
ye may have observed
(you that's a man of so much penetration) that Alan Breck Stewart was
perhaps walking quicker than his ordinar
You
you were running fit to burst
Was I so
Well, then, ye may depend upon it, there was nae
time to be lost. And now here is enough said; gang you to your sleep,
lad, and I'll watch
Wheesht
Ye were snoring
Well
and why not
Ye see
this was what I was afraid of, Davie: that they
would watch the burn-side. They began to come in about two hours ago,
and, man! but ye're a grand hand at the sleeping! We're in a narrow
place. If they get up the sides of the hill, they could easy spy us with
a glass; but if they'll only keep in the foot of the valley, we'll do
yet. The posts are thinner down the water; and, come night, we'll try
our hand at getting by them
And what are we to do till night
Lie here
and birstle
birstle
I
tell you it's 'ot
h
The moon by night thee shall not smite,
     Nor yet the sun by day
As well one death as another
It will be many a long day
before the red-coats think upon seeking Corrynakiegh; so now we must
get word sent to James, and he must find the siller for us
And how shall we send that word
We are here in a desert
place, which yet we dare not leave; and unless ye get the fowls of the
air to be your messengers, I see not what we shall be able to do
Ay
Ye're a man of small contrivance, David
Could ye lend me my button
It seems a strange thing to ask
a gift again, but I own I am laith to cut another
Now
there is a little clachan
not very far from Corrynakiegh, and it has the name of
Koalisnacoan. There there are living many friends of mine whom I could
trust with my life, and some that I am no just so sure of. Ye see,
David, there will be money set upon our heads; James himsel' is to set
money on them; and as for the Campbells, they would never spare siller
where there was a Stewart to be hurt. If it was otherwise, I would go
down to Koalisnacoan whatever, and trust my life into these people's
hands as lightly as I would trust another with my glove
But being so
Being so
I would as lief they didnae see me. There's bad
folk everywhere, and what's far worse, weak ones. So when it comes dark
again, I will steal down into that clachan, and set this that I have
been making in the window of a good friend of mine, John Breck Maccoll,
a bouman* of Appin's
With all my heart
and if he finds it, what is he to think
Well
I wish he was a man of more penetration, for by my
troth I am afraid he will make little enough of it! But this is what
I have in my mind. This cross is something in the nature of the
crosstarrie, or fiery cross, which is the signal of gathering in our
clans; yet he will know well enough the clan is not to rise, for there
it is standing in his window, and no word with it. So he will say to
himsel', THE CLAN IS NOT TO RISE, BUT THERE IS SOMETHING. Then he will
see my button, and that was Duncan Stewart's. And then he will say to
himsel', THE SON OF DUNCAN IS IN THE HEATHER, AND HAS NEED OF ME
Well
it may be. But even supposing so, there is a good deal
of heather between here and the Forth
And that is a very true word
But then John Breck will see
the sprig of birch and the sprig of pine; and he will say to himsel' (if
he is a man of any penetration at all, which I misdoubt), ALAN WILL BE
LYING IN A WOOD WHICH IS BOTH OF PINES AND BIRCHES. Then he will think
to himsel', THAT IS NOT SO VERY RIFE HEREABOUT; and then he will come
and give us a look up in Corrynakiegh. And if he does not, David, the
devil may fly away with him, for what I care; for he will no be worth
the salt to his porridge
Eh, man
you're very ingenious!
But would it not be simpler for you to write him a few words in black
and white
And that is an excellent observe, Mr. Balfour of Shaws
and it would certainly be much simpler for me to
write to him, but it would be a sore job for John Breck to read it. He
would have to go to the school for two-three years; and it's possible we
might be wearied waiting on him
peep
She was forget it
DEAR KINSMAN,-- Please send the money by the bearer to the place he kens
of.

"Your affectionate cousin,

"A. S
a small, pock-marked, active man of thirty-five or thereby, dressed
in a feathered hat, a French side-coat of blue with silver buttons,
and lace a great deal tarnished, a red waistcoat and breeches of black,
shag
a tall strong lad of about eighteen, wearing an
old blue coat, very ragged, an old Highland bonnet, a long homespun
waistcoat, blue breeches; his legs bare, low-country shoes, wanting the
toes; speaks like a Lowlander, and has no beard
Alan
you should change your clothes
Na, troth
I have nae others. A fine sight I would be, if
I went back to France in a bonnet
It's little enough
but
it'll do my business. And now, John Breck, if ye will hand me over my
button, this gentleman and me will be for taking the road
Her nainsel will loss it
What
you will lose my button, that was my father's
before me? Now I will tell you what is in my mind, John Breck: it is
in my mind this is the worst day's work that ever ye did since ye was
born
Well, and it is a good thing for the honour of the Maccolls
Here is my button back again, and I thank you for
parting with it, which is of a piece with all your friendships to me
For
ye have
done very well by me, and set your neck at a venture, and I will always
give you the name of a good man
David
this is the kittle bit. Shall we lie here till it
comes night, or shall we risk it, and stave on ahead
Well
I am tired indeed, but I could walk as far again, if
that was all
Ay, but it isnae
nor yet the half. This is how we stand:
Appin's fair death to us. To the south it's all Campbells, and no to be
thought of. To the north; well, there's no muckle to be gained by going
north; neither for you, that wants to get to Queensferry, nor yet for
me, that wants to get to France. Well, then, we'll can strike east
East be it
O, man, if you would only take one point of the compass and let me take
any other, it would be the best for both of us
Well, then, east, ye see, we have the muirs
Once there,
David, it's mere pitch-and-toss. Out on yon bald, naked, flat place,
where can a body turn to? Let the red-coats come over a hill, they can
spy you miles away; and the sorrow's in their horses' heels, they would
soon ride you down. It's no good place, David; and I'm free to say, it's
worse by daylight than by dark
Alan
hear my way of it. Appin's death for us; we have none
too much money, nor yet meal; the longer they seek, the nearer they
may guess where we are; it's all a risk; and I give my word to go ahead
until we drop
There are whiles
when ye are altogether
too canny and Whiggish to be company for a gentleman like me; but there
come other whiles when ye show yoursel' a mettle spark; and it's then,
David, that I love ye like a brother
What are we to do now
We'll have to play at being hares
Do ye see yon mountain
Ay
Well, then
let us strike for that. Its name is Ben Alder.
it is a wild, desert mountain full of hills and hollows, and if we can
win to it before the morn, we may do yet
But, Alan
that will take us across the very coming of the
soldiers
I ken that fine
but if we are driven back on Appin, we are
two dead men. So now, David man, be brisk
There shall be no sleep the night
From now on, these
weary dragoons of yours will keep the crown of the muirland, and none
will get out of Appin but winged fowls. We got through in the nick
of time, and shall we jeopard what we've gained? Na, na, when the day
comes, it shall find you and me in a fast place on Ben Alder
Alan
it's not the want of will: it's the strength that I
want. If I could, I would; but as sure as I'm alive I cannot
Very well, then
I'll carry ye
Lead away
I'll follow
Well done, David
peep
They are Cluny's men
We couldnae have fallen better.
We're just to bide here with these, which are his out-sentries, till
they can get word to the chief of my arrival
What
is Cluny still here
Ay, is he so
Still in his own country and kept by his own
clan. King George can do no more
I am
rather wearied
and I would like fine to get a sleep
It's here
Cluny's Cage
Well, Mr. Stewart, come awa', sir
and bring in your friend
that as yet I dinna ken the name of
And how is yourself, Cluny
I hope ye do brawly, sir. And
I am proud to see ye, and to present to ye my friend the Laird of Shaws,
Mr. David Balfour
Step in by, the both of ye, gentlemen
I make ye welcome
to my house, which is a queer, rude place for certain, but one where I
have entertained a royal personage, Mr. Stewart -- ye doubtless ken the
personage I have in my eye. We'll take a dram for luck, and as soon as
this handless man of mine has the collops ready, we'll dine and take a
hand at the cartes as gentlemen should. My life is a bit driegh
I see little company, and sit and twirl my
thumbs, and mind upon a great day that is gone by, and weary for another
great day that we all hope will be upon the road. And so here's a toast
to ye: The Restoration
They
are such as I gave his Royal
Highness in this very house; bating the lemon juice, for at that time we
were glad to get the meat and never fashed for kitchen.* Indeed, there
were mair dragoons than lemons in my country in the year forty-six
What in deil's name is this
What kind of Whiggish, canting talk is this, for the house of Cluny
Macpherson
I will put my hand in the fire for Mr. Balfour
He is an
honest and a mettle gentleman, and I would have ye bear in mind who says
it. I bear a king's name
and I and any that
I call friend are company for the best. But the gentleman is tired, and
should sleep; if he has no mind to the cartes, it will never hinder you
and me. And I'm fit and willing, sir, to play ye any game that ye can
name
Sir
in this poor house of mine I would have you to ken
that any gentleman may follow his pleasure. If your friend would like to
stand on his head, he is welcome. And if either he, or you, or any other
man, is not preceesely satisfied, I will be proud to step outside with
him
Sir
I am very wearied, as Alan says; and what's more, as
you are a man that likely has sons of your own, I may tell you it was a
promise to my father
Say nae mair, say nae mair
What for
O, just for a loan
But why
I don't see
Hut, David
ye wouldnae grudge me a loan
I have no Gaelic, sir
Your name has more sense than yourself, then
for it's good Gaelic. But the point is this. My scout reports
all clear in the south, and the question is, have ye the strength to
go
I do not know if I am as well as I should be
but the little money we have has a long way to carry us
David
I've lost it; there's the naked truth
My money too
Your money too
Ye shouldnae have given it
me. I'm daft when I get to the cartes
Hoot-toot! hoot-toot
It was all daffing; it's all
nonsense. Of course you'll have your money back again, and the double of
it, if ye'll make so free with me. It would be a singular thing for me
to keep it. It's not to be supposed that I would be any hindrance to
gentlemen in your situation; that would be a singular thing
Will you step to the door with me, sir
And now, sir
I must first acknowledge your generosity
Nonsensical nonsense
Where's the generosity? This is
just a most unfortunate affair; but what would ye have me do -- boxed
up in this bee-skep of a cage of mine -- but just set my friends to the
cartes, when I can get them? And if they lose, of course, it's not to be
supposed
Yes
if they lose, you give them back their money; and if
they win, they carry away yours in their pouches! I have said before
that I grant your generosity; but to me, sir, it's a very painful thing
to be placed in this position
I am a young man
and I ask your advice. Advise me as you
would your son. My friend fairly lost his money, after having fairly
gained a far greater sum of yours; can I accept it back again? Would
that be the right part for me to play? Whatever I do, you can see for
yourself it must be hard upon a man of any pride
It's rather hard on me, too, Mr. Balfour
and ye give
me very much the look of a man that has entrapped poor people to their
hurt. I wouldnae have my friends come to any house of mine to accept
affronts; no
nor yet to give
them
And so you see, sir
there is something to be said upon my
side; and this gambling is a very poor employ for gentlefolks. But I am
still waiting your opinion
Mr. Balfour
I think you are too nice and covenanting, but
for all that you have the spirit of a very pretty gentleman. Upon my
honest word, ye may take this money -- it's what I would tell my son -- and
here's my hand along with it
Go, I am in the most danger, and my company only increases
yours
You are in great danger, I am in but little; your friendship
is a burden; go, take your risks and bear your hardships alone
David
this is no way for two friends to take a small
accident. I have to say that I'm sorry; and so that's said. And now if
you have anything, ye'd better say it
O
I have nothing
No
but when I say I was to
blame
Why, of course, ye were to blame
and you will bear
me out that I have never reproached you
Never
but ye ken very well that ye've done worse. Are we to
part? Ye said so once before. Are ye to say it again? There's hills and
heather enough between here and the two seas, David; and I will own I'm
no very keen to stay where I'm no wanted
Alan Breck
Do you think I am one to turn my
back on you in your chief need? You dursn't say it to my face. My whole
conduct's there to give the lie to it. It's true, I fell asleep upon
the muir; but that was from weariness, and you do wrong to cast it up to
me
Which is what I never did
But aside from that
what have I done that you should
even me to dogs by such a supposition? I never yet failed a friend, and
it's not likely I'll begin with you. There are things between us that I
can never forget, even if you can
I will only say this to ye, David
that I
have long been owing ye my life, and now I owe ye money. Ye should try
to make that burden light for me
You asked me to speak
Well, then, I will. You own yourself
that you have done me a disservice; I have had to swallow an affront: I
have never reproached you, I never named the thing till you did. And
now you blame me
because I cannae laugh and sing as if I was
glad to be affronted. The next thing will be that I'm to go down upon my
knees and thank you for it! Ye should think more of others, Alan
Breck. If ye thought more of others, ye would perhaps speak less about
yourself; and when a friend that likes you very well has passed over an
offence without a word, you would be blithe to let it lie, instead of
making it a stick to break his back with. By your own way of it, it was
you that was to blame; then it shouldnae be you to seek the quarrel
Aweel
say nae mair
It's one of the
dowiest countries in Scotland
There's naething there that I
ken, but heath, and crows, and Campbells. But I see that ye're a man of
some penetration; and be it as ye please
Ye had better let me take your pack
I do very well, I thank you
I'll not offer it again
I'm not a
patient man, David
I never said you were
abhorred me
Here
here's a dub for ye to jump, my Whiggie! I
ken you're a fine jumper
Ah
I have a better
taunt in readiness; when I lie down and die, you will feel it like a
buffet in your face; ah, what a revenge! ah, how you will regret your
ingratitude and cruelty
Whig
Mr. Stewart
you are older than I am, and should know your manners. Do you think
it either very wise or very witty to cast my politics in my teeth? I
thought, where folk differed, it was the part of gentlemen to differ
civilly; and if I did not, I may tell you I could find a better taunt
than some of yours
Hey, Johnnie Cope, are ye waukin' yet?
     And are your drums a-beatin' yet
Why do ye take that air, Mr. Stewart
Is that to remind me
you have been beaten on both sides
David
But it's time these manners ceased
and I mean you shall
henceforth speak civilly of my King and my good friends the Campbells
I am a Stewart
O
I ken ye bear a king's name. But you are to remember,
since I have been in the Highlands, I have seen a good many of those
that bear it; and the best I can say of them is this, that they would be
none the worse of washing
Do you know that you insult me
I am sorry for that
for I am not done; and if you distaste
the sermon, I doubt the pirliecue* will please you as little. You have
been chased in the field by the grown men of my party; it seems a poor
kind of pleasure to out-face a boy. Both the Campbells and the Whigs
have beaten you; you have run before them like a hare. It behoves you to
speak of them as of your betters
This is a pity
There are things said that cannot be
passed over
I never asked you to
I am as ready as yourself
Ready
Ready
I am no blower and boaster like some that I could
name. Come on
David
Are ye daft? I cannae draw upon ye, David. It's
fair murder
That was your look-out when you insulted me
It's the truth
It's the bare truth
Na, na
na, na -- I cannae, I cannae
Alan
if ye cannae help
me, I must just die here
It's true
I'm by with it. O, let me get into the bield of a
house -- I'll can die there easier
Can ye walk
No
not without help. This last hour my legs have been
fainting under me; I've a stitch in my side like a red-hot iron; I
cannae breathe right. If I die, ye'll can forgive me, Alan? In my heart,
I liked ye fine -- even when I was the angriest
Wheesht, wheesht
Dinna say that! David man, ye ken
Let me get my arm about ye
that's the way! Now lean upon me hard. Gude kens where there's a house!
We're in Balwhidder, too; there should be no want of houses, no, nor
friends' houses here. Do ye gang easier so, Davie
Ay
I can be doing this way
Davie
I'm no a right man at
all; I have neither sense nor kindness; I could nae remember ye were
just a bairn, I couldnae see ye were dying on your feet; Davie, ye'll
have to try and forgive me
O man, let's say no more about it
We're neither one of us
to mend the other -- that's the truth! We must just bear and forbear, man
Alan. O, but my stitch is sore! Is there nae house
I'll find a house to ye, David
We'll follow down
the burn, where there's bound to be houses. My poor man, will ye no be
better on my back
O, Alan
and me a good twelve inches taller
Ye're no such a thing
There may be a
trifling matter of an inch or two; I'm no saying I'm just exactly what
ye would call a tall man, whatever; and I dare say
now when I come to think of it, I
dare say ye'll be just about right. Ay, it'll be a foot, or near hand;
or may be even mair
Alan
what makes ye so good to me? What makes ye care for
such a thankless fellow
Deed, and I don't know
For just precisely what I thought
I liked about ye, was that ye never quarrelled:-- and now I like ye
better
chiefless
folk
I am given to know, sir
that your name is Balfour
They call me David Balfour
at your service
I would give ye my name in return, sir
but it's one
somewhat blown upon of late days; and it'll perhaps suffice if I tell
ye that I am own brother to James More Drummond or Macgregor, of whom ye
will scarce have failed to hear
No, sir
nor yet of your father,
Macgregor-Campbell
But what I am come to say, sir
is
this. In the year '45, my brother raised a part of the 'Gregara' and
marched six companies to strike a stroke for the good side; and the
surgeon that marched with our clan and cured my brother's leg when it
was broken in the brush at Preston Pans, was a gentleman of the same
name precisely as yourself. He was brother to Balfour of Baith; and if
you are in any reasonable degree of nearness one of that gentleman's
kin, I have come to put myself and my people at your command
only some kinless loon
that didn't know his own father
Mr. Stewart, I am thinking
Troth, Mr. Macgregor, it's not a name to be ashamed of
I did not know ye were in my country, sir
It sticks in my mind that I am in the country of my friends the
Maclarens
That's a kittle point
There may be two words to
say to that. But I think I will have heard that you are a man of your
sword
Unless ye were born deaf, Mr. Macgregor, ye will have heard a good deal
more than that
I am not the only man that can draw steel
in Appin; and when my kinsman and captain, Ardshiel, had a talk with a
gentleman of your name, not so many years back, I could never hear that
the Macgregor had the best of it
Do ye mean my father, sir
Well, I wouldnae wonder
The gentleman I have in my mind
had the ill-taste to clap Campbell to his name
My father was an old man
The match was unequal. You and me would make a better pair, sir
I was thinking that
Gentlemen
I will have been thinking of a very different
matter, whateffer. Here are my pipes, and here are you two gentlemen who
are baith acclaimed pipers. It's an auld dispute which one of ye's the
best. Here will be a braw chance to settle it
Why, sir
why, sir
I think I will have heard some sough* of the sort. Have ye
music, as folk say? Are ye a bit of a piper
I can pipe like a Macrimmon
And that is a very bold word
I have made bolder words good before now
and that
against better adversaries
It is easy to try that
the wife's brose
I would have ye to remark, sir
that I havenae broken
bread for near upon ten hours, which will be worse for the breath than
any brose in Scotland
I will take no advantages, Mr. Stewart
Eat and drink;
I'll follow you
warblers
That's no very bad, Mr. Stewart
but ye show a poor
device in your warblers
Me
I give ye the lie
Do ye own yourself beaten at the pipes, then
that ye
seek to change them for the sword
And that's very well said, Mr. Macgregor
and in the
meantime
I take back the lie. I
appeal to Duncan
Indeed, ye need appeal to naebody
Ye're a far better
judge than any Maclaren in Balquhidder: for it's a God's truth that
you're a very creditable piper for a Stewart. Hand me the pipes
Ay, ye have music
And now be the judge yourself, Mr. Stewart
Enough
Ye can
blow the pipes -- make the most of that
Robin Oig
ye are a great piper. I am not
fit to blow in the same kingdom with ye. Body of me! ye have mair music
in your sporran than I have in my head! And though it still sticks in
my mind that I could maybe show ye another of it with the cold steel,
I warn ye beforehand -- it'll no be fair! It would go against my heart to
haggle a man that can blow the pipes as you can
It's a chief principle in military affairs
to go where
ye are least expected. Forth is our trouble; ye ken the saying, 'Forth
bridles the wild Hielandman.' Well, if we seek to creep round about
the head of that river and come down by Kippen or Balfron, it's just
precisely there that they'll be looking to lay hands on us. But if we
stave on straight to the auld Brig of Stirling, I'll lay my sword they
let us pass unchallenged
Now
I kenna if ye care, but ye're in your own land again.
We passed the Hieland Line in the first hour; and now if we could but
pass yon crooked water, we might cast our bonnets in the air
It looks unco' quiet
but for all that we'll lie down here
cannily behind a dyke, and make sure
She's bound to be across now
Na
her foot still sounds boss* upon the bridge
Who goes
This'll never do
This'll never, never do for us, David
Well
Well
what would ye have? They're none such fools as I
took them for. We have still the Forth to pass, Davie -- weary fall the
rains that fed and the hillsides that guided it
And why go east
Ou, just upon the chance
If we cannae pass the river, we'll
have to see what we can do for the firth
There are fords upon the river, and none upon the firth
To be sure there are fords, and a bridge forbye
and of
what service, when they are watched
Well
but a river can be swum
By them that have the skill of it
but I have yet to
hear that either you or me is much of a hand at that exercise; and for
my own part, I swim like a stone
I'm not up to you in talking back, Alan
but I can see we're
making bad worse. If it's hard to pass a river, it stands to reason it
must be worse to pass a sea
But there's such a thing as a boat
or I'm the more
deceived
Ay, and such a thing as money
But for us that have neither
one nor other, they might just as well not have been invented
Ye think so
I do that
David
ye're a man of small invention and less faith. But
let me set my wits upon the hone, and if I cannae beg, borrow, nor yet
steal a boat, I'll make one
I think I see ye
And what's more than all that: if ye pass a
bridge, it can tell no tales; but if we pass the firth, there's the boat
on the wrong side -- somebody must have brought it -- the country-side will
all be in a bizz
Man
if I make a boat, I'll make a body to take it back
again! So deave me with no more of your nonsense, but walk (for that's
what you've got to do)-- and let Alan think for ye
O, Alan
to think of it! Over there, there's all that heart
could want waiting me; and the birds go over, and the boats go over -- all
that please can go, but just me only! O, man, but it's a heart-break
Did ye take heed of the lass we bought this of
To be sure
and a bonny lass she was
Ye thought that
Man, David, that's good news
In the name of all that's wonderful, why so
What good can
that do
Well
I was rather in hopes
it would maybe get us that boat
If it were the other way about, it would be liker it
That's all that you ken, ye see
I don't want the lass to
fall in love with ye, I want her to be sorry for ye, David; to which end
there is no manner of need that she should take you for a beauty. Let me
see
I wish ye were a wee thing paler; but
apart from that ye'll do fine for my purpose -- ye have a fine, hang-dog,
rag-and-tatter, clappermaclaw kind of a look to ye, as if ye had
stolen the coat from a potato-bogle. Come; right about, and back to the
change-house for that boat of ours
David Balfour
ye're a very funny gentleman by your way of
it, and this is a very funny employ for ye, no doubt. For all that, if
ye have any affection for my neck (to say nothing of your own) ye will
perhaps be kind enough to take this matter responsibly. I am going to
do a bit of play-acting, the bottom ground of which is just exactly as
serious as the gallows for the pair of us. So bear it, if ye please, in
mind, and conduct yourself according
Well, well
have it as you will
What's like wrong with him
Wrong
He's walked more hundreds of miles than he has hairs upon his
chin, and slept oftener in wet heather than dry sheets. Wrong, quo' she!
Wrong enough, I would think! Wrong, indeed
He's young for the like of that
Ower young
He would be better riding
And where could I get a horse to him
Would ye have me steal
Ye neednae tell me
ye're gentry
Well
and suppose we were? Did ever you hear that
gentrice put money in folk's pockets
No
that's true indeed
Has he nae friends
That has he so
if we could but win to them!-- friends and
rich friends, beds to lie in, food to eat, doctors to see to him -- and
here he must tramp in the dubs and sleep in the heather like a
beggarman
And why that
My dear
I cannae very safely say; but I'll tell ye what
I'll do instead
I'll whistle ye a bit tune
Charlie
is my darling
Wheesht
That's it
And him so young
He's old enough to
It would be a black shame
It's what will be, though
unless we manage the better
Alan
I can stand no more of this
Ye'll have to sit it then, Davie
For if ye upset the pot
now, ye may scrape your own life out of the fire, but Alan Breck is a
dead man
Poor lamb
I'm thinking ye have rather a long tongue
but ye see I ken the folk I speak to
I would never betray ye
if ye mean that
No
ye're not that kind. But I'll tell ye what ye would do,
ye would help
I couldnae
Na, I couldnae
No
but if ye could
Look here, my lass
there are boats in the Kingdom of
Fife, for I saw two (no less) upon the beach, as I came in by your
town's end. Now if we could have the use of a boat to pass under cloud
of night into Lothian, and some secret, decent kind of a man to bring
that boat back again and keep his counsel, there would be two souls
saved -- mine to all likelihood -- his to a dead surety. If we lack that
boat, we have but three shillings left in this wide world; and where
to go, and how to do, and what other place there is for us except the
chains of a gibbet -- I give you my naked word, I kenna! Shall we go
wanting, lassie? Are ye to lie in your warm bed and think upon us, when
the wind gowls in the chimney and the rain tirls on the roof? Are ye to
eat your meat by the cheeks of a red fire, and think upon this poor sick
lad of mine, biting his finger ends on a blae muir for cauld and hunger?
Sick or sound, he must aye be moving; with the death grapple at his
throat he must aye be trailing in the rain on the lang roads; and when
he gants his last on a rickle of cauld stanes, there will be nae friends
near him but only me and God
Did ever you hear
of Mr. Rankeillor of the Ferry
Rankeillor the writer
I daur say that
Well
it's to his door that I am bound, so you may judge by
that if I am an ill-doer; and I will tell you more, that though I am
indeed, by a dreadful error, in some peril of my life, King George has
no truer friend in all Scotland than myself
That's more than I would ask
Mr. Rankeillor is a kennt
man
And ye can
trust me
I'll find some means to put you over
It is a very fine lass
David, it is a very fine
lass
Bonnie House of Airlie
Why
that is his house that I have just come out of; and for
a rather singular chance, I am that very man
Then, sir
I have to beg the favour of an interview
I do not know your name
nor yet your face
My name is David Balfour
David Balfour
And where have you come from, Mr. David Balfour
I have come from a great many strange places, sir
but I
think it would be as well to tell you where and how in a more private
manner
Yes
that will be the best, no doubt
And now
if you have any business,
pray be brief and come swiftly to the point. Nec gemino bellum Trojanum
orditur ab ovo -- do you understand that
I will even do as Horace says, sir
and carry
you in medias res
I have
reason to believe myself some rights on the estate of Shaws
Well
Come, come, Mr. Balfour
you must continue. Where were you
born
In Essendean, sir
the year 1733, the 12th of March
Your father and mother
My father was Alexander Balfour, schoolmaster of that place
and my mother Grace Pitarrow; I think her people were from Angus
Have you any papers proving your identity
No, sir
but they are in the hands of Mr. Campbell, the
minister, and could be readily produced. Mr. Campbell, too, would give
me his word; and for that matter, I do not think my uncle would deny
me
Meaning Mr. Ebenezer Balfour
The same
Whom you have seen
By whom I was received into his own house
Did you ever meet a man of the name of Hoseason
I did so, sir, for my sins
for it was by his means and the
procurement of my uncle, that I was kidnapped within sight of this town,
carried to sea, suffered shipwreck and a hundred other hardships, and
stand before you to-day in this poor accoutrement
You say you were shipwrecked
where was that
Off the south end of the Isle of Mull
The name of the isle
on which I was cast up is the Island Earraid
Ah
you are deeper than me in the geography. But so
far, I may tell you, this agrees pretty exactly with other informations
that I hold. But you say you were kidnapped; in what sense
In the plain meaning of the word, sir
I was on my way to
your house, when I was trepanned on board the brig, cruelly struck down,
thrown below, and knew no more of anything till we were far at sea. I
was destined for the plantations; a fate that, in God's providence, I
have escaped
The brig was lost on June the 27th
and we are now at August the 24th. Here is a considerable hiatus, Mr.
Balfour, of near upon two months. It has already caused a vast amount
of trouble to your friends; and I own I shall not be very well contented
until it is set right
Indeed, sir
these months are very easily filled up; but yet
before I told my story, I would be glad to know that I was talking to a
friend
This is to argue in a circle
I cannot be convinced
till I have heard you. I cannot be your friend till I am properly
informed. If you were more trustful, it would better befit your time of
life. And you know, Mr. Balfour, we have a proverb in the country that
evil-doers are aye evil-dreaders
You are not to forget, sir
that I have already suffered by
my trustfulness; and was shipped off to be a slave by the very man that
(if I rightly understand) is your employer
No, no
it is not so bad as that. Fui, non sum. I was indeed
your uncle's man of business; but while you (imberbis juvenis custode
remoto) were gallivanting in the west, a good deal of water has run
under the bridges; and if your ears did not sing, it was not for lack of
being talked about. On the very day of your sea disaster, Mr. Campbell
stalked into my office, demanding you from all the winds. I had never
heard of your existence; but I had known your father; and from matters
in my competence (to be touched upon hereafter) I was disposed to fear
the worst. Mr. Ebenezer admitted having seen you; declared (what seemed
improbable) that he had given you considerable sums; and that you had
started for the continent of Europe, intending to fulfil your education,
which was probable and praiseworthy. Interrogated how you had come to
send no word to Mr. Campbell, he deponed that you had expressed a great
desire to break with your past life. Further interrogated where you now
were, protested ignorance, but believed you were in Leyden. That is a
close sum of his replies. I am not exactly sure that any one believed
him
and in particular he so
much disrelished me expressions of mine that (in a word) he showed me to
the door. We were then at a full stand; for whatever shrewd suspicions
we might entertain, we had no shadow of probation. In the very article,
comes Captain Hoseason with the story of your drowning; whereupon all
fell through; with no consequences but concern to Mr. Campbell, injury
to my pocket, and another blot upon your uncle's character, which could
very ill afford it. And now, Mr. Balfour
you understand
the whole process of these matters, and can judge for yourself to what
extent I may be trusted
Sir
if I tell you my story, I must commit a friend's life
to your discretion. Pass me your word it shall be sacred; and for what
touches myself, I will ask no better guarantee than just your face
But
these are rather
alarming prolocutions; and if there are in your story any little jostles
to the law, I would beg you to bear in mind that I am a lawyer, and pass
lightly
I would name no unnecessary names, Mr. Balfour
above all of
Highlanders, many of whom are obnoxious to the law
Well, it might have been better not
but since I have let it
slip, I may as well continue
Not at all
I am somewhat dull of hearing, as
you may have remarked; and I am far from sure I caught the name exactly.
We will call your friend, if you please, Mr. Thomson -- that there may
be no reflections. And in future, I would take some such way with any
Highlander that you may have to mention -- dead or alive
Mr. Jameson, a Highland chief
Well, well
this is a great
epic, a great Odyssey of yours. You must tell it, sir, in a sound
Latinity when your scholarship is riper; or in English if you please,
though for my part I prefer the stronger tongue. You have rolled
much; quae regio in terris -- what parish in Scotland (to make a homely
translation) has not been filled with your wanderings? You have shown,
besides, a singular aptitude for getting into false positions; and, yes,
upon the whole, for behaving well in them. This Mr. Thomson seems to
me a gentleman of some choice qualities, though perhaps a trifle
bloody-minded. It would please me none the worse, if (with all his
merits) he were soused in the North Sea, for the man, Mr. David, is a
sore embarrassment. But you are doubtless quite right to adhere to him;
indubitably, he adhered to you. It comes -- we may say -- he was your true
companion; nor less paribus curis vestigia figit, for I dare say you
would both take an orra thought upon the gallows. Well, well, these days
are fortunately by; and I think (speaking humanly) that you are near
the end of your troubles
Sit ye down, Mr. David
and now that you are looking a
little more like yourself, let me see if I can find you any news. You
will be wondering, no doubt, about your father and your uncle? To be
sure it is a singular tale; and the explanation is one that I blush to
have to offer you. For
the matter
hinges on a love affair
Truly
I cannot very well join that notion with my uncle
But your uncle, Mr. David, was not always old
and what may perhaps surprise you more, not always ugly. He had a fine,
gallant air; people stood in their doors to look after him, as he
went by upon a mettle horse. I have seen it with these eyes, and I
ingenuously confess, not altogether without envy; for I was a plain lad
myself and a plain man's son; and in those days it was a case of Odi te,
qui bellus es, Sabelle
It sounds like a dream
Ay, ay
that is how it is with youth and age. Nor
was that all, but he had a spirit of his own that seemed to promise
great things in the future. In 1715, what must he do but run away to
join the rebels? It was your father that pursued him, found him in a
ditch, and brought him back multum gementem; to the mirth of the whole
country. However, majora canamus -- the two lads fell in love, and that
with the same lady. Mr. Ebenezer, who was the admired and the beloved,
and the spoiled one, made, no doubt, mighty certain of the victory;
and when he found he had deceived himself, screamed like a peacock.
The whole country heard of it; now he lay sick at home, with his silly
family standing round the bed in tears; now he rode from public-house
to public-house, and shouted his sorrows into the lug of Tom, Dick, and
Harry. Your father, Mr. David, was a kind gentleman; but he was weak,
dolefully weak; took all this folly with a long countenance; and one
day -- by your leave!-- resigned the lady. She was no such fool, however;
it's from her you must inherit your excellent good sense; and she
refused to be bandied from one to another. Both got upon their knees
to her; and the upshot of the matter for that while was that she showed
both of them the door. That was in August; dear me! the same year I came
from college. The scene must have been highly farcical
Surely, sir, it had some note of tragedy
Why, no, sir, not at all
For tragedy implies
some ponderable matter in dispute, some dignus vindice nodus; and this
piece of work was all about the petulance of a young ass that had been
spoiled, and wanted nothing so much as to be tied up and soundly belted.
However, that was not your father's view; and the end of it was, that
from concession to concession on your father's part, and from one height
to another of squalling, sentimental selfishness upon your uncle's, they
came at last to drive a sort of bargain, from whose ill results you have
recently been smarting. The one man took the lady, the other the estate.
Now, Mr. David, they talk a great deal of charity and generosity; but in
this disputable state of life, I often think the happiest consequences
seem to flow when a gentleman consults his lawyer, and takes all the law
allows him. Anyhow, this piece of Quixotry on your father's part, as
it was unjust in itself, has brought forth a monstrous family of
injustices. Your father and mother lived and died poor folk; you were
poorly reared; and in the meanwhile, what a time it has been for the
tenants on the estate of Shaws! And I might add (if it was a matter I
cared much about) what a time for Mr. Ebenezer
And yet that is certainly the strangest part of all
that a
man's nature should thus change
True
And yet I imagine it was natural enough.
He could not think that he had played a handsome part. Those who knew
the story gave him the cold shoulder; those who knew it not, seeing one
brother disappear, and the other succeed in the estate, raised a cry of
murder; so that upon all sides he found himself evited. Money was all
he got by his bargain; well, he came to think the more of money. He was
selfish when he was young, he is selfish now that he is old; and the
latter end of all these pretty manners and fine feelings you have seen
for yourself
Well, sir
and in all this, what is my position
The estate is yours beyond a doubt
It matters
nothing what your father signed, you are the heir of entail. But your
uncle is a man to fight the indefensible; and it would be likely your
identity that he would call in question. A lawsuit is always expensive,
and a family lawsuit always scandalous; besides which, if any of your
doings with your friend Mr. Thomson were to come out, we might find that
we had burned our fingers. The kidnapping, to be sure, would be a court
card upon our side, if we could only prove it. But it may be difficult
to prove; and my advice (upon the whole) is to make a very easy bargain
with your uncle, perhaps even leaving him at Shaws where he has
taken root for a quarter of a century, and contenting yourself in the
meanwhile with a fair provision
The great affair
is to bring home to him the kidnapping
Surely
and if possible, out of court. For mark
you here, Mr. David: we could no doubt find some men of the Covenant who
would swear to your reclusion; but once they were in the box, we could
no longer check their testimony, and some word of your friend Mr.
Thomson must certainly crop out. Which (from what you have let fall) I
cannot think to be desirable
Well, sir
here is my way of it
But this would seem to involve my meeting the man Thomson
I think so, indeed, sir
Dear doctor
Dear doctor! No, Mr. David,
I am afraid your scheme is inadmissible. I say nothing against your
friend, Mr. Thomson: I know nothing against him; and if I did -- mark
this, Mr. David!-- it would be my duty to lay hands on him. Now I put it
to you: is it wise to meet? He may have matters to his charge. He may
not have told you all. His name may not be even Thomson
for some of these fellows will pick up names by the
roadside as another would gather haws
You must be the judge, sir
Torrance
I must have this written out fair against
to-night; and when it is done, you will be so kind as put on your hat
and be ready to come along with this gentleman and me, for you will
probably be wanted as a witness
What, sir
are you to venture
it
Why, so it would appear
But let us speak
no more of business. The very sight of Torrance brings in my head a
little droll matter of some years ago, when I had made a tryst with the
poor oaf at the cross of Edinburgh. Each had gone his proper errand; and
when it came four o'clock, Torrance had been taking a glass and did
not know his master, and I, who had forgot my spectacles, was so blind
without them, that I give you my word I did not know my own clerk
Why
if this be not a farcical adventure! After all that I
said, I have forgot my glasses
And that is a very good notion of yours
and I dare to say
that you could lay your hands upon no better man to put it through than
Alan Breck. It is not a thing (mark ye) that any one could do, but takes
a gentleman of penetration. But it sticks in my head your lawyer-man
will be somewhat wearying to see me
Mr. Thomson, I am pleased to meet you
But I have forgotten
my glasses; and our friend, Mr. David here
will tell you that I am little better than blind, and that
you must not be surprised if I pass you by to-morrow
Why, sir
I would say it mattered the less as we
are met here for a particular end, to see justice done to Mr. Balfour;
and by what I can see, not very likely to have much else in common. But
I accept your apology, which was a very proper one to make
And that is more than I could look for, Mr. Thomson
And now as you and I are the chief actors in this enterprise,
I think we should come into a nice agreement; to which end, I propose
that you should lend me your arm, for (what with the dusk and the want
of my glasses) I am not very clear as to the path; and as for you, Mr.
David, you will find Torrance a pleasant kind of body to speak with.
Only let me remind you, it's quite needless he should hear more of your
adventures or those of -- ahem -- Mr. Thomson
What's this
This is nae kind of time of night for decent
folk; and I hae nae trokings* wi' night-hawks. What brings ye here? I
have a blunderbush
Is that yoursel', Mr. Balfour
Have a care of that blunderbuss; they're
nasty things to burst
What brings ye here? and whae are ye
I have no manner of inclination to rowt out my name to the
country-side
but what brings me here is another story,
being more of your affair than mine; and if ye're sure it's what ye
would like, I'll set it to a tune and sing it to you
And what is't
David
What was that
Shall I give ye the rest of the name, then
I'm thinking I'll better let ye in
I dare say that
but the point is, Would I go? Now I will
tell you what I am thinking. I am thinking that it is here upon this
doorstep that we must confer upon this business; and it shall be here or
nowhere at all whatever; for I would have you to understand that I am as
stiffnecked as yoursel', and a gentleman of better family
Weel, weel, what must be must
mind I have my blunderbush, and if ye take a step
nearer ye're as good as deid
And a very civil speech
to be sure
Na
but this is no a very chanty kind of a proceeding,
and I'm bound to be prepared. And now that we understand each other,
ye'll can name your business
Why
you that are a man of so much understanding, will
doubtless have perceived that I am a Hieland gentleman. My name has nae
business in my story; but the county of my friends is no very far from
the Isle of Mull, of which ye will have heard. It seems there was a
ship lost in those parts; and the next day a gentleman of my family was
seeking wreck-wood for his fire along the sands, when he came upon a lad
that was half drowned. Well, he brought him to; and he and some other
gentleman took and clapped him in an auld, ruined castle, where from
that day to this he has been a great expense to my friends. My friends
are a wee wild-like, and not so particular about the law as some that
I could name; and finding that the lad owned some decent folk, and was
your born nephew, Mr. Balfour, they asked me to give ye a bit call and
confer upon the matter. And I may tell ye at the off-go, unless we can
agree upon some terms, ye are little likely to set eyes upon him. For my
friends
are no very well off
I'm no very caring
He wasnae a
good lad at the best of it, and I've nae call to interfere
Ay, ay
I see what ye would be at: pretending ye don't
care, to make the ransom smaller
Na
it's the mere truth. I take nae manner of interest
in the lad, and I'll pay nae ransome, and ye can make a kirk and a mill
of him for what I care
Hoot, sir
Blood's thicker than water, in the deil's name!
Ye cannae desert your brother's son for the fair shame of it; and if
ye did, and it came to be kennt, ye wouldnae be very popular in your
country-side, or I'm the more deceived
I'm no just very popular the way it is
and I
dinnae see how it would come to be kennt. No by me, onyway; nor yet by
you or your friends. So that's idle talk, my buckie
Then it'll have to be David that tells it
How that
Ou, just this way
My friends would doubtless keep your
nephew as long as there was any likelihood of siller to be made of it,
but if there was nane, I am clearly of opinion they would let him gang
where he pleased, and be damned to him
Ay, but I'm no very caring about that either
I
wouldnae be muckle made up with that
I was thinking that
And what for why
Why, Mr. Balfour
by all that I could hear, there were
two ways of it: either ye liked David and would pay to get him back; or
else ye had very good reasons for not wanting him, and would pay for us
to keep him. It seems it's not the first; well then, it's the second;
and blythe am I to ken it, for it should be a pretty penny in my pocket
and the pockets of my friends
I dinnae follow ye there
No
Well, see here: you dinnae want the lad back; well,
what do ye want done with him, and how much will ye pay
Come, sir
I would have you to ken that I am a gentleman;
I bear a king's name; I am nae rider to kick my shanks at your hall
door. Either give me an answer in civility, and that out of hand; or by
the top of Glencoe, I will ram three feet of iron through your vitals
Eh, man
give me a meenit!
What's like wrong with ye? I'm just a plain man and nae dancing master;
and I'm tryin to be as ceevil as it's morally possible. As for that wild
talk, it's fair disrepitable. Vitals, says you! And where would I be
with my blunderbush
Powder and your auld hands are but as the snail to the swallow against
the bright steel in the hands of Alan
Before your
jottering finger could find the trigger, the hilt would dirl on your
breast-bane
Eh, man, whae's denying it
Pit it as ye please, hae't
your ain way; I'll do naething to cross ye. Just tell me what like ye'll
be wanting, and ye'll see that we'll can agree fine
Troth, sir
I ask for nothing but plain dealing. In two
words: do ye want the lad killed or kept
O, sirs
O, sirs, me! that's no kind of language
Killed or kept
O, keepit, keepit
We'll have nae bloodshed, if you
please
Well
as ye please; that'll be the dearer
The dearer
Would ye fyle your hands wi' crime
Hoot
they're baith crime, whatever! And the killing's
easier, and quicker, and surer. Keeping the lad'll be a fashious* job, a
fashious, kittle business
I'll have him keepit, though
I never had naething
to do with onything morally wrong; and I'm no gaun to begin to pleasure
a wild Hielandman
Ye're unco scrupulous
I'm a man o' principle
and if I have to pay
for it, I'll have to pay for it. And besides
ye forget the
lad's my brother's son
Well, well
and now about the price. It's no very easy for
me to set a name upon it; I would first have to ken some small matters.
I would have to ken, for instance, what ye gave Hoseason at the first
off-go
Hoseason
What for
For kidnapping David
It's a lee, it's a black lee
He was never kidnapped.
He leed in his throat that tauld ye that. Kidnapped? He never was
That's no fault of mine nor yet of yours
nor yet of
Hoseason's, if he's a man that can be trusted
What do ye mean
Did Hoseason tell ye
Why, ye donnered auld runt, how else would I ken
Hoseason and me are partners; we gang shares; so ye can see for
yoursel' what good ye can do leeing. And I must plainly say ye drove a
fool's bargain when ye let a man like the sailor-man so far forward in
your private matters. But that's past praying for; and ye must lie on
your bed the way ye made it. And the point in hand is just this: what
did ye pay him
Has he tauld ye himsel
That's my concern
Weel
I dinnae care what he said, he leed, and the
solemn God's truth is this, that I gave him twenty pound. But I'll be
perfec'ly honest with ye: forby that, he was to have the selling of the
lad in Caroliny, whilk would be as muckle mair, but no from my pocket,
ye see
Thank you, Mr. Thomson. That will do excellently well
Good-evening, Mr.
Balfour
Good-evening, Uncle Ebenezer
It's a braw nicht, Mr. Balfour
Come, come, Mr. Ebenezer
you must not be
down-hearted, for I promise you we shall make easy terms. In the
meanwhile give us the cellar key, and Torrance shall draw us a bottle
of your father's wine in honour of the event
Mr. David
I wish you all joy in your
good fortune, which I believe to be deserved
Mr. Thomson, I pay you my compliment; it was
most artfully conducted; but in one point you somewhat outran my
comprehension. Do I understand your name to be James? or Charles? or is
it George, perhaps
And why should it be any of the three, sir
Only, sir, that you mentioned a king's name
and
as there has never yet been a King Thomson, or his fame at least has
never come my way, I judged you must refer to that you had in baptism
Mr. Thomson
is one thing, Mr. Thomson's kinsman quite
another. I know little of the facts, but I gather that a great noble
(whom we will call, if you like, the D. of A.)* has some concern and
is even supposed to feel some animosity in the matter. The D. of A. is
doubtless an excellent nobleman; but, Mr. David, timeo qui nocuere deos.
If you interfere to balk his vengeance, you should remember there is
one way to shut your testimony out; and that is to put you in the dock.
There, you would be in the same pickle as Mr. Thomson's kinsman. You
will object that you are innocent; well, but so is he. And to be tried
for your life before a Highland jury, on a Highland quarrel and with
a Highland Judge upon the bench, would be a brief transition to the
gallows
In that case, sir
I would just have to be hanged -- would I not
My dear boy
go in God's name, and do what you think is
right. It is a poor thought that at my time of life I should be advising
you to choose the safe and shameful; and I take it back with an apology.
Go and do your duty; and be hanged, if you must, like a gentleman. There
are worse things in the world than to be hanged
Not many, sir
Why, yes, sir
very many. And it would be ten times better
for your uncle (to go no farther afield) if he were dangling decently
upon a gibbet
This
is to my bankers, the British Linen Company, placing a
credit to your name. Consult Mr. Thomson, he will know of ways; and
you, with this credit, can supply the means. I trust you will be a good
husband of your money; but in the affair of a friend like Mr. Thomson,
I would be even prodigal. Then for his kinsman, there is no better way
than that you should seek the Advocate, tell him your tale, and offer
testimony; whether he may take it or not, is quite another matter, and
will turn on the D. of A. Now, that you may reach the Lord Advocate well
recommended, I give you here a letter to a namesake of your own, the
learned Mr. Balfour of Pilrig, a man whom I esteem. It will look better
that you should be presented by one of your own name; and the laird of
Pilrig is much looked up to in the Faculty and stands well with Lord
Advocate Grant. I would not trouble him, if I were you, with any
particulars; and (do you know?) I think it would be needless to refer to
Mr. Thomson. Form yourself upon the laird, he is a good model; when you
deal with the Advocate, be discreet; and in all these matters, may the
Lord guide you, Mr. David
Well, good-bye
Good-bye
</text>
