<text>
No
Softly, softly
Oh, what a day of joy
Cousin Leila still to be with us
for a whole month, and Selina as able to talk to her now as I am;
Selina, do you remember when you went away
Why does she do that? where has she gone
I think I know
Leila, I could not wait till
night, unnecessary
and now
I must go to dear
mamma
I see what you have been doing
but I think
it is I that should cry: when we were here before, I had to speak both
for you and myself. Oh, it was so nice; no, no, Selina, I don't mean
that, I don't indeed; I am so glad you can speak, oh, so very glad; I
said it only to make you laugh, and now I am near crying myself, but I
won't; this is not a day to weep, the very happiest day of all our
lives. Come, let us go and visit the school-room; not to say lessons,
you know, but just to enjoy ourselves
Yes, that will be an excellent plan
and perhaps in
the bread-basket we shall still find the head of the doll, which would
have been so pretty a doll for my Sally, if it had not been so hardly
dealt with
How funny you are
you have put away my sorrow in a
minute
How very nice it looks
how bright, how
cheerful-looking; so different from what it was before
And were you very melancholy when you were here before, and did not
find us
Oh, so melancholy when I saw the flowerpots
and I
cried so when I saw the paper with 'Custom commonly makes things easy.'
Yes, 'Custom commonly' was the worst of all
But that is all over now
so we need not speak
about it, for now we are all three as happy as can be; don't you think
so, Selina
Indeed I do, Matilda; but it is such a deep joy I cannot find words to
utter it; it does not make me merry, but do not think it is because I am
sad. If you are happy and think it a joyful day, what must it be to me?
I had given up all hope of ever being able to speak again; I was telling
Leila so that very day, and making her promise not to pray for it any
more. Then so many changes have come upon me. When I saw Leila on the
ground, when I thought her dead,-- oh, I must not think of it; and when
she opened her eyes again, and said, 'Who spoke? what has happened?' and
when she knew God had opened my lips, what a moment that was! Leila's
joy, and my joy too, and to be able to tell her how much I loved her.
You do not know how I used to struggle before, and what it was for me
not to be able to speak
Indeed I do know very well
for when mamma often
says to me, 'Matilda, I must beg you to be silent, you distract my
head,' I am more anxious to speak than ever; and so vexed, I would
rather she had given me a good slap
A good _slap_
Oh, Matilda, if my papa were ever to
slap me, I would
What would you do
I would die
Oh dear
how I have shocked you;
what a shocked face you have; well, I am always saying something wrong,
and I dare say I shall never be better; for these kind of things come
out before I know what I am saying. Selina, do you think it was so very
wrong, and was Leila right to say she would ----? You know what I mean.
You always tell me we should take trials patiently
I think you were both a little wrong
You were wrong to talk in that way of dear mamma, who is
always so patient and gentle with you; and very wrong to say you would
never be better, when you know God will give you strength if you pray
for it with all your heart; but not if you say wandering prayers, and do
not really wish it
And cousin Leila
Yes; Leila I thought was a little wrong to express
herself so strongly; you know Uncle Howard always says she must try to
command her feelings more,-- you are not angry with me, Leila, for saying
this
Angry? Oh! no, no. I love you even more when you tell me I have not
done right; for I feel that you are so true, and you say it so gently,
just as my papa does
Well to be sure
to _like_ to be told that one is not
good, I can never get up to that; I don't like at all to be told I am
not good; I would rather say it of myself than that others should say
it; indeed, it comforts me sometimes to say it all out. Selina, do you
know that at this very moment I am not good
Yes, I do know,-- you were glad when I said Leila had been wrong too
And is that all
No, not quite all; you were disappointed when you found it was so small
a fault
Oh, Selina! it is too bad in you to say that; you are glad when you
find people are good, and like yourself, and I cannot help being rather
glad also, when I find people a little like myself, though I am not
good; but you are getting into a way of seeing me through and through;
you must not do that, or you will see a great many things to frighten
you; at least, please don't begin to-day, when we were to have been so
merry; but do you know what I think is going to happen; something that
won't make us merry at all,-- and yet I shall be so curious to see her
See _whom_
what do you mean, Matilda
I mean that we are going to get a governess; that is, that I think,
perhaps, we are to get one
And why do you think so
Because when I went into the drawing-room with one of the parcels,
(mamma's blotting-book, you know,) I heard Uncle Howard say, 'Yes, I
certainly do see the advantage of having a governess; _but_ ----' and
then I put down the parcel very slowly, that I might hear more; but
mamma said, 'Matilda, don't linger in the room, for we are engaged at
present, and wish to be alone.' So, you know, I was obliged to be off
very quick; do you think you will like it Selina?-- to be sure, it won't
be so bad for you, but it will be bad enough for poor me, with all my
scrapes; and yet I should like to see what sort of a face she has got,
though I am quite sure I shall not like it
But perhaps the governess is for _me_
and I shall never be alone with my papa any more
No, no
don't vex yourself, Leila. Don't
put on that sorrowful face; I am sure the governess is for us; for once
before I heard mamma say something about it to papa,-- it was one day
when she said I was unmanageable, and you know you are never
unmanageable
If you mean that I never am very bad, you are mistaken; you don't know
all the things I do sometimes, and wish to do
Well, well
don't tell me about them, for I don't
want to hear; it is too bad that to-day, when we have no lessons, and
are so happy to be home again, we do nothing but speak about faults,
and make each other melancholy. See, the sun is out -- it is quite fair
now -- let us go into the garden and have a nice race
It will be delightful
Are you sorry I frightened it away
No
it was not that; you know the robin
did not know us, it would have flown away the moment any of us had
moved, and we could not have sat all day quite still; so never mind,
Matilda, only it made me think
What did it make you think of? Do tell me
It made me think that in the island the birds never were afraid of me;
they never flew away, at least a great many of them did not; they knew
me quite well there
And you are wishing to be back to the island
because the birds know you there; and you would leave
Selina and me, who know you, I am sure, far better than the birds, and
love you better too; I am sure I wish that -- _that_ island
Hush, hush, Matilda,
don't say it. You are working yourself up to be angry; you will be sorry
afterwards; indeed, you will be sorry now
There, you see, I am off again, and worse than ever. Oh,
this badness! will it never leave me? and, Cousin Leila, perhaps you
will begin to hate me now
Oh,
Matilda! never, never say that again, for I love you very much
You are so kind and good
No, Matilda, no; I am not good. I was not crying now
because I was sorry about the island, but because I was angry at you for
speaking of it in that way,-- and now let me tell you all that is in my
heart. I am happy here, quite, quite happy; I like living in the world
exceedingly, I think the world is delightful, and the trials that papa
spoke about I think are not coming to me, at least, not the great ones;
for you know it is a little trial when you are angry with me, and I
should bear it better, I know; but it is about the island I wished to
speak,-- I do not wish to go back to it to live. No, I could not leave
nor you either, Matilda
I could not leave you, I do love you very much, though sometimes
you make me angry; but I love the island very much also. God placed me
there when he snatched me from the dashing waves. It was my home, my
happy home; I had my papa all to myself then; he used to call me his
little friend, and he was such a friend to me, always keeping me right.
You know I was alone there with my papa, and with God; and it was so
much easier to be good there. I thought more of God in the island, for
every thing seemed so full of his love, and all so beautiful. The island
was God's garden, the flowers always springing, so bright and beautiful,
the trees so green, and nobody to take care of them but God; the birds
always singing to Him, the fountain making that sweet sound, and the
everlasting hills.-- Oh! Matilda, it was comforting to live amongst God's
works, every thing to make me love Him, and nothing to make me forget;
here I am happy, too happy sometimes, for it is a kind of happiness
which makes me forget, and then afterwards comes the sorrow
And what do you do then
I often try to put it off, and I dash about, and try to be merry; but I
am not merry; I get more sorrowful; then I remember that it is
conscience that is speaking to me, and that papa says _conscience_ is
the voice of God, and if I do not listen, _He_ will turn away from me;
then I get frightened as well as sorrowful, and I go away by myself,
sometimes into my room, sometimes into the garden, and there I
think
I think of Jesus Christ, and
of all he did for us, and how he loved little children, and took them in
his arms, and blessed them: and I pray to Him in my heart to love me and
to bless me also. Do you remember how he raised the little daughter of
twelve years old from the dead? I always think how good she must have
been after that, and how she must have loved Jesus Christ, and yet it
should be the same with us; He keeps us alive every moment, and
preserves us from every danger, and I forget Him often, though twice he
has saved my life, in the stormy sea, you know, and from the
frightful
Don't, don't think of it
don't work yourself up
in that way, Leila
But it does me good, Matilda, to think of it, and beside it was such a
day of happiness also
Yes, yes, I know what you mean
and I am sure
it was a day of happiness to me too; but we won't think any more about
it now, for I do tire a little if you speak too much about goodness; but
what with you being so good, and Selina being so good, I surely shall
get better in time; indeed, I am a little better already, I assure you
I am -- I am almost always sorry now when I do wrong
Yes, indeed, you are better, Matilda. I
think there has been a great improvement in you since Leila came to stay
with us, and now I hope that you will not take to Lydia Mildmay again so
much, or allow her to have such influence over you as she used to
have,-- she did you no good
Why do you always say that
I
do wish, Selina, you would just tell me at once why you don't like
Lydia. I am sure it is very ungrateful in you, and I think that you need
not be so sorry that she should praise me sometimes, she praises you
also a great deal
Yes
she does; but I don't like her praise, and I
would rather she did not
And why do you not like her praise
Because I cannot help thinking it is not sincere
Now, Selina, that is too bad in you. Mamma often says, 'Give me a proof
of it, Matilda;' so I say to you, give me a proof of it, Selina
No, I cannot give you a proof of it now; some other time we will talk
of it again. I wish to go to mamma now -- I dare say I can help her to
arrange something -- you know there must be a great deal to arrange on
our first coming home
And let me go with you also
for I dare say I
could do some good. When we arrived in the cave, I remember I assisted
papa to arrange a good deal. I unpacked the canteen, and put out all the
cups and saucers, and helped nurse to arrange the pans, and when papa
put up the shelves, I put the clothes upon them, and his boots and shoes
all in a row; but in this country there is not so much to be done; I
sometimes think it is stupid to have so many people making places for
every thing, I used to like so much making plans and contrivances
Well
if you are both going to be such busy bees, I
will go to Alfred for a little; I see him down the middle walk, and we
can romp together; for you know this is to be a holiday, mamma said so;
so I need not work, unless I like it myself
Why
would you
not give Matilda a proof of why you did not like Lydia
Better not
it does not do with Matilda to talk to
her too much on subjects she does not like; if I had gone on, in a few
minutes more she would have been angry. Did you not observe how her
colour was rising
Yes, I did; and I am never very sure when I am talking to Matilda how
she is to take it; she gets red very often,-- but I need not wonder at
that, for it is just the same with me -- I am sure to get red very often
too
Yes
you do; you colour very often, but then it is
not with anger
You don't know, Selina; you think that because you love me; but very
often it is with anger,-- not so much when papa tells me I am wrong, for
he speaks so gently to me, and always seems so sorry himself, that it
makes me very grieved, and I always wish to be better, and say to
myself, that I will try never to displease him again; but it is quite
another thing with Nurse. I often feel my cheeks get as hot as fire when
she scolds me; but it is with anger then; for she sometimes teases the
very life out of me. Not often though, for I know she loves me; but then
she is always saying, 'Oh! Miss Leila, you are a heartbreak to me; if
you would but sit to your work like a rational being,-- you are not to
trust to Amy mending your things,-- you know your papa says you are not.
You are far too much taken up with your music and your histories; and
what sort of a pocket-hole is that for a young lady to have?' I am
laughing now, Selina, while I am telling it to you; but though
sometimes I can bear it pretty well, and try to please her by beginning
to mend my pocket-hole as quick as possible, at other times I get quite
into a passion, and can't bear to put in a single stitch; but we must
make haste now, or every thing will be put in order, and we shall have
no work to do. I like that kind of work very much, don't you, Selina
The distance was so short
not two miles, it would only
be healthful exercise for Leila to walk when the day was fine, and in
bad weather she could easily be sent to them in the carriage. She should
take care that Leila was always at home to dine with her papa when he
was alone, and to read and sing to him in the evenings, as she had been
accustomed to do
Is it a governess, papa
is it? Oh, tell me quick
My dear child
my dear, dear child, what is all this? Why do you look at me
in this piteous manner? Indeed you must not agitate yourself in this
way; you must not let your imagination get the better of you; it
certainly was on this subject I wished to talk to you; but is the idea
of a governess so very frightful to you
No, papa; perhaps she is not frightful, but you know I never saw one;
perhaps she is like other ladies, but then you know she will be always
there, always sticking to me; Matilda said something which made me know
that; always _sticking_, papa; and then I shall never be alone with you.
No more nice chats with your little friend
Leila, my dear child, you distress
me; if you allow yourself to get into this way of anticipating imaginary
evils, you will enervate your mind, and unfit yourself to bear as you
ought to do the real trials of life; remember who says, 'Sufficient unto
the day is the evil thereof.' Now listen to me; I can see that Matilda
has made you aware that you are to have a governess, and all the morning
you have probably been working yourself up with the idea of suffering
from what I trust may prove the greatest blessing to you. I cannot now
devote my mornings to you as I did in the island; I must frequently be
absent, and you are now of an age to require superior instruction to
that of your faithful and affectionate nurse; but you will still be my
little friend; in the evenings you will sing and read to me as you used
to do, and we shall always dine together
O, what a comfort
but I don't know that I shall be quite comfortable. My governess won't
like dining by herself; she will be melancholy
Now, dear child, you are again running on before the point, though I am
glad that now it is that you are anxious for your governess' comfort:
but she is not to be exclusively your governess, Leila, and she is not
to reside at Woodlands. Your aunt has most kindly proposed that you
should spend the mornings with your cousins, and be educated with them.
We are to breakfast together early as we used to do; when fine, you are
to walk there immediately after breakfast, or be sent in the carriage
when the weather is bad; and by five o'clock you are to be home to dine
with your papa. I give you a general invitation to dinner, Miss Leila
Howard, and pray give me a favourable answer
Papa, papa, how delightful you are to me
all my
fears, all my sorrows; where are they? You are like the sun to me, papa;
the sun chasing away the clouds, and now there is nothing but the blue
sky and my beautiful governess
And who told you she was to be beautiful
Nobody, papa; but I think she will be, and I am sure I shall like her
so much
I hope indeed that you will like her, my love; for if your aunt
succeeds in the application she is about to make, your governess is
likely to prove a very estimable person; but I don't suppose she ever
was beautiful, and she can't be very young now
As old as the hills, I reckon
As old as the hills, I _reckon_
Leila, from whom have you caught up that phrase
From Peggy Dobie
From Peggy Dobie; but, my love, have I not told you that I do not wish
you to acquire Peggy Dobie's mode of expressing yourself? I shall regret
my promise of allowing Peggy to remove to Woodlands, if you are to adopt
her phrases, and try to imitate her mode of speaking
But, papa, I promise you I will not, and I dare say our governess would
not like me to speak in that way either. I hope she will come to us very
soon; how soon do you think, papa? in a few days?-- our governess, I
mean. I know Peggy Dobie cannot be here so soon, or my pets either: how
delightful it will be when they all arrive, what a world of happiness it
will be then
My dear Leila, I have already told you that I hope this lady, if we
succeed in engaging her, may prove a real blessing and advantage to you;
but you must not allow your imagination to run away with you in this
way, or suppose that you are immediately to find her in every way
delightful; she is a person who has experienced severe trials; her
husband lost a large fortune by the failure of a bank with which he was
connected; he died soon after, leaving her and one little girl totally
unprovided for. Her sister has taken this little girl to be educated
with her own children, and Mrs. Roberts has for some time past been
looking out for a situation as governess. Your aunt has a high idea of
her principles, and was much struck by the truly Christian way in which
she has borne up under her misfortunes; and having resided several years
abroad, she speaks both French and Italian with facility, and is besides
an excellent musician. All this makes her a most desirable person, but
the sorrows she has gone through may probably make her graver than you
may at first think agreeable; and you must remember, besides, that a
governess has an arduous task to perform, and many difficulties to
combat
What difficulties, papa
The difficulties, my love, of having three little girls to correct, to
control, and to instruct
Yes, my love
Mrs. Roberts would be unworthy of
our confidence, and neglectful of her duty, if she did not correct your
faults
But, papa, she would only have two to correct: Selina is quite perfect;
don't you think so, papa
No, my love; I know no one in this world who is perfect, and Selina,
though several years older than you are, is still very young, and
requires much care and instruction to form her character; but she has
fewer faults than any other little girl I know -- she is indeed singularly
admirable; Mrs. Roberts, I have no doubt, will think herself very
fortunate to have such a pupil
And what will she think about me, papa
Why, she will probably think that she has got rather an impetuous
little woman to manage, one who often allows her imagination to get the
better of her
yet I feel
sure also that she will not be long of loving my little girl, though she
is not _perfect_; and now Leila
have you any idea of
what is to be done to-day
No, papa, I have no idea. Are we to begin our lessons again? Oh, no! I
see you have a plan -- I see it in your face. Do tell me: I am sure you
have something pleasant to tell
Yes
I think you will like the arrangement for
this forenoon. I have just been proposing to your aunt that we should
visit Woodlands, that you should see your future home, my child; and we
have settled that you young folks are to walk there with Nurse and Amy,
and I have ordered the open carriage to drive your uncle and aunt; we
shall probably be there first to receive you
Papa, how delightful! May I run and tell Selina and Matilda the good
news? and Alfred, may he go too
Certainly, my love
Well then, I am off -- how delightful to have so much to tell; and I may
speak about our governess also, papa, may I not
Yes, my love, you may; but your aunt has probably by this time
mentioned the subject to your cousins; I know she intended doing so this
morning
Well, Cousin Leila
we have news for you, and
not very good news either. Now all the day long it will be,--'Hold up
your head, Miss Leila,' 'Why do you walk in that awkward way, Miss
Matilda?' 'How troublesome you are; I wish you would take example by
your elder sister -- one awkward trick after another -- I really must
complain of you to Mrs. Stanley.' Yes, Selina, you need not shake your
head at me and look so grave; Leila will look grave also when she knows
the truth. Yes, Leila, I was quite right, it is all settled, we are to
have a governess; so no more pleasant days for us. Botheration,
botheration
Oh, Matilda! how can you speak in this way, and after all
mamma has been just saying? and you seemed to feel it so
Yes, I know I am wrong; and when mamma was speaking to me I felt very
sorry, and I resolved I would try to please this Mrs. Roberts, or rather
mamma, for I would rather please mamma than any one in the whole world;
but, Leila, you looked when you came in as if you had something joyful
to say; if you have, please to say it, for we need good news very much
to-day
Now no more reading to-day, if you please, _Mrs.
Demure_; this is what I call the right kind of a holiday -- how merry we
shall be! Well, I do think Uncle Howard makes most delightful plans; how
do you manage, Leila, to get him to do so many nice things
I don't manage
he is always thinking of doing kind
things to me and every body, and he has told me all about our governess,
and made me like having one more than I did at first; I will tell you
about it as we go along, for we are to walk, you know, and we must make
haste and get ready, that papa and uncle and aunt may not be there long
before us
Look, Selina
I think that must be Woodlands, had we not
better ask some one if it is
Pray do stop
if you are not very busy, and tell us if that
is Woodlands
Dear heart, young lady, but you must be a stranger in these parts -- that
Woodlands, _that_? It would be but a humble post indeed to open the park
gates to them good people, a very decent family too, I mean to say
nothing disrespectful, but Woodlands, bless your heart, Woodlands is one
of the _principalest_ houses in the whole countryside. Do you see that
beautiful great house standing on the height there, with the broad
terrace and the pleasure-grounds sloping down to the river, and them
grand woods on each side, shutting out the summer's sun and the winter's
blasts?-- _that's_ Woodlands, and it's not every day you will see its
like; but you are pleasant-looking young ladies to my mind, and if you
have a fancy to see Woodlands, though it's not to every one I would say
as much, I have no objections to unlock the gates for you, for once and
away
And are the gates always locked
papa told us to go there
No, no, my young lady; it's not papas or mammas either that can give
that permission. As long as my head's above ground, there shall no
promiscuous company enter there; but never vex your sweet heart
never vex your heart; you shall see the place for all that
but Woodlands has gotten a new master, one Squire Howard,
they tell me -- a fine man from the Indies. Heaven send he may be a kind
one; but they tell queer stories about him too. It was I that showed the
two gentlemen that came to settle about it all over the place, and they
said something of his having lived in a desert island, a Robinson Crusoe
sort of an affair that I could not make out at all; but if we are to
have a master from a desert island, I hope he will keep more company
about him than his man Friday, or Woodlands will be a changed place
My papa had no man Friday with him in the island
but we do not live there now. We came into the world last
May, and our man-servant's name is John; in the island we had only
Nurse -- look, she is coming up to us now, and she is to be my papa's
housekeeper at Woodlands
My master's daughter; it's not possible. Surely
You may indeed look surprised
for you have made a fine
mistake. Yes, it is quite true: you have all this time been speaking to
Miss Howard. She is the young mistress of Woodlands. And now will you
open the gates
Don't, Matilda, pray don't
do you not see how sorry he looks
Do put on your
hat
the sun is hurting your eyes, and you need not be the
least sorry for what you have said. I dare say you were told to take
care of it; that was just the way Nurse used to watch over every thing
in the island, only there we had no gates to lock
Oh, Bill, Bill
you have been long, and to have been
away to-day of all days in the year, and a fine lady and gentleman away
up the approach in the carriage, and the squire himself, and a kind,
civil-spoken gentleman he seems to be
Welcome to
all of you
welcome to your future home, my Leila; may it be a happy home to you,
my dearest child
It is very beautiful; but how shall I ever be able to manage such a
house as this
Don't distress yourself, Leila, it is not till you
are grown up that you will have to manage; your papa will do it now, and
my mamma will help him
Surely it is very large
Young mistress of Woodlands
We will manage all for you very nicely
so, my dear Leila, do not be afraid; and this room will not look
so large when it is furnished, and we have sofas, and chairs, and large
tables, and little tables, and all sorts of pretty things in it; and it
certainly will not be too large if we succeed in having all the kind
friends around us at Christmas whom I hope we shall have. Your aunt,
uncle, and cousins, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert, and Maria, and perhaps the
Selbys, with Louisa, who knows
My birds, my birds
my turtle-doves, my parrots, how
they will enjoy it. They will think this more beautiful than their green
parlour
and the shadows of coming evils, have dimmed its
brightness
Come
we will act a play now
Now
I will be Bill; you, Cousin
Leila, are to be talking very gravely with Selina, consulting her how
you are to order the dinner at Woodlands when I come up to you; and
you, Alfred, are to be the pit, and stamp with your feet, and call out
very loud
But why
should poor Alfred be in the pit? I don't
like that, it puts me in mind of such melancholy things,-- Joseph and his
wicked brothers, you know,-- and he called out and they would not listen;
and the cruel thing we did ourselves; we put the poor goats into the
pit; but papa said that was a necessary evil
You are so odd
it is not that sort of a
pit at all. I never saw it myself, but Lydia told me about it,-- it is a
place where all the gentlemen sit in rows to see the play, and they
stamp very loud with their feet, and call out encore; encore means -- say
it again; don't forget that, Alfred
Now
we have had enough of this; let us play at Nurse's
play now, let us play at being rational beings, and sit down quietly to
our work; now there's a proposal for you, Selina, what do you say to
that? I am going to turn over an entirely new leaf, and I will begin
with putting back this hat into its right place, and folding up this
crumpled pinafore so very nicely that Nurse will say it is fresh out of
the fold. Now it is all done, and I declare you have got out your work
already; well, here is mine, and we can sit down comfortably and
converse about our future lives
Yes
that will be a delightful subject
I don't know that
you are forgetting about the
governess; she is to be here very soon, if she can come. Mamma wrote to
her this morning; she bid me hold the taper when she was sealing the
letter, and I could not help thinking how nice it would be if I could
give a little push and set the letter on fire
Oh, Matilda
how sorry you make me; why do you talk
in this way and why should your future life not be happy because we are
to have a governess to save mamma trouble; you know she is not very
strong, and she is not able to manage us herself
To manage _me_, you should say, Selina; but how can my future life be
happy, when she will be for ever finding fault with me
But why do you think so? It is quite in your own power to go on happily
with her; she will not find fault with you unless you deserve it, and
surely you would not wish to grow up in your faults; you could not have
a happy future life if you are not good, for you have a conscience,
Matilda, and after a little you are always sorry when you do wrong
I am, Selina; you know me very well; but then I am so often bad, and so
often sorry, that there is no great happiness about my life after all,
even though I have not a governess. Well, we shall see if she makes this
great change
She cannot make the _change_, Matilda, she can only tell you what is
right; and you cannot do it either, of yourself. You must pray for the
Spirit of God to come into your heart, and to make you really sorry for
your faults, and really anxious to do what is right
But I am really anxious
and I am always wishing I
could be as good as you are
I wish you would not say that so often; I am not good
Oh, if _you_ are not good, and you expect me to be better than you are,
it is a bad business! I need not try
Why do you talk in that way? You do not know all the foolish things I
think of and wish to do; but remember, Matilda, the lesson I have had,
and the great blessing God has given me. Before I had made up my mind to
be always dumb, I used often to pray to Him, and promise that if He
would open my lips, I would try to be more and more His child, and
praise Him with my life as well as with my heart; and when I read of
Jesus Christ opening the eyes of the blind, and making the dumb to
speak, I used to have such deep sorrow, that sometimes I could scarcely
bear it; I used to shut myself up alone and say to myself, Why did I not
live then? Surely if I had asked Him myself, and He had seen my sorrow,
He would have listened. Oh, it was a sinful thought
But why was it sinful
It was sinful, because it was doubting His wisdom, for He knew what was
best for me; it was also doubting his power, for in heaven He equally
hears our prayers and sees our sorrows; and the miracles He worked on
earth are not greater than those which are every where around us. The
spring and summer coming again, and bringing up the flowers, and making
the dead earth so green and beautiful, are miracles of His power; and
the very miracle I asked for was granted -- granted in a moment -- my lips
were opened; from that time I made my resolution
What resolution
The resolution that I would try to think of Him more than I had ever
done before; that I would be part of every day alone, not to ask for
more worldly blessings, but to thank Him for giving me more than I ever
can deserve
And so this is the reason
why you go away in the
forenoon and lock your door. I never could find out what you were doing;
once I thought I would look through the keyhole, and I went on tip-toe,
but then I remembered mamma saying that was a mean, low habit, and I did
not. But you do another thing, Selina, which you never used to do
before; in the morning, after you have read the Bible, you turn over and
over the pages, as if you were looking for something. What are you doing
then, for you cannot be reading
I am finding out texts. Every day I search for a text, and an answer to
it, and I get them by heart; it helps to keep good thoughts in my mind
during the day
And you never told me a word of all this
and if you had, it might have made me better, and I could have learned
texts also. Why did you not tell me
I believe I was wrong, but I
always feel ashamed to talk on those subjects before any one; I fear it
is a false shame
No, Selina, no
my papa explained to me about
that; to be sure, to Matilda or to me you might have said it, for he
told me that with a very dear friend it was a delightful subject, but
that in the world I must not talk about God as I used to do in the
island; I must try to think of Him constantly just the same, and always
ask myself how He would wish me to act, but I must not say so before
indifferent people (that means worldly people). He says before worldly
people it may do harm, for their minds may not be in a good frame at the
moment, and it might make them worse, and might make them turn away; and
even before good people I should not talk in this way, for good people
may be shocked, and think it too sacred a subject to be talked of before
many; but, Selina, I would like to do all that you have been telling me
you do; I would like to find out texts also, and try to keep them in my
mind, for it is not so easy to be good here as in the island, so many
new things come into my mind here. What was the text you found out for
to-day
It was from the Psalms: 'Blessed be God which hath not turned away my
prayer, nor his mercy from me
And what answer did you find
My answer was also from the Psalms: 'I sought the Lord and he heard me,
and delivered me from all my fears
And it was an excellent answer
and very comforting.
I am so glad, Selina, you have told me of this plan. I know a great many
texts, for you know in the island I had no other book to read but the
Bible, but I never thought of this plan; I wish I had
I do not know the Bible by heart as
Leila does
but you, Selina, will find out a text to suit
me, and I will learn it
I must go to her
she is a dear, kind sister to me, and
always so sorry when she does wrong
Such a happy home preparing for me, and so many
to love
Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions:
according to thy mercy remember thou me, for thy goodness' sake, O
Lord
I have blotted out as a thick
cloud thy transgressions, and as a cloud thy sins: return unto me, for I
have redeemed thee
The sun was gude baith
for bees and bodies, and gladdened her auld heart
Now
I have but a few days to wait, and I can scarce
count up all the pleasures that are coming upon me;-- Woodlands, and all
the Christmas party, with all the friends that I love; and Dash, and
Peggy Dobie, and all my birds and turtle-doves again,-- joy, nothing but
joy
Oh, Miss Leila
poor, _poor_ Peggy Dobie, and our
valuable Dash, and all the poor dumb animals
What is it, Nurse
are
they arrived?-- but no; that is not possible; they cannot arrive for two
days yet. What has happened? why do you look so? Oh, tell me
Calm yourself, my dear Miss Leila. It was not like my usual prudence to
frighten you in this way; but did you not hear the awful wind in the
night? listen to it now, how it roars
You were wrong to leave your bed, my child, you are very cold -- and
cold also, I fear, from excessive agitation. Now, dear Leila, give me a
proof this day that you are endeavouring to gain more command over your
feelings, and let me see that you do not give way to what are, I trust,
unnecessary fears
Unnecessary
Papa, do you remember
Clara
Yes, my dear child, I do remember; but I remember also that there is
_One_ whose arm is mighty to save. He can say to the angry waves, 'Be
still;' and without his knowledge 'not a sparrow falls to the ground.'
He took Clara to Himself, and He saved us from further trial. He willed
it so -- let us trust to Him entirely. He alone, who knows the end from
the beginning, can make all work together for good
Yes, papa, I will
try to think of all this, and my text for to-day shall be, 'The waves of
the sea are mighty and rage horribly, but yet the Lord who dwelleth on
high is mightier: for He maketh the storm to cease, so that the waves
thereof are still.' Now kiss me, papa, and please send Amy to help me to
dress, and when I have been to your room to say my prayers and to read
to you, I am sure I shall feel quite comforted again, and you shall see
that I am getting command, papa
I am sorry
that she is not to arrive here at first with my
pets, for we cannot know the very moment, and it will take some time for
Bill to send us the message. How nice it would be if we had a
carrier-pigeon, papa, then it could fly to us in a moment; when we are
staying at Woodlands, perhaps you will allow me to teach a
carrier-pigeon, then I can send letters to Selina and Matilda whenever I
wish to tell them any thing. Eh, papa? is not this a nice little plan?
But you have not answered me yet if we may go to Woodlands
Why, my dear child, so many nice little plans from you come popping
out, one after another, that it is not easy to answer them all; but I
have no objections to your going to Woodlands, only remember, Leila,
that it is not at all certain that Peggy will arrive this evening; the
steamboat will probably have been detained by the storm
Well, papa, I will try to be very patient; but I don't think it will be
detained; I think that perhaps the wind will have blown it on much
quicker; so we must be quick also. You know, papa, you say we must not
anticipate evils, or give way to imaginary fears, eh, papa
Get along, little woman
What
was he not proud to do that small
service for his master's daughter, or any of her friends -- he hoped to do
many a greater service than that for the family ere long
It is most delightful
there is just one thing that
could be better, this arm-chair for Peggy should be turned round to the
hearth, a cat should be lying before it, and a nice fire burning. Were
you able to find peats in this country
you
know I begged you to try
Yes, yes
he did find them -- I saw them in a box behind
the door
Now, Nurse, dear Nurse
do let me light
Peggy's first fire myself -- you know how very kind she was to me; now
there's a good Nurse, I see you are going to let me -- you have your
good-natured face on, though you are shaking your head; but I know what
you mean by shaking it -- you think I shall dirty my hands, and that is
not a young lady's work; but peats don't dirty the hands -- I am only
going to put on peats and wood, you know
Oh, Miss Leila, Miss Leila, you have such a way with me
But, Nurse, you know you say yourself that I should not have useless
hands and be a fine lady. There, now I see it is yes by your eyes.
Matilda, give me that match-box from the chimney-piece
Now, Selina, take the bellows, and blow very gently while I am
crumbling down a little of the peat; that's it. Oh, how nice! See what a
blaze already -- now for the wood; we must put the wood behind, and more
peats in the front -- how it burns! is not this charming
Well
desert island, or _no desert island_, you are a handy little miss; see
when a London young lady would have kindled a fire in such a
fashion,-- but you seem all of one stamp. Heaven be praised for such a
family
There is still one thing wanting
still the cat. Peggy
will not think herself at home without a cat upon the hearth. You are so
good-natured
perhaps you
would be so very kind as to give us your cat, just for one day, till
Peggy has time to unpack her own
There is nothing in my house that I would not give
to pleasure my young mistress; but, bless your heart, the cats
in our country would never abide on a strange hearth. Our cat would be
through the window in no time, I am afeared
It was very foolish in me to propose this
for I dare
say all cats are the same, and our Selina almost mewed her heart out
when she was first put into the ship -- she can't bear strange places
either
Nothing fine in my
room, papa -- please, nothing fine; just a nice little bed with white
dimity curtains, and a large sea-grass mat under my little
washhand-stand, for I don't like to wash and dash and splash on a
Brussels carpet
Victoria
The Victoria has come in
My pets, my pets
and Dash, and
Peggy Dobie -- all -- ALL safe
Dear child
dear
child, your pets are safe, but Dash and Peggy
What of them, papa? Oh tell me, tell me quick -- why do you look so
grieved
Try to calm yourself, my beloved
child, for you have much to bear. Peggy and Dash are not in the
Victoria; they have not been seen since the night of the storm
But how is that possible, papa? It cannot be, they were in the
ship -- oh, yes they were. I cannot understand what you mean. I am not
very frightened; say it all out quick
Lost to me, lost to
me for ever! Oh, poor Peggy, and my dear, dear Dash -- my dearest
friend
I am wrong, very, very wrong; I am vexing you. Peggy herself
said, if the dearest was left, if she had him to love and him to listen
to -- and have I not you, papa, and are you not my dearest one, and so
many besides to love
and it is
bad in me to be so sorry for Dash -- for poor Peggy is a human being -- but
Dash, my own Dash, and twice he saved my life
The great trial has come
to me at last, and I must bear it, but God will help me
You had better not, Matilda: I am sure Leila has gone to
her own room to pray
And Peggy, papa, and Dash? did
he say nothing of them
He spoke of Dash, my love, with much regret; he said he was a most
noble animal. He seemed not to be aware to whom it belonged
A most noble animal; yes, he was noble, every
body loved Dash
Dash could swim so well; do you think, papa,
there is any
Any hope, you would say, my love; I fear, Leila, we must not trust to
it, but the same idea struck me, and before I left town I wrote an
advertisement, fully describing Dash, and giving our address; and this I
sent to the 'Times' newspaper office
Oh, thank you, thank you, dear papa
Il faudra faire comme nous pourrons, il faudra faire comme nous
pourrons, il faudra faire comme nous pourrons; now surely this is
knocked into my brains
Well, Selina
you need not shake your head; il faudra
faire comme nous pourrons, and I am sure I am doing the best I can
Are you
How provoking you are, Selina; there do you two sit as quietly as if
nothing were going to happen, and as if Mrs. Roberts might not arrive
every moment
But will running to the window and shaking the whole room make her come
any sooner
To be sure it will, that is, I shall see her sooner. Alfred, do run
down and listen if you hear a carriage
there's a good boy, run down and do like Fine-ear, you know;
stoop down and put your ear to the ground, there's a man
I could not play at fine-ear,
Matilda
for I saw the carriage at a little distance the
moment I went out; listen, it is stopping at the door now
I have seen her trunks
I don't like them
Well, Selina, why do you put on that sorrowful face? I did not say I
did not like her. Come, cheer up, I will do the best I can
Well
how do you like her
Very much, we like her very much
Very much
well, I don't. I don't like her at all
And why, Matilda? why do you not like her
I don't like her nose
Don't like her nose
No, I don't; she has a pinched nose, and don't you see it droops
I am Louisa's pretty bird
Come in, I think I know who is there; what have you got to tell me,
love
And now, papa
you know I am of a great age now, I am eleven, and I want to talk to
you a little about my responsibilities
Your responsibilities, my love!-- that is a very fine word for you;
where did you pick up that word, Leila
I think it is a very nice word, papa, and I understand it; and you must
know I have responsibilities in my new home, for I heard Aunt Stanley
say to Mrs. Roberts the other day, that Miss Palmer had gone now to keep
her father's house, and would have many responsibilities; that besides
the regulating the house, and attending in every way to his comfort, she
would also have the school to attend to, and the poor people to visit,
and it was a large parish. I could not find out what a large parish
meant, but I understood all the rest; and don't you think, papa, I
should have a school, also, and visit the poor people
No, dear Leila; I think you are too young to have a school at present;
but don't look so disappointed, my love; let us talk this matter over
quietly. Miss Palmer is a great many years older than you are, she is a
grown-up young lady, and it is quite right that she should in every way
imitate her excellent mother's example, and endeavour to make up as much
as lies in her power for the loss they have sustained in Mrs. Palmer's
death: but you, my love, are still a child, and requiring too much
instruction yourself to be able to instruct others; yet you, dear
Leila, also have your responsibilities
I am so glad of that papa
Yes
you are responsible for the talents God
has entrusted to you, for the employment of your time, for the
cultivation of the abilities He has given you; for the use you make of
the religious instruction you receive in correcting your faults; you are
by nature ardent and impetuous, you must struggle for the mastery over
yourself; for more self-denial, in rejecting the sudden impulses by
which you are governed; you must try to check that excessive sensibility
which, if indulged in, must unfit you for the necessary exertion for the
welfare of others which is so high a duty, and without which you would
soon become a useless, selfish being -- turning away from the misery of
others, from the fear of what you yourself must feel in witnessing it
But, papa, if I am not to teach a school or visit the poor, and only to
cultivate abilities, is not that turning away from others, is not that
being selfish
But, my dear Leila, it is by no means my wish that you should turn away
from others; though you are as yet too young to teach a school yourself,
you are not too young to accompany your Aunt Stanley when she goes to
visit the school, in which she takes so much interest. Selina often
accompanies her; I shall ask her to allow you to do so also; and in this
way you will become acquainted with the duties you will, I trust, one
day fulfil yourself. You will, also, accompany me in visiting the poor;
you have now a weekly allowance, which, though not much, will still
enable you, by practising self-denial in some of your own desires, to
save a little each week for the benefit of others: with this you can
sometimes buy materials which may be useful to poor children; and by
employing some part of your time in making them up, you can bestow a
double benefit; for remember, Leila, it is not real charity to give of
your superfluity only
I know it, papa; I know that you are thinking now of the rich man
throwing into the treasury, and the widow's mite, and I will try to be
the widow's mite. Am I staying too long, papa
must I
go now? perhaps you wish to have your book again
No, my dear child, I am in no hurry to resume my book; I am quite
pleased to have a little talk with you; besides, if I had not heard your
little tap at the door just then, I meant to have sent for you -- I have
got something to show you
To show me, papa
Yes, my love; something which will interest you, but will also bring to
your mind sorrowful recollections
Is it about Dash
has any one answered the advertisement? or Peggy?-- but no, about
Peggy, that is impossible; poor Peggy
No, my child, I have heard
nothing of them
I have tried to bear it, papa, and not to give way;
and I have prayed to God, and He has strengthened me, and often I feel
quite comforted, sometimes I feel quite happy, just as if it had never
been; but often when I am talking and laughing I am not really happy -- I
am only pretending, for Selina and Matilda always look so distressed
when I am sorrowful; but night is the worst -- I always think of Peggy at
night;-- and how kind she was to me; and there is nobody to be made
sorrowful then, and so I often cry very much; but I won't talk of it any
more, and I am forgetting you had something to show me
Flower-seeds
are they not, papa
Yes, my love, they are the seeds of Clara's flower
Of Clara's flowers! Who has been to visit her lonely
grave? Who, papa
No, one, my love; I gathered those seeds the day we left the island;
but I did not mention it to you, because I thought I had lost them, and
that they had dropped from my pocket-book. This morning I found that
this paper had fallen within another, and that the seeds were still
there; there are only seven of them, but I don't think there ever were
more, for I remember I had difficulty in finding even these
I also tried to find seeds that day, and
could get none -- how interesting they will be to me. I will plant them
instantly, and when they spring up, I will have some of Clara's flower
to give to her mamma
But, my dear Leila
had you not better wait till
spring? I fear this is not a good time to sow flower-seeds
at least, it would be more prudent to
sow only part now, and the others in spring, this will give you the best
chance of securing some of the plants
Well, papa, I will do that, and three I think will be prudent
You
had better keep these, papa, that I may not be tempted; and I will go
now to the gardener -- he is very good-natured -- he will give me a
flower-pot and the proper earth, and I will plant them this moment and
put them into the conservatory. In the conservatory it will be the same
for them as in the island, for it is always so warm there; so you see,
papa, I am very prudent about them, for I did not mean to put them out
in the cold. Every day I shall watch for their coming up. You could not
have given me any thing, papa, so very interesting to me -- I will come
back and tell you when they are planted
Some
very small seeds
came up very quickly, while others of
equal size required to lie in the ground a long time; he would not
despair
though they did not make their appearance for a
month; besides, who could tell what might be the nature of flower-seeds
from that outlandish country
that it was easy to see their young
mistress was something by common, something sae gleesome, and springing
about her as if her foot had been used to the hill-side and the heather
brae. She remembered him muckle of the highland lassies of his own dear
country; for though he had been long enough in England to have forgotten
his Scotch tongue, (and the more the pity,) yet he had not been long
enough to forget their ways, and he was still a highlander in his heart,
every inch of him
I cannot find Selina
but, Cousin Leila, you are always so
good-natured, perhaps you will go with me to Mrs. Roberts,-- I have done
a cruel thing, though I did not mean to be cruel, and I would like to
have some one with me when I tell it
Mrs. Roberts
you told me not to be cruel, and I promised, and indeed I was
not cruel; but I have brought the body to you to see if you can bring it
alive again
What is the boy saying? the _body_! what body
Matilda, you are not to touch that paper
and now, my little man, compose
yourself, and tell me distinctly what has happened
Crying for such a thing as that
foolish Alfred
But, Matilda, it had eight legs
And so
because its eight legs melted away you
must melt away also. Take care, Alfred, we shall be looking for _you_
next on the carpet, and not be able to find you
That is the body
and now
do you think I
can do any thing to revive it? If I were to put it into a cup of warm
water, perhaps
Perhaps its legs would grow on again, you mean. Well,
Alfred, this certainly would be a wonderful water-cure; you should set
up an establishment and call it the warm water-cure for making legs and
arms grow on again. You would make a fortune; for I heard mamma say the
other day, that this seemed to be the age for believing in every sort of
wonderful cure that could be invented, the more improbable the better
How you run on, Matilda
you should be aware
Alfred cannot enter into all this sort of thing -- you forget the
difference of age between you
No, Alfred, it would not do to put this spider into water.
This is what is called a wolf-spider, and were you to put it into warm
water, you would certainly kill it; at present I do not think it is
dead
Give me that sheet of white paper
Now keep quiet, all of you
and we shall see what it does
Alive, and I did not kill it,
and it has got all its legs again; how very wonderful! But where did the
thread come from by which it got down so very quick? Mrs. Roberts, do
tell me
It spun the thread from a sort of gluey substance which is contained in
the flasks in its body. Each spider has four of those flasks or bags of
gum, and from each tube communicates with what is called its spinneret,
and with the gluey substance which passes through these tubes, it spins
its thread with these spinnerets; it is very wonderful, but too
difficult for you to understand at present. That thread which appeared
to you so fine is composed of many finer threads, which make it
stronger; just as in cords of equal thickness, those which are composed
of many smaller ones united are greatly stronger than those which are
spun at once; but where has the spider gone to now, Alfred? Yes, I see
it; don't touch it
It is trying
to ascertain from which side there
is a current of air to carry its thread to some object to support it,
the opposite rim of the saucer, for instance
Oh, how very curious
Now you shall see it throw its little silken bridge across, and
get free from this sad imprisonment
Well done, you clever creature
how I wish I could
sometimes escape from the school-room as cleverly
You are a sad girl, Matilda
there is much folly bound up in your little heart, but I don't despair
of you; the time will come, and I trust ere long, when you will not find
the school-room such an imprisonment
But, Leila, you have expressed no surprise at all those
wonderful things! I do believe you knew about them before, though you
did not say a word
Yes
papa told me a good deal about spiders
in the island
Out with it, then
do, Leila, tell us
every thing you know; how odd you are; when I know any thing I am dying
to tell it. What more did your papa say about them
He showed me a water-spider, sailing in its curious little raft, and
watching for its prey; and a mason-spider, living in a beautiful nest,
lined with a sort of orange-coloured silk, which it had spun itself, and
with a little door to its nest with a spring hinge, which shuts of
itself when the spider goes in. And he did a curious thing about the
eggs of the wolf-spider; he took away the bag of eggs, and then the
little spider carried off the bag belonging to the large spider; and
they had such a fight about it
Oh! do tell us more about that
I should like
so to hear about the fight; and so the little spider carried off the bag
of eggs belonging to the big spider -- that was most excellent
And most just
Now, Selina, that is so like you; how can you expect a spider to have a
sense of justice, and it is natural for spiders to fight, I dare say;
indeed it is natural for other people also sometimes, and just because
they have a sense of justice. But, Leila, do tell us all about it
Mrs. Roberts could explain it much better
No, my dear, I don't think I could; you will do it more simply, because
you will tell only what you understand yourself; but stay, did you not
say, Alfred, that you saw a great many spiders under the stones in the
garden? perhaps, Leila, you might find some with a bag of eggs -- take
this tumbler to catch them in -- bring two, if you can find them, a larger
and a smaller, and put this paper over the glass, that they may not
escape. Matilda, I see you are eager to go also -- you may accompany
Leila; but allow her to catch the spiders -- great care must be taken not
to injure the bags
Now we shall see it all
you can't think how cleverly
Leila caught them; she is an excellent spider hunter. Now, Leila, begin;
do try to make them fight
Stop, stop
are you going to stick a needle in its
body? I don't want to see that
No, no
don't be afraid; I am only going to take off
the bag, and the bag is not a part of its body, though it looks like
it -- it will easily come off; the spider glues it on, and it can easily
do so again, after we have seen them fight
O look
she is stopping behind your writing-desk,
Leila; she thinks she has got into a cunning hole, where no one will see
her -- what is she about now?-- she is pushing the bag between her legs,
and I do believe she is glueing it in -- yes, indeed, for there she is
scampering off again, and with her bag just as it was before; she will
be off the table in a moment
Now
if
they are the same as the spiders in the island, she will fancy the bag
of eggs of the other spider to be her own, and she will fight for it
Poor thing
she will never be able to manage so many
little ones
Oh, she will get a governess
and I only hope she may
get as good a one as Mrs. Roberts
You are
an odd girl, Matilda
but you had better take the spider
down into the garden again, it will be more likely to find a governess
there, who will understand the nature of the charge
You will be the better, all of you, for a little fresh air in the
garden: I have a letter to write, which has been too long delayed, but I
shall join you there as soon as I have finished
How this one must have grown
I scarcely remember
it: what a pretty bird
I am
Louisa's pretty bird, take me home -- pray take me home
That is just what I wanted it to do -- yes, it
is for you; Leila has taught it to say that -- it is to be your parrot
Mamma, mamma
I must not forget my dear child has also a brother to receive, who
longs to know her
You are too
tall to be my brother
That is a fault I cannot change; I can
only try to make you forget it
I have never told you
I
have never told you how very sorry I was afterwards for having made that
rude speech to Charles when I first saw him; but I was so very much
disappointed, I could not help saying it; I had been thinking so much of
having a little brother, and of how kind I should be to him, and how he
would grow up to love me. And when I saw that tall Charles, I could
scarcely keep from crying, for since my great trial of poor Peggy Dobie,
and my dear, dear Dash, I don't know why it is, but so often I am ready
to cry when any thing like another trial comes to me -- but this has not
turned out a trial after all
So you are getting reconciled then, my love, to Charles being tall, and
don't wish so much now that you had a little brother rather
No, indeed I don't -- I like it much better; for Charles is so kind, and
takes such care of me, and he is so fond of Mina; he is an excellent
brother; and don't you think he is an excellent son too? He often looks
at you just as I do at my papa. I am sure he is thinking then that you
never can know how much he loves you. I dare say Charles never does any
thing very wrong; only a little wrong, I suppose, for papa always says
no one is quite perfect
No, my dear Leila, I do not say Charles is by any
means perfect; he has faults, still I may say that he is one who has
never yet given us cause for serious uneasiness."

"I was sure of that
for he always looks as if he
could not bear to vex any one; I often wish to ask him to forgive me for
what I said: but I don't know why, I often feel a little shy with
Charles, though I like so much to talk to him. I hope it will go off in
time, for I should like to be able to tell him every thing I think, just
as I do to you; if he had been a little boy I would not have cared to do
this, I would only have said little things to make him laugh and to
amuse him; so, as Nurse always says, every thing in this world turns out
for the best, if we would only remember this, and not fret. But
when I said just now that I told you every thing, I forgot
that there is one thing I cannot tell you
And what is that
Why should you be afraid to
tell me every thing
I am not afraid
but it is not the right time yet to
tell. Perhaps I shall be disappointed myself, and then I need not tell
you, for it would only make you sorry; but if it comes up it is for you.
Now I must go to the conservatory; I go there every morning alone, but
don't ask me why I go
How now, lady bright, gazing on brown earth, and so many beautiful
blooming flowers around you
Oh, Charles
I am so happy, so very happy; so thankful
Thankful
thankful for small things indeed, for I can see
nothing
Nothing! look again, Charles; only look here -- don't you see
No, I see nothing, and unluckily I have not got my spectacles at hand
Yes, I do see two tiny little green
leaves just peeping above the brown earth; but they will require all
your tender care to rear them. Why are they so precious to you, Leila?
But do not tell me if you would rather not
Yes, I should like to tell you
it is seeds from the
flower I planted on Clara's grave, and perhaps more will spring
Oh, Leila
dear Leila, how I have longed for this moment, how I have
wished you to talk to me of Clara. Clara, my own sweet sister, my lost
Clara; I seem to see her still, how lovely she was
You knew her then
you remember her; but
how -- were you not in England
No; from our being up the country and in a good climate, I was nearly
ten years old before it was thought necessary to send me to England;
never can I forget the first time I saw Clara. I was taken into the room
where mamma was lying on her bed, so pale, so beautiful, only the
slightest tinge of colour in her cheek. Clara and Mina lay on each side
of her; she took my hand, a bright flush came into her face for a
moment, 'My little son,' she said, 'may God watch over you and preserve
you to be a protector to your sisters; if these dear ones live to be
sent home to England, you will be already there. Promise me that when
you are together, you will watch over them, and always endeavour by your
own example to teach them to love and serve their heavenly Father. May
you never, dear Charles, forget this moment; may my earnest request be
always remembered, when you yourself are tempted to do what is wrong
And were you sent away from them immediately
How
melancholy this must have been for you
Oh no, not immediately; Clara and Mina were three years old before I
left India. They could talk and run about. In the cool season I used to
make them run races in the garden with each other. They often laughed so
at my constantly mistaking one for the other, for I never could
distinguish them, till mamma put a small gold chain round Clara's neck
Was it this
Yes, the very same; but there was no locket suspended from it
My own mamma
and how beautiful! and those laughing
eyes -- yes, I remember how she used to look in that way, when she was
playing with us all. And this was Clara's locket -- my own dear sister,
and now, alas! only one remains to me
Then you will not have me for a sister
I thought I was too tall to be your brother
Oh, don't, don't say that
you don't know how sorry
I was afterwards, and how often I have wished to ask you to forgive me.
Will you
Yes, I see you will, I see it
in your eyes. I always know when people are loving me again by their
eyes
Do not tell mamma about the seeds; it is to be a
surprise to her. I have planted four, and if more spring, I should like
so much to give you one also
I am rather out of sorts, young ladies, at this moment, for I am
fearing my little Lizzy is getting into idle ways. Not a sight can I see
of her, all the other children in the village home from the school, and
she still loitering on the road. If I had not had the dinner to get
ready, I would have been off to seek her myself, and would have sent her
home in a hurry; but her father will be in to his dinner, and she will
get it from him I am thinking
As
Charles is with us, I don't think papa will be displeased
and we can tell him why
We
shall be sure of meeting your little Lizzy if we go by the road, and we
shall send her home to you very quick; but I hope you won't be angry
with her this time, for you know when it is an interesting play
sometimes one forgets. I forget very often myself, though I am so much
older than Lizzy
that if they met the little truant, the unworthy
little Lizzy, he would send her home in a hurry; he would give it her,
her father's anger would be a joke to his
Never mind him
never mind him -- don't believe a word of it, he's only saying it in fun;
Charles is not the least bit ill-natured. If we meet Lizzy I know the
sort of thing he will do, he will tap her kindly on the back, and say,
'Now there's a good girl, run home as quick as you can.' That's the sort
of way he will scold
Is it, my little wise sister
Well, well,
you will soon see the contrary; you don't know what an angry man I can
be; Leila has never yet seen me in one of my right towering passions, it
will frighten her out of her wits
How merry we all are
and how happy we have all been, and
now in three more days it will all be over
Oh, Mina
do not speak of it; I have been thinking
of it all the time, though I have been trying to laugh. I have never
been so happy before, and now I may never see you all again. You will
all be meeting often, but I shall be far away. You know in two months
we are going abroad. I used to like the thoughts of it so much; now I
cannot bear it. And you, Leila, you will be growing up, and so many to
love you, you will forget me
Never, Louisa, never; you were my first friend, you will always
Don't be frightened, Lizzy, don't; we shall
protect you
Dash, my own Dash
But how is this?
Is it my Dash? is it really true? how did it happen? Lizzy, what is the
meaning of this? how did he come here? where did you find him? Oh! tell
me; but how thin you are, my Dash; how changed -- oh, he has been
starved! how dreadful! But, Lizzy, run home to your mother; don't delay
a moment longer -- she is sorry you have been so long away; and let us get
home also as quick as we can, that we may get food for my dear Dash.
What joyful news for papa, and for Nurse, and Amy. Poor Peggy! Oh, if
Dash could speak
Don't oppose him
there is something under all this, we
had better follow as he leads
Her eyes are shut
she does not hear me; oh, Charles, tell
me, is she dead? Can we do nothing
Am I dreaming
and am I still in the
land of the living? surely it is the faces of my own dear bairns that I
see; but it canna be. Na, na, it is a vision o' the night, and it will
leave me with the light o' morning as it has ever done afore; but it's
morning now. Where am I? how has all this come about? oh! for a drop o'
water and a morsel o
It is
food she requires
she is starving. I see a house near, I
will be back in a moment
No, no, mister, that won't do; this is a bad job; there has been both
cold and hunger here; it's brandy she must have, and that instantly.
Heaven grant it may not be too late; I have my doubts
No
don't say it; we have found her again -- she must not
die
These poor thin rags
are not for such cold as
this, the poor creature is half frozen; but she is coming about again,
her lips are not just so white; she will do yet; and, by good luck, I
see one of my carts coming from the field; we shall have her into it and
home in a jiffy. Hollo, there! Joe, my man, here's a bye-job for you
Let him lie there, he will do much good
he is a
wise animal, and I am thinking it is to his good offices that there is
the breath of life in this poor creature. Where is she bound for, young
ladies
To Woodlands
Her papa
had gone to London with
her Aunt Stanley; but Nurse, she was sure, would be of great use, and
might bring with her whatever she thought necessary for Peggy
How wonderful are the ways of Providence
To think of Peggy
being restored to us again, she that we mourned as sleeping under the
salt wave
And wherefore did ye pit me there
Na, na, it was nae just sae bad as that, though
it's been out o' perils by sea and perils by land that the Lord has
delivered me, praise be to His holy name; but, oh! it's a deliverance
past my weak comprehension, I canna make it out; but it's all His
blessed work, and it's a reality -- it's no' a dream
No, Peggy, it's not a dream
See, we are all
around you, and now Cousin Leila will be happy again, and merry as she
was before
And did the dear bairn grieve sae for me? Oh! what it is to hear the
voices of ye all again, and to see your faces glinting down on me like
the blessed sunbeams on my withered heart; it was for this I prayed and
for this I toiled, as my puir blistered feet can testify; but it is a
strength that I have nought to do with that has brought me to see this
day; and now that the life seems in me again, in a measure, I would fain
ken where I am. Is it your house, Mistress Nurse, that they have brought
me to, and I making sae free, lying in your ain bed, wi' thae bonnie
genty white curtains, and all sae clean and comfortable about me, and
never sae much as a word o' thanks? you will think I hae left my manners
in the sea -- but we will no speak o' that awfu' element
But, Peggy
it's not Nurse's house -- it is your own;
and Cousin Leila told her papa every thing she thought you would like
Yes
and there are peats in a box behind the door;
and you have not seen the kitchen yet, with the walnut-tree table, and
cupboard, and the cuckoo clock -- all is for you -- it is your own house
My own house
O what am I, that such blessings should be showered
upon me, when He whom I serve 'had not where to lay His head!' O my
bairns! help me to praise Him, who has brought me out o' much
tribulation, for my mind's weak and head sair confused. Could you no'
tak' the book -- it's the Psalms o' David that could speak weel for me at
sic a moment
No, Peggy
that must not be: God looks to the heart. He
knows all your gratitude to Him -- but you are more exhausted than I ever
saw mortal being, and it's peace and quietness you want; you must try to
sleep, and the young ladies will be gude bairns, (as you call them,) and
go quietly home -- they will come to see you again to-morrow, when you
will be more able to speak to them of your mercies, for, surely, it has
been a great deliverance
And may I not stay with Peggy
No, Miss Leila, no; Peggy will be better alone with me; and as she will
require a little nourishment now and then, and it will need my
experience to know how much, I will watch by her till the evening; I am
sure my master will spare me on such an occasion; and you may say, that
if it is his pleasure to allow Amy to step down when I leave, and stay
this first night with Peggy, I think it is all she will require
Charles
if you had not told us
to follow Dash, Peggy would have died. Charles, if you had been a little
boy, you would not have said that
You are ill, Leila
the agitation of all this has been
too much for you
No, I am not ill
but I must go to papa
Has any thing happened
Leila, my child, why are you so
pale
Nothing more has happened,
papa; but I don't know what is the matter with me; it is joy -- but it is
too much happiness -- how can I ever thank God enough for all that He has
done for me!-- He has given me so many blessings. He sent me the trial,
but He has taken it away from me again, and gives me more than ever
joy -- tenfold joy, papa -- what can I say to Him -- what can I do?-- surely, I
am most ungrateful -- my heart is very full, but I feel as if I could do
nothing
You can give your heart more entirely, my love, to Him, who has given
so much for you; you can think of Him, love Him, walk with Him, and make
Him more and more to you an all-sufficient Saviour
But, papa, what frightens me is this; I have more blessings here than I
had in the island -- friends, and beautiful rooms, and fortune, and every
thing I could wish for -- but it does not make me give my heart more to
God. I used to think of God more in the island, when I saw His beautiful
world all around me; here it is beautiful also, but so many pleasures,
and so many people to love, take up my heart; perhaps it would be better
for me if I had trials
My dear Leila, you must beware of the error of believing, that were
your situation different, you would be better than you are now; the
fault is in yourself, not in the circumstances which surround you. You
think it would be better for you if you had trials; you have a trial at
this very moment -- the trial of prosperity, and it has often been found
more difficult to bear than the heaviest misfortunes. Remember the words
of your blessed Saviour, that 'it is easier for a camel to go through
the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.'
The possession of riches often tends to increase pride and
self-indulgence; they expose you to flattery and to many temptations to
pleasure, which make the self-denying principles of Christ more
difficult to follow; it is not money alone, that is here meant, but all
the sinful vanities of a worldly life
Well, papa, and is not this just what frightens me? Would it not be
better for me to have no money, and to live in some quiet place like the
island, where we should have nothing to tempt us off
No, my dear child, had it been so, we should have been continued there;
but the Bible does not tell us to renounce the world, but to overcome
the world. We are to live in it, but not to be led by it. If we have the
advantages of fortune and station in life, we have also greater
responsibilities -- we are responsible for the example we set to those who
look up to us, and for the use we make of those riches which are
intrusted to us, and for which, as faithful servants, we must one day
give an account
Then, papa, this is what you mean when you say, this world is a state
of trial; for it is not only a trial when we are poor and miserable, but
when we are rich and happy -- I never thought of that before, but then we
can never be at peace, papa, nor enjoy being happy
Yes, my child, we can be so, by endeavouring to bring eternity more
constantly before us, and by giving to things present only their proper
value: this will not prevent our enjoying them where consistent with
duty, but will prevent our feeling as if all were lost when they are
taken away; for God has promised to 'keep him in perfect peace, whose
mind is stayed on Him.' If we could only keep constantly in mind, that
every event, whether happy or mournful, if properly received, will work
together for our everlasting good, we should indeed enjoy 'that peace
which passeth all understanding.' Go then, my dear child, and enjoy the
many blessings which surround you, with a grateful heart
Yes, papa, I will go to Charles, and tell him you have made me well
again: he thinks I am ill, which will make him sorry, for you don't know
what a kind brother he is to me, and I like him so very much; he is one
of my blessings, and I think he will work for good, for he always tells
me what is right -- good-bye, papa
My bairns
you have come at the right moment -- I hae been
giving praise to Him that has lifted me out o' my sair tribulations, and
it is here I hae found the words, and noo may He put into my heart what
I should say to you; how can I ever thank you enough for all I see about
me, for all you have done for me
You need not thank us, Peggy
for we are as happy as
you are; and it is so joyful that you should be alive, and so wonderful,
that we can scarce believe it;-- and so you like your house
Like it, Miss Leila! 'deed that's no' the word to testify my wonderment
at all I see around me. I hae been looking at that cupboard, wi' all the
tumblers and glasses sparkling and shining like a leddy dressed out in
her diamonds, and praying that my auld head may not be turned all the
gether wi' the vanities o' life; but to feel that I hae come to sic a
haven o' rest, to lie down on that bed last night, and to think it was
my ain; to think that I am no longer a wanderer on the face o' the
earth, without a covering to my auld head, or a friend to speak the word
o' comfort to my crushed spirit -- no, it's no' just at ance that I can
get into a measure o' composedness for sic a change as this. I am in a
bewilderment o' joy and gratitude -- and there's Dash, bonnie man, wagging
his tail, and aye looking in my face; he is telling me we are in the
land o' Canaan noo. O let me ever thank God for all his mercies; and let
me thank you also, my dear bairns, for all your kindness to me; for
never did I think to have seen your bit canty faces again in the land o'
the living, for it's out o' the swellings o' Jordan that puir auld Peggy
has been delivered by an arm o' strength
It is so nice to hear you speaking Scotch again
I like
it so much. That word canty is such a nice word, and it is so nice to
have you back again when we thought you dead; but how did it all happen?
Were you not washed overboard in the storm? You must tell us all about
it. How were you saved
Yes
it will be such an interesting story, and so long;
for you must tell us every thing from the very beginning. But you are
not to tell it all in one day, for that would tire you. You are very,
very thin, Peggy
can we
do nothing to make you better? If it will tire you to speak, we will
wait for the story till another day
No, my dear bairn, it will no tire me; and it's weel my part to do all
I can to pleasure you or yours, though I will not just say but what I
may feel a wee thought ashamed to tell sic a lang tale afore all the
young ladies, and this fine young gentleman
But Peggy
he is not a fine young gentleman; he
is so kind and good-natured, he will like to hear the history of all
that has happened to you very much; and if he does not understand all
the Scotch words, I will explain them to him afterwards; he is my
brother Charles now, you need not be afraid of him
Your brother, is he? Weel, weel, sae let it be for the present, my
bonnie lamb. And noo where am I to begin in this lang tale
At the very beginning
at
the very beginning, Peggy, when you first embarked with all the pets
Ay, ay, and to think I hae no had the grace to ask after the puir dumb
things; but I am sair bewildered, and I kent they needs be safe, for
there's my cat that was amang them, just lying afore the fire quite
contented, and no ways strange, puir thing. That civil gentleman, Master
Bill, (I think they call him,) brought it up to me this morning, and my
trunk too with my big Bible, and all the bits o' things that are sae
valuable to me
But the story, the story, Peggy
Yes, my bairn, that's true, I was forgetting, and it's aye the story,
the story, wi' you young things. Weel then, to begin at the very
beginning, as you say. We got into the ship, (that is, the pets, as Miss
Leila calls them, and me,) and it was a bonnie day, and the sea
sparkling like diamonds, and wi' a most deceitfu' and canny look; but it
was all put on; no a word o' truth in it, for it's a most unchancy and
awfu' element, and in no ways to be trusted by a Christian woman. Weel,
my first discomfiture was when I was telt that I was by no means to go
near the pets, or to take any charge, for they would have better care
than mine; deed, and I was in no ways weel pleased, forbye that I had
been thinking the parrots would have been gude company, and that I could
hae given them some gude instruction maybe, puir things, and got them
into a manner o' more sensible discourse than aye crying, 'pretty poll,'
and the like o' thae vain and silly things. But it was no to be, so I
turned my mind to some wee helpless bairns that were aye wailing and
wearying for something; for ye ken Peggy must aye be doing. They had
lost their mother, puir things, and the father o' them was sadly put
about when night came, and all their bits o' clothes to take off, and
the strings o' them aye getting into knots, and he wi' no manner o'
skill or judgment to gang to work in the right manner; so I took them
all in my ain hands, and got them into their bits o' cribs wi' a kind o'
comfort, and the wee thing who was but a babby clinging round my neck in
the dark, and saying, 'Mamma was come back again, and she was no to gang
away ony more.' Deed it was just a moving scene, and minded me sae o' my
ain bonnie flowers; and John, for that was his name, was sae gratified,
and could no' say enough for the little I could do. And so we got on
wi' a measure o' comfort all the next day, till the wind began to roar
like a demented creature, wi' no manner o' discretion, ranting and
tearing wi' the steadfast resolution no to leave a hale rag in the ship;
and there were the bairns, puir things, wailing and tumbling about on
the floor, and nae marvel either, seeing that them that had come to the
years o' discretion could na keep their feet; and the captain, there was
he crying to put in the dead lights, which was no just civil to say the
least, and we wi' the breath o' life still in our bodies. Waes me, but
it was an unco' dispensation for him to be making preparations for a
dead wake afore the living folk. He might hae thought, the ungodly man,
that there was an arm o' strength that could lift us out o' the deepest
pit of our tribulation.-- But where was I? for 'deed I am sair bewildered
wi' all that happened
You were telling about the storm, Peggy
Oh,
do go on, it is so very interesting
Ay, that's true, I was telling about the storm; but waes me, words are
weak to tell o' that awfu' scene. Weel, naething would serve me but I
maun be upon deck to see the warst o' it; and there I stood, clinging
aye to John, and Dash at my side, wi' the sense o' a man o' fifty,
holding me fast by the gown; but it was na waves I saw, but mountains
rising to the black heavens, and the white foam o' them looking ghastly
white in the darkness o' the night, and every now and then a flash o'
fire like a curtain o' flame in the sky, and a sound like guns mingling
wi' the roar o' the awfu' blast; and there was the captain again, wi' a
lang thing like a trumpet in his mouth, and he thinking, wi' his puir
feckless breath, to lift his voice above the anger o' Heaven. I could na
stand that, so I turned down to the cabin again; but oh, my bairns,
never while the breath o' life is in my body will I forget the sound
that ere I was at the foot o' the stairs met my ear. I canna speak o'
it, I dare na think o' it. Them that had stood at my side the minute
afore in life and strength, sent to their last account, and without the
power o' a hand being stretched out to save them. I am no clear in my
mind o' what happened for a while after that; but then there was a cry
that the wind was no just sae strong, and that a boat had come off from
the shore for the passengers for Scarborough; it was for Scarborough
John was bound, to take up his abode wi' a sister, a widow-woman weel to
do in the world, and he was loath to part wi' me, and leave me in sic
tribulation; and the bairns they aye cried that mammy maun gang too,
and I was down the side o' the ship, and in the boat wi' the wee babby
in my arms afore I kent where I was, and Dash holding on again by my
gown as he did afore; and how we e'er reached the shore was the gracious
providence of God, for man had nought to do wi' it; and we were up in
the air the one minute, and in the watery pit o' destruction the next,
and no a dry stitch upon us when we were lifted out wi' scarce the
breath o' life in our bodies; but all but gratitude to Heaven was
forgotten when we sat that night in quietness and in comfort by that
widow-woman's cheerful fire-side. And to see the bairns round the table
at their tea, wi' their bit blythe faces, and ilk are wi' a jolly piece
in its hand, for, as I said afore, she was well to do in the world that
widow-woman, and had all things in a superior way. 'Deed it was a scene
to lift the heart wi' gratitude and joy, and at night when I found
myself in a quiet comfortable bed, and nae mair heizing up and down wi'
all thae outlandish sounds in my ear, 'deed I could na sleep wi' very
pleasure, so I took to musing on the uses o' the sea, and I could na
make it weel out at all; it seemed to me as if it was a fearfu' scourge,
aye ready to be let loose on our sinfu' heads, and made for naething but
our destruction; but then I minded me o' the fine caller haddys, and
thae herrings at ten a penny, sic a blessing for the puir, and then I
thought that there might be a measure o' comfort in it after all, so wi'
that I fell asleep. The next morning I thought to hae gone on my way,
but they would nae hear o' it, and the bairns they aye clung to me, and
said I was to stay and be their mamma. 'Deed, auld as I was, I could nae
but think o' sic a proposal afore John's very face; and he, honest man,
no ways willing. The day after that John set out wi' me to put me on my
road, and he wrote me out a paper o' all the towns I was to gang
through, and sae we parted, and I gaed on my way, thinking it wad be but
a pleasant walk; but waes me, I had little thought or comprehension o'
what was afore me. But I am thinking I have said enough for this present
time; you will be weary wi' sic a lang tale
Oh no, Peggy
I am quite sure none of us are weary.
Do go on, for we wish so much to hear how you got here at last
And 'deed, my bairn, that's no easy to tell, for I have but a confused
thought o' all that happened. Every day I walked on and on, and when I
came to the towns, I sleeped at big houses that they call houses o'
entertainment: but 'deed it was no diversion to me, the money they aye
asked frae me in the mornings; so I took to sleeping at farm-houses,
and that answered better. To be sure sometimes I had but the barn or the
hay-loft, and but a short word o' welcome; but others that were mair
civil let me sleep in the big chair by the kitchen fire-side; and clean
and comfortable mony o' the kitchens were, dishes and platters on the
walls shining like silver, and big hams hanging from the roof, wi' the
greatest plenty to eat and drink, and blythe bairns running about,
looking sae like their meat, that it did my heart good to see them. I
was aye happy when I got to a farm-house at night; but sometimes I was
not just sae lucky; and what wi' paying for a night's lodgings, and for
a ride in a wagon or a cart now and then, and for a loaf o' bread and a
draught o' beer, my money was fast melting away, and my heart no that
light; for aye when I asked if I was near London yet, they said it was a
weary way, and ower far for sic an auld woman as me to compass. But it
was only when the days were fast shortening, and the long nights setting
in, that the like o' thae reflections crushed my spirit; yet the
morning's sun made all right again and warmed my auld heart, and I felt
there was a Providence abune that could make the roughest way plain and
the langest way short to me. I was aye fond o' the song o' the robin,
and whiles I would sit down by the side o' a hedge and hearken to them
in the trees abune my head, and then I would throw them some crumbs frae
my loaf o' bread to pleasure them puir things; and the bonnie creatures
would come down to the ground and look up in my face, as if I had been a
kent friend. And Dash, the wise animal, he would keep his distance, and
lie as if the breath o' life was out of his body, till they had ta'en
their breakfast wi' comfort and discretion. From all that I hae
experienced in my lang travel, I think the robins are o' the same nature
as in my ain land, just as frank and as kindly. But oh, my bairns! sic a
difference in the rivers; instead of the clear bonnie Esk that I had
been used to, wi' the sand lying at the bottom sparkling like diamonds
in some parts, and in others springing over the big stones like bairns
let loose frae the school, there I came to rivers as quiet and lazy as
mill-ponds, and looking as black and drumlie as if they had washed all
the dishes in thae big towns in them; but 'deed it's no wise discreet in
me to be making thae reflections; for if their waters are no just sae
clear, surely I am come to a land flowing with milk and honey, and need
na mind. But I am wandering from my road again
Yes, Peggy
you are forgetting to tell us how your
money lasted, and what you did when it was done. Oh! it must have been
so dreadful when you began to be starved to death
Deed, and it was no ways pleasant; but it was no just sae bad as that;
and I aye keepit a thought on Him who feedeth the fowls o' the air, and
was no that down-hearted; still it was a serious thought, and I was at
my last shilling when the pedlar was graciously sent to me
The pedlar, Peggy, how was that
You see, Miss Matilda, I was sitting by the road-side one morning,
taking counsel wi' my ain thoughts and looking at the shilling, and
turning it round and round in my hand wi' a serious countenance, nae
doubt, when an honest man wi' a pack upon his back came up to me.
'Mistress,' he said, 'you are looking at that shilling as if there
werena mony ahint it, and you were loath to part company.' ''Deed,' I
said, 'you hae made a gude guess and are no far wrong; for it's the very
last shilling I hae in the world, and a long journey, I reckon, is still
afore me.' Wi' that we fell into discourse, and I telt him all my story;
for he was frae my ain country, and my heart warmed to him. He said that
for that day and the next our road lay in the same direction, and that
he would be blythe o' my company. Was I to refuse sic a civil
invitation?-- by no means. So we gaed on our way thegither, and had
muckle pleasant discourse; for he was far travelled, and had great
learning and experience o' the world, and was, forbye, a God-fearing and
civil man, and had but one fault that I could discern, he was ower fond
o' beer; preserve me, but I would hae sleepit sound, and ower sound, as
he, puir man, found that night, if I had ta'en all he offered me, for he
was no ways niggardly; and when I spoke o' asking up-pitting for the
night at a farm-house, he would na hear it; he would treat me, he said,
baith to a supper and a bed, and be blythe to do so. Weel, when night
came on, we turned into a comfortable-looking house by the road-side,
where they selt the beer he was ower fond o'; and it was a canty scene
that big kitchen, that lifted the very heart o' me. There was the
mistress frying bacon on the warm red fire, and mair than one hungry man
sitting on low stools, listening wi' delight to the hissing sound o' it;
and a wee baby in a cradle, no thinking o' sleep, but lying so pleased,
wi' the great een o' it wide open, and staring at its brothers and
sisters, dancing in a corner o' the room to the music o' a blind
fiddler; they were near to a table where some men were drinking, and
there was a man sat there wi' a face I could no get out o' my mind at
all. He had a down look and an ill look to my thought; and I noticed
that though he had his tankard o' beer afore him like the rest, when he
thought nae body was looking that way, he lifted the tankard that had
been put down afore the puir blind fiddler, and took a lang pull out o'
it. I would na hae been that sorry if it had choked him, and I felt in
my mind that the man would surely come to shame and want. Aweel, when
the mistress showed me the room I was to sleep in, I could na get this
man's ill face out o' my mind, and I asked her if the men that were
drinking at the table were to bide all night. 'Some of them might,' she
said, 'and some might not; but I need not be frightened, for my friend
the pedlar was to sleep in the next room to me, and there was a door
through frae my room to his. You see,' she said, 'there is only a latch
to it, for the key has been lost; but as he is an honest man nae doubt,
and your friend, you will no mind that; but this is a decent house, and
you need fear no disturbance;' and wi' that she left me. I had not been
long in bed afore I heard the pedlar, honest man, snoring soundly. I was
weary, weary, and yet for a lang time I could no get to sleep, for the
fiddle seemed aye sounding in my ears, and the bit bairnies dancing
afore me, and that man's ill face aye taking anither look at me, but
after a time I heard steps passing up the stairs, and the front door was
barred in, and quietness fell upon the house; and then, though it was
no just sleep that came over me, it was a kind o' a dover, and how lang
it lasted I canna tell, but suddenly it seemed to me as if I heard a
step in the passage and some one stopping at my door,-- I started up in
my bed and listened; a lock turned, but it was na in my room, but in the
next; and then I saw a light under the door that had the latch. I sprang
up and looked through the key-hole; the ill face o' that awfu' man
seemed glaring on me, I could scarcely breathe, for I felt sure he saw
me, but he turned away and went straight up to the bed; he seemed to
listen for a moment, bending over it, then softly lifting up a worsted
plaid that was lying over a chair by the bed-side, he seized the pack
which the plaid was covering, and turned to the door again. He had his
back to me then; I lifted the latch and sprang in, and the next moment I
had him by the throat, the ill rascal, wi' a scream that wakened the
whole house. He let fall the pack, shook me off as if I had been a
feather, and darted along the passage. He took me for a ghaist, nae
doubt; for, for decency's sake, I had put the white sheet about me.
Aweel, we looked for him all over the house, but saw naething but a
window wide open, and doubtless out o' that window the ill-conditioned
creature had gone on his evil way. It was na muckle sleep that either
the pedlar or me got that night, I reckon, for I heard nae mair
snoring
Oh, Peggy
how frightful and how
interesting; but go on, go on, tell us more
Aweel, in the morning he could na be grateful enough, honest man, for
what I had done for him. 'For himself,' he said, 'he did na' fancy
riding much, but it would be a rest to me; so all that day we rode
thegither in a wagon like ladies and gentlemen, he treating me to the
best o' every thing, and himsel' no taking just sae muckle o' the beer.
The next morning after that, when we parted, he would force upon me twa
bonnie white half-crowns, and telt me aye to ride when I could, for that
he did not think I was that strong for sic an undertaking as I had still
before me. I would fain hae refused the money, for it seemed to me like
taking payment for doing only what was natural to do; but I thought also
that pride might have something to do wi' refusing, and pride was na'
for a Christian woman, so I took the siller. I took his advice too, for
I felt that I was not that strong; so I aye rode when I could get a cart
or a wagon, but it took mair money than I could weel spare. Many o' the
wagoners and carters spoke a language I could na' weel make out, but
they aye contrived to make it plain to me that they wanted siller.
Every day my pocket got lighter and lighter, and my heart heavier; for I
came to my last penny, and still a lang way lay afore me. I need na' vex
your hearts wi' all I suffered wi' want and lang travel. Some of the
folk were kind to me, and some were not; I dinna weel mind all that
happened, I ken only that aye when I was at my last extremity, He that I
serve had pity upon me; and I aye remembered that 'He had not where to
lay His head,' and took courage. One night I came to a farm-house, the
door was shut, but I looked through the kitchen window, and, oh! but it
was a cheerfu' canty scene. There was a cat as big and as sleek as a fat
lamb lying afore the warm fire, and the mistress and the gudeman, and
the bairns, and the farm servants, all round a big table at their
supper, and the greatest plenty o' every thing, and sic a smoke from the
big dishes o' meat and o' potatoes, and sic a speaking and laughing,
that I had to tap many a time afore they heard me; but at last the
mistress hersel' came to the door, and wi' her a bonnie wee lassie at
her side. I was all in a tremble, and I telt her my story, and asked for
a night's lodging; but the pleasant face o' her entirely changed. 'And
how am I to know,' she said, 'that there is a word of truth in all this?
always the story that they have lost their way, or lost their money, or
some such thing. It was but last night that I gave lodging to an old
woman, who looked as respectable as you do, and she was off this morning
by daybreak with two of my best night-caps that were drying before the
fire. No, no, you must take the road again, and be thankful you have a
clear moon above your head.' 'Oh, mother, mother!' I heard the wee thing
say, but she shut the door in my face. I was weary, and I was faint wi'
hunger too, for I had tasted little that day; to gang on my way was no
possible, for the very life seemed sinking out o' me; so I crept round
by the back o' the house to seek some sheltered nook to lie down in, no
wishing ever to rise again. All my desire was to lay myself down in a
quiet corner and there to be found dead in the morning. I was leaning
against a wall sair spent, and Dash keeping close at my side, as he aye
did, striving, puir thing, to keep me warm, when a mist came afore my
eyes -- it cleared away, and I seemed to see my ain bonnie bairns wi' the
faces o' angels beckoning to me, and I heard my husband's voice speaking
words o' comfort, and then a door at the back of the house softly
opened, and the bonnie lamb I had seen afore stepped out into the
moonlight; she looked about her for a moment on every side, and when the
light fell on the face o' her, it seemed to me as if she too was a kind
spirit frae anither world. She was passing to the front o' the house
when she saw me, and, oh!-- but it was a sweet voice that sounded in my
ear when she took my hand, and said,--'There is a sixpence and a penny
for you, it is all the money I have, but maybe it will get you a bed at
a house you will soon come to on the road-side; and here is some bread
and cheese for your supper, for I am sure you are hungry.' I was trying
to say something, when a voice cried out, 'Alice, Alice, where are you?'
and the mistress hersel' came up to where we were standing. 'Oh,
mother!' the dear bairn said, 'do not put her away for she looks so
sorrowful and she can scarcely walk; do let her sit at the kitchen fire
all night -- I am sure she is an honest woman.' The mistress looked in my
face. 'Well,' she said, I may have judged you wrongfully, so I will take
Alice's word for it; for it's not my usual custom to turn my face from
the poor of the land, so come in, old woman, and you shall have some
supper.' She took me into the warm kitchen, and seated me at the fire,
and the best o' every thing was set afore me, and bonnie wee Alice took
a low stool and set herself down at my feet, and she aye looked up in my
face wi' her kindly smile, and seemed to enjoy every morsel I put in my
mouth; and she could na make enough o' Dash, and was sae pleased when
the mistress hersel' set a plate o' bones afore him that might have
served a king. Aweel, we took our supper wi' thanksgiving, and in a
closet off the kitchen I had a clean comfortable bed to lie down on,
which was a great refreshment. The mistress took to me in an uncommon
way. I telt her where I was going, and all about it; and in the morning
she gave me my breakfast and a white shilling out o' her ain pocket. I
was fain to gie little Alice back her sixpence and the penny, but she
was affronted and would na hear tell o' it; so I laid them down on the
wee pillow o' her bed when she was looking anither way
Oh, Peggy
what a dear
little girl Alice must have been! how I wish I could thank her for being
so very kind to you; but you are not to stop yet, you have more to tell
us
Not much more, Miss Leila, for mony o' the days after that seem to have
passed out o' my mind. I think it was but twice after that that I had
onything like a decent bed to lie down on; it was getting darkish one
day when I was passing through a village, a heap o' bairns came running
past just out o' school, and a wild laddie had something tied up in a
napkin, and he aye cried he was going to drown it, and they maun come
and see. My mind misgave me that it was a kitten, puir thing, so I
followed on to a pond that I saw afore me, and just as I got near I
heard sic a wild screech, and there was a wee lassie struggling in the
water; I cried loud to Dash, and he was into the pond in no time, and
afore anither minute was over, the puir half-drowned thing was laid at
my feet. Aweel, I took it up in my arms and turned back to the village.
The mother o' it was like to go out o' her judgment wi' fright and wi'
joy; I stayed to help to put the bairn into a warm bed, the puir lamb
would nae be comforted. Aye when we thought that she was dropping over
to sleep she started up again in an unco tremble, and crying out, 'No,
no, mother, don't be angry, I will never, never go near the pond again;'
and when Dash came up to the bed wagging his tail, and trying to make
acquaintance wi' her, she was like to go out o' her judgment, wi' no
manner o' knowledge or gratitude for what he had done for her. Aweel,
she fell into a sleep at last; 'Oh, my darling,' the mother said,
'many's the time I have told her to keep away from those wicked boys,
and by no means to go near that ugly pond, for my mind misgave me that
something might happen; but she has been punished enough, poor thing,
she will not again forget my warning;' and she leaned over the dear
bairn wi' sic joy and thankfulness, and kissed her over and over again.
Though it was getting late, I thought now to have gone on my way again,
but though she was but a widow woman, and seemed to have naught to
spare, she would na hear of it, so I stayed wi' her that night, and she
did all she could to make me comfortable. The next circumstance that I
remember was when I found myself in a town, and sae spent wi' hunger I
could scarcely walk; I had parted wi' my warm cloak afore, and I think
shame to tell you how many salt tears that had cost me, (but it was a
present from my gudeman,) and I was thinking if there was onything else
I could sell, and holding by the rails, for I could scarcely stand, when
a decent-looking young woman, wi' a most pleasant face, came up to me.
'What is the matter, poor woman,' she said, in a kindly voice, 'you are
surely ill?' I telt her I was starving. 'Waes me,' she said, 'and I have
no money to give you, for I have just been disappointed myself: but come
with me, you shall have something to eat at least.' She took me by the
arm and helped me on, and we entered a big house, where a great mony
people seemed to be living, for I heard voices o' men and women, and
bairns, some crying and some laughing. 'My sister and I have a room
here,' she said, as we gaed up the stairs; then taking me by the hand
along a dark passage, she opened a door, and I saw a young woman
sitting close to the window working busily, though it was getting dark.
'Jessie,' she said, 'you will have thought me long away, and after all I
have come back without the money for the shirts, for Mrs. Churchill was
not at home.' 'Without the money,' Jessie repeated, 'and not a morsel in
the house beyond our night's supper, and not a farthing to buy more! Oh,
Ellen, this is sorrowful news. But who is this you have got with you?'
Ellen told her how she had fallen in wi' me, and it was beautiful to see
the kindness o' baith the sisters. There was but a small fire, but they
gathered up the cinders, and made me sit close to it, and they rubbed my
hands and spoke words o' comfort to me; and Ellen brought some bread and
cheese out of a cupboard, and set it afore me, and baith o' them pressed
me to eat. Just then there was a tap at the door. 'That will be the
nurse,' Ellen said, jumping up; 'I forgot to tell you that she said she
might perhaps be able to bring the money if her mistress came home in
time.' It was the nurse sure enough, and oh, sic joy as it was to the
kind-hearted creatures when the nurse counted down ten bonnie shillings
on the table. 'Put on the tea-kettle,' Ellen said, 'and I will be back
in a moment with some tea and sugar; and, Mistress Nurse, perhaps you
will stay and take a cup of tea, you have always been such a kind
friend to us.' But Mistress Nurse said she could by no means stay, for
her lady might want her; and she was just going away when she noticed
Dash. 'Bless me,' she said, 'what a fine animal, but how thin he is; he
looks half-starved; my heart is sore for the creature, tea is not just
the thing for him, but if I can get hold of the stable-boy when I go
home, I will send him up with a plate of scraps; he will like that
better.' And she was as good as her word; Dash had such a supper as he
had not seen for many a day. And how the sisters were pleased and
diverted when the creature picked out the largest bone he could find in
all the platter, and laid it at my feet. Aweel, we had our tea in
comfort, and the best o' butter, which Ellen said was a treat by
ordinar, and muckle pleasant discourse; and I telt them about you, Miss
Selina, getting your speech again, and about Miss Leila in the island.
They said it was like a fairy tale, and that they had naething to tell
me about themselves sae romantic. They had lost baith father and mother,
and they worked for their bread, and had come through great straits;
sometimes they had plenty to do, and were comfortable enough, and
sometimes they were sair put about, and at their last penny; but their
mother had been a God-fearing woman, and had given them the best o'
counsel, and they aye kept up their hearts, for there was a Providence
abune, they said, that kent what was best for them. The room was clean
and neat, though the furniture was scant. There was but one bed, but
they borrowed a mattress from a kind neighbour, and I lay baith warm and
comfortable on it. In the morning I had a sair struggle, for they would
hae me to take one o' their hard-earned shillings; but I would by no
means hear o' it, and I was the more positive as they had telt me that I
was but a day's journey or so frae Richmond, and need na gang through
that awfu' London, which was a great ease to my mind. So I took only
some small change Ellen had gotten in from the tea, and gaed on my way.
It was a clear bright day, but it was hard frost when night came on, and
I was stiff wi' cold, and weary, weary; and I could get naething better
than a barn to lie down in, for I had but a penny to offer, and they
jeered at me, and said a barn was ower good for sic payment. The next
morning seems all like a confused kind o' dream, I remember naething but
that I crawled on and on, often stopping and feeling unco' sleepy, but
aye feared to lie down lest I should ne'er waken again; but though I
kent Richmond could na be far off now, I was but the mair sorrowful, for
I could bear it no longer; I could na move anither step, but sunk down
by the road-side. A mist came afore my eyes, I ken naething mair, but
that I seemed to waken in Heaven, for when I opened my eyes again, your
dear faces were all around me
Leila
I can well understand what
your grief must have been in thinking Peggy lost to you. I am going to
write all her story down, it is so interesting, and it will be my first
lesson in the Scotch language; I would not have missed hearing her tell
it for the world
Yes
I don't wonder you like her,
she took my fancy very much; there is some life and spirit in her. I am
sure I hope Selina will not make her as prim as she is herself, for she
seems to have taken quite a passion for that dear sister of yours
I thought you were very fond
of Selina
I am sure you
always talk to her as if you were
And who tells you I am not
You yourself do; you would not talk in that way of one you really
liked. Ah, Lydia, that is not being sincere
Matilda, that idea would never have entered your head; I know who
has
But this is quite foolish, we are getting angry with
each other for no reason whatever, for we are quite of the same opinion
on this subject; I am sure you cannot have a higher opinion of Selina
than I have. I only wish I could be more like her
but still you must not be angry if I love my own little
Matilda even more
What nice-looking books you have got on
those shelves; your school-room always looks so cheerful and so
comfortable. What a pretty book that seems to be at the top there; I
should like to see it
Oh, that is a beautiful book
but it belongs to
Mrs. Roberts. There are sketches in it which were drawn by her husband;
she has the greatest value for it, and she shows it to us sometimes; but
she has forbidden us ever to touch it when she is not by
Oh, she is afraid, I suppose, of Alfred's dirty little hands, for you
know he is for ever grubbing in the earth, hunting after snails or
spiders, or some such creatures; but a young lady's hands are very
different
You cannot suppose
that she would have any objections to my looking at the book; and as
she is so very obliging and good-natured, she will be quite gratified, I
am sure, that I should admire her book
Oh pray don't
I don't wish to
disobey Mrs. Roberts, and I promised not to touch or look at it when she
was not by
Well, don't touch it, my little pattern miss
don't touch
it; put your hands behind your back, and then you can swear you did not;
you need not even look at it; shut your eyes and turn your back, my
pretty dear, and I will describe, to you the beautiful scenes as I turn
over the pages; for I have no pleasure when it is not shared
But what has come over my
little Matilda? I scarcely know her again -- she that used to be so
obliging and so affectionate towards me -- have I indeed lost my little
friend
Oh, no, no
I am still
your little friend; don't be angry with me. You will love me again,
won't you
Come, darling, don't be foolish;
let me see my sweet Matilda again; let us be friends as we have ever
been
Show me
thy ways, O Lord; teach me thy paths
Trust in the
Lord with all thy heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding; in
all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy paths
Well
now we have finished;
we have had our pleasure, and what the worse, I should like to know, is
the pretty book of our admiration? Come, let us put it up again in the
book-case
Oh! what shall I do? what shall I do
Now is not this well and cleverly done
Come, cheer up,
Matilda, don't think of it another moment; it was awkward enough in you,
to be sure; but _mum's the word_, and it never will be perceived; I must
put it in the book-case again, and as far back as I can
Oh! you need not be afraid, and look so dismal; I really don't think it
possible it can be found out
Where are you going
To show this to Mrs. Roberts
To show it to Mrs. Roberts! Are you mad, Matilda? Surely you would not
be such a fool -- oh! I beg your pardon for calling you so; how mamma
would be shocked if she heard me talking in this vulgar manner -- there
is nothing she dislikes so much as vulgarity. I beg your pardon, but you
did put me in such a passion
And so you would bring me into this
scrape and get me punished, I who have ever loved you, ever been your
friend -- I who would have stood by you till the last moment! Oh, Matilda!
but go -- go and leave me
Trust in the Lord with all thy heart, and He shall direct thy path
Lydia, it was I who overturned the ink, and it is I who shall
bear the punishment
What has happened, Matilda
what is the matter
Mrs. Roberts, I spilt the ink upon
your book; I am very sorry
Matilda
it is not on
account of any injury my book has sustained that I am so distressed -- and
indeed I do not think I should have observed it -- but you have disobeyed
my express command, and you have also broken your promise to me; for it
was yourself who voluntarily gave that promise -- I did not ask it of
you
Oh! yes; I remember that quite well; I have been very, very wrong; I
deserve to be punished, and I will try to bear it well
Tell me, dear Matilda, did Lydia ask you to show her
that book
Mrs. Roberts, I know I must be punished, what do I deserve
Not a very severe punishment, Matilda; for you have already lessened
your fault by confessing it to me; and you will still further, I am
sure, atone for it by confessing it to God and imploring His
forgiveness. I see that you feel it deeply and are really penitent; I
shall, therefore, leave your punishment with yourself. Say, then, what
it shall be
I had rather that you should have punished me
But if I do not come into the room to-morrow, or next day, or the
next, when you read aloud to us, will that be enough, do you think? I
assure you it will be a great punishment to me
You have my forgiveness, my child; now
go to your room and ask forgiveness of your heavenly Father for your
Saviour's sake, and strength from the Holy Spirit to walk more and more
in His blessed ways
Well
I see you have got
it over, and well over; I only hope you have not committed me; what did
you say, Matilda? how much did you tell
I told only that I had spilt the ink on the book
And you did not mention my name
No, I did not
You are a generous, noble girl, Matilda
and though
younger, far better than I am; you must teach me to be like you
Am I a noble, generous girl
and does Lydia really think so? perhaps she only
said it to flatter me; I wish I really knew; I wish I could ask
Selina,-- that would be betraying Lydia. No, I am not a noble girl -- I
often do wrong things; I wish I had not liked the praise so much, or
believed Lydia. I wish I did not like her so; perhaps she does me no
good; but it is not kind to Lydia to think so
Oh, my child! my child
Oh! how I have frightened and distressed you
I have been so wrong, so silly; do forgive me papa -- do not be
angry -- I am so sorry
You have indeed been wrong, and very imprudent
and you have much reason to be grateful for the escape you have made.
You are far too ignorant a horsewoman to be aware of the danger you
exposed yourself to; but don't let us talk of it any more at present;
you have now got a lesson which I am sure you will not forget; keep
close to us, my dear child, for you are still far too inexperienced to
be trusted for a moment alone
And it looks so comfortable
so much nicer than a large
house. How I wish Woodlands were no bigger than this parsonage!-- how
happy will you be, Charles, when you have such a house, and when I come
to visit here -- you will often ask Mina and me to come to tea, and you
will let us make tea for you, time about, won't you?-- But, Charles
you are not so merry as you used to be, and you don't say
you would be happy to see us to tea -- ah! I know what it is; you are
angry with me
Angry with you, Leila?-- oh, no! how can you think so
Yes, because I know I deserve it; it was so foolish of me to wish you
to admire me, and to think you would
And do you think that would be so difficult, Leila
I don't know; I don't understand about that; but I know you should
not -- you should not admire any thing vain, and I should not wish it; and
if you are to be a clergyman, you know, you should teach me to be meek
and lowly in heart. I am sure my papa will be so glad when I tell him
you are to be a clergyman; for he will think, as you grow taller and
older, you will help him to make me better. But if you are not angry
with me, Charles, why are you so grave?-- you have not told me that; what
can you be thinking about?-- do tell us
I am thinking
how delightful all this is
and on Monday how the scene will be changed
And why changed
Because on Monday I return to school, and there, instead of having you
and Mina to talk to, I shall be surrounded by a parcel of such noisy
fellows
And you don't like them, then
O yes, I do; that is to say, some of them -- some of them are excellent
fellows and I like them very much; but don't let us talk of them now,
let us enjoy the present; Easter will come in time, and then I shall be
home again. You won't forget me, Leila? will you promise me that
To be sure I will not, but it is needless to promise; do you think I
could forget the only brother I have in the world? You know I have
already told you, that now I do not think you too tall to be my brother;
so you may grow as tall as ever you choose, and you will still always be
my brother
Papa
I must have frightened you very much
You did, indeed, my love; I was extremely alarmed. You were not aware
of what the fatal consequences might have been, and very rash indeed to
urge on Selim as you did
Yes, and you will be more sorry, papa, when I tell you why -- it was what
you call the foot of pride -- it entered into me, papa, and I did it all
on purpose -- yes, I whipped Selim on, that I might show off before
Charles, and that he might admire my riding, and say how well I kept my
seat: once I heard him say, that Selina kept her seat so well, and I
wished him so much to say the same of me; you did not know this, papa
Yes, my love, I was aware of your motive, and you may therefore suppose
what my feelings must have been, when I thought my child's life might
fall a sacrifice to her vanity and love of admiration
My life, papa
Yes, my dear Leila, you might not be aware of all the risk you ran, but
it was God's goodness alone that saved you; for you braved the danger,
and it was great
O papa, how wrong I have been, and God might have punished me -- He might
even have taken my life, and He did not; yet He saw into my heart, and
knew how vain and foolish I was -- how can He love me, how can He forgive
me
My Leila, God cannot love the sin, yet has He compassion on the sinner.
Do you remember what St. John says --'So God loved the world, that He
gave His only-begotten Son, to the end that all that believe in Him
should not perish, but have everlasting life!' and in the fourth
chapter, he says, 'Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that He
loved us, and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins.' Yes,
my child, it is the righteousness of One who has never sinned, that is
this propitiation, which has been procured for us. In our own strength
we cannot walk; it is clad in the righteousness of our Saviour Jesus
Christ alone, that we can stand in the presence of a pure and holy God;
and we are also told, that 'We have not an High Priest, which cannot be
touched with a feeling of our infirmities; but was, in all points,
tempted like as we are, yet without sin.' You may meet with those who
will tell you that vanity and pride are but trifling faults, mere human
weaknesses; but do not listen to them -- think often to what in your own
case they might have led; and, above all, try to keep ever in your mind
the example of Him whom you love and serve; think of His deep humility,
His meekness, His lowliness of heart; for our blessed Saviour not only
died for us, but He lived for us -- He left the glory of His Father's
kingdom, to take our nature upon Him; that we might learn of Him; He has
compassion on our weaknesses, for He knew them all, and it is His
example that should ever dwell in our minds, as His sacrifice should
ever dwell in our inmost hearts
But, papa, I know this -- I know that our Saviour Jesus Christ was humble
and meek, and I know He can see into my heart, and yet I have been
foolish and vain -- it is so difficult -- and then I am but a little child,
how can I follow so great an example
You can only do so by praying constantly for the grace of God to give
you strength; He can make the hardest duty easy to you; and for your
encouragement you should think also of how your blessed Saviour loved
little children. Do you remember that when the disciples were disputing
together who should be the greatest, our Lord set a child before them as
an example of the simplicity and humility of which He approved, and
which He wished them to imitate? Strive then, my dearest Leila, to
become a meek and humble child, such as your Saviour loves; kneel before
Him in all your weakness, and from Him you will receive strength to help
in time of need
I
will try, papa, and you will also pray for me
Now there is only one day more
only one day more, my
sweet sister _Demure_, and my punishment will be ended, and you will be,
I do believe, as happy as I am; for I know you have not half enjoyed the
stories without me, nor you either, Leila -- now tell me, have you not
missed me very much
I knew it
for you are so tender-hearted; but I hope
Mrs. Roberts has been tender-hearted also, and that she has not begun to
read to you the account of Lavalette's escape yet: you know she said she
would abridge it for us, and last night, when I saw her writing, I was
so afraid she would read it to you to-day -- it would be very cruel of her
if she has done so
But she was not cruel
I think she stopped on
purpose that you might be with us -- to-day she only read to us some
anecdotes of cats
Of cats! O I don't care so much about cats; what could put that into
Mrs. Roberts's head
I had been telling her of the sad fright Selina gave me last night,
that made her think of cats
And you did not tell me about Selina
though I don't care much for other people's cats, you know I always do
for yours -- I like every thing that you like, Leila
Yes, I know you do; and you are not to look vexed now, for I don't like
that; the reason I did not like to tell you was, that we began lessons
the moment I arrived, for I was later than usual to-day, because I staid
to talk to Peggy Dobie about a bee-hive; I am going to get her a
bee-hive; I have money for it now, and it will be ready for spring. She
is so fond of bees; she says they are the best of company, an example to
old and young, and the very hum of them is pleasant to her heart, and
brings back her thoughts to her own land, and to days long gone by
But what about Selina
O yes, I was almost forgetting to tell you. She gave me such a fright.
You know I am taming a linnet, for I read a story once about a little
boy having tamed a linnet, and taught it to call persons by their names,
and to imitate sounds, and whistle like nightingales and larks; and this
linnet lived for forty years, and was only killed by an accident; so I
thought if my linnet lived for forty years, it would be a comfort to me
in my old age; and now I daresay it will be, for you can't think how
tame it is getting since you saw it, and it seems to love me more and
more every day. Whenever I go into my room it flies to the side of the
cage, and puts up its bill to kiss me, and then it hops down to the
door, and stands watching till I open it and let it out. Yesterday,
after I had let it out, I put a saucer of water on the table, that it
might wash itself, for it likes so much to splash about in the water;
and then I went into the drawing-room for a book. I staid a little, for
I had opened the book at an interesting place, and I began to read, and
forgot my dear little Mimi. Suddenly I heard something rush past me -- it
was Selina with my bird in her mouth. She darted under the sofa quite
out of sight; I did not dare to lift up the cover of the sofa, for I
thought I should see Mimi torn to pieces. I covered my face with my
hands, and was trembling to hear it scream. Oh, I was so frightened!
and so dreadfully angry, if I had had a stick, I believe I could have
killed Selina. Think only if I had done it! My own Selina! I looked up
and saw a strange cat with large eyes glaring at me: I flew at it, and
dashed it out of the room in a great rage, and then Selina came softly
out from below the sofa, and gently laid down Mimi quite safe at my
feet. It was to save it from this strange cat that Selina had run away
with it
Oh, what a dear creature
I do think no cat in the
whole world can be so delightful as Selina. What a comfort that you did
not hurt her. I was wishing so for a stick when you were telling it, I
would have dashed her to pieces in a moment; and even if I had not had
one, I think I would have trailed her out from below the sofa in some
way or other. What a dreadful thing it would have been if I had killed
her. But you see, Cousin Leila, we are a little like in some things, we
both wished for sticks
Yes, indeed, that is quite true; and I am sure you need never call me
good. Only the day before yesterday I almost lost my life, because I was
foolish and vain, and yesterday I might have killed a cat
But you did not
No, I did not; but I made papa very grieved, and he spoke to me a great
deal about it, and said that when these fits of anger were not
restrained in youth, they often led to the most dreadful crimes. He put
me in mind of how I snatched my work out of Nurse's hands, and danced
upon it; and he said it grieved him to see that the same spirit of anger
often possessed me, that though I was so much older now
Well, don't let us talk about that
Did Mrs. Roberts
read to you any thing interesting about cats, any thing worth telling?
Selina, you have such a good memory, I daresay you can remember
something worth telling me
Yes, she read us several anecdotes that I think you would have liked.
She read to us about a favourite cat that belonged to a Madame
Helvetius. It never touched the birds which she kept, almost constantly
lay at her feet, and seemed to be always watching over her, and would
never take any food but what she gave it. When Madame Helvetius died,
the poor cat was removed from her chamber, but it made its way there
next morning, got upon her bed, then upon her chair, slowly and
mournfully passed over her toilet, and cried most piteously, as if
lamenting her poor mistress; it refused all food, and after the funeral
it was found stretched out on the grave quite dead
Oh, dear, what a melancholy story; I don't think I would have cared
much to hear that. Did Mrs. Roberts read you nothing better than that?
nothing merry about cats
She read us also an anecdote which we thought interesting. A lady went
to visit a friend in the country, and this friend had a favourite cat
and dog; they were very fond of each other, ate together from the same
plate, and slept on the same rug. Puss had kittens while the lady was
staying with her friend, and Pincher went regularly every day to visit
the kittens, whose nursery was at the top of the house. One morning
there was a tremendous storm of thunder and lightning; Pincher was in
the drawing-room, and the cat was watching her little family in the
garret. Pincher seemed quite frightened by the bright flashes of
lightning, and trembled all over; and just as he had crept close to the
visitor, and laid himself down at her feet, (as if for protection,) some
one came into the drawing-room, followed by puss, who walked in with a
most disturbed air, and mewing with all her might, came up to Pincher,
rubbed her face against his cheek, touched him gently with her paw, and
then walked to the door, stopped, looked back, mewed again, and seemed
to say, as plainly as words could have done, 'Do come with me, Pincher;'
but Pincher was too much frightened himself to give any comfort to poor
puss, and took not the least notice of her invitation. She came back and
renewed her request with increased mewing. But the hard-hearted Pincher
was immovable, though he seemed perfectly to understand her meaning, for
he turned away his head with a conscious guilty look, and crept still
closer to the lady; and pussy, finding all her entreaties useless, left
the room. But soon after her mewing became so very piteous, that the
lady could no longer resist going to see what was the matter. She met
the cat at the top of the stairs, close to her bed-room; she ran to her,
rubbed herself against her, and then went into the room, and crept under
the wardrobe. A mewing was then heard as if from two voices, and the
lady discovered that she had brought down one of her kittens and hidden
it there for safety; but her mind being in an unhappy state of anxiety
for the kittens above, and this little one below, she had wished Pincher
to have the kindness to watch by this one while she went for the others.
She seemed to trust, however, to having now found a better friend, for
she came out from below the wardrobe and hastily left the room. The
lady followed, carrying with her the kitten, placed it with the others,
and moved their little bed further from the window, through which the
lightning had flashed so brightly as to alarm poor pussy, who then lay
down beside them quite happy, and the lady remained in the room till the
sun shone out again, and all was quite calm. Next morning, to the lady's
surprise, she found pussy waiting for her at the door of her bed-room;
she went down with her, sat by her, and caressed her in every possible
way. Before that she had always been in the habit of going down to
breakfast with the lady of the house, but on this morning she had
resisted all her coaxing, and would not move a step with her. As soon as
breakfast was over, she returned to her family in the garret; and she
never did this again. She seemed to think she had shown her gratitude
and done her duty. But for a long time after she took very little notice
of Pincher, and always looked distant and huffy when he came near her
Well
this anecdote is interesting; I should have liked
very much to hear Mrs. Roberts read it. But I am glad it is only about
animals that she is reading to you now, for it interests me much more to
hear about men and women, and, above all, about children, especially
when they get into scrapes
Weel, my bairns
you hae surely entered into a compact
to spoil the auld woman all thegither. If there was a wish in my heart,
amang all the grand things, and the wonderfu' blessings that surround
me, it was for a bee's skep; it is no' to be told the love I hae for
thae creatures, they will be friends to me, and company to me, and
example too, for they are a weel principled, upright set, never leaving
their ain house, but for the useful work o' the day; and sae blythe and
contented, for a constant singing that bonnie sang amang the flowers,
that's just music to my ears. Can ony mortal man, or woman either, hae a
pleasanter employment than just to sit down afore a bee's skep, and tak
observation o' their wonderfu' ways? and is there nae honourable mention
made o' the work o' their hands in the very Bible itsel', Deuteronomy
thirty-second chapter, thirteenth verse: 'He made him ride on the high
places of the earth, that he might eat the incense of the fields, and he
made him to suck honey out of the rock.' And in the eighty-second Psalm,
sixteenth verse: 'He should have fed them also with the finest of wheat,
and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.' Na, na,
it's no thae jams and jellies, and sic articles o' man's contrivance,
that ye hear tell o' them, but it's the handiwork o' thae wonderfu'
creatures that's had in honour; and I maun just end, as I began, and say
to you, my dear bairns, that you could na hae given me a greater
compliment than this bonnie bee's skep
But, Peggy
we did not give it you, it was Cousin
Leila; she saved up her money to buy it for you; we only came to see
your joy
Oh, but it is a dear bairn
and
sae generous, and sae thoughtfu' for her years. Weel, I am no just the
woman I was, for my head's often unco confused now, and my memory's no
o' the best since that fearfu' journey; but surely I'll forget my
ainsel, afore I forget all she has done for me
Don't say that
don't say you are not just the
same; you are looking as well as you ever did now, and you must be quite
happy and cheery,-- I don't like to see you look grave. We have never
been grave since you came back, every day as merry and cheery as can be;
and you have never told us yet if you saw all your friends in comfort
before you came away from Scotland, and if you enjoyed yourself with
them very much
And did I no', Miss Leila? 'Deed, 'tis no possible to say the pleasant
tea drinkings I had afore I came away; but the very pleasantest of all
was the last night but ane afore I got into the awfu' ship. It was at my
cousin, Mrs Brown's, and nae strangers but my ain kith and kind. There
was, forby hersel, just four o' us. There was mysel, that's ane; and
there was the twa Dobies, that's twa; and there was Johnny, man, that's
three; tuts, but there was four o' us. There was Johnny, man, that's
ane; and there was the twa Dobies, that's twa; and there was mysel,
that's three,-- but there _was_ four o' us; weel, I'll begin wi' mysel
this time. There was mysel, that's ane; and the twa Dobies, that's twa;
and Johnny, man, that's three; preserve me, for I am clean stupid all
thegither! There was Johnny, man, that's ane; and there was the twa
Dobies, that's twa; and there was mysel, that's three,-- and if I am no
at mysel again. Weel, and I maun gie it up all thegither; but I am
morally certain there was just four of us
Oh, Miss Howard
Lizzy gives me much
vexation of spirit, and I don't know what course to take with that
child. I have a kind neighbour, who did much for me in a long illness,
and it's well my part to be kind to her now; she has an old mother, who
is not able to get up very early, and at times, when this friend of mine
has any work to do which takes her out of her house, I send in Lizzy to
help the old woman on with her clothes, and to be company to her; I will
not say that she is a very kindly old woman, she may give a sharp
enough answer now and then to the children, but is that an excuse for
what Lizzy did, and for the sight I saw
But what did you see
You have not told
us
What did I see, miss? I saw the poor old woman sitting shaking on her
chair with indignation and rage, her flannel petticoat tied round her
neck, she neither able to stir hand or foot, and Lizzy off to her play
It was very dreadful
but
where is Lizzy now
She is not far off
not far off, young ladies, and she
is experiencing (as you shall see) a little of what she made other
people suffer; but she is young, I tell her, and better able to bear
it
You will not
forget to send her to Elmgrove
No, Miss Stanley; and I hope you may be able to make more impression on
her than I can
And is it possible
that she could treat an
old woman in that way? Oh, how very dreadful
Yes
you may well be surprised and shocked, Amy, for
it would be long before you would act in such a manner. You have always
had a becoming respect for your elders, and shown a quietness and
discretion above your years. And now, Miss Leila, this should be an
awful warning to you; you see to what the love of play may lead, and
must understand now why I always tried to root the evil out of your
heart, and to settle you down to your work with serious reflection; and
you are far from what I could wish yet, you still give me many an
anxious thought. There it was but the other day, when I gave you that
collar to trim; any well brought up young lady would have taken an
interest in having such a beautiful edging to sew on, and would have
arranged it properly in quarters, and pinned it before her hand, but
there were you rumpling it on as if it were a rag, putting all the
fulness in the middle, not a thought of how you were to turn the
corners. Did it ever strike you that _that_ collar never could have been
ironed? Oh, Miss Leila, try to think more deeply of those things, before
it is too late
But, Nurse
though I am
not very fond of work, I am sure I never would have tied you up in a
flannel _bag_
Look
at me, Miss Leila, am I the sort of person to be tied up in a flannel
bag
No, Miss Leila, I have always brought you up in
proper habits of respect; but it was not of flannel bags we were
talking, but of that want of serious reflection when you take a piece of
work into your hands; there, about that _very_ collar, you had been
quiet for a time, and I thought had settled down to it, when you
suddenly broke out with --'Oh, Nurse! look at those clouds; did you ever
see any thing so beautiful? they are like magnificent mountains, bathed
in golden light.' What sort of nonsense was that, Miss Leila, to be
seeing mountains in the clouds, instead of the work that was before you;
and do you remember when I made you turn your back to the window, and
sit with your face opposite to me, how you kept tapping your foot on the
ground with anger and indignation? but I am not wishing to vex you at
this moment, for I am sure the awful lesson of this day will make a
proper impression; so sit down and let me see how quickly and how nicely
you will stitch round this pocket that I have cut out for you, for you
know I have no opinion of the new fangled way of bringing up young
ladies not to wear pockets, and with every thing belonging to them to be
hunted for all over the house
Yes, Nurse
give it me, and you shall see how nicely
I will do it; but when I told Lydia Mildmay that to wear a pocket was
highly respectable, she laughed at me very much
And did she really, Miss Leila? then I am sure she is a most improper
and dangerous companion for you; and, indeed, I thought as much that day
I saw her sailing about, sweeping all the carpets with those long
flounces of hers. Now here is your work; sit down, and let me see how
busy you can be
But, Nurse, would not bags be better
Bags
bags, Miss Leila, seem to
run strangely in your head to-day. And why should bags be better
Because
long ago they made use of bags
_They?_ of whom are you speaking. _Who_ made use of bags
The people of Nineveh. I saw them -- they were little square bags; it was
more than three thousand years ago
Saw the people of Nineveh!
three thousand years ago! Oh, Miss Leila! speak to me again; what are
you talking of? Do you feel any thing particular? what is the matter
with you
Why should I feel any thing
particular because I saw the people of Nineveh and they had bags? I saw
them on the bas reliefs
Bas leaf
Oh, Amy! she is not
speaking English! What has come over the dear child
Nurse
don't be
frightened; I know quite well what I am saying. I saw the figures of the
people of Nineveh, carved on stones, at the British Museum. You know
papa took me there, and he told me these stones had lain in the earth
more than three thousand years. You know Nineveh was overthrown. Do you
remember the prophecy in the Bible? it says, 'Nineveh is laid waste, who
will bemoan her?' And it was laid waste -- it was overthrown -- they are
digging it up again now
Well, Miss Leila, I may not be a good judge of such matters, but I
think they had better let that alone, and not be bringing their evil
deeds to light again. You know the Bible also says,--'Woe to the bloody
city, it is full of lies and robbery;' and we are told to flee from it
Then I am afraid you will not like to go there and see those wonderful
things, and I asked papa if you might take Amy there
No, Miss Leila, I would rather not; and I can't help thinking that the
less she knows of the people of Nineveh the better; she can learn no
good lesson from them
But, Nurse, there are a great many other things to be seen at the
Museum besides -- I am sure you would like to see the wild beasts and the
birds. Oh! the birds are so beautiful; how Amy would admire the little
humming-birds -- they are scarcely bigger than the wild bees we had in the
island; they have such lovely feathers, purple, and green, and scarlet,
and all beautiful bright colours. Papa says that when they are flitting
about amongst the flowers, they are quite splendid and dazzling to the
eye; and they shoot those dear little birds with little guns loaded with
water; the water does not injure their feathers by wounding them, it
only frightens them, and then they fall down and die. There were no
humming-birds in the island. I wish there had been -- I would not have
shot them, even with water, but I would have tried to catch them in some
way without hurting them, and would have tamed them as I did my other
birds; I do hope you will go to the Museum, Nurse, and take Amy, she
will be so surprised, for I don't think there is a bird in the whole
world that is not there; and I am sure you would like to see the owls,
for you like wise birds, and they look so wise; there were large owls,
and little owls, and every kind, and one little owl near the corner of
the glass case had such a pretty face. Then there were beautiful
pheasants -- and the argus-pheasant with its thousand eyes; oh! you must
go; Amy, would not you like it so much
Yes, Miss Leila, I would like it; but a bird with a thousand eyes, I
think it would frighten me
No, it would not
for it has not really a
thousand eyes, it has only spots on its feathers; but it is a poetical
way of speaking that
How often have I told you, Miss Leila, that I
do not like a poetical way of speaking, and now you see the bad effects
of it; from my experience, I knew that no bird had a thousand eyes, but
Amy did not; you should speak to her in a way she can understand; but
you do run on so. Is there no possibility of making you think of what
you are about? I see clearly that pocket never will be finished
Now,
Nurse, look if I cannot both talk and stitch; see, it is quite finished,
and beautifully done; and now I must go and sing to papa
She is a dear child
and she is far from being a bad needle-woman either, though I
should like well to see her more steady, and taking a greater interest
in it; but, Amy, though Miss Leila in most things sets you a most
superior example, you must never talk as she does sometimes -- you must
never be what she calls poetical. I would rather that she were not so
either; but that is a matter for her papa to decide, not me
Do tell me, Leila, how you manage so well
Those different coloured geraniums seem to
me to look brighter even than when they were in the conservatory; and
how gracefully the stalks are bent, and the flowers hanging down so
nicely, just as if they were still growing; and those leaves and ferns
are of such a beautiful green, and look so well mixed with the bright
colour of the flowers. My green leaves always turn a dull yellow, or
brown, or something abominable; and as to the blue convolvulus, that
provokes me more than any thing. Look at yours, they are as bright as
when they grew in the garden, and when I try to dry them, the colour
goes away altogether, and they get to be a dirty white. I cannot get any
thing to do well but yellow buttercups, and that is such a common
flower. All this provokes me so, I have no patience for it. No one will
ever give me a sovereign for the poor,&lsqb;B&rsqb; for a couple of screens, as
they did to you, and I wish so much that they would
But you know
that was only because it was a sale of
ladies' work for the poor. My screens were not worth that
I don't know; they were most beautiful, and I heard every one saying
so, for I stood near the counter where they were that I might hear them
praised; and when that gentleman with the nice face took them up and the
lady told them they were done by a little girl, he said that little girl
deserved to be encouraged, and he paid down the sovereign in a minute.
Oh! I was so glad; but though I cannot earn a sovereign, I might earn
something if you would only tell me what I must do to dry them as you
do
Yes, I will tell you every thing I can; but I think the great matter is
being very patient
But, Cousin Leila, I am sure you are not very patient
Yes, I know that; papa often says I am too impetuous
Well
and does not that just mean that you have no
patience
I suppose it does
but in some things I
have patience, I am always very patient about flowers; to be sure, that
is not wonderful, for in the island they were like friends to me. I used
to visit them two or three times in the day to see how they were getting
on, and to talk to them, as if they were alive, and I often knew the
hour of the day by their opening and shutting
And do any of the flowers here open and shut at certain hours
Yes, some of them do; but I don't know the flowers here so well; one
kind of evening primrose opens its flowers every day a quarter of an
hour before sunset; and the chickweed, which you see me so often
gathering for my birds, seems to me to open both leaves and flowers
every morning at nine o'clock, and closes its flowers again for some
time at twelve, and will not open them at all if it rains; then in the
evening it always seems to be making itself comfortable for the night,
for the leaves all down the stalk shut up to cover the young shoots,
just as if it were putting a great many night-caps on them to keep them
warm
How very curious
but, Leila, we are forgetting that
you were to tell me more about drying flowers. I know I need never try
to gain a sovereign like you; but if I could even gain half-a-crown or
even a shilling sometimes, it would be such a comfort, for I am always
getting into such scrapes about my money for the poor; somehow it always
melts away; both you and Selina contrive to save a little every week
But I have more pocket-money than you have
Yes, you have; but still I know I ought to save something, and often I
cannot; it is all the fault of those trumpery shops. When I go to
Richmond there are so many pretty things which I wish for; and then I am
so often hungry and must have some bunns, you know,-- how do you manage
so well
I don't manage very well -- I often buy bunns also; but when I wish for
pretty things which cost much, I remember that Nurse says 'I should turn
away mine eyes from beholding vanity,' and then I try not to look at
them, but very often I do. You know the other day when I saw that
beautiful basket I did not turn away. I looked at it so long, and then I
took it in my hand and turned it round and round, and thought it so
beautiful, that I could not resist buying it. And now I don't like it at
all; for it cost so much that I shall not be able to save any of my
pocket-money this week
Well, that was wrong, to be sure, and just what I should have done
myself; but don't be melancholy about it now, for you have always money
beforehand, so it does not much signify for one week; so do tell me how
I am to earn half-a-crown, and how I am to dry flowers in a most
beautiful manner; you say patience is the chief thing. Will patience
make them keep their colour? now do tell me that
Yes
it will; and I will tell you how. Very often
when it clears up after rain, and the flowers look very bright, you wish
to gather them for drying -- I always tell you that it is a bad time, but
still you often try to do it -- and they get quite dim and discoloured,
and you are obliged to throw them away. Now when I wish to dry them, I
wait till it has been quite fair for several days, and when it is bright
and sunny, and there is no damp in the air, I gather the flowers. I
always choose those that are very bright and fully blown, but before
they have begun to fade in the slightest degree. If they have a decayed
speck no bigger than the head of a pin, do not gather them, for they
will not be bright when dried
And what more do you do
I put them between folds of close smooth writing-paper, never into
blotting-paper
But Lydia told me it should be blotting-paper
No, I have tried that; but the blotting-paper seems to suck the colour
out of them. Well, I place those papers between the leaves of a book,
and tie it tight up with a ribbon, and put it under a weight; if it is a
very tender flower, such as the blue convolvulus, for instance, then you
must not put a very heavy weight, the weight must be in proportion to
the tenderness of the flower. Next day I change the papers that there
may be no damp about them, for nothing spoils their colour so much as
damp. Now all this, you see, takes patience; for sometimes I have to
change the papers more than once
Yes
and such patience, that I am sure I shall
never be able to do it. And this is all then
No; in putting the flowers into dry bits of paper you must do it very
gently, that they may lie quite smooth; for much of their beauty depends
on their looking smooth, and not shrivelled up in any way; and I forgot
to tell you that sometimes before putting them in at all, I bend the
stalks a little to make them lie gracefully. The stalks of the geraniums
are so stiff and straight, that I am obliged to take off the
flower-heads, and put them in papers by themselves, and then I flatten
the stalks and bend them a little before I begin to dry them. The ferns,
which you like so much, grow so gracefully, that I seldom have to bend
them at all, but just to lay them on paper as they grow. The young ferns
of a bright tender green do best: indeed, all green leaves should be
dried when they first come out, before they have got to be a deep
colour, for green is a very difficult colour to dry well; most yellow
flowers do very well, the yellow crocus keeps very bright; indeed, some
scarlet and rose-coloured geraniums dry beautifully, and other scarlets
won't dry at all,-- you must just get acquainted with those that do well,
and with those that don't
My hopes are quite dying away; half-a-crown!-- I don't
think I shall be able to earn sixpence even;-- but it is sunny and bright
now, we might go into the garden, and you could gather some of the
flowers which do best, and show me how you lay them on the paper -- I
think I have seen you working away with a long pin; but if I were to
take a pin in my hand, I should be sure to run it through the flowers
if they would not lie the right way, for I should be so provoked.

"Well, that is why I say that the chief thing is patience; you would
quite spoil the flower if you even scratched it with the pin. I take the
pin to help me to guide the leaves to lie right; for sometimes when I
lay down the branch on the paper, all the leaves get crowded together,
and I have to separate them, and sometimes to pluck off one or two
It is most horribly difficult, I can see that; however, let us go into
the garden; perhaps, if I see you do it, I might still try
But, Matilda, it won't do to gather flowers to dry to-day; you forget
that it rained in the night, and that this morning even there was a
slight shower
What a business! better give it up
altogether, and especially if I am to bear in mind every time it rains.
When the rain is over, I am too glad to forget it,-- who ever thinks of
rain when the sun is shining? not _I_ -- I always feel sure it is never to
rain again; and so all my little plans for goodness must be given up,
and I must just go on buying bunns till I am older, and then perhaps I
shall not be so hungry, and shall not care for them so much
Now don't talk in that way, Matilda,
for you know very well it is not right, and you do not mean to go on
spending all your money on bunns; you could not be happy if you did; you
only say so to make me laugh; but come, let us go into the garden, and I
can show you what flowers do best for drying, and then when it is fine
we can gather them, and I will help you to put them in paper. I am sure
_you_ also could make money by it
Oh, you are a darling
and again my hopes are
rising, _rising_ -- sixpence -- a shilling -- half-a-crown. Oh! there will be
no counting the money I shall make. I shall have quite too much for the
poor, and be able to treat you all with bunns into the bargain; now that
is what I call generous
Don't stop me, Matilda, don't. Now
it is going to settle on that rosebush -- no, it is not -- yes, it is
hovering -- now don't move, don't make a noise; now I have him
Oh! let him go, Alfred -- do let him go -- he will sting
you; only see how he is putting out that long frightful sting. I see his
sting quite plain
No, Matilda, you need not be afraid, he cannot hurt me, for he has no
sting. Mrs. Roberts told me that was a vulgar error
Did you tell Alfred that
but how can that be when I see it? and he is pushing it out every
moment in a most frightful manner; only look, Mrs. Roberts
Yes, I see what you mean, Matilda; but that movement in its body is
only the effort the poor dragon-fly is making to escape; it is a
perfectly harmless insect, for it has no instrument with which it can
sting
Then if you are quite sure of that
I should
like to look at him nearer. Stop, Alfred, and let me see. Oh! what a
beautiful creature he is, and with four such lovely wings; when the sun
shines upon them they seem to change colour like mother-of-pearl. Now
that I know he has no sting I think him a perfect beauty, and before I
used to run away from a dragon-fly as if it had been a wild beast; and
they do look rather fierce though they are beautiful, for they have such
a way of darting down so suddenly. Sometimes I have watched them flying
across the pond at the bottom of the garden, and they dart down so low,
they seem as if they were dropping into the water
Yes
that is because they chiefly live upon
water insects; with those large eyes they can discern their prey at a
great distance, and then dart down upon it; but it is a bold insect and
a voracious one also, and I have seen it sometimes attack a butterfly
fully as large as itself and tear it to pieces. It lives, however,
chiefly on small water insects, and seizes upon them as they skim along
the surface of the water; but another reason why one so often sees
dragon-flies in the neighbourhood of ponds and ditches is, that the
dragon-fly itself passes its young state in the water, and those small
ones which you have often seen near ponds are those which have just left
their former state and become winged insects
Yes, I know all about that
Mrs. Roberts told me about
the larva and about the pupa skin, like a little box, that they crawl
out of, and then fly off; it was very interesting. Now I will let this
one fly away, and show you what she has made for me, I hid it behind
that big flower-pot till I required it again; see, it is a little net of
coarse muslin, sewed round this circle of wire, and I fixed the pole to
it myself; it is for fishing in the pond for larva. Mrs. Roberts, might
we go now and try for some, and then you could tell Cousin Leila and
Matilda more about it
Now, Alfred
do give me the net; I daresay you have had
it for a long time to-day, and I should like so much to fish for larva,
for I want so much to know what larva is
Now, Matilda, do take care of it, please, for it will be easily
broken
Never fear, little man, you are so easily frightened; do you think I
don't know how to take care of a fishing-net? Now stand aside a little
and you shall see
Now it is your turn, Cousin Leila, to try for
larva
How glad I am
Yes
I am glad; for it is a comfort to me that though
Cousin Leila is so patient about flowers, she is not in the least
patient about larva
Oh! I am a wretch to vex you, and just at the very
moment too when you have been so kind to me about the flowers; but kiss
me, Leila, and don't let us think any more about it; there, Alfred, do
you wash out the net again, and dip it in the right way, and let us see
the larva and talk about it
You have been in good luck,
Alfred
for you have got the larva of the great dragon-fly,
the very same species you caught in the garden. This species is fond of
concealing itself in the mud, and lies in wait there till it pounces on
any insect that comes in its way
But it seems to move so slowly
that I should think
that if the other insects were the least bit clever, they could easily
get out of its way. They must stand still, silly things, to be
devoured
No, Matilda, you are deciding too hastily. The poor insects are in much
greater danger than you are aware of. This slow-looking gentleman has a
most curious apparatus at his command that you are not yet acquainted
with. He has very large jaws which are covered with a kind of mask. Look
at this horny substance which covers its face
So much the better that it does cover its face
for I
am sure it must be a frightfully ugly one. But what more does it do
When it pleases it can let down this mask, which has claws at the end,
similar, though on so small a scale, to the claws of a lobster. When it
sees its prey within reach, it darts out these claws, and in a moment
conveys the poor insect to its mouth. Then it has a way of bringing the
insects nearer to itself. Do you see those five sharp little points at
the tail? it has the power of drawing in and pushing out the water by
opening and shutting them; this produces a slight current in the water,
which floats the small insects within its reach
It is a cunning, cruel wretch
and I don't understand
how such a horrid creature as that can ever become that beautiful
harmless dragon-fly; but did you ever see it in its pupa state? does it
begin to grow good then
Why, as to that, Matilda, it moves and eats in its pupa state just as
it does now. I am afraid you would not think there was much improvement;
but it is from instinct, not cruelty, that it makes use of those means
to procure food. You forget that we too take the life of many animals to
procure our food, and often, I am afraid, in an unjustifiably cruel
manner. But you ask me if I have ever seen the dragon-fly in its pupa
state. I did once, and it was very curious indeed
Do tell us about it; how I wish I could see it too. I hope it was not
so ugly as this larva creature
It certainly was more curious than beautiful; it was attached to the
branch of a shrub, and at first it seemed to me as an insect with two
bodies, with the head and eyes of a dragon-fly
What a monster
worse even than the larva
No; on looking at it more attentively, I saw it was on the point of
escaping from its pupa case, so I sat down and watched it for some time.
Its wings were folded up on its back in a wonderfully small space. At
first they looked quite short, but as it cleared itself from its pupa
skin, the wings gradually expanded; it seemed, however, too weak to fly.
It slowly crawled to another branch of the shrub, and there remained, as
if resting from its labours
And did you not see it fly
No; I was obliged soon after to leave the garden, and when I returned
it was gone, probably enjoying in the air its new state of existence.
The pupa case alone remained, and was not the least broken or injured by
the dragon-fly having made its escape. It looked quite transparent; on
trying to remove it, I found it was attached to the branch by two little
claws which projected from that part of the case which covered each
leg
Oh, how beautiful, and how wonderful
You dear
one, you are more beautiful to me than a hundred dragon-flies; and I am
so glad that you have not wings, and that you cannot fly away from me
Now, Alfred
put by your net carefully
May I not fish just once more, and try for the larva of the gnats and
caddis worms which you promised to tell me about
No, not to-day; at another time you shall do so
You had better put it away, Matilda; you know it is
only reels of cotton you require
No, Selina
you are quite mistaken; you forget that I could
not find my thimble this morning; I looked every where for it, and lost
so much of my time; and see only how I have hurt my finger with sewing
without one, it is quite red; you would not wish me to do that again, I
am sure; so I must buy a thimble, and it is only the scissors in
addition, you know
But, Matilda, your thimble is only mislaid; it will be found I am sure.
I saw it on your finger yesterday
But you did not see it to-day, Selina, and I tell you it is quite
lost; I looked a long time for it
But do consider, Matilda
to buy this
work-box will require almost all the money you have. Only twopence will
remain
Selina, you quite forget the money I am
now quite sure of making, for I dare say I have now near a hundred
flowers, which I know quite well will be beautiful
But you cannot be sure, Matilda, that you will be able to make money in
that way
And why should I not be sure? You are so prudent, Selina, that it just
provokes me. Why should I not be able to make money as well as Leila, if
my flowers are beautiful? I am sure I have taken trouble enough with
them, and patience too; you might praise me, I think, a little for that,
instead of wishing to take all my pleasures from me in this way; and it
is such a useful thing to buy, and when I tell you too that I have lost
my thimble; but don't say any more about it, for I am determined to buy
it. It is not as if I were buying a foolish thing; this box will be most
useful to me
You may have that piece of roll if you are
hungry
No, no, we never buy cats; take it
away; it is out of the question
Well
I don't know as to a loaf; let me see, its skin
might be worth that
Take it
out, don't let me see it; its legs are tied, give me the loaf
Oh, how cruel
to tie its legs!-- and why, little
girl, did you wish to sell your cat?-- who did you say was starving
Poor little girl
compose
yourself! Don't cry; we are not angry with you; we are sure you have
done nothing wrong -- do speak to us;-- who did you say was starving
My mother and all of us
we have not a morsel of food
in the house; we have had no breakfast; oh, give me the loaf, and let me
go home
I have
frightened her
I spoke harshly to her. What can we do for
her, Selina?-- do tell me
Yes
I am sure that is the best thing
to be done; Nurse always says tea is so refreshing. Don't cry, little
girl, pray don't!-- your cat is not to be sold, and your mother and all
of you are to have a nice breakfast; we are going to buy tea, and sugar,
and butter, and everything that is good; and the baker will give us two
large loaves; we have plenty of money to pay for every thing
And this is all I can do
and I cannot help you, Leila and
Selina, in buying butter, and tea, and sugar; I have nothing left but
this abominable penny
oh, what a hard-hearted, extravagant, sinful, wretched,
horrid girl I have been
Don't be in such a state, Matilda; try to bear it; you know I
did just the same about the basket. We have both been very wrong, but we
can both repent. You know that is the right thing to do. And this penny
can still do a little good; take it, Matilda; you might buy a bunn with
it for the mother; I am sure she would like a bunn better than the
bread
I was
anxious to oblige you, young lady
but in this case it is
impossible -- this work-box has been injured, it has got a fall
Yes, sir
it did get a fall; I told Miss Matilda she had better not undo the
paper in the street, but we cannot expect young people to be wise all at
once; but I am quite sure of one thing, she did not know it had been
injured, for we both examined it, and were not aware it had been
scratched at all
No, of course not; no need of an apology, madam
And it was my own fault, I would take it out of the paper;
oh, what a day of misfortunes, surely no one was ever so unfortunate as
I am
You forget, Matilda, about Rosamond and the purple
jar
Oh, but that was not half so bad, don't say it was, Cousin Leila; she
had only holes in her shoes to vex her; she had not a whole houseful of
starving people -- no, no,-- no one was ever so unfortunate as I am; don't
try to comfort me, it makes me much worse
Why did you take away Tiny -- what have you done with
her?-- have you brought no bread as you promised? we have had no
breakfast yet
My poor Susan is of the greatest assistance to
me; ever since her father's death, she has worked late and early; her
knitting has been our chief support, and when I can get a day's work at
a time, she keeps the poor baby: but she is sorely changed, her health
is suffering; she is not like the same girl she was when times were
better with us, for we were well to do in the world, till the fever came
amongst us, and he that was always help and comfort to us all, was taken
away
And was poor Susan always blind
No, my young lady; your own eyes were not brighter than hers were for
the first seven years of her life; but she took the small-pox -- for,
alas! I had neglected to have her vaccinated -- indeed I had a prejudice
against it, and many and many a bitter thought that prejudice has cost
me
Thank you, good ladies, for our nice
breakfast
O
no, no
do not thank me; I can bear it no longer
Leila
you must keep this work-box for me, and put it
out of my sight, for I cannot bear to look at it. This has been a sad
day for me; I don't think I ever was so unhappy before, as when I saw
that blind girl knitting so fast with her poor thin fingers, and looking
so starved: and when I thought I had given all my money for this
work-box, and bought it though Selina so often told me not to do it, and
that I would repent -- O I am a monster!-- don't you think so, Leila
No, Matilda; don't say so; a monster is a wild beast -- you are not the
least like one -- and you are repenting; you cannot do more now than that,
and you should be thankful you are not a wild beast, for then you could
not repent
And then to eat that bunn in such good spirits, what do you say to
that
But you did not eat in very good spirits; you were sorrowful before the
end, and gave half away
Yes, half; but what is that, and a whole houseful of people
starving -- six children and a mother, you know. O don't try to comfort
me, it makes me much worse: I would rather you had said I had been as
bad as possible
No, Matilda, I cannot say that, though you have been very wrong; but
how can I blame you even for that, when I was as bad? You are forgetting
about my buying this basket
a little girl might have come with a cat to
sell, and then it would have been just the same thing
No, not the same thing; for you had more money which you had saved, so
you could spare it;-- but I must say one thing, Cousin Leila, I do wonder
how you can put this basket on the table before your very eyes; I can't
bear even to look at this box, I am so sorry; and you said we had both
done wrong, and should both repent. I don't think this looks very like
repenting
I did it to make me repent
To make you repent, I don't understand what you mean; you liked the
basket, I suppose
No, I did not; I could not bear it; I felt just the same as you did;
and at first I hid it in the corner behind that high chair; but then I
thought it would be my punishment if I saw it always before me, and that
it would keep me in mind not to buy useless things again
And I have been thinking you wrong
when all the
time you were most excellent; oh, Leila, I never can be like you -- no,
not a hope of it; I do believe I am turning out quite worthless;-- first,
I would spend all my money for my own pleasure; then I would open the
parcel, and let it fall; and after all this, I tried to think you as bad
as I am; but I know what you are thinking now, and I can at least do
that -- you are thinking that I should take home this work-box, and put it
on a table before my eyes; and I _will_ do it
O yes, abominable
box
I just hate you!-- but no, it is not the work-box that
is wrong
but we won't talk any more about
it now; let us go into the conservatory, and see the dear little birds,
they are singing so cheerily, and they don't know any thing about
repentance, or what I have been doing
This is Cousin Leila again
How vastly poetical
we are
This seems a day for showing presents,
so perhaps you would like to see a little trifle which my godmother
presented to me some little time ago; at first I thought it rather
pretty, though now I don't think much of it
What can be the matter with Matilda
did you observe,
Selina, she appeared quite angry with me? Do you think it is only that
she is sorry Lydia has gone away, or have I done any thing to offend
her? Should I go and ask her, do you think
No, Leila, I think you had better not. You have done nothing to make
her angry. I am sure it is not that. Matilda is never the better of
being alone with Lydia Mildmay; I am quite sorry now we left them so
much together; but I so dislike appearing to watch them; I fear
something has happened, for I know the expression of Matilda's face so
well -- it was not only at the moment of parting she was so much overset.
Did you not observe her at dinner
No, I did not look at her much, but I think she was in good spirits
then; I remember now she laughed two or three times
Yes, she tried to laugh; but she looked very unhappy; and it was only
when she saw me looking at her that she laughed. At one time she kept
crumbling all her bread down on the carpet, as if she did not know what
she was about, and once or twice she could scarcely swallow. Then mamma
said something to her, and she grew very red, and seemed to wish to hide
her hands under the table
O I can tell you what made her grow red then. I heard Aunt Stanley tell
her that she must have forgotten to wash her hands before dinner; and,
to be sure, her nails were quite as black as if she had been grubbing in
the earth like little Alfred
I don't understand it
but I fear
Matilda has done something wrong
Then I am sure it must be Lydia's fault if she has
for Mrs. Roberts says she improved so much of late. I am so
sorry I invited Lydia, and papa advised me not; he said he thought we
three would be quite happy together. I wish he had said steadily, 'No,
Leila, I don't wish it;' but he very seldom now tells me I am not to do
a thing, as he used to do in the island; he says now that I am older I
should learn to govern myself, and that in most cases he wishes only to
advise. So it is my fault also if Matilda has done wrong, for I invited
Lydia
But, Leila, we must not blame Lydia without knowing. How can we
but
Oh! Selina, my flowers, my
precious flowers! Clara's flowers are dying
Who can have done this
Selina
do you know any
thing of this
No, mamma, I do not
But I see you suspect
Where is Matilda
Amy
come here. Do you know any thing of this? did you overturn that
flower-pot
Miss Leila's favourite flowers! O no, no, I did not. I was not aware it
had been overturned
Aunt, there is still one plant
left, and it must have been an accident. O don't say any thing more
about it
No, my love
it
is quite necessary that I should endeavour to discover the truth. The
overturning of the flower-pot might have been an accident, but the
attempt to deceive, the replanting the flowers in the earth, could not
have been accidental. Now, Amy, recollect yourself, and tell me if you
have seen any one leaving this room lately
I insist upon knowing
I saw Miss Matilda come out of the room, ma'am
Was it before Miss Mildmay went home, or after
It was after, ma'am
And did you observe any thing particular in Miss Matilda's appearance?
Did she look distressed
Speak out, Amy, I desire you
Miss Matilda was crying, ma'am
You may go, Amy, and send Miss Matilda to me
Matilda, do you know any thing of this
You were in your cousin's room after dinner, were you not
Yes, mamma
Matilda
I
happened to be in your cousin's room immediately before dinner; I went
to look for a book. The flowers then looked perfectly fresh; you must
have overturned the flower-pot when Amy saw you coming out of the room
this evening
No, mamma
Oh, Matilda
I conjure you to speak out, and tell me clearly what did happen; do not
let me have the pain of feeling that my child has not only shown
duplicity in the attempt to conceal what at first was probably only an
accident, but is now adding falsehood to her fault; tell me distinctly,
did you or did you not overthrow that flower-pot and break those
flowers
Matilda, dear Matilda, speak the
truth, don't be afraid; I am not angry, I don't care now for the
flowers, that is, I don't care very much, I am not so sorry for them
now, indeed I am not. But say you did it, O do say it; don't make God
angry with you. O pray that this temptation may be taken from you; He
will give you strength
Matilda
I see it is vain to
prolong this scene. Go to your room, and on your knees pray earnestly to
your heavenly Father to touch your sinful heart; when you have asked
forgiveness of Him, and have resolved to make a full and free confession
of your fault, send for me, I will be ready to come to you at any
moment
Selina, we cannot be quite
certain that Matilda is deceiving us; Lydia may have done this
O that I could think so, but I cannot. I know
the expression of Matilda's face too well. I always know when she has
done wrong; and you forget, Leila, that mamma saw the flowers just
before dinner, and they looked quite fresh then; and Lydia was not in
your room after dinner, you know we were all with her till the moment
she went away. When did you last observe them yourself? You must have
been in the room when you were changing your dress for dinner
Yes, I saw them, and they
did look fresh; I remember it, because I observed drops of water on the
leaves, and the earth looked wet, and I knew that Amy must have watered
them -- she often does so when the day has been warm; Amy was very fond of
my poor flowers
It was very wrong in me to say this, and to make you more sorry, for
indeed it is not the flowers I am thinking most of now: and you know,
Selina, I have still three more seeds to sow. How wise it was of papa to
advise me to keep them in case of accidents, and not to risk all at
once. O if I would always take papa's advice, every thing would be well;
if I had taken his advice about Lydia, and had not invited her, Matilda
would have been with us as usual during the whole time, and this would
not have happened. And yet papa says I must learn to judge for myself, I
must not lean too much on others; how difficult all this is. Do you
think we should go to Matilda now
No, I think mamma wished her to be alone
Then let us go into the garden, I feel so unhappy; I don't like sitting
still
Perhaps she might speak to me
Selina, do go to bed, and go quickly. I can't come
just yet; don't ask me why
Matilda
may I
read you this text which I have turned up
There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common
to man; but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above
that you are able, but will with the temptation make a way to escape,
that you may be able to bear it
Yes
and it is by
praying to God that we shall obtain His assistance
Matilda, I am not asleep
How very cold you are, dear Matilda
and how you
tremble. O why will you not tell me all
Good night, dearest; try to sleep
Matilda
Mrs. Mildmay has written to say that Lydia has lost her ruby
ring, and she begs it may be carefully looked for; she returned home,
she says, with only one glove, and Mrs. Mildmay thinks she may have
pulled it off in the glove, and trusts we may be able to find it
Amy
go to the coachman, and tell him I shall require the
carriage as quickly as possible, I must drive over to Mrs. Mildmay's
I wish Matilda to return to her
room, and let no one question her
My poor child
you have been very, very wrong; but, thank God, you have not told
an untruth. O Matilda, how you have been injured by bad example, and how
far the evil might have spread, had I not discovered Lydia's artful
character! Mrs. Mildmay told me she suspected something was wrong when
she found you had written to Lydia, and sent back her _etui_; and even
before I went she had extracted from her a sort of half confession.
Unhappy girl! but she now seems completely penitent
She seemed anxious to tell me all; she
said that she had insisted on going into Leila's room, as she wished to
see her books and some pretty ornaments she had observed on the
mantel-piece; that when she overturned the flower-stand, Matilda had
wished her immediately to confess it, but she would not; that she had
stuck the flowers into the earth and watered them, in the hope of
keeping them fresh as long as she remained, and that she had bribed
Matilda to perfect silence by offering her the _etui_; that Matilda at
first refused, but afterwards yielded, and that Lydia had made her
promise that she was to answer no questions, that she was not on any
account to say she had not done it. Alas! my child, how you grieved the
Holy Spirit when you took that wicked bribe; but deeply have you
suffered, and I will inflict no further punishment upon you, than that
you should remain in your room during the day. Think deeply of all that
has passed, and of the misery you have endured, and pray earnestly to
God for his forgiveness, and for strength to resist future temptation.
Also you must give me your promise to give up all intimacy with Lydia
Mildmay, and never to trust yourself alone with her again, unless in
after years I give you leave to do so
Selina
you
can never know how unhappy I have been. I cannot tell it you. O it was
so dreadful when mamma questioned me, and I dared not tell! And when I
thought you all believed I was telling untruths, and that you could
never love me again, I thought my heart would break. I did not know what
was right and what was wrong, and for a long time I could not pray. But
then I did, and God seemed to put it into my heart to send back the
_etui_, and ask leave to tell; and I was a little happier after that.
But when you took my hand in bed, and asked me again to tell, I grew
worse again. I could not sleep; (only now and then a little;) my best
time was when I stood under the tree, and saw the gardener's boy running
across the lawn with my letter, the air was so fresh, and the birds were
singing, and the sun made every thing so beautiful. I felt quite happy
then
I am making you sorry
I will not tell you any more.
You know I am happy now, O so happy! and I will not forget this time, I
am sure -- no, I never, never will forget. Now go, dearest, to Leila, for
I think mamma wishes me to be alone; but come in sometimes, with cousin
Leila, and just kiss me and go away again
Why do you look so frightened, Charles
I like these sudden
changes, they are very good; don't walk so quick,-- let us stop for a
moment and watch those magnificent clouds
No, Leila, no; let us hasten home; I fear we shall have a storm
A storm
O do then let us make haste. I am not
frightened -- that is, I am not much frightened, though a storm always
makes me think of melancholy things; but papa, I know, will be anxious
about us; let us walk very quick
The storm has begun
that is thunder
Let us get out of the wood
we shall be
safer in the open field
Charles, where are you,
Charles? I cannot see you -- I am blind
Open your eyes,
dear, dear Leila; O do not say you cannot open them. Merciful God, it
cannot be
I shall never see my papa again
It is God who has done it. He
loves me, I am His child, and He can comfort my dear, dear papa
Charles
you are weeping. O do not weep for me; God can
comfort me, and he _does_. I cannot tell you what I feel now, it seems
as if angels were whispering to me
But it is for my papa, my own papa. Charles, do not carry me to him at
first; carry me to my own room
Now take me to my papa
Where
are you, Charles
Come in, my little woman
I am so relieved to hear your
little tap; I have been seeking you, Leila. Where have you been during
this frightful storm? Why don't you come in, love
Come to the door, dear papa, but do not open it, till I speak to you
What pleasant little surprise are you preparing for
me, my child
Papa, dear papa, it is not a pleasant surprise; but you will try to
bear it
Papa
papa, you will bear it; God has done it. He knows best. He has struck
me blind
Send immediately to Richmond
for Dr. B ----,
and let the coachman get ready to ride to London, I will give him a
note. Leila, my own heroic child, I must leave you a moment with Nurse
The worst is over
now, my papa knows it all
You will be a good girl, Amy, and not cry, and you
will be a great comfort to me -- you will lead me every where
Some one has left
the room
it must be Charles. Where has he gone to
Ah, papa, I know why: it is because I agitate myself so much. I know it
is very wrong, and I will try to be quite calm, and to comfort you more,
papa; but I cannot always do it, though sometimes for a moment it seems
quite easy, and I only feel that God has done it for my good, and has
sent me this great trial because he loves me and wishes to make me
better, and that perhaps he has shut my eyes on the world that I may
think more of my beautiful home in heaven; for, papa, do you not know
how much I had begun to love the world; the love of it was creeping into
me, and you did not know it; ever since we came into it I have loved it
every day more and more -- the people, the flowers, this house, every
thing. Yes, I have loved the world better than the island, where I
thought so much more of God. And I used to like so much to hear Bill and
Susan call me their little mistress,-- all this was very wrong, and I
dare say this is why God has shut it all out, the trees, the green
fields, the beautiful flowing river, and even your face, my own
papa -- and for _ever_!-- oh, that is the part I cannot bear
Hush, my child, my own Leila;-- do not say there is any thing you cannot
bear. He who has sent the trial will give you strength. Remember, we are
told, that 'If we endure chastening, God dealeth with us as with sons,
for what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not?'-- and though for the
present it is very grievous to you, He will, when His own righteous
purposes have been fulfilled, bring to your heart that sweet peace
'which the world cannot know;'-- but, my child, you are exciting yourself
in talking too much, and I am most anxious that you should keep very
quiet now, and try to get a little sleep
Well, papa, I will. Do you remember that day, papa, when you said to
me, 'Leila, remember, duties are ours, but events are in the hands of
God?' I am glad I have thought of this now, for it comforts me -- it tells
me it is my duty to be patient and to trust it all to God -- now I will
try to sleep
Papa
there is something I wish to say to
you; and then I think I could sleep;-- will you write to Aunt Stanley,
and tell her every thing, and beg her to come here to-day as soon as
possible, and bring them all with her. I shall be better when I have
seen them all
I shall be better when
they are here, I mean; and bid aunt tell Selina not to be very sorry,
and to remember how God comforted her when she was dumb, and gave her
strength to bear it; and He is giving me strength also, dear papa
Do not be afraid
of me, papa; I know what Dr. B ---- will say, and I can bear it; hold my
hand again, it makes me feel strong
Try to compose yourself, my dear young lady
I am not
going to hurt you; but it is necessary that I should examine your eyes
more closely
My papa, I see
him
Thank God
the sight of the eye in this dear
child is not destroyed
This is not so bad as we dreaded
Do let him tell me every thing, papa, I am quite
able to bear it. Does Dr. B ---- think I shall still be blind?-- do let
him speak out the truth
My dear young
lady
I hope and trust that you will not always be blind; but
I am not prepared to say that you certainly will recover the power of
raising your eyelids -- there have been frequent instances of the nerves
never recovering their powers; but you are young, and in good health;
your well-turned mind, and your power of commanding your feelings, (and
I am sure from the highest motives,) is much in your favour, and with
God nothing is impossible. And now I will take my leave for to-day. I
have only one caution to give, and I address it to all,-- agitation of
every kind must as much as possible be avoided
Don't let any one be with her
who
is likely to agitate her; there is an old woman in the passage in such a
state of distress; she is clamorous for admittance, but it must not be
yielded to
old woman
It is Peggy Dobie
my dear Peggy; oh,
papa, let her come in for a moment, only one moment, papa, and then I
shall keep myself quite still, and not be agitated again
My dear, dear
bairn, your poor old Peggy will pray for you, and there is a merciful
God above
Papa, I have made you more sorry, but it is over now; it was just at
first -- indeed I could not help it, for the air brought to me the sweet
smell of the flowers which I can no longer see, and from the feeling on
my eyelids I know the sun must be shining gloriously. O, how I used to
like to gaze on the rising sun, and to watch the soft grey of the
morning fading before his golden light! and it brought grand feelings to
my mind, and good feelings too, papa, for it made me think of Him who is
more glorious than the sun
Yes, my child, but that feeling can still be yours, and even in a
higher degree, for this trial may lead you to raise your mind more
constantly to Him in whose presence there is everlasting light
Yes, papa, I know it, and I will pray for this. Do you remember the
text in Isaiah which says, 'I will bring the blind by a way that they
know not, I will lead them in paths that they have not known; I will
make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight; these
things will I do unto them, and not forsake them.' And God may do this
to me, papa; He may open the eyes of my mind, and make it all more light
to me. And I have many pleasures yet, you know: I have you, papa; and
that is more than a pleasure, it is my happiness. O you don't know what
I feel when you are near me; I am not melancholy then; indeed I am never
so melancholy as I thought I should be; I know when it is light and
when it is dark quite well; and once you know I saw your face for a
moment; I think I should be quite happy if I got leave to see you for a
moment every day, but Dr. B ---- says I must not -- why, papa
Because, my love, nothing must be done to increase the injury on the
nerves; therefore you must not try to force your eyelids up
Well, papa, I will try to be patient; but I may hope not to be always
blind. You know Jesus Christ opened the eyes of many that were blind: He
was full of pity, and I may pray to Him to open my eyes,-- that is, if He
thinks it good for me
Yes, my child, such prayers, leaving all to Him, cannot fail to be
acceptable in His sight. He has loved you, Leila, from your birth, with
more than an earthly love; and never more, I feel sure, than at this
moment, when you are bowing meekly to His will. His deathless love is
around, and above you, even now; He can wipe all tears from your eyes
with a hand that never comforted in vain; He can give you happy dreams
of green pastures and still waters, and brighter and brighter hopes of
that dear home, where no darkness, no grief, no fear can enter; only the
eternal shining of a light divine, and joy unspeakable! Now, sweet one,
we must walk a little, I must not talk to you too much
But, papa, such talk as this
No, not even such talk as this; I must not strain your mind in any way,
my Leila
Then, papa, take me to the bee-hives, I think I should like to hear the
bees humming
Yes, papa
you must not be melancholy about me, for I am
not unhappy. Nurse sometimes thinks I am, but indeed I am not; she
fancies it, I believe, because I do not speak so much now; I like to
think and be still; you know, papa, my world is more within me now -- I do
not see its beautiful sunsets, its woods, its flowers; its broad river
with its green banks, which I used to love so much; and so I picture
them in my own mind, and seem to dream of them, though I am awake. It is
that which makes me often still, papa; and I like those dreams, they
make me happy now
Yes, my own Leila, I can understand all this; but those day-dreams must
not be too much indulged in; there might be danger then of your finding
your pleasures in life more in reverie, than in useful exertion and in
active duty; for you must not fancy, my dear child, that you have not
the same duties to perform now as you formerly had; as your health
strengthens, I should wish you to return as much as possible to your
former habits
But, papa, I can do so little now
Not so, my love; in a very short time you will be surprised to find how
much you can do, and how independent you have become. Do you remember,
at first you were afraid to move across the room, and now you seem to
walk fearlessly over almost every part of the house
Yes, papa, I am not the least afraid now, and since I have been blind,
God seems to have opened my ears more and more; before, I always knew
your footstep, and it made me glad; but now, I know the step of every
one in the house, and yours though ever so far off; and when you are
quite still, I know your breathing, and I like to listen to it so much.
O, I have many pleasures -- why do you sigh, papa?-- you must not do that,
it makes me sorry; Selina often sighs when I talk to her, and even
Matilda; and sometimes when Matilda begins to laugh, she stops herself
quite suddenly -- I wish she would not, I like to hear her laugh. Papa, I
have never heard you laugh since _that day_; my own papa, you must
try -- you must be merry with me again
My Leila, my precious one
Yes, your precious one; how I like you to call me that! Come, let me
sing to you; now don't say, 'Another day, Leila, not now,'-- for it is
not to be another day, I am quite able for it now -- so let your precious
one have her guitar again
Now, papa
I hope I have
cheered you again; I should not have tried to sing that melancholy
song
No more at
present, my sweet child; but now every day you shall sing to your papa
as usual, and cheer him as you have ever done; but what does Amy
want?-- this is the second time she has looked into the room
Oh, I know
Yes, Amy, I am coming presently -- I know,
papa, what she wants; at this hour she always takes me to visit my pets,
and they are getting quite fond of me again, which makes me so happy. At
first they did not like me so much, because I was blind; they fluttered
about, and seemed afraid of me -- not Dash nor Selina, they were always
kind; Selina seems getting quite young again, for she frisks about me
always, jumps up when I am passing by, and purs so loud, that I am
afraid she will make herself quite hoarse; and as to Dash, you don't
know what a dog he is -- wherever I am now, he lies outside the door, and
the moment I go out he follows; he does not think it is enough that I
should be alone with Amy, and looks at her she says quite
suspiciously;-- when you are there he does not follow me quite so close,
but when I am alone with her he is touching me the whole time. Yesterday
he pulled me aside by my dress; Amy said it was because there was a
stone in my path, and he was afraid I might strike my foot against it;
and another day he seized a large branch of a tree in his mouth, (which
had fallen down,) and threw it aside with such indignation, and looked
at her quite angrily, as if she were leading me into danger. Poor Dash,
he does not know how very kind Amy is to me, papa; I cannot persuade her
yet to return to her own room at night; she still lies on that little
hard mattress at the foot of my bed, and when I tell her not to do it,
it makes her sorry
Yes, my child, I know she does; and I am sure she prefers doing so
I think so too, papa, and for many days I am sure she never slept, for
always when I awoke I found her standing by my bed, ready to give me my
lemonade, or to rub my feet, or do whatever I wished, to make me sleep
again. Papa, if this trial had not come to me, I never should have known
the love that is in many hearts for me; I cannot speak about Selina, I
cannot tell you what she is to me; and Matilda, so gentle to me and so
kind; and Mrs. Roberts also; then Mrs. Herbert, Charles, and Mina; but
it would take me all the day to tell you of all the kindnesses to
me,-- and I am forgetting that Amy is waiting, for I could chat away with
you, papa, for ever; but now I must go and chat a little to my parrots,
or they will be quite jealous. And then Amy has to give me my lesson of
flowers; she is teaching me to know them all by the touch, for you know
it is better to be prepared for what _may be_. I hope you are not
looking melancholy because I am saying this. Good-bye, dear papa
How can she bear it? O any trial but
this
I wish Susan were nearer us
how kind in you both to take such pains with her; she
says it is her happiest time when she is with us; and do you know what I
have been wishing for a long time, and making a little plan in my own
mind about? I have been wishing that we could find a house in our
village for Susan's mother, and then poor Susan would come oftener, for
she would not have so far to walk; and yesterday I spoke to papa about
it; he said he did not quite see how it could be managed, but that he
would turn it in his mind. When papa says he will turn it in his mind,
he is sure to turn and twist it into the right thing
But how
can Uncle Howard twist Susan's mother and
all her five brothers and sisters into a house in the village, when
there is not one empty, and all the people quite healthy, not the least
likely to die? He must twist them out first, and that would not be
civil
I don't know, Matilda, but I am sure my papa will not do any thing
unkind, and yet I think he will manage it; I knew by the sound of his
voice that he thought it possible, and I have been thinking a great deal
of all I could do for Susan to make her happier; for she has not all my
comforts and pleasures, and she has not a Selina and a Matilda to be
eyes to her, and to make every thing cheerful to her, and even light;
for when I am with you, I scarcely feel that I am blind at all
Now, why do you sigh, Selina? that must not be. Do not pity me; you
must get reconciled as I am doing -- you must, both of you, help me to be
cheerful; and you, Matilda, must try to laugh a great deal more than you
do now, for I like so much to hear you merry. And look, Selina, what a
pretty nosegay I am tying up for you; is it not very well arranged for a
little blind girl? Amy says I am improving every day now; you see I
arrange the green leaves and the different colours of the flowers, so as
to have a grand effect. At first they used to be all higgledy piggledy,
as Peggie Dobie would say. What excellent words Peggie Dobie has; don't
you think _higgledy piggledy_ delightful? I am sure any one must know it
means confusion. And I shall teach Susan to make nosegays, for I hope
there will be a garden to the cottage
And what would Susan do with so many nosegays
Perhaps she might sell the nosegays at Richmond, and make a little more
money for her mother, which would make her so happy. She might sit under
the trees on the terrace early in the mornings before she came to us,
and she could knit all the time, and be as busy as if she were at home.
I daresay every one would like to buy nosegays from a blind girl, I am
sure I should; and I think Nurse would perhaps allow me to give her my
second best bonnet, to keep the hot sun off her eyelids; I am sure it
must be looking very old now, though I am afraid Nurse does not think
so, for she makes me stretch out the strings every day, and says it is
wonderful how long things will look respectable with proper management
Yes
and you are so terribly conscientious, Leila, and
stretch away so every morning, that I am afraid your strings never will
look disrespectable; if I were you I would begin to crumple them a
little now. Do begin to-morrow
How you talk, Matilda; you know very well you would
not do so now
Then you do think me a little improved, Selina
Not a little, but a great deal improved
O, I am so glad; and you, Cousin Leila, should be glad also, for it is
all owing to you. When I saw you so good and patient, and trying always
to bear your trial so well, I prayed a great deal to be made good and
patient too, for you know I have my little trials; always the holding up
my head, and the never putting my elbows on the table, or being the
least comfortable, all those hundred little botherations that used to
put me wild; I do think I bear them a little better now. But you will be
rewarded for bearing your great trials as you do, for I am sure God
must love you so much; that very soon now He will open your eyes, and
you will see as well as we do. O what joy then -- what joy
Hush! Matilda, hush! do not say it
God does
love me, I feel He does, for He gives me sweet, peaceful feelings now,
and makes me happy; but His ways are different. He does what is best for
me, and I am making up my mind, for I feel as if I were to be always
blind. Selina knows it, for I have told her; and now that I have told
you, I shall be happier. I wish I could speak about it to papa too, but
I can't just yet. Don't cry, Matilda, don't, my own dear Matilda
Now there is a dear
one; you will be good, you will be patient, and say it is all quite,
quite right. You know, Matilda it must be so
Yes
once, only once again, and then I feel I shall be able to say from my
very heart, 'Thy will be done
Dear papa
I am sure you are feeling unwell, you have
over-fatigued yourself. Do let me take care of you and make you better.
You shall lie down on the sofa, and I will sing you to sleep. Sleep is
the very thing you want. Now, there is a dear papa, stretch yourself
out; now then let me arrange the pillows comfortably
There
now,-- so; is not that comfortable? Now I shall take my guitar, and sing
you a sweet lullaby; but you must shut your dear eyes first. Are you
shutting them, papa
O
you naughty papa, they are wide open
Now is the time
O my Father in Heaven
give me of thy
strength! I thought I had been resigned; O pardon a poor weak child, and
make me strong
Forgive me, dearest papa
I could not help it; once more to
see your face, papa, only once more
And now, papa, I feel that God will
strengthen me to be resigned. You know He says,--'When thou passest
through the waters I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they
shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire thou shalt
not be burned, neither shall the fire kindle upon thee.' And has it not
come true with me, papa? He saved me in the waters, and in the fire; and
shall I not trust in Him? I feel now as if He did not mean to open my
eyes, but it must be right
My little trials
but a great trial like this!
No, no, Selina; how can you be so unreasonable? I said nothing about a
great one, and I am not like Leila, or you, I must cry, and I should
Your
dear one, you more than darling! and with your eyes so bright, so
open -- only at times the slightest little beautiful droop, just to remind
us of what has been. Did I not tell you how it would be? did I not say
you would again see better than any of us
Charles
how strange you are. Amy does that sometimes to
me; she says it is from love and respect; it is from love and respect,
eh, Charles
The sun has risen on high
      With bright and cheerful ray,
    To greet with loving eye
      Our Leila, queen of May!

    "The little birds of air
      Join in our simple lay,
    To greet thee, lady fair,
      Our gentle queen of May!

    "The sweetest flowers of spring
      Bloom round thy path to-day,
    A woodland wreath we bring,
      To crown thee queen of May!

    "Bright sun, gay birds, fair flowers,
      Speak not alone to-day,
    From these full hearts of ours,
      We hail thee, queen of May
Did I no' aye tell ye that peerless jewel o' a bairn was fit to grace a
crown
</text>
