<text>
One wide water all around us,
  All above us one black sky
Won't that great
wave come into us, Ready
No, Master William, it will not: don't you see how the ship lifts her
quarters to it?-- and now it has passed underneath us.  But it might
happen, and then what would become of you, if I did not hold on, and
hold you on also?  You would be washed overboard
I don't like the sea much, Ready; I wish we were safe on shore again
Don't the waves look as if they wished to beat the
ship all to pieces
Yes, they do; and they roar as if angry because they cannot bury the
vessel beneath them: but I am used to them, and with a good ship like
this, and a good captain and crew, I don't care for them
But sometimes ships do sink, and then everybody is drowned
Yes; and very often the very ships sink which those on board think are
most safe.  We can only do our best, and after that we must submit to
the will of Heaven
What little birds are those flying about so close to the water
Those are Mother Carey's chickens.  You seldom see them except in a
storm, or when a storm is coming on
Were you ever shipwrecked on a desolate island like Robinson Crusoe
Yes, Master William, I have been shipwrecked; but I never heard of
Robinson Crusoe.  So many have been wrecked and undergone great
hardships, and so many more have never lived to tell what they have
suffered, that it's not very likely that I should have known that one
man you speak of, out of so many
Oh! but it's all in a book which I have read.  I could tell you all
about it -- and so I will when the ship is quiet again; but now I wish you
would help me down below, for I promised mamma not to stay up long
Then always keep your promise like a good lad
now give me your hand, and I'll answer for it that we will fetch the
hatchway without a tumble; and when the weather is fine again, I'll tell
you how I was wrecked, and you shall tell me all about Robinson Crusoe
Well, Master Tommy, you are very glad that the gale is over
I didn't care
only I spilt all my soup.  But Juno
tumbled off her chair, and rolled away with the baby, till papa picked
them both up
It was a mercy that poor Albert was not killed
And so he might have been, if Juno had not thought only of him and
nothing at all about herself
That's very true, sir
She saved the child,
and, I fear, hurt herself
I thump my head very hard
Yes, and it's lucky that you have a good thick woolly coat over it
It is 12 o'clock by the sun, sir
Then bring me up the latitude, Mr Mackintosh, while I work out the
longitude from the sights which I took this morning.  In five minutes,
Mr Seagrave, I shall be ready to prick off over our place on the
chart
Here are the dogs come up on deck
I dare say they are
as glad of the fine weather as we are.  Come here, Romulus!  Here,
Remus!-- Remus
Well, sir
I should like to ask you a question.  Those dogs of yours
have two very odd names which I never heard before.  Who were Romulus
and Remus
Romulus and Remus
were the names of two
shepherds, brothers, who in ancient days founded the city of Rome, which
eventually became the largest and most celebrated empire in the world.
They were the first kings of Rome, and reigned together.  History says
that Remus affronted Romulus by leaping over a wall he had raised, and
Romulus, in his anger, took away his life; but the history of early days
is not to be depended upon
No, nor the brothers either, it appears
however, it
is the old story -- two of a trade can never agree.  One sometimes hears
of Rome now -- is that the same place
Yes
it is the remains of the old city
Well, one lives and learns
I have learnt something
to-day, which everyone will to the last day of his life, if he will only
ask questions.  I'm an old man, and perhaps don't know much, except in
the seafaring way; but I should have known much less if I did not ask
for information, and was not ashamed to acknowledge my ignorance; that's
the way to learn, Master William
Very good advice, Ready,-- and, William, I hope you will profit by it
never be ashamed to ask the meaning of what you do
not understand
I always do, papa.  Do I not ask you questions, Ready
Yes, you do, and very clever questions for a boy of your age; and I
only wish that I could answer them better than I can sometimes
I should like to go down now, my dear
perhaps
Ready will see the baby down safe
That I will, ma'am
now, Juno, give me the child, and go down first;-- backwards, you stupid
girl! how often do I tell you that?  Some day or another you will come
down with a run
And break my head
Yes, or break your arm; and then who is to hold the child
If the wind holds, we shall be in to-morrow
Juno, perhaps you may see your father and mother
Why do they call this Table Bay, Ready
I suppose it's because they call that great mountain the Table
Mountain, Master William; you see how flat the mountain is on the top
Yes, it is quite as flat as a table
Yes, and sometimes you will see the white clouds rolling down over the
top of it in a very curious manner, and that the sailors call spreading
the tablecloth: it is a sign of bad weather
Then I hope they will not spread the tablecloth while we are here,
Ready
for I shall certainly have no appetite.  We have
had bad weather enough already, and mamma suffers so much from it.  What
a pretty place it is
We shall remain here two days, sir
if you and Mrs Seagrave would like to go on shore
I will go down and ask Mrs Seagrave
What are the Company's Gardens, papa
They were made by the Dutch East India Company, at the time that the
Cape of Good Hope was in their possession.  They are, properly speaking,
Botanical Gardens; but, at the same time, the wild animals are kept
there.  Formerly there were a great many, but they have not been paid
attention to lately, for we have plenty of these animals in England
now
What shall we see
You will see lions, Tommy, a great many in a large den together
Oh!  I want to see a lion
You must not go too near them, recollect
No, I won't
Here is a pair of very strange birds
they are called Secretaries, on account of the
feathers which hang behind their heads, as the feather of a pen does
when a clerk puts it behind his ear: but they are very useful, for they
are snake-killers; indeed, they would, if they could, live altogether
upon snakes, which they are very great enemies to, never letting one
escape.  They strike them with their feet, and with such force as to
kill them immediately
Are there many snakes in this country
Yes, and very venomous snakes
so that these
birds are very useful in destroying them.  You observe, William, that
the Almighty, in his wisdom, has so arranged it that no animal
(especially of a noxious kind) shall be multiplied to excess, but kept
under by being preyed upon by some other; indeed, wherever in any
country an animal exists in any quantity, there is generally found
another animal which destroys it.  The Secretary inhabits this country
where snakes exist in numbers, that it may destroy them: in England the
bird would be of little value
But some animals are too large or too fierce to be destroyed by others,
papa; for instance, the elephant and the lion
Very true; but these larger animals do not breed so fast, and therefore
their numbers do not increase so rapidly.  For instance, a pair of
elephants will not have more than one young one in the space of two
years or more; while the rabbits, which are preyed upon and the food of
so many other beasts as well as birds, would increase enormously, if
they were not destroyed.  Examine through the whole of creation, and you
will find that there is an unerring hand, which invariably preserves the
balance exact; and that there are no more mouths than for which food is
provided, although accidental circumstances may for a time occasion a
slight alteration
Take me away -- take me on board the ship
What did you do, Tommy
I won't throw any more stones, Mr Lion; I won't indeed
What great bird is that, Ready
It is an albatross, the largest sea-bird we have.  Their wings are very
long.  I have seen them shot, and they have measured eleven feet from
the tip of one wing to the tip of the other when the wings have been
spread out
It is the first one that I have seen
Because you seldom meet them north of the Cape, sir: people do say that
they go to sleep on the wing, balancing themselves high up in the air
Papa
why is it
that one bird can swim and another cannot?  You recollect when Tommy
drove the hens into the large pond, they flounced about, and their
feathers became wet, and would support them no longer, and then they
were drowned.  Now, how does a sea-bird contrive to remain so long on
the water
Because a sea-bird, William, is provided with a sort of oil on purpose
to anoint the outside of its feathers, and this oil prevents the water
from penetrating them.  Have you not observed the ducks on shore
dressing their feathers with their bills?  They were then using this oil
to make their feathers waterproof
How odd
Don't say how odd, William; that is not an expression to use when we
talk of the wonderful provisions made by the Almighty hand, who neglects
not the meanest of his creatures -- say rather, how wonderful
That's very true, sir
but still you must not be too
hard upon Master William, for I have heard many a grownup man make use
of the same expression
Ready
how do you think we shall have the wind
Why, Captain Osborn, to tell you the truth, I don't think it will be
steady to one point long.  It may at first blow hard from the north, but
it's my idea it will shift soon to some other quarter, and blow still
harder
What think you, Mackintosh
We'll have plenty of it, and a long steady gale, that's my notion; and
the sooner we ship the dead lights the better
That's a foolish name they give to the shutters which go over the cabin
windows to prevent the water from breaking into the cabin when a vessel
sails before the wind; you know we had them on the last time that we had
a gale
But, Ready
why do you think that we shall have
a shift of wind
Well, I don't know; perhaps I was wrong
and Mr
Mackintosh is right: the wind does seem to come steady from the
north-east, that's certain
Captain Osborn, it's not for me to contradict Mr Mackintosh, but
that's of little consequence in a time like this: I should have held to
my opinion, had it not been that the gentleman passenger and his son
were standing by, but now, as the coast is clear, I tell you that we
shall have something worse than a gale of wind.  I have been in these
latitudes before, and I am an old seaman, as you know.  There's
something in the air, and there has been something during the last three
days of calm, which reminds me too well of what I have seen here before;
and I am sure that we shall have little better than a hurricane, as far
as wind goes -- and worse in one point, that it will last much longer than
hurricanes generally do.  I have been watching, and even the birds tell
me so, and they are told by their nature, which is never mistaken.  That
calm has been nothing more than a repose of the winds previous to their
being roused up to do their worst; and that is my real opinion
Well, and I'm inclined to agree with you, Ready; so we must send
topgallant yards down on deck, and all the small sails and lumber out of
the tops.  Get the trysail aft and bent, and lower down the gaff.  I
will go forward
How long will this last, think you
Longer than the ship will
I should hope not
still it cannot look worse.
What do you think, Ready
Far more fear from above than from below just now
Look at
those two clouds, sir, rushing at each other; if I
I don't much like this, Ready; we are now running on danger and have no
help for it
That's true enough
we have no help for it; it is
God's will, sir, and His will be done
Amen
There were many captains who envied me when I obtained command
of this fine ship,-- would they change with me now
I should rather think not, Captain Osborn, but you never know what the
day may bring forth.  You sailed with this vessel, full of hope -- you
now, not without reason, feel something approaching to despair; but who
knows? it may please the Almighty to rebuke those angry winds and waves,
and to-morrow we may again hope for the best; at all events you have
done your duty -- no man can do more
You are right
but hold hard, Ready, that
sea's aboard of us
She started a timber or two with that blow, I rather think
I'm afraid so; the best vessel ever built could not stand such shocks
long
and at present, with our weak crew, I do
not see that we can get more sail upon her
See, my child
the wreck and devastation which are
here.  See how the pride of man is humbled before the elements of the
great Jehovah
Ay, Master Willy
look around you, as you well may.
Do you remember the verses in the Bible?-- if not, I remember them well,
for I have often read them, and have often felt the truth of them: &bquo;They
that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters,
these see the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep
But, father
how shall we ever get to
Sydney without masts or sails
Why, William
we must do what we can: we sailors are
never much at a loss, and I dare say before night you will find us under
some sort of sail again.  We have lost our great masts, so we must put
up jury-masts, as we call them; that is, little ones, and little sails
upon them; and, if it pleases God, we shall see Sydney yet.  How is
Madam, sir
Is she better
I fear she is very weak and ill
nothing but
fine weather will do her any good.  Do you think that it will be fine
now
Why, sir, to tell you the truth, I fear we shall have more of it yet: I
have not given my thoughts to the captain, as I might be mistaken; but
still I think so -- I've not been fifty years at sea without learning
something.  I don't like the gathering of that bank there, Mr Seagrave,
and I shouldn't wonder if it were to blow again from the very same
quarter, and that before dark
God's will be done
but I am very fearful about
my poor wife, who is worn to a shadow
I shouldn't think so much about that, sir, as I really never knew of
people dying that way, although they suffer much.  William, do you know
that we have lost some of our men since you were down below
No -- I heard the steward say something outside about the foremast
We have lost five of our smartest and best men -- Wilson was washed
overboard, Fennings and Masters struck dead with the lightning, and
Jones and Emery crushed by the fall of the foremast.  You are young,
Master Willy, but you cannot think too early of your Maker, or call to
mind what they say in the burial service,--&bquo;In the midst of life we are
in death
Thank you, Ready, for the lesson you have given my son
and, William, treasure it up in your memory
Yes, William, they are the words of an old man who has seen many and
many a one who was full of youth and spirits called away before him, and
who is grateful to God that he has been pleased to preserve his life,
and allow him to amend his ways
I have been thinking
that a sailor has no right to marry
I've always thought so, sir
and I dare say many a
poor deserted sailor's wife, when she has listened to the wind and rain
in her lonely bed, has thought the same
With my permission
my boys shall never go to
sea if there is any other profession to be found for them
Well, Mr Seagrave, they do say that it's no use baulking a lad if he
wishes to go to sea, and that if he is determined, he must go: now I
think otherwise -- I think a parent has a right to say no, if he pleases,
upon that point; for you see, sir, a lad, at the early age at which he
goes to sea, does not know his own mind.  Every high-spirited boy wishes
to go to sea -- it's quite natural; but if the most of them were to speak
the truth, it is not that they so much want to go to sea, as that they
want to go from school or from home, where they are under the control of
their masters or their parents
Very true, Ready; they wish to be, as they consider they will be,
independent
And a pretty mistake they make of it, sir.  Why, there is not a greater
slave in the world than a boy who goes to sea, for the first few years
after his shipping: for once they are corrected on shore, they are
punished ten times at sea, and they never again meet with the love and
affection they have left behind them.  It is a hard life, and there have
been but few who have not bitterly repented it, and who would not have
returned, like the prodigal son, and cast themselves at their fathers'
feet, only that they have been ashamed
That's the truth, Ready, and it is on that account that I consider that
a parent is justified in refusing his consent to his son going to sea,
if he can properly provide for him in any other profession.  There never
will be any want of sailors, for there always will be plenty of poor
lads whose friends can do no better for them; and in that case the
seafaring life is a good one to choose, as it requires no other capital
for their advancement than activity and courage
Massa Tommy is a very naughty boy
The gale is broke, my men, and we shall have fine weather now
The wind is
going down fast
Yes
and the ship is going down fast, that's
quite as certain
A good spell at the pumps would do us some good now
What d'ye say, my lads
A glass of grog or two would do us more
What
d'ye say, my boys?  I don't think that the captain would refuse us, poor
fellow, if he could speak
What do you mean to do, my lads
not get drunk,
I hope
Why not
the ship must go down soon
Perhaps she may -- I will not deny it
but that is no
reason why we should not be saved: now, if you get drunk, there is no
chance of any one being saved, and my life is precious to me.  I'm ready
to join with you in anything you please, and you may decide what is to
be done; but get drunk you shall not, if I can help it, that's certain
And how can you help it
Because two resolute men can do a great deal -- I may say three, for in
this instance Ready will be of my side, and I can call to my assistance
the cabin passenger -- recollect the firearms are all in the cabin.  But
why should we quarrel?-- Say at once what you intend to do; and if you
have not made up your minds, will you listen to what I propose
We have one good boat left, the new yawl at the booms: the others, as
you know, are washed away, with the exception of the little boat astern,
which is useless, as she is knocked almost to pieces.  Now we cannot be
very far from some of the islands, indeed I think we are among them now.
Let us fit out the boat with everything we require, go about our work
steadily and quietly, drink as much grog as will not hurt us, and take a
good provision of it with us.  The boat is complete with her masts,
sails, and oars; and it's very hard if we do not save ourselves
somewhere.  Ready, do I give good advice or not
You give very good advice, Mackintosh -- only what is to become of the
cabin passengers, the women, and children? and are you going to leave
poor Captain Osborn? or what do you mean to do
We won't leave the captain
No -- no
And the passengers
Very sorry for them
but we shall have
enough to do to save our own lives
Well, my lads, I agree with you
Charity begins at
home.  What do you say?-- shall it be so
Yes
What is all this, Ready
Are they going to leave the ship? have they killed Captain Osborn
No, sir,-- not quite so bad as that.  Poor Captain Osborn was struck
down by the fall of the yard, and has been insensible ever since; but,
as to the other matter, I fear that is decided: you see they are
launching the boat
But my poor wife, she will never be able to go -- she cannot move -- she is
so ill
I'm afraid, Mr Seagrave, that they have no idea of taking either you,
or your wife, or your children, with them
What! leave us here to perish!  Merciful Heaven! how cruel -- how
barbarous
It is not kind, Mr Seagrave, but still you see it is the law of
nature.  When it is a question of life, it is every one for himself, for
life is sweet: they are not more unkind than they would be to each
other, if there were too many for the boat to hold.  I've seen all this
before in my time
My wife! my children
But I will speak to them
surely
they will listen to the dictates of humanity; at all events Mr
Mackintosh will have some power over them.  Don't you think so, Ready
Well, Mr Seagrave, if I must speak, I confess to you that there is not
a harder heart among them than that of Mr Mackintosh, and it's useless
speaking to him or any one of them; and you must not be too severe upon
them neither: the boat is small, and could not hold more people with the
provisions which they take with them -- that is the fact.  If they were to
take you and your family into the boat, it might be the cause of all
perishing together; if I thought otherwise I would try what I could do
to persuade them, but it is useless
What must be done, then, Ready
We must put our trust in a merciful God, Mr Seagrave, who will dispose
of us as he thinks fit
We must?  What! do not you go with them
No, Mr Seagrave.  I have been thinking about it this last hour, and I
have made up my mind to remain with you.  They intend to take poor
Captain Osborn with them, and give him a chance, and have offered to
take me; but I shall stay here
To perish
As God pleases, Mr Seagrave.  I am an old man, and it is of little
consequence.  I care little whether I am taken away a year or two
sooner, but I do not like to see blossoms cut off in early spring: I may
be of use if I remain, for I've an old head upon my shoulders, and I
could not leave you all to perish when you might be saved if you only
knew how to act.  But here the seamen come -- the boat is all ready, and
they will now take poor Captain Osborn with them
Come, Ready, there's no time to
lose
Never mind me, Williams; I shall stick to the ship
I
wish you success with all my heart; and, Mr Mackintosh, I have but one
promise to exact from you, and I hope you will not refuse me: which is,
that if you are saved, you will not forget those you leave here on
board, and take measures for their being searched for among the
islands
Nonsense, Ready! come into the boat
I shall stay here, Mr Mackintosh; and I only beg that you will promise
me what I ask.  Acquaint Mr Seagrave's friends with what has happened,
and where it is most likely we may be found, if it please God to save
us.  Do you promise me that
Yes, I do, if you are determined to stay; but
it is madness:-- come away, man
Good-bye, Mr Mackintosh
You
will keep your promise
They think that they will be saved and that we must perish, Mr
Seagrave; they forget that there is a Power above, who will himself
decide that point -- a power compared to which the efforts of weak man are
as nought
True
but still what chance we
can have on a sinking ship, with so many helpless creatures around us, I
confess I cannot imagine
We must do our best, and submit to His will
Mr Seagrave, do not give way
if I thought our situation
hopeless, I would candidly say so; but there always is hope, even at the
very worst,-- and there always ought to be trust in that God without
whose knowledge not a sparrow falls to the ground.  But, Mr Seagrave, I
shall speak as a seaman, and tell you what our probabilities are.  The
ship is half-full of water, from her seams having opened by the
straining in the gale, and the heavy blows which she received; but, now
that the gale has abated, she has recovered herself very much.  I have
sounded the well, and find that she has not made many inches within the
last two hours, and probably, as she closes her seams, will make less.
If, therefore, it pleases God that the fine weather should continue,
there is no fear of the vessel sinking under us for some time; and as we
are now amongst the islands, it is not impossible, nay, it is very
probable, that we may be able to run her ashore, and thus save our
lives.  I thought of all this when I refused to go in the boat, and I
thought also, Mr Seagrave, that if you were to have been deserted by me
as well as by all the rest, you would have been unable yourself to take
advantage of any chances which might turn up in your favour, and
therefore I have remained, hoping, under God's providence, to be the
means of assisting you and your family in this sore position.  I think
now it would be better that you should go down into the cabin, and with
a cheerful face encourage poor Mrs Seagrave with the change in the
weather, and the hopes of arriving in some place of safety.  If she does
not know that the men have quitted the ship, do not tell her; say that
the steward is with the other men, which will be true enough, and, if
possible, leave her in the dark as to what has taken place.  Master
William can be trusted, and if you will send him here to me, I will talk
to him
I hardly know what to think, Ready, or how sufficiently to thank you
for your self-devotion, if I may so term it, in this exigency.  That
your advice is excellent and that I shall follow it, you may be assured;
and, should we be saved from the death which at present stares us in the
face, my gratitude
Do not speak of that, sir; I am an old man with few wants, and whose
life is of little use now.  All I wish to feel is, that I am trying to
do my duty in that situation into which it has pleased God to call me.
What can this world offer to one who has roughed it all his life, and
who has neither kith nor kin that he knows of to care about his death
I did not like to leave the cabin while you were on
deck, but the steward has not been here these two hours: he went to milk
the goat for baby and has not returned.  We have had no breakfast, none
of us
William, go on deck
Ready wishes to speak to
you
The steward
has left with
the other men, and when my mother wakes she will ask why the children
have had no breakfast.  What can I do
I think you can milk one of the goats if I show you how, while I go and
get the other things ready; I can leave the deck, for you see the ship
steers herself very nicely;-- and, William, I have sounded the well just
before you came up, and I don't think she makes much water; and
we shall have fine
weather, and a smooth sea before night
They cannot be expected to be quiet, sir; and, now that Madam
is in such a sweet sleep, it would be a pity to wake her.  After so much
fatigue she may sleep for hours, and the longer the better, for you know
that (in a short time, I trust) she will have to exert herself
Look there, sir
I perceive it
but what then
That by itself would not be quite proof
but we
sailors have other signs and tokens.  Do you see those birds hovering
over the waves
I do
Well, sir, those birds never go far from land, that's all: and now,
sir, I'll go down for my quadrant; for, although I cannot tell the
longitude just now, at all events I can find out the latitude we are in,
and then by looking at the chart shall be able to give some kind of
guess whereabout we are, if we see land soon.

"It is nearly noon now
the
sun rises very slowly.  What a happy thing a child is!  Look, sir, at
those little creatures playing about, and as merry now, and as unaware
of danger, as if they were at home in their parlour.  I often think,
sir, it is a great blessing for a child to be called away early; and
that it is selfish in parents to repine
Perhaps it is
It's twelve o'clock, sir.  I'll just go down and work the latitude, and
then I'll bring up the chart
O Lord! thy will, not mine, be done
Here is the chart, sir
and I have drawn a pencil line
through our latitude: you perceive that it passes through this cluster
of islands; and I think we must be among them, or very near.  Now I must
put something on for dinner, and then look sharp out for the land.  Will
you take a look round, Mr Seagrave, especially a-head and on the bows
Ready, I think I see something, but I can hardly tell what it is: it
appears to be in the air, and yet it is not clouds.  Look there, where I
point my finger
You're right, sir
there is something; it is not the
land which you see, but it is the trees upon the land which are
refracted, as they call it, so as to appear, as you say, as if they were
in the air.  That is an island, sir, depend upon it; but I will go down
and get my glass
It is the land, Mr Seagrave
yes, it is so
I wish that we had seen
it earlier; and yet we must be thankful
Why so, Ready
Only, sir, as the ship forges so slowly through the water, I fear that
we shall not reach it before dark, and I should have wished to have had
daylight to have laid her nicely on it
There is very little wind now
Well, let us hope that there will be more
if not, we
must do our best.  But I must now go to the helm, for we must steer
right for the island; it would not do to pass it, for, Mr Seagrave,
although the ship does not leak so much as she did, yet I must now tell
you that I do not think that she could be kept more than twenty-four
hours above water.  I thought otherwise this morning when I sounded the
well; but when I went down in the hold for the beef, I perceived that we
were in more danger than I had any idea of; however, there is the land,
and every chance of escape; so let us thank the Lord for all his
mercies
Amen
I think
I see my way pretty clear, sir: you see we are to the windward of the
island, and there is always deep water to the windward of these sort of
isles, and reefs and shoals to leeward; we must, therefore, find some
little cleft in the coral rock to dock her in, as it were, or she may
fall back into deep water after she has taken the ground, for sometimes
these islands run up like a wall, with forty or fifty fathom of water
close to the weather-sides of them; but I see a spot where I think she
may be put on shore with safety.  You see those three cocoa-nut trees
close together on the beach?  Now, sir, I cannot well see them as I
steer, so do you go forward, and if I am to steer more to the right, put
out your right hand, and if to the left, the same with your left; and
when the ship's head is as it ought to be, then drop the hand which you
have raised
I understand, Ready
All's well so far, sir
and now let us
return thanks to Heaven
Father, my mother was awakened by the noise
under the ship's bottom, and is frightened -- will you go down to her
What is the matter, my dear,-- and where have you all been
I have been so
frightened -- I was in a sound sleep, and I was awakened with such a
dreadful noise
Be composed, my dear
we have been in great
danger, and are now, I trust, in safety.  Tell me, are you not better
for your long sleep
Yes, much better -- much stronger; but do tell me what has happened
Much took place, dearest, before you went to sleep, which was concealed
from you; but now, as I expect we shall all go on shore in a short
time
Go on shore, my dear
Yes, on shore.  Now be calm, and hear what has happened, and how much
we have reason to be grateful to Heaven
Well, sir
I have been
looking well about me, and I think that we have great reason to be
thankful.  The ship is fast enough, and will not move until some violent
gales come on and break her up; but of that there is no fear at present:
the little wind that there is, is going down, and we shall have a calm
before morning
I grant that there is no immediate danger, Ready; but how are we to get
on shore?-- and, when on shore, how are we to exist
I have thought of that too, sir, and I must have your assistance, and
even that of Master William, to get the little boat on board to repair
her: her bottom is stove in, it is true, but I am carpenter enough for
that, and with some well-tarred canvas I can make her sufficiently
water-tight to land us all in safety.  We must set to at daylight
And when we get on shore
Why, Mr Seagrave, where there are cocoa-nut trees in such plenty as
there are on that island, there is no fear of starvation, even if we had
not the ship's provisions.  I expect a little difficulty with regard to
water, for the island is low and small; but we cannot expect to find
everything exactly as we wish
I am thankful to the Almighty for our preservation, Ready; but still
there are feelings which I cannot get over.  Here we are cast away upon
a desolate island, which perhaps no ship may ever come near, so that
there is little chance of our being taken off.  It is a melancholy and
cruel fate, Ready, and that you must acknowledge
Mr Seagrave, as an old man compared to you, I may venture to say that
you are ungrateful to Heaven to give way to these repinings.  What is
said in the book of Job?  &bquo;Shall we receive good of the Lord, and shall
we not receive evil?'  Besides, who knows whether good may not proceed
from what appears evil?  I beg your pardon, Mr Seagrave, I hope I have
not offended you; but, indeed, sir, I felt that it was my duty to speak
as I have done
You have reproved me very justly, Ready; and I thank you for it
I will repine no more, but make the best of it
And trust in God, sir, who, if he thinks fit, will restore you once
more to your friends, and increase tenfold your flocks and herds
That quotation becomes very apt, Ready
considering that all my prospects are in flocks and herds upon my land
in New South Wales.  I must put myself under your orders; for, in our
present position, you are my superior -- knowledge is power.  Can we do
anything to-night
I can do a little, Mr Seagrave; but you cannot assist me till tomorrow
morning, except indeed to help me to drag these two spars aft; and then
I can rig a pair of sheers, and have them all ready for hoisting up
to-morrow morning to get the boat in.  You see, with so little strength
on board, and no masts, we shall be obliged to contrive
There now, Mr Seagrave, you may go down
below.  William had better let loose the two dogs, and give them a
little victuals, for we have quite forgot them, poor things.  I shall
keep watch to-night, for I have plenty to do, and plenty to think of;
so, good-night, sir
Ay
you'll all three be useful, if I mistake not, by and by.
Down, Vixen, down -- poor creature, you've lost a good master, I'm
afraid
Stop -- now let me see
first -- but I'll
get the log board and a bit of chalk, and write them down, for my memory
is not quite so good as it was
Three dogs, two goats, and Billy the kid (I think there's five
pigs); fowls (quite enough); three or four pigeons (I'm sure); the cow
(she has lain down and won't get up again, I'm afraid, so we must kill
her); and there's the merino ram and sheep belonging to Mr Seagrave --
plenty of live stock.  Now, what's the first things we must get on shore
after we are all landed -- a spar and topgallant sail for a tent, a coil
or two of rope, a mattress or two for Madam and the children, two axes,
hammer and nails, something to eat -- yes, and something to cut it with.
There, that will do for the present
Now,
I'll just light the fire, get the water on, and, while I think of it,
boil two or three pieces of beef and pork to go on shore with them; and
then I'll call up Mr Seagrave, for I reckon it will be a hard day's
work
Master William, will you run down to Juno, and tell her to come on deck
to assist us -- we must all work now
I think we shall do now, sir
we'll drag her to the
gangway and launch her.  It's fortunate for us that they did clear away
the gunnel, as we shall have no trouble
Now, sir
what shall we do first -- take some things on
shore, or some of the children
What do you say, Ready
I think as the water is as smooth as glass, and we can land anywhere,
you and I had better go first to reconnoitre,-- it is not two hundred
yards to the beach, and we shall lose but little time
Very well, Ready, I will first run down and tell my wife
And, in the meanwhile, I'll put the sail into the boat, and one or two
other things
That
must be our location.  Let us get
into the boat again and pull to it
What a lovely spot this is
and perhaps
mortal man has never yet visited it till now: those cocoa-nuts have
borne their fruit year after year, have died, and others have sprung up
in their stead; and here has this spot remained, perhaps for centuries,
all ready for man to live in, and to enjoy whenever he should come to
it
Providence is bountiful, Mr Seagrave
and supplies
our wants when we least expect it.  If you please we will walk a little
way into the wood: take the gun as a precaution, sir; not that there
appears to be much occasion for it -- there is seldom anything wild on
these small islands, except a pig or two has been put on shore by
considerate Christians
Well, now that we are in the grove, Ready, what do you think
I was looking for a place to fix a tent up for the present, sir, and I
think that on that little rise would be a very good place till we can
look about us and do better; but we have no time now, sir, for we have
plenty of trips to make before nightfall.  If you please, we'll haul the
sail and other articles on to the beach, and then return on board
I've been thinking
about what is best, Mr Seagrave.  Would Mrs Seagrave mind your leaving
her?-- if not, I should say we should have Juno and William on shore
first, as they can be of use
I do not think that she will mind being left on board with William and
the children, provided that I return for her when she is to come on
shore herself with the baby
Well then, let William remain on board, if you please, sir.  I'll land
you and Juno, Tommy, and the dogs, this time, for they will be a
protection in case of accidents.  You and Juno can be doing something
while I return by myself for the other articles we shall require
What a nice place
Now, Mr Seagrave, I'll remain on shore with you a little.  First,
we'll load the musket in case of need, and then you can put it out of
the way of Tommy, who fingers everything, I observe.  We will take up
the sail between us.  Juno, you can carry the tools; and then we can
come back again for the spars, and the rope, and the other things.
Come, Tommy, you can carry a shovel at all events, and that will make
you of some use
Here are two trees which will answer our purpose pretty well
as they are far enough apart: we must lash the spars up to them,
and then throw the sail over, and bring it down to the ground at both
ends; that will be a beginning, at all events; and I will bring some
more canvas on shore, to set up the other tent between these other
trees, and also to shut up the two ends of both of them; then we shall
have a shelter for Madam, and Juno, and the younger children, and
another for William, Tommy, and ourselves.  Now, sir, I'll just help you
to lash the spars, and then I'll leave you to finish while I go on board
again
But how can we reach so high, Ready
Why, sir, we can manage that by first lashing a spar as high as we can
conveniently reach, and then standing on that while we lash the other in
its proper place.  I shall bring another spar on shore, that we may do
the same when we set up the other tent
Now, sir, I'll return on board; in the meantime, if you can cut pegs
from the brush-wood to fasten the sail down to the ground, and then with
the shovel cover the bottom of it with sand to keep it down, it will be
close enough when it is all finished
I shall do very well
Juno can help me to pull
the canvas out tight when I am ready
Yes; and in the meantime, Juno, take a shovel, and level the inside of
the tent nice and smooth, and throw out all those old cocoa-nut leaves,
and look if you see any vermin lurking among them.  Master Tommy, you
must not run away; and you must not touch the axes, they will cut you if
you do.  It may be as well to say, Mr Seagrave, that should anything
happen, and you require my assistance, you had better fire off the gun,
and I will come on shore to you immediately
I had better return on board immediately, sir, and tell Mrs Seagrave
Do, pray
Mr Seagrave, we have but two
hours more daylight, and it is right that Mrs Seagrave should come on
shore now; so, if you please, we'll go off and fetch her and the
children.  I think we shall be able to do very well for the first night;
and if it pleases God to give us fine weather, we may do a great deal
more to-morrow
And I have forgotten to bring any with me: well, I am a stupid old man;
but I'll go on board directly
to think that I should be
so busy in bringing other things on shore and forget the greatest
necessary in life!  The fact is, I intended to look for it on the island
as soon as I could, as it would save a great deal of trouble
I shall not return on board any more to-night
I feel
tired -- very tired indeed
You must be
do not think of doing any more
And I haven't touched food this day, or even quenched my thirst
You are ill, are you not, Ready
A little faint, William; I'm not so young as I was.  Could you give me
a little water
Stop, William, I will
here, Ready, drink this
I shall be better soon, sir; I'll just lie down a little, and then I'll
have a biscuit and a little meat
It will do very well for to-night, Juno
we have
done work enough for this day
Yes, sir
and I think we ought to thank God for his
mercies to us before we go to sleep
You remind me of my duty, Ready; let us thank him for his goodness, and
pray to him for his protection before we go to sleep
Yes
if, tired with the world and its anxieties, I had
sought an abode of peace and beauty, it would have been on a spot like
this.  How lovely is the scene!-- what calm -- what content -- what a sweet
sadness does it create!  How mercifully have we been preserved when all
hope appeared to be gone; and how bountifully have we been provided for,
now that we have been saved,-- and yet I have dared to repine, when I
ought to be full of gratitude!  May God forgive me!  Wife, children, all
safe, nothing to regret but a few worldly goods and a seclusion from the
world for a time -- yes, but for how long a time -- What! rebellious
still!-- for the time that it shall please God in his wisdom to ordain
Excellent old man
What a heart of oak is hid under that rugged bark!-- Had it not been for
his devotion where might I and all those dear helpless creatures have
been now
Had I not better call Juno, father
I think I can,
without waking mamma, if she is asleep
Then do, if you can, my boy; and I will see what cooking utensils Ready
has brought on shore
Well, we'll see if we cannot get some breakfast ready for them,
William.  Those dry cocoa-nut leaves will make an excellent fire
But, father, how are we to light the fire? we have no tinder-box or
matches
No; but there are other ways, William, although, in most of them,
tinder is necessary.  The savages can produce fire by rubbing a soft
piece of wood against a hard one.  But we have gunpowder; and we have
two ways of igniting gunpowder -- one is by a flint and steel, and the
other is by collecting the sun's rays into one focus by a
magnifying-glass
But, father, when we have lighted the fire, what have we to cook? we
have no tea or coffee
No, I do not think we have
But we have potatoes, father
Yes, William, but don't you think it would be better if we made our
breakfast off the cold beef and pork and ship's biscuit for once, and
not use the potatoes? we may want them all to plant, you know.  But why
should we not go on board of the ship ourselves? you can pull an oar
pretty well, and we must all learn to work now, and not leave everything
for poor old Ready to do.  Come, William
I know where the steward kept the tea and coffee,
father
mamma would like some
for breakfast, I'm sure, and I'll milk the goats for baby
I have filled these two baskets full of a great many things, William,
which will be very acceptable to your mamma.  What else shall we take
Let us take the telescope, at all events, father; and let us take a
whole quantity of clothes -- they will please mamma: the clean ones are
all in the drawers -- we can bring them up in a sheet; and then, father,
let us bring some of the books on shore; and I'm sure mamma will long
for her Bible and prayer-book;-- here they are
You are a good boy, William
I will now take
those things up to the boat, and then return for the rest
Well, Juno, how do you find yourself this morning
Quite well, massa
Plenty fish here
Yes, if we only had lines
I think Ready has
both hooks and lines somewhere.  Come, Juno, take up this bundle of
linen to your tent: we can manage all the rest
Yes, my boy, you may as well now -- he will want his breakfast
Ready, have you had
sleep enough
Yes, William.  I have had a good nap, I expect; and now I will get up,
and see what I can get for breakfast for you all
Do
Good-morning, Ready
You have had a good long sleep, Ready
and I would
not waken you after your fatigue of yesterday
I thank you, sir; and I am glad to see that Madam is so well: and I am
not sorry to see that you can do so well without me
Indeed, but we cannot, I'm afraid
had it not
been for you and your kindness, where should we have been now
We can get a breakfast ready without you
but
without you, I think we never should have required another breakfast by
this time.  But we will tell Ready all we have done while we eat our
breakfast: now, my dear, if you please
But Juno must not do that again
until I have made all
safe; you know that there are plenty of sharks about these islands, and
it is very dangerous to go into the water
Oh, what an escape they have had
It's very true
but they don't keep so much to the
windward of the islands where we are at present; but still that smooth
cove is a very likely place for them to come into; so it's just as well
not to go in again, Juno, until I have time to make a place for you to
bathe in in safety.  As soon as we can get as much as we want from the
ship, we must decide whether we shall stay here or not
Stay here or not, Ready!-- what do you mean
Why, we have not yet found any water, and that is the first necessary
of life -- if there is no water on this side of the island, we must pitch
our tents somewhere else
That's very true
I wish we could find time to
explore a little
So we can, sir; but we must not lose this fine weather to get a few
things from the ship.  We had better go now.  You and William can remain
on board to collect the things, and I will land them on the beach for
Juno to bring up
Our poor boat is getting very leaky, and will not take much
more on shore without being repaired; and Juno has not been able to get
half the things up -- they are too heavy for one person.  I think we shall
do pretty well now, Mr Seagrave; and we had better, before it is dark,
get all the animals on shore.  I don't much like to trust them to swim
on shore, but they are awkward things in a boat.  We'll try a pig, at
all events; and while I get one up, do you and William tie the legs of
the fowls, and put them into the boat; as for the cow, she cannot be
brought on shore, she is still lying down, and, I expect, won't get up
again any more; however, I have given her plenty of hay, and if she
don't rise, why I will kill her, and we can salt her down
He goes ashore straight enough
I thought as much -- we've lost him
How
D'ye see that black thing above water pushing so fast to the animal?--
that's the back fin of a shark, and he will have the poor thing -- there,
he's got him
Well, he's gone; better the pig than your little
children, Mr Seagrave
Yes, indeed, God be praised!-- that monster might have been close to
them at the time that Juno took them into the water
He was not far off; I reckon
We'll go down now and
tie the legs of the other four pigs, and bring them up; with what's
already in the boat they will be a good load
Now this will be our last trip for
to-day, and, if I am any judge of the weather, our last trip for some
days; it is banking up very thick in the offing.  This trip we'll be
able to put into the boat a bag of corn for the creatures, in case we
require it, and then we may say good-bye to the ship for a day or two at
least
That's what I call a good day's work, Mr Seagrave
the
little boat has done its duty well; but we must not venture in her again
until I have put her into a little better condition
We shall have plenty to do here to-morrow
in
getting things into their places
We shall have plenty to do for some time, I expect
In two months, or thereabouts, we shall have the rainy season come on,
and we must be under cover before that time, if we possibly can
What's the first thing we must do, Ready
To-morrow we had better fix up another tent or two, to stow away all
the articles we have brought on shore: that will be one good day's work;
we shall then know where to lay our hands upon everything, and see what
we want
That's very true; and what shall we do then
Why then, sir, I think we must make a little expedition to explore the
island, and find out where we must build our house
Can we build a house
Oh, yes, sir, and with more ease than you would think.  There's no tree
so valuable as the cocoa-nut tree; and the wood is so light that we can
easily move it about
Why, what are the great merits of the cocoa-nut tree
I'll tell you, madam: in the first place, you have the wood to build
the house with; then you have the bark with which you can make ropes and
lines, and fishing-nets if you please; then you have the leaves for
thatching your house; then you have the fruit, which, as a nut, is good
to eat, and very useful in cooking; and in the young nut is the milk,
which is also very wholesome; then you have the oil to burn, and the
shell to make cups of, if you haven't any, and then you can draw toddy
from the tree, which is very pleasant to drink when fresh, but will make
you tipsy if it is kept too long.  There is no tree which yields so many
useful things to man, for it supplies him with almost everything
At all events, we've plenty of them
Yes, William, there's no want of them; and I am glad of it, for had
there been but few, I should not have liked to destroy them.  People
might be wrecked here, as well as ourselves, and without the good
fortune that we have had in getting so many necessaries on shore; and
they might be obliged to depend wholly upon the cocoa-nut trees for
their support
Now, Mr
Seagrave, we must hold a council of war, and decide upon an exploring
party for to-morrow; and, when we have settled that, we will find some
useful way of employing ourselves for the rest of the day.  The first
question is, of whom is the party to consist?-- and upon that I wish to
hear your opinion
Why, Ready
it appears to me that you and I
should go
Surely not both of you, my dear
You can
do without my husband, can you not, Ready
I certainly should have liked to have Mr Seagrave to advise with,
ma'am
but still I have thought upon it, and do not
think that William would be quite sufficient protection for you; or, at
all events, you would not feel that he was, which is much the same
thing; and so, if Mr Seagrave has no objection, it would perhaps be
better that he remained with you
Would you go alone, then, Ready
No, sir, I do not think that would be right either,-- some accident
might happen; there is no saying what might happen, although there is
every appearance of safety.  I should like, therefore, to have some one
with me; the question is, whether it be William or Juno
Take me
Take you, Tommy
then I must take Juno to take
care of you.  No; I think they cannot spare you.  Your mamma will want
you when we are gone; you are so useful in gathering wood for the fire,
and taking care of your little sister and brother, that your mother
cannot part with you; so I must have either Juno or William
And which would you prefer, Ready
William, certainly, ma'am, if you will let him go with me, as you could
ill spare the girl
Indeed, I do not like it; I would rather lose Juno for a time
My dear wife
recollect how Providence has
preserved us in such awful dangers -- how we are landed in safety.  And
now, will you not put trust in that Providence, when the dangers are, as
I trust, only imaginary
I was wrong, my dear husband; but sickness and suffering have made me,
I fear, not only nervous and frightened, but selfish: I must and will
shake it off.  Hitherto I have only been a clog and an incumbrance to
you; but I trust I shall soon behave better, and make myself useful.  If
you think, then, that it would be better that you should go instead of
William, I am quite content.  Go, then, with Ready, and may Heaven
protect you both
No, ma'am
William will do just as well.  Indeed, I
would go by myself with pleasure; but we know not what the day may bring
forth.  I might be taken ill -- I might hurt myself -- I am an old man, you
know; and then I was thinking that if any accident was to happen to me,
you might miss me -- that's all
Pardon me
a mother is foolish at times
Over-anxious, ma'am, perhaps, but not foolish
Well, then, William shall go with you, Ready;-- that point's settled
what is the next
The next is to prepare for our journey.  We must take some provisions
and water with us, a gun and some ammunition, a large axe for me, and
one of the hatchets for William; and, if you please, Romulus and Remus
had better come with us.  Juno, put a piece of beef and a piece of pork
into the pot.  William, will you fill four quart bottles with water,
while I sew up a knapsack out of canvas for each of us
And what shall I do, Ready
Why, sir, if you will sharpen the axe and the hatchet on the
grindstone, it would be of great service, and Tommy can turn it, he is
so fond of work
When do you intend to start, Ready
Why, sir, I should like to get off at the dawn of day, when the heat is
not so great
And when do you intend to come back
Why, madam, we have provisions enough for three days: if we start
to-morrow morning, which is Wednesday, I hope to be back some time on
Friday evening; but I won't be later than Saturday morning if I can help
it
Good-night -- and good-bye, mother
for I shall not see
you to-morrow
God bless and protect you, my dear child
Take care of him, Ready, and good-bye to you till we meet
Now, William, do you know
by what means we may find our way back again; for you see
this forest of trees is rather puzzling, and there is no path to guide
us
No, I am sure I cannot tell; I was thinking of the very same thing when
you spoke; and of Tom Thumb, who strewed peas to find his way back, but
could not do it, because the birds picked them all up
Well, Tom Thumb did not manage well, and we must try to do better; we
must do as the Americans always do in their woods,-- we must _blaze_ the
trees
Blaze them! what, set fire to them
No, no, William.  Blaze is a term they use when they cut a slice of the
bark off the trunk of a tree, just with one blow of a sharp axe, as a
mark to find their way back again.  They do not _blaze_ every tree, but
about every tenth tree as they go along, first one to the right, and
then one to the left, which is quite sufficient; and it is very little
trouble,-- they do it as they walk along, without stopping.  So now we'll
begin: you take the other side, it will be more handy for you to have
your hatchet in your right hand; I can use my left.  See now -- just a
slice off the bark -- the weight of the axe does it almost
What an excellent plan
But I have another friend in my pocket
and I must use
him soon
What is that
Poor Captain Osborn's pocket-compass.  You see, William, the _blazing_
will direct us how to go back again; but it will not tell us what course
we are now to steer.  At present, I know we are going right, as I can
see through the wood behind us; but by and by we shall not be able, and
then I must make use of the compass
I understand that very well; but tell me, Ready, why do you bring the
spade with us -- what will be the use of it?  You did not say yesterday
that you were going to bring me
No, William, I did not, as I did not like to make your mother anxious;
but the fact is, I am very anxious myself as to whether there is any
water on this island; if there is not, we shall have to quit it sooner
or later, for although we may get water by digging in the sand, it would
be too brackish to use for any time, and would make us all ill.  Very
often there will be water if you dig for it, although it does not show
above-ground; and therefore I brought the spade
You think of everything, Ready
No, I do not, William; but, in our present situation, I think of more
things than perhaps your father and mother would: they have never known
what it is to be put to their shifts; but a man like me, who has been
all his life at sea, and who has been wrecked, and suffered hardships
and difficulties, and has been obliged to think or die, has a greater
knowledge, not only from his own sufferings, but by hearing how others
have acted when they were in distress.  Necessity sharpens a man's wits;
and it is very curious what people do contrive when they are compelled
to do so, especially seamen
And where are we going to now, Ready
Right to the leeward side of the island
Why do you call it the leeward side of the island
Because among these islands the winds almost always blow one way; we
landed on the windward side; the wind is at our back; now put up your
finger, and you will feel it even among the trees
No, I cannot
Then wet your finger, and try again
Yes, I feel it now
but why is that
Because the wind blows against the wet, and you feel the cold
What can be there
Stand still, William
and I will go
forward to see
It's only the pigs
I never thought I should be
half-frightened by a tame pig.  Here, Romulus! here, Remus! come back
Well, William, this is our first
adventure
I hope we shall not meet with any one more dangerous
but I must say that I was alarmed
No wonder; for, although not likely, it is possible there may be wild
animals on this island, or even savages; but being alarmed is one thing,
and being afraid is another: a man may be alarmed, and stand his ground;
but a man that is afraid will run away
I do not think I shall ever run away and leave you, Ready, if there is
danger
I'm sure you will not; but still you must not be rash; and now we will
go on again, as soon as I have uncocked my gun.  I have seen more
accidents happen from people cocking their guns, and forgetting to
uncock them afterwards, than you can have any idea of.  Recollect, also,
until you want to fire, never cock your gun
Don't give the dogs any water, William, nor any of the salt meat; give
them biscuit only
But they are very thirsty; may not I give them a little
No: we shall want it all ourselves, in the first place; and, in the
next, I wish them to be thirsty.  And, William, take my advice, and only
drink a small quantity of water at a time.  The more you drink, the more
you want
Then I should not eat so much salt meat
Very true; the less you eat the better, unless we find water, and fill
our bottles again
But we have our axes, and can always cut down a cocoa-nut, and get the
milk from the young nuts
Very true; and fortunate it is that we have that to resort to; but
still we could not do very well on cocoa-nut milk alone, even if it were
to be procured all the year round.  Now we will go on if you do not feel
tired
Not in the least; I am tired of seeing nothing but the stems of
cocoa-nut trees, and shall be glad when we are through the wood
Then the faster we walk the better
as far as I can
judge, we must be about half-way across now
I am very glad to find the island is not so flat here; we have a better
chance of finding water
It is much steeper before us
it's quite a hill
How many miles do you think we have walked, Ready
About eight, I should think
Not more than eight
No; I do not think that we have made more than two miles an hour: it's
slow work, travelling by compass and marking the trees; but I think the
wood looks lighter before us, now that we are at the top of this hill
It does, Ready; I fancy I can see the blue sky again
Your eyes are younger than mine, William, and perhaps you may -- however,
we shall soon find out
The sea, Ready!
there's the sea
Very true, William, and I'm not sorry for it
I thought we never should get out of that nasty wood again
Oh! how beautiful
I'm sure mamma would
like to live here.  I thought the other side of the island very pretty,
but it's nothing compared to this
It is very beautiful
What are you thinking of, Ready
Why, I am thinking that we must look for water as fast as we can
But why are you so anxious
Because I can see no island to leeward of us as I expected, and
therefore there is less chance of getting off this island; and this bay,
although very beautiful, is full of reefs, and I see no inlet, which
makes it awkward for many reasons.  But we cannot judge at first sight.
Let us now sit down and take our dinner, and after that we will explore
a little
There are one or two places there
where the water has run down in the
rainy season: we must examine them carefully, but not now.  I want to
find out whether there is any means of getting our little boat through
this reef of rocks, or otherwise we shall have very hard work (if we
change our abode to this spot) to bring all our stores through that
wood; so we will pass the rest of this day in examining the coast, and
to-morrow we will try for fresh water
Look at the dogs, Ready, they are drinking the sea-water, poor things
They won't drink much of that, I expect; you see they don't like it
already
How beautiful the corals are -- look here, they grow like little trees
under the water,-- and look here, here is really a flower in bloom
growing on that rock just below the water
Put your finger to it, Master William
Why, it's flesh, and alive
Yes, it is; I have often seen them before: they call them
sea-anemones -- they are animals; but I don't know whether they are
shell-fish or not.  Now, let us walk out to the end of this point of
land, and see if we can discover any opening in the reef.  The sun is
going down, and we shall not have more than an hour's daylight, and then
we must look out for a place to sleep in
But what is that
that round
dark thing
That's what I'm very glad to see, William: it's a turtle.  They come up
about this time in the evening to drop their eggs, and then they bury
them in the sand
Can't we catch them
Yes, we can catch them if we go about it quietly; but you must take
care not to go behind them, or they will throw such a shower of sand
upon you, with their hind flappers or fins, that they would blind you
and escape at the same time.  The way to catch them is to get at their
heads and turn them over on their backs by one of the fore-fins, and
then they cannot turn back again
Let us go and catch that one
I should think it very foolish to do so, as we could not take it away,
and it would die to-morrow from the heat of the sun
I did not think of that, Ready; if we come to live here, I suppose we
shall catch them whenever we want them
No, we shall not, for they only come on shore in the breeding-season;
but we will make a turtle pond somewhere which they cannot get out of,
but which the sea flows into; and then when we catch them we will put
them into it, and have them ready for use as we require them
That will be a very good plan
What is that out there
That is another island, which I am very glad to see even in that
direction, although it will not be so easy to gain it, if we are obliged
to leave this for want of water.  It is a much larger island than this,
at all events
Well, we have done
very well for our first day, so we will go and look for a place to lie
down and pass the night
And now we'll go to bed.  Look, William, at the long shadow of the
trees the sun has nearly set
Shall I give the dogs some water now, Ready?  See, poor Remus is
licking the sides of the bottles
No, do not give them any: it appears to be cruel, but I want the
intelligence of the poor animals to-morrow, and the want of water will
make them very keen, and we shall turn it to good account.  So now,
William, we must not forget to return thanks to a merciful God, and to
beg his care over us for this night.  We little know what the day may
bring forth.  Good-night
Now, William
shall we take our breakfast before we start, or have a walk first
Ready, I cannot really drink a drop of water myself, and I am thirsty,
unless you give a little to these poor dogs
I pity the poor dumb creatures as much as you do, Master Willy; it is
kindness to ourselves and them too, which makes me refuse it to them.
However, if you like, we will take a walk first, and see if we can find
any water.  Let us first go to the little dell to the right, and if we
do not succeed, we will try farther on where the water has run down
during the rainy season
Let us go on
You see, William, these poor dogs are now so eager for water, that if
there is any, they will find it out where we never could.  I don't
expect water above-ground, but there may be some below it.  This beach
is hardly far enough from the water's edge, or I should try in the sand
for it
In the sand -- but would it not be salt
No, not if at a good distance from the sea-beach; for you see, William,
the sand by degrees filters the sea-water fresh, and very often when the
sand runs in a long way from the high-water mark, if you dig down, you
will find good fresh water, at other times it is a little brackish, but
still fit for use
Look, Ready, at Romulus and Remus -- how hard they are digging with their
paws there in the hollow
Thanks to Heaven that they are!  You don't know how happy you have made
me feel: for, to tell you the truth, I was beginning to be alarmed
But why do they dig
Because there is water there, poor animals.  Now you see the advantage
of having kept them in pain for a few hours; it is in all probability
the saving of all of us, for we must either have found water or quitted
this island.  Now let us help the poor dogs with the spade, and they
shall soon be rewarded for their sufferings
Look at them! how they enjoy it!  I don't think any Israelite felt more
grateful when Moses struck the rock than I do now, William.  This was
the one thing wanting, but it was the one thing indispensable.  Now we
have everything we can wish for on this island, and if we are only
content, we may be happy -- ay, much happier than are those who are
worrying themselves to heap up riches, not knowing who shall gather
them.  See, the poor animals have had enough at last.  Now, shall we go
back to breakfast
Yes
I shall enjoy it now, and have a good drink of
water myself
That is a plenteous spring, depend upon it
but we must
clear it out further up among the trees, where the sun cannot reach it,
and then it will be cool, and not be dried up.  We shall have plenty of
work for the next year at least, if we remain here.  Where we are now
will be a capital spot to build our house on
Now we must go down and
explore the other point, for you see, William, I have not yet found a
passage through the reef, and as our little boat must come round this
side of the island, it is at the point on this side that I must try to
find an entrance.  When I was on the opposite point it did appear to me
that the water was not broken close to this point; and should there be a
passage we shall be very fortunate
Look there
a great shark, Ready
Yes, I see him, sir
there's plenty of them here,
depend upon it; and you must be very careful how you get into the water:
the sharks always keep to the leeward of the island, and for one where
Juno bathed your little brother, you will find fifty here.  I'm quite
satisfied now, William, we shall do very well, and all we have now to
think of is moving away from the other side of the island as fast as
possible
Shall we go back to-day
Yes, I think so, for we shall only be idle here.  It is not twelve
o'clock, I should think, and we shall have plenty of time.  I think we
had better start at once; we will leave the spade and axe here, for it
is no use taking them back again.  The musket I will take along.  But
first let us go back and look at the spring, and see how the water
flows
How very strange
Yes, sir; but you see how it is -- the small fish were chased by the
larger ones, which are bonettas, and in their fright ran upon the beach.
These bonettas were so anxious to catch them, that they came on shore
also, and then the gannets picked them all up
I feel the wind now, Ready
and we must be nearly
through the wood; but it appears to me to be very dark
I was just thinking the same
I should not wonder if
there is a storm brewing up; and if so, the sooner we are back again the
better
There is indeed a gale coming on
let us go on to the tents as fast as possible, for we must see
that all is as secure as we can make it
I am glad that you are come back, Ready
for I fear that bad
weather is coming on
I am sure of it
and we must expect a blusterous
night.  This will be one of the storms which are forerunners of the
rainy season.  However, we have good news for you, and must only take
this as a warning to hasten our departure as soon as possible.  We shall
have fine weather after this for a month or so, although we must expect
a breeze now and then.  But we must work hard and do our best; and now,
if you please, you and Juno, William and I, will go and haul up the boat
as far from the beach as we possibly can, for the waves will be high and
run a long way up, and our boat will be our main dependence soon
I meant to have worked upon her immediately
but I
must wait now till the gale is over; and I did hope to have got on board
once more, and looked after some things which I have since remembered
would have been useful; but I strongly suspect
that we shall never go on board of the poor vessel
again.  Hear the moaning of the coming storm, sir; look how the
sea-birds wheel about and scream, as if to proclaim her doom; but we
must not wait here -- the tents must be made more secure, for they will
have to hold up against no small force of wind, if I mistake not
Yes
the
winds and the waves are summoned to do his bidding, and evenly do they
work together -- as one rises, so does the other; when one howls, the
other roars in concert -- hand in hand they go in their fury and their
force.  Had they been called up but one week since, where would have
been those who have now been, as it were, intrusted to my weak help?
The father, the mother, the children, the infant at the breast, and I,
the grey-headed old man,-- all buried fathoms deep, awaiting our summons;
but they were restrained by his will, and by his will we were saved.
Will those timbers which bore us here so miraculously hold together till
morning?  I should think not.  What are the iron bolts and fastenings of
weak man, compared with the force of God's elements: they will snap as
yarns; and by to-morrow's dawn, the fragments of the stout ship will be
washing and tossing on the wild surf.  Well, it will be a kindness to
us, for the waters will perform the labour which we could not; they will
break up the timbers for our use, and throw on shore from the hold those
articles which we could not reach with our little strength
The storm will soon be at its
height
I will watch the tents, and see how they stand up
against its force
I thought as much
look,
sir, this gale has broken her up entirely.  This is a warning to us not
to remain here any longer: we must make the most of the fine weather
which we may have before the rainy season sets in
I agree with you, Ready
and there is another
proof of it
It was a
mercy that none of them were hurt
Very true, sir; but the gale is breaking, and we shall have fine
weather to-morrow.  Let us now see what we can do with the tent, while
William and Juno try if they can get any breakfast
We need do no more at present
by night-time it will not
be so wet, and we can handle it easier.  I see a break in the sky now
which promises fine weather soon.  And now we had better work hard
to-day, for we may save a great many things, which may be dashed to
pieces on the rocks, if we do not haul them on the beach
I think
we have done a good day's work; tomorrow we
shall be able to do much more, for the sea is going down, and the sun is
showing himself from the corner of that cloud.  Now we will go to
supper, and then see if we can make ourselves more comfortable for the
night
Look, Ready; what is that
That, sir, is the poor cow; and if you look again, you will see the
sharks are around, making a feast of her: don't you see them
Yes, I do -- what a quantity
Yes, there's no want of them, William; so be very careful how you get
into the water, and never let Tommy go near it, for they don't care how
shallow it is when they see their food.  But now, sir
I
must leave you and William to do what you can in saving any more of the
wreck, while I set to and put the boat in proper repair
Is not this beautiful, father
Yes, indeed it is, my dear boy
I fancied that
nothing could be more beautiful than the spot where we reside, but this
surpasses it, not only in variety, but in extent
And now let us examine the spring, father
Who would have ever imagined, William
that this
island, and so many more which abound in the Pacific Ocean, could have
been raised by the work of little insects not bigger than a pin's head
Insects, father
Yes, insects.  Give me that piece of dead coral, William.  Do you see
that on every branch there are a hundred little holes?  Well, in every
one of these little holes once lived a sea-insect; and as these insects
increase, so do the branches of the coral-trees
Yes, I understand that; but how do you make out that this island was
made by them
Almost all the islands in these seas have been made by the labour and
increase of these small animals.  The coral grows at first at the bottom
of the sea, where it is not disturbed by the winds or waves: by degrees,
as it increases, it advances higher and higher to the surface, till at
last it comes near to the top of the water; then it is stopped in its
growth by the force of the winds and waves, which break it off, and of
course it never grows above the water, for if it did the animals would
die
Then how does it become an island
By very slow degrees; the time, perhaps, much depending upon chance:
for instance, a log of wood floating about, and covered with barnacles,
may ground upon the coral reefs; that would be a sufficient
commencement, for it would remain above water, and then shelter the
coral to leeward of it, until a flat rock had formed, level with the
edge of the water.  The sea-birds are always looking for a place to rest
upon, and they would soon find it, and then their droppings would, in
course of time, form a little patch above water, and other floating
substances would be thrown on it; and land-birds, who are blown out to
sea, might rest themselves on it, and the seeds from their stomachs,
when dropped, would grow into trees or bushes
I understand that
Well then, William, you observe there is an island commenced, as it
were, and, once commenced, it soon increases, for the coral would then
be protected to leeward, and grow up fast.  Do you observe how the coral
reefs extend at this side of the island, where they are protected from
the winds and waves; and how different it is on the weather side, which
we have just left?  Just so the little patch above water protects the
corals to leeward, and there the island increases fast; for the birds
not only settle on it, but they make their nests and rear their young,
and so every year the soil increases; and then, perhaps, one cocoa-nut
in its great outside shell at last is thrown on these little patches -- it
takes root, and becomes a tree, every year shedding its large branches,
which are turned into mould as soon as they decay, and then dropping its
nuts, which again take root and grow in this mould; and thus they
continue, season after season, and year after year, until the island
becomes as large and as thickly covered with trees as the one we are now
standing upon.  Is not this wonderful, my dear boy?  Is not he a great
and good God who can make such minute animals as these work his
pleasure, and at the time he thinks fit produce such a beautiful island
as this
Indeed he is
We only need use our eyes, William, and we shall love as well as adore.
Look at that shell -- is it not beautifully marked?-- could the best
painter in the world equal its colouring
No, indeed,-- I should think not
And yet there are thousands of them in sight, and perhaps millions more
in the water.  They have not been coloured in this way to be admired,
like the works of man; for this island has been till now probably
without any one upon it, and no one has ever seen them.  It makes no
difference to Him, who has but to wish, and all is complete
Come,
William, let us now find our way back again; we have three hours'
daylight left, and shall be home in good time
You see, William, it is fortunate for us that we shall always have a
fair wind when we come down loaded, and only have to pull our empty boat
back again
Indeed it is.  How many miles do you think it is from the cove to this
part of the island
About six or seven, not more: the island, you see, is long and narrow.
Now let us get the things out and carry them up, and then we will be
back to the cove long before dark
We shall not mind such a gale as we had the other day when our
tents are pitched here, William
for we shall be protected
by the whole width of the cocoa-nut grove.  We shall hardly feel the
wind, although we shall the rain, for that will come down in torrents
I must go and see how our spring gets on
and get a
drink from it
Tommy will go next time
By and by, when Tommy grows a little taller
Massa Tommy, you come help me to milk the goats
Yes, Tommy milk the goats
You must be almost tired of eating nothing but salt meat and biscuit,
ma'am
but when we are all
safe on the other side of the island we hope to feed you better.  At
present it is hard work and hard fare
As long as the children are well, I care very little about it; but I
must say that, after the last gale, I am as anxious as you to be on the
other side of the island, especially after the account William has given
me of it.  It must be a paradise!  When do we set off
Not till the day after to-morrow, ma'am, I should think; for you see I
must have another trip for the cooking utensils and the bundles which
you have made up.  If you will spare Juno to walk through the wood with
William to-morrow, we will then have the tent ready for you and the
children
Here we are at last
we have had
terrible work in the woods, for Nanny would run on one side of a tree
when I went on the other, and then I had to let go the string.  We fell
in with the pigs again, and Juno gave such a squall
I tink 'em wild beast
Ah! what a nice place!  Missis
will like to live here
Yes, it is a very nice place, Juno; and you'll be able to wash here,
and never mind about saving the water
I am thinking
how we are to get the fowls here; they
are not very wild, but still we cannot catch them
I'll bring them with me to-morrow, William
But how will you catch them
Wait till they are gone to roost, and then you may catch them when you
please
And I suppose the pigeons and the pigs must run wild
The best thing we can do with them
Then we shall have to shoot them, I suppose
Well, William, so we shall; and the pigeons also, when they have become
plentiful, if we remain here so long.  We shall soon be well stocked and
live in plenty.  But now you must help me to get the tent up and
everything in order, so that your mamma may find things comfortable on
her arrival, for she will be very tired, I dare say, walking through the
wood
Mamma is much better than she was
I think she will
soon be quite strong again, especially when she comes to live at this
beautiful place
We have a great deal of work to do, more than we can get through before
the rainy season; which is a pity, but it can't helped; by this time
next year we shall be more comfortable
Why, what have we to do besides putting up the tents and shifting over
here
In the first place we have to build a house, and that will take a long
while.  Then we ought to make a little garden, and sow the seeds which
your father brought from England with him
Oh! that will be nice; where shall we make it, Ready
We must put a fence across that point of land, and dig up all the
brushwood; the mould is very good
Then what next
Then we shall want a storehouse for all the things we have got, and all
that are in the wood and on the beach: and consider what a many trips we
shall have to make with the little boat to bring them all round
Yes, that is very true, Ready.  Have we anything more to do
Plenty; we have to build a turtle-pond and a fish-pond, and a
bathing-place for Juno to wash the children in.  But first we must make
a proper well at the spring, so as to have plenty of fresh water: now
there's enough for a year's hard work at least
Well, let us once get mamma and the children here, and we will work
hard
I should wish very much to see it all done, William
I
hope my life will be spared till it is done, at all events
But why do you say that, Ready? you are an old man, but you are strong
and healthy
I am so now; but what does the Book say?--&bquo;In the midst of life we are
in death.'  You are young and healthy, and promise a long life; but who
knows but you may be summoned away tomorrow.  Can I, then, an old man,
worn out with hardships, expect to live long?  No -- no, William!  Still I
should like to remain here as long as I can be useful, and then I trust
I may depart in peace.  I never wish to leave this island; and I have a
kind of feeling that my bones will remain on it.  God's will be done
Ready, did you not say your Christian name was Masterman
So it is, William
It is a very odd Christian name!  You were called after some other
person
Yes, I was, William; he was a very rich man
Do you know, Ready, I should like very much if you will one day tell me
your history -- I mean your whole life, from the time you were a boy
Well, perhaps I may, William; for there are many parts of my life which
would prove a lesson to others: but that must be after we have got
through our work
How old are you, Ready
I am turned of sixty-four; a very old age for a seaman.  I could not
obtain employment on board of a vessel if it were not that I am well
known to several captains
But why do you say &bquo;old for a seaman
Because sailors live faster than other people, partly from the
hardships which they undergo, and partly from their own fault in
drinking so much spirits; and then they are too often reckless and care
nothing for their healths
But you never drink spirits now
No, never, William; but in my early days I was as foolish as others.
Now, Juno, you may bring in the bedding.  We have two or three hours
yet, William; what shall we do next
Had we not better make the fireplace all ready for cooking
It was what I was going to propose, if you had not.  I shall be here
to-morrow long before any of you, and I will take care that supper is
ready on your arrival
I brought a bottle of water in my knapsack
not so
much for the water, as because I want to milk the goats and take back
the milk for baby
You proved yourself not only thoughtful but kind, William: now while
you and Juno fetch the stones for the fireplace, I will stow away under
the trees the things I have brought in the boat
Shall we let the goats and sheep loose, Ready
Oh, yes,-- there is no fear of their straying; the herbage here is
better than on the other side, and there is plenty of it
Well, I will let Nanny go as soon as Juno has milked her.  Now, Juno,
let us see how many stones we can carry at once
That will do for to-morrow
It's almost time they arrived
they must have started
nearly four hours ago
Well, they are not far off now
I think
that this little journey of to-day has
been a pretty good proof of how helpless we should have been without
you, Ready
I am glad that you are here, sir
it is a weight off
my mind; now you will get on better.  I think that after a while you may
live very comfortably here; but still we have much to do.  As soon as
Madam has rested, we will have our dinner and then fix up our own tent,
which will be quite enough after such a hard day's work
Do you go back to the cove to-morrow, Ready
Yes, sir, we want our stores here; it will take about three trips to
empty our storehouses; and as to the other things, we can examine them
and bring them down at our leisure.  As soon as I have made those three
trips in the boat, we can then work here altogether
But I can do something in the meantime
Oh yes, there is plenty for you to do
Dear me
what is it that you have so good there
It's a treat I have prepared for you all
I know that
you are tired of salt meat, so now you are going to feed like aldermen
Why, what is it, Ready
it smells very good
It is turtle-soup, ma'am; and I hope you will like it; for, if you do,
you may often have it, now that you are on this side of the island
Indeed, it really is excellent; but it wants a little salt.  Have you
any salt, Juno
Got a little, ma'am.  Very little left
What shall we do when all our salt is gone
Juno must get some more
How I get salt?-- hab none left
There's plenty out there, Juno
I don't know where
What do you mean, my dear
I only mean if we want salt we can have as much as we please by boiling
down salt-water in the kettle, or else making a salt-pan in the rocks,
and obtaining it by the sun drying up the water and leaving the salt.
Salt is always procured in that way, either by evaporation, or boiling
I'll soon arrange that for you, ma'am
and show Juno how
to get it when she wants it
I am very glad to hear you say so; for I should feel the want of salt
very much
I really never enjoyed a dinner so
much as I have to-day
Do you know, Ready, I feel much
happier and my mind much more at ease since I find myself here.  On the
other side of the island everything reminded me that we had been
shipwrecked; and I could not help thinking of home and my own country;
but here we appear as if we had been long settled, and as if we had come
here by choice
I trust that feeling will be stronger every day, sir; for it's no use,
and indeed sinful, to repine
I acknowledge it, and with all humility.  What is the first thing which
you wish we should set about
I think, sir, the first object is to have a good supply of fresh water;
and I therefore wish you and William -- Here he is.  Good-morning,
William -- I was saying that I thought it better that Mr Seagrave and you
should clear out the spring while I am away in the boat.  I brought
another shovel with me yesterday, and you both can work; perhaps we had
better go there, as Juno, I see, is getting the breakfast ready.  You
observe, Mr Seagrave, we must follow up the spring till we get among
the cocoa-nut trees, where it will be shaded from the sun; that is
easily done by digging towards them, and watching how the water flows.
Then, if you will dig out a hole large enough to sink down in the earth
one of the water-casks which lie on the beach, I will bring it down with
me this afternoon; and then, when it is fixed in the earth in that way,
we shall always have the cask full of water for use, and the spring
filling it as fast as we empty it
I understand
that shall be our task while you
are absent
Now, I have nothing more to do than to speak to Juno about dinner
and then I'll just take a mouthful, and be off
You don't know how much happier I am now that I am here
I trust it is a presentiment of future happiness, my dear
I assure you that I feel the same, and was saying so to
Ready this morning
I feel that I could live here for ever, it is so calm and beautiful;
but I miss one thing -- there are no birds singing here as at home
I have seen no birds except sea-birds, and of them there is plenty.
Have you, William
Only once, father.  I saw a flight a long way off.  Ready was not with
me, and I could not tell what they were; but they were large birds, as
big as pigeons, I should think.  There is Ready coming round the point
How fast that little boat sails!  It is a long
pull, though, for the old man when he goes to the cove
Let us go down and help Ready carry up some of the things before
dinner
And now to finish our well
How hard you do work, William
So I ought, mother.  I must learn to do everything now
And that you will very soon
Oh dear
we shall have to throw all the water out to
get the cask down
Think a little, William
for the spring runs so
fast that it will not be an easy task.  Cannot we do something else
Why, father, the cask will float, you know
To be sure it will as it is; but is there no way of making it sink
Oh yes.  I know -- we must bore some holes in the bottom, and then it
will fill and sink down of itself
Exactly
I expected that we should have to do that,
and have the big gimlet with me
Now that we have so many things to do, I think, Ready, we ought to lay
down a plan of operations; method is everything when work is to be done:
now tell me what you propose shall be our several occupations for the
next week, for to-morrow is Sunday; and although we have not yet been
able to honour the day as we should, I think that now we must and ought
to keep it holy
Yes, sir
To-morrow we will rest from our labour, and
ask God's blessing upon our endeavours during the six days of the week;
and now, as to your proposition, Mr Seagrave, shall we begin first with
the lady
You must not consider that you have ladies with you now, Ready
at least, not fine ladies.  My health and strength are
recovering fast, and I mean to be very useful.  I propose to assist Juno
in all the domestic duties, such as the cookery and washing, to look
after and teach the children, mend all the clothes, and make all that is
required, to the best of my ability.  If I can do more I will
I think we may be satisfied with that, Mr Seagrave
Now, sir, the two most pressing points, with the exception of building
the house, are to dig up a piece of ground, and plant our potatoes and
seeds; and to make a turtle-pond, so as to catch the turtle and put them
in before the season is over
You are right
but which ought to be done
first
I should say the turtle-pond, as it will be only a few days' work for
you, Juno, and William.  I shall not want your assistance for this next
week.  I shall fix upon some spot, not far from here, where the trees
are thickest in the grove, and cut them down so as to clear out a space
in which we will, by and by, build our storerooms; and, as soon as the
rainy season has gone by, we can remove all our stores from the other
side of the island.  It will occupy me the whole of the week, cutting
down the trees and sawing them into proper lengths, ready for building
the house, and then we must all join our strength and get it up without
delay
Can you really manage to get it up in time?  How soon do you expect the
rains will come on
In three or four weeks.  After next week, I shall probably have the
assistance of two of you, if not of all.  Now I think of it, I must
return to the cove
What for
Don't you recollect, sir, your two-wheeled carriage, packed up in
matting, which was thrown on shore in the gale?  You laughed when you
saw it, and said it would be of little use now; but the wheels and axle
will be very useful, as we can make a wide path to the place when I cut
down the trees, and wheel out the logs much more easily than we can drag
or carry them
That is an excellent idea.  It will save a great deal of labour
I expect that it will, sir.  William and I will go away early on Monday
morning, and be back before breakfast.  To-day we will fix upon the
spots where our garden is to be, our turtle-pond to be made, and the
trees to be cut down.  That shall be our business, Mr Seagrave; and
William and Juno may put things a little more to rights here
You see, Mr Seagrave,
we do not want too much water for a turtle-pond, as, if it is too deep,
there is a difficulty in catching them when we want them: what we want
is a space of water surrounded by a low wall of stones, so that the
animals cannot escape, for they cannot climb up, although they can walk
on the shelving sand with their flippers.  Now the reef here is high out
of the water, and the space within the reef and the beach is deep
enough, and the rocks on the beach nearly fill up that side and prevent
them crawling away by the shore.  We have, therefore, little more to do
than to fill up the two other sides, and then our pond will be
complete
I see it will not be a long job either, if we can find loose rocks
enough
Almost all those which are on the beach are loose
and
there are plenty close to us: some of them will be too heavy to carry,
but they can be brought here by the aid of handspikes and crowbars.
Suppose we make a signal for William and Juno, and set them to work
You see, sir
we can wait till after the rainy season is
over before we put up the fence, and we can prepare it in the meantime,
when the weather will permit us to work.  The seeds and potatoes will
not come up until after the rains are finished; so all we have to do is
to dig up the ground, and put them in as fast as we can.  We cannot make
a large garden this year; but our potatoes we must contrive to get in,
if we cannot manage anything else
If we have no fence to make
I think we shall
be able to clear away quite enough ground in a week to put in all that
we require
The first job will be to pull up the small brushwood
and
turn up the ground; the larger plants we must leave, if we have not
time.  Tommy might be of some use here in taking away the shrubs as you
pull them up; but we had better now go on to the grove, and choose the
spot for cutting down the trees.  I have made my mark
There is the place
I propose to cut all the timber we
want for the houses out of this part of the grove, and to leave an open
square place, in the centre of which we will build our storerooms.  You
see, sir, if necessary, with a very little trouble we might turn it into
a place of protection and defence, as a few palisades here and there
between the trees would make it, what they call in the East Indies, a
stockade
Very true, but I trust we shall not require it for such a purpose
I hope so too, but there is nothing like being prepared; however, we
have plenty to do before we can think of that.  Now, sir, as dinner is
ready, suppose we return, and after dinner we will both commence our
tasks
Depend upon it, the child has eaten something which has made him ill.
Tell me, Tommy, what did you eat when you were down there
Berries
I thought as much, ma'am
I must go and see what the
berries were
Well, sir
I don't think
you should give him any, for it appears to me that he has taken too much
already.  This is, if I recollect right, the castor-oil plant, and here
are some of the castor-oil beans which Master Tommy has been eating.
Tell me, Tommy, did you eat them
Yes
I thought so: give him a little warm drink, ma'am, and he'll soon be
better: it will teach him not to eat berries or beans again
What are you doing, Tommy
I'm making a garden
Making a garden!  Then you ought to plant some trees in it
No; I'm sowing seeds: look here
But these are stones, not seeds
Well, but I pretend, and that's the same thing
Not exactly, Tommy; suppose, instead of eating those beans yesterday,
you had only pretended to eat them, wouldn't it have been better
I won't eat any more
No, not of those beans; but if you saw anything else which you thought
you would like, I am afraid you would eat it, and be as ill and even
worse than you were
I like cocoa-nuts; why don't we have some? there's plenty upon the
trees
But who is to climb up so high, Tommy?  Can you
No; but why don't Ready climb, or papa, or William
I suppose they will get some by and by, when they are not so busy, but
they have no time now
I like turtle-soup
William and Juno are making a pond to put turtle in, and then we shall
have it oftener; but we cannot have everything we like when we wish for
it
I like fried fish
why don't we have fried fish
Because every one is too busy to catch them just now.  Tommy, go and
bring your brother Albert back; he has crawled too near to Billy, and he
butts sometimes
Don't do that, Tommy; he'll butt at you, and hurt you
I don't care
Why don't you mind what is said to you, Tommy?  I told you that he
would butt you
I don't care for him
No, you are very brave now that he has gone; but you're a very naughty
boy not to mind what is said to you
Billy never butts at me, mamma
No, my dear, because you do not tease him; but your brother is very
fond of teasing animals, and so he gets punished and frightened.  It is
very wrong of him to do so, especially as he is told by his father and
me that he ought not
You said I was a good boy when I learnt my lesson this morning
Yes, but you should always be good
I can't be always good
I want my dinner
It is dinner-time, Tommy, that is certain, but you must wait until they
all come home from their work
There's Ready coming, with a bag on his shoulder
I've brought you some young cocoa-nuts, and some old ones also,
from the trees that I have been cutting down
Oh! cocoa-nuts -- I like cocoa-nuts
I told you, Tommy, that we should have some by and by, and they have
come sooner than we thought.  You are very warm, Ready
Yes, ma'am
it is rather warm work,
for there is no breeze in the grove to cool one.  Is there anything you
want from the other side of the island, for I shall go there directly
after dinner
What for
I must bring the wheels to get the timber out; for I must clear it away
as I go, until the path is finished.  I must have William to help me
William will like the trip, I do not doubt.  I do not recollect
anything in particular that we want, Ready
There he comes with Juno, and I see Mr Seagrave has laid down his
spade; so Caroline, dear, take care of Albert, while I get the dinner
for them
Now, William
if you are not very sleepy, perhaps you
would like to come with me to-night, and see if we cannot turn some of
the turtle, for the season is going away fast, and they will leave the
island very soon
You see, William, that is the way to turn a turtle: take care that he
does not catch you with his mouth, for, if he did, he would bite the
piece out.  Now the animal cannot get away, for he can't turn over
again, and we shall find him here to-morrow morning; so we will now walk
along the beach, and see if we cannot find some more
I think that will do, William, for once: we have made a good night's
work of it, for we have provided food for many days.  Tomorrow we must
put them all into the pond
How shall we carry such large animals
We need not carry them; we must put some old canvas under them, and
haul them along by that means; we can easily do that on the smooth
sand
Why don't we catch some fish, Ready?  We might put them into the
turtle-pond
They would not stay there long, William, nor could we easily get them
out if they did.  I have often thought of getting some lines ready, and
yet the time has never come, for I feel sleepy after our day's work; but
as soon as the house is built, we will have them, and you shall be
fisherman-in-chief
But the fish will bite at night, will they not
Oh yes, and better than they do in the daytime
Well, then, if you will get me a line and show me how, I will fish for
an hour or so after the work is done; I know mamma is getting tired of
salt meat, and does not think it good for Caroline
Well, then, I will get a bit of candle to-morrow night, and fit up two
fishing-lines.  But I must go with you, William.  We don't use much
candle, at all events
No, we are too glad to go to bed: but there are two or three boxes of
one sort or another up in the cove
Now that we have finished
cutting the potatoes, let us go and assist Ready in planting them and
the seeds which we have brought down with us
What bait must we use, Ready
I should think that the best would be one of the fish out of the shells
which are in the sand; but a piece of pork fat will, I dare say, do as
well
And whereabouts would you fish, Ready
The best place, I should think, would be at the farthermost end of the
point, where I got the boat through the reef -- the water is deep there
close to the rocks
I was thinking, Ready, if those gannets and men-of-war birds would be
good eating
Not very, William; they are very tough and very fishy: we must try for
those when we can get nothing better.  Now that we have got in the seeds
and potatoes, we must all set to to-morrow morning to fell and carry the
timber.  I think Mr Seagrave had better use the axe with me; and you
and Juno can, when I have shown you how, hang the timber to the axle,
and wheel it out to the place where we have decided upon building the
house.  And now we had better go to bed
You did very wrong, William, to run the risk which you did.  If you
were resolved to catch fish, why did you not tell me, and I would have
gone with you?  You say, yourself, that the fish nearly hauled you into
the water; suppose it had done so, or suppose a small shark instead of
one of these gropers (as we call them) had taken the bait, you must have
been jerked in; and the rocks are so steep there, that you would not
have been able to get out again before a shark had hold of you.  Think a
moment what would have been the distress of your father and the agony
and despair of your poor mother, when this news should have arrived
I was very wrong, Ready
now that I think of it; but
I wanted to surprise and please my mother
That reason is almost sufficient to plead your pardon, my dear boy
but don't do so again.  And now let us say no more about
it; nobody will know that you have been in danger, and there's no harm
done; and you mustn't mind an old man scolding you a little
No, indeed, Ready, I do not, for I was very thoughtless; but I had no
idea that there was danger
There's your mother coming out of her tent
Good-morning, madam.  Do you know what William has done for you last
night?  Look, here are two beautiful fish, and very excellent eating
they are, I can tell you
I am quite delighted
Fried fish for
dinner
Have very fine dinner to-day, Missy Caroline
We have no time to lose, sir
We have
worked hard, but we must for a few days work harder still.  We must fit
up the inside of the house, so as to enable Madam to get into it as soon
as possible
This, then, is the rainy season which you talked about, Ready
Is it always like this?  If so, what shall we do
No, madam; the sun will shine sometimes, but not for long at a time.
We shall be able to get out and do something every now and then almost
every day, but still we shall have rain, perhaps, for many days without
intermission, and we must work indoors
How thankful we ought to be that we have a house over our heads; we
should have been drowned in the tents
That I knew, madam, and therefore I was anxious to get a house over
your head; let us thank God for it
Indeed we ought
and it is, indeed, time for
us to read the service
Well, Juno
this is a fine morning after the rain
Yes, Massa Ready, very fine morning; but how I get fire light, and make
kittle boil for breakfast, I really don't know -- stick and cocoa-nut
trash all so wet
Before I went to bed last night, Juno, I covered up the embers with
ashes, put some stones over them, and then some cocoa-nut branches, so I
think you will find some fire there yet.  I was going my morning's
round, but I will stay a little and help you
Tank you, Massa Ready; plenty rain fell last night
Yes, not a little, Juno; you must not expect to find the water at the
well very clear this morning; indeed, I doubt if you will see the well
at all.  Here's some stuff which is not very wet
I got plenty of fire, too
You'll do very well now, Juno
besides, William will be
out directly -- so I'll leave you
I thought as much
well, better too much water than too little
Little use doing that
Here's a puzzle
how foolish of me not to have made
a line fast to the shore!  I'll not trust myself to John Shark by
swimming to the boat
Let me see
Now to find the sheep and goats
and then my morning's
walk is over.  Now, Romulus, now, Remus, boys, find them out
Why, where can Black Nanny be
I thought as much
Come, my little fellows, we must find some shelter for
you
Come, Nanny
I've brought an addition to our family, Mrs Seagrave
we
must allow them to remain in the house until I can knock up a little
shelter for them.  This is only a beginning; I expect we shall soon have
more
Now, Ready, I think we must hold a
council, and make arrangements as to our allotted duties and employments
during the rainy season.  We have a great deal to do, and must not be
idle
Yes, sir, we have a great deal to do, and, to get through our work, we
must have order and method in our doings.  I've lived long enough to
know how much can be done by regularity and discipline.  Why, sir, there
is more work got out of men in a well-conducted man-of-war than there
can in the merchant service in double the time.  And why so?  Because
everything is in its place, and there is a place for everything
I agree with you
method is everything.  While
one careless little girl is looking for her thimble, another will have
finished her work
I assure you I never should have known what can be done by order and
arrangement, if I had not been pressed on board of a man-of-war.  I
found that everything was done in silence.  Every man was to his post;
everyone had a rope to haul upon, or a rope to let go; the boatswain
piped, and in a few seconds every sail was set or taken in as was
required.  It seemed to me at first like magic.  And you observe, Mr
Seagrave, that when there is order and discipline, every man becomes of
individual importance.  If I learnt nothing else on board of a
man-of-war, I learnt to make the most of time, and the most of the
strength which you could command
You are very right, Ready; you must teach us to do the same
We have so much to do, that I hardly know where to begin; yet, sir, we
must work at present how we can, and when we can, until we have got
things into a little better order.  We have done well up to the
present
What do you think we ought to do first
Well, sir, our first job will be to haul up the boat and secure her
from harm; we will half-dock her in the sand, and cover her over, for I
do not think it will be safe to go in her now to the other side of the
island, where the sea will always be rough
There I perfectly agree with you.  Now what is the next
Why, sir, we must not leave the tents where they are, but take them
down, and as soon as they are dry, stow them away, for we may want them
by and by; then, sir, we must build a large outhouse for our stores and
provisions, with a thatched roof, and a floor raised about four feet
from the ground; and then, under the floor, the sheep and goats will
have a protection from the weather.  Then there is the fish-pond to
make, and also a salt-pan to cut out of the rock.  Then we have two more
long jobs.  One is, to go through the woods and examine the stores we
have left on the other side of the island, sort and arrange them all
ready for bringing here after the rains are over; and we must also
explore the island a little, and find out what it produces; for at
present we know nothing of it: we may find a great many things useful to
us, a great many trees and fruits, and I hope and trust we may be able
to find some more grass for our live stock
I agree with you in all you say, Ready
now how
shall we divide our strength
We will not divide at present, sir, if you please.  Juno has plenty to
do indoors with Mrs Seagrave; William, and you, and I, will first
secure the boat and stow away the tents and gear; after that, we will
set about the outbuilding, and work at it when we can.  If Juno has any
time to spare, she had better collect the cocoa-nut leaves, and pile
them up for fuel; and Tommy will, I dare say, go with her, and show her
how to draw them along
Yes, I'll show her
Not just now, Tommy
but as soon as your mamma can spare
her to go with you.  Come, sir, a few hours of weather like this is not
to be lost
we shall have more rain before the day is
over, I expect.  I will first go to the tent for the shovels; then I
will haul the boat round to the beach and meet you there.  You and
William can take some cord, tie up a large bundle of cocoa-nut boughs,
sling it to the wheels, and draw it down to the beach and meet me
I don't see why you should cover the boat up in this way, Ready; the
rain won't hurt her
No, sir, the rain won't do her any harm, but the sun will, when it
bursts out occasionally; for it's very powerful when it does shine, and
it would split her all to pieces
I forgot that
What shall we do now
Suppose, as we have two hours to dinner-time, you run for the lines,
William, and we'll try for some fish
We cannot all three of us fish with only two lines
No, sir; and as William knows how to catch them, suppose you remain
with him, and I will go up and collect wood and chips for Juno's fire.
She was hard pressed for it this morning, it was so wet; but, if once
piled up, it will soon be dry.  Be careful, Mr Seagrave, not to hold
the lines tight in your hands, or you may be jerked into the water
I shall now decorate
Madam Seagrave's sleeping-place.  It ought to be handsomer than the
others
Indeed, Ready, I am much obliged to you
it is really quite grand for this place
It's the best use we can put them to now, madam
I am afraid so
Ready
you once
half-promised me that you would tell me your history; I wish you would
tell us some of it now, as it will pass away the evening
Well, William, I did say so, and I shall keep my word.  When you have
heard my story, you will say that I have been very foolish in my time;
and so I have; but if it proves a warning to you, it will, at all
events, be of some use
Of course, you wish to know who my father and mother were: that is soon
told.  My father was the captain of a merchant vessel, which traded from
South Shields to Hamburg, and my poor mother, God bless her, was the
daughter of a half-pay militia captain, who died about two months after
their marriage.  The property which the old gentleman had bequeathed to
my mother was added to that which my father had already vested in the
brig, and he then owned one-third of the vessel; the other two-thirds
were the property of a very rich ship-builder and owner, of the name of
Masterman.  What with the profits of the share he held of the vessel and
his pay as captain, my father was well to do.  Mr Masterman, who had a
very high opinion of my father, and gained much money by his exertions
and good management, was present at the marriage, and when I was born,
about a year afterwards, he stood for me as godfather.  Every one
considered that this was a most advantageous circumstance for me, and
congratulated my father and mother; for Mr Masterman was a bachelor, of
nearly sixty years, without any near relations.  It is true, that he was
very fond of money; but that, they said, was all the better, as he could
not take it away with him when he died.  An end, however, was soon put
to all their worldly ideas, for a year after I was born, my father was
drowned at sea, his vessel and the whole of her crew being lost on the
Texel sands; and my mother found herself a widow, with a child scarcely
weaned, when she was but twenty-two years of age.

"It was supposed that my mother would still have sufficient to live
upon, as the ship had been insured at two-thirds of her value; but, to
the astonishment of everybody, Mr Masterman contrived to make it appear
that it was his two-thirds of the vessel which had been insured
What is insurance
Insurance, my dear boy, is paying a certain sum to people who are
called underwriters, that in case the vessel or cargo is lost or
damaged, the loss or damage is made good to the owners of the vessel or
cargo.  You pay in proportion to the risk incurred.  Supposing you
wished to insure one thousand pounds on a vessel or cargo, and ten per
cent was required, you would, if the vessel came home safe, pay the
underwriters one hundred pounds; if, on the contrary, the vessel was
lost, the underwriters would have to pay you one thousand pounds, the
sum which you had insured.  I beg your pardon for the interruption,
Ready
No need, Mr Seagrave; we never should lose an opportunity of teaching
the young.  Well, how far the assertion of Mr Masterman was correct or
not, it was impossible at the time to say; but I do know that everybody
cried out &bquo;shame', and that if he did deprive the widow, he had much to
answer for; for the Bible says, &bquo;Pure religion is to visit the
fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep yourself
unspotted in the world'.  The consequence was, that my mother had little
or nothing to live upon; but she found friends who assisted her, and she
worked embroidery, and contrived to get on somehow until I was eight or
nine years of age
But did not your godfather come forward to the assistance of your
mother
No, sir, strange to say, he did not; and that made people talk the
more.  I believe it was the abuse of him, which he did not fail to hear,
and which he ascribed to my mother, which turned him away from us;
perhaps it was his own conscience, for we always dislike those we have
injured
Unfortunately, there is great truth in that remark of yours, Ready
still, it is strange that he did not do
something
It was very strange, sir,-- at least, so it appeared at the time, but he
was very fond of money, and irritated at the reports and observations
which were made about him.  But, to go on, sir, I was a strong, hardy
boy, and, whenever I could escape from my mother or school, was always
found by the water-side or on board of the vessels.  In the summer-time
I was half the day in water, and was a very good swimmer.  My mother
perceived my fondness for the profession, and tried all she could to
divert my thoughts some other way.  She told me of the dangers and
hardships which sailors went through, and always ended with my father's
death and a flood of tears.

"We certainly are of a perverse nature, as I have often heard the
clergyman say, for it appears to me that we always wish to do that which
we are told not to do.  If my mother had not been always persuading me
against going to sea, I really believe I might have stayed at home.
I've often thought since, how selfish and unfeeling I must have been.  I
was too young to know what pain I was giving my mother, and how anxiety
was preying upon her, all on my account.  Children cannot feel it; if
they did, they would do otherwise, for our hearts are seldom hard until
we grow older
I agree with you, Ready
If children really knew
how much their parents suffer when they behave ill, how alarmed they are
at any proofs of wickedness in them, they would be much better
We never find that out, sir, till it is too late
Well, sir, I was little more than nine years old, when, on a very windy
day, and the water rough, a hawser, by which a vessel was fast to the
wharf, was carried away with a violent jerk, and the broken part, as it
flew out, struck a person who was at the edge of the wharf, and knocked
him into the sea.  I heard the crying out, and the men from the wharf
and from the ships were throwing ropes to him, but he could not catch
hold of them; indeed, he could not swim well, and the water was rough.
I caught a rope that had been hauled in again, and leapt off the wharf.

"Young as I was, I swam like a duck, and put the rope into his hands
just as he was going down.  He clung to it as drowning men only can
cling, and was hauled to the piles, and soon afterwards a boat, which
had been lowered from the stern of one of the vessels, picked us both
up.  We were taken to a public-house, and put into bed till dry clothes
could be sent for us; and then I found that the person I had saved was
my godfather, Mr Masterman.  Everyone was loud in my praise; and,
although perhaps I ought not to say it, it was a bold act for so young a
boy as I was.  The sailors took me home to my mother in a sort of
triumphal procession; and she, poor thing, when she heard what I had
done, embraced me over and over again, one moment rejoicing at my
preservation, and the next weeping bitterly at the thoughts of the
danger I had encountered, and the probability that my bold spirit would
lead me into still greater
But she did not blame you for what you had done
Oh no, William; she felt that I had done my duty towards my neighbour,
and perhaps she felt in her own heart that I had returned good for evil;
but she did not say so.  The next day Mr Masterman called upon us; he
certainly looked very foolish and confused when he asked for his godson,
whom he had so long neglected.  My mother, who felt how useful he might
be to me, received him very kindly; but I had been often told of his
neglect of me and my mother, and of his supposed unfair conduct towards
my father, and had taken a violent dislike to him; his advances towards
me were therefore very coolly received.  I felt glad that I had saved
him; but although I could not exactly understand my own feelings at the
time, I am ashamed to say that my pleasure was not derived from having
done a good action, so much as indulging a feeling of revenge in having
put one under an obligation who had treated me ill; this arose from my
proud spirit, which my mother could not check.  So you see, William,
there was very little merit in what I had done, as, after I had done it,
I indulged those feelings which I ought to have checked
I think I could not have helped feeling the same, Ready, under such
circumstances
The impulse which induced me to act was good
but the
feeling which I indulged in afterwards took away the whole merit of the
deed.  I am stating what I believe to be the truth; and an old man like
me can look upon the past without bias, but not without regret.  Mr
Masterman made but a short visit; he told my mother that he would now
take care of me and bring me up to the business of a ship-builder as
soon as I was old enough to leave school, and that in the meantime he
would pay all my expenses.  My poor mother was very grateful, and shed
tears of joy; and when Mr Masterman went away, she embraced me, and
said that now she was happy, as I should have a profession on shore and
not go to sea.  I must do justice to Mr Masterman; he kept his word and
sent money to my mother, so that she became quite cheerful and
comfortable, and everyone congratulated her, and she used to fondle me,
and say, it was all through me that she was relieved from her distress
How happy that must have made you, Ready
Yes, it did, but it made me also very proud.  Strange to say, I could
not conquer my dislike to Mr Masterman; I had nourished the feeling too
long.  I could not bear that my mother should be under obligations to
him, or that he should pay for my schooling; it hurt my foolish pride,
young as I then was; and although my mother was happy, I was not.
Besides, as I was put to a better school, and was obliged to remain with
the other boys, I could no longer run about the wharfs, or go on board
the vessels, as before.  I did not see then, as I do now, that it was
all for my good but I became discontented and unhappy, merely because I
was obliged to pay attention to my learning, and could no longer have my
own way.  The master complained of me; and Mr Masterman called and
scolded me well.  I became more disobedient, and then I was punished.
This irritated me, and I made up my mind that I would run away to sea.
You see, William, I was all in the wrong; and so will all boys be who
think they know better than those who have charge of them; and now only
see what I probably lost by my foolish conduct.  I say _probably_, for
no one can calculate or foresee what is to take place; but, as far as
appearances went, I had every prospect of receiving a good education -- of
succeeding Mr Masterman in his business, and, very probably, of
inheriting his large fortune; so that I might have been at this time a
rich and well-educated man, surrounded with all the comforts and
luxuries of life; perhaps with an amiable wife and large family round
me, to make me still happier, instead of being what I now am, a poor,
worn-out old seaman upon a desert isle.  I point this out to you,
William, to show how one false and foolish step in the young may affect
their whole prospects in life; and, instead of enabling them to sail
down with the stream of prosperity, may leave them to struggle against
the current of adversity, as has been the case with me
It is, indeed, a good lesson, Ready
It is; not that I repine at my lot, even while I regret the errors that
led to it.  An all-wise and gracious God disposes of us as he thinks
best; and I can now say with perfect sincerity, &bquo;Thy will, not mine, be
done
Your misfortunes have, however, proved an incalculable benefit to us,
Ready
for had you not gone to sea, and been
on board the ship when the crew deserted us, what would have become of
us
Well, madam, it is some comfort to think that a worn-out old seaman
like myself has been of some use
William
I think, now that we have spread out the tents,
we will, if Mr Seagrave approves, all set to at once and knock up a
fowl-house; it won't be more than a day's job, and then the creatures
will have a home.  There are four very thick cocoa-nut trees close to
the house; we will build it under them; it will be a good job over
Now, sir, this is only rough work; we will first put up a perch or two
for them, and then close in the side, and thatch the roof with cocoa-nut
branches; but there's Juno taking in the dinner, so we'll finish it
afterwards
Now, sir, the creatures will soon find their way in; and by and by,
when I have time, I'll make a door to the entrance
And now
I think we had better roll up the canvas of
the tents; we have had a splendid day, and may not be so fortunate
to-morrow
Very true; we will get them housed, and stow them away under the
bed-places; there is plenty of room
I said last night that I determined to run away from school and go to
sea, but I did not tell you how I managed it.  I had no chance of
getting out of the school unperceived, except after the boys were all
put to bed.  The room that I slept in was at the top of the house -- the
doors I knew were all locked; but there was a trap-door which led out on
the roof, fastened by a bolt inside, and a ladder leading up to it; and
I determined that I would make my escape by that way.  As soon as all
the other boys were fast asleep, I arose and dressed myself very
quietly, and then left the room.

"The moon shone bright, which was lucky for me, and I gained the
trap-door without any noise.  I had some difficulty in forcing it up, as
it was heavy for a boy of my age; but I contrived to do so at last, and
gained the roof of the house.  I then began looking about me, to see how
I was to get to the ground, and after walking to and fro several times,
I decided that I could slip down by a large water-pipe; it was so far
detached from the bricks, that I could get my small fingers round it.  I
climbed over the parapet, and, clinging to the pipe firmly with my hands
and knees, I slid down, and arrived at the bottom in safety
It's a wonder you did not break your neck, Ready
It was, indeed, ma'am.  As soon as I was landed in the flowerbed, which
was below, I hastened to the iron gates at the entrance, and soon
climbed up and got to the other side into the road.  I started as fast
as I could towards the port, and when I arrived at the wharf, I
perceived that a vessel had her topsails loose, and meant to take
advantage of the ebb-tide which had just made; the men were singing &bquo;Yo
heave yo,' getting the anchor up; and as I stood watching, almost making
up my mind that I would swim off to her, I perceived that a man pushed
off in her jolly-boat, and was sculling to a post a little higher up,
where a hawser had been made fast; I ran round, and arrived there before
he had cast off the rope; without saying a word, I jumped into the boat.

"&bquo;What do you want, youngster?' said the seaman.

"&bquo;I want to go to sea,' said I, breathless; &bquo;take me on board -- pray do.'

"&bquo;Well,' said he, &bquo;I heard the captain say he wanted an apprentice, and
so you may come.'

"He sculled the boat back again to the vessel, and I climbed up her
side.

"&bquo;Who are you?' said the captain.

"I told him that I wanted to go to sea.

"&bquo;You are too little and too young.'

"&bquo;No, I am not,' replied I.

"&bquo;Why, do you think that you dare go aloft?'

"&bquo;I'll show you,' replied I; and I ran up the rigging like a cat, and
went out at the topgallant yard-arm.

"When I came down, the captain said, &bquo;Well, I think you'll make a sharp
seaman by and by; so I'll take you, and, as soon as I get to London,
I'll bind you apprentice.'

"The ship, which was a collier, was soon out of port, and before the day
had dawned I found myself on the wide ocean, which was hereafter to be
my home.

"As soon as the hurry and confusion were over, I was examined by the
captain, who appeared to me to be a very rough, harsh man; indeed,
before the day was over I almost repented of the step which I had taken,
and when I sat down cold and wet upon some old sail at night, the
thoughts of my mother, and what distress I should occasion her, for the
first time rushed into my mind, and I wept bitterly; but it was too late
then.  I have often thought, Mr Seagrave, that the life of hardship
which I have since gone through has been a judgment on me for my cruelty
to my mother, in leaving her the way I did.  It broke her heart; a poor
return, William, for all her care and kindness!  God forgive me
I'll leave off now, if you please: I don't
feel inclined to go on; my heart is full when I recall that foolish and
wicked deed of mine
I mean this to be our place of refuge in case of danger, sir
and therefore I have selected this thick part of the wood, as it
is not very far from the house, and by cutting the path to it in a
zigzag, it will be quite hidden from sight; and we must make the path
just wide enough to allow the wheels to pass, and stump up the roots of
the trees which we are obliged to cut down, otherwise the stumps would
attract attention
I agree with you, Ready
there is no saying
what may happen
You see, sir, it is often the custom for the natives, in this part of
the world, to come in their canoes from one island to another, merely to
get cocoa-nuts.  I can't say that the other islands near us are
inhabited, but still it is probable, and we cannot tell what the
character of the people may be.  I tell you this, but we had better not
say a word to Mrs Seagrave, as it may distress her
We are now near the spot, sir.  You see, when we have got over this
hill, where the trees are so very thick, the fall in the ground will
assist in the concealment of the building.  I should say we are very
near right where we now stand
How far are we now from the house?  We must not be too distant
I reckon we are not 150 yards in a straight line, although the road
will, by its turning, make it double the distance
Then I think this spot will do very well
I'll just mark out the trees which are to stand, Mr Seagrave, and
those which are to be cut down, so as to leave about four feet of stump
standing
My dear William, and you too, Mr Seagrave, how very warm you are
you must not work so hard
Cutting down trees is very warm work, mother
and
hard work will never hurt any one, especially when he dines off
turtle-soup.  Why, Tommy, what's the matter with you
Tommy and I are at variance
I had my thimble
this morning, and had commenced my sewing, when I was called out by
Juno, and Caroline went with me, and Tommy was left in the house.  When
I came back I found him outside, and on going back to my work, there was
no thimble to be found; I asked him if he had touched it, and his answer
was that he would look for it.  He did look, and said he could not find
it; I have asked him several times if he took it away, and his only
answer is that he will find it by and by
Tommy, did you take the thimble
I'll find it by and by, papa
That's not an answer.  Did you take the thimble
I'll find it by and by, papa
That's all the answer he will give me
Well, then, he shall have no dinner till the thimble makes its
appearance
Why, mother, here's the thimble in my soup
No wonder he said he would find it by and by
he
meant to have fished it up, I suppose, from what was left of the soup
after dinner.  Well, Mrs Seagrave, I don't mean to say that Tommy is a
good boy, but still, although he would not tell where the thimble was,
he has not told a falsehood about it
No, he has not
I think, now that the thimble is
found, if he begs pardon, papa will forgive him
Tommy, come here
Tell me why you put that
thimble into the soup
I wanted to taste the soup.  I wanted to fill the thimble; the soup
burnt my fingers, and I let the thimble drop in
Well, a thimbleful wasn't much, at all events
And
why didn't you tell your mamma where the thimble was
I was afraid mamma throw all the soup away, and then I get none for
dinner
Oh! that was it, was it?  Well, sir, I said you should have no dinner
till the thimble was found, so, as it is found, you may have your
dinner; but if you ever refuse to answer a question again, I shall
punish you more severely
Tommy won't put thimble in again; put tin pot in next time
The clouds are gathering fast, sir
we shall have
rain to-night
I fear we shall; but we must expect it now, Ready
Yes, sir; and by and by we shall have it for days together
Ready
if you are not too tired, perhaps you will
go on with your history
Certainly, ma'am, if you wish it
When I left off, I
was on board of the collier, bound to London.  We had a very fair wind,
and a quick passage.  I was very sick until we arrived in the Nore, and
then I recovered, and, as you may suppose, was astonished at the busy
scene, and the quantity of vessels which were going up and down the
river.  But I did not like my captain; he was very severe and brutal to
the men; and the apprentice who was on board told me to run away, and
get into another vessel, and not to bind myself apprentice to this
captain, or I should be beat all day long, and be treated as bad as he
was.  I knew this was the case, as the captain kicked and cuffed him
twenty times a day.  The men said that he did not do so to me, for fear
I should refuse to be his apprentice; but that, as soon as my indentures
were signed, he would treat me in the same way.

"Well, I made up my mind that I would not remain in the collier; and, as
the captain had gone on shore, I had plenty of time to look about me.
There was a large ship, which was ready to sail, lying in the stream; I
spoke to two boys who were at the stairs in her boat, and they told me
that they were very comfortable on board, and that the captain wanted
two or three apprentices.  I went on board with them, and offered
myself.  The captain asked me a great many questions, and I told him the
truth, and why I did not like to remain in the collier.  He agreed to
take me; and I went on shore with him, signed my indentures, and
received from him a sufficient supply of clothes; and, two days
afterwards, we sailed for Bombay and China
But you wrote to your mother, Ready, did you not
Yes, I did; for the captain desired me to do so, and he put a few lines
at the bottom to comfort her; but, unfortunately, the letter, which was
sent on shore by the cook, never arrived.  Whether he dropped it, or
forgot it till after the ship sailed, and then tore it up, I do not
know; but, as I found out afterwards, it never did get to her hands
It was not your fault that the letter did not arrive safe
No, madam, that was not my fault; the fault had been committed before
Don't dwell any more upon that portion of your history, Ready; but tell
us what took place after you sailed for the East Indies
Be it so, if you please.  I certainly was very smart and active for my
age, and soon became a great favourite on board, especially with the
lady passengers, because I was such a little fellow.  We arrived safely
at Bombay, where our passengers went on shore, and in three weeks
afterwards we sailed down the straits for China.  It was war time, and
we were very often chased by French privateers; but as we had a good
crew and plenty of guns, none of them ventured to attack us, and we got
safe to Macao, where we unloaded our cargo and took in teas.  We had to
wait some time for a convoy, and then sailed for England.  When we were
off the Isle of France, the convoy was dispersed in a gale; and three
days afterwards, a French frigate bore down upon us, and after
exchanging a few broadsides, we were compelled to haul down our colours.
A lieutenant was sent on board with forty men to take charge of us, for
we were a very rich prize to them.  The captain and most of the crew
were taken on board of the frigate, but ten Lascars and the boys were
left in the Indiaman, to assist in taking her into the Isle of France,
which was at that time in the hands of the French.  I thought it hard
that I was to go to prison at twelve years old; but I did not care much
about it, and very soon I was as gay and merry as ever.  We had made the
island, and were on a wind beating up to the port, when a vessel was
seen to windward, and although I could not understand what the Frenchmen
said, I perceived that they were in a great fluster and very busy with
their spy-glasses, and Jack Romer, one of my brother 'prentices who had
been three years at sea, said to me, &bquo;I don't think we'll go to prison
after all, Ready, for that vessel is an English man-of-war, if I'm not
mistaken.'  At last she came down within three miles of us, and hoisted
English colours and fired a gun.  The Frenchmen put the ship before the
wind, but it was of no use; the man-of-war came up with us very fast,
and then the Frenchmen began to pack up their clothes, together with all
the other things which they had collected out of the property of our
captain and crew; a shot was fired which went clean over our heads, and
then they left the helm, and Jack Romer went to it, and, with my help,
hove the ship up in the wind; a boat came on board and took possession,
and so there was one escape, at all events.

"They sent a midshipman as prize-master on board of the vessel, and left
all us, who had been taken prisoners by the French, in the vessel, to
help to work her into port, as the captain did not wish to part with any
more men of his own than was necessary.  We soon made sail for England,
quite delighted at having escaped a French prison, but, after all, we
only exchanged it for a Dutch one
How do you mean
I mean that, two days afterwards, as we were rounding the Cape, another
French vessel bore down upon us, and captured us.  This time we did not
find any friend in need, and were taken into Table Bay; for at that time
the Cape of Good Hope was in the possession of the Dutch, who, as well
as the French, were at war with England
How very unfortunate you were, Ready
Yes, madam, we were, and I can't say much in favour of a Dutch prison.
However, I was very young at that time, and did not care much -- I had a
light heart
This is very awful
It is indeed, sir; I never knew a more terrible storm than this
Merciful Heaven
God have mercy on us
the lightning has struck us, and I fear that the house is on fire
somewhere
My wife -- my children
are they all safe
Yes, yes
all safe; Tommy has come to me; but
where is Juno?  Juno
She is dead, father
Help me to carry her out of the house, Mr Seagrave
she may be only stunned
I will attend to the girl, sir
go you and Master William
into the house; Mrs Seagrave will be too much frightened if she is left
alone at such an awful time.  See, sir!  Juno is not dead -- her chest
heaves -- she will come to very soon; thank God for it
We have been most mercifully preserved
Yes, sir, thanks be to God for all his goodness
I think we have a large roll of copper wire, Ready; have we not
Yes, sir, I was just thinking of it myself; we will have a
lightning-conductor up the first thing
I think
that one of those two trees which are close
together will suit the best; they are not too near the house, and yet
quite near enough for the wire to attract the lightning
I agree with you, Ready; but we must not leave both standing
No, sir, but we shall require them both to get up and fix the wire;
after that we will cut down the other
Take care, Ready, how you come down
Never fear, sir
I'm not so young as I was, but I have
been too often at the mast-head, much higher than this
That's a good job done, sir
Yes
and we must put up another near the
outhouse, or we may lose our stores
Very true, sir
You understand this, William, don't you
O yes, papa; lightning is attracted by metal, and will now strike the
point instead of the house, run down the wire, and only tear up the
ground below
It's coming on again, sir, as thick as ever
we
shall do no work to-day, I'm afraid.  I'll just go and see where the
stock are
Well, William, as soon as they had let go their anchor in Table Bay, we
were all ordered on shore, and sent up to a prison close to the
Government Gardens.  We were not very carefully watched, as it appeared
impossible for us to get away, and I must say we were well treated in
every respect; but we were told that we should be sent to Holland in the
first man-of-war which came into the bay, and we did not much like the
idea.

"There were, as I told you, some other boys as well as myself, who
belonged to the Indiaman, and we kept very much together, not only
because we were more of an age, but because we had been shipmates so
long.  Two of these boys, one of whom I have mentioned as Jack Romer,
and the other Will Hastings, were my particular friends; and one day, as
we were sitting under the wall warming ourselves, for it was winter
time, Romer said, &bquo;How very easy it would be for us to get away, if we
only knew where to go to!'

"&bquo;Yes,' replied Hastings; &bquo;but where are we to go to, if it is not to
the Hottentots and wild savages; and when we get there, what can we
do?-- we can't get any further.'  &bquo;Well,' said I, &bquo;I would rather be
living free among savages, than be shut up in a prison.'  That was our
first talk on the subject, but we had many others afterwards; and as the
one or two Dutch soldiers who stood sentry spoke English, and we could
talk a little Dutch, we obtained a good deal of information from them;
for they had very often been sent to the frontiers of the colony.  We
continued to ask questions, and to talk among ourselves for about two
months, and at last we resolved that we would make our escape.  We
should have done much better if we had remained where we were; but there
is no putting old heads upon young shoulders.  We saved up our
provisions, bought some long Dutch knives, tied our few clothes up in
bundles, and one dark night we contrived to remain in the yard without
being perceived, when the prisoners were locked up; and raising a long
pole, which lay in the yard, to the top of the wall, with a good deal of
scrambling we contrived to get over it, and made off as fast as we could
for the Table Mountain
What was your reason for going there, Ready
Why, Hastings, who was the oldest, and, I will say, the sharpest of the
three, said that we had better stay up there for a few days, till we had
made up our minds what to do, and try if we could not procure a musket
or two, and ammunition; for, you see, we had money, as, when the
Indiaman was first taken, the captain divided a keg of rupees, which was
on board, among the officers and men, in proportion to the wages due to
them, thinking it was better for the crew to have the money than to
leave it for the Frenchmen; and we had spent very little while in
prison.  There was also another reason why he persuaded us to go to the
Table Mountain, which was, that as soon as our escape was found out,
they would send parties to look for us; thinking, of course, that we had
made for the interior; and we should have less chance of being retaken
if we travelled after the first search was over.  The soldiers had told
us of the lions, and other wild animals, and how dangerous it was to
travel, and Hastings said, that not finding us, they would suppose we
had been destroyed by the wild beasts, and would not look for us any
more
Foolish indeed
to set off you knew not
where, in a country full of wild beasts and savages
True enough, madam
We ran at first until we were out
of breath, and then we walked on as fast as we could -- not going right up
the mountain, but keeping a slanting direction to the south-west, so as
to get away from the town, and more towards False Bay.

"We had walked about four hours, and began to feel very tired, when the
day dawned, and then we looked out for a place to conceal ourselves in.
We soon found a cave with a narrow entrance, large enough inside to hold
half-a-dozen of such lads as we were, and we crawled in.  It was quite
dry, and, as we were very tired, we lay down with our heads on our
bundles, intending to take a nap; but we had hardly made ourselves
comfortable and shut our eyes, when we heard such a screaming and
barking that we were frightened out of our lives almost.  We could not
think what it could be.  At last Hastings peeped out, and began to
laugh; so Romer and I looked out also, and there we saw about one
hundred and fifty large baboons leaping and tumbling about in such a way
as I never saw; they were bigger than we were -- indeed, when they stood
on their hind legs they were much taller, and they had very large white
tusks.  Some of them were females, with young ones on their backs, and
they were just as active as the males.  At last they played such antics,
that we all burst out into a loud laugh, and we had not ceased when we
found the grinning face of one of the largest of those brutes close to
our own.  He had dropped from the rock above us, like magic.  We all
three backed into the cave, very much frightened, for the teeth of the
animal were enormous, and he looked very savage.  He gave a shrill cry,
and we perceived all the rest of the herd coming to him as fast as they
could.  I said that the cave was large enough to hold six of us; but
there was a sort of inner cave which we had not gone into, as the
entrance was much smaller.  Romer cried out, &bquo;Let us go into the inside
cave -- we can get in one by one;' and he backed in; Hastings followed
with his bundle, and I hurried in after him just in time; for the
baboons, who had been chattering to each other for half a minute, came
into the outer cave just as I crawled into the inner.  Five or six of
them came in, all males, and very large.  The first thing they did was
to lay hold of Romer's bundle, which they soon opened -- at once they
seized his provisions and rammed them into their pouches, and then they
pulled out the other things and tore them all to pieces.  As soon as
they had done with the bundle, two of them came towards the inner cave
and saw us.  One put his long paw in to seize us; but Hastings gave him
a slash with his knife, and the animal took his paw out again fast
enough.  It was laughable to see him hold out his hand to the others,
and then taste the blood with the tip of his tongue, and such a
chattering I never heard -- they were evidently very angry, and more came
into the cave and joined them; then another put in his hand, and
received a cut just as before.  At last, two or three at once tried to
pull us out, but we beat them all off with our knives, wounding them all
very severely.  For about an hour they continued their attempts, and
then they went away out of the cave, but remained at the mouth shrieking
and howling.  We began to be very tired of this work, and Romer said
that he wished he was back in prison again; and so did I, I can assure
you; but there was no getting out, for had we gone out the animals would
have torn us to pieces.  We agreed that we had no chance but the animals
becoming tired and going away; and most anxious we were, for the
excitement had made us very thirsty, and we wanted water.  We remained
for two hours in this way imprisoned by baboons, when all of a sudden a
shrill cry was given by one of the animals, and the whole herd went
galloping off as fast as they could, screaming louder than ever.  We
waited for a short time to see if they would return, and then Hastings
crawled out first, and looking out of the cave very cautiously, said
that they were all gone, and that he could see nothing but a Hottentot
sitting down watching some cattle; we therefore all came out, very happy
at our release.  That was our first adventure; we had plenty afterwards;
but I think it is now time we should go to bed.  It is my opinion we
shall have a fine day to-morrow, sir; but there's no saying
I do so want to hear what happened to you afterwards, Ready
Well, so you shall; but there's a time for everything, and this is
bed-time, unless you like to go with me; the weather has cleared up, and
I want to catch a fish or two for to-morrow
I should have thought that so much rain would have made them come up
No, my dear
they require more of the sun than
they will have till the rainy season is nearly over; a few days like
this, and they will soon be above-ground
Let us sit down on this knoll, it is quite dry
I little thought
that I could have been so happy in a
desert island.  I thought I should feel the loss of books very severely,
but I really do not think that I could have found time to read
Employment is a source of happiness, especially when you are usefully
employed.  An industrious person is always a happy person, provided he
is not obliged to work too hard; and even where you have cause for
unhappiness, nothing makes you forget it so soon as occupation
But, mamma, we shall not always have so much to do as we have now
Of course not
and then we shall find our books
a great source of enjoyment.  I am anxious to go to the other side of
the island, and see what have been spared to us, and whether they have
been much damaged; but that cannot be until after the rains are over,
and we can use the boat again.

"Look at this minute insect which is crawling on my finger
what a number of legs it has
Yes, I have seen something like it in old books.  How fast it runs with
its little legs; thinner than hairs -- how wonderful
Yes, William
we have only to examine into any
portion, however small, of creation, and we are immediately filled with
wonder.  There is nothing which points out to us the immensity and the
omniscience of the Almighty more than the careful provision which has
been made by Him for the smallest and most insignificant of created
beings.  This little animal is perhaps one of many millions, who have
their term of existence, and their enjoyment, as well as we have.  What
is it?-- an insect of the minutest kind, a nothing in creation; yet has
the same care been bestowed upon its formation: these little legs,
hardly visible, have their muscles and their sinews; and every other
portion of its body is as complete, as fearfully and wonderfully
fashioned, as our own.  Such is his will; and what insects we ought to
feel ourselves, when compared to the God of power and of love
Let me also point out to you, William
the
infinity of his creative power, displayed in endless variety.  Amongst
the millions of men that have been born, and died, if ever yet were
there seen two faces or two bodies exactly alike; nay, if you could
examine the leaves upon the trees, although there may be millions upon
millions in a forest, you could not discover two leaves of precisely the
same form and make
I have often tried in vain
yet some animals are so
much alike, that I cannot perceive any difference between them -- sheep,
for instance
Very true; you cannot tell the difference, because you have not
examined them; but a shepherd, if he has seven hundred sheep under his
care, will know every one of them from the others; which proves that
there must be a great difference between them, although not perceptible
to the casual observer; and the same, no doubt, is the case with all
other classes of animals
Yes, William
I have often wondered over the things
that I have seen, and I have even in my ignorance felt what your papa
has now told you; and it has brought into my mind the words of Job:
&bquo;When I consider, I am afraid of him
Papa
you have
referred to the variety -- the wonderful variety -- shown in the works of
the Deity.  Tell me some other prominent feature in creation
One of the most remarkable, William, is order
Point out to me, papa, where and in what that quality is most
observable
Everywhere and in everything, my dear boy; whether we cast our eyes up
to the heavens above us, or penetrate into the bowels of the earth, the
principle of order is everywhere -- everything is governed by fixed laws,
which cannot be disobeyed: we have order in the seasons, in the tides,
in the movement of the heavenly bodies, in the instinct of animals, in
the duration of life assigned to each; from the elephant who lives more
than a century, to the ephemeral fly, whose whole existence is limited
to an hour.

"Inanimate nature is subject to the same unvarying laws.  Metals, and
rocks, and earths, and all the mineral kingdom follow one law in their
crystallisation, never varying from the form assigned to them; each atom
depositing itself in the allotted place, until that form is complete: we
have order in production, order in decay; but all is simple to him by
whom the planets were thrown out into space, and were commanded to roll
in their eternal orbits
Yes; the stars in the heavens are beautiful
but they
are not placed there in order
The fixed stars do not appear to us to be in order -- that is, they do
not stud the heavens at equal distances from each other as we view them;
but you must recollect that they are at very different distances from
this earth, spreading over all infinity of space; and we have reason to
suppose that this our earth is but a mere unit in the multitude of
created worlds, only one single portion of an infinite whole.  As the
stars now appear to us, they are useful to the mariner, enabling him to
cross the trackless seas; and to the astronomer, who calculates the
times and seasons
What do you mean, papa, by saying that this world of ours is supposed
to be but one of a multitude of created worlds
Our little knowledge is bounded to this our own earth, which we have
ascertained very satisfactorily to be but one of several planets
revolving round our own sun.  I say our own sun, because we have every
reason to suppose that each of those fixed stars, and myriads now not
visible to the naked eye, are all suns, bright and glorious as our own,
and of course throwing light and heat upon unseen planets revolving
round them.  Does not this give you some idea of the vastness, the
power, and the immensity of God
One almost loses one's self in the imagination
Yes
and it has been surmised by some, who have
felt in their hearts the magnificence of the Great Architect, that there
must be some point of view in space where all those glorious suns, which
seem to us confused in the heavens above us, will appear all
symmetrically arranged, will there be viewed in regular order, whirling
round in one stupendous and perfect system of beauty and design; and
where can that be, if it is not in that heaven which we hope to gain
They say that
there are people who are atheists, papa.  How can they be so if they
only look around them?  I am sure a mere examination of the works of God
ought to make them good Christians
No, my child
there you are in error.  Few deny
the existence of a Deity, and an examination of his works may make them
good and devout men, but not Christians.  There are good men to be found
under every denomination, whether they be Jews, Mahomedans, or Pagans;
but they are not Christians
Very true, papa
Faith in things seen, if I may use the term, my dear child, may induce
men to acknowledge the power and goodness of the Almighty, but it will
not make them wise to salvation; for that end, it is necessary, as the
Apostle saith, to have faith in things not seen
Well, Ready
which is to be our
next job
Why, sir, I think we had better all set to, to collect the branches and
ends of the cocoa-nut trees cut down, and stack them for fuel.  Tommy
and Juno have already made a good large pile, and I think, by to-night,
we shall have made the stack, and so arranged it that the rain will not
get into it much.  After that, as the weather will not permit us to
leave the house for any time, we will cut our salt-pan and make our
fish-pond; they will take a week at least, and then we shall have little
more to do near home.  I think the strength of the rains is over
already, and perhaps in a fortnight we may venture to walk through the
wood, and examine what we have saved from the wreck
And we are to explore the island; are we not, Ready
I
long to do that
Yes, William, but that must be almost the last job; for we shall be
away for two or three nights, perhaps, and we must look out for fine
weather.  We will, however, do that before we bring the stores round in
the boat
But how are we to make the salt-pan, Ready?  We must cut it out of the
solid rock
Yes, William; but I have three or four of what they call cold chisels,
and with one of them and a hammer, we shall get on faster than you
think; for the coral rock, although hard at the surface, is soft a
little below it
There
that will be our
provision for next year; we have quite enough left to go on with till
the rainy season is over, and we shall have no difficulty in collecting
it afterwards when the weather is dry
Mr
Seagrave, it is not that we may want it; but still we must prepare for
the next rainy season, in case we do want it.  That Captain Osborn, if
he lives, will send to look for us, I have no doubt; nay, I believe that
Mackintosh will do the same; but still you must not forget that they all
may have perished, although we have been so mercifully preserved.  We
must put our trust in God, sir
We must, Ready; and if it is his will, we must not murmur.  I have
schooled myself as much as possible; but thoughts will come in spite of
my endeavours to restrain them
Of course they will, sir; that's natural: however, sir, you must hope
for the best; fretting is no good, and it is sinful
I feel it is, Ready; and when I see how patient, and even happy, my
wife is under such privations, I am angry with myself
A woman, sir, bears adversity better than a man.  A woman is all love,
and if she has but her husband and children with her, and in good
health, she will make herself happy almost anywhere: but men are
different: they cannot bear being shut out of the world as you are now
It is our ambition which makes us unhappy, Ready
but let us say no more about it: God must dispose of me as he
thinks fit
I left off, if I recollect right, William, just as the Hottentot, with
the cattle under his care, had frightened away the baboons who were
tormenting us.  Well, we came out of the cave and sat down under the
rock, so that the Hottentot could not see us, and we had a sort of
council of war.  Romer was for going back and giving ourselves up again;
for he said it was ridiculous to be wandering about without any arms to
defend ourselves against wild beasts, and that we might fall in with
something worse than the baboons very soon; and he was right.  It would
have been the wisest thing which we could have done; but Hastings said,
that if we went back we should be laughed at, and the idea of being
laughed at made us all agree that we would not.  Bear this in mind,
William, and never let the fear of ridicule induce you to do what is
wrong; or if you have done wrong, prevent you from returning to what is
your duty
Many thanks for your advice, Ready; I hope William will not forget it
Well, sir, such was our reason for not giving up our mad scheme; and
having so decided, the next point of consultation between us was, how we
were to procure arms and ammunition, which we could not do without.  As
we were talking this over, I peeped from behind the rock to see where
the Hottentot might be; I perceived that he had laid himself down, and
wrapped himself up in his kross, a mantle of sheep-skins which they
always wear.  Now we had observed that he carried his musket in his
hand, when we first saw him, as the Hottentots always go out armed, and
I pointed out to Hastings and Romer that if he was asleep, we might get
possession of his musket without his perceiving it.  This was a good
idea, and Hastings said he would crawl to him on his hands and knees,
while we remained behind the rock.  He did so very cautiously, and found
the man's head covered up in his kross and fast asleep; so there was no
fear, for the Hottentots are very hard to wake at any time; that we knew
well.  Hastings first took the musket and carried it away out of the
reach of the Hottentot, and then he returned to him, cut the leather
thong which slung his powder-horn and ammunition, and retreated with all
of them without disturbing the man from his sleep.  We were quite
overjoyed at this piece of good luck, and determined to walk very
cautiously some distance from where the Hottentot lay, that in case he
awoke he should not see us.  Keeping our eyes about in every direction,
lest we should meet with anybody else, we proceeded nearly a mile
towards Table Bay, when we fell in with a stream of water.  This was
another happy discovery, for we were very thirsty; so we concealed
ourselves near the stream after we had quenched our thirst, and made a
dinner off the provisions we had brought with us
But, Ready, did you not do wrong to steal the Hottentot's musket
No, William; in that instance it could not be considered as a theft.
We were in an enemy's country, trying to escape; we were therefore just
as much at war with the country as we were when they took us prisoners,
and we no more stole the musket than they could be said to have stolen
our ship.  Am I not right, Mr Seagrave
I believe you are justified in what may seem extreme acts for the
recovery of your liberty, after you have been made prisoners.  It has
always been so considered
Well, sir, to go on: we waited till dusk, and then we continued our
march towards False Bay as fast as we could.  We knew that there were
farmers down in the valley, or rather on the sides of the hills, and we
hoped to obtain, by some means or other, two more muskets.  It was near
twelve o'clock at night, with a bright moon, when we had a sight of the
water in False Bay, and soon afterwards we heard the baying of a large
dog, and not far from us we distinguished two or three farmhouses, with
their cattle-folds and orchards.  We then looked for a hiding-place,
where we might remain till the morning; we found one between some large
pieces of rock.  We agreed that one should watch while the other two
slept; this Hastings undertook to do, as he was not inclined to sleep.
At daylight he woke Romer and me, and we made our breakfast.  From the
place we were concealed in, we had a bird's-eye view of the farmhouse,
and of what was going on.

"The farmhouse and buildings just below us were much smaller than the
other two, which were more distant.  We watched the people as they went
about.  In about an hour the Hottentots came out, and we perceived that
they were yoking the oxen to the waggon; they yoked twelve pair, and
then the Hottentot driver got in and drove off towards Cape Town.  Soon
after that, another Hottentot drove the cows up the valley to feed; and
then a Dutch woman came out of the house with two children, and fed the
poultry.

"We watched for another hour, and then the farmer himself made his
appearance, with a pipe in his mouth, and sat down on a bench.  When his
pipe was out, he called to the house, and a Hottentot woman came to him
with more tobacco and a light.  During the whole of the day we did not
see any other people about the house, so we concluded that there were no
more than the farmer, his wife, the Hottentot woman, and two children.
About two hours after noon the farmer went to the stable and led out his
horse, mounted, and rode away; we saw him speak to the Hottentot woman
when he rode off, and she soon after went down the valley with a basket
on her head, and a long knife in her hand.  Then Hastings said it was
time that we moved, for there was but one woman in the house, and we
could easily overpower her and get what we wanted; still there was a
great risk, as she might give the alarm, and we should have to escape in
the day-time, and might be seen and taken prisoners again.  However, as
it was our only chance, we resolved to go down to the farmhouse very
cautiously, and be all ready to seize any opportunity.  We crept down
the hill, and gained the fence, which was at the back of the farmhouse,
without being discovered: we remained there for about a quarter of an
hour, when, to our great joy, we observed the farmer's wife go out of
the house, leading a child in each hand; apparently she was going to
visit one of her neighbours, for she went in the direction of one of the
other farms.  As soon as she was a hundred yards off, Hastings crept
softly through the fence, and entered the farmhouse by the back-door; he
came out again, and made a sign for us to come in.  We found him already
in possession of a rifle and a musket, which had been hanging over the
fire-place, and we soon handed down the powder-horns and ammunition
pouches, which were hung up at a different part of the room, away from
the fire-place.

"Having gained these, Hastings set me to watch at the front door, lest
anybody should return, while Romer and he looked out for something else
in the way of provisions.  We got possession of three hams, and a large
loaf of bread as big as a small washing-tub.  With these articles we
made our way safe back to our retreat.  We then looked round, and could
see nobody in any direction, so we presumed that we were not discovered.
As there was a sort of ravine full of rocks dividing the hill, which we
were obliged to pass before we could get into the valley, unless we went
down close to the farmhouse, we agreed that it would be better at once
to cross it during the day-time, so that we should get that difficulty
over, and, at the same time, be further from the farmhouse.  We did so;
and found a very secure hiding-place, where we lay down, waiting for the
sun to set before we started on our journey into the interior.  I think
I had better leave off now, William, as it is getting late
Now, sir
this is a very simple job; all we have to do is
to collect small rocks and stones, pile them up wall-fashion inside, and
with a slope outside, so as to break the force of the waves when the
water is a little rough; of course, the water will find its way through
the stones, and will be constantly changed.  It's very true, that we can
at most times catch fish when we want them, but it is not always that we
can spare the time, so it's just as well to have always a certain
quantity at hand, to take out at a moment's warning; and we can, of
course, catch them and put them in here when we have nothing else to do.
Juno will be able to come down and take them out with a spear, when we
are away and she wants something for dinner
But there are few stones about here, Ready; we shall have to fetch them
a long way
Well, then, William, let us get the wheels down here, and then we can
carry a quantity at a time
But how shall we carry them, Ready
We will sling a tub on the axle; I will go up and get that ready and
bring it down; in the meantime, you and Mr Seagrave can collect all the
stones which are near at hand
We have quite forgot another job which we must put in hand, sir
but the fish-pond reminds me of it
What is that, Ready
A bathing-place for the children, and indeed for us all; we shall want
it when the hot weather comes on, but we will put it off till then.  I
can tell you, sir, that although I don't mind building this wall in the
shallow water, I shall be very careful when the water is up to my knees,
for you don't know how bold the sharks are in these latitudes.  When I
was at St. Helena, not very long ago, we had a melancholy proof of it
Tell us the story, Ready
Well, two soldiers were standing on the rocks at St. Helena; the rocks
were out of the water, but the swell just broke over them.  Two sharks
swam up to them, and one of them, with a blow of his tail, turning round
the same way, tripped one of them into the water, which was very deep.
His comrade was very much frightened, and ran to the barracks to tell
the story.  About a week afterwards, a schooner was in Sandy Bay, on the
other side of the island, and the people seeing a very large shark under
the stern, put out a hook with a piece of pork, and caught him; they
opened him, and found inside of him, to their horror, the whole of the
body of the soldier, except the legs below the knees: the monster had
swallowed him whole, with the exception of his legs, which it had nipped
off when it closed its jaws
I really had no idea that they were so bold, Ready
It is a fact, I assure you; and therefore we cannot be too careful how
we go into the water: you saw how soon the poor pig was despatched
I wonder how the pigs get on, Ready
I dare say they have littered by this time, sir; they have no want of
food
But can they eat the cocoa-nuts
Not the old ones, but they can the young ones, which are constantly
dropping from the trees, and then there's plenty of roots for them.  If
we stay long here we shall soon have good sport hunting them; but we
must be very careful; for although they were tame pigs when we brought
them on shore, they will be wild and very savage in a very short time
How must we hunt them
Why, sir, with the dogs, and then shoot them.  I am glad that Vixen
will have pups soon; we shall want more dogs
Shall we not have more mouths than we can find food for
Never fear that, sir, as long as we have the sea to fish in.  Dogs live
very well upon fish, even if it is raw
We shall have some lambs soon, Ready, shall we not
Yes, sir, I expect very soon.  I wish we had more food for the animals:
they are put rather hard to it just now; but next year, if we find more
food on the island, we must keep the grass near home, to make hay and
stack it for the winter time -- or the rainy season rather, for there is
no winter in these latitudes.  I'm pretty sure we shall find some clear
land on the south of the island, for the cocoa-nut grove does not extend
so close to the water on that side as it does on the north
I do so long to go on our exploring party
We must wait a little
but I don't know whether you
will go; we must not all three go at once, and leave Mrs Seagrave
alone
No
that would not be fair; either you or I
must remain, William
We remained concealed
until it was dark, and then Hastings and Romer, each with a musket on
his shoulders and a ham at his back; and I, being the smallest, with the
rifle and the great loaf of bread, set off on our journey.  Our
intention was to travel north, as we knew that was the road leading from
the colony; but Hastings had decided that we should first go to the
eastward, so as to make what we sailors call a circumbendibus, which
would keep us out of the general track.  We passed through the deep
sands of False Bay, and after that gradually ascended, getting among
brushwood and young trees; but we saw no signs of cultivation, nor did
we pass one house after we had left False Bay astern of us.  About
twelve o'clock we were very much fatigued, and longed for a drink of
water, but we did not find any, although the moon shone as bright as
day.  We distinctly heard, however, what we did not much like, the
howling and cries of the wild beasts which increased as we went on;
still we did not see any, and that was our comfort.  At last we were so
tired that we all sat down on the ledge of a rock.  We dared not go to
sleep, so we remained there till daylight, listening to the howling of
the animals.  We none of us spoke, and I presume that Hastings' and
Romer's thoughts were the same as my own, which were, that I would have
given a great deal to find myself safe and sound again within the prison
walls.  However, daylight came at last; the wild beasts did not prowl
any more; we walked on till we found a stream of water, where we sat
down and took our breakfast, after which our courage revived, and we
talked and laughed as we walked on, just as we had done before.  We now
began to ascend the mountains, which Hastings said must be the Black
Mountains that the soldiers had talked to us about.  They were very
desolate; and when night came on we collected brushwood, and cut down
branches with our knives, that we might make a fire, not only to warm
ourselves, but to scare away the wild beasts, whose howling had already
commenced.  We lighted our fire and ate our supper; the loaf was half
gone, and the hams had been well cut into -- we knew, therefore, that very
soon we should have to trust to our guns for procuring food.  As soon as
we had finished our meal, we lay down by the fire, with our muskets
loaded close to us, and our ammunition placed out of danger.  We were so
tired that we were soon fast asleep.  It had been agreed that Romer
should keep the first watch, and Hastings the middle, and I the morning;
but Romer fell asleep, and the consequence was, that the fire was not
kept up.  It was about midnight that I was awakened by something
breathing hard in my face, and just as I could recall my senses and open
my eyes, I found myself lifted up by my waistband, and the teeth of some
animal pinching my flesh.  I tried to catch at my musket, but I put out
my wrong hand, and laid hold of a still lighted brand out of the fire,
which I darted into the animal's face; it let me drop directly, and ran
away
What a providential escape
Yes, it was, ma'am; the animal was a hyena.  Fortunately they are a
very cowardly sort of beast; still, had it not been for the lighted
stick, it would have carried me off, for I was very small then, and it
lifted me up as if I was a feather in its mouth.  The shout I gave woke
Hastings, who seized his musket and fired.  I was very much frightened,
as you may suppose.  As for Romer, he never woke till we pushed him
hard, he was so completely knocked up.  This affair, of course, made us
more cautious, and afterwards we lighted two fires, and slept between
them, one always remaining on the watch.  For a week we travelled on,
and as soon as we were over the mountains, we turned our heads to the
northward.  Our provisions were all gone, and we were one day without
any; but we killed an antelope called a spring-bock, which gave us
provisions for three or four days: there was no want of game after we
had descended into the plain.  I forgot to mention, however, a narrow
escape we had, just before we had left an extensive forest on the side
of the mountain.  We had walked till past noon, and were very much
tired; we decided upon taking our dinner under a large tree, and we
threw ourselves down in the shade.  Hastings was lying on his back, with
his eyes looking upwards, when he perceived on the lower branch of the
tree a panther, which lay along it, his green eyes fixed upon us, and
ready to spring; he seized his musket, and fired it without taking aim,
for there was no time; but the ball entered the stomach of the animal,
and, as it appeared, divided its back-bone.  Down came the beast, within
three or four feet of where we lay, with a loud roar, and immediately
crouched to spring upon Romer; but it could not, for the back-bone being
broken, it had not any power in its hinder quarters, so it raised up its
fore quarters, and then dropped down again.  I never saw such rage and
fury in an animal in my life.  At first we were too much frightened to
fire; but, perceiving that the beast could not spring, Hastings snatched
the musket from Romer and shot it through the head.

"We were now obliged to hunt for our livelihood, and we became bolder
than ever.  Our clothes were all in rags; but we had plenty of powder
and ammunition; there were hundreds and hundreds of antelopes and gnus
in the plain -- indeed, sometimes it was impossible to count them.  But
this plentiful supply of game was the cause of our being in greater
danger, for now, for the first time, we heard the roar of the lions
every night.  We made large fires to keep them off, but they often made
us tremble when they came near to us
Did you ever meet with one in the day-time
Yes, sir; we often saw them, but they never attacked us, and we were
too much afraid to fire at them.  Once we met one face to face.  We had
killed an antelope called a hartebeest, and, with our muskets on our
shoulders, were running to secure it.  Just as we came up to the spot,
we heard a roar, and found ourselves not ten yards from a lion, who was
lying on the top of the beast we had killed, his eyes flashing fire at
us, and half raising himself, as if ready for a spring.  We all took to
our heels as fast as we could.  I never looked back till I was out of
breath: but the lion was content with our running away, and did not take
the trouble to follow us.  Well, sir, we had been travelling, we really
hardly knew where, but certainly in a northerly direction, for three
weeks, and were quite worn out: we now all agreed that we had done a
very foolish thing, and would gladly have gone back again.  For my part,
I declare that I was willing to lie down and die, if I could have so
done, and I became quite indifferent to the roaring of the lions, and
felt as if I should be glad if one would have made a meal of me.  At
length, one morning, we fell in with a party of natives.  They were of
the Karroo tribe, as they told us by pointing to themselves, and saying,
&bquo;Karroos', and then they pointed to us, and said &bquo;Dutch'.  We shot game,
and gave it to them, which pleased them very much, and they remained
with us for five or six days.  We tried by signs to inquire of them, if
there were any Dutch settlement about there; and they understood us, and
said that there was, in a direction which they pointed out to us, to the
north-east.  We offered them a present if they would show us the way.
Two of the men agreed to go with us; the rest of the tribe, with the
women and children, went southward.  The next day we arrived at a Dutch
settlement of three or four farmhouses, called Graaff Reinet; but I must
leave off now, for it is past bed-time
This is a bad case,
sir: William was working yesterday with his hat off, and I fear that he
has been struck by the sun
Now, Ready, we have finished everything at home for the present; all we
have to do is to explore the island, and to go to the cove and examine
our collection from the wreck
Very true, William; and the weather has been so fine, that I think we
may venture upon one or the other in a few days more; but not till you
are stronger
I shall soon be strong again, Ready
I have no doubt of it, William; and we have good reason to thank God,
for we could ill spare you
It's a long while since you have gone on with your story, Ready
I wish you would do so now,
as I am sure I shall not be tired
With pleasure, William
but can you remember where I
left off, for my memory is none of the best
Oh, yes; if you recollect, you had just arrived at a Dutch farmer's
house, in company with the savages, at a place called Graaff Reinet, I
think
Well then, the Dutch farmer came out when he saw us coming, and asked
us who we were.  We told him that we were English prisoners, and that we
wished to give ourselves up to the authorities.  He took away our arms
and ammunition, and said that he was the authority in that part, which
was true enough; and then he said, &bquo;You'll not run away without arms and
ammunition, that's certain.  As for sending you to the Cape, that I may
not be able to do for months; so if you wish to be fed well, you must
work well while you're here.'  We replied, that we should be very glad
to make ourselves useful, and then he sent us some dinner by a Hottentot
girl.  But we soon found out that we had to deal with an ill-tempered,
brutal fellow; and that he gave us plenty of hard work, but by no means
plenty of food.  He would not trust us with guns, so the Hottentots went
out with the cattle, but he gave us plenty of work to do about the
house; and at last he treated us very cruelly.  When he was short of
provisions for the Hottentots and other slaves, of whom he had a good
many, he would go out with the other farmers who lived near him, and
shoot quaggas for them to eat.  Nobody but a Hottentot could live upon
such flesh
What is quagga
A wild ass, partly covered with stripes, but not so much as the zebra;
a pretty animal to look at, but the flesh is very bad.  At last he would
give us nothing to eat but quaggas, the same as the Hottentots, while he
and his family -- for he had a wife and five children -- lived upon mutton
and the flesh of the antelope, which is very excellent eating.  We asked
him to allow us a gun to procure better food, and he kicked Romer so
unmercifully, that he could not work for two days afterwards.  Our lives
became quite a burden to us; we were employed all day on the farm, and
every day he was more brutal towards us.  At last we agreed that we
would stand it no longer, and one evening Hastings told him so.  This
put him into a great rage, and he called two of the slaves, and ordered
them to tie him to the waggon wheel, swearing that he would cut every
bit of skin off his body, and he went into his house to get his whip.
The slaves had hold of Hastings, and were tying him up, for they dared
not disobey their master, when he said to us, &bquo;If I am flogged this way,
it will be all over with us.  Now's your time; run back behind the
house, and when he comes out with the whip, do you go in and seize the
muskets, which are always ready loaded.  Hold him at bay till I get
clear, and then we will get away somehow or other.  You must do it, for
I am sure he will flog me till I am dead, and he will shoot you, as
runaway prisoners, as he did his two Hottentots the other day.'  As
Romer and I thought this very probable, we did as Hastings told us; and
when the Dutchman had gone towards him where he was tied up, about fifty
yards from the house, we went in.  The farmer's wife was in bed, having
just had an addition to her family, and the children we cared not for.
We seized two muskets and a large knife, and came out just as the
Dutchman had struck the first blow with the rhinoceros whip, which was
so severe, that it took away poor Hastings' breath.  We went up; he
turned round and saw us: we levelled our muskets at him, and he stopped.
&bquo;Another blow, and we'll shoot you,' cried Romer.  &bquo;Yes,' cried I; &bquo;we
are only boys, but you've Englishmen to deal with.'  When we came up,
Romer kept his piece levelled at the Dutchman, while I passed him, and
with the knife cut the thongs which bound Hastings.  The Dutchman turned
pale and did not speak, he was so frightened, and the slaves ran away.
As soon as Hastings was free, he seized a large wooden mallet, used for
driving in stakes, and struck the Dutchman down to the earth, crying
out, &bquo;That for flogging an Englishman, you rascal!'

"While the man lay senseless or dead -- I didn't know which at the time --
we tied him to the waggon wheels, and returning to the house, seized
some ammunition and other articles which might be useful.  We then went
to the stables, and took the three best horses which the Dutchman had,
put some corn in a sack for each of them, took some cord for halters,
mounted, and rode away as fast as we could.  As we knew that we should
be pursued, we first galloped away as if we were going eastward to the
Cape; and then, as soon as we were on ground which would not show the
tracks of our horses' hoofs, we turned round to the northward, in the
direction of the Bushman country.  It was dark soon after we had altered
our course; but we travelled all night, and although we heard the
roaring of the lions at a distance, we met with no accident.  At
daylight we rested our horses, and gave them some corn, and then sat
down to eat some of the provision we had brought with us
How long were you with the farmer at Graaff Reinet
Nearly eight months, sir; and during that time we could not only speak
Dutch, but we could make ourselves understood by the Hottentots and
other natives.  While we were eating we held a consultation how we
should proceed.  We were aware that the Dutchmen would shoot us if they
came up with us, and that they would come out in strong force against
us; and we were afraid that we had killed the man, and if so, they would
hang us as soon as we got to the Cape; so we were at a great loss to
know how to act.  At last we decided that we would cross the country of
the Bushmen, and get to the sea-side, to the northward of the Cape.  We
determined that it would be better to travel at night, as there would be
less fear of the wild beasts, or of being seen; so we went fast asleep
for many hours.  Towards the evening, we found water for the horses, and
then we fed them again, and proceeded on our journey.  I won't tell what
passed every day for a fortnight, by which time we had pretty well
killed our horses, and we were compelled to stop among a tribe of
Gorraguas, a very mild, inoffensive people, who supplied us with milk,
and treated us very kindly.  We had some adventures, nevertheless.  One
day as we were passing by a tuft of small trees, a rhinoceros charged
upon my horse, which very narrowly escaped by wheeling short round and
getting behind him; the beast then made off without meddling with us any
more.  Every day we used to shoot some animal or other, for provision:
sometimes it was a gnu, something between an antelope and a bull; at
other times it was one of the antelope kind.

"Well, we stayed for three weeks with these people, and gave our horses
time to refresh themselves; and then we set off again, keeping more
towards the coast as we went southward, for the Gorraguas told us that
there was a fierce native tribe, called Kaffers, to the northward, who
would certainly kill us if we went there.  The fact is, we did not know
what to do.  We had left the Cape without any exact idea where we should
go to, like foolish boys as we were, and we became more entangled with
difficulties every day.  At last we decided that it would be better to
find our way back to the Cape, and deliver ourselves up as prisoners,
for we were tired out with fatigue and constant danger.  All that we
were afraid of was that we had killed the Dutch farmer at Graaff Reinet,
who had treated us so brutally; but Hastings said he did not care; that
was his business, and he would take his chance: so when we bade adieu to
the Gorraguas, we turned our horses' heads to the south-east, so as to
make the sea and go to the southward at the same time.

"I have now to mention a most melancholy event which occurred.  Two days
after we had recommenced our travels, in passing through some high
grass, we stumbled on a lion, which was devouring a gnu.  Romer, who
happened to be some ten yards foremost of the three, was so alarmed that
he fired at the animal, which we had agreed never to do, as it was folly
to enrage so powerful a beast, when our party was so small.  The lion
was slightly wounded; he gave a roar that might have been heard for a
mile, sprang upon Romer, and with one blow of his paw knocked him off
the saddle into the bushes.  Our horses, which were frightened, wheeled
round and fled, for the animal was evidently about to attack us.  As it
was, he did make one bound in our direction; we could not pull up until
we had gone half a mile; and when we did, we saw the lion had torn down
the horse which Romer had ridden, and was dragging away the carcass to
the right at a sort of a canter, without any apparent effort on his
part.  We waited till he was well off, and then rode back to the spot
where Romer had fallen: we soon found him, but he was quite dead; the
blow with the lion's paw had fractured his skull.

"I ought to have said that the Gorraguas told us not to travel by night,
but by day; and we had done so in consequence of their advice.  I
believe it was very good advice, notwithstanding this unfortunate
accident, for we found that when we had travelled all night the lions
had more than once followed us the whole time; and indeed I have often
thought since that we were altogether indebted to his mercy who ordereth
all things, both in heaven and earth, that we escaped so well as we did.
Three days after poor Romer's death we first saw the wide ocean again.
We kept near the coast, but we soon found that we could not obtain the
supply of game, or fuel for our fires at night, so well as we could in
the interior, and we agreed to get away from the coast again.  We had a
dreary plain to pass over, and we were quite faint for want of food -- for
we had been without any for nearly two days -- when we came upon an
ostrich.  Hastings put his horse to his speed, but it was of no use -- the
ostrich ran much faster than the horse could.  I remained behind, and,
to my great joy, discovered his nest, with thirteen large eggs in it.
Hastings soon came back, with his horse panting and out of wind.  We sat
down, lighted a fire, and roasted two of the eggs: we made a good dinner
of them, and having put four more on our saddle-bows, we continued our
journey.  At last, one forenoon, we saw the Table Mountain, and were as
glad to see it as if we had seen the white cliffs of Old England.  We
pushed on our horses with the hopes of being once more comfortably in
prison before night; when, as we neared the bay, we noticed that English
colours were flying on board of the vessels in the road.  This surprised
us very much; but soon after that we met an English soldier, who told us
that the Cape had been taken by our forces more than six months ago.
This was a joyful surprise, as you may suppose.  We rode into the town,
and reported ourselves to the main guard; the governor sent for us,
heard our story, and sent us to the admiral, who took us on board of his
own ship
Many of the islands near us are inhabited; are they not, papa
Yes, but not those very near us, I believe.  At all events, I never
heard any voyagers mention having seen inhabitants on the isles near
which we suppose the one we are on to be
What sort of people are the islanders in these seas
They are various.  The New Zealanders are the most advanced in
civilisation.  The natives of Van Diemen's Land and Australia are some
portions of them of a very degraded class -- indeed, little better than
the beasts of the field
I have seen them
and I think I can mention a people, not
very numerous indeed, who are still more like the beasts of the field.
I saw them once; and, at first, thought they were animals, and not human
beings
Indeed, Ready; where may that be
In the Great Andaman Isles, at the mouth of the Bay of Bengal.  I once
anchored in distress in Port Cornwallis, and the morning after we
anchored, we saw some black things going upon all fours under the trees
that came down to the water's edge.  We got the telescope, and perceived
then that they were men and women, for they stood upright
Did you ever come into contact with them
No, sir, I did not; but I met, at Calcutta, a soldier who had; for at
one time the East India Company intended making a settlement on the
island, and sent some troops there.  He said that they caught two of
them; that they were not more than four feet high, excessively stupid
and shy; they had no houses or huts to live in, and all that they did
was to pile up some bushes to keep the wind off
Had they any arms
Yes, sir, they had bows and arrows; but so miserably made, and so
small, that they could not kill anything but very small birds
Where did the people come from who inhabited these islands, papa
That is difficult to say, William; but it is supposed that they have
become inhabited in much the same way as this our island has been -- that
is, by people in canoes or boats driven out to sea, and saving their
lives by effecting a landing, as we have done
I believe that's the truth
I heard say that the
Andaman Isles were supposed to have been first inhabited by a slaver
full of negroes, who were wrecked on the coast in a typhoon
What is a typhoon, Ready
It is much the same as a hurricane, William; it comes on in India at
the change of the monsoons
But what are monsoons
Winds that blow regular from one quarter so many months during the
year, and then change round and blow from another just as long
And what are the trade-winds, which I heard poor Captain Osborn talking
about after we left Madeira
The trade-winds blow on the equator, and several degrees north and
south of it, from the east to the west, following the course of the
sun
Is it the sun which produces these winds
Yes, the extreme heat of the sun between the tropics rarefies the air
as the earth turns round, and the trade-winds are produced by the
rushing in of the less heated air
Yes, William; and the trade-winds produce what they call the Gulf
Stream
How is that?  I have heard it spoken of, papa
The winds, constantly following the sun across the Atlantic Ocean, and
blowing from east to west, have great effect upon the sea, which is
forced up into the Gulf of Mexico (where it is stopped by the shores of
America), so that it is many feet higher in the Gulf than in the eastern
part of the Atlantic.  This accumulation of water must of course find a
vent somewhere, and it does in what is called the Gulf Stream, by which
the waters are poured out, running very strong to the northward, along
the shores of America, and then &lsqb;westward&rsqb; eastward, passing not far
from Newfoundland, until its strength is spent somewhere to the
northward of the Azores
The Gulf Stream, William
is always several degrees
warmer than the sea in general, which is, they say, owing to its waters
remaining in the Gulf of Mexico so long, where the heat of the sun is so
great
What do you mean by the land and sea breezes in the West Indies, and
other hot climates, papa
It is the wind first blowing off from the shore, and then blowing from
the sea towards the shore, during certain hours of the day, which it
does regularly every twenty-four hours.  This is also the effect of the
heat of the sun.  The sea breeze commences in the morning, and in the
afternoon it dies away, when the land breeze commences, which lasts till
midnight
There are latitudes close to the trade-winds
where the
wind is not certain, where ships have been becalmed for weeks; the crews
have exhausted the water on board, and they have suffered dreadfully.
We call them the Horse latitudes -- why, I do not know.  But it is time
for us to leave off, and for Master William to go into the house
I left off at the time that I was sent on board of the man-of-war, and
I was put down on the books as a supernumerary boy.  I was on board of
her for nearly four years, and we were sent about from port to port, and
from clime to clime, until I grew a strong, tall lad, and was put into
the mizen-top.  I found it very comfortable.  I did my duty, and the
consequence was, I never was punished; for a man may serve on board of a
man-of-war without fear of being punished, if he only does his duty, and
the duty is not very hard either; not like on board of the merchant
vessels, where there are so few hands -- there it is hard work.  Of
course, there are some captains who command men-of-war who are harsh and
severe; but it was my good fortune to be with a very mild and steady
captain, who was very sorry when he was obliged to punish the men,
although he would not overlook any improper conduct.  The only thing
which was a source of constant unhappiness to me was, that I could not
get to England again, and see my mother.  I had written two or three
letters, but never had an answer; and at last I became so impatient that
I determined to run away the very first opportunity which might offer.
We were then stationed in the West Indies, and I had very often
consultations with Hastings on the subject, for he was quite as anxious
to get away as I was; and we had agreed that we would start off together
the very first opportunity.  At last we anchored in Port Royal, Jamaica,
and there was a large convoy of West India ships, laden with sugar,
about to sail immediately.  We knew that if we could get on board of
one, they would secrete us until the time of sailing, for they were
short-handed enough, the men-of-war having pressed every man they could
lay their hands upon.  There was but one chance, and that was by
swimming on board of one of the vessels during the night-time, and that
was easy enough, as they were anchored not a hundred yards from our own
ship.  What we were afraid of was the sharks, which were so plentiful in
the harbour.  However, the night before the convoy was to sail we made
up our minds that we would run the risk, for we were so impatient to
escape that we did not care for anything.  It was in the middle watch -- I
recollect it, and shall recollect it all my life, as if it were last
night -- that we lowered ourselves down very softly from the bows of the
ship, and as soon as we were in the water we struck out for one of the
West Indiamen close to us.  The sentry at the gangway saw the light in
the water made by our swimming through it, and he hailed, of course; we
gave no answer, but swam as fast as we could; for after he had hailed we
heard a bustle, and we knew that the officer of the watch was manning a
boat to send after us.  I had just caught hold of the cable of the West
Indiaman, and was about to climb up by it, for I was a few yards before
Hastings, when I heard a loud shriek, and, turning round, perceived a
shark plunging down with Hastings in his jaws.  I was so frightened,
that for a short time I could not move: at last I recovered myself, and
began to climb up by the cable as fast as I could.  I was just in time,
for another shark made a rush at me; and although I was clear out of the
water more than two feet, he sprung up and just caught my shoe by the
heel, which he took down with him.  Fear gave me strength, and in a
second or two afterwards I was up at the hawse-holes, and the men on
board, who had been looking over the bows, and had witnessed poor
Hastings' death, helped me on board, and hurried me down below, for the
boat from our ship was now nearly alongside.  When the officer of the
boat came on board, they told him they had perceived us both in the
water, close to their vessel, and that the sharks had taken us down.  As
the shriek of Hastings was heard by the people in the boat, the officer
believed that it was the case, and returned to the ship.  I heard the
drum beat to quarters on board of the man-of-war, that they might
ascertain who were the two men who had attempted to swim away, and a few
minutes afterwards they beat the retreat, having put down D.D. against
my name on the books, as well as against that of poor Hastings
What does D.D. mean
D stands for discharged from the service; D.D. stands for dead
and it was only through the mercy of Providence that I
was not so
It was a miraculous escape indeed
Yes, indeed, sir; I can hardly describe my sensations for some hours
afterwards.  I tried to sleep, but could not -- I was in agony.  The
moment I slumbered, I thought the shark had hold of me, and I would
start up and shriek; and then I said my prayers and tried to go to sleep
again, but it was of no use.  The captain of the West Indiaman was
afraid that my shrieks would be heard, and he sent me down a tumbler of
rum to drink off; this composed me, and at last I fell into a sound
sleep.  When I awoke, I found that the ship was under weigh and with all
canvas set, surrounded by more than a hundred other vessels; the
men-of-war who took charge of the convoy, firing guns and making signals
incessantly.  It was a glorious sight, and we were bound for Old
England.  I felt so happy, that I thought I would risk the jaws of
another shark to have regained my liberty, and the chance of being once
more on shore in my own country, and able to go to Newcastle and see my
poor mother
I am afraid that your miraculous escape did you very little good,
Ready
if you got over it so soon
Indeed, madam, it was not so; that was only the feeling which the first
sight of the vessels under weigh for England produced upon me.  I can
honestly say that I was a better and more serious person.  The very next
night, when I was in my hammock, I prayed very fervently; and there
happened to be a very good old Scotchman on board, the second mate, who
talked very seriously to me, and pointed out how wonderful had been my
preservation, and I felt it.  It was he who first read the Bible with
me, and made me understand it, and, I may say, become fond of it.  I did
my duty on our passage home as a seaman before the mast, and the captain
was pleased with me.  The ship I was in was bound to Glasgow, and we
parted company with the convoy at North Foreland, and arrived safe in
port.  The captain took me to the owners, who paid me fifteen guineas
for my services during the voyage home; and as soon as I received the
money, I set off for Newcastle as fast as I could.  I had taken a place
on the outside of the coach, and I entered into conversation with a
gentleman who sat next to me.  I soon found out that he belonged to
Newcastle, and I first inquired if Mr Masterman, the ship-builder, was
still alive.  He told me that he had been dead about three months.  &bquo;And
to whom did he leave his money?'  I asked, &bquo;for he was very rich, and
had no kin.'  &bquo;He had no relations,' replied the gentleman, &bquo;and he left
all his money to build an hospital and almshouses.  He had a partner in
his business latterly, and he left the yard and all the stores to him, I
believe, because he did not know whom to leave it to.  There was a lad
whom I knew for certain he intended to have adopted and to have made his
heir -- a lad of the name of Ready; but he ran away to sea, and has never
been heard of since.  It is supposed that he was lost in a prize, for he
was traced so far.  Foolish boy that he was.  He might now have been a
man of fortune.'

"&bquo;Very foolish indeed,' replied I.

"&bquo;Yes; but he has harmed more than himself.  His poor mother, who doted
upon him, as soon as she heard that he was lost, pined away by degrees,
and --'

"&bquo;You don't mean to say that she is dead?' interrupted I, seizing the
gentleman by the arm.

"&bquo;Yes,' replied he, looking at me with surprise; &bquo;she died last year of
a broken heart.'

"I fell back on the luggage behind me, and should have fallen off the
coach if the gentleman had not held me.  He called to the coachman to
pull up the horses, and they took me down, and put me inside; and as the
coach rolled on, I cried as if my heart would break
Thank you, sir, it will be better; for I feel my old eyes dim with
tears, even now.  It's a dreadful thing in after-life to reflect upon,
that your foolish conduct has hastened the death of a most kind mother;
but so it was, William, and I give you the truth for your advantage
Look, Missy Seagrave -- fowls lay eggs -- soon have plenty -- plenty for
Master William -- make him well again -- and plenty for chickens by and by
You haven't taken them all out of the nests, Juno; have you
No; leave one in each nest for hen to see
Well, then, we will keep them for William, and I hope, as you say, they
will make him strong again
I am getting quite strong now, mother
I think it
would be better to leave the eggs for the hens to sit upon
No, no, William; your health is of more consequence than having early
chickens
I suspect, madam
that Tommy will not come
either to his breakfast or his dinner to-day
What can you mean, Ready
Why, madam, I will tell you.  I thought it very odd that there were no
eggs, and I thought it probable that the hens might have laid astray; so
I went about yesterday evening to search.  I could not find any eggs,
but I found the egg-shells, hid under some cocoa-nut leaves; and I
argued, that if an animal, supposing there was any on the island, had
taken the eggs, it would not have been so careful to hide the
egg-shells.  So, this morning, I fastened up the door of the hen-house,
and only left open the little sliding door, by which the fowls go in to
roost; and then, after you were up, I watched behind the trees, and saw
Tommy come out, and go to the hen-house.  He tried the door, and finding
it fast, crept into the hen-house by the little sliding-door.  As soon
as he was in I let down the slide, and fastened it with a nail; so there
he is, caught in his own trap
And there shall he remain all day, the little glutton
Yes, it will serve him right
and be a lesson
to him
Well, Tommy, how many eggs did you suck to-day
Tommy won't suck eggs any more
No, you had better not
or you will find, in
the end, that you will have less to eat, instead of more, as you have
this day
I told you, William, that I was informed by the gentleman on the coach
that my mother had died of a broken heart, in consequence of my supposed
death.  I was in agony until I arrived at Newcastle, where I could
ascertain all the facts connected with her decease.  When the coach
stopped, the gentleman, who had remained outside, came to the coach
door, and said to me, &bquo;If I mistake not, you are Masterman Ready, who
ran away to sea; are you not?'  &bquo;Yes, sir,' replied I, very sorrowfully,
&bquo;I am.'  &bquo;Well, my man,' said he, &bquo;cheer up; when you went away you were
young and thoughtless, and certainly had no idea that you would have
distressed your mother as you did.  It was not your going to sea, but
the report of your death, which preyed so much upon her mind; and that
was not your fault.  You must come with me, as I have something to say
to you.'

"&bquo;I will call upon you to-morrow, sir,' replied I; &bquo;I cannot do anything
until I talk to the neighbours and visit my poor mother's grave.  It is
very true that I did not intend to distress my mother; and that the
report of my death was no fault of mine.  But I cannot help feeling
that, if I had not been so thoughtless, she would be still alive and
happy.'  The gentleman gave me his address, and I promised to call upon
him next morning.  I then went to the house my mother used to live in.
I knew that she was not there; yet I was disappointed and annoyed when I
heard merry laughter within.  I looked in, for the door was open; in the
corner where my mother used to sit, there was a mangle, and two women
busily at work; others were ironing at a large table; and when they
cried out to me, &bquo;What do you want?' and laughed at me, I turned away in
disgust, and went to a neighbouring cottage, the inmates of which had
been very intimate with my mother.  I found the wife at home, but she
did not know me; and I told her who I was.  She had attended my mother
during her illness, till the day of her death; and she told me all I
wished to know.  It was some little relief to my mind to hear that my
poor mother could not have lived, as she had an incurable cancer; but at
the same time the woman told me that I was ever in her thoughts, and
that my name was the last word on her lips.  She also said that Mr
Masterman had been very kind to my mother, and that she had wanted
nothing.  I then asked her to show me where my mother had been buried.
She put on her bonnet, and led me to the grave, and then, at my request,
she left me.  I seated myself down by the mound of turf which covered
her, and long and bitterly did I weep her loss and pray for forgiveness.

"It was quite dark when I left the spot and went back to the cottage of
the kind woman who had attended my mother.  I conversed with her and her
husband till late, and then, as they offered me a bed, I remained with
them that night.  Next morning I went to keep my appointment with the
gentleman whom I had met in the coach: I found by the brass plate on the
door that he was a lawyer.  He desired me to sit down, and then he
closed the door carefully, and having asked me many questions, to
ascertain if I was really Masterman Ready, he said he was the person
employed at Mr Masterman's death, and that he had found a paper which
was of great consequence, as it proved that the insurance of the vessel
which had belonged to my father and Mr Masterman, and which had been
lost, had not been made on Mr Masterman's share only, but upon my
father's as well, and that Mr Masterman had defrauded my mother.  He
said he had found the paper in a secret drawer some time after Mr
Masterman's death, and that my mother being dead, and I being supposed
to be dead, he did not see any use in making known so disagreeable a
circumstance; but that, now I had re-appeared, it was his duty so to do,
and that he would arrange the matter for me, if I pleased, with the
corporation of the town, to whom all Mr Masterman's property had been
left in trust to build an hospital and almshouses.  He said that the
insurance on the vessel was three thousand pounds, and that one-third of
the vessel belonged to my father, so that a thousand pounds were due to
him, which the interest for so many years would increase to above two
thousand pounds.  This was good news for me, and you may suppose I
readily agreed to all he proposed.  He set to work at once, and having
called together the mayor and corporation of the town, and proved the
document, they immediately agreed that I was entitled to the money, and
that it should be paid to me without any contest.  Thus you see, Master
William, was a new temptation thrown in my way
How do you mean a temptation?  It surely was very fortunate, Ready
Yes, William, it was, as people say, fortunate, according to the ideas
of the world; every one congratulated me, and I was myself so inflated
with my good fortune, that I forgot all the promises of amendment, all
the vows of leading a good life, which I made over my poor mother's
grave.  Now do you perceive why I called it a temptation, Master
William
My dear child
riches and prosperity in this world
prove often the greatest of temptations; it is adversity that chastens
and amends us, and which draws us to God
As soon as the money was in my own hands
I began to
squander it away in all manner of folly.  Fortunately, I had not
received it more than ten days, when the Scotch second mate came like a
guardian angel to save me.  As soon as I had made known to him what had
taken place, he reasoned with me, pointed out to me that I had an
opportunity of establishing myself for life, and proposed that I should
purchase a part of a vessel, on condition that I was captain of her.  I
liked this idea very much, and being convinced that I had been making a
fool of myself, I resolved to take his advice; but one thing only
restrained me: I was still very young, not more than twenty years old;
and although I could navigate at one time, I had latterly paid no
attention.  I told Sanders this, and he replied, that if I would take
him as my first mate, that difficulty would be got over, as he could
navigate well, and that I could learn to do so in the first voyage; so
all was arranged.

"Fortunately, I had not spent above one hundred pounds of the money.  I
set off for Glasgow in company with Sanders, and he busied himself very
hard in looking about for a vessel that would suit.  At last, he found
that there was one ready for launching, which, in consequence of the
failure of the house for which it was built, was to be sold.  He made
inquiries, and having found who was likely to purchase her -- that it was
a very safe and respectable firm -- he made a proposal for me that I
should take one-fourth share of her, and command her.  As Sanders was
very respectable, and well known to be a steady man, his recommendation
was attended to so far that the parties wished to see and speak to me.
They were satisfied with me, young as I was, and the bargain was made.
I paid down my two thousand pounds for my share, and as soon as the
vessel was launched, was very busy with Sanders, whom I had chosen as
first mate, in fitting her out.  The house which had purchased her with
me was a West India firm, and the ship was of course intended for the
West India trade.  I had two or three hundred pounds left, after I had
paid my share of the vessel, and this I employed in purchasing a venture
on my own account, and providing nautical instruments, etcetera.  I also
fitted myself out, for you see, William, although Sanders had persuaded
me to be rational, I was still puffed up with pride at the idea of being
captain of my own ship; it was too great a rise for one who had just
before been a lad in the mizen-top of a man-of-war.  I dressed myself
very smart -- wore white shirts, and rings on my fingers.  Indeed, as
captain and part owner of a fine vessel, I was considered as somebody,
and was often invited to the table of the other owners of the vessel.  I
was well off, for my pay was ten pounds a month, independent of what my
own venture might produce, and my quarter-share of the profits of the
vessel.  This may be considered as the most prosperous portion of my
life; and so, if you please, we will leave off here for to-night, for I
may as well tell you at once that it did not last very long
Now, William, before we start on our travels, I
think I may as well wind up my history.  I haven't a great deal more to
tell, as my good fortune did not last long; and after my remaining so
long in a French prison, my life was one continued chapter of from bad
to worse.  Our ship was soon ready, and we sailed with convoy for
Barbadoes.  Sanders proved a good navigator, and from him, before we
arrived at Barbadoes, I gained all the knowledge which I required to
enable me to command and navigate my vessel.  Sanders attempted to renew
our serious conversation, but my property had made me vain; and now that
I felt I could do without his assistance, I not only kept him at a
distance, but assumed the superior.  This was a very ungrateful return
for his kindness to me; but it is too often the case in this world.
Sanders was very much annoyed, and on our arrival at Barbadoes, he told
me that it was his intention to quit the vessel.  I replied very
haughtily, that he might do as he pleased; the fact is, I was anxious to
get rid of him, merely because I was under obligations to him.  Well,
sir, Sanders left me, and I felt quite happy at his departure.  My ship
was soon with a full cargo of sugar on board of her, and we waited for
convoy to England.  When at Barbadoes, I had an opportunity to buy four
brass guns, which I mounted on deck, and had a good supply of ammunition
on board.  I was very proud of my vessel, as she had proved in the
voyage out to be a very fast sailer: indeed, she sailed better than some
of the men-of-war which convoyed us; and now that I had guns on board, I
considered myself quite safe from any of the enemies' privateers.  While
we were waiting for convoy, which was not expected for a fortnight, it
blew a very heavy gale, and my ship, as well as others, dragged their
anchors, and were driven out of Carlisle Bay.  We were obliged to make
sail to beat into the bay again, it still blowing very fresh.  What with
being tired waiting so long for convoy, and the knowledge that arriving
before the other West Indiamen would be very advantageous, I made up my
mind that, instead of beating up into the bay again, I would run for
England without protection, trusting to the fast sailing of my vessel
and the guns which I had on board.  I forgot at the time that the
insurance on the vessel was made in England as &bquo;sailing with convoy,'
and that my sailing without would render the insurance void, if any
misfortune occurred.  Well, sir, I made sail for England, and for three
weeks everything went on well.  We saw very few vessels, and those which
did chase us could not come up with us; but as we were running with a
fair wind up channel, and I had made sure of being in port before night,
a French privateer hove in sight and gave chase.  We were obliged to
haul our wind, and it blowing very fast, we carried away our main-top
mast.  This accident was fatal; the privateer came alongside of us and
laid us by the board, and that night I was in a French prison, and, I
may say, a pauper; for the insurance of the vessel was void, from my
having sailed without convoy.  I felt that I had no one to thank but
myself for the unfortunate position I was in; at all events, I was
severely punished, for I remained a prisoner for nearly six years.  I
contrived to escape with three or four others; we suffered dreadfully,
and at last arrived in England, in a Swedish vessel, without money, or
even clothes that would keep out the weather.  Of course, I had nothing
to do but to look out for a berth on board of a ship, and I tried for
that of second mate, but without success; I was too ragged and looked
too miserable; so I determined, as I was starving, to go before the
mast.  There was a fine vessel in the port; I went on board to offer
myself; the mate went down to the captain, who came on deck, and who
should he be but Sanders?  I hoped that he would not remember me, but he
did immediately, and held out his hand.  I never did feel so ashamed in
my life as I did then.  Sanders perceived it, and asked me down into the
cabin.  I then told him all that had happened, and he appeared to forget
that I had behaved so ill to him; he offered me a berth on board, and
money in advance to fit me out.  But if he would not remember my
conduct, I could not forget it, and I told him so, and begged his
forgiveness.  Well, sir, that good man, as long as he lived, was my
friend.  I became his second mate before he died, and we were again very
intimate.  My misfortunes had humbled me, and I once more read the Bible
with him; and I have, I trust, done so ever since.  When he died, I
continued second mate for some time, and then was displaced.  Since
that, I have always been as a common seaman on board of different
vessels; but I have been well treated and respected, and I may add, I
have not been unhappy, for I felt that property would have only led me
into follies, and have made me forget, that in this world we are to live
so as to prepare ourselves for another.  Now, William, you have the
history of Masterman Ready; and I hope that there are portions of it
which may prove useful to you.  To-morrow we must be off betimes, and as
we are all to breakfast early together, why, I think the sooner we go to
bed the better
Very true
William, dear, bring me the Bible
I think the wood is thicker here than ever, Ready
Yes, sir, it is; but I suspect we are now in the thickest part of it,
right in the middle of the island; however, we shall soon see.  We must
keep a little more away to the southward.  We had better get on as fast
as we can.  We shall have less work by and by, and then we can talk
better
I think we had better pull up for a few minutes, William; you will be
tired
I have not been so used to exercise, Ready, and therefore I feel it
more
I
should like to stop a few minutes.  How long do you think it will be
before we are out of the wood
Not half-an-hour more, sir, I should think; even before that, perhaps
What do you expect to find, Ready
That's a difficult question to answer.  I can tell you what I hope to
find, which is, a good space of clear ground between the beach and the
wood, where we may pasture our sheep and goats; and perhaps we may find
some other trees besides cocoa-nuts: at present, you know, we have seen
only them and the castor-oil beans, that Tommy took such a dose of.  You
see, William, there is no saying what new seeds may have been brought
here by birds, or by the winds and waves
But will those seeds grow
Yes, William; I have been told that seeds may remain hundreds of years
under-ground, and come up afterwards when exposed to the heat
I see the blue sky, Ready; we shall
soon be out; and glad shall I be, for my arm aches with chopping
I dare say it does, sir.  I am just as glad as you are, for I'm tired
of marking the trees; however, we must continue to mark, or we shall not
find our way back when we want it
Well
I'm glad that's over;
now let us sit down a little before we go any further
I'm of your opinion, sir
I feel more tired to-day than I did when we first went through
the wood, after we set off from the cove.  I suppose it's the weather.
Come back, dogs; lie down
The weather is very fine, Ready
Yes, now it is; but I meant to have said that the rainy season is very
trying to the health, and I suppose I have not recovered from it yet.
You have had a regular fever, and, of course, do not feel strong; but a
man may have no fever, and yet his health suffer a great deal from it.
I am an old man, William, and feel these things now
I think that before we go on, Ready, we had better have our dinner;
that will do us good
Well, we will take an early dinner, and we shall get rid of one bottle
of water, at all events; indeed, I think that, as we must go back by the
same way we came, we may as well leave our knapsacks and everything but
our guns under these trees; I dare say we shall sleep here too, for I
told Mr Seagrave positively not to expect us back to-night.  I did not
like to say so before your mother, she is so anxious about you
Well, Ready
there will be no want of pasture for our
flock, even if it increases to ten times its number
No
we are very fortunate, and have great reason to be
thankful; this is exactly what we required; and now let us go on a
little, and examine these patches of wood, and see what they are.  I see
a bright green leaf out there, which, if my eyes do not fail me, I have
seen many a time before
Yes, I was right.  Look there, this is
the banana; it is just bursting out now, and will soon be ten feet high,
and bearing fruit which is excellent eating; besides which the stem is
capital fodder for the beasts
Here is a plant I never saw before
But I have, William.  It is what they call the bird's-eye pepper; they
make Cayenne pepper out of it.  Look, the pods are just formed; it will
be useful to us in cooking, as we have no pepper left.  You see,
William, we must have some birds on the island; at least it is most
probable, for all the seeds of these plants and trees must have been
brought here by them.  The banana and the pepper are the food of many
birds.  What a quantity of bananas are springing up in this spot; there
will be a little forest of them in a few weeks
What is that rough-looking sort of shrub out there, Ready
I can't see so well as you, William, so let us walk up to it.  Oh, I
know it now; it is what they call the prickly pear in the West Indies.
I am very glad to have found that, for it will be very useful to us
Is it good eating, Ready
Not particularly; and the little spikes run into your fingers, and are
very difficult to get rid of; but it is not bad by way of a change.  No,
the use it will be to us is to hedge in our garden, and protect it from
the animals; it makes a capital fence, and grows very fast, and without
trouble.  Now let us go on to that patch of trees, and see what they
are
What is this plant, Ready
I don't know, William
Then I think I had better make a collection of all those you don't
know, and take them back to father; he is a good botanist
I ought to know that tree
I have often seen it in hot
countries.  Yes, it's the guava
What! is it the fruit they make guava jelly of
Yes, the very same
Let us now walk in the direction of those five or six trees
and from there down to the rocks; I want to find out how it is
that they are so white
Be it so, if you wish
Why, Ready, what noise is that?  Hark! such a chattering, it must be
monkeys
No, they are not monkeys; but I'll tell you what they are, although I
cannot see them; they are parrots -- I know their noise well.  You see,
William, it's not very likely that monkeys should get here, but birds
can, and it is the birds that we have to thank for the bananas and
guavas, and other fruits we may find here
I told you so; well, we'll have some capital pies out of them,
William
Pies! do they make good pies, Ready
Yes, excellent; and very often have I had a good dinner from one in the
West Indies, and in South America.  Stop, let us come a little this way;
I see a leaf which I should like to examine
The ground is very swampy just here, Ready; is it not
Yes; there's plenty of water below, I don't doubt.  So much the better
for the animals; we must dig some pools when they come here.

"Oh!  I thought I was not wrong.  Look! this is the best thing I have
found yet -- we now need not care so much about potatoes
Why, what are they, Ready
Yams, which they use instead of potatoes in the West Indies.  Indeed,
potatoes do not remain potatoes long, when planted in hot climates
How do you mean, Ready
They turn into what they call sweet-potatoes, after one or two crops:
yams are better things, in my opinion
What's that
It isn't the first time that they've made you
jump, William
Why, it's our pigs, isn't it
To be sure; they're in the yam patch, very busy feeding on them, I'll
be bound
How wild they are, Ready
Yes, and they'll be wilder every day; but we must fence these yams from
them, or we shall get none ourselves
But they'll beat down the fence before it grows up
We must pale it with cocoa-nut palings, and plant the prickly pears
outside.  Now, we'll go down to the sea-side
I can tell you now what those white patches
on the rocks are, William; they are the places where the sea-birds come
to every year to make their nests, and bring up their young.  They
always come to the same place every year, if they are not disturbed
I see no nests, Ready, nor the remains of any
No, they do not make any nests, further than scratching a round hole,
about half an inch deep, in the soil, and there they lay their eggs,
sitting quite close to one another; they will soon be here, and begin to
lay, and then we will come and take the eggs, if we want any, for they
are not bad eating
Why, Ready, what a quantity of good things we have found out already!
This has been a very fortunate expedition of ours
Yes, it has; and we may thank God for his goodness, who thus provides
for us so plentifully in the wilderness
Do you know, Ready, I cannot help thinking that we ought to have built
our house here
Not so, William; we have not the pure water, recollect, and we have not
the advantages of the sandy beach, where we have our turtle- and
fish-pond.  No; we may feed our stock here; we may gather the fruit,
taking our share of it with the poor birds; we may get our yams, and
every other good provided for us; but our house and home must be where
it is now
You are right, Ready; but it will be a long walk
Not when we are accustomed to it, and have made a beaten path; besides,
we may bring the boat round, perhaps
See, William, what a nice little harbour for our boat! we may here load
it with yams and take it round to the bay, provided we can find an
entrance through the reefs on the southern side of it, which we have not
looked for yet, because we have not required it
Yes, Ready -- it is, indeed, a nice, smooth little place for the boat.
What is that thing on the bottom, there
That is a sea crawfish, quite as good eating as a lobster.  I wonder if
I could make a lobster-pot; we should catch plenty, and very good they
are
And what are those little rough things on the rock
They are a very nice little sort of oyster; not like those we have in
England, but much better -- they are so delicate
Why, Ready, we have two more good things for our table, again
how rich we shall be
Yes; but we have to catch them, recollect: there is nothing to be had
in this world without labour
Ready
we have good three hours' daylight; suppose we
go back and tell what we have seen: my mother will be so glad to see
us
I agree with you, William.  We have done well for one day; and may
safely go back again, and remain for another week.  There are no fruits
at present, and all I care about are the yams; I should like to protect
them from the pigs.  But let us go home and talk the matter over with
Mr Seagrave
This
is a well-known plant; and I wonder Ready
did not recognise it; it is hemp
I never saw it except in the shape of rope
I know
the seed well enough
Well, if we require it, I can tell you how to dress it
Now, William, what is the next
This odd-looking, rough thing
That's the egg-plant: it bears fruit of a blue colour.  I am told they
eat it in the hot countries
Yes, sir, they do; they fry it with pepper and salt; they call it
bringal.  I think it must be that
I do not doubt but you are right
Why,
William, you should know this
It is like the grape-vine
Yes, and it is so; it is the wild grape; we shall eat them by and bye
I have only one more, papa: what is this
You don't know it, because it has sprung up so high, William; but it is
the common mustard plant,-- what we use in England, and is sold as
mustard and cress.  I think you have now made a famous day's work of it;
and we have much to thank God for
We have no vinegar, that I know of, but we
can preserve them in salt and water, as they do in Russia; it will be a
change, at all events
At all events
we are in the hands of God, who will, at his own time and
in his own way, do with us as he thinks fit.  I will not at present say
anything to Mr and Mrs Seagrave.  It would be cruel to raise hopes
which might end in disappointment.  A few hours will decide.  And yet I
cannot do without help -- I must trust William
William
I
have a secret to tell you, which you will at once see the necessity of
not telling to anyone at present.  A few hours will decide the
question
There is a vessel off
the island; she may be the means of rescuing us, or she may pass without
seeing us.  It would be too cruel a disappointment to your father and
mother, if the latter were the case
Oh, Ready, how grateful I am!  I trust that we may be taken away, for
you have no idea how my poor father suffers in silence -- and so does my
mother
I know it, William, I know it, and it is natural; they do their best to
control their yearnings, and they can do no more.  But now we must be
quick, and at work before breakfast.  But stop, I will show you the
vessel
Do you see her
Oh yes, Ready, and she is coming this way
Yes, she is steering right for the island.  I will put the telescope
down here, and we will go about our work
Now, William, go for a shovel and dig a hole here, that we may fix it
up as a flag-staff.  When all is ready, I will go for a small block and
some rope for halyards to hoist up the flags as soon as the vessel is
likely to see them.  At breakfast-time, I shall propose that you and I
get the boat out of the sand and examine her, and give Mr Seagrave some
work indoors
But the flags, Ready; they are round my mother's bed.  How shall we get
them
Suppose I say that it is time that the house should be well cleaned,
and that the canvas hangings of the beds should be taken out to be aired
this fine day.  Ask your father to take the direction of the work while
we dig out the boat; that will employ them all inside the house
Yes, that will do, Ready
And what am I to do, Ready
Why, sir, I think, now that the rains are over, it would not be a bad
thing if we were to air bedding, as they say at sea; it is a fine, warm
day; and if all the bedding was taken out of the house and well shaken,
and then left out to air, it would be a very good job over; for you see,
sir, I have thought more than once that the house does smell a little
close
It will be a very good thing, Ready
and, at
the same time, Juno and I will give the house a thorough cleaning and
sweeping
Had we not better have the canvas screens down, and air them too
Yes
we had better air everything.  We will assist in
taking down the screens and flags, and spread them out to air, and then,
if Mr Seagrave has no objection, we will leave him to superintend and
assist Madam and Juno
With all my heart
We have done breakfast, and
will begin as soon as you please
The breeze is getting up strong, William
and she will
soon be down, if she is not frightened at the reefs, which she can see
plainer now the water is rough, than she could before
I trust she will not be afraid
How far do you
think she is off now
About five miles; not more.  The wind has hauled round more to the
southward, and it is banking up fast, I see.  I fear that we shall have
another smart gale; however, it won't last long.  Come, let us hoist the
flags; we must not lose a chance; the flags will blow nice and clear for
them to see them
Now then
let us strike a light and
make a smoke; that will attract their notice
Papa!  Mamma!  Captain Osborn come
back -- come back in a big ship
Oh!  Ready, why did you not tell us this before
I wish you had not known it now, sir
but, however, it
can't be helped; it was done out of kindness, Mr Seagrave
Yes, indeed it was, papa
Does she see us, Ready
No, sir, not yet, and I waited till she did, before I made it known to
you
She is altering her course, Ready
Yes, sir, she has hauled to the wind; she is afraid of coming too near
to the reefs
Surely she is not leaving us
No, madam; but she does not see us yet
She does! she does
see, she
hoists her ensign
Very true, sir; she does see us.  Thanks be to God
Mr
Seagrave, that they have seen us is certain, and what we must now do is
to get our own boat out of the sand.  We know the passage through the
reefs, and they do not.  I doubt if they will, however, venture to send
a boat on shore, until the wind moderates a little.  You see, sir, it is
blowing up very strong just now
But you don't think it will blow harder, Ready
I am sorry to say, sir, that I do.  It looks very threatening to the
southward, and until the gale is over, they will not venture near an
island so surrounded with rocks.  It would be very imprudent if they
did.  However, sir, a few hours will decide
But, surely
even if it does blow, they will not
leave the island without taking us off.  They will come after the gale
is over
Yes, madam, if they can, I do think they will; but God knows, some men
have hard hearts, and feel little for the misery of others
She is leaving us
Hard-hearted wretches
You are wrong to say that, sir
excuse me, Mr
Seagrave, for being so bold; but the fact is, that if I was in command
of that vessel, I should do just as they have done.  The gale rises
fast, and it would be very dangerous for them to remain where they now
are.  It does not at all prove that they intend to leave us; they but
consult their own safety, and, when the gale is over, we shall, I trust,
see them again
Surely, you do not
intend to sit up all night, Mr Seagrave
Oh, no! there's no use sitting up now
Come, my dear, let us go to bed
God forgive me
In my selfishness and
discontent I had forgotten
Yes, sir, you had forgotten those words, &bquo;Come unto me, all ye who are
weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest
I am ashamed of myself
good night
I fear, Ready
that you have no good news for us
No, sir; nor can you expect any good news until after the gale is over.
The vessel could not remain here during the gale -- that is certain; and
there is no saying what the effects of the gale may be.  She may lie to,
and not be far from us when the gale is over; or she may be obliged to
scud before the gale, and run some hundred miles from us.  Then comes
the next chance.  I think, by her running for the island, that she was
short of water; the question is, then, whether she may not find it
necessary to run for the port she is bound to, or water at some other
place.  A captain of a vessel is bound to do his best for the owners.
At the same time I do think, that if she can with propriety come back
for us she will.  The question is, first, whether she can; and,
secondly, whether the captain is a humane man, and will do so at his own
inconvenience
There is but poor comfort in all that
It is useless holding out false hopes, sir
but even
if the vessel continues her voyage, we have much to be thankful for
In what, Ready
Why, sir, no one knew whether we were in existence or not, and probably
we never should have been searched for; but now we have made it known,
and by the ship's name on the flag they know who we are, and, if they
arrive safe in port, will not fail to communicate the intelligence to
your friends.  Is not that a great deal to be thankful for?  We may not
be taken off by this vessel, but we have every hope that another will be
sent out to us
Very true, Ready; I ought to have seen that before; but my despair and
disappointment were yesterday so great, that it almost took away my
reason
I don't think that it blows so hard as it did, Ready
No, William, it does not; the gale is breaking, and by night, I have no
doubt, will be over.  It is, however, useless looking for the vessel, as
she must be a long way from this.  It would take her a week, perhaps, to
come back to us if she was to try to do so, unless the wind should
change to the northward or westward
Ready!  Ready
what is that?  Look! it's a boat
It's a canoe, William, and there
are people in it
Why, where can they have come from?  See! they are among the breakers;
they will be lost.  Let us go towards them, Ready
William, this canoe must have been blown off from the large island,
which lies out there
there are two people in it, and they are islanders.  Poor things! they
struggle hard for their lives, and seem much exhausted; but they have
passed through the most dangerous part of the reef
Yes
they will soon be in smoother water; but the
surf on the beach is very heavy
They won't mind that, if their strength don't fail them -- they manage
the canoe beautifully
Let's drag the canoe higher up, William.  Poor creatures! they are
nearly dead
Shall I run up and get something for them, Ready
Do, William; ask Juno to give you some of whatever there is for
breakfast; anything warm
You see, sir
it is very clear that these two poor women,
having been left in charge of the canoe, have been blown off from the
shore of one of the islands to the south-east; they must have been
contending with the gale ever since the day before yesterday, and, as it
appears, without food or water.  It's a mercy that they gained this
island
It is so
but to tell the truth, I am not over
pleased at their arrival.  It proves what we were not sure of before,
that we have very near neighbours, who may probably pay us a very
unwelcome visit
That may be, sir
still these two poor creatures being
thrown on shore here does not make the matter worse, or the danger
greater.  Perhaps it may turn to our advantage; for if these women learn
to speak English before any other islanders visit us, they will
interpret for us, and be the means, perhaps, of saving our lives
Would their visit be so dangerous, then, Ready
Why, sir, a savage is a savage, and, like a child, wishes to obtain
whatever he sees; especially he covets what he may turn to use, such as
iron, etcetera.  If they came, and we concealed a portion, and gave up
the remainder of our goods, we might escape; but still there is no
trusting to them, and I would infinitely prefer defending ourselves
against numbers to trusting to their mercy
But how can we defend ourselves against a multitude
We must be prepared, sir: if we can fortify ourselves, with our muskets
we would be more than a match for hundreds
It is not very
pleasant to be now talking of defending ourselves against savages, when
we hoped two days ago to be leaving the island.  Oh, that that brig
would make its appearance again
The wind is going down fast, sir
it will be fine
weather before the evening.  We may look out for her; at all events, for
the next week I shall not give up all hopes
A whole week, Ready!  Alas! how true it is, that hope deferred maketh
the heart sick
It is a severe trial, Mr Seagrave; but we must submit when we are
chastened.  We had better get these poor creatures up to the house, and
let them recover themselves
It is fortunate for us that they are women
we
should have had great difficulty had they been men
Yes, sir
but still we must not trust women too much
at first, for they are savages
Where shall we put them to-night, Ready
Why, sir, I have been thinking about that.  I wish we had a shed close
to us; but as we have not, we must let them sleep in the storehouse
William
I fear those island women have escaped in their
canoe.  Run up, and see if they are in the outhouse, or anywhere else,
and let me know as soon as you can
This is bad, William; this is worse than the vessel not coming back
Why, we can do without them, Ready
Yes; but when they get back to their own people, and show them the iron
they have brought with them, and describe how much more there is to be
had, depend upon it, we shall have a visit from them in numbers, that
they may obtain more.  I ought to have known better than to leave the
canoe here.  We must go and consult with Mr Seagrave, for the sooner we
begin to work now, the better
I don't know why, but I feel more courage now that there is a prospect
of danger, than I felt when there was little or none
How little do we know what the day may bring forth
How joyful were our anticipations when the vessel hoisted
her colours! we felt sure that we were to be taken off the island.  The
same gale that drove the vessel away brought down to us the island
women.  The fair weather after the gale, which we hoped would have
brought back the vessel to our succour, on the contrary enabled the
women to escape in the canoe, and make known our existence to those who
may come to destroy us.  How true it is that man plans in vain; and that
it is only by the Almighty will and pleasure that he can obtain his
ends
Indeed, sir, we must no longer remain in this state of
idleness; I have been thinking a great deal of our present position and
prospects; as to the vessel coming back, we must, at present, give up
all hopes of it.  I only wish that we were quite as sure that we shall
not have a visit from the savages: that is my great fear, and it really
haunts me; the idea of our being surprised some night, and Mrs Seagrave
and the dear children, perhaps, murdered in their beds, is awful to
reflect upon
God help us
God will help us, Mr Seagrave, but at the same time it is necessary
that we should help ourselves; he will give his blessing to our
exertions, but we cannot expect that miracles will be performed for us;
and if we remain as we now are, inactive, and taking no steps to meet
the danger which threatens us, we cannot expect the divine assistance.
We have had a heavy shock, but it is now time that we recover from it,
and put our own shoulders to the wheel
I agree with you, Ready
indeed I have been thinking
the same thing for many days past
We have all been thinking of it, I believe
I'm
sure I have lain awake night after night, considering our position and
what we ought to do, but I have never been able to come to any
satisfactory resolution
No more have I till last night, Mr Seagrave, but I think that I have
now something to propose which, perhaps, will meet with your approval
so now, sir, suppose we hold another council, and come
to a decision
I am most willing, Ready
and as you are the oldest, and moreover the best adviser of the three,
we will first hear what you have to propose
Well then, Mr Seagrave, it appears to me that it will not do to remain
in the house, for we may, as I have said, be surprised by the savages at
any hour in the night, and we have no means of defence against numbers
I feel that, and have felt it for some time
What shall we do, then; shall we return to the cove
I should think not, sir
what I propose is this: we have
made a discovery on the south of the island, which is of great
importance to us; not that I consider the fruit and other plants of any
great value, as they will only serve to increase our luxuries, if I may
so call them, during the summer season.  One great advantage to us, is
the feed which we have found for our live stock, and the fodder for them
during the rainy season; but principally, the patch of yams, which will
afford us food during the winter.  They are of great importance to us,
and we cannot too soon protect them from the pigs, which will certainly
root them all up, if we do not prevent them.  Now, sir, you know what we
had arranged to do, but which we have not done; I think the cocoa-nut
rails will take too much time, and it will be sufficient to make a ditch
and hedge round the yams; but it will be very tedious if we are to go
backwards and forwards to do the work, and Mrs Seagrave and the
children will be left alone.  I therefore propose, as the weather is now
set in fair, and will remain so for months, that we pitch our tents on
that part of the island, and remove the whole family there; we shall
soon be very comfortable, and at all events much safer there than if we
remain here, without any defence
It is an excellent plan, Ready; we shall, as you say, be removed from
danger for the time, and when there, we may consider what we had best do
by and by
Yes, sir.  Those women may not have gained the other island, it is
true, for they had the wind right against them for several days after
they went away in the canoe, and, moreover, the current sets strong this
way; but if they have, we must expect that the savages will pay us a
visit; they will, of course, come direct to the house, if they do come
But, Ready, you don't mean to say that we are to leave this side of the
island altogether, and all our comfortable arrangements
No, William, not altogether; for now I come to the second part of my
proposition.  As soon as we have done our work at the yam plantation,
and made everything as comfortable there as we can, I think we may then
leave Mrs Seagrave and the children in the tents, and work here.  As we
before agreed, let us abandon the house in which we live at present, and
fit out the outhouse which is concealed in the cocoa-nut grove, as a
dwelling-house, and fortify it so as to be secure against any sudden
attack of the savages: for, return here we must, to live, as we cannot
remain in the tents after the rainy season sets in
How do you propose to fortify it, Ready
I hardly
know
That I will explain to you by and by, sir.  Then, if the savages come
here, at all events we should be able to defend ourselves with
fire-arms; one man behind a stockade is better than twenty who have no
other arms but spears and clubs; and we may, with the help of God, beat
them off
I think your plan is excellent, Ready
and that
the sooner we begin, the better
That there is no doubt of, sir.  Now, the first job is for William and
me to try for the passage through this side of the reef with the boat,
and then we will look for the little harbour which we discovered; as
soon as that is done, we will return and take the tents and all we
require round in the boat, and when we have pitched the tents and all is
arranged, Mrs Seagrave and the children can walk through the wood with
us, and take possession
Let us not lose an hour, Ready; we have lost too much time already
What shall we do to-day
After breakfast, William and I will take the boat, and try for the
passage.  You can remain here, packing up the tents and such articles as
must first be carried round.  We shall be back, I hope, by dinner-time
This is very fortunate, William
but we must now take
some marks to find our way in again.  See, the large black rock is on a
line with the garden point: so, if we keep them in one, we shall know
that we are in the proper channel; and now for a mark abreast of us, to
find out when we enter it
Why, Ready, the corner of the turtle-pond just touches the right wall
of the house
So it does; that will do; and now let us pull away as hard as we can,
so as to be back in good time
How far do you think that it is by water, Ready
I hardly know; but at least four or five miles, so we must make up our
minds to a good hour's pull.  At all events, we shall sail back again
with this wind, although there is but little of it
We are in very deep water now
Yes, on this side of the island we must expect it; the coral grows to
leeward only.  I think that we cannot be very far from the little
harbour we discovered.  Suppose we leave off rowing for a minute, and
look about us
There are two rocks close to the shore, Ready
and you recollect there were two or three rocks outside of the
harbour
Very true, William, and I should not wonder if you have hit upon the
very spot.  Let us pull in
Now, then, William, we will step the mast, and sail back at our
leisure
Stop one moment, Ready; give me the boat-hook.  I see something between
the clefts of the rocks
That will be an addition to our dinner
we do not go back
empty-handed, and, therefore, as the saying is, we shall be more
welcome; now, then, let us start, for we must pull here again this
afternoon, and with a full cargo on board
Well, Tommy
I suppose you won't eat any of the
crayfish
Won't I
I'll eat him, for he tried to eat me
Why did you not leave the animal alone, Tommy
if
you had not tormented it, it would not have bitten you; I don't know
whether you ought to have any
I don't like it; I won't have any
I like salt pork
better
Well, then, if you don't like it, you shall not have it forced upon
you, Tommy
so now we'll divide it among the
rest of us
I think it would be a good thing, if Ready and I were
to take our bedding with us, and then we could fix up one tent this
evening, and sleep there; to-morrow morning we might set up the other,
and get a good deal of work over before we come back
You are right, William
let us see what Juno can give
us to eat, and then we will do as you say, for the sooner we are all
there the better
Now, William, we must see where to pitch the tent; we must not be too
near the cocoa-nut grove, or we shall have too far to go for water
Don't you think that the best place will be close to the bananas? the
ground is higher there, and the water is, you know, between the bananas
and the yams
Very true, I think it will not be a bad place; let us walk there first,
and reconnoitre the ground
So here let it be
and now let us go and fetch all the
things; it is a nice dry spot, and I think will do capitally
Well, now, I suppose you are a little tired
I'm sure you
ought to be, for you have worked hard to-day
I don't feel very tired, Ready, but it's not time to go to bed yet
No; and I think we had better take our shovels and dig the pits for the
water, and then we shall know by to-morrow morning whether the water is
good or not
Yes, Ready, we can do that before we get our supper
There'll be no want of water, Ready, if it is only fit to drink
I've no fear of that
Now, William, we have another job, which is to prepare a fireplace for
Juno: we must go down to the beach for stones
Well, I call this a very comfortable lodging-house
And I am sure
it's very pretty.  Mamma will be
delighted with it
We shall have no want of bananas in a few weeks
look,
they are all in blossom already.  Well, now I suppose we had better
leave everything here, and go back.  We must have another trip this
afternoon, and sleep here to-night
How beautiful
I thought you were there, my gentlemen
the sooner we fence you out the better
What a delightful spot this is
I think we ought
always to make it our summer residence, and only go back to the house
during the rainy season
It is much cooler here, madam, during the summer, and much more
pleasant; but we are more protected in the house by the cocoa-nut
grove
Yes; that is true, and it is very valuable during the rainy season; but
it makes it warmer in the summer time.  I like the change, Ready, and
shall be sorry when we have to go back again
Now I must go, and help Juno to cut up the turtle
We
must make our larder among the banana trees
But what are we all to do, Ready
We must not be
idle
No, sir; but I think we must give up this day to putting everything to
rights, and making everything comfortable inside the tents; to-morrow we
will commence the ditch and hedge round the yam plantation.  We need not
work very hard at it, for I don't think the pigs will venture here
again, as I mean to tie up all the dogs round the yam patch every night,
and their barking will keep them off
That will be a very good plan, Ready.  What beautiful food there is for
the sheep and goats
Yes; this must be their future residence for the best part of the year.
I think to-morrow we will begin a piece of the ditch, and show William
how to put in the cuttings of prickly pear for the hedge, and then, I
should propose that you and I go to the cove to examine the stores and
select what it will be necessary to bring round.  I think you said that
you must go yourself
Yes, Ready, I wish to go.  When we have made our selection, I will
return, and then you and William, who is more used to the boat than I
am, can bring the stores round.  I presume we shall not bring them
here
No, sir, we will take them round to the storehouse.  When we have done
that job, we must then commence our alterations and our stockade
I don't think that the pigs will get over that when it is finished
and William will be able to get on by himself when we are
gone, as well as if we were with him
I'll try if I cannot shoot a pig or two
Let it be a young one, then; we must not kill the old ones.  Now I
think we may as well go back.  Juno is carrying in the supper
Ready, the sight of
these timbers, of which the good ship Pacific was built, recalls
feelings which I had hoped to have dismissed from my mind; but I cannot
help them rising up.  The remains of this vessel appear to me as the
last link between us and the civilised world, which we have been torn
from, and all my thoughts of home and country, and I may say all my
longing for them, are revived as strong as ever
And very natural that they should, Mr Seagrave; I feel it also.  I am
content, it is true, because I have nothing to wish or look forward to;
but still I could not help thinking of poor Captain Osborn and my
shipmates, as I looked upon the wreck, and wishing that I might take
them by the hand again.  It is very natural that one should do so.  Why,
sir, do you know that I feel unhappy even about the poor ship.  We
sailors love our vessels, especially when they have good qualities, and
the Pacific was as fine a vessel as ever was built.  Now, sir, I feel
quite melancholy when I see her planks and timbers lying about here.
But, sir, if we cannot help feeling as we do, it is our duty to check
the feeling, so that it does not get the mastery over us.  We can do no
more
Very true, Ready
it is not only
useless, but even sinful to indulge in them, as they only can lead to
our repining at the decrees of heaven.  Let us now examine the rocks,
and see if anything has been thrown up that may be of use to us
Why, the pigs have been at work here
they have contrived
to open one cask of flour somehow or another; look, sir -- I suppose it
must have been shaky, or they could not have routed into it; the canvas
is not good for much, I fear; fortunately, we have several bolts of new,
which I brought on shore.  Now, sir, we will see what condition the
stores are in.  All these are casks of flour, and we run no risk in
opening them, and seeing if they are in good order
That's all right, sir; and I presume the others will be the same; the
salt water has got in so far and made a crust, which has preserved the
rest.  But now let us go to dinner, and to work afterwards
I wonder what's in this case
This has been sent out for some Botany Bay milliner
I presume, however, we must confiscate it for the benefit of
Mrs Seagrave and Miss Caroline.  We will take them to them as soon as
we have time
That's Hollands, sir, I know
what shall we do with it
We will not destroy it, Ready, but at the same time we will not use it
but as a medicine
we have been so long used to
spring-water, that it would be a pity to renew a taste for spirituous
liquors
I trust we shall never want to drink a drop of it, sir, either as a
medicine or otherwise.  Now for this cask with wooden hoops
This, Mr Seagrave, may be useful, for we are rather short of plates
and dishes.  Common white would have served as well
And be more suitable with our present outfit
Here's a box with your name on it, sir
do you know what
is in it
I have no idea, Ready; but your axe will decide the point
This is indeed a treasure, Ready.  I recollect now; this is paper,
pens, and everything requisite for writing, besides children's books,
copy-books, paint-boxes, and a great many other articles in the
stationery line
Well, sir, that is fortunate.  Now we may set up our school, and as the
whole population of the island will attend it, it will really be a
National School
Very true, Ready.  Now for that cask
I can tell what that is by the outside; it is oil, and very acceptable,
for our candles are nearly out.  Now we come to the most valuable of all
our property
What is that, Ready
All the articles which I brought on shore in the different trips I took
in the boat before the ship went to pieces; for you see, sir, iron don't
swim, and, therefore, what I looked after most was ironware of all
sorts, and tools.  Here are three kegs of small nails, besides two bags
of large, and there are several axes, hammers, and other tools, besides
hanks of twine, sailing needles, and bees'-wax
They are indeed valuable, Ready
Here's some more of my plunder, as the Americans say.  All these are
wash-deck buckets, this a small harness cask for salting meat, and
here's the cook's wooden trough for making bread, which will please Miss
Juno; and in it, you see, I have put all the galley-hooks, ladles, and
spoons, and the iron trivets, and here's two lamps.  I think I put some
cotton wicks somewhere -- I know I did; we shall find them by and by.
Here's the two casks, one of cartridges made up, and the other of
gunpowder, and the other six muskets
These are really treasures, Ready, and yet how well we have done
without them
Very true, sir, but we shall do better with them, and when we fit up
the storehouse for a dwelling, Mr Seagrave, we shall be able to make it
a little more comfortable in every respect than the present one; for you
see there, all the fir-planking and deals, which William and I buried in
the sand
I really had quite forgotten them, Ready.  If I could but get the fear
of the savages coming over out of my head, I really think we might live
very comfortably even on this island
Do you know, Mr Seagrave, I am glad to hear you say that, for it
proves that you are more contented and resigned than you were
I am so, Ready -- at least I think so; but perhaps it is, that the
immediate danger from the savages so fills my thoughts, that I no longer
dwell so much upon our being taken off the island
I dare say it is as you state, sir; but now let us go on with our
search.  Here are the ship's compasses, and deep sea line and reel, also
the land lead.  The stuff will be very useful for our little boat
And I am very glad of the compasses, Ready; for with them I shall be
able to make a sort of survey of the island, when I have a little time.
Your pocket compass is too small for surveying.  I shall take some
bearings now, while I am here, as I may not be back again very soon
Well, sir, I think if we open this other case, which I perceive has
your name on it, it will be as much as we need do to-day, for the sun is
going down; we can then make up some kind of bed, eat our suppers, and
go to sleep
I am very tired, Ready, and shall be glad to do as you propose.  That
case contains books; but what portion of my library I do not know
But you soon will, sir
They are a little stained on the outside, but they are jammed so tight
that they do not appear to have suffered much.  Here are one or two,
sir
Plutarch's Lives.  I am glad I have them: they are excellent reading
for young or old; there is no occasion to open any more, as I know all
the other books in the case are &bquo;History'; perhaps the best case which
could have been saved
That's unfortunate, sir
We cannot expect to get things here, as though we were a hundred yards
from a grocer's shop.  Now let us go to where we covered up the other
articles with sand
A piece of fresh pork will be quite a treat, Mr Seagrave
It will, indeed, Ready
we must contrive to
carry the beast home between us
We will sling it on the musket, sir, and it will not be very heavy.  It
is one of those born on the island, and a very fine fellow for his age
Well, William, what news have you
Why, very good, Ready.  Yesterday evening, when I was tired of work, I
thought I would take the boat, and try if there was any fish to be
caught on this side of the island in the deep water, and I caught three
large ones, quite different from those we took among the reefs.  We had
one for breakfast and dinner to-day, and it was excellent
Did you go out in the boat by yourself
No; I took Juno with me.  She pulls very well, Ready
She is a handy girl, William.  Well, we have had our survey, and there
will be plenty of work for you and me, I can tell you; I don't think we
can bring everything round in a week; so I suppose to-morrow we had
better be off
Well, I like boating better than ditching, I can tell you, Ready
I shan't be sorry to leave that work to my father
I suppose it must fall to him; as he will, of course, prefer staying
with Mrs Seagrave and the children
Now, Caroline, I'll shoot the pig
Oh!  Tommy, you must not touch the gun
papa will be
very angry
I don't care
I'll show you how to shoot the pig
Don't, Tommy
if you do, I'll go and tell mamma
Then I'll shoot you
He's not hurt, sir; it's only his nose bleeding
Musket knocked me down
Serve you right, Tommy; you'll take care not to touch the musket
again
I won't touch it again
I should not have left the muskets
it was my
fault; but I thought Tommy had been told so often not to touch
fire-arms, that he would not dare to do so
He pointed it at me, and tried to shoot me
but I ran
away
Merciful heavens! what an escape
He has been well punished this time, madam, and I'll venture to say he
will not touch a musket again in a hurry
Yes; but he must be punished more
He must
remember it
Well, sir, if he is to be punished more, I think you cannot punish him
better than by not allowing him to have any of the pig when it is
cooked
I think so too, Ready; and therefore that is a settled thing -- no pig
for Tommy
But, Ready
how long do you intend to remain
absent with William
Why, madam, this is Wednesday; of course we shall be back on Saturday
night
My dear William, I cannot bear the idea of your being absent so long,
and as you will be on the water every day, I shall be in a continual
fright until I see you again
Well, mamma, I suppose I must write by the penny post, to let you know
how I am
Don't laugh at me, William.  I do wish there was a penny post, and that
you could write every day
Why do you take the dog, William? he will be of use here in keeping the
pigs away, but of no use to us
Yes, he will, Ready; I must take him; for I have an idea come into my
head, so let me have my own way
Well, William, you can always have your own way, as far as I'm
concerned; if you wish to take the dog, there is an end of the matter
I am glad that this cargo has arrived safe, William, for it is very
valuable to us.  Now we will take them all up, and that will be
sufficient for to-day; to-morrow, if we can, we will make two trips
We can, if we start early
but now let us have our
dinner, and carry the remainder of the things up afterwards
Pray, William, what was the idea in your head
which made you bring Remus with you
I will tell you, Ready; I mean him to carry a letter to mamma; you know
that he always goes back when he is ordered, and now I wish to see if he
will not go back to the tents, if he is told.  I have brought a piece of
paper and pencil with me
Dear Mamma:-- We are quite well, and just returned with the first cargo
quite safe.  Your affectionate son, WILLIAM
Remus, go back, sir -- go
back, sir
_Go back_, Remus -- _go back_, sir
He is gone at all events
I think he will go home
We shall see, sir
and now that we have finished our
dinner, we will bring up the things, and put them in the storehouse
Here's the dog, William
he won't go home after all
How provoking!  I made sure he would go back; I really am disappointed.
We will give him nothing to eat, and then he will; but, dear me, Ready!
this is not the paper I tied round his neck.  I think not.  Let me see
Dear William:-- Your letter arrived safe, and we are glad you are well.
Write every day, and God bless you; it was very clever of you and Remus.
Your affectionate mother, SELINA SEAGRAVE
Well, it is clever
I'm sure I had no idea he had gone;
and his coming back again, too, when he was ordered
Dear Remus, good dog
now I'll give you a
good supper, for you deserve it
So he does, sir.  Well, you've established a post on the island, which
is a great improvement.  Seriously, William, it may prove very useful
At all events it will be a great comfort to my mother
Yes, especially as we shall be obliged all three to be here when we fit
up the storehouse, and make the proposed alterations.  Now I think we
had better go to bed, for we must be up with the lark to-morrow
Here I suppose we ought to say, up with the parrots; for they are the
only land birds on the island
You forget the pigeons; I saw one of them in the wood the other day.
Good night
Dear Mamma:-- We have brought round two cargoes to-day.  All well, and
very tired.  Yours, WILLIAM
Good dog.  Now, Remus, go back -- go home, sir
How fast he must run, Ready! he has not been away more than two hours
No.  So, now, Remus, you shall have plenty of supper, and plenty of
patting and coaxing, for you are a clever, good little dog
Well, William, you did keep your promise and send me a letter by post
How very delightful it is!  I shall have no fear
now when you are all away
I must teach Romulus and Vixen to do the same, mamma
And I'll teach the puppies
Yes, Tommy; by the time you can write a letter, the puppies will be old
enough to carry it
Come, Albert, I'll carry you up; you
and I haven't had a game of play for a long while.  How does the ditch
and hedge get on, Mr Seagrave
Pretty well, Ready
I have nearly finished two
sides.  I think by the end of next week I shall have pretty well
inclosed it
Well, sir, you must not work too hard, there is no great hurry; William
and I can get through a great deal together
It is my duty to work, Ready; and I may add, it is a pleasure
What is the difference then
between reason and instinct
The difference is very great, William, as I will explain to you; but I
must first observe, that it has been the custom to say that man is
governed by reason, and animals by instinct, alone.  This is an error.
Man has instinct as well as reason; and animals, although chiefly
governed by instinct, have reasoning powers
In what points does man show that he is led by instinct
When a child is first born, William, it acts by instinct only: the
reasoning powers are not yet developed; as we grow up, our reason
becomes every day more matured, and gains the mastery over our instinct,
which decreases in proportion
Then when we have grown to a good old age, I suppose we have no
instinct left in us
Not so, my dear boy; there is one and a most powerful instinct
implanted in man which never deserts him on this side of the grave.  It
is the fear, not of death, but of utter annihilation, that of becoming
nothing after death.  This instinctive feeling could not have been so
deeply implanted in us, but as an assurance that we shall not be
annihilated after death, but that our souls shall still exist, although
our bodies shall have perished.  It may be termed the instinctive
evidence of a future existence
That is very true, Mr Seagrave
Instinct in animals, William
is a feeling
which compels them to perform certain acts without previous thought or
reflection; this instinct is in full force at the moment of their birth;
it was therefore perfect in the beginning, and has never varied.  The
swallow built her nest, the spider its web, the bee formed its comb,
precisely in the same way four thousand years ago, as they do now.  I
may here observe, that one of the greatest wonders of instinct is the
mathematical form of the honeycomb of the bee, which has been proved by
demonstration to be that by which is given the greatest possible saving
of time and labour
But that is all pure instinct, papa; now you said that animals had
reasoning powers.  Will you point out to me how they show that they
have
I will, my dear boy; but we had better defer it till another evening.
It is now time to go to bed
With pleasure, William
it is a fit discourse
for a Sunday evening.  Let us, however, first examine the various mental
faculties discoverable in animals.  In the first place, they have
memory, especially memory of persons and places, quite as tenacious as
our own.  A dog will recognise an old master after many years absence.
An elephant, who had again escaped into the woods, after twenty years
remaining in a wild state, recognised his old mahoot, or driver.  A dog
will find his way back when taken more than a hundred miles from his
master's residence.  Another proof of memory in animals, were it
required, is that they dream.  Now, a dream is a confused recollection
of past events; and how often do you not hear Romulus and Remus
growling, barking, and whining in their sleep
Very true, papa
Well, then, they have attention.  See how patiently a cat will remain
for hours before a hole, in watch for the mouse to come out.  A spider
will remain for months watching for the fly to enter its web; but this
quality is to be observed in every animal in the pursuit of its prey.
They have also association of ideas, which is, in fact, reasoning.  A
dog proves that; he will allow a gentleman to come up to the door, but
fly at a beggar.  When he is in charge of any property he will take no
notice of a passer-by; but if a man stops, he barks immediately.  In the
elephant this association of ideas is even more remarkable; indeed, he
understands what is said to him better than any other animal; his
reasoning powers are most extraordinary.  Promise him rewards, and he
will make wonderful exertion.  He is also extremely alive to a sense of
shame.  The elephants were employed to transport the heavy artillery in
India.  One of the finest attempted in vain to force a gun through a
swamp.  &bquo;Take away that lazy beast,' said the director &bquo;and bring
another.'  The animal was so stung with the reproach, that it used so
much exertion to force the gun on with its head, as to fracture its
skull, and it fell dead.  When Chunee, the elephant which was so long in
Exeter Change, was ordered as usual to take up a sixpence with his
trunk, it happened one day that the sixpence rolled against the
skirting-board, out of his reach.  Chunee stopped, and reflected a
little while, and then, drawing the air into his trunk, he threw it out
with all his force against the skirting-board; the rebound of the air
from the skirting-board blew the sixpence towards him, and he was
enabled to reach it
That was very clever of him
Yes; it was a proof of thought, with a knowledge of cause and effect.
There was a curious instance of a horse, which, by the bye, I consider
the most noble animal of creation, which was ridden round by his master,
to deliver newspapers.  He invariably stopped at the doors where papers
were to be left; but it happened that two people, living at different
houses, took in a weekly newspaper between them; and it was agreed, that
one should have the first reading of it on one week, and the other on
the following.  After a short time the horse became accustomed to this
arrangement, and stopped at the one house on the one week, and at the
other house on the following, never making a mistake
That was very curious; what a sagacious animal he must have been
Animals also are, as you know, capable of receiving instruction, which
is another proof of reasoning powers.  The elephant, the horse, the dog,
the pig, even birds may be taught a great deal
But then, papa, I still wish to know where the line is to be drawn
between reason and instinct
I was about to come to that very point, William.  When animals follow
their instinct in providing their food, bringing up their young, and in
their precautions against danger, they follow certain fixed rules, from
which they never deviate.  But circumstances may occur against which
their instinct can afford them no regular provision; then it is that
their reasoning powers are called into action.  I will explain this by
stating a fact relative to the bee, one of the animals upon which
instinct is most powerful in its action.  There is a certain large moth,
called the Death's-head moth, which is very fond of honey.  It sometimes
contrives to force its way through the aperture of the hive, and gain an
entrance.  The bees immediately attack it, and it is soon destroyed by
their stings; but the carcass is so large, that they cannot carry it out
of the hive, as they invariably do the bodies of the smaller insects
which may have intruded, and it appears that their sense of smell is
very acute.  What, then, do they do to avoid the stench arising from the
dead body of this large moth?  Why, they embalm it, covering it entirely
with wax, by which it no longer becomes offensive to them
But, papa, might not their instinct have provided for such an event
If such an event could have occurred to the bees in their wild state,
you certainly might have raised the question; but recollect, William,
that bees in their wild state live in the hollows of trees, and that the
hole by which they enter is never more than sufficiently large to admit
one bee at a time; consequently, no animal larger than a bee could gain
entrance, and if it did, could of course have been easily removed from
the hive; but the bees were here in a new position, in an artificial
state, in a hive of straw with a large aperture, and therefore met with
an exigence they were not prepared for, and acted accordingly
Yes, papa, I perceive the difference
I will conclude my observations with one remark.  It appears to me,
that although the Almighty has thought proper to vary the intellectual
and the reasoning powers of animals in the same way that he has varied
the species and the forms, yet even in this arrangement he has not been
unmindful of the interest and welfare of man.  For you will observe,
that the reasoning powers are chiefly, if not wholly, given to those
animals which man subjects to his service and for his use -- the elephant,
the horse, and the dog; thereby making these animals of more value, as
the powers given to them are at the service and under the control of
man
Well, William
we have done a good week's work, and I
must say it is high time that it is done; for the boat is in rather a
crazy condition, and I must contrive to patch her up by and by, when
there is time
We shall not want to use her very much after this, Ready
a few trips round to the little harbour will be all that will
be required before we come back again to our old quarters
That's true, William; but she leaks very much, and at all events I'll
give her a coat of pitch as soon as possible.  For a slight-built little
thing as she is, she has done hard duty
Pray, Ready, why, when you speak of a ship or boat, do you always call
it she
Well, William, I don't know why, but it is certain that we sailors
always do so.  I believe it is because a sailor loves his ship.  His
ship is his wife, is a very common saying with us; and then you see,
Master William, a vessel is almost a thing of life in appearance.  I
believe that's the reason, and of course if a vessel is she, a little
boat must be a she also
Well, I think you have explained it very well, Ready.  I suppose on
Monday we shall set to at the storehouse, and alter it for our future
residence
Can't begin too soon, William
I don't doubt but Mr
Seagrave has finished the hedge and ditch round the yams by this time,
and if so, I expect Madam will not like to be left in the tents alone
with Juno and the children, and so we shall all move back to the house
again until we have altered the storehouse; I must say that I would
rather your mamma remained in the tents until all was finished
Because you are afraid of a visit from the savages, Ready
I am, sir, and that's the truth
But, Ready, if they do come, we shall see them coming, and would it not
be better that we should all be together, even if we are obliged to
conceal ourselves in consequence of not being prepared?  Suppose the
savages were to overrun the island, and find my mother, my little
brother, and sister, defenceless, at the time we were obliged to retreat
from our house; how dreadful that would be
But I counted upon retreating to the tents
So we can all together, unless we are surprised in the night
That we must take care not to be.  There's not three hours' dark in
this season of the year.  Well, William, I doubt not you may be right,
and if they are all with us, Juno will be a great help, and we shall get
through our work the faster
We had better let the question be decided by my father and mother
Very true, William; here's the point at last.  We will haul the timber
on the beach, and then be off as fast as we can, for it is getting
late
You are very late, William
I was quite uneasy
till I saw the boat at a distance
Yes, mamma; but we could not help it; we had a heavy load to bring
round, and now our work is done
I am delighted to hear it, William; for I cannot bear you being away so
long
And my work is done
the hedge and ditch were
finished this morning
Well, then
we must hold another council, but I
presume it will not take very long
No; I expect not; it seldom does when people are of the same mind.
Mrs Seagrave won't be left here, Ready, and I don't want to leave her,
so I presume on Monday we all start home again
Yes, sir; if you please
Juno, I hope you have a good supper
for I'm very
hungry
Yes, Massa William; plenty fried fish; Massa catch 'em this morning
Papa, they always say &bquo;as stupid as an ass.'  Is an ass such a stupid
animal
No, William; it is a very sagacious one; but the character has been
given to the animal more on account of its obstinacy and
untractableness, than on any other account.  It is usual to say, as
stupid as an ass, or as stupid as a pig, or a goose.  Now, these three
animals are very much maligned, for they are all sagacious animals.  But
the fact is that, as regards the ass, we have only very sorry specimens
of the animal in England; they are stunted and small, and, from want of
corn and proper food, besides being very ill-treated, are slow and
dull-looking animals.  The climate of England is much too cold for the
ass; in the south of France and the Mediterranean, where it is much
warmer, the ass is a much finer animal; but to see it in perfection we
must go to the Torrid Zone in Guinea, right on the equator, the hottest
portion of the globe, where the ass, in its native state and in its
native country, is a handsome creature and as fleet as the wind; indeed,
supposed to be, and mentioned in the Scriptures as the fleetest animal
in creation.  The fact is, that in Asia, especially in Palestine and
Syria, asses were in great repute, and used in preference to horses.  We
must see an animal in its own climate to form a true estimate of its
value
Does climate, then, make so great a difference
Of course it does, not only with animals, but with trees, plants, and
even man, until he is accustomed to the change.  With respect to
animals, there are some which can bear the different varieties of
climate, and even change of food.  The horse, for instance, although
originally indigenous to Arabia, lives as well in the Temperate, and
even in the Frigid Zones it may be said, for they endure the hard
winters of Russia and North America; so will domestic cattle, such as
cows, sheep, pigs, etcetera.  It is a curious fact that, during the
winter in Canada, a large proportion of the food of cattle consists of
_fish_
Fish, papa!  Cows eat fish
Yes, my dear boy, such is the fact.  It is a remarkable instance of a
graminivorous or grass-eating animal being changed for a time into a
flesh-eating, or rather into fish-eating animal.  But there are other
animals which can live under any temperature, as the wolf, the fox, the
hare, and rabbit.  It is a curious provision,-- that the sheep and goats
in the hottest climates throw off their warm covering of wool, and
retain little better than hair; while, removed to a cold climate, they
recover their warm covering immediately
But a goat has no wool, papa
What are Cashmere shawls made of, William
Very true, papa
Most animals have a certain increase of covering as they recede further
from the warm climates to the cold ones.  Wolves and foxes, hares and
rabbits, change the colour of their skins to white when they get far
north.  The little English stoat, which is destroyed by the gamekeepers,
becomes the beautiful snow-white ermine in Russia and other cold
countries
Well, papa, I think it a great advantage to man, and a proof of the
Almighty's care of him and kindness to him, in permitting all the
animals most useful to him to be able to live in any country; but I
don't know whether I am wrong in saying so, papa: I cannot see why an
animal like the wolf should not have been kept to his own climate, like
the lion and tiger, and other ferocious animals
You have started a question, William, which I am glad you have done,
rather than it should have remained on your mind, and have puzzled you.
It is true that the shepherd might agree with you, that the wolf is a
nuisance; equally true that the husbandman may exclaim, What is the good
of thistles, and the various weeds which choke the soil?  But, my dear
boy, if they are not, which I think they are, for the benefit of man, at
all events they are his doom for the first transgression.  &bquo;Cursed is
the ground for thy sake -- thorns and thistles shall it bring forth to
thee -- and by the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread,' was the
Almighty's sentence; and it is only by labour that the husbandman can
obtain his crops, and by watchfulness that the shepherd can guard his
flocks.  Labour is in itself a benefit: without exercise there would be
no health, and without health there would be no enjoyment
I see now, papa.  You have mentioned the animals which can live in all
climates; will you not tell us something about other animals
There is but one remark to make, William, which is, that animals
indigenous to, that is, originally to be found in, any one portion of
the globe, invariably are so fashioned as to be most fit for that
country, and have the food also most proper for them growing or to be
obtained in that country.  Take, for instance, the camel, an animal
fashioned expressly for the country to which he is indigenous, and
without whose aid all communication must have been stopped between Asia
and Africa.  He is called the &bquo;Ship of the Desert;' for the desert is a
&bquo;sea of sand.'  His feet are so fashioned that he can traverse the sands
with facility; he can live upon the coarsest vegetable food and salt
plants which are found there, and he has the capacity of carrying water
in a sort of secondary stomach, for his own supply where no water is to
be found.  Here is an animal wonderfully made by the Almighty for an
express locality, and for the convenience of man in that country; for,
in England, or elsewhere, he would be of no value.  But it is late, my
dear William; so we will first thank Him for all his mercies, and then
to bed
Well, William
this is our last trip for some time, I
expect; and so much the better, for our little boat must have something
done to her as soon as I can find time
Yes, indeed, Ready, she has done her work well.  Do you know I feel as
if I were coming home, now that we are back to the bay.  I really feel
quite glad that we have left the tents.  I found the pigeons among the
peas, Ready, so we must pick them as soon as we can.  I think there were
near twenty of them.  We shall have pigeon pies next year, I expect
If it pleases God that we live and do well
I think
that now we are here again, it will be necessary to
keep a sort of night-watch, in case of accident.  I shall not go to bed
till it is quite dark, which it will be by nine o'clock, and shall have
my glass to examine the offing the last thing.  You see, there is little
fear of the savages coming here in the night-time, but they may just
before night or very early in the morning, so one of us must be up again
before daybreak, that is between two and three o'clock in the morning,
to see if there is anything to be seen of them; if there is not, of
course we may go to bed again, as they cannot arrive till many hours
afterwards; and we must watch the wind and weather, if it is favourable
for them to come to us, which, indeed, the wind will not be except at
the commencement of the rainy season but it may be very light, and then
they would not care for its being against them.  I've been thinking of
it, William, a great deal, and my idea is, that it will be at the
beginning of the rainy season that we shall have a visit, if we have one
at all; for you see that the wind don't blow regular from one quarter,
as it does now, but is variable, and then they can make sail in their
canoes, and come here easily, instead of pulling between thirty and
forty miles, which is hard work against wind and current.  Still, we
must not be careless and we must keep a good look-out even now.  I don't
want to fret your father and Mrs Seagrave with my fears on the subject,
but I tell you what I really think, and what we ought to do
I agree with you, Ready, and I will take care to be up before daybreak,
and examine very carefully with the spy-glass as soon as the day dawns.
You take the night part, and I will do the morning part of the
watching
Why, was not Tommy with you
No
he has not been near us all day; he went
with us after breakfast, but did not remain a quarter of an hour
No, Missy; I tell Massa Tommy to help carry cocoa-nut leaves, and then
he go away directly
Goodness! where can he be
I dare say he is picking up shells on the beach, ma'am
or perhaps he is in the garden.  I will go and see
I see him -- oh, mercy!-- I see him
he in the boat, and boat go to sea
William, go back immediately.  I insist upon it.  Your going can do no
good, as you do not understand the thing so well as I do; and go I will,
so there will be double risk for nothing.  Mr Seagrave, order him back.
He will obey you.  I insist upon it, sir
William
come back immediately, I command you
Oh, father
if that good old man is lost, I shall never
forgive myself.  Look, father, one -- two -- three sharks, here, close to
us.  He has no chance.  See, he is again in deep water.  God protect
him
He is safe, is he not
Yes; now I think he is
I think there is no deep water between him and the boat
He is in the boat
Thank God
Yes, we must thank God, and that fervently
Look at those monsters
how
quick they swim to and fro; they have scented their prey on the water.
It is fortunate they are here
See, he has the boat-hook, and is pushing the boat off the reef into
the deep water.  Oh! he is quite safe now
Thank
God, you are safe, Ready
It was touch and go, William
How much mischief may be
created by a thoughtless boy!  However, one can't put old heads on young
shoulders, and so Tommy must be forgiven
He has been punished enough, as far as fright goes
I'll answer for it, he'll never get into the boat again by himself
No, I think not.  But now, William, you saw how nearly I was swamped in
the boat; indeed, it was only by his mercy that I was preserved; but
taking the question merely as far as our endeavours could help us, do
you think that if you had gained the boat instead of me, you would have
brought her to the beach as I did
No, Ready; I never could have managed her so skilfully as you did, and
therefore I must have been swamped before I got on shore
Well, William, as I am an old sailor and you are not, therefore it is
not vanity which makes me say that you could not have managed the boat
so well as I did.  Now, as I had not three or four seconds to spare,
you, as you say, must have been swamped.  I mention this to prove to you
that I was right in desiring your father to order you back
Certainly, Ready; but Tommy is my brother, and I felt that it was more
my duty than yours to risk my life for him
A very proper feeling, William; but you have other duties, which are,
to look after your father and mother, and be a comfort and solace to
them.  Your life is more valuable than mine.  I am an old man on the
brink of the grave, and a year or two makes no difference, but your life
is, I hope, of more consequence
I suspect, Tommy, you would have been very hungry before you ate any
bananas if we had not perceived you
I won't go into the boat any more
I rather think you will keep to that resolution, Tommy
however, I must leave your mother to point out to you the
danger you were in yourself, and in which you placed others by your
folly
See, William
what we have been
able to do by means of those deal planks; why, to have floored this
house, and run up the partitions, would have taken us half a year if we
had had to saw the wood
Yes; and what a comfort it is to have so many shelves about.  When
shall we shift into this house
The sooner the better.  We have plenty of work still to do, but we can
work outside of the stockade
And what do you propose to do with the old house
We had better put some of our stores of least value in it for the
present, until we can fit up another storehouse inside the stockade
Then we'll put those casks in, for they take up a great deal of room
All but that large one, William; we shall want that.  I shall fix it up
in a corner
What for, Ready
To put water in
But we are closer to the spring than we were at the other house
I know that; but, perhaps, we may not be able to go out of the
stockade, and then we shall want water
I understand, Ready; how thoughtful you are
If at my age I did not think a little, William, it would be very odd.
You don't know how anxious I am to see them all inside of this defence
But why should we not come in, Ready
Why, sir, as there is still plenty of work, I do not like to press the
matter, lest your mamma should be fidgeted, and think there was danger;
but danger there is; I have a kind of forewarning of it.  I wish you
would propose that they should come in at once; the standing-bed places
are all ready, except the canvas, and I shall nail on new by to-night
Why, ma'am
the only way to get things tidy is to go
yourself and make them so.  Nothing will ever be in its place unless you
are there to put it in
Well, Ready
since you are against me as well as
all the rest, I give it up, and if you please we will shift over
to-morrow
Indeed, ma'am, I think it will be better; this is the last month of
fine weather, and we shall have plenty to do
Be it so, Ready; you are the best judge; to-morrow we will take up our
quarters in the stockade
Thank God
Well, Mr Seagrave
we have done a good
many hard weeks' work lately, but this is the last of them.  We are now
comfortably settled in our new house: our stores are all under cover,
and safe from the weather, and so we may now take things a little
easier.  William and I must repair the boat, so that we may take a trip
round to examine how the stock and yams get on
And the bananas and the guavas
Why, we have quite forgotten all about them
Yes, ma'am; we have been so busy, that it is no wonder; however, there
may be some left yet, and I will go round as soon as the boat is able to
swim, and bring all I can find
We must put our seeds and potatoes in before the rainy season, Ready
It will be better, sir, if we can find time, as we shall not have much
more fine weather now; at all events, we can get them in at intervals
when the weather is fine.  Now I shall go my rounds for turtle.
Good-night, ma'am,-- good-night, sir.  Come, William
We cannot do better than to leave the stock where it is at present,
William; they can run into the cocoa-nut grove for shelter if there is a
storm, and there is feed enough for ten times as many
Yes; but will you not dig up a few yams first
I had quite forgotten it, William.  I will go for the spade
That will be bad for us to-morrow, Ready
We may
sail to the harbour, but we shall have to pull back with the loaded
boat
I trust it will be no worse than that, at all events
but we must now return, and go to bed.  I shall be up by daylight, so
you need not wake without you like
I can't help waking
and I shall, therefore, be up
with you
Very well, I am always glad of your company
Do you see anything, Ready, that you look so long in that direction
Either my old eyes deceive me, or I fear that I do
but a few minutes more will decide
Yes, William, I am right.  I thought that those dark patches I saw
there were brown grass sails
Sails of what, Ready
Of the Indian canoes; I knew that they would come.  Take the glass and
look yourself; my eye is quite dim from straining it so long
Yes, I have them now
Why, there are twenty or thirty of them, Ready, at least
And with twenty or thirty men in each too, William
What must we do, Ready?  How frightened my poor mother will be!  I'm
afraid we can do nothing against such a number
Yes, William, we can do a great deal, and we must do a great deal.
That there are hundreds of savages there is no doubt; but recollect that
we have a stockade, which they cannot easily climb over, and plenty of
firearms and ammunition, so that we can make a good fight of it, and
perhaps beat them off, for they have nothing but clubs and spears
How fast they come down, Ready; why, they will be here in an hour
No, sir, nor in two hours either; those are very large canoes.
However, there is no time to be lost.  While I watch them for a few
minutes till I make them more clearly out, do you run up to the house
and beckon your father to come down to me; and then, William, get all
the muskets ready, and bring the casks of powder, and of made-up
cartridges, from the old house into the stockade.  Call Juno, and she
will help you.  We shall have time enough to do everything.  After you
have done that, you had better come down and join us
Ready, there is danger, I'm sure; William would not tell me, I presume,
because he was afraid of alarming his mother.  What is it
It is, Mr Seagrave, that the savages are now coming down upon us in
large force; perhaps five or six hundred of them; and that we shall have
to defend ourselves with might and main
Do you think we have any chance against such a force
Yes, sir, with God's help I have no doubt but that we shall beat them
off; but we must fight hard, and for some days, I fear
It is,
indeed, dreadful odds to contend against
Yes, sir, but three muskets behind a stockade are almost a match for
all their clubs and spears, provided none of us are wounded
Well, Ready, we must put our trust in the Lord, and do our best; I will
second you to the utmost of my power, and William, I'm sure, will do his
duty
I think, sir
we had better not wait here any more, as we
have not long to prepare for them.  We have only to fix up some of our
strong deal planks on the inside of the stockade for us to stand upon
when we are attacked, that we may see what the enemy is about, and be
able to fire upon them.  But first we had better go to the old house,
and take out what provisions and other articles we shall most want, and
roll the casks into the stockade, for to the old house they will go
first, and perhaps destroy everything in it.  The casks they certainly
will, for the sake of the iron hoops.  An hour's work will do a great
deal.  I believe we have everything we want in the stockade; Juno has
her fuel, the large butt of water will last us two or three weeks at
least, and if we have time, we will get the wheels down, and spear a
couple of turtles for fresh provisions
I was told that I had to expect this, my dear
so that it has not come upon me altogether unawares, and anything that
a poor weak woman can do, I will
I am indeed greatly relieved
by finding you thus
prepared and supported.  I shall feel no anxiety -- but we have work to be
done
We have a good hour before they arrive, sir
and even
then the reefs will puzzle them not a little; I doubt if they are
disembarked under two hours.  We have plenty of time for all we wish to
do.  Juno, go for the wheels, and William, come down with the spear, and
we will have some of the turtle into the stockade.  Mr Seagrave, I do
not require your assistance, so if you will have the kindness to get out
the muskets, and examine the flints, it will be as well
Yes; and then you have to load them
Juno and
I can do that at all events, ready for you to fire them
An excellent idea, madam
Now, sir, we are all prepared
and Madam and Juno can go
and look a little after the children, and get breakfast
This suspense is worse than all
I wish now that
they were come
Shall I go to Ready and hear his report, my dear?-- I will not be away
three minutes
I hope they will not stay out too long
No fear of that, my dear Selina; but they had better watch their
motions to the last minute
What a fierce, cruel set of wretches they appear to be; if
they overpower us they will certainly kill us
Of that there is no doubt, William; but we must fight hard, and not let
them overpower us.  Kill us they certainly will, and I am not sure that
they may not eat us afterwards; but that is of little consequence
I'll fight as long as I have
breath in my body; but, Ready, they are coming up as fast as they can
Yes; we must wait no longer.  Come, William
I thought I saw another vessel under sail, out away by the garden
point, Ready, just as we turned away
Very likely, sir, a canoe which has separated from the others during
the night.  Come, quick, William, they have begun to yell
They are busy with the old house just now, sir
but
that won't detain them long
Here they come
and look, Ready, is not that one of
the women who escaped from us in the canoe, who is walking along with
the first two men?  Yes, it is, I am sure
You are right, William, it is one of them.  Ah! they have stopped; they
did not expect the stockade, that is clear, and it has puzzled them; see
how they are all crowding together and talking; they are holding a
council of war how to proceed; that tall man must be one of their
chiefs.  Now, William, although I intend to fight as hard as I can, yet
I always feel a dislike to begin first; I shall therefore show myself
over the palisades, and if they attack me, I shall then fire with a
quiet conscience
But take care they don't hit you, Ready
No great fear of that, William.  Here they come
Now, William, take good aim
They have not gained much in this bout, at all events
it
was well fought on our side, and William, you certainly behaved as if
you had been brought up to it
Do you think they will go away now
Oh, no, madam, not yet; they will try us every way before they leave
us.  You see these are very brave men, and it is clear that they know
what gunpowder is, or they would have been more astonished
I should think so too
the first time that
savages hear the report of firearms, they are usually thrown into great
consternation
Yes, sir; but such has not been the case with these people, and
therefore I reckon it is not the first time that they have fought with
Europeans
Are they all gone, Ready
No; I see them between the trees now; they are sitting round in a
circle, and, I suppose, making speeches
Well, I'm very thirsty, at all events
Juno, bring me a
little water
Oh, Massa! oh, Missy! no water; water all gone
Water all gone
Yes; not one little drop in the cask
I filled it up to the top
the tub did
not leak, that I am sure of; how can this have happened
Missy, I tink I know now
you remember you send Massa
Tommy, the two or three days we wash, to fetch water from the well in
little bucket.  You know how soon he come back, and how you say what
good boy he was, and how you tell Massa Seagrave when he come to dinner.
Now, Missy, I quite certain Massa Tommy no take trouble go to well, but
fetch water from tub all the while, and so he empty it
I'm afraid you're right, Juno
What shall we
do
I go speak Massa Tommy
This is a very awkward thing, Mr Seagrave
Well
it is the will of Heaven that all our
careful arrangements and preparations against this attack should be
defeated by the idleness of a child, and we must submit
Very true, sir
all our hopes now are that the savages
may be tired out, and leave the island
If I had but a little for the children, I should not care
but to see those poor things suffer -- is there not a drop
left, Juno, anywhere
This is a very bad business, Ready
What
would we give for a shower of rain now, that we might catch the falling
drops
There are no signs of it, sir
we must, however, put
our confidence in One who will not forsake us
I wish the savages would come on again
for the
sooner they come, the sooner the affair will be decided
I doubt if they will to-day; at night-time I think it very probable.
We must make preparations for it
Why, what can we do, Ready
In the first place, sir, by nailing planks from cocoa-nut tree to
cocoa-nut tree above the present stockade, we may make a great portion
of it much higher, and more difficult to climb over.  Some of them were
nearly in, this time.  If we do that, we shall not have so large a space
to watch over and defend; and then we must contrive to have a large fire
ready for lighting, that we may not have to fight altogether in the
dark.  It will give them some advantage in looking through the
palisades, and seeing where we are, but they cannot well drive their
spears through, so it is no great matter.  We must make the fire in the
centre of the stockade, and have plenty of tar in it, to make it burn
bright, and we must not, of course, light it until after we are
attacked.  We shall then see where they are trying for an entrance, and
where to aim with our muskets
The idea is very good, Ready
if it had not been
for this unfortunate want of water, I really should be sanguine of
beating them off
We may suffer very much, Mr Seagrave, I have no doubt; but who knows
what the morrow may bring forth
True, Ready.  Do you see the savages now
No, sir; they have left the spot where they were in consultation.  I
suppose they are busy with their wounded and their dead
water, water
I trust that they will now re-embark, and leave the island
I only wish they may, sir; it is not at all impossible; but there is no
saying.  I have been thinking, Mr Seagrave, that we might be able to
ascertain their movements by making a look-out.  You see, sir, that
cocoa-nut tree
is much taller than any of the others: now, by
driving spike-nails into the trunk at about a foot apart, we might
ascend it with ease, and it would command a view of the whole bay; we
then could know what the enemy were about
Yes, that is very true; but will not anyone be very much exposed if he
climbs up
No, sir; for you see the cocoa-nut trees are cut down clear of the
palisades to such a distance, that no savage could come at all near
without being seen by anyone on the look-out, and giving us sufficient
time to get down again before he could use his spear
I believe that you are right there, Ready; but at all events I would
not attempt to do it before daylight, as there may be some of them still
lurking underneath the stockade
Certainly there may be, sir, and therefore until daylight we will not
begin
I can't sleep, Ready.  I'm mad with thirst
Yes, sir; it's very painful -- I feel it myself very much, but what must
those poor children feel?  I pity them most
I pity my mother most, Ready
it must be agony to
her to witness their sufferings, and not be able to relieve them
Yes, indeed, it must be terrible, William, to a mother's feelings; but
perhaps these savages will be off to-morrow, and then we shall forget
our privations
I trust in God that they may, Ready, but they seem very determined
Yes, sir; iron is gold to them, and what will civilised men not do for
gold
Ready, I had rather a hundred times be attacked by these savages and
have to defend this place, than be in that house for even five minutes,
and witness the sufferings of my wife and children
I do not doubt it, sir
but cheer up, and let us hope
for the best; I think it very probable that the savages after this
second defeat will leave the island
I wish I could think so, Ready; it would make me very happy; but I have
come out to take the watch, Ready.  Will you not sleep for a while
I will, sir, if you please, take a little sleep.  Call me in two hours;
it will then be daylight, and I can go to work, and you can get some
repose yourself
I am too anxious to sleep; I think so, at least
William said he was too thirsty to sleep, sir, but, poor fellow, he is
now fast enough
I trust that boy will be spared, Ready
I hope so too; but we are all in the hands of the Almighty
I can see everything, Ready: they have pulled down the old house
altogether, and are most of them lying down outside, covered up with
their war-cloaks; some women are walking to and fro from the canoes,
which are lying on the beach where they first landed
They have pulled down the house to obtain the iron nails, I have no
doubt
Did you see any of their dead
No; I did not look about very much, but I will go up again directly.  I
came down because my hands were jarred with hammering, and the hammer
was so heavy to carry.  In a minute or two I shall go up light enough.
My lips are burning, Ready, and swelled; the skin is peeling off.  I had
no idea that want of water would have been so dreadful.  I was in hopes
of finding a cocoa-nut or two on the tree, but there was not one
And if you had found one, it would not have had any milk in it at this
season of the year.  However, William, if the savages do not go away
to-day, something must be done.  I wish now that you would go up again,
and see if they are not stirring
They are all up now, and swarming
like bees.  I counted 260 of the men in their war-cloaks and feather
head-dresses; the women are passing to and fro from the well with water;
there is nobody at the canoes except eight or ten women, who are beating
their heads, I think, or doing something of the kind.  I could not make
it out well, but they seem all doing the same thing
I know what they are about, William: they are cutting themselves with
knives or other sharp instruments.  It is the custom of these people.
The dead are all put into the canoes, and these women are lamenting over
them; perhaps they are going away, since the dead are in the canoes, but
there is no saying
Mr Seagrave
we shall have, in my opinion,
no attack this night, but to-morrow we must expect something very
serious; the savages are cutting down the trees, and making large
faggots; they do not get on very fast, because their hatchets are made
of stone and don't cut very well, but perseverance and numbers will
effect everything, and I dare say that they will work all night till
they have obtained as many faggots as they want
But what do you imagine to be their object, Ready, in cutting down
trees, and making the faggots
Either, sir, to pile them up outside the palisades, so large as to be
able to walk up upon them, or else to pile them up to set fire to them,
and burn us out
Do you think they will succeed
Not without very heavy loss; perhaps we may best them off, but it will
be a hard fight; harder than any we have had yet.  We must have the
women to load the muskets, so that we may fire as fast as we can.  I
should not think much of their attempt to burn us, if it were not for
the smoke.  Cocoa-nut wood, especially with the bark on, as our
palisades have, will char a long while, but not burn easily when
standing upright; and the fire, when the faggots are kindled, although
it will be fierce, will not last long
But suffering as we are now, Ready, for want of water, how can we
possibly keep up our strength to meet them in a suffocating smoke and
flame? we must drop with sheer exhaustion
We must hope for the best, and do our best, Mr Seagrave
and recollect that should anything happen to me during the
conflict, and if there is any chance of your being overpowered, you must
take advantage of the smoke to escape into the woods, and find your way
to the tents.  I have no doubt that you will be able to do that; of
course the attack will be to windward if they use fire, and you must try
and escape to leeward; I have shown William how to force a palisade if
necessary.  The savages, if they get possession, will not think of
looking for you at first, and, perhaps, when they have obtained all that
the house contains, not even afterwards
Why do you say if any accident happens to you, Ready
Because, William, if they place the faggots so as to be able to walk to
the top of the palisades, I may be wounded or killed, and so may you
Of course
but they are not in yet, and they shall
have a hard fight for it
William, water we must have.  I cannot bear to see the agony
of the poor children, and the state of mind which your poor mother is
in; and more, without water we never shall be able to beat off the
savages to-morrow.  We shall literally die of choking in the smoke, if
they use fire.  Now, William, I intend to take one of the seven-gallon
barricos, and go down to the well for water.  I may succeed, and I may
not, but attempt it I must, and if I fall it cannot be helped
Why not let me go, Ready
For many reasons, William
and the chief one is that I do
not think you would succeed so well as I shall.  I shall put on the
war-cloak and feathers of the savage who fell dead inside of the
stockade, and that will be a disguise, but I shall take no arms except
his spear, as they would only be in my way, and increase the weight I
have to carry.  Now observe, you must let me out of the door, and when I
am out, in case of accident put one of the poles across it inside; that
will keep the door fast, if they attack it, until you can secure it with
the others.  Watch my return, and be all ready to let me in.  Do you
understand me
Yes, perfectly, Ready; but I am now, I must confess, really frightened;
if anything was to happen to you, what a misery it would be
There is no help for it, William.  Water must, if possible, be
procured, and now is a better time to make the attempt than later, when
they may be more on the watch; they have left off their work, and are
busy eating; if I meet any one, it will only be a woman
Take the water in quick, William
I
will contrive to crawl in if I can
Are you hurt, Ready
Yes, dear boy, yes; hurt to death, I fear: his spear went through my
breast.  Water, quick, water
Alas! that we had some
We have, papa
but it has cost us dearly
Now, William, lay me down on these cocoa-nut boughs; go and give some
water to the others, and when you have all drunk, then come to me again.
Don't tell Mrs Seagrave that I'm hurt.  Do as I beg of you
Papa, take the water -- do pray
I cannot leave
Ready
I will, my boy
but first drink yourself
We had better move him to where the other cocoa-nut boughs lie; he will
be more comfortable there
More water
I am better now
bind up the wound, William;
an old man like me has not much blood to spare
Where is that brave, kind man
that I may bless him and
thank him
He is hurt, my
dear; and very much hurt.  I did not tell you at the time
Don't weep for me
my days have been numbered; I'm only
sorry that I cannot any more be useful to you
Dear good man
whatever may be our fates, and
that is for the Almighty to decide for us, as long as I have life, what
you have done for me and mine shall never be forgotten
William
I can't talk now; raise my head a little, and
then leave me.  You have not looked round lately.  Come again in about
half an hour.  Leave me now, Mr Seagrave; I shall be better if I doze a
little
This is a sad business, William
He would not let me go
I wish
he had.  I fear that he is much hurt
I should say that he cannot recover, William.  We shall miss him
to-morrow if they attack us
I hardly know what to say, papa; but I feel that since we have been
relieved, I am able to do twice as much as I could have done before
I feel the same, but still with such a force against us, two people
cannot do much
If my mother and Juno load the muskets for us
we
shall at all events do as much now as we should have been able to do if
there were three, so exhausted as we should have been
Perhaps so; at all events we will do our best, for we fight for our
lives and for those most dear to us
How do you find yourself, Ready
I am quiet and easy, William, and without much pain; but I think I am
sinking, and shall not last long.  Recollect that if you are obliged to
escape from the stockade, you take no heed of me, but leave me where I
am.  I cannot live, and were you to move me, I should only die the
sooner
I had rather die with you, than leave you, Ready
No, that is wrong; you must save your mother, and your brothers and
sister; promise me that you will do as I wish
I point out to you your duty, William.  I know what your feelings are,
but you must not give way to them; promise me this, or you will make me
very miserable
They will come at daylight, William; you have not much time to spare;
climb to the look-out, and wait there till day dawns; watch them as long
as you can, and then come and tell me what you have seen
We must fire upon them as soon as we are sure of not missing, William
for the more we check their advance, the better
They have gone away, father
but they will come again,
and I fear it is all over with us
I fear so too, my boy
they are only retreating
to arrange for a general assault, and they now will be able to gain an
entrance.  I almost wish that they had fired the faggots; we might have
escaped as Ready pointed out to us, but now I fear we have no chance
Don't say a word to my mother
let us defend ourselves
to the last, and if we are overpowered it is the will of God
I should like to take a farewell embrace of your dear mother
but, no; it will be weakness just now.  Here they come,
William, in a swarm.  Well, God bless you, my boy; we shall all, I
trust, meet in Heaven
It must be the cannon of a ship, father
we are saved --
we are saved
It can be nothing else; we are saved, and by a miracle
We are saved
A large schooner, father; she is firing at the savages, who are at the
canoes; they are falling in every direction: some have plunged into the
water; there is a boat full of armed men coming on shore; they are close
to the beach, by the garden-point.  Three of the canoes have got off
full of men; there go the guns again; two of the canoes are sunk,
father; the boat has landed, and the people are coming up this way
_Pacific_
That is Captain Osborn, I know
You
have come in good time, sir; I knew you would come, and I always said
so: you have the thanks of a dying man
I hope it is not so bad as that, Ready; we have a surgeon on board, and
I will send for him at once
No surgeon can help me, sir
another hour of time will
not pass before I shall be in Eternity
It is all over
and he has, I have no
doubt, gone to receive the reward of a good and just man.  &bquo;Happy are
those who die in the Lord
Well, Juno
are you not
glad to leave the island
One time I think I would be very glad, but now I not care much
Island very nice place, all very happy till savage come.
Suppose they not kill old Ready, I not care
Yes, indeed
it is a sad blow to us all; I did
hope to have fostered the good old man, and to have been able to have
shown him our gratitude, but
It is the will of Heaven that it should be otherwise
I would give half that I am possessed of, that he had not
perished
Oh, Massa
I sit by him just now; I take off the flag and
look at his face, so calm, look so happy, so good, I almost tink he
smile at me, and then I cry.  Oh!  Massa Tommy, all because you idle
boy
It adds much to my regret
that his life should
have been sacrificed through the thoughtlessness of one of my own
children; what a lesson it will be to Tommy when he is old enough to
comprehend the consequences of his conduct
That he must not know, papa
one of Ready's last injunctions was that
Tommy was never to be told of it
His last wishes shall be religiously attended to, my dear boy
for what do we not owe to that good old man?  When others
deserted us and left us to perish, he remained with us to share our
fate.  By his skill we were saved and landed in safety.  He provided for
our wants, added to our comforts, instructed us how to make the best use
of our means.  Without his precautions we should have perished by the
spears of the savages.  What an example of Christian fortitude and
humility did he ever show us! and indeed, I may truly say, that by his
example, sinful as I must ever be, I have become, I trust, a better man.
Would that he were now sitting by us,-- but the Lord's will be done
I feel as if I had lost a stay or prop
So
accustomed have I been to look to him for advice since we have been on
this island.  Had he not been thus snatched from us -- had he been spared
to us a few years, and had we been permitted to surround his death-bed,
and close his eyes in peace
I feel that, next to my dear father and mother, I have lost my best
friend.  I cannot forgive myself for allowing him to go for the water;
it was my duty to go, and I ought to have gone
And yet we could have ill spared you, my dear boy; you might have
perished
It would have been as God willed
I might have
perished, or I might not
We never know what the morrow may bring forth
or
what may be in store for us.  Had not this misfortune happened, had old
Ready been spared to us, how joyfully should I and all of you have
quitted this island, full of anticipation, and indulging in worldly
prospects.  What a check have I received!  I now am all thought and
anxiety.  I have said to myself, &bquo;we have been happy on this island; our
wants have been supplied; even our comforts have been great.  We have
been under no temptations, for we have been isolated from the world; am
I so sure that I shall be as happy in future as I have been?  Am I
confident, now my long-wished-for return to the world is about to take
place, that I shall have no cause to lament that I ever quitted this
peaceful, quiet spot?'  I feel that it is a duty to my family that I
should return to society, but I am far from feeling that our happiness
may be increased.  We have, however, a plain precept to follow, which
is, to do our duty in that state of life to which it has pleased God to
call us
Yes
I feel the truth of all you have just
said.  We are in his hands; let us put our trust in him
We will
but it is late, and we have to rise
early to-morrow morning.  This is the last evening which we shall pass
on this island; let us return our thanks for the happiness we have
enjoyed here.  We thought to have quitted this spot in joy,-- it is his
will that we should leave it in sorrow
Come, my dear
I will, I will
but I don't know how it is,
now that the hour is come, I really feel such pain at quitting this dear
island.  Had it not been for poor Ready's death, I really do think I
should wish to remain
I don't doubt but that you feel sorrow, my dear, but we must not keep
Captain Osborn waiting
We shall never be more happy than we were on that island, Seagrave
It will indeed be well, my dear, if we never are less happy
</text>
