<text>
Little Meg
Do you know I'm going to die soon
Yes
Father'll be home soon
and I want you to take
care of the children till he comes.  I've settled with Mr Grigg
downstairs as nobody shall meddle with you till father comes back.
But, Meg, you've got to take care of that your own self.  You've
nothing to do with nobody, and let nobody have nothing to do with you.
They're a bad crew downstairs, a very bad crew.  Don't you ever let any
one of 'em come across the door-step.  Meg, could you keep a secret
Yes, I could
I think you could
and I'll tell you why you
mustn't have nothing to do with the crew downstairs.  Meg, pull the big
box from under the bed
That's the secret, Meg
That's forty gold sovereigns, as doesn't belong to me, nor father
neither, but to one of his mates as left it with him for safety.  I
couldn't die easy if I thought it wouldn't be safe.  They'd go rooting
about everywhere; but, Meg, you must never, never, never let anybody
come into the room till father's at home
I never will, mother
That's partly why I moved up here
Why, they'd
murder you all if they couldn't get the money without.  Always keep the
door locked, whether you're in or out; and, Meg dear, I've made you a
little bag to wear round your neck, to keep the key of the box in, and
all the money I've got left; it'll be enough till father comes.  And if
anybody meddles, and asks you when he's coming, be sure say you expect
him home to-day or to-morrow.  He'll be here in four weeks, on Robin's
birthday, may be.  Do you know all you've got to do, little Meg
Yes
I'm to take care of the children, and the money
as belongs to one of father's mates; and I must wear the little bag
round my neck, and always keep the door locked, and tell folks I expect
father home to-day or to-morrow, and never let nobody come into our
room
That's right
Meg, I've settled all about
my burial with the undertaker and Mr Grigg downstairs; and you'll have
nothing to do but stay here till they take me away.  If you like, you
and Robin and baby may walk after me; but be sure see everybody out,
and lock the door safe afore you start
Little Meg
do you remember one Sunday evening us
hearing a sermon preached in the streets
Yes, mother
What was it he said so often
You learnt the verse
once at school
I know it still
If ye then, being evil, know how to
give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your Father
which is in heaven give good things to them that ask Him
Ay, that's it
and he said we needn't wait to be
God's children, but we were to ask Him for good things at once, because
He had sent His own Son to be our Saviour, and to die for us.  "Them
that ask Him, them that ask Him"; he said it over and over again.  Eh!
but I've asked Him a hundred times to let me live till father comes
home, or to let me take baby along with me
May be that isn't a good thing
God knows what are good
things
she said
Yes, that's sure to be a good thing
Then I'll ask Him for that all night
and to be
sure take care of you all till father comes back.  That
Mam!
mam! mam
You've got no mam but me now, baby
Hush! hush
Hush, hush, my baby dear!  By-by, my baby, by-by
Robbie
let's sit in the window a bit
Mother is going to live with the angels
What are angels
Oh, I'm not quite sure
Only they're beautiful
people, who are always white and clean, and shining, like that big
white cloud up in the sky.  They live somewhere up in the sky, where
it's always sunny, and bright, and blue
inquired Robin.

'Well, I suppose
after they've
put her in the ground, the angels
I should like to see some angels
Meg
why do they call this Angel Court?  Did the angels
use to live here
I don't think they ever could
or it must have
been a long, long time ago.  Perhaps they can't come here now, so
they're waiting for mother to be taken out to the burying-ground afore
they can carry her up to the sky.  May be that's it
Meg
what's the devil
Oh, I don't know
only he's dreadfully, dreadfully
wicked
As wicked as father is when he's drunk
Oh, a hundred million times wickeder
Father
doesn't get drunk often; and you mustn't be a naughty boy and talk
about it
Meg
does the devil ever come here
I don't think he does
I never see him, never.  Folks are bad enough without him, I
guess.  No, no; you needn't be frightened of seeing him, Robbie
I wish there wasn't any devil
I wish everybody in London was good
Come unto Me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give
you rest
I wish I could go to Jesus
for I've worked very
hard all day; and He says He'd give me rest.  Only I don't know where
to go
for so He
giveth His beloved sleep
Please, sir
could you tell me if father's ship's come in
yet
Father's ship
Why, what's the
name of father's ship
The Ocean King
It's in the river, my little lass
but it won't be in dock
till night.  Father can't be at home afore to-morrow morning at the
soonest
Thank you kindly, sir
Robbie
Robbie, I'll give you a treat to-day,
because it's your birthday.  We'll not go home till it's dark; and I'll
take you to see Temple Gardens
What are Temple Gardens
Oh, you'll see
I went
there once, ever so many years ago, when I was a little girl.  You'll
like 'em ever so
Do we know the road
I should think so
and if we didn't, there's the
police.  What's the police good for, if they couldn't tell a person
like me the road to Temple Gardens?  We'll have such a nice day
Oh, if you please, Mr Police
I want
to get these two little children over to the other side, and I don't
know how to do it, except you'd please to hold baby while I take Robbie
across
Oh, Meg, what is it? what is it
Is it gardens, Meg?  Is this Temple Gardens
Look, Meg
Nobody laughs to me, Meg
Oh yes, Robbie, I laugh to you
and father
I'd like to go home
Hullo, little woman
Are you going my way
Hoist them children up here, that's a good fellow
Here's a letter come for your mother, little Meg
I'll read it to you if you like
Oh no, thank you, sir
father's coming home,
and he'll read it to-morrow morning.  His ship's in the river, and
it'll be in dock to-night for certain.  So he'll be home to-morrow
Mother! mother
I thought I'd locked up all right
Ay, it was all right
only you see my key
I thought you were mother, I did
It's my birthday to-day
Little Meg
your mother spoke kind to me once, and now
she's dead and gone.  I wonder why I wasn't took instead o
You didn't ought to go into a person's room without asking leave
but if you'll hold baby for me, I'll soon get tea.  I've got a
little real tea left, and father
Robbie always says his prayers aloud to me
you won't
mind, will you
Go on
Robbie
Robbie, it's your birthday to-day; and if I
was you I'd ask God for something more than other days.  I'd ask Him to
bless everybody as well as us if I was you.  If everybody was good,
it'd be so nice
Yes, Meg
Stop a minute
Pray God, bless everybody, and the devil, and make him
a good man.  Amen
Robbie
I don't think the devil can be made
good.  He doesn't want to be good.  If anybody wants to be good, God
can make 'em good, anybody in all the world; but He won't if they don't
want to
What's the matter with you
Oh, Meg, Meg
I do want to be good, and I can't.  You
don't know how wicked I am; but once I was a good little girl like you.
And now I can never, never be good again
Yes, you can
if you ask God
You don't know anything about it
I don't know much
but Jesus says in the Bible,
that if our fathers
ll much more give
good things to anybody as asks for 'em
But I'm too bad to ask Him
I don't know what's to be done, then
The Bible says,
"Those that ask Him"; and if you are too bad to ask Him, I suppose He
won't give you any good things
I don't know what you're called
answered the girl, with a deep sigh.

'But that's not your christen name
No
What does your mother call you
Don't you never speak to me about my mother
Have you got any money, Kitty
Not a rap
I've got two shillings left
and I'll give you one;
only, if you please, you mustn't come into my room again, at least till
father's at home.  I promised mother not to let anybody at all come
here.  You'll not be angry, will you
No, I'm not angry
and you must always do what
your mother told you, little Meg.  She spoke kind to me once, she did.
So I'll go away now, dear, and never come in again: but you wouldn't
mind me listening at the door when Robbie's saying his prayers
sometimes
No
and you may listen when I read up loud, if you
like.  I always read something afore I go to bed, and I'll speak up
loud enough for you to hear
I'll listen
I suppose you'd not mind me kissing the
children afore I go
Oh no
I wish I was dead, I do
Father, father
Father
Please
is the Ocean King come in yet
Ay
Came in last night, all right and tight
Father must be come home, then
What are you all doing out here, little Meg
We're looking for father
He's never come
yet, and I've spent all my money, and we've got no candles
Meg
I can pay you back the shilling you gave me on
Tuesday night
But you mustn't come into our room, if you do
No, no, I'll not come in
But why hasn't father come home
I don't know
His ship came in the night of Robbie's
birthday, that's two days ago; and he's never come yet
The ship come in
Father's ship's the Ocean King
I'll hunt him up
I'll find him, if
he's anywhere in London.  I know their ways, and where they go to, when
they come ashore, little Meg.  Oh!  I'll hunt him out.  You put the
children to bed, dear; and then you sit up till I come back, if it's
past twelve o'clock, I'll bring him home, alive or dead.  Don't cry no
more, little Meg
Haven't you found father
I've found out where he is
He's at the other end
of the world, in hospital.  He was took bad a-coming home -- so bad, they
was forced to leave him behind them; and he'll work his way back when
he's well enough, so Jack says, one of his mates.  He says he may come
back soon, or come back late, and that's all he knows about him.  What
shall you do, little Meg
Mother said I was to be sure to take care of the children till father
comes home
and I'll do it, please
God.  I can ask Him to help me, and He will.  He'll take care of us
said Kitty bitterly.

'May be you haven't asked Him
It's too late now
but He'll take care of you, never fear;
and oh!  I wish He'd let me help Him.  I wish I could do something for
you, little Meg; for your mother spoke kind to me once, and made me
think of my own mother.  There, just leave me alone, will you?  I'm off
to bed now, and you go to bed too.  I'll help you all I can
Pray God
You've let mother die, and father be took
bad at the other side of the world, and there's nobody to take care of
us
Did God see baby walk
I should think He did
Tenpence for the two
Oh! if you please
you
must give me more than tenpence.  I've got two little children, and no
bread, nor coals, nor candles.  I couldn't buy scarcely anythink with
only tenpence.  Indeed, indeed, my red frock's worth a great deal more;
it's worth I don't know how many shillings
You go home, little Meg
and I'll
bring you three shillings for the frock, and one for the bonnet; four
for the two.  Mr Sloman's an old friend o
business for you
Meg
you let me do that sort o
He does take care of me
or may be you
wouldn't have come into the shop just now, and I should have got only
tenpence.  I suppose that's taking care of me, isn't it
I don't know
Only let me do that for you when you want
it done again
Hollo, little woman
I haven't set eyes on you this many
a day.  How's Robbie and baby
They're here, sir, thank you
We're only doing middling,
thank you, sir
Why, father's ship's come in
What makes you be doing only middling
Father didn't come home in the ship
Come in and tell us all about it
Hollo, Mrs Blossom! just
step this way, if you please
he
asked of Meg, who had sniffed a little, unconsciously.

'Yes, please, sir
I've ate as much as ever I can eat for to-day
so
you give 'em the rest, Mrs Blossom, and I'll be off.  Only just tell me
why father's not come home in his ship
He was took bad on the other side of the world
and they was forced to leave
him behind in a hospital.  That's why
And what's mother doing
Mother's dead
Dead
There's nobody to take care of us but God
Well, I never
I never heard anything like that
Nor me
I guess you could eat a morsel of tripe
Mrs Blossom, some potatoes, if
you please, and some bread; and do you feed the baby whilst the little
woman gets her dinner.  Now, I'm off.  Mrs Blossom, you settle about
'em coming here again
If you please, ma'am, I'm only so glad
Robbie and baby were so hungry, and I
hadn't got anythink to give 'em
I suppose you aint hungry yourself neither
Oh, but ain't I
I've had
nothink since last night, and then it were only a crust as Kitty give
me
Well, dear, fall to, and welcome
And who's
Kitty
It's a grown-up person as lives in the back attic
She helps me all she can.  She's
took all my things to the pawn-shop for me, because she can get more
money than me.  She's as good as can be to us
Are all your things gone to pawn
I've got baby's cloak and hood left
He
wouldn't give more than a shilling for 'em, and I thought it wasn't
worth while parting with 'em for that.  I tried to keep Robbie's cap
and pinafore, that were as good as new, but I were forced to let 'em
go.  And our shoes, ma'am
see what poor Robbie's done to himself
Poor little dear
I'll wash his poor
little feet for him when he's finished his dinner.  You get on with
yours likewise, my love
My dear
what may you be thinking of
doing
I don't hardly know
I expect father home every day.
If I could only get enough for the children, and a crust or two for me,
we could get along.  But we can't do nothink more, I know
You'll be forced to go into the house
Oh, no, no, no
I couldn't ever do that.  We'll get along somehow till father comes
home
Where is it you live
Oh, it's not a nice place at all
It's along Rosemary Lane, and down a street, and then down
another smaller street, and up a court.  That's where it is
Well
you come here again to-morrow, and I'll ask Mr
George what's to be done.  That was Mr George as was here, and he's my
lodger.  He took you in, and maybe he'll agree to do something
Thank you, ma'am
Please, have you any little
children of your own
I'd a little girl like you
ten years ago.  Such a pretty
little girl, so rosy, and bright, and merry, as all the folks round
took notice of.  She was like the apple of my eye, she was
What was she called
Why, the neighbours called her Posy because her name was Blossom
And Posy died
No, no
That's bad
It's nigh upon three years ago
and I gave up my shop
to my son's wife, and come here, thinking maybe she'd step in some day
or other to buy a loaf of bread or something, because I knew she'd come
up to London.  But she's never so much as passed by the
window -- leastways when I've been watching, and I'm always watching.  I
can't do my duty by Mr George for staring out o
Watching for Posy
Ay, watching for Posy
and she never goes by
Have you asked God to let her go by
Ay, my dear
Then she's sure to come some day
There's no
mistake about that, because Jesus says it in the Bible, and He knows
all about God.  You've asked Him, and He'll do it.  It's like father
coming.  I don't know whether he'll come to-day or to-morrow, or when
it'll be; but he will come
God bless and love you
I'll
believe it, I will.  He's sent you to give me more heart.  God love you
all
Mr George and me have talked you over
and he's agreed to
something.  I can't do my duty by him as I should wish, you know why;
and I want a little maid to help me
Oh, if you please
I couldn't leave our attic.
I promised mother I wouldn't go away till father comes home.  Don't be
angry, please
I'm not angry, child
I only want a little
maid to come mornings, and go away nights, like a char-woman
Mother used to go charing sometimes
I'm not a rich woman
and Mr George has his old
father to keep, as lives down in my own village, and I know him well;
so we can't give great wages.  I'd give you a half-quartern loaf a day,
and Mr George threepence for the present, while it's winter.  Would
that suit your views
What could I do with Robbie and baby
Couldn't you leave 'em with a neighbour
said Mrs Blossom
pawn, we'd
all go to church together.  But we'll see, we'll see
I like gardens
but I don't like lanes
Why don't you like lanes
I know lots of lanes
There's Rosemary Lane, and it's
not nice, nor none of 'em.  They ain't nice like Temple Gardens
Rosemary Lane
Why, the lanes in the country
are nothing like the lanes in London.  They're beautiful roads, with
tall trees growing all along 'em, and meeting one another overhead; and
there are roses and honeysuckles all about the hedges, and birds
singing, and the sun shining.  Only you don't know anything about
roses, and honeysuckles, and birds
Are there any angels there
Well, no
not as I know of
Is the devil in the country
Yes
I suppose he's there pretty much the same
as here.  Folks can be wicked anywhere, or else my Posy wouldn't have
grown up bad
Where have you been all day, little Meg
No, no
it
Oh, it couldn't; it's as nice as nice can be
You must
just have a taste of it
Did you go talking about that Posy again
We always talk about her
every day.  Mrs Blossom's
watching for her to go by all day long, you know
She'll never go by
Oh, she's certain sure to go by some day
Mrs Blossom
asks God to let her go by, every day of her life; and He's positive to
do it
If she's grown up so wicked
she didn't ought to go
back to her mother, and her such a good woman.  God won't send her back
to her mother, you'll see
said little Meg
Well, Posy'll never go home no more
She will, she will
I expect her every day, like father.
Perhaps they'll both come home to-morrow.  I wish you'd ask God to let
Posy and father come home to-morrow
I'm too bad to ask God for anything
Well, I don't know
You're not bad to me or
the children.  But I must go to bed now.  Let us kiss you afore we go.
Mrs Blossom kissed me twice, and said I was a comfort to her
Oh, my dear
little Meg!  My good little Meg
Why don't you ask God to waken baby
she answered
Maybe God'll take me and baby
and leave
you to watch for father
I only wish baby had called me Meg once afore she went
If I'd only asked God, for Christ's sake
maybe He'd have let baby wake, though I don't know whether it's a good
thing.  But now she's gone to mother, and father'll come home, and
he'll find nobody but me and Robbie, and the money safe.  Oh!  I wish
I'd asked God
Meg
I'm very poorly.  I think I'll go
to live with the angels, where mother and baby are gone
Pray God
don't take Robbie away as well as baby.  Maybe
it wasn't a good thing for baby to stay, now mother's dead, though I've
done everythink I could, and there's been nobody to take care of us but
You.  But, pray God, do let Robbie stay with me till father comes home;
for Jesus Christ's sake.  Amen
Robbie's very ill
and I want a doctor for him.  Where shall I find a
doctor
I'm just a-going to one
the best at this end o
Why, bless me
there's Dr Christie.  Stop
him, Meg, stop him
I only wish we knew where the poor little thing comes from
I'm vexed I don't
I want Robbie
I must get up and go to him directly.
It's my Robbie that's ill, and baby's dead.  I'm not ill, but Robbie's
ill, if he isn't dead, like baby, afore now.  Please to let me get up
Tell me all about it
We're in Dr Christie's house, and he'll go
and see Robbie in a minute, he says
Baby died yesterday morning
and then Robbie was took ill, and
I put them both in bed, and kissed them, and locked the door, and came
away for a doctor, and there's been nobody to take care of 'em all
night, only God
God has taken care of them
Where is it you live, deary
It's at Angel Court
But there mustn't nobody go
without me.  Please to let me get up.  I'm not ill
You're very much bruised and hurt, my poor child
I must go
I must get up, I promised mother
I'd never let anybody go into our room, and they mustn't go without me.
They're my children, please.  If your little children were ill, you'd
go to 'em wouldn't you?  Let me get up this minute
What's that
It's me, your own Kitty
where's little Meg
I don't know
she's gone away, and there's nobody but me
and baby; and baby's asleep, and so cold
What are you crying for, Robbie
I'm crying for everything
Don't you be frightened, Robbie
Kitty'll stay
outside the door, and sing pretty songs to you, till Meg comes home
Robbie! oh, Robbie
what
has become of my little Robbie
He's safe, he's here, Meg
Posy
Let me do everything for her
she's my Posy, I tell you.  You wouldn't know her again, but
I know her.  I'll do everything for her; she's my girl, my little one;
she's the apple of my eye
I think I must take you two away from this place
Oh, no, no
I must stay till father comes,
and I expect him to-day or to-morrow.  Please, sir, leave me and Robbie
here till he comes
Then you must have somebody to take care of you
No, please, sir
mother
gave me a secret to keep that I can't tell to nobody, and I promised
her I'd never let nobody come into my room till father comes home.  I
couldn't help you, and Mrs Blossom, and Kitty coming in this time; but
nobody mustn't come in again
My little girl
I dare say your mother
never thought of her secret becoming a great trouble to you.  Could you
not tell it to me
No
it's a very great secret; and please, when baby's
buried like mother, me and Robbie must go on living here alone till
father comes
Poor child
did you know baby
was quite dead
Yes
but I didn't ask God to let baby live, because
mother said she'd like to take her with her.  But I did ask Him to make
Robin well, and bring back Posy; and now there's nothing for Him to do
but let father come home.  I knew it was all true; it's in the Bible,
and if I'm not one of God's own children, it says, "Them that ask Him."
So I asked Him
Posy
you wouldn't think to go and leave little Meg alone
if I went out to buy some things, and took Robin with me
No, I'll stop
Are you really Posy
I used to be Posy
Didn't I tell you God would let your mother find you
it's
all come true, every bit of it
But God hasn't let baby live
I never asked Him for that
I didn't know as
baby was near going to die, and maybe it's a better thing for her to go
to mother and God.  Angel Court ain't a nice place to live in, and she
might have growed up bad.  But if people do grow up bad
God can make 'em good again if they'd only ask
Him
Thy faith hath saved thee; go in
peace
By Thine agony and bloody sweat; by Thy cross and passion; by
Thy precious death and burial, good Lord deliver us.  O Lamb of God,
that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon us
Oh!  Meg!  Meg
ask God for me to be made good again
You must ask Him for yourself
I don't know as it
What shall I say, Meg
If I was you
and had grow'd up wicked, and run away from
mother, I'd say, "Pray God, make me a good girl again, and let me be a
comfort to mother till she dies; for Jesus Christ's sake.  Amen
O God
do have mercy upon me, and make me good again, if
it's possible.  Help me to be a good girl to mother.  God forgive me
for Jesus Christ's sake
God'll hear me and have mercy upon me
I'm going to be
your Posy again, mother
Young woman
do you know aught of my wife, Peggy Fleming,
and her children, who used to live here?  Peggy wrote me word she'd
moved into the front attic
It's father
I'm
here, father!  Robin and me's left; but mother's dead, and baby.  Oh!
father, father!  You've come home at last
Oh
I've took care of Robin and the money, and they're safe.  Only
baby's dead.  But don't you mind much, father; it wasn't a nice place
for baby to grow up in
Tell me all about it
I promised mother
never to let nobody
come in, for fear they'd find out the box under the bed, and get into
it somehow.  We was afraid for the money, you know, but it's all safe
for your mate, father; and here's the key, and a letter as came for
mother after she was dead
But this letter's from me to Peggy
leastways it was wrote by the chaplain at the hospital, to
tell her what she must do.  The money in the box was mine, Meg, no
mate's; and I sent her word to take some of it for herself and the
children
Mother thought it belonged to a mate of yours
and we was
the more afeared of it being stole
It's my fault
I told that to mother for
fear she'd waste it if she knew it were mine.  But if I'd only
known
Don't cry, father
God took care of us, and baby too, though she's dead.  There's
nothink now that He hasn't done.  He's done everythink I asked Him
Did you ask Him to make me a good father
Why, you're always good to us, father
You never beat us much when you get drunk.  But
Robin and me always say, "Pray God, bless father."  I don't quite know
what bless means, but it's something good
Ah
He has blessed me.  When I was
ill He showed me what a poor sinner I was, and how Jesus Christ came
into the world to save sinners, "of whom I am chief."  Sure I can say
that if anybody can.  But it says in the Bible, "He loved me, and gave
Himself for me."  Yes, little Meg, He died to save me.  I felt it.  I
believed it.  I came to see that I'd nobody to fly to but Jesus if I
wanted to be aught else but a poor, wicked, lost rascal, as got drunk,
and was no better than a brute.  And so I turned it over and over in my
mind, lying abed; and now, please God, I'm a bit more like being a
Christian than I was.  I reckon that's what bless means, little Meg
Come here, little Robbie
it's father, as we've watched
for so long.-- He's a little bit afeared at first, father, but you'll
love him ever so when he knows you
I'm thinking
as this isn't the sort o
No, no
a decent man couldn't stop
here, let alone a Christian
Well, then, come home to us till you can turn yourself round
me and Mr George have talked it over,
and he says, "When little Meg's father do come, let 'em all come here:
Posy, and the little
Pray God, bless
everybody, and make them good
Well, sir
a woman of my years, as always lived in
one village all her life till I came to London, it do seem a great move
to go across the sea.  But as you all think as it
Little woman, tell us that verse again
that verse as
you've always gone and believed in, and acted on
That as mother and me heard preached from the streets
It's quite true
because it's in the Bible, and Jesus said it.  Besides, God did
everythink I asked Him.  "If ye then, being evil, know how to give good
gifts unto your children: how much more shall your Father which is in
heaven give good things to them that ask Him
</text>
