<text>
Here, John, if you have nothing to do, come in and hold the lantern for
me, 'tis but a half-hour's job to get all finished
Ay, 'twas a cruel, cruel thing to fire on so young a lad
and trouble is likely to come to
the other poor fellows taken, for Lawyer Empson says three of them will
surely hang at next Assize. I recollect
thirty years ago,
when there was a bit of a scuffle between the _Royal Sophy_ and the
_Marnhull_, they hanged four of the contrabandiers, and my old father
caught his death of cold what with going to see the poor chaps turned off
at Dorchester, and standing up to his knees in the river Frome to get a
sight of them, for all the countryside was there, and such a press there
was no place on land. There, that's enough
On Monday I'll line the ports in black, and get a brush
of red to pick out the flag; and now, my son, you've helped with the
lantern, so come down to the Why Not? and there I'll have a word with
Elzevir, who sadly needs the talk of kindly friends to cheer him, and
we'll find you a glass of Hollands to keep out autumn chills
What does this boy want
He wants the same as I want, and that's a glass of Ararat milk to keep
out autumn chills
Cows' milk is best for children such as he
John is no child; he is the same age as David, and comes from helping me
to finish David's headstone. 'Tis finished now, barring the paint upon
the ships, and, please God, by Monday night we will have it set fair and
square in the churchyard, and then the poor lad may rest in peace,
knowing he has above him Master Ratsey's best handiwork, and the parson's
verses to set forth how shamefully he came to his end
Ay, David rests in peace. 'Tis they that brought him to his end
that shall not rest in peace when their time comes. And it may come
sooner than they think
Tush, man
it was the foulest deed ever man
did; but let not thy mind brood on it, nor think how thou mayest get
thyself avenged. Leave that to Providence; for He whose wisdom lets
such things be done, will surely see they meet their due reward.
"Vengeance is Mine; I will repay, saith the Lord
There, take it, lad, if
thou wilt; 'twill do thee no good, but may do thee no harm
O rare milk of Ararat
it is
sweet and strong, and sets the heart at ease. And now get the
backgammon-board, John, and set it for us on the table
Lad, it is time for you to go home; men say that
Blackbeard walks on the first nights of winter, and some have met him
face to face betwixt this house and yours
in each man's life must come a point where
two roads part like the arms of a "Y", and that everyone must choose for
himself whether he will follow the broad and sloping path on the left or
the steep and narrow path on the right. For
if you will look
in your books, you will see that the letter "Y" is not like the Mohunes',
with both arms equal, but has the arm on the left broader and more
sloping than the arm on the right; hence ancient philosophers hold that
this arm on the left represents the easy downward road to destruction,
and the arm on the right the narrow upward path of life
O Master, however can'ee bide there preaching when the Moons be rising
from their graves
Lordsakes, we shall all be throttled like Cracky Jones
The Lord has sent evil angels among us; 'tis a terrible thing, Master
Glennie, to hear the dead men moving under our feet
Tut, tut
it is only their own fears that make
such noises terrible to the vulgar. As for Blackbeard, I am not here to
say whether guilty spirits sometimes cannot rest and are seen wandering
by men; but for these noises, they are certainly Nature's work as is the
noise of waves upon the beach. The floods have filled the vault with
water, and so the coffins getting afloat, move in some eddies that we
know not of, and jostle one another. Then being hollow, they give forth
those sounds you hear, and these are your evil angels. 'Tis very true the
dead do move beneath our feet, but 'tis because they cannot help
themselves, being carried hither and thither by the water. Fie, Ratsey
man, you should know better than to fright a boy with silly talk of
spirits when the truth is bad enough
Well, master, I am but a plain man, and know nothing about floods and
these eddies and hidden workings of Nature of which you speak; but,
saving your presence, I hold it a fond thing to make light of such
warnings as are given us. 'Tis always said, "When the Moons move, then
Moonfleet mourns"; and I have heard my father tell that the last time
they stirred was in Queen Anne's second year, when the great storm blew
men's homes about their heads. And as for frighting children, 'tis well
that heady boys should learn to stand in awe, and not pry into what does
not concern them -- or they may come to harm
My son
all that I have been able to gather is, that this
Colonel John Mohune (foolishly called Blackbeard) was the first to impair
the family fortunes by his excesses, and even let the almshouses fall to
ruin, and turned the poor away. Unless report strangely belies him, he
was an evil man, and besides numberless lesser crimes, had on his hands
the blood of a faithful servant, whom he made away with because chance
had brought to the man's ears some guilty secret of the master. Then, at
the end of his life, being filled with fear and remorse (as must always
happen with evil livers at the last), he sent for Rector Kindersley of
Dorchester to confess him, though a Protestant, and wished to make amends
by leaving that treasure so ill-gotten from King Charles (which was all
that he had to leave) for the repair and support of the almshouses. He
made a last will, which I have seen, to this effect, but without
describing the treasure further than to call it a diamond, nor saying
where it was to be found. Doubtless he meant to get it himself, sell it,
and afterwards apply the profit to his good purpose, but before he could
do so death called him suddenly to his account. So men say that he cannot
rest in his grave, not having made even so tardy a reparation, and never
will rest unless the treasure is found and spent upon the poor
Good
morning, John
and what might you be doing in the churchyard
this fine day
Well, that I can't tell you
not wishing to waste
thought on such idle matters, and having to examine this wall whether
the floods have not so damaged it as to need under-pinning; so if you
have time to gad about of a morning, get you back to my workshop and
fetch me a plasterer's hammer which I have left behind, so that I can
try this mortar
But if
you have such time to waste, John
you can come tomorrow and
help me to get new thwarts in the _Petrel_, which she badly wants
John, I have observed that you are often out and about of nights,
sometimes as late as half past seven or eight. Now, it is not seemly for
young folk to be abroad after dark, and I do not choose that my nephew
should be called a gadabout. "What's bred in the bone will come out in
the flesh", and 'twas with such loafing that your father began his wild
ways, and afterwards led my poor sister such a life as never was, till
the mercy of Providence took him away
that I will not have you out again this
evening, no, nor any other evening, after dusk. Bed is the place for
youth when night falls, but if this seem to you too early you can sit
with me for an hour in the parlour, and I will read you a discourse of
Doctor Sherlock that will banish vain thoughts, and leave you in a fit
frame for quiet sleep
on a night when
we were here to find it. I was in the graveyard myself after midday, and
all was snug and tight then. 'Twould have been awkward enough to have the
hole stand open through the day, for any passer-by to light on
I thought we should have a fall there ere long
what
with this drought parching the ground, and the trampling at the edge when
we move out the side stone to get in, but there is no mischief done
beyond what can be easily made good. A gravestone or two and a few spades
of earth will make all sound again. Leave that to me
Be careful what you do
lest someone see you digging, and scent us out
Make your mind easy
I have dug too often in this
graveyard for any to wonder if they see me with a spade
I was in Dorchester three days ago, and heard men say it will go hard
with the poor chaps who had the brush with the _Elector_ last summer.
Judge Barentyne comes on Assize next week, and that old fox Maskew has
driven down to Taunton to get at him before and coach him back; making
out to him that the Law's arm is weak in these parts against the
contraband, and must be strengthened by some wholesome hangings
They are a cruel pair
and we shall have new gibbets on
Ridgedown for leading lights. Once I get even with Maskew, the other may
go hang, ay, and they may hang me too
The Devil send him to meet me one dark night on the down alone
and I will give him a pistol's mouth to look down, and
spoil his face for him
No, thou wilt not
none shall lay hand on Maskew but I. So mark that, lad, that
when his day of reckoning comes, 'tis _I_ will reckon with him
There is a boy of Trenchard's
there is a boy of
Trenchard's that I mistrust; he is for ever wandering in the graveyard,
and I have seen him a score of times sitting on this tomb and looking out
to sea. This very night, when the wind fell at sundown, and we were hung
up with sails flapping, three miles out, and waited for the dark to get
the sweeps, I took my glass to scan the coast-line, and lo, here on the
tomb-top sits Master Trenchard. I could not see his face, but knew him by
his cut, and fear the boy sits there to play the spy and then tells
Maskew
You're right
and many a time when I have sat in The Wood, and watched the
Manor to see Maskew safe at home before we ran a cargo, I have seen this
boy too go round about the place with a hangdog look, scanning the house
as if his life depended on't
'Tis a false scent. The
boy is well enough, and simple, and has told me many a time he seeks the
churchyard because there is a fine view to be had there of the sea, and
'tis the sea he loves. A month ago, when the high tide set, and this
vault was so full of water that we could not get in, I came with Elzevir
to make out if the floods were going down inside, or what eddy 'twas that
set the casks tapping one against another. So as I lay on the ground with
my ear glued close against the wall, who should march round the church
but John Trenchard, Esquire, not treading delicately like King Agag, or
spying, but just come on a voyage of discovery for himself. For in the
church on Sunday, when we heard the tapping in the vault below, my young
gentleman was scared enough; but afterwards, being told by Parson
Glennie -- who should know better -- that such noises were not made by
ghosts, but by the Mohunes at sea in their coffins, he plucks up heart,
and comes down on the Monday to see if they are still afloat. So there he
caught me lying like a zany on the ground. You may guess I stood at
attention soon enough, but told him I was looking at the founds to see if
they wanted underpinning from the floods. And so I set his mind at ease,
for 'tis a simple child, and packed him off to get my dubbing hammer. And
I think the boy will not be here so often now to frighten honest
Parmiter, for I have weaved him some pretty tales of Blackbeard, and he
has a wholesome scare of meeting the Colonel. But after dark I pledge my
life that neither he nor any other in the town would pass the churchyard
wall, no, not for a thousand pounds
The lad is
a brave lad; I would he were my son. He is David's age, and will make a
good sailor later on
No more of that; the words aren't
to our taste tonight, but come as wry as if the parson called _Old
Hundred_ and I tuned up with _Veni_
Not but what the labourer is worthy of his hire
so spile that little breaker of Schiedam, and send a rummer round to
keep off midnight chills
Now, lads, glasses full and bumpers for a toast. And here's to
Blackbeard, to Father Blackbeard, who watches over our treasure better
than he did over his own; for were it not the fear of him that keeps off
idle feet and prying eyes, we should have the gaugers in, and our store
ransacked twenty times
Silence. Are you mad, or has the liquor
mastered you? Are you Revenue-men that you dare shout and roister? or
contrabandiers with the lugger in the offing, and your life in your hand.
You make noise enough to wake folk in Moonfleet from their beds
Tut, man
and if they waked, they would but
pull the blankets tight about their ears, and say 'twas Blackbeard piping
his crew of lost Mohunes to help him dig for treasure
Ay, Master Elzevir is right;
let us away, the night is far spent, and we have nothing but the sweeps
to take the lugger out of sight by dawn
O Elzevir, save me, save me; I am not come to spy
Lie still, lad, there is none here will hurt thee, and drink this
For
he is run off I know not where, but as he makes his
bed, must he lie on't; and if he run away for his pleasure, may stay away
for mine. I have been pestered with this lot too long, and only bore with
him for poor sister Martha's sake; but 'tis after his father that the
graceless lad takes, and thus rewards me
all of a shake
For as soon as I heard Tewkesbury tell of screams and wailings in the
air, and no one to be seen
I guessed that some poor soul
had got shut in the vault, and was there crying for his life. And to this
I was not guided by mother wit, but by a surer and a sadder token. Thou
wilt have heard how thirteen years ago a daft body we called Cracky Jones
was found one morning in the churchyard dead. He was gone missing for a
week before, and twice within that week I had sat through the night upon
the hill behind the church, watching to warn the lugger with a flare she
could not put in for the surf upon the beach. And on those nights, the
air being still though a heavy swell was running, I heard thrice or more
a throttled scream come shivering across the meadows from the graveyard.
Yet beyond turning my blood cold for a moment, it gave me little trouble,
for evil tales have hung about the church; and though I did not set much
store by the old yarns of Blackbeard piping up his crew, yet I thought
strange things might well go on among the graves at night. And so I never
budged, nor stirred hand or foot to save a fellow-creature in his agony.

'But when the surf fell enough for the boats to get ashore, and Greening
held a lantern for me to jump down into the passage, after we had got the
side out of the tomb, the first thing the light fell on at the bottom
was a white face turned skyward. I have not forgot that, lad, for 'twas
Cracky Jones lay there, with his face thin and shrunk, yet all the doited
look gone out of it. We tried to force some brandy in his mouth, but he
was stark and dead; with knees drawn up towards his head, so stiff we had
to lift him doubled as he was, and lay him by the churchyard wall for
some of us to find next day. We never knew how he got there, but guessed
that he had hung about the landers some night when they ran a cargo, and
slipped in when the watchman's back was turned. Thus when Sam Tewkesbury
spoke of screams and wailings, and no one to be seen, I knew what 'twas,
but never guessed who might be shut in there, not knowing thou wert gone
amissing. So ran to Ratsey to get his help to slip the side stone off,
for by myself I cannot stir it now, though once I did when I was younger;
and from him learned that thou wert lost, and knew whom we should find
before we got there
There we found thee
stretched out on the sand,
senseless and far gone; and there was something in thy face that made me
think of David when he lay stretched out in his last sleep. And so I put
thee on my shoulder and bare thee back, and here thou art in David's
room, and shalt find board and bed with me as long as thou hast mind
to
John, there is only Elzevir and I who know that you have seen the
inside of our bond-cellar; and 'tis well, for if some of the landers
guessed, they might have ugly ways to stop all chance of prating. So
keep our secret tight, and we'll keep yours, for "he that refraineth his
lips is wise
Not that a Christian man has aught to be ashamed of in landing a cask of
good liquor, for we read that when Israel came out of Egypt, the chosen
people were bid trick their oppressors out of jewels of silver and jewels
of gold; and among those cruel taskmasters, Some of the worst must
certainly have been the tax-gatherers
Good day to you, Mister Maskew
Hold not out
your hand to me lest I spit on it. 'Tis like your snivelling cant to
write sweet psalms for smuggling rogues and try to frighten honest men
with your judgements
For
I will not have thee taught any more by a
psalm-singing hypocrite that calls thy father murderer
Now, Sir Parson, the law has given into
your fool's hands a power over this churchyard, and 'tis your trade to
stop unseemly headlines from being set up within its walls, or once set
up, to turn them out forthwith. So I give you a week's grace, and if
tomorrow sennight yon stone be not gone, I will have it up and flung in
pieces outside the wall
I can neither turn the stone out myself, nor
stop you from turning it out if you so mind; but if you do this thing,
and dishonour the graveyard, there is One stronger than either you or I
that must be reckoned with
Then, take that for an unmannerly parson, for I would not foul my
fist with your mealy chops
There
take it, and I wish it may bring light into your
dark heart, and show you what a wicked thing it is to leave your own
kith and kin and go to dwell in a tavern
You are no
welcome visitor in my house, and I would sooner see your back than see
your face, but sit at this table you shall not
Heyday, sirs
let us have no brawling
here, the more so as this worshipful gentleman is a magistrate and
something of a friend of mine
Come, Mr. Clerk, the pin hath but
another minute's hold; rehearse what has been done, for I must get this
lease delivered and off to Bridport, where much business waits
Tell them to have the horses round, the pin will be out in a minute, and
'twill save time
I offer 13 a year for the inn
I offer 20
Kind sir, I warn ye not to trifle; I have no time to waste in April
fooling, and he who makes offers in sport will have to stand to them
in earnest
Are ye mad, sirs, and
you, Master Block, save your breath, and spare your money; and if this
worshipful gentleman must become innkeeper at any price, let him have the
place in the Devil's name, and I will give thee the Mermaid, at Bridport,
with a snug parlour, and ten times the trade of this
Congratulate you, sir
you are the
landlord of the poorest pothouse in the Duchy at 200 a year
Well, I'm hanged
Well, gentlemen, there seems to be
here some personal matter into which I shall not attempt to spy. Two
hundred pounds more or less is but a flea-bite to the Duchy; and if you,
sir
wish later on to change your mind, and be quit
of the bargain, I shall not be the man to stand in your way. In any
case, I imagine 'twill be time enough to seal the lease if I send it
from London
No
business is business, Mr. Bailiff, and the post uncertain
to parts so distant from the capital as these; so I'll thank you to make
out the lease to me now, and on May Day place me in possession
So be it then
but blame me not for
driving hard bargains; for the Duchy, whose servant I am
is no daughter of the horse-leech. Fill in the figures, Mr.
Scrutton, and let us away
Signed,
sealed, and delivered
Tut, man, take things not
too hardly. Thou shalt have the Mermaid at 20 a year, which will be
worth ten times as much to thee as this dreary place; and canst send thy
son to Bryson's school, where they will make a scholar of him, for he is
a brave lad
I thank your worship
for all your goodness; but when I
quit this place, I shall not set up my staff again at any inn door
Then I wish you good day
Come, Master Block
there is time
enough before May Day to think what we shall do, so let us take a cup of
tea, and after that I will play you a game of backgammon
Life is like a game of hazard, and surely none ever flung worse throws,
or made so little of them as I
There is word come from the shippers that we must take a cargo, for that
they cannot keep the stuff by them longer at St. Malo. Now with this
devil at the Manor prowling round, I dare not risk the job on Moonfleet
beach, nor yet stow the liquor in the vault; so I have told the
_Bonaventure_ to put her nose into this bay tomorrow afternoon that
Maskew may see her well, and then to lie out again to sea, as she has
done a hundred times before. But instead of waiting in the offing, she
will make straight off up Channel to a little strip of shingle underneath
Hoar Head
Men used
to choose that spot in good old times to beach a cargo before the
passage to the vault was dug; and there is a worked-out quarry they
called Pyegrove's Hole, not too far off up the down, and choked with
brambles, where we can find shelter for a hundred kegs. So we'll be under
Hoar Head at five tomorrow morn with the pack-horses. I wish we could be
earlier, for the sun rises thereabout, but the tide will not serve
before
What ails thee, boy
I thought I heard someone at the door
did you not feel a
cold wind as if it was open
It is but the night is sharp, the spring sets in very chill; slip the
bolt, and sit down again
Elzevir
I think there was one listening at the door, and
there may be others in the house, so before we sit again let us take
candle and go through the rooms to make sure none are prying on us
'Twas but the wind that blew the door open
Nay, thou shalt not go alone
'Tis the cold
has chilled thy heart and made thee timid of that skulking rascal of
the Manor; fill me a glass of Ararat milk, and one for thyself, and let
us to bed
There is a fortnight yet to run, and then you and I shall be cut adrift
from our moorings. It is a cruel thing to see the doors of this house
closed on me, where I and mine have lived a century or more, but I must
see it. Yet let us not be too cast down, but try to make something even
of this worst of throws
We will have no more of innkeeping
I have been sick and
tired of it this many a day, and care not now to see men abuse good
liquor and addle their silly pates to fill my purse. And I have
something, boy, put snug away in Dorchester town that will give us bread
to eat and beer to drink, even if the throws run still deuce-ace. But we
must seek a roof to shelter us when the Why Not? is shut, and 'tis best
we leave this Moonfleet of ours for a season, till Maskew finds a rope's
end long enough to hang himself withal. So, when our work is done
tomorrow night, we will walk out along the cliff to Worth, and take a
look at a cottage there that Damen spoke about, with a walled orchard at
the back, and fuchsia hedge in front --'tis near the Lobster Inn, and has
a fine prospect of the sea; and if we live there, we will leave the vault
alone awhile and use this Pyegrove's Hole for storehouse, till the watch
is relaxed
Thou'rt tired; so let's to bed, for we shall get
little sleep tomorrow night
Here is a Common Prayer which I had meant to send thee with thy
clothes. It was thy poor mother's, and I pray may some day be as precious
a balm to thee as it once was to that godly woman
Well, Jack, so thou and Elzevir are leaving Moonfleet, and I fain would
flit myself, but then who would be left to lead the old folk to their
last homes, for dead do not bury their dead in these days
That need not keep you, Master; they will find others to fill your
place
Nay, child, you know not what you say. They may find men to dig a grave,
and perhaps to fill it, but who shall toss the mould when Parson Glennie
gives the "earth to earth"; it takes a mort of knowledge to make it
rattle kindly on the coffin-lid
Club him
Shoot
him
Hang him
Lads, ye remember how I said when this man's reckoning day should come
'twas I would reckon with him, and had your promise to it. Nor is it
right that any should lay hand on him but I, for is he not sealed to me
with my son's blood? So touch him not, but bind him hand and foot, and
leave him here with me and go your ways; there is no time to lose, for
the light grows apace
Unloose me, villain, and let me go. I
am a magistrate of the county, and if you do not, I will have you
gibbeted on this cliff-top
Talk not to me of gibbets, for thou wilt neither hang nor see men hanged
again. A month ago thou satst under my roof, watching the flame burn down
till the pin dropped and gave thee right to turn me out from my old home.
And now this morning thou shalt watch that flame again, for I will give
thee one inch more of candle, and when the pin drops, will put this thine
own pistol to thy head, and kill thee with as little thought as I would
kill a stoat or other vermin
Spare me
spare me, Mr. Block: I have an only daughter,
a young girl with none but me to guard her. Would you rob a young girl of
her only help and cast her on the world? Would you have them find me dead
upon the cliff and bring me back to her a bloody corpse
And had I not an only son, and was he not brought
back to me a bloody corpse? Whose pistol was it that flashed in his face
and took his life away? Do you not know? It was this very same that shall
flash in yours. So make what peace you may with God, for you have little
time to make it
Thou hast a warm heart, lad
and 'tis for that I like thee.
And if thou hast a chief place in thy heart for me, I cannot grumble if
thou find a little room there even for our enemies. Would I could set thy
soul at ease, and do all that thou askest. In the first flush of wrath,
when he was taken plotting against our lives, it seemed a little thing
enough to take his evil life. But now these morning airs have cooled me,
and it goes against my will to shoot a cowering hound tied hand and foot,
even though he had murdered twenty sons of mine. I have thought if
there be any way to spare his life, and leave this hour's agony to read a
lesson not to be unlearned until the grave. For such poltroons dread
death, and in one hour they die a hundred times. But there is no way out:
his life lies in the scale against the lives of all our men, yes, and thy
life too. They left him in my hands well knowing I should take account of
him; and am I now to play them false and turn him loose again to hang
them all? It cannot be
Yield at the King's command: you
are our prisoners
We are lost
it is the Posse; but if we die, this
traitor shall go before us
Shoot, shoot, in the Devil's name
or I am a
dead man
Run for the cliff-side
get close in, and they
cannot touch thee
What, have they hit thee too
Can you stand, John? Is the bone
broken
I cannot stand
there is something gone in my leg, and I feel
blood running down into my boot
They have broke the leg, though it bleeds little
We
have no time to splice it here, but I will put a kerchief round, and
while I wrap it, listen to how we lie, and then choose what we shall do
We have a quarter of an hour before the Posse can get down to us.
But come they will, and thou canst judge what chance we have to save
liberty or life with that carrion lying by us'-- and he jerked his thumb
at Maskew
Forgive me,
lad
if I have spoke too roughly. There is yet another way
that we may try; and if thou hadst but two whole legs, I would have tried
it, but now 'tis little short of madness. And yet, if thou fear'st not, I
will still try it. Just at the end of this flat ledge, farthest from
where the bridle-path leads down, but not a hundred yards from where we
stand, there is a sheep-track leading up the cliff. It starts where the
under-cliff dies back again into the chalk face, and climbs by slants and
elbow-turns up to the top. The shepherds call it the Zigzag, and even
sheep lose their footing on it; and of men I never heard but one had
climbed it, and that was lander Jordan, when the Excise was on his heels,
half a century back. But he that tries it stakes all on head and foot,
and a wounded bird like thee may not dare that flight. Yet, if thou art
content to hang thy life upon a hair, I will carry thee some way; and
where there is no room to carry, thou must down on hands and knees and
trail thy foot
Yes
dear Master Elzevir, let us get
to it quickly; and if we fall, 'tis better far to die upon the rocks
below than to wait here for them to hale us off to jail
Faugh
Tush
it is thy heart that fails thee, and 'tis too late now
to change counsel. We have fifteen minutes yet to win or lose with, and
if we gain the cliff-top in that time we shall have an hour's start, or
more, for they will take all that to search the under-cliff. And Maskew,
too, will keep them in check a little, while they try to bring the life
back to so good a man. But if we fall, why, we shall fall together, and
outwit their cunning. So shut thy eyes, and keep them tight until I bid
thee open them
John, I am going to stop; but open not thy eyes till I have set thee
down and bid thee
The path is too narrow here for me to carry thee, and thou must creep
round this corner on thy hands and knees. But have a care to keep thy
outer hand near to the inner, and the balance of thy body to the cliff,
for there is no room to dance hornpipes here. And hold thy eyes fixed on
the chalk-wall, looking neither down nor seaward
Quicken thy pace, lad, if thou canst, the time is
short
Keep thine eyes shut, John
and count up numbers loud to me,
that I may know thou art not turning faint
One, two,
three
We must have taken ten minutes
to get here, and in five more they will be on the under-cliff; and if we
ever reach the top, who knows but they have left a guard! No, no, they
will not leave a guard, for not a man knows of the Zigzag; and, if they
knew, they would not guess that we should try it. We have but fifty yards
to go to win, and now this cursed giddy fit has come upon the child, and
he will fall and drag me with him; or they will see us from below, and
pick us off like sitting guillemots against the cliff-face
there is no time to play the woman;
another minute of this and we are lost. Pluck up thy courage, keep thy
eyes to the cliff, and forward
I cannot, I cannot; if I open my eyes, or
move hand or foot, I shall fall on the rocks below
Nay, move thou must, and 'tis better
to risk falling now, than fall for certain with another bullet in thee
later on
Zounds, they are down already
and have found Maskew's
body; it is all up; another minute and they will see us
Brave lad! Once
creep round this turn, and I will pick thee up again. There is but fifty
yards to go, and we shall foil these devils yet
We have made something of this throw
and are safe for
another hour, though I thought thy giddy head had ruined us
We must be gone. They will not be back for some time yet, and,
when they come, will not think to search closely for us hereabouts; but
that we cannot risk, and must get clear away. This leg of thine will keep
us tied for weeks, and we must find some place where we can lie hid, and
tend it. Now, I know such a hiding-hole in Purbeck, which they call
Joseph's Pit, and thither we must go; but it will take all the day to get
there, for it is seven miles off, and I am older than I was, and thou too
heavy a babe to carry over lightly
I am beat, and can carry thee no farther for this
present, though there is not now much farther to go. We have passed
Purbeck Gates, and these walls will screen us from prying eyes if any
chance comer pass along the down. And as for the soldiers, they are not
like to come this way so soon, and if they come I cannot help it; for
weariness and the sun's heat have made my feet like lead. A score of
years ago I would have laughed at such a task, but now 'tis different,
and I must take a little sleep and rest till the air is cooler. So sit
thee here and lean thy shoulder up against the wall, and thus thou canst
look through this broken place and watch both ways. Then, if thou see
aught moving, wake me up.-- I wish I had a thimbleful of powder to make
this whistle sound
'Tis but a lad scaring rooks with a blunderbuss; we
will not stir unless he makes this way
The boy is coming straight for the wall; we
shall have to show ourselves'; and while he spoke there was a rattle of
falling stones, where the boy was partly climbing and partly pulling
down the dry wall, and so Elzevir stood up. The boy looked frightened,
and made as if he would run off, but Elzevir passed him the time of day
in a civil voice, and he stopped and gave it back.

'What are you doing here, son
Scaring rooks for Farmer Topp
Have you got a charge of powder to spare
I want to get a rabbit in the gorse for supper, and have dropped
my flask. Maybe you've seen a flask in walking through the furrows
No, I have seen no flask; but very like have not come the same way as
you, being sent out here from Lowermoigne; and as for powder, I have
little left, and must save that for the rooks, or shall get a beating for
my pains
Come
give me a charge or two, and there is half a crown
for thee
Give flask and
all
and thou shalt have a crown
What shot have you
What! have you dropped your shot-flask too
Nay, but my shot are over small; if thou hast a slug or two, I would
take them
I have a dozen goose-slugs, No. 2
but thou
must pay a shilling for them. My master says I never am to use them,
except I see a swan or buzzard, or something fit to cook, come over: I
shall get a sound beating for my pains, and to be beat is worth a
shilling
If thou art beat, be beat for something more
Give me that firelock that thou carriest, and take a guinea
Nay, I know not
there are queer tales afloat at
Lowermoigne, how that a Posse met the Contraband this morning, and shots
were fired, and a gauger got an overdose of lead -- maybe of goose slugs
No. 2. The smugglers got off clear, but they say the hue and cry is up
already, and that a head-price will be fixed of twenty pound. So if I
sell you a fowling-piece, maybe I shall do wrong, and have the Government
upon me as well as my master
'Tis for that very reason
that I want the firelock.
These smugglers are roaming loose, and a pistol is a poor thing to stop
such wicked rascals on a lone hill-side. Come, come, _thou_ dost not want
a piece to guard thee; they will not hurt a boy
Let us move on
There
this is Joseph's Pit, and here we must lie hid until
thy foot is sound again. Once get to the bottom safe, and we can laugh at
Posse, and hue and cry, and at the King's Crown itself. They cannot
search all the quarries, and are not like to search any of them, for they
are cowards at the best, and hang much on tales of the Mandrive. Ay, and
such tales are true enough, for there lurk gases at the bottom of most of
the shafts, like devils to strangle any that go down. And if they do come
down this Joseph's Pit, we still have nineteen chances in a score they
cannot thread the workings. But last, if they come down, and thread the
path, there is this pistol and a rusty matchlock; and before they come to
where we lie, we can hold the troop at bay and sell our lives so dear
they will not care to buy them
Thou must lie here for a month or two, lad
The days of our age are threescore years and ten; and though men be so
strong that they come to fourscore years; yet is their strength then but
labour and sorrow; so soon passeth it away, and we are gone.

'And as for me, my feet were almost
Who goes there
Who goes there
Answer, or I fire
_Prosper the Bonaventure_
I would have let thee hear soon enough that 'twas
I, if I had known I was so near thy lair; but 'tis more than a man's life
is worth to creep down moleholes in the dark, and on a night like this.
And why I could not get out the gibberish about the _Bonaventure_ sooner,
was because I matched my shin to break a stone, and lost the wager and my
breath together. And when my wind returned 'tis very like that I was
trapped into an oath, which is sad enough for me, who am sexton, and so
to say in small orders of the Church of England as by law established
John, these two months have changed thee from boy to man. Thou wast a
child when I turned that morning as we went up Hoar Head with the
pack-horses, and looked back on thee and Elzevir below, and Maskew lying
on the ground. 'Twas a sorry business, and has broken up the finest gang
that ever ran a cargo, besides driving thee and Elzevir to hide in caves
and dens of the earth. Thou shouldst have come with us that morn; not
have stayed behind. The work was too rough for boys: the skipper should
have piped the reefing-hands
Nay, Master Ratsey, where Master Block stays, there I
must stay too, and where he goes I follow
God save us, what a night
God save poor souls at sea
Amen to that
and would that every Amen I have said had come
as truly from my heart. There will be sea enough on Moonfleet Beach this
night to lift a schooner to the top of it, and launch her down into the
fields behind. I had as lief be in the Mohune vault as in this fearsome
place, and liefer too, if half the tales men tell are true of faces that
may meet one here. For God's sake let us light a fire, for I caught sight
of a store of driftwood before that sickly candle went out
Ah
I was shrammed with wet and cold, and half-dead with
this baffling wind. It is a blessed thing a fire
and needful now, if ever. My soul is very low, lad, for
this place has strange memories for me; and I recollect, forty years ago
(when I was just a boy like thee), old lander Jordan's gang, and I among
them, were in this very cave on such another night. I was new to the
trade then, as thou might be, and could not sleep for noise of wind and
sea. And in the small hours of an autumn morning, as I lay here, just
where we lie now, I heard such wailing cries above the storm, ay, and
such shrieks of women, as made my blood run cold and have not yet forgot
them. And so I woke the gang who were all deep asleep as seasoned
contrabandiers should be; but though we knew that there were
fellow-creatures fighting for their lives in the seething flood beneath
us, we could not stir hand or foot to save them, for nothing could be
seen for rain and spray, and 'twas not till next morning that we learned
the _Florida_ had foundered just below with every soul on board. Ay,
'tis a queer life, and you and Block are in a queer strait now, and that
is what I came to tell you. See here
There -- that's the bill
and a vastly fine piece it is, and
yet I wish that 'twas played with other actors. Now, in Moonfleet there
is none that know your hiding-place, and not a man, nor woman either,
that would tell if they knew it ten times over. But fifty pounds for
Elzevir, and twenty pounds for an empty pumpkin-top like thine, is a fair
round sum, and there are vagabonds about this countryside scurvy enough
to try to earn it. And some of these have set the Excisemen on _my_
track, with tales of how it is I that know where you lie hid, and bring
you meat and drink. So it is that I cannot stir abroad now, no, not even
to the church o
My heart is very heavy, John, tonight, to think how all the good old
times are gone, and how that Master Block can never again go back to
Moonfleet. It was as fine a lander's crew as ever stood together, not
even excepting Captain Jordan's, and now must all be broken up; for this
mess of Maskew's has made the place too hot to hold us, and 'twill be
many a long day before another cargo's run on Moonfleet Beach. But how to
get the liquor out of Mohune's vault I know not; and that reminds me, I
have something in my pouches for Elzevir an
Yes, yes, it is a sad break-up, and what will happen to the old Why Not?
I cannot tell. None have passed the threshold since you left, only the
Duchy men came and sealed the doors, making it felony to force them. And
even these lawyer chaps know not where the right stands, for Maskew never
paid a rent and died before he took possession; and Master Block's term
is long expired, and now he is in hiding and an outlaw.

'But I am sorriest for Maskew's girl, who grows thin and pale as any
lily. For when the soldiers brought the body back, the men stood at their
doors and cursed the clay, and some of the fishwives spat at it; and old
Mother Veitch, who kept house for him, swore he had never paid her a
penny of wages, and that she was afear'd to stop under the same roof with
such an evil corpse. So out she goes from the Manor House, leaving that
poor child alone in it with her dead father; and there were not wanting
some to say it was all a judgement; and called to mind how Elzevir had
been once left alone with his dead son at the Why Not? But in the village
there was not a man that doubted that 'twas Block had sent Maskew to his
account, nor did I doubt it either, till a tale got abroad that he was
killed by a stray shot fired by the Posse from the cliff. And when they
took the hue-and-cry papers to the Manor House for his lass, as next of
kin, to sign the requisition, she would not set her name to it, saying
that Block had never lifted his hand against her father when they met at
Moonfleet or on the road, and that she never would believe he was the man
to let his anger sleep so long and then attack an enemy in cold blood.
And as for thee, she knew thee for a trusty lad, who would not do such
things himself, nor yet stand by whilst others did them
Well, seeing there was no one save this poor girl to look to putting
Maskew under ground, I must needs take it in hand myself; roughing
together a sound coffin and digging as fair a grave for him as could be
made for any lord, except that lords have always vaults to sleep in. Then
I got Mother Nutting's fish-cart to carry the body down, for there was
not a man in Moonfleet would lay hand to the coffin to bear it; and off
we started down the street, I leading the wall-eyed pony, and the coffin
following on the trolley. There was no mourner to see him home except his
daughter, and she without a bit of black upon her, for she had no time to
get her crapes; and yet she needed none, having grief writ plain enough
upon her face.

'When we got to the churchyard, a crowd was gathered there, men and women
and children, not only from Moonfleet but from Ringstave and Monkbury.
They were not come to mourn, but to make gibes to show how much they
hated him, and many of the children had old pots and pans for rough
music. Parson Glennie was waiting in the church, and there he waited, for
the cart could not pass the gate, and we had no bearers to lift the
coffin. Then I looked round to see if there was any that would help to
lift, but when I tried to meet a man's eye he looked away, and all I
could see was the bitter scowling faces of the women. And all the while
the girl stood by the trolley looking on the ground. She had a little
kerchief over her head that let the hair fall about her shoulders, and
her face was very white, with eyes red and swollen through weeping. But
when she knew that all that crowd was there to mock her father, and that
there was not a man would raise hand to lift him, she laid her head upon
the coffin, hiding her face in her hands, and sobbed bitterly
I am a rough man
but tender-like withal, and when I
saw her weep, I ran off to the church to tell the parson how it was, and
beg him to come out and try if we two could lift the coffin. So out he
came just as he was, with surplice on his back and book in hand. But when
the men knew what he was come for, and looked upon that tall, fair girl
bowed down over her father's coffin, their hearts were moved, and first
Tom Tewkesbury stepped out with a sheepish air, and then Garrett, and
then four others. So now we had six fine bearers, and 'twas only women
that could still look hard and scowling, and even they said no word, and
not a boy beat on his pan.

'Then Mr. Glennie, seeing he was not wanted for bearer, changed to
parson, and strikes up with "I am the resurrection and the life". 'Tis a
great text, John, and though I've heard it scores and scores of times, it
never sounded sweeter than on that day. For 'twas a fine afternoon, and
what with there being no wind, but the sun bright and the sea still and
blue, there was a calm on everything that seemed to say "Rest in Peace,
Rest in Peace". And was not the spring with us, and the whole land
preaching of resurrection, the birds singing, trees and flowers waking
from their winter sleep, and cowslips yellow on the very graves? Then
surely 'tis a fond thing to push our enmities beyond the grave, and
perhaps even _he_ was not so bad as we held him, but might have tricked
himself into thinking he did right to hunt down the contraband. I know
not how it was, but something like this came into my mind, and did
perhaps to others, for we got him under without a sign or word from any
that stood there. There was not one sound heard inside the church or out,
except Mr. Glennie's reading and my amens, and now and then a sob from
the poor child. But when 'twas all over, and the coffin safe lowered, up
she walks to Tom Tewkesbury saying, through her tears, "I thank you, sir,
for your kindness," and holds out her hand. So he took it, looking askew,
and afterwards the five other bearers; and then she walked away by
herself, and no one moved till she had left the churchyard gate, letting
her pass out like a queen
And so she is a queen
So she is, and fairer than any queen to boot
Ay, she is fair enough
but white and thin. Mayhap she would make a match
for thee -- if ye were man and woman, and not boy and girl; if she were not
rich, and thou not poor and an outlaw; and -- if she would have thee
John, pass me the flask; I can hear voices mounting
the cliff of those poor souls of the _Florida_
What is this, son
It is only Scripture verses
which I got some time ago.
'Tis said they are a spell against Spirits of Evil, and I was reading
them to keep off the loneliness of this place, when you came in and made
me drop them
'Tis well written
and good verses enough, but he who put
them together for a spell knew little how to keep off evil spirits, for
this would not keep a flea from a black cat. I could do ten times better
myself, being not without some little understanding of such things
and though I never yet met any from the other
world, they would not take me unprepared if they should come. For I have
spent half my life in graveyard or church, and 'twould be as foolish to
move about such places and have no words to meet an evil visitor withal,
as to bear money on a lonely road without a pistol. So one day, after
Parson Glennie had preached from Habakkuk, how that "the vision is for an
appointed time, but at the end it shall speak and not lie: though it
tarry, wait for it, because it will surely come, it will not tarry", I
talked with him on these matters, and got from him three or four rousing
texts such as spectres fear more than a burned child does the fire. I
will learn them all to thee some day, but for the moment take this Latin
which I got by heart: "_Abite a me in ignem etenum qui paratus est
diabolo at angelis ejus."_ Englished it means: "Depart from me into
eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels," but hath at least
double that power in Latin. So get that after me by heart, and use it
freely if thou art led to think that there are evil presences near, and
in such lonely places as this cave
He was but a poor divine who wrote
this, for beside choosing ill-fitting verses, he cannot even give right
numbers to them. For see here, "The days of our age are three-score years
and ten; and though men be so strong that they come to four-score years,
yet is their strength then but labour and sorrow, so soon passeth it away
and we are gone", and he writes Psalm 90,21. Now I have said that Psalm
with parson verse and verse about for every sleeper we have laid to rest
in churchyard mould for thirty years; and know it hath not twenty verses
in it, all told, and this same verse is the clerk's verse and cometh
tenth, and yet he calls it twenty-first. I wish I had here a Common
Prayer, and I would prove my words
I must be away
though loath to leave this good fire
and liquor. I would fain wait till Elzevir was back, and fainer till this
gale was spent, but it may not be; the nights are short, and I must be
out of Purbeck before sunrise. So tell Block what I say, that he and thou
must flit; and pass the flask, for I have fifteen miles to walk against
the wind, and must keep off these midnight chills
feet
deep
well
north
Fourscore feet deep _in the north well_
fourscore feet deep in the
well _to north_
fourscore feet _north of the deep well_
How
goes the night, Watchman? This is the second time that I have caught thee
napping, and didst sleep so sound it might have taken a cold pistol's
lips against thy forehead to awake thee
I believe thou art right
for why should the
figures all be false if there is no hidden trickery in it? If't had been
one or two were wrong, I would have said some priest had copied them in
error; for priests are thriftless folk, and had as lief set a thing down
wrong as right; but with all wrong there is no room for chance. So if he
means it, let us see what 'tis he means. First he says 'tis in a well.
But what well? and the depth he gives of fourscore feet is over-deep for
any well near Moonfleet
And now I come to think on it
'tis more likely that
the well he speaks of was not in these parts at all. For see here, this
Blackbeard was a spendthrift, squandering all he had, and would most
surely have squandered the jewel too, could he have laid his hands on it.
And yet 'tis said he did not, therefore I think he must have stowed it
safe in some place where afterwards he could not get at it. For if't had
been near Moonfleet, he would have had it up a hundred times. But thou
hast often talked of Blackbeard and his end with Parson Glennie; so speak
up, lad, and let us hear all that thou know'st of these tales. Maybe
'twill help us to come to some judgement
John, the diamond is yet
at Carisbrooke. I wonder I had not thought of Carisbrooke before you
spoke; and there he can get fourscore feet, and twice and thrice
fourscore, if he list, and none to stop him. 'Tis Carisbrooke. I have
heard of that well from childhood, and once saw it when a boy. It is dug
in the Castle Keep, and goes down fifty fathoms or more into the bowels
of the chalk below. It is so deep no man can draw the buckets on a winch,
but they must have an ass inside a tread-wheel to hoist them up. Now,
why this Colonel John Mohune, whom we call Blackbeard, should have chosen
a well at all to hide his jewel in, I cannot say; but given he chose a
well, 'twas odds he would choose Carisbrooke. 'Tis a known place, and I
have heard that people come as far as from London to see the castle and
this well
When he says the "well north
'tis clear he means
to take a compass and mark north by needle, and at eighty feet in the
well-side below that point will lie the treasure. I fixed yesterday with
the _Bonaventure's_ men that they should lie underneath this ledge
tomorrow sennight, if the sea be smooth, and take us off on the
spring-tide. At midnight is their hour, and I said eight days on, to give
thy leg a week wherewith to strengthen. I thought to make for St. Malo,
and leave thee at the _Eperon d'Or_ with old Chauvelais, where thou
couldst learn to patter French until these evil times have blown by. But
now, if thou art set to hunt this treasure up, and hast a mind to run thy
head into a noose; why, I am not so old but that I too can play the fool,
and we will let St. Malo be, and make for Carisbrooke. I know the castle;
it is not two miles distant from Newport, and at Newport we can lie at
the Bugle, which is an inn addicted to the contraband. The king's writ
runs but lamely in the Channel Isles and Wight, and if we wear some other
kit than this, maybe we shall find Newport as safe as St. Malo
The night turns chill
Dear Master Elzevir, you have watched over me all this while and tended
me kinder than any father could his son; and 'tis to you I owe my life,
and that my leg is strong again. Yet I am restless this night, and beg
that you will give me leave to climb the shaft and walk abroad. It is two
months and more that I have been in the cave and seen nothing but stone
walls, and I would gladly tread once more upon the Down
Say not that I have saved thy life
'twas I who
brought thy life in danger; and but for me thou mightst even now be
lying snug abed at Moonfleet, instead of hiding in the chambers of these
rocks. So speak not of that, but if thou hast a mind to air thyself an
hour, I see little harm in it. These wayward fancies fall on men as they
get better of sickness; and I must go tonight to that ruined house of
which I spoke to thee, to fetch a pocket compass Master Ratsey was to put
there. So thou canst come with me and smell the night air on the Down
Nay, master, grant me leave to go yet a little farther afield. You know
that I was born in Moonfleet, and have been bred there all my life, and
love the trees and stream and very stones of it. And I have set my heart
on seeing it once more before we leave these parts for good and all. So
give me leave to walk along the Down and look on Moonfleet but this once,
and in this ploughboy guise I shall be safe enough, and will come back to
you tomorrow night
Lad, I have known men risk their lives for many things: for gold, and
love, and hate; but never one would play with death that he might see a
tree or stream or stones. And when men say they love a place or town,
thou mayst be sure 'tis not the place they love but some that live there;
or that they loved some in the past, and so would see the spot again to
kindle memory withal. Thus when thou speakest of Moonfleet, I may guess
that thou hast someone there to see -- or hope to see. It cannot be thine
aunt, for there is no love lost between ye; and besides, no man ever
perilled his life to bid adieu to an aunt. So have no secrets from me,
John, but tell me straight, and I will judge whether this second
treasure that thou seekest is true gold enough to fling thy life into the
scale against it
Thou art a foolish lad
Yet I was young once myself, and my
ways have been too dark to make me wish to darken others, or try to chill
young blood. Now thine own life has got a shadow on't already that I have
helped to cast, so take the brightness of it while thou mayst, and get
thee gone. But for this girl, I know her for a comely lass and
good-hearted, and have wondered often how she came to have _him_ for her
father. I am glad now I have not his blood on my hands; and never would
have gone to take it then, for all the evil he had brought on me, but
that the lives of every mother's son hung on his life. So make thy mind
at ease, and get thee gone and see these streams and trees and stones
thou talkest of. Yet if thou'rt shot upon the Down, or taken off to jail,
blame thine own folly and not me. And I will walk with thee to Purbeck
Gates tonight, and then come back and wait. But if thou art not here
again by midnight tomorrow, I shall believe that thou art taken in some
snare, and come out to seek thee
Here, take it,
child
but use it not till thou art closely pressed, and then
if thou _must_ shoot, shoot low -- it flings
Who is there
A poor boy who is out of his way
Good lad, if you will step on to this terrace I can show you the Why
Not? inn, but 'tis shut these two months or more, and Master Block away
Grace, it is I, John Trenchard, who am come to say goodbye before I
leave these parts, and have much to tell that you would wish to hear. Are
there any beside in the house with you
Let us go back to the
house; I am alone
John, you
have grown a man in these two months
Ah, John! set not your heart too much upon this diamond.
If what they say is true, 'twas evilly come by, and will bring evil with
it. Even this wicked man durst not spend it for himself, but meant to
give it to the poor; so, if indeed you ever find it, keep it not for
yourself, but set his soul at rest by doing with it what he meant to do,
or it will bring a curse upon you
What have you there
John, you will wander on the sea, and may perhaps put into Moonfleet.
Though you have not been here of late, I have kept a candle burning at
the window every night, as in the past. So, if you come to beach on any
night you will see that light, and know Grace remembers you. And if you
see it not, then know that I am dead or gone, for I will think of you
every night till you come back again
Good-bye
and have a care how you touch the treasure; it
was evilly come by, and will bring a curse with it
Good-bye, good-bye
Have you bed and victuals for a plain country man and his boy
Nay, that I have not
'Tis near the Summer
Statute and the place over full already. I cannot move my gentlemen,
and would bid you try the Wheatsheaf, which is a good house, and not so
full as this
Ay, 'tis a busy time, and 'tis these fairs that make things _prosper_
Prosper what
_Prosper the Bonaventure_
Why, you are Master
Block, and I expecting you this morn, and never knew you
And this is
This is a well-licked whelp
who got a bullet in the
leg two months ago in that touch under Hoar Head; and is worth more than
he looks, for they have put twenty golden guineas on his head -- so have a
care of such a precious top-knot
I have tried every way
to see if we could work this
secretly; but 'tis not to be done without the privity of the man who
keeps the well, and even with his help it is not easy. He is a man I do
not trust, but have been forced to tell him there is treasure hidden in
the well, yet without saying where it lies or how to get it. He promises
to let us search the well, taking one-third the value of all we find, for
his share; for I said not that thou and I were one at heart, but only
that there was a boy who had the key, and claimed an equal third with
both of us. Tomorrow we must be up betimes, and at the Castle gates by
six o'clock for him to let us in. And thou shalt not be carter any more,
but mason's boy, and I a mason, for I have got coats in the house,
brushes and trowels and lime-bucket, and we are going to Carisbrooke to
plaster up a weak patch in this same well-side
Good-morning, Master Well-wright
You have brought
ugly weather with you, and are drowning wet; will you take a sup of ale
before you get to work
It is the well-house
He was here long before my time
and knows
the place so well that he goes into the wheel and sets to work by
himself
We will let an end of this
down the well
and I have made a knot in it at eighty feet.
This lad thinks the treasure is in the well wall, eighty feet below us,
so when the knot is on well lip we shall know we have the right depth
I will get into the bucket
and this
good man will lower me gently by the break until I reach the string-end
down below. Then I will shout, and so fix you the wheel and give me time
to search
No, master, that cannot be; 'tis my place to go, being
smaller and a lighter weight than thou; and thou shalt stop here and help
this gentleman to lower me down
Art sure the well
is clean, and that no deadly gases lurk below
Thou mayst be sure I knew the well was sweet before I let thee talk of
going down
For yesterday we lowered a candle to the
water, and the flame burned bright and steady; and where the candle
lives, there man lives too. But thou art right: these gases change from
day to day, and we will try the thing again. So bring the candle,
Master Jailer
There -- that is how you will sound
when you fall from your perch
Art sure that thou canst do
it, lad
Are head and heart sure? Thou art my diamond, and I would rather lose
all other diamonds in the world than aught should come to thee. So, if
thou doubtest, let me go, or let not any go at all
Never doubt, master
My head is sure; I have no broken leg to turn it silly
now
What are you doing?
have you found nothing? can you see no treasure
No
I can see nothing
Are you sure, Master
Block, that you have measured the plummet true to eighty feet
They say
this floor has been raised; you must try lower
Have a care, have a
care how you touch the treasure; it was evilly come by, and will bring a
curse with it
What are you doing? have you
found nothing
What are you doing? have you found nothing
Yes
I have found the treasure; you can pull me up
Have a care, have a care how you touch the treasure; it
was evilly come by, and will bring a curse with it
Where is the treasure? where is the
treasure? give me the treasure
Give me the treasure
Pull me up then; I cannot show it you in the bucket
Nay, lad
No, you must pull
me up first
Give me the
treasure, I say, or it will be the worse for you
Let the boy up,
he is sure-footed and will not slip. 'Tis his treasure, and he shall do
with it as he likes: only that thou shalt have a third of it when we
have sold it
'Tis not his treasure -- no, nor yours either, but mine, for it
is in my well, and I have let you get it. Yet I will give you a
half-share in it; but as for this boy, what has he to do with it? We will
give him a golden guinea, and he will be richly paid for his pains
Tush
let us have no more fooling; this boy shall have
his share, or I will know the reason why
Ay, you shall know the reason, fair enough
and
'tis because your name is Block, and there is a price of 50 upon your
head, and 20 upon this boy's. You thought to outwit me, and are yourself
outwitted; and here I have you in a trap, and neither leaves this room,
except with hands tied, and bound for the gallows, unless I first have
the jewel safe in my purse
Beware, beware! he
draws on you
Surrender
or I shoot you dead, and the 50 is mine
You can handle the break
let me down quick into the well
Let us fling the jewel down the well after him, Master Block; it
was evilly come by, and will bring a curse with it
No, no; thou art not fit to keep so precious a thing. Give it me. It is
thy treasure, and I will never touch penny of it; but fling it down the
well thou shalt not; for this man has lost his life for it, and we have
risked ours for it -- ay, and may lose them for it too, perhaps
There are other locks to open before we get out
Ay
but it is more than our life is worth to be seen with
these keys, so send them down the well, after their master
Where is Ephraim
He is stopping behind in the well-house
Set not thy heart too much upon this stone. It is thine, and thine to
deal with. Never a penny will I touch that we may get for it. Yet,
were I thou, and reached great wealth with it, and so came back one
day to Moonfleet, I would not spend it all on my own ends, but put
aside a part to build the poor-houses again, as men say Blackbeard
meant to do with it
Well, my sons, what would you with me? I hear you have a jewel to sell,
but you must know I do not purchase sailors' flotsam. So if 'tis a
moonstone or catseye, or some pin-head diamonds, keep them to make
brooches for your sweethearts, for Aldobrand buys no toys like that
No toys like that
May it please your worship, we are sailors from over sea, and
this boy has a diamond that he would sell
Out with it then, let's see, let's see
There is not light enough to see in this dark place -- follow me
What is your name, boy? Whence
do you come
My name is John Trenchard, sir, and I come
from Moonfleet, in Dorset
From Moonfleet, in Dorset
And how did John Trenchard come by this
Nay, sir, we are not come to play at questions and
answers, but to know whether your worship will buy this diamond, and at
what price. We have no time to tell long histories, and so must only say
that we are English sailors, and that the stone is fairly come by
Softly, softly
all stones are fairly come by; but
had you told me whence you got this, I might have spared myself some
tedious tests, which now I must crave pardon for making
My sons, and you especially, son John
this stone that you have brought me is no stone at all,
but glass -- or rather paste, for so we call it. Not but what it is good
paste, and perhaps the best that I have seen, and so I had to try it to
make sure. But against high chymic tests no sham can stand; and first it
is too light in weight, and second, when rubbed on this Basanus or
Black-stone, traces no line of white, as any diamond must. But, third and
last, I have tried it with the hermeneutic proof, and dipped it in this
most costly lembic; and the liquor remains pure green and clear, not
turbid orange, a diamond leaves it
Nay, son John
take
it not hardly, for though this is but paste, I say not it is worthless.
It is as fine work as ever I have seen, and I will offer you ten silver
crowns for it; which is a goodly sum for a sailor-lad to have in hand,
and more than all the other buyers in this town would bid you for it
Tush, tush
we are
not come to beg for silver crowns, so keep them in your purse. And the
devil take this shining sham; we are well quit of it; there is a curse
upon the thing
You fool, you
cursed fool
are you come here to beard me? and when I say
the thing is worth ten silver crowns do you fling it to the winds
There's for your ten crowns
Let us be going, lad
Go, and a blight on you
a blight on you
Cheer up, lad, cheer up. Thou saidst thyself thou
fearedst there was a curse on the thing, so now it is gone, maybe we
are well quit of it
Elzevir, we are fools! The stone is no sham; 'tis a
real diamond
'Tis like enough that what you say is true, but what would you have us
do? The stone is flung away
Yes
but I saw where it fell, and know the very place; let
us go back now at once and get it
Do you not think that Aldobrand saw the place too
I do not know
let us go back and see. It fell
just by the stem of a red flower that I marked well. What
do you doubt? Shall we not go
and get it
I cannot tell. I think that all you say is true, and
that this stone is real. Nay, I was half of that mind when I threw it
away, and yet I would not say we are not best without it. 'Twas you who
first spoke of a curse upon the jewel, and I laughed at that as being a
childish tale. But now I cannot tell; for ever since we first scented
this treasure luck has run against us, John; yes, run against us very
strong; and here we are, flying from home, called outlaws, and with blood
upon our hands. Not that blood frightens me, for I have stood face to
face with men in fair fight, and never felt a death-blow given so weigh
on my soul; but these two men came to a tricksy kind of end, and yet I
could not help it. 'Tis true that all my life I've served the
Contraband, but no man ever knew me do a foul action; and now I do not
like that men should call me felon, and like it less that they should
call thee felon too. Perhaps there may be after all some curse that hangs
about this stone, and leads to ruin those that handle it. I cannot say,
for I am not a Parson Glennie in these things; but Blackbeard in an evil
mood may have tied the treasure up to be a curse to any that use it for
themselves. What do we want with this thing at all? I have got money to
be touched at need; we may lie quiet this side the Channel, where thou
shalt learn an honest trade, and when the mischief has blown over we will
go back to Moonfleet. So let the jewel be, John; shall we not let the
jewel be
He is up still
and the outside shutters are not closed
The stone lies by the stalk of that
flower
on the side nearest to the house
It is gone, Elzevir; it is gone
Hush
Let the stone be, lad, let it be; for
either thou didst fail to mark the place right, or others have been here
before thee. 'Tis ruled we should not touch the stone again, and so 'tis
best; let be, let be; let us get home
Aldobrand has
been here before us, and stole away the jewel
Well, there's an end of it
and we are saved further
question. 'Tis gone, so let us cry good riddance to it and be off
Elzevir
I cannot go till I have seen what is doing in that room above. I
will climb to the balcony and look in through the chinks. Perhaps he is
not there, perhaps he has left our diamond there and we may get it back
again
Am I not queen of all
diamonds of the world? am I not your diamond? will you not take me to
yourself again? will you save me from this sorry trickster
Let us be going
a
minute more and he may come to put these shutters to, and find us here.
Let us be going. Diamonds are not for simple folk like us; this is an
evil stone, and brings a curse with it. Let us be going, John
Am I not queen of all
diamonds of the world? am I not your diamond? save me from the hands of
this scurvy robber
Thieves! thieves! thieves
Thieves! thieves!
thieves
Am I not queen of all
the diamonds of the world? Must I house with this base rascal
Your servant,
Mr. Trenchard. I wish you a good day, Sir John Trenchard -- of Moonfleet,
in Dorset
Good day, Sir Aldobrand, Liar, and Thief; and may the diamond bring you
evil in this present life, and damnation in that which is to come
Have a care how you touch the treasure: it was evilly come by and will
bring a curse with it
I have known better ships go under for less than this
and if our skipper hath not a tight craft, and stout hands to work
her, there will soon be two score slaves the less to cut the canes in
Java. I cannot guess where we are now -- may be off Ushant, may be not so
far, for this sea is too short for the Bay; but the saints send us
sea-room, for we have been wearing these three hours
Take it
and make the most
of it. God helps the brave, and the devil takes the hindmost
John
the ship is foundering, and they are giving us a chance to save our
lives, and not drown like rats in a trap
We are on a lee shore
We are on a lee shore
The Snout
There is some strange leading hand has brought
us home at last, and I had rather drown on Moonfleet Beach than live in
prison any more, and drown we must within an hour. Yet we will play the
man, and make a fight for life
We have weathered bad times together, and who knows but we
shall weather this
Friends, any man that
takes to boat is lost. I know this bay and know this beach, and was
indeed born hereabouts, but never knew a boat come to land in such a sea,
save bottom uppermost. So if you want my counsel, there you have it,
namely, to stick by the ship. In half an hour we shall be in the
breakers; and I will put the helm up and try to head the brig bows on to
the beach; so every man will have a chance to fight for his own life, and
God have mercy on those that drown
twixt sleep and waking, in
the little whitewashed bedroom at my aunt's; and I wondered now if any
sat before their inland hearths this night, and hearing that far distant
roar, would throw another log on the fire, and thank God they were not
fighting for their lives in Moonfleet Bay. I could picture all that was
going on this night on the beach -- how Ratsey and the landers would have
sighted the _Aurungzebe,_ perhaps at noon, perhaps before, and knew she
was embayed, and nothing could save her but the wind drawing to east.
But the wind would hold pinned in the south, and they would see sail
after sail blown off her, and watch her wear and wear, and every time
come nearer in; and the talk would run through the street that there was
a ship could not weather the Snout, and must come ashore by sundown.
Then half the village would be gathered on the beach, with the men ready
to risk their lives for ours, and in no wise wishing for the ship to be
wrecked; yet anxious not to lose their chance of booty, if Providence
should rule that wrecked she must be. And I knew Ratsey would be there,
and Damen, Tewkesbury, and Laver, and like enough Parson Glennie, and
perhaps -- and at that perhaps, my thoughts came back to where we were,
for I heard Elzevir speaking to me:

'Look
there's a light
Maskew's Match
Johnnie
I am cold
and sore downhearted. In ten minutes we shall be in the surf. Go down to
the spirit locker, drink thyself, and bring me up a bottle here. We
shall both need a young man's strength, and I have not got it any more
he laughed
and good for autumn chills
It is coming now
We must go after the next big wave runs back
Jump when I give the word, and get as far up the
pebbles as you can before the next comes in: they will throw us a
rope's-end to catch; so now good-bye, John, and God save us both
Take heart, lad
'tis now or never
He is coming-to
and may live yet to tell us who he is, and
from what port his craft sailed
There has been many a craft
has sailed for many a
port, and made this beach her last; and many an honest man has landed on
it, and never one alive in such a sea. Nor would this one be living
either, if it had not been for that other brave heart to stand by and
save him. Brave heart, brave heart
Here, pass
me the bottle or I shall get the vapours. 'Tis good against these early
chills, and I have not been in this place for ten years past, since poor
Elzevir was cut adrift
Elzevir
where is Elzevir
Hush
lie down and get to sleep
again
His brain is
wandering yet: do you see how he has caught up my words about Elzevir
No
my head is clear enough; I am speaking of Elzevir
Block. I pray you tell me where he is. Is he well again
Who are you
who talk of Elzevir Block
Do you not know me, Master Ratsey
I am
John Trenchard, who left you so long ago. I pray you tell me where is
Master Block
Softly, kind friend, and I will answer; only tell me first,
where is Master Elzevir
Nay, that I cannot say
for never a soul has set eyes on
Elzevir since that summer morning we put thee and him ashore at Newport
Oh, fool me not
I am not
wandering now. 'Twas Elzevir that saved me in the surf last night. 'Twas
he that landed with me
What
was
that Master Elzevir that dragged thee through the surf
Ay, 'twas he landed with me, 'twas he landed with me
There was none landed with you; there was no soul saved from that ship
alive save you
It is not true
he pulled me up the beach himself, and
it was he that pushed me forward to the rope
Ay, he saved thee, and then the under-tow got hold of him and swept him
down under the curl. I could not see his face, but might have known there
never was a man, save Elzevir, could fight the surf on Moonfleet beach
like that. Yet had we known 'twas he, we could have done no more, for
many risked their lives last night to save you both. We could have done
no more
John
have
you forgotten me? May I not share your sorrow? Did you not think to tell
me you were come? Did you not see the light, did you not know there was a
friend that waited for you
Is it well for you to be here? Grieve not too sadly, for none could have
died nobler than he died; and in these years that you have been away, I
have thought much of him and found him good at heart, and if he did aught
wrong 'twas because others wronged him more
John, have you no word for me? have you forgotten?
do you not love me still? Have I no part in your sorrow
Dear
Mistress Grace, I have forgotten nothing, and honour you above all
others: but of love I may not speak more to you -- nor you to me, for we
are no more boy and girl as in times past, but you a noble lady and I a
broken wretch
Speak not of wealth; 'tis not wealth
makes men, and if you have come back no richer than you went, you are
come back no poorer, nor poorer, John, in honour. And I am rich and have
more wealth than I can rightly use, so speak not of these things; but be
glad that you are poor, and were not let to profit by that evil treasure.
But for this brand, it is no prison name to me, but the Mohunes' badge,
to show that you are theirs and must do their bidding. Said I not to you,
Have a care how you touch the treasure, it was evilly come by and will
bring a curse with it? But now, I pray you, with a greater earnestness,
seeing you bear this mark upon you, touch no penny of that treasure if it
should some day come back to you, but put it to such uses as Colonel
Mohune thought would help his sinful soul
And though I may by some be reprehended
for presuming to
refer to profane authors after citing Holy Scripture, yet I cannot
refrain from saying that even the great poet Homer counsels moderation in
mourning, "for quickly," says he, "cometh satiety of chilly grief
My son
we should never revile
Fortune, and in speaking of Fortune I only use that appellation in our
poor human sense, and do not imply that there is any Chance at all but
what is subject to an over-ruling Providence; we should never, I say,
revile Fortune, for just at that moment when she appears to have deserted
us, she may be only gone away to seek some richest treasure to bring back
with her. And that this is so let what I am about to read to you prove;
so light a candle and set it by me, for my eyes cannot follow the writing
in this dancing firelight
I shall read you this letter which I received near
eight years ago, and of the weightiness of it you shall yourself judge
bring evil in this life, and damnation in that which is to come
He made a good end, John
and I pray
that our end may be in as good cause when it comes. For with the best of
us the hour of death is an awful hour, and we may well pray, as every
Sunday, to be delivered in it. But there is another time which those who
wrote this Litany thought no less perilous, and bade us pray to be
delivered in all time of our wealth. So I pray that if, after all, this
wealth comes to your hand you may be led to use it well; for though I do
not hold with foolish tales, or think a curse hangs on riches themselves,
yet if riches have been set apart for a good purpose, even by evil men,
as Colonel John Mohune set apart this treasure, it cannot be but that we
shall do grievous wrong in putting them to other use. So fare you well,
and remember that there are other treasures besides this, and that a good
woman's love is worth far more than all the gold and jewels of the
world -- as I once knew
Greater love hath no man than
this, that a man lay down his life for his friend
</text>
