<text>
Nooma, Nooma
In the sun paces a leopard's
        Nooma at her side
Sst, zun
nizza-neela, tus-weeta zan nuome
beyond and beyond, forest and river, forest swamp and river,
the mountains of Arakkaboa, leagues, leagues away
And I will come back
with slaves and scarlet and
food-baskets and Zevveras, and bring you all there with me. But first I
must go alone and find the way through dangers thick as flies, O
Mulla-mulgars. Wait here and guard your old mother, Mutta-matutta, my
sons, her Ummuz and ukkas. And grow strong, O tailless ones, till I
return. Zu zoube seese muglareen, een suang no nouano zupbf
Sst,
Nod, see what they say -- to-morrow
wriggle
and stamp -- wriggle and stamp
Five fingers serve one hand, my good
men
And oh, remember this always: that you are all three
Mulla-mulgars, sons of Seelem, whose home is far from here -- Mulla-mulgars
who never do walk flambo -- that is, on all fours -- never taste blood, and
never, unless in danger and despair, climb trees or grow a tail
His country lies beyond and beyond
forest and river,
forest, swamp and river, the Mountains of Arakkaboa -- leagues, leagues
away
leagues, leagues away
It will be a long and dreary journey, my sons. But the Prince
Assasimmon, Mulla-mulla of the Mulgars, is great and powerful, and has
for hut a palace of ivory and Azmamogreel, with scarlet and Mamasul,
slaves and peacocks, and beasts uncountable; and leagues of Ukka and
Barbary-nuts; and boundless fields of Ummuz, and orchards of fruit, and
bowers of flowers and pleasure. And his, too, is the Rose of all the
Mulgars
I give this to Nod
because he is a
Nizza-neela, and has magic in him. Come close, my sons, Thumb and
Thimble, and see. His winking &lsqb;or left&rsqb;&lsqb;3&rsqb; eye has green within the
hazel; his thumbs grow lean and long; he still keeps two milk-teeth; and
bears the Nizza-neela tuft betwixt his ears
O Mulla-mulgars, how I begged your father to
take this Wonderstone with him on his journey! but he would not. He
said, 'Keep it, and let my sons, if need be, carry it after me to the
kingdom of my brother. He will know by this one thing that they are
indeed my sons, Mulla-mulgars, Princes of Tishnar, sibbetha eena manga
Moh
Never, little Nod
never lose, nor give
away, nor sport with, nor even lend this Wonderstone; and if in your
long journey you are in danger of the Third Sleep,&lsqb;4&rsqb; or lost, or in
great fear, spit with your spittle on the stone, and rub softly three
times with your left thumb, Samaweeza: Tishnar will hear you; help will
come
Little-go
Great-go
Come-no-more
Listen, Mutta,
listen; how the Ooboe's telling secrets
Feathers
Butterflies
Ho, ho! look at the
Mulla-sluggas &lsqb;lazy princes&rsqb; sitting round their fire
Now Nod will go down and get some ice to melt
for water to make Sudd-bread
Kara,
kara Mutta, Mutta-matutta
dearest Mutta
Mutta, O Mutta
Thumb, Thimble; Thimble, Thumb,
     Leave your sticks and hurry home:
     Thicker and thicker the smoke do come!
     Thumb, Thimble; Thimble, Thumb
Walla, walla
Moonshine
Bhoor juggub duppa singlee -- duppa singlee -- duppa singlee;
                    Bhoor juggub duppa singlee;
                   Sal rosen ghar Bhoosh
Foh! Mulla-jugguba, foh
Foh!
Royal-Flame-Shining One
Your Highness Firebright
What think
you now, Prince of Bonfires
Sootli
Sootli,
        Sootli, Sootli
Gar Mulgar Dusangee
Far away in Nanga-noon
     Lived an old and grey Baboon,&lsqb;6&rsqb;
       Ah-mi, Sulani!
     Once a Prince among his kind,
     Now forsaken, left behind,
     Feeble, lonely, all but blind:
       Sulani, ghar magleer.

    "Peaceful Tishnar came by night,
     In the moonbeams cold and white;
       Ah-mi, Sulani!
     'Far away from Nanga-noon,
     Thou old and grey Baboon;
     Is a journey for thee soon!'
       Sulani, ghar magleer.

    "'Be not frightened, shut thine eye;
     Comfort take, nor weep, nor sigh;
     Solitary Tishnar's nigh!'
       Sulani, ghar magleer.

    "Old Baboon, he gravely did
     All that peaceful Tishnar bid;
       Ah-mi, Sulani!
     In the darkness cold and grim
     Drew his blanket over him;
     Closed his old eyes, sad and dim:
       Sulani, ghar magleer
Babbabooma
Talaheeti sul magloon
     Olgar, ulgar Nanga-noon;
       Ah-mi, Sulani!
     Tishnar sootli maltmahee,
     Ganganareez soongalee,
     Manni Mulgar sang suwhee:
       Sulani, ghar magleer
Go with us
Give it to me,
Mulla-jugguba
in danger
Roses
Thumb, my
brother, are you awake, Thumb
Sleep on, little Ummanodda
if I watch, I watch
But I cannot sleep
these weavers chatter so
Thimble sings in his dreams
Why shouldn't
the little tailors sing, too
Do you think any leopards will come
Think good things, my brother, not bad
But this we
will do -- wait a little while awake, and I will sleep, and as soon as
sleep begins to come, call me and wake me; then, little brother, you
shall sleep in peace till morning
Nod will soon feel sleepy now
Co-older -- and colder
Co-older -- and colder
Co-older -- and colder
The Queen of the Mountains is in the Forest
with fingers of frost
And shoulders of snow
THE QUEEN OF THE MOUNTAINS IS IN THE FOREST ... WITH
    FINGERS OF FROST
And feet of ice
The Queen of the Mountains
Hungrier and hungrier
Leaner and leaner
All the Sudd hid, all the Ukkas gone, all the Boobab frozen
The Queen of the Mountains is in the Forest
Pigs, my brothers; pigs, my brothers
Up in this tree are Mulgar three, which travellers be.... Ho,
there
Ho, there, little Mulgar in the sheep-skin coat
If you beat like that, horny-foot, you'll wake my brothers
Brothers
What's brothers to Ukka-nuts? What's
your names, and where are you going
My brothers' names
are Thumma and Thimbulla, and I am Nod.
We are going to the palace of ivory and Azmamogreel that is our Uncle
Assasimmon's, Prince of the Valleys of Tishnar
Come down and tell us
Tell you what
About this Prince of Tishnar. Oh, these false-tongued Mulgars
You
must be very, very rich, Prince Nod, with those great bags of nuts; and,
surely, it must be royal Sudd I smell! And Assasimmon his uncle! whose
house is more than a thousand pigs'-tails long; and gardens so thick
with trees of fruit and honey, one groans to have only one stomach. Come
down a little way, Prince Nod, and tell us poor hungry pigs of the royal
Assasimmon and the dainty food he eats
Oh, but bring a bundle -- bring a bundle, little Prince. It's cold for
gentlefolk sitting in the snow
Pigs -- pigs must naked go; but not for gentlefolk the snow
Come gently, Prince Nod; do not stir your royal brothers, Prince Nod
A seat -- a seat for Prince Nod
Oh, what a royal
jacket -- oh, what a handsome jacket
Assasimmon, Assasimmon, Prince of Tishnar, Prince of Tishnar
Pigs are hungry, brother Nod. Cakes of Sudd, cakes of
_Sudd_
Ho, ho, and ahoh! What's the trouble? what's the trouble
O most wise Nizza-neela
Last night
Mulla-jugguba; this night Nodda-nellipogo
Roses
Ullalullaubbajub
We are
friends
Meelmutha glaren djhar
Deal with the Nizza-neela gently, Lord of the Forest; we are
servants of Tishnar
How now, O Mulla-mulgars
His country lies beyond and beyond
Forest and
river, forest, swamp, and river.' Could, then, our father Seelem walk on
water
What matters it? He went: we follow
We must journey on till our wings grow, Mulla
Thimble, or till your long legs can straddle bank to bank
What in Munza, Thumb, makes a noise like that
Listen,
listen
It is wary walking, my brothers
maybe there are
Oomgar-nuggas &lsqb;black men&rsqb; by the riverside; or maybe it is one of the
great hairy Gunga-mulgars whose country our father Seelem told me lies
five days' journey towards the daybreak. Whicheversoever, Mulla-mulgars,
we will hobble on and discover
One Roses brings many
let us
hobble on, Mulla-mulgars, until we find a quieter sleeping-place
I see Mulgars, one, two, three,
      Creeping, crawling, one, two, three
There, pig
tell
your brothers who stole my bundle that Nod Nizza-neela gave you these
when you were frozen
Yes, Mulla-mulgars
and beside his bow and his sharp-nosed
darts, he has three big knubbly cudgels in the corner higher than is
Nod. He sits there, muttering and chuffing and sticking a long wood spit
in his soup, and then he coughs and says 'Ug!' and beats his black fists
on his chest till the flames shake
Is he very big and strong? Is he as broad
and thick as Thumb
He's sitting in a spangly shirt
and his arms are like
Boobab-roots -- like Boobab-roots -- and his eyes,
Mulla-mulgars, they burn in bony houses, and his face is black as
charcoal
We will push on; we will not
meddle with the Gunga, my brothers
Better sleep cold than
never wake
Let us not trouble the Gunga at his supper
but get in
first and ask leave after
Ohe, ohe, ohe
Zutha mu beluthli zakketi zanga xut
Thief, thief! What were you
after, fishing from great Gunga's boat
Thief, thief, and son of a thief
Not so fast -- not
so fast, Master Gunga
Mulla-mulgars are neither thieves nor
sons of thieves. Squeal that at the Munza-mulgars, not at Ummanodda
Mulla-mulgars
Off with that sheep-skin, Prince of Fleas! I'll skin ye
'fore I cook ye
Gunga duseepi sooklar,
by Noomanossi's harp
What
knows a fly-catching Skeeto of Noomanossi's harp
What knows a fish-bait Gunga of the Princes of Tishnar
Ohe, ohe
I meant no
evil to the Mulla-mulgar. Princes of Tishnar journey not often past old
Gunga's house. I hutch alone, far from my own country, Royal Stranger,
with only my black-man's Bobberie for friend
Not now, 'Prince of
Bonfires,' nor 'Noddle of Pork
but 'Royal Stranger,' and
'Prince of Tishnar
Why, then
tongues chatter best when they
have something good to say. I'll take a platter of soup with you, Friend
of Fishes. And better still, I'll dry my magic coat
Make yourself easy, Traveller
The moon was at hide-and-seek when I found you in the
water; I could not see your royal countenance. But Simmul, she knows
best
Ohe, ohe
She's mewing 'Magic.' And what
knows a feeble old Fish-catcher of Magic
I will hang the Royal Stranger's beautiful sheep's-coat on a hook
There it will dry much quicker
No, no
it's
nearly dry already
What makes the stranger laugh
It's very
good broth
I was laughing
laughing at that last fish I caught
Was it a big fish -- a fat, heavy fish
Five times as big as them
Five
Five or six
Or six
Truly
he fishes not for minnows who knows the magic
fish-song of the Water-middens
And what
what song is that, O Royal Stranger
Why do you push my sheep's-coat under the bench
I smelt -- I smelt
scorching. But
softly, Mulla-mulgar. What is this Water-middens' song that catches
fishes five -- six times as big as mine? And if you know all this wisdom,
and are truly a Prince of Tishnar, why do you sit here, this freezing
night, supping up a poor old Fish-catcher's broth
Why do you wave your long thumbs in the air
I wave to Tishnar
who watches over her wandering Princes,
and will preserve them from thieves and cunning ones. And as for your
filthy green-weed soup, how should a Mulla-mulgar soil his thumbs with
gutting fish? And as for the Water-middens' song, _that_ I cannot teach
you, nor would I teach it you if I could, Master Fish-catcher. But I can
catch fish with it
I am poor and growing old
and I cannot catch fish
as once I could. How is that done, O Royal Traveller
Secrets, Puss
Listen
I go down to the water -- at daybreak; oh yes, just at
daybreak. Then I row out a little way in my little Bobberie, quite,
quite alone -- no one must be near to spy or listen; then I cast my nets
into the water and sing and sing
What nets
Sootli, sootli
What
happens then
Then
from far and near my Magic draws the fishes, head,
fin, and tail, hundreds and hundreds, all to hear my Water-middens'
lovely song
And what then
Then
I look and I look till I see
the biggest fish of all -- seven, eight, nine times as big as that up
there, and I draw him out gently, gently, just as I choose him, into my
Bobberie
And wouldn't _any_ fish come to the little Prince unless he fished
alone
None
But there, why should we be gossiping of fishing? My
boat is far away
But
I have a boat
Ohe, maybe
One cannot drown on dry land. But I did
speak of a Bobberie of skin and Bemba-wood, made by the stamping
Oomgar-nuggas next the sea
Ay
but that's just what my Bobberie
_is_ made of, and I broke the backbone of the Oomgar-nugga chief that
made it with one cuff of my cudgel-hand
Tishnar's Prince is tired
and cannot talk of
fishes any more. A bowlful more broth, Master Fish-catcher, and then
I'll just put on my jacket and go to sleep
Ootz nuggthli
See here,
Prince of Tishnar, if I lend you my skin Bobberie to-morrow morning,
will you catch _me_ some fish with your magic song
The crafty Gunga would be peeping
between the trees
and then
What then
Then Tishnar's Meermuts would come with their silver thongs and drive
you squalling into the water. And the Middens would pick your eyes out,
Master Fish-catcher
I promise, I promise
Where is this talked-of Bobberie
Was it that old
log Nod saw when whispering with the Water-middens
Follow, follow
I'll show the Prince this log
Never fear, Master Fish-catcher
Tishnar will watch over
me. How many big fish, now, can the old Glutton eat in comfort
Five
would be good
Ten would be better. Ohe, do not count, Royal
Traveller. It makes the head ache after ten
He shall teach me the Middens' song, and then I'll fish for
myself
What ails the
Prince? Why does he groan? Are you in pain, Mulla-mulgar
In pain
How shall a Prince sleep
with twice ten thousand Gunga fleas in his blanket
Try that, my hungry
hopping ones
Now I must have
another one
It is cold to comb
in the doorway
That's one for Thumb
Oh, oh, oh
What! More of ye! more of ye
Master Traveller, Master Traveller
if you throw all my blankets out, those thieves the
smudge-faces will steal them
Better no blankets than a million fleas
and yours, Master
Fish-catcher, are as greedy as Ephelanto tics. And now I think I will
sleep by the fire, then the first peep of day will shine in my eyes from
that little window-hole up there, and wake me to my fishing
So be it
Wait ye, wait ye, wait ye, my pretty Squirrel-tail
For every
blanket a Bobberie or great fish
What ails the Traveller? What is he mocking at now
Why
I laughed to hear the mice in this box hanging over my
head
Mice
Why, yes; a score or more
And one old husky Muttakin keeps
saying, 'Nibble all, nibble all; leave not one whole, my little pretty
ones -- not the crumb of a crumb for the ugly old glutton.' I think, O
generous Gunga, she means the bread of Sudd, I smell
Will ye, oh, will ye, ye nibbling thieves
Shut to the door, shut to the door, Master Fish-catcher
I hear a distant harp-playing
Did I not say it, Prince of Tishnar
My blankets are gone
already. Stolen
Sleep softly, my friend
and weary me not with talking.
There's better rams in the forest than ever were flayed. Your blankets
will creep back, never fear. Even to a Mullabruk his own fleas! But,
there! I'll make magic even this very moment, and to-morrow, when you go
down to the river to fetch up the fish, there shall your blankets be,
folded and civeted, on the stones by the water
Thumb, Thimble, Mulgar meese,
      In your blankets dream at ease,
    And never mind the frozen fleas;
      But don't forget the loaves and cheese
It is very strange magic
Nay
they were very strange fleas
And 'Thumthimble'-- what does that mean
Thumb' means short and fat, and 'Thimble' means long and lean, which
is Mulgar-royal for both kinds, Master Fish-catcher
Ohe! the Prince knows best
but _I_ never heard
such magic. And I've watched the Dancing Oomgars leagues and leagues
from here, and drummed them home to their Shes
Now I go, Master Fish-catcher; but be
sure you do not venture one toe's breadth beyond the door till you hear
me bringing back the fishes
How can the Prince carry them, fishes big as that
One at a time, my friend, as Ephelantoes root up trees
Ohe
when you hear my sweet-sounding Water-middens' song, you will not be
able to keep yourself from peeping. You must be bound with Cullum,
Master Fish-catcher. Oh, I should weep riversful of salt tears if the
Water-middens picked your gentle eyes out
Sit easy, my friend
my magic begins wonderfully to burn in
me
Illa olla! illa olla
Gone, gone
Crow when your egg's hatched, brother Thimble
He's
gone to fetch his bow
Paddle, Thimble! Paddle, O Thumb
Guzza-guzza-nahoo
Go
Blood, blood, O Ummanodda -- blood, red blood
Walla
Mulgars, Mulla-mulgars
Is
that the voice of my brother, the Mulla-mulgar, Nizza-neela Ummanodda
O Thumb
why am I here in comfort, while you and Thimble
are dragged in, bound with Cullum, and hung all over with dreadful
leaves and flowers
Have no fear, Prince of Bonfires
The
Minimuls caught us smelling at their Gelica-nuts, and sleeping in the
warmth of their earth-mounds. We were too frozen and hungry to carry you
any farther. They are fattening us for their Moon-feast. But it will be
little more than a picking of bones, Ummanodda. And even if they do spit
up over their fire, we will taste as sweet as Mulla-mulgars can
Talk not of meat and bones to me, Thumb. If you die, I die too. Tell
me, only so that they do not understand, what is Nod to do
Have no fear for yourself, Nod. They have caught us, but
not for long. But you they dare not frizzle a hair of, little brother,
because of Tishnar's Wonderstone sewn up in your sheep's-coat. They have
smelt out its magic. Keep the stone safe, then, Ummanodda, and, when you
are alone, rub it Samaweeza as Mutta told you before she died.
Tishnar, perhaps, will answer. See only that none of these miching
mouse-faces are near. Had we but been awake when they found us
Courage, Nizza-neela
Is it day -- sunshine? Is it day
Sleep
Thumb, Thumb
Noom-anossi, Noom-anossi
Follow,
Ummanodda, follow! Have now no fear, Prince of Tishnar, Nizza-neela; but
follow, only follow
Follow, Prince
of Tishnar, follow
Softly, now softly
Oo mutchee, nanga
Hasten, Ummanodda Nizza-neela; full moon
is rising
Thumb, Thumb
it is Nod! Wake,
Mulla-mulgar; it is Nod who calls
Oohmah, oohmah
na nasmi mutta kara theartchen
Sorry, oh sorry, don't whip me, mother dear
Thumb, Thumb
it's only
me; it's only Nod with the Wonderstone
And don't cry out, Thumb, if Tishnar's flame burns your
shins. They've tied your legs in knots so tight with this tough Samarak,
my fingers can't undo them
Lead on, my wondrous fruit of magic
Hasten, hasten, Mulla-mulgars
The full moon is
shining; night is come. The pot is ready for the feast
Immamoosa,
Immamoosa
The Minimuls, the Zoots
Thumb, Thumb, O
Mulla-mulgar, the Wonderstone! the Wonderstone! the snow, the snow
Tishnar, O
Tishnar
Hey, Mulgar! hey, Slugabones! how come you here? What are you doing
here
Sleep
Sleep
You idle Mulgars spend all your days
eating and sleeping
Do not begrudge me this, old hare
'tis Noomanossi's
Where did you steal that sheep's-coat, Mulgar? And how came you and the
ugly ones to be riding under my Dragon-tree on the Little Horses of
Tishnar
Why
I stole my sheep's-coat from my
mother, who gave it me; and as for 'riding on the Little Horses'-- here I
am
Where have you come from? Where are you going to
I've come from the Flesh-mounds of the Minimuls, and I think I'm going
to die
that is, if this old Quatta will let me
You mustn't die here
No Mulgar has ever died here.
This forest belongs to me
Then soon you will
have Nod's little bones to fence it in with
If you weren't dying, impudent Mulgar,
I'd teach you better manners
Trouble not, Queen of Munza
I shouldn't have time to use them now
What's amiss in
Munza-mulgar
First these galloping Horses of
Tishnar, one, two, three; now the angry Zoots of the Minimuls, and
all coming nearer
Even in your sleep,
Mulgar, you mustn't dream
None may dream in my forest
Foh,
Earth-mulgars
Here's an old sheep's-jacket I've found
with a little Mulgar inside it. Let us carry it home, Sister, or the
Minimuls will steal him for their feast
Pull
out the Mulgar first
No, it is a strange Mulgar, a Mulla-mulgar, a
Nizza-neela, and he smells of magic. Take his legs, Sister, and I will
carry his head. There's no time to be lost
When so many squall together
I cannot hear one.
What's your trouble this bright night
See here, old hare
have any filthy Mulgars passed this way,
one tall and bony, one fat and hairy, and one little and cunning
One and one's two, and one's three
Yes, truly -- three
Three, three
thieves, thieves
All Mulgars are thieves
some even
eat flesh. Ugh
Answer us, answer us
you dumb old Quatta
H'm, h'm
Mulgars? There are
hundreds, and tens of hundreds of Mulgars in my forest, of more kinds
and tribes than I have hairs on my scut. How should old Mishcha raise an
eyelid at only three? Olory mi, my third-gone grandmother used to tell
me many a story of you thieving, gluttonous Mulgars, all alike, all
alike. It's sad when one's old to remember, but it's sadder to forget
Listen, old hare
Have you seen three
Mulgars pass this way, two in red jackets, and one, a Nizza-neela, in a
sheep's coat, and all galloping, galloping, on three Little Horses of
Tishnar
I am old -- oh yes, old, and old
again
I have ruled in Munza-mulgar one hundred, two
hundred, five hundred years, but I never yet saw a Mulgar riding on a
Little Horse of Tishnar. Tell me, Wise One, which way did they
sit -- _with_ the stripes, or cross-cross
Answer us, grandam
or I'll
stick a poisoned dart down your throat
Better a Minimul's dart than no supper at all
Swallow thy tongue, thou Mulgar
Hobble off home, you thieving, flesh-eating, sun-hating earth-worms!
Hobble off home before ears and nose and thumbs and toes are bitten and
frozen in Tishnar's snows! Away with you, moon-maggots, grubbers of
sand
To-day you go unharmed, old Quatta, but
to-morrow we will come with fire and burn your Dragon-tree about your
ears
It's sad to burn, but it's sadder still
to freeze
A long march
home to you, Minnikin-mulgar! A long march home! And if I should smell
out the Sheep's-jacket on his Little Horse of Tishnar, I will tell him
where to find you -- burnt, bitten, brittle, baked hard in frozen snow
He breathes no more, sister, than a moth or an
Immamoosa-bud
Let us drag him out of his sheep-skin, and bury him in the snow
I hear his heart beating; I
hear his drowsy blood just come and go. But what is it that, sweeter
than a panther's breath, smells so of Magic? We must not harm the little
Mulgar, sister; he is cunning. A Meermut of Magic would soon return to
plague us
Wallah, wallah
Thumb, Thumb
The fire,
the fire
Muzza, muzza,
mutta; kara mutta, mutta
Who'd
sleep in a jacket that a gibbering Mulgar has died in
Hey, there
Where is Nod
Hold your tongue, thieving Mulgar
and let
honest folk sleep in peace
If I could see
you wouldn't sleep much
to-night, honest or no
You can't see
because, my man of bones,
you are dead and buried under the snow
It's none so bad, then, being
dead, Voice-of-Kindness
if it weren't for this
sore shoulder of mine
Hey, there
who buried me, then
Buried you? Why, Mishcha and Moha, the old witch-hares, who found you
snuffling in the snow in your stolen sheep's-coat -- Mishcha and Moha, who
wouldn't touch monkey-skin, not for a grove of green Candar-trees
I remember Moha
a gentle and sleek, a very, very
handsome old Quatta. And is she dead, too
Once
I had two brave brothers. I wonder
where those Mulla-mulgars are now
He wonders
he _wonders_! Frizzling,
frizzling, frizzling, my pretty Talk-by-Night, with seven smoking
Gelica-nuts for company on the spit
Tell me truly, witch-hare. A voice in the night was merry with me, and
told me for pleasure that my brothers Thumb and Thimble were frizzling
on the cannibal Minimuls' spits. That is not true
One long and lean
one fat and very heavy, and one
sly and tiny, a Nizza-neela.' Here's the Nizza-neela Mulla-mulgar; I
know nothing of the others
Ah, then
I must be off to look
for them. Their Little Horses ran faster than mine. And mine, he was a
coward, and nibbled my sore shoulder to make me loose hold. But he could
not buck or scrape me off, witch-hare, tried he never so hard. I must be
off at once to look for my brothers. If they are dead, then I die too
Well, well
it's sad to die, but it's sadder to
live alone. But tell me first one thing
Where have these
strange Mulgars come from in their rags and bravery
Ohe
And tell me just one thing more
Where, little Mulgar, is all this Magic I can smell
There are three things, old hare, I
always carry about with me -- one is my sheep's-jacket, one is hunger, and
the other is Magic; and the Magic just now is where my hunger is
Well
wherever it is, if it
hadn't been for the Magic, little Mulgar, the Jaccatrays would have been
quarrelling over your bones. But there! remember old Mishcha sometimes
in your travels, who hated every Mulgar except just one little one
Where burns the Sulemnagar, old hare
So long as it isn't stones, my long-tailed friends
I will not throw back
That one
     Alone
     Who's dared, and gone
     To seek the Magic Wonderstone,
     No fear,
     Or care,
     Or black despair,
     Shall heed until his journey's done.

    "Who knows
     Where blows
     The Mulgars' rose,
     In valleys 'neath unmelting snows --
     All secrets
     He
     Shall pierce and see,
     And walk unharmed where'er he goes
Oo-ee, oo-ee, oo-ee
Fear not, Ummanodda; press on, press on
Oo-ee, oo-ee, oo-ee
Why do you mock me, my friend
Oo-ee, oo-ee, oo-ee
Oo-ee, oo-ee,
oo-ee
Oo-ee, oo-ee
Who's
caught me in this trap? Why do you come mocking me, swinging here to
die? Put out my eyes, Bird of Sorrow. Nod's tired of being Nod
Oo-ee, oo-ee, oo-ee
Oomgar, Oomgar
So, so, then; softly, now, softly
_Poor_ little Pongo! poor leetle Pongo
There, little master
have another
taste; though I warn ye
it'll be your
werry last
Why, he's nowt but skin and bone, he is;
shivering in his breeches and all. Lookee here, now, Master Pongo, or
whatsomedever name you goes by, here's one more chance for ye
And who's to wonder
It was a cruel
hard rap, my son -- a cruel hard rap, I don't gainsay ye; but, then, you
must take Andy's word for it, they was cruel sharp teeth
Brayvo
that's
mother-English, that is! Now we's beginning to unnerstand one another
Saints save us
he drinks like a Christian
Krisshun, Krisshun
Saints save
us
And who's to blame ye
It's just the tale of Jack Sprat, my son, over
again; only your little fancy's neether lean nor fat, but monkey-nuts
There, my son
them's for pax, which means peace, you
unnerstand. I'm not afeerd of you, nor you isn't afeerd of me. All's
spliced and shipshape
Now, see here, my son
I go there -- _there_
and Monkey
Pongo, he stay here -- _here_
Now,
s'posin' Andy Battle, which is _me_
s'posin' Andy Battle looses off that rope's end a little more,
will Master Pongo keep out of mischief, eh
Ulla
Mulgar majubba; zinglee Oomgar
Ugga, nugga, jugga, jingles! That's
it -- that's the werry thing
He knows, by gum
There be more wits in that leetle
hairy cranny than in a shipload of commodores
It's only just this
Andy Battle
isn't turned cannibal yet -- neither for white, black, nor monkey-meat. I
wouldn't eat you, my son, not if they made me King of England
to-morrow, which isn't likely to be, by the look of the weather, so
_don't ee have no meddlin' with the fire_
Middlinooiddyvire
There
we're messmates now, Master Pongo. Andy Battle's had
a taste of slavery himself, and it isn't reasonable, my son. It frets in
like rusty iron, my son; and Andy's supped his fill of it. I takes to
your company wonnerful well, and if you takes to mine, then that's
plain-sailing, says I. But if them apes and monkeys over yonder are more
to your liking than a shipwrecked sailor, who's to blame ye? Every man
to his own, says I; breeches to breeches, and bare to bare. The werry
first thing is for me and you to unnerstand one another
But as for Andy Battle
he never were much struck
at a foreign lingo. So, says I, Andy shall learn Master Pongo his'n. And
here goes! That
that's _meat_
Zmeat -- ugh
And this here's nuts
Znuts
Excellentissimo
He's a scholard
born. Now, monkeys like you
if
I make no mistake, the blackamoors calls 'Pongoes
No? 'Njekkoes, then
Me Mulla-mulgar, Pongo -- Jecco
me Mulla-mulgar Ummanodda Nizza-neela
Axing your pardon, then, Master Noddle
Ebenezer, mine's Battle -- Andrew, as which is Andy, Battle
Whizzizandy -- Baffle
Fam_ous_
Us was a downright dunce to you, my son.
Now, then, hoise anchor, and pipe up! Andy Battle is an Englishman; hip,
hooray! Andy Battle
Andy Baffle
Is an
Izzn
Is an Englishman
Izziningulissmum
Hip, hooray
Ippooray
That's downright rich, my son, that is! 'Izzuninglushum!' As sure as
ever mariners was born to be drownded,

    "We'll sail away, o'er the deep blue say,
    And to old England we'll make our way
Never, tir'd
Sailour
The Three Cherrie-trees
Who's seene my Deere with Cheekes
so redde
Ay, and maybe that's no great wonder, neether, what with this
everlasting snow and all. But tell me this, Nod Mulgar: Why does,
whenever I spies a fine fat four-legged breakfast or two-winged supper
feeding within comfortable musket-shot -- why does a howl like a
M'keesoe's, dismal and devilish, break out not fifteen paces off, and
scare away every living creature for leagues around? Why does leopards
and Jack-Alls and Jaccatrays swarm round Andy Battle when he goes
a-walking, thick as cats round cream? They've scotched me this once, my
son -- an old she-leopard, black as pitch out of an Ollacondy. And I could
have staked a ransom I cast my eye over every bough. Next time who's to
know what may happen? Nizza-neela will go on cooking his little hot
niminy-cakes, and wait and wait -- only for bones -- only for Battle's
bones, Mulgar _mio_. What I says is this-how: leopards and Jaccatrays,
from being what they once was, two or three, one to-day and three
to-morrow, now lurks everywhere, looking me in the face as bold as
brass, and sniffling at my very musket. But, there! that's all
plain-sailing. What Andy wants to know for sartin sure is: what beast it
is grinds out so close against his ear that unearthly human howling?
'Twixt me and you and Lord Makellacolongee, it criddles my very blood to
hear it. My finger begins tapping on the musket-trigger like hail on a
millpond
Chikka, chikka
Bide here
Wait awhile
Move not; stir not a finger,
Mulla-mulgar; speak to me as I am. I have a secret thing to say to you.
These seven long frozen evenings have I come fretting abroad in my
forest and watched and watched, and chikka'd and chikka'd, but you have
not come. Why, O Prince of Tishnar, do you linger here with this
flesh-eating Oomgar, whose gun barks Noomanossi all day long? Why
do you think no more of your brothers and of the distant valleys
But
this Oomgar took me in a snare
And he has fed me,
and been like my own father Seelem come again to me, and we are
friends --'messimuts,' old hare. Besides, I wait only until I am healed
of my blains and thorns, and my shoulder is quite whole again. Then I
go. But even then, why has the old Queen duatta come louping through
Munza all these seven evenings past, only to tell me that
Not so blind am I
yet, little Mulgar, as not to creep and creep a league for the sake of a
friend. Be off to-morrow, Nizza-neela! What knows an Oomgar of
friendship? _That_ brings only the last sleep
I mind not the last sleep, old hare
Did I
fear it when half-frozen in the snow? Besides, my friend, the Oomgar,
whose name is Battle, he will guard me
Has not the little Mulla-mulgar, then, heard
Immanala's hunting-cry
Who is this Immanala, the Nameless
that a
Mulla-mulgar should heed her yapping (uggagugga
Ah
he boasts best who boasts in safety. Mishcha,
little Mulgar, has met the Nameless face to face, and when I hear her
hunting-cry I do not make merry. How could she all these days have given
ear to the Oomgar's gun in the forest, and make no sign -- she who has for
her servants leopards and Jaccatrays of many years' hunting? Mark this,
too
if the little Mulgar were not the chosen of
Tishnar, his Oomgar would long ago have been nothing but a few picked
bones
Yes, Mulgar
your brothers that rode on the little Horses
of Tishnar are none so far away. 'Why,' say they to each other, roosting
half-frozen in their tree-huts --'why does Ummanodda betray all
Munza-mulgar to the Oomgar's gun? He is no child of Royal Seelem's
now
I cannot leave my master
who has fed and befriended me. I
cannot leave him to be torn in pieces by this Beast of Shadows. He is
wise -- oh, he is wise! He was born to stand upright. He fears not any
shadow. He walks with Noomas beneath every tree. He kills, old
Mishcha -- that I know well -- and feeds like a glutton on flesh. But a
she-leopard in one moon eats as many of the Munza-mulgars as she has
roses on her skin. As for the Nameless, my father Seelem told me many a
time of _her_ thirsty tongue
If the Oomgar were safe from her
would
_then_ the little Mulgar go
Then would I go on all fours, O Mishcha, for I am weary of
waiting and being far from my brothers, Thumb and Thimble. Then would I
go at once if I could leave the Oomgar quietly to his hunting, and safe
from this Shadow-beast and from more than three lean hunting leopards on
the Ollaconda boughs at one time
There
be three things, Nizza-neela
there be three things even a Mulla-mulgar must have who
fights with Immanala, Queen of Shadows: he must have Magic, he must have
cunning, and he must have courage. Oh, little Prince of Tishnar, should
I have physicked you and saved you from the sooty spits of the Minimuls
if you had been neither wise nor brave
Courage,
Prince Ummanodda! Tishnar is faithful to the faithful. Who is this
Nameless to set snares against her chosen? Fear not, Nizza-neela; all
will be well
Your friends are uncommon fidgety to-night, Nod Mulgar
Not Mulla-mulgar's
friends. Nod's friends not hate Oomgar
Lor' bless ye, my son; you talks wonnerful
hoity-toity; but in _my_ country they would clap ye into a cage
Cage
Ay, in a stinking cage, with iron bars, for the rabble to jeer at. What
would the monkeys do with a white man, an Oomgar, if they cotched 'n
In my father Seelem's hut over there
Oomgar's bones hanged click, click, click in
the wind
They hates us, eh? Picks us clean
Mulla-mulgar -- me -- not hate Oomgar. All
Munza
ay! he kill and eat, eat, eat, same as
leopard, same as Jaccatray
It's tit for tat, my son. I kills Roses, or Roses kills
me. Not a Jack-All that howls moon up over yonder that wouldn't say
grace for a picking. But apes and monkeys, no; not even a warty old
drumming Pongo that's twice as ugly as his own shadow in the glass. I
never did burn powder 'gainst a monkey yet. What's more
who's to know but we was all what you calls Oomgars once? Good as.
You've just come down in the world, that's all. And who's to blame ye?
No barbers, no ships, no larnin', no nothing. Breeches?-- One pair, my
son, to half a million, as far as Andy ever set eyes on. Maybe you come
from that wicked King Pharaoh over in Egypt there. Maybe you was one of
the plagues, and scuttled off with all the fleas
There's just one thing, Master Mulgar
Kill
or not kill, hairy as hairy, or bald as a round-shot, God made us every
one. And speakin' comfortable-like, 'twixt you and me, just as my old
mother taught me years gone by, I planks me down on my knees like any
babby this very hour gone by, while you was sliding in your shoes, and
said me prayers out loud. I'm getting mortal sick of being lonesome. Not
that I blames _you_, my son. You're better company than fifty million
parakeets, and seven-and-seventy Mullagoes of blackamoors
Oomgar talk; Nod unnerstand -- no
My case all over
Andy unnerstand -- no. But there, we'll
off to England, my son, soon as ever this mortal frost breaks. Years and
years have I been in this here dismal Munza. Man-eaters and Ephelantoes,
Portingals and blackamoors, chased and harassed up and down, and never a
spark of frost seen, unless on the Snowy Mountains. What wouldn't I give
for a sight of Plymouth now
Hi, hi,
up she rises
But what's to be done with
a shipwrecked sailor?' Nobody knows, but who can't tell us. Now, just
one stave, Nod Mulgar, afore we both turns in. Give us 'Cherry-trees.'
No, maybe I'll pipe ye one of Andy's Own, and you shall jine in, same as
t'other
Once and there was a young sailor, yeo ho!
       And he sailed out over the say
     For the isles where pink coral and palm-branches blow,
       And the fire-flies turn night into day,
                 Yeo ho!
       And the fire-flies turn night into day.

    "But the _Dolphin_ went down in a tempest, yeo ho!
       And with three forsook sailors ashore,
     The Portingals took him where sugar-canes grow,
       Their slave for to be evermore,
                 Yeo ho!
       Their slave for to be evermore.

    "With his musket for mother and brother, yeo ho!
       He warred wi' the Cannibals drear,
     In forests where panthers pad soft to and fro,
       And the Pongo shakes noonday with fear
                 Yeo ho!
       And the Pongo shakes noonday with fear.

    "Now lean with long travail, all wasted with woe,
       With a monkey for messmate and friend,
     He sits 'neath the Cross in the cankering snow,
       And waits for his sorrowful end,
                 Yeo ho!
       And waits for his sorrowful end
wriggle and stamp
Voice without a body,
     Panther of black Roses,
     Jack-Alls fat on icicles,
     Ephelanto, Aligatha,
     Zevvera and Jaccatray,
     Unicorn and River-horse;
             Ho, ho, ho!
     Here's Andy Battle,
     Waiting for the enemy!

    "Imbe Calandola,
     M'keesso and Quesanga,
     Dondo and Sharammba,
     Pongo and Enjekko,
     Millions of monkeys,
     Rattlesnake and scorpion,
     Swamp and death and shadow;
             Ho, ho, ho!
     Come on, all of ye,
     Here's Andy Battle,
     Waiting and -- alone
Don't you have no shadow of fear, my son. If they come, come they must.
Just you skip off into the forest with your courage where your tail
ought to be. I care not a pinch of powder for them or'nery beasts. It's
that there Shadowlegs that beats me with his mewling. I've heard it down
on the coast; I've heard it with the Portingals; I've heard it with the
Andalambandoes; I've heard it wake and sleep. But witch-beast or no
witch-beast, and every skulk-by-night that creeps on claws, I'll win
home yet
More
fire, my son! I like a light to fight by when fighting comes
I couch here, Ummanodda
night
after night, hungry and thirsty, waiting for the Oomgar's head. Why does
the Mulla-mulgar keep me waiting so long for my supper
Because, O Queen of Shadows
because
the head of the Oomgar refuses to come without his legs -- and his gun
Nay
there must be many a shallow gourd in the Oomgar's
hut. Cut off the head, and bring it hither yourself in that
Ohe
the Nameless has sharp teeth, if all that is said be
true. She shall cut, and I will carry. Princes of Tishnar have no tongue
for blood
Who is this Prince of Tishnar
that, having no tongue for blood, roasts meat with fire for an Oomgar,
the enemy of us all
I, Nameless, am Nod
But meat dead is dead meat. What
against _me_ is it if this blind Oomgar hungers for scorched bones? It
is a riddle, Immanala. Come with me now, then; let us palaver with him
together
Yea, together
I to ride and thou to carry
O Tishnar
Why, O Prince of Tishnar, should we be at strife one with another? We
hate the Oomgar. And if it were not for this magic that is yours, my
servants would have slain him long since in his hunting
Ah, me
I myself love this Oomgar none too much. Did he not catch me walking
lonely in Munza in a wild pig snare? If he is to die, let him die, says
Nod. But I like not your fashion of hunting, Beast of Shadows, skulking
and creeping and scaring off his wandering supper-meat. Bring your
hunting-dogs into the open snow here out of their dens and lairs and
shadows. Then shall the Oomgar fight like an Oomgar, one against a
hundred, and Nod can go free
Tell me, Prince of Tishnar, what is this story you seem to be
whispering about my hunting-dogs
Then you, O fearless Queen of Shadows, shall watch the hunt
in peace
One forsaken Oomgar without his gun against
nine-and-ninety Jack-Alls and Jaccatrays, and perhaps a Roses or two,
famished and parched with cold. Ay, but before I whistle them up
I must steal the Oomgar's M'Keesso's coat,
which is drenched through with magic
The little Mulla-mulgar has a
cunning face
and a heart of many devices. I have heard of
his comings and goings in Munza-mulgar. But if he deal falsely with me,
though Tishnar came herself in all her brightness, I would wait and
wait. Not an Utt nor a Nikka-nikka but should be his enemy, and as for
those magicless Mulla-mulgars his brothers, who even now squat sullen
and hungry in their leafy houses, they shall lie cold as stones before
the morning light
Why
he must be frightened who begins to threaten. I
have no fear of you, O Nameless, who are but a creeping candle-fly at
twilight to the blaze of Tishnar's moon. Come hither to-morrow with your
half-starved hunting-dogs, and I'll show you good hunting, will I
Mishcha, old hare! Mishcha
Chakka, chakka
tchackka, tchackka: you bleed before you're
wounded, Mulgar-royal
By that time
I shall have
finished my supper with the Nameless, and the Oomgar will know me for
the Prince I am
It's this way, my son
I've heard the thing before. That
howl brings half the forest against me, like blue-flies to meat. So all
I does is to keep a weather-eye open, and musket a-cock. One of these
days, Mulgar _mio_, Shadow or no Shadow, she shall have a brace of
bullets in her vitals, as sure as my name's Battle
She's me forgot
Me who have sailed
       Leagues across
     Foam haunted
       By the albatross,
     Time now hath made
       Remembered not:
     Ay, my dear love
       Hath me forgot.

    "'Oh, how should she,
       Whose beauty shone,
     Keep true to one
       Such long years gone?
     Grief cloud those eyes!--
       I ask it not:
     Content am I --
       She's me forgot.

    "'Here where the evening
       Ooboe wails,
     Bemocking
       England's nightingales,
     Bravely, O sailor,
       Take thy lot;
     Nor grieve too much,
       She's thee forgot
Now
it be broad full-moontime, master, and all Munza-mulgar will be gone
hunting. But wake not. Nod, Prince of Tishnar, will watch
Why do you hide from me, Immanala, Queen
of Shadows
Venture out, mistress
and we will be off together to the Oomgar's hut. You shall sit
on the roof and watch the hunting-dogs at their supper
Call not so lustily, Prince of Tishnar
we shall
awake the Oomgar
Ohe
he sleeps deep. He fears neither beast nor
Meermut in all this frozen Munza. Bid your greedy slaves stand ready,
Immanala. When I whistle them, supper is up
I hear the
harps of Tishnar in the forest. The leaves of the branches of the trees
of my master Noomanossi stir, and yet there moves no wind
What is the cunning Mulgar thinking beneath
all he says? Like fine sand in water, I hear the rustling of his
thoughts
I was thinking
what stupid fellows must be these dogs of yours, seeing that each and
every one keeps whimpering, 'The head -- the head for me!' But they must
wait in patience yet a little longer, if even a knucklebone is to be a
share. I will go forward and choose out all that I and the
Mulla-mulgars, my brothers, want of the Oomgar's house-treasures before
the Jaccatrays tear everything to pieces
Softly, now, softly
You think very little of me,
Nizza-neela. Do you dream I came from far to protect you from my slaves,
Roses and Jaccatray, and now am to get nothing for my pains? What of
that stiff coat drenched with magic? That is mine. No, no, little greedy
Mulgar; we share together, or I have all
Well, well
you shall take part, mistress,
though all that's there is truly Tishnar's. Follow quietly! I will see
if my Zbaffle be still asleep
Hither, come hither! Hasten, mistress
Here's a sight to cheer your royal heart! Here's
riches! What have we here but the magic coat which the Oomgar stripped
from the M'keeso of the old Lord Shillambansa, that feeds a hundred
peacocks on his grave
Have no fear, Beast of Shadows
the Oomgar sleeps
like moss on the Tree of Everlasting
Do but now let me help you, mistress
as I used to help the
Oomgar. Stand upright, and I will thrust your arms into the sleeves. We
must hasten, we must be quiet
Now for the Dondo's belt of sorcery
Sure, none will dare
sneeze in Munza-mulgar when the sailorman is gone
Gently, gently, little brother
It is heavy, and I
scarce can breathe
The very Oomgar himself used often to snort
But why does he keep so many stones in his pocket
Why, Queen of Wisdom! What if the wind should blow, and all his magic
flit away? Ay, ay, ay! stripped from the M'keeso of the dead Lord
Shillambansa came this coat into my Messimut's hands, who feeds five
hundred peacocks on his grave! And now his wondrous Cap of Hair! Nine
Fulbies, as I live, were flayed to skin that cap withal
and
seven rogue Ephelantoes gave the Oomgar of their tails
Ah yes, ah yes
but what are seventy Ephelantoes
compared with Immanala, Queen of All
Now
I will weary myself no more with speeches. Is it
warm
I am in a furnace; I burn
Is it too loose? Does it wrinkle? Does it sag
Oh, but I can breathe but a mouthful at a time
Last and last again, then
is
it comfortable
O my friend, my scarce-wise Mulgar-royal, when did you ever hear that
grand clothes were comfortable
Wait but a little moment, then, while I go in to fetch the magic-glass,
that will show you your face, Immanala, handsome and lovesome
Have a care -- oh, have a
care, Ummanodda! The gun, the gun! The Oomgar might wake. Let me creep
swiftly to my stone, and bring the glass to me there
The Oomgar will not wake
he sleeps as deep as the Ghost of
the Rose upon the bosom of Tishnar
But, O Mulgar, think again. Strip off from my body this grievous belt
you will keep nothing for yourself
Have no fear, friend
I will keep
I
will keep
my Zbaffle
The Spirit of Tishnar answers,
Prince Ummanodda Nizza-neela; what dost thou require of me
Oh, by Tishnar, only this
that the
nine-and-ninety hunting-dogs in their hunting mistake the ravening
Beast of Shadows, Immanala, for the sailorman, Zbaffle, my master and
friend
Sulani
Ahoy
Steady -- oh, steady, Oomgar Zbaffle
It is dogs of the
Immanala only, that soon will be gone
Ghost of me! What is it
What beast is this
they're after -- M'keeso, or Man of the Woods
Oomgar, Oomgar,
Oomgar, Oomgar
Immanala, Immanala, death,
death, death
What say you now, hunting-dogs? Was the Oomgar tender or tough
Tough, tough
Go, then, and tell your mistress, Queen of Shadows, Immanala, that you
have supped with the Prince of Tishnar, and are satisfied
Why lurks the little Mulgar in the Oomgar's hut
I guard her treasures for the Nameless
It's no good prattling and blabbing, my son
If come
it be, it's come. Off, now, while your skin's whole, and let me give the
rogues a taste of powder
What, my brothers
Did you hear the Oomgar's Meermut calling for his gun
Out of the way, Pongo
What's these, what's these
Oh, not shoot,
not shoot
black Oomgars -- no; Mulla-mulgars, too, Nod's
friends, Nod's brothers
What's he jabbering about
Nod's brothers, there
Thumb, Thimble, Thimble, Thumb. Nod
show Oomgar. Oh, wait softly
Come
there is no fear,
no danger! Here is Nod, my brothers
What voice was that we heard
Can the mouth of
the Oomgar speak after it is shut in death
The Oomgar is not dead, Thumb, my brother; the hunting-packs killed
only that Beast of Shadows, Immanala, who hoped to kill us all, and the
Oomgar, too. Come over, my brothers! Every day, every night, Nod has
talked in his quiet with you
We do not understand the little Oomgar
Who are
you, the youngest of us all, to lie and make cunning against the people
of the forest? Let your master, the blood-spilling Oomgar, shoot us,
too. What are we in such a heap of bones? We have no fear of him. On all
fours, back, parakeet; tell him where the Mulgars' hearts lie hid. Maybe
he'll fling his Nizza-neela a bone
O Thimble, Mulla-mulgar, why do you seek out all the black words for
me? Haven't I done all for the best? Did I play false with you when I
saved you from the spits of the Minimuls? The little Horse of Tishnar
smelt out my wounded shoulder. And the Oomgar's strangling trap caught
me. But he did not kill me. He took me, and was kind to me, fed me and
shared his fire with me, and we were 'messimuts.' Yet all day, all
night, moon and no-moon, I have talked in myself with you, and run
looking for you in my dreams, while I slept in the hairless Oomgar's
hut. The Nameless is gone for a little while. The Oomgar is wise with
his hands and in little things. Now I may go. He kills only for meat,
Mulla-mulgars. He will do no harm to Ummanodda's brothers. Come over
with me
Why, then
if he kills only for food, and
relishes not his own flavour in the pot, let him hobble out here to us
now and greet us, like with like -- Oomgar-mulgar with Mulla-mulgar -- and
leave his spit-fire and his magic behind him. But into his hut, nor
stumbling among his Munza bones, we will _not_ go. And if he will not
come, brother to brother, then it is 'Gar Mulgar dusangee' between us
three, O youngest son of Seelem. Go back to your cooking-pots. I and
Thimble will journey on alone. All day would the Harp-strings be
twangling over Mulgars smelling of blood
Oomgar
my brothers, the Mulla-mulgars, sons
of Seelem, brother of Assasimmon, Prince of the Valleys of Tishnar, are
here. They say Nod is not true, speaks lies, eater-of-flesh, no child of
Tishnar
Tired of his living
is Nod now. Shoot straight with Oomgar Zbaffle's gun. Nod will be
still
To tell ye sober truth, my son
bullets and powder Battle
haven't much left to waste. And what's lark-pie to a hungry sailor! As
for them hunched-up hobbagoblins over yonder, don't 'ee heed what envy
has to say. Battle is hands down on your side, my son, and let 'em
meddle if they dare! But mercy on us
what
wouldn't my old mother have said to hear these Pongoes chatter? 'Shoot
straight!' says he. 'Tired of his living!' says he. Button up your
sheep's-jacket, my son. We'll home to England yet. And, what's more
Andy Battle's best respects to the hairy gentlemen,
and there's a warm welcome and fresh-picked bones for breakfast. But the
night's creeping cold, and bed's bed, old friend, and Andy's eyes was
never made for moth-hunting. So here goes
But we cannot stay here, Ummanodda
We could not rub
noses with the Oomgar. His voice, his smell! He is not of our kind,
little brother. And now that all the peoples of Munza-mulgar are our
enemies, we must press on, with no more idling and fine eating and
sitting shanks to fire, or we shall never reach the Valleys alive
I am ready, Thumb, my brother
The Oomgar has been kind
to me, his own kind's kind. It was my Tishnar's Wonderstone that saved
him from the teeth of the Nine-and-ninety, and from Immanala's magic,
though why should I tell it is so? Now they will think it is his
skin-bonneted Meermut that stalks to and fro with the ghost-gun of a
ghost. They will forsake this place, every one -- claw and talon, upright
and fours, every one. How long shall a flesh-eater, hungry and
gluttonous, live on dried berries and nuts? Me gone; unless the frost
flies soon, or a great Bobberie, as he does say, comes up from that
strange water, the Sea, over yonder, the Oomgar will die. O brothers,
just as that Oomgar, the Portingal, died whose bones dangled over us
when we stood by Mutta's knee and listened to them clicking. Do but let
me stay to say good-bye, and we will go together at morning
Good-bye, my son
Bravely, ole sailor, take your lot!'
There, there; I make no dwelling on fine words. Good-bye, and don't
forget your larnin'. There's many a full-growed Christian Battle's come
acrost in his seafarin'-- but there, flattery butters no parsnips.
Good-bye, once more, Mulgar _mio_, and thankee kindly
Oomgar, Oomgar
ah-mi, ah-mi; sulani, ghar magleer
So shall it be
Thus do we make it
Ask him, ask him
the fat and stupid, who deafens
the whole forest with his gluttonous screams
Glutton, glutton
How many nights, my brother
Ummanodda, have we lain awake comforting one another that this dismal
grasshopper has only one nose to snore through! I'll teach you,
graffalegs, to break my ribs with a cudgel! Wait till a blink of morning
comes! Oh, grammousie, to think I have put up with such a Mullabruk so
long
Where are you going to, Thimble
O Thimble, think a little
first! All these days we have journeyed in peace together. What would
our father, Royal Seelem, say to see us now fighting and quarrelling
like Mullabruks, and all because you cudgelled Thumb in his sleep
In his sleep
Tell that to your flesh-eating
Oomgar, Prince of Bonfires! How could he be asleep, when he was
squealing like a Boobab full of parakeets? I go back -- back _now_.
Who can climb mountains with a fat hulk who takes two breaths to an
Ukka-nut? Come, if you dare! But I care not, whether or no
Sit here and sulk, if you like, Nizza-neela
Come
with me, or traipse back with that scatterbrains. Whichever you please,
I care not. I am sick of the glutton that eats all day and cannot sleep
of nights for thinking of his supper
How can I go with you
when I would not go with
Thimble? O Mulla-mulgar Thumb, you who are the eldest and strongest and
wisest of us, be now the best, too! Hasten after Thimble, and bring him
back to be friends. How can we show our faces to our Uncle Assasimmon,
even if we get over these dreadful mountains, saying we wrangled and
gandered all one cold night together simply because you screamed out
with fear in your sleep
Thumb scream! Thumb afraid! Thumb sweat after Lean-legs! If you had not
been my mother's youngest son, Ummanodda, you should never open that
impudent mouth again
Seelem
Seelem, Seelem
Ummani nata? Still we go on
Nata, nata! On, on, on
Tell us, O Moh-mulgar, we beseech you, how shall three travellers to
the kingdom of Assasimmon find a pathway across these hills
Geguslar nooma gulmeta muh
What does he say
Well
what he says is this: 'Death's at the end of _all_
paths
So it is
Ay
but what _I_ was asking was the longest way round....
A track, a path to the beautiful Valleys of Tishnar
Geguslar, nooma gulmeta muh
There is no way over
But over we must go
What's to be done now
Where they came down, we can go up
What is it, Thumb
Why do you stop, Nod
Look, look
We are, sirs, strangers to these
rocks and hills. After the shade of Munza, our eyes dizzy with the
heights. And we walk, journeying to the Courts of Assasimmon, in great
danger of falling. How, then, shall we pass by
But to go on has no end
and the
travellers had better far turn back
What does the old grey-beard mean
Mulla-mulgars stoop on their
faces to no one. Do you lie down on yours
We are thirty; you are three
We are strangers to Arakkaboa, O Man of the Mountains. And we fear to
lie down, lest we never rise up again
O ho, ho! Illa ulla, illa ulla! O ho, ho
O Thumb, why do you call 'ho!' like that
Back, back
du steepa datz
We must go back
Yes, brother
but I cannot go back. If I turn,
down I go. But if you two can turn, down go will I
Tishnar, O Tishnar
the hills are dancing
Softly, softly, child
It is only your giddy eyes
rolling. What's more
those old hairy
Men of the Mountains, even if only Meermuts, _must_ have come from
somewhere. Where they came from we can go to. O and Ahoh
Why do you call 'Ahoh!' Thumb
Both together, Thimbulla
Ahoh, ahoh, ahoh
Thimble, my brother
could you, if
little Nod twisted himself round, straddle your legs enough to let him
creep through? We old gluttonous fellows were never meant for
mountain-climbing. And standing here over the great misty pot
Why
What then
Up, up
Tread gently, Mulla-mulgar
You
are fat, and our ladder is slender
Now, Nizza-neela
it is your
turn
The Valleys of Assasimmon lie far from here
And the Men of the Mountains
walk no mountain-paths beyond the peak of Zut; nor have we ever dangled
our ropes into the Ummuz-groves of Tishnar. I do not even know the way
thither. It would have been go thin and come back fat, O Mulla-mulgars,
if I did. Rest and sleep now, travellers. We will bring you to the
Mulla-moona-mulgar &lsqb;that is, Lord, or Captain&rsqb; of Kush when he awakes
from his 'glare
glare
shine
no-shadow
Ohe! if my Oomgar were but with me now
How would his
eyes stare to see his friend the sea
Munza is your country
The leaves are never still with you, thieves and gluttons,
squealing and fighting and swinging by your tails
We are three, and you are many, Old Man
of the Mountains
but keep a civil tongue with us, for all
that. We are neither thieves nor gluttons. We fight, oh yes, when it
pleases us. But having no tails, we do not swing by them. We are
Mulla-mulgars, my brothers and I, and we go to the kingdom of our
father's brother, Assasimmon, Prince of the Valleys of Tishnar. He is a
Prince, O Mulla-moona, who has more slaves in his palace and more
Ukka-trees in the least of his seventy-seven gardens than your royal
whiskers have hairs! On, then, we go! But be not afraid,
Mulla-moona-mulgar. We will leave a few small stones of Arakkaboa behind
us. But whether you will or whether you won't, on we go until the Harp
sounds. Then our Meermuts will Tishnar welcome, and bid wander over
these her mountains, never hungry, never thirsty, never footsore, with
sweet-smelling lanterns to light us, and striped Zevveras to carry us,
and gongs to make music. But if we live, Chief Mulgar of Kush, we will
remember your words, I and my brother Ummanodda Nizza-neela, for he
shall breathe them into a little book in the Zbaffle Oomgar's tongue for
Prince Assasimmon to mock at in his Ummuz-fields
Why
I did but speak Munza fashion. Scratch if you
itch, traveller. Even an Utt can grow angry. As for writing my words in
the Oomgar's tongue, that is magic, and I understand it not. Rest in the
cool of the shadow of Kush a little, and to-morrow my servants shall
lead you as far across Arakkaboa as they know the way. But this I will
tell you: Beyond Zut my paths go not
But then, Meermuts need no paths, Mulla-mulgars
All in good time, Prince
I begin to get an itching for this Zut. We will rest only one day. The
Mulla-mulgar Thimbulla has a poor stomach for your green cheese. We will
journey on to-morrow
After that
though your Meermuts were three hundred
and not three, and your Uncle, King Assasimmon, had more palaces than
there are nuts on an Ukka-tree, I could help you no more. Sulani, O
Mulla-mulgars, and may Tishnar, before she scatters your bones, sweeten
your tempers
Gunga! Gunga
We shall have to carry him, Ummanodda
If he eats any more of their mouldy nuts and cheese our
brother will die in these wild mountains. They must be sad stomachs that
thrive on meat gone green with age. And now the physic is gone, and
where shall we find more in these great hills of ice? We must carry
him -- we must carry him, Nodnodda
O Thumb, what should we do
what should
we do, you and me, if Thimble died
Thimble will not die, little brother
But how can you know, Thumb? Or do you say it only to comfort me
I never could tell how I know, Ummanodda; but know I do, and there's an
end
I suppose we shall get to Tishnar's Valleys -- in time
The Nizza-neela is downcast with long travel
Ay
and being a Mulla-mulgar, he does not show it
In Munza a Mulgar once lived alone,
     And his name it was Dubbuldideery, O;
     With none to love him, and loved by none,
     His hard old heart it grew weary, O,
         Weary, O weary, O weary.

    "So he up with his cudgel, he on with his bag
     Of Manaka, Ukkas, and Keeri, O;
     To seek for the waters of 'Old-Made-Young,'
     Went marching old Dubbuldideery, O
         Dubbuldi-dubbuldi-deery.

    "The sun rose up, and the sun sank down;
     The moon she shone clear and cheery, O,
     And the myriads of Munza they mocked and mopped
     And mobbed old Dubbuldideery, O,
         Moh Mulgar Dubbuldideery.

    "He cared not a hair of his head did he,
     Not a hint of the hubbub did hear he, O,
     For the roar of the waters of 'Old-Made-Young'
     Kept calling of Dubbuldideery, O,
         Call -- calling of Dubbuldideery.

    "He came to the country of 'Catch Me and Eat Me'--
     Not a fleck of a flicker did fear he, O,
     For he knew in his heart they could never make mince-meat
     Of tough old Dubbuldideery, O,
         Rough, tough, gruff Dubbuldideery.

    "He waded the Ooze of Queen Better-Give-Up,
     Dim, dank, dark, dismal, and dreary, O,
     And, crunch! went a leg down a Cockadrill's throat,
     'What's _one_?' said Dubbuldideery, O,
         Undauntable Dubbuldideery.

    "He cut him an Ukka crutch, hobbled along,
     Till Tishnar's sweet river came near he, O --
     The wonderful waters of 'Old-Made-Young,'
     A-shining for Dubbuldideery, O,
         Wan, wizened old Dubbuldideery.

    "He drank, and he drank -- and he drank -- and he -- drank:
     No more was he old and weary, O,
     But weak as a babby he fell in the river,
     And drownded was Dubbuldideery, O,
         Drown-ded was Dubbuldideery
Why are you heaping up such large fires
and whose, Man of the Mountains, are those howlings I heard from the
mountain-tops
The fires and the howls are cousins, little Mulgar
The screams of the golden-folk have roused the wolves, and if
we do not light big fires they will come down in packs along their
secret paths to devour us. It is a good thing to fight bravely, but it's
a better not to have to fight at all
It is
good news, brother
it is good news. What stories we shall
have to tell when we are old
But two of the hairy ones are dead
and one is slipping,
they say, from his second sleep
Then
they need fight no
more
No, Thimble, no
Lie back, my brother. It
is neither the Harp-strings nor our father's Zevveras; it is only the
little mountain-wolves barking at the icicles
They'd burn all Munza up with fires like these
Little wolves need only little fires
Tish -- naehr
These hairy fellows are
singing of Tishnar
Who taught them of Tishnar
Oh, child
will you never
learn wisdom? Sleep while you can, and let Thumb sleep too! To-morrow we
may be fighting again
What is it in your mouldy cheese, Man of the Mountains, that has
poisoned my brother
Maybe it is something in the Mulla-mulgar
It is very good cheese
Will morning soon be here
When night is gone
Why do these mountain-wolves fear fire
Questions, royal traveller, are easier than
answers
They _do_
Is it
far now to my uncle, Prince Assasimmon's? Is it far to the Valleys
Only to the other side of death
Come
Noomanossi, we shall walk no more
Do you mean, O Man of the Mountains
that we shall never, never get there alive
Never' shares a big bed with 'Once,' Mulla-mulgar
But we have no Magic
What ails you, O nephew of a great King
Fleas
Now
what's
that, my son
Why, that's old 'A,' that is
and what did old
straddle-legs 'A' go for to do? What did 'A' do, Nod Mulgar
A ...
Yapple-pie
Brayvo
A -- Apple-pie
and I wish we had him here,
Master Pongo. And now, what's this here
Bless ye, Nod Mulgar
that's old Buzz-buzz; that's that old
garden-robber -- that's 'B
B
And 'B'-- he bit it
C
_IT_
E
E
And what -- what -- what did 'E' do
E,' 'E,' 'E'-- what did 'E' do
Dunce! Dunce
E' ate it
E ... ate it
Are you so sleepy, Prince of the Mountains, that you keep your eyes
shut in broad day
No, Mulla-mulgar, I am not sleepy; but one eye
is scorched with the fire and one a little angry with the eagles, so
that I can scarcely see at all
Not blind
Nay, twilight, not night,
little Mulgar
I see no more of you than a
little brown cloud against black mountains
But how will you walk on these narrow, icy shelves
Why
I have a tail, Mulgar-royal; and my people must lead
me.... What of the morning, Nizza-neela
It is bright as hoarfrost on the slopes and tops there
It dazzles Ummanodda's eyes to look. But the sun is behind
this huge black wall of ours, so here we sit cold in the shadow
Then we will wait
till he come walking a little higher
to melt the frost and drive away the last of the wolves
Man of the Mountains
would you hold me if I
crept close and put my head over the edge? I would like to see how many
Mulgars-deep we walk
This path is but as other Mulgar-paths, Mulla-mulgar;
no traveller need stumble twice. But I will do as you ask me
Ahoh, ahoh! I say
Why do you do that
You called 'O, O!' Mulla-mulgar, and we thought you were afraid
Afraid! Nod? No
What is there to be afraid of
The little Mulgar asks us
riddles
I called
because I spy something jutting there with a
fluff of hair in the wind that leaps the chasm, and with thin ends that
look to me like the arms and legs of a Man of the Mountains lying caught
in a bush of Tummusc
Ahoh
It is, perhaps, a wisp of snow, an eagle's feather, or maybe a nosegay
of frost-flowers
What was the name of him who fell fighting
His name was Ubbookeera
Then
there he hangs
So be it, Eyes-of-an-Eagle
we will go down before he
melts and fetch him up
Hold my legs, Thumb, my brother, that I may see what they're at
They cannot reach him
He lies there huddled up, Thumb, in a
Tummusc-bush, just as he fell
Why, then
he must have hung dead all night. The eagles
will have picked his eyes out
Is he dead? Is he dead? Is thy 'Messimut' dead
He is dead, Mulla-mulgar, or in his second sleep
What will you do
Why do you drag back the embers
The swiftest of us is going back to bring a longer 'rope' and stronger
staves and Samarak, and, alive or dead, they will drag him up. But we go
on, Mulla-mulgar
Ohe
but will he not be melted by then, Prince of
the Mountains? Will not the eagle's feather be blown away? Will not the
frost flowers have melted from the bush
The Men of the Mountains will remember you in their drones,
Mulla-mulgar, for saving the life of their kinsman; they will call you
in their singing 'Mulla-mulgar Eengenares'
Already am I in my brothers' thoughts Prince of Bonfires,
Noddle of Pork; if only I could see through Zut, they also might call me
Eengenares, too
glare
Does it always rain pebble-stones and lumps of ice in these miserable
hills
What is this Whisker-face tinkering at now
What is
he after now? We had best have come alone
I know not
but if he can fight Noses, Thumb, as well as he
can fight Beaks, we shall soon be getting on again
Ghost of a Moh-man
he has lost his cheesy
wits
I began to fear, O Man of the Mountains
that your wits had got frostbitten. But I am not too old nor fat to
learn wisdom
Munza or Mountains,
there's wisdom for all, brave traveller
They are very old
friends of ours, these Long-noses; they could smell out a mouse's
Meermut in the moon
I come, Royal Travellers
to tell you that here our country
ends. Zut lies now behind us. Yonder stretches the Shadow Country, and
my people know the way no farther
You mean, O Man of the Mountains, whose friendship has been our very
lives to us
that now we must journey on alone
No, Mulla-mulgar; I mean only that here the Moona country, my people's
country, ends, and therefore that I cannot now be certain of the way to
the Valleys of Tishnar. But this I do know: that beyond here is thick
with the snares of Noomanossi. But if the Mulgar Princes and the
Nizza-neela Eengenares, who saved my kinsman's life, would have it so,
and are not weary of our company, then I and my people will journey on
with them till they come to an end. We know from childhood these
desolate mountains. They are our home. We eat little, drink little, and
can starve as quietly as an icicle can freeze. If need be (and I do not
boast, Mulla-mulgars), we Thin-shanks can march softly all day for many
days, and not fall by the way. We are, I think, merely Leather-men, not
meant for flesh and blood. But the Mulla-mulgars have fought with us,
and we are friends. And I myself am friend to the last sleep of the
small Prince, Nizza-neela, who has the colour of Tishnar in his eyes.
Shall it be farewell, Travellers? Or shall we journey on together
Why should we lead you into strange dangers, O Man of the Mountains
maybe to death? But if you ask to come with us, if we have
only to choose, how can I and my brothers say no? We will at least be
friends who do not part while danger is near, and though we never reach
the Valley, Tishnar befriends the Meermuts of the brave. Let us, then,
go on together
Tell me, Prince of the Mountains
what are these nets of
Noomanossi of which you spoke to my brother Thumb? What is there
so much to fear
I will tell the Prince a tale
Long time ago came to our mountains a Mulgar travelling alone. My
kinsmen think oftener of him than any stranger else, because,
Mulla-mulgar, he taught us to make fire. He was wayworn and full of
courage, but he was very old. And he, too, was journeying to the Valleys
of Tishnar. But he was, too, a silent Mulgar, never stirred his tongue
unless in a kind of drone at evening, and told us little of himself
except in sleep
What was he like
Was he mean and little, like me, or tall
and bony, like my brother Thimble, or fat, like the Mulla-mulgar, my
eldest brother, Thumb
He was
none of these. He was betwixt and between. But
he wore a ragged red jacket, like those of the Mulgars, and on his
woman-hand stood no fourth finger
Was the little woman-finger newly gone, or oldly gone
I was younger then, Nizza-neela, and looked close at everything. It
was newly gone. The stump was bald and pale red. He was, too, white in
the extreme, this old Mulgar travelling out of Munza. Every single hair
he carried had, as it were, been dipped in Tishnar's meal
I believe -- oh, but I do believe
this poor old traveller
was my father, the Mulla-mulgar Seelem, of the beautiful Valleys
Then
he was a happy Mulgar, for he has brave sons
Tell me more
What did he talk about? Did he speak ever of
Ummanodda? How long did he stay with the Mulla-moonas? Which way did he
go
Lead on, then
Here go I
He followed the mountain-paths with my own father
and
lived alone for many days in one of our Spanyards,&lsqb;7&rsqb; for he was worn
out with travel, and nearly dead from lying down to drink out of a
Quickkul-fish pool. But after five days, while he was still weak, he
rose up at daybreak, crying out in Munza-mulgar he could remain with us
no longer. So my people brought him, as I have brought you, to this
everlasting snow-field, where he said farewell and journeyed on alone
Had he a gun
What is a gun, Nizza-neela
What then -- what then
Two nights afterwards
some of my people
came up to the other end of the gorge of the Long-noses. There they
found him, cold and bleeding, in his second sleep. The Long-noses had
pelted him with stones till they were tired. But it was not their stones
that had driven him back. He would not answer when the Men of the
Mountains came whispering, but sat quite still, staring under his black
arches, as if afraid. After two days more he rose up again, crying out
in another voice, like a Moh-mulgar. So we came again with him, two
'ropes' of us, along the walks the traveller knows. And towards evening,
with his bag of nuts and water-bottle, in his rags of Juzana, he left us
once more. Next morning my father and my people came one or two together
to where we sit, and -- what did they see
_What_ did they see
They did see only this
footsteps -- one-two, one-two,
just as the Mulla-mulgar walks -- all across the snow beyond the
thorn-trees. But they did see also other footsteps, slipping, sliding,
and here and there a mark as if the traveller had fallen in the snow,
and all these coming _back_ from the thorn-trees. And at the beginning
of the ice-path was a broken bundle of nuts strewn abroad, but uneaten,
and the shreds of a red jacket. Water-bottle there was none, and Mulgar
there was none. We never saw or heard of that Mulgar again
O Man of the Mountains
where, then, is my father now
I believe, Eengenares, your father -- if that Mulgar was your
father -- is happy and safe now in the Valleys of Tishnar
But
he must have come back again out of his wits with fear
of the Country of Shadows
Why
a brave Mulgar might come back once, twice, ten
times; but while one foot would swing after the other, he might still
arise in the morning and try again. 'On, on,' he would say. 'It is
better to die, going, than to live, come-back
But tell me -- tell me _this_, Mountain-mulgar: What was the fear which
drove him back? What feet so light ran after him that they left no
imprint in the snow? Whose shadow-hands tore his jacket to pieces
That, Mulla-mulgar
we shall soon find
out for ourselves. If only I had the Wonderstone hung in my beard, I
should go singing
Why do you dance in the snow, my poor child? What ails you
Have you pricked your
little toe
What is it, brother
What is it, brother?
Why do you crouch and stare
Come close, Ummanodda
Tell me, is there anything I see
WHAT IS IT, BROTHER? WHY DO YOU CROUCH AND STARE
Thumb, Thumb
surely I have seen the eyes of a
wandering Midden of Tishnar
Hst
there, there
Acch magloona nani, Nod
lagoosla sul majeela
Halt
Courage, my kinsmen! it is the
danger-song of Tishnar we hear, who loves the fearless
Why do we march like this at night,
Mulla-moona? These are not our mountain-passes. Let us camp here while
we are still alive, and burn a great watch-fire till morning
You have faggots, Cousin of a Skeeto
Kindle a fire for
yourself, and catch us up at daybreak
What's to be done now, Prince of Ladder-makers
Are we not weary of wandering? There's room for us all in those great
shadowy bellies
Itthiluthi thoth 'Meermut' onnoth anoot oonoothi
But maybe these
Meermuts gnaw before swallowing
Tell me what's to be seen,
Mulla-mulgar
Why do we linger? The frost's in my toes. Up
with fresh torches and go forward
What wonder our father Seelem stumbled as he ran
This is our
riddle, O Mulla-mulgars
If we turn back and climb slowly
upward, so as to creep round in hiding from these giant Meermuts, we
shall only come at last to batter our heads against the walls of
Moot. And Moot I know of old: there the Gunga-moonas make
their huddles. And the other way, under the moon, there juts a precipice
five thousand Mulgars deep, through which, so the old news goes, creeps
slowlier than moss Tishnar's never-melting Obea of ice. Here, then, is
our answer, Princes: The valleys must be yet many long days' journey.
Either, then, we go straight forward beneath the feet of Tishnar's
Orchard-meermuts, like forest-mice that gambol among a Mutti of
Ephelantoes, or else, like shivering Jack-Alls, we go back, to live out
the rest of this littlest of lives itching, but having nowhere to
scratch. What thinks the Mulgar Eengenares
Thumb, my brother, what of the Wonderstone?
what of the Wonderstone? Shall we tell this Moona-mulgar of that
Seelem kept all his wits for you, Jugguba
rub and see
What think you of that, Mulla-moona
I am nothing but a skin of bones -- nothing to pick
and all but sand-blind, and therefore could not see to be
afraid
No, no, no, Mulla-moona
If mischief came
to my brother, how could I live on, listening to the chittering of his
mother's Meermut asking me, 'Where is Nod?' Stay here and guard my
brother, Thimbulla, who is too sick and weak to go with us; and if we
neither of us return before morning, deal kindly with him, Mulla-moona,
and have our thanks till you too are come to be a shadow
Ubbe nimba sul ugglourint
Follow, oh follow, brother
I am Fulby, I am Oomgar's
M'keeso; it is a dream; it is a night-shadow; it is Nod Meermut; it is
fires of Tishnar. Hide in my blaze, Thumb Mulgar. And see these Noomas
cringe
See, Thumb
my magic burns. M'keeso
chatters. These Tishnar Meermuts are nought but trunks of trees
Press
on, Ummanodda; your eyes burn magic, and trees to you are sudden death
to me
O brother, my brother! Tishnar is walking on the hills
Have no fear, Nizza-neela, Mulla-mulgar
jugguba Ummanodda, neddipogo, Eengenares; feast and be merry. Tishnar
watches over the brave
Have it as
you will
It is easy to fear nothing and to see what is not
here when you meddle with magic, and shine like a fish out of water. But
as for me, I go back to my brother Thimble, and to my friends, the Men
of the Mountains
Wonderstone, Wonderstone! call back my brother
and open his eyes
Bring, too, O Wonderstone, my
brother Thimbulla on his litter, and the Prince Ghibba and his kinsfolk
to feast with me
Noomanossi
glare
Fish in the Ring
A tail, a tail, a tail
Here sups
Sullilulli
I think, Mulla-mulgars, they
mean that if we keep walking along these slippery high banks, one by
one, we shall topple head over heels into the torrent, and be
drowned -- over like that
But if
the first star comes, but no Ghibba, then do you, O
Royalties, if it please you, build up a big fire above the waters, so
that we may grope our way back to you before morning
But no
Mutta-matutta bade me 'to no one.' Ghibba is cunning and
brave; he will come back
We die because we must
Good dreams, old Thumb
dreams of Salem that
bring him near
Urrckk, urck
Starving Mulgars, urrckk, urck
Bubble, Bubble,
       Swim to see
     Oh, how beautiful
       I be.

    "Fishes, Fishes,
       Finned and fine,
     What's your gold
       Compared with mine?

    "Why, then, has
       Wise Tishnar made
     One so lovely,
       Yet so sad?

    "Lone am I,
       And can but make
     A little song,
       For singing's sake
Are you, then, one of those wild wandering Mulgars that light great
fires by night
and scare all my fishes from sleeping
Yes, Midden; I and my brothers
We light fires because we
are cold and hungry. We are wanderers; that is true. But 'wild'-- I know
not
Cold,' O Mulgar, and with a jacket of sheep's wool, thick and curled,
like that
It was a pleasant coat when it was new, Midden, but we are
old friends now -- it and me. And though it keeps me warm enough marching
by day, when night comes, and this never-to-be-forgotten frost sharpens,
my bones begin to ache, as did my mother's before me, whose grave not
even Kush can see
The Mulgar should live, like me, in the water, then he, too, would
never know of cold. Whither do you and your brothers wander, O Mulgar
We have come
from beyond all Munza-mulgar, that lies on
the other side of the river of the saffron-fearing Coccadrilloes -- that
is, many score leagues southward of Arakkaboa -- and we go to our Uncle,
King Assasimmon, Prince of the Valleys of Tishnar -- that is, if that
Mountain-prince, my friend Ghibba, can find us a way
The Mulla-mulgar, then, has seen
great dangers
He is very young and little to have travelled
so far
Little and young
Oh yes. And yet, O beautiful Water-midden, my brothers would never
have been here without me
Tell me why that is
Because -- because
because Queen Tishnar watches over me
But Tishnar watches over all
Why, then, O Midden, has, as your song said, Tishnar made you so sad
Songs are but songs, Mulla-mulgar
It is sad seeing
only my own small loneliness in the water. Would not the Mulgar himself
weary with only staring fish for company
Are there, then, no other Water-middens in the river
Have you, then, seen any beside me
None
Tell me
why does the Queen Tishnar guard so closely _you_
I am a Nizza-neela, Midden -- Mulla-mulgar Ummanodda Nizza-neela
Eengenares -- that is what I am called, speaking altogether. Other names,
too, I have, of course, mocking me. Who is there wise that was not once
foolish
A Nizza-neela
Oh yes
but besides that I carry with me
Carry with you
Oh, only the Wonderstone
The Wonderstone? What, then, is
that
O most marvellous Mulla-mulgar
I think, if I could see but
once this Wonderstone -- I think I should be never sad again
Oh, but if I might but hold it in my hand one moment, I
think that I should never even sigh again
I may not
Then
I will not ask
My mother told me
Midden, Midden
I did not mean to say any
unkindness. You would give me back my Wonderstone very quickly
Oh, but, gentle Mulla-mulgar
my hands are cold;
they might put out its fiery flame
I do not think so, most beautiful Midden
Show me your
fingers, and let me see
Return it to me
quickly -- quickly, Midden, or Tishnar will be angered against me. How
must the Meermut of my mother now be mourning
Can you not trust me but a
moment, Prince of the Mulgars
Nod ho, Nod ho! Ulla ulla!
Nod ho
Oh, Midden, Midden
it is my brother, Mulla Thumma, calling
me. Give me my Wonderstone; I must go at once
Let me make magic but once
and I will return it.
Stop, Prince Ummanodda Nizzanares Eengeneela
I cannot wait, not wait. Have pity on me, most beautiful Midden. I did
but put it into your hands for friendship's sake. Return it to me now.
Tishnar listens
Ummanodda! Ahoh, ahoh, ahoh
Oh, harsh and angry voice
it frightens me -- it
frightens me. To-morrow, in the night-time, Mulla-mulgar, come again. I
will guard and keep your Wonderstone. Call me, call me. I will come
What is it, my brother
Why do you call me? Here is
Nod
Why do
you play such Munza tricks
hiding from us in the night? How
am I to know what small pieces you may not have been dashed into on this
slippery Arakkaboa? What beasts may not have chosen Mulla-skeeto for
supper? Come back, foolish baby, and have no more of this creeping and
hiding
O Midden, Midden
why were you false to me? What evil did I do to
you that you should have stolen my Wonderstone
Follow
quick, Walk-by-night
a storm is brewing
Tishnar is angry -- Tishnar is angry
She has forsaken me,
Noddle of Pork that Nod is
Get up now, Ummanodda, little
brother, and do not mope and sulk any more. I was angry because I was
afraid. How should we have gone a day in safety without the Nizza-neela
and his Wonderstone? Come nearer to the fire, and dry your sodden
sheep's-coat
Is the Mulla-mulgar ill, that he sits alone, hiding his eyes
I am in my second sleep, Mountain-mulgar. A little
frost has cankered my bones. It is the Harp Nod hears, not Zevvera's
zoots
The
Mulla-mulgars say there can be no turning back, Nizza-neela. And, by the
way I have come, it is certain that there is no going onward. Then, say
they, being Mulgars-of-a-race, we must float with the mountain-water
into the great cavern, and trust our hearts to the fishes. Maybe it will
carry us to where every shadow comes at last; maybe these are the waters
of the Fountains of Assasimmon
I see no boat
The only boat my brothers ever
floated in was an old Gunga's Oomgar-nugga's bobberie that now is a nest
in Obea-Munza for Coccadrilloes' eggs
Already my people are gathering branches
to make
floating mats or rafts, such as I saw one of the Fishing-mulgars
squatting on while he dangled his tail for fish-bait. Comfort your weary
bones, then, Eengenares. Tishnar, who guards you, Tishnar, whose Prince
you are, Tishnar, who feasted even Utts like me on fruits of
sleeping-time, will not forsake us now
Water-midden,
Water-midden, here am I, Ummanodda, come as you bade me
It is me, the
Mulla-mulgar, child of Tishnar, who trusted to you his Wonderstone,
beautiful Midden. Nod, who believed in you, calls -- your friend, the
sorrowful Nod
Sing, Mulla-mulgar
The Princess loves
sweet music
Tell me, Jacket-of-Loveliness
where is thy mistress
that she does not answer me
Hsst, brother
O Tishnar
help once this
wretched Nod
Tell me, O Water-midden, where is my Wonderstone
You told me
false, Mulla-mulgar
All day long have I been sitting
rubbing, rubbing with my small tired thumb, but no magic has answered.
It is but a common water-pebble roughened into the beasts' shapes. It
means nothing, and I am weary
If it is but a water-pebble, give it back to me, then, Midden, for it
was my mother who gave it me
You did deceive me, then,
Mulla-mulgar, so that you might seem strange and wonderful, and far
above the other hoarse-voiced travellers, the beloved of Tishnar? You
may deceive me again, perhaps. I think I will not give you back your
stone. Perhaps, too
perhaps I rubbed not wisely.
You shall tell me how
Show me, then, my Wonderstone. I am tired out for want of sleep, and
long no more for Tishnar's fountains
See, Mulla-mulgar, here is your Wonderstone. Now in
patience tell me how to make magic
Float but a span nearer to me, Midden -- a span and
just a half a span
Oh, but just a thumb-nail nearer
Listen, listen,
Midden
I will not harm you -- I could not harm you, beautiful
one, though you never gave me back my Wonderstone again, and I wandered
forsaken till I died of hunger in the forest. What use is the stone to
you now? Tishnar is angry. See how wildly it burns and sulks. Give it,
then, into my hand, and I promise -- not a promise, Midden, fading in one
evening -- I will give you any one thing else whatsoever it is you ask
Be not angry with me, little brother
I did not pretend with you, sorrowful Nizza-neela
Till I die, O beautiful one
I will not forget you. Tell me
your wish
This shall be my sorrowful
wish, little Mulgar: it is that when you and your brothers come at last
to the Kingdom of Assasimmon, and the Valleys of Tishnar, you will not
forget me
O Midden
it needed no asking -- that. It may be we shall
never reach the Valleys. For now we must plunge into the water-cavern on
our floating rafts, and all is haste and danger. But I mind no danger
now, Midden. That Mulla-mulgar, my father Seelem, chose to wander, and
not to sit fat and idle with Princes. So, too, would I. Tell me a harder
wish. Ask anything, Water-midden, and my Wonderstone shall give it you
That is all I
ask, Mulla-mulgar
that you will not forget me. I
fear the Wonderstone. All day it has been crickling and burning in my
hair. All that I ask, I ask only of you
There
that will bid you remember
me when you come to the end. Have no fear of the waters, Nizza-neela; my
people will watch over you
And if my brothers stay here one day more, come in the darkness, O
Water-midden; I shall not sleep for thinking of you
Look, Thumb
the little Prince is so vain of his tattered old
sheep's-jacket that he won't walk in his bare an instant, yet he is so
hot he can scarcely breathe
glare
Illaloothi, Illaloothi
There, little brother
tell the beautiful
Midden I remembered her last of all things when the hoarse-voiced
Mulgars sailed away
Ugh, Ummanodda, this hole of darkness
chills my bones. Sing, child, sing
What shall I sing, Thumb
Sing that jingling lingo the blood-supping Oomgar-mulgar taught you.
How goes it?--'Pore Benoleben
Poor Ben, old
Ben
Widecks awas'
       Widevry sea,
     An' flyin' scud
       For companee,
     Ole Benporben
       Keepz watcherlone:
     Boatz, zails, helmaimust,
       Compaz gone.

    "Not twone ovall
       'Is shippimuts can
     Pipe pup ta prove
       'Im livin' man:
     One indescuppers
       Flappziz 'and,
     Fiss-like, as you
       May yunnerstand.

    "An' one bracedup
       Azzif to weat,
     'Az aldy deck
       For watery zeat;
     Andwidda zteep
       Unwonnerin' eye
     Ztares zon tossed sea
       An' emputy zky.
     Pore Benoleben,
     Pore-Benn-ole-Ben
Dubbuldideery
Down all
No, no
not drink, Nod. Sleepy water -- sleepy
water. Moona-mulgars there, drunk and drunk; thirstier and thirstier,
torches out -- all dead asleep -- all dead asleep
But my tongue's crackling dry, Thumb. Drink I must, Thumb
Nutshells
suck nutshells, suck them
How many nuts left have you, my brother
Safe, safe all
Nod slept on and
on
Why did you not wake me, Thumb? Lie down now. I am not hungry, only a
little thirsty. Have these few crackle-shells before you sleep, old
Thumb
O ubjar moose soofree!
ubjar, ubjar, moose soofree
Walla, walla
Wake, wake, Nugget of clay!
Wake, Mulla-slugga! The Valleys! The Valleys, little Ummanodda! Taste,
taste! Ummuz, ummuz, UMMUZ
It is a big nest Tishnar's water-birds build
No nest, Ummanodda
it is some Mulgar's tree-roost
fallen into the water. Its leaves are dry, and the feet of that
long-legs stand deep in Spider-flower
To my eyes
it looks to me, Thumb, just like such
another as one of our water-rafts
Wait here a little while, Nizza-neela
I go
down to look for eggs
Eggs
eggs
Sootli, sootli
Magic, magic
Oomgar's gun, Thumb?-- Oomgar's
Noos unga unka, Portingal, Ummanodda. Seelem arggutchkin! Seelem! kara,
kara! Seelem mugleer
Long -- long is Time, though books be brief:
     Adventures strange -- ay, past belief --
     Await the Reader's drowsy eye;
     But, wearied out, he'd lay them by.

    "But, if so be he'd some day hear
     All that befell these brothers dear
     In Tishnar's lovely Valleys -- well,
     Poor pen, thou must that story tell!

    "But farewell, now, you Mulgars three!
     Farewell, your faithful company!
     Farewell, the heart that loved unbidden --
     Nod's dark-eyed, beauteous Water-midden
</text>
