<text>
You will have a pleasant life of it here in the woods
I
should like to live here, as you are going to do.  You have only to look
into that pond for three minutes to see more fine fish than you will
want for a month after
The fish will do us no good
If a fishbone is found
within a furlong of where I live (here where nobody else lives), off I
am marched straight to jail.  And the Count's bailiff has surprisingly
sharp eyes
I would bury the fishbones in the night-time
but I would have the fish, if I wanted them,
for all the bailiff
If you go to yonder jail
and ask the folk how they
came there, some of them will tell you it was trying to get fish, when
they were hungry, for all the bailiff.  Or, if not fish, something else
from the woods and warrens -- a rabbit, perhaps, or a couple of doves
I hope the bailiff won't put me into jail for my rabbits
for I have not eaten them.  I have a pretty litter of rabbits for
Marie; and you will help me to make a hutch for them, behind the house.
I should say hereabouts
Do you know no better than that
Your father could
have told you in a minute, if you had asked him, that it is against the
law for anybody to keep rabbits and pigeons except the nobles
Pigeons
Why, that is too bad!  I have the
prettiest pair of doves, from this wood, that ever was seen.  I took
them from the nest, a month ago; and I tell Marie that their cooing will
set all the doves in the wood cooing, so that she will have music all
day long while you are away at work
No matter for all that
It would be a pretty treat for
Marie; and it is a pretty thought of yours: but Marie must be content to
hear the Count's pigeons coo; for the first day the bailiff finds any
tame ones, he will wring their necks, and make her or you suffer for
having them.  I can't allow a rabbit or a pigeon here, boys, say what
you will.  They will be my ruin.  Ah!  I see you are vexed with me: but
I did not make the law, and have no more liking to it than you: but I
can tell you, quick as the bailiff's eyes are upon everybody, they are
most so upon people who live, as I am going to do, with fish, and
pigeons, and rabbits all close round about them, and oftentimes wanting
a meal, as I fear Marie and I shall do
Why, here is Marie
Stay, stay, Charles
Hear what I came for
You must give over this work for to-day; and perhaps for many days
more.  You must go away somewhere out of sight, till all the strangers
have left the place; or there is no saying what may happen.  Father says
so; and it was my mother that bade me come.  She could not come herself,
and so leave me among the soldiers
Soldiers!  What soldiers
The soldiers are come that we were warned would come whenever the Count
should bring his family home, and the Dauphiness pass through: and there
are so many that there is not a house within two miles of the village
that has not some quartered in it.  We have three at home; and what we
are to do for them we don't know, nor how long they will stay.  The
first thing, however, Charles, is for you to keep out of sight.  Father
says if you don't, the Count's people will certainly be laying hold of
you for military service
Now, don't do that, love
That noise will bring
somebody.  The Count himself, and his family, are not far off; and his
people are all about.  Do be quiet, Charles
Quiet, indeed!  And what are you to do with three soldiers, when you
have not enough for yourselves
I don't know, indeed
It is the Count and his family
coming to the chateau by
the shortest road.  No -- do not go, boys
Robin, dear
Robin!-- Marc,-- come back!  Do come back, now!  You will see them much
better to-morrow.  They will make a much grander show to-morrow.
Charles, do make them stay here
Had you seen the Count and his train when you found us here
Yes
I had crossed the corner of
neighbour Thibaut's field, and was upon the stile when the party turned
into the cross-road; and I had to wait till they were all past
How many were there
Oh, more than I can tell.  There was a coach full of ladies, and six
horses to it.  And some more ladies on horseback, and some gentlemen,
and many servants
Did any of them speak to you
They gave me good-day.  But, Charles, I could hardly return it
dutifully to them
It made my heart sink to nothing, and does now, to think
that I cannot be married without his consent,-- that great Count's!  When
I saw his grandeur, I thought it never could be
Never fear
If his grandeur be
all you are afraid of, never fear.  He will be too busy to attend to
such an affair, and will send us word through the bailiff, or the cure,
if we can get him to speak for us.  Or we can wait a few days, till they
are fairly gone with the Dauphiness, and then marry; and the thing done,
he will not take it amiss that we did not trouble him for his consent,
at such a busy time
See, what are the boys doing
Come further back into
the wood
Here, behind this thicket;-- here no one can
see us from the lane.  Hark!  Can you hear what those voices are
saying
No
I thought you were lost
Robin, fill the boiler; and Marc, blow the fire under it.  Your sister
and I shall have to be at the wash-tub and ironing-board all night
Will she be here to-morrow
That depends upon where she is to-night
The last I
heard of her was at Strasburg.  You know she is a German, and comes from
Germany
Her name is Marie-Antoinette-Joseph-Jeanne de Lorraine: and her age
is -- Let us see.  Comrade, how old is she, exactly?  I heard tell, I
think, that she is fifteen
Oh, that can't be
Married at fifteen!  And our
Marie is
She was born on the day of the great earthquake at Lisbon
Is that where she lives
No, I think not.  Whether Lisbon is in Germany, I am not certain; but I
don't think she and her mother were in the earthquake; but I know that
it happened the day she was born, and that it hurts her spirits to think
of it.  She takes it for a sign that she will live unhappy, or die in
some dreadful way
You have not served out of France
You have not
seen either Lisbon or Germany, I suppose; for I can tell you that Lisbon
is a good way off from any place where this princess has been.  Well, I
am sorry to hear anything hurts her spirits; but, to be sure, the great
earthquake was an awful thing
I am thinking
that a good many thousand people must
have been born that same day; I hope they are not all troubled with bad
spirits.  It would be a curious sight to see so many people of fifteen
all low about the manner of their lives and deaths
She is very low sometimes, however
When she
was leaving the city she lived in, she wept so that nothing was ever
seen like it.  She covered her eyes sometimes with her handkerchief, and
sometimes with her hands; and looked out many times from the
coach-window, to see her mother's palace once more
Yes, indeed
that she has.  When she saw the fine
pavilion on the frontier, she was pleased enough
It was there
that she was to be made a French princess
of.  It was a very grand sort of tent, that cost more money than I can
reckon
There were three rooms
a large one in the middle,
and a smaller one at each end.  In one of these smaller rooms she left
everything she had worn, even to her very stockings, and all her German
attendants; and then she went through to the other, where she found her
French attendants, and her fine French wardrobe
And shall we see her in some of her new clothes
Certainly
What need you care
You are
provided for by law, when we country people are ground down by it.  You
come upon us, and must be served with the best, when we have not enough
for ourselves
How can you say that
when you think of the numbers
of idle people that are feeding upon those who work?-- I hear you, wife
It is no
treason to say that in this land there are swarms of idle folk, living
upon the toil of us who work
Where are you carrying that coffin
To the village yonder
Is it for a man or a woman
For a man
What did he die of
Of hunger
He might find the same thing happening in many other villages
Look here
Is this an arm that can work or fight as a
Frenchman's should do, when my boy is a man
Things may be different when that boy is a man
How?  Where?  When?  Why?  Is anything going to be done for the poor
I don't know when and how: but I think you need not ask why, if you
live some days of the week upon boiled nettles, as many of your
neighbours do.  Those that have looked into the matter say that the
country people (they who really do the work of the land) possess only
one-third of the country, and yet pay three-fourths of the taxes.  One
does not see why this should go on, when once they choose that it shall
not: and many think that they won't choose it much longer
And then something will be done for the poor
Certainly; unless the rich do something for the poor first; which would
be their wisest way
But if the rich should not choose to do anything for us
Then they must look to themselves
And what will happen to them?  What will happen to the Dauphiness
Oh, poor lady!  There is no saying that.  She knows little of what the
French people are suffering, and nothing of what they are thinking.  How
should she?  What notion should she have of poverty and the poor, when
she is now buying, out of her allowance, a pair of ear-rings that cost
360,000 francs
You are joking, comrade
No, it is true.  She thinks there is no harm in it, because she will
pay the whole out of her own allowance, year by year; and the diamonds
are so rare and wonderful that she thinks she has a good bargain.  What
should she know of poverty and the poor
God bless her
and may she never know what it is to
eat boiled nettles, for want of anything better
I wish she would have done with throwing away our money in diamonds at
that rate
The people will not love her if
she does.  We all know it is what we pay for this cursed salt, and our
poll-tax, and all our grinding taxes, that go to pay for such freaks as
these
Well, love
she is young, and may learn.  Don't let us
be grudging to her as a stranger
Not I, love; I would grudge her nothing, if only I could give my family
food that would make them plump and rosy, as I hope to see this lady
to-morrow, and if I could but apprentice my boys to some trade that
would give them a chance of a better living than their father had before
them, and take them a little from under the Count's hand, for that is
very heavy upon us.  If my boys have nothing better before them than to
divide my poor field, and live as peasants under the Count, I don't know
that I should cry to lay them in their graves before I lie down myself
And cannot you apprentice one of them, at least
How can I?  Besides the transaction between the artisan and me, there
is a great sum to be paid to the king upon the indenture, and another
and a larger before the lad begins his trade.  What can a poor peasant
do with his boys but make them poorer peasants than himself, if that is
possible?  But it is not possible.  Is there coarser woollen than this
that I wear?  Is there a tougher leather than my belt is made of?  And
is there anything for the feet poorer than our wooden clogs?  And as for
food, we are as far from health and strength on the one hand, as we are
from the grave on the other -- just half-way.  So my boys will be poor
peasants, like their father, if they can make his field yield double;
and if not, they will be in their graves
I will go myself, because I must
but how to find
another I don't know, so I shall just let that alone
They won't forgive you for not taking a second
You will have to pay dear, one way or another: and yet I can't ask you
to take one of the boys.-- It is bad enough for you, a poor rest between
two days' labour, to stand flogging the ponds till field time in the
morning
Have you often to do this night-work, neighbour
Only when the family are at the chateau.  They are so used to live in
Paris, away from country noises, that they cannot sleep in the country
for the noise of the frogs, unless the ponds are flogged; so, when they
come, we have that work to do
Cannot you poison the frogs
O, yes, father
You poison rats: cannot you poison the
frogs, and have done with them
Hush!  Hush
Ah!  You little fellows
I have some business with
you.  What have you to do with pigeons, when you know 'tis against the
law for you to keep them?  Come, no excuses; I saw a brood of pigeons on
the ridge of the roof, as I came
How are we to help the Count's pigeons lighting on our ridge, if they
choose, please sir
Nay, Marc, no tricks
The pigeons are theirs, sir;
got from the wood, and a present for their sister: but you see, sir, how
trickery and falsehood come.  If there were no reasons why my boys
should not do such an innocent thing as bring up a brood of pigeons, the
thought of an untruth would not enter their heads; but you see what you
tempt them to, by driving them so very hard about almost the only
pleasure they have
It is not I, good woman
Do not say I drive them
hard -- I did not make the laws; but it is my business to see that the
laws are regarded between the Count and his people, that is all.  Come!
While your daughter puts on her gayest ribbon, I will go round, and see
about these pigeons
Come closer
Nearer --
come close up to the table
Is it possible
Are you Randolphe?  I had heard your name
for so long and so often, among my people, that I had imagined you one
of the principal of them.  But you appear wretchedly poor, eh
I am
afraid you are very poor, eh
Well-nigh heart-broken with poverty, my lord
There is some mistake
How is this
Casimir, how is this
Randolphe is wretchedly poor, my lord, as you say; but there is no one
of your people hereabouts who is less so
Be quiet, Casimir.  Casimir, how can you?  Do leave these poor people
to make themselves happy their own way.  It is no concern of yours
It is my father's concern that his people should not live on his land
when they cannot do service for it.  Why, it appears they have not
anything like a cottage to go to.  My father cannot look to them for
anything.  You see, sir, you can depend upon them for nothing, in their
present circumstances: and I do not see how you can consent to their
marrying yet.  If this fellow Charles, now, would do his duty, and serve
for three years, there would be some chance for their settling
comfortably afterwards.  They would lose nothing by waiting, if they
settled comfortably at last
Please your lordship
they have
waited so very long already, and there is no prospect
We will take care that there is a prospect
We do not
intend to lose sight of you.  We may do some kind things for Marie
We have one friend there, I fancy
But for that, I think you and I had better drown ourselves
in the ponds between this and home
Charles
Send Charles away!  I can get home
alone
Go, dears: pray do
Long live the Count our lord
'Tis not that
We left
off crying about the rabbits and pigeons long ago: did not we, Robin?
It is about Charles and Marie
Tell me about Charles and Marie
and then all about your pigeons
Charles and our sister were just going to be married, and we had begun
a house in the wood for them; and we have had to pull it to pieces
again; and this morning the Count says Charles must go for a soldier for
three years; and Marie is crying at home so
Casimir
your bad work of this morning must be
undone, you see.  Do your part with a good grace.  Bring my father to
receive the commands of the Dauphiness
Where is this Charles
I will not ask to see the
tearful Marie before so many eyes
Alas!  Is this the bridegroom
He looks better than that sometimes, when he plays with us
But his dress
It is just what father wears, and everybody
As for yourselves
what did I hear just now that you
wanted?  Canary-birds, was it
Pigeons
rabbits
but never mind them now
O, but I do mind; you shall have some money for that too
Long live the
Dauphiness
It is all very well, and I am glad this
one family is saved.  But it is only one of many hundred thousand
miserable families.  What is to become of all the rest, who may not have
the luck to see a royal bride pass their way?  It is not a few royal
smiles and gold pieces, here and there, that will save the royal, or the
noble, or the poor, while the law and the customs of the great oppress
and destroy a hundred to pamper one.  If this young Dauphiness were to
do this deed over again every hour of the year, she could not do more
than put off for a little while the storm that will burst upon her and
all of us, when the poor can endure no more
No
If the fourth goes out, I shall be certain that it is all over with
us
Why
this is a
revolt
It is not a revolt
it is a revolution
Ah
the duchess is not with her
No
but she is still in the palace, working underground
like a mole: but we will dig her out
There stands that throne of which there will soon be left no remains
No, no
they are far enough
from Versailles.  We have got rid of all such bad subjects
Madam, there are some good people in France.
I found out who you were at Sens
Well
something must be decided.  Am I to go or stay?
I am as ready for one as the other
They will never let him return
Happily, there was no blood shed; and
I swear that not a drop shall be shed by my order, happen what may
O,
Richard!  O my king, the world is all forsaking thee
Why was this Flanders regiment brought to Versailles
How did it happen that the king had at present double the usual number
of his Swiss guards
Where were all those foreign officers from, who were seen in the
streets in strange uniforms
Long live the king
Bread!  Bread
Bread!  Bread
What's the use of all this?
What we want is bread
a free circulation of corn
No
O!  Save me!  Save me and my children
Save the queen
No children
Long live the queen
The king to Paris
My children, you wish that I should
follow you to Paris.  I consent, on condition that you do not separate
me from my wife and children
We shall not want bread any
more.  We have got the baker, and the baker's wife, and the little
baker's boy
Come now, don't you be a traitor any more, and we
will all love you
confidence
Say
_confidence_;-- with pleasure and confidence
Madam, your affair is with the children
Long live Marie Antoinette!  Long live our good
queen
O,
mamma, is to-day going to be yesterday again
I want to know
why all the people who used to love you
so much are now so angry with you.  I want to know what you have done to
put them in such a passion
My dear, I wished to make the people happier than they were before.  I
wanted money to pay the expenses of our great wars.  I asked it of the
parliament, as the kings of France have always done before.  The
magistrates who composed the parliament were unwilling, and said that
the people alone had a right to consent that this money should be given.
I called together at Versailles the principal people of every town,
distinguished by their rank, their fortune, or their talents.  These
were called the States-General.  When they were assembled, they required
of me things which I could not do, either for my own sake or yours; as
you are to be king after me.  Wicked persons have appeared, causing the
people to rebel; and the shocking things that have happened lately are
their doing.  We must blame them and not the people
wicked
persons
Was that
right
Did
you hear
what Campan has been telling us
I hear
Campan must have an answer of some kind
Tell the Count d'Inisdal
that I
cannot consent to be carried off
The king cannot
_consent_ to be carried off
I see how it is
We, the king's faithful servants, are to have all the danger, and all
the blame, if the scheme fails
I was alarmed about you
You see
I was at my post
Kings ought to proceed on their course
without troubling themselves about the cries of the people, as the moon
traverses the sky without regard to the baying of dogs
But our creditors are paid, and we
are consoled
These stones of the walls which enclosed so many innocent victims of
arbitrary power, have been made into a toy, to be offered to your
Highness, as a token of the love of the people, and a lesson as to their
strength
Hold your tongues.  The king shall not go
We do not choose that the
king should go
what is this?  Here is some great man's
carriage, with lights all about it, dashing up the street
Be quick!  Make haste to change horses, and be off
You are discovered
Your Majesty is known.  May God take care of you!  May
Providence watch over you
Ladies, your passports
Think what it is
you ask, madame.  Your situation is very grievous; but you see what we
should be exposed to.  They would cut off my husband's head.  A wife
must consider her husband first
Very true
My husband is your king.  He has made
you all happy for many years; and wishes to do so still
the king -- the king!  And the queen
Will it be hot work
Very hot
I was so, Madame, before your Majesty honoured this
abode with your presence
Tigers, have you ceased to be Frenchmen?  From being brave
fellows have you turned assassins
Not yet, indeed
for
the French are not ripe for a republic yet
Give me my son.  He is accustomed to tender care, and to
treatment very unlike this familiarity
Well,
here I am
I dictate this from my
bath, by which my bodily strength at least may be recruited.  I can say
nothing of the state of my mind.  We exist: that is all.  Do not return
till summoned by me.  This is very important
There are my
wife and children, who feel as I do
These people do not like having
sovereigns.  We shall be destroyed by their cunning and persevering
management.  They are levelling the monarchy stone by stone
obtained a new
title of grandeur and of glory
All is lost!  O, why were you a witness to this
humiliation?  Why did you come to France to see
Go!  Go
Why do
you remain to witness the humiliation of your king
Long live the king
No, no: don't believe them.  Long live the nation
Come, salute.  Do not be unpolite
You may imprison me -- you
may destroy me,-- but I will stand by my throne and its powers
Your misfortunes, madam,
and those of the country, had determined me to devote myself to your
service.  I see that my advice does not accord with your majesty's
views.  I augur little success from the plan which you have been induced
to follow.  You are too far from the help you rely on, and you will be
lost before it can reach you.  I earnestly hope that I may be mistaken
in this prophecy.  At all events, I am sure of losing my head for the
interest I have felt in your affairs, and the services I have
endeavoured to render you.  I only ask as a recompense the honour of
kissing your hand
This, then, is the reward of all that I have
done for liberty
the Aristocrat's heart
Put your hand on
my heart
and see if I am afraid
No
let them take me
for the queen, and then she may have time to escape
No
but it is you who have done the country so much
harm
You have been told so; but you are mistaken
Being
the wife of the king of France, and mother of the Dauphin, I am a
Frenchwoman.  I shall never see my own country again; it is in France
that I must be happy or unhappy.  I was very happy till you began to
hate me
I did
not know you.  I see now that you are good
Long live the king
No, no; no king!  Down with the veto
He
bringeth down the mighty from their seat
And may the Lord keep the king in safety
And the Queen
Put your jewels and money into your pockets.  There is no
chance for us.  The measures of defence are good for nothing.  Our only
chance is in the resolution of the king; and with all his virtues, he
has not that
Oblivion of wrongs: forgiveness
of injuries
I fear
our enemies do not regard that maxim: but
we must, nevertheless
Long live the king
Long live the nation
All is lost
the king showed
no energy; and this review has done nothing but harm
No, no
Let us go
Make way!  The king is going
to the Assembly
Do not be frightened: I will do him no
harm
Put not your trust in princes
Little cubs must be strangled
Verdun is taken
The
drum has beat to arms: the alarm-bell is ringing: the alarm-guns have
been fired: the emigrants are at Verdun.  If they come here, we shall
all perish; but you shall die first
Clery, ask Capet if he wants anything, that I may not have the
trouble of coming up a second time
It was when we were coming back from
Varennes
When you get out, you
will be able to say that you worked at your own bars
Ah
when and how shall I get out
Whenever I
get sixteen
I always lose the game
No
I am not ill; but I have a little box to give you.  I
am glad you are come, at last, for I could hardly keep my eyes open; and
they have been shut several times, I believe
Long live the Republic
a good citizen
</text>
