<text>
Oh, hang your practical jokes
Do you call _this_ a joke
Do take that thing away
and let a man have his nap
peacefully.''

"Kiss me
Give you a kiss
oh, certainly, if that's all!
_Anything for a quiet life
My love! my hero! my lord! how long I have waited for thee; and now I
am eternally thine own
_Anything for a Quiet Wife
You have asked all the right people, my dear
Everyone who should be asked
People are so touchy on these occasions
You have
not forgotten any of our aunts
No; the old cats
They are
very kind old ladies in their way
and were nice to me
when I was a boy
The fairies, of course, you have invited? It has always been usual, in
our family, on an occasion like this; and I think we have neglected them
a little of late
How _can_ you be so _absurd
How often must I tell
you that there are _no_ fairies? And even if there were -- but, no matter;
pray let us drop the subject
They are very old friends of our family, my dear, that's all
Often and often they have been godmothers to us. One, in
particular, was most kind and most serviceable to Cinderella I., my own
grandmother
Your grandmother
Fiddle-de-dee! If anyone
puts such nonsense into the head of my little Prigio
Any soup, my dear
My child, you
shall be _too_ clever
properties
I 'll teach you to be too clever, my lad
force was no argument
Have you read this
Have you read that
Didn't I tell you so
little sad, but _never_
too clever
What nice,
unaffected princes they are
Sixteen shillings and fourteen and twopence are three
pounds, fifteen
One pound,
ten and twopence
for
of course my three
sons must go after the brute, the eldest first; and, as usual, it will
kill the first two, and be beaten by the youngest. It is a little hard
on Enrico, poor boy; but _anything_ to get rid of that Prigio
It is an awkward brute to tackle
but you are the
oldest, my lad; go where glory waits you! Put on your armour, and be off
with you
Thanks to the education your majesty has given me, I have learned that
the Firedrake, like the siren, the fairy, and so forth, is a fabulous
animal which does not exist. But even granting, for the sake of
argument, that there is a Firedrake, your majesty is well aware that
there is no kind of use in sending _me_. It is always the eldest son who
goes out first, and comes to grief on these occasions, and it is always
the third son that succeeds. Send Alphonso
and _he_ will do the trick at once. At least, if he fails, it
will be most unusual, and Enrico can try his luck
Look here
just you two younger ones look at Prigio!
You see how hot it is, and how coolly he takes it, and the country
suffering; and all on account of a Firedrake, you know, which has
apparently built his nest not far off. Well, I have asked that lout of a
brother of yours to kill it, and he says
That he does not believe in Firedrakes
The
weather's warm enough without going out hunting
Not believe in Firedrakes
I wonder what you _do_
believe in! Just let me get at the creature
Hi! Page, my chain-armour, helmet, lance, and buckler! _A
Molinda! A Molinda
You had better put on flannels, Alphonso, for this kind of work
And if I were you, I'd take a light garden-engine, full of
water, to squirt at the enemy
Happy thought
I will
There is some dreadful mistake, sir
You
know as well as I do that the youngest son has always succeeded, up to
now. But I entertain great hopes of Enrico
Enrico, my boy
the task awaits you, and the
honour. When _you_ come back with the horns and tail of the Fire-drake,
you shall be crown prince; and Prigio shall be made an usher at the
Grammar School -- it is all he is fit for
roast, or boil, or broil, or
bake
Dastard
Poltroon! _Your_ turn, which should have come
first, has arrived at last. _You_ must fetch me the horns and the tail
of the Fired rake. Probably you will be grilled, thank goodness; but who
will give me back Enrico and Alphonso
Indeed, your majesty
you must permit me to correct your
policy. Your only reason for dispatching your sons in pursuit of this
dangerous but I believe _fabulous_ animal, was to ascertain which of us
would most worthily succeed to your throne, at the date -- long may it
be deferred!-- of your lamented decease. Now, there can be no further
question about the matter. I, unworthy as I am, represent the sole hope
of the royal family. Therefore to send me after the Firedrake were* both
dangerous and unnecessary. Dangerous, because, if he treats me as you
say he did my brothers -- my unhappy brothers,-- the throne of Pantouflia
will want an heir. But, if I do come back alive -- why, I cannot be more
the true heir than I am at present; now _can_ I? Ask the Lord Chief
Justice, if you don't believe _me_
Dear Molly
how have I been so
unfortunate as to offend you
My name, sir, is Lady Molinda
and you have
sent your own brother to his grave
Oh, excuse me
I am certain he has merely gone
off on his travels. He'll come back when he's tired: there _are_ no
Firedrakes; a French writer says they are 'purement fabuleux, purely
fabulous, you know
Prince Alphonso has gone on his travels, and will come back when he is
tired! And was he then -- tired -- of _me_
Oh! I beg your pardon, I never noticed; I'm sure I am very sorry
I
wish I were in 'The Bear,' at Gluck-stein
This is the most extraordinary dream
The Bear
_Kellner
The king
has threatened to execute anybody who
speaks to me, or helps me in any way. Well, I don't mean to starve in
the midst of plenty, anyhow; here goes
Kellner, clean this table, and bring in the bill of fare
Pardon, my prince, pardon! I never saw you
Nonsense! Count Frederick von Matterhorn
you must be
intoxicated. Sir! you have insulted your prince and your superior
officer. Consider yourself under arrest! You shall be sent to a prison
to-morrow
It is a disgraceful conspiracy
The king shall answer for
this! I shall write to the newspapers at once
It is indigestion
those sausages were not of
the best; and that Burgundy was extremely strong. Things are not as they
appear
Serve him right
Like the rest of you
And, then, think how hard they made him work at school! Besides
I hear he is extremely handsome, and very brave;
and he has a good heart, for he was kind, I have heard, to a poor boy,
and did all his examination papers for him, so that the boy passed first
in _everything_. And now he is Minister for Education, though he can't
do a line of Greek prose
women were so stupid
rubbish
_I wish I were dressed in my best suit of white and gold, with the
royal Pantouflia diamonds
How about my boots, I wonder
No
no man can be in two different pairs of boots at
one and the same time! That's mathematics
I wish I were in Gluckstein
Have you read _this
Have you
read _that
What! you never heard of Alexander the Great
Oh, if _you_ wish it, you shall have the horns and tail of a Firedrake
to hang up in your hall, to-morrow evening
First
where is the Firedrake
It _should_ be here
and,
by George, here it is
But she does not expect to be looked at
and
I _won't
With all my cap of darkness, and my shoes of swiftness, and my sword of
sharpness, I never could get near that beast
and if I _did_
stalk him, I could not hurt him. Poor little Alphonso! poor Enrico! what
plucky fellows they were! I fancied that there was no such thing as a
Firedrake: he's not in the Natural History books; and I thought the boys
were only making fun, and would be back soon, safe and sound. How horrid
being too clever makes one! And now, what _am_ I to do
Now
_if I can only make these two fight_, why the Remora
may kill the Firedrake, or take the heat out of him, at least, so that I
may have a chance
Hooray
Hi
Who's there
Just let me get at
you
It's me
What do you want
I wish I could see you
Hi
Well
what's the matter? Why can't you give a
civil answer to a civil question
Will you go back to your hole and swear, on your honour as a Firedrake,
to listen quietly
On my sacred word of honour
A message from the Remora. He says you are afraid to fight him
Don't know him
He sends you his glove
as a challenge to mortal
combat, till death do you part
Does he
Just let me get at him
I'll go and tell him you're coming
Hi
Where are you, and how can I come to you
Here I am
Hi
Wait till I come down. What do you want
The Firedrake is going to pay you a
visit
Go it, Remora! Go it, Firedrake! you're gaining. Give it him, Remora
Go it, Remora
his legs are giving way; he's groggy
on his pins! One more effort, and he won't be able to move
Go it now, Firedrake
Go it, Drake! he's slackening
Does
your royal highness not know
that you are in considerable
danger
Still
Never more than now
H'm
I did not think his majesty wrote so well
Don't you think we might join the
ladies
But, sir
the streets are lined with soldiers;
and I know not how you have escaped them. _Here_, under my roof, you
are safe for the moment; but a prolonged stay -- excuse my
inhospitality -- could not but strain the harmonious relations which
prevail between the Government of Pantouflia and that which I have the
honour to represent
We don't want to fight; and no more, I think, do you
Then how does your royal highness mean to treat the proclamations
Why, by winning these ten thousand purses. I can tell you &pound;1,000,000
is worth having
I 'll deliver up the said prince,
alive, at Falkenstein this very night; also the horns and tail of the
said Firedrake. But I don't want to marry my Cousin Molly
May I remind your royal highness that Falkenstein is three hundred
miles away? Moreover, my head butler, Benson, disappeared from the house
before dinner, and I fear he went to warn Captain Kopzoffski that you
are _here
That is nothing
but, my dear Lord Kelso, may I
not have the pleasure of presenting Lady Rosalind with a little gift, a
Philippine which I lost to her last night, merely the head and tail of a
Firedrake which I stalked this morning
Linda! Linda! come down at once; here's a surprise for you
Lead the way, your royal highness
Will you kindly ask the servants where the little Persian prayer-rug
and the parcel which I brought with me have been placed
William
where have you put his royal highness's
parcel and his carpet
Please, your lordship
we think Benson have took them
away with him
And where is Benson
We don't know, your lordship. We think he have been come for
Come for -- by whom
Quick! answer! what do you know about it
Thank you, William
that will do; you can go, for
the present
This is a very strange story, Lord Kelso
Very, sir
But true
at
least, there is no reason in the nature of things why it shouldn't be
true
I can hardly believe, sir, that the conduct of Benson, whom I always
found a most respectable man, deserved
That he should be 'come for
Oh, no; it was a mere
accident, and might have happened to any of us who chanced to sit down
on my carpet
It would not matter so much
only I had relied on
making my peace with his majesty, my father, by aid of those horns and
that tail. He was set on getting them; and if the Lady Rosalind had
not expressed a wish for them, they would to-day have been in his
possession
Oh, sir, you honour us too highly
Not at all! Impossible
What on earth am I to do with the young man
He can't
stay here for ever; and without his carpet he can't get away, for the
soldiers have orders to seize him as soon as he appears in the street.
And in the meantime Benson will be pretending that _he_ killed the
Firedrake -- for he must have got to Falkenstein by now,-- and they will be
for marrying him to the king's niece, and making my butler crown prince
to the kingdom of Pantouflia! It is dreadful
I didn't kill him: and it is really the Remora, poor
fellow, who should marry Molly; but he 's dead
Did your lordship ring for coffee
Yes
Pardon, pardon, my liege
Don't speak to me, sir
I shall waken presently; this is nothing out of the way for a dream.
Dr. Rumpfino ascribes it to imperfect nutrition
It would be a miracle
and miracles do not
happen; therefore this has not happened. Presently, I shall wake up in
my own bed at Falkenstein
You want to know all about it, I suppose
Well, you have a right to it, and I shall tell you. We were just
sitting down to dinner at Falkenstein, rather late,-- hours get later
every year, I think -- when I heard a row in the premises, and the captain
of the guard, Colonel McDougal, came and told us that a man had arrived
with the horns and tail of the Firedrake, and was claiming the reward.
Her majesty and I rose and went into the outer court, where we
found, sitting on that carpet with a glass of beer in his hand, a
respectable-looking upper servant, whom I recognised as your butler. He
informed us that he had just killed the beast, and showed us the horns
and tail, sure enough; there they are! The tail is like the iron
handle of a pump, but the horns are genuine. A pair were thrown up by
a volcano, in my great-grandfather's time Giglio I.* Excellent coffee
this, of yours
Well, we asked him _where_ he killed the Firedrake, and he said in a
garden near Gluckstein. Then he began to speak about the reward, and the
'perkisits,' as he called them, which it seems he had read about in my
proclamation. Rather a neat thing; drew it up myself
Very much to the point
Glad you like it
Well, where was I? Oh,
yes; your man said he had killed the creature in a garden, quite near
Gluckstein. I didn't much like the whole affair: he is an alien, you
see; and then there was my niece, Molinda -- poor girl, _she_ was certain
to give trouble. Her heart is buried, if I may say so, with poor
Alphonso. But the queen is a very remarkable woman -- very remarkable
Very
Caitiff!' she cries to your butler
perjured
knave, thou liest in thy throat! Gluckstein is a hundred leagues from
here, and how say est thou that thou slewest the molester, and earnest
hither in a few hours' space?' This had not occurred to me,-- I am a
plain king, but I at once saw the force of her majesty's argument.
Yes,' said I; 'how did you manage it?' But he -- your man, I mean -- was
not a bit put out. 'Why, your majesty,' says he, 'I just sat down on
that there bit of carpet, wished I was here, and here _I ham_. And I 'd
be glad, having had the trouble,-- and my time not being my own,-- to see
the colour of them perkisits, according to the proclamation.' On this
her majesty grew more indignant, if possible. 'Nonsense!' she cried; 'a
story out of the 'Arabian Nights' is not suited for a modern public, and
fails to win aesthetic credence.' These were her very words
Her majesty's expressions are ever choice and appropriate
Sit down there, on the carpet, knave,' she went on; 'ourself and
consort'-- meaning _me_ --'will take our places by thy side, and I shall
wish us in Gluckstein, at thy master's! When the experiment has failed,
thy head shall from thy shoulders be shorn!' So your man merely said,
'Very well, mum,-- your majesty, I mean,' and sat down. The queen took her
place at the edge of the carpet; I sat between her and the butler, and
she said, 'I wish I were in Gluckstein!' Then we rose, flew through the
air at an astonishing pace, and here we are! So I suppose the rest of
the butler's tale is true, which I regret; but a king's word is sacred,
and he shall take the place of that sneak, Prigio. But as we left home
before dinner, and _yours_ is over, may I request your lordship to
believe that I should be delighted to take something cold
Bravo, well said
Which of them will you have, my dear
Silence! McDougal, drag the first man that shouts to the serpent-house
in the zoological gardens, and lock him up with the rattlesnakes
Prince
you are
restored to your position, because I cannot break my promise. But your
base and malevolent nature is even more conspicuously manifest in your
selfish success than in your previous dastardly contempt of duty. Why,
confound you
why, if you
_could_ kill the Firedrake, did you let your poor little brothers go and
be b -- b -- b -- broiled? Eh! what do you say, you sneak? 'You didn't believe
there _were_ any Firedrakes?' That just comes of your eternal conceit
and arrogance! If you were clever enough to kill the creature -- and I
admit that -- you were clever enough to know that what everybody said must
be true. 'You have not generally found it so?' Well, you _have_ this
time, and let it be a lesson to you; not that there is much comfort
in that, for it is not likely you will ever have such another
chance
A king's word is his bond. Bring me a pen, somebody, and my
cheque-book
There
there, take _that_,
and be off with you
Hi! here! come back! I forgot something; you've got to marry Molinda
Prigio
where were you off to? Don't you remember
that this is your wedding-day? My proclamation offered, not only the
money (which you have), but the hand of the Lady Molinda, which the
Court chaplain will presently make your own. I congratulate you, sir;
Molinda is a dear girl
I have the highest affection and esteem for my cousin, sir
but
I'll never marry him
Never! I despise him
I was about to say, sir
that I cannot possibly
have the pleasure of wedding my cousin
The family gibbet, I presume, is in good working order
Never better, sire
Very well
Prince Prigio, you have your choice.
_There_ is the gallows, _here_ is Lady Molinda. My duty is painful, but
clear. A king's word cannot be broken. Molly, or the gibbet
Madam, my cousin
your clemency will excuse my answer, and
you will not misinterpret the apparent discourtesy of my conduct. I am
compelled, most unwillingly, to slight your charms, and to select the
Extreme Rigour of the Law. Executioner, lead on! Do your duty; for
me, _Prigio est pret_
Is life, then, so worthless? and is Molinda so terrible a person
that you prefer _those_ arms
to
_these
Ah, Madam
you are forgiving
For _you_ are brave
But neither your heart nor mine is ours to give. Since mine was
another's, I understand too well the feeling of _yours!_ Do not let us
buy life at the price of happiness and honour
Sir, is there no way but by death or marriage? You say you cannot keep
half only of your promise; and that, if I accept the reward, I must also
unite myself with my unwilling cousin. Cannot the whole proclamation
be annulled, and will you consider the bargain void if I tear up this
flimsy scroll
Never mind, it's only an extra penny on the income-tax
Keep
your dross
but let _me_ keep my
promise. To chapel at once, or
The word of a king of Pantouflia is sacred
And so is that of a crown prince
and _mine_ is
pledged to a lady
She shall be a mourning bride
unless
unless you bring me back Alphohso and Enrico,
safe and well
I accept the alternative
if your majesty will grant me my
conditions
Name them
Let me be transported to Gluckstein, left there unguarded, and if, in
three days, I do not return with my brothers safe and well, your majesty
shall be spared a cruel duty. Prigio of Pantouflia will perish by his
own hand
Honour bright
Honour bright
For you, madam
in less
than a week I trust we shall be taking our vows at the same altar, and
that the close of the ceremony which finds us cousins will leave us
brother and sister
It is no more than right
for had I gone first, neither of
them would have been sent to meet the monster after I had fallen. And I
_should_ have fallen, dear Rosalind, if I had faced the Firedrake before
I knew _you
Well
he could not live long anyway, and it
must be done. He will feel nothing
Thank heaven
I thought they were sure to have
brought it
Oh, Frank
no cat since the time of Puss in Boots
was ever so well taken care of as you shall be. For if the fairy water
from the Fountain of Lions can bring _you_ back to life -- why, there is a
chance for Alphonso and Enrico
I have the king now
for if I can't find the ashes of my
brothers, by Jove! I'll
Hullo, Prigio
are you come after the monster too? I've
been asleep, and I had a kind of dream that he beat me. But the pair of
us will tackle him. How is Molinda
Prettier than ever
but anxious about you. However,
the Firedrake's dead and done for; so never mind him. But I left Enrico
somewhere about. Just you sit down and wait a minute, till I fetch him
All right, old fellow
but have you any luncheon with
you? Never was so hungry in my life
Sleepy old chap you are, Enrico
but come on,
Alphonso will have finished the grub unless we look smart
And now I 'll show you fun
Long live Prince Prigio
Prince Prigio is coming
Naughty boys! Where have you been hiding? The king had some absurd
story about your having been killed by a fabulous monster. Bah! don't
tell _me_. I always said you would come back after a little trip -- didn't
I, Prigio
Certainly, madam
and I said so, too. Didn't I say
so
Yes, you did
He _always_ says, 'Didn't I say so
rather a short engagement, but she supposed young people understood
their own affairs best
Are you _quite_
happy, my dear
Yes; _quite_
No, there's something; do tell me what it is
Well
I want everybody to love you as much as I do. No, not quite
so very much,-- but I want them to like you. Now they _can't_, because
they are afraid of you; for you are so awfully clever. Now, couldn't you
take the wishing cap, and wish to be no cleverer than other people? Then
everybody would like you
Your will is law, my dear; anything to please you. Just wait a minute
No
I won't wish _that_. Every man has one
secret from his wife, and this shall be mine
I wish to SEEM no CLEVERER THAN OTHER PEOPLE
I do believe, my dear, that you
are really as clever as ever
</text>
