<text>
He is as beautiful as a weathercock
only not quite so useful
Why can't you be like the Happy Prince
The Happy Prince never dreams
of crying for anything
I am glad there is some one in the world who is quite happy
He looks just like an angel
How do you know
you have never seen
one
Ah! but we have, in our dreams
Shall I love you
It is a ridiculous attachment
she has
no money, and far too many relations
She has no conversation
and I am afraid that she is a
coquette, for she is always flirting with the wind
I
admit that she is domestic
but I love travelling, and my
wife, consequently, should love travelling also
Will you come away with me
You have been trifling with me
I am off to the Pyramids.
Good-bye
Where
shall I put up
I hope the town has made preparations
I will put up there
it is a fine position, with plenty of
fresh air
I have a golden bedroom
What a curious thing
there is not a single cloud in the sky, the stars are quite clear
and bright, and yet it is raining.  The climate in the north of Europe is
really dreadful.  The Reed used to like the rain, but that was merely her
selfishness
What is the use of a statue if it cannot keep the rain off
I
must look for a good chimney-pot
Who are you
I am the Happy Prince
Why are you weeping then
you have quite drenched
me
When I was alive and had a human heart
I did not
know what tears were, for I lived in the Palace of Sans-Souci, where
sorrow is not allowed to enter.  In the daytime I played with my
companions in the garden, and in the evening I led the dance in the Great
Hall.  Round the garden ran a very lofty wall, but I never cared to ask
what lay beyond it, everything about me was so beautiful.  My courtiers
called me the Happy Prince, and happy indeed I was, if pleasure be
happiness.  So I lived, and so I died.  And now that I am dead they have
set me up here so high that I can see all the ugliness and all the misery
of my city, and though my heart is made of lead yet I cannot chose but
weep
What! is he not solid gold
Far away
far away in a
little street there is a poor house.  One of the windows is open, and
through it I can see a woman seated at a table.  Her face is thin and
worn, and she has coarse, red hands, all pricked by the needle, for she
is a seamstress.  She is embroidering passion-flowers on a satin gown for
the loveliest of the Queen's maids-of-honour to wear at the next
Court-ball.  In a bed in the corner of the room her little boy is lying
ill.  He has a fever, and is asking for oranges.  His mother has nothing
to give him but river water, so he is crying.  Swallow, Swallow, little
Swallow, will you not bring her the ruby out of my sword-hilt?  My feet
are fastened to this pedestal and I cannot move
I am waited for in Egypt
My friends are flying up
and down the Nile, and talking to the large lotus-flowers.  Soon they
will go to sleep in the tomb of the great King.  The King is there
himself in his painted coffin.  He is wrapped in yellow linen, and
embalmed with spices.  Round his neck is a chain of pale green jade, and
his hands are like withered leaves
Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow
will you not stay
with me for one night, and be my messenger?  The boy is so thirsty, and
the mother so sad
I don't think I like boys
Last summer, when I
was staying on the river, there were two rude boys, the miller's sons,
who were always throwing stones at me.  They never hit me, of course; we
swallows fly far too well for that, and besides, I come of a family
famous for its agility; but still, it was a mark of disrespect
It is very cold here
but I will stay with you for one night,
and be your messenger
Thank you, little Swallow
How wonderful
the stars are
and how wonderful is the power of love
I hope my dress will be ready in time for the State-ball
I have ordered passion-flowers to be embroidered on it; but the
seamstresses are so lazy
How cool I feel
I must be getting better
It is curious
but I feel quite warm now, although
it is so cold
That is because you have done a good action
What a
remarkable phenomenon
A swallow in winter
To-night I go to Egypt
What a distinguished stranger
Have you any
commissions for Egypt
I am just starting
Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow
will you not stay
with me one night longer
I am waited for in Egypt
To-morrow my friends
will fly up to the Second Cataract.  The river-horse couches there among
the bulrushes, and on a great granite throne sits the God Memnon.  All
night long he watches the stars, and when the morning star shines he
utters one cry of joy, and then he is silent.  At noon the yellow lions
come down to the water's edge to drink.  They have eyes like green
beryls, and their roar is louder than the roar of the cataract
Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow
far away across the
city I see a young man in a garret.  He is leaning over a desk covered
with papers, and in a tumbler by his side there is a bunch of withered
violets.  His hair is brown and crisp, and his lips are red as a
pomegranate, and he has large and dreamy eyes.  He is trying to finish a
play for the Director of the Theatre, but he is too cold to write any
more.  There is no fire in the grate, and hunger has made him faint
I will wait with you one night longer
Shall I take him another ruby
Alas!  I have no ruby now
my eyes are all that I
have left.  They are made of rare sapphires, which were brought out of
India a thousand years ago.  Pluck out one of them and take it to him.
He will sell it to the jeweller, and buy food and firewood, and finish
his play
Dear Prince
I cannot do that
Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow
do as I command
you
I am beginning to be appreciated
this is from some great
admirer.  Now I can finish my play
Heave a-hoy
I am
going to Egypt
I am come to bid you good-bye
Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow
will you not stay
with me one night longer
It is winter
and the chill snow will soon be
here.  In Egypt the sun is warm on the green palm-trees, and the
crocodiles lie in the mud and look lazily about them.  My companions are
building a nest in the Temple of Baalbec, and the pink and white doves
are watching them, and cooing to each other.  Dear Prince, I must leave
you, but I will never forget you, and next spring I will bring you back
two beautiful jewels in place of those you have given away.  The ruby
shall be redder than a red rose, and the sapphire shall be as blue as the
great sea
In the square below
there stands a little
match-girl.  She has let her matches fall in the gutter, and they are all
spoiled.  Her father will beat her if she does not bring home some money,
and she is crying.  She has no shoes or stockings, and her little head is
bare.  Pluck out my other eye, and give it to her, and her father will
not beat her
I will stay with you one night longer
but I cannot
pluck out your eye.  You would be quite blind then
Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow
do as I command
you
What a lovely bit of glass
You are blind now
so I will stay with you always
No, little Swallow
you must go away to Egypt
I will stay with you always
Dear little Swallow
you tell me of marvellous
things, but more marvellous than anything is the suffering of men and of
women.  There is no Mystery so great as Misery.  Fly over my city, little
Swallow, and tell me what you see there
How hungry we are
You must not lie
here
I am covered with fine gold
you must take it off,
leaf by leaf, and give it to my poor; the living always think that gold
can make them happy
We have bread now
Good-bye, dear Prince
will you let me kiss your hand
I am glad that you are going to Egypt at last, little Swallow
you have stayed too long here; but you must kiss me on the lips,
for I love you
It is not to Egypt that I am going
I am going to
the House of Death.  Death is the brother of Sleep, is he not
Dear me! how shabby the Happy Prince looks
How shabby indeed
The ruby has fallen out of his sword, his eyes are gone, and he is
golden no longer
he is litttle better than a
beggar
Little better than a beggar
And here is actually a dead bird at his feet
We
must really issue a proclamation that birds are not to be allowed to die
here
As he is no longer
beautiful he is no longer useful
We must
have another statue, of course
and it shall be a statue of
myself
Of myself
What a strange thing
This broken lead heart will not melt in the furnace.  We must throw it
away
Bring me the two most precious things in the city
You have rightly chosen
for in my garden of Paradise this
little bird shall sing for evermore, and in my city of gold the Happy
Prince shall praise me
SHE said that she would dance with me if I brought her red roses
but in all my garden there is no red rose
No red rose in all my garden
Ah, on what little things does happiness depend!  I have
read all that the wise men have written, and all the secrets of
philosophy are mine, yet for want of a red rose is my life made
wretched
Here at last is a true lover
Night after night
have I sung of him, though I knew him not: night after night have I told
his story to the stars, and now I see him.  His hair is dark as the
hyacinth-blossom, and his lips are red as the rose of his desire; but
passion has made his face like pale ivory, and sorrow has set her seal
upon his brow
The Prince gives a ball to-morrow night
and my love will be of the company.  If I bring her a red rose she will
dance with me till dawn.  If I bring her a red rose, I shall hold her in
my arms, and she will lean her head upon my shoulder, and her hand will
be clasped in mine.  But there is no red rose in my garden, so I shall
sit lonely, and she will pass me by.  She will have no heed of me, and my
heart will break
Here indeed is the true lover
What I sing of,
he suffers--what is joy to me, to him is pain.  Surely Love is a wonderful
thing.  It is more precious than emeralds, and dearer than fine opals.
Pearls and pomegranates cannot buy it, nor is it set forth in the
marketplace.  It may not be purchased of the merchants, nor can it be
weighed out in the balance for gold
The musicians will sit in their gallery
and
play upon their stringed instruments, and my love will dance to the sound
of the harp and the violin.  She will dance so lightly that her feet will
not touch the floor, and the courtiers in their gay dresses will throng
round her.  But with me she will not dance, for I have no red rose to
give her
Why is he weeping
Why, indeed
Why, indeed
He is weeping for a red rose
For a red rose
how very ridiculous
Give me a red rose
and I will sing you my sweetest song
My roses are white
as white as the foam of the sea, and
whiter than the snow upon the mountain.  But go to my brother who grows
round the old sun-dial, and perhaps he will give you what you want
Give me a red rose
and I will sing you my sweetest song
My roses are yellow
as yellow as the hair of the
mermaiden who sits upon an amber throne, and yellower than the daffodil
that blooms in the meadow before the mower comes with his scythe.  But go
to my brother who grows beneath the Student's window, and perhaps he will
give you what you want
Give me a red rose
and I will sing you my sweetest song
My roses are red
as red as the feet of the dove, and
redder than the great fans of coral that wave and wave in the
ocean-cavern.  But the winter has chilled my veins, and the frost has
nipped my buds, and the storm has broken my branches, and I shall have no
roses at all this year
One red rose is all I want
only one red rose!
Is there no way by which I can get it
There is a way
but it is so terrible that I dare
not tell it to you
Tell it to me
I am not afraid
If you want a red rose
you must build it out of music
by moonlight, and stain it with your own heart's-blood.  You must sing to
me with your breast against a thorn.  All night long you must sing to me,
and the thorn must pierce your heart, and your life-blood must flow into
my veins, and become mine
Death is a great price to pay for a red rose
and Life is very dear to all.  It is pleasant to sit in the green wood,
and to watch the Sun in his chariot of gold, and the Moon in her chariot
of pearl.  Sweet is the scent of the hawthorn, and sweet are the
bluebells that hide in the valley, and the heather that blows on the
hill.  Yet Love is better than Life, and what is the heart of a bird
compared to the heart of a man
Be happy
be happy; you shall have your red
rose.  I will build it out of music by moonlight, and stain it with my
own heart's-blood.  All that I ask of you in return is that you will be a
true lover, for Love is wiser than Philosophy, though she is wise, and
mightier than Power, though he is mighty.  Flame-coloured are his wings,
and coloured like flame is his body.  His lips are sweet as honey, and
his breath is like frankincense
Sing me one last song
I shall feel very lonely when you
are gone
She has form
that cannot be denied to her; but has she got feeling?  I am
afraid not.  In fact, she is like most artists; she is all style, without
any sincerity.  She would not sacrifice herself for others.  She thinks
merely of music, and everybody knows that the arts are selfish.  Still,
it must be admitted that she has some beautiful notes in her voice.  What
a pity it is that they do not mean anything, or do any practical good
Press closer, little Nightingale
or the Day will come
before the rose is finished
Press closer, little Nightingale
or the Day will come
before the rose is finished
Look, look
the rose is finished now
Why, what a wonderful piece of luck
here is a red rose!  I
have never seen any rose like it in all my life.  It is so beautiful that
I am sure it has a long Latin name
You said that you would dance with me if I brought you a red rose
Here is the reddest rose in all the world.  You will
wear it to-night next your heart, and as we dance together it will tell
you how I love you
I am afraid it will not go with my dress
and, besides,
the Chamberlain's nephew has sent me some real jewels, and everybody
knows that jewels cost far more than flowers
Well, upon my word, you are very ungrateful
Ungrateful
I tell you what, you are very rude; and,
after all, who are you?  Only a Student.  Why, I don't believe you have
even got silver buckles to your shoes as the Chamberlain's nephew has
What a silly thing Love is
It
is not half as useful as Logic, for it does not prove anything, and it is
always telling one of things that are not going to happen, and making one
believe things that are not true.  In fact, it is quite unpractical, and,
as in this age to be practical is everything, I shall go back to
Philosophy and study Metaphysics
How happy we are here
What are you doing here
My own garden is my own garden
any one can understand
that, and I will allow nobody to play in it but myself
How happy we
were there
Spring has forgotten this garden
so we will live here all
the year round
This is a delightful spot
we must ask the Hail on a visit
I cannot understand why the Spring is so late in coming
I hope there will be a change in the weather
He is too
selfish
I believe the Spring has come at last
Climb up! little boy
How selfish I have
been
now I know why the Spring would not come here.  I will
put that poor little boy on the top of the tree, and then I will knock
down the wall, and my garden shall be the children's playground for ever
and ever
It is your garden now, little children
But where is your little companion
the boy I put into the
tree
We don't know
he has gone away
You must tell him to be sure and come here to-morrow
How I would like to see him
I have many beautiful
flowers
but the children are the most beautiful flowers of
all
Who hath dared to
wound thee
Who hath dared to wound thee
tell me, that I may
take my big sword and slay him
Nay
but these are the wounds of Love
Who art thou
You let me play once
in your garden, to-day you shall come with me to my garden, which is
Paradise
You will never be in the best society unless you can stand on your
heads
What disobedient children
they really
deserve to be drowned
Nothing of the kind
every one must make a
beginning, and parents cannot be too patient
Ah! I know nothing about the feelings of parents
I am not a family man.  In fact, I have never been married, and I never
intend to be.  Love is all very well in its way, but friendship is much
higher.  Indeed, I know of nothing in the world that is either nobler or
rarer than a devoted friendship
And what, pray, is your idea of the duties of a devoted friend
Yes, that is just what I want to know
What a silly question
I should expect my
devoted friend to be devoted to me, of course
And what would you do in return
I don't understand you
Let me tell you a story on the subject
Is the story about me
If so, I will listen to
it, for I am extremely fond of fiction
It is applicable to you
Once upon a time
there was an honest little fellow
named Hans
Was he very distinguished
No
I don't think he was distinguished at all,
except for his kind heart, and his funny round good-humoured face.  He
lived in a tiny cottage all by himself, and every day he worked in his
garden.  In all the country-side there was no garden so lovely as his.
Sweet-william grew there, and Gilly-flowers, and Shepherds'-purses, and
Fair-maids of France.  There were damask Roses, and yellow Roses, lilac
Crocuses, and gold, purple Violets and white.  Columbine and Ladysmock,
Marjoram and Wild Basil, the Cowslip and the Flower-de-luce, the Daffodil
and the Clove-Pink bloomed or blossomed in their proper order as the
months went by, one flower taking another flower's place, so that there
were always beautiful things to look at, and pleasant odours to smell.

"Little Hans had a great many friends, but the most devoted friend of all
was big Hugh the Miller.  Indeed, so devoted was the rich Miller to
little Hans, that he would never go by his garden without leaning over
the wall and plucking a large nosegay, or a handful of sweet herbs, or
filling his pockets with plums and cherries if it was the fruit season.

"'Real friends should have everything in common,' the Miller used to say,
and little Hans nodded and smiled, and felt very proud of having a friend
with such noble ideas.

"Sometimes, indeed, the neighbours thought it strange that the rich
Miller never gave little Hans anything in return, though he had a hundred
sacks of flour stored away in his mill, and six milch cows, and a large
flock of woolly sheep; but Hans never troubled his head about these
things, and nothing gave him greater pleasure than to listen to all the
wonderful things the Miller used to say about the unselfishness of true
friendship.

"So little Hans worked away in his garden.  During the spring, the
summer, and the autumn he was very happy, but when the winter came, and
he had no fruit or flowers to bring to the market, he suffered a good
deal from cold and hunger, and often had to go to bed without any supper
but a few dried pears or some hard nuts.  In the winter, also, he was
extremely lonely, as the Miller never came to see him then.

"'There is no good in my going to see little Hans as long as the snow
lasts,' the Miller used to say to his wife, 'for when people are in
trouble they should be left alone, and not be bothered by visitors.  That
at least is my idea about friendship, and I am sure I am right.  So I
shall wait till the spring comes, and then I shall pay him a visit, and
he will be able to give me a large basket of primroses and that will make
him so happy.'

"'You are certainly very thoughtful about others,' answered the Wife, as
she sat in her comfortable armchair by the big pinewood fire; 'very
thoughtful indeed.  It is quite a treat to hear you talk about
friendship.  I am sure the clergyman himself could not say such beautiful
things as you do, though he does live in a three-storied house, and wear
a gold ring on his little finger.'

"'But could we not ask little Hans up here?' said the Miller's youngest
son.  'If poor Hans is in trouble I will give him half my porridge, and
show him my white rabbits.'

"'What a silly boy you are!' cried the Miller; 'I really don't know what
is the use of sending you to school.  You seem not to learn anything.
Why, if little Hans came up here, and saw our warm fire, and our good
supper, and our great cask of red wine, he might get envious, and envy is
a most terrible thing, and would spoil anybody's nature.  I certainly
will not allow Hans' nature to be spoiled.  I am his best friend, and I
will always watch over him, and see that he is not led into any
temptations.  Besides, if Hans came here, he might ask me to let him have
some flour on credit, and that I could not do.  Flour is one thing, and
friendship is another, and they should not be confused.  Why, the words
are spelt differently, and mean quite different things.  Everybody can
see that.'

"'How well you talk!' said the Miller's Wife, pouring herself out a large
glass of warm ale; 'really I feel quite drowsy.  It is just like being in
church.'

"'Lots of people act well,' answered the Miller; 'but very few people
talk well, which shows that talking is much the more difficult thing of
the two, and much the finer thing also'; and he looked sternly across the
table at his little son, who felt so ashamed of himself that he hung his
head down, and grew quite scarlet, and began to cry into his tea.
However, he was so young that you must excuse him
Is that the end of the story
Certainly not
that is the beginning
Then you are quite behind the age
Every good
story-teller nowadays starts with the end, and then goes on to the
beginning, and concludes with the middle.  That is the new method.  I
heard all about it the other day from a critic who was walking round the
pond with a young man.  He spoke of the matter at great length, and I am
sure he must have been right, for he had blue spectacles and a bald head,
and whenever the young man made any remark, he always answered 'Pooh!'
But pray go on with your story.  I like the Miller immensely.  I have all
kinds of beautiful sentiments myself, so there is a great sympathy
between us
Well
as
soon as the winter was over, and the primroses began to open their pale
yellow stars, the Miller said to his wife that he would go down and see
little Hans.

"'Why, what a good heart you have!' cried his Wife; 'you are always
thinking of others.  And mind you take the big basket with you for the
flowers.'

"So the Miller tied the sails of the windmill together with a strong iron
chain, and went down the hill with the basket on his arm.

"'Good morning, little Hans,' said the Miller.

"'Good morning,' said Hans, leaning on his spade, and smiling from ear to
ear.

"'And how have you been all the winter?' said the Miller.

"'Well, really,' cried Hans, 'it is very good of you to ask, very good
indeed.  I am afraid I had rather a hard time of it, but now the spring
has come, and I am quite happy, and all my flowers are doing well.'

"'We often talked of you during the winter, Hans,' said the Miller, 'and
wondered how you were getting on.'

"'That was kind of you,' said Hans; 'I was half afraid you had forgotten
me.'

"'Hans, I am surprised at you,' said the Miller; 'friendship never
forgets.  That is the wonderful thing about it, but I am afraid you don't
understand the poetry of life.  How lovely your primroses are looking,
by-the-bye
They are certainly very lovely,' said Hans, 'and it is a most lucky
thing for me that I have so many.  I am going to bring them into the
market and sell them to the Burgomaster's daughter, and buy back my
wheelbarrow with the money.'

"'Buy back your wheelbarrow?  You don't mean to say you have sold it?
What a very stupid thing to do!'

"'Well, the fact is,' said Hans, 'that I was obliged to.  You see the
winter was a very bad time for me, and I really had no money at all to
buy bread with.  So I first sold the silver buttons off my Sunday coat,
and then I sold my silver chain, and then I sold my big pipe, and at last
I sold my wheelbarrow.  But I am going to buy them all back again now.'

"'Hans,' said the Miller, 'I will give you my wheelbarrow.  It is not in
very good repair; indeed, one side is gone, and there is something wrong
with the wheel-spokes; but in spite of that I will give it to you.  I
know it is very generous of me, and a great many people would think me
extremely foolish for parting with it, but I am not like the rest of the
world.  I think that generosity is the essence of friendship, and,
besides, I have got a new wheelbarrow for myself.  Yes, you may set your
mind at ease, I will give you my wheelbarrow.'

"'Well, really, that is generous of you,' said little Hans, and his funny
round face glowed all over with pleasure.  'I can easily put it in
repair, as I have a plank of wood in the house.'

"'A plank of wood!' said the Miller; 'why, that is just what I want for
the roof of my barn.  There is a very large hole in it, and the corn will
all get damp if I don't stop it up.  How lucky you mentioned it!  It is
quite remarkable how one good action always breeds another.  I have given
you my wheelbarrow, and now you are going to give me your plank.  Of
course, the wheelbarrow is worth far more than the plank, but true,
friendship never notices things like that.  Pray get it at once, and I
will set to work at my barn this very day.'

"'Certainly,' cried little Hans, and he ran into the shed and dragged the
plank out.

"'It is not a very big plank,' said the Miller, looking at it, 'and I am
afraid that after I have mended my barn-roof there won't be any left for
you to mend the wheelbarrow with; but, of course, that is not my fault.
And now, as I have given you my wheelbarrow, I am sure you would like to
give me some flowers in return.  Here is the basket, and mind you fill it
quite full.'

"'Quite full?' said little Hans, rather sorrowfully, for it was really a
very big basket, and he knew that if he filled it he would have no
flowers left for the market and he was very anxious to get his silver
buttons back.

"'Well, really,' answered the Miller, 'as I have given you my
wheelbarrow, I don't think that it is much to ask you for a few flowers.
I may be wrong, but I should have thought that friendship, true
friendship, was quite free from selfishness of any kind.'

"'My dear friend, my best friend,' cried little Hans, 'you are welcome to
all the flowers in my garden.  I would much sooner have your good opinion
than my silver buttons, any day'; and he ran and plucked all his pretty
primroses, and filled the Miller's basket.

"'Good-bye, little Hans,' said the Miller, as he went up the hill with
the plank on his shoulder, and the big basket in his hand.

"'Good-bye,' said little Hans, and he began to dig away quite merrily, he
was so pleased about the wheelbarrow.

"The next day he was nailing up some honeysuckle against the porch, when
he heard the Miller's voice calling to him from the road.  So he jumped
off the ladder, and ran down the garden, and looked over the wall.

"There was the Miller with a large sack of flour on his back.

"'Dear little Hans,' said the Miller, 'would you mind carrying this sack
of flour for me to market?'

"'Oh, I am so sorry,' said Hans, 'but I am really very busy to-day.  I
have got all my creepers to nail up, and all my flowers to water, and all
my grass to roll.'

"'Well, really,' said the Miller, 'I think that, considering that I am
going to give you my wheelbarrow, it is rather unfriendly of you to
refuse.'

"'Oh, don't say that,' cried little Hans, 'I wouldn't be unfriendly for
the whole world'; and he ran in for his cap, and trudged off with the big
sack on his shoulders.

"It was a very hot day, and the road was terribly dusty, and before Hans
had reached the sixth milestone he was so tired that he had to sit down
and rest.  However, he went on bravely, and as last he reached the
market.  After he had waited there some time, he sold the sack of flour
for a very good price, and then he returned home at once, for he was
afraid that if he stopped too late he might meet some robbers on the way.

"'It has certainly been a hard day,' said little Hans to himself as he
was going to bed, 'but I am glad I did not refuse the Miller, for he is
my best friend, and, besides, he is going to give me his wheelbarrow.'

"Early the next morning the Miller came down to get the money for his
sack of flour, but little Hans was so tired that he was still in bed.

"'Upon my word,' said the Miller, 'you are very lazy.  Really,
considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow, I think you might
work harder.  Idleness is a great sin, and I certainly don't like any of
my friends to be idle or sluggish.  You must not mind my speaking quite
plainly to you.  Of course I should not dream of doing so if I were not
your friend.  But what is the good of friendship if one cannot say
exactly what one means?  Anybody can say charming things and try to
please and to flatter, but a true friend always says unpleasant things,
and does not mind giving pain.  Indeed, if he is a really true friend he
prefers it, for he knows that then he is doing good.'

"'I am very sorry,' said little Hans, rubbing his eyes and pulling off
his night-cap, 'but I was so tired that I thought I would lie in bed for
a little time, and listen to the birds singing.  Do you know that I
always work better after hearing the birds sing?'

"'Well, I am glad of that,' said the Miller, clapping little Hans on the
back, 'for I want you to come up to the mill as soon as you are dressed,
and mend my barn-roof for me.'

"Poor little Hans was very anxious to go and work in his garden, for his
flowers had not been watered for two days, but he did not like to refuse
the Miller, as he was such a good friend to him.

"'Do you think it would be unfriendly of me if I said I was busy?' he
inquired in a shy and timid voice.

"'Well, really,' answered the Miller, 'I do not think it is much to ask
of you, considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow; but of
course if you refuse I will go and do it myself.'

"'Oh! on no account,' cried little Hans and he jumped out of bed, and
dressed himself, and went up to the barn.

"He worked there all day long, till sunset, and at sunset the Miller came
to see how he was getting on.

"'Have you mended the hole in the roof yet, little Hans?' cried the
Miller in a cheery voice.

"'It is quite mended,' answered little Hans, coming down the ladder.

"'Ah!' said the Miller, 'there is no work so delightful as the work one
does for others.'

"'It is certainly a great privilege to hear you talk,' answered little
Hans, sitting down, and wiping his forehead, 'a very great privilege.
But I am afraid I shall never have such beautiful ideas as you have.'

"'Oh! they will come to you,' said the Miller, 'but you must take more
pains.  At present you have only the practice of friendship; some day you
will have the theory also.'

"'Do you really think I shall?' asked little Hans.

"'I have no doubt of it,' answered the Miller, 'but now that you have
mended the roof, you had better go home and rest, for I want you to drive
my sheep to the mountain to-morrow.'

"Poor little Hans was afraid to say anything to this, and early the next
morning the Miller brought his sheep round to the cottage, and Hans
started off with them to the mountain.  It took him the whole day to get
there and back; and when he returned he was so tired that he went off to
sleep in his chair, and did not wake up till it was broad daylight.

"'What a delightful time I shall have in my garden,' he said, and he went
to work at once.

"But somehow he was never able to look after his flowers at all, for his
friend the Miller was always coming round and sending him off on long
errands, or getting him to help at the mill.  Little Hans was very much
distressed at times, as he was afraid his flowers would think he had
forgotten them, but he consoled himself by the reflection that the Miller
was his best friend.  'Besides,' he used to say, 'he is going to give me
his wheelbarrow, and that is an act of pure generosity.'

"So little Hans worked away for the Miller, and the Miller said all kinds
of beautiful things about friendship, which Hans took down in a
note-book, and used to read over at night, for he was a very good
scholar.

"Now it happened that one evening little Hans was sitting by his fireside
when a loud rap came at the door.  It was a very wild night, and the wind
was blowing and roaring round the house so terribly that at first he
thought it was merely the storm.  But a second rap came, and then a
third, louder than any of the others.

"'It is some poor traveller,' said little Hans to himself, and he ran to
the door.

"There stood the Miller with a lantern in one hand and a big stick in the
other.

"'Dear little Hans,' cried the Miller, 'I am in great trouble.  My little
boy has fallen off a ladder and hurt himself, and I am going for the
Doctor.  But he lives so far away, and it is such a bad night, that it
has just occurred to me that it would be much better if you went instead
of me.  You know I am going to give you my wheelbarrow, and so, it is
only fair that you should do something for me in return.'

"'Certainly,' cried little Hans, 'I take it quite as a compliment your
coming to me, and I will start off at once.  But you must lend me your
lantern, as the night is so dark that I am afraid I might fall into the
ditch.'

"'I am very sorry,' answered the Miller, 'but it is my new lantern, and
it would be a great loss to me if anything happened to it.'

"'Well, never mind, I will do without it,' cried little Hans, and he took
down his great fur coat, and his warm scarlet cap, and tied a muffler
round his throat, and started off.

"What a dreadful storm it was!  The night was so black that little Hans
could hardly see, and the wind was so strong that he could scarcely
stand.  However, he was very courageous, and after he had been walking
about three hours, he arrived at the Doctor's house, and knocked at the
door.

"'Who is there?' cried the Doctor, putting his head out of his bedroom
window.

"'Little Hans, Doctor.'

"'What do you want, little Hans?'

"'The Miller's son has fallen from a ladder, and has hurt himself, and
the Miller wants you to come at once.'

"'All right!' said the Doctor; and he ordered his horse, and his big
boots, and his lantern, and came downstairs, and rode off in the
direction of the Miller's house, little Hans trudging behind him.

"But the storm grew worse and worse, and the rain fell in torrents, and
little Hans could not see where he was going, or keep up with the horse.
At last he lost his way, and wandered off on the moor, which was a very
dangerous place, as it was full of deep holes, and there poor little Hans
was drowned.  His body was found the next day by some goatherds, floating
in a great pool of water, and was brought back by them to the cottage.

"Everybody went to little Hans' funeral, as he was so popular, and the
Miller was the chief mourner.

"'As I was his best friend,' said the Miller, 'it is only fair that I
should have the best place'; so he walked at the head of the procession
in a long black cloak, and every now and then he wiped his eyes with a
big pocket-handkerchief.

"'Little Hans is certainly a great loss to every one,' said the
Blacksmith, when the funeral was over, and they were all seated
comfortably in the inn, drinking spiced wine and eating sweet cakes.

"'A great loss to me at any rate,' answered the Miller; 'why, I had as
good as given him my wheelbarrow, and now I really don't know what to do
with it.  It is very much in my way at home, and it is in such bad repair
that I could not get anything for it if I sold it.  I will certainly take
care not to give away anything again.  One always suffers for being
generous
Well
Well, that is the end
But what became of the Miller
Oh!  I really don't know
and I am sure that I
don't care
It is quite evident then that you have no sympathy in your nature
I am afraid you don't quite see the moral of the story
The what
The moral
Do you mean to say that the story has a moral
Certainly
Well, really
I think you
should have told me that before you began.  If you had done so, I
certainly would not have listened to you; in fact, I should have said
'Pooh,' like the critic.  However, I can say it now
And how do you like the Water-rat
He has a great many good points, but for my
own part I have a mother's feelings, and I can never look at a confirmed
bachelor without the tears coming into my eyes
I am rather afraid that I have annoyed him
The
fact is, that I told him a story with a moral
Ah! that is always a very dangerous thing to do
She is like a white rose
Your picture was beautiful
but you are more beautiful
than your picture
She was like a white rose before
but she is like a red rose now
White rose, Red
rose, Red rose, White rose
It's quite clear that they love each other
as
clear as crystal
What
an honour
Charming! charming
What are fireworks like
They are like the Aurora Borealis
only much more natural.
I prefer them to stars myself, as you always know when they are going to
appear, and they are as delightful as my own flute-playing.  You must
certainly see them
The world is certainly very beautiful
Just
look at those yellow tulips.  Why! if they were real crackers they could
not be lovelier.  I am very glad I have travelled.  Travel improves the
mind wonderfully, and does away with all one's prejudices
The King's garden is not the world, you foolish squib
the world is an enormous place, and it would take you three days
to see it thoroughly
Any place you love is the world to you
but love is not fashionable any more, the
poets have killed it.  They wrote so much about it that nobody believed
them, and I am not surprised.  True love suffers, and is silent.  I
remember myself once--But it is no matter now.  Romance is a thing of the
past
Nonsense
Romance never dies.  It is like the
moon, and lives for ever.  The bride and bridegroom, for instance, love
each other very dearly.  I heard all about them this morning from a
brown-paper cartridge, who happened to be staying in the same drawer as
myself, and knew the latest Court news
Romance is dead, Romance is
dead, Romance is dead
Ahem! ahem
Romance is dead
Order! order
Quite dead
How fortunate it is for the King's son
that he is to be
married on the very day on which I am to be let off.  Really, if it had
been arranged beforehand, it could not have turned out better for him;
but, Princes are always lucky
Dear me
I thought it was quite the other way,
and that we were to be let off in the Prince's honour
It may be so with you
indeed, I have no doubt that it
is, but with me it is different.  I am a very remarkable Rocket, and come
of remarkable parents.  My mother was the most celebrated Catherine Wheel
of her day, and was renowned for her graceful dancing.  When she made her
great public appearance she spun round nineteen times before she went
out, and each time that she did so she threw into the air seven pink
stars.  She was three feet and a half in diameter, and made of the very
best gunpowder.  My father was a Rocket like myself, and of French
extraction.  He flew so high that the people were afraid that he would
never come down again.  He did, though, for he was of a kindly
disposition, and he made a most brilliant descent in a shower of golden
rain.  The newspapers wrote about his performance in very flattering
terms.  Indeed, the Court Gazette called him a triumph of Pylotechnic
art
Pyrotechnic, Pyrotechnic, you mean
I know it is
Pyrotechnic, for I saw it written on my own canister
Well, I said Pylotechnic
I was saying
I was saying--What was I saying
You were talking about yourself
Of course; I knew I was discussing some interesting subject when I was
so rudely interrupted.  I hate rudeness and bad manners of every kind,
for I am extremely sensitive.  No one in the whole world is so sensitive
as I am, I am quite sure of that
What is a sensitive person
A person who, because he has corns himself, always treads on other
people's toes
Pray, what are you laughing at
I am not
laughing
I am laughing because I am happy
That is a very selfish reason
What right
have you to be happy?  You should be thinking about others.  In fact, you
should be thinking about me.  I am always thinking about myself, and I
expect everybody else to do the same.  That is what is called sympathy.
It is a beautiful virtue, and I possess it in a high degree.  Suppose,
for instance, anything happened to me to-night, what a misfortune that
would be for every one!  The Prince and Princess would never be happy
again, their whole married life would be spoiled; and as for the King, I
know he would not get over it.  Really, when I begin to reflect on the
importance of my position, I am almost moved to tears
If you want to give pleasure to others
you
had better keep yourself dry
Certainly
that is only common sense
Common sense, indeed
you forget that I
am very uncommon, and very remarkable.  Why, anybody can have common
sense, provided that they have no imagination.  But I have imagination,
for I never think of things as they really are; I always think of them as
being quite different.  As for keeping myself dry, there is evidently no
one here who can at all appreciate an emotional nature.  Fortunately for
myself, I don't care.  The only thing that sustains one through life is
the consciousness of the immense inferiority of everybody else, and this
is a feeling that I have always cultivated.  But none of you have any
hearts.  Here you are laughing and making merry just as if the Prince and
Princess had not just been married
Well, really
why not?  It is a most
joyful occasion, and when I soar up into the air I intend to tell the
stars all about it.  You will see them twinkle when I talk to them about
the pretty bride
Ah! what a trivial view of life
but it is only what
I expected.  There is nothing in you; you are hollow and empty.  Why,
perhaps the Prince and Princess may go to live in a country where there
is a deep river, and perhaps they may have one only son, a little
fair-haired boy with violet eyes like the Prince himself; and perhaps
some day he may go out to walk with his nurse; and perhaps the nurse may
go to sleep under a great elder-tree; and perhaps the little boy may fall
into the deep river and be drowned.  What a terrible misfortune!  Poor
people, to lose their only son!  It is really too dreadful!  I shall
never get over it
But they have not lost their only son
no
misfortune has happened to them at all
I never said that they had
I said that they
might.  If they had lost their only son there would be no use in saying
anything more about the matter.  I hate people who cry over spilt milk.
But when I think that they might lose their only son, I certainly am very
much affected
You certainly are
In fact, you are the most
affected person I ever met
You are the rudest person I ever met
and you cannot
understand my friendship for the Prince
Why, you don't even know him
I never said I knew him
I dare say that if I
knew him I should not be his friend at all.  It is a very dangerous thing
to know one's friends
You had really better keep yourself dry
That
is the important thing
Very important for you, I have no doubt
but I
shall weep if I choose
He must have a truly romantic nature
for he
weeps when there is nothing at all to weep about
Humbug! humbug
Let the fireworks begin
Good-bye
I suppose they are reserving me for some grand occasion
no doubt that is what it means
This is evidently
a deputation
I will receive them with becoming
dignity
Hallo
what a bad rocket
BAD Rocket?  BAD Rocket
impossible!  GRAND Rocket, that is what the man said.  BAD and GRAND
sound very much the same, indeed they often are the same
It is not comfortable here
but no doubt it is some
fashionable watering-place, and they have sent me away to recruit my
health.  My nerves are certainly very much shattered, and I require
rest
A new arrival, I see
Well, after all there is nothing
like mud.  Give me rainy weather and a ditch, and I am quite happy.  Do
you think it will be a wet afternoon?  I am sure I hope so, but the sky
is quite blue and cloudless.  What a pity
Ahem! ahem
What a delightful voice you have
Really it is quite
like a croak, and croaking is of course the most musical sound in the
world.  You will hear our glee-club this evening.  We sit in the old duck
pond close by the farmer's house, and as soon as the moon rises we begin.
It is so entrancing that everybody lies awake to listen to us.  In fact,
it was only yesterday that I heard the farmer's wife say to her mother
that she could not get a wink of sleep at night on account of us.  It is
most gratifying to find oneself so popular
Ahem! ahem
A delightful voice, certainly
I hope you will
come over to the duck-pond.  I am off to look for my daughters.  I have
six beautiful daughters, and I am so afraid the Pike may meet them.  He
is a perfect monster, and would have no hesitation in breakfasting off
them.  Well, good-bye: I have enjoyed our conversation very much, I
assure you
Conversation, indeed
You have talked the whole time
yourself.  That is not conversation
Somebody must listen
and I like to do all the
talking myself.  It saves time, and prevents arguments
But I like arguments
I hope not
Arguments are extremely
vulgar, for everybody in good society holds exactly the same opinions.
Good-bye a second time; I see my daughters in the distance and the little
Frog swam away.

"You are a very irritating person
and very ill-bred.
I hate people who talk about themselves, as you do, when one wants to
talk about oneself, as I do.  It is what I call selfishness, and
selfishness is a most detestable thing, especially to any one of my
temperament, for I am well known for my sympathetic nature.  In fact, you
should take example by me; you could not possibly have a better model.
Now that you have the chance you had better avail yourself of it, for I
am going back to Court almost immediately.  I am a great favourite at
Court; in fact, the Prince and Princess were married yesterday in my
honour.  Of course you know nothing of these matters, for you are a
provincial
There is no good talking to him
no good at all, for he has gone away
Well, that is his loss, not mine
I am not going
to stop talking to him merely because he pays no attention.  I like
hearing myself talk.  It is one of my greatest pleasures.  I often have
long conversations all by myself, and I am so clever that sometimes I
don't understand a single word of what I am saying
Then you should certainly lecture on Philosophy
How very silly of him not to stay here
I am sure
that he has not often got such a chance of improving his mind.  However,
I don't care a bit.  Genius like mine is sure to be appreciated some
day
Quack, quack, quack
What a curious shape you are!  May I
ask were you born like that, or is it the result of an accident
It is quite evident that you have always lived in the country
otherwise you would know who I am.  However, I excuse your
ignorance.  It would be unfair to expect other people to be as remarkable
as oneself.  You will no doubt be surprised to hear that I can fly up
into the sky, and come down in a shower of golden rain
I don't think much of that
as I cannot see what use it
is to any one.  Now, if you could plough the fields like the ox, or draw
a cart like the horse, or look after the sheep like the collie-dog, that
would be something
My good creature
I
see that you belong to the lower orders.  A person of my position is
never useful.  We have certain accomplishments, and that is more than
sufficient.  I have no sympathy myself with industry of any kind, least
of all with such industries as you seem to recommend.  Indeed, I have
always been of opinion that hard work is simply the refuge of people who
have nothing whatever to do
Well, well
everybody has different tastes.  I hope,
at any rate, that you are going to take up your residence here
Oh! dear no
I am merely a visitor, a distinguished
visitor.  The fact is that I find this place rather tedious.  There is
neither society here, nor solitude.  In fact, it is essentially suburban.
I shall probably go back to Court, for I know that I am destined to make
a sensation in the world
I had thoughts of entering public life once myself
there are so many things that need reforming.  Indeed, I took the chair
at a meeting some time ago, and we passed resolutions condemning
everything that we did not like.  However, they did not seem to have much
effect.  Now I go in for domesticity, and look after my family
I am made for public life
and so are all my
relations, even the humblest of them.  Whenever we appear we excite great
attention.  I have not actually appeared myself, but when I do so it will
be a magnificent sight.  As for domesticity, it ages one rapidly, and
distracts one's mind from higher things
Ah! the higher things of life, how fine they are
and
that reminds me how hungry I feel
Quack, quack, quack
Come back! come back
I have a great deal to say
to you
I am glad that she has
gone
she has a decidedly middle-class mind
This must be the deputation
Hallo
look at this old stick!  I wonder how it
came here
OLD Stick
impossible!  GOLD Stick, that is what he
said.  Gold Stick is very complimentary.  In fact, he mistakes me for one
of the Court dignitaries
Let us put it into the fire
it will help to boil
the kettle
This is magnificent
they are going to let me off in
broad day-light, so that every one can see me
We will go to sleep now
and when we wake up the kettle
will be boiled
Now I am going off
I know I shall go much higher than the stars, much higher
than the moon, much higher than the sun.  In fact, I shall go so high
that
Delightful
I shall go on like this for ever.  What a
success I am
Now I am going to explode
I shall set the whole world on
fire, and make such a noise that nobody will talk about anything else for
a whole year
Good heavens
It is going to rain sticks
I knew I should create a great sensation
</text>
