<text>
_But, Mr. Author, why do you always write about princesses
_Because every little girl is a princess
_You will make them vain if you tell them that
_Not if they understand what I mean
_Then what do you mean
_What_ do you _mean by a princess
_The daughter of a king
_Very well, then every little girl is a princess, and there would be no
need to say anything about it, except that she is always in danger of
forgetting her rank, and behaving as if she had grown out of the mud. I
have seen little princesses behave like the children of thieves and
lying beggars, and that is why they need, to be told they are
princesses. And that is why, when I tell a story of this kind, I like to
tell it about a princess. Then I can say better what I mean, because I
can then give her every beautiful thing I want her to have
_Please go on
_Oh, Mr. Editor! I know the story you are going to tell: it's The
Sleeping Beauty; only you're spinning too, and making it longer
_No, indeed, it is not that story. Why should I tell one that every
properly educated child knows already? More old ladies than one have sat
spinning in a garret. Besides, the old lady in that story was only
spinning with a spindle, and this one was spinning with a spinning
wheel, else how could the princess have heard the sweet noise through
the door? Do you know the difference? Did you ever see a spindle or a
spinning wheel? I daresay you never did. Well, ask your mamma to explain
to you the difference. Between ourselves, however, I shouldn't wonder if
she didn't know much better than you. Another thing is, that this is not
a fairy story; but a goblin story. And one thing more, this old lady
spinning was not an old nurse -- but -- you shall see who. I think I have
now made it quite plain that this is not that lovely story of The
Sleeping Beauty. It is quite a new one, I assure you, and I will try to
tell it as prettily as I can
Come in, my dear; come in. I am glad to see you
Come to me, my dear
Why, what have you been doing with your eyes, child
Crying
Why, child
Because I couldn't find my way down again
But you could find your way up
Not at first -- not for a long time
But your face is streaked like the back of a zebra. Hadn't you a
handkerchief to wipe your eyes with
No
Then why didn't you come to me to wipe them for you
Please I didn't know you were here. I will next time
There's a good child
Do you know my name, child
No, I don't know it
My name is Irene
That's _my_ name
I know that. I let you have mine. I haven't got your name. You've got
mine
How can that be
I've always had my
name
Your papa, the king, asked me if I had any objection to your having it;
and of course I hadn't. I let you have it with pleasure
It was very kind of you to give me your name -- and such a pretty one
Oh, not so _very_ kind
A name is one of those
things one can give away and keep all the same. I have a good many such
things. Wouldn't you like to know who I am, child
Yes, that I should -- very much
I'm your great-great-grandmother
What's that
I'm your father's mother's father's mother
Oh, dear! I can't understand that
I daresay not. I didn't expect you would. But that's no reason why I
shouldn't say it
Oh no
I will explain it all to you when you are older
But you will be able to understand this much now: I came here to take
care of you
Is it long since you came? Was it yesterday? Or was it to-day, because
it was so wet that I couldn't get out
I've been here ever since you came yourself
What a long time
I don't remember it at all
No. I suppose not
But I never saw you before
No. But you shall see me again
Do you live in this room always
I don't sleep in it. I sleep on the opposite side of the landing. I sit
here most of the day
I shouldn't like it. My nursery is much prettier. You must be a queen
too, if you are my great big grandmother
Yes, I am a queen
Where is your crown then
In my bedroom
I _should_ like to see it
You shall some day -- not to-day
I wonder why nursie never told me
Nursie doesn't know. She never saw me
But somebody knows that you are in the house
No; nobody
How do you get your dinner then
I keep poultry -- of a sort
Where do you keep them
I will show you
And who makes the chicken broth for you
I never kill any of my chickens
Then I can't understand
What did you have for breakfast this morning
Oh! I had bread and milk, and an egg.-- I daresay you eat their eggs
Yes, that's it. I eat their eggs
Is that what makes your hair so white
No, my dear. It's old age. I am very old
I thought so. Are you fifty
Yes -- more than that
Are you a hundred
Yes -- more than that. I am too old for you to guess. Come and see my
chickens
You've frightened my poultry
And they've frightened me
But what
very nice poultry! Are the eggs nice
Yes, very nice
What a small egg-spoon you must have! Wouldn't it be better to keep
hens, and get bigger eggs
How should I feed them, though
I see
The pigeons feed themselves. They've got
wings
Just so. If they couldn't fly, I couldn't eat their eggs
But how do you get at the eggs? Where are their nests
Oh what a nice way
Will you give me an egg to
eat? I'm rather hungry
I will some day, but now you must go back, or nursie will be miserable
about you. I daresay she's looking for you everywhere
Except here
Oh how surprised she _will_ be
when I tell her about my great big grand-grandmother
Yes, that she will
Mind you
tell her all about it exactly
That I will. Please will you take me back to her
I can't go all the way, but I will take you to the top of the stair,
and then you must run down quite fast into your own room
WHY, where can you have been, princess
It's very unkind of you to hide away so long. I began to be
afraid
What were you afraid of, nursie
Never mind
Perhaps I will tell you another day. Now
tell me where you have been
I've been up a long way to see my very great, huge, old grandmother
What do you mean by that
I mean that I've been a long way up and up to see my great grandmother.
Ah, nursie, you don't know what a beautiful mother of grandmothers I've
got upstairs. She is _such_ an old lady! with such lovely white
hair!-- as white as my silver cup. Now, when I think of it, I think her
hair must be silver
What nonsense you are talking, princess
I'm not talking nonsense
I will
tell you all about her. She's much taller than you, and much prettier
Oh, I daresay
And she lives upon pigeon's eggs
Most likely
And she sits in an empty room, spin-spinning all day long
Not a doubt of it
And she keeps her crown in her bedroom
Of course -- quite the proper place to keep her crown in. She wears it in
bed, I'll be bound
She didn't say that. And I don't think she does. That wouldn't be
comfortable -- would it? I don't think my papa wears his crown for a
night-cap. Does he, nursie
I never asked him. I daresay he does
And she's been there ever since I came here -- ever so many years
Anybody could have told you that
Why didn't you tell me then
There was no necessity. You could make it all up for yourself
You don't believe me then
Did you expect me to believe you, princess
I
know princesses are in the habit of telling make-believes, but you are
the first I ever heard of who expected to have them believed
Well, I must say
it is not at all becoming in a princess to tell stories
_and_ expect to be believed just because she is a princess
But it's quite true, I tell you, nursie
You've dreamt it, then, child
No, I didn't dream it. I went up-stairs, and I lost myself, and if I
hadn't found the beautiful lady, I should never have found myself
Oh, I daresay
Well, you just come up with me, and see if I'm not telling the truth
Indeed I have other work to do. It's your dinner-time, and I won't have
any more such nonsense
Nursie
why won't you believe me
Because I can't believe you
Ah! then you can't help it
and I will not be vexed with
you any more. I will give you a kiss and go to sleep
You little angel
You _will_ let me take you to see my dear old great big grandmother,
won't you
And _you_ won't say I'm ugly, any more -- will you, princess
Nursie! I never said you were ugly. What can you mean
Well, if you didn't say it, you meant it
Indeed, I never did
You said I wasn't so pretty as that
As my beautiful grandmother -- yes, I did say that; and I say it again,
for it's quite true
Then I _do_ think you _are_ unkind
Nursie, dear, everybody can't be as beautiful as every other body, you
know. You are _very_ nice-looking, but if you had been as beautiful as
my grandmother
Bother your grandmother
Nurse, that's very rude. You are not fit to be spoken to -- till you can
behave better
I'm sure I beg your pardon, princess
You won't say it again, I am sure
I was only going to say that if you had been twice as
nice-looking as you are, some king or other would have married you, and
then what would have become of me
You are an angel
Now
you _will_ come and see my grandmother -- won't
you
I will go with you anywhere you like, my cherub
I wonder, Lootie
what pigeons'
eggs taste like
We'll get you a pigeon's egg, and you shall judge for yourself
Oh, no, no
What a strange creature you are
first to want a
thing and then to refuse it
Well, you see, Lootie, there are reasons
See, see, Lootie! The sun has had his face washed. Look how bright he
is! Do get my hat, and let us go out for a walk. Oh dear! oh dear! how
happy I am
What's all the haste, nursie
We must not be out a moment longer
But we can't help being out a good many moments longer
Lootie! Lootie! why do you run so fast? It shakes my teeth when I
talk
Then don't talk
Look, look,
Lootie
Look, look, Lootie! Don't you see that funny man peeping over the
rock
Look, look, Lootie! There's _such_ a curious creature at the foot of
that old tree. Look at it, Lootie! It's making faces at us, I do think
Who's that laughing at me
Nobody, child
Lies! lies!
lies
Oh
Nursie! Lootie! I can't run any more. Do let us walk a bit
What _am_ I to do
Here, I will carry you
We've taken the wrong turning somewhere, and I don't know where we are.
We are lost, lost
Ring! dod! bang!
           Go the hammers' clang!
           Hit and turn and bore!
           Whizz and puff and roar!
           Thus we rive the rocks.
           Force the goblin locks.
           See the shining ore!
           One, two, three --
           Bright as gold can be!
           Four, five, six --
           Shovels, mattocks, picks!
           Seven, eight, nine --
           Light your lamp at mine.
           Ten, eleven, twelve --
           Loosely hold the helve.
           We're the merry miner-boys,
           Make the goblins hold their noise
I wish you would hold _your_ noise
Thirteen, fourteen, fifteen --
           This is worth the siftin';
           Sixteen, seventeen, eighteen --
           There's the match, and lay't in.
           Nineteen, twenty --
           Goblins in a plenty
Do be quiet
Hush! scush! scurry!
           There you go in a hurry!
           Gobble! gobble! gobblin'!
           There you go a wobblin';
           Hobble, hobble, hobblin'!
           Cobble! cobble! cobblin'!
           Hob-bob-goblin -- Huuuuuh
There
There! that'll
do for them. They can't bear singing, and they can't stand that song.
They can't sing themselves, for they have no more voice than a crow; and
they don't like other people to sing
I saw them
as I came up; and I'm very glad I did. I knew
they were after somebody, but I couldn't see who it was. They won't
touch you so long as I'm with you
Why, who are you
I'm Peter's son
Who's Peter
Peter the miner
I don't know him
I'm his son, though
And why should the goblins mind _you_, pray
Because I don't mind them. I'm used to them
What difference does that make
If you're not afraid of them, they're afraid of you. I'm not afraid of
them. That's all. But it's all that's wanted -- up here, that is. It's a
different thing down there. They won't always mind that song even, down
there. And if anyone sings it, they stand grinning at him awfully; and
if he gets frightened, and misses a word, or says a wrong one, they -- oh!
don't they give it him
What do they do to him
Don't go frightening the princess
The princess
I beg your pardon; but you oughtn't to be out so late. Everybody knows
that's against the law
Yes, indeed it is
And I
shall have to suffer for it
What does that matter
It must be your fault. It is the
princess who will suffer for it. I hope they didn't hear you call her
the princess. If they did, they're sure to know her again: they're
awfully sharp
Lootie! Lootie
Take me home
Don't go on like that
How could I help it? I lost my way
You shouldn't have been out so late. You wouldn't have lost your way if
you hadn't been frightened
Come along. I'll soon set
you right again. Shall I carry your little Highness
Impertinence
No, thank you
I can walk very well, though I can't run
so fast as nursie. If you will give me one hand, Lootie will give me
another, and then I shall get on famously
Now let's run
No, no
That's the worst thing you can do. If
you hadn't run before, you would not have lost your way. And if you run
now, they will be after you in a moment
I don't want to run
You don't think of _me_
Yes, I do, Lootie. The boy says they won't touch us if we don't run
Yes; but if they know at the house that I've kept you out so late, I
shall be turned away, and that would break my heart
Turned away, Lootie. Who would turn you away
Your papa, child
But I'll tell him it was all my fault. And you know it was, Lootie
He won't mind that. I'm sure he won't
Then I'll cry, and go down on my knees to him, and beg him not to take
away my own dear Lootie
I want to talk to you
but it's so
awkward! I don't know your name
My name's Curdie, little princess
What a funny name! Curdie! What more
Curdie Peterson. What's your name, please
Irene
What more
I don't know what more.-- What more is my name, Lootie
Princesses haven't got more than one name. They don't want it
Oh then, Curdie, you must call me just Irene, and no more
No, indeed
He shall do no such thing
What shall he call me, then, Lootie
Your royal Highness
My royal Highness! What's that? No, no, Lootie, I will not be called
names. I don't like them. You said to me once yourself that it's only
rude children that call names; and I'm sure Curdie wouldn't be
rude.-- Curdie, my name's Irene
Well, Irene
it's very kind of you to let me call you anything.
I like your name very much
It's very much kinder of you to go out of your way to take us home
I'm not going out of my way yet
It's on the other side
those rocks the path turns off to my father's
You wouldn't think of leaving us till we're safe home, I'm sure
Of course not
You dear, good, kind Curdie! I'll give you a kiss when we get home
One, two --
           Hit and hew!
           Three, four --
           Blast and bore!
           Five, six --
           There's a fix!
           Seven, eight --
           Hold it straight.
           Nine, ten --
           Hit again!
           Hurry! scurry!
           Bother! smother!
           There's a toad
           In the road!
           Smash it!
           Squash it!
           Fry it!
           Dry it!
           You're another!
           Up and off!
           There's enough!-- Huuuuuh
Never mind, Princess Irene
You mustn't kiss
me to-night. But you sha'n't break your word. I will come another
time
Do you know, Curdie, I don't quite like your song; it sounds to me
rather rude
Well, perhaps it is
I never thought of that; it's a
way we have. We do it because they don't like it
Who don't like it
The cobs, as we call them
Don't
Why not
I beg you won't. Please don't
Oh, if you ask me that way, of course I won't; though I don't a bit
know why. Look! there are the lights of your great house down below.
You'll be at home in five minutes now
Lootie, Lootie, I promised Curdie a kiss
A princess mustn't give kisses. It's not at all proper
But I promised
There's no occasion; he's only a miner-boy
He is a good boy, and a brave boy, and he has been very kind to us.
Lootie! Lootie! I promised
Then you shouldn't have promised
Lootie, I promised him a kiss
Your royal Highness
must come in directly
Nurse, a princess must _not_ break her word
Never mind, Princess Irene
You mustn't kiss me to-night.
But you sha'n't break your word. I will come another time. You may be
sure I will
Oh, thank you, Curdie
Good night, Irene; good night, Lootie
I should like to see him
You _will_ see him
You may be sure Curdie will keep his
word. He's _sure_ to come again
I should like to see him
One, two, three
I'm sorry I can't stay with you
but I want to go and pay
the parson a visit this evening, and besides I've had a bit of a
headache all day
I'm sorry for that, father
Oh! it's not much. You'll be sure to take care of yourself, won't you
Yes, father; I will. I'll keep a sharp lookout, I promise you
Don't forget your rhymes
No, no
It's no matter if he does
for he'll only have to make
a new one
Yes, but he mightn't be able to make it fast enough
and while it was cooking in his head, they might take a mean advantage
and set upon him
I'll do my best
I'm not afraid
We all know that
Hadn't we better be moving
There's no hurry. That wretched little mole won't be through to-night,
if he work ever so hard. He's by no means at the thinnest place
But you still think the lode does come through into our house
Yes, but a good bit farther on than he has got to yet. If he had struck
a stroke more to the side just here
he would
have been through; but he's a couple of yards past it now, and if he
follow the lode it will be a week before it leads him in. You see it
back there -- a long way. Still, perhaps, in case of accident, it would be
as well to be getting out of this. Helfer, you'll take the great chest.
That's your business, you know
Yes, dad
But you must help me to get it on my
back. It's awfully heavy, you know
Well, it isn't just a bag of smoke, I admit. But you're as strong as a
mountain, Helfer
You say so, dad. I think myself I'm all right. But I could carry ten
times as much if it wasn't for my feet
That is your weak point, I confess, my boy
Ain't it yours, too, father
Well, to be honest, it is a goblin-weakness. Why they come so soft, I
declare I haven't an idea
Specially when your head's so hard, you know, father
Yes, my boy. The goblin's glory is his head. To think how the fellows
up above there have to put on helmets and things when they go fighting.
Ha! ha
But why don't we wear shoes like them, father? I should like
it -- specially when I've got a chest like that on my head
Well, you see, it's not the fashion. The king never wears shoes
The queen does
Yes; but that's for distinction. The first queen, you see -- I mean the
king's first wife -- wore shoes of course, because she came from upstairs;
and so, when she died, the next queen would not be inferior to her as
she called it, and would wear shoes too. It was all pride. She is the
hardest in forbidding them to the rest of the women
I'm sure I wouldn't wear them -- no, not for -- that I wouldn't
I
can't think why either of them should
Didn't I tell you the first was from upstairs
That
was the only silly thing I ever knew his Majesty guilty of. Why should
he marry an outlandish woman like that -- one of our natural enemies too
I suppose he fell in love with her
Pooh! pooh! He's just as happy now with one of his own people
Did she die _very_ soon? They didn't tease her to death, did they
Oh dear no! The king worshipped her very footmarks
What made her die, then? Didn't the air agree with her
She died when the young prince was born
How silly of her! _We_ never do that. It must have been because she
wore shoes
I don't know that
Why do they wear shoes up there
Ah! now that's a sensible question, and I will answer it. But in order
to do so, I must first tell you a secret. I once saw the queen's feet
Without her shoes
Yes -- without her shoes
No! Did you? How was it
Never you mind how it was. _She_ didn't know I saw them. And what do
you think!-- they had _toes_
Toes! What's that
You may well ask! I should never have known if I had not seen the
queen's feet. Just imagine! the ends of her feet were split up into five
or six thin pieces
Oh, horrid! How _could_ the king have fallen in love with her
You forget that she wore shoes. That is just why she wore them. That is
why all the men, and women too, upstairs wear shoes. They can't bear the
sight of their own feet without them
Ah! now I understand. If ever you wish for shoes again, Helfer, I'll
hit your feet -- I will
No, no, mother; pray don't
Then don't you
But with such a big box on my head
Well, I never knew so much before
Your knowledge is not universal quite yet
You were
only fifty last month. Mind you see to the bed and bedding. As soon as
we've finished our supper, we'll be up and going. Ha! ha! ha
What are you laughing at, husband
I'm laughing to think what a mess the miners will find themselves
in -- somewhere before this day ten years
Why, what do you mean
Oh, nothing
Oh yes, you do mean something. You always do mean something
It's more than you do, then, wife
That may be; but it's not more than I find out, you know
Ha! ha! You're a sharp one. What a mother you've got, Helfer
Yes, father
Well, I suppose I must tell you. They're all at the palace consulting
about it to-night; and as soon as we've got away from this thin place,
I'm going there to hear what night they fix upon. I should like to see
that young ruffian there on the other side, struggling in the agonies
of
But what shall we do when you are at the palace
I will see you safe in the new house I've been digging for you for the
last two months. Podge, you mind the table and chairs. I commit them to
your care. The table has seven legs -- each chair three. I shall require
them all at your hands
What was that noise
It must be that one miner that stayed behind the rest
No; he's been gone a good while. I haven't heard a blow for an hour.
Besides, it wasn't like that
Then I suppose it must have been a stone carried down the brook
inside
Perhaps. It will have more room by and by
What's the matter, Helfer
A beast came out of the wall, and licked my foot
Nonsense! There are no wild beasts in our country
But it was, father. I felt it
Nonsense, I say. Will you malign your native realms and reduce them to
a level with the country up-stairs? That is swarming with wild beasts of
every description
But I did feel it, father
I tell you to hold your tongue. You are no patriot
Now then
get your bundles on your backs. Here, Helfer, I'll
help you up with your chest
I wish it _was_ my chest, father
Your turn will come in good time enough! Make haste. I _must_ go to the
meeting at the palace to-night. When that's over, we can come back and
clear out the last of the things before our enemies return in the
morning. Now light your torches, and come along. What a distinction it
is to provide our own light, instead of being dependent on a thing hung
up in the air -- a most disagreeable contrivance -- intended no doubt to
blind us when we venture out under its baleful influence! Quite glaring
and vulgar, I call it, though no doubt useful to poor creatures who
haven't the wit to make light for themselves
Where do they
get the feathers
Hence it appears that two plans have been for some time together
working in the strong head of his Majesty for the deliverance of his
people. Regardless of the fact that we were the first possessors of the
regions they now inhabit, regardless equally of the fact that we
abandoned that region from the loftiest motives; regardless also of the
self-evident fact that we excel them as far in mental ability as they
excel us in stature, they look upon us as a degraded race, and make a
mockery of all our finer feelings. But the time has almost arrived
when -- thanks to his Majesty's inventive genius -- it will be in our power
to take a thorough revenge upon them once for all, in respect of their
unfriendly behavior
May it please your Majesty
Who is he that interrupts the Chancellor
Glump
He is our trusty subject
let him come forward and speak
Sire, I would have held my peace, had I not known that I only knew how
near was the moment to which the Chancellor had just referred. In all
probability, before another day is past, the enemy will have broken
through into my house -- the partition between being even now not more
than a foot in thickness
Not quite so much
This very evening I have had to remove my household effects; therefore
the sooner we are ready to carry out the plan, for the execution of
which his Majesty has been making such magnificent preparations, the
better. I may just add, that within the last few days I have perceived a
small outbreak in my dining-room, which combined with observations upon
the course of the river escaping where the evil men enter, has convinced
me that close to the spot must lie a deep gulf in its channel. This
discovery will, I trust, add considerably to the otherwise immense
forces at his Majesty's disposal
The information which the worthy Glump has given us
might
have been of considerable import at the present moment, but for that
other design already referred to, which naturally takes precedence. His
Majesty, unwilling to proceed to extremities, and well aware that such
measures sooner or later result in violent reactions, has excogitated a
more fundamental and comprehensive measure, of which I need say no more.
Should his Majesty be successful -- as who dares to doubt?-- then a peace,
all to the advantage of the goblin kingdom, will be established for a
generation at least, rendered absolutely secure by the pledge which his
royal Highness the prince will have and hold for the good behavior of
his relatives. Should his Majesty fail -- which who shall dare even to
imagine in his most secret thoughts?-- then will be the time for carrying
out with rigor the design to which Glump referred, and for which our
preparations are even now all but completed. The failure of the former
will render the latter imperative
What a stupid I am
I am actually at the
end of my journey!-- and there are the goblins coming back to fetch their
things
Irene, I'm coming
Irene, I am come
Now, my child, what shall we do next
I should like you to take me to see my great old grandmother
What does my little daughter mean
I mean the Queen Irene that lives up in the tower -- the very old lady,
you know, with the long hair of silver
She's got her crown in her bedroom
but I've not been in
there yet. You know she's here, don't you
No
Then it must be all a dream
I half thought it was; but
I couldn't be sure. Now I _am_ sure of it. Besides, I couldn't find her
the next time I went up
Dear dovey, don't peck me. You'll pull out my hair with your long
claws, if you don't have a care
Come, my child; we'll have a walk in the garden together
You won't come up and see my huge, great, beautiful grandmother, then,
king-papa
Not this time
She has not invited me, you
know, and great old ladies like her do not choose to be visited without
leave asked and given
You were out late one evening, Irene
Yes, papa. It was my fault; and Lootie was very sorry
I must talk to Lootie about it
Don't speak loud to her, please, papa
She's been so
afraid of being late ever since! Indeed she has not been naughty. It was
only a mistake for once
Once might be too often
If she is a dream
then I am the likelier to
find her, if I am dreaming
What if I should realliality-really find my beautiful old grandmother
up there
Come in, Irene
Come in, Irene
Can you tell me what I am spinning
She speaks
just as if she had seen me five minutes
ago, or yesterday at the farthest.-- No
I don't know
what you are spinning. Please, I thought you were a dream. Why couldn't
I find you before, great-great-grandmother
That you are hardly old enough to understand. But you would have found
me sooner if you hadn't come to think I was a dream. I will give you one
reason, though, why you couldn't find me. I didn't want you to find me
Why, please
Because I did not want Lootie to know I was here
But you told me to tell Lootie
Yes. But I knew Lootie would not believe you. If she were to see me
sitting spinning here, she wouldn't believe me either
Why
Because she couldn't. She would rub her eyes, and go away and say she
felt queer, and forget half of it and more, and then say it had been all
a dream
Just like me
Yes, a good deal like you, but not just like you; for you've come
again; and Lootie wouldn't have come again. She would have said, No,
no -- she had had enough of such nonsense
Is it naughty of Lootie then
It would be naughty of you. I've never done anything for Lootie
And you did wash my face and hands for me
I'm not vexed with you, my child -- nor with Lootie either. But I don't
want you to say anything more to Lootie about me. If she should ask you,
you must just be silent. But I do not think she will ask you
You haven't told me yet what I am spinning
Because I don't know. It's very pretty stuff
I am spinning this for you, my child
For me! What am I to do with it, please
I will tell you by and by. But first I will tell you what it is. It is
spider-webs -- of a particular kind. My pigeons bring it me from over the
great sea. There is only one forest where the spiders live who make this
particular kind -- the finest and strongest of any. I have nearly finished
my present job. What is on the rock now will be quite sufficient. I have
a week's work there yet, though
Do you work all day and night too, great-great-great-great
grandmother
I am not quite so great as all that
If you call me grandmother, that will do.-- No. I don't work
every night -- only moonlit nights, and then no longer than the moon
shines upon my wheel. I sha'n't work much longer to-night
And what will you do next, grandmother
Go to bed. Would you like to see my bedroom
Yes, that I should
Then I think I won't work any longer to-night. I shall be in good
time
My child
what is the matter
Give me your other hand
Oh, grandmother! it is _so_ nice
Thank you; thank you
I don't think that I can let you go away to-night
Do you
think you would like to sleep with me
Oh, yes, yes, dear grandmother
You won't be afraid then to go to bed with such an old woman
No. You are so beautiful, grandmother
But I am _very_ old
And I suppose I am very young. You won't mind sleeping with such a
_very_ young woman, grandmother
You sweet little pertness
Why don't you put out your moon
That never goes out, night or day
In the darkest
night, if any of my pigeons are out on a message, they always see my
moon, and know where to fly to
But if somebody besides the pigeons were to see it -- somebody about the
house, I mean -- they would come to look what it was, and find you
The better for them then
But it does not happen
above five times in a hundred years that any one does see it. The
greater part of those who do, take it for a meteor, wink their eyes, and
forget it again. Besides, nobody could find the room except I pleased.
Besides again -- I will tell you a secret -- if that light were to go out,
you would fancy yourself lying in a bare garret, on a heap of old straw,
and would not see one of the pleasant things round about you all the
time
I hope it will never go out
I hope not. But it is time we both went to sleep. Shall I take you in
my arms
Oh dear! this is so nice
I didn't know anything
in the whole world could be so comfortable. I should like to lie here
for ever
You may if you will
But I must put you to one
trial -- not a very hard one, I hope.-- This night week you must come back
to me. If you don't, I do not know when you may find me again, and you
will soon want me very much
Oh! please, don't let me forget
You shall not forget. The only question is whether you will believe I
am anywhere -- whether you will believe I am anything but a dream. You may
be sure I will do all I can to help you to come. But it will rest with
yourself after all. On the night of next Friday, you must come to me.
Mind now
I will try
Then good night
dodged the cobs
I can't think how you do it, mother
I follow the thread
just as you do in the mine
What an odd child she is
I see you want your tea, princess
I will go and get
it. The room feels close: I will open the window a little. The evening
is mild: it won't hurt you
There's no fear of that, Lootie
COME in, Irene
Come in, Irene
Shut the other door behind you, Irene. I always close the door of my
workroom when I go to my chamber
Come
I've lighted a fire for you, Irene: you're cold and wet
Why, what's the matter
You haven't been doing
anything wrong -- I know that by your face, though it _is_ rather
miserable. What's the matter, my dear
Dear grandmother
I'm not so sure that I haven't done
something wrong. I ought to have run up to you at once when the
long-legged cat came in at the window, instead of running out on the
mountain, and making myself such a fright
You were taken by surprise, my child, and are not so likely to do it
again. It is when people do wrong things willfully that they are the
more likely to do them again. Come
But, grandmother, you're so beautiful and grand with your crown on! and
I am so dirty with mud and rain!-- I should quite spoil your beautiful
blue dress
Oh, grandmother! you'll make yourself such a mess
You darling! do you think I care more for my dress than for my little
girl? Beside -- look here
There
you won't mind coming to me now
You're not afraid of the rose -- are you
Oh! don't, please
Won't you hold it to my frock and my
hands and my face? And I'm afraid my feet and my knees want it too
No
it is too hot for you yet. It would set your frock in a
flame. Besides, I don't want to make you clean to-night. I want your
nurse and the rest of the people to see you as you are, for you will
have to tell them how you ran away for fear of the long-legged cat. I
should like to wash you, but they would not believe you then. Do you see
that bath behind you
Go and look into it
What did you see
The sky and the moon and the stars
It looked as if
there was no bottom to it
Any time you want a bath, come to me. I know you have a bath every
morning, but sometimes you want one at night too
Thank you, grandmother; I will -- I will indeed
How was it,
grandmother, that I saw your beautiful lamp -- not the light of it
only -- but the great round silver lamp itself, hanging alone in the great
open air high up? It was your lamp I saw -- wasn't it
Yes, my child; it was my lamp
Then how was it? I don't see a window all round
When I please, I can make the lamp shine through the walls -- shine so
strong that it melts them away from before the sight, and shows itself
as you saw it. But, as I told you, it is not everybody can see it
How is it that I can then? I'm sure I don't know
It is a gift born with you. And one day I hope everybody will have it
But how do you make it shine through the walls
Ah! that you would not understand if I were to try ever so much to make
you -- not yet -- not yet. But
you must sit in my
chair while I get you the present I have been preparing for you. I told
you my spinning was for you. It is finished now, and I am going to fetch
it. I have been keeping it warm under one of my brooding pigeons
There, Irene; there is my work for you
Is this _all_ your spinning, grandmother
All since you came to the house. There is more there than you think
How pretty it is! What am I to do with it
That I will now explain to you
Give me your hand
Yes, that is the hand I want
What a beautiful ring
What is the stone called
It is a fire-opal
Please, am I to keep it
Always
Oh, thank you, grandmother! It's prettier than anything I ever saw,
except those -- of all colors -- in your -- Please, is that your crown
Yes, it is my crown. The stone in your ring is of the same sort -- only
not so good. It has only red, but mine have all colors, you see
Yes, grandmother. I will take such care of it!-- But
But what
What am I to say when Lootie asks me where I got it
_You_ will ask _her_ where you got it
I don't see how I can do that
You will though
Of course I will if you say so. But you know I can't pretend not to
know
Of course not. But don't trouble yourself about it. You will see when
the time comes
Oh, grandmother
I thought you had spun it for me
So I did, my child. And you've got it
No; it's burnt in the fire
Have I done anything to vex you, grandmother
No, my darling. But you must understand that no one ever gives anything
to another properly and really without keeping it. That ball is yours
Oh! I'm not to take it with me! You are going to keep it for me
You are to take it with you. I've fastened the end of it to the ring on
your finger
I can't see it there, grandmother
Feel -- a little way from the ring -- toward the cabinet
Oh! I do feel it
But I can't see it
No. The thread is too fine for you to see it. You can only feel it. Now
you can fancy how much spinning that took, although it does seem such a
little ball
But what use can I make of it, if it lies in your cabinet
That is what I will explain to you. It would be of no use to you -- it
wouldn't be yours at all if it did not lie in my cabinet. Now listen. If
ever you find yourself in any danger -- such, for example, as you were in
this evening -- you must take off your ring, and put it under the pillow
of your bed. Then you must lay your forefinger, the same that wore the
ring, upon the thread, and follow the thread wherever it leads you
Oh, how delightful! It will lead me to you, grandmother, I know
Yes. But, remember, it may seem to you a very roundabout way indeed,
and you must not double the thread. Of one thing you may be sure, that
while you hold it, I hold it too
It is very wonderful
Oh, grandmother! here I have been sitting
all this time in your chair, and you standing! I _beg_ your pardon
Sit down again, Irene. Nothing pleases me better than to see any one
sit in my chair. I am only too glad to stand so long as any one will sit
in it
How kind of you
It makes me happy
But
won't the thread get in somebody's
way and be broken, if the one end is fast to my ring and the other laid
in your cabinet
You will find all that arranges itself. I am afraid it is time for you
to go
Mightn't I stay and sleep with you to-night, grandmother
No, not to-night. If I had meant you to stay to-night, I should have
given you a bath; but you know everybody in the house is miserable about
you, and it would be cruel to keep them so all night. You must go down
stairs
I'm so glad, grandmother, you didn't say -- _go home_ -- for this is my
home. Mayn't I call this my home
You may, my child. And I trust you will always think it your home. Now
come. I must take you back without any one seeing you
Please, I want to ask you one question more
Is it
because you have your crown on that you look so young
No, child
it is because I felt so young
this evening, that I put my crown on. And it occurred to me that you
would like to see your old grandmother in her best
Why do you call yourself old? You're not old, grandmother
I am very old indeed. It is so silly of people -- I don't mean you, for
you are such a tiny, and couldn't know better -- but it is so silly of
people to fancy that old age means crookedness and witheredness and
feebleness and sticks and spectacles and rheumatism and forgetfulness!
It is so silly! Old age has nothing whatever to do with all that. The
right old age means strength and beauty and mirth and courage and clear
eyes and strong painless limbs. I am older than you are able to think,
and
And look at you, grandmother
I won't be so silly again, I promise you. At
least -- I'm rather afraid to promise -- but if I am, I promise to be sorry
for it -- I do. I wish I were as old as you, grandmother. I don't think
you are ever afraid of anything
Not for long, at least, my child. Perhaps by the time I am two thousand
years of age, I shall, indeed, never be afraid of anything. But I must
confess that I have sometimes been afraid about my children -- sometimes
about you, Irene
Oh, I'm so sorry, grandmother!-- To-night, I suppose, you mean
Yes -- a little to-night; but a good deal when you had all but made up
your mind that I was a dream, and no real great-great-grandmother. You
must not suppose that I am blaming you for that, I daresay it was out of
your power to help it
I don't know, grandmother
I
can't always do myself as I should like. And I don't always try. I'm
very sorry anyhow
My precious darling princess! where have you been? What has happened to
you? We've all been crying our eyes out, and searching the house from
top to bottom for you
Not quite from the top
not quite to the bottom
Oh, Lootie! I've had such a dreadful adventure
And there we've been searching for you all over the house for more than
an hour and a half
But that's no matter, now
we've got you! Only, princess, I must say
what you ought to have done was to call for your own Lootie
to come and help you, instead of running out of the house, and up the
mountain, in that wild -- I must say, foolish fashion
Well, Lootie
perhaps if you had a big cat, all
legs, running at you, you mightn't exactly know which was the wisest
thing to do at the moment
I wouldn't run up the mountain, anyhow
Not if you had time to think about it. But when those creatures came at
you that night on the mountain, you were so frightened yourself that you
lost your way home
How your ring does glow this morning, princess!-- just like a fiery
rose
Does it, Lootie
Who gave me the ring, Lootie? I know
I've had it a long time, but where did I get it? I don't remember
I think it must have been your mother gave it you, princess; but
really, for as long as you have worn it, I don't remember that ever I
heard
I will ask my king-papa the next time he comes
Please, king-papa
will you tell me where I got this pretty
ring? I can't remember
It was your queen-mamma's once
And why isn't it hers now
She does not want it now
Why doesn't she want it now
Because she's gone where all those rings are made
And when shall I see her
Not for some time yet
Good morning! Are you
all smelling very sweet this morning? Good-bye
They're not too shy, and they're not a bit forward
That _will_ be fun
I don't see why you should think it such a grand affair
You must remember, my spouse
he has got the same blood in him. His mother
Don't talk to me of his mother! You positively encourage his unnatural
fancies. Whatever belongs to _that_ mother, ought to be cut out of him
You forget yourself, my dear
I don't
nor you either. If you expect _me_ to
approve of such coarse tastes, you will find yourself mistaken. _I_
don't wear shoes for nothing
You must acknowledge, however
that this at least is no whim of Harelip's, but a matter of
state-policy. You are well aware that his gratification comes purely
from the pleasure of sacrificing himself to the public good. Does it
not, Harelip
Yes, father; of course it does. Only it _will_ be nice to make her cry.
I'll have the skin taken off between her toes, and tie them up till they
grow together. Then her feet will be like other people's, and there will
be no occasion for her to wear shoes
Do you mean to insinuate _I've_ got toes, you unnatural wretch
Your royal Highness
possibly requires to be reminded that
you have got three toes yourself -- one on one foot, two on the other
Ha! ha! ha
It seems to me, your royal Highness, it would greatly endear you to
your future people, proving to them that you are not the less one of
themselves that you had the misfortune to be born of a sun-mother, if
you were to command upon yourself the comparatively slight operation
which, in a more extended form, you so wisely meditate with regard to
your future princess
Ha! ha! ha
Pray what right have you in my palace
The right of necessity, your majesty
I lost my way,
and did not know where I was wandering to
How did you get in
By a hole in the mountain
But you are a miner! Look at your pickaxe
I came upon it, lying on the ground, a little way from here. I tumbled
over some wild beasts who were playing with it. Look, your majesty
You will oblige me by walking out of my dominions at once
With pleasure, if your majesty will give me a guide
I will give you a thousand
One will be quite sufficient
Stand back
Ten, twenty, thirty --
           You're all so very dirty!
           Twenty, thirty, forty --
           You're all so thick and snorty!

          "Thirty, forty, fifty --
           You're all so puff-and-snifty!
           Forty, fifty, sixty --
           Beast and man so mixty!

          "Fifty, sixty, seventy --
           Mixty, maxty, leaventy --
           Sixty, seventy, eighty --
           All your cheeks so slaty.

          "Seventy, eighty, ninety,
           All your hands so flinty!
           Eighty, ninety, hundred,
           Altogether dundred
How long will it take
Not many days, I should think
They are poor
feeble creatures, those sun-people, and want to be always eating. _We_
can go a week at a time without food, and be all the better for it; but
I've been told _they_ eat two or three times every day! Can you believe
it?-- They must be quite hollow inside -- not at all like us, nine-tenths
of whose bulk is solid flesh and bone. Yes -- I judge a week of starvation
will do for him
If I may be allowed a word
and I think I
ought to have some voice in the matter
The wretch is entirely at your disposal, my spouse
He is your property. You caught him yourself. We should never
have done it
I was about to say
that it does seem a pity to waste so
much fresh meat
What are you thinking of, my love
The very notion of
starving him implies that we are not going to give him any meat, either
salt or fresh
I'm not such a stupid as that comes to
What I
mean is, that by the time he is starved, there will hardly be a picking
upon his bones
Well, my spouse, you may have him when you like
I don't
fancy him for my part. I am pretty sure he is tough eating
That would be to honor instead of punish his insolence
But why should our poor creatures be deprived of so much
nourishment? Our little dogs and cats and pigs and small bears would
enjoy him very much
You are the best of housekeepers, my lovely queen
Let it be so by all means. Let us have our people in, and get him out
and kill him at once. He deserves it. The mischief he might have brought
upon us, now that he had penetrated so far as our most retired citadel,
is incalculable. Or rather let us tie him hand and foot, and have the
pleasure of seeing him torn to pieces by full torchlight in the great
hall
Better and better
But
he is so troublesome. For
as poor creatures as they are, there is something about those sun-people
that is _very_ troublesome. I cannot imagine how it is that with such
superior strength and skill and understanding as ours, we permit them to
exist at all. Why do we not destroy them entirely, and use their cattle
and grazing lands at our pleasure? Of course, we don't want to live in
their horrid country! It is far too glaring for our quieter and more
refined tastes. But we might use it for a sort of outhouse, you know.
Even our creatures' eyes might get used to it, and if they did grow
blind, that would be of no consequence, provided they grew fat as well.
But we might even keep their great cows and other creatures, and then we
should have a few more luxuries, such as cream and cheese, which at
present we only taste occasionally, when our brave men have succeeded in
carrying some off from their farms
It is worth thinking of
and I don't know why you
should be the first to suggest it, except that you have a positive
genius for conquest. But still, as you say, there is something very
troublesome about them; and it would be better, as I understand you to
suggest, that we should starve him for a day or two first, so that he
may be a little less frisky when we take him out
Once there was a goblin
           Living in a hole;
           Busy he was cobblin'
           A shoe without a sole.

          "By came a birdie:
           'Goblin, what do you do?'
           'Cobble at a sturdie
           Upper leather shoe.'

          "'What's the good o' that, sir?'
           Said the little bird,
           'Why it's very pat, sir --
           Plain without a word.

          "'Where 'tis all a hill, sir,
           Never can be holes:
           Why should their shoes have soles, sir,
           When they've got no souls
What's that horrible noise
I declare
it's the
sun-creature in the hole
Stop that disgusting noise
Do now, or I'll break your head
Break away
Once there was a goblin
           Living in a hole
I really cannot bear it
If I could only get at his
horrid toes with my slippers again
I think we had better go to bed
It's not time to go to bed
I would if I was you
Impertinent wretch
An impossible _if_
Quite
Go to bed,
           Goblin, do.
           Help the queen
           Take off her shoe.

          "If you do,
           It will disclose
           A horrid set
           Of sprouting toes
What a lie
By the way, that reminds me
that, for as long as we
have been married, I have never seen your feet, queen. I think you might
take off your shoes when you go to bed! They positively hurt me
sometimes
I will do just as I like
You ought to do as your hubby wishes you
I will not
Then I insist upon it
Will you be quiet then
Yes, yes, queen. I only meant to coax you
Hands off
I'm going to bed. You may
come when you like. But as long as I am queen, I will sleep in my shoes.
It is my royal privilege. Harelip, go to bed
I'm going
So am I
Come along then
and mind you are good, or I'll
Oh, no, no, no
It must be my grandmother
How lovely that bit of gossamer is
Shall I ever get back
When _shall_ I wake
Jabber, bother, smash!
           You'll have it all in a crash.
           Jabber, smash, bother!
           You'll have the worst of the pother.
           Smash, bother, jabber
It's Curdie
Hush, hush
Speak softly
Why, you were singing loud
Yes. But they know I am here, and they don't know you are. Who are
you
I'm Irene
I know who you are quite well.
You're Curdie
Why, how ever did you come here, Irene
My great-great-grandmother sent me; and I think I've found out why. You
can't get out, I suppose
No, I can't. What are you doing
Clearing away a huge heap of stones
There's a princess
I can't think how you got here,
though
My grandmother sent me after her thread
I don't know what you mean
but so you're there, it
doesn't much matter
Oh, yes it does
I should never have been here but
for her
You can tell me all about it when we get out, then. There's no time to
lose now
There's such a lot of stones
It will take me a long time
to get them all away
How far on have you got
I've got about the half way, but the other half is ever so much
bigger
I don't think you will have to move the lower half. Do you see a slab
laid up against the wall
Yes
I do
Then, I think
when you have cleared the slab about
half way down, or a little more, I shall be able to push it over
I must follow my thread
whatever I do
What _do_ you mean
You will see when you get out of here
Now, Curdie! I think if you were to give a great push, the slab would
tumble over
Stand quite clear of it then
and let me know when you
are ready
Now, Curdie
You've saved my life, Irene
Oh, Curdie! I'm so glad! Let's get out of this horrid place as fast as
we can
That's easier said than done
Oh, no! it's quite easy
We have only to follow my
thread. I am sure that it's going to take us out now
Here it is
No, it is not
What can it be then?-- I declare it's a torch. That _is_ jolly!
It's better almost than my pickaxe. Much better if it weren't for those
stone shoes
Where are you going there
That's not the way out. That's
where I couldn't get out
I know that
But this is the way my thread goes, and
I must follow it
What nonsense the child talks
I must follow
her, though, and see that she comes to no harm. She will soon find she
can't get out that way, and then she will come with me
Aren't you coming, Curdie
I knew you couldn't go wrong in that narrow hole, but now you must keep
by me, for here is a great wide place
I can't understand it
Never mind
Wait till we get out
At all events
I know nothing about the
way, miner as I am; and she seems to think she does know something about
it, though how she should, passes my comprehension. So she's just as
likely to find her way as I am, and as she insists on taking the lead, I
must follow. We can't be much worse off than we are, anyhow
Stop one moment
Hold my torch, and don't let the light
on their faces
Run, Irene
Here, Curdie, take my hand
Now
I think we shall be safe
Of course we shall
Why do you think so
Because my grandmother is taking care of us
That's all nonsense
I don't know what you mean
Then if you don't know what I mean, what right have you to call it
nonsense
I beg your pardon, Irene
I did not mean to vex you
Of course not
But why do _you_ think we shall
be safe
Because the king and queen are far too stout to get through that hole
There may be ways round
To be sure there might; we are not out of it yet
But what do you mean by the king and queen
I
should never call such creatures as those a king and a queen
Their own people do, though
But how ever did Lootie come to let you go into the mountain alone
Lootie knows nothing about it. I left her fast asleep -- at least I think
so. I hope my grandmother won't let her get into trouble, for it wasn't
her fault at all, as my grandmother very well knows
But how did you find your way to me
I told you already
by keeping my finger upon my
grandmother's thread, as I am doing now
You don't mean you've got the thread there
Of course I do. I have told you so ten times already. I have
hardly -- except when I was removing the stones -- taken my finger off it.
There
you feel it
yourself -- don't you
I feel nothing at all
Then what can be the matter with your finger? I feel it perfectly. To
be sure it is very thin, and in the sunlight looks just like the thread
of a spider, though there are many of them twisted together to make
it -- but for all that I can't think why you shouldn't feel it as well as
I do
Well, I can make nothing of it
I can though, and you must be glad of that, for it will do for both of
us
We're not out yet
We soon shall be
It goes into the ground now, Curdie
What is that noise
Do you know, Curdie
Yes. It is the goblins digging and burrowing
And don't you know for what purpose they do it
No; I haven't the least idea. Would you like to see them
If my thread took me there, I shouldn't much mind; but I don't want to
see them, and I can't leave my thread. It leads me down into the hole,
and we had better go at once
Very well. Shall I go in first
No; better not. You can't feel the thread
Oh
I
am in the water. It is running strong -- but it is not deep, and there is
just room to walk. Make haste, Curdie
Go on a little bit
Now, Curdie
won't you believe what I told you about my
grandmother and her thread
There!-- don't you see it shining on before us
I don't see anything
Then you must believe without seeing
for you
can't deny it has brought me out of the mountain
I can't deny we _are_ out of the mountain, and I should be very
ungrateful indeed to deny that _you_ had brought _me_ out of it
I couldn't have done it but for the thread
That's the part I don't understand
Well, come along, and Lootie will get you something to eat. I am sure
you must want it very much
Indeed I do. But my father and mother will be so anxious about me, I
must make haste -- first up the mountain to tell my mother, and then down
into the mine again to acquaint my father
Very well, Curdie; but you can't get out without coming this way, and I
will take you through the house, for that is nearest
My grandmother wants me. Do come up with me, and see her. Then you will
know that I have been telling you the truth. Do come -- to please me,
Curdie. I can't bear you should think I say what is not true
I never doubted you believed what you said
I only
thought you had some fancy in your head that was not correct
But do come, dear Curdie
Come in
You darling
I've been waiting for you, and indeed getting a
little anxious about you, and beginning to think whether I had not
better go and fetch you myself
I've brought Curdie, grandmother. He wouldn't believe what I told him,
and so I've brought him
Yes -- I see him. He is a good boy, Curdie, and a brave boy. Aren't you
glad you have got him out
Yes, grandmother. But it wasn't very good of him not to believe me when
I was telling him the truth
People must believe what they can, and those who believe more must not
be hard upon those who believe less. I doubt if you would have believed
it all yourself if you hadn't seen some of it
Ah! yes, grandmother, I daresay. I'm sure you are right. But he'll
believe now
I don't know that
Won't you, Curdie
Make a bow to my grandmother, Curdie
I don't see any grandmother
Don't see my grandmother when I'm sitting in her lap
No I don't
Don't you see the lovely fire of roses -- white ones amongst them this
time
No I don't
Nor the blue bed? Nor the rose-colored counterpane? Nor the beautiful
light, like the moon, hanging from the roof
You're making game of me, your royal Highness; and after what we have
come through together this day, I don't think it is kind of you
Then what _do_ you see
I see a big, bare garret-room -- like the one in mother's cottage, only
big enough to take the cottage itself in, and leave a good margin all
round
And what more do you see
I see a tub, and a heap of musty straw, and a withered apple and a ray
of sunlight coming through a hole in the middle of the roof, and shining
on your head, and making all the place look a curious dusky brown. I
think you had better drop it, princess, and go down to the nursery, like
a good girl
But don't you hear my grandmother talking to me
No. I hear the cooing of a lot of pigeons. If you won't come down, I
will go without you. I think that will be better anyhow, for I'm sure
nobody who met us would believe a word we said to them. They would think
we made it all up. I don't expect anybody but my own father and mother
to believe me. They _know_ I wouldn't tell a story
And yet _you_ won't believe _me_, Curdie
No. I _can't_, and I can't help it
What _shall_ I do, grandmother
You must give him time
and you must be content
not to be believed for a while. It is very hard to bear; but I have had
to bear it, and shall have to bear it many a time yet. I will take care
of what Curdie thinks of you in the end. You must let him go now
You are not coming, are you
No, Curdie; my grandmother says I must let you go. Turn to the right
when you get to the bottom of all the stairs, and in that way you will
arrive safely at the hall where the great door is
Oh! I don't doubt I can find my way -- without you, princess, or your old
grannie's thread either
Oh, Curdie! Curdie
I wish I had gone home at once. I'm very much obliged to you, Irene,
for getting me out of that hole, but I wish you hadn't made a fool of me
afterward
What does it all mean, grandmother
It means, my love, that I did not mean to show myself. Curdie is not
yet able to believe some things. Seeing is not believing -- it is only
seeing. You remember I told you that if Lootie were to see me, she would
rub her eyes, forget the half she saw, and call the other half
nonsense
Yes; but I should have thought Curdie
You are right. Curdie is much farther on than Lootie, and you will see
what will come of it. But in the meantime, you must be content, I say,
to be misunderstood for a while. We are all very anxious to be
understood, and it is very hard not to be. But there is one thing much
more necessary
What is that, grandmother
To understand other people
Yes, grandmother. I must be fair -- for if I'm not fair to other people,
I'm not worth being understood myself I see. So as Curdie can't help it,
I will not be vexed with him, but just wait
There's my own dear child
Why weren't you in your workroom, when we came up, grandmother
If I had been there, Curdie would have seen me well enough. But why
should I be there rather than in this beautiful room
I thought you would be spinning
I've nobody to spin for just at present. I never spin without knowing
for whom I am spinning
That reminds me -- there is one thing that puzzles me
how are you to get the thread out of the mountain again?
Surely you won't have to make another for me! That would be such a
trouble
I've got it now, you see
all
ready for you when you want it
And here is your ring
Oh, thank you, grandmother. I feel so safe now
You are very tired, my child
Your hands are hurt
with the stones, and I have counted nine bruises on you. Just look what
you are like
Do not be afraid, my child
No, grandmother
How delicious
It smells of all the roses in
the world, I think
Now I am going to put you to bed for a good sleep
But what will Lootie be thinking? And what am I to say to her when she
asks me where I have been
Don't trouble yourself about it. You will find it all come right
There is just one thing more
I am a little anxious about
Curdie. As I brought him into the house, I ought to have seen him safe
on his way home
I took care of all that
I told you to let him go,
and therefore I was bound to look after him. Nobody saw him, and he is
now eating a good dinner in his mother's cottage, far up the mountain
Then I will go to sleep
Now, Curdie
tell us the
whole story from beginning to end, just as it all happened
And what happened after that
You haven't told us
all. You ought to be very happy at having got away from those demons,
and instead of that, I never saw you so gloomy. There must be something
more. Besides, you do not speak of that lovely child as I should like to
hear you. She saved your life at the risk of her own, and yet somehow
you don't seem to think much of it
She talked such nonsense
and told me a pack of
things that weren't a bit true; and I can't get over it
What were they
Your mother may be able to throw
some light upon them
You confess, my boy
there is something about the whole
affair you do not understand
Yes, of course, mother
I cannot understand how a child
knowing nothing about the mountain, or even that I was shut up in it,
should come all that way alone, straight to where I was; and then, after
getting me out of the hole, lead me out of the mountain, too, where I
should not have known a step of the way if it had been as light as in
the open air
Then you have no right to say that what she told you was not true. She
did take you out, and she must have had something to guide her: why not
a thread as well as a rope, or anything else? There is something you
cannot explain, and her explanation may be the right one
It's no explanation at all, mother; and I can't believe it
That may be only because you do not understand it. If you did, you
would probably find it was an explanation, and believe it thoroughly. I
don't blame you for not being able to believe it, but I do blame you for
fancying such a child would try to deceive you. Why should she? Depend
upon it, she told you all she knew. Until you had found a better way of
accounting for it all, you might at least have been more sparing of your
judgment
That is what something inside me has been saying all the time
But what do you make of the grandmother?
That is what I can't get over. To take me up to an old garret, and try
to persuade me against the sight of my own eyes that it was a beautiful
room, with blue walls and silver stars, and no end of things in it, when
there was nothing there but an old tub and a withered apple and a heap
of straw and a sunbeam! It was too bad! She _might_ have had some old
woman there at least who could pass for her precious grandmother
Didn't she speak as if she saw those other things herself, Curdie
Yes. That's what bothers me. You would have thought she really meant
and believed that she saw every one of the things she talked about. And
not one of them there! It was too bad, I say
Perhaps some people can see things other people can't see, Curdie
I think I will tell you something I saw
myself once -- only perhaps you won't believe me either
Oh, mother, mother
I don't
deserve that, surely
But what I am going to tell you is very strange
and if having heard it, you were to say I must have been dreaming, I
don't know that I should have any right to be vexed with you, though I
know at least that I was not asleep
Do tell me, mother. Perhaps it will help me to think better of the
princess
That's why I am tempted to tell you
But first, I
may as well mention, that according to old whispers, there is something
more than common about the king's family; and the queen was of the same
blood, for they were cousins of some degree. There were strange stories
told concerning them -- all good stories -- but strange, very strange. What
they were I cannot tell, for I only remember the faces of my grandmother
and my mother as they talked together about them. There was wonder and
awe -- not fear, in their eyes, and they whispered, and never spoke aloud.
But what I saw myself, was this: Your father was going to work in the
mine, one night, and I had been down with his supper. It was soon after
we were married, and not very long before you were born. He came with me
to the mouth of the mine, and left me to go home alone, for I knew the
way almost as well as the floor of our own cottage. It was pretty dark,
and in some parts of the road where the rocks overhung, nearly quite
dark. But I got along perfectly well, never thinking of being afraid,
until I reached a spot you know well enough, Curdie, where the path has
to make a sharp turn out of the way of a great rock on the left-hand
side. When I got there, I was suddenly surrounded by about half-a-dozen
of the cobs, the first I had ever seen, although I had heard tell of
them often enough. One of them blocked up the path, and they all began
tormenting and teasing me in a way it makes me shudder to think of even
now
If I had only been with you
They had some of their horrible creatures with them too, and I must
confess I was dreadfully frightened. They had torn my clothes very much,
and I was afraid they were going to tear myself to pieces, when suddenly
a great white soft light shone upon me. I looked up. A broad ray, like a
shining road, came down from a large globe of silvery light, not very
high up, indeed not quite so high as the horizon -- so it could not have
been a new star or another moon or anything of that sort. The cobs
dropped persecuting me, and looked dazed, and I thought they were going
to run away, but presently they began again. The same moment, however,
down the path from the globe of light came a bird, shining like silver
in the sun. It gave a few rapid flaps first, and then, with its wings
straight out, shot sliding down the slope of the light. It looked to me
just like a white pigeon. But whatever it was, when the cobs caught
sight of it coming straight down upon them, they took to their heels and
scampered away across the mountain, leaving me safe, only much
frightened. As soon as it had sent them off, the bird went gliding again
up the light, and just at the moment it reached the globe, the light
disappeared, just the same as if a shutter had been closed over a
window, and I saw it no more. But I had no more trouble with the cobs
that night, or at any time afterward
How strange
Yes, it is strange; but I can't help believing it, whether you do or
not
It's exactly as your mother told it to me the very next morning
You don't think I'm doubting my own mother
There are other people in the world quite as well worth believing as
your own mother
I don't know that she's so much the
fitter to be believed that she happens to be _your_ mother, Mr. Curdie.
There are mothers far more likely to tell lies than that little girl I
saw talking to the primroses a few weeks ago. If she were to lie I
should begin to doubt my own word
But princesses _have_ told lies as well as other people
Yes, but not princesses like that child. She's a good girl, I am
certain, and that's more than being a princess. Depend upon it you will
have to be sorry for behaving so to her, Curdie. You ought at least to
have held your tongue
I am sorry now
You ought to go and tell her so, then
I don't see how I could manage that. They wouldn't let a miner boy like
me have a word with her alone; and I couldn't tell her before that nurse
of hers. She'd be asking ever so many questions, and I don't know how
many of them the little princess would like me to answer. She told me
that Lootie didn't know anything about her coming to get me out of the
mountain. I am certain she would have prevented her somehow if she had
known it. But I may have a chance before long, and meantime I must try
to do something for her. I think, father, I have got on the track at
last
Have you, indeed, my boy
I am sure you deserve some
success; you have worked very hard for it. What have you found out
It's difficult you know, father, inside the mountain, especially in the
dark, and not knowing what turns you have taken, to tell the lie of
things outside
Impossible, my boy, without a chart, or at least a compass
Well, I think I have nearly discovered in what direction the cobs are
mining. If I am right, I know something else that I can put to it, and
then one and one will make three
They very often do, Curdie, as we miners ought to be well aware. Now
tell us, my boy, what the two things are, and see whether we guess at
the same third as you
I don't see what that has to do with the princess
I will soon let you see that, mother. Perhaps you may think me foolish,
but until I am sure there is nothing in my present fancy, I am more
determined than ever to go on with my observations. Just as we came to
the channel by which we got out, I heard the miners at work somewhere
near -- I think down below us. Now since I began to watch them, they have
mined a good half mile, in a straight line; and so far as I am aware,
they are working in no other part of the mountain. But I never could
tell in what direction they were going. When we came out in the king's
garden, however, I thought at once whether it was possible they were
working toward the king's house; and what I want to do to-night is to
make sure whether they are or not. I will take a light with me
Oh, Curdie
then they will see you
I'm no more afraid of them now than I was before
now that I've got this precious shoe. They can't make another
such in a hurry, and one bare foot will do for my purpose. Woman as she
may be, I won't spare her next time. But I shall be careful with my
light, for I don't want them to see me. I won't stick it in my hat
Go on, then, and tell us what you mean to do
I mean to take a bit of paper with me and a pencil, and go in at the
mouth of the stream by which we came out. I shall mark on the paper as
near as I can the angle of every turning I take until I find the cobs at
work, and so get a good idea in what direction they are going. If it
should prove to be nearly parallel with the stream, I shall know it is
toward the king's house they are working
And what if you should. How much wiser will you be then
Wait a minute, mother, dear. I told you that when I came upon the royal
family in the cave, they were talking of their prince -- Harelip, they
called him -- marrying a sun-woman -- that means one of us -- one with toes to
her feet. Now in the speech one of them made that night at their great
gathering, of which I heard only a part, he said that peace would be
secured for a generation at least by the pledge the prince would hold
for the good behavior of _her_ relatives: that's what he said, and he
must have meant the sun-woman the prince was to marry. I am quite sure
the king is much too proud to wish his son to marry any but a princess,
and much too knowing to fancy that his having a peasant woman for a wife
would be of any material advantage to them
I see what you are driving at now
But
the king would dig the mountain to the plain
before he would have his princess the wife of a cob, if he were ten
times a prince
Yes; but they think so much of themselves
Small
creatures always do. The bantam is the proudest cock in my little yard
And I fancy
if they once get her, they would tell the
king they would kill her except, he consented to the marriage
They might say so
but they wouldn't kill her; they
would keep her alive for the sake of the hold it gave them over our
king. Whatever he did to them, they would threaten to do the same to the
princess
And they are bad enough to torment her just for their own amusement -- I
know that
Anyhow, I will keep a watch on them, and see what they are up to
It's too horrible to think of. I daren't let myself do it. But
they sha'n't have her -- at least if I can help it. So, mother dear -- my
clue is all right -- will you get me a bit of paper and a pencil and a
lump of pease-pudding, and I will set out at once. I saw a place where I
can climb over the wall of the garden quite easily
You must mind and keep out of the way of the men on the watch
That I will. I don't want them to know anything about it. They would
spoil it all. The cobs would only try some other plan -- they are such
obstinate creatures! I shall take good care, mother. They won't kill and
eat me either, if they should come upon me. So you needn't mind them
Are those horrid creatures gone
You naughty little princess
How _could_ you get under the clothes like that, and make us all fancy
you were lost! And keep it up all day too! You _are_ the most obstinate
child! It's anything but fun to us, I can tell you
I didn't do that, Lootie
Don't tell stories
I shall tell you nothing at all
That's just as bad
Just as bad to say nothing at all as to tell stories
I will ask my papa about that. He won't say so. And I don't
think he will like you to say so
Tell me directly what you mean by it
When I tell you the truth, Lootie
you say to me _Don't tell stories_: it would
appear that I must tell stories before you will believe me
You are very rude, my dear princess
You are so rude, Lootie, that I will not speak to you again till you
are sorry. Why should I, when I know you will not believe me
You are the most provoking child
You deserve to be
well punished for your wicked behavior
Please, Mrs. Housekeeper
will you take me to your
room and keep me till my king-papa comes? I will ask him to come as soon
as he can
I am sure, princess, nursey did not mean to be rude to you
I do not think my papa would wish me to have a nurse who spoke to me as
Lootie does. If she thinks I tell lies, she had better either say so to
my papa, or go away. Sir Walter, will you take charge of me
With the greatest of pleasure, princess
I shall send my servant at once, on the fastest
horse in the stable, to tell your king-papa that your royal Highness
desires his presence. When you have chosen one of these under-servants
to wait upon you, I shall order the room to be cleared
Thank you very much, Sir Walter
I think, Sir Walter
I will keep Lootie. But I put
myself under your care; and you need not trouble my king-papa until I
speak to you again. Will you all please to go away? I am quite safe and
well, and I did not hide myself for the sake either of amusing myself,
or of troubling my people. Lootie, will you please to dress me
I did it; and I wish I had not; and I am sorry
for having done it
It's a boy
I
thought it was one of those demons
What are you about here
Going to have a little rough usage apparently
Impertinence will do you no good. You have no business here in the
king's grounds, and if you don't give a true account of yourself, you
shall fare as a thief
Why, what else could he be
He might have been after a lost kid, you know
I see no good in trying to excuse him. He has no business here anyhow
Let me go away then, if you please
But we don't please -- not except you give a good account of yourself
I don't feel quite sure whether I can trust you
We are the king's own men-at-arms
Well, I will tell you all about it -- if you will promise to listen to me
and not do anything rash
I call that cool
He will tell us
what mischief he was about, if we promise to do as pleases him
I was about no mischief
I declare it's the same young rascal of a miner that was rude to me and
the princess on the mountain. He actually wanted to kiss the princess.
_I_ took good care of that -- the wretch! And _he_ was prowling about -- was
he? Just like his impudence
What can that noise be
I've heard it the last two nights
If there were any
about the place, I should have taken it for rats, but my Tom keeps them
far enough
I've heard though
that rats move about in
great companies sometimes. There may be an army of them invading us. I
heard the noises yesterday and to-day too
It'll be grand fun then for my Tom and Mrs. Housekeeper's Bob
They'll be friends for once in their lives, and fight on the
same side. I'll engage Tom and Bob together will put to flight any
number of rats
It seems to me
that the noises are much too loud for
that. I have heard them all day, and my princess has asked me several
times what they could be. Sometimes they sound like distant thunder, and
sometimes like the noises you hear in the mountain from those horrid
miners underneath
I shouldn't wonder
if it was the miners after all.
They may have come on some hole in the mountain through which the
noises reach to us. They are always boring and blasting and breaking,
you know
_Ring, dod, bang
The cobs are coming
They didn't believe a word I told them!
The cobs'll be carrying off the princess from under their stupid noses!
But they sha'n't! that they sha'n't
Now then I will
Here goes! I _am_ up now
One, two,
           Hit and hew!
           Three, four,
           Blast and bore
Where 'tis all a hole, sir,
             Never can be holes:
           Why should their shoes have soles, sir,
             When they've got no souls?

          "But she upon her foot, sir,
             Has a granite shoe:
           The strongest leather boot, sir,
             Six would soon be through
Stamp on their feet
Where's the princess
Stamp on their feet; stamp on their feet
Hush, Curdie
Do not wake her. I'm so glad you're
come! I thought the cobs must have got you again
Oh, Curdie! you're come
I thought you would
Irene
I am very sorry I did not believe you
Oh, never mind, Curdie
You couldn't, you
know. You do believe me now, don't you
I can't help it now. I ought to have helped it before
Why can't you help it now
Because, just as I was going into the mountain to look for you, I got
hold of your thread, and it brought me here
Then you've come from my house, have you
Yes, I have
I didn't know you were there
I've been there two or three days, I believe
And I never knew it!-- Then perhaps you can tell me why my grandmother
has brought me here? I can't think. Something woke me -- I didn't know
what, but I was frightened, and I felt for the thread, and there it was!
I was more frightened still when it brought me out on the mountain, for
I thought it was going to take me into it again, and I like the outside
of it best. I supposed you were in trouble again, and I had to get you
out, but it brought me here instead; and, oh, Curdie! your mother has
been so kind to me -- just like my own grandmother
Then you didn't see the cobs
No; I haven't been into the mountain, I told you, Curdie
But the cobs have been into your house -- all over it -- and into your
bedroom making such a row
What did they want there? It was very rude of them
They wanted you -- to carry you off into the mountain with them, for a
wife to their Prince Harelip
Oh, how dreadful
But you needn't be afraid, you know. Your grandmother takes care of
you
Ah! you do believe in my grandmother then? I'm so glad! She made me
think you would some day
But how did you come to be in my house, and me not know it
Poor Curdie! to lie there hurt and ill, and me never to know it
I would not have
hesitated to come and nurse you, if they had told me
I didn't see you were lame
Am I, mother? Oh -- yes -- I suppose I ought to be. I declare I've never
thought of it since I got up to go down amongst the cobs
Let me see the wound
I thought so, Curdie! I was sure it wasn't a dream. I was sure my
grandmother had been to see you.-- Don't you smell the roses? It was my
grandmother healed your leg, and sent you to help me
No, Princess Irene
I wasn't good enough to be allowed
to help you: I didn't believe you. Your grandmother took care of you
without me
She sent you to help my people, anyhow. I wish my king-papa would come.
I do want so to tell him how good you have been
But
we are forgetting how frightened your people
must be.-- You must take the princess home at once, Curdie -- or at least
go and tell them where she is
Yes, mother. Only I'm dreadfully hungry. Do let me have some breakfast
first. They ought to have listened to me, and then they wouldn't have
been taken by surprise as they were
That is true, Curdie; but it is not for you to blame them much. You
remember
Yes, mother, I do. Only I must really have something to eat
You shall, my boy -- as fast as I can get it
Mother, mother
I was forgetting. You must take the
princess home yourself. I must go and wake my father
There's Curdie! Curdie! Curdie
I never _had_ such fun
How nice it must be to live in a cottage on the
mountain
It all depends on what kind your inside house is
I know what you mean
That's the kind of thing my
grandmother says
They will be dreadfully frightened about you
but we cannot help it. We must wait till the morning
Oh, Curdie
my
king-papa is come
Come on, mother dear! The king may break his heart before he knows that
she is safe
Papa! papa
here
I am
And there is his mother, king-papa
See -- there. She is such
a nice mother, and has been so kind to me
And now, king-papa
I must tell you another
thing. One night long ago Curdie drove the goblins away and brought
Lootie and me safe from the mountain. And I promised him a kiss when we
got home, but Lootie wouldn't let me give it to him. I would not have
you scold Lootie, but I want you to impress upon her that a princess
_must_ do as she promises
Indeed she must, my child -- except it be wrong
There,
give Curdie a kiss
There, Curdie! There's the kiss I promised you
King-papa, do you hear that noise
I hear nothing
Listen
I do hear a noise
a noise as of distant
thunder. It is coming nearer and nearer. What can it be
What can it be
I think it must be another storm coming over the mountain
Please your Majesty, I think I know what it is. I have no time to
explain, for that might make it too late for some of us. Will your
Majesty order that everybody leave the house as quickly as possible, and
get up the mountain
Every man and woman follow me
Now, Curdie
what does it mean! Is this what you
expected
It is, your Majesty
We must set out at once
But how to get at the
horses
Shall I see if we can manage that
Do
Look, look, Curdie
Oh
that is your grandmother's lamp!
We _must_ get her out. I will go and find her. The house may fall, you
know
My grandmother is in no danger
Here, Curdie, take the princess while I get on my horse
Now, Curdie
you see my grandmother knows all about it, and isn't frightened. I
believe she could walk through that water and it wouldn't wet her a
bit
But, my child
you will be cold if you haven't
something more on. Run, Curdie, my boy, and fetch anything you can lay
your hands on, to keep the princess warm. We have a long ride before
us
Bring Curdie's father and mother here
I wish
to take your son
with me. He shall enter my bodyguard at once, and wait further
promotion
Please your Majesty
I cannot leave my father and mother
That's right, Curdie
_I_ wouldn't if I was you
I too think you are right, Curdie
and I will not ask you
again. But I shall have a chance of doing something for you some time
Your Majesty has already allowed me to serve you
But, Curdie
why shouldn't you go with the king? We
can get on very well without you
But I can't get on very well without you
The king is
very kind, but I could not be half the use to him that I am to you.
Please your Majesty, if you wouldn't mind giving my mother a red
petticoat! I should have got her one long ago, but for the goblins
As soon as we get home
Irene and I will search out
the warmest one to be found, and send it by one of the gentlemen
Yes, that we will, Curdie
And next summer we'll come back and see you wear it, Curdie's mother
Sha'n't we, king-papa
Yes, my love; I hope so
Will you do the best you can for my servants to-night? I hope they will
be able to return to the house to-morrow
_But, Mr. Author, we would rather hear more about the Princess and
Curdie. We don't care about the goblins and their nasty creatures. They
frighten us -- rather
_But you know if you once get rid of the goblins there is no fear of
the princess or of Curdie
_But we want to know more about them
_Some day, perhaps, I may tell you the further history of both of them;
how Curdie came to visit Irene's grandmother, and what she did for him;
and how the princess and he met again after they were older -- and
how -- But there! I don't mean to go any farther at present
_Then you're leaving the story unfinished, Mr. Author
_Not more unfinished than a story ought to be, I hope. If you ever knew
a story finished, all I can say is, I never did. Somehow, stories won't
finish. I think I know why, but I won't say that either, now
</text>
