<text>
I have just buried my boy, my poor handsome boy of whom I was so proud,
and my heart is broken. It is very hard having only one son to lose him
thus, but God's will be done. Who am I that I should complain? The great
wheel of Fate rolls on like a Juggernaut, and crushes us all in turn,
some soon, some late -- it does not matter when, in the end, it crushes us
all. We do not prostrate ourselves before it like the poor Indians; we
fly hither and thither -- we cry for mercy; but it is of no use, the black
Fate thunders on and in its season reduces us to powder.

'Poor Harry to go so soon! just when his life was opening to him. He was
doing so well at the hospital, he had passed his last examination with
honours, and I was proud of them, much prouder than he was, I think. And
then he must needs go to that smallpox hospital. He wrote to me that he
was not afraid of smallpox and wanted to gain the experience; and now
the disease has killed him, and I, old and grey and withered, am left
to mourn over him, without a chick or child to comfort me. I might have
saved him, too -- I have money enough for both of us, and much more than
enough -- King Solomon's Mines provided me with that; but I said, "No, let
the boy earn his living, let him labour that he may enjoy rest." But the
rest has come to him before the labour. Oh, my boy, my boy!

'I am like the man in the Bible who laid up much goods and builded
barns -- goods for my boy and barns for him to store them in; and now his
soul has been required of him, and I am left desolate. I would that it
had been my soul and not my boy's!

'We buried him this afternoon under the shadow of the grey and ancient
tower of the church of this village where my house is. It was a dreary
December afternoon, and the sky was heavy with snow, but not much was
falling. The coffin was put down by the grave, and a few big flakes lit
upon it. They looked very white upon the black cloth! There was a little
hitch about getting the coffin down into the grave -- the necessary ropes
had been forgotten: so we drew back from it, and waited in silence
watching the big flakes fall gently one by one like heavenly
benedictions, and melt in tears on Harry's pall. But that was not all.
A robin redbreast came as bold as could be and lit upon the coffin and
began to sing. And then I am afraid that I broke down, and so did Sir
Henry Curtis, strong man though he is; and as for Captain Good, I saw
him turn away too; even in my own distress I could not help noticing
it
It is very kind of you to come round
it must have been heavy walking in the snow
Macumazahn
Old friends
how long is it since we got
back from Kukuanaland
Three years
Why do you ask
I ask because I think that I have had a long enough spell of
civilization. I am going back to the veldt
How very odd
eh, Good
Yes,
odd -- very odd
I don't quite understand
Don't you, old fellow
then I will explain. As Good
and I were walking up here we had a talk
If Good was there you probably did
And what may it have been about
What do you think
Well, it was about a little plan that I have formed -- namely, that if
you were willing we should pack up our traps and go off to Africa on
another expedition
You don't say so
Yes I do, though, and so does Good; don't you, Good
Rather
Listen, old fellow
I'm tired of it too, dead-tired of doing nothing more except
play the squire in a country that is sick of squires. For a year or more
I have been getting as restless as an old elephant who scents danger. I
am always dreaming of Kukuanaland and Gagool and King Solomon's Mines.
I can assure you I have become the victim of an almost unaccountable
craving. I am sick of shooting pheasants and partridges, and want to
have a go at some large game again. There, you know the feeling -- when
one has once tasted brandy and water, milk becomes insipid to the
palate. That year we spent together up in Kukuanaland seems to me worth
all the other years of my life put together. I dare say that I am a fool
for my pains, but I can't help it; I long to go, and, what is more, I
mean to go
And, after all, why
should I not go? I have no wife or parent, no chick or child to keep me.
If anything happens to me the baronetcy will go to my brother George and
his boy, as it would ultimately do in any case. I am of no importance to
any one
Ah
I thought you would come to that sooner or later. And
now, Good, what is your reason for wanting to trek; have you got one
I have
I never do anything without a reason;
and it isn't a lady -- at least, if it is, it's several
What is
it
Well, if you really want to know, though I'd rather not speak of a
delicate and strictly personal matter, I'll tell you: I'm getting too
fat
Shut up, Good
And now, Quatermain, tell us, where do
you propose going to
Have you people ever heard of Mt Kenia
Don't know the place
Did you ever hear of the Island of Lamu
No. Stop, though -- isn't it a place about 300 miles north of Zanzibar
Yes. Now listen. What I have to propose is this. That we go to Lamu and
thence make our way about 250 miles inland to Mt Kenia; from Mt Kenia on
inland to Mt Lekakisera, another 200 miles, or thereabouts, beyond which
no white man has to the best of my belief ever been; and then, if we get
so far, right on into the unknown interior. What do you say to that, my
hearties
It's a big order
You are right
it is; but I take it that we are all three
of us in search of a big order. We want a change of scene, and we are
likely to get one -- a thorough change. All my life I have longed to visit
those parts, and I mean to do it before I die. My poor boy's death has
broken the last link between me and civilization, and I'm off to my
native wilds. And now I'll tell you another thing, and that is, that
for years and years I have heard rumours of a great white race which is
supposed to have its home somewhere up in this direction, and I have a
mind to see if there is any truth in them. If you fellows like to come,
well and good; if not, I'll go alone
I'm your man, though I don't believe in your white race
Ditto
I'll go into training at once. By all means
let's go to Mt Kenia and the other place with an unpronounceable name,
and look for a white race that does not exist. It's all one to me
When do you propose to start
This day month
by the British India steamboat; and
don't you be so certain that things have no existence because you do not
happen to have heard of them. Remember King Solomon's mines
Lamu
you
goes to Lamu -- oh ze beautiful place
One year and a half I live there and never
change my shirt -- never at all
Well, where are you gentlemen steering for
We propose to go to Mt Kenia and then on to Mt Lekakisera
Quatermain has got hold of some yarn about there being a
white race up in the unknown territories beyond
What have you heard
Oh, not much. All I know about it is that a year or so ago I got
a letter from Mackenzie, the Scotch missionary, whose station, "The
Highlands", is placed at the highest navigable point of the Tana River,
in which he said something about it
Have you the letter
No, I destroyed it; but I remember that he said that a man had
arrived at his station who declared that two months' journey beyond Mt
Lekakisera, which no white man has yet visited -- at least, so far as
I know -- he found a lake called Laga, and that then he went off to the
north-east, a month's journey, over desert and thorn veldt and great
mountains, till he came to a country where the people are white and live
in stone houses. Here he was hospitably entertained for a while, till
at last the priests of the country set it about that he was a devil, and
the people drove him away, and he journeyed for eight months and reached
Mackenzie's place, as I heard, dying. That's all I know; and if you ask
me, I believe that it is a lie; but if you want to find out more about
it, you had better go up the Tana to Mackenzie's place and ask him for
information
I think that we will go to Mr Mackenzie's
Well
that is your best way, but I warn you that
you are likely to have a rough journey, for I hear that the Masai are
about, and, as you know, they are not pleasant customers. Your best plan
will be to choose a few picked men for personal servants and hunters,
and to hire bearers from village to village. It will give you an
infinity of trouble, but perhaps on the whole it will prove a cheaper
and more advantageous course than engaging a caravan, and you will be
less liable to desertion
sleep weighed
down their eyelids, and sorrow made their hearts as lead: it was best
to sleep, for with sleep came forgetfulness. But the men should be
awakened
How do you do, Umslopogaas
Koos-y-Pagete! Koos-y-umcool! (Chief from of
old -- mighty chief) Koos! Baba! (father) Macumazahn, old hunter, slayer
of elephants, eater up of lions, clever one! watchful one! brave one!
quick one! whose shot never misses, who strikes straight home, who
grasps a hand and holds it to the death (i.e. is a true friend) Koos!
Baba! Wise is the voice of our people that says, "Mountain never meets
with mountain, but at daybreak or at even man shall meet again with
man." Behold! a messenger came up from Natal, "Macumazahn is dead!"
 cried he. "The land knows Macumazahn no more." That is years ago. And
now, behold, now in this strange place of stinks I find Macumazahn, my
friend. There is no room for doubt. The brush of the old jackal has
gone a little grey; but is not his eye as keen, and are not his teeth as
sharp? Ha! ha! Macumazahn, mindest thou how thou didst plant the ball in
the eye of the charging buffalo -- mindest thou
bongering
Silence
Has all thy noisy talk been stopped up since last
I saw thee that it breaks out thus, and sweeps us away? What doest thou
here with these men -- thou whom I left a chief in Zululand? How is it
that thou art far from thine own place, and gathered together with
strangers
My Father
I have a word to tell thee, but I cannot
speak it before these low people (umfagozana
it is for thine own ear. My Father, this will I say
a woman betrayed me to the death,
and covered my name with shame -- ay, my own wife, a round-faced girl,
betrayed me; but I escaped from death; ay, I broke from the very hands
of those who came to slay me. I struck but three blows with this mine
axe Inkosikaas -- surely my Father will remember it -- one to the right, one
to the left, and one in front, and yet I left three men dead. And then I
fled, and, as my Father knows, even now that I am old my feet are as the
feet of the Sassaby {Endnote 2}, and there breathes not the man who, by
running, can touch me again when once I have bounded from his side. On I
sped, and after me came the messengers of death, and their voice was as
the voice of dogs that hunt. From my own kraal I flew, and, as I passed,
she who had betrayed me was drawing water from the spring. I fleeted by
her like the shadow of Death, and as I went I smote with mine axe, and
lo! her head fell: it fell into the water pan. Then I fled north. Day
after day I journeyed on; for three moons I journeyed, resting not,
stopping not, but running on towards forgetfulness, till I met the
party of the white hunter who is now dead, and am come hither with his
servants. And nought have I brought with me. I who was high-born, ay,
of the blood of Chaka, the great king -- a chief, and a captain of the
regiment of the Nkomabakosi -- am a wanderer in strange places, a man
without a kraal. Nought have I brought save this mine axe; of all my
belongings this remains alone. They have divided my cattle; they have
taken my wives; and my children know my face no more. Yet with this
axe
will I cut another path to fortune. I have
spoken
Umslopogaas
I know thee from of
old. Ever ambitious, ever plotting to be great, I fear me that thou hast
overreached thyself at last. Years ago, when thou wouldst have plotted
against Cetywayo, son of Panda, I warned thee, and thou didst listen.
But now, when I was not by thee to stay thy hand, thou hast dug a pit
for thine own feet to fall in. Is it not so? But what is done is done.
Who can make the dead tree green, or gaze again upon last year's light?
Who can recall the spoken word, or bring back the spirit of the fallen?
That which Time swallows comes not up again. Let it be forgotten!

'And now, behold, Umslopogaas, I know thee for a great warrior and a
brave man, faithful to the death. Even in Zululand, where all the men
are brave, they called thee the "Slaughterer", and at night told stories
round the fire of thy strength and deeds. Hear me now. Thou seest this
great man, my friend
he also is a warrior
as great as thou, and, strong as thou art, he could throw thee over his
shoulder. Incubu is his name. And thou seest this one also; him with the
round stomach, the shining eye, and the pleasant face. Bougwan (glass
eye) is his name, and a good man is he and a true, being of a curious
tribe who pass their life upon the water, and live in floating kraals.

'Now, we three whom thou seest would travel inland, past Dongo Egere,
the great white mountain (Mt Kenia), and far into the unknown beyond.
We know not what we shall find there; we go to hunt and seek adventures,
and new places, being tired of sitting still, with the same old things
around us. Wilt thou come with us? To thee shall be given command of all
our servants; but what shall befall thee, that I know not. Once before
we three journeyed thus, in search of adventure, and we took with us
a man such as thou -- one Umbopa; and, behold, we left him the king of
a great country, with twenty Impis (regiments), each of 3,000 plumed
warriors, waiting on his word. How it shall go with thee, I know not;
mayhap death awaits thee and us. Wilt thou throw thyself to Fortune and
come, or fearest thou, Umslopogaas
Thou art not altogether right, Macumazahn
See the hole in my head; the brains gushed
out therefrom, yet did I slay him who smote, and live. Knowest thou how
many men I have slain, in fair hand-to-hand combat, Macumazahn? See,
here is the tale of them
Number them, Macumazahn -- one
hundred and three -- and I have never counted but those whom I have
ripped open {Endnote 3}, nor have I reckoned those whom another man had
struck
Be silent
be silent; well art thou called the "Slaughterer". We would not
hear of thy deeds of blood. Remember, if thou comest with us, we fight
not save in self-defence. Listen, we need servants. These men
say they will not come
Will not come
where is the dog who says he will
not come when my Father orders? Here, thou
Thou dog
didst thou say that thou wouldst not go with my
Father? Say it once more and I will choke thee
thee, and those with thee. Hast
thou forgotten how I served thy brother
Nay, we will come with the white man
White man
of whom speakest thou,
insolent dog
Nay, we will go with the great chief
So
I thought you would
That man Umslopogaas seems to have a curious moral ascendency over his
companions
Here is water
and yesterday I saw a party of natives hunting
hippopotami in canoes. I understand that Mr Mackenzie's mission station
is on the Tana River. Why not get into canoes and paddle up to it
_Masai_
Hulloa
our friend the
caravan leader has been as good as his word, and set the Masai after us.
Do you think it will be safe to go ashore
A gentleman, a lady, and a little girl
walking in a civilized
fashion, through a civilized garden, to meet us in this place. Hang me,
if this isn't the most curious thing we have seen yet
How do you do, sirs
I hope I see you very well. My
natives told me an hour ago they spied two canoes with white men in them
coming up the river; so we have just come down to meet you
And it is very glad that we are to see a white face again, let me tell
you
And now
you must all be hungry and weary; so come
on, gentlemen, come on, and right glad we are to see you. The last white
who visited us was Alphonse -- you will see Alphonse presently -- and that
was a year ago
Well, you have something like a garden
Yes
it is a very good garden, and has well
repaid my labour; but it is the climate that I have to thank. If you
stick a peach-stone into the ground it will bear fruit the fourth year,
and a rose-cutting will bloom in a year. It is a lovely clime
There
this is my
magnum opus; at least, this and the church, which is the other side of
the house. It took me and twenty natives two years to dig the ditch and
build the wall, but I never felt safe till it was done; and now I can
defy all the savages in Africa, for the spring that fills the ditch
is inside the wall, and bubbles out at the top of the hill winter and
summer alike, and I always keep a store of four months' provision in the
house
What a beautiful tree
Yes, you are right; it is a beautiful tree. There is not another like
it in all the country round, that I know of
I
call it my watch tower. As you see, I have a rope ladder fixed to the
lowest bough; and if I want to see anything that is going on within
fifteen miles or so, all I have to do is to run up it with a spyglass.
But you must be hungry, and I am sure the dinner is cooked. Come in,
my friends; it is but a rough place, but well enough for these savage
parts; and I can tell you what, we have got -- a French cook
Madame bids me for to say that dinnar is sarved. Messieurs, my
compliments
Ah, mais quel homme
quel
sauvage affreux! Take but note of his huge choppare and the great pit in
his head
Ay
what are you talking about, Alphonse
Talking about
why I
talk of him
of ce monsieur noir
Parbleu
he is angered -- he makes the grimace. I like
not his air. I vanish
He is a queer character -- Alphonse
By and by I will tell
you his history; in the meanwhile let us try his cooking
Might I ask
how you came to have a French cook in these wilds
Oh
he arrived here of his own accord about
a year ago, and asked to be taken into our service. He had got into some
trouble in France, and fled to Zanzibar, where he found an application
had been made by the French Government for his extradition. Whereupon
he rushed off up-country, and fell in, when nearly starved, with our
caravan of men, who were bringing us our annual supply of goods, and was
brought on here. You should get him to tell you the story
It is evident to me
that those rascally Masai are following
you, and I am very thankful that you have reached this house in
safety. I do not think that they will dare to attack you here. It is
unfortunate, though, that nearly all my men have gone down to the coast
with ivory and goods. There are two hundred of them in the caravan, and
the consequence is that I have not more than twenty men available for
defensive purposes in case they should attack us. But, still, I will
just give a few orders
I am sure I devoutly hope that we shall bring no such calamity upon
you
Rather than
bring those bloodthirsty villains about your ears, we will move on and
take our chance
You will do nothing of the sort. If the Masai come, they come, and
there is an end on it; and I think we can give them a pretty warm
greeting. I would not show any man the door for all the Masai in the
world
That reminds me
the Consul at Lamu told me that he had had
a letter from you, in which you said that a man had arrived here who
reported that he had come across a white people in the interior. Do you
think that there was any truth in his story? I ask, because I have once
or twice in my life heard rumours from natives who have come down from
the far north of the existence of such a race
There
did you ever see a sword like that
Well, I have got it to show you, because this is what the man who said
he had seen the white people brought with him, and because it does more
or less give an air of truth to what I should otherwise have set down
as a lie. Look here; I will tell you all that I know about the matter,
which is not much. One afternoon, just before sunset, I was sitting on
the veranda, when a poor, miserable, starved-looking man came limping up
and squatted down before me. I asked him where he came from and what he
wanted, and thereon he plunged into a long rambling narrative about how
he belonged to a tribe far in the north, and how his tribe was destroyed
by another tribe, and he with a few other survivors driven still further
north past a lake named Laga. Thence, it appears, he made his way to
another lake that lay up in the mountains, "a lake without a bottom"
 he called it, and here his wife and brother died of an infectious
sickness -- probably smallpox -- whereon the people drove him out of their
villages into the wilderness, where he wandered miserably over mountains
for ten days, after which he got into dense thorn forest, and was one
day found there by some _white men_ who were hunting, and who took him
to a place where all the people were white and lived in stone houses.
Here he remained a week shut up in a house, till one night a man with
a white beard, whom he understood to be a "medicine-man", came and
inspected him, after which he was led off and taken through the thorn
forest to the confines of the wilderness, and given food and this sword
(at least so he said), and turned loose
Well
and what did he do then
Oh! he seems, according to his account, to have gone through sufferings
and hardships innumerable, and to have lived for weeks on roots and
berries, and such things as he could catch and kill. But somehow he did
live, and at last by slow degrees made his way south and reached this
place. What the details of his journey were I never learnt, for I told
him to return on the morrow, bidding one of my headmen look after him
for the night. The headman took him away, but the poor man had the itch
so badly that the headman's wife would not have him in the hut for fear
of catching it, so he was given a blanket and told to sleep outside.
As it happened, we had a lion hanging about here just then, and most
unhappily he winded this unfortunate wanderer, and, springing on him,
bit his head almost off without the people in the hut knowing anything
about it, and there was an end of him and his story about the white
people; and whether or no there is any truth in it is more than I can
tell you. What do you think, Mr Quatermain
I don't know. There are so many queer
things hidden away in the heart of this great continent that I should
be sorry to assert that there was no truth in it. Anyhow, we mean to try
and find out. We intend to journey to Lekakisera, and thence, if we live
to get so far, to this Lake Laga; and, if there are any white people
beyond, we will do our best to find them
You are very venturesome people
the little one who spoke like
a whip
the women, who talked so fast
that you could not tell one word from another
Lonely
Oh, indeed no! I am as happy as the day is long,
and besides I have my own companions. Why, I should hate to be buried
in a crowd of white girls all just like myself so that nobody could tell
the difference! Here
I am I;
and every native for miles around knows the "Water-lily",-- for that is
what they call me -- and is ready to do what I want, but in the books that
I have read about little girls in England it is not like that. Everybody
thinks them a trouble, and they have to do what their schoolmistress
likes. Oh! it would break my heart to be put in a cage like that and not
to be free -- free as the air
Would you not like to learn
So I do learn. Father teaches me Latin and French and arithmetic
And are you never afraid among all these wild men
Afraid? Oh no! they never interfere with me. I think they believe that
I am "Ngai" (of the Divinity) because I am so white and have fair hair.
And look here
I always carry
that loaded, and if anybody tried to touch me I should shoot him. Once
I shot a leopard that jumped upon my donkey as I was riding along. It
frightened me very much, but I shot it in the ear and it fell dead,
and I have its skin upon my bed. Look there
I
said just now that I had companions; there is one of them
A man might
look thereon for a thousand years and yet be hungry to see
slay, and slay, and slay
Slay what, you old bloodhound
The other shadows
So thou wouldst continue thy murdering even after death
I murder not
I kill in fair fight. Man is born to
kill. He who kills not when his blood is hot is a woman, and no man. The
people who kill not are slaves. I say I kill in fair fight; and when
I am "in the shadow", as you white men say, I hope to go on killing in
fair fight. May my shadow be accursed and chilled to the bone for ever
if it should fall to murdering like a bushman with his poisoned arrows
My grandfather
was a soldier of the Guard, and served
under Napoleon. He was in the retreat from Moscow, and lived for ten
days on his own leggings and a pair he stole from a comrade. He used to
get drunk -- he died drunk, and I remember playing at drums on his coffin.
My father
Bien, messieurs
I did only wish to demonstrate that the military principle is not
hereditary. My grandfather was a splendid man, six feet two high, broad
in proportion, a swallower of fire and gaiters. Also he was remarkable
for his moustache. To me there remains the moustache and -- nothing more.

'I am, messieurs, a cook, and I was born at Marseilles. In that dear
town I spent my happy youth. For years and years I washed the dishes at
the Hotel Continental. Ah, those were golden days
I am
a Frenchman. Need I say, messieurs, that I admire beauty? Nay, I adore
the fair. Messieurs, we admire all the roses in a garden, but we pluck
one. I plucked one, and alas, messieurs, it pricked my finger. She was
a chambermaid, her name Annette, her figure ravishing, her face
an angel's, her heart -- alas, messieurs, that I should have to
own it!-- black and slippery as a patent leather boot. I loved to
desperation, I adored her to despair. She transported me -- in every
sense; she inspired me. Never have I cooked as I cooked (for I had been
promoted at the hotel) when Annette, my adored Annette, smiled on me.
Never
never shall I cook
so well again
Come, cheer up
There's no knowing what may happen, you know. To judge from your
dinner today, I should say you were in a fair way to recovery
Monsieur
doubtless means to console, but his hand is heavy. To continue:
we loved, and were happy in each other's love. The birds in their little
nest could not be happier than Alphonse and his Annette. Then came the
blow -- sapristi!-- when I think of it. Messieurs will forgive me if I wipe
away a tear. Mine was an evil number; I was drawn for the conscription.
Fortune would be avenged on me for having won the heart of Annette.

'The evil moment came; I had to go. I tried to run away, but I was
caught by brutal soldiers, and they banged me with the butt-end
of muskets till my mustachios curled with pain. I had a cousin a
linen-draper, well-to-do, but very ugly. He had drawn a good number,
and sympathized when they thumped me. "To thee, my cousin," I said, "to
thee, in whose veins flows the blue blood of our heroic grandparent, to
thee I consign Annette. Watch over her whilst I hunt for glory in the
bloody field."

'"Make your mind easy," said he; "I will." As the sequel shows, he did!

'I went. I lived in barracks on black soup. I am a refined man and a
poet by nature, and I suffered tortures from the coarse horror of my
surroundings. There was a drill sergeant, and he had a cane. Ah, that
cane, how it curled! Alas, never can I forget it!

'One morning came the news; my battalion was ordered to Tonquin.
The drill sergeant and the other coarse monsters rejoiced. I -- I made
enquiries about Tonquin. They were not satisfactory. In Tonquin are
savage Chinese who rip you open. My artistic tastes -- for I am also an
artist -- recoiled from the idea of being ripped open. The great man makes
up his mind quickly. I made up my mind. I determined not to be ripped
open. I deserted.

'I reached Marseilles disguised as an old man. I went to the house of
my cousin -- he in whom runs my grandfather's heroic blood -- and there sat
Annette. It was the season of cherries. They took a double stalk. At
each end was a cherry. My cousin put one into his mouth, Annette put
the other in hers. Then they drew the stalks in till their eyes met -- and
alas, alas that I should have to say it!-- they kissed. The game was
a pretty one, but it filled me with fury. The heroic blood of my
grandfather boiled up in me. I rushed into the kitchen. I struck my
cousin with the old man's crutch. He fell -- I had slain him. Alas, I
believe that I did slay him. Annette screamed. The gendarmes came. I
fled. I reached the harbour. I hid aboard a vessel. The vessel put to
sea. The captain found me and beat me. He took an opportunity. He posted
a letter from a foreign port to the police. He did not put me ashore
because I cooked so well. I cooked for him all the way to Zanzibar. When
I asked for payment he kicked me. The blood of my heroic grandfather
boiled within me, and I shook my fist in his face and vowed to have my
revenge. He kicked me again. At Zanzibar there was a telegram. I cursed
the man who invented telegraphs. Now I curse him again. I was to be
arrested for desertion, for murder, and que sais-je? I escaped from
the prison. I fled, I starved. I met the men of Monsieur le Cure. They
brought me here. I am full of woe. But I return not to France. Better to
risk my life in these horrible places than to know the Bagne
Ah! you weep, messieurs
No wonder -- it is a sad story
Perhaps
the heroic blood of your grandparent will
triumph after all; perhaps you will still be great. At any rate we shall
see. And now I vote we go to bed. I am dead tired, and we had not much
sleep on that confounded rock last night
Well
when I got up this morning I found a note put
outside my door in which -- But here it is, you can read it for yourself
Dearest M --,-- It is just dawn, and I am off to the hills to get Mr Q -- a
bloom of the lily he wants, so don't expect me till you see me. I have
taken the white donkey; and nurse and a couple of boys are coming with
me -- also something to eat, as I may be away all day, for I am determined
to get the lily if I have to go twenty miles for it.-- Flossie
I hope she will be all right
I never
meant her to trouble after the flower
Ah, Flossie can look after herself
she often goes
off in this way like a true child of the wilderness
I fear it would be of no use
She may be fifteen miles
off by now, and it is impossible to say what path she has taken.
There are the hills
What doest thou, Umslopogaas
I smell blood
Oh, the monster, the horrible man
See but the hole in his head; the skin
beats on it up and down like a baby's! Who would nurse such a baby
What does the little "buffalo-heifer" &lsqb;so named by Umslopogaas, on
account of his mustachios and feminine characteristics&rsqb; say? Let him be
careful, or I will cut his horns. Beware, little man monkey, beware
ce drole d'un monsieur noir
Stand still
do not move as you value your life -- he will
not hurt you
Inkosi-kaas is sharp enough
the blow that clipped the "buffalo-heifer's" horn would
have split a man from the crown to the chin. Few could have struck it
but I; none could have struck it and not taken off the shoulder too.
Look, thou little heifer! Am I a good man to laugh at, thinkest thou?
For a space hast thou stood within a hair's-breadth of death. Laugh not
again, lest the hair's-breadth be wanting. I have spoken
What meanest thou by such mad tricks
Surely thou art mad. Twenty times didst thou go near to
slaying the man
And yet, Macumazahn, I slew not. Thrice as Inkosi-kaas flew the spirit
entered into me to end him, and send her crashing through his skull; but
I did not. Nay, it was but a jest; but tell the "heifer" that it is not
well to mock at such as I. Now I go to make a shield, for I smell blood,
Macumazahn -- of a truth I smell blood. Before the battle hast thou not
seen the vulture grow of a sudden in the sky? They smell the blood,
Macumazahn, and my scent is more keen than theirs. There is a dry
ox-hide down yonder; I go to make a shield
That is an uncomfortable retainer of yours
He has frightened Alphonse out of
his wits; look
I
don't think that he will ever laugh at "le monsieur noir" again
Yes
it is ill jesting with such as he. When he is roused
he is like a fiend, and yet he has a kind heart in his own fierce way.
I remember years ago seeing him nurse a sick child for a week. He is a
strange character, but true as steel, and a strong stick to rest on in
danger
He says he smells blood
I only trust he is not
right. I am getting very fearful about my little girl. She must have
gone far, or she would be home by now. It is half-past three o'clock
What is it
It is the head of one of the men who accompanied Flossie
Thank God it is not hers
Open, my father, open
My father
the Masai are on us! A great body of them have
passed round the hill and are moving towards the old stone kraal down
by the little stream. My father, make strong thy heart! In the midst
of them I saw the white ass, and on it sat the Water-lily &lsqb;Flossie&rsqb;. An
Elmoran &lsqb;young warrior&rsqb; led the ass, and by its side walked the nurse
weeping. The men who went with her in the morning I saw not
Was the child alive
She was white as the snow, but well, my father. They passed quite close
to me, and looking up from where I lay hid I saw her face against the
sky
God help her and us
How many are there of them
More than two hundred -- two hundred and half a hundred
Open the door, white man; open the door! A herald -- a herald to speak
with thee
I see but one man
He is armed, and carries a basket in his
hand
Open the door
Umslopogaas, take thine axe and stand thereby.
Let one man pass. If another follows, slay
Let us talk
The first messenger we sent to you could not
talk
but I have words to speak
if ye have ears to hear. Also I bring presents
Say on
I am the "Lygonani" &lsqb;war captain&rsqb; of a party of the Masai of the Guasa
Amboni. I and my men followed these three white men
but they were too clever for us, and
escaped hither. We have a quarrel with them, and are going to kill
them
Are you, my friend
In following these men we this morning caught two black men, one
black woman, a white donkey, and a white girl. One of the black men we
killed -- there is his head upon the pavement; the other ran away. The
black woman, the little white girl, and the white ass we took and
brought with us. In proof thereof have I brought this basket that she
carried. Is it not thy daughter's basket
Good! With thee and thy daughter we have no quarrel, nor do we wish to
harm thee, save as to thy cattle, which we have already gathered, two
hundred and forty head -- a beast for every man's father
So, save for the cattle, thou mayst go free; more especially
as this place would be a difficult one
to take. But as to these men it is otherwise; we have followed them
for nights and days, and must kill them. Were we to return to our kraal
without having done so, all the girls would make a mock of us. So,
however troublesome it may be, they must die.

'Now I have a proposition for thee. We would not harm the little girl;
she is too fair to harm, and has besides a brave spirit. Give us one of
these three men -- a life for a life -- and we will let her go, and throw in
the black woman with her also. This is a fair offer, white man. We ask
but for one, not for the three; we must take another opportunity to kill
the other two. I do not even pick my man, though I should prefer the
big one
he looks strong, and would die more
slowly
And if I say I will not yield the man
Nay, say not so, white man
for then thy daughter
dies at dawn, and the woman with her says thou hast no other child. Were
she older I would take her for a servant; but as she is so young I will
slay her with my own hand -- ay, with this very spear. Thou canst come and
see, an
All right, Mackenzie
you can tell the man that I will
exchange myself against Flossie, only I stipulate that she shall be
safely in this house before they kill me
Eh
That you don't
No, no
I will have no man's blood upon my hands.
If it please God that my daughter should die this awful death, His will
be done. You are a brave man (which I am not by any means) and a noble
man, Quatermain, but you shall not go
If nothing else turns up I shall go
This is an important matter
and we must think it over. You shall have our answer at dawn
Very well, white man
only
remember if thy answer is late thy little white bud will never grow into
a flower, that is all, for I shall cut it with this
I should have thought that thou wouldst play a trick and attack
us at night, but I know from the woman with the girl that your men are
down at the coast, and that thou hast but twenty men here. It is not
wise, white man
to keep so small a garrison
for your "boma" &lsqb;kraal&rsqb;. Well, good night, and good night to you also,
other white men, whose eyelids I shall soon close once and for all. At
dawn thou wilt bring me word. If not, remember it shall be as I have
said
Open the door for me,
fellow, quick now
Seest thou me
Ay, fellow, I see thee
And seest thou this
Ay, fellow, I see the toy; what of it
Thou Masai dog, thou boasting windbag, thou capturer of little girls,
with this "toy" will I hew thee limb from limb. Well for thee that thou
art a herald, or even now would I strew thy members about the grass
I would that thou stoodst against me man to man, and we would
see
Thou shalt stand against me man to man, be not afraid
Thou shalt stand face
to face with Umslopogaas, of the blood of Chaka, of the people of the
Amazulu, a captain in the regiment of the Nkomabakosi, as many have done
before, and bow thyself to Inkosi-kaas, as many have done before. Ay,
laugh on, laugh on! tomorrow night shall the jackals laugh as they
crunch thy ribs
Dearest Father and Mother
The Masai caught us when we
were coming home with the lily. I tried to escape but could not. They
killed Tom: the other man ran away. They have not hurt nurse and me, but
say that they mean to exchange us against one of Mr Quatermain's party.
_I will have nothing of the sort_. Do not let anybody give his life
for me. Try and attack them at night; they are going to feast on three
bullocks they have stolen and killed. I have my pistol, and if no
help comes by dawn I will shoot myself. They shall not kill me. If so,
remember me always, dearest father and mother. I am very frightened,
but I trust in God. I dare not write any more as they are beginning to
notice. Goodbye.-- Flossie
Love to Mr Quatermain. They are
going to take the basket, so he will get the lily
It is
absolutely necessary that an effort of some
sort should be made before the morning
Then let us attack them with what force we can muster, and take our
chance
Ay, ay
spoken like a man, Incubu. What
is there to be afraid of? Two hundred and fifty Masai, forsooth! How
many are we? The chief there &lsqb;Mr Mackenzie&rsqb; has twenty men, and thou,
Macumazahn, hast five men, and there are also five white men -- that is,
thirty men in all -- enough, enough. Listen now, Macumazahn, thou who art
very clever and old in war. What says the maid? These men eat and make
merry; let it be their funeral feast. What said the dog whom I hope to
hew down at daybreak? That he feared no attack because we were so few.
Knowest thou the old kraal where the men have camped? I saw it this
morning; it is thus
here is the big
entrance, filled up with thorn bushes, and opening on to a steep rise.
Why, Incubu, thou and I with axes will hold it against an hundred men
striving to break out! Look, now; thus shall the battle go. Just as the
light begins to glint upon the oxen's horns -- not before, or it will be
too dark, and not later, or they will be awakening and perceive us -- let
Bougwan creep round with ten men to the top end of the kraal, where the
narrow entrance is. Let them silently slay the sentry there so that he
makes no sound, and stand ready. Then, Incubu, let thee and me and one
of the Askari -- the one with the broad chest -- he is a brave man -- creep to
the wide entrance that is filled with thorn bushes, and there also slay
the sentry, and armed with battleaxes take our stand also one on each
side of the pathway, and one a few paces beyond to deal with such as
pass the twain at the gate. It is there that the rush will come. That
will leave sixteen men. Let these men be divided into two parties, with
one of which shalt thou go, Macumazahn, and with one the "praying man"
 &lsqb;Mr Mackenzie&rsqb;, and, all armed with rifles, let them make their way
one to the right side of the kraal and one to the left; and when thou,
Macumazahn, lowest like an ox, all shall open fire with the guns upon
the sleeping men, being very careful not to hit the little maid. Then
shall Bougwan at the far end and his ten men raise the war-cry, and,
springing over the wall, put the Masai there to the sword. And it shall
happen that, being yet heavy with food and sleep, and bewildered by the
firing of the guns, the falling of men, and the spears of Bougwan, the
soldiers shall rise and rush like wild game towards the thorn-stopped
entrance, and there the bullets from either side shall plough through
them, and there shall Incubu and the Askari and I wait for those who
break across. Such is my plan, Macumazahn; if thou hast a better, name
it
Ah, old lion
thou knowest how to lie in wait
as well as how to bite, where to seize as well as where to hang on
Ay, ay, Macumazahn
For thirty years have I been a
warrior, and have seen many things. It will be a good fight. I smell
blood -- I tell thee, I smell blood
Men
men, for years I have been a good friend to
you, protecting you, teaching you, guarding you and yours from harm, and
ye have prospered with me. Ye have seen my child -- the Water-lily, as ye
call her -- grow year by year, from tenderest infancy to tender childhood,
and from childhood on towards maidenhood. She has been your children's
playmate, she has helped to tend you when sick, and ye have loved her
We have
and we will die to save her
I thank you from my heart -- I thank you. Sure am I that now, in this
hour of darkest trouble; now that her young life is like to be cut off
by cruel and savage men -- who of a truth "know not what they do"-- ye will
strive your best to save her, and to save me and her mother from broken
hearts. Think, too, of your own wives and children. If she dies, her
death will be followed by an attack upon us here, and at the best, even
if we hold our own, your houses and gardens will be destroyed, and your
goods and cattle swept away. I am, as ye well know, a man of peace.
Never in all these years have I lifted my hand to shed man's blood; but
now I say strike, strike, in the name of God, Who bade us protect our
lives and homes. Swear to me
swear to
me that whilst a man of you remains alive ye will strive your uttermost
with me and with these brave white men to save the child from a bloody
and cruel death
Say no more, my father
we swear it. May we and ours die the
death of dogs, and our bones be thrown to the jackals and the kites,
if we break the oath! It is a fearful thing to do, my father, so few to
strike at so many, yet will we do it or die in the doing. We swear
Ay, thus say we all
Thus say we all
It is well
Ye are true men and not broken
reeds to lean on. And now, friends -- white and black together -- let us
kneel and offer up our humble supplication to the Throne of Power,
praying that He in the hollow of Whose hand lie all our lives, Who
giveth life and giveth death, may be pleased to make strong our arms
that we may prevail in what awaits us at the morning's light
Oh God of gods
Protector of
the oppressed, Refuge of those in danger, Guardian of the helpless, hear
Thou our prayer! Almighty Father, to Thee we come in supplication.
Hear Thou our prayer! Behold, one child hast Thou given us -- an innocent
child, nurtured in Thy knowledge -- and now she lies beneath the shadow of
the sword, in danger of a fearful death at the hands of savage men. Be
with her now, oh God, and comfort her! Save her, oh Heavenly Father! Oh
God of battle, Who teacheth our hands to war and our fingers to fight,
in Whose strength are hid the destinies of men, be Thou with us in the
hour of strife. When we go forth into the shadow of death, make Thou
us strong to conquer. Breathe Thou upon our foes and scatter them;
turn Thou their strength to water, and bring their high-blown pride to
nought; compass us about with Thy protection; throw over us the shield
of Thy power; forget us not now in the hour of our sore distress; help
us now that the cruel man would dash our little ones against the stones!
Hear Thou our prayer! And for those of us who, kneeling now on earth
in health before Thee, shall at the sunrise adore Thy Presence on
the Throne, hear our prayer! Make them clean, oh God; wash away their
offences in the blood of the Lamb; and when their spirits pass, oh
receive Thou them into the haven of the just. Go forth, oh Father, go
forth with us into the battle, as with the Israelites of old. Oh God of
battle, hear Thou our prayer
Ah, monsieur
I do make prayer for the souls of those whom
I shall slay tonight
Indeed
then I wish that you would do it a little more
quietly
Three o'clock
we must begin to move at half-past
Ah, my friend
you are
looking at my "carver". I thought it might come in handy if we came to
close quarters; it is excellent steel, and many is the pig I have killed
with it
Twenty minutes to four
it ought to be light enough to
attack at twenty minutes past four. Captain Good had better be moving,
he will want three or four minutes' start
If you don't stop that I will kill you
But, monsieur, I cannot help it
it is the cold
Put this in your mouth
and if I hear another sound you are a dead
man
browning
_They are devils -- bewitched, bewitched
_Bewitched, bewitched
Ah, ah
it is thou whom I
talked with last night -- the Lygonani! the Herald! the capturer of little
girls -- he who would kill a little girl! And thou didst hope to stand man
to man and face to face with Umslopogaas, an Induna of the tribe of
the Maquilisini, of the people of the Amazulu? Behold, thy prayer is
granted! And I didst swear to hew thee limb from limb, thou insolent
dog. Behold, I will do it even now
_Ou
I
have kept my word. It was a good stroke
Alphonse
Alphonse
Oui, monsieur
Here am I
Where
Here am I, monsieur, in the tree
Come out of that hole
Is it finished, monsieur
quite finished? Ah, the
horrors I have undergone, and the prayers I have uttered
Come out, you little wretch
it
is all over
So, monsieur, then my prayers have prevailed? I emerge
Oh, the hole in my back
I am murdered. I am dead. Oh,
Annette
Get up
Get up. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? You are
not touched
But, monsieur, I thought I
was
I did not know that I had conquered
Ah, dog of a black savage, thou art dead; what victory
Ah, Quatermain
so we have
conquered; but it is a sorry sight, a sorry sight
It fashes
me sair to have bent my best carver on the breastbone of a savage
Ah, Macumazahn
I
told thee that it would be a good fight, and it has. Never have I seen a
better, or one more bravely fought. As for this iron shirt, surely it is
"tagati" &lsqb;bewitched&rsqb;; nothing could pierce it. Had it not been for the
garment I should have been _there_
I give it thee; thou art a brave man
Koos
Thou, too, Incubu, didst bear thyself as a man, but I must
give thee some lessons with the axe; thou dost waste thy strength
Horrible, horrible
God bless you all, Mr Quatermain; you have saved my child's life
Oh, don't talk of it
I
shall never forget his face as he went turning round and round, never -- I
can see it now
And what have you to say about getting into the hollow tree
But, monsieur, the explanation is easy; oh, most easy! it was thus: I
stood there by the kraal wall, and the little grey monsieur hit me in
the stomach so that my rifle exploded, and the battle began. I watched
whilst recovering myself from monsieur's cruel blow; then, messieurs, I
felt the heroic blood of my grandfather boil up in my veins. The sight
made me mad. I ground my teeth! Fire flashed from my eyes! I shouted
"En avant!" and longed to slay. Before my eyes there rose a vision of
my heroic grandfather! In short, I was mad! I was a warrior indeed!
But then in my heart I heard a small voice: "Alphonse," said the voice,
"restrain thyself, Alphonse! Give not way to this evil passion! These
men, though black, are brothers! And thou wouldst slay them? Cruel
Alphonse!" The voice was right. I knew it; I was about to perpetrate the
most horrible cruelties: to wound! to massacre! to tear limb from limb!
And how restrain myself? I looked round; I saw the tree, I perceived the
hole. "Entomb thyself," said the voice, "and hold on tight! Thou wilt
thus overcome temptation by main force!" It was bitter, just when the
blood of my heroic grandfather boiled most fiercely; but I obeyed! I
dragged my unwilling feet along; I entombed myself! Through the hole I
watched the battle! I shouted curses and defiance on the foe! I noted
them fall with satisfaction! Why not? I had not robbed them of their
lives. Their gore was not upon my head. The blood of my heroic
Oh, get along with you, you little cur
You see, Quatermain
I made up my mind to it, this very
morning, when we were creeping down those benighted savages. "If we live
through this and rescue Flossie alive," I said to myself, "I will go
home to England; I have had enough of savages." Well, I did not think
that we should live through it at the time; but thanks be to God and you
four, we have lived through it, and I mean to stick to my resolution,
lest a worse thing befall us. Another such time would kill my poor wife.
And besides, Quatermain, between you and me, I am well off; it is thirty
thousand pounds I am worth today, and every farthing of it made by
honest trade and savings in the bank at Zanzibar, for living here costs
me next to nothing. So though it will be hard to leave this place, which
I have made to blossom like a rose in the wilderness, and harder still
to leave the people I have taught, I shall go
I congratulate you on your decision
for two reasons.
The first is, that you owe a duty to your wife and daughter, and more
especially to the latter, who should receive some education and mix with
girls of her own race, otherwise she will grow up wild, shunning her
kind. The other is, that as sure as I am standing here, sooner or later
the Masai will try to avenge the slaughter inflicted on them today. Two
or three men are sure to have escaped the confusion who will carry
the story back to their people, and the result will be that a great
expedition will one day be sent against you. It might be delayed for
a year, but sooner or later it will come. Therefore, if only for that
reason, I should go. When once they have learnt that you are no longer
here they may perhaps leave the place alone
You are quite right
I will turn my back upon
this place in a month. But it will be a wrench, it will be a wrench
Adventurer
far, far from
thee, Annette, for whose adored sake I endure such sorrow
Oh, Mr Quatermain
I can't bear to say goodbye
to you. I wonder when we shall meet again
I don't know, my dear little girl
I am at one end of life
and you are at the other. I have but a short time before me at best, and
most things lie in the past, but I hope that for you there are many long
and happy years, and everything lies in the future. By-and-by you will
grow into a beautiful woman, Flossie, and all this wild life will be
like a far-off dream to you; but I hope, even if we never do meet again,
that you will think of your old friend and remember what I say to you
now. Always try to be good, my dear, and to do what is right, rather
than what happens to be pleasant, for in the end, whatever sneering
people may say, what is good and what is happy are the same. Be
unselfish, and whenever you can, give a helping hand to others -- for the
world is full of suffering, my dear, and to alleviate it is the noblest
end that we can set before us. If you do that you will become a sweet
and God-fearing woman, and make many people's lives a little brighter,
and then you will not have lived, as so many of your sex do, in vain.
And now I have given you a lot of old-fashioned advice, and so I am
going to give you something to sweeten it with. You see this little
piece of paper. It is what is called a cheque. When we are gone give it
to your father with this note -- not before, mind. You will marry one day,
my dear little Flossie, and it is to buy you a wedding present which
you are to wear, and your daughter after you, if you have one, in
remembrance of Hunter Quatermain
Down on your faces -- down
main drain
Well, let us hope for the best and prepare ourselves for the worst
We have come out of so many queer
scrapes together, that somehow I almost fancy we shall come out of
this
Well, well
you have come in search of adventures, Allan
my boy, and you have certainly got them. At your time of life, too! You
ought to be ashamed of yourself; but somehow you are not, and, awful as
it all is, perhaps you will pull through after all; and if you don't,
why, you cannot help it, you see! And when all's said and done an
underground river will make a very appropriate burying-place
Noticed
it
I should think so. I am in a sort of Turkish bath
Keep the boat to the right, Quatermain -- to the right
Were they dead
Was I left alone in this awful place
My word
what an awful
place! It's enough to give one a fit
_Give one a fit -- Ho! ho! ho
A fit, Ho! ho! ho
Oh, mon Dieu
_Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu
Ah
I clearly perceive that devils live
here. Well, the place looks like it
Ah
I know an echo when I hear one. There was one lived
opposite my kraal in Zululand, and the Intombis &lsqb;maidens&rsqb; used to talk
with it. But if what we hear is a full-grown echo, mine at home can only
have been a baby. No, no -- they are devils up there. But I don't think
much of them, though
They can
copy what one says, but they don't seem to be able to talk on their
own account, and they dare not show their faces
I say, you fellows, let's get out of this or we shall all go off our
heads
Those are the devils of the place
What's to be done next
Drift, I suppose
Underground again
What did he follow us for
'Tis an ill omen for thee and
me, Macumazahn
Ex Africa semper aliquid novi
Ah
It seems that we have at last found a language that the
people of this country understand
In which case
Good will prove an invaluable
interpreter
It is very
clear to me
that the man will be back before long with a host
of his fellows, so we had best make up our minds as to how we are going
to receive them
The question is how will they receive us
What on earth are you going to do, Good
Do -- why dress, of course! You don't expect me to appear in a new
country in these things, do you
_What
_what!_ Are you going to put those things on
Certainly
you see so much depends upon a
first impression, especially
as I observe that there are
ladies about. One at least of us ought to be decently dressed
Oh, Bougwan
Oh, Bougwan! I always thought thee an ugly
little man, and fat -- fat as the cows at calving time; and now thou art
like a blue jay when he spreads his tail out. Surely, Bougwan, it hurts
my eyes to look at thee
Ah! but Monsieur has the beautiful air -- the air of the warrior. It
is the ladies who will say so when we come to get ashore. Monsieur is
complete; he puts me in mind of my heroic grand
Now for it
What is the betting? Are they going to be
friendly or to put an end to us
tres magnifique, mais triste -- ah, triste
Oh, my word
the ladies have come on the stage,
and now we may look to the plot to develop itself
The silver lute did speak between
    The trumpet's lordly blowing
I say, Quatermain
did you ever see such eyes
Eyes
what eyes
Why, the Queen's, of course! Sorais, I mean -- at least I think that is
her name
Oh, I don't know
I didn't notice them much: I suppose they
are good eyes
I say, Quatermain
Well
what is it now
Did you notice her ankle? The shape
yellow
place or country
come down with the people from the
coast
more than two thousand years ago
the symbol of
good, the expression of power, and the hope of Eternity
of the house of the
Father
He who increaseth knowledge,
increaseth sorrow
I say, Quatermain
did you observe her
skin? It is as smooth as the back of an ivory hairbrush
Now look here, Good
white, mystic,
wonderful
Well! a dog would feel religious here
Look out
Let the sacrifice be sacrificed
Has
not sacrilege enough been done by these strangers, and would ye, as
Queens, throw the cloak of your majesty over evildoers? Are not the
creatures sacred to the Sun dead? And is not a priest of the Sun also
dead, but now slain by the magic of these strangers, who come as the
winds out of heaven, whence we know not, and who are what we know not?
Beware, oh Queens, how ye tamper with the great majesty of the God, even
before His high altar! There is a Power that is more than your power;
there is a Justice that is higher than your justice. Beware how ye lift
an impious hand against it! Let the sacrifice be sacrificed, oh Queens
Oh, Agon, thou hast spoken according to thy desire, and thou hast
spoken truth. But it is thou who wouldst lift an impious hand
against the justice of thy God. Bethink thee the midday sacrifice is
accomplished; the Sun hath claimed his priest as a sacrifice
Bethink thee what are these men? They are strangers found floating on
the bosom of a lake. Who brought them here? How came they here? How know
you that they also are not servants of the Sun? Is this the hospitality
that ye would have our nation show to those whom chance brings to
them, to throw them to the flames? Shame on you! Shame on you! What is
hospitality? To receive the stranger and show him favour. To bind up his
wounds, and find a pillow for his head, and food for him to eat. But thy
pillow is the fiery furnace, and thy food the hot savour of the flame.
Shame on thee, I say
Ho! place there
place, I say; make way for the Queens,
and those whom the Queens cover with their "kaf" (mantle
And if I refuse, oh Queen
Then will I cut a path with my guards
ay,
even in the presence of thy sanctuary, and through the bodies of thy
priests
Bethink thee, Agon
as my sister Queen has said, these men
may also be servants of the Sun. For themselves they cannot speak, for
their tongues are tied. Let the matter be adjourned till such time as
they have learnt our language. Who can be condemned without a hearing?
When these men can plead for themselves, then it will be time to put
them to the proof
So be it, oh Queens
Let the men go in peace, and when they
have learnt our tongue then let them speak. And I, even I, will make
humble supplication at the altar lest pestilence fall on the land by
cause of the sacrilege
Well
you see the ladies are here, ain't they? If we sent
them away, don't you think it might hurt their feelings, eh? One doesn't
like to be rough, you see; and they look regular _blues_, don't they,
eh
Ah
will it always be thus
to deceive a poor girl so
Guards
slay me that woman
Will ye do my bidding
or will ye
not
Stand back
Shame on thee, Nyleptha -- shame! Thou shalt
not kill her
Doubtless thou hast good reason to try to protect her. Thou couldst
hardly do less in honour
but she shall
die -- she shall die
It is well
then will I die with her. I am thy servant,
oh Queen; do with me even as thou wilt
I could wish to slay thee too
for thou dost make a
mock of me
And what answer will the Queen be pleased to give to the great Lord
Nay, I
know not; what is a poor woman to do, when the wooer has thirty thousand
swords wherewith to urge his love
Quatermain, a word, quick
Listen. I have never
spoken about it, but surely you have guessed: I love Nyleptha. What am I
to do
You must speak to Nyleptha tonight
Now is your time, now or
never. Listen. In the sitting-chamber get near to her, and whisper to
her to meet you at midnight by the Rademas statue at the end of the
great hall. I will keep watch for you there. Now or never, Curtis
Will the Queen be pleased
to sing
to her servants? Our hearts are heavy this night; sing to us, oh Lady of
the Night
My songs, Macumazahn, are not such as to lighten the heavy heart, yet
will I sing if it pleases thee
Now, Curtis, now
Nyleptha
Nyleptha, I must speak with thee this night, upon my life I
must. Say me not nay; oh, say me not nay
How can I speak with thee
Queens are not like other people. I am surrounded and watched
Listen, Nyleptha, thus. I will be before the statue of Rademas in
the great hall at midnight. I have the countersign and can pass in.
Macumazahn will be there to keep guard, and with him the Zulu. Oh come,
my Queen, deny me not
It is not seemly
and tomorrow
I will be there
on thy life see that thou
fail me not
I have come
but it was at great risk. Ye know not how
I am watched. The priests watch me. Sorais watches me with those great
eyes of hers. My very guards are spies upon me. Nasta watches me too.
Oh, let him be careful
Let him be careful;
I am a woman, and therefore hard to drive. Ay, and I am a Queen, too,
and can still avenge. Let him be careful, I say, lest in place of giving
him my hand I take his head
Thou didst bid me come hither, my Lord Incubu
Doubtless it is about business of the State, for I
know that thou art ever full of great ideas and plans for my welfare
and my people's. So even as a Queen should I have come, though I greatly
fear the dark alone
Thou knowest, Nyleptha
that it was for none of these
things that I asked thee to meet me at this lonely place. Nyleptha,
waste not the time in pleasantry, but listen to me, for -- I love thee
Thou sayest thou dost love me
and thy voice
rings true, but how am I to know that thou dost speak the truth
Though
I be as nothing in the
eyes of my lord
who comes from among
a wonderful people, to whom my people are but children, yet here am I
a queen and a leader of men, and if I would go to battle a hundred
thousand spears shall sparkle in my train like stars glimmering down the
path of the bent moon. And although my beauty be a little thing in
the eyes of my lord
yet here among my own people am I held right fair, and ever
since I was a woman the great lords of my kingdom have made quarrel
concerning me, as though forsooth
I were a deer to be pulled down by the hungriest wolf, or a horse to
be sold to the highest bidder. Let my lord pardon me if I weary my lord,
but it hath pleased my lord to say that he loves me, Nyleptha, a Queen
of the Zu-Vendi, and therefore would I say that though my love and my
hand be not much to my lord, yet to me are they all
Oh
Oh, how can I know that thou
lovest but me? How can I know that thou wilt not weary of me and seek
thine own place again, leaving me desolate? Who is there to tell me but
that thou lovest some other woman, some fair woman unknown to me, but
who yet draws breath beneath this same moon that shines on me tonight?
Tell me _how_ am I to know
Nyleptha
I
have told thee that I love thee; how am I to tell thee how much I love
thee? Is there then a measure for love? Yet will I try. I say not that I
have never looked upon another woman with favour, but this I say that
I love thee with all my life and with all my strength; that I love thee
now and shall love thee till I grow cold in death, ay, and as I believe
beyond my death, and on and on for ever: I say that thy voice is music
to my ear, and thy touch as water to a thirsty land, that when thou art
there the world is beautiful, and when I see thee not it is as though
the light was dead. Oh, Nyleptha, I will never leave thee; here and now
for thy dear sake I will forget my people and my father's house, yea,
I renounce them all. By thy side will I live, Nyleptha, and at thy side
will I die
Look
Thou seest that angel woman who rests her hand upon the
forehead of the sleeping man, and thou seest how at her touch his soul
flames up and shines out through his flesh, even as a lamp at the touch
of the fire, so is it with me and thee, Nyleptha. Thou hast awakened my
soul and called it forth, and now, Nyleptha, it is not mine, not mine,
but _thine_ and thine only. There is no more for me to say; in thy hands
is my life
Of a truth, weak woman that I am, I do believe thee. Ill will be the
day for thee and for me also if it be my fate to learn that I have
believed a lie. And now hearken to me, oh man, who hath wandered here
from far to steal my heart and make me all thine own. I put my hand upon
thy hand thus, and thus I, whose lips have never kissed before, do kiss
thee on the brow; and now by my hand and by that first and holy kiss,
ay, by my people's weal and by my throne that like enough I shall lose
for thee -- by the name of my high House, by the sacred Stone and by the
eternal majesty of the Sun, I swear that for thee will I live and die.
And I swear that I will love thee and thee only till death, ay, and
beyond, if as thou sayest there be a beyond, and that thy will shall be
my will, and thy ways my ways.

'Oh see, see, my lord! thou knowest not how humble is she who loves; I,
who am a Queen, I kneel before thee, even at thy feet I do my homage
Ah, Macumazahn
I suppose it is because I am getting old,
but I don't think that I shall ever learn to understand the ways of you
white people. Look there now, I pray thee, they are a pretty pair of
doves, but what is all the fuss about, Macumazahn? He wants a wife, and
she wants a husband, then why does he not pay his cows down {Endnote 17}
like a man and have done with it? It would save a deal of trouble, and
we should have had our night's sleep. But there they go, talk, talk,
talk, and kiss, kiss, kiss, like mad things. Eugh
I am wondering
on what principle it is arranged that
some people should find beautiful queens to fall in love with them,
while others find nobody at all, or worse than nobody; and I am also
wondering how many brave men's lives this night's work will cost
whereas distinguished strangers, etc
Bethink thee well, my sister, ere
thou dost speak, for methinks that our thrones may hang upon thy words
Of a truth a great honour has been done to me
that my poor
hand should not only have been asked in marriage, but that Agon here
should be so swift to pronounce the blessing of the Sun upon my union.
Methinks that in another minute he would have wed us fast ere the bride
had said her say. Nasta, I thank thee, and I will bethink me of thy
words, but now as yet I have no mind for marriage, that is a cup of
which none know the taste until they begin to drink it. Again I thank
thee, Nasta
Thanks be to the Queen for her gracious words
my heart
shall surely treasure them. And now I crave another boon, namely, the
royal leave to withdraw myself to my own poor cities in the north till
such time as the Queen shall say my suit nay or yea. Mayhap
the Queen will be pleased to visit me there, and to bring
with her these stranger lords
It is
but a poor country and a rough, but we are a hardy race of mountaineers,
and there shall be gathered thirty thousand swordsmen to shout a welcome
to her
Oh, surely, Nasta, I will come, and the strange lords in my train, and
for every man of thy mountaineers who calls thee Prince, will I bring
two from the lowlands who call me Queen, and we will see which is the
staunchest breed. Till then farewell
I will kiss thee; oh yes, I will kiss
thee
I will kiss
thee
For Heaven's
sake, Good, don't go on talking about it, but _kiss_ her and let's all
go to sleep
the Queen Sorais commanded the attendance of the Lord Incubu in
her private apartments, whither he would be conducted by the bearer
Oh my word
Can't you go instead, old fellow
Not if I know it
I had rather face a wounded
elephant with a shot-gun. Take care of your own business, my boy. If you
will be so fascinating you must take the consequences. I would not be in
your place for an empire
You remind me of when I was going to be flogged at school and the other
boys came to console me
What right has this Queen
to command my attendance, I should like to know? I won't go
But you must; you are one of her officers and bound to obey her, and
she knows it. And after all it will soon be over
That's just what they used to say
I only hope she
won't put a knife into me. I believe that she is quite capable of it
Give me something to drink
And I went, and glad enough I was to get out of it, and here I am. Give
me another cup of wine, there's a good fellow, and tell me, what is to
be done
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned
Nyleptha had better be told of this at once
and perhaps I
had better tell her; she might receive your account with suspicion
Who is captain of her guard tonight
Good
Very well then, there will be no chance of her being got at. Don't look
surprised. I don't think that her sister would stick at that. I suppose
one must tell Good of what has happened
Oh, I don't know
It would hurt his feelings, poor
fellow! You see, he takes a lively personal interest in Sorais
That's true; and after all, perhaps there is no need to tell him. He
will find out the truth soon enough. Now, you mark my words, Sorais will
throw in her lot with Nasta, who is sulking up in the North there,
and there will be such a war as has not been known in Zu-Vendis for
centuries. Look there
Now follow
me
Ah
Sorais is a woman of spirit. She is acting at once, and
will strike quick and hard. You have insulted her, my boy, and the blood
will flow in rivers before the stain is washed away, and yours with it,
if she can get hold of you. Well, I'm off to Nyleptha. Just you stop
where you are, old fellow, and try to get your nerves straight again.
You'll need them all, I can tell you, unless I have observed human
nature in the rough for fifty years for nothing
Is there aught wrong with my Lord, Macumazahn, that he waits not upon
me? Say, is he sick
How darest thou come to me with such a tale
It is a lie
to say that my Lord was making love to Sorais, my sister
Pardon me, oh Queen
I said that Sorais was making love
to thy lord
Spin me no spiders' webs of words. Is not the thing the same thing? The
one giveth, the other taketh; but the gift passes, and what matters it
which is the most guilty? Sorais! oh, I hate her -- Sorais is a queen
and my sister. She had not stooped so low had he not shown the way.
Oh, truly hath the poet said that man is like a snake, whom to touch is
poison, and whom none can hold
The remark, oh Queen, is excellent, but methinks thou hast misread the
poet. Nyleptha
thou knowest well that thy words are empty
foolishness, and that this is no time for folly
How darest thou
Hast my false lord
sent thee to me to insult me also? Who art thou, stranger, that thou
shouldst speak to me, the Queen, after this sort? How darest thou
Yea, I dare. Listen. The moments which thou dost waste in idle anger
may well cost thee thy crown and all of us our lives. Already Sorais'
horsemen go forth and call to arms. In three days' time Nasta will rouse
himself in his fastnesses like a lion in the evening, and his growling
will be heard throughout the North. The "Lady of the Night" (Sorais)
hath a sweet voice, and she will not sing in vain. Her banner will be
borne from range to range and valley to valley, and warriors will spring
up in its track like dust beneath a whirlwind; half the army will echo
her war-cry; and in every town and hamlet of this wide land the priests
will call out against the foreigner and will preach her cause as holy. I
have spoken, oh Queen
Thy words are very wise, Macumazahn. Forgive me my folly. Ah, what a
Queen I should be if only I had no heart! To be heartless -- that is to
conquer all. Passion is like the lightning, it is beautiful, and it
links the earth to heaven, but alas it blinds!

'And thou thinkest that my sister Sorais would levy war upon me. So be
it. She shall not prevail against me. I, too, have my friends and my
retainers. There are many, I say, who will shout "Nyleptha!" when my
pennon runs up on peak and pinnacle, and the light of my beacon fires
leaps tonight from crag to crag, bearing the message of my war. I will
break her strength and scatter her armies. Eternal night shall be the
portion of Sorais of the Night. Give me that parchment and the ink. So.
Now summon the officer in the ante-room. He is a trusty man
Take this parchment
it is thy warrant; and guard
every place of in and outgoing in the apartments of my sister Sorais,
the "Lady of the Night", and a Queen of the Zu-Vendi. Let none come in
and none go out, or thy life shall pay the cost
The Queen's word be done
How long hast thou been there
Mayhap the half of an hour, Macumazahn. I have a word for thee
Speak on
As I was bid I went last night to the place of the White Queen and
hid myself behind a pillar in the second anteroom, beyond which is the
sleeping-place of the Queen. Bougwan (Good) was in the first anteroom
alone, and outside the curtain of that room was a sentry, but I had a
mind to see if I could pass in unseen, and I did, gliding behind them
both. There I waited for many hours, when suddenly I perceived a dark
figure coming secretly towards me. It was the figure of a woman, and in
her hand she held a dagger. Behind that figure crept another unseen by
the woman. It was Bougwan following in her tracks. His shoes were off,
and for so fat a man he followed very well. The woman passed me, and the
starlight shone upon her face
Who was it
The face was the face of the "Lady of the Night", and of a truth she is
well named.

'I waited, and Bougwan passed me also. Then I followed. So we went
slowly and without a sound up the long chamber. First the woman, then
Bougwan, and then I; and the woman saw not Bougwan, and Bougwan saw not
me. At last the "Lady of the Night" came to the curtains that shut off
the sleeping place of the White Queen, and put out her left hand to part
them. She passed through, and so did Bougwan, and so did I. At the far
end of the room is the bed of the Queen, and on it she lay very fast
asleep. I could hear her breathe, and see one white arm lying on the
coverlid like a streak of snow on the dry grass. The "Lady of the Night"
 doubled herself thus, and with the long knife lifted crept towards the
bed. So straight did she gaze thereat that she never thought to look
behind her. When she was quite close Bougwan touched her on the arm, and
she caught her breath and turned, and I saw the knife flash, and heard
it strike. Well was it for Bougwan that he had the skin of iron on him,
or he had been pierced. Then for the first time he saw who the woman
was, and without a word he fell back astonished, and unable to speak.
She, too, was astonished, and spoke not, but suddenly she laid her
finger on her lip, thus, and walked towards and through the curtain,
and with her went Bougwan. So close did she pass to me that her dress
touched me, and I was nigh to slaying her as she went. In the first
outer room she spoke to Bougwan in a whisper and, clasping her hands
thus, she pleaded with him, but what she said I know not. And so they
passed on to the second outer room, she pleading and he shaking his
head, and saying, "Nay, nay, nay". And it seemed to me that he was about
to call the guard, when she stopped talking and looked at him with great
eyes, and I saw that he was bewitched by her beauty. Then she stretched
out her hand and he kissed it, whereon I gathered myself together to
advance and take her, seeing that now had Bougwan become a woman, and no
longer knew the good from the evil, when behold! she was gone
Gone
Ay, gone, and there stood Bougwan staring at the wall like one asleep,
and presently he went too, and I waited a while and came away also
Art thou sure, Umslopogaas
that thou hast not been a dreamer
this night
If I be, Macumazahn, behold what
the dream left with me. The knife broke upon Bougwan's bosom and as I
passed I picked this up in the sleeping-place of the White Queen
Great Heavens
here have I been sleeping away while Nyleptha
was nearly murdered -- and all through me, too. What a fiend that Sorais
must be! It would have served her well if Umslopogaas had cut her down
in the act
Ay
Fear not; I should have slain her ere she struck.
I was but waiting the moment
Really, my dear fellow
one would never think, to
hear you talk, that you were the man who had an interview with this
same lady yesterday, and found it rather difficult to resist her
fascinations, notwithstanding your ties to one of the loveliest and most
loving women in the world. Now suppose it was Nyleptha who had tried to
murder Sorais, and _you_ had caught her, and she had pleaded with you,
would you have been so very eager to hand her over to an open shame, and
to death by fire? Just look at the matter through Good's eyeglass for a
minute before you denounce an old friend as a scoundrel
What art thou doing
Wouldst thou kill the man?
Pull him out of the bush
Ah, well, Macumazahn
you must be gentle with me, for
here is not my place. I am weary of it, weary to death of eating and
drinking, of sleeping and giving in marriage. I love not this soft
life in stone houses that takes the heart out of a man, and turns his
strength to water and his flesh to fat. I love not the white robes and
the delicate women, the blowing of trumpets and the flying of hawks.
When we fought the Masai at the kraal yonder, ah, then life was worth
the living, but here is never a blow struck in anger, and I begin to
think I shall go the way of my fathers and lift Inkosi-kaas no more
Ah
that is thy complaint, is it? Thou hast the
blood-sickness, hast thou? And the Woodpecker wants a tree. And at thy
age, too. Shame on thee! Umslopogaas
Ay, Macumazahn, mine is a red trade, yet is it better and more honest
than some. Better is it to slay a man in fair fight than to suck out his
heart's blood in buying and selling and usury after your white fashion.
Many a man have I slain, yet is there never a one that I should fear to
look in the face again, ay, many are there who once were friends, and
whom I should be right glad to snuff with. But there! there! thou hast
thy ways, and I mine: each to his own people and his own place. The
high-veldt ox will die in the fat bush country, and so is it with me,
Macumazahn. I am rough, I know it, and when my blood is warm I know not
what to do, but yet wilt thou be sorry when the night swallows me and
I am utterly lost in blackness, for in thy heart thou lovest me, my
father, Macumazahn the fox, though I be nought but a broken-down Zulu
war-dog -- a chief for whom there is no room in his own kraal, an outcast
and a wanderer in strange places: ay, I love thee, Macumazahn, for we
have grown grey together, and there is that between us that cannot be
seen, and yet is too strong for breaking
Ay, old wolf
thine is a strange love. Thou wouldst split me
to the chin if I stood in thy path tomorrow
Thou speakest truth, Macumazahn, that would I if it came in the way of
duty, but I should love thee all the same when the blow had gone fairly
home. Is there any chance of some fighting here, Macumazahn
Methought that what I saw last night did show
that the two great Queens were vexed one with another. Else had the
"Lady of the Night" not brought that dagger with her
Ah, is it so
then will there
be war as surely as the rivers rise in the rains -- war to the end. Women
love the last blow as well as the last word, and when they fight for
love they are pitiless as a wounded buffalo. See thou, Macumazahn, a
woman will swim through blood to her desire, and think nought of it.
With these eyes have I seen it once, and twice also. Ah, Macumazahn,
we shall see this fine place of houses burning yet, and hear the battle
cries come ringing up the street. After all, I have not wandered for
nothing. Can this folk fight, think ye
Ah, Bougwan
greeting to thee, Inkoos! Thou art surely
weary. Didst thou hunt too much yesterday
Listen, Bougwan, and I will tell thee a story; it is about a woman,
therefore wilt thou hear it, is it not so?

'There was a man and he had a brother, and there was a woman who loved
the man's brother and was beloved of the man. But the man's brother had
a favourite wife and loved not the woman, and he made a mock of her.
Then the woman, being very cunning and fierce-hearted for revenge, took
counsel with herself and said to the man, "I love thee, and if thou wilt
make war upon thy brother I will marry thee." And he knew it was a lie,
yet because of his great love of the woman, who was very fair, did he
listen to her words and made war. And when many people had been killed
his brother sent to him, saying, "Why slayest thou me? What hurt have I
done unto thee? From my youth up have I not loved thee? When thou wast
little did I not nurture thee, and have we not gone down to war together
and divided the cattle, girl by girl, ox by ox, and cow by cow? Why
slayest thou me, my brother, son of my own mother?"

'Then the man's heart was heavy, and he knew that his path was evil,
and he put aside the tempting of the woman and ceased to make war on his
brother, and lived at peace in the same kraal with him. And after a time
the woman came to him and said, "I have lost the past, I will be thy
wife." And in his heart he knew that it was a lie and that she thought
the evil thing, yet because of his love did he take her to wife.

'And the very night that they were wed, when the man was plunged into a
deep sleep, did the woman arise and take his axe from his hand and creep
into the hut of his brother and slay him in his rest. Then did she slink
back like a gorged lioness and place the thong of the red axe back upon
his wrist and go her ways.

'And at the dawning the people came shouting, "Lousta is slain in the
night," and they came unto the hut of the man, and there he lay asleep
and by him was the red axe. Then did they remember the war and say, "Lo!
he hath of a surety slain his brother," and they would have taken and
killed him, but he rose and fled swiftly, and as he fleeted by he slew
the woman.

'But death could not wipe out the evil she had done, and on him rested
the weight of all her sin. Therefore is he an outcast and his name a
scorn among his own people; for on him, and him only, resteth the burden
of her who betrayed. And, therefore, does he wander afar, without a
kraal and without an ox or a wife, and therefore will he die afar like a
stricken buck and his name be accursed from generation to generation,
in that the people say that he slew his brother, Lousta, by treachery in
the night-time
I was the man, Bougwan. Ou! I was that man, and now hark thou! Even as
I am so wilt thou be -- a tool, a plaything, an ox of burden to carry the
evil deeds of another. Listen! When thou didst creep after the "Lady
of the Night" I was hard upon thy track. When she struck thee with the
knife in the sleeping place of the White Queen I was there also; when
thou didst let her slip away like a snake in the stones I saw thee, and
I knew that she had bewitched thee and that a true man had abandoned the
truth, and he who aforetime loved a straight path had taken a crooked
way. Forgive me, my father, if my words are sharp, but out of a full
heart are they spoken. See her no more, so shalt thou go down with
honour to the grave. Else because of the beauty of a woman that weareth
as a garment of fur shalt thou be even as I am, and perchance with more
cause. I have said
I must say
that I scarcely
thought that I should live to be taught my duty by a Zulu; but it just
shows what we can come to. I wonder if you fellows can understand how
humiliated I feel, and the bitterest part of it is that I deserve it
all. Of course I should have handed Sorais over to the guard, but
I could not, and that is a fact. I let her go and I promised to say
nothing, more is the shame to me. She told me that if I would side
with her she would marry me and make me king of this country, but thank
goodness I did find the heart to say that even to marry her I could not
desert my friends. And now you can do what you like, I deserve it all.
All I have to say is that I hope that you may never love a woman with
all your heart and then be so sorely tempted of her
Look here, old fellow
just stop a minute. I have a
little tale to tell you too
Do you know
I think that between you, you fellows have
about worked a cure
_Sorais! Sorais
Hail, oh Queen
All hail, my royal sister
Draw thou near. Fear
not, I give thee safe conduct
A boon, oh Queen
Speak on, my sister; what is there that I can give thee who hath half
our kingdom
Thou canst tell me a true word -- me and the people of Zu-Vendis. Art
thou, or art thou not, about to take this foreign wolf
to be a husband to thee, and share thy
bed and throne
Methinks that yesterday thou hadst other names than wolf to call
me by, oh Queen
Thou seest
I
have put my collar round the "wolf's" neck, and behold! he shall be my
watchdog, and that is my answer to thee, Queen Sorais, my sister, and to
those with thee. Fear not
if my yoke be heavy, yet is it of pure gold, and it shall not
gall thee
Ay,
Lady of the Night, Lords, Priests, and People here gathered together, by
this sign do I take the foreigner to husband, even here in the face of
you all. What, am I a Queen, and yet not free to choose the man whom
I will love? Then should I be lower than the meanest girl in all my
provinces. Nay, he hath won my heart, and with it goes my hand, and
throne, and all I have -- ay, had he been a beggar instead of a great lord
fairer and stronger than any here, and having more wisdom and knowledge
of strange things, I had given him all, how much more so being what he
is
And thinkest thou, Nyleptha
thinkest thou that I, Sorais, a Queen
of the Zu-Vendi, will brook that this base outlander shall sit upon my
father's throne and rear up half-breeds to fill the place of the great
House of the Stairway? Never! never! while there is life in my bosom and
a man to follow me and a spear to strike with. Who is on my side? Who?

'Now hand thou over this foreign wolf and those who came hither to prey
with him to the doom of fire, for have they not committed the deadly sin
against the sun? or, Nyleptha, I give thee War -- red War! Ay, I say to
thee that the path of thy passion shall be marked out by the blazing of
thy towns and watered with the blood of those who cleave to thee. On thy
head rest the burden of the deed, and in thy ears ring the groans of the
dying and the cries of the widows and those who are left fatherless for
ever and for ever.

'I tell thee I will tear thee, Nyleptha, the White Queen, from thy
throne, and that thou shalt be hurled -- ay, hurled even from the topmost
stair of the great way to the foot thereof, in that thou hast covered
the name of the House of him who built it with black shame. And I tell
ye strangers -- all save Bougwan, whom because thou didst do me a service
I will save alive if thou wilt leave these men and follow me
that I will wrap you in sheets of gold and hang you yet alive
in chains from the four golden trumpets of the four angels that fly east
and west and north and south from the giddiest pinnacles of the Temple,
so that ye may be a token and a warning to the land. And as for thee,
Incubu, thou shalt die in yet another fashion that I will not tell thee
now
Ill would it become my place and dignity, oh sister, so to speak as
thou hast spoken and so to threat as thou hast threatened. Yet if thou
wilt make war, then will I strive to bear up against thee, for if my
hand seem soft, yet shalt thou find it of iron when it grips thine
armies by the throat. Sorais, I fear thee not. I weep for that which
thou wilt bring upon our people and on thyself, but for myself I say -- I
fear thee not. Yet thou, who but yesterday didst strive to win my lover
and my lord from me, whom today thou dost call a "foreign wolf", to be
_thy_ lover and _thy_ lord
thou who but last night, as I have learnt but since thou didst
enter here, didst creep like a snake into my sleeping-place -- ay, even by
a secret way, and wouldst have foully murdered me, thy sister, as I lay
asleep
It is false, it is false
It is _not_ false
Where is the haft from which this flew, oh Sorais
It is not false
I took the Lady of the Night by the White Queen's bed, and on my
breast the dagger broke
Who is on my side
What, Bougwan, thou
comest not
Thou pale-souled fool, for a reward thou
shalt eat out thy heart with love of me and not be satisfied, and thou
mightest have been my husband and a king! At least I hold _thee_ in
chains that cannot be broken.

'_War! War! War
Here, with my hand upon the sacred stone
that shall endure, so runs the prophecy, till the Zu-Vendi set their
necks beneath an alien yoke, I declare war to the end. Who follows
Sorais of the Night to victory and honour
Shut the gates
Ah
if I win and am once really Queen, I will break the power of
those priests, with their rites and revels and dark secret ways
Well
if we are not to imprison him, I suppose that
we may as well let him go. He is of no use here
Thinkest thou so, my lord
Eh
No, I do not see what is the use of keeping him
Forgive me, Nyleptha
Dost thou mean
that thou wilt marry me, even now
Nay, I know not; let my lord say
but if my
lord wills, the priest is there and the altar is there
and am I not ready to do the will of my
lord? Listen, oh my lord! In eight days or less thou must leave me and
go down to war, for thou shalt lead my armies, and in war -- men sometimes
fall, and so I would for a little space have had thee all my own, if
only for memory's sake
Mayhap, too
I shall lose my crown, and with my crown my
life and thine also. Sorais is very strong and very bitter, and if she
prevails she will not spare. Who can read the future? Happiness is the
world's White Bird, that alights seldom, and flies fast and far till one
day he is lost in the clouds. Therefore should we hold him fast if by
any chance he rests for a little space upon our hand. It is not wise to
neglect the present for the future, for who knows what the future will
be, Incubu? Let us pluck our flowers while the dew is on them, for when
the sun is up they wither and on the morrow will others bloom that we
shall never see
Well, I cannot execute a High Priest, because there is an absurd
prejudice against it, and I cannot imprison him because all his
subordinates would raise a crying that would bring the stars down on
Zu-Vendis and crush it; but I _can_ leave him to contemplate the
altar of the Sun without anything to eat, because that is his natural
vocation, and if thou wilt not marry me, O Agon! thou shalt be placed
before the altar yonder with nought but a little water till such time as
thou hast reconsidered the matter
Thou dost swear by the Sun that thou wilt take no other woman to wife
unless I lay my hand upon her and bid her come
I swear it
One is quite
enough for me
Ingoldsby
Legends', that I often read when I lie awake at night, accompanied me in
all my later wanderings. I gave it to my poor boy Harry years ago, and
after his death I found it among his things and took it back again.

'Curtis
I am not a clergyman, and I do not know if what I am
going to propose is allowable -- I know it is not legal -- but if you and
the Queen have no objection I should like to read the English marriage
service over you. It is a solemn step which you are taking, and I think
that you ought, so far as circumstances will allow, to give it the
sanction of your own religion
I have thought of that
and I wish you would. I do not feel
half married yet
I,
Henry, take thee, Nyleptha
I, Nyleptha, take
thee, Henry
crying out loudly
What
dress up that little wretch to represent me? Why, I
shall have to get out of the country! My reputation will be ruined for
ever
Here shalt thou meet Sorais' armies. I know the spot, here shalt thou
meet them, and drive them before thee like dust before the storm
Fare thee well, Macumazahn
Remember, I trust to thy wits,
which are as a needle to a spear-handle compared to those of my people,
to save us from Sorais. I know that thou wilt do thy duty
Fare thee well, my lord
Come back with victory, and as a
king, or on thy soldiers' spears
Here
will I greet thee when ye return in triumph.
And now, my lords, once more, farewell
The Queen sends the white stallion as a farewell gift to her Lord
Incubu, and bids me tell my lord that he is the fleetest and most
enduring horse in all the land
My word, Good
you will catch it tomorrow
when those gentlemen charge
Never have I seen the like, Macumazahn, never
The battles
of my people are as the play of children to what this will be. Thinkest
thou that they will fight it out
Ay
to the death. Content thyself, "Woodpecker",
for once shalt thou peck thy fill
_Sorais, Sorais_
Near go that
but all's well that ends well
Ah, monsieur
grace to the sky, it is you! Ah, what I have endured!
But you win, monsieur, you win; they fly, the laches. But listen,
monsieur -- I forget, it is no good; the Queen is to be murdered tomorrow
at the first light in the palace of Milosis; her guards will leave
their posts, and the priests are going to kill her. Ah yes! they little
thought it, but I was ensconced beneath a banner, and I heard it all
What
what do you mean
What I say, monsieur; that devil of a Nasta he went last night to
settle the affair with the Archbishop &lsqb;Agon&rsqb;. The guard will leave open
the little gate leading from the great stair and go away, and Nasta and
Agon's priests will come in and kill her. Themselves they would not kill
her
Come with me
What's wrong, Quatermain
Everything. There is a plot to murder the Queen tomorrow at dawn.
Alphonse here, who has just escaped from Sorais, has overheard it all
At dawn
and it is now sunset; it dawns before four and we
are nearly a hundred miles off -- nine hours at the outside. What is to be
done
Is that horse of yours fresh
Yes, I have only just got on to him -- when my last was killed, and he
has been fed
So is mine. Get off him, and let Umslopogaas mount; he can ride well.
We will be at Milosis before dawn, or if we are not -- well, we cannot
help it. No, no; it is impossible for you to leave now. You would be
seen, and it would turn the fate of the battle. It is not half won yet.
The soldiers would think you were making a bolt of it. Quick now
Now farewell
Send a thousand horsemen with remounts after
us in an hour if possible. Stay, despatch a general to the left wing to
take over the command and explain my absence
You will do your best to save her, Quatermain
Ay, that I will. Go on; you are being left behind
We win the day, Macumazahn
Look, the Lady of the
Night's forces give on every side, there is no stiffness left in them,
they bend like hot iron, they are fighting with but half a heart. But
alas! the battle will in a manner be drawn, for the darkness gathers,
and the regiments will not be able to follow and slay
But
I do not think that they will fight
again. We have fed them with too strong a meat. Ah! it is well to have
lived! At last I have seen a fight worth seeing
Ah
nigh on a hundred miles and no horses but these, and to
be there before the dawn! Well -- away! away! man can but try, Macumazahn;
and mayhap we shall be there in time to split that old "witch-finder's"
 &lsqb;Agon's&rsqb; skull for him. Once he wanted to burn us, the old "rain-maker",
did he? And now he would set a snare for my mother &lsqb;Nyleptha&rsqb;, would he?
Good! So sure as my name is the name of the Woodpecker, so surely, be
my mother alive or dead, will I split him to the beard. Ay, by T'Chaka's
head I swear it
What wilt thou do
Run
Canst thou go farther
or
shall I leave thee to follow me
I reach it or I die
_Open! open
_Open! open!_ a messenger, a messenger with tidings of the
war
What news
And who art thou that ridest so madly,
and who is that whose tongue lolls out
and who
runs by thee like a dog by a chariot
It is the Lord Macumazahn, and with him is his dog, his black dog.
_Open! open!_ I bring tidings
What news, my lord, what news
Incubu rolls Sorais back, as the wind a cloud
Thank God, the palace at last
_Open! open
Is it thou, Kara
I am Macumazahn. Bid the guard let down the
bridge and throw wide the gate. Quick, quick
Where are the guard
I know not
two hours ago, as I slept, was I seized and
bound by the watch under me, and but now, this very moment, have I freed
myself with my teeth. I fear, I greatly fear, that we are betrayed
Who is it
What means this? Oh, Macumazahn, is it thou?
Why lookest thou so wildly? Thou comest as one bearing evil tidings -- and
my lord -- oh, tell me not my lord is dead -- not dead
I left Incubu wounded, but leading the advance against Sorais last
night at sundown; therefore let thy heart have rest. Sorais is beaten
back all along her lines, and thy arms prevail
I knew it
I knew that he would win; and they
called him Outlander, and shook their wise heads when I gave him the
command! Last night at sundown, sayest thou, and it is not yet dawn?
Surely
Throw a cloak around thee, Nyleptha
and give us wine
to drink; ay, and call thy maidens quick if thou wouldst save thyself
alive. Nay, stay not
Follow us and be silent
Now
give us wine to drink and food, if ye have it, for we
are near to death
Hark to me, Nyleptha
Hast
thou here among these thy waiting-ladies any two of discretion
Ay
surely
Then bid them go out by the side entrance to any citizens whom thou
canst bethink thee of as men loyal to thee, and pray them come armed,
with all honest folk that they can gather, to rescue thee from death.
Nay, question not; do as I say, and quickly. Kara here will let out the
maids
Go swiftly and secretly; go for your very lives
Thou seest
they have taken away the door. Is there aught
with which we may fill the place? Speak quickly for they will be on us
ere the daylight
I have it
On the farther side of the courtyard are
blocks of cut marble -- the workmen brought them there for the bed of the
new statue of Incubu, my lord; let us block the door with them
Listen, Macumazahn
if those low fellows come, it
is I who will hold the stair against them till the door is built up.
Nay, nay, it will be a man's death: gainsay me not, old friend. It has
been a good day, let it now be good night. See, I throw myself down to
rest on the marble there; when their footsteps are nigh, wake thou me,
not before, for I need my strength
It is well
I feel as a young man once more. My strength has
come back to me, ay, even as a lamp flares up before it dies. Fear not,
I shall fight a good fight; the wine and the sleep have put a new heart
into me.

'Macumazahn, I have dreamed a dream. I dreamed that thou and I stood
together on a star, and looked down on the world, and thou wast as a
spirit, Macumazahn, for light flamed through thy flesh, but I could not
see what was the fashion of mine own face. The hour has come for us,
old hunter. So be it: we have had our time, but I would that in it I had
seen some more such fights as yesterday's.

'Let them bury me after the fashion of my people, Macumazahn, and set
my eyes towards Zululand
What, comest thou too
Welcome -- a
welcome to thee, brave heart! Ow! for the man who can die like a man;
ow! for the death grip and the ringing of steel. Ow! we are ready. We
wet our beaks like eagles, our spears flash in the sun; we shake our
assegais, and are hungry to fight. Who comes to give greeting to the
Chieftainess &lsqb;Inkosi-kaas&rsqb;? Who would taste her kiss, whereof the fruit
is death? I, the Woodpecker, I, the Slaughterer, I the Swiftfooted! I,
Umslopogaas, of the tribe of the Maquilisini, of the people of Amazulu,
a captain of the regiment of the Nkomabakosi: I, Umslopogaas, the son
of Indabazimbi, the son of Arpi the son of Mosilikaatze, I of the royal
blood of T'Chaka, I of the King's House, I the Ringed Man, I the Induna,
I call to them as a buck calls, I challenge them, I await them. Ow! it
is thou, it is thou
women
Ah, ah
it is thou, old "witch-finder"! Come on! I await thee, white
"medicine man"; come on! come on! I have sworn to slay thee, and I ever
keep my faith
_There's for thee, Rain-maker
I die, I die -- but it was a kingly fray. Where are they who came up the
great stair? I see them not. Art thou there, Macumazahn, or art thou
gone before to wait for me in the dark whither I go? The blood blinds
me -- the place turns round -- I hear the voice of waters
Farewell, Inkosi-kaas
Nay, nay, we will go together; we
cannot part, thou and I. We have lived too long one with another, thou
and I.

'One more stroke, only one! A good stroke! a straight stroke! a
strong stroke
_The prophecy! the
prophecy!_ He has shattered the sacred stone
Ay
Ay, my people, he has shattered the stone, and behold the prophecy is
fulfilled, for a stranger king rules in Zu-Vendis. Incubu, my lord, hath
beat Sorais back, and I fear her no more, and to him who hath saved the
Crown it shall surely be. And this man
twixt sun set and rise to save me from the plots of cruel
men. Ay, and he has saved me, by a very little, and therefore because of
the deeds that they have done -- deeds of glory such as our history cannot
show the like -- therefore I say that the name of Macumazahn and the name
of dead Umslopogaas, ay, and the name of Kara, my servant, who aided him
to hold the stair, shall be blazoned in letters of gold above my throne,
and shall be glorious for ever while the land endures. I, the Queen,
have said it
horse which saved the White Queen's life
How are you getting on, old chap
What are you doing here
You ought to be at
M'Arstuna -- have you run away, or what
M'Arstuna
Ah, M'Arstuna fell last
week -- you've been unconscious for a fortnight, you see -- with all the
honours of war, you know -- trumpets blowing, flags flying, just as though
they had had the best of it; but for all that, weren't they glad to go.
Israel made for his tents, I can tell you -- never saw such a sight in my
life
And Sorais
Sorais -- oh, Sorais is a prisoner; they gave her up, the scoundrels
sacrificed the Queen to save their skins,
you see. She is being brought up here, and I don't know what will happen
to her, poor soul
Where is Curtis
He is with Nyleptha. She rode out to meet us today, and there was
a grand to-do, I can tell you. He is coming to see you tomorrow; the
doctors (for there is a medical "faculty" in Zu-Vendis as elsewhere)
thought that he had better not come today
Monsieur must
now couch himself
So you are here
Mais oui, Monsieur; the war is now finished, my military instincts are
satisfied, and I return to nurse Monsieur
And what art thou going to do with Sorais
Sorais
ah, but Sorais
You will soon be about and all right again now, old fellow
Don't deceive yourselves
I may be about for a little, but
I shall never be all right again. I am a dying man, Curtis. I may die
slow, but die I must. Do you know I have been spitting blood all the
morning? I tell you there is something working away into my lung; I can
feel it. There, don't look distressed; I have had my day, and am ready
to go. Give me the mirror, will you? I want to look at myself
Ah
I thought so; and you talk of my getting all
right
Thou dost forget,
Macumazahn
I am no more a Queen, save in blood; I am an
outcast and a prisoner, one whom all men should scorn, and none show
deference to
At least
thou art still a lady, and therefore one to whom
deference is due. Also, thou art in an evil case, and therefore it is
doubly due
Ah
thou dost forget that I
would have wrapped thee in a sheet of gold and hung thee to the angel's
trumpet at the topmost pinnacle of the Temple
No
I assure thee that I forgot it not; indeed, I often
thought of it when it seemed to me that the battle of the Pass was
turning against us; but the trumpet is there, and I am still here,
though perchance not for long, so why talk of it now
Ah
the battle! the battle! Oh, would that I were once
more a Queen, if only for one little hour, and I would take such a
vengeance on those accursed jackals who deserted me in my need; that it
should only be spoken of in whispers; those woman, those pigeon-hearted
half-breeds who suffered themselves to be overcome
Ay, and that little coward beside thee
he escaped and betrayed my plans. I tried to make a general of him,
telling the soldiers it was Bougwan, and to scourge valour into him
but it was of no
avail. He hid beneath a banner in my tent and thus overheard my plans. I
would that I had slain him, but, alas! I held my hand.

'And thou, Macumazahn, I have heard of what thou didst; thou art brave,
and hast a loyal heart. And the black one too, ah, he was a _man_. I
would fain have seen him hurl Nasta from the stairway
Thou art a strange woman, Sorais
I pray thee now plead with
the Queen Nyleptha, that perchance she may show mercy unto thee
I plead for mercy
Greeting, Sorais
Thou hast rent
the kingdom like a rag, thou hast put thousands of my people to the
sword, thou hast twice basely plotted to destroy my life by murder, thou
hast sworn to slay my lord and his companions and to hurl me from the
Stairway. What hast thou to say why thou shouldst not die? Speak, O
Sorais
Methinks my sister the Queen hath forgotten the chief count of the
indictment
It runs thus:
"Thou didst strive to win the love of my lord Incubu." It is for this
crime that my sister will slay me, not because I levied war. It is
perchance happy for thee, Nyleptha, that I fixed my mind upon his love
too late.

'Listen
I have nought to say save
that I would I had won instead of lost. Do thou with me even as
thou wilt, O Queen, and let my lord the King there
for now will he be King -- carry out the sentence, as it is meet
he should, for as he is the beginning of the evil, let him also be the
end
twixt thee and me, my sister. But now thou knowest in what
sort thou hast repaid me, but I have prevailed, and thy life is forfeit,
Sorais. And yet art thou my sister, born at a birth with me, and we
played together when we were little and loved each other much, and at
night we slept in the same cot with our arms each around the other's
neck, and therefore even now does my heart go out to thee, Sorais.

'But not for that would I spare thy life, for thy offence has been too
heavy; it doth drag down the wide wings of my mercy even to the ground.
Also, while thou dost live the land will never be at peace.

'Yet shalt thou not die, Sorais, because my dear lord here hath begged
thy life of me as a boon; therefore as a boon and as a marriage gift
give I it to him, to do with even as he wills, knowing that, though
thou dost love him, he loves thee not, Sorais, for all thy beauty. Nay,
though thou art lovely as the night in all her stars, O Lady of the
Night, yet it is me his wife whom he loves, and not thee, and therefore
do I give thy life to him
I understand
I understood that he
were attached -- eh -- attached to -- to the Queen Sorais. I am -- eh -- not aware
what the -- in short, the state of your feelings may be just now; but if
they happened to be that way inclined, it has struck me that -- in short,
it might put a satisfactory end to an unpleasant business. The lady also
has ample private estates, where I am sure she would be at liberty to
live unmolested as far as we are concerned, eh, Nyleptha? Of course, I
only suggest
So far as I am concerned
I am quite willing
to forget the past; and if the Lady of the Night thinks me worth the
taking I will marry her tomorrow, or when she likes, and try to make her
a good husband
I thank thee, most gracious Queen and royal sister, for the
loving-kindness thou hast shown me from my youth up, and especially in
that thou hast been pleased to give my person and my fate as a gift
to the Lord Incubu -- the King that is to be. May prosperity, peace and
plenty deck the life-path of one so merciful and so tender, even as
flowers do. Long mayst thou reign, O great and glorious Queen, and hold
thy husband's love in both thy hands, and many be the sons and daughters
of thy beauty. And I thank thee, my Lord Incubu -- the King that is to
be -- I thank thee a thousand times in that thou hast been pleased to
accept that gracious gift, and to pass it on to thy comrade in arms
and in adventure, the Lord Bougwan. Surely the act is worthy of thy
greatness, my Lord Incubu. And now, lastly, I thank thee also, my Lord
Bougwan, who in thy turn hast deigned to accept me and my poor beauty.
I thank thee a thousand times, and I will add that thou art a good and
honest man, and I put my hand upon my heart and swear that I would that
I could say thee "yea". And now that I have rendered thanks to all in
turn
I will add one short word.

'Little can you understand of me, Queen Nyleptha and my lords, if ye
know not that for me there is no middle path; that I scorn your pity and
hate you for it; that I cast off your forgiveness as though it were a
serpent's sting; and that standing here, betrayed, deserted, insulted,
and alone, I yet triumph over you, mock you, and defy you, one and all,
and _thus_ I answer you
_Macumazahn, Macumazahn
As the breath of the oxen
in winter, as the quick star that runs along the sky, as a little shadow
that loses itself at sunset
_I have spoken
_I have spoken_
Oh, oui, c'est beau
mais je m'ennuie; ce n'est pas chic
At last
I have seen Good
without his eyeglass
In a very few minutes
I shall
have passed through those golden gates
I am going a stranger journey than any we have ever taken together.
Think of me sometimes
God bless you all. I shall wait
for you
I have studied human nature
all my life
and I ought to know something about it
will not do
so
</text>
