<text>
Good morning, Philip
Good morning, Laura. Good morning, Charles; I am glad you are
downstairs again! How are you to-day
No way remarkable, thank you
You walked
Yes. Where's my uncle? I called at the post-office, and brought a
letter for him. It has the Moorworth post-mark
Where's that
The post-town to Redclyffe; Sir Guy Morville's place
That old Sir Guy! What can he have to do with my father
Did you not know
that my uncle is to be guardian to the
boy -- his grandson
Eh? No, I did not
Yes
when old Sir Guy made it an especial point that my
father should take the guardianship, he only consented on condition
that my uncle should be joined with him; so now my uncle is alone in
the trust, and I cannot help thinking something must have happened at
Redclyffe. It is certainly not Sir Guy's writing
It must wait, unless your curiosity will carry you out in search of
papa
he is somewhere about, zealously supplying the
place of Jenkins
Really, Philip
there is no telling how much good you
have done him by convincing him of Jenkins' dishonesty. To say nothing
of the benefit of being no longer cheated, the pleasure of having to
overlook the farming is untold
Do you know
this place
Stylehurst itself! What is it taken from
From this pencil sketch of your sister's, which I found in mamma's
scrap book
You are making it very like, only the spire is too slender, and that
tree -- can't you alter the foliage?-- it is an ash
Is it? I took it for an elm
And surely those trees in the foreground should be greener, to throw
back the middle distance. That is the peak of South Moor exactly, if it
looked further off
Laura! Are you there? Open the door, and you will see
Thank you! Oh, is it you, Philip? Oh, don't take it. I must bring my
own camellia to show Charlie
You make the most of that one flower
Only see how many buds
Now, Amy
you
must let me put it into the window, for you. It is too heavy for you
Oh, take care
O Amy, I am very sorry. What a pity! How did it happen
Never mind
it will last a long time in water
It was very unlucky -- I am very sorry -- especially because of the
horticultural show
Make all your apologies to Sam
his feelings will be more
hurt than mine. I dare say my poor flower would have caught cold at the
show, and never held up its head again
Winking away a tear, O Amy
I never nursed a dear gazelle
Ha! Eh? Let us look. Not old Sir Guy's hand. Eh? What can be the
matter? What? Dead! This is a sudden thing
Dead! Who? Sir Guy Morville
Yes, quite suddenly -- poor old man
Mamma; just step here a minute, will you,
mamma
Do you hear this, mamma? Here's a shocking thing! Sir
Guy Morville dead, quite suddenly
Indeed! Well, poor man, I suppose no one ever repented or suffered more
than he. Who writes
His grandson -- poor boy! I can hardly make out his letter
Poor fellow
he writes with a great deal of proper
feeling
How very sad for him to be left alone there
Very sad -- very
I must start off to him at
once -- yes, at once. Should you not say so -- eh, Philip
Certainly. I think I had better go with you. It would be the correct
thing, and I should not like to fail in any token of respect for poor
old Sir Guy
Of course -- of course
it would be the correct
thing. I am sure he was always very civil to us, and you are next heir
after this boy
That is not worth a thought; but since he and I
are now the only representatives of the two branches of the house of
Morville, it shall not be my fault if the enmity is not forgotten
Buried in oblivion would sound more magnanimous
So you are there, inquisitive pussy-cat
Charlotte, what business have you here
Poor child
How old is he
He is of the same age as Laura -- seventeen and a half
Don't you remember my brother saying what a satisfaction
it was to see such a noble baby as she was, after such a poor little
miserable thing as the one at Redclyffe
He is grown into a fine spirited fellow
I suppose we must have him here
Certainly; I should think it very good for him. Indeed, his
grandfather's death has happened at a most favourable time for him. The
poor old man had such a dread of his going wrong that he kept him
I know -- as tight as a drum
With strictness that I should think very bad for a boy of his impatient
temper. It would have been a very dangerous experiment to send him at
once among the temptations of Oxford, after such discipline and solitude
as he has been used to
Don't talk of it
We must do the best we can with him, for I
have got him on my hands till he is five-and-twenty -- his grandfather
has tied him up till then. If we can keep him out of mischief, well and
good; if not, it can't be helped
You have him all to yourself
Ay, to my sorrow. If your poor father was alive, Philip, I should be
free of all care. I've a pretty deal on my hands
All that great Redclyffe estate is no
sinecure, to say nothing of the youth himself. If all the world will
come to me, I can't help it. I must go and speak to the men, if I am to
be off to Redclyffe tomorrow. Will you come, Philip
I must go back soon, thank you
I must see about my
leave; only we should first settle when to set off
Isn't there a ghost at Redclyffe
So it is said
though I don't think it is
certain whose it is. There is a room called Sir Hugh's Chamber, over
the gateway, but the honour of naming it is undecided between Hugo de
Morville, who murdered Thomas a Becket, and his namesake, the first
Baronet, who lived in the time of William of Orange, when the quarrel
began with our branch of the family. Do you know the history of it,
aunt
It was about some property
though I don't know
the rights of it. But the Morvilles were always a fiery, violent race,
and the enmity once begun between Sir Hugh and his brother, was kept
up, generation after generation, in a most unjustifiable way. Even I
can remember when the Morvilles of Redclyffe used to be spoken of in our
family like a sort of ogres
Not undeservedly, I should think
This poor old man, who
is just dead, ran a strange career. Stories of his duels and mad freaks
are still extant
Poor man! I believe he went all lengths
What was the true version of that horrible story about his son
Did he strike him
Oh, no! it was bad enough without that
How
He was an only child, and lost his mother early. He was very ill
brought up, and was as impetuous and violent as Sir Guy himself, though
with much kindliness and generosity. He was only nineteen when he made a
runaway marriage with a girl of sixteen, the sister of a violin player,
who was at that time in fashion. His father was very much offended, and
there was much dreadfully violent conduct on each side. At last, the
young man was driven to seek a reconciliation. He brought his wife to
Moorworth, and rode to Redclyffe, to have an interview with his father.
Unhappily, Sir Guy was giving a dinner to the hunt, and had been
drinking. He not only refused to see him, but I am afraid he used
shocking language, and said something about bidding him go back to
his fiddling brother in-law. The son was waiting in the hall, heard
everything, threw himself on his horse, and rushed away in the dark. His
forehead struck against the branch of a tree, and he was killed on the
spot
The poor wife
She died the next day, when this boy was born
Frightful
It might well make a reformation in old Sir
Guy
I have heard that nothing could be more awful than the stillness
that fell on that wretched party, even before they knew what had
happened -- before Colonel Harewood, who had been called aside by the
servants, could resolve to come and fetch away the father. No wonder Sir
Guy was a changed man from that hour
It was then that he sent for my father
But what made him think of doing so
You know Colonel Harewood's house at Stylehurst? Many years ago, when
the St. Mildred's races used to be so much more in fashion, Sir Guy and
Colonel Harewood, and some men of that stamp, took that house amongst
them, and used to spend some time there every year, to attend to
something about the training of the horses. There were some malpractices
of their servants, that did so much harm in the parish, that my brother
was obliged to remonstrate. Sir Guy was very angry at first, but behaved
better at last than any of the others. I suspect he was struck by
my dear brother's bold, uncompromising ways, for he took to him to a
certain degree -- and my brother could not help being interested in him,
there seemed to be so much goodness in his nature. I saw him once, and
never did I meet any one who gave me so much the idea of a finished
gentleman. When the poor son was about fourteen, he was with a tutor in
the neighbourhood, and used to be a good deal at Stylehurst, and, after
the unhappy marriage, my brother happened to meet him in London, heard
his story, and tried to bring about a reconciliation
Ha
did not they come to Stylehurst? I have a dim
recollection of somebody very tall, and a lady who sung
Yes; your father asked them to stay there, that he might judge of her,
and wrote to Sir Guy that she was a little, gentle, childish thing,
capable of being moulded to anything, and representing the mischief of
leaving them to such society as that of her brother, who was actually
maintaining them. That letter was never answered, but about ten days
or a fortnight after this terrible accident, Colonel Harewood wrote to
entreat my brother to come to Redclyffe, saying poor Sir Guy had eagerly
caught at the mention of his name. Of course he went at once, and he
told me that he never, in all his experience as a clergyman, saw any one
so completely broken down with grief
and it was a very touching one that he wrote to me on my
father's death. Those Redclyffe people certainly have great force of
character
And was it then he settled his property on my uncle
Yes
My brother did not like his doing so, but
he would not be at rest till it was settled. It was in vain to put him
in mind of his grandchild, for he would not believe it could live; and,
indeed, its life hung on a thread. I remember my brother telling me how
he went to Moorworth to see it -- for it could not be brought home -- in
hopes of bringing, back a report that might cheer its grandfather, but
how he found it so weak and delicate, that he did not dare to try to
make him take interest in it. It was not till the child was two or three
years old, that Sir Guy ventured to let himself grow fond of it
Sir Guy was a very striking person
I shall not easily
forget my visit to Redclyffe four years ago. It was more like a scene in
a romance than anything real -- the fine old red sandstone house crumbling
away in the exposed parts, the arched gateway covered with ivy; the
great quadrangle where the sun never shone, and full of echoes; the
large hall and black wainscoted rooms, which the candles never would
light up. It is a fit place to be haunted
That poor boy alone there
I am glad you and
your uncle are going to him
Tell us about him
He was the most incongruous thing there
There was a
calm, deep melancholy about the old man added to the grand courtesy
which showed he had been what old books call a fine gentleman, that made
him suit his house as a hermit does his cell, or a knight his castle;
but breaking in on this "penseroso" scene, there was Guy
In what way
Always in wild spirits, rushing about, playing antics, provoking the
solemn echoes with shouting, whooping, singing, whistling. There was
something in that whistle of his that always made me angry
How did this suit old Sir Guy
It was curious to see how Guy could rattle on to him, pour out the
whole history of his doings, laughing, rubbing his hands, springing
about with animation -- all with as little answer as if he had been
talking to a statue
Do you mean that Sir Guy did not like it
He did in his own way. There was now and then a glance or a nod, to
show that he was attending; but it was such slight encouragement, that
any less buoyant spirits must have been checked
Did you like him, on the whole
I hope he has not
this tremendous Morville temper? Oh, you don't say so. What a grievous
thing
He is a fine fellow
but I did not think Sir Guy managed
him well. Poor old man, he was quite wrapped up in him, and only thought
how to keep him out of harm's way. He would never let him be with other
boys, and kept him so fettered by rules, so strictly watched, and so
sternly called to account, that I cannot think how any boy could stand
it
Yet, you say, he told everything freely to his grandfather
Yes
I was going to say that, as long as that went
on, I should think all safe.

'As I said before
he has a great deal of frankness,
much of the making of a fine character; but he is a thorough Morville. I
remember something that will show you his best and worst sides. You know
Redclyffe is a beautiful place, with magnificent cliffs overhanging the
sea, and fine woods crowning them. On one of the most inaccessible
of these crags there was a hawk's nest, about half-way down, so that
looking from the top of the precipice, we could see the old birds fly
in and out. Well, what does Master Guy do, but go down this headlong
descent after the nest. How he escaped alive no one could guess; and his
grandfather could not bear to look at the place afterwards -- but climb
it he did, and came back with two young hawks, buttoned up inside his
jacket
There's a regular brick for you
His heart was set on training these birds. He turned the library upside
down in search of books on falconry, and spent every spare moment on
them. At last, a servant left some door open, and they escaped. I shall
never forget Guy's passion; I am sure I don't exaggerate when I say he
was perfectly beside himself with anger
Poor boy
Served the rascal right
Nothing had any effect on him till his grandfather came out, and, at
the sight of him, he was tamed in an instant, hung his head, came up to
his grandfather, and said --"I am very sorry," Sir Guy answered, "My poor
boy!" and there was not another word. I saw Guy no more that day, and
all the next he was quiet and subdued. But the most remarkable part of
the story is to come. A couple of days afterwards we were walking in
the woods, when, at the sound of Guy's whistle, we heard a flapping and
rustling, and beheld, tumbling along, with their clipped wings, these
two identical hawks, very glad to be caught. They drew themselves up
proudly for him to stroke them, and their yellow eyes looked at him with
positive affection
Pretty creatures
That is a very nice end to the story
It is not the end
I was surprised to see Guy so sober,
instead of going into one of his usual raptures. He took them home; but
the first thing I heard in the morning was, that he was gone to offer
them to a farmer, to keep the birds from his fruit
Did he do it of his own accord
That was just what I wanted to know; but any hint about them brought
such a cloud over his face that I thought it would be wanton to irritate
him by questions. However, I must be going. Good-bye, Amy, I hope your
Camellia will have another blossom before I come back. At least, I shall
escape the horticultural meeting
Good-bye
Put the feud in your pocket till you can
bury it in old Sir Guy's grave, unless you mean to fight it out with his
grandson, which would be more romantic and exciting
Charlie, I wish you would not let your spirits carry
you away
I wish I had anything else to carry me away
Yes
Your high spirits are a
blessing; but why misuse them? If they are given to support you through
pain and confinement, why make mischief with them
Now
I must go and see after my poor little
prisoner
Ah
it was no kindness in you to encourage
Charlotte to stay, Amy, when you know how often that inquisitive temper
has got her into scrapes
I suppose so
but I had not the heart to send
her away
That is just what Philip says, that you only want bones and sinews in
your character to
Come, Laura
I won't hear Philip's criticisms
of my sister, I had rather she had no bones at all, than that they stuck
out and ran into me. There are plenty of angles already in the world,
without sharpening hers
soft
pinky cushions
not meant for studying anatomy
upon
Ah! you two spoil each other sadly
And what do Philip and Laura do to each other
Improve each other, I suppose
I wish I was as sensible as Laura
Never was a more absurd wish
unwish it forthwith. Where should I be
without silly little Amy? If every one weighed my wit before laughing, I
should not often be in disgrace for my high spirits, as they call them
I am so little younger than Laura
Folly
you are quite wise enough for your age, while
Laura is so prematurely wise, that I am in constant dread that nature
will take her revenge by causing her to do something strikingly
foolish
Nonsense
Laura do anything foolish
What I should enjoy
would be to see her over head
and ears in love with this hero, and Philip properly jealous
How can you say such things, Charlie
Why? was there ever a beauty who did not fall in love with her father's
ward
No; but she ought to live alone with her very old father and horribly
grim maiden aunt
Very well, Amy, you shall be the maiden, aunt
If his guardian had a beautiful daughter
Did you ever hear such barefaced fishing for compliments
It is striking six, so they must soon be here. I wish mamma would let
me go down; but I must wait till after dinner
Then, Charlotte, as soon as you come in, hold up your hands, and
exclaim, "What a guy!" There will be a compliment
No, Charlie; I promised mamma and Laura that you should get me into no
more scrapes
Did you? The next promise you make had better depend upon yourself
alone
But Amy said I must be quiet, because poor Sir Guy will be too
sorrowful to like a racket; and when Amy tells me to be quiet, I know
that I must, indeed
Most true
Do you think you shall like Sir Guy
I shall be able to determine
when I
have seen whether he brushes his hair to the right or left
Philip brushes his to the left
Then undoubtedly Sir Guy will brush his to the right
Is there not some horrid story about those Morvilles of Redclyffe
I asked Laura, and she told me not to be curious, so
I knew there was something in it; and then I asked Amy, and she said it
would be no pleasure to me to know
Ah! I would have you prepared
Why, what is it? Oh! dear Charlie! are you really going to tell me
Did you ever hear of a deadly feud
I have read of them in the history of Scotland. They went on hating
and killing each other for ever. There was one man who made his enemy's
children eat out of a pig-trough, and another who cut off his head
His own
No, his enemy's, and put it on the table, at breakfast, with a piece of
bread in its mouth
Very well; whenever Sir Guy serves up Philip's head at breakfast, with
a piece of bread in his mouth, let me know
Charles, what do you mean? Such things don't
happen now
Nevertheless, there is a deadly feud between the two branches of the
house of Morville
But it is very wrong
Wrong? Of course it is
Philip won't do anything wrong. But how will they ever get on
Don't you see? It must be our serious endeavour to keep the peace, and
prevent occasions of discord
Do you think anything will happen
It is much to be apprehended
Papa and Sir Guy are come, but
not Philip; I can't see him anywhere
Ah you have not looked in Sir Guy's great-coat pocket
I wish you would not plague me so! You are not in earnest
He is come
Very gentlemanlike
Very pleasant looking
Such fine eyes
And so much expression
Oh
Here is poor Charles
come in, and see him; get over
the first introduction -- eh, Guy
Well, Charlie, boy, how goes it
Better,
eh? Sorry not to find you down-stairs; but I have brought Guy to
see you
A fine chance for you, as I was telling him, to have a
companion always at hand: a fine chance? eh, Charlie
I am not so unreasonable as to expect any one to be always at hand
O, Bustle! Bustle! I am very sorry
O you beauty
Come here, you fine fellow
Ah! I was afraid you would repent of your kindness
Not at all, not at all
mamma never objects to
in-door pets, eh, Amy
A tender subject, papa
poor Pepper
Are you sure you don't dislike it
I? O no. Here, you fine creature
Come, then, behave like a rational dog, since you are come
Well, old fellow
did you ever see the like of such a
dressing-gown? Are you satisfied? Give me your paw, and let us swear an
eternal friendship
I am quite glad to see a dog in the house again
One of my father's well-judged proceedings
That
poor fellow had rather have gone a dozen, miles further than have been
lugged in here. Really, if papa chooses to inflict such dressing-gowns
on me, he should give me notice before he brings men and dogs to make me
their laughing-stock
An unlucky moment
Will my cheeks ever cool
Perhaps he did not hear
You did not ask about Philip
He is staying at Thorndale, and then going to St. Mildred's
I hope you are relieved
And what do you think of Sir Guy
May he only be worthy of his dog
Ah
many men are neither worthy of their wives, nor of
their dogs
Dr. Henley, I suppose, is the foundation of that aphorism
If Margaret Morville could marry him, she could hardly be too worthy
Think of throwing away Philip's whole soul
O Laura, she could not lose that
Well,
Charlie, well, young ladies, is not he a fine fellow -- eh
Rather under-sized
Eh? He'll grow. He is not eighteen, you know; plenty of time; a very
good height; you can't expect every one to be as tall as Philip; but
he's a capital fellow. And how have you been?-- any pain
Hem -- rather
Ah, that's a pity; I was sorry not to find you in the drawing-room, but
I thought you would have liked just to see him
I had rather have had some notice of your intention
I
would have made myself fit to be seen
I am sorry. I thought you would have liked his coming
but I see you are not
well this evening
You should only hear them talk about him at Redclyffe
No one was ever equal to him, according to them. Every one
said the same -- clergyman, old Markham, all of them. Such attention to
his grandfather, such proper feeling, so good-natured, not a bit of
pride -- it is my firm belief that he will make up for all his family
before him
How does he get on with Philip
Excellently. Just what could be wished. Philip is delighted with him;
and I have been telling Guy all the way home what a capital friend he
will be, and he is quite inclined to look up to him
I told him
to bring his dog. He would have left it, but they seemed so fond of each
other, I thought it was a pity to part them, and that I could promise it
should be welcome here; eh, mamma
Certainly. I am very glad you brought it
Hum
Another swan of my father's
Did not you like his looks
I saw only an angular hobbetyhoy
But every one at Redclyffe speaks so well of him
As if the same things were not said of every heir to more acres than
brains! However, I could have swallowed everything but the disposition
to adore Philip. Either it was gammon on his part, or else the work of
my father's imagination
For shame, Charlie
Is it within the bounds of probability that he should be willing, at
the bidding of his guardian, to adopt as Mentor his very correct and
sententious cousin, a poor subaltern, and the next in the entail? Depend
upon it, it is a fiction created either by papa's hopes or Philip's
self-complacency, or else the unfortunate youth must have been brought
very low by strait-lacing and milk-and-water
Mr. Thorndale is willing to look up to Philip
I don't think the Thorndale swan very -- very much better than a tame
goose
but the coalition is not so monstrous in his
case, since Philip was a friend of his own picking and choosing, and
so his father's adoption did not succeed in repelling him. But that
Morville should receive this "young man's companion," on the word of a
guardian whom he never set eyes on before, is too incredible -- utterly
mythical I assure you, Amy. And how did you get on at dinner
Oh, the dog is the most delightful creature I ever saw, so sensible and
well-mannered
It was of the man that I asked
He said hardly anything, and sometimes started if papa spoke to him
suddenly. He winced as if he could not bear to be called Sir Guy, so
papa said we should call him only by his name, if he would do the same
by us. I am glad of it, for it seems more friendly, and I am sure he
wants to be comforted
Don't waste your compassion, my dear; few men need it less. With his
property, those moors to shoot over, his own master, and with health to
enjoy it, there are plenty who would change with him for all your pity,
my silly little Amy
Surely not, with that horrible ancestry
All very well to plume oneself upon. I rather covet that ghost myself
Well, if you watched his face, I think you would be sorry for him
I am tired of the sound of his name. One fifth of November is enough in
the year. Here, find something to read to me among that trumpery
Noble
and yet
what a pity! If my grandfather had but known it
Ah! I was convinced of _that_
and so, I am
sure, was Philip himself; but in fact he knew we should never have given
our consent, so he acted quite by himself, wrote to Lord Thorndale, and
never said a word, even to his sisters, till the thing was done. I never
was more surprised in my life
One would almost envy him the opportunity of making such a sacrifice
It was done in a hasty spirit of independence
I believe if he had got a fellowship at Oxford, it would have answered
much better
And now that poor Fanny is dead, and Margaret married, there is all
his expensive education thrown away, and all for nothing
Ah
he planned for them to go on living at
Stylehurst, so that it would still have been his home. It is a
great pity, for his talent is thrown away, and he is not fond of his
profession
You must not suppose, though, that he is not a practical man
I had rather take his opinion than any one's, especially
about a horse, and there is no end to what I hear about his good sense,
and the use he is of to the other young men
You should tell about Mr. Thorndale, papa
Ah that is a feather in master Philip's cap; besides, he is your
neighbour -- at least, his father is
I suppose you know Lord Thorndale
I have seen him once at the Quarter Sessions
but he
lives on the other side of Moorworth, and there was no visiting
Well, this youth, James Thorndale, the second son, was Philip's fag
Philip says he was always licking him
Lord Thorndale was very much obliged to him, had him to stay at his
house, took pretty much to him altogether. It was through him that
Philip applied for his commission, and he has put his son into the same
regiment, on purpose to have him under Philip's eye. There he is at
Broadstone, as gentlemanlike a youth as I would wish to see. We will
have him to dinner some day, and Maurice too -- eh, mamma? Maurice -- he is
a young Irish cousin of my own, a capital fellow at the bottom, but a
regular thoroughgoing rattle. That was my doing. I told his father that
he could not do better than put him into the -- th. Nothing like a steady
friend and a good example, I said, and Kilcoran always takes my advice,
and I don't think he has been sorry. Maurice has kept much more out of
scrapes of late
O papa
Maurice has been out riding on a hired
horse, racing with Mr. Gordon, and the horse tumbled down at the bottom
of East-hill, and broke its knees
That's the way
the instant my back is turned
What use shall I make of him
What use shall I make of him
He
won't be worth his salt if he goes on in this way; he has got a graver
specimen of literature there than I ever saw Philip himself read on
a week-day; he has been puritanized till he is good for nothing; I'll
trouble myself no more about him
Plague! I can't keep my thoughts off him. That sober
look does not sit on that sun-burnt face as if it were native to it;
those eyes don't look as if the Redclyffe spirit was extinguished
You sing better I than any of us
I beg your pardon
I could not help it; I know
nothing of music
Really
I don't even know the notes
Then you must have a very good ear. Let us try again
I have not wanted light
This Sunday twilight is a quiet time for thinking
Yes
how few Sundays ago
Ah! you had so little preparation
None. That very morning he had done business with Markham, and had
never been more clear and collected
Were you with him when he was taken ill
No; it was just before dinner. I had been shooting, and went into the
library to tell him where I had been. He was well then, for he spoke,
but it was getting dark, and I did not see his face. I don't think I
was ten minutes dressing, but when I came down, he had sunk back in his
chair. I saw it was not sleep -- I rang -- and when Arnaud came, we knew how
it was
Did he recover his consciousness
Yes, that was _the_ comfort
It was after he had
been bled that he seemed to wake up. He could not speak or move, but he
looked at me -- or -- I don't know what I should have done
You had great reason to be attached to him
Indeed, indeed I had
He was everything to
me, everything from the first hour I can recollect. He never let me
miss my parents. How he attended to all my pleasures and wishes, how he
watched and cared for me, and bore with me, even I can never know
When the first pain of the sudden parting has passed
you
will like to remember the affection which you knew how to value
If I had but known
but there was I, hasty, reckless,
disregarding his comfort, rebelling against -- O, what would I not give to
have those restraints restored
It is what we all feel in such losses
There is
always much to wish otherwise; but I am sure you can have the happiness
of knowing you were his great comfort
It was what I ought to have been
That is worst of all
and you must not trust what they say
of me. They would be sure to praise me, if I was anything short of a
brute
I want to ask something -- a great favour -- but you make me venture. You
see how I am left alone -- you know how little I can trust myself. Will
you take me in hand -- let me talk to you -- and tell me if I am wrong, as
freely as if I were Charles? I know it is asking a great deal, but you
knew my grandfather, and it is in his name
Indeed I will, if I see any occasion
You will let me trust to you to tell me when I get too vehement? above
all, when you see my temper failing? Thank you; you don't know what a
relief it is
But you must not call yourself alone. You are one of us now
Yes; since you have made that promise
I must look on you as a kind of nephew
I used to
hear so much of you from my brother
Oh
Archdeacon Morville was always so kind to
me. I remember him very well
Ah! I wish
it is not
right to wish such things -- and Philip is very like his father
I am very glad his regiment is so near. I want to know him better
You knew him at Redclyffe, when he was staying there
Yes
but I was a boy then, and a
very foolish, headstrong one. I am glad to meet him again. What a
grand-looking person he is
We are very proud of him
I don't
think there has been an hour's anxiety about him since he was born
Mamma, tete-a-tete with the silent one
I will not tell you all I think of him
Hum
That means that my lady mother has adopted
him, and thinks I should laugh at her, or straightway set up a dislike
to him, knowing my contempt for heroes and hero-worship. It's a treat
to have Philip out of the way, and if it was but possible to get out of
hearing of his perfection, I should have some peace. If I thought this
fellow had one spice of the kind, I'd never trouble my head about him
more; and yet I don't believe he has such a pair of hawk's eyes for
nothing
You think this is not very satisfactory
Don't mind saying so. Philip and I often agree that it is a
pity spend so much time in laughing at nothing -- at such nonsense
It is nonsense
Listen -- no don't, it is too silly
Nonsense must be an excellent thing if it makes people so happy
Look at them; they are like -- not a picture -- that has
no life -- but a dream -- or, perhaps a scene in a play
Did you never see anything like it
Oh, no! All the morning calls I ever saw were formal, every one stiff,
and speaking by rote, or talking politics. How glad I used to be to get
on horseback again! But to see these -- why, it is like the shepherd's
glimpse at the pixies!-- as one reads a new book, or watches what one
only half understands -- a rook's parliament, or a gathering of sea-fowl
on the Shag Rock
A rook's parliament
The people at home call it a rook's parliament when a whole cloud of
rooks settle on some bare, wide common, and sit there as if they were
consulting, not feeding, only stalking about, with drooping wings, and
solemn, black cloaks
You have found a flattering simile
as you know that
rooks never open their mouths without cause
Have you read anything
I am afraid I am very ignorant of modern books
Have you read the ancient ones
I've had nothing else to read
Nothing to read but ancient books
Sanchoniathon, Manetho, Berosus, and Ocellus Lucanus
There, Amy
if he has the Vicar of Wakefield among his
ancient books, you need not pity him
It is like Philip
he was brought up on the old standard
books, instead of his time being frittered away on the host of idle
modern ones
He was free to concentrate his attention on Sir Charles Grandison
How could any one do so
How could any one have any
sympathy with such a piece of self-satisfaction
Who could? Eh, Laura
I never read it
What is your opinion of perfect heroes
Here comes one
True
I have often been struck by finding how ignorant
people are, even of Shakspeare; and I believe the blame chiefly rests on
the cheap rubbish in which Charlie is nearly walled up there
Ay
and who haunts that rubbish at the beginning of
every month? I suppose to act as pioneer, though whether any one but
Laura heeds his warnings, remains to be proved
Laura does heed
I made her read me the part of Dombey that hurts women's feelings
most, just to see if she would go on -- the part about little Paul -- and
I declare, I shall think the worse of her ever after -- she was so stony
hearted, that to this day she does not know whether he is dead or
alive
I can't quite say I don't know whether he lived or died
for I found Amy in a state that alarmed me, crying in the green-house,
and I was very glad to find it was nothing worse than little Paul
I wish you would have read it
Won't you
Well done, Amy
In the very face of the young man's
companion
Philip does not really think it wrong
No
those books open fields of thought, and as their
principles are negative, they are not likely to hurt a person well armed
with the truth
Meaning
that Guy and Laura have your gracious
permission to read Dombey
When Laura has a cold or toothache
And I
I am not sure about, the expediency for you
it would be
a pity to begin with Dickens, when there is so much of a higher grade
equally new to you. I suppose you do not understand Italian
No
If you did, I should not recommend you the translation
of "I promessi Sponsi," one of the most beautiful books in any language.
You have it in English, I think, Laura
thank you
where is the original
il pane del perdono
I will
make Thorndale drive me out if you will give him a dinner
Of course, of course
we shall be delighted. We
were talking of asking him, a day or two ago; eh, mamma
Thank you
a family party is an especial treat to him
family party
Sir Guy's servant is come,
and has brought the horse, sir
Deloraine come
Where
At the door, sir
Mrs. Edmonstone, won't you come
and see him? Philip, you have not seen Deloraine
So I perceive you have dropped the title already
Yes
it seemed to
give him pain by reminding him of his loss, and he was so strange and
forlorn just at first, that we were glad to do what we could to make him
feel himself more at home
Then you get on pretty well now
Oh, excellently
He is so entertaining
He sings so beautifully
He is so right-minded
So very well informed
He plays chess so well
Bustle is such a dear dog
He is so attentive to Charlie
Papa says he will make up for the faults of all his ancestors
His music! oh, his music
Philip
you really should learn to like
him
Learn, impertinent little puss
why should I
not like him
I was sure you would try
Is it hard
But, oh, Philip! you could not help liking his
singing
I never heard such a splendid voice
so clear and
powerful, and yet so wonderfully sweet in the low soft notes. And a very
fine ear: he has a real talent for music
Ah! inherited, poor fellow
Do you pity him for it
Do you forget
I would not advise you to make much of
this talent in public; it is too much a badge of his descent
Mamma did not think so
She thought it a pity he should not
learn regularly, with such a talent; so the other day, when Mr. Radford
was giving us a lesson, she asked Guy just to sing up and down the
scale. I never saw anything so funny as old Mr Radford's surprise,
it was almost like the music lesson in "La Figlia del Reggimento"; he
started, and looked at Guy, and seemed in a perfect transport, and now
Guy is to take regular lessons.

'Indeed
But do you really mean
that if your mother had been a
musician's daughter, and you had inherited her talent, that you would be
ashamed of it
Indeed, Laura
I am equally far from
guessing what I should do if my mother had been anything but what she
was, as from guessing what I should do if I had a talent for music
I am sure there is much to like in him
There is; but is it the highest praise to say there is much to like?
People are not so cautious when they accept a man in toto
Then, do you not
He who the lion's whelp has nurst,
                   At home with fostering hand,
                   Finds it a gentle thing at first,
                   Obedient to command
Do you think him a lion's whelp
I am afraid I saw the lion just now in his flashing eyes and contracted
brow. There is an impatience of advice, a vehemence of manner that I
can hardly deem satisfactory. I do not speak from prejudice, for I think
highly of his candour, warmth of heart, and desire to do right; but from
all I have seen, I should not venture as yet to place much dependence on
his steadiness of character or command of temper
He seems to have been very fond of his grandfather, in spite of his
severity. He is but just beginning to brighten up a little
Yes; his disposition is very affectionate,-- almost a misfortune to one
so isolated from family ties. He showed remarkably well at Redclyffe,
the other day; boyish of course, and without much self-command, but very
amiably. It is very well for him that he is removed from thence, for
all the people idolize him to such a degree that they could not fail to
spoil him
It would be a great pity if he went wrong
Great, for he has many admirable qualities, but still they are just
what persons are too apt to fancy compensation for faults. I never
heard that any of his family, except perhaps that unhappy old Hugh,
were deficient in frankness and generosity, and therefore these do not
satisfy me. Observe, I am not condemning him; I wish to be perfectly
just; all I say is, that I do not trust him till I have seen him tried
What are you
thinking of, Philip
Of Locksley Hall. There is nonsense, there is affectation in that,
Laura, there is scarcely poetry, but there is power, for there is
truth
Of Locksley Hall! I thought you were at Stylehurst
So I was, but the one brings the other
I suppose you went to Stylehurst while you were at St. Mildred's? Did
Margaret take you there
Margaret? Not she; she is too much engaged with her book-club, and her
soirees, and her societies of every sort and kind
How did you get on with the Doctor
I saw as little of him as I could, and was still more convinced that he
does not know what conversation is. Hem
No;
the only thing to be done at St. Mildred's is to walk across the moors
to Stylehurst. It is a strange thing to leave that tumult of gossip, and
novelty, and hardness, and to enter on that quiet autumnal old world,
with the yellow leaves floating silently down, just as they used to do,
and the atmosphere of stillness round the green churchyard
Gossip
Literary, scientific gossip is worse than gossip in a primary sense,
without pretension
I am glad you had Stylehurst to go to. How was the old sexton's wife
Very well; trotting about on her pattens as merrily as ever
Did you go into the garden
Yes; Fanny's ivy has entirely covered the south wall, and the acacia is
so tall and spreading, that I longed to have the pruning of it. Old Will
keeps everything in its former state
How glad I am
Wherefore
I thought I was too late, and I am very glad to find no one arrived,
and Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone not come down
But where have you been
I lost my way on the top of the down; I fancied some one told me there
was a view of the sea to be had there
And can't you exist without a view of the sea
Everything looks so dull -- it is as if the view was dead or
imprisoned -- walled up by wood and hill, and wanting that living ripple,
heaving and struggling
And your fine rocks
I wish you could see the Shag stone,-- a great island mass, sloping on
one side, precipitous on the other, with the spray dashing on it. If you
see it from ever so far off, there is still that white foam coming and
going -- a glancing speck, like the light in an eye
Hark! a carriage
The young man and the young man's companion
How can you
What would any one suppose Mr. Thorndale to
be
Not Philip's valet
if it is true that no man is a hero
to his "valley-de-sham"; whereas, what is not Philip to the Honourable
James Thorndale
Philip, Alexander, and Bucephalus into the bargain
Encore
Unfortunately, yes
One of my uncle's family parties
I wish I had not
brought Thorndale. Laura, what is to be done to prevent the tittering
that always takes place when Amy and those Harpers are together
Some game
Papa
So you get on well with him
He is one of those people who are never in the way, and yet you never
can forgot their presence
His manners are quite the pink of courtesy
Like his grandfather's
that old-school
deference and attention is very chivalrous, and sits prettily and
quaintly on his high spirits and animation; I hope it will not wear
off
A vain hope
At present he is like that German myth,
Kaspar Hauser, who lived till twenty in a cellar. It is lucky for mamma
that, in his green state, he is courtly instead of bearish
Lucky for you, too, Charlie; he spoils you finely
He has the rare perfection of letting me know my own mind. I never knew
what it was to have my own way before
Is that your complaint, Charlie? What next
So you think I have my way, do you, Mary? That is all envy, you see,
and very much misplaced. Could you guess what a conflict it is every
time I am helped up that mountain of a staircase, or the slope of
my sofa is altered? Last time Philip stayed here, every step cost an
argument, till at last, through sheer exhaustion, I left myself a dead
weight on his hands, to be carried up by main strength. And after all,
he is such a great, strong fellow, that I am afraid he did not mind it;
so next time I _crutched_ myself down alone, and I hope that did provoke
him
Sir Guy is so kind that I am ashamed
It seems
as if we had brought him for the sole purpose of waiting on Charles
Half his heart is in his horse
Never had man such
delight in the "brute creation
They have been his chief playfellows
The
chief of his time was spent in wandering in the woods or on the beach,
watching them and their ways
I fairly dreamt of that Elysium of his last night
a swamp half frozen on a winter's night, full of wild ducks. Here,
Charlotte, come and tell Mary the roll of Guy's pets
There was the sea-gull, and the hedgehog, and the fox,
and the badger, and the jay, and the monkey, that he bought because it
was dying, and cured it, only it died the next winter, and a toad, and a
raven, and a squirrel, and
That will do, Charlotte
Oh! but Mary has not heard the names of all his dogs. And Mary, he has
cured Bustle of hunting my Puss. We held them up to each other, and Puss
hissed horribly, but Bustle did not mind it a bit; and the other day,
when Charles tried to set him at her, he would not take the least
notice
Now, Charlotte
You know it. Philip
you taught us
Yes I learnt it of your sisters, Thorndale
O pray let us have it. It must be charming
Definitions
Dr. Johnson must be the
hand for them
They are just the definitions not to be found in Johnson
Our standing specimen is adversity, which may be differently
explained according to your taste, as "a toad with a precious jewel in
its head," or "the test of friendship
The spirit of words
Well, we'll try
though I can't say it sounds to me
promising. Come, Maurice, define an Irishman
No, no, don't let us be personal
I had thought of the
word "happiness". We are each to write a definition on a slip of paper,
then compare them
Some so characteristic
such as Maurice's
definition of happiness,-- a row at Dublin
Some were very deep, though
if it is not treason, I
should like to make out whose that other was of happiness
You mean this
Gleams from a brighter world, too soon
eclipsed or forfeited." I thought it was Philip's, but it is Sir Guy's
writing. How very sad! I should not like to think so. And he was so
merry all the time! This is his, too, I see; this one about riches being
the freight for which the traveller is responsible
There is a great deal of character in them
I should not
have wondered at any of us, penniless people, philosophizing in the fox
and grapes style, but, for him, and at his age
He has been brought up so as to make the theory of wisdom come early
Is that intended for disparagement
Don't I pity you, who always go out to dinner in a carriage
Well, Guy
how do you like it
Very much, indeed. It was very pleasant
You are getting into the fairy ring
but it does not turn to tinsel. Would it if
I saw more of it
It would be no compliment to ourselves to say so
I suppose tinsel or gold depends on the using
there are some lumps of solid gold among those papers, I am sure, one,
in particular, about a trifle. May I see that again? I mean --


                  'Little things
                   On little wings
                 Bear little souls to heaven
Oh! that was only a quotation
Yes, Laura
he has thought, mind, and soul; he is no mere
rattle
No indeed. Who could help seeing his superiority over Maurice
If only he does not pervert his gifts, and if it is not all talk. I
don't like such excess of openness about his feelings; it is too like
talking for talking's sake
Mamma says it in the transparency of youthfulness. You know he has
never been at school; so his thoughts come out in security of sympathy,
without fear of being laughed at. But it is very late. Good night
Oh! a great flood is famous fun
Surely
I have heard a legend of your being nearly
drowned in some flood.

'Yes
I had a tolerable ducking
Oh, tell us about it
Ay! I have a curiosity to hear a personal experience of drowning
Come, begin at the beginning
I was standing watching the tremendous force of the stream, when I saw
an unhappy old ram floating along, bleating so piteously, and making
such absurd, helpless struggles, that I could not help pulling off my
coat and jumping in after him. It was very foolish, for the stream was
too strong -- I was two years younger then. Moreover, the beast was very
heavy, and not at all grateful for any kind intentions, and I found
myself sailing off to the sea, with the prospect of a good many rocks
before long; but just then an old tree stretched out its friendly
arms through the water; it stopped the sheep, and I caught hold of the
branches, and managed to scramble up, while my friend got entangled in
them with his wool
Omne quum Proteus pecus egit altos
                                      Visere montes
Ovium et summa, genus haesit ulmo
_Ovium_
Don't you know that
_O_ in _Ovis_ is short? Do anything but take liberties with Horace
Get out of the tree first, Guy
for at present your
history seems likely to end with a long ohone
Well, Triton -- not Proteus -- came to the rescue at last
I could not stir, and the tree bent so frightfully with the
current that I expected every minute we should all go together; so I
had nothing for it but to halloo as loud as I could. No one heard but
Triton, the old Newfoundland dog, who presently came swimming up, so
eager to help, poor fellow, that I thought he would have throttled me,
or hurt himself in the branches. I took off my handkerchief and threw it
to him, telling him to take it to Arnaud, who I knew would understand it
as a signal of distress
Did he? How long had you to wait
Well, sir, if you do wish to throw away your life, let it be for
something better worth saving than Farmer Holt's vicious old ram
In the language of the great Mr. Toots
I am afraid you
got very wet
Were you the worse for it
Not in the least. I was so glad to hear it was Holt's! for you must
know that I had behaved very ill to Farmer Holt. I had been very angry
at his beating our old hound, for, as he thought, worrying his sheep;
not that Dart ever did, though.

'And was the ram saved
Yes, and next time I saw it, it nearly knocked me down
Would you do it again
I don't know
I hope you had a medal from the Humane Society
That would have been more proper for Triton
Yours should have been an ovation
You quite
impressed Guy with your translation of Fra Cristoforo
Indeed I must thank you for recommending the book
how
beautiful it is
I am glad you entered into it
it has every quality that
a fiction ought to have
I never read anything equal to the repentance of the nameless man
Is he your favourite character
Oh no -- of course not -- though he is so grand that one thinks most about
him, but no one can be cared about as much as Lucia
Lucia! She never struck me as more than a well-painted peasant girl
Oh
She pretends to no more than she is, but she shows the beauty of
goodness in itself in a -- a -- wonderful way. And think of the power of
those words of hers over that gloomy, desperate man
Your sympathy with the Innominato again
I brought this book on purpose
I wished to read you a
description of that print from Raffaelle -- you know it -- the Madonna di
San Sisto
The one you brought to show us
with the two little
angels
Yes, here is the description
Dwell on the form of the Child, more than human in grandeur, seated on
the arms of the Blessed Virgin as on an august throne. Note the tokens
of divine grace, His ardent eyes, what a spirit, what a countenance is
His; yet His very resemblance to His mother denotes sufficiently that He
is of us and takes care for us. Beneath are two figures adoring, each in
their own manner. On one side is a pontiff, on the other a virgin each
a most sweet and solemn example, the one of aged, the other of maidenly
piety and reverence. Between, are two winged boys, evidently presenting
a wonderful pattern of childlike piety. Their eyes, indeed, are not
turned towards the Virgin, but both in face and gesture, they show how
careless of themselves they are in the presence of God
Yes
Is it very tough? I would read it, if any one would read it with me
Do you mean me
I should like it very much, but you have
seen how little Latin I know
That is the very thing
that Ovis of yours was music; I
would have made you a Knight of the Golden Fleece on the spot. Tutors I
could get by shoals, but a fellow-dunce is inestimable
It is a bargain, then
if Philip has done with the book and
will lend it to us
Nothing for it but billiards. People might say
it was nonsense to have a billiard-table in such a house, but for his
part he found there was no getting through a wet day without them.
Philip must beat him as usual, and Guy might have one of the young
ladies to make a fourth
Thank you
but I don't play
Not play -- eh
No, thank you
I am under a promise
Ha! Eh? What? Your grandfather? He could see no harm in such play as
this. For nothing, you understand. You did not suppose I meant anything
else
O no, of course not
but it is impossible for me
to play, thank you. I have promised never even to look on at a game at
billiards
Ah, poor man, he had too much reason
Don't let me prevent you
O, I am so glad
Now you will never go to those
stupid billiards, but I shall have you always, every rainy day. Come and
have a real good game at ball on the stairs
Redclyffe temper
What have you been doing to him
Nothing. At least nothing worthy of such ire. I only entered on the
subject of his Oxford life, and advised him to prepare for it, for his
education has as yet been a mere farce. He used to go two or three days
in the week to one Potts, a self-educated genius -- a sort of superior
writing-master at the Moorworth commercial school. Of course, though it
is no fault of his, poor fellow, he is hardly up to the fifth form, and
he must make the most of his time, if he is not to be plucked. I set
all this before him as gently as I could, for I knew with whom I had to
deal, yet you see how it is
What did he say
He said nothing; so far I give him credit; but he strode on furiously
for the last half mile, and this explosion is the finale. I am very
sorry for him, poor boy; I beg no further notice may be taken of it.
Don't you want an arm, Charlie
No thank you
You had better. It really is too much for Amy
Like the camellia, I suppose
Come in
I am come
to ask pardon for the disturbance I made just
now. I was so foolish as to be irritated at Philip's manner, when he was
giving me some good advice, and I am very sorry
What has happened to your lip
Is it bleeding still? It is a trick
of mine to bite my lip when I am vexed. It seems to help to keep down
words. There! I have given myself a mark of this hateful outbreak
You have only failed in part
It
was a victory to keep down words
The feeling is the _thing_
besides, I showed it plainly
enough, without speaking
It is not easy to take advice from one so little your elder
It was not the advice. That
was very good; I
I am obliged to
him. It was -- no, I won't say what
Yes, but I _will_,
and then I shall make myself thoroughly ashamed. It was his veiled
assumption of superiority, his contempt for all I have been taught.
Just as if he had not every right to despise me, with his talent and
scholarship, after such egregious mistakes as I had made in the morning.
I gave him little reason to think highly of my attainments; but let him
slight me as much as he pleases, he must not slight those who taught me.
It was not Mr. Potts' fault
You must remember
that in
the eyes of a man brought up at public school, nothing compensates for
the want of the regular classical education. I have no doubt it was very
provoking
I don't want to be excused, thank you
Oh I am grieved; for
I thought the worst of my temper had been subdued. After all that has
passed -- all I felt -- I thought it impossible. Is there no hope for
It is encroaching too much on your kindness to
come here and trouble you with my confessions
No, no, indeed
Remember how we agreed that you
should come to me like one of my own children. And, indeed, I do not see
why you need grieve in this despairing way, for you almost overcame the
fit of anger; and perhaps you were off your guard because the trial came
in an unexpected way
It did, it did
I don't, mind being told point
blank that I am a dunce, but that Mr. Potts -- nay, by implication -- my
grandfather should be set at nought in that cool -- But here I am again
he did not
mean that, of course. I have no one to blame but myself
I am sure
that if you always treat your
failings in this way, you must subdue them at last
It is all failing, and resolving, and failing again
Yes, but the failures become slighter and less frequent, and the end is
victory
The end victory
Yes, to all who persevere and seek for help
Are you there, Guy?
I want an arm
I begin to think the world
must be more docile than I have been disposed to give it credit for. How
a certain cousin of ours has escaped numerous delicate hints to mind his
own business is to me one of the wonders of the world
No one better deserves that his advice should be followed
An additional reason against it
Plague on that bell!
I meant to have broken through your formalities and had a candid opinion
of Don Philip before it rang
Then I am glad of it; I could hardly have given you a candid opinion
just at present
Ten Thousand a Year
Well, Charlotte
Guy -- Guy -- Oh! I beg your pardon, but I wanted to
Well, what
I wanted to make sure that you are not angry with Philip. You don't
mean to keep up the feud, do you
Feud?-- I hope not
I am very much obliged to him
Are you really
I
thought he had been scolding you
Not scolding, then
You are too nearly grown up for
that, but telling you to learn, and being tiresome
I was so foolish as to be provoked at first
but I hope
I have thought better of it, and am going to act upon it
Madonna di San
Sisto
Yes
I am to begin to morrow, and go to him every Monday
and Thursday
That is prompt
Ah! I have no time to lose; besides I have been leading too smooth
a life with you. I want something unpleasant to keep me in order.
Something famously horrid
You think you live too smoothly at Hollywell
Yes. Happy, thoughtless, vehement; that is what your kindness makes
me. Was it not a proof, that I must needs fly out at such a petty
provocation
I should not have thought it such a very exciting life; certainly not
such as is usually said to lead to thoughtlessness; and we have been
even quieter than usual since you came
Ah, you don't know what stuff I am made of
your own home party is enough to do me harm; it is so
exceedingly pleasant
Pleasant things do not necessarily do harm
Not to you; not to people who are not easily unsettled; but when I
go up-stairs, after a talking, merry evening, such as the night before
last, I find that I have enjoyed it too much; I am all abroad! I can
hardly fix my thoughts, and I don't know what to do, since here I must
be, and I can't either be silent, or sit up in my own room
Certainly not
there are duties of society which
you owe even to us dangerous people
No, no: don't misunderstand me. The fault is in myself. If it was
not for that, I could learn nothing but good
I believe I understand you
For your
comfort, I believe the unsettled feeling you complain of is chiefly the
effect of novelty. You have led so very retired a life, that a lively
family party is to you what dissipation would be to other people: and,
as you must meet with the world some time or other, it is better the
first encounter with should be in this comparatively innocent form. Go
on watching yourself, and it will do you no harm
There is nothing
that has no temptation in it;
but I should think the rule was plain. If a duty such as that of living
among us for the present, and making yourself moderately agreeable,
involves temptations, they must be met and battled from within. In the
same way, your position in society, with all its duties, could not be
laid aside because it is full of trial. Those who do such things are
fainthearted, and fail in trust in Him who fixed their station, and
finds room for them to deny themselves in the trivial round and common
task. It is pleasure involving no duty that should be given up, if we
find it liable to lead us astray
I see
and this reading comes naturally, and
is just what I wanted to keep the pleasant things from getting a full
hold of me. I ought to have thought of it sooner, instead of dawdling a
whole month in idleness. Then all this would not have happened. I hope
it will be very tough
You have no great love for Latin and Greek
Oh
to be sure I delight in Homer and the
Georgics, and plenty more. What splendid things there are in these old
fellows! But, I never liked the drudgery part of the affair; and now if
I am to be set to work to be accurate, and to get up all the grammar and
the Greek roots, it will be horrid enough in all conscience
Who was your tutor
Mr. Potts
He is a very clever man; he had a common
grammar-school education, but he struggled on -- taught himself a great
deal -- and at last thought it great promotion to be a teacher at the
Commercial Academy, as they call it, at Moorworth, where Markham's
nephews went to school. He is very clever, I assure you, and very
patient of the hard, wearing life he must have of it there; and oh! so
enjoying a new book, or an afternoon to himself. When I was about eight
or nine, I began with him, riding into Moorworth three times in a week;
and I have gone on ever since. I am sure he has done the best he could
for me; and he made the readings very pleasant by his own enjoyment. If
Philip had known the difficulties that man has struggled through, and
his beautiful temper, persevering in doing his best and being contented,
I am sure he could never have spoken contemptuously of him
I am sure he would not
all he meant was,
that a person without a university education cannot tell what the
requirements are to which a man must come up in these days
Ah
how I wished Mr. Potts had been there to
have enjoyed listening to Philip and Mr. Lascelles discussing some
new Lexicon, digging down for roots of words, and quoting passages of
obscure Greek poets at such a rate, that if my eyes had been shut I
could have thought them two withered old students in spectacles and
snuff-coloured coats
Philip was in his element
Really
the more I hear and see of
Philip, the more I wonder. What a choice collection of books he has -- so
many of them school prizes, and how beautifully bound
Ah! that is one of Philip's peculiar ways. With all his prudence
and his love of books, I believe he would not buy one unless he had a
reasonable prospect of being able to dress it handsomely. Did you see
the print
Yes that I did. What glorious loveliness! There is nothing that does
it justice but the description in the lecture. Oh I forgot, you have
not heard it. You must let me read it to you by and by. Those two little
angels, what faces they have. Perfect innocence -- one full of reasoning,
the other of unreasoning adoration
I see it
I see what you are like
in one of your looks, not by any means, in all -- it is to the larger of
those two angels
Very seldom, I should guess
My real likeness
is old Sir Hugh's portrait at home. But what were we saying? Oh! about
Philip. How nice those stories were of Mrs. Deane's
She is very fond of him
To have won so much esteem and admiration, already from strangers, with
no prejudice in his favour.-- It must be entirely his own doing; and well
it may! Every time one hears of him, something comes out to make
him seem more admirable. You are laughing at me, and I own it is
presumptuous to praise; but I did not mean to praise, only to admire
I like very much to hear my nephew praised; I was only smiling at your
enthusiastic way
I only wonder I am not more enthusiastic
I suppose it is
his plain good sense that drives away that sort of feeling, for he is
as near heroism in the way of self-sacrifice as a man can be in these
days
Poor Philip! if disappointment can make a hero, it has fallen to his
share. Ah! Guy, you are brightening and looking like one of my young
ladies in hopes of a tale of true love crossed, but it was only love of
a sister
The sister for whom he gave up so much
Yes, his sister Margaret. She was eight or nine years older, very
handsome, very clever, a good deal like him -- a pattern elder sister;
indeed, she brought him up in great part after his mother died, and he
was devoted to her. I do believe it made the sacrifice of his prospects
quite easy to him, to know it was for her sake, that she would live
on at Stylehurst, and the change be softened to her. Then came Fanny's
illness, and that lead to the marriage with Dr. Henley. It was just what
no one could object to; he is a respectable man in full practice, with a
large income; but he is much older than she is, not her equal in mind or
cultivation, and though I hardly like to say so, not at all a religious
man. At any rate, Margaret Morville was one of the last people one could
bear to see marry for the sake of an establishment
Could her brother do nothing
He expostulated with all his might; but at nineteen he could do little
with a determined sister of twenty-seven; and the very truth and power
of his remonstrance must have made it leave a sting. Poor fellow, I
believe he suffered terribly -- just as he had lost Fanny, too, which he
felt very deeply, for she was a very sweet creature, and he was very
fond of her. It was like losing both sisters and home at once
Has he not just been staying with Mrs. Henley
Yes. There was never any coolness, as people call it. He is the one
thing she loves and is proud of. They always correspond, and he often
stays with her; but he owns to disliking the Doctor, and I don't think
he has much comfort in Margaret herself, for he always comes back more
grave and stern than he went. Her house, with all her good wishes, can
be no home to him; and so we try to make Hollywell supply the place of
Stylehurst as well as we can
How glad he must be to have you to comfort him
Philip? Oh no. He was always reserved; open to no one but Margaret, not
even to his father, and since her marriage he has shut himself up within
himself more than ever. It has, at least I think it is this that has
given him a severity, an unwillingness to trust, which I believe is
often the consequence of a great disappointment either in love or in
friendship
Thank you for telling me
I shall understand him better,
and look up to him more. Oh! it is a cruel thing to find that what one
loves is, or has not been, all one thought. What must he not have gone
through
Three
it ought to be four or more, if possible
Four it _shall_ be
five if I can
How did you like your
party
O, it was great fun
It was just what parties always are
Come, let us have the history. Who handed who in to dinner? I hope Guy
had Mrs. Brownlow
Oh no
Not Philip
No
the fidus Achetes was without his pious Aeneas
Very good, Guy
I could not help thinking of it
when
I was watching Thorndale's manner; it is such an imitation of Philip;
looking droller, I think, in his absence, than in his presence. I wonder
if he is conscious of it
It does not suit him at all
A man ought to be six foot one, person and mind, to suit with that
grand, sedate, gracious way of Philip's
There's Guy's measure of Philip's intellect
just six
foot one inch
As much more than other people's twice his height
Who was your neighbour, Laura
Dr. Mayerne; I was very glad of him, to keep off those hunting friends
of Mr. Brownlow, who never ask anything but if one has been to the
races, and if one likes balls
And how did Mrs. Brownlow behave
She is a wonderful woman
Then
there aren't many like her
I hope not
Is she really a lady
Philip commonly calls her "that woman
He has never
got over her one night classing him with his "young man" and myself, as
three of the shyest monkeys she ever came across
She won't say so of Maurice
I heard her deluding some young lady by saying he was the eldest son
Mamma
could she have thought so
O ay, I forgot; but then he is the second,
and that's the next thing
If you could but have heard the stories she and Maurice were telling
each other
He was playing her off, I believe; for whatever
she told, he capped it with something more wonderful. Is she really a
lady
By birth
How loud she is, too
What was all that about horses,
Guy
I'm obliged for your civility
Oh! I wish I had heard that
Did you hear her saying she smoked cigars
Of course, Maurice told a story of a lady who had a cigar case hanging
at her chatelaine, and always took one to refresh her after a ball
I told you wrong. She only said she had smoked one cigar
I beg your pardon
I told you it was but one
Ay, tried one, and went on. She was preparing an order for Havannah
I thought I told you I repeated the conversation incorrectly
If it is not the letter, it is the spirit
It is just like her
I could believe anything of
Mrs. Brownlow
You must not believe this
I repeated incorrectly
what had better have been forgotten, and I must beg my foolish
exaggeration to go no further
Here's a pother
I beg your pardon for spoiling your story
Bosh
Who cares whether she smoked one or twenty? She
is Mrs. Brownlow still
Straining at gnats
Little wings
Have it your won way
they must
be little souls, indeed that stick at such trash
Never mind him. We must all honour you for doing such an unpleasant
thing
You will recommend him favourably to Philip
Good night
I tried hard to poke up the lion to-night,
but I see it won't do
I thought he could hardly mean it: but why should he talk so
I can't excuse him; I know it is very wrong, and at the expense of
truth, and it is very disagreeable of him -- I wish he would not; but he
always does what he likes, and it is one of his amusements, so we must
bear with him, poor fellow
You did not mean that
Ask Strafford
Ungenerous, unmanly
ungenerous to reproach him with what he so bitterly
repented. Could not his penitence, could not his own blood
Ha
I've done it! I could fancy his wrath
something terrific when it was once well up. I didn't know what was
coming next; but I believe he has got himself pretty well in hand. It is
playing with edge tools; and now I have been favoured with one flash of
the Morville eye, I'll let him alone; but it _ryled_ me to be treated as
something beneath his anger, like a woman or a child
I am sorry that I was hasty just
now
I did not know you had such personal feelings about King Charles
If you would do me a kindness
you would just say you
did not mean it. I know you do not, but if you would only say so
I am glad you have the wit to see I have too much taste to be a
roundhead
Thank you
I hope I shall know your jest from your earnest
another time. Only if you would oblige me, you would never jest again
about King Charles
You
are sure that you have forgiven me
What! You have not forgotten that yet
Of course not
I am sorry you bear so much malice
What are you imagining
It was my own part I was
remembering, as I must, you know
I thought King Charles's wrongs were rankling. I only spoke as taking
liberties with a friend
Yes
it may be foolish, but I do not feel as
if one could do so with King Charles. He is too near home; he suffered
to much from scoffs and railings; his heart was too tender, his
repentance too deep for his friends to add one word even in jest to the
heap of reproach. How one would have loved him
loved him for the gentleness so little
accordant with the rude times and the part he had to act -- served him
with half like a knight's devotion to his lady-love, half like devotion
to a saint, as Montrose did --


                 'Great, good, and just, could I but rate
                    My grief, and thy too rigid fate,
                  I'd weep the world in such a strain,
                    As it should deluge once again
And, oh
how one would have fought
for him
You would
I should like to see you and Deloraine
charging at the head of Prince Rupert's troopers
I beg your pardon
I believe I forgot where I was, and have treated you to one of my old
dreams in my boatings at home. You may quiz me as much as you please
tomorrow. Good night
It was a rhapsody
yes it was. I wonder I don't
laugh at it; but I was naturally carried along. Fancy that! He did it so
naturally; in fact, it was all from the bottom of his heart, and I
could not quiz him -- no, no more than Montrose himself. He is a strange
article! But he keeps one awake, which is more than most people do
prancing in the hall
It was
a banshee story in Eveleen de Courcy's last
letter
I never like telling ghost stories to people who don't believe in
them
Do you believe them
Now I won't have little Amy asked the sort of question she most
dislikes
I had rather ask if you laugh at us for
thinking many ghost stories inexplicable
Certainly not
The universal belief could hardly be kept up without some grounds
That would apply as well to fairies
Every one has an unexplained ghost story
Yes
but I would give something to meet any one whose
ghost story did not rest on the testimony of a friend's cousin's cousin,
a very strong-minded person
I can't imagine how a person who has seen a ghost could ever speak of
it
Did you not tell us a story of pixies at Redclyffe
O yes; the people there believe in them firmly. Jonas Ledbury heard
them laughing one night when he could not get the gate open
Ah! You are the authority for ghosts
I forgot that
I wonder we never asked you about your
Redclyffe ghost
You look as if you had seen it yourself
You have not
Come, let us have the whole story
Was it your own
reflection in the glass? was it old sir Hugh? or was it the murderer of
Becket? Come, the ladies are both ready to scream at the right moment.
Never mind about giving him a cocked-hat, for with whom may you take a
liberty, if not with an ancestral ghost of your own
Beware of trifling
What's the matter
Nothing
How could you Philip
I really believe he has seen it
He has felt it, Amy -- the Morville spirit
It is a great pity you spoke of putting a cocked hat to it
he must have suspected us of telling you what happened about
Mrs. Brownlow
And are you going to do it now
I think Philip should hear it
Do not think of one falsity as harmless, and another
as slight, and another as unintended. Cast them all aside. They may be
light and accidental, but they are an ugly soot from the smoke of the
pit, for all that; and it is better that our hearts should be swept
clean of them, without over care as to which is the largest or
blackest
I am not to be told
of the necessity of exercising forbearance with this poor boy; but it is
impossible to reckon on all the points on which he is sensitive
He is sensitive
I don't mean only in temper, but in
everything. I wonder if it is part of his musical temperament to be as
keenly alive to all around, as his ear is to every note. A bright day,
a fine view, is such real happiness to him; he dwells on every beauty of
Redclyffe with such affection; and then, when he reads, Charles says it
is like going over the story again himself to watch his face act it in
that unconscious manner
He makes all the characters so real in talking them over
and he does not always know how they will end before they begin
I should think it hardly safe for so excitable a mind to dwell much on
the world of fiction
Nothing has affected him so much as Sintram
I never saw
anything like it. He took it up by chance, and stood reading it while
all those strange expressions began to flit over his face, and at last
he fairly cried over it so much, that he was obliged to fly out of the
room. How often he has read it I cannot tell; I believe he has bought
one for himself, and it is as if the engraving had a fascination for
him; he stands looking at it as if he was in a dream
He is a great mystery
All men are mysterious
but he not more than others,
though he may appear so to you, because you have not had much
experience, and also because most of the men you have seen have been
rounded into uniformity like marbles, their sharp angles rubbed off
against each other at school
Would it be better if there were more sharp angles
What can you have been doing
Walking up and down under the wall
What, in the rain
I don't know, perhaps it was
I am sorry I disturbed your evening. I will tell you the
meaning of it another time
He has certainly seen the ghost
Another time
It is due to you to explain my behaviour last night
Amy thinks you must have seen the ghost
Did I frighten you
No, no. I never saw it. I never even heard of its being seen. I am very
sorry
I was very silly
But
when I think of the origin of the ghost story, I
cannot laugh, and if Philip knew all
Oh! He does not
he only looks on it as we have always
done, as a sort of romantic appendage to Redclyffe. I should think
better of a place for being haunted
I used to be proud of it
I wanted to make out whether it
was old Sir Hugh or the murderer of Becket, who was said to groan and
turn the lock of Dark Hugh's chamber. I hunted among old papers, and a
horrible story I found. That wretched Sir Hugh,-- the same who began the
quarrel with your mother's family -- he was a courtier of Charles II, as
bad or worse than any of that crew
What was the quarrel about
He was believed to have either falsified or destroyed his father's
will, so as to leave his brother, your ancestor, landless; his brother
remonstrated, and he turned him out of doors. The forgery never was
proved, but there was little doubt of it. There are traditions of his
crimes without number, especially his furious anger and malice. He
compelled a poor lady to marry him, though she was in love with another
man; then he was jealous; he waylaid his rival, shut him up in the
turret chamber, committed him to prison, and bribed Judge Jeffries
to sentence him -- nay it is even said he carried his wife to see the
execution! He was so execrated that he fled the country; he went to
Holland, curried favour with William of Orange, brought his wealth to
help him, and that is the deserving action which got him the baronetcy!
He served in the army a good many years, and came home when he thought
his sins would be forgotten. But do you remember those lines
twixt day and night,
                      Life's closing twilight hour;
                  Round some, ere yet they meet their doom,
                  Is shed the silence of the tomb,
                      The eternal shadows lower
It was so with him; he lost his senses, and after many actions of mad
violence, he ended by hanging himself in the very room where he had
imprisoned his victim
Horrible
Yet I do not see why, when it is all past, you
should feel it so deeply
How should I not feel it
Is it not written that the
sins of the fathers shall be visited on the children? You wonder to
see me so foolish about Sintram. Well, it is my firm belief that such
a curse of sin and death as was on Sintram rests on the descendants of
that miserable man
But Sintram
conquered his doom
This
must be an imagination. You have dwelt on it and fostered it till you
believe it, but such notions should be driven away or they will work
their own fulfilment
Look at the history of the Morvilles, and see if it be an imagination
Crime and bloodshed have been the portion of each -- each has
added weight and darkness to the doom which he had handed on. My own
poor father, with his early death, was, perhaps, the happiest
The doom of sin and death is on us all,
but you should remember that if you are a Morville, you are also a
Christian
He does remember it
Are
you really like the portrait of this unfortunate Sir Hugh
Oh! It must have been taken before he grew wicked
O Guy! are you there
Just what I wanted! Your gun, man! We are going to
ferret a rabbit
Poor fellow
You will not tell all this to Philip
It would show why he was hurt, and it can be no secret
I dare say you are right, but I have a feeling against it. Well, I am
glad he had not seen the ghost
Where is Guy
Ferreting rabbits with papa. What is the matter
And where is my aunt
Look here. Can you tell me the meaning of this which I found on my
table when I came in this morning
Dear P., I find hunting and reading don't agree, so take no
further steps about the horse. Many thanks for your trouble.-- G.M
There
is the result of brooding all night on his
resentment
Oh no
you do not
understand him. He could not bear it last night, because, as he has been
explaining to us, that old Sir Hugh's story was more shocking than we
ever guessed, and he has a fancy that their misfortunes are a family
fate, and he could not bear to hear it spoken of lightly
Oh! He has been telling you his own story, has he
If you had been there
you would have been convinced. Why will you not believe that he finds
hunting interfere with reading
He should have thought of that before
Here have I half bought the horse! I have wasted the whole morning on
it, and now I have to leave it on the man's hands. I had a dozen times
rather take it myself, if I could afford it. Such a bargain as I had
made, and such an animal as you will not see twice in your life
It is a great pity
He should have known his own mind. I
don't like people to give trouble for nothing
He is very unfair
He did not mean to be so
and though he is mistaken in
imputing such motives, Guy's conduct has certainly been vexatious
Here's a pretty go
Here is Guy telling me he won't hunt any
more
Not hunt
and why
Oh! something about its taking his mind from his reading; but that
can't be it -- impossible, you know; I'd give ten pounds to know what has
vexed him. So keen as he was about it last night, and I vow, one of the
best riders in the whole field. Giving up that horse, too -- I declare
it is a perfect sin! I told him he had gone too far, and he said he had
left a note with Philip this morning
Yes
That is an excuse, depend upon it
Something has
nettled him, I am sure. It could not be that Gordon, could it, with
his hail-fellow-well-met manner? I thought Guy did not half like it the
other day, when he rode up with his "Hollo, Morville!" The Morvilles
have a touch of pride of their own; eh, mamma
I should be inclined to believe his own account of himself
tis utterly against reason
If he was a fellow like Philip, or James Ross, I could believe it; but
he -- he make a book-worm! He hates it, like poison, at the bottom of his
heart, I'll answer for it; and the worst of it is, the fellow putting
forward such a fair reason one can't -- being his guardian, and all -- say
what one thinks of it oneself. Eh, mamma
Not exactly
tis only the man's way; tell him he treats me so for ever, and
would the Lord-Lieutenant if he was in it
You are sure the reading is the only reason
He's quite absurd enough for it
By all means
I am quite ready for one of our twilight
talks
I am afraid I have vexed Mr. Edmonstone
and I am very
sorry
He was only afraid that something might have occurred to vex you, which
you might not like to mention to him
Me! What could I have done to make him think so? I am angry with no one
but myself. The fact is only this, the hunting is too pleasant; it fills
up my head all day and all night; and I don't attend rightly to anything
else. If I am out in the morning and try to pay for it at night, it will
not do; I can but just keep awake and that's all; the Greek letters all
seem to be hunting each other, the simplest things grow difficult, and
at last all I can think of, is how near the minute hand of my watch is
near to the hour I have set myself. So, for the last fortnight, every
construing with Mr. Lascelles has been worse than the last; and as to my
Latin verses, they were beyond everything shocking, so you see there is
no making the two things agree, and the hunting must wait till I grow
steadier, if I ever do. Heigho! It is a great bore to be so stupid, for
I thought -- But it is of no use to talk of it
Mr. Edmonstone would be a very unreasonable guardian, indeed, to be
displeased
Do you think I might
I'll write to Philip
this minute by the post. Such a splendid creature: it would do you good
to see it -- such action -- such a neck -- such spirit. It would be a shame
not to secure it. But no -- no
I
have made my mind before that I don't deserve it. If it was here, it
would always have to be tried: if I heard the hounds I don't know I
should keep from riding after them; whereas, now I can't, for William
won't let me take Deloraine. No, I can't trust myself to keep such a
horse, and not hunt. It will serve me right to see Mr. Brownlow on it,
and he will never miss such a chance
I should not like to use anyone as you use yourself
Mrs. Edmonstone, can you tell me anything about my mother
I am afraid not
you know we had so little
intercourse with your family, that I heard little but the bare facts
I don't think
that I ever
thought much about her till I knew you, but lately I have fancied a
great deal about what might have been if she had but lived
Poor thing! I believe she was quite a child
Only seventeen when she died
Ah!
here's a little about her; it is in a letter from my sister-in-law,
Philip's mother, when they were staying at Stylehurst
Who? My father and mother
Did you not know they had been there three or four days
No -- I know less about them than anybody
I do
know the main facts of the story; I was told them last autumn
I knew Archdeacon Morville had
been very kind
He was always interested about your father
and
happening to meet him in London some little time after his marriage,
he -- he was pleased with the manner in which he was behaving then,
thought -- thought
Marianne
Is that all
All that I like to read to you. Indeed, there is no more about her;
and it would be of no use to read all the reports that were going
about.-- Ah! here
she speaks of your father as a very fine young man, with most generous
impulses
a noble character ruined by mismanagement
She
never saw them again
Mr. Dixon, your
mother's brother, had great influence with your father, and made matters
worse -- so much worse, that my brother did not feel himself justified in
having any more to do with them
Ah! he went to America
I don't know any more about him
except that he came to the funeral and stood with his arms folded, not
choosing to shake hands with my poor grandfather
Will you read that again
in a world of light
Yes
I saw how it tortured your eyebrows all the time you
were translating Schiller to us. I wondered you were not put out
I consider that to be put out -- by which you mean to have the intellect
at the mercy of another's folly -- is beneath a reasonable creature
but that I was annoyed, I do not deny. It is a token of a
restless, ill-regulated mind
Restless, perhaps
but not necessarily
ill-regulated. I should think it rather a sign that he had no one to
tell him of the tricks which mothers generally nip in the bud
I was going to say that I think he fidgets less
but I
think his chief contortions of the scissors have been when Philip has
been here
They have, I believe
Well, aunt, you are a tamer of savage beasts if you venture on such a
subject
Do you dare me
Why, I don't suppose he would do more than give you one of his
lightning glances: but that, I think, is more than you desire
Considerably
for his sake as much as my own
But
mamma has nearly cured him of pawing like a horse in
the hall when he is kept waiting. He said he knew it was impatience,
and begged her to tell him how to cure it. So she treated him as an old
fairy might, and advised him in a grave, mysterious way, always to go
and play the "Harmonious Blacksmith," when he found himself getting
into "a taking", just as if it was a charm. And he always does it most
dutifully
It has a very good effect
for it is apt to act
as a summons to the other party, as well as a sedative to him
I must say I am curious to see what you will devise this time
since you can't set him to play on the piano; and very few can
bear to be told of a trick of the kind
Guy
does that unfortunate glass inspire you with
any arguments in favour of the Venetians
The spectacle-case forestalled me in giving you a lecture on sparing
our nerves. Don't look so very full of compunction -- it is only a trick
which your mother would have stopped at five years old, and which you
can soon stop for yourself
Thank you, I will
I hardly knew I did it, but I am very
sorry it has teased you
However
I always gave the Morvilles credit for an iron
resolution. Yes, Amy, you may laugh; but if a man is not resolute in a
little, he will never be resolute in great matters
And Guy has been resolute the right way this time
May he always be the same
goodbye
Don't you know that Philip considers it due to himself that his
audience should never be without conversation suited to their capacity
Nonsense, Charlie
Nay, I give him credit for doing it as well as it is in nature of
things for it to be done. The strongest proof I know of his being a
superior man, is the way he adapts himself to his company. He lays down
the law to us, because he knows we are all born to be his admirers; he
calls Thorndale his dear fellow and conducts him like a Mentor; but
you may observe how different he is with other people -- Mr. Ross, for
instance. It is not showing off; it is just what the pattern hero should
be with the pattern clergyman. At a dinner party he is quite in his
place; contents himself with leaving an impression on his neighbour that
Mr. Morville is at home on every subject; and that he is the right thing
with his brother officers is sufficiently proved, since not even Maurice
either hates or quizzes him
Well, Charlie
Do you think I ever wanted to be convinced that we were created for
no other end than to applaud Philip? I was fulfilling the object of our
existence by enlarging on a remark of Guy's, that nothing struck him
more than the way in which Philip could adapt his conversation to the
hearers. So the hint was not lost on me; and I came to the conclusion
that it was a far greater proof of his sense than all the maxims he
lavishes on us
I wonder Guy was the person to make the remark
for it is
strange that those two never appear to the best advantage together
Oh, Laura, that would be the very reason
The very reason
Yes
If Guy -- if a generous person, I mean -- were
vexed with another sometimes, it would be the very reason he would make
the most of all his goodness
Heigh-ho
Your wonder need not last long
for I see him riding into
the stable yard
A good
deal like the print of Dignity and Impudence
By the by
would Philip have been a clergyman if he had
gone to Oxford
I don't know; I don't think it was settled
Why
I could never fancy him one
He would not have been what
he is now if he had gone to Oxford
He would have lived
with men of the same powers and pursuits with himself, and have found
his level
And that would have been a very high one
It would; but there would be all the difference there is between a
feudal prince and an Eastern despot. He would know what it is to live
with his match
But you don't attempt to call him conceited
He is far above that; far too grand
I should as soon think of calling Jupiter conceited
That is a very bad plan.
No horse is to be trusted in that way, especially such a spirited one
You look only half disenchanted yet
Has Lascelles put
you into what my father's old gardener used to call a stud
Nothing so worthy of a stud
I was only dreaming over a picture of ruin --


                 'The steed is vanish'd from the stall,
                  No serf is seen in Hassan's hall,
                  The lonely spider's thin grey pall
                  Waves, slowly widening o'er the wall
Byron
I hope you are not dwelling on him
Only a volume I found in my room
Oh, the "Giaour
Well, there is no great damage done;
but it is bad food for excitable minds. Don't let it get hold of you
Very well
Foolish fellow
Philip
Well
Philip
Well
Philip, I don't know whether you'll be angry with me
Certainly not
Guy says he does not want to keep up the feud, and I wish you would
not
What do you mean
The deadly feud
What nonsense is this
Surely -- Oh Philip, there always was a deadly feud between our
ancestors, and the Redclyffe Morvilles, and it was very wrong, and ought
not to be kept up now
It is not I that keep it up
Is it not
But I am sure you don't like Guy. And I
can't think why not, unless it is the deadly feud, for we are all so
fond of him. Laura says it is a different house since he came
Hum
Charlotte, you did well to make me promise not to
be angry with you, by which, I presume, you mean displeased. I should
like to know what put this notion into your head
Charlie told me
And -- and
And what? I can't hear
You have made me quite sure of it yourself
What do you mean, Charlotte
You make Guy almost angry,
you tease him, and when people praise him, you answer as if it would not
last! And it is very unfair of you
Charlotte
you may dismiss all fear of deadly feud, whatever you may mean by it.
Charles has been playing tricks on you. You know, my little cousin, that
I am a Christian, and we live in the nineteenth century
You misunderstood me. I do think Guy very agreeable. He is
very attentive to Charles, very kind to you, and so attractive, that I
don't wonder you like him. But those who are older than you see that he
has faults, and we wish to set him on his guard against them. It may be
painful to ourselves, and irritating to him, but depend upon it, it is
the proof of friendship. Are you satisfied, my little cousin
I beg your pardon
You need not ask pardon. Since you had the notion, it was right to
speak, as it was to me, one of your own family. When you are older, you
need never fear to speak out in the right place. I am glad you have
so much of the right sort of feminine courage, though in this case you
might have ventured to trust to me
You
know
tis your own
This shall do
You don't know what a bore it is to lose the one bit of quicksilver in
the house
I shall only drag on my existence till
you come back
You, Charles, the maker of fun
It is a case of flint and steel
but be it owing to who
it will, we have been alive since you came here. You have taken care
to be remembered. We have been studying you, or laughing at you, or
wondering what absurdity was to come next
I am very sorry -- that is, if you are serious. I hoped at least I
appeared like other people
I'll tell you what you appear like. Just what I would be if I was a
free man
Never say that, Charlie
Nay, wait a bit. I would never be so foolish. I would never give my
sunny mornings to Euripides; I would not let the best hunter in the
county go when I had wherewithal to pay for him
You would not have such an ill-conditioned self to keep in rule
After all
it is no great compliment to
say I am sorry you are going. If you were an Ethiopian serenader, you
would be a loss to me. It is something to see anything beyond this old
drawing-room, and the same faces doing the same things every day. Laura
poking over her drawing, and meditating upon the last entry in Philip's
memorandum-book, and Amy at her flowers or some nonsense or other,
and Charlotte and the elders all the same, and a lot of stupid people
dropping in and a lot of stupid books to read, all just alike. I can
tell what they are like without looking in
tis no joke to be
a helpless log all the best years of a man's life,-- nay, for my whole
life,-- for at the very best of the contingencies the doctors are always
flattering me with, I should make but a wretched crippling affair of it.
And if that is the best hope they give me, you may guess it is likely to
be a pretty deal worse. Hope? I've been hoping these ten years, and much
good has it done me. I say, Guy
the only wonder is that I
don't hate the very sight of you! There are times when I feel as if I
could bite some men,-- that Tomfool Maurice de Courcy, for instance, when
I hear him rattling on, and think
I know I have often talked thoughtlessly, I have feared afterwards I
might have given you pain
No, no, you never have; you have carried me along with you. I like
nothing better than to hear of your ridings, and shootings, and
boatings. It is a sort of life
And now you are going to Oxford. You will take your place among the men
of your day. You will hear and be heard of. You will be somebody. And
I!-- I know I have what they call talent -- I could be something. They
think me an idle dog; but where's the good of doing anything? I only
know if I was not -- not condemned to -- to this -- this life
if I was not chained down
here, Master Philip should not stand alone as the paragon of the family.
I've as much mother wit as he
That you have
How fast you see the sense of a passage. You
could excel very much if you only tried
Tried
I don't know that one ought to let talents rust
I suppose it is one's duty not; and surely it is a pity
to give up those readings
I shall not get such another fellow dunce as you
as I
told you when we began, and it would be a mere farce to do it alone. I
could not make myself, if I would
Can't you make yourself do what you please
Not a bit, if the other half of me does not like it. I forget it, or
put it off, and it comes to nothing. I do declare, though, I would get
something to break my mind on, merely as a medical precaution, just to
freshen myself up, if I could find any one to do it with. No, nothing in
the shape of a tutor, against that I protest
Your sisters
Amy, here is Guy advising me to
take you to read something awfully wise every day, something that will
make you as dry as a stick, and as blue
As a gentianella
I should not mind being like a gentianella
But what
dreadful thing were you setting him to do
To make you read all the folios in my uncle's old library
All that Margaret has in keeping against Philip has a house of
his own
Sancho somebody, and all you talked of when first you came
We were talking of the hour's reading that Charlie and I have had
together lately
I was thinking how Charlie would miss that hour
and we
shall be very sorry not to have you to listen to
Well, then, Amy, suppose you read with me
Oh, Charlie, thank you! Should you really like it
I have always thought it would be so very
delightful if you would read with me, as James Ross used with Mary, only
I was afraid of tiring you with my stupidity. Oh, thank you
He goes with excellent intentions
I do hope he will do well
I wish he may
the agreeableness of his whole character
makes one more anxious. It is very dangerous. His name, his wealth, his
sociable, gay disposition, that very attractive manner, all are so many
perils, and he has not that natural pleasure in study that would be of
itself a preservative from temptation. However, he is honestly anxious
to do right, and has excellent principles. I only fear his temper and
his want of steadiness. Poor boy, I hope he may do well
There he is
Bustle, darling old fellow, you
are handsomer than ever
What a delicious day
A spontaneous tribute to the beauty of the day
Really it is so ultra-splendid as to deserve notice
One cannot help revelling in that deep blue
Tomorrow'll be the happiest time of all the glad new year
Ah you will teach us all now
after your grand singing
lessons
Do you know what is in store for you, Guy
Oh! haven't you
heard about Lady Kilcoran's ball
You are to go, Guy
I am glad I am not. I hate
dancing
And I know as much about it as Bustle
Never mind, they will soon teach you
Must I really go
He begins to think it serious
Is Philip going
He is going to say something about dancing being a healthful recreation
for young people
You'll be disappointed
It is much too hot to moralize
Apollo unbends his bow
The captain yields the
field
Ah! Captain Morville, I ought to have congratulated you
I
must come to Broadstone early enough to see you on parade
Come to Broadstone! You aren't still bound to Mr. Lascelles
If he has time for me
I am too far behind the rest of the
world to afford to be idle this vacation
That's right, Guy
With so much perseverance, you must get on at last. How did
you do in collections
Tolerably, thank you
You must be able to enter into the thing now
What
are you reading
Thucydides
Have you come to Pericles' oration? I must show you some notes that I
have on that. Don't you get into the spirit of it now
Up-hill work still
Which do you like best -- that or the ball
The hay-field best of all
Of course
who would not like hay-making better than
that stupid ball
Poor Charlotte
Mamma, you know I don't want to go
No more do I, Charlotte
You and I know what is good for us, and despise sublunary vanities
But you will go, Guy
Philip is really going
In spite of Lord Kilcoran's folly in going to such an expense as either
taking Allonby or giving the ball
I don't think it is my business to bring Lord Kilcoran to a sense of
his folly
I made all my protests to Maurice when first
he started the notion, but if his father chose to take the matter up, it
is no concern of mine
You will understand, Guy
that this ball is specially
got up by Maurice for Laura's benefit
Believe as little as you please of that speech, Guy
the
truth is that Lord Kilcoran is very good-natured, and Eveleen was very
much shocked to hear that Amy had never been to any ball, and I to only
one, and so it ended in their giving one
When is it to be
On Thursday week
I wonder if you will think Eveleen as
pretty as we do
She is Laura's great friend, is not she
I like her very much; I have known her all my life, and she has much
more depth than those would think who only know her manner
Are there any others of the family at home
The two younger girls, Mabel and Helen, and the little boys
Lord de Courcy is in Ireland, and all the others are away
Lord de Courcy is the wisest man of the family, and sets his face
against absenteeism
so he is never visible here
But you aren't going to despise it, I hope, Guy
it will be so delightful! And what fun we shall have in teaching you to
dance
Never mind, Guy
very little is required. You may easily
pass in the crowd. I never learnt
Your ear will guide you
And no one can stay at home, since Mary Ross is going
Eveleen was always so fond of her, that she came and forced a promise
from her by telling her she should come with mamma, and have no
trouble
You have not seen Allonby
There are such Vandykes, and
among them, such a King Charles
Is not that the picture
before which Amy
O don't, Charlie
Was found dissolved in tears
I could not help it
There is all Charles's fate in his face
earnest,
melancholy, beautiful! It would stir the feelings -- were it an unknown
portrait. No, Amy, you need not be ashamed of your tears
I hope it is not in the ball-room
it is in the library
We never had such a haymaking
So I think the haymakers will say
What ruin of haycocks
Oh, I'll set all that to rights
Stop, stop, take care
I don't want to be built up in
the rick, and by and by, when my disconsolate family have had all the
ponds dragged for me, Deloraine will be heard to complain that they give
him very odd animal food
Who could resist such a piteous appeal
Queen of the
May
first term
having only shown him what an intolerable fool
he had to keep in order
without
turning his own head, except study, and that stupefied it
Never was
there a more idle fellow; he could work himself for a given time, but
his sense would not second him; and was it not most absurd in him to
take so little pleasure in what was his duty, and enjoy only what was
bad for him
The last
might engross
him in the same way; but he thought (here he hesitated a little) there
were higher ends for music, which made it come under Mrs. Edmonstone's
rule, of a thing to be used guardedly, not disused
One wants something
by way of refreshment, where
there is no sea nor rock to look at, and no Laura and Amy to talk to
Ah, ha!
Paddy, is that you
Aunt Edmonstone said I
should find you here. What is the fun now
Arbour building
don't you see the head carpenter
Sir Guy
Here
here's another wild
Irisher for you
Sir Guy Morville -- Lady Eveleen de Courcy
You
are almost a cousin, you know. Oh, don't leave off. Do give me something
to do. That hammer, Amy, pray -- Laura, don't you remember how dearly I
always loved hammering
How did you come
No, don't go
he is only impending. He is gone on to Broadstone,
but he dropped me here, and will pick me up on his way back. Can't you
give me something to do on the top of that ladder? I should like it
mightily; it looks so cool and airy
How can you, Eva
Go on about the ball,
do
Oh
do you think there is any hope of Captain
Morville's coming
Oh yes
I am so glad! That is what papa is gone to Broadstone about. Maurice
said he had given him such a lecture, that he would not be the one to
think of asking him, and papa must do it himself; for if he sets his
face against it, it will spoil it all
You may make your mind easy
the captain is lenient,
and looks on the ball as a mere development of Irish nature. He has been
consoling Guy on the difficulties of dancing
Can't you dance
Such is my melancholy ignorance
We have been talking of teaching him
Talk! will that do it
We will
begin this moment. Come out on the lawn. Here, Charles
No, thank you, I like it
There,
Charles, be fiddler go on, tum-tum, tee! that'll do. Amy, Laura, be
ladies. I'm the other gentleman
I like him very much
he looks up to anything.
I had heard so much of his steadiness, that it is a great relief to my
mind to see him so unlike his cousin
Eveleen
No disparagement to the captain, only I am so dreadfully afraid of him.
I am sure he thinks me such an unmitigated goose. Now, doesn't he
If you would but take the right way to make him think otherwise, dear
Eva, and show the sense you really have
That is just what my fear of him won't let me do. I would not for the
world let him guess it, so there is nothing for it but sauciness to
cover one's weakness. I can't be sensible with those that won't give
me credit for it. But you'll mind and teach Sir Guy to dance; he has so
much spring in him, he deserves to be an Irishman
O Amy! what do you want with me
Come and be trimmed up
I thought you told me I was to have no trouble. I am dressed
No more you shall; but you promised to do as you were told
Do you remember
the comparison of Rose Flammock
dragging off her father, to a little carved cherub trying to uplift a
solid monumental hero
O, I must tell Mary
It is a pity Amy should not have her share
The comparison to a Dutch cherub
She is more after the pattern of the little things on little wings, in
your blotting-book
certain lines in the predicament of
the cherubs of painters -- heads "et proeterea nihil
O Guy, do you write verses? cried Charlotte.

'Some nonsense
I thought I had made
away with that rubbish; where is it
In the blotting-book in my room
I must explain that
the book is my property, and was put into your room when mamma was
beautifying it for you, as new and strange company. On its return to me,
at your departure, I discovered a great accession of blots and sailing
vessels, beside the aforesaid little things
I shall resume my own property
A romantic incident
just fit for a novel. A Petrarch
leaving his poems about in blotting-books
Do you mean anything, or do you not
Eh? is it a tender subject with you, too
I cannot tell whether you are trifling or not; but you are no boy now,
and can surely see that this is no subject to be played with. If you are
concealing anything you have discovered, you have a great deal to answer
for. I can hardly imagine anything more unfortunate than that he should
become attached to either of your sisters
Et pourquoi
I see
I did you injustice by speaking seriously
Harmonious Blacksmith
I have submitted to everything so far; I can bear no more
Got up, regardless of expense
display yourselves
Laura is exactly like Apollo playing the lyre, outside mamma's old
manuscript book of music
Has not Amy made beautiful wreaths
She stripped the
tree, and Guy had to fetch the ladder, to gather the sprays on the top
of the wall
Do you see your bit of myrtle, Guy
that you tried to persuade me would pass for jessamine
Ah! it should have been all myrtle
Well done, Mary
they have furbished you up
handsomely
This makes it hard on Charlotte
I am engaged
It is curious
that, so very handsome as
Philip is, it is never the first thing remarked about him, just as his
height never is observed till he is compared with other people. The fact
is, that his superior sense carries off a degree of beauty which
would be a misfortune to most men. It is that sedate expression and
distinguished air that make the impression. How happy Laura looks, how
gracefully she moves. No, it is not being foolish to think no one equal
to Laura. My other pair
you happy young
things, I would not wish to see anything pleasanter than your merry
faces. Little Amy looks almost as pretty as Laura, now she is lighted
up by blush and smile, and her dancing is very nice, it is just like her
laughing, so quiet, and yet so full of glee. I don't think she is less
graceful than her sister, but the complete enjoyment strikes one more.
And as to enjoyment -- there are those bright eyes of her partner's
perfectly sparkling with delight; he looks as if it was a world of
enchantment to him. Never had any one a greater capacity for happiness
than Guy
Laura
I've one ambition. Do you guess it? Don't
tell him; but if he would, I should have a better opinion of myself ever
after. I'm afraid he'll depreciate me to his friend; and really with Mr.
Thorndale, I was no more foolish than a ball requires
You are a good partner and neighbour
you don't want young lady talk
Should you not have asked Mary? She has been sitting down this long
time
Do you think she cares for such a sport as dancing
You have been well off. You were dancing with Thorndale just now
Yes. It was refreshing to have an old acquaintance among so many
strangers. And he is so delighted with Eveleen; but what is more,
Philip, that Mr. Vernon, who is dancing with Laura, told Maurice he
thought her the prettiest and most elegant person here
Laura might have higher praise
for hers is beauty of
countenance even more than of feature. If only
If
Look round, Amy, and you will see many a face which speaks of intellect
wasted, or, if cultivated, turned aside from its true purpose, like the
double blossom, which bears leaves alone
Ah! you forget you are talking to silly little Amy. I can't see all
that. I had rather think people as happy and good as they look
Keep your child-like temper as long as you can -- all your life
Then you only meant things in general? Nothing about Laura
Things in general
bright promises blighted or
thrown away
Which was the pretty Miss Edmonstone
Nay
if you
cannot discover for yourselves when they are both before your eyes, I
will do nothing so invidious as to say which is _the_ pretty one. I'll
tell which is the eldest and which the youngest, but the rest you must
decide for yourself
I should like to know them
Oh! they are both very
nice-looking girls
There, that is Laura -- Miss Edmonstone
that tall young
lady, with the beautiful hair and jessamine wreath
So you knew my cousin at Oxford
Yes, slightly. What an amusing fellow he is
There is something very bright, very unlike other people about him
How does he get on? Is he liked
Why, yes, I should say so, on the whole; but it is rather as my sister
says, he is not like other people
In what respect
Oh I can hardly tell. He is a very pleasant person, but he ought to
have been at school. He is a man of crotchets
Hard-working
Very; he makes everything give way to that. He is a capital companion
when he is to be had, but he lives very much to himself. He is a man of
one friend, and I don't see much of him
Hum
What is
the matter, Eva
The roc's egg
The queen of the evening can't be
content
No; you are the queen, if the one thing can make you so -- the one thing
wanting to me
How absurd you are, Eva -- when you say you are so afraid of him, too
That is the very reason. I should get a better opinion of myself!
Besides, there is nobody else so handsome. I declare I'll make a bold
attempt
Oh! you don't think of such a thing
Never fear
faint heart, you know
Captain
Morville, I really must scold you. You are setting a shocking example
of laziness! Aunt Edmonstone, how can you encourage such proceedings!
Indolence is the parent of vice, you know
I
beg your pardon, I had forgotten my duty. I'll attend to my business
better in future
Insult to injury
Of course
he could not have thought you wanted to dance
with him, or you would not have gone to stir him up
Well, then, he was very obtuse
Besides, you are engaged
O yes, to Mr. Thorndale! But who would be content with the squire when
the knight disdains her
She is very Irish
Morville's
You have not been dancing with her
No: she attracts too many to need the attention of a nobody like
myself
too many
One
quadrille we must have, Laura, if you are not tired
No! Oh, no! I could dance till this time to-morrow
We ought to be going
O pray, Mrs. Edmonstone, this one more
Laura
owes me this one
Yes, this one more, mamma
Two loving hearts may sever,
           For sorrow fails them never
Who knows not love in sorrow's night,
           He knows not love in light
For sever, read,
be separated, but "a" wouldn't rhyme
I translated it into prose, and Guy made it verse
I hope
you approve of our performance
It is that thing of Helmine von Chezy, "Beharre", is it not
You have
rendered the spirit very well
Yes; those last lines are not troubled with any equality of feet
Yes; the despair is ready, to wish the love had never been
It does not see the star of trust. Why did you use that word
"trust" only once, Guy
I did not want to lose the three -- faith, hope, love,-- faith keeping the
other two alive
My doubt was whether it was right to have that analogy
Surely
that analogy must be the best part of
earthly love
Ah
balls are the fashion just now. What do you say,
Amy, &lsqb;he was more inclined to patronize her than any one else&rsqb; to the
gaieties we are going to provide for you
You! Are you going to have your new colours? Oh! you are not going to
give us a ball
Well! that is fun
What glory Maurice de Courcy must be
in
He is gone to Allonby
to announce it; saying, he must
persuade his father to put off their going to Brighton. Do you think he
will succeed
Hardly
poor Lady Kilcoran was so knocked up by their
ball, that she is the more in want of sea air. Oh, mamma, Eva must come
and stay here
That she must
that will make it easy. She is
the only one who will care about the ball
Well, Charlotte, did you
tease Guy into showing you those verses
Oh yes
Well, what were they
That I mustn't tell. They were very pretty; but I've promised
Promised what
Never to say anything about them. He made it a condition with me, and I
assure you, I am to be trusted
Right
I'll ask no more
It would be of no use
Thalaba
Who comes from the bridal chamber!
           It is Azrael, angel of death
You have not been so taken up with any book since Sintram
It is like Sintram
Like it
So it seems to me. A strife with the powers of darkness; the victory,
forgiveness, resignation, death.

          "Thou know'st the secret wishes of my heart,
           Do with me as thou wilt, thy will is best
I wish you would not speak as if you were Thalaba yourself
you bring the whole Domdaniel round us
I am afraid he is going to believe himself Thalaba as well as Sintram
But you know Southey did not see all this himself, and did
not understand it when it was pointed out
Don't tell us that
Nay; I think there is something striking in it
but is not this ball famous
It is a long time since I have seen you
An unheard-of time
Still longer since we have had any conversation
I was just thinking so. Not since that hot hay-making, when Guy came
home. Indeed, we have had so much amusement lately that I have hardly
had time for thought. Guy says we are all growing dissipated
Ah! your German, and dancing, and music, do not agree with thought
Poor music
But I am ready for a lecture; I have
been feeling more like a butterfly than I like
I know you think me unjust about music, and I freely confess that I
cannot estimate the pleasure it affords, but I doubt whether it is a
safe pleasure. It forms common ground for persons who would otherwise
have little in common, and leads to intimacies which occasion results
never looked for
Yes
Laura, you complain of feeling like a butterfly. Is not that a sign
that you were made for better things
But what can I do? I try to read early and at night, but I can't
prevent the fun and gaiety; and, indeed, I don't think I would. It is
innocent, and we never had such a pleasant summer. Charlie is so -- so
much more equable, and mamma is more easy about him, and I can't help
thinking it does them all good, though I do feel idle
It is innocent, it is right for a little while
but your
dissatisfaction proves that you are superior to such things. Laura, what
I fear is, that this summer holiday may entangle you, and so fix your
fate as to render your life no holiday. O Laura take care; know what you
are doing
What am I doing
I must speak
because no one else will. Have you reflected whither this
may tend? This music, this versifying, this admitting a stranger so
unreservedly into your pursuits
I would not say a word
if he were worthy, but Laura -- Laura, I have seen Locksley Hall acted
once; do not let me see it again in a way which -- which would give me
infinitely more pain
No, you need never fear _that_. He has no such thought, I am sure
He treats us both alike,
besides, he is so young
The mischief is not done
I only meant to speak in time. You might let your manner go too
far; you might even allow your affections to be involved without knowing
it, if you were not on your guard
Never
Oh, no; I could never dream of that with Guy. I
like Guy very much; I think better of him than you do; but oh no; he
could never be my first and best; I could never care for him in _that_
way. How could you think so, Philip
Laura, I cannot but look on you with what may seem over-solicitude.
Since I lost Fanny, and worse than lost Margaret, you have been my
home; my first, my most precious interest. O Laura
could I
bear to lose you, to see you thrown away or changed -- you, dearest, best
of all
Don't speak of my changing towards
you. I never could; for if there is anything to care for in me, it is
you that have taught it to me
What
have I done
Laura, my own
you have
made me very happy. We know each other now, and trust each other for
ever
O yes, yes; nothing can alter what has grown up with us
It is for ever
But, Laura, let us be content with
our own knowledge of what we are to each other. Do not let us call in
others to see our happiness
I never can bear to talk about
the best kinds of happiness
but oh
here they come
What did you think of it? said Philip, absently.

'They _should_ keep better time! Really, Philip, there is one fellow
with a bugle that ought to be flogged every day of his life
Then I shall be obliged to take to my heels if I meet the rest.
Good-bye
How conceited they have made that boy about his fine ear
I wonder he is not ashamed to parade his music, considering
whence it is derived
Joyce's Scientific Dialogues
Laura! not begun to dress
Is it time
Shall I answer you according to what Philip calls my note of time, and
tell you the pimpernels are closed, and the tigridias dropping their
leaves? It would be a proper answer for you; you look as if you were in
Fairy Land
Is papa come home
Long ago! and Guy too. Why, where could you have been, not to have
heard Guy and Eveleen singing the Irish melodies
In a trance
Has anything happened, Laura
What should have happened
I can't guess, unless the fairies in the great ring on Ashendown came
to visit you when we were gone. But seriously, dear Laura, are you sure
you are not tired? Is nothing the matter
Nothing at all, thank you. I was only thinking over the talk I had with
Philip
Oh
Except your own
Thank you; but this would be so delightful
Ah
it would be as great a triumph as the dog's that
caught the hare with the clog round his neck -- the dog's, I mean
If you will but trust me with him
you know he can get in and out of the
pony-carriage quite easily
As well as walk across the room
I would drive him in it, and tell William to ride in and be at hand to
hold the pony or take it out; and the tent is so near, that you could
get to the breakfast, unless the review had been enough for you. I
paced the distance to make sure, and it is no further than from the
garden-door to the cherry-tree
That is nothing
And William shall be in waiting to bring the pony the instant you are
ready, and we can go home independently of every one else
I thought
that you were to go to the
mess-dinner -- what is to become of that
O
that will be simply a bore, and he may rejoice to be
excused from going the whole hog
To be sure, I had rather dine in peace at home
Is mamma ready
Nearly
but I wish she was not obliged to go! I am sure she
cannot bear to leave Charlie
I hope she is not going on my account
we must go; it would so frighten papa if we did not
come. Besides, there is nothing to be uneasy about with Charles
O no
she says so, only she is always anxious, and she is
afraid he is too restless to go to sleep
We must get home as fast as we can; if you don't mind, Eva
Can I do any good to Charlie
Not go
He is joking
But, I declare
he is not dressed! Come, nonsense, this is carrying it too
far; you'll make us all too late, and then I'll set Maurice at you
I am afraid it is no joke
You must go. It will never do for you to stay away
Are you tired? Aren't you well
Quite well, thank you, but I am sure I had better not
Neither Mamma nor Charlie could bear to think you stayed because of
him
I don't, I assure you, Amy. I meant it before. I have been gradually
finding out that it must come to this
Oh, you think it a matter of right and wrong! But you don't think balls
wrong
Oh no; only they won't do for such an absurd person as I am. The last
turned my head for a week, and I am much too unsteady for this
Well, if you think it a matter of duty, it can't be helped
but I am very sorry
Thank you
but I shall
do very well. I shall be all the happier to-morrow for a quiet hour at
my Greek, and you'll tell me all the fun
You liked it so much
but you have made up your mind and I
ought not to tease you
That's right Amy; he does it on purpose to be teased
and I never knew anybody so provoking. Mind, Sir Guy, if you make us
all too late, you shan't have the ghost of a quadrille with me
I shall console myself by quadrilling with Andromache
Come, no nonsense -- off to dress directly! How can you have the
conscience to stand there when the carriage is at the door
I shall have great pleasure in handing you in when you are ready
Laura -- Amy! Does he really mean it
I am afraid he does
Oh
take him away! Let me never see the face of him again! I'm perfectly
overcome! All my teaching thrown away
I am sorry for you
And how do you mean to face Maurice
Tell him his first bugle has so distracted me that I can't answer for
the consequences if I come to-night.

'Mrs. Edmonstone came in, saying,--

'Come, I have kept you waiting shamefully, but I have been consoling
myself by thinking you must be well entertained, as I heard no
Harmonious Blacksmith. Papa will be wondering where we are
Oh, mamma! Guy won't go
Guy! is anything the matter
Nothing, thank you, only idleness
This will never do. You really must go, Guy
Indeed! I think not. Pray don't order me, Mrs. Edmonstone
What o'clock is it, Amy? Past ten! Papa will be in despair! What is to
be done? How long do you take to dress, Guy
Not under an hour
Nonsense! But if there was time I should certainly send you.
Self-discipline may be carried too far, Guy. But now it can't be
helped -- I don't know how to keep papa waiting any longer. Laura, what
shall I do
Let me go to Charles
Perhaps I can read him to sleep
Thank you; but don't talk, or he will be too excited. Reading would be
the very thing! It will be a pretty story to tell every one who asks for
you that I have left you to nurse my son
No, for no such good reason
only because I am a great
fool
Well, Sir Guy, I am glad you can say one sensible word
Too true, I assure you
Good night!
You will keep the quadrille for me till I am rational
Well, this is provoking
Every one will be vexed
It will be so stupid
I give him up
I once had hopes of him
If it was not for papa, I really would turn back this moment and fetch
him
I'm sure it will give
offence. I wish I had not consented
He can't be made to see that his presence is of importance to any
living creature
What is the reason of this whim
No, Eveleen, it is not whim
it is because he thinks
dissipation makes him idle
Then if he is idle I wonder what the rest of the world is
I am sure we all ought to stay at home too
I think so
I know I shall feel all night as if I was wrong
to be there
I am angry
and yet I believe it is a great
sacrifice
Yes, mamma; after all our looking forward to it
Oh! yes
it is a real sacrifice
If he was not a mere boy, I should say a lover's quarrel was at the
bottom of it
Depend upon it, Laura, it is all your
fault. You only danced once with him at our ball, and all this week you
have played for us, as if it was on purpose to cut him
If it were only ourselves I
should not care, but there are so many who will fancy it caprice, or
worse
The only comfort is
that it is Charlie's gain
I hope they will not talk
But Charlie will
never hold his tongue. He will grow excited, and not sleep all night
I must indulge myself in abusing that stupid cousin of yours
This is a very unexpected one
It came like a thunder clap. I thought till the last moment he was
joking, for he likes dancing so much; he was the life of our ball, and
how could any one suppose he would fly off at the last moment
He seems rather to enjoy doing things suddenly
I tell Laura she has affronted him
She has
been always busy of late when we have wanted her; and I assure her his
pride has been piqued. Don't you think that is an explanation, Captain
Morville
Isn't Laura looking lovely
I am sure she is
the beauty of the night
She is even better dressed than at our ball -- those
Venetian pins suit the form of her head so well. Her beauty is better
than almost any one's, because she has so much countenance
True
How proud Maurice looks of having her on his arm. Does not he? Poor
Maurice! he is desperately in love with her
As is shown by his pining melancholy
I see you know what we
mean by being desperately in love! No
I am
very glad it is only _that_ kind of desperation. One could not think of
Maurice and Laura together. He does not know the best part of Laura
Laura, have you been overdoing it
It is not that
It is the only motive that could excuse his extraordinary behaviour
Surely you know he says that he is growing unsettled. It is part of his
rule of self discipline
Absurd!-- exaggerated!-- incredible! This is the same story as there was
about the horse. It is either caprice or temper, and I am convinced
that some change in your manner -- nay, I say unconscious, and am far from
blaming you -- is the cause. Why else did he devote himself to Charles,
and leave you all on my uncle's hands in the crowd
We could shift for ourselves much better than Charlie
This confirms my belief that my warning was not mistimed. I wish it
could have been done without decidedly mortifying him and rousing his
temper, because I am sorry others should be slighted; but if he takes
your drawing back so much to heart, it shows that it was time you should
do so
If I thought I had
It was visible to others -- to another, I should say
O, that is only Eveleen's nonsense! The only difference I am conscious
of having made, was keeping more up-stairs, and not trying to persuade
him to come here to-night
I have no doubt it was this that turned the scale, He only waited for
persuasion, and you acted very wisely in not flattering his self-love
Did I?-- I did not know it
A woman's instinct is often better than reasoning, Laura; to do the
right thing without knowing why. But come, I suppose we must play our
part in the pageant of the night
What do you think of the
scheme that has been started for my going to Ireland with papa
Your going to Ireland
Yes; you know none of us, except papa, have seen grandmamma since
Charles began to be ill, and there is some talk of his taking me with
him when he goes this summer
I knew he was going, but I thought it was not to be till later in the
year -- not till after the long vacation
So he intended, but he finds he must be at home before the end of
October, and it would suit him best to go in August
Then what becomes of Guy
He stays at Hollywell. It will be much better for Charles to have him
there while papa is away. I thought when the plan was first mentioned I
should be sorry, except that it is quite right to go to grandmamma; but
if it is so, about Guy, this absence would be a good thing -- it would
make a break, and I could begin again on different terms
Wisely judged, Laura. Yes, on that account it would be very desirable,
though it will be a great loss to me, and I can hardly hope to be so
near you on your return
Ah! yes, so I feared
But we must give up something; and for Guy's own sake, poor fellow, it
will be better to make a break, as you say. It will save him pain by and
by
I dare say papa will consult you about when his journey is to be. His
only doubt was whether it would do to leave Guy so long alone, and if
you say it would be safe, it would decide him at once
I see little chance of mischief. Guy has few temptations here, and a
strong sense of honour; besides, I shall be at hand. Taking all things
into consideration, Laura, I think that, whatever the sacrifice to
ourselves, it is expedient to recommend his going at once, and your
accompanying him
Take care;
you must be cautious -- self-command
Good morning to you, Sir Guy Morville! I wonder what you have to say
for yourself
Nothing
I hope you are not tired after your hard day's work
Not at all, thank you
Amy, can you tell me the name of this flower
Oh! have you really found the arrow-head? How beautiful! Where did you
get it? I didn't know it grew in our river
There is plenty of it in that reedy place beyond the turn. I thought it
looked like something out of the common way
Yes! What a purple eye it has! I must draw it. O, thank you
And, Charlotte, Bustle has found you a moorhen's nest
How delightful! Is it where I can go and see the dear little things
It is rather a swamp; but I have been putting down stepping-stones for
you, and I dare say I can jump you across. It was that which made me
so late, for which I ought to have asked pardon
There are others later
So you think that is all you have to ask pardon for
I advise you to study your apologies, for you are in pretty
tolerable disgrace
Indeed, I am very sorry
tis no concern of mine! It would be going rather the wrong way,
indeed, for you to be begging my pardon for all the care you've been
taking of Charlie; but you had better consider what you have to say for
yourself before you show your face at Broadstone
No
What! Broadstone in despair for want of me
And we perfectly exhausted with answering questions as to what was
become of Sir Guy
Dreadful
O, Lady Eveleen, good morning; you are come in good time to give me the
story of the ball, for no one else tells me one word about it
Because you don't deserve it
I hope you have repented by
this time
If you want to make me repent, you should give me a very alluring
description
I shan't say one word about it; I shall send you to Coventry, as
Maurice and all the regiment mean to do
Hear, hear! Eveleen send any one to Coventry
See what
the regiment say to you
Ay, when I am sent to Coventry
O, Paddy, Paddy
Laura seems to be doing it in good earnest without announcing it
which is the worst sign of
all
Nonsense, Charles
Well, Laura, _do_ tell me who your partners were
Maurice first,
then Philip
Is anything the matter
Nothing to signify
I was only waiting for your mother. I
have got into a mess, that is all
I am sorry
No, you have no occasion to be sorry; it is all my own fault; at least,
if I was clear how it is my fault, I should not mind it so much. It
is that ball. I am sure I had not the least notion any one would care
whether I was there or not
I am sure we missed you very much
You are all so kind; beside, I belong in a manner you; but what could
it signify to any one else? And here I find that I have vexed every
one
Ah
mamma said she was afraid it would give offence
I ought to have attended to her. It was a fit of self-will in managing
myself
yet I thought it a positive duty; wrong every way
What has happened
We missed you at the dinner
and I hear you shirked
the ball, too
Ha
Morville! I thought at least you would have been laid up for a month
with the typhus fever! As a friend, I advise you to go home and catch
something, for it is the only excuse that will serve you. I am not quite
sure that it will not be high treason for me to be seen speaking to
you
Did you
Yes. Philip was at home, and very -- very
Gracious
Just so. Only the vexatious thing was, that we never could succeed in
coming to an understanding. He was ready to forgive; but I could not
disabuse him of an idea -- where he picked it up I cannot guess -- that I
had stayed away out of pique. He would not even tell me what he thought
had affronted me, though I asked him over and over again to be only
straightforward; he declared I knew
How excessively provoking
You cannot guess what he
meant
Not the least in the world. I have not the most distant suspicion. It
was of no use to declare I was not offended with any one; he only looked
in that way of his, as if he knew much better than I did myself, and
told me he could make allowances
Worse than all! How horrid of him
No, don't spoil me. No doubt he thinks he has grounds, and my
irritation was unjustifiable. Yes, I got into my old way. He cautioned
me, and nearly made me mad! I never was nearer coming to a regular
outbreak. Always the same! Fool that I am
Now, Guy, that is always your way; when other people are provoking,
you abuse yourself. I am sure Philip was so, with his calm assertion of
being right
The more provoking, the more trial for me
But you endured it. You say it was only _nearly_ an outbreak. You
parted friends? I am sure of that
Yes, it would have been rather too bad not to do that
Then why do you scold yourself, when you really had the victory
The victory will be if the inward feeling as well as the outward token
is ever subdued
O, that must be in time, of course. Only let me hear how you got on
with Colonel Deane
He was very good-natured, and would have laughed it off, but Philip
went with me, and looked grand, and begged in a solemn way that no more
might be said. I could have got on better alone; but Philip was very
kind, or, as you say, gracious
And provoking
only I believe you do not like me to say
so
It is more agreeable to hear you call him so at this moment than is
good for me. I have no right to complain, since I gave the offence
The offence
The absenting myself
Oh! that you did because you thought it right
I want to be clear that it was right
What do you mean
It was a great piece of
self-denial, and I only felt it wrong not to be doing the same
Nay, how should such creatures as you need the same discipline as I
Something wrong I have done, and I want the clue. Was it self-will in
choosing discipline contrary to your mother's judgment? Yet she could
not know all. I thought it her kindness in not liking me to lose the
pleasure. Besides, one must act for oneself, and this was only my own
personal amusement
Yes
Well
Well
I was thinking of one thing
is it not sometimes right
to consider whether we ought to disappoint people who want us to be
pleased
There it is, I believe
that is a real rule. Not to be so bent
on myself as to sacrifice other people's feelings to what seems best for
me. But I don't see whose pleasure I interfered with
Mine
We all thought you would like it
And I had no right to sacrifice your pleasure! I see, I see. The
pleasure of giving pleasure to others is so much the best there is on
earth, that one ought to be passive rather than interfere with it
Yes
just as I have seen Mary Ross let herself be swung
till she was giddy, rather than disappoint Charlotte and Helen, who
thought she liked it
If one could get to look at everything with as much indifference as
the swinging! But it is all selfishness. It is as easy to be selfish for
one's own good as for one's own pleasure; and I dare say, the first is
as bad as the other
I was thinking of something else
I should think it more
like the holly tree in Southey. Don't you know it? The young leaves are
sharp and prickly, because they have so much to defend themselves from,
but as the tree grows older, it leaves off the spears, after it has won
the victory
Very kind of you, and very pretty, Amy
but, in the
meantime, it is surely wrong to be more prickly than is unavoidable, and
there is the perplexity. Selfish! selfish! selfish! Oneself the first
object. That is the root
Guy, if it is not impertinent to ask, I do wish you would tell me
one thing. Why did you think it wrong to go to that ball
I don't know that I thought it wrong to go to that individual ball
but my notion was, that altogether I was getting into a
rattling idle way, never doing my proper quantity of work, or doing
it properly, and talking a lot of nonsense sometimes. I thought, last
Sunday, it was time to make a short turn somewhere and bring myself up.
I could not, or did not get out of the pleasant talks as Laura does, so
I thought giving up this ball would punish me at once, and set me on a
new tack of behaving like a reasonable creature
Don't call yourself too many names, or you won't be civil to us. We
all, except Laura, have been quite as bad
Yes; but you had not so much to do
We ought
but I meant to be reasonable when Eveleen is
gone
If it was not you, Guy, who made that speech, I should call it fishing
for a compliment. You forget that rank and station make people sought
after
I suppose there is something in that
at any
rate, it is no bad thing to think so, it is so humiliating
That is not the way most people would take it
No? Does not it prevent one from taking any attention as paid to one's
real self? The real flattering thing would be to be made as much of as
Philip is, for one's own merits, and not for the handle to one's name
Yes, I think so
Well, then
Hardly with you
Because I had rather go at it at once, and forget all about other
people. You must teach me consideration, Mrs. Edmonstone, and in the
meantime will you tell me what you think I had better do about this
scrape
Let it alone
You have begged every one's
pardon, and it had better be forgotten as fast as possible. They have
made more fuss already than it is worth. Don't torment yourself about it
any more; for, if you have made a mistake, it is on the right side; and
on the first opportunity, I'll go and call on Mrs. Deane, and see if she
is very implacable
Can't he guess
No, he has no idea, though Philip protested that he knew, and would not
tell him. Philip must have been most tiresome
What? Has Guy been complaining
No, only angry with himself for being vexed. I can't think how Philip
can go on so
Hush! hush, Amy, you know nothing about it. He has reasons
I know
but what right has he to go on
mistrusting? If people are to be judged by their deeds, no one is
so good as Guy, and it is too bad to reckon up against him all his
ancestors have done. It is wolf and lamb, indeed
He does not
He never is unjust! How can you say so,
Amy
Then why does he impute motives, and not straightforwardly tell what he
means
It is impossible in this case
Do you know what it is
Yes
And you can't tell me
I don't think I can
Nor Guy
Not for worlds
Can't you get Philip to tell him
Oh no, no! I can't explain it, Amy; and all that can be done is to let
it die away as fast as possible. It is only the rout about it that is of
consequence
It is very odd
but I must dress
Are you making poor little Amy read that
Bravo
he is so disappointed that it is not Pickwick
that he does not know what else to say
I don't suppose I take much in
but I like to be told what
it means
Don't imagine I can do that
I never spent much time over it
but I should think you
were out of your depth
Very well
we will return to Dickens to oblige you
It is your pleasure to wrest my words
Where are the rest
Laura and Eveleen are making a dictation lesson agreeable to
Charlotte
I found Eva making mistakes on purpose
How much longer does she stay
Till Tuesday. Lord Kilcoran is coming to fetch her
There was the time, to be sure, when we met you on Ashen-down, but that
was a regular cheat. Laura had you all to herself
but he could come for two nights
I was thinking
if it would not be as well,
if you liked, to ask Thorndale here for those two days
If _you_ think so
You know how he enjoys being here, and I owe them all so much
kindness
Certainly; I will speak to your uncle
The air is stormy
You thought so, too
You did
I have wondered for some time past
It was very decided to-day -- that long absence -- and there was no
provoking him to be sententious. His bringing his young man might be
only to keep him in due subjection; but his choosing the day of the
party, and above all, not walking with the young ladies
It not like himself
Either the sweet youth is in love, or in the course of some strange
transformation
In love
Have you any reason for thinking so
Only as a solution of phenomena; but you look as if I had hit on the
truth
I hope it is no such thing; yet
Yet
I think he has discovered the
danger
The danger of falling in love with Laura? Well, it would be odd if he
was not satisfied with his own work. But he must know how preposterous
that would be
And you think that would prevent it
He
is just the man to plume himself on making his judgment conquer his
inclination, setting novels at defiance. How magnanimously he would
resolve to stifle a hopeless attachment
That is exactly what I think he is doing. I think he has found out the
state of his feelings, and is doing all in his power to check them by
avoiding her, especially in tete-a-tetes, and an unconstrained family
party. I am nearly convinced that is his reason for bringing Mr.
Thorndale, and fixing on the day of the dinner. Poor fellow, it must
cost him a great deal, and I long to tell him how I thank him
Hm! I don't think it unlikely
It agrees with what
happened the evening of the Kilcoran ball, when he was ready to eat me
up for saying something he fancied was a hint of a liking of Guy's
for Laura. It was a wild mistake, for something I said about Petrarch,
forgetting that Petrarch suggested Laura; but it put him out to a
degree, and he made all manner of denunciations on the horror of Guy's
falling in love with her. Now, as far as I see, Guy is much more in
love with you, or with Deloraine, and the idea argues far more that the
Captain himself is touched
Depend upon it, Charlie, it was this that led to his detecting the true
state of the case. Ever since that he has kept away. It is noble
And what do you think about Laura
Poor child! I doubt if it was well to allow so much intimacy; yet I
don't see how it could have been helped
So you think she is in for it? I hope not; but she has not been herself
of late
I think she misses what she has been used to from him, and thinks him
estranged, but I trust it goes no further. I see she is out of spirits;
I wish I could help her, dear girl, but the worst of all would be to let
her guess the real name and meaning of all this, so I can't venture to
say a word
She is very innocent of novels
like Patience on a monument
cockit up on a baggage-waggon
He would never involve her in discomforts. He may be entirely trusted,
and as long as he goes on as he has begun, there is no harm done; Laura
will cheer up, will only consider him as her cousin and friend, and
never know he has felt more for her
Her going to Ireland is very fortunate
It has made me still more glad that the plan should take place at
once
And you say "nothing to nobody
Of course not. We must not let him guess we have observed anything;
there is no need to make your father uncomfortable, and such things need
not dawn on Amy's imagination
Lily of the valley -- truth -- Joan of Arc -- Padre Cristoforo -- the present
time
Amy
I see you are right
but tell me your grounds
Padre Cristoforo
Fancy little Amy choosing Joan of Arc
she who is
afraid of a tolerable sized grasshopper
I should like to have been Joan's sister, and heard her tell about her
visions
You would have taught her to believe them
Taught her
Surely you take the high view of her
I think
that she is a much injured person, as much
by her friends as her enemies; but I don't pretend to enter either
enthusiastically or philosophically into her character
Lavender
What should make any one choose that
I know
I shall never forget the
tufts of lavender round the kitchen garden at Stylehurst
King Lear
For hear the next:
"Honeysuckle -- steadfastness -- Lord Strafford -- Cordelia -- the present
time." Why, Laura, you must have copied it from Philip's
Come, make haste,
Charlotte, don't be all night about it
A shamrock -- Captain Rock -- the tailor that was "blue moulded for want of
a bating"-- Pat Riotism -- the time of Malachy with the collar of gold
Eva
Nonsense
I am glad I know your tastes, Charles. They
do you honour
More than yours do, if these are yours
Rose -- generosity -- Charles Edward -- Catherine Seyton -- the
civil wars
You had better not have disowned Charlie's, Lady Eveleen
Nay do you think I would put up with such a set as these
I am not fallen so low as the essence of young ladyism
What can you find to say against them
Nothing
No one ever can find anything to say for or
against young ladies' tastes
You seem to be rather in the case of the tailor yourself
ready to do battle, if you could but get any opposition
Only tell me
how you could wish to live in the civil
wars
O, because they would be so entertaining
There's Paddy, genuine Paddy at last
Depend upon
it, the conventional young lady won't do, Eva
Heather -- Truth -- King Charles -- Sir Galahad -- the present time
Sir how much? exclaimed Charles.

'Don't you know him
Sir Galahad -- the Knight of the Siege
Perilous -- who won the Saint Greal
What language is that
What! Don't you know the Morte d'Arthur! I thought every one did! Don't
you, Philip
I once looked into it. It is very curious, in classical English; but it
is a book no one could read through
Oh
but you only looked into it. If you
had lived with its two fat volumes, you could not help delighting in it.
It was my boating-book for at least three summers
That accounts for it
a book so studied in boyhood
acquires a charm apart from its actual merits
But it has actual merits. The depth, the mystery, the allegory -- the
beautiful characters of some of the knights
You look through the medium of your imagination
You've never read it
A cursory view is sufficient to show whether a book will repay the time
spent in reading it
A cursory view enable one to judge better than making it your study?
Eh, Philip
It is no paradox. The actual merits are better seen by an unprejudiced
stranger than by an old friend who lends them graces of his own
devising
Why, Laura, have you quarrelled with Captain Morville
How can you say such things, Eva? Good night
What's the meaning of it, Amy
Only a stranger makes us more formal
What an innocent you are! It is of no use to talk to you
No; but Eva
don't go off with a wrong fancy.
Charles has teased Laura so much about Philip, that of course it makes
her shy of him before strangers; and it would never have done to laugh
about their choosing the same things when Mr. Thorndale was there
I must be satisfied, I suppose. I know that is what you think, for you
could not say any other
But what do you think
I won't tell you, little innocence -- it would only shock you
Nothing you _really_ _thought_ about Laura could shock me
I don't mean what you might say in play
Well, then, shall you think me in play or earnest when I say that I
think Laura likes Philip very much
for you know that if we had not got our own Charlie
to show us what a brother is, we should think of Philip as just the same
as a brother
A brother! You are pretending to be more simple than you really are,
Amy! Don't you know what I mean
O
that must be only play, for he
has never asked her
Ah, but suppose she was in the state just ready to be asked
No, that could never be, for he could never ask her
Why not, little Amy
Because we are cousins, and everything
Don't
talk any more about it, Eva; for though I know it is all play, I don't
like it, and mamma, would not wish me to talk of such things. And
don't you laugh about it, dear Eva, pray; for it only makes every one
uncomfortable. Pray
pray
I can be here often
I am glad
If you can only be guarded,-- and I think you are becoming so
Is this a time to speak of --? Oh, don't
It is the only time. No one is attending, and I have something to say
to you
You have acted prudently. You have checked
without producing more than moderate annoyance. You have only to
guard your self-possession
It is very foolish
Ordinary women say so, and rest contented with the folly. You can do
better things
own
How shall I
Employ yourself. Employ and strengthen your mind
How shall I, and without you
Find something to prevent you from dwelling on the future. That drawing
is dreamy work, employing the fingers and leaving the mind free
I have been trying to read, but I cannot fix my mind
Suppose you take what will demand attention. Mathematics, algebra. I
will send you my first book of algebra, and it will help you to work
down many useless dreams and anxieties
Thank you; pray do; I shall be very glad of it
You will find it give a power and stability to your mind, and no longer
have to complain of frivolous occupation
I don't feel frivolous now
I don't know why it is
that everything is so altered, I am really happier, but my light heart
is gone
You have but now learnt the full powers of your soul, Laura, you have
left the world of childhood, with the gay feelings which have no depth
I have what is better
You have, indeed. But those feelings must be regulated, and
strengthening the intellect strengthens the governing power
good sense
You contributed
greatly to the entertainment this evening
You think one devoid of the sixth sense has no right to speak
I can't expect all to think it, as I do, one of the best things in this
world or out of it
I know it is so felt by those who understand its secrets
I would not depreciate it; so you may hear me patiently, Guy. I only
meant to warn you, that it is often the means of bringing persons into
undesirable intimacies, from which they cannot disentangle themselves as
easily as they enter them
I
suppose it may. Good-night
rationalities -- reading, and school teaching, and everything else
Ay
and
I shrewdly suspect the comfort would be still greater if it was Sir Guy
Morville who was coming
It would be no bad thing
Eveleen is a nice creature
with great capabilities
Capabilities! but will they ever come to anything
In a few years
and he is a mere boy at
present, so there is plenty of time for both to develop themselves
Most true, madame mere; but it remains to be proved whether the liking
for Sir Guy, which has taken hold of my lady Eveleen, is strong enough
to withstand all the coquetting with young Irishmen, and all the idling
at Kilcoran
I hope she has something better to be relied on than the liking for Sir
Guy
You may well do so, for I think he has no notion of throwing off his
allegiance to you -- his first and only love. He liked very well to make
fun with Eva; but he regarded her rather as a siren, who drew him off
from his Latin and Greek
Yes; I am ashamed of myself for such a fit of match-making! Forget it,
Charlie, as fast as you can
You will be gone long before we come back
In a fortnight or three weeks, probably
But you will still be able to come to Hollywell now and then
I hope so. It is all the pleasure I can look for. We shall never see
such a summer again
Oh, it has been a memorable one
Memorable! Yes. It has given me an assurance that compensates for all
I have lost; yet it has made me feel, more than ever before, how poverty
withers a man's hopes
O Philip, I always thought your poverty a great, noble thing
You thought like a generous-tempered girl who has known nothing of its
effects
And do you know that Guy says the thing to be proud of is of holding
the place you do, without the aid of rank or riches
I would not have it otherwise -- I would not for worlds that my father
had acted otherwise
You understand that, Laura
Of course I do
But when you speak -- when Guy speaks of my holding the place I do, you
little know what it is to feel that powers of usefulness are wasted -- to
know I have the means of working my way to honour and distinction, such
as you would rejoice in Laura, to have it all within, yet feel it thrown
away. Locksley Hall, again --"every door is barred with gold, and opens
but to golden keys
I wish there was anything to be done
It is my profession that is the bar to everything. I have sold the best
years of my life, and for what? To see my sister degrade herself by that
marriage
That is the real grief
But for that, I should never have cast a look back on what I
relinquished. However, why do I talk of these things, these vain
regrets? They only occurred because my welfare does not concern myself
alone -- and here's your father
Such an agreeable, sensible youth, and we feel we owe him some
attention, he took so much pains to make apologies about the ball
I dare say he will be very happy to come
We will write at once. He is a very fine young man, without a shade of
vanity or nonsense
Yes; he has very pleasant, unaffected manners
I am sure he will do credit to his estate. It is a very handsome
fortune, is it not
It is a very large property
I am glad of it; I have no doubt we shall see him one of the first men
of his time
Poor partridges
There's to be a
concert at Broadstone
Hollo, Morville! how are you? So you have great doings to-night, I
hear
I beg your pardon, sir, but the ties of relationship
Sir
I beg your pardon -- Sir Guy Morville, I believe
Captain Morville, sir
I beg your pardon -- I mistook. A thousand pardons
It must be my uncle!-- I am sure it must. I'll ride to Broadstone the
first thing to-morrow, and find him out
Your uncle
I never thought of that
I know his name is Sebastian. It cannot be
any one else. You know he went to America. How curious it is! I suppose
there is no fear of his being gone before I can come in to-morrow
I should think not. Those musical people keep late hours
I would go before breakfast. Perhaps it would be best to go to old
Redford, he will know all about him; or to the music-shop. I am so glad!
It is the very thing I always wished
Did you
I can't say every one would
be of your mind; but I can't help liking you the better for it. I wish
the man had kept further off. I wish Mr. Edmonstone was at home. I hope
no harm will come of it. I wonder what I ought to do. Shall I caution
him? No; I don't think I can spoil his happiness -- and perhaps the man
may be improved. He is his nearest relation, and I have no right
to interfere. His own good sense will protect him -- but I wish Mr.
Edmonstone was at home
See here -- it is himself
Who
My uncle. My poor mother's own brother
Sebastian Bach Dixon
Ha! it was he who took me for you
yesterday
I saw him at the concert -- I was sure it could be no other. I came in
on purpose to find him, and here he is waiting for me. Is not it a happy
chance
Happy
How I have longed for this -- for any one who could remember and tell me
of her -- of my mother -- my poor, dear young mother! And her own brother!
I have been thinking of it all night, and he knows I am here, and is as
eager as myself. He is waiting for me
Stop
Think before acting. I seriously advise
you to have nothing to do with this man, at least personally. Let me see
him, and learn what he wants
He wants me
You are not his nephew
Thank heaven
Do you imagine your relationship is the
sole cause of his seeking you
I don't know -- I don't care
I will not
listen to suspicions of my mother's brother
It is more than suspicion. Hear me calmly. I speak for your good. I
know this man's influence was fatal to your father. I know he did all in
his power to widen the breach with your grandfather
That was eighteen years ago
You will not hear. Remember, that his position and associates render
him no fit companion for you. Nay, listen patiently. You cannot help the
relationship. I would not have you do otherwise than assist him. Let him
not complain of neglect, but be on your guard. He will either seriously
injure you, or be a burden for life
I have heard you so far -- I can hear no more
He is my uncle, that I know, I care for
nothing else. Position -- nonsense! what has that to do with it? I will
not be set against him
Thank you for your advice. I beg your pardon for my hastiness. You mean
kindly, but I must see my uncle
I am so glad! I hoped it was you
It is very noble-hearted! I might have known it would be so with the
son of my dearest sister and of my generous friend
I saw your name last night
I would have tried to speak
to you at once, but I was obliged to stay with Mrs. Edmonstone, as I was
the only gentleman with her
Ah! I thought it possible you might not be able to follow the dictate
of your own heart; but this is a fortunate conjuncture, in the absence
of your guardian
How did you know I was here
I learnt it in a most gratifying way. Mr. Redford, without knowing
our connection -- for on that I will always be silent -- mentioned that the
finest tenor he had ever known, in an amateur, belonged to his pupil,
Sir Guy Morville. You can imagine my feelings at finding you so near,
and learning that you had inherited your dear mother's talent and
taste
What do you mean to do about this unfortunate rencontre
Do you mean Guy and his uncle? He is very much pleased, poor boy! I
like his entire freedom from false shame
A little true shame would be hardly misplaced about such a connection
It is not his fault, and I hope it will not be his misfortune
That it will certainly be
if we are not on our
guard; and, indeed, if we are, there is little to be done with one so
wilful. I might as well have interfered with the course of a whirlwind
No, no, Philip; he is too candid to be wilful
I cannot be of your opinion, when I have seen him rushing into this
acquaintance in spite of the warnings he must have had here -- to say
nothing of myself
Nay, there I must defend him, though you will think me very unwise; I
could not feel that I ought to withhold him from taking some notice of
so near a relation
We must hope it may produce no evil effects
How
Have you heard anything against
him
You remember, of course, that Guy's father was regularly the victim of
this Dixon
Yes, yes; but he has had enough to sober him. Do you know nothing
more
I have been inquiring about him from old Redford, and I should judge
him to be a most dangerous companion; as, indeed, I could have told from
his whole air, which is completely that of a roue
You have seen him, then
Yes. He paid me the compliment of taking me for Sir Guy, and of course
made off in dismay when he discovered on whom he had fallen. I have
seldom seen a less creditable-looking individual
But what did Mr. Redford say? Did he know of the connection
No; I am happy to say he did not. The fellow has decency enough not
to boast of that. Well, Redford did not know much of him personally: he
said he had once been much thought of, and had considerable talent and
execution, but taste changes, or he has lost something, so that, though
he stands tolerably high in his profession, he is not a leader. So much
for his musical reputation. As to his character, he is one of those
people who are called no one's enemy but their own, exactly the
introduction Guy has hitherto happily wanted to every sort of mischief
I think
that Guy is
too much afraid of small faults to be invited by larger evils. While
he punishes himself for an idle word, he is not likely to go wrong in
greater matters
Not at present
Is the man in debt or difficulties? Guy heard nothing of that, and I
thought it a good sign
I don't suppose he is. He ought not, for he has a fixed salary, besides
what he gets by playing at concerts when it is not the London season.
The wasting money on a spendthrift relation would be a far less evil
than what I apprehend
I wish I knew what to do! It is very unlucky that your uncle is from
home
Very
What would you have me do
Speak seriously to Guy. He must attend to you: he cannot fly out with a
woman as he does with me. Show him the evils that must result from such
an intimacy. If Dixon was in distress, I would not say a word, for he
would be bound to assist him but as it is, the acquaintance can serve no
purpose but degrading Guy, and showing him the way to evil. Above all,
make a point of his giving up visiting him in London. That is the sure
road to evil. A youth of his age, under the conduct of a worn-out
roue, connected with the theatres! I can hardly imagine anything more
mischievous
Yes, yes; I will speak to him
This is Philip's advice
It is; but
You must forgive me
if I follow my own judgment. If Mr.
Edmonstone chose to lay his commands on me, I suppose I must submit; but
I cannot see that I am bound to obey Philip
Not to obey, certainly; but his advice
He is prejudiced and unjust
I don't believe that my uncle would attempt to lead me into bad
company; and surely you would not have me neglect or look coldly on one
who was so much attached to my parents. If he is not a gentleman, and is
looked down on by the world, it is not for his sister's son to make him
conscious of it
I like your feelings, Guy; I can say nothing against it, but that I am
much afraid your uncle is not highly principled
You have only Philip's account of him
You are resolved
Yes. I do not like not to take your advice, but I do believe this is my
duty. I do not think my determination is made in self-will
I cannot think that I ought to neglect my uncle, because
I happen to have been born in a different station, which is all I have
heard proved against him
You will forgive me, will
you not, for not following your advice? for really and truly, if you
will let me say so, I think you would not have given it if Philip had
not been talking to you
If you don't want me this afternoon, papa, I think I shall walk to
Hollywell. You know Eveleen de Courcy is there
No, I did not. What has brought her
As Charles expresses it, she has over-polked herself in London, and is
sent here for quiet and country air. I want to call on her, and to
ask Sir Guy to give me some idea as to the singing the children should
practise for the school-feast
Then you think Sir Guy will come to the feast
I reckon on him to conceal all the deficiencies in the children's
singing
He won't desert you, as he did Mrs. Brownlow
O papa! you surely did not think him to blame in that affair
Honestly, Mary, if I thought about the matter at all, I thought it a
pity he should go so much to the Brownlows
I believe I could tell you the history, if you thought it worth while;
and though it may be gossip, I should like you to do justice to Sir
Guy
Very well; though I don't think there is much danger of my doing
otherwise. I only wondered he should become intimate there at all
I believe Mrs. Edmonstone thinks it right he should see as much of the
world as possible, and not be always at home in their own set
Fair and proper
You know she has shown him all the people she could,-- had Eveleen
staying there, and the Miss Nortons, and hunted him out to parties, when
he had rather have been at home
I thought he was fond of society. I remember your telling me how amused
you were with his enjoyment of his first ball
Ah! he was two years younger then, and all was new. He seems to me too
deep and sensitive not to find more pain than pleasure in commonplace
society. I have sometimes seen that he cannot speak either lightly or
harshly of what he disapproves, and people don't understand him. I was
once sitting next him, when there was some talking going on about an
elopement; he did not laugh, looked almost distressed, and at last said
in a very low voice, to me, "I wish people would not laugh about such
things
He is an extraordinary mixture of gaiety of heart, and seriousness
Well, when Mrs. Brownlow had her nieces with her, and was giving those
musical parties, his voice made him valuable; and Mrs. Edmonstone told
him he ought to go to them. I believe he liked it at first, but he found
there was no end to it; it took up a great deal of time, and was a style
of thing altogether that was not desirable. Mrs Edmonstone thought at
first his reluctance was only shyness and stay-at-home nonsense, that
ought to be overcome; but when she had been there, and saw how Mrs.
Brownlow beset him, and the unpleasant fuss they made about his singing,
she quite came round to his mind, and was very sorry she had exposed him
to so much that was disagreeable
Well, Mary, I am glad to hear your account. My impression arose from
something Philip Morville said
Captain Morville never can approve of anything Sir Guy does! It is not
like Charles
How improved Charles Edmonstone is. He has lost that spirit of repining
and sarcasm, and lives as if he had an object
Yes; he employs himself now, and teaches Amy to do the same. You know,
after the governess went, we were afraid little Amy would never do
anything but wait on Charles, and idle in her pretty gentle way; but
when he turned to better things so did she, and her mind has been
growing all this time. Perhaps you don't see it, for she has not lost
her likeness to a kitten, and looks all demure silence with the elders,
but she takes in what the wise say
She is a very good little thing; and I dare say will not be the worse
for growing up slowly
Those two sisters are specimens of fast and slow growth. Laura
has always seemed to be so much more than one year older than Amy,
especially of late. She is more like five-and-twenty than twenty. I
wonder if she overworks herself. But how we have lingered over our
dinner
And here comes the "friar of orders gray," to tell you so
Oh, that is right, dear good friar
We are so busy
Guy has made Mr. Markham send all
these choice buds from Redclyffe
Not from the park
we don't deal much in gardening; but
Markham is a great florist, and these are his bounties
And are you cutting that beautiful wild rose to pieces
Is it not a pity
We have used up all the stocks in the
garden, and this is to be transplanted in the autumn
She has been consoling it all the time by telling it it is for its
good
cutting off wild shoots, and putting in better
things
I never said anything so pretty; and, after all, I don't know that the
grand roses will be equal to these purple shoots and blushing buds with
long whiskers
So Sir Guy was singing about the violets plucked to comfort you. But
you must not leave off, I want to see how you do it. I am gardener
enough to like to look on
We have only two more to put in
O Guy, you must not go before that
Are you going away
He is very naughty, indeed
He is going, I don't know
where all, to be stupid, and read mathematics
A true bill, I am sorry to say
I am to join a
reading-party for the latter part of the vacation
I hope not before Thursday week, though we are not asking you to
anything worth staying for
Oh, surely you need not go before that
need you
No; I believe I may stay till Friday, and I should delight in the
feast, thank you, Miss Ross,-- I want to study such things. A bit more
matting, Amy, if you please. There, I think that will do
Excellently. Here is its name. See how neatly Charlie has printed it,
Mary. Is it not odd, that he prints so well when he writes so badly
The Seven Sisters." There, fair sisterhood, grow and thrive, till I
come to transplant you in the autumn. Are there any more
No, that is the last. Now, Mary, let us come to mamma
Where do they go
It is not settled. Guy wished it to be the sea-side; but Philip has
been recommending a farmhouse in Stylehurst parish, rather nearer St.
Mildred's Wells than Stylehurst, but quite out in the moor, and an
immense way from both
Do you think it will be the place
Yes; Guy thinks it would suit Mr. Wellwood, because he has friends at
St. Mildred's, so he gave his vote for it. He expects to hear how it is
settled to-day or to-morrow
How calm -- how beautiful
It only wants the low solemn surge and ripple of the tide, and its dash
on the rocks
If ever there was music, it is there; but it
makes one think what the ear must be that can take in the whole of those
harmonics
How I should like to hear it
And see it. O Amy! to show you the sunny sea,-- the sense of breadth
and vastness in that pale clear horizon line, and the infinite number of
fields of light between you and it,-- and the free feelings as you stand
on some high crag, the wind blowing in your face across half the globe,
and the waves dashing far below! I am growing quite thirsty for the
sea
You know, papa said something about your taking your reading-party to
Redclyffe
True, but I don't think Markham would like it, and it would put old
Mrs. Drew into no end of a fuss
Not like to have you
O yes, I should be all very well; but if they heard I was bringing
three or four men with me, they would think them regular wild beasts.
They would be in an awful fright. Besides, it is so long since I have
been at home, that I don't altogether fancy going there till I settle
there for good
Ah! it will be sad going there at first
And it has not been my duty yet
But you will be glad when you get there
Sha'n't I? I wonder if any one has been to shoot the rabbits on the
shag rock. They must have quite overrun it by this time. But I don't
like the notion of the first day. There is not only the great change,
but a stranger at the vicarage
Do you know anything about the new clergyman? I believe Mrs. Ashford is
a connection of Lady Thorndale's
Yes; Thorndale calls them pattern people, and I have no doubt they will
do great good in the parish. I am sure we want some enlightenment, for
we are a most primitive race, and something beyond Jenny Robinson's dame
school would do us no harm
My dear, what has kept you up so late
We have been sitting in Eveleen's room, mamma, hearing about her London
life; and then we began to settle our plans for to-morrow, and I came to
ask what you think of them. You know Guy has promised to go and hear
the East-hill singing, and we were proposing, if you did not mind it,
to take the pony-carriage and the donkey, and go in the morning to
East-hill, have luncheon, and get Mary to go with us to the top of the
great down, where we have never been. Guy has been wanting us, for a
long time past, to go and see the view, and saying there is a track
quite smooth enough to drive Charlie to the top
Do you wish us to do anything else, mamma? We don't care about it
No, my dear
I see no reason against it.
But
there is
something I want to say to you
Amy, my dear, I don't wish to find fault, but I thought of advising you
to take care. About Guy
You have been spending a great deal of time with him of late, very
sensibly and pleasantly, I know; I don't blame you at all, my dear, so
you need not look distressed. I only want you to be careful. You know,
though we call him cousin, he is scarcely a relation at all
O mamma, don't go on
indeed I am
very sorry
Indeed, my dear, you have done nothing amiss. I only intended to tell
you to be cautious for fear you should get into a way of going on which
might not look well. Don't make any great difference, I only meant that
there should not be quite so much singing and gardening alone with him,
or walking in the garden in the evening. You can manage to draw back a
little, so as to keep more with me or with Laura, and I think that will
be the best way
Good night, my
own dear child
Good night, dear mamma
I am very sorry
You need not be sorry, my dear, only be careful. Good night
Amy, Guy is ready to read
I can't come. Read without me
No, thank you, I don't think I can
No, thank you
No thank you
I am getting on very well
Thank you; no harm done
But it is right; it must be done
If I
was wrong before, I must bear it now, and he will see the rights of it
sooner or later. The worst of all would be my not doing the very _most_
_right_ to please any body. Besides he can't really care for missing
silly little Amy when he has mamma and Charlie. And he is going away, so
it will be easier to begin right when he comes back. Be that as it may,
it must be done. I'll get Charlie to tell me what he was saying about
the painted glass
What is the matter with Amy? What makes her so odd
Poor little dear! don't take any notice
Ah! I see I am a dreadful bore.
I'll go away, and leave you to repose
Lady Eveleen
what have I been
doing -- what have I been thinking of
Nay, that is best known to yourself, though I think perhaps I could
divine
Shall I
No, no
Well, I have always thought a "penny for your thoughts" the boldest
offer in the world, and now it is proved
thread my needle
winding
up the clock
Thank you
Ah! you should hear Guy sing that
What
The Land of the Leal
I wish he would sing it now
This darkness would be just the time for music
it is
quite a witching time
Why don't you ask him
Come, Charlotte, there's a good
girl, go and ask him
Shall I
No, no, Charlotte
No! why not
Don't be afraid, Charlotte
He is so grave
It will do him all manner of good. Here, Charlotte, I'll tell you how
to make him. Tell him Amy wants him to do it
Ay! tell him so
Go, Charlotte, go; we will never forgive you if you
don't
Stop
Stop! oh, Charlotte
Oh, Guy! Amy wants you to come and sing us the "Land of the
Leal
Did you wish it
Oh! I beg your pardon
I beg your pardon
I am afraid I cannot
He is gone home
I met him in the passage, and wished
him good night
Oh, mamma! the most dreadful thing has happened
And well he might be! That after all that has vexed him
this week, I should tease him with such a trick. Oh, mamma, what must he
think
My dear, there was a good deal of silliness; but you need not treat it
as if it was so very shocking
Oh, but it hurt him! He was angry, and now I know how it is, he is
angry with himself for being angry. Oh, how foolish I have been! What
shall I do
Perhaps we can let him know it was not your fault
Do you think so
Oh! that would make it all
comfortable. Only it was partly mine, for not keeping Charlotte in
better order, and we must not throw it all on her and Eveleen. You think
we may tell him
I think he ought not to be allowed to fancy you let your name be so
used
put his fate to the touch
Guy, I wanted to tell you how sorry I am you were so teased last
night
Don't think of it
It was our fault, I could not stop it; I should have kept Charlotte in
better order, but they would not let her hear me. I knew it was what you
dislike particularly, and I was very sorry
You -- I was -- I was. But no matter now. Amy
may I
ask you to walk on with me a little way? I must say something to you
You ought to be told why your words and looks have such effect on me as
to make me behave as I did last night. Shame on me for such conduct!
I know its evil, and how preposterous it must make what I have to tell
you. I don't know now long it has been, but almost ever since I came
here, a feeling has been growing up in me towards you, such as I can
never have for any one else
If ever there is to be happiness for me on earth, it must be through
you; as you, for the last three years, have been all my brightness here.
What I feel for you is beyond all power of telling you, Amy! But I know
full well all there is against me -- I know I am untried, and how can I
dare to ask one born to brightness and happiness to share the doom of my
family
It seems selfish even to dream of it
yet I must,-- I
cannot help it. To feel that I had your love to keep me safe, to know
that you watched for me, prayed for me, were my own, my Verena,-- oh Amy!
it would be more joy than I have ever dared to hope for. But mind
I would not even ask you to answer me
now, far less to bind yourself, even if -- if it were possible. I know
my trial is not come; and were I to render myself, by positive act,
unworthy even to think of you, it would be too dreadful to have
entangled you, and made you unhappy. No. I speak now, because I ought
not to remain here with such feelings unknown to your father and
mother
O mamma, mamma, he says -- he says he loves me
Come in, Guy
Don't go
unless you wish it
You know what I am come to say
While you go on as you have begun, Guy
If you tell me to hope! Oh, Mrs. Edmonstone, is it wrong that an
earthly incentive to persevere should have power which sometimes seems
greater than the true one
There is the best and strongest ground of all for trusting you
If you spoke keeping right only for Amy's sake, then I might fear;
but when she is second, there is confidence indeed
If speaking were all
There is one thing I ought to say
you know you are
very young, and though -- though I don't know that I can say so in my own
person, a prudent woman would say, that you have seen so little of the
world, that you may easily meet a person you would like better than such
a quiet little dull thing as your guardian's daughter
I am glad you don't say it in your own person
It is very bold and presumptuous in me to say anything at all in papa's
absence
but I am sure he will think in
the same way, that things ought to remain as they are, and that it is
our duty not to allow you to be, or to feel otherwise than entirely at
liberty
I dare say it may be right in you
However,
I must not complain. It is too much that you should not reject me
altogether
Oh, here you are! We could not think what had become of you. There has
Deloraine been at the door these ten minutes, and Charlie sent me to
find you, for he says if you are too late for Mrs. Henley's dinner, she
will write such an account of you to Philip as you will never get over
Good-bye
Good-bye
My Verena
Where's Amy
Amy! Is not she coming to wish him
good-bye
You shall
hear from papa to-morrow
For my part
I certainly thought he meant to carry off the
hands of some of the family
I suppose we shall soon hear it explained
Soon! If I had an many available legs as you, would I wait for other
people's soon
I should think she had rather be left to mamma
Then you do think there is something in it
O Charlie! I am sure it will only be troublesome
I am going to my own room
I presume you
don't wish to forbid that
O mamma, here comes Charlie! May I tell him? I am sure I can't meet him
without
I suspect he has guessed it already
Well, Amy
are you
prepared to see me turn lead-coloured, and fall into convulsions, like
the sister with the spine complaint
O Charlie! You know it. But how
Well, Amy
and I hope you give me
credit for amazing self-denial in so doing
O Charlie -- dear Charlie
it is no such thing
No such thing? What has turned you into a turkey-cock all at once or
what made him nearly squeeze off my unfortunate fingers? No such thing,
indeed
I mean -- I mean, it is not _that_. We are so very young, and I am so
silly
Is that his reason
You must make me so much better and wiser. Oh, if I could but be good
enough
Nothing now, only when we are older. At least, you know papa has not
heard it
Provided my father gives his consent, as the Irish young lady added to
all her responses through the marriage service. But tell me all -- all you
like, I mean -- for you will have lovers' secrets now, Amy
O wealth, wealth
what cruel differences it makes! All smooth here! Young, not
to be trusted, with strange reserves, discreditable connections,-- that
family,-- that fearful temper, showing itself even to her! All will be
overlooked! Papa will be delighted, I know he will! And how is it with
us? Proved, noble, superior, owned as such by all, as Philip is, yet,
for that want of hateful money, he would be spurned. And, for this -- for
this -- the love that has grown up with our lives must be crushed down and
hidden -- our life is wearing out in wearying self-watching
Was it thus that she prepared to hear these tidings of her
sister
Well, Laura
It is so, then
Dear, dear, little Amy! I hope
What has happened? How does it stand
It stands, at least as far as I can say without papa, as the dear
Guy very rightly and wisely wished it to stand. There is no positive
engagement, they are both too young; but he thought it was not right to
remain here without letting us know his sentiments towards her
Their frankness and confidence are most beautiful. We know dear little
Amy could not help it; but there was something very sweet, very noble,
in his way of telling all
Oh, I hope it will do well
It must,-- it will
It is nonsense to doubt, knowing him as we do.
There is not a man in the world with whom I could be so happy to trust
her
There is much that is very good and very delightful about him
You are thinking of the Morville temper
but I am
not afraid of it. A naturally hot temper, controlled like his by strong
religious principle, is far safer than a cool easy one, without the
principle
We must tell her, and make her promise absolute secrecy
I will speak to her myself; but I must wait till I have
seen papa. There is no doubt of what he will say, but we have been
taking quite liberties enough in his absence
Oh, it has made me so very happy; and
every one is so kind
Dear, dear Amy
I'm only afraid
He has begun so well
Oh, nonsense! You cannot think I could be so foolish as to be afraid
for him! Oh no! But if he should take me for more than I am worth. O
Laura, Laura! What shall I do to be as good and sensible as you! I must
not be silly little Amy any more
Perhaps he likes you best as you are
I don't mean cleverness: I can't help that,-- and he knows how stupid
I am,-- but I am afraid he thinks there is more worth in me. Don't you
know, he has a sort of sunshine in his eyes and mind, that makes all
he cares about seem to him brighter and better than it really is. I am
afraid he is only dressing me up with that sunshine
It must be strange sunshine that you want to make you better and
brighter than you are
I'll tell you what it is
it won't do now, as you told me once, to have no
bones in my character. I must learn to be steady and strong, if I can;
for if this is to be, he will depend on me, I don't mean, to advise him,
for he knows better than anybody, but to be -- you know what -- if vexation,
or trouble was to come! And Laura, think if he was to depend on me, and
I was to fail! Oh, do help me to have firmness and self-command, like
you
It was a long time ago that we talked of your wanting bones
Yes, before he came; but I never forget it
Well, Miss Amy, you have made a fine morning's work of it! A pretty
thing, for young ladies to be accepting offers while papa is out of the
way. Eh, Laura
So you have made a conquest
and I heartily
wish you joy of it, my dear. He is as amiable and good-natured a youth
as I would wish to see; and I should say the same if he had not a
shilling in the world
I shall write to him this very evening
and tell him,
if he has the bad taste to like such a silly little white thing, I am
not the man to stand in his way. Eh, Amy? Shall I tell him so
Tell him what you please, dear papa
Eh? What I please? Suppose I say we can't spare our little one, and he
may go about his business
I'm not afraid of you, papa
Come, she's a good little thing -- sha'n't be teased. Eh, Laura? what
do you think of it, our beauty, to see your younger sister impertinent
enough to set up a lover, while your pink cheeks are left in the lurch
My dear Eva
To be sure! Poor little Amy! when she looked ready to sink into the
earth, she little knew her obligations to me! Was not it the cleverest
thing in the world? It was just the touch they wanted -- the very thing
My dear, I am glad I know that you are sometimes given to talking
nonsense
And you won't believe me serious? You won't be grateful to me for my
lucky hit
Oh auntie, that is
very hard, when I shall believe to my dying day that I did it
Why, Eva, if I thought it had been done by design, I should find it
very hard to forgive you for it at all, rather hard even to accept Guy,
so you had better not try to disturb my belief that it was only that
spirit of mischief that makes you now and then a little mad
Oh dear! what a desperate scolding you must have given poor little
Charlotte
Then you will. You'll go on forgetting her
She only
did what she was told, and did not know the malice of it. There, you're
relenting! There's a good aunt! And now, if you won't be grateful, as
any other mamma in the world would have been, and as I calculated on,
when I pretended to have been a prudent, designing woman, instead of a
wild mischievous monkey at least you'll forgive me enough to invite me
to the wedding. Oh! what a beauty of a wedding it will be! I'd come from
Kilcoran all the way on my bare knees to see it. And you'll let me be
bridesmaid, and have a ball after it
There is no saying what I may do, if you'll only be a good girl, and
hold your tongue. I don't want to prevent your telling anything to
your mamma, of course, but pray don't let it go any further. Don't let
Maurice hear it, I have especial reasons for wishing it should not be
known. You know it is not even an engagement, and nothing must be done
which can make Guy feel in the least bound
MARGARET HENLEY
MY DEAR PHILIP,-- No one can have a greater dislike than myself to what
is called mischief-making; therefore I leave it entirely to you to make
what use you please of the following facts, which have fallen under my
notice. Sir Guy Morville has been several times at St. Mildred's, in
company with Tom Harewood, and more than once alone with some strange
questionable-looking people; and not many days ago, my maid met him
coming out of a house in one of the low streets, which it is hard to
assign a motive for his visiting. This, however, might be accident, and
I should never have thought of mentioning it, but for a circumstance
that occurred this morning. I had occasion to visit Grey's Bank, and
while waiting in conversation with Mr. Grey, a person came in whom I
knew to be a notorious gambler, and offered a cheque to be changed. As
it lay on the counter, my eye was caught by the signature. It was my
uncle's. I looked again, and could not be mistaken. It was a draft for
&pound;30 on Drummond, dated the 12th of August, to Sir Guy Morville, signed
C. Edmonstone, and endorsed in Sir Guy's own writing, with the name of
John White. In order that I might be certain that I was doing the poor
young man no injustice, I outstayed the man, and asked who he was,
when Mr. Grey confirmed me in my belief that it was one Jack White,
a jockeying sort of man who attends all the races in the country, and
makes his livelihood by betting and gambling. And now, my dear brother,
make what use of this fact you think fit, though I fear there is
little hope of rescuing the poor youth from the fatal habits which are
hereditary in his family, and must be strong indeed not to have been
eradicated by such careful training as you say he has received. I leave
it entirely to you, trusting in your excellent judgment, and only hoping
you will not bring my name forward. Grieving much at having to be the
first to communicate such unpleasant tidings, which will occasion so
much vexation at Hollywell
MARGARET HENLEY
Ha! Philip, what brings you here? The very man I wanted. Coming to
Hollywell
No, thank you, I go back this evening
Well, I am glad you are here, at any rate. Here is the most
extraordinary thing! What possesses the boy I cannot guess. Here's Guy
writing to me for -- What do you think? To send him a thousand pounds
Hem
no explanation, I suppose
No, none at all. Here, see what he says yourself. No! Yes, you may
GUY MORVILLE
Well, what do you think of it? What would you do in my place -- eh,
Philip! What can he want of it, eh
Eh, Philip
This is no place for discussion
Come into the reading-room. We shall find no one
there at this hour. Here we are
Well -- well -- well
tis not in the boy; when -- when he is all but -- Pooh! what am I
saying? Well, what do you think
I am afraid it confirms but too strongly a report which I received
yesterday
From your sister? Does she know anything about it
Yes, from my sister. But I was very unwilling to mention it, because
she particularly requests that her name may not be used. I came here to
see whether you had heard of Guy lately, so as to judge whether it was
needful to speak of it. This convinces me; but I must beg, in the first
instance, that you will not mention her, not even to my aunt
Well, yes; very well. I promise. Only let me hear
Young Harewood has, I fear, led him into bad company. There can now be
no doubt that he has been gambling
Gambling! Impossible! Some confounded slander! I
don't believe one word of it! I won't hear such things said of him
It is utterly impossible! Remember, he thinks himself bound not so much
as to touch a billiard cue
I could have thought it impossible, but for what I have seen of the
way in which promises are eluded by persons too strictly bound
The moral force of principle is the only efficient pledge
Principle! I should like to see who has better principles than Guy
You have said so yourself, fifty times, and your
aunt has said so, and Charles. I could as soon suspect myself
Well, what evidence have you? Mind, I am not
going to believe it without the strongest. I don't know that I would
believe my own eyes against him
It is very sad to find such confidence misplaced
Most
sincerely do I wish this could be proved to be a mistake; but this
extraordinary request corroborates my sister's letter too fully
Let me hear
Who could have thought it? Poor little Amy
Amy
Why, ay. I did not mean to have said anything of it, I am sure; but
they did it among them
I was out of the
way at the time, but I could not refuse my consent, you know, as things
stood then
Do you mean to say that Amy is engaged to him
twas mamma settled it all.
Poor little thing, she is very much in love with him, I do believe, but
there's an end of everything now
It is very fortunate this has been discovered in time
Instead of pitying her, I should rejoice in her escape
Yes
Who could have thought it
I am afraid the mischief is of long standing
He could hardly have arrived at losing as much as a thousand pounds,
all at once, in this month at St. Mildred's. Depend upon it, that
painful as it may be at present, there is great reason, on her account,
to rejoice in the discovery. You say he has never before applied, to you
for money
Not a farthing beyond his allowance, except this unlucky thirty pounds,
for his additional expense of the tutor and the lodging
You remember, however, that he has always seemed short of money, never
appeared able to afford himself any little extra expense. You have
noticed it, I know. You remember, too, how unsatisfactory his reserve
about his proceedings in London has been, and how he has persisted in
delaying there, in spite of all warnings. The work, no doubt, began
there, under the guidance of his uncle; and now the St. Mildred's races
and Tom Harewood have continued it
I wish he had never set foot in the place
Nay; for Amy's sake, the exposure is an advantage, if not for his own.
The course must have been long since begun; but he contrived to avoid
what could lead to inquiry, till he has at length involved himself in
some desperate scrape. You see, he especially desires to have the money
_soon_, and he never even attempts to say you would approve of the
object.

'Yes; he has the grace not to say that
Altogether, it is worse than I could have thought possible
Ay, ay
there is the
monstrous part. He thought I was going to give up my poor little girl to
a gambler, did he? but he shall soon see what I think of him,-- riches,
Redclyffe, title, and all
I knew that would be your feeling
Feel! Yes; and he shall feel it, too. So, Sir Guy, you thought you had
an old fool of a guardian, did you, whom you could blind as you pleased?
but you shall soon see the difference
Better begin cautiously
Remember his unfortunate
temper, and write coolly
tis enough to make one's
blood boil to be served in such a way. With the face to be sending her
messages in the very same letter! That is a pass beyond me, to stand
coolly to see my daughter so treated
I would only give him the opportunity of saying what he can for
himself. He may have some explanation
I'll admit of no explanation! Passing himself off for steadiness
itself; daring to think of my daughter, and all the time going on in
this fashion! I hate underhand ways! I'll have no explanation. He may
give up all thoughts of her. I'll write and tell him so before I'm a day
older; nay, before I stir from this room. My little Amy, indeed
My dear Guy,-- I am more surprised than I could have expected at your
application
I am greatly astonished, as well as concerned, at your application,
which confirms the unpleasant reports
Why say anything of reports
Reports are nothing. A man
is not forced to defend himself from reports
Yes,-- hum -- ha,-- the accounts I have received. No. You say there is not
to be a word of Mrs. Henley
Not a word that can lead her to be suspected
Confirms -- confirms
Don't write as if you went on hearsay evidence. Speak of
proofs -- irrefragable proofs -- and then you convict him at once, without
power of eluding you
Your letter of this morning has caused me more concern than surprise,
as it unhappily only adds confirmation to the intelligence already in
my possession; that either from want of resolution to withstand the
seductions of designing persons, or by the impetuosity and instability
of your own character, you have been led into the ruinous and degrading
practice of gambling; and that from hence proceed the difficulties that
occasion your application to me for money. I am deeply grieved at thus
finding that neither the principles which have hitherto seemed to guide
you, nor the pledges which you used to hold sacred, nor, I may add, the
feelings you have so recently expressed towards a member of my family,
have been sufficient to preserve you from yielding to a temptation which
could never be presented to the mind of any one whose time was properly
occupied in the business of his education
Is that all I am to say about her
after
the atrocious way the fellow has treated her in
Since it is, happily, no engagement, I cannot see how you can, with
propriety, assume that it is one, by speaking of breaking it off.
Besides, give him no ground for complaint, or he will take refuge in
believing himself ill-used. Ask him if he can disprove it, and when he
cannot, it will be time enough to act further. But wait -- wait, sir
You have
not told him yet of what you accuse him
I have no means of judging how long you have been following this
unhappy course; I had rather believe it is of recent adoption, but I do
not know how to reconcile this idea with the magnitude of your demand,
unless your downward progress has been more rapid than usual in such
beginnings. It would, I fear, be quite vain for me to urge upon you all
the arguments and reasons that ought to have been present to your mind,
and prevented you from taking the first fatal step. I can only entreat
you to pause, and consider the ruin and degradation to which this
hateful vice almost invariably conducts its victims, and consistently
with my duty as your guardian, everything in my power shall be done
to extricate you from the embarrassments in which you have involved
yourself. But, in the first place, I make it a point that you treat me
with perfect confidence, and make a full, unequivocal statement of your
proceedings; above all, that you explain the circumstances, occasioning
your request for this large sum. Remember, I say, complete candour on
your part will afford the only means of rescuing you from difficulties,
or of in any degree restoring you to my good opinion
I wish, from the bottom of my heart, that you could clear yourself. If
a dozen men had sworn it till they were black in the face, I would not
have believed it of you that you could serve us in such a manner,
after the way you have been treated at home, and to dare to think of my
daughter with such things on your mind. I could never have believed it,
but for the proofs Philip has brought; and I am sure he is as sorry as
myself. Only tell the whole truth, and I will do my best to get you out
of the scrape. Though all else must be at an end between us, I am your
guardian still, and I will not be harsh with you
Miss Morville that was, never came neist the place
Sir Guy himself! No one else could whistle that Swedish air so
correctly
My uncle
I did not know that you were here
If there is anything that you want me to do for you, tell me plainly
what it is
I
promise nothing. Let me hear what you want, and I can judge whether I
can do it
if I can
Have I not told you
that for the present I have very
little command of money? Hush! no more of that
And you are content to bear it? Did you never hear of ways and means?
If you were to say but one word of borrowing, they would go down on
their knees to you, and offer you every farthing you have to keep you in
their own hands
I am quite satisfied
The greater fool are you
I do not say that I cannot help you
but I must have
time to consider
Time! would you see me ruined while you are considering
I suppose this must be paid immediately. Where do you lodge
You shall hear from me to-morrow morning. I cannot trust my present
thoughts. Good night
Yes
Is he at home
Yes, sir but he is not up yet. He was very late last night. Did you
want to speak to him? I'll tell Mrs. Dixon
Is Mrs. Dixon here? Then tell her Sir Guy Morville would be glad to
speak to her
Mamma says she will be here directly, if you will excuse her a moment
Don't go, my little maid. Won't you come and speak to your cousin Guy
Marianne
Oh! much better than London. There are flowers
the high, high hills that reached up to the sky, and
the pretty stones
What, child, do you want to give it to Sir Guy
He
does not want such trumpery, my dear, though you make such a work with
it
Did you mean to give it to me, my dear
Yes
It is impossible to say. Anything, I suppose, between one thousand
and twenty. But, by the bye, this design of Elizabeth's is an absolute
secret. If you had not almost guessed it, I should never have said one
word to you about it. You are a particularly dangerous man, with your
connection with Mrs. Henley. You must take special good care nothing of
it reaches her
Ha! What on earth does this mean
Morville! What's the matter
Intolerable!-- insulting! Me? What does he mean
Proofs? I should like to see them!
The man is crazy! I to confess! Ha
I
see it,-- I see it. It is Philip, is it, that I have to thank. Meddling
coxcomb! I'll make him repent it
that passes all. He shall see what it is to insult
me
What is it? Your guardian out of humour
My guardian is a mere weak fool. I don't blame him,-- he can't help it;
but to see him made a tool of! He twists him round his finger, abuses
his weakness to insult -- to accuse. But he shall give me an account
I have had an insulting -- an unpleasant letter
You must excuse me
What has happened
I don't know
Some absurd, person interfering
between him and his guardian. I should be sorry to be him to fall in his
way just now. It must be something properly bad. I never saw a man in
such a rage. I think I had better go after him, and see what he has done
with himself
You don't think
that his guardian
could have been finding fault with him with reason
Who? Morville? His guardian must have a sharp eye for picking holes, if
he can find any in Morville. Not a steadier fellow going,-- only too much
so
Ah
these young men always hang together
Yes
a heavy account shall he pay me for this
crowning stroke of a long course of slander and ill-will! Have I not
seen it? Has not he hated me from the first, misconstrued every word and
deed, though I have tried, striven earnestly, to be his friend,-- borne,
as not another soul would have done, with his impertinent interference
and intolerable patronizing airs! But he has seen the last of it!
anything but this might be forgiven; but sowing dissension between me
and the Edmonstones -- maligning me there. Never! Knowing, too, as he
seems to do, how I stand, it is the very ecstasy of malice! Ay! this
very night it shall be exposed, and he shall be taught to beware -- made
to know with whom he has to deal
I forgive
him
Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass against
us
I _am_ sorry now
Enter Don Philip II, the Duke of Alva, alguazils, corregidors, and
executioners
Is anything the matter, Philip
Nothing is amiss with me, thank you, Amy
Did you ask whether there were any letters at the post
Guy is using us shamefully -- practising self-denial on us, I suppose. Is
there no letter from him
There is
Well, where is it
It is to your father
Oh
Are you sure? Depend on
it, you overlooked my M. He has owed me a letter this fortnight. Let me
see
It is for my uncle
Then he has been so stupid as to forget my second name. Come, give it
me. I shall have it sooner or later
I assure you, Charles, it is not for you
Would not any one suppose he had been reading it
Did you know Mary Ross was gone to stay with her brother John
No is she
Yes; his wife is ill
You have heard from St. Mildred's
Yes
From Guy, or from Margaret
From Margaret
But you say there is a letter from him
Yes, for my uncle
Does she say nothing more satisfactory
Has she learnt no more
Nothing more of his proceedings. I see Amy knows nothing of the
matter
No; her papa thought there was no need to distress her till we had seen
whether he could explain
Poor little thing
She writes to tell the spirit in which he received my uncle's letter.
It is only the Morville temper, again, and, of course, whatever you may
think of that on Amy's account, I should never regard it, as concerns
myself, as other than his misfortune. I hope he may be able to explain
the rest
Ah! there comes your uncle
How d'ye do, Philip? Brought better news, eh
Here is a letter to speak for itself
Eh? From Guy? Give it me. What does he say? Let me see. Here, mamma,
read it; your eyes are best
G.
M
Well
that is all right. I knew it would be so. He can't even
guess what we are at. I am glad we did not tease poor little Amy. Eh,
mamma?-- eh, Philip
I wonder you think it right
What more would you have
Confidence
Eh? Oh, ay, he says he can't tell -- bound in honour
It is easy to write off-hand, and say I cannot satisfy you, I am
bound in honour; but that is not what most persons would think a full
justification, especially considering the terms on which you stand
Why, yes, he might have said more. It would have been safe enough with
me
It is his usual course of mystery, reserve, and defiance
The fact is
that it is a very
proper letter; right sense, proper feeling -- and if he never gamed in his
life, what would you have more
There are different ways of understanding such a denial as this
See, he says not in the way in which I suppose
It was
against gaming that his vow was made. I never thought he had played, but
he never says he has not betted
He would never be guilty of a subterfuge
I should not have thought so, without the evidence of the payment of
the cheque, my uncle had just given him, to this gambling fellow
yet it is only the natural consequence of the habit of eluding
inquiry into his visits to London
I can't see any reason for so harsh an accusation
I should hardly want more reason than his own words. He refuses to
answer the question on which my uncle's good opinion depends; he owns he
has been to blame, and thus retracts his full denial. In my opinion, his
letter says nothing so plainly as, "While I can stand fair with you I do
not wish to break with you
He will not find that quite so easy
I am no
fool to be hoodwinked, especially where my little Amy is concerned. I'll
see all plain and straight before he says another word of her. But you
see what comes of their settling it while I was out of the way
Well, well
the question is what to do next -- eh,
Philip
We will talk it over by and by
Don't, ring, mamma, dear. I'll fasten your dress
Oh! mamma, I don't know whether I ought to ask, but if you
would only tell me if there is nothing gone wrong
I don't believe there is anything really wrong, my dear
Oh! no
But there is some mystery about his money-matters, which has vexed your
papa
And what has Philip to do with it
I cannot quite tell, my dear. I believe Margaret Henley has heard
something, but I do not know the whole
Did you see his letter, mamma? said Amy, in a low, trembling voice.

'Yes, it is just like himself, and absolutely denies the accusations
then they are false
Then papa is satisfied
I have no doubt all will be made clear in time
but
there is still something unexplained, and I am afraid things may not
go smoothly just now. I am very sorry, my little Amy, that such a cloud
should have come over you, she added, smoothing fondly the long, soft
hair, sad at heart to see the cares and griefs of womanhood gathering
over her child's bright, young life.

'I said I must learn to bear things
Only
I can't bear them to vex him. I wish Philip would
let papa settle it alone. Guy will be angry, and grieved afterwards
I said I would learn to bear
or I shall never
be fit for him. Yes, I will, even though it is the thinking he is
unhappy. He said I must be his Verena; I know what that means; I ought
not to be uneasy, for he will bear it beautifully, and say he is glad of
it afterwards. And I will try not to seem cross to Philip
You would not be so mad as to fight him, eh
You know better -- besides, for poor Amy's sake
For the sake of right
no. I have reassured my
sister. I have told her that, let the boy do what he will, he shall
never make me guilty of his death
You have heard from him, then
No; I suppose a night's reflection convinced him that he had no
rational grounds for violent proceedings, and he had sense enough not to
expose himself to such an answer as I should have given. What caused his
wrath to be directed towards me especially, I cannot tell, nor can my
sister
but I seem to have
come in for a full share of it
I would never have thought it
C. EDMONSTONE
There
you may tell Amy she may give him up,
and a lucky escape she has had. But this is what comes of settling
matters in my absence
O mamma! what is it
Dearest, I told you a cloud was coming. Try to bear it. Your papa is
not satisfied with Guy's answer, and it seems he spoke some hasty words
of papa and Philip; they have displeased papa very much, and, my dear
child, you must try to bear it, he has written to tell Guy he must not
think any more of you
He has spoken hasty words of papa
How sorry he must be
I only meant to cheer you up
it is not the best or kindest way to do her good by telling
her to dwell on hopes of him
Mamma one of Philip's faction
Of no faction at all, Charles, but I am afraid it is a bad case
My poor dear little Amy
O Philip, now I see all you thought to save me from
It is an unhappy business that it ever was permitted
Poor little dear! She was so happy, so very happy and sweet in her
humility and her love. Do you know, Philip, I was almost jealous for a
moment that all should be so easy for them; and I blamed poverty; but
oh! there are worse things than poverty
Charles, who found anxiety on Guy's account more exciting, though
considerably less agreeable, than he had once expected, would not go
away with the womankind; but as soon as the door was shut, exclaimed,

'Now then, Philip, let me know the true grounds of your persecution
So the fact is
that Guy has asked for his
own money, and when in lieu of it he received a letter full of unjust
charges, he declared Philip was a meddling coxcomb. I advise you not to
justify his opinion
This is the great sum total
No
I have proof of his gambling
What is it
I have shown it to your father, and he is satisfied
Is it not proof enough that he is lost to all sense of propriety,
that he should go and speak in that fashion of us, and to Philip's own
sister
What would you have more
That little epithet applied to Captain Morville is hardly, to my mind,
proof sufficient that a man is capable of every vice
If
you wanted to make him all you say he is, you are taking the very best
means
You will do as you please
Thank you for the permission
It is not to me that your submission is due
I'll tell you what, Philip, I submit to my own father readily, but I do
not submit to Captain Morville's instrument
We have had enough of unbecoming retorts for one day
People who always come when they are not wanted
I do not think you in a fit mood to be advised, Charles
but to free my own conscience, let me say this. Take care how you
promote this unfortunate attachment
Take care what you say
A fine helpless log am I
A pretty thing for me to talk of being of any use, when I
can't so much as show my anger at an impertinence about my own sister,
without being beholden for not breaking my neck to the very piece of
presumption that uttered it
I don't care who hears
I say there is no greater
misery in this world than to have the spirit of a man and the limbs of a
cripple. I know if I was good for anything, things would not long be in
this state. I should be at St. Mildred's by this time, at the bottom of
the whole story, and Philip would be taught to eat his words in no time,
and make as few wry faces as suited his dignity. But what is the use of
talking? This sofa
is my prison,
and I am a miserable cripple, and it is mere madness in me to think of
being attended to
O Charlie
don't talk
so. Indeed, I can't bear it! You know it is not so
Do I? Have not I been talking myself hoarse, showing up their
injustice, saying all a man could say to bring them to reason, and not
an inch could I move them. I do believe Philip has driven my father
stark mad with these abominable stories of his sister's, which I verily
believe she invented herself
O no, she could not. Don't say so
What! Are you going to believe them, too
Never
It is that which drives me beyond all patience
to
see Philip lay hold of my father, and twist him about as he chooses, and
set every one down with his authority
Philip soon goes abroad
Ay! there is the hope. My father will return to his natural state
provided they don't drive Guy, in the meantime, to do something
desperate
No, they won't
Well, give me the blotting-book. I'll write to him this moment, and
tell him we are not all the tools of Philip's malice
Well, Amy, what shall I say to him for you
I don't think
I ought
What
I don't think it would be right
Not right for you to say you don't think him a villain
and there her voice was stopped with
tears.

'This is absurd, Amy
when it all was approved at first,
and now my father is acting on a wrong impression; what harm can there
be in it? Every one would do so
I am sure he would not think it right
He? You'll never have any more to say to him, if you don't take care
what you are about
I can't help it
It is not right
Nonsense! folly
You are as bad as the rest. When they
are persecuting, and slandering, and acting in the most outrageous way
against him, and you know one word of yours would carry him through all,
you won't say it, to save him from distraction, and from doing all my
father fancies he has done. Then I believe you don't care a rush for
him, and never want to see him again, and believe the whole monstrous
farrago. I vow I'll say so
O Charles, you are very cruel
Then, if you don't believe it, why can't you send one word to comfort
him
It would not comfort him to think me disobedient. He will trust me
without, and he will know what you think. You are very kind, dear
Charlie; but don't persuade me any more, for I can't bear it. I am going
away now; but don't fancy I am angry, only I don't think I can sit by
while you write that letter
O Charlie, they have sent Deloraine
away
He will never come back -- never, never
My own Amy -- my poor, dearest,-- I am very sorry
Thank you, dear Laura
I wish I knew what to do for you
You cannot, cease
to think about him, and yet you ought
If I ought, I suppose I can
That's right, darling. You will not be weak, and pine for one who is
not worthy
Not worthy, Laura
Ah! my poor Amy, we thought
Yes; and it is so still. I know it is so. I know he did not do it
Then what do you think of Margaret and Philip
There is some mistake
I don't
That is the worst; but I am sure
it was only a moment's passion, and that he must be very unhappy about
it now. I don't think papa would mind it, at least not long, if it
was not for this other dreadful misapprehension. O, Laura! why cannot
something be done to clear it up
Everything will be done
When
Not till term begins. You know he is to have a fortnight's leave before
the regiment goes to Ireland
Oh, I hope it will come right then. People must come to an
understanding when they meet; it is so different from writing
He will do everything to set things on a right footing. You may be
confident of that, Amy, for your sake as much as anything else
I can't think why he should know I have anything to do with it
I had much rather he did not
Surely, Amy, you think he can be trusted with your secret; and there
is no one who can take more care for you. You must look on him as one of
ourselves
You are vexed with him for having told this to papa; but that is not
reasonable of you, Amy; your better sense must tell you that it is the
only truly kind course, both towards Guy and yourself
He means it for the best
You would not have had him be silent
I don't know
No; he should have done something, but
he might have done it more kindly
he was breaking his
daughter's heart, that was all
I do not know what I may have said
It is of no use to talk
about it
Well, little one, how are you? I have your piece of
spar quite safe. Have you said how d'ye do to Bustle
Bustle! Bustle
Have you been taking any more pleasant walks
Oh yes. We have been all round these pretty paths. And I should like to
go to the top of this great high hill, and see all round; but mamma says
she has got a bone in her leg, and cannot go
Do you think mamma would give you leave to go up with me? Should you
like it
Then
I will meet you here when you have done
your business in the town, in an hour or so. Poor little thing, she has
not many pleasures
Oh! I never saw anything so pretty
Oh! I wish little brother Felix was here
This is a pleasant place to think about your little brother
Oh! do you know
about Felix
Here, sit on my knee, and rest after your
scramble
Mamma never lets me talk of Felix, because it makes her cry
Wellwood
do you think your cousin would do me a great
kindness? You saw that child? Well, if the parents consent, it would be
the greatest charity on earth if Miss Wellwood would receive her into
her school
On what terms? What sort of an education is she to have
The chief thing she wants is to be taught Christianity, poor child;
the rest Miss Wellwood may settle. She is my first cousin. I don't know
whether you are acquainted with our family history
You here, Philip! When did you come
Half an hour ago. I am on my way to spend a week with the Thorndales. I
go on to-morrow to my sister's
This is very kind of you, to come and see what you can do for me
No one can be more willing to help you than I, but you must, in the
first place, help yourself
Here it is again! If I
don't keep it down now, I am undone! The enemy will seize me again
While you are not open, nothing can be done
My only wish, my only desire, is to be open
but the opportunity of explanation has never been given me
You need complain of that no longer. I am here to convey to my uncle
any explanation you may wish to address to him. I will do my best to
induce him to attend to it favourably, but he is deeply offended and
hurt by what has passed
I know -- I know
I know there is no excuse for me.
I can only repeat that I am heartily sorry for whatever I may have said,
either of him or of you
Of course
I should never think of resenting what
you may have said in a moment of irritation, especially as you express
regret for it. Consider it as entirely overlooked on my part
Thank you
Now to the real matter at issue
the application for the
money, which so amazed Mr. Edmonstone
I do not see that it is the point
I wanted it for a scheme
of my own: he did not think fit to let me have it, so there is an end of
the matter
Mr Edmonstone does not think so. He wishes to be convinced that you
have not spent it beforehand
What would you have beyond my word and honour that I have not
Do you
No
but it is better not to depend entirely on assertion. Why do
you not bring him full proofs of your good intention, and thus restore
yourself to his confidence
I have said that I am bound not to mention the purpose
Unfortunate
If it is impossible to clear this up, the
next advice I would give is, that you should show what your expenditure
has been; lay your accounts before him, and let them justify you
How
foolish
Unfortunate
Then this matter of the thousand pounds is to
be passed over? You have no explanation to offer
No
When my word is not accepted, I have no more
to say. But this is not the point. What I would know is, what are the
calumnies that accuse me of having gamed? If you really wish to do me
a service, you will give me an opportunity of answering these precious
proofs
My uncle knows
that a thirty pound cheque of his, in your name, was paid by you to a
notorious gamester
It is true
Yet you have neither played, nor betted, nor done anything that could
come under the definition of gambling
No
Then why this payment
I cannot explain that. I know appearances are against me
In fact, while you profess a desire to be open and sincere, a mystery
appears at every turn. What would you have us do
As you think fit
Since this is your ultimatum
since you deny your
confidence, and refuse any reply to these charges, you have no right to
complain of suspicion. I shall do my best, both as your true friend, and
as acting with your guardian's authority, to discover all that may lead
to the elucidation of the mystery. In the first place, I am desired to
make every inquiry here as to your conduct and expenditure. I hope they
will prove satisfactory
I am very much obliged to you
Good night! I am sorry I cannot induce you to act in the only
way that can right you
Good night
Philip
I don't think we parted
last night as your good intentions deserved
O, ho
the fear of an investigation has brought him
to reason
Well, I am very glad you see things in a truer
light this morning
Have you anything to say on the matter we discussed last night
No. I can only repeat that I am not guilty, and wait for time to show
my innocence. I only came to see you once more, that I might feel we
parted friends
I shall always hope to be a true friend
I did not come here for altercation
so I will say no more. If you wish to see me
again, you will find me in my rooms. Good-bye
After all, though I might have gone to him, it would have been useless.
He is obstinate, and occasions of irritating his unfortunate temper are
above all to be avoided
Sir Guy was a great deal with the Wellwoods
Was he, indeed
O, you need not think of _that_. It would be too absurd. The youngest
must be twice his age
I was not thinking of any such thing
I did hear he was to marry Lady Eveleen de Courcy. Is there anything in
that report
No; certainly not
I should pity the woman who married him, after the specimen I saw of
his temper
Poor boy
Lady Eveleen has been a great deal at Hollywell, has she not? I rather
wondered my aunt should like to have her there, considering all things
What things, sister
Considering what a catch he would be for one of the Edmonstone girls
I thought you had just been pitying the woman who should marry him.
Perhaps my aunt had Lady Eveleen there to act as a screen for her own
daughters
That our good-natured aunt should have acted with such ultra-prudence
Lady Eveleen is
very pretty, is she not? A mere beauty, I believe
Just so; she is much admired; but Guy is certainly not inclined to fall
in love with her
I should have thought him the very man to fall in love young, like his
father. Do you think there is any chance for either of the Edmonstones?
Laura's beauty he spoke of, but it was not in a very lover-like way. Do
you admire Laura so much
She is very pretty
And little Amy
She is a mere child, and will hardly ever be anything more; but she is
a very good little amiable thing
I wish poor Charles's temper was improved
So do I; but it is very far from improvement at present, in consequence
of his zeal for Guy. Guy has been very attentive and good natured to
him, and has quite won his heart; so that I should positively honour him
for his championship if it was not in great degree out of opposition to
his father and myself. To-morrow, Margaret, you must give me some guide
to the most probable quarters for learning anything respecting this poor
boy's follies
I suppose, as you have not written, you have found nothing out
Nothing
And you could do nothing with him. Eh
No; I could not get a word of explanation, nor break through the fence
of pride and reserve. I must do him the justice to say that he bears the
best of characters at Oxford; and if there were any debts I could not
get at them from the tradesmen
Well, well, say no more about it; he is an ungrateful young dog, and I
am sick of it. I only wish I could wash my hands of him altogether.
It was mere folly to expect any of that set could ever come to good.
There's everything going wrong all at once now; poor little Amy breaking
her heart after him, and, worse than all, there's poor Charlie laid up
again
Charles ill
Yes; another, of those formations in the joint. I hoped and trusted
that was all over now; but he is as bad as ever,-- has not been able to
move for a week, and goodness knows when he will again
Indeed! I am very sorry. Is there as much pain as before
Oh, yes. He has not slept a wink these four nights. Mayerne talks
of opium; but he says he won't have it till he has seen you, he is so
anxious about this unlucky business. If anything could persuade me to
have Guy back again it would be that this eternal fretting after him is
so bad for poor Charlie
It is on Amy's account that it is impossible to have him here
Ay! He shall never set eyes on Amy again unless all this is cleared
up, which it never will be, as I desire mamma to tell her. By the bye,
Philip, Amy said something of your having a slip with Charles on the
stairs
He says it was all his own fault
and that he
should have been actually down but for you
But is it really thought it can have caused this attack
I can hardly suppose so; but Thompson fancies there may have been some
jar. However, don't distress yourself; I dare say it would have come on
all the same
You bring no good news
O! how I wish you had. It would be such a comfort now. You have
heard about poor Charlie
Yes; and very sorry I am. But, Laura, is it really thought that
accident could have occasioned it
Dr. Mayerne does not think so, only Mr. Thompson talked of remote
causes, when Amy mentioned it. I don't believe it did any harm, and
Charlie himself says you saved him from falling down-stairs
I am very sorry to find you here
Is the pain very
bad
That is a matter of course
I want to hear what you have been doing at
Oxford and St. Mildred's
I am sorry I do not bring the tidings you wish
I did not expect you would. I know you too well; but I want to hear
what you have been doing -- what he said
It can be of no use, Charlie. You are not in a state to enter on
agitating subjects
I tell you I will hear all
I know you will say nothing to his advantage that you can help, but
still I know you will speak what you think the truth, and I want to
judge for myself
You speak as if I was not acting for his good
Palaver
I want the facts. Begin at the beginning. Sit down -- there's a
chair by you. Now tell me, where did you find him
Pray, what did Guy say when he heard the result of this fine voyage of
discovery
I did not see him again
Not see him! not tell him he was so far justified
I had no time -- at least I thought not. It would have been useless, for
while these mysteries continue, my opinion is unchanged, and there was
no benefit in renewing vain disputes
Say no more
You have said all I expected, and
more too. I gave you credit for domineering and prejudice, now I see it
is malignity
Now, doctor, give me as much opium as you please. I only want to be
stupefied till the world has turned round, and then you may wake me
Poor fellow
He
is a very generous partisan, and excitement and suffering make him carry
his zeal to excess
I knew you could not be angry with him
I could not be angry at this time at far more provocation given by any
one belonging to you, Laura
Amy
I am more
than ever convinced that things will right themselves. I never saw
prejudice more at fault
Did he tell you all about it
I worked out of him all I could, and it is my belief Guy had the best
of it. I only wonder he did not horsewhip Philip round the quadrangle. I
wish he had
Oh, no, no! But he controlled himself
If he had not we should have heard of it fast enough
Ah, my fine fellow
I see you have not forgotten you are the next heir
Oh
Ah! Miss Edmonstone, I did not know you were there
Yes, you were talking to yourself, just as if you were at home
You were telling some home truths to make
Laura angry
Well, he would make a very good use of it if he had it
Now you'll make me angry
and you have not mended
matters with Laura. She thinks nothing short of four-syllabled words
good enough for Philip
Hush! nonsense, Charlotte
There Charlotte, she is avenging herself on you because she can't scold
me
Charlotte is only growing more wild than ever for want of mamma
Seriously, I must apologize for my unlucky soliloquy; not that I
thought I was saying much harm, for I did not by any means say or
think the Captain wished Sir Guy any ill, and few men who stood next in
succession to such a property would be likely to forget it
Yes, but Philip is not like other men
It must be your guilty conscience that sets you apologizing, for you
said no harm, as you observe
Yes
He does very well without it,
and no doubt he would be one of the first men in the country if he had
it; but it is in very good hands now, on the whole. I don't think, even
if the lad has been tempted into a little folly just now, that he can
ever go very far wrong
No, indeed
but Charlie and I don't believe he has
done anything wrong
What are you going to do to-day
I must see you alone before I go
I go to East-hill School this afternoon. I shall come away at half-past
three
You have had a wet walk
It is not quite raining
It is time we should come to an
understanding
I
believe that no affection has ever been stronger or truer than ours
Has been
And is, if you are satisfied to leave things as they are
I must be, if you are
I will not say I am satisfied with what must be, as I am situated; but
I felt it due to you to set the true state of the case before you. Few
would venture their love as I do mine with you, bound in reality, though
not formally, with no promise sought or given; yet I am not more assured
that I stand here than I am that our love is for ever
I am sure it is
O Philip, there never was a
time I did not love you: and since that day on Ashen Down, I have loved
you with my whole heart. I am sometimes afraid it has left no proper
room for the rest, when I find how much more I think of your going away
than of poor Charles
Yes
you have understood me as none but you would have done,
through coldness and reserve, apparently, even towards yourself, and
when to others I have seemed grave and severe beyond my years. You have
never doubted, you have recognized the warmth within; you have trusted
your happiness to me, and it shall be safe in my keeping, for, Laura, it
is all mine
There is only one thing
would it not be better
if mamma knew
Laura, I have considered that, but remember you are not bound; I have
never asked you to bind yourself. You might marry to-morrow, and I
should have no right to complain. There is nothing to prevent you
True
you could not, and that certainty suffices me. I
ask no more without your parents' consent; but it would be giving them
and you useless distress and perplexity to ask it now. They would object
to my poverty, and we should gain nothing; for I would never be so
selfish as to wish to expose you to such a life as that of the wife of a
poor officer; and an open engagement could not add to our confidence
in each other. We must be content to wait for my promotion. By that
time
our attachment will have lasted so many years
as to give it a claim to respect
It is no new thing
No newer than our lives; but remember, my Laura, that you are but
twenty
You have made me feel much older
not that I would be a
thoughtless child again. That cannot last long, not even for poor little
Amy
No one would wish to part with the deeper feelings of elder years
to regain the carelessness of childhood, even to be exempted from the
suffering that has brought them
No, indeed
For instance, these two years have scarcely been a time of great
happiness to you
Sometimes
sometimes beyond all words, but often
dreary and oppressive
Heaven knows how unwillingly I have rendered it so. Rather than dim the
brightness of your life, I would have repressed my own sentiments for
ever
But, then, where would have been my brightness
I would, I say, but for a peril to you. I see my fears were unfounded.
You were safe; but in my desire to guard you from what has come on poor
Amy, my feelings, though not wont to overpower me, carried me further
than I intended
Did they
Do not suppose I regret it. No, no, Laura; those were the most precious
moments in my life, when I drew from you those words and looks which
have been blessed in remembrance ever since; and doubly, knowing, as I
do, that you also prize that day
Yes -- yes
In the midst of much that was adverse, and with a necessity for a trust
and self-control of which scarce a woman but yourself would have been
capable, you have endured nobly
I could bear anything, if you were not going so far away
You will bear that too, Laura, and bravely. It will not be for ever
How long do you think
I cannot tell. Several years may pass before I have my promotion. It
may be that I shall not see that cheek in its fresh bloom again, but I
shall find the same Laura that I left, the same in love, and strength,
and trust
Ah; I shall grow faded and gray, and you will be a sun-burnt old
soldier
but hearts don't change like faces
Good-bye, Philip, I hope soon to hear you are better. I had rather have
my hip than your mind
God bless you, Philip, wherever you may be. We shall miss you very
much
good-bye
Good-bye, Philip
I shall be quite grown up by the
time you come home
Don't make such uncivil auguries, Puss
What miserable place is this
Yes, that's what all
gentlemen ask
and well you may. There's not a
more noted place for thieves and vagabonds. They call it Coombe Prior
Is there no one to look; after it
No
squire, no clergyman
A fox-hunting parson
who lives half-a-dozen
miles off, and gallops over for the service
Do you know who is the owner of the place
tis Sir Guy Morville. You have heard tell of the old Sir Guy
Morville, for he made a deal of noise in the world
What! The noted
I ought not to allow you to finish your sentence
without telling you that I am his grandson
I beg your pardon
Nay
I only thought it was fair to tell you
Sir Guy himself
I have not seen you on
this road before, sir, for I never forget a face; I hope you'll often be
this way
These sheep, what had they done
George
So, Sir Guy! how d'ye do? I wonder what brings you here on such short
notice? Good morning, Mrs. Lavers. Bad roads this winter
Good morning, Mr. Markham. It is a treat, indeed, to have Sir Guy here
once more; so grown, too
Grown -- hum
I don't see it. He'll never
be as tall as his father. Have you got your things, Sir Guy? Ay, that's
the way,-- care for nothing but the dog. Gone on by the coach, most
likely
What do you say, Sir Guy? The road is shocking, and it will be as dark
as a pit by the time we get home
Very well; we won't keep old Whiteface standing
Good-bye,
Mrs. Lavers thank you. I shall see you again before long
What a horrible place Coombe Prior is
I only know I wish you had more such tenants as Todd
Pays his rent to a day, and improves his land
But what sort of man is he
A capital farmer. A regular screw, I believe; but that is no concern of
mine
There are all the cottages tumbling down
Ay? Are they? I shouldn't wonder, for they are all in his lease; and he
would not lay out an unproductive farthing. And a precious bad lot they
are there, too! There were actually three of them poaching in Cliffstone
hanger this autumn; but we have them in jail. A pretty pass of impudence
to be coming that distance to poach
The clergyman is that Halroyd, is he not
Yes; every one knows what he is. I declare it went against me to take
his offer for the living; but it could not be helped. Money must be had;
but there! least said, soonest mended
We must mend it
I don't see what's to be done till Halroyd dies; and then you may give
the living to whom you please. He lives so hard he can't last long, that
is one comfort
And what has brought you home at a moment's notice? You might as well
have written two or three days before, at least
I was waiting in hopes of going to Hollywell
Well, and what is the matter? You have not been quarrelling with your
guardian, I hope and trust! Going the old way, after all
He took up some unjust suspicion of me. I could not bear it patiently,
and said something that has offended him
Oh, Sir Guy! hot and fiery as ever. I always told you that hasty temper
would be the ruin of you
Too true
What could he have taken into his head to suspect you of
Of gaming at St. Mildred's
You have not
Never
Then why does not he believe you
He thinks he has proof against me. I can't guess how he discovered it;
but I was obliged to pay some money to a gambling sort of man, and he
thinks I lost it
Then why don't you show him your accounts
For one reason -- because I have kept none
He can't help doing minutely whatever he undertakes
Heaven forbid
I know the same place would not
hold him and me long
You have told me nothing of our new vicar. How do you get on with him
None the better for that same Captain Morville
I suppose Mr. Ashford meant to pension her off
He did say something about it; but who is to do it, I should like to
know
We are, I suppose
Pay two schoolmistresses mistresses at once! One for doing nothing! A
pretty tolerable proposal for Mr. Ashford to be making
I don't see why. Of course it is my business
Besides, I don't see that she is not as fit to keep school as ever she
was
That may well be
We never used to be noted for
our learning
Don't you be for bringing new lights into the parish, Sir Guy, or we
shall never have any more peace
I shall see about old Jenny
As to the house, that must
be done directly. Her cottage is not fit to keep school in
As you please, Sir Guy, but we shall have the deer frightened, and the
plantations cut to pieces, if the boys from the Cove are to be crossing
the park
I'll be answerable for all the damage. If they are once properly spoken
to, they will be on honour to behave well. I have seen a little of what
a village school ought to be at East-hill, and I should like to see
Redclyffe like it
But bear it, I must and will
I have been in will
a murderer myself, and what right have I to repine like the Israelites,
with their self-justifying proverb? No; let me be thankful that I was
not given up even then, but have been able to repent, and do a little
better next time. It will be a blessing as yet ungranted to any of us,
if indeed I should bear to the full the doom of sorrow, so that it may
be vouchsafed me only to avoid actual guilt. Yes, Amy, your words are
still with me --"Sintram conquered his doom,"-- and it was by following
death! Welcome, then, whatever may be in store for me, were it even a
long, cheerless life without you, Amy. There is another world
his own room
Sir Guy
Master Morville
Mamma
I do believe Sir
Guy is come
Sir Guy was at church
I saw him speaking, after church, to some of the old men, so afterwards
I went to ask old John Barton, and found him with tears in his eyes,
positively trembling with delight, for he said he never thought to have
heard his cheery voice again, and that he was coming down by and by to
see the last letter from Ben, at sea
That is very nice! Shall you call
Yes. Even if he is only here for a day or two, it will be better to
have made the acquaintance
Well
it is as James Thorndale says, there is something very
prepossessing about him
Have you been there all this time
Yes. He was not at home; so I left my card, and was coming away, when I
met him at the turn leading to the Cove. He need not have seen me unless
he had liked, but he came up in a good-natured cordial way, and thanked
me for coming to call
Is he like his cousin
Not in the least; not nearly so tall or so handsome, but with a very
pleasant face, and seeming made up of activity, very slight, as if he
was all bone and sinew. He said he was going to see the Christmas ox
at the farm, and asked me to come with him. Presently we came to a high
gate, locked up. He was over it in an instant, begged me to wait while
he ran on to the farm for the key, and was back in a second with it
Did he enter on any of the disputed subjects
He began himself about the school, saying the house should be altered
directly; and talked over the whole matter very satisfactorily;
undertook himself to speak to Jenny Robinson; and was very glad to hear
you meant her still to keep the infants at the Cove; so I hope that
matter is in a right train
If Mr. Markham will but let him
O, he is king or more here! We met Markham at the farm; and the first
thing, after looking at the cattle, Sir Guy found some planks lying
about, and said they were the very thing for flooring the school.
Markham mentioned some barn they were intended for, but Sir Guy said the
school must be attended to at once, and went with us to look at it. That
was what kept me so long, measuring and calculating; and I hope it may
be begun in a week
This is delightful! What more could we wish
Never mind! I dare say it's all right. I don't want to
hear any more
Or more likely Mr. Markham is teaching him some jealousy of his heir.
We could not expect two Captain Morvilles in one family, and I am glad
it is no worse
So the singers will not come to us on Christmas Eve, because they say
they must go to the Park
I was thinking
how forlorn it will be for that
poor youth to spend his Christmas-day alone in that great house. Don't
you think we might ask him to dinner
Poor thing
when he was going, she
clung about him, and cried, and was so timid about being left, that at
last he called me, and begged me to stay with her, and take care of her.
It was very pretty to see how gentle and soft he was to her, sharp and
hasty as he was with most; and she would not let him go, coaxing him not
to stay away long; till at last he put her on the sofa, saying, "There,
there, Marianne, that will do. Only be a good child, and I'll come for
you." I never forget those words, for they were the last I ever heard
him speak
Well
Poor dear! she cried heartily at first; but after a time she cheered
up, and quite made friends with me. I remember she told me which were
Mr. Morville's favourite songs, and sang little scraps of them
Can you remember what they were
Law, no, air; I never had no head for music. And she laughed about her
journey to Scotland, and got into spirits, only she could not bear I
should go out of the room; and after a time she grew very anxious for
him to come back. I made her some tea, and tried to get her to bed,
but she would not go, though she seemed very tired; for she said Mr.
Morville would come to take her to Redclyffe, and she wanted to hear all
about the great house, listening for him all the time, and I trying to
quiet her, and telling her the longer he stayed the better chance there
was. Then came a call for me, and down-stairs I found everything in
confusion; the news had come -- I never knew how. I had not had time to
hear it rightly myself, when there was a terrible cry from up-stairs.
Poor thing! whether she thought he was come, or whether her mind misgave
her, she had come after me to the head of the stairs, and heard what
they were saying. I don't believe she ever rightly knew what had
happened, for before I could get to her she had fainted; and she was
very ill from that moment
And it was the next day she died
Did she -- could she take any notice of me
No, sir; she lived but half an hour, or hardly that, after you were
born
Mr. Morville
I grieved for her
as if she had been my own child; but then I thought of her waking up to
hear he was dead. I little thought then, Sir Guy, that I should ever see
you stand there,-- strong and well grown. I almost thought you were dead
already when I sent for Mr. Harrison to baptize you
Was it you that did so
Then I have to thank you for more
than all the world besides
Law, sir
Yes, it was in that very china
bowl; I have kept it choice ever since, and never let it be used for
anything. I thought it was making very bold, but the doctor and all
thought you could not live, and Mr. Harrison might judge. I was very
glad just before he came that Mr. Markham came from Redclyffe. He had
not been able to leave poor Sir Guy before
Hugo Morville. AEt. 2O, 1671
He, too, would have said --"Is thy servant a dog, that he should do
this
You see, Sir Guy
tis not all
as it used to be here with you. Yet we didn't like not to come at all,
when you had been away so long, so we settled just to begin, and see
whether you took any notice
Thank you. It was a very kind thought, James
I had rather
hear the carols than anything. Come to the front door; I'll let you in
Thank you, sir
Won't that put you out? Don't you always dine early
If you
would let me, I should like to join you at your tea-time
If you will endure a host of children
I should
like it of all things
I want to make acquaintance very
much
Besides, I want to
talk to you about the singing, and how we are to get rid of that fiddle
without breaking James Robinson's heart
But we should have to go through the park
Well, why not
We must not go into the park
Not go into the park
I did not know I was such a dog in the manger. I
thought all the parish walked naturally in the park. I don't know what
else it is good for. If Markham will lock it up, I must tell him to give
you a key
Mamma! Sir Guy
gave me a ride on his horse
Mamma! Sir Guy helped us to the top of
that great rock
Oh, papa! Sir Guy says we may come out shooting with
him to-morrow, if you will let us
Mamma! papa! look! Do you see? I
shot this rabbit my own self with Sir Guy's gun
Papa! papa! Sir Guy
showed us his boat, and he says he will take us out to the Shag Rock, if
you will give us leave
perhaps we shall manage it in the summer. We will
get your father to go out with us himself; and, in the meantime, who
likes to come with me after the rabbits in Cliffstone Copse? Farmer
Holt will thank Robin for killing a dozen or so, for he makes grievous
complaints of them
Can't you forget it
You have no loss, after all,
for we are likely to have no boating weather this long time. Hark! don't
you hear the ground-swell
What's that
It is the sound that comes before stormy weather
It is as
if the sea was gathering up its forces for the tempest
But what?-- how? Tell me what it really is
I suppose it is the wind on the sea before it has reached us
How solemn it is
Do you know where the crew are
There, sir, on the flat black stone
Some ten or eleven of them, I fancy, all huddled
together
Ay, ay
Poor creatures! there they be; and what
is to be done, I can't say! I never saw a boat in such a sea, since the
night poor Jack, my brother, was lost, and Will Ray with him
I see them
How soon is high water
Five to go with me
Thank you -- thank you
Not all, though; you, Ben
Robinson, Harry Ray, Charles Ray, Ben Ledbury, Wat Green
Here, Sir Guy
It would be best to have a second boat
Mr. Brown
tis the strongest and
lightest. Thank you. Martin had best steer it, he knows the rocks
Please your honour, Sir Guy, may not I go
Better not, Jem
Remember
your
mother has no one but you. Here
Jack Horn, you
pull a good oar! Now, then, are we ready
All ready,-- yes, sir
So, Mr. Markham, you are on your way to see about this wreck
Why, ay
I must be there, or that boy will
be in the thickest of it. Wherever is mischief, there is he. I only
wonder he has not broken his neck long ago
By mischief, you mean danger
Yes. I hope he has not heard of this wreck, for if he has, no power on
earth would keep him back from it
There's one
No
tis
That's Sir Guy's
Sir Guy
You don't mean he is gone? Then I am too
late! What could you be thinking of, you old fool, Jonas, to let that
boy go? You'll never see him again, I can tell you. Mercy! Here comes
another squall! There's an end of it, then
Why, sir
he spoke just like the captain of
a man-of-war, and for all Mr. Markham says, I don't believe he'd have
been able to gainsay him
Your son is gone with him
Ay, sir; and I would not say one word to stop him. I know Sir Guy won't
run him into risk for nothing; and I hope, please God, if Ben comes back
safe, it may be the steadying of him
'Twas he that volunteered to go before Sir Guy came, they say
Yes, sir
Ben's
brave enough; but there's the difference. He'd have done it for the
lark, and to dare the rest; but Sir Guy does it with thought, and
because it is right. I wish it may be the steadying of Ben
There!-- there
The boats
One
Where?-- where?-- for heaven's sake! That's nothing
Yes -- yes! I see both
The glass! Where's Mr. Brown's
glass
Hang the glass
It is the same over again
He is the age his father was,
though Mr. Morville never was such as he -- never -- how should he? He is
the last of them -- the best -- he would have been -- he was. Would to heaven
I were with him, that, if he is lost, we might all go together
There, sir
they be as far now as opposite West Cove. Don't you
see them, in that light place
There is some one out of the boat, climbing on the rocks. Can you make
him out, Jem
I see -- I see
there are two of them. They are
climbing along the lee-side of the long ridge of rocks
Ay, ay
they can't get in a boat close to the flat
rocks, they must take out a line. Bold fellows
Where are the boats
I can tell that
they must have got under the lee of
the lesser Shag. There's a ring there that Sir Guy had put in to moor
his boat to. They'll be made fast there, and those two must be taking
the rope along that ledge, so as for the poor fellows on the rock to
have a hold of, as they creep along to where the boats are
Those broken rocks
Can there be a footing, and in
such a sea
Can you give a guess who they be, sir
If
you'd only let Jem have a look, maybe he could guess
tis Sir Guy himself
Don't be such a fool, Jem
Sir Guy knows
better. Give me the glass
em. Yes, I do -- there's Redcap! There's something stirring on the rock
All saved
all owing to him
All safe
Here, Jem
here's something for you to do. This
poor little fellow has got a broken arm. Will you ask your mother to
take him in? She's the best nurse in the parish. And send up for Mr.
Gregson
There, Sir Guy, after the old fashion! Never was man so mad in this
world! I've done talking! You'll never be content till you have got your
death. As if no one could do anything without you
Was it you who carried out the line on the rock
Ben Robinson and I. I had often been there, after sea anemones and
weeds, and I had a rope round me, so don't be angry, Markham
I have no more to say
I might as
well talk to a sea-gull at once. As if you had any right to throw away
your life
I enjoyed it too much to have anything to say for myself
besides, we must see after these poor men. There were two or three
nearly drowned. Is no one gone for Mr. Gregson
Poor little fellow
he is just going to sleep. He bore it
famously
The setting his arm
Yes. He was quite sensible, and very patient, and that old Charity
Ledbury is a capital old woman. She and Jem are delighted to have him,
and will nurse him excellently. How are all the others? Has that poor
man come to his senses
Yes. I saw him safe in bed at old Robinson's. The captain is at the
Browns'
I wonder what time of day it is
Past eight. Ah! there is the bell beginning. I was thinking of going
to tell Master Ray we are not too much excited to remember church-going
this morning; but I am glad he has found it out only ten minutes too
late. I must make haste. Good-bye
May not I come, too, or am I too strange a figure
May you
Is it wise, with all your wet
things
I am not given to colds
would you make some mention of it in the Thanksgiving
The danger must
have been great
It was
It was
most merciful. That little boat felt like a toy at the will of the winds
and waves, till one recollected who held the storm in His hand
You thought the storm a more dangerous time than your expedition on the
rock
It was not. The fishermen, who were used to such things, did not think
much of it; but I am glad to have been out on such a night, if only for
the magnificent sensation it gives to realize one's own powerlessness
and His might. As for the rock, there was something to do to look to
one's footing, and cling on; no time to think
It was a desperate thing
Not so bad as it looked. One step at a time is all one wants, you know,
and that there always was. But what a fine fellow Ben Robinson is! He
behaved like a regular hero -- it was the thorough contempt and love of
danger one reads of. There must be a great deal of good in him, if one
only knew how to get hold of it
Look there
Ay
such a night as this, and such a good old man as the
father, could not fail to bring out all the good in a man
Yes
such a night, under such a leader! The
sight of so much courage based on that foundation is what may best touch
and save that man
What a horrid shame! I am very sorry
Sorry! what for
I am glad, at any rate, you have been
wise enough to change your things, and eat some breakfast
I meant to have done so much
but sea-wind makes one so
sleepy
If I could have the honour of seeing Sir Guy
Well
I beg your pardon, sir
tis
what any man might be proud of having done, and -- I never saw anything
like it
and it will do you honour
everywhere. All our lives are owing to you, sir
I have had very few letters, even from Hollywell
I suppose
it is on account of Charles's illness. You think him really better
Yes, much better. I forgot to tell you, you are wanted for their
Christmas party to-morrow night
Oh! he is well enough for them not to put it off! Is he able to be out
of bed
No, he lies perfectly flat, and looks very thin. It has been a very
severe illness. I don't think I ever knew him suffer so much; but,
at the same time, I never knew him behave so well, or show so much
patience, and consideration for other people, I was the more surprised,
because at first he seemed to have relapsed into all the ways he thought
he had shaken off; he was so irritable and fretful, that poor Mrs.
Edmonstone looked worn out; but it seems to have been only the beginning
of the illness; it was very different after he was laid up
Has he had you to see him
Yes, he asked for it, which he never did before, and Amabel reads to
him every morning. There is certainly much more that is satisfactory
about those young Edmonstones than there once seemed reason to expect
And now tell me about Sir Guy. What is the matter? Why does he not come
home this winter
I cannot tell you the rights of it, Mary. Mr. Edmonstone is very much
offended about something he is reported to have said, and suspects
him of having been in mischief at St. Mildred's; but I am not at all
persuaded that it is not one of Mr. Edmonstone's affronts
Where is he
At Redclyffe. I have a letter from him which I am going to answer
to-night. I shall tell the Edmonstones about it, for I cannot believe
that, if he had been guilty of anything very wrong, his mind would be
occupied in this manner
Oh, no
I am sure he cannot be in any
mischief. What an admirable person he is! I am very sorry this cloud has
arisen! I was thinking last summer how happy they all were together
Either this or Charles's illness has cast a gloom over the whole house.
The girls are both grown much graver
Amy graver
I think so. At least she did not seem to cheer up as I should have
expected when her brother grew better. She looks as if she had been
nursing him too closely, and yet I see her walking a good deal
Poor little Amy
You look tired
No, it is only stupidity
We can't be
entertaining without Charlie
It has been a melancholy winter
Oh! but Charlie is much better, and that is a great comfort. I am glad
you are come home, Mary
We are going to have some magic music
Who will play
Little Amy
Where is she? She always does it to
admiration. Amy, come and be a performer
Had you rather not, my dear
I can do it, mamma, thank you -- never mind
I should like to send you up to Charlie -- he has been so long alone
Oh! thank you, dear mamma
Here is Charlotte wild to be a musician
Perhaps you will see how she can manage; for I think Charles must want
a visit from his little nurse
I said I never would think of him except at my prayers! Here I
am doing it again, and on Christmas night. I won't hide my eyes and moan
over my broken reed; for Christmas is come, and the circles of song are
widening round! Glory! good will, peace on earth! How he sang it last
year, the last thing, when the people were gone, before we went up to
bed. But I am breaking my resolution again. I must do something
Are you there, Amy
What are you staying here
for? Don't they want you
Mamma was so kind as to send me up
I am glad you are come, for I have something to tell you. Mr. Ross has
been up to see me, you know, and he has a letter from Guy
Mr. Ross is quite satisfied about him, Amy
I
wish you could have heard the decided way in which he said, "He will
_live_ it down
Amy, here is something for you to read
Wait one moment, Charlie, dear
Mamma, dear, do you think I ought to let Charlie show me that
letter
Yes, dearest
Sports and
Pastimes
my lord had made
particular inquiries how long he would be in the country, and had been
to the cliff to see where the wreck was
Oh, I hope all that is not coming on me
yet! Till I can manage Todd and Coombe Prior, I am sure I am not fit to
manage the country
DEAR G.,-- I ought not to do this, but I must; I have tyrannized over
Charlotte, and obtained the wherewithal. Write me a full account of your
gallant conduct. I saw it first in A
C. M.
E
Amy! what have you there
Fine fellow! noble
fellow
He is the bravest boy I ever heard of, but I knew
what was in him from the first. I wish from my heart there was not this
cloud over him. I am sure the whole story has not a word of truth in it,
but he won't say a word to clear himself, or else we would have him here
again to-morrow
What a pen you've given me, Charlotte. There goes a blot! Here, another
dip, will you! and take up that with the blotting paper before it
becomes more like a spider
Won't you make a fresh beginning
tis -- do it up, will you? If he can read it he'll be lucky. How my
arms ache
I hope it has not hurt you, Charlie; but I am sure he will be very glad
of it. Oh! I am glad you said that about Amy
Who told you to read it, Puss
tis so large
I believe I _didn't_ _ought_ to have said it. Don't tell her I did
but I couldn't for the life of me -- or what is more to the
purpose, for the trouble of it -- help putting it. He is too true a knight
not to hear that his lady, not exactly smiled, but cried
He is a true knight
Sir Guy Morville,
Bart., Redclyffe Park, Moorworth
Do you remember, Charlie, how we sat here the first evening he came,
and you took me in about the deadly feud
It was no take-in
only the feud is all on one side
Oh, dear! it has been such a stupid winter without Guy
if this won't make papa forgive him, I don't know what
will
I wish it would, with all my heart
but logically, if
you understand the word, Charlotte, it does not make much difference to
the accusation. It would not exactly be received as exculpatory evidence
in a court of justice
You don't believe the horrid stories
I believe that Guy has gamed quite as much as I have myself; but I want
to see him cleared beyond the power of Philip to gainsay or disbelieve
it. I should like to have such a force of proof as would annihilate
Philip, and if I was anything but what I am, I would have it. If you
could but lend me a leg for two days, Charlotte
I wish I could
One thing shall be done
my father shall go and
meet him in person when he comes of age. Now Don Philip is out of the
way, I trust I can bring that about
If he would but come here
No, that must not be, as mamma says, till there is some explanation;
but if I was but in my usual state, I would go with papa and meet him
in London. I wonder if there is any chance of it. The 28th of March -- ten
weeks off! If I can but get hold of those trusty crutches of mine by
that time I'll do, and I'll do, and I'll do. We will bring back Amy's
knight with flying colours
Oh how happy we should be
If I only knew what sort of sense that Markham of his may have, I would
give him a hint, and set him to ferret out at St. Mildred's. Or shall I
get Dr. Mayerne to order me there for change of air
Sir Guy
is it that which is wrong with you? Don't be angry
with an old man for asking the question, but I only would hope and trust
you are not getting into any scrape
Thank you, Markham
I cannot tell you
about it. I will only set you at rest by saying it is nothing you could
think I ought to be ashamed of
Then why -- what has come between? What could man or woman object to in
you
These unhappy suspicions
You must have been doing something
foolish to give rise to them
You know no one has
seen him yet but Philip, and he would tell things to you that he might
not to him
Of course I have more weight and experience, and -- and poor Guy is very
fond of us. Eh, Charlie
If you will clear up the gambling
story
all may yet be well
All in vain, kind Charlie
vain as are my attempts to keep my poor uncle
from sinking himself further! Is it fair, though
that the happiness of at least one life should be sacrificed
to hide one step in the ruin of a man who will not let himself be saved?
Is it not a waste of self-devotion? Have I any right to sacrifice hers?
Ought I not rather
to make my uncle
give me back my promise of concealment? I can make it up to him. It
cannot injure him, since only the Edmonstones will know it! But
is this the spirit I have been
struggling for this whole winter? Did I not see that patient waiting and
yielding is fit penance for my violence. It would be ungenerous. I will
wait and bear, contented that Heaven knows my innocence at least in
this. For her, when at my best I dreaded that my love might bring sorrow
on her -- how much more now, when I have seen my doom face to face,
and when the first step towards her would be what I cannot openly and
absolutely declare to be right? That would be the very means of bringing
the suffering on her, and I should deserve it
I hope
this will not be a very troublesome request
but I know
you had rather I did it in this way, than disobey your maxims, as to not
sending money by the post
Now for it
Give me the strength to withstand
Here he is himself! Guy, my boy, my dear boy, you are the most generous
fellow in the world! You have been used abominably. I wish my two hands
had been cut off before I was persuaded to write that letter, but it is
all right now. Forget and forgive -- eh, Guy? You'll come home with me,
and we will write this very day for Deloraine
All right
All right
I know where your money went, and I
honour you for it, and there stands the man who told me the whole story.
I said, from the first, it was a confounded slander. It was all owing to
the little girl
Never till this morning had I the least suspicion that I
had been the means of bringing you under any imputation. How could you
keep me in ignorance
You have told
Of the cheque
and of all the rest, and
of your providing for the little girl. How could you do it with that
pittance of an allowance of yours? And Master Philip saying you never
had any money! No wonder, indeed
If I had known you were pinching yourself
my mind would
have revolted
Let me understand it
Tell
me, Markham. Is it really so? Am I cleared? Has Mr. Edmonstone a right
to be satisfied
Yes, Sir Guy
Mr. Dixon has accounted
for your disposal of the thirty pound cheque, and there is an end of the
matter
I cannot thank you enough
how is Charles
Better -- much better, you shall see him to-morrow -- eh, Guy
But I cannot explain about the one thousand pounds
Never mind -- you never had it, so you can't have misspent it. That's
neither here nor there
And you forgive my language respecting you
Nonsense about that! If you never said anything worse than that Philip
was a meddling coxcomb, you haven't much to repent of; and I am sure I
was ten old fools when I let him bore me into writing that letter
No, no; you did right under your belief; and circumstances were strong
against me. And is it clear? Are we where we were before
We are -- we are in everything, only we know better what you are worth,
Guy. Shake hands once more. There's an end of all misunderstanding and
vexation, and we shall be all right at home again
It is too much. I don't understand it. How did you know this matter
wanted explanation
I learnt it from Mr. Markham, and you will do me the justice to
believe, that I was greatly shocked to find that your generosity
The truth of the matter is this
You sent me to Miss
Wellwood's, at St. Mildred's. The principal was not within, and while
waiting for her to make the payment, I got into conversation with her
sister, Miss Jane. She told me that the child, Mr. Dixon's daughter,
was always talking of your kindness, especially of a morning at St.
Mildred's, when you helped him in some difficulty. I thought this threw
some light on the matter, found out Mr. Dixon this morning, and you see
the result
I do, indeed
I wish I could attempt to thank you all
Thanks enough for me to see you look like yourself
Did
you think I was going to sit still and leave you in the mess you had got
yourself into, with your irregularity about keeping your accounts
And to you
You never can guess what I owe to you
Nay, I deserve no thanks at all
since I was the
means of bringing the imputation on you; and I am sure it is enough for
a wretch like me, not to have brought only misery wherever I turn -- to
have done something to repair the evil I have caused. Oh, could I but
bring back your father to what he was when first I saw him as you are
now
Come, what's past can't be helped, and I have no end of work to be
done, so there's speechifying enough for once. Mr. Dixon, you must not
be going. Sit down and look over the newspaper, while we sign these
papers. You must dine with us, and drink your nephew's health, though it
is not his real birthday
eh, Guy
So here you are again. I was afraid he was carrying you off to his
concert after all! I believe you have half a mind for it. Do you like
to stay in London for the next? Eh, Guy
Well
the man is more gentlemanlike than I
expected. A good sort of fellow at the bottom, I dare say. He was pretty
considerably shocked to find he had brought you into such a scrape
He is very generous
Oh, there is much of a noble character
in him
Noble! humph
He has gone down-hill fast enough,
since I used to see him in your father's time; but I am glad he had the
decency not to be the undoing of you
His feeling is his great point
when you can once get at
it. I wish
I can't make it out. What did
little Marianne tell you? Or was it Miss Wellwood
It was first the youngest sister
I sat there talking
to her some little time; she said you had been very kind to the family,
and the child was very grateful to you -- was always talking of some
morning when you and your dog came, and helped her mother. Her father
had been out all night, and her mother was crying, she said, and
declaring he would be sent to prison, till you came and helped them
Yes, that's it
Well, I remembered what you had told me of the mystery of the draft,
and guessed that this might be the clue to it. I begged to see the
child, and in she came, the very image of your mother, and a sharp
little thing that knew what she meant, but had not much idea of the
shame, poor child, about her father. She told me the story of his coming
home in the morning, and her mother being in great distress, and saying
they were ruined, till you came and talked to her mother, and gave her
something. I asked if it was money, and she said it was paper. I showed
her a draft, and she knew it was like that. So then I made her tell me
where to find her father, whom I used to know in old times, and had to
write to, now and then. I hunted him up, and a creditable figure he was,
to be sure; but I got the truth out of him at last, and when he heard
you had got into disgrace on his account, he raved like a tragedy hero,
and swore he would come and tell your guardian the whole story. I put
him into a cab for fear he should repent, and he had just got to the end
of it when you came in
It is of no use to thank you again, Markham
Why, I have been getting your family out of scrapes these forty years
or thereabouts
'tis all I am good for; and if they had
been no worse than this one it would be better for all of us. But time
is getting on, and there is enough to do
no letter
If I could help being
so foolish as to let myself have a little hope
How are you,
Charlie
How d'ye
do, my little Amy
Sir Guy's
bag to his room
Amy, my dear, you look wild. What has come to you
Papa is come home, and
And
and the mystery is explained
Oh! I don't know; they are only just come, and I was so silly, I ran
away,-- I did not know what to do
_They_ are come, are they
My little Amy, I see it
all
If you had come two hours ago
I would have
let you be at home. Now you must be a great man, and be content with me.
It will be better for Amy
Don't ask me any questions, for I know nothing at all about it
This -- try this -- your part is almost nothing; or can't
you do this
I beg your pardon for making such bad work. I am so much out
of practice
Don't you
dislike all this excessively
It does as well as anything else, thank you
I can do
it better than talking
How glad you must be to get rid of
us
How beautifully Amy has behaved
Shall I help you
Thank you, but I am not ready yet; besides, I am an actual log now, and
am carried as such, so it is of no use to wait for me. Mamma shall have
the first turn, and I won't even leave my door open
Yes, yes, yes; go and have it out with mamma, next best to Amy herself,
as she is run away -- eh, Guy
Well
All right
Every word was untrue. He is the
noblest fellow in the world, as I knew all the time, and I was an old
fool for listening to a pack of stories against him
Hurrah
Let us hear
how the truth came out, and what it was
It was that Dixon. There has he been helping that man for ever, sending
his child to school, giving him sums upon sums, paying his gaming debts
with that cheque
Oh, oh
Yes that was it! The child told Markham of it, and Markham brought
the father to tell me. It puts me in a rage to think of the monstrous
stories Philip has made me believe
I was sure of it
I knew it would come out that he had
only been so much better than other people that nobody could believe it.
Cleared! cleared! Why, Charlotte, Mr. Ready-to-halt will be for footing
it cleverly enough
I was always sure
I knew it was not in him to
go wrong. It was only Philip, who would persuade me black was white
I never believed one word of it
still less after I saw
Philip's animosity
Les absens ont toujours tort
Come, Charlotte, it is very late
And I shall be the first to tell Amy
Good night,
papa!-- good night, Charlie
I am very glad to have you here again
May I tell you all about it
Sit down here. I want very much to hear it. I am sure you have gone
through a good deal
But it is at an end
I have scarcely seen Mr. Edmonstone,
but he tells me he is perfectly satisfied
He is so kind as to be satisfied, though you know I still cannot
explain about the large sum I asked him for
We will trust you
but I am very
anxious to hear how you came to an understanding
You had rather to forgive us
You forget how ill I behaved
If you knew the
madness of those first moments of provocation, you would think that the
penance of a lifetime, instead of only one winter, would scarce have
been sufficient
You would not say, as Charles does, that the suspicion justified your
anger
No, indeed
Thank Heaven, it did not last
long; but the insight it gave me into the unsubdued evil about me was a
fearful thing
But you conquered it. They were the unguarded exclamations of the first
shock. Your whole conduct since, especially the interview with Philip,
has shown that your anger has not been abiding, and that you have learnt
to subdue it
It could not abide, for there was no just cause of offence. Of course
such a dreadful outburst warned me to be on my guard; and you know the
very sight of Philip is a warning that there is danger in that way! I
mean
I
mean that I know of old that I am apt to be worried by his manner, and
that ought to make me doubly cautious
I am very glad to be able to explain all to Philip
I will write as soon as possible. Oh, Mrs. Edmonstone! if you knew what
it is to be brought back to such unhoped-for happiness, to sit here
once more, with you
to have seen _her_, to have all overlooked, and return to all I
hoped last year. I want to look at you all, to believe that it is true
You both behaved very well this evening
You both
Ah! little Amy has been very good this winter
But now, seriously, don't you think it a very bad thing for her
My dear Guy
I
told you last summer what I thought of it, and you must settle the rest
with Amy to-morrow. I hear the drawing-room bell, which is a sign I must
send you to bed. Good night
Good night
It is so long since I
have had any one to wish me good night! Good night, mamma
Oh, mamma! how kind of you to come
I can only stay a moment, my dear; your papa is coming up; but I must
just tell you that I have been having such a nice talk with dear Guy.
He has behaved beautifully, and papa is quite satisfied. Now, darling,
I hope you will not lie awake all night, or you won't be fit to talk to
him to-morrow
Then he is
happy again
I should like to hear all
He shall tell you himself to-morrow, my dear. Now, good night! you have
been a very good child. Now, go to sleep, my dear one
Thank you for coming to tell me, dear mamma
I am very glad; good night
all right
How you must have wanted to play the Harmonious Blacksmith
I caught myself going through the motions twice
Can I speak to you a little while
Amabel, I want you to consider -- you really ought to think whether this
is not a very bad thing for you
I have brought you nothing but unhappiness already. So far as you have
taken any interest in me, it could cause you only pain, and the more I
think of it, the more unfit it seems that one so formed for light, and
joy, and innocent mirth, should have anything to do with the darkness
that is round me. Think well of it. I feel as if I had done a selfish
thing by you, and now, you know, you are not bound. You are quite free!
No one knows anything about it, or if they did, the blame would rest
entirely with me. I would take care it should. So, Amy, think, and think
well, before you risk your happiness
As to that
I must care for whatever happens to you, and
I had rather it was with you, than without you
My Amy!-- my own!-- my Verena
I had a feeling that so it might be
through the very worst, yet I can hardly believe it now
Guy
you must not take me for more than I am worth, and I
should like to tell you fairly. I did not speak last time, because
it was all so strange and so delightful, and I had no time to think,
because I was so confused. But that is a long time ago, and this has
been a very sad winter, and I have thought a great deal. I know, and you
know, too, that I am a foolish little thing; I have been silly little
Amy always; you and Charlie have helped me to all the sense I have, and
I don't think I could ever be a clever, strong-minded woman, such as one
admires
Heaven forbid
But
I believe I do really wish to be good, and I know
you have helped me to wish it much more, and I have been trying to learn
to bear things, and so
so if you do like such a silly little
thing, it can't be helped, and we will try to make the best of her. Only
don't say any more about my being happier without you, for one thing I
am very sure of, Guy, I had rather bear anything with you, than know you
were bearing it alone. I am only afraid of being foolish and weak, and
making things worse for you
So much worse! But still
speak as you may, my Amy, I
cannot, must not, feel that I have a right to think of you as my own,
till you have heard all. You ought to know what my temper is before you
risk yourself in its power. Amy, my first thought towards Philip was
nothing short of murder
The first -- not the second
Yes, the second -- the third. There was a moment when I could have given
my soul for my revenge
Only a moment
Only a moment, thank Heaven! and I have not done quite so badly since.
I hope I have not suffered quite in vain; but if that shock could
overthrow all my wonted guards, it might, though I pray Heaven it may
not, it might happen again
I think you conquered yourself then, and that you will again
And suppose I was ever to be mad enough to be angry with you
Of course, I should deserve it; but I think
the trouble would be the comforting you afterwards. Mamma said
mamma said, and I think, that you are much safer and better
with such a quick temper as yours, because you are always struggling and
fighting with it, on the real true religious ground, than a person more
even tempered by nature, but not so much in earnest in doing right
Yes, if I did not believe myself to be in earnest about that, I could
never dare to speak to you at all
We will help each other
you have always helped me, long
before we knew we cared for each other
And, Amy, if you knew how the thought of you helped me last winter,
even when I thought I had forfeited you for ever
It is very nice
There was a grand opportunity lost last winter. I was
continually rehearsing the scene, and thinking what waste it was to go
through such a variety of torture without the dignity of danger. If I
could but have got up ever so small an alarm, I would have conjured my
father to send for Guy, entreated pathetically that the reconciliation
might be effected, and have drawn my last breath clasping their hands,
thus! The curtain falls
But if it had been your last breath
you would not
have been much the wiser
I would have come to life again in time to enjoy the "coup de theatre".
I had some thoughts of trying an overdose of opium; but I thought Dr.
Mayerne would have found me out. I tell you, because it is fair I
should have the credit; for, Guy, if you knew what she was to me all the
winter, you would perceive my superhuman generosity in not receiving you
as my greatest enemy
I shall soon cease to be surprised at any superhuman generosity
But how thin you are, Charlie; you are a very feather to carry; I
had no notion it had been such a severe business
Most uncommon
It was the worst of all
six weeks of constant
pain
How very sorry Philip must have been
Philip
Why, was it not owing to him? Surely, your father told me so. Did not
he let you fall on the stairs
My dear father
every disaster that
happens for the next twelvemonth will be imputed to Philip
How was it, then
The fact was this
it was in the thick of the
persecution of you, and I was obliged to let Philip drag me upstairs,
because I was in a hurry. He took the opportunity of giving me some
impertinent advice which I could not stand. I let go his arm, forgetting
what a dependent mortal I am, and down I should assuredly have gone, if
he had not caught me, and carried me off, as a fox does a goose, so
it was his fault, as one may say, in a moral, though not in a physical
sense
Then
you do think your illness was owing to that
accident
I suppose the damage was brewing, and that the shake brought it into an
active state. There's a medical opinion for you
Well, I never knew what you thought of it before
Why, when I had a condor to pick on Guy's account with Philip, I was
not going to pick a crow on my own
Oh! is luncheon
ready; and you all going? I never see anybody now. I want the story of
the shipwreck, though, of course, Ben What's-his-name was the hero, and
Sir Guy Morville not a bit of it
It will be nice to go to church there to-day
Another thing
shall you mind my
telling Mary? I behaved so oddly last night, and she was so kind to me
that I think I ought
Come and walk a little way home
with me
Mary
I guess something, Amy
Don't tell any one but Mr. Ross
Then I have guessed right. My dear little Amy, I am very glad! So that
was the reason you flew out of the room last evening, and looked so
bright and glowing
It was so good of you to ask no questions
I don't think I need ask any now, Amy; for I see in your face how right
and happy it all is
I can't tell you all, Mary, but I must one thing,-- that the whole
terrible story arose from his helping a person in distress. I like you
to know that
Papa was always sure that he had not been to blame
Yes; so Charlie told me, and that is the reason I wanted you to know
Then, Amy, something of this had begun last summer
Yes; but not as it is now. I did not half know what it was then
Poor dear little Amy
what a very sad winter it must have
been for you
Oh, very
but it was worse for him, because he was quite
alone; and here every one was so kind to me. Mamma and Laura, and poor
Charlie, through all his illness and pain, he was so very kind. And do
you know, Mary, now it is all over, I am very glad of this dismal time;
for I think that it has taught me how to bear things better
Are not you
delighted, Mary? Is not Amy the dearest thing in the world? And you
don't know, for it is a secret, and I know it, how very noble Guy has
been, while they would suspect him
I am very, very glad, indeed! It is everything delightful
I never was so happy in my life
nor Charlie, either.
Only think of having Guy for our brother; and he is going to send for
Bustle to-morrow
If ever there was a meddlesome coxcomb on this earth
There's something for you to read
You should not show one such letters, Mr. Edmonstone
Does not it beat everything
If that is not
impertinence, I should like to know what is! But he has played my
Lord Paramount rather too long, as I can tell him! I ask his consent,
forsooth! Probation, indeed! You might marry her to-morrow, and welcome.
There, give it to mamma. See if she does not say the same. Mere spite
and malice all along
No no; that it never was. He was quite right under his belief
Don't tell me! Not a word in his favour will I hear
Mere envy and ill-will
I always told him so
Pure malignity
Nonsense, Charlie
there is no such thing about
him
Come, Guy; I can't stand this
I won't have him
defended; I never thought to be so deceived; but you all worshipped the
boy as if every word that came out of his mouth was Gospel truth, and
you've set him up till he would not condescend to take an advice of his
own father, who little thought what an upstart sprig he was rearing; but
I tell him he has come to the wrong shop for domineering -- eh, mamma
Well
Mamma and all
It
is wilful prejudice, to say the least,-- I never could have believed him
capable of it
Read it, all of you -- every bit
that you may see
this paragon of yours
I had rather not
I should like you to do so, if you don't dislike it very much
P. MORVILLE
My dear Guy, if we did not know you so well, we should almost accuse
you of affectation
Then I shall go away
Can you come
out with me
No; wait a bit
don't take her out, or
you won't be to be found, anywhere, and I want to speak to you before
I write my letter, and go to the Union Meeting. I want to tell Master
Philip, on the spot, that the day is fixed, and we snap our fingers at
him and his probation. Wait till twenty-five! I dare say
I want to speak to you
Pray, when did you think it was to be
Upon my
word, I never in all my days saw a lover like you, Guy
I was too happy to think about the future; besides, I did not know
whether you had sufficient confidence in me
Confidence, nonsense! I tell you if I had a dozen daughters, I would
trust them all to you
I have the most absolute confidence
in you! I am going to write to Philip this minute, to tell him he has
played three-tailed Bashaw rather too long. I shall tell him it is to
be very soon, at any rate; and that if he wishes to see how I value his
pragmatical advice, he may come and dance at the wedding. I declare,
your mamma and that colonel of his have perfectly spoilt him with their
flattery! I knew what would come of it; you all would make a prodigy of
him, till he is so puffed up, that he entirely forgets who he is
that can't be laid to my door
But I'll write him such a letter this instant as shall make him
remember what he is, and show him who he has to deal with. Eh, Charlie
Don't you think
that it might be better
to wait a day or two, till we see our way clearer, and are a little
cooler
I tell you, Guy, there is no one that puts me out of patience now, but
yourself. You are as bad as Philip himself. Cool? I am coolness itself,
all but what's proper spirit for a man to show when his family is
affronted, and himself dictated to, by a meddling young jackanapes. I'll
serve him out properly
Never mind
I'll take care the letter is moderate.
Besides, it is only Philip, and he knows that letter-writing is not his
forte
I am afraid things will be said in irritation, which you will both
regret. There are justice and reason in the letter
There shall be more in the answer, as you will see
No, I will not see. It is Mr. Edmonstone's concern, not mine. I am the
last person who should have anything to do with it
Just what the individual in question would not have said
Would you do one thing to oblige me, Charlie
Anything but not speaking my mind to, or of, the captain
That is the very thing, unluckily. Try to get the answer put off till
to-morrow, and that will give time to look at this letter candidly
All the candour in the world will not make me think otherwise than that
he is disappointed at being no longer able to make us the puppets of his
malevolence. Don't answer, or if you do, tell me what you say in favour
of that delicate insinuation of his
'Tis not
fair to ask such questions
It is throwing
oil on the fire. I was trying to forget it. He neither knows my uncle
nor the circumstances
Well, I am glad there is a point on which you can't even pretend to
stand up for him, or I should have thought you crazed with Quixotism.
But I am keeping you when you want to be off to Amy. Never mind Mr.
Ready-to-halt; I shall wait till my father comes back. If you want the
letter put off you had better give some hopes of -- Oh! he is gone, and
disinterested advice it is of mine, for what is to become of me without
Amy remains to be proved. Laura, poor thing, looks like Patience on a
monument. I wonder whether Philip's disgrace has anything to do with it.
Hum! If mamma's old idea was right, the captain has been more like moth
and candle than consistent with his prudence, unless he thought it "a
toute epreuve". I wonder what came to pass last autumn, when I was ill,
and mamma's head full of me. He may not intend it, and she may not know
it, but I would by no means answer for Cupid's being guiltless of that
harassed look she has had ever since that ball-going summer. Oh! there
go that pretty study, Amy and her true knight. As to Guy, he is more
incomprehensible than ever; yet there is no avoiding obeying him, on the
principle on which that child in the "Moorland cottage" said she should
obey Don Quixote
Of course, they must
marry directly, there is nothing on earth to wait for. Live at Redclyffe
alone? Not to be thought of. No, I'll see little Amy my Lady Morville,
before Philip goes abroad, if only to show him I am not a man to be
dictated to
I would not have asked you to do anything so unpleasant
as reading that letter, but I thought you ought to consider of it
It was just like himself! How could he
I wonder whether he will ever see his own harshness
It
is very strange, that with all his excellence and real kindness, there
should be some distortion in his view of all that concerns me. I cannot
understand it
You must let me call it prejudice, Guy, in spite of your protest. It is
a relief to say something against him
Amy, don't be venomous
Yes; but you know it is not _me_ whom he has been abusing
Well
I suppose it is right there should be this
cloud, or it would be too bright for earth. It has been one of my chief
wishes to have things straight with Philip, ever since the time he
stayed at Redclyffe as a boy. I saw his superiority then; but it fretted
me, and I never could make a companion of him. Ever since, I have
looked to his approval as one of the best things to be won. It shows
his ascendancy of character; yet, do what I will, the mist has gone on
thickening between us; and with reason, for I have never been able to
give him the confidence he required, and his conduct about my uncle has
so tried my patience, that I never have been quite sure whether I ought
to avoid him or not
And now you are the only person who will speak for him. I don't wonder
papa is provoked with you
I only
hope you don't want to make me do the same. I could bear anything better
than his old saying about your attractive manners and good impulses,
and his opinion that has never altered. O Guy, he is the most provoking
person in all the world. Don't try to make me admire him, nor be sorry
for him
Not when you remember how he was looked on here? and how, without
doing anything worthy of blame, nay, from his acting unsparingly, as he
thought right, every one has turned against him? even mamma, who used to
be so fond of him
Not Laura
No, not Laura, and I am thankful to her for it; for all this makes me
feel as if I had supplanted him
Yes, yes, yes, it is like you; but don't ask me to feel that yet
Yes; but he thought himself right. He meant to do
the kindest thing by you
So he thinks still,
Amy; there is fairness, justice, good sense in his letter, and we
must not blind our eyes to it, though there is injustice, at least,
harshness. I did fail egregiously in my first trial
Fail
In temper
Oh
And, Amy, I wanted to ask what you think about the four years he
speaks of. Do you think, as he says, my habits might be more fixed, and
altogether you might have more confidence
I don't look on you quite as he does now
Do you think his opinion of you will ever alter
But what do you think? Is there not some reason in what he says
The only use I can see is, that perhaps I should be wiser at
twenty-four, and fitter to take care of such a great house; but then you
have been always helping me to grow wiser, and I am not much afraid but
that you will be patient with me. Indeed, Guy, I don't know whether it
is a thing I ought to say
but I think it would
be dismal for you to go and live all alone at Redclyffe
Honestly, Amy
if you feel so, and
your father approves, I don't think it will be better to wait. I know
your presence is a safeguard, and if the right motives did not suffice
to keep me straight, and I was only apparently so from hopes of you, why
then I should be so utterly good for nothing at the bottom, if not on
the surface, that you had better have nothing to say to me
That being settled
did you hear what your father said
as you left the breakfast-room
What did you answer
I said, whatever happened, you must not be taken by surprise in having
to decide quickly. Do you wish to have time to think? I'll go in and
leave you to consider, if you like
I only want to know what you wish
I had rather you did just as suits you best. Of course, you know what
my wish must be
Very well
I think you and mamma had better settle it. The worst
the going away -- mamma -- Charlie -- all that will be as bad at
one time as at another
It had better be as
you all like best
O Amy! I wonder at myself for daring to ask you to exchange your bright
cheerful home for my gloomy old house
No, your home
I used to wonder why it was called gloomy; but it will be so no more
when you are there. Yet there is a shadow hanging over it, which
makes it sometimes seem too strange that you and it should be brought
together
I have read somewhere that there is no real gloom but what people raise
for themselves
True. Gloom is in sin, not sorrow. Yes, there would be no comfort if I
were not sure that if aught of grief or pain should come to you through
me, it will not, cannot really hurt you, my Amy
No, unless by my own fault, and you will help me to meet it. Hark! was
that a nightingale
Yes, the first! How beautiful! There -- don't you see it? Look on that
hazel, you may see its throat moving. Well
after all, that creature and the sea will hardly let one
speak of gloom, even in this world, to say nothing of other things.

'The sea! I am glad I have never seen it, because now you will show it
to me for the first time
You will never, can never imagine it, Amy! and he sung,--


         'With all tones of waters blending,
          Glorious is the breaking deep,
          Glorious, beauteous, without ending,
          Songs of ocean never sleep
Eleven, Amy! I must go to my reading, or you will have to be very much
ashamed of me
Laura, dearest! if you would not be so very unhappy! I wish I knew what
to do for you
Then you have fixed the day
The Tuesday in Whitsun-week
They all thought it right
Dear, dear Laura
it is very kind of you,
but
Oh, Amy! you don't know. You must not think so much better of me than
I deserve. It is not only -- No, I would not be so selfish, if but -- but
Ah! you are unhappy about Philip
Yes, you, who were so
fond of him, must be vexed at this unkindness on his part
I am sure it is his real wish for your good
I dare say
I beg
your pardon, dear Laura, but I don't think I can quite bear to hear any
one but Guy defend him
It is very generous
Oh, is not it, Laura? and he says he is so grieved to see us turned
against Philip, after being so fond of him; he says it makes him feel
as if he had supplanted him, and that he is quite thankful to you for
taking his part still
How shall I bear it
I wonder whether he will come
He will
You think so
Well, Guy would be glad. Yes. O Laura, if
Philip would learn to do Guy justice, I don't think there would be any
more to wish
He will in time
He is too generous not to be won by
such generosity as Guy's; and when all this is forgotten, and all these
accusations have been lived down, he will be the warmest of friends
Yes
but if he would only
leave off saying his opinion has never altered, I think I could bring
myself to look on him as Guy wants me to do. Good night! dear Laura,
and don't be unhappy. Oh! one thing I must tell you; Guy made Charles
promise to do all he could not to let it be a hasty letter. Now, good
night
I think you ought to be much obliged
to Guy. This morning, he suddenly exclaimed, "I say, Charlie, I wish you
would take care Amy's fortune is not settled on her so that it can't be
got rid of." I asked how he meant to make ducks and drakes of it; and he
explained, that if either of you two did not happen to marry for money,
like Amy, it might do you no harm
We are very much obliged to him
Do you know what it is, Charlie
Oh! you want to calculate the amount of your obligation! Somewhere
about five thousand pounds, I believe
Do you dislike it very much
I can hardly tell. Of course, as a general rule, the less parade and
nonsense the better; but if your father wishes it, and if people do find
enjoyment in that way, it seems hard they should not have all they can
out of it
Oh, yes; the school children and poor people
How happy the Ashford children will be, feasting the poor people at
Redclyffe! Old Jonas Ledbury will be in high glory
To be sure it does not seem like merit to feast one's poor neighbours
rather than the rich. It is so much pleasanter
However, since the poor will be feasted, I don't think the rich ones
will do us much harm
I am sure I shall know very little about them
The realities are so great to us, that they will swallow up the
accessories. There must be the church, and all that; and for the rest,
Amy, I don't think I shall find out whether you wear lace or grogram
There's encouragement for me
However, what I
mean is, that I don't care about it, if I am not obliged to attend, and
give my mind, to those kind of things just then, and that mamma will
take care of
Is it not a great trouble for her? I forgot that. It was selfish; for
we slip out of the fuss, and it all falls on her
Yes
but don't you think it would tease her more to have to
persuade papa out of what he likes, and alter every little matter? That
would be worry, the rest only exertion; and, do you know, I think
that it will be better for her, to keep her
from thinking about losing me
I see. Very well, we will take the finery quietly. Only one thing, Amy,
we will not be put out of,-- we will not miss the full holy-day service
Oh, yes; that will be the comfort
One other thing, Amy. You know I have hardly a friend of my own; but
there is one person I should like to ask,-- Markham. He has been so
kind, and so much attached to me; he loved my father so devotedly, and
suffered so much at his death, that it is a pity he should not be made
happy; and very happy he will be
And there is one person I should like to ask, Guy, if mamma thinks we
can do it. I am sure little Marianne ought to be one of my bridesmaids.
Charlotte would take care of her, and it would be very nice to have
her
O Maurice, I have been so longing for you to come! Captain
Morville, I hope you have not told him, for I can't flatter myself to be
beforehand with you, now at least
He has told me nothing
indeed, such bad company has
seldom been seen as he has been all the way
You don't mean that you don't know it? How delightful! O, mamma! think
of knowing something Captain Morville does not
I am afraid I cannot flatter you so far
Then you do know
I am sure it is a
subject of great rejoicing
But what is it, Eva? Make haste and tell
No; you must guess
Why, you would not be in such a way about it if it was not a wedding
Right, Maurice; now, who is it
Tis Laura
Wrong
What, not Laura! I thought she would have been off first. Somebody's
got no taste, then, for Laura is the prettiest girl I know
Ah! your heart has escaped breaking this time, Maurice. It is that
little puss, Amy, that has made a great conquest. Now guess
Oh! young Morville, of course. But what possessed him to take Amy, and
leave Laura
Perhaps Laura was not to be had. Men are so self-sufficient, that they
always think they may pick and choose. Is it not so, Captain Morville?
I like Sir Guy better than most men, but Laura is too good for any one
I know. If I could make a perfect hero, I would at once, only Charles
would tell me all the perfect heroes in books are bores. How long have
you known of it, Captain Morville
For the last ten days
And you never mentioned it
I did not know whether they intended to publish it
Now, Captain Morville, I hope to make some progress in your good
opinion. Of course, you believe I can't keep a secret; but what do you
think of my having known it ever since last summer, and held my tongue
all that time
A great effort, indeed
It would have
been greater, I suppose, if the engagement had been positive, not
conditional
Oh! every one knew what it must come to. No one could have the least
fear of Sir Guy. Yes; I saw it all. I gave my little aid, and I am
sure I have a right to be bridesmaid, as I am to be. Oh! won't it be
charming? It is to be the grandest wedding that ever was seen. It is to
be on Whit-Tuesday; and papa is going to take me and Aunt Charlotte;
for old Aunt Mabel says Aunt Charlotte must go. There are to be six
bridesmaids, and a great party at the breakfast; everything as splendid
as possible; and I made Mrs. Edmonstone promise from the first that we
should have a ball. You must go, Maurice
I shall be on the high seas
Oh yes, that is horrid! But you don't sail with the regiment, I think,
Captain Morville. You surely go
I am not certain
Not certain
I am not sure that I shall have time. You know I have been intending to
make a walking tour through Switzerland before joining at Corfu
And you really would prefer going by yourself --"apart, unfriended,
melancholy, slow
Very slow, indeed
A wedding is a confused melancholy affair
You know I am
no dancing man, Lady Eveleen; one individual like myself can make little
difference to persons engrossed with their own affairs; I can wish my
cousins well from a distance as well as at hand; and though they
have been kind enough to ask me, I think that while their house is
overflowing with guests of more mark, my room will be preferred to my
company
Then you do not mean to go
I do not
for my health is never equal to so much excitement, and it
would only be giving poor Mrs. Edmonstone additional trouble to have to
attend to me
So you really mean to stay away
I have not entirely decided
At any rate you must go and tell old Aunt Mabel all about them
She is so delighted. You will be quite worshipped, at
the cottage, for the very name of Morville. I spend whole hours in
discoursing on Sir Guy's perfections
So
there were at the marriage the Picanninies, and the
Joblillies, and the Garryulies, but not the grand Panjandrum himself
Nor the little round button at top
Well, it's his own look out
It is of a piece
with all the rest
I am sure we don't want him
Not in this humour
It should only be made habitable
Well, Sir Guy; so here you are! You've lost no time about it, however.
A fine pair of young housekeepers, and a pretty example of early
marriages for the parish
You must come and see the example, Markham. I have a
message from Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone, to ask you to come to Hollywell at
Whitsuntide
You are making a fool of me, Sir Guy. What's a plain old man
like me to do among all your lords and ladies, and finery and flummery?
I'll do no such thing
Not to oblige me
Oblige you? Nonsense! Much you'll care for me
Nay, Markham, you must not stay away. You, my oldest and best
friend,-- my only home friend. I owe all my present happiness to you, and
it would really be a great disappointment to me if you did not come. She
wishes it, too
Well, Sir Guy
if you do choose to
make a fool of me, I can't help it. You must have your own way; though
you might have found a friend that would do you more credit
Then I may say that you will come
Say I am very much obliged to Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone for their
invitation. It is very handsome of them
Then you will have the settlements ready by that time. You must,
Markham
I'll see about it
And the house must be ready to come home to at once
You don't know what you are talking of, Sir Guy
Yes, I do. We don't intend to turn the house upside down with new
furniture
You may talk as you please, Sir Guy, but I know what's what; and it is
mere nonsense to talk of bringing a lady to a house in this condition.
A pretty notion you have of what is fit for your bride! I hope she knows
what sort of care you mean to take of her
She will be satisfied
She particularly wishes not to have
everything disarranged, I only must have two rooms furnished for her
But the place wants painting from head to foot, and the roof is in such
a state
The roof? That's serious
Serious; I believe so. You'll have it about your ears in no time, if
you don't look sharp
I'll look this minute
Will you come with me
You have heard about Charles
Not much
Is he entirely confined to the sofa
He cannot move without crutches; but no one could guess what he is
without seeing him. He is so patient, his spirits never flag; and it is
beautiful to see how considerate he is, and what interest he takes
in all the things he never can share, poor fellow. I don't know what
Hollywell would be without Charlie! I wonder how soon he will be able to
come here! Hardly this year, I am afraid, for things must be comfortable
for him, and I shall never get them so without Amy, and then it will be
autumn. Well, what next? Oh, you said window-curtains. Some blue sort
of stuff, I suppose, like the drawing-room ones at Hollywell. What's the
name of it
Better do things while we may. The thought of this unhappy place is
enough to poison everything; and I don't think I could rest without
knowing that the utmost was being done for it
It won't hurt them to have one first. Let them make sure of all the
fun they can
Is it my own, my very own
In heart and mind thither ascend, and with Him continually dwell
Why stand ye here gazing up into heaven
That will not be pleasure-hunting, certainly
I mean, unless you could convince him, and then it would be more
than pleasure
It would be my first of unattained wishes
Then we will
enjoy the journey
No fear on that score
And for fear we should get too much into the stream of enjoyment, as
people abroad forget home-duties, let us stick to some fixed time for
coming back
You said Redclyffe would be ready by Michaelmas
I have told the builder it must be. So, Amy, as far as it depends on
ourselves, we are determined to be at home by Michaelmas
When shall we three meet again
And where
Here
you will come here to tell your adventures, and
take up Bustle
I hope so
We could not help it. The telling you about it
will be a treat to look forward to all the time
Yes; your sight-seeing is a public benefit. You have seen many a thing
for me
That is the pleasure of seeing and hearing, the thing that is not
fleeting
The unselfish part, you mean
There are the people
Shall I
wheel you home, Charlie
Yes, do
Wherever or whenever we may be destined to
meet, Charlie, or if never again, I must thank you for a great part of
my happiness here -- for a great deal of kindness and sympathy
The kindness was
all on your part. I had nothing to give in return but ill-temper and
exactions. But, Guy, you must not think I have not felt all you have
done for me. You have made a new man of me, instead of a wretched stick,
laughing at my misery, to persuade myself and others that I did not feel
it. I hope you are proud of it
As if I had anything to do with it
Hadn't, you, that's all! I know what you won't deny, at any rate -- what
a capital man-of-all-work you have been to me, when I had no right to
ask it, as now we have
When you
come back, you'll see me treat you as indeed "a man and a brother
There they are
My dear, dear little niece, I congratulate you with all my heart, and
that I do
I'll spare your hot cheeks, Amy dearest
I don't wait for an introduction
Ay, did I say a word too much in his praise
Isn't he all out as fine a fellow as I told you
You know him, already
Yes, I am sure I do
And the little girl
O yes.-- I picked her up at St. Mildred's: one of the servants took
charge of her in the hall
I'll fetch her
Now tell me, is Captain Morville pleased about this or not
What has he been saying about it
Saying? O nothing. But why does not he come
You have seen him more lately than we have
That is an evasion
as if you did not know more of his
mind than I could ever get at, if I saw him every day of my life
He is provoking, that is all
I am sure we don't
want him; but Laura and Guy will both of them take his part
So, he was banished, regularly banished
However of course
Amy never gave him up
Oh, she never mistrusted him one minute
And while he had her fast, it was little he would care for the rest
Yes, if he had known it, but she could not tell him
But I am sure she did not
You know nothing about it, my dear
Yes, but I do; for mamma said to Charlie how beautifully she did
behave, and he too,-- never attempting any intercourse
Very good of you to believe it
I am sure of it, certain sure
How could you venture
to think they would either of them do anything wrong
I did not say they would
What, not to write to each other when papa had forbidden it, and do it
in secret, too
My dear, don't look so innocently irate. Goodness has nothing to do
with it, it would be only a moderate constancy. You know nothing at all
of lovers
If I know nothing of lovers, I know a great deal of Amy and Guy, and I
am quite sure that nothing on earth would tempt them to do anything in
secret that they were forbidden
Wait till you are in love, and you'll change your mind
I never mean to be in love
Charlie, Eva won't believe but that Guy and Amy
kept up some intercourse last winter
I can't help it, Charlotte
When I tell her they did not, she only laughs at me. Do tell her they
did not
I have too much self-respect to lay myself open to ridicule
Charlie, you don't think it possible yourself
Possible -- no indeed
She _will_ say it is not wrong, and that I know nothing of lovers
You should have told her that ours are not commonplace lovers, but far
beyond her small experience
I wish I had! Tell her so, Charlie; she will believe you
I sha'n't say one word about it
Why not
Because she is not worthy. If she can't appreciate them, I would let
her alone. I once thought better of Eva, but it is very bad company she
keeps when she is not here
always moving by jerks,-- so Maurice
advised the boys not to put him near the fire, lest he should melt
Only when he gives them some formidable lesson, and they want to
melt his heart
tis not exactly a squint, but a cast there is, and one
set of eyelashes are black and the other light, and that gives him just
the air of a little frightful terrier of Maurice's named Venus, with a
black spot over one eye. The boys never call him anything but Venus
And you encourage them in respect for their tutor
Oh, he holds his own at lessons, I trow; but he pretends to have such
a horror of us wild Irish, and to wonder not to find us eating potatoes
with our fingers, and that I don't wear a petticoat over my head instead
of a bonnet, in what he calls the classical Carthaginian Celto-Hibernian
fashion
Dear me
no wonder Philip recommended him
O, I assure you he has the gift, no one else but Captain Morville talks
near as well
I can't think why I am
not more unhappy
It is all as it should be
Charlie; Charlie! how could I ever have promised to leave you
Nonsense! who ever dreamt that my sisters were to be three monkeys tied
to a dog
And, dear Charlie, you will not miss me so very much; do pray let
Charlotte wait upon you
After the first, perhaps, I may not hate her. Oh, Amy, I little knew
what I was doing when I tried to get him back again for you. I was
sawing off the bough I was sitting on. But there! I will not flatter
you, you've had enough to turn that head of yours. Stand up, and let
me take a survey. Very pretty, I declare,-- you do my education credit.
There, if it will be for your peace, I'll do my best to wear on without
you. I've wanted a brother all my life, and you are giving me the very
one I would have picked out of a thousand -- the only one I could forgive
for presuming to steal you, Amy. Here he is. Come in
Oh, there is Guy's step; may I call him in to have one look
I was wrong about the grogram. I would not for
anything see you look otherwise than you do
No, thank you, let Charlotte
Come, then, puss
only don't
upset me, or it will spoil their tour
Well! he is our brother, and all is safe
Yes
no more fears for them
Had you any? I am very glad if you had
Why
Because it was so like a book. I had a sort of feeling, all the time,
that Philip would come in quite grand and terrible
As if he must act Ogre. I am not sure that I had not something of
the same notion,-- that he might appear suddenly, and forbid the banns,
entirely for Amy's sake, and as the greatest kindness to her
Oh
However, he can't separate them now; let him do his worst, and while
Amy is Guy's wife, I don't think we shall easily be made to quarrel. I
am glad the knot is tied, for I had a fatality notion that the feud was
so strong, that it was nearly a case of the mountains bending and the
streams ascending, ere she was to be our foeman's bride
No
it ought to be like that story of Rosaura and
her kindred, don't you remember? The fate would not be appeased by the
marriage, till Count Julius had saved the life of one of the hostile
race. That would be _it_,-- perhaps they will meet abroad, and Guy will
_do_ _it_
That won't do. Philip will never endanger his precious life, nor ever
forgive Guy the obligation. Well, I suppose there never was a prettier
wedding -- how silly of me to say so, I shall be sick of hearing it before
night
I do wish all these people were gone; I did not know it would be so
horrid. I should like to shut myself up and cry, and think what I could
ever do to wait on you. Indeed, Charlie, I know I never can be like Amy
but if you
Be anything but sentimental; I don't want to make a fool of myself
Depend upon it if we were left to ourselves this evening, we should be
so desperately savage that we should quarrel furiously, and there would
be no Amy to set us to rights
How Aunt Charlotte did cry! What a funny little woman she is
Yes, I see now who you take after, puss. You'll be just like her when
you are her age
So I mean to be,-- I mean to stay and take care of you all my life, as
she does of grandmamma
You do, do you
Yes. I never mean to marry, it is so disagreeable. O dear! But how
lovely dear Amy did look
Here's the rain
Charlotte, how wet you are
Never mind, Charlie is not
Where's Amy
Here
Are you wet, Charlie
No, Charlotte would not be wise, and made me keep the cloak to myself
You are wet through, poor child; come up at once, and change
O Amy, don't do all this. Let me ring
No, the servants are either not come home or are too busy. Charles
won't want me, he has Guy. Can I find your white frock
Oh, but Amy -- let me see
Lady Morville must not begin by being lady's-maid
Let me -- let me, Charlotte, dear, I sha'n't be able to do anything for
you this long time
We must make haste
There are the
carriages
Has he just written it
Yes; when we came home
O Amy! dear, dear Amy; I don't know whether I am glad or sorry
I believe I am both
I could not help coming once more.
This room has always been the kernel of my home, my happiness here
Indeed, it has been a very great pleasure to have you here
You have been very kind to me
You have helped me very much, very often; even when -- Do you
remember the day I begged you to keep me in order, as if I were Charles?
I did not think then
I little thought how truly and how gladly I should be
able to call you my son
I wish I could tell you half
half what I feel for the
kindness that made a home to one who had no right to any. Coming as a
stranger, I found
We found one to love with all our hearts
I
have often looked back, and seen that you brought a brightness to us
all -- especially to poor Charles. Yes, it dates from your coming; and I
can only wish and trust, Guy, that the same brightness will rest on your
own home
There must be brightness where she is
I need not tell you to take care of her
I think I can trust you; but I feel rather as I did when first
I sent her and Laura to a party of pleasure by themselves
Laura, you must get up your looks again, now this turmoil is over.
Don't do too much mathematics, and wear yourself down to a shadow
Will you do one thing for me, Laura? I should like to have one of
your perspective views of the inside of the church. Would it be too
troublesome to do
Oh, no; I shall be very glad
Don't set about it till you quite like it, and have plenty of time.
Thank you. I shall think it is a proof that you can forgive me for all
the pain I am causing you. I am very sorry.

'You are so very kind
tisn't only that,-- but I am so very,
very unhappy
Amy told me you were grieved for Philip. I wish I could help it, Laura.
I want to try to meet him in Switzerland, and, if we can, perhaps it may
be set right. At any rate he will be glad to know you see the rights of
it
Oh, I am glad to find you here, Guy; I wanted to put
you in mind of your promise. You must write me the first letter you sign
"Your affectionate brother
I won't forget, Charlotte
Guy! Where's Guy
The rain's going off. You
must come down, both of you, or you'll be too late
Amy, woman, you do us credit! Well, write soon, and don't break your
heart for want of me
tis you that are welcome to her. Take care
what you do with her, for she's a precious little jewel! Good-bye, my
boy
Charlotte, I have shut Bustle up in
my room. Will you let him out in half an hour? I've explained it all to
him, and he will be very good. Good-bye
I'll take care of him. I'll mention him in every letter
And, Markham, mind, if our house is not ready by Michaelmas, we shall
be obliged to come and stay with you
God bless you, Charlie
How beautiful
Guy
shall I tell you what I was thinking? I
was thinking, that if there is a doom on us, I am not afraid, if it will
only bring a rainbow
The rainbow will come after, if not with it
Look here, Amy
Captain Morville
July 14th. That was only the day
before yesterday
I wonder whether we shall overtake him! Do you know what was this
gentleman's route
I dare say we
shall hear of him elsewhere
Guy!
Guy
Here
Oh, help me
Take care! don't
come on the grass
I am coming -- hold fast
Now, then
I cannot reach you unless you raise up your hand to me -- your left
hand -- straight up. Let go. Now
Thank heaven
Thank
God! my Amy, I have you still
Oh, it was dreadful! I did not think you
could have saved me
I thought so too for a moment
You are
better now? You are not hurt? are you sure
Quite sure! I did not fall, you know, only slipped. No, I have nothing
the matter with me, thank you
Yes, quite unhurt -- quite well; only this wrist is
a little strained, and no wonder. Oh, I am sure it was Providence that
made those bushes grow just there
How did it happen
It was my fault. I went after a flower; my foot slipped on the turf,
and I could not stop myself. I thought I should have run right down the
precipice
It was frightful
It was a great mercy, indeed. Thank heaven, it is
over! You are not giddy now
Oh, no; not at all
And your wrist
Oh, that's nothing. I only told you to show you what was the worst
What flower was it
A piece of purple saxifrage. I thought there was no danger, for it did
not seem steep at first
No, it was not your fault. You had better not move just yet; sit still
a little while
O Guy, where are you going
Only for your sketching tools and my stick. I shall not be gone an
instant. Sit still and recover
Oh, I am sorry
I wish I had told you I
did not care for them. Why did you
I did not put myself in any peril about them. I had my trusty staff,
you know
I am glad I did not guess what you were doing. I thought it so
impossible, that I did not think of begging you not. I shall keep them
always. It is a good thing for us to be put in mind how frail all our
joy is
All
Your
joy no man taketh from you
There is one good thing
we
can find the captain now. I'll write and ask him -- shall I say to meet us
at Varenna or at Bellagio
Whichever suits him best, I should think. It can't make much difference
to us
Your voice has a disconsolate cadence
I did not mean it
I have not a word to say against it.
It is quite right, and I am sure I don't wish to do otherwise
Only it is the first drawback in our real day-dream
Just so, and that is all
I am glad you feel the same, not
that I want you to change your mind
Don't you remember our resolution against mere pleasure-hunting? That
adventure at Interlachen seemed to be meant to bring us up short just as
we were getting into that line
You think we were
I was, at least; for I know it was a satisfaction not to find a letter,
to say Redclyffe was ready for us
I had rather it was Redclyffe than Philip
To be sure, I would not change my own dancing leaping waves for this
clear blue looking-glass of a lake, or even those white peaks. I want
you to make friends with those waves, Amy. But it is a more real matter
to make friends with Philip, the one wish of my life. Not that I exactly
expect to clear matters up, but if some move is not made now, when it
may, we shall stand aloof for life, and there will be the feud where it
was before
It is quite right
I dare say that, meeting so far from
home, he will be glad to see us, and to hear the Hollywell news. I
little thought last autumn where I should meet him again
How d'ye do, Philip? I am glad we have caught you at last. Here she
is
I have your letters in my knapsack; I will unpack them as soon as we
get to the hotel. I thought it safer not to send them in search of you
again, as we were to meet so soon
Certainly. Are there many
One for each of you, both from Hollywell. I was very sorry to have
engrossed them; but not knowing you were so near, I only gave my
surname
It was lucky for us
otherwise we could not have traced
you. We saw your name at Altdorf, and have been trying to come up with
you ever since
I am glad we have met. What accounts have you from home
Excellent
Charlie is uncommonly well, he has been out of
doors a great deal, and has even dined out several times
I am very glad
You know he has been improving ever since his great illness
You would be surprised to see how much better he moves
he
helps himself so much more
Can he set his foot to the ground
No
there is no hope of that; but he is more active,
because his general health is improved; he can sleep and eat more
I always thought exertion would do more for him than anything else
Walking over the hills from Como. Do you always travel in this fashion,
"impedimentis relictis
Not exactly
the "impedimenta" are, some at Varenna, some
at the inn with Arnaud
So you have Arnaud with you
Yes, and Anne Trower
She
was greatly pleased to hear we were going to meet the captain
We amuse ourselves with thinking how she gets on with Arnaud
Their introduction took place only two days before we were
married, since which, they have had one continued tete-a-tete, which
must have been droll at first
More so at last
At first Anne thought Mr. Arnaud so fine a
gentleman, that she hardly dared to speak to him. I believe nothing
awed her so much as his extreme courtesy; but lately he has been quite
fatherly to her, and took her to dine at his sister's chalet, where
I would have given something to see her. She tells me he wants her
to admire the country, but she does not like the snow, and misses our
beautiful clover-fields very much
Stylehurst ought to have been better training for mountains
Have you a "Childe Harold" here
I want to look at something
in it
No, we have not
Guy, you never forget poetry; I dare say you can help me out with those
stanzas about the mists in the valley
I have never read it
Don't you remember warning me against
Byron
You did not think that was for life! Besides
that
applied to his perversions of human passions, not to his descriptions of
scenery
I think
I should be more
unwilling to take a man like that to interpret nature than anything
else, except Scripture. It is more profane to attempt it
I see what you mean
More than I do
I never supposed you would take my
advice "au pied de la lettre
perversely
I have felt my obligations for that caution ever since I have come to
some knowledge of what Byron was
The fascination of his "Giaour" heroes has an evil influence on some
minds
I think you do well to avoid it. The half truth,
resulting from its being the effect of self-contemplation, makes it more
dangerous
True
But
I cannot see why you should shun the fine
descriptions which are almost classical -- the Bridge of Sighs, the
Gladiator
He may describe the gladiator as much as he pleases
Fine description is the point in both. You are over-drawing
My notion is this
there is danger in listening to a
man who is sure to misunderstand the voice of nature,-- danger, lest by
filling our ears with the wrong voice we should close them to the true
one. I should think there was a great chance of being led to stop
short at the material beauty, or worse, to link human passions with the
glories of nature, and so distort, defile, profane them
You have never read the poem, so you cannot judge
Your rule would
exclude all descriptive poetry, unless it was written by angels, I
suppose
No; by men with minds in the right direction
Very little you would leave us
I don't think so
Almost all the poetry we really care
about was written by such men
Shakspeare, for instance
No one can doubt of the bent of his mind from the whole strain of his
writings
So again with Spenser; and as to Milton, though
his religion was not quite the right sort, no one can pretend to say he
had it not. Wordsworth, Scott
Scott
Including the descriptions of scenery in his novels
where,
I am sure, there is the spirit and the beauty
Or rather, the spirit is the beauty
There is a good deal in what you say
but you will
forgive me for thinking it rather too deep an explanation of the grounds
of not making Childe Harold a hand-book for Italy, like other people
Rather so, considering that
the fact was that we never thought of it
People who looked no deeper than the surface would,
say, what a well-matched pair
and no doubt they were
very happy, poor young things, if it would but last
Who? Laura
You did not say she had been ill
No, she has not
Dr. Mayerne said there was nothing really
the matter: but she has been worried and out of spirits lately; and
mamma thought it would be good for her to go out more
Never mind
Anne is
used to it, Guy is always doing it, and puzzles poor Arnaud sorely by
sending him for Miss Amabel's parasol
And the other day
when Thorndale's brother, at Munich,
inquired after Lady Morville, I had to consider who she was
Oh! you saw Thorndale's brother, did you
Yes; he was very obliging. Guy had to go to him about our passports:
and when he found who we were, he brought his wife to call on us, and
asked us to an evening party
Did you go
Guy thought we must, and it was very entertaining. We had a curious
adventure there. In the morning, we had been looking at those
beautiful windows of the great church, when I turned round, and saw a
gentleman -- an Englishman -- gazing with all his might at Guy. We met again
in the evening, and presently Mr. Thorndale came and told us it was Mr.
Shene
Shene, the painter
Yes. He had been very much struck with Guy's face: it was exactly what
he wanted for a picture he was about, and he wished of all things just
to be allowed to make a sketch
Did you submit
and we were rewarded. I never saw a more agreeable
person, or one who gave so entirely the impression of genius. The next
day he took us through the gallery, and showed us all that was worth
admiring
And in what character is he to make you appear
That is the strange part of it
Don't you remember how
Guy once puzzled us by choosing Sir Galahad for his favourite hero? It
is that very Sir Galahad, when he kneels to adore the Saint Greal
Mr. Shene said he had long been dreaming over it, and at last, as he
saw Guy's face looking upwards, it struck him that it was just what he
wanted: it would be worth anything to him to catch the expression
I wonder what I was looking like
Did he take you as yourself, or as Sir Galahad
As myself, happily
How did he succeed
Amy likes it; but decidedly I should never have known myself
Ah
Could some fay the giftie gie us,
         To see ourselves as others see us
As far as the sun-burnt visage is concerned, the glass does that every
morning
Yes, but you don't look at yourself exactly as you do at a painted
window
I cannot think how you found time for sitting
O, it is quite a little thing, a mere sketch, done in two evenings and
half an hour in the morning. He promises it to me when he has done with
Sir Galahad
Two -- three evenings. You must have been a long time at Munich
A fortnight
there is a great deal to see there
I Promessi Sposi
somewhere
You don't think there is any cause of anxiety about Laura
No; certainly not
She has not been looking well
lately, but Dr. Mayerne says it is nothing, and you know
there were many things to make this a trying time
Is she quite strong? Can she do as much as usual
She does more than ever: mamma is only afraid of her overworking
herself, but she never allows that she is tired. She goes to school
three days in the week, besides walking to East-hill on Thursday, to
help in the singing; and she is getting dreadfully learned. Guy gave her
his old mathematical books, and Charlie always calls her Miss Parabola
I am afraid we
must give up our plan
How
I have just heard that there is a fever at Sondrio, and all that
neighbourhood, and every one says it would be very foolish to expose
ourselves to it
What shall we do instead
I told Arnaud we would let him know in an hour's time; I thought of
Venice
Venice, oh, yes, delightful
What do you say, Philip
I say that I cannot see any occasion for our being frightened out of
our original determination. If a fever prevails among the half-starved
peasantry, it need not affect well-fed healthy persons, merely passing
through the country
You see we could hardly manage without sleeping there
we
must sleep either at Colico, or at Madonna. Now Colico, they say, is a
most unhealthy place at this time of year, and Madonna is the very
heart of the fever -- Sondrio not much better. I don't see how it is to
be safely done; and though very likely we might not catch the fever, I
don't see any use in trying
That is making yourself a slave to the fear of infection
I don't know what purpose would be answered by running the risk
If you chose to give it so dignified a name as a risk
I don't, then
I should not care if there was
any reason for going there, but, as there is not, I shall face Mr.
Edmonstone better if I don't run Amy into any more chances of mischief
Is Amy grateful for the care
after all her wishes for
the eastern bank
Amy is a good wife
For Venice, then. I'll ring for Arnaud.
You will come with us, won't you, Philip
No, I thank you; I always intended to see the Valtelline, and an
epidemic among the peasantry does not seem to me to be sufficient to
deter
O Philip, you surely will not
My mind is made up, Amy, thank you
I wish you would be persuaded
I should like particularly
to have you to lionize us there; and I don't fancy your running into
danger
Well, Amy, you yielded very amiably, and that is the only way. You will
always find it best to submit
I think you forget to whom you are speaking
I beg your pardon
those at home
were angry
It is not I that prevent that friendship
it is
his own want of openness. My opinion has never changed
No; I know it has never changed
Whenever it does, you will be sorry you have judged him so
harshly
Come, Philip
I wish you would think
better of it after all, and come with us to Milan
Thank you, my mind is made up
Well, mind you don't catch the fever: for I don't want the trouble of
nursing you
Thank you; I hope to require no such services of my friends
I don't want you
Good-bye, then
I wish we could have seen more of you. They will be glad to hear
of you at Hollywell. You have had one warm friend there all along
Remember me to them when you write
and tell Laura she must not wear herself out with her studies.
Good-bye, Amy, I hope you will have a pleasant journey
Poor little
Amy
how she is improved. He has a sweet
little wife in her. The fates have conspired to crown him with all man
can desire, and little marvel if he should abuse his advantages. Poor
little Amy! I have less hope than ever, since even her evident wishes
could not bend his determination in this trifle; but she is a good
little creature, happy in her blindness. May it long continue! It is my
uncle and aunt who are to be blamed
Just like himself
Are you much vexed
I don't feel as if I had made the most of my opportunities
Then if you have not, I can tell you who has. What do you think of his
beginning to give me a lecture how to behave to you
Did he think you wanted it very much
I don't know: for of course I could not let him go on
Now, Guido -- good Cavaliere Guido -- do grant me one satisfaction
Only say you are very glad he is gone his own way
I don't want you to be glad of that, I only want you to be glad he is
not sitting here towering over us
Cock up your beaver, and cock it fu
It was well, Sir Guy, that you changed your intention of visiting the
Valtelline with Captain Morville
What! Have you heard anything of him
I fear that his temerity has caused him to suffer. I have just heard
that an Englishman of your name is severely ill at Recoara
Where
At "la badia di Recoara". It is what in English we call a
watering-place, on the mountains to the north, where the Vicentini do
go in summer for "fraicheur", but they have all returned in the last two
days for fear of the infection
It is true. It can be no other than poor
Philip. I have seen his doctor, an Italian, who, when he saw our name
written, said it was the same. He calls it "una febbre molto grave
Very heavy! Did he only know the name in writing
Only from seeing it on his passport. He has been unable to give any
directions
How dreadfully ill he must be! And alone! What shall we do? You won't
think of leaving me behind you, whatever you do
It is at no great distance, and
O, don't say that. Only take me with you. I will try to bear it, if you
don't think it right; but it will be very hard
My poor Amy
I believe the anxiety would be worse
for you if I were to leave you here
Oh, thank you
You will have nothing to do with the nursing. No, I don't think there
is much risk; so we will go together
Thank you! thank you! and perhaps I may be of some use. But is it very
infectious
I hope not: caught at Colico, and imported to a fresh place. I should
think there was little fear of its spreading. However, we must soon
be off: I am afraid he is very ill, and almost deserted. In the first
place, I had better send an express to the Consul at Venice, to ask him
to recommend us a doctor, for I have not much faith in this Italian
We must find another room for him directly
He cannot
possibly exist where he is -- a little den -- such an atmosphere of
fever -- enough to knock one down! Will you have one got ready for him
Directly
How is he
He is in a stupor; it is not sleep. He is frightfully ill, I never felt
anything like the heat of his skin. But that stifling hole would account
for much; very likely he may revive, when we get him into a better
atmosphere. No one has attended to him properly. It is a terrible thing
to be ill in a foreign country without a friend
Da bere
Some water
Is that enough? Do you like some on your forehead
Thank you
Is that more comfortable? We only heard to-day you were ill
I would not go home
How many
I cannot count
but it is less than in the evening.
Some drink
What day
is it
Saturday morning, the 23rd of August
I have been ill a long time
You have indeed, full three weeks; but you are better to-night
I suppose, humanly speaking, it is an even chance between life
and death
Yes
You are very ill; but not without hope
I
have tried to bring a clergyman here, but I could not succeed. Would you
like me to read to you
Thank you-presently -- but I have something to say. Some more
water;-- thank you
Guy, you have thought I judged
you harshly; I meant to act for the best
Don't think of that
And now you have been most kind. If I live, you shall see that I am
sensible of it
My sister has my will. My
love to her, and to -- to -- to poor Laura
You and Amy will do what you can for her. Do not let the blow
come suddenly. Ah! you do not know. We have been engaged this long
time
It was very wrong;
it was not her fault
I can't tell you now; but if I live
all shall be told. If not, you will be kind to her
Indeed we will
Poor Laura
Read to me
Amy
he has spoken to me
according to my wish
Then it is all right
Is he better
Not materially; his pulse is still very high; but there was a gleam of
perfect consciousness; he spoke calmly and clearly, fully understanding
his situation. Come what will, it is a thing to be infinitely thankful
for! I am very glad! Now for our morning reading
I have been very much surprised. Had you any idea of an attachment
between him and Laura
I know she is very fond of him, and she has always been his favourite.
What? Has he been in love with her all this time, poor fellow
He says they are engaged
Laura? Our sister! Oh, Guy, impossible! He must have been wandering
I could have almost thought so; but his whole manner forbade me to
think there was any delusion. He was too weak to explain; but he said it
was not her fault, and was overcome when speaking of her. He begged
us to spare her from suddenly hearing of his death. He was as calm and
reasonable as I am at this moment. No, Amy, it was not delirium
I don't know how to believe it
It is so impossible for
Laura, and for him too. Don't you know how, sometimes in fevers, people
take a delusion, and are quite rational about everything else, and that,
too; if only it was true; and don't you think it very likely, that if he
really has been in love with her all this time, (how much he must have
gone through!) he may fancy he has been secretly engaged, and reproach
himself
I cannot tell
there was a reality in his manner of
speaking that refuses to let me disbelieve him. Surely it cannot be one
of the horrors of death that we should be left to reproach ourselves
with the fancied sins we have been prone to, as well as with our real
ones. Then
if so, more than
ever, in the hour of death, good Lord, deliver us
Well, time will
show
Laura! How could she help telling mamma
Not only because it was right, but for the
comfort of it
But, Amy, do you remember what I told you of poor Laura's fears, and
what she said to me, on our wedding-day
Poor Laura
Yet
Well, I won't believe it, if I can possibly help it. I can't afford to
lose my faith in my sister's perfection, or Philip's, especially now.
But I must go; I have loitered too long, and Arnaud ought to go to his
breakfast
Yes
he might look far without finding anything better
than himself, though he won't believe it. If ever he could make me
angry, it will be by treating me as if I was better than he. Such
nonsense! But I suppose his goodness would not be such if he was
conscious of it, so I must be content with him as he is. I can't be so
unwifelike after all; for I am sure nothing makes me feel so small and
foolish as that humility of his! Come, I must see about some dinner for
the French doctor
Pulse almost nothing; deadly faintness; doctor does not give him up; it
may be many hours: don't sit up; you shall hear when there is anything
decisive
I am not asleep
He'll do now! and came to the bedside. His face was
wet with tears, and her eyes were over-flowing. After a few moments he
murmured a few low words of deep thanksgivings, and again there was a
silence.

'He is asleep quietly and comfortably
and his
pulse is steadier. The faintness and sinking have been dreadful; the
doctor has been sitting with his hand on his pulse, telling me when to
put the cordial into his mouth. Twice I thought him all but gone; and
till within the last hour, I did not think he could have revived; but
now, the doctor says we may almost consider the danger as over
Oh, how glad I am! Was he sensible? Could he speak
Sensible at least when not fainting; but too weak to speak, or often,
to look up. When he did though, it was very kindly, very pleasantly. And
now! This is joy coming in the morning, Amy
I wonder if you are happier now than after the shipwreck
How can you ask? The shipwreck was a gleam, the first ray that came to
cheer me in those penance hours, when I was cut off from all; and now,
oh, Amy! I cannot enter into it. Such richness and fullness of blessing
showered on me, more than I ever dared to wish for or dream of, both in
the present and future hopes. It seems more than can belong to man, at
least to me, so unlike what I have deserved, that I can hardly believe
it. It must be sent as a great trial
Are you writing to Hollywell
Yes, to Charlotte; but there is no hurry, it won't go till tomorrow.
Have you any message?

'No, thank you
Guy, have I said anything about Laura
Yes
I thought so; but I could not remember
I hope it was not when I had no command of
myself
No, you were seldom intelligible, you were generally trying to speak
Italian, or else talking about Stylehurst. The only time you mentioned
her was the night before the worst
I recollect
I will not draw back from the resolution
I then made, though I did not know whether I had spoken it, let the
consequences be what they may. The worst is, that they will fall the
most severely on her: and her implicit reliance on me was her only
error
I must explain
that you may see how little blame can be
imputed to her. It was that summer, three years ago, the first after you
came. I had always been her chief friend. I saw, or thought I saw, cause
for putting her on her guard. The result has shown that the danger
was imaginary; but no matter -- I thought it real. In the course of the
conversation, more of my true sentiments were avowed than I was aware
of; she was very young, and before we, either of us, knew what we were
doing, it had been equivalent to a declaration. Well! I do not speak to
excuse the concealment, but to show you my motive. If it had been known,
there would have been great displeasure and disturbance; I should have
been banished; and though time might have softened matters, we should
both have had a great deal to go through. Heaven knows what it may be
now! And, Guy
when
did you hear from Hollywell? Do you know how she has borne the news of
my illness
We have heard since they knew of it
the letter was from
Mrs. Edmonstone to Amy; but she did not mention Laura
She has great strength; she would endure anything rather than give way;
but how can she have borne the anxiety and silence? You are sure my aunt
does not mention her
Certain. I will ask Amy for the letter, if you like
No, do not go; I must finish, since I have begun. We did not speak of
an engagement; it was little more than an avowal of preference; I doubt
whether she understood what it amounted to, and I desired her to be
silent. I deceived myself all along, by declaring she was free; and I
had never asked for her promise; but those things will not do when we
see death face to face, and a resolve made at such a moment must be
kept, let it bring what it may
True
She will be relieved; she wished it to be known; but I thought it best
to wait for my promotion -- the only chance of our being able to marry.
However, it shall be put into her father's hands as soon as I can hold
a pen. All I wish is, that she should not have to bear the brunt of his
anger
He is too kind and good-natured to keep his displeasure long
If it would only light on the right head, instead of on the head of the
nearest. You say she was harassed and out of spirits. I wish you were at
home; Amy would comfort her and soften them
We hope to go back as soon as you are in travelling condition. If you
will come home with us, you will be at hand when Mr. Edmonstone is ready
to forgive, as I am sure he soon will be. No one ever was so glad to
forget his displeasure
Yes; it will be over by the time I meet him, for she will have borne it
all. There is the worst! But I will not put off the writing, as soon
as I have the power. Every day the concealment continues is a further
offence
And present suffering is an especial earnest and hope of forgiveness
I have no doubt that much may be done to make Mr. Edmonstone
think well of it
If any suffering of mine would spare hers
You cannot
estimate the difficulties in our way. You know nothing of poverty,-- the
bar it is to everything; almost a positive offence in itself
This is only tiring yourself with talking
You must make haste to get well, and come home with us, and I think we
shall find it no such bad case after all. There's Amy's fortune to begin
with, only waiting for such an occasion. No, I can't have you answer;
you have talked, quite long enough
that it was
no bad case
Amy
we have had it out. It is too true
Then Charlie really is the
cleverest person in the world
How? Had he any suspicion
Not that I know of; but, more than once, lately, I have been alarmed by
recollecting how he once said that poor Laura was so much too wise for
her age, that Nature would some day take her revenge, and make her do
something very foolish. But has Philip told you all about it
Yes; explained it all very kindly. It must have cost him a great deal;
but he spoke openly and nobly. It is the beginning of a full confession
to your father
So, it is true
How shocked mamma will be! I don't know how to think it possible!
And poor Laura! Imagine what she must have gone through, for you know I
never spared the worst accounts. Do tell me all
I can't be as angry with him as I should like
now that he
is sorry and ill; but it was a great deal too bad! I can't think how he
could look any of us in the face, far less expect to rule us all, and
interfere with you
I see I never appreciated the temptations of poverty
I have often thought of those of wealth, but never of
poverty
I wish you would not excuse him. I don't mind your doing it about
ourselves, because, though he made you unhappy, he could not make you
do wrong. Ah! I know what you mean; but that was over after the first
minute; and he only made you better for all his persecution; but I don't
know how to pardon his making poor Laura so miserable, and leading her
to do what was not right. Poor, dear girl! no wonder she looked so worn
and unhappy! I cannot help being angry with him, indeed, Guy
The best pleading is his own repentance, Amy. I don't think you can
be very unrelenting when you see how subdued and how altered he is. You
know you are to make him a visit to-morrow, now the doctor says all fear
of infection is over
I shall be thinking of poor Laura the whole time
And how she would like to see him in his present state? What shall
you do if I bring him home to Redclyffe? Shall you go to Hollywell, to
comfort Laura
I shall wait till you send me. Besides, how can you invite company till
we know whether we have a roof over our house or not? What is he doing
now
As usual, he has an unlimited capacity for sleep
I wish you had. I don't think you have slept two hours together since
you left off sitting up
I am beginning to think it a popular delusion. I do just as well
without it
So you say; but Mr. Shene would never have taken such a fancy to you,
if you always had such purple lines as those under your eyes. Look!
Is that a face for Sir Galahad, or Sir Guy, or any of the Round Table?
Come, I wish you would lie down, and be read to sleep
I should like a walk much better. It is very cool and bright. Will you
come
You know he never would let her read novels; and I do believe that was
the reason she did not understand what it meant
I think there is a good deal in that
though
Charlie would say it is a very _novel_ excuse for a young lady falling
imprudently in love
I do believe, if it was any one but Laura, Charlie would be very glad
of it. He always fully saw through Philip's supercilious shell
Amy
No; let me go on, Guy, for you must allow that it was much worse in
such a grave, grand, unromantic person, who makes a point of thinking
before he speaks, than if it had been a hasty, hand-over-head man like
Maurice de Courcy, who might have got into a scrape without knowing it.

'That must have made the struggle to confess all the more painful; and a
most free, noble, open-hearted confession it was
And when I was naughty
nothing ever made me so
sorry as mamma's kindness
Now, then
I only hope he has not
knocked himself up with his preparations, for he would make such a
setting to rights, that I told him I could almost fancy he expected the
queen instead of only Dame Amabel Morville
Good morning, Amy. You see Guy was right, after all. I am sorry to have
made your wedding tour end so unpleasantly
Nay, most pleasantly, since you are better
Are you doing the honours of my room, Guy
Give her a chair
Is that your wedding-dress, Amy
Oh, no; that was all lace and finery
You look so nice and bridal
There's a compliment that such an old wife ought to make the most of,
Amy
It is high time to leave off calling you a bride,
after your splendid appearance at the party at Munich, in all your
whiteness and orange-flowers
That was quite enough of it
Not at all
you have all your troubles in the visiting
line to come, when you go home
Ah! you know the people, and will be a great help to us
Thank you; we shall see
Yes; we shall see when you are fit for the journey, and it will not be
long before we can begin, by short stages. You have got on wonderfully
in the last few days. How do you think he is looking, Amy
I dare say he is looking much mended
but you must not
expect me to see it
You can't get a compliment for me, Guy
I was a good
deal surprised when Arnaud brought me the glass this morning
It is a pity you did not see yourself a week ago
It is certain, as the French doctor says, that monsieur has a very
vigorous constitution
Charles says, having a good constitution is only another name for
undergoing every possible malady
for I certainly find it answer very well to
have none at all
Haven't you
Or how do you know
especially as you never were ill
It is a dictum of old Walters, the Moorworth doctor, the last time
I had anything to do with him, when I was a small child. I suppose I
remembered it for its oracular sound, and because I was not intended
to listen. He was talking over with Markham some illness I had just got
through, and wound up with, "He may be healthy and active now; but he
has no constitution, there is a tendency to low fever, and if he meets
with any severe illness, it will go hard with him
How glad I am I did not know that before
Did you remember it when you came here
Yes
By the bye, Philip, I wish you would tell us how
you fared after we parted, and how you came here
I went on according to my former plan
walking through
the Valtelline, and coming down by a mountain path. I was not well at
Bolzano, but I thought it only fatigue, which a Sunday's rest would
remove, so on I went for the next two days, in spite of pain in head and
limbs
Not walking
Yes, walking. I thought it was stiffness from mountain climbing, and
that I could walk it off; but I never wish to go through anything like
what I did the last day, between the up and downs of that mountain path,
and the dazzle of the snow and heat of the sun. I meant to have reached
Vicenza, but I must have been quite knocked up when I arrived here,
though I cannot tell. My head grew so confused, that my dread, all the
way, was that I should forget my Italian; I can just remember conning a
phrase over and over again, lest I should lose it. I suppose I was able
to speak when I came here, but the last thing I remember was feeling
very ill in some room, different from this, quite alone, and with a
horror of dying deserted. The next is a confused recollection of the
relief of hearing English again, and seeing my excellent nurse here
As Juno
had been sick and he her dieter
Weep ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him,
but weep sore for him that goeth away; for he shall return no more, nor
see his native country
returning no more, neither seeing
his native country
Till now I never
discovered the practical advantage of such a voice as Guy's. There never
was such a one for a sick-room. Last week, I could not bear any one else
to speak at all; and even now, no one else could have read so that I
could like it
Your voice; yes
I want to hear it very much. I wonder when you will sing
to me again
Not till he has recovered strength to bear the infliction with
firmness
but, Amy, I'll tell you what we will do, if you
are sure it is good for you. He will have a good long sleep, and we will
have a walk on the green hillocks
such as
their walks had been before they were married
Better
Do you recollect your melancholy
definition of happiness, years ago
What was it
Gleams from another world, too soon eclipsed or forfeited. It made me
sad then. Do you hold to it now
Don't you
I want to know what you would say now
Gleams from another world, brightening as it gets nearer
Old age
that seems very far off
Each day is a step
There is only one thing wanting
You may sing now. You are
far from Philip's hearing. Suppose we chant this afternoon's psalms
The voice of the Lord shaketh the
wilderness
The Lord shall give his people the blessing of peace
The blessing of peace
It is a pity to go in
Of course
gentle sleep will take her revenge at last for
your calling her a popular delusion. Lie down, let her have her own way,
and you will be good for something by and by
Only
a fit of giddiness -- it is going off
You had better keep quiet
Is it your headache
It is aching
How hot and throbbing
You must have caught cold in that
walk. No, don't try to move; it is only making it worse
I must go to Philip
No; it is of no use to fight against it
Never mind Philip, I'll go to him. You must keep quiet,
and I will get you a cup of hot tea
Over-fatigue
He could not but feel the effects of such
long-continued exertion
Never was there such a nurse as he, Amy; I have
felt much more than I can express, especially now. You will never have
to complain of my harsh judgment again
It is too much for you to talk of these things
Amy
this is the fever
I see how it is. This is impatience. Now, I will not stir for an hour
feverish
It would be of no use, and it would not be true, to say I had rather
you did not nurse me. The doctor hopes there is not much danger of
infection, and it is too late for precautions
I am very glad
But you must be wise, and not hurt yourself. Will you promise me not to
sit up
It is very kind of you to tell me nothing worse
I am very sorry for you
To have us both on your hands at once! But it comes
straight from Heaven, that is one comfort, and you made up your mind to
such things when you took me
tumble-down wave
Have you come to letter writing
Yes
I must ask you to direct
this, I can't make it legible
To your sister
No; to yours. I never wrote to her before. There's one enclosed to your
father, to tell all
I am glad you have done it
You will be better now it is off your mind. But how
tired you are. You must go back to bed. Shall I call Arnaud
I must rest first
Shall I send yours
Oh, for Guy to comfort
him
You will be glad, in time
Thank you
How is Guy
He has just had another nice quiet sleep, and is quite refreshed
That is a blessing, at least. But does not he want you? I have been
keeping you a long time
Thank you, as he is awake, I should like to go back. You are better
now
Yes, while I don't move
Don't try. I'll send Arnaud, and as soon as you can, you had better go
to bed again
Poor fellow
We must try to soften it
Shall I write
Mamma will be pleased to hear of his having
told you, and they must be sorry for him, when they hear how much the
letter cost him
Ah! they will not guess at half his sorrow
I will write to papa, and send it after the other letters, so that he
may read it before he hears of Philip's
Poor Laura
Could not you write a note to her too? I want
her to be told that I am very sorry, if I ever gave her pain by speaking
thoughtlessly of him
Nay
you have not much to reproach yourself with
in that way. It was I that always abused him
You can never do so again
No, I don't think I can, now I have seen his sorrow
Say that I am sure that if I get better we may make arrangements
for their marriage
If not
If not, you know, it will be very easy
to put the money matters to rights, whatever may happen
There! So he has been and gone and done it
What? Who? Not Guy
Here has the Captain gone and caught a regular bad fever, in some
malaria hole; delirious, and all that sort of thing, and of course our
wise brother and sister must needs go and nurse him, by way of a pretty
little interlude in their wedding tour
Ma'am, I am
afraid Miss Edmonstone must be very ill, or something. Do you know,
ma'am, her bed has not been slept in all night
You don't say so, nurse
Yes, ma'am, Jane told me so, and I went to look myself. Poor child,
she is half distracted about Master Philip, and no wonder, for they were
always together; but I thought you ought to know, ma'am, for she will
make herself ill, to a certainty
I am going to see about her this moment, nurse
Laura, dearest
I cannot bear to
see you so unhappy
I cannot think it right to give way thus
Did
you really sit up all night, my poor child
I don't know. They did so with him
My dear, this will never do. You are making yourself seriously unwell
I wish -- I wish I was ill; I wish I was dying
My dear! You don't know what you are saying. You forget that this
self-abandonment, and extravagant grief would be wrong in any one; and,
if nothing else, the display is unbecoming in you
Take care, Laura; a woman has no right to speak in such a manner of a
man who has given her no reason to believe in his preference of her
Preference! It is his love!-- his love! His whole heart! The one thing
that was precious to me in this world! Preference! You little guess what
we have felt for each other
Laura
What do you mean
What have I done
I have betrayed him
betrayed him when he is dying
Laura
I must understand this. What has passed between you
and Philip
I shall leave you
for half an hour, in hopes that by that time you may have recovered
yourself, and be able to give the explanation which I _require_
Well, Laura
Surely, my dear, you need
not be afraid to tell me anything
What have I said? Have I told it
What you have given me reason to believe
that you think Philip is
attached to you. You do not deny it. Let me know on what terms you
stand
If you would not force it from me at
such a time
Laura, it is for your own good. You are wretched now, my poor child;
why not relieve yourself by telling all? If you have not acted openly,
can you have any comfort till you have confessed? It may be a painful
effort, but relief will come afterwards
I have nothing to confess
There is no such thing as you
think
No engagement
No
Then what am I to understand by your exclamations
It is no engagement
He would never have asked that
without papa's consent. We are only bound by our own hearts
And you have a secret understanding with him
We have never written to each other; we have never dreamed of any
intercourse that could be called clandestine. He would scorn it. He
waited only for his promotion to declare it to papa
And how long has it been declared to you
Ever since the first summer Guy was here
Three years
You have kept this from me three
years! O Laura
It was of no use to speak
no use
No use to inform your parents, before you pledged your
affections
Indeed, mamma
I was sure that you knew his worth
Worth! when he was teaching you to live in a course of insincerity?
Your father will be deeply hurt
Papa! Oh, you must not tell him! Now, I have betrayed him, indeed! Oh,
my weakness
Laura, you seem to think you owe nothing to any one but Philip. You
forget you are a daughter! that you have been keeping up a system of
disobedience and concealment, of which I could not have believed a child
of mine could be capable. O Laura, how you have abused our confidence
You will forgive me, only forgive him
Forgive you, my poor child!
You have been very unhappy
Must you tell papa
Judge for yourself, Laura. Could I know such a thing, and hide it from
him
You are kind to me, but you must forgive him. Say you have forgiven
him, mamma, dearest
My dear, in the grave all things are forgiven
I mean, while he is so ill, we cannot enter on such a matter. I
am very sorry for you
No, no, nothing of that sort; it is poor Laura
Eh
Surely you had no suspicion
I suspected poor Laura had parted with her heart. But what do you mean?
What has happened
Could you have guessed? but first remember how ill he is; don't be
violent, Charlie. Could you have guessed that they have been engaged,
ever since the summer we first remarked them
Oh! it is come out at last
You don't mean that you knew it
No, indeed, you don't think they would choose me for their confidant
Not exactly
but really
every idea
of mine is so turned upside-down, that I don't know what to think of
anybody
We always knew Laura to be his slave and automaton. He is so
infallible in her eyes, that no doubt she thought her silence an act of
praiseworthy resolution
She was a mere child, poor dear
only eighteen! Yet
Amy was but a year older last summer. How unlike! She must have known
what she was doing
Not with her senses surrendered to him, without volition of her own. I
wonder by what magnetism he allowed her to tell
She has gone through a great deal, poor child, and I am afraid there is
much more for her to suffer, whether he recovers or not
Your father will be so grieved
Well, I suppose we must begin to make the best of it
She has been as good as married to him these four years, for any use
she has been to us; it has been only the name of the thing, so he had
better
My dear Charlie, what are you talking of? You don't imagine they can
marry
They will some time or other, for assuredly neither will marry any
one else. You will see if Guy does not take up the cause, and return
Philip's meddling -- which, by the bye, is now shown to have been more
preposterous still -- by setting their affairs in order for them
Dear Guy, it is a comfort not to have been deceived in him
Except when you believed Philip
Could anything have been more different
yet the two girls had the same training
With an important exception
Laura is Philip's pupil,
Amy mine; and I think her little ladyship is the best turned out of
hand
How shocked Amy will be! If she was but here, it would be much better,
for she always had more of Laura's confidence than I. Oh, Charlie, there
has been the error
What fearful mistake have I made to miss my daughter's confidence
You must not ask me, mother
I know too well that I have been exacting and
selfish, taking too much advantage of your anxieties for me, and that if
you were not enough with my sisters when they were young girls, it was
my fault as much as my misfortune. But, after all, it has not hurt Amy
in the least; nor do I think it will hurt Charlotte
And
I suspect
that no attention would have made much difference. You were always too
young, and Laura too much addicted to the physical sciences to get on
together
Mamma! dear mamma! don't say such horrid things! No one is half so wise
or so good,-- I am sure Guy thinks so too
Dear mamma, I could not help it. I thought you knew I wad in the room
My dear child
I don't want to hide
anything from you. You are my only home-daughter now
You are old enough to understand the
distress this insincerity of poor Laura's has occasioned,-- and now that
Amy is gone, we must look to you to comfort us
A.F.M
Can you spare me
Why not? Who can be thought of but Amy? She ought not to be a day
longer without you
Dr. Mayerne would look in on you
and Laura
can manage for you
Oh, I shall do very well. Do you think I could bear to keep you from
her
Some one must go
and even if I could think of
letting Laura run the risk, this unhappy affair about Philip puts her
going out of the question
it is of no use to talk of
anything else
Mary! Just as I wanted you
What account
Excellent; the fever and drowsiness seem to be going off. It must have
been a light attack, and the elders will hardly come in time for mamma
to have any nursing. So there's Guy pretty well off one's mind
And Amy
This was such a long letter, and so cheerful, that she must be all
right. What I wanted to speak to you about was Laura. You know the state
of things. Well, the captain -- I wish he was not so sorry, it deprives
one of the satisfaction of abusing him -- the captain, it seems, was
brought to his senses by his illness, confessed all to Guy, and now has
written to tell the whole truth to my father
Has he? That is a great relief
Not that I have seen his letter; Laura ran away with it, and has not
said a word of it. I know it from one to papa from Amy, trying to make
the best of it, and telling how thoroughly he is cut up. She says he
all but fainted after writing. Fancy that poor little thing with a great
man, six foot one, fainting away on her hands
I thought he was pretty well again
He must be to have written at all, and a pretty tolerably bitter pill
it must have been to set about it. What a thing for him to have had to
tell Guy, of all people -- I do enjoy that! So, of course, Guy takes up
his cause, and sends a message, that is worth anything, as showing he is
himself better, though in any one else it would be a proof of delirium.
My two brothers-in-law might sit for a picture of the contrast
Then you think Mr. Edmonstone will consent
Where is Laura
I turned her out to walk with Charlotte, and I want some counsel, as
mamma says I know nothing of lovers
Because I know so much
You know feminine nature I want to know what is the best thing to
do for Laura. Poor thing! I can't bear to see her look so wretched,
worrying herself with care of me. I have done the best I could by taking
Charlotte's lessons, and sending her out to mope alone, as she likes
best; but I wish you would tell me how to manage her
I know nothing better for her than waiting on you
That's hard
that having made the world dance
attendance on me for my pleasure, I must now do it for theirs. But
what do you think about telling her of this letter, or showing it,
remembering that not a word about her troubles has passed between us
By all means tell her. You must judge about showing it, but I should
think the opening for talking to her on the subject a great gain
Should you? What, thinking as I do of the man? Should I not be between
the horns of a dilemma if I had to speak the honest truth, yet not hurt
her feelings
She has been so long shut up from sympathy, that any proof of kindness
must be a comfort
Well, I should like to do her some good, but it will be a mercy, if she
does not make me fall foul of Philip! I can get up a little Christian
charity, when my father or Charlotte rave at him, but I can't stand
hearing him praised. I take the opportunity of saying so while I can,
for I expect he will come home as her betrothed, and then we shall not
be able to say one word
No, I dare say he will be so altered and subdued that you will not be
so disposed to rail. This confession is a grand thing. Good-bye I must
get back to church. Poor Laura! how busy she has been about her sketch
there lately
Yes, she has been eager about finishing it ever since Guy began to be
ill. Good-bye. Wish me well through my part of confidant to-night. It
is much against the grain, though I would give something to cheer up my
poor sister
I am sure you would
what a quantity of kind, right feeling there in under that odd,
dry manner, that strives to appear to love nothing but a joke
Have you any fancy for seeing Amy's letter
Thank you
He has been suffering a great deal, I am sure
You do not know how much. There he is grieving for me! thinking they
will be angry with me, and hurting himself with that! Oh! if this had
but come before they set off
Guy and Amy will tell them of his having written
Dear, dear Guy and Amy! He speaks so earnestly of their kindness. I
don't fear it so much now he and Guy understand each other
You can rely on
their doing everything to make it better
I can hardly bear to think of what we owe to them
How glad I am that Amy was there after he wrote, when he was so much
overcome! Amy has written me such a very kind note; I think you must see
that -- it is so like her own dear self
A. F. M
Amy gives you very good
advice, as far as I am concerned. I do want to be of as much use to you
as I can -- I mean as kind
I know -- I know; thank you
You
have been -- you are; but
Ay
I see, she won't be satisfied, if my kindness
includes her alone. What will my honesty let me say to please her? Oh! I
know.-- You must not expect me to say that Philip has, behaved properly,
Laura, nothing but being in love could justify such a delusion; but I do
say that there is greatness of mind in his confessing it, especially at
a time when he could put it off, and is so unequal to agitation
You will think so still more when you see this note, which he sent
open, inside mine, to be given to papa when I had told my own story. Oh,
his considerateness for me
C. Edmonstone, Esq
MY DEAR UNCLE,-- My conduct has been unjustifiable -- I feel it. Do not
visit it on Laura -- I alone should suffer. I entreat your pardon, and my
aunt's, and leave all to you. I will write more at length. Be kind to
her.-- Yours affectionately,

'PH. M
Poor Philip
I think I could bear acute pain better
Oh for one breath
of Redclyffe sea-wind
From mamma
and this one
is for you. It
must have been hunting us everywhere. How many different directions
From Markham
It must be the letter we were waiting for
They are coming -- mamma and papa
Then all is right
If we do not receive a much better account
we shall set
off early on Wednesday, and hope to be with you not long after you
receive this letter
Oh I am so glad! I wonder how Charlie gets on without her
It is a great comfort
Now you will see what a nurse mamma is
Now you will be properly cared for
How nice it will be! She will take care of you all night, and never
be tired, and devise everything I am too stupid for, and make you so
comfortable
Nay, no one could do that better than you, Amy. But it is joy
indeed -- to see mamma again -- to know you are safe with her. Everything
comes to make it easy
Poor Markham
I am very sorry for him. I have been making Arnaud write to him for
me
Oh, have you
It was better for you not to do it, Arnaud has written for me at night.
You will send it, Amy, and another to my poor uncle
Very well
I have told Markham
to send you my desk. There
are all sorts of things in it, just as I threw them in when I cleared
out my rooms at Oxford. I had rather nobody but you saw some of them.
There is nothing of any importance, so you may look at them when you
please, or not at all
I should like to have seen Redclyffe bay again
Now that mamma is coming, that is the one thing. I suppose I had
set my heart on it, for it comes back to me how I reckoned on standing
on that rock with you, feeling the wind, hearing the surge, looking
at the meeting of earth and sky, and the train of sunlight
You will see it some day
But I must give it up; it is earth after all, and looking
back
You have had a good night
I have had my wish, I have seen Redclyffe
Of course, it was a sort of wandering; but I never quite lost
the consciousness of being here, and it was very delightful. I saw the
waves, each touched with light,-- the foam -- the sea-birds, floating in
shade and light,-- the trees -- the Shag -- the sky -- oh! such a glory as I
never knew -- themselves -- but so intensely glorious
I don't understand such goodness
As if it were not
enough to look to heaven beyond, to have this longing gratified, which I
thought I ought to conquer. Oh, Amy! is not that being Fatherly
Yes, indeed
Now after that, and with mamma's coming (for you will have her if I
don't see her), I have but one wish unfulfilled
Ah! a clergyman
Yes, but if that is withheld, I must believe it is rightly ordered. We
must think of that Sunday at Stylehurst and Christmas-day, and that last
time at Munich
Oh, I am so glad we stayed at Munich for that
Those were times, indeed! and many more. Yes; I have been a great deal
too much favoured already, and now to be allowed to die just as I should
have chosen
Do you think Philip could come to me to-day? I want much to speak to
him
I am sure he could
Then pray ask him to come, if it will not tire him very much
He is very anxious to see you
He is wishing to set all in
order. And if he does speak about -- about dying, will you be so kind as
not to contradict him
There is no danger
He
is no worse? You said the fever was lower
He is rather better, I think; but he wishes so much to have everything
arranged, that I am sure it will be better for him to have it off
his mind. So, will you bear it, please, Philip
How do you bear it
I don't know -- I can't vex him
In an hour's time, perhaps, or whenever he was ready
for
he could rest in the sitting-room before coming in to Guy
There were a few things I wanted to say, in case you should be my
successor at Redclyffe
I don't think of directing you
You will make a far better
landlord than I; but one or two things I should like
Anything you wish
Old Markham. He has old-world notions and prejudices, but his soul is
in the family and estate. His heart will be half broken, for me, and if
he loses his occupation, he will be miserable. Will you bear with him,
and be patient while he lives, even if he is cross and absurd in his
objections, and jealous of all that is not me
Yes -- yes -- if
Thank you. Then there is Coombe Prior. I took Wellwood's pay on myself.
Will you? And I should like him to have the living. Then there is the
school to be built; and I thought of enclosing that bit of waste, to
make gardens for the people; but that you'll do much better. Well;
don't you remember when you were at Redclyffe last year
telling Markham that bit of green by Sally's gate ought to be taken
into the park? I hope you won't do that, for it is the only place the
people have to turn out their cows and donkeys. And you won't cut them
off from the steps from the Cove, for it saves the old people from being
late for church? Thank you. As to the rest, it is pleasant to think it
will be in such hands if
Amy has a list of the old people who have had so much a week, or their
cottages rent-free
If it comes to you, you will not let
them feel the difference? And don't turn off the old keeper Brown; he is
of no use, but it would kill him. And Ben Robinson, who was so brave
in the shipwreck, a little notice now and then would keep him straight.
Will you tell him I hope he will never forget that morning-service after
the wreck? He may be glad to think of it when he is as I am now. You
tell him, for he will mind more what comes from a man
My poor uncle; I have written -- that is, caused Arnaud to write to him.
I hope this may sober him; but one great favour I have to ask of you. I
can't leave him money, it would only be a temptation; but will you keep
an eye on him, and let Amy rely on you to tell her when to help him I
can't ask any one else, and she cannot do it for herself; but you would
do it well. A little kindness might save him; and you don't know how
generous a character it is, run to waste. Will you undertake this
To be sure I will
Thank you very much. You will judge rightly; but he has delicate
feelings. Yes, really; and take care you don't run against them
One thing more. You are the lawyer of the family, and I
want a legal opinion. I have been making Arnaud write my will. I
have wished Miss Wellwood of St. Mildred's to have some money for a
sisterhood she wants to establish. Now, should I leave it to herself or
name trustees
Tell me one thing! Was that the thousand pounds
Yes. I was not at liberty to
It was that
Oh, can you forgive
me
That was done long ago. Even as you pardoned my fierce rage
against you, which I trust is forgiven above. It has been repented
There, again
Everything comes to me. Now it is all quite
right
You must not go
down
You will wait in the sitting-room, won't
you? We shall want you again, you know
All is clear between us now
One longs to humble oneself to him. How
it puts one to shame to hear such repentance with such a confession
We are ready. Come, Philip
I cannot; I am not worthy
Nay, you are surely in no uncharitableness with him now
And if you are sorry -- that is repentance -- more fit now than ever -- Won't
you come? Would you grieve him now
You take it on yourself, then
A broken and contrite heart, O God,
Thou wilt not despise
Thank you
Good night. God bless you and my
sister
Poor fellow! It will be worse for him
than for you. You must take care of him
Is no
one here but you
No one
My own sweet wife, my Verena, as you have always been. We have been
very happy together
Indeed we have
It will not be so long before
we meet again
like your
mother
No, don't wish that, Amy. You would not wish it to have no mother
You will pray
Yes
I trust you to it and to mamma for comfort. And
Charlie -- I shall not rob him any longer. I only borrowed you for a
little while
In a little while we shall meet.
Years and months seem alike now. I am sorry to cause you so much grief,
my Amy, but it is all as it should be, and we have been very happy
My love to Charlie -- and Laura -- and Charlotte, my brother and sisters.
How kindly they have made me one of them! I need not ask Charlotte to
take care of Bustle, and your father will ride Deloraine. My love to
him, and earnest thanks, for you above all, Amy. And dear mamma! I must
look now to meeting her in a brighter world; but tell her how I have
felt all her kindness since I first came in my strangeness and grief.
How kind she was! how she helped me and led me, and made me know what
a mother was. Amy, it will not hurt you to hear it was your likeness to
her that first taught me to love you. I have been so very happy, I don't
understand it
In eternal peace
I did not think it would have been so
soon. I can't think where the battle has been. I never thought my life
could be so bright. It was a foolish longing, when first I was ill, for
the cool waves of Redclyffe bay and that shipwreck excitement, if I was
to die. This is far better. Read me a psalm, Amy, "Out of the deep
Thank you
It is of no use; I cannot
Amy! he said, as if bewildered, or in
pain.

'Here, dearest
I don't see
Glory in the Highest!-- peace -- goodwill
The last prayer
My
lady, my lady -- come away! Oh, Miss Amabel, you should not be here
she should
never forget how my lady looked. It was not grief: it was as if she had
been a little way with her husband, and was just called back
Philip
It will be
worse for him than for you. Take care of him
I must go to him
Don't -- don't, Philip
Don't cry so
terribly
Don't come here to reproach me
No, no; don't speak so. I want you to hear me; I have something for
you from him. If you would only listen, I want to tell you how happy and
comfortable it was
It was very peaceful, very happy
We ought to be very
glad
You don't know what you say
No;
take care of yourself, don't trouble yourself for such as me
I must; he desired me
You will be happier, indeed,
Philip, if you would only think what glory it is, and that he is all
safe, and has won the victory, and will have no more of those hard,
hard struggles, and bitter repentance. It has been such a night, that it
seems wrong to be sorry
Did you say he spoke of me again
Yes; here is his Prayer-book. Your father gave it to him, and he meant
to have told you about it himself, only he could not talk yesterday
evening, and could not part with it till
He's very fond of it
it is the
one he always uses
My father, my father! He would have done him justice. If he had
lived, this would never have been
That is over, you do him justice now
You did, indeed you
did, make him quite happy. He said so, again and again. I never saw him
so happy as when you began to get better. I don't think any one ever had
so much happiness and it never ceased, it was all quiet, and peace, and
joy, till it brightened quite into perfect day -- and the angel's song!
Don't you remember yesterday, how clear and sweet his voice came out in
that? and it was the last thing almost he said. I believe
I believe he finished it among them
How soon must it be
My lady, to-morrow
They say that so it
must be; and the priest consents to have it in the churchyard here. The
brother of the clergyman is here, and would know if your ladyship would
wish
I will speak to him
Let me
if you are able
Oh, yes; I'll go at once
Stop
you don't know what you are
going to say
He wished to be buried here
and
Ask Mr. Morris to be so good as to wait, and I will come directly
Meet mamma, Anne
tell her I am quite well. Bring them
here
Hush! don't wake Philip
Pray don't, papa; Philip has been so ill all day
Philip -- pshaw
How are you, yourself,
my poor darling
Quite well, thank you
There is a room ready for you
And, Arnaud,
take care you do not let him know the hour tomorrow. Perhaps, as he is
so tired, he may sleep till afterwards
Is not he beautiful
My dear, my dear, you ought not to be here
If you would let me say my prayers here
I think not. I don't know how to refuse, if it would be a comfort
but I can't think it right.
The danger is greater after. And surely, my poor dear child, you have a
reason for not risking yourself
Go, mamma, I ought not to have brought you here; I forgot about
infection
I am coming
You know I have nothing else but colours; I should like to wear this,
if you will let me
But, dearest, you must not -- cannot go
It is very near. We often walked there together. I would not if I
thought it would hurt me, but I wish it very much indeed. At home by
Michaelmas
I beg your pardon, dear papa, I don't think I can
It is over now, Philip; you
had better come home
Now you must rest, for you ought not
to have come out. Lie down, and let mamma read to you
Yes, dear mamma, I should like to be alone a little while
I will give you the papers
This is his will
You will tell me if there is anything
I must do at once. Here is a letter to Mr. Markham, and another to Mr.
Dixon, if you will be so kind as to write and enclose them. Thank you,
dear papa
Don't, don't, I beg
Lie still; you had much better. My stars! how ill you look
You have
had a sharpish touch; but you are better, eh
Yes, thank you
Well; I thought I had better come and speak to you, if you felt up to
it. Here is -- here is -- I hope it is all right and legal; but that you
can tell better than I; and you are concerned in it anyhow. Here is poor
Guy's will, which we thought you had better look over, if you liked, and
felt equal, eh
Thank you
being an unpleasant thing
best not raise his expectations
Poor Amy is to be confined in the
spring
Thank Heaven
That's right! that is very well said
It would be a pity it should go out of the old line after
all; and it's a very generous thing in you to say so
Oh no
Well, well
twas Heaven's will; and so -- It does not signify,
after all, if it is not quite formal. We understand each other
Thank you
And what do you think of Amy's being under age
How is she to act, poor dear! Shall I act for her
She will soon be of age
In January, poor darling. Who would have thought how it would have been
with her? I little thought, last May -- but, holloa! what have I been
at
I didn't mean
it, I am sure! Here! mamma
No, no
don't call her, I
beg. There is nothing the matter
Do
you like it, my dear
He told me to take care of him
I cannot feel that he deserves you should worry yourself about him
If you knew all
I do know all, mamma,-- if you mean about Laura. Surely you must
forgive. Think how he repents. What, have you not had his letter? Then
how did you know
I learned it from Laura herself. Her trouble at his illness revealed
it. Do you say he has written
Yes, mamma; he told Guy all about it, and was very sorry, and wrote
as soon as he was able. Guy sent you a long message. He was so anxious
about it
Yes,
but for him
Not yet
Then, mamma
I must tell him. I beg your pardon
but indeed I must. It is hard on him not to hear that you
had not his letter, and that Laura has told. I know Guy would wish me,
so don't be displeased, dear mamma
I can't be displeased with anything you do
And you give me leave
To be sure I do,-- leave to do anything but hurt yourself
And would it be wrong for me to offer to write to him? No one else
will, and it will be sad for him not to hear. It cannot be wrong,
can it
Certainly not, my poor darling. Do just as you think fit. I am sorry
for him, for I am sure he is in great trouble, and I should like him to
be comforted -- if he can. But, Amy, you must not ask me to do it. He has
disappointed me too much
I am come to you for a little quiet, out of the
bustle of packing up. I want you to do something for me
Anything for you
It is what you will like to do
for it
is more for _him_ than for me. Could you, without teasing yourself, put
that into Latin for me, by and by? I think it should be in Latin, as it
is in a foreign country
Will you be so kind as to give it to Arnaud when it is done
he will send it to the man who is making the cross. I think
the kind people here will respect it
Yes
If thine enemy thirst, give
him drink; for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head
Don't say such things. We both know that, at the worst of times, he
looked on you as a sincere friend
I like this best
It will be nice to think of far away. I
should like, too, for these Italians to see the stranger has the same
creed as themselves
Amy, I have one thing to ask of you. Will you write my name in the
Prayer-book
That I will
Will you write to me sometimes? I shall be so anxious to know
how you get on
Yes, thank you
Do you know they never had your
letter
Ha! Good heavens
then they
don't know it
They do. Sit down, Philip, and hear. I wanted to tell you about it.
They know it. Poor Laura was so unhappy when you were ill, that mamma
made it out from her
They forgive her. Oh, Amy, thanks indeed! You have taken away one of
the heaviest burdens. I am glad, indeed, that she spoke first. For my
own part, I see through all their kindness and consideration how they
regard me
They know how sorry you are, and that you wrote to tell all
They forgive, indeed they do; but they cannot bear to speak
about it just yet
If you forgive, Amy
I may hope for pardon
from any
Hush! don't say that. You have been so kind, all this time, and we have
felt together so much, that no one could help forgetting anything that
went before. Then you will write to me; and will you tell me how to
direct to you
You will write to me
Oh, Amy, you will quite overpower me with your goodness!-- The
coals of fire
You must not speak so, Philip
Is your head
aching
Not so much aching as
almost bursting with the thoughts of -- of you,
Amy,-- of him whom I knew too late,-- wilfully misunderstood, envied,
persecuted; who,-- oh! Amy, Amy, if you could guess at the anguish of but
one of my thoughts, you would know what the first murderer meant when he
said, "My punishment is greater than I can bear
I can't say don't think
for I
have seen how happy repentance made him, but I know it must be dreadful.
I suppose the worse it is at the time, the better it must be afterwards.
And I am sure this Prayer-book
must be a comfort
to you. Did you not see that he made me give it to you to use that day,
when, if ever, there was pardon and peace
I remember
And the date, Amy, and -- yes
From
G. M
but put from A. F. M. too. Thank you! One thing more
You _must_ write in it what you said
when you came to fetch me that day,--"A broken
My Amy, all is ready.
We must go. Good-bye, Philip
My poor Amy
The hope in earthly
furrows sown, would ripen in the sky
when shall
we three meet again
My dear, dear Charlie
Well, Charlie boy, how have you
got on without us
Have you been quite well
Yes, quite
I have not seen Bustle
He is in my room
I should like to see him
Philip is much better
He is gone to Corfu
He only kept Arnaud three
days after we were gone, and Arnaud overtook us at Geneva, saying his
strength had improved wonderfully. Will you give me my basket? I should
like to read you a piece of a note he sent me
Dearest, I have been very
sorry for you, and so has Guy
Amy
my own, own
sister
Papa and mamma were both as kind as possible to Philip
but they could not bear to enter on _that_. So I told him you
had told all, and he was very glad
He was not displeased at my betraying him
Oh, no!
he was glad; he said it was a great relief, for he was very anxious
about you, Laura. He has been so kind to me
Now I will read you what he
says. You see his writing is quite itself again
I have
continued to gain strength since you went; so that there is no further
need of detaining Arnaud. I have twice been out of doors, and am
convinced that I am equal to the journey; indeed, it is hardly possible
for me to endure remaining here any longer
I had rather no one saw the rest. He makes
himself so unhappy about that unfortunate going to Sondrio, that he says
what is only painful to hear. I am glad he is able to join his regiment,
for a change will be the best thing for him
calm unrest
Thank you, that
was very nice. Now talk to me
Thank you. You will
come again when you have time, I hope. My love to dear Mary, I should
like to see her soon, but I knew you would do me more good than anybody,
and know better how it feels
his boy
M. A. D., Sept. 18
Little things, on little wings, bear
little souls to heaven
just ready for a start
Poor
Morville
had been carried ashore at Corfu, in the
stupor of a second attack of fever. He had been in extreme danger for
some time, and though now on the mend, was still unable to give any
account of himself
Spring
Is it spring
Hardly -- except that there is no winter here. This is the 8th of
January
None from Hollywell! Has nothing been heard from them? Thorndale,
I insist on knowing whether De Courcy has heard anything of Lady
Morville
He has heard of her arrival in England
My sister mentions that -- more than two months ago -- I can hardly believe
she has not written, if she was able. She promised, yet how can
I expect
Thorndale, is there no letter for me? I see there is. Let me have it
Then you are better
You are sadly altered! You must let us take good care of you
Thank you! I knew you would be ready to receive me, though I fear I am
not very good company
Say no more, my dearest brother. You know both Dr. Henley and myself
have made it our first object that our house should be your home
Thank you
This salubrious air must benefit you
How thin you are!
Are you very much fatigued
Rather
What do you hear from Hollywell
There is no news yet
Do you know how she is? When did you hear of her
About a week ago; when she wrote to inquire for you
She did? What did she say of herself
Nothing particular, poor little thing; I believe she is always on the
sofa. My aunt would like nothing so well as making a great fuss about
her
Have you any objection to show me her letter
I have not preserved it
My correspondence is so
extensive that there would be no limit to the accumulation if I did not
destroy the trivial letters
No
Do you like a cushion for your head, Philip? Is it better
Better since morning, thank you
Did those headaches come on before your second illness
I can't distinctly remember
Ah! I cannot think how the Edmonstones could leave you. I shall always
blame them for that relapse
It had nothing to do with it. Their remaining was impossible
On Amabel's account? No, poor thing, I don't blame her, for she must
have been quite helpless; but it was exactly like my aunt, to have but
one idea at a time. Charles used to be the idol, and now it is Amy, I
suppose
If anything could have made it more intolerable for me, it would have
been detaining them there for my sake, at such a time
Ah! I felt a great deal for you. You must have been very sorry for that
poor little Amy. She was very kind in writing while you were ill. How
did she contrive, poor child? I suppose you took all the head work for
her
I? I was nothing but a burden
Were you still so very ill
I am sure you
must have been neglected
Would that I had
No care could have been greater than was taken for
me. It was as if no one had been ill but myself, and the whole thought
of every one had been for me
Then Amabel managed well, poor thing! We do sometimes see those weak
soft characters
Sister
Have not you told me so yourself
I was a fool, or worse
No words can
describe what she proved herself
Self-possessed? energetic
No doubt she did the best she could, but she must have been quite
inexperienced. It was a very young thing in the poor youth to make her
executrix. I wonder the will was valid; but I suppose you took care of
that
I did nothing
Did you see it
My uncle showed it to me
Then you can tell me what I want to hear, for no one has told me
anything. I suppose my uncle is to be guardian
No; Lady Morville
You don't mean it? Most lover-like indeed. That poor girl to manage
that great property? Everything left to her
Were there any legacies? I know of Miss Wellwood's
That to Dixon's daughter, and my own
Yours? How was it that I never heard of it? What is it
Ten thousand
I am delighted to hear it
Very proper of Sir
Guy -- very proper indeed, poor youth. It is well thought of to soften the
disappointment
Disappointment
You need not look as if I wished to commit murder
Have you forgotten that it depends on whether it is a son or
daughter
Do you mean to say that this is to come on
me if the child is a daughter
Ah! you were so young when the entail was made, that you knew nothing
of it. Female heirs were expressly excluded. There was some aunt whom
old Sir Guy passed over, and settled the property on my father and you,
failing his own male heirs
No one would take advantage of such a chance
Do not make any rash resolutions, my dear brother, whatever you do
You have still the same fresh romantic generous spirit
of self-sacrifice that is generally so soon worn out, but you must not
let it allow you
Enough of this
Ah! you are right not to dwell on the uncertainty. I am almost sorry
I told you
Tell me about Miss Wellwood's legacy
I want to know the truth
of it, for every one is talking of it
How comes the world to know of it
There have been reports ever since his death, and now it has been paid,
whatever it is, on Lady Morville's coming of age. Do you know what
it is? The last story I was told was, that it was &pound;2O,OOO, to found a
convent to pray for his grand
Five thousand for her hospital
Sister
it was for that hospital that he made the
request for which we persecuted him
Ah! I thought so, I could have told you so
You -- thought -- so
I guessed it from the first. He was always with that set, and I thought
it a very bad thing for him; but as it was only a guess, it was not
worth while to mention it: besides, the cheque seemed full evidence. It
was the general course, not the individual action
If you thought so, why not mention it to me? Oh! sister, what would you
not have spared me
I might have done so if it had appeared that it might lead to his
exculpation, but you were so fully convinced that his whole course
confirmed the suspicions, that a mere vague idea was not worth dwelling
on. Your general opinion, of him satisfied me
I cannot blame you
Poor youth! we were mistaken in those facts, and of course, all is
forgiven and forgotten now; but he certainly had a tremendous temper.
I shall never forget that exhibition. Perhaps poor Amabel is saved much
unhappiness
Once for all
let me never hear you speak of
him thus. We were both blind to a greatness of soul and purity of heart
that we shall never meet again. Yours was only prejudice; mine I must
call by a darker name. Remember, that he and his wife are only to be
spoken of with reverence
Of course we owe him a great deal of gratitude. It was very kind and
proper to come to you when you were ill, and his death must have been
a terrible shock. He was a fine young man; amiable, very attractive in
manner
No more
That, you always said of him
but you
have no need to reproach yourself. You always acted the part of a true
friend, did full justice to his many good qualities, and only sought his
real good
Every word you speak is the bitterest satire on me
Say no more, unless you would
drive me distracted
What has he been doing
here is his pulse up to a
hundred again. How can he have raised it
He only came down an hour ago, and has been sitting still ever since
Talking
Yes; and there, perhaps, I was rather imprudent. I did not know
he could so little bear to hear poor Sir Guy's name mentioned; and,
besides, he did not know, till I told him, that he had so much chance of
Redclyffe. He did not know the entail excluded daughters
Did he not! That accounts for it. I should like to see the man who
could hear coolly that he was so near such a property. This suspense is
unlucky just now; very much against him. You must turn his thoughts from
it as much as possible
AMABEL F. MORVILLE
I understand it
all, poor fellow; I thought long ago, he had some secret attachment; and
now I see it was to Amabel Edmonstone
To Lady Morville
Yes. You know how constantly he was at Hollywell, my aunt so fond of
him? I don't suppose Amy knew of it; and, of course, she could not be
blamed for accepting such an offer as Sir Guy's; besides, she never had
much opinion of her own
How? No bad speculation for him. She must have a handsome jointure; but
what are your grounds
Everything. Don't you remember he would not go to the marriage? He
mentions her almost like a saint; can't hear her name from any one
else -- keeps her letter to open alone, is more revived by it than
anything else. Ah! depend upon it, it was to avoid her, poor fellow,
that he refused to go to Venice with them
Their going to nurse him is not as if Sir Guy suspected it
I don't suppose he did, nor Amy either. No one ever had so much power
over himself
Well! how is she
Poor little dear
she looks very nice and
comfortable
What, you have seen her
I am at this moment leaving her room
She is going on well, I hope
Perfectly well. There is one comfort at least
Dear Amy! And the babe -- did you see it
Yes; the little creature was lying by her, and she put her hand on it,
and gave one of those smiles that are so terribly like his; but I could
not have spoken about it for the world. Such fools we be
It is healthy
All a babe ought to be, they say, all that could be expected of it,
except the not being of the right sort, and if Amy does not mind that,
I don't know who should
Then you think she is not disappointed
Certainly not. The first thing she said when she was told it was a
girl, was, "I am so glad!" and she does seem very happy with it, poor
little thing! In fact, mamma thinks she had so little expected that
it would go well with herself, or with it, that now it is all like a
surprise
You must be
content with me -- I can't send for anyone. Bustle has taken papa and
Charlotte for a walk, and Laura is on guard over Amy, for we have made
mamma go and lie down. It was high time, after sitting up two nights,
and meaning to sit up a third
Has she really -- can she bear it
Yes; I am afraid I have trained her in sitting up, and Amy and all of
us know that anxiety hurts her more than fatigue. She would only lie
awake worrying herself, instead of sitting peaceably by the fire,
holding the baby, or watching Amy, and having a quiet cry when she is
asleep. For, after all, it is very sad
Yesterday morning I was
properly frightened. I came into the dressing-room, and found mamma
crying so, that I fully believed it was all wrong, but she was just
coming to tell us, and was only overcome by thinking of not having him
to call first, and how happy he would have been
And the dear Amy herself
I can't tell. She is a wonderful person for keeping herself composed
when she ought. I see she has his picture in full view, but she says not
a word, except that mamma saw her to-day, when she thought no one was
looking, fondling the little thing, and whispering to it --"Guy's baby!"
 and "Guy's little messenger
To be sure, what a morsel of a creature it is! It is awful
to see anything so small calling itself a specimen of humanity
It is your first acquaintance with infant humanity, I suppose? Pray,
did you ever see a baby
Not to look at. In fact, Mary, I consider it a proof of your being a
rational woman that you have not asked me whether it is pretty
I thought you no judge of the article
No, it was not to inspect it that Amy sent for me; though after all it
was for a business I would almost as soon undertake, a thing I would not
do for any other living creature
Then I know what it is. To write some kind message to Captain Morville.
Just like the dear Amy
Just like her, and like no one else, except -- Of course my father wrote
him an official communication yesterday, very short; but the fact must
have made it sweet enough, savage as we all were towards him, as there
was no one else to be savage to, unless it might be poor Miss Morville,
who is the chief loser by being of the feminine gender
Well, by and
by, my lady wants to know if any one has written to "poor Philip," as
she will call him, and, by no means contented by hearing papa had,
she sends to ask me to come to her when I came in from wheeling in the
garden; and receives me with a request that I would write and tell him
how well she is, and how glad, and so on. There's a piece of work for
me
Luckily you are not quite so savage as you pretend, either to him, or
your poor little niece
Whew! I should not care whether she was niece or nephew but for him;
at least not much, as long as she comforted Amy; but to see him at
Redclyffe, and be obliged to make much of him at the same time, is more
than I can very well bear; though I may as well swallow it as best I
can, for she will have me do it, as well as on Laura's account.
Amy believes, you know, that he will think the inheritance a great
misfortune; but that is only a proof that she is more amiable than any
one else
I should think he would not rejoice
Not exactly; but I have no fear that he will not console himself by
thinking of the good he will do with it. I have no doubt that he was
thoroughly cut up, and I could even go the length of believing that
distress of mind helped to bring on the relapse, but it is some time
ago. And as to his breaking his heart after the first ten minutes at
finding himself what he has all his life desired to be, in a situation
where the full influence of his talents may be felt
why that, no one but silly
little Amy would ever dream of
Well, I dare say you will grow merciful as you write
tis a talent thrown away! However, I can't
grumble. She is much happier without greatness thrust on her, and for
my own part, I have my home-sister all to myself, with no rival but that
small woman -- and how she will pet her
And how you will! What a spoiling uncle you will be! But now, having
heard you reason yourself into philosophy, I'll leave you to write. We
were so anxious, that I could not help coming. I am so glad that little
one thrives! I should like to leave my love for Amy, if you'll remember
it
The rarity of such a message from you may enable me. I was lying
here alone, and received the collected love of five Harpers to convey
up-stairs, all which I forgot; though in its transit by Arnaud and his
French, it had become "that they made their friendships to my lady and
Mrs. Edmonstone
Tell me, tell me, Philip, what is it
Poor fellow! how he feels it! That poor young creature
Ha! No! Listen to this, Dr. Henley. Why, he must have read it wrong
C. EDMONSTONE
A daughter
Well, my dear, I congratulate you! It
is as fine a property as any in the kingdom. We shall see him pick up
strength now
I must go and find him. He surely has mistaken
Surely you mistook the letter
No, I did not
You saw that she is doing well, and it is a girl
I
And will you not let me congratulate you
Luncheon is ready. Will you come down
Is any one there
Mr. Brown and Walter Maitland. Shall I send you anything, or do you
like to come down
I'll come, thank you
Had you better come? Is not your head too bad
It will not be better for staying here; I'll come
I congratulate you, Sir Philip Morville
No; that is spared me
Hem! The baronetcy
Yes
I thought you knew that only goes to the direct
heir of old Sir Hugh. But you must drop the "captain" at least. You will
sell out at once
redolent
of joy and youth
Bless us! It beant never Master Philip
Why, sir, what a turn
you give me! How bad you be looking, to be sure
Sure, sure, it must have been very bad for you
The Sunday before Michaelmas
A broken and contrite heart, O God, Thou wilt not
despise
Well, if it be so, I am glad of it, but he said never a word of it to
me, and it is my belief he would give all the money as ever was coined,
to have the poor young gentleman back again. Depend upon it, he hates
the very sound of it
P. H. MORVILLE
Hollywell, March 22nd.

'MY DEAR PHILIP,-- Papa does not answer your letter, because he says
speaking is better than writing, and we hope you are well enough to
come to us before Sunday week. I hope to take our dear little girl to
be christened on that day, and I want you to be so kind as to be
her godfather. I ask it of you, not only in my own name, but in her
father's, for I am sure it is what he would choose. Her Aunt Laura and
Mary Ross are to be her godmothers, I hope you will not think me very
foolish and fanciful for naming her Mary Verena, in remembrance of our
old readings of Sintram. She is a very healthy, quiet creature, and I am
getting on very well. I am writing from the dressing-room, and I expect
to be down-stairs in a few days. If you do not dislike it very much,
could you be so kind as to call upon Miss Wellwood, and pay little
Marianne Dixon's quarter for me? It is &pound;1O, and it will save trouble
if you would do it; besides that, I should like to hear of her and the
little girl. I am sorry to hear you are not better,-- perhaps coming here
may do you good.-- Four o'clock. I have been keeping my letter in hopes
of persuading papa to put in a note, but he says he had rather send a
message that he is quite ready to forgive and forget, and it will be
best to talk it over when you come."

'Your affectionate cousin,

'A. F. MORVILLE
Good morning, Philip. Dr. Henley is obliged to go to Bramshaw this
morning, and has had an early breakfast. Have you been out
Yes, it is very fine -- I mean it will be -- the haze is clearing
I am going to leave you on -- on Friday
Oh, are you going to Redclyffe
No; to Hollywell. Lady Morville wishes me to be her little girl's
sponsor; I shall go to London on Friday, and on, the next day
I am glad they have asked you. Does she write herself? Is she pretty
well?

'Yes; she is to go down-stairs in a day or two
I am rejoiced that she is recovering so well. Do you know whether she
is in tolerable spirits
She writes cheerfully
How many years is it since I saw her? She was quite a child, but very
sweet-tempered and attentive to poor Charles
Just so. Her gentleness and sweet temper were always beautiful; and
she has shown herself under her trials what it would be presumptuous to
praise
You must let me congratulate you now on this unexpected dawn of hope,
after your long trial, my dear brother. It is a sort of unconscious
encouragement you could hardly hope for
I did not know you knew anything of it
Ah! my dear brother, you betrayed yourself. You need not be
disconcerted; only a sister could see the real cause of your want of
spirits. Your manner at each mention of her, your anxiety, coupled with
your resolute avoidance of her
Of whom? Do you know what you are talking of, sister
Of Amabel, of course
Sister
I have been attached to
Laura Edmonstone for years past, and Lady Morville knows it
To Laura
Are you engaged
If you have not gone too
far to recede, only consider before you take any rash step. You come
into this property without ready money, you will find endless claims,
and if you marry at once, and without fortune, you will never be clear
from difficulties
I have considered
You are positively committed, then
Oh, Philip!
I did not think you would have married for mere beauty
I can hear no more discussion on this point
no
Mary
My love to dear
little cousin Mary
I thought you would like just to see baby
Amabel, you must let me do this child justice
I will not delay in taking steps for restoring her inheritance
O Philip, you are not thinking of that
It is to be done
You would not be so unkind to this poor little girl
Pray put it out of your head directly, for it would be very
wrong
You must listen to me, Amy, and not allow any scruples to prevent you
from permitting your child to be restored to her just rights. You must
see that the estate has come to me by circumstances such that no honest
man can be justified in retaining it. The entail was made to exclude
females, only because of the old Lady Granard. It is your duty to
consent
The property has always gone in the male line
There never was such a state of things. Old Sir Guy could never have
thought of entailing it away from his own descendant on a distant
cousin. It would be wrong of me to profit by these unforeseen
contingencies, and you ought not, in justice to your child, to object
Such a
possibility was contemplated. It was all provided for in the marriage
settlements. Indeed, I am afraid that, as it is, she will be a great
deal too rich. Besides, Philip, I am sure this is exactly what Guy would
have chosen
The first thing that came
into my head when she was born, was, that it was just what he wished,
that I should have her for myself, and that you should take care of
Redclyffe. I am certain now that he hoped it would be so. I know -- indeed
I do -- that he took great pleasure in thinking of its being in your
hands, and of your going on with all he began. You can't have forgotten
how much he left in your charge? If you were to give it up, it would be
against his desire; and with that knowledge, how could I suffer it?
Then think what a misfortune to her, poor little thing, to be a great
heiress, and how very bad for Redclyffe to have no better a manager
than me! Oh, Philip, can you not see it is best as it is, and just as he
wished
If you could guess what a burden it is
Ah! but you must carry it, not throw it down on such hands as mine and
that tiny baby's
It would have been the same if it had been a boy
Yes; then I must have done the best I could, and there would have been
an end to look to, but I am so glad to be spared. And you are so fit for
it, and will make it turn to so much use to every one
I don't feel as if I should ever be of use to any one
Your head is aching
It always does, more or less
I am so sorry. Has it been so ever since you were ill? But you are
better? You look better than when I saw you last
I am better on the whole, but I doubt whether I shall ever be as strong
as I used to be. That ought to make me hesitate, even if
Amy, how is Laura
She is very well
Only you must not be taken by
surprise if you see her looking thinner
And she has trusted -- she has endured through all
O yes
And they -- your father and mother -- can forgive
They do -- they have. But, Philip, it was one of the things I came down
to say to you. I don't think you must expect papa to begin about it
himself. You know he does not like awkwardness, though he will be very
glad when once it is done, and ready to meet you half way
Laura is out of doors. She
and Charlotte take very long walks
And is she really strong and well, or is it that excited overdoing of
employment that I first set her upon
She is perfectly well, and to be busy has been a great help to her
It was a great comfort that we did not know how ill you
had been at Corfu, till the worst was over. Eveleen only mentioned it
when you were better. I was very anxious, for I had some fears from the
note that you sent by Arnaud. I am very glad to see you safe here, for I
have felt all along that we forsook you; but I could not help it
I am very glad you did not stay. The worst of all would have been that
you should have run any risk
There is the carriage
Mamma and Charlie have been to
Broadstone. They thought they might meet you by the late train
I am sorry to see you so pulled down
We must try if we can
doctor you better than they did at St. Mildred's. Are you getting on, do
you think
Thank you, I am growing stronger; but as long as I cannot get rid of
this headache, I am good for nothing
You have had a long spell of illness indeed
You can't
expect to shake off two fevers in no time. Now all the anxiety is over,
you will brighten like this house
But tell me, what is thought of Amabel? Is she as well as she ought to
be
Yes, quite, they say -- has recovered her strength very fast, and is
in just the right spirits. She was churched yesterday, and was not
the worse for it. It was a trial, for she had not been to East-hill
since -- since last May
It is a blessing, indeed
She has been so very happy with the baby
You hear what
its name is to be
Yes, she told me in her letter
To avoid having to tell you here, I suppose. Mary is for common wear,
Verena is for ourselves. She asked if it would be too foolish to give
such a name, and mamma said the only question was, whether she would
like indifferent people to ask the reason of it
When last we
parted you told me I was malignant. You were right
Shake hands
No, thank you, I am above trusting to anything but my
own crutches now; I am proud to show you what feats I can perform
How are
you, Philip? Good dog, dear old Bustle
O Amy, he is looking so ill
I have my sister still, and she knows
sorrow too
Come to the study -- I'll give you the Redclyffe papers
Thank you
Not to-night, if you please. I could not attend
to them
What, your head? Eh
Partly. Besides, there is another subject on which I hope you will set
me at rest before I can enter on any other
Yes -- yes -- I know
I am perfectly conscious how deeply I have offended
Well, well
I know all that, and it can't be
helped. Say no more about it. Young people will be foolish, and I have
been young and in love myself
May I then consider myself as pardoned, and as having obtained your
sanction
Yes, yes, yes; and I hope it will cheer poor Laura up again a little.
Four years has it gone on? Constancy, indeed! and it is time it should
be rewarded. We little thought what you were up to, so grave and demure
as you both were. So you won't have the papers to-night? I can't say
you do look fit for business. Perhaps Laura may suit you better -- eh,
Philip
You don't want to be convinced now that all is right
His head is so dreadfully bad
Ah! it will get better now his mind is at rest
If it will but do so
And you know you must be happy to-morrow, because of baby
My dear
I am sorry to prevent your
talk, but Amy must not be kept awake. She must keep her strength for
to-morrow
Good night, then, dear, dear Laura. I am so glad your trouble is over,
and you have him again
Poor dear Laura
I hope he will soon
be better
Has it been very uncomfortable
I can't say much for it, my dear. He was suffering terribly with his
head, so that I should have been quite alarmed if he had not said it was
apt to get worse in the evening; and she, poor thing, was only watching
him. However, it is a comfort to have matters settled; and papa and
Charlie are well pleased with him. But I must not keep you awake after
driving Laura away. You are not over-tired to-night I hope, my dear
Oh, no; only sleepy. Good night, dearest mamma
Good night, my own Amy
good night, you little
darling! don't disturb your mamma. How comfortable you look! Good night,
my dearest
Guy's baby! Guy's own dear
little girl
Ay, and
brought nearer to your own papa, and know him in some inner way, and he
will know his little child then, for you will be as good and pure and
bright as he, and you will belong to the great communion of saints
to-morrow, you precious little one, and be so much nearer to him as you
will be so much better than I. Oh! baby, if we can but both endure to
the end
Is Captain Morville come
No, I cannot guess by Laura's
impressive face. Never mind, Charles will tell me all between services
It is all made up now, Mary, and I really am very sorry for Philip
Yes
if it is any
satisfaction to you to have a good opinion of your fellow-sponsor, I
assure you that I am converted to Amy's opinion. I do believe the black
dog is off his back for good and all
I never saw any one more changed
Regularly tamed
He looks very thin and pale. Do you think him recovered
A good way from it
He is pretty well to-day,
comparatively, though that obstinate headache hangs about him. If this
change last longer than that and his white looks, I shall not even
grudge him the sponsorship Amy owed me
Very magnanimous
Poor Laura! I am glad her suspense is
over. I wondered to see her at school
They are very sad and sober lovers, and it is the best way of not
making themselves unbearable, considering -- Well, that was a different
matter. How little we should have believed it, if any one had told us
last year what would be the state of affairs to-day. By the bye, Amy's
godson is christened to-day
Who
Didn't you hear that the Ashfords managed to get Amy asked if she would
dislike their calling their boy by that name we shall never hear again,
and she was very much pleased, and made offer in her own pretty way to
be godmother. I wonder how Markham endures it! I believe he is nearly
crazy. He wrote me word he should certainly have given up all concern
with Redclyffe, but for the especial desire of --.What a state of mind
he will be in, when he remembers how he has been abusing the captain to
me
Little Amy Edmonstone
To her life's end
Lord, now lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace
Laura, you have more to forgive than all
Don't, speak so, Philip, pray don't. Do you think I would not have
borne far more unhappiness willingly for your sake? Is it not all
forgotten as if it had not been
It is not unhappiness I meant
though I cannot bear
to think of what you have undergone. Unhappiness enough have I caused
indeed. But I meant, that you have to forgive the advantage I took of
your reliance on me to lead you into error, when you were too young to
know what it amounted to
It was not an engagement
Laura, don't, for mercy's sake, recall my own hateful sophistries
I have
had enough of that from my sister
it was
self-deceit; a deception first of myself, then of you. You had not
experience enough to know whither I was leading you, till I had involved
you; and when the sight of death showed me the fallacy of the salve to
my conscience, I had nothing for it but to confess, and leave you to
bear the consequences. O Laura! when I think of my conduct towards you,
it seems even worse than that towards -- towards your brother-in-law
O,
don't speak in that way! You know you meant the best. You could not help
being mistaken
If I did know any such thing, Laura! but the misery of perceiving that
my imagined anxiety for his good,-- his good, indeed! was but a cloak for
my personal enmity -- you can little guess it
If they were, I triumphed in them. I see now that a shade of honest
desire to see him exculpated would have enabled me to find the clue. If
I had gone to St. Mildred's at once -- interrogated him as a friend -- seen
Wellwood -- but dwelling on the _ifs_ of the last two years can bring
nothing but distraction
And remember
that dear Guy himself was always grateful
to you. He always upheld that you acted for his good. Oh! the way he
took it was the one comfort I had last year
The acutest sting, and yet the only balm
see,
Laura
Dear Guy
He was so very kind to me, when he saw me that
unhappy wedding-day
Did Amy tell you his last words to me
No
God bless you and my sister
Amy left that for you to tell
Only as an angel of pardon and peace
I don't know how to tell you of all her kindness
half
the bitterness of it seemed to be over when once she was in the house
again, and, all the winter, going into her room was like going into some
peaceful place where one must find comfort
Spirits of peace, where are ye" I could have said, when I saw her
drive away at Recoara, and carry all good angels with her except those
that could not but hover round that grave
How very sad it must have been! Did
Don't speak of it; don't ask me of it
There
is nothing in my mind but a tumult of horror and darkness that it is
madness to remember. Tell me of yourself -- tell me that you have not been
hurt by all that I have brought on you
Oh, no
besides, that is all at an end
Well, doctor, so you have heard our
news! I flatter myself we have as tall and handsome a pair of lovers to
exhibit here, as any in the United Kingdom, when we have fattened him a
little into condition
Never was there a better match
Made for each
other all along. One could not see them without feeling it was the first
chapter of a novel
Come
in
Thank you for coming
I thought you would not mind sitting
here with baby and me. I have sent Anne out walking
How pretty she looks
Sleep is
giving her quite a colour; and how fast she grows
Poor little woman
Tired, Amy
N -- no, thank you
I am afraid you are. You have been walking to Alice Lamsden's again
I don't think that tires me. Indeed, I believe the truth is
I am not so much tired with what
I do, which is little enough, as of the long, long life that is before
me
Yes, poor little darling
I know there is double
quantity to be done for her, but I am so sorry for her, when I think she
must grow up without knowing him
She has you, though
If he
had but once seen her, if she had but had one kiss, one touch that I
could tell her of by and by, it would not seem as if she was so very
fatherless. Oh no, baby, I must wait, that you may know something about,
him; for no one else can tell you so well what he was, though I can't
tell much
No, I don't believe I
really wish I was like poor Alice
I hope not; I am sure I
don't for her sake. But, Mary, I never knew till I was well again how
much I had reckoned on dying when she was born. I did not think I was
wishing it, but it seemed likely, and I was obliged to arrange things
in case of it. Then somehow, as he came back last spring, after that sad
winter, it seemed as if this spring, though he would not come back to
me, I might be going to him
But then she comforted you
Yes, that she did, my precious one; I was so glad of her, it was a sort
of having him again, and so it is still sometimes, and will be more so,
I dare say. I am very thankful for her, indeed I am; and I hope I am not
repining, for it does not signify after all, in the end, if I am weary
and lonely sometimes. I wish I was sure it was not wrong. I know I don't
wish to alter things
No, I am sure you don't
Ah
it is only the old, silly little Amy that
does feel such a heart-aching and longing for one glance of his eye, or
touch of his hand, or sound of his foot in the passage. Oh, Mary, the
worst of all is to wake up, after dreaming I have heard his voice. There
is nothing for it but to take our baby and hold her very tight
Dearest Amy! But you are not blaming yourself for these feelings. It
might be wrong to indulge them and foster them; but while you struggle
with them, they can't in themselves be wrong
I hope not
Yes, I have "the joy" at
the bottom still; I know it is all quite right, and it came straight
from heaven, as he said. I can get happy very often when I am by myself,
or at church, with him; it is only when I miss his bright outside
and can't think myself into the inner part, that it is so forlorn and
dreary. I can do pretty well alone. Only I wish I could help being so
troublesome and disagreeable to everybody
My dear
It is so stupid of me to be always poorly, and making mamma anxious
when there's nothing the matter with me. And I know I am a check on
them down-stairs -- papa, and Charlotte, and all -- they are very kind,
considerate, and yet
and it is a naughty feeling; but
when I feel all those dear kind eyes watching me always, and wanting me
to be happy, it is rather oppressive, especially when I can't; but if I
try not to disappoint them, I do make such a bad hand of it, and am sure
to break down afterwards, and that grieves mamma all the more
It will be better when this time of year is over
Perhaps, yes. He always seemed to belong to summer days, and to come
with them. Well, I suppose trials always come in a different shape from
what one expects; for I used to think I could bear all the doom with
him, but, I did not know it would be without him, and yet that is the
best. Oh, baby
I should not have come to disturb her
No -- never mind; she never settles fairly to sleep till we are shut in
by ourselves. Hush! hush, darling -- No? Will nothing do but being taken
up? Well, then, there! Come, and show your godmamma what a black fringe
those little wakeful eyes are getting
Yes -- no -- I don't know. Just like others
You are tired, at any rate
You took too long a ride
with Philip. I saw you come in very late
I am not in the least tired, thank you
Then he is
I hope he has not one of his headaches
again
No
No? Dear Laura, I am sure there is something wrong
He has grown
afraid of himself, and afraid of being admired now
But how am I to help that, Amy
he cannot help being the first, the very first of all with me
No, no
not the very first, or what would you do
if you were to be -- like me? Don't turn away, dear Laura; I don't think
I over could bear this at all, if dear Guy had not kept it always before
my eyes from the very first that we were to look to something else
besides each other
Of course I meant the first earthly thing
And so
I think if that other is first, it would make
you have some other standard of right besides himself, then you would be
a stay and help to him. I think that is what he means
Amy! let me ask you
surely, you never thought Guy had faults
Yes, Laura
I could not
have understood his repentance if I had not thought so. And, dear
Laura, if you will forgive me for saying it, it would be much better for
yourself and Philip if you would see the truth
I thought you forgave him
Oh, Laura! but does not that word "forgive" imply something? I could
not have done anything to comfort him that day, if I had not believed
he had something to be comforted for. It can't be pleasant to him to see
you think his repentance vain
It is noble and great
But if it was not real, it would be thrown away. Besides, dear Laura,
do let me say this for once. If you would but understand that you let
him lead you into what was not right, and be really sorry for that, and
show mamma that you are, I do think it would all begin much more happily
when you are married
I could never have told, till I was obliged to betray myself
You know, Amy, it was no engagement. We never wrote to each
other, we had but one walk; it was no business of his to speak till he
could hope for papa's consent to our marriage. It would have been all
confusion if he had told, and that would have been only that we had
always loved each other with all our hearts, which every one knew
before
Yet, Laura, it was what preyed on him when he thought he was dying
Because it was the only thing like a fault he could think of
because
his scruples are high and noble and generous
her son Guy
We shall set off on a new tack
Imagine
the impertinent little puss setting up for
intellectual conversation, forsooth
That's what comes of living with good company
Charlotte, of course
My Lady
Morville, what's yours
Only Mr. Markham
about the winding up of our business
together, I suppose. What does Charlotte say
Charlotte is in a fit of impudence, for which she deserves
chastisement
Our last event was a call from the fidus Achates, who, it seems, can no
longer wander up and down the Mediterranean without his pius Aeneas,
and so has left the army, and got a diplomatic appointment somewhere in
Germany. Lord Kilcoran has asked him to come and stay here, and Mabel
and I are quite sure he comes for a purpose. Of course he has chosen
this time, in order that he may be able to have his companion before his
eyes, as a model for courtship, and I wish I had you to help me look
on whenever Philip comes, as that laugh I must enjoy alone with Bustle.
However, when Philip will come we cannot think, for we have heard
nothing of him this age, not even Laura, and she is beginning to look
very anxious about him. Do tell us if you know anything about him.
The last letter was when parliament was prorogued, and he was going to
Redclyffe, at least three weeks ago
I wonder if Mr. Markham mentions him
Ah! here it is. Listen, Charlie. "Mr. Morville has been here for
the last few weeks, and is, I fear, very unwell. He has been entirely
confined to the house, almost ever since his arrival, by violent
headache, which has completely disabled him from attending to business;
but he will not call in any advice. I make a point of going to see him
every day, though I believe my presence is anything but acceptable, as
in his present state of health and spirits, I cannot think it right that
he should be left to servants." Poor fellow! Redclyffe has been too much
for him
Over-worked, I suppose
I thought he was coming it
pretty strong these last few weeks
Not even writing to Laura! How very bad he must be! I will write at
once to ask Mr. Markham for more particulars
Hem
I can't say it sounds comfortable
It is just as I feared
Great excitability of brain and
nerve, Dr. Mayerne said. All the danger of a brain fever again! Poor
Laura! What is to be done
It is for want of some one to talk to him
I know how
he broods over his sad recollections, and Redclyffe must make it so much
worse. If mamma and Laura were but at home to go to him, it might save
him, and it would be fearful for him to have another illness, reduced as
he is. How I wish he was here
He cannot come, I suppose
or he would be in Ireland
Yes. How well Guy knew when he said it would be worse for him than for
me! How I wish I could do something now to make up for running away from
him in Italy. If I was but at Redclyffe
Do you really wish it
Yes, if I could do him any good
Would you go there
If I had but papa or mamma to go with me
Do you think I should do as well
Charlie
If you think there would be any use in it, and choose to take the
trouble of lugging me about the country, I don't see why you should
not
Oh! Charlie, how very, kind! How thankful poor Laura will be to you! I
do believe it will save him
But, Amy
shall you like to see Redclyffe
Oh! that is no matter
I had rather see after
Philip than anything. I told you how he was made my charge, you know.
And Laura! Only will it not be too tiring for you
I can't see how it should hurt me. But I forget, what is to be done
about your daughter
I don't know what harm it could do her
Mrs.
Gresham brought a baby of only three months old from Scotland the other
day, and she is six. It surely cannot hurt her, but we will ask Dr.
Mayerne
Mamma will never forgive us if we don't take the doctor into our
councils
Arnaud can manage for us. We would sleep in London, and go on by an
early train, and we can take our -- I mean my -- carriage, for the journey
after the railroad. It would not be too much for you. How soon could we
go
The sooner the better
If we are to do him any good, it
must be speedily, or it will be a case of shutting the stable-door. Why
not to-morrow
We will see how the scheme looks in the morning
Here, William, here's a note from my lady for you to take to Dr.
Mayerne
They be none of them ill
O no; my lady has been up this hour, and Mr. Charles has rung his bell.
Stop, William, my lady said you were to call at Harris's and bring home
a "Bradshaw
A baddish state of things, eh, doctor
Well, what do
you think this lady proposes? To set off forthwith, both of us, to take
charge of him. What do you think of that, Dr. Mayerne
I should say it was the only chance for him
Spirits and health reacting on each other, I see
it plain enough. Over-worked in parliament, doing nothing in moderation,
going down to that gloomy old place, dreaming away by himself, going
just the right way to work himself into another attack on the brain, and
then he is done for. I don't know that you could do a wiser thing than
go to him, for he is no more fit to tell what is good for him than a
child
But you don't mean you are in
earnest
Never more so in our lives
Yes that we are, if you think it safe for Charles and baby
Is there no one else to go? What's become of his sister
That would never do
that is not the question
Well, I don't see why it should not succeed
or how
you can any of you damage yourselves
And baby
What should happen to her, do you think
Unless you leave her behind in the
carriage, I don't see what harm she could come to, and even then, if
you direct her properly, she will come safe to hand
There goes one of the smallest editions of the wonders of the world
You don't think it will do
her any harm
Not if she wishes it. I have long thought a change, a break, would
be the best thing for her -- poor child!-- I should have sent her to the
sea-side if you had been more movable, and if I had not seen every fuss
about her made it worse
That's what I call being a reasonable and valuable doctor
If you had routed the poor little thing out to the sea, she
would have only pined the more. But suppose the captain turns out too
bad for her management, for old Markham seems in a proper taking
Hem! No, I don't expect it is come to that
Be that as it may, I have a head, if nothing else, and some one is
wanted. I'll write to you according as we find Philip
There's Markham
How is he
No better. He has been putting on leeches, and made himself so giddy,
that yesterday he could hardly stand
And they have not relieved him
Not in the least. I am glad you are come, for it has been an absurd way
of going on
Is he up
Yes; on the sofa in the library
Did you give him my note? Does he expect us
No, I went to see about telling him this morning, but found him so low
and silent, I thought it was better not. He has not opened a letter this
week, and he might have refused to see you, as he did Lord Thorndale.
Besides, I didn't know how he would take my writing about him, though
if you had not written, I believe I should have let Mrs. Henley know by
this time
There is an escape for him
We have done the best in our power to receive you
I hope you will find it comfortable, Lady Morville, but
Thank you, I am not afraid
I had better go to him at once. Arnaud will show my brother the
way
The sitting-room, Arnaud
Yes, you had better tell him I am here
Hem! Lady
Morville is come, and
How are you, Philip
So you are come to
heap more coals on my head
I am sorry to find you so poorly
Is it you,
Amy
Why? When did you come here
Just now. We were afraid you were ill, we heard a bad account of you,
so we have taken you by storm: Charles, your goddaughter, and I, are
come to pay you a visit
Charles! Charles here
Where is he
Coming in
How did you come
It was very kind. I hope you will be
comfortable
We have taken good care of ourselves
I wrote to Mr.
Markham, for I thought you were not well enough to be worried with
preparations. We ought to beg your pardon for breaking on you so
unceremoniously
If any one should be at home here
I don't know
how to make you welcome enough. When did you set off
Yesterday afternoon
we slept in London, and came on
to-day
Have you dined
Yes; at K ----, thank you
What will you have? I'll ring for Mrs. Drew
No, thank you; don't tease yourself. Mrs. Drew will take care of us.
Never mind; but how bad your head is
You must lie down and keep quiet, and never mind us.
We only want a little tea. I am just going to take off my bonnet, and
see what they have done with baby, and then I'll come down. Pray lie
still till then. Mind he does, Charlie
gone for ever
Charles
I trust you have not let her run any risk
No: we got Dr. Mayerne's permission
It is like all the rest
How did you know I was not well
Markham said something in a business letter that alarmed Amy. She wrote
to inquire, and on his second letter we thought we had better come and
see after you ourselves
Well
all right with you and little
miss
Quite, thank you. And are you rested
Slept like a top; and what did you do? Did you sleep like a sensible
woman
Pretty well, and baby was very good. Have you heard anything of
Philip
Bolton thinks him rather better, and says he is getting up
How long have you been up
A long time. I told Arnaud to catch Markham when he came up, as
he always does in a morning to see after Philip, and I have had a
conference with him and Bolton, so that I can lay the case before Dr.
Mayerne scientifically
What do you think of it
I think we came at the right time. He has been getting more and more
into work in London, taking no exercise, and so was pretty well knocked
up when he came here; and this place finished it. He tried to attend to
business about the property, but it always ended in his head growing
so bad, he had to leave all to Markham, who, by the way, has been
thoroughly propitiated by his anxiety for him. Then he gave up entirely;
has not been out of doors, written a note, nor seen a creature the last
fortnight, but there he has lain by himself in the library, given up to
all manner of dismal thoughts without a break
How dreadful
Then he would not
see Mr. Ashford? Surely, he could have done something for him
I'll tell you what
I believe
that it is one half nervous and the
oppression of this place, and the other half, the over-straining of a
head that was already in a ticklish condition. I don't think there was
any real danger of more than such a fever as he had at Corfu, which
would probably have been the death of him; but I think he dreaded still
worse, and that his horror of seeing any one, or writing to Laura, arose
from not knowing how far he could control his words
O! I am glad we came
He has been doctoring himself
and probably has
kept off the fever by strong measures, but, of course, the more he
reduced his strength, the greater advantage he gave to what was simply
low spirits. He must have had a terrible time of it, and where it would
have ended I cannot guess, but it seems to me that most likely, now that
he is once roused, he will come right again
Yes
he believed there was a letter from him, but his eyes
had ached too much of late to read
I was very much taken with that young Mr. Edmonstone
he is about three-and-twenty, sadly crippled, but with such a
pleasing, animated face, and so extremely agreeable and sensible, I
do not wonder at Sir Guy's enthusiastic way of talking of him. I
could almost fancy it was admiration of the brother transferred to the
sister
Then after all you are disappointed in her, and don't lament, like
Markham, that she is not mistress here
hirple about a
little to explore the ground-floor of the house
We must contrive some way for him to drive out
and you too. There is no walk here, but
up hill or down
Guy's sea
James and Ben Robinson have taken me
out to the Shag
the joy
Yes
Then you never took the credit of it. Why did you not tell us
I knew it from himself, in confidence
Oh
So! Eveleen won't have him
What
You don't mean that she has refused Thorndale
Even so
Charlotte says he is gone. "Poor Mr. Thorndale
left us this morning, after a day of private conferences, in which
he seems to have had no satisfaction, for his resolute dignity and
determination to be agreeable all the evening were"-- ahem --"were great.
Mabel cannot get at any of the real reasons from Eveleen, though I think
I could help her, but I can't tell you
Charlotte means mischief
I am very sorry
I did think Lady Eveleen would have
been able to estimate Thorndale. It will be a great disappointment -- the
inclination has been of long standing. Poor Thorndale
It would have been a very good thing for Eva
Mr.
Thorndale is such a sensible man
And I thought his steady sense just what was wanting to bring out all
her good qualities that are running to waste in that irregular home
What can have possessed her
Ay! something must have possessed her
tis the tutor
George Fielder! Impossible! You have never seen him
Ah! don't you remember her description
it showed that he had attracted
her fancy
Ay
you may smile, but you handsome men can little
appreciate the attractiveness of an interesting ugliness. It is the way
to be looked at in the end. Mark my words, it is the tutor
I hope not
Any way it
is a bad affair. I am very much concerned for Thorndale
I am almost sorry you threw out that hint about Mr. Fielder
Don't you remember how he was recommended
Ah! I had forgotten it was Philip's doing; a bit of his spirit of
opposition
Were not the boys to have gone to Coombe
Prior
that is the thing that seems to have made him
so unhappy about it. I am sure I hope it is not true
for, Charlie, you must know that Guy had an impression
against him
Had he
It was only an impression, nothing he could accuse him of, or mention
to Lord Kilcoran. He would have told no one but me, but he had seen
something of him at Oxford, and thought him full of conversation,
very clever, only not the sort of talk he liked
I don't like that.
Charlotte concurs in testifying to his agreeableness; and in the dearth
of intellect, I should not wonder at Eva's taking up with him. He would
be a straw to the drowning. It looks dangerous
Poor Thorndale! She little knows what
she has thrown away
Kilcoran, Nov. 8th.

'My Dearest Amy,-- You will be extremely surprised at what I have to tell
you, and no less grieved. It has been a most unpleasant, disgraceful
business from beginning to end, and the only comfort in it to us is the
great discretion and firmness that Charlotte has shown. I had better,
however, begin at the beginning, and tell you the history as far as I
understand it myself. You know that Mr. James Thorndale has been here,
and perhaps you know it was for the purpose of making an offer to
Eveleen. Every one was much surprised at her refusing him, and still
more when, after much prevarication, it came out that the true motive
was her attachment to Mr. Fielder, the tutor. It appeared that they had
been secretly engaged for some weeks, ever since they had perceived
Mr. Thorndale's intentions, and not, as it was in poor Laura's case,
an unavowed attachment, but an absolute engagement. And fancy Eva
justifying it by Laura's example! There was of course great anger and
confusion. Lord Kilcoran was furious, poor Lady Kilcoran had nervous
attacks, the gentleman was dismissed from the house, and supposed to be
gone to England, Eva shed abundance of tears, but after a great deal of
vehemence she appeared subdued and submissive. We were all very sorry
for her, as there is much that is very agreeable and likely to attract
her in Mr. Fielder, and she always had too much mind to be wasted in
such a life as she leads here. It seemed as if Laura was a comfort
to her, and Lady Kilcoran was very anxious we should stay as long
as possible. This was all about three weeks or a month ago; Eva was
recovering her spirits, and I was just beginning a letter to tell you we
hoped to be at home in another week, when Charlotte came into my room in
great distress to tell me that Eveleen and Mr. Fielder were on the verge
of a run-away marriage. Charlotte had been coming back alone from a
visit to grandmamma, and going down a path out of the direct way to
recall Bustle, who had run on, she said, as if he scented mischief,
came, to her great astonishment, on Eveleen walking arm-in-arm with Mr.
Fielder! Charlie will fancy how Charlotte looked at them! They shuffled,
and tried to explain it away, but Charlotte was too acute for them, or
rather, she held steadily to "be that as it may, Lord Kilcoran ought
to know it." They tried to frighten her with the horrors of betraying
secrets, but she said none had been confided to her, and mamma would
judge. They tried to persuade her it was the way of all lovers, and
appealed to Laura s example, but there little Charlotte was less to be
shaken than on any point. "I did not think them worthy to hear their
names," she said to me, "but I told them, that I had seen that the
truest and deepest of love had a horror of all that was like wrong,
and as to Philip and Laura, they little knew what they had suffered;
besides, theirs was not half so bad." I verily believe these were the
very words she used to them. At last Eva threw herself on her mercy,
and begged so vehemently that she would only wait another day, that she
suspected, and, with sharpness very like Charlie's, forced from Eva that
they were to marry the next morning. Then she said it would be a great
deal better that they should abuse her and call her a spy than do what
they would repent of all their lives; she begged Eva's pardon, and cried
so much that Eva was in hopes she would relent, and then came straight
to me, very unhappy, and not in the least triumphant in her discovery.
You can guess what a dreadful afternoon we had, I don't think any one
was more miserable than poor Charlotte, who stayed shut up in my room
all day, dreading the sight of any one, and expecting to be universally
called a traitor. The end was, that after much storming, Lord Kilcoran,
finding Eveleen determined, and anxious to save her the discredit of an
elopement, has agreed to receive Mr. Fielder, and they are to be married
from this house on the 6th of December, though what they are to live
upon no one can guess. The Kilcorans are very anxious to put the best
face on the matter possible, and have persuaded us, for the sake of
the family, to stay for the wedding; indeed, poor Lady Kilcoran is so
completely overcome, that I hardly like to leave her till this is over.
How unpleasant the state of things in the house is no one can imagine,
and very, very glad shall I be to get back to Hollywell and my Amy and
Charlie. Dearest Amy,

'Your most affectionate.

'L. EDMONSTONE
Yes
It seems
as if good people could do wrong with less impunity than others. It is
rather like the saying about fools and angels. Light-minded people see
the sin, but not the repentance, so they imitate the one without being
capable of the other. Here are Philip and Laura finishing off like the
end of a novel, fortune and all, and setting a very bad example to the
world in general
As the world cannot see below the surface
how distressed
Laura, must be! You see, mamma does not say one word about her
Philip
you
must let me have this piano
And I want very much to ask a question, Philip. Will you tell me which
is Sir Hugh's picture
You have been sitting opposite to it every day at dinner
That
From what I heard, I fully expected to have
known Sir Hugh's in a moment, and I often looked at that one, but I
never could see more likeness than there is in almost all the pictures
about the house
I have seen him sometimes look like it; but it is not at all the strong
likeness I expected
Do you dislike
leaving that with me for a few minutes
Keep it as long as you like
Thank you
Oh, Amy! I am
so glad to be come back to you. I have been so very miserable
But you see he is quite well
We think him looking better
than in the summer
O yes! Oh, Amy, what have you not done? If you could guess the relief
of hearing you were with him, after that suspense
What did he think
of me
My dear
I don't think I am the right person to tell you
that
You saw how it struck him when he heard of my share in it
Yours? Mamma never mentioned you
Always kind
Oh, Amy! what will you think of me when I
tell I knew poor Eva's secret all the time? What could I do, when Eva
pleaded my own case? It was very different, but she would not see it,
and I felt as if I was guilty of all. Oh, how I envied Charlotte
Dear Laura, no wonder you were unhappy
There was the
misery of his silence, and the anxiety that you, dearest, freed me from,
then no sooner was that over than this was confided to me. Think what I
felt when Eva put me in mind of a time when I argued in favour of
some such concealment in a novel! No, you can never guess what I went
through, knowing that he would think me weak, blameable, unworthy
Nay, he blames himself too much to blame you
No, that he must not do! It was my fault from the beginning. If I had
but gone at once to mamma
Oh, I am so glad
Glad
I mean
now you have said that, I am sure you
will be happier
Happier, now I feel and see how I have lowered myself even in his
sight
I know
it all now. He loves me still, as he must whatever he has once taken,
into that deep, deep heart of his: he will always; but he cannot have
that honouring, trusting, confiding love that -- you enjoyed and deserved,
Amy -- that he would have had if I had cared first for what became me. If
I had only at first told mamma, he would not even have been blamed; he
would have been spared half this suffering and self-reproach; he would
have loved me more; Eva might not have been led astray, at least she
could not have laid it to my charge,-- and I could lift up my head
Dearest, dearest Laura, I am so sorry
for you; but I am sure you must feel freer and happier now you know it
all, and see the truth
I don't know
And at least you will be better able to comfort him
No, no, I shall only add to his self-reproach. He will see more plainly
what a wretched weak creature he fancied had firmness and discretion.
Oh, what a broken reed I have been to him
There is strength and comfort for us all to lean upon
But
you ought to go to bed. Shall I read to you, Laura? you are so tired, I
should like to come and read you to sleep
It was the fault of our whole lifetime, Laura
I taught
you to take my dictum for law, and abused your trusty and perverted all
the best and most precious qualities. It is I who stand first to bear
the blame, and would that I could bear all the suffering! But as it is,
Laura, we must look to enduring the consequence all our lives, and give
each other what support we may
pull it all down. Out with
mamma's own curls again
No, I can never wear my curls again
Is Mrs. Henley come
As large as life, and that is saying a good deal. She would make two of
Philip. As tall and twice as broad. I thought Juno herself was advancing
on me from the station
How did you get on with her
Famously; I told her all about everything, and how the affair is to be
really quiet, which she had never believed. She could hardly believe my
word, when I told her there was to be absolutely no one but ourselves
and Mary Ross. She supposed it was for your sake, and I did not tell her
it was for their own. It really was providential that the Kilcoran folk
disgusted my father with grand weddings, for Philip never could endure
one
Oh, Miss Mischief, there goes my hair again! You know Philip is
exceedingly worried about Mr. Fielder. Lord Kilcoran has been writing to
ask him to find him a situation
That is an article they will be seeking all the rest of their lives
A man is done for when he begins to look for a situation!
Yes, those Fielders will be a drag on Philip and Laura for ever; for
they don't quite like to cast them off, feeling as he does that he led
to her getting into the scrape, by recommending him; and poor Laura
thinking she set the example
I wish Eva was away from home
for Aunt Charlotte's
accounts of her vex Laura so much
Ay! trying to eat her cake and have it, expecting to be Mr. Fielder's
wife, and reign as the earl's daughter all the same. Poor thing! the day
they get the situation will be a sad one for her. She does not know what
poortith cauld will be like
Poor Eva
I dare say she will shine and be all the better
for trouble. There is much that is so very nice in her
Ay, if she has not spoilt it all by this time,-- as that creature is
doing with your hair! You little monkey, what have you to say to me
Only to wish you good night. Come, baby, we must go to Anne. Good
night, Uncle Charles
She carried the baby to the nursery just before you came. I wish you
had seen her. The little thing had pulled down her hair and made her
look so pretty and like herself
How well her spirits keep up! She has been running up and down stairs
all day, helping about everything. Well! we little thought how things
would turn out
And that after all Amy would be the home-bird
I don't
feel as if it was wrong to rejoice in having her in this sweet, shady
brightness, as she is now
Do you know whether she means to go to church to-morrow? I don't like
to ask
Nor I
I know she does
She told me so
I hope it will not be too much for her! Dear Amy
She would say it was wrong to have our heads fuller of her than of our
bride
Poor Laura
I am glad it is all right at last.
They have both gone through a great deal
And not in vain
Philip is
Oh, I say not a word against him
He is most
excellent; he will be very distinguished,-- he will make her very happy.
Yes
In fact
he is made to be one of the first in this
world, and to be first by being above it; and the only reason we are
almost discontented is, that we compare him with one who was too good
for this world
It is not only that
Ah! you did not see him at Redclyffe, or you would do more than simply
forgiving him as a Christian
I am very sorry for him
That is not quite enough
Is it, Charlotte? She must take him home
to her mamma's own heart
No, no, that is asking too much, Charlie
Only
one ever was
and I can never think of Philip as I
used to do
I like him much better now
For my part
I never liked him -- nay, that's too mild, I
could not abide him, I rebelled against him, heart, soul, and taste. If
it had not been for Guy, his fashion of goodness would have made me into
an extract of gall and wormwood, at the very time you admired him, and
yet a great deal of it was genuine. But it is only now that I have liked
him. Nay, I look up to him, I think him positively noble and grand, and
when I see proofs of his being entirely repentant, I perceive he is a
thorough great man. If I had not seen one greater, I should follow his
young man's example and take him for my hero model
As if you wanted a hero model
I've had one
Yes
unless
there had been a great fund of real goodness, he would never have felt
it so deeply. Indeed, even when I best liked Philip, I never thought him
capable of such repentance as he has shown
If mamma wants to like him very much
I think she has
only to look at our other company
Ay
we want no more explanation of the tone of the
"Thank you," with which he answered the offer to invite his sister
One comfort is, she can't stay long. She has got a committee meeting
for the Ladies' Literary and Scientific Association, and must go home
for it the day after to-morrow
If you are very good, perhaps she will give you a ticket, Charlotte
and another for Bustle
One kiss for mamma; and one for papa
papa
No, I will not sigh
it does not put me further
from him. He would be more glad than any one this day, and so I must
show some sign of gladness
It will go off soon. Here is a cup of hot coffee for you to take him.
I'll call you when it is time to go
It is better
Much better for your bathing it, thank you
Do I wish you good-bye now
No, I shall see you at church, unless you don't like to have my
blackness there
Would we not have our guardian angel, Laura
You know _he_ would have been there
No one would have been
more glad, so thank you for letting me come
Thank you for coming
It is a comfort
Mamma
Bright outwardly
and I think so inwardly. Nothing does
her so much good as to represent him. Did you wonder to see her
I thought she would come. It is the crowning point of
his forgiveness
Such forgiveness that she has forgotten there is anything to forgive
Your pardon! O, mamma, I see it all now
Amy, pray that it may not be visited
My sister now
And _his_ brother
Good-bye
Amy, has it been too much
No
but I am so glad! It was _his_
chief desire. Now everything he wished is fulfilled
And you are free of your great charge. He has been a considerable care
to you, but now he is safe on Laura's hands, and well and satisfactory;
so you have no care but your daughter, and we settle into our home
life
Amy, I do wish I was sure you are happy
Yes, dear Charlie, indeed I am. You are all so very kind to me, and it
is a blessing, indeed, that my own dear home can open to take in me and
baby. You know _he_ liked giving me back to you
And it is happiness, not only thinking it ought to be! Don't let me
tease you, Amy, don't answer if you had rather not
Thank you, Charlie, it _is_ happiness. It must be when I remember how
very happy he used to be, and there can be nothing to spoil it. When
I see how all the duties of his station worry and perplex Philip, I am
glad he was spared from it, and had all his freshness and brightness
his whole life. It beams out on me more now, and it was such perfect
happiness while I had him here, and it is such a pleasure and honour to
be called by his name; besides, there is baby. Oh! Charlie, I must be
happy -- I am; do believe it! Indeed, you know I have you and mamma and
all too. And, Charlie, I think he made you all precious to me over again
by the way he loved you all, and sent me back, to you especially. Yes,
Charlie, you must not fancy I grieve. I am very happy, for he is, and
all I have is made bright and precious by him
Yes
Amy, I don't believe anything could make you long
unhappy
Nothing but my own fault. Nothing else can part me from him
Yes; no one else had such a power of making happy
Amy, I really don't know whether even you owe as much
to your husband as I do. You were good for something before, but when
I look back on what I was when first he came, I know that his leading,
unconscious as it was, brought out the stifled good in me. What a wretch
I should have been; what a misery to myself and to you all by this time,
and now, I verily believe, that since he let in the sunlight from heaven
on me, I am better off than if I had as many legs as other people
Better off
Yes. Nobody else lives in such an atmosphere of petting, and has so
little to plague them. Nobody else has such a "mamma," to say nothing of
silly little Amy, or Charlotte, or Miss Morville. And as to being of
no use, which I used to pine about -- why, when the member for Moorworth
governs the country, I mean to govern him
I am sure you are of wonderful use to every one
neither
Philip nor papa could get on without you to do their writing for them.
Besides, I want you to help me when baby grows older
Is that the laudable result of that great book on education I saw you
reading the other day
Why don't you borrow a few hints
from Mrs. Henley
It is all settled, then, that you go on with us! Not that I ever
thought you were going to do anything so absurd as to set up for
yourself, you silly little woman: but it seems to be considered right
to come to a formal settlement about such a grand personage as my Lady
Morville
Yes; it was better to come to an understanding
It was
better that papa should make up his mind to see that I can't turn into a
young lady again. You see Charlotte will go out with him and be the Miss
Edmonstone for company, and he is so proud of her liveliness and -- how
pretty she is growing -- so that will keep him from being vexed. So
now you see I can go on my own way, attend to baby, and take Laura's
business about the school, and keep out of the way of company, so that
it is very nice and comfortable. It is the very thing that Guy wished
</text>
