<text>
George! Harry!-- lazy fellows that you are!-- Why are you not in
attendance
What is the matter with our young lord to-day
he seems
in a marvellous ill mood
I suppose he has had another brush with Philip Harley to-day: did not
you see the blood on his handkerchief
That Philip is a saucy young rascal
but he will get
himself into a scrape before long. Lord Robert will be even with him, I
will answer; for he never takes an offence without returning
twenty-fold
They never meet now without a battle
Lord Robert
has been so used to domineer over men twice his age, on board ship, that
he is more unbearable than any young man of rank I ever served. I wonder
who is to put up with all his tempers? If his elder brother, my young
lord, were half so hasty with his hands, or so flippant with his tongue,
I would leave his service to-morrow: however, he wont be with us
long -- that's my comfort. It was but the other day I was airing the dogs,
and trod, by accident, on his favourite Neptune's toe. The plaguy beast
set up a yell. In an instant, I had a cuff of the head from the young
tyrant, and was called a careless rascal and scoundrel, while he had
breath to heap such epithets on me. I am glad the lad has given him a
dressing, and wish it had been twice as much; it might have done him
good
It is
from your uncle, Sir Henry. See, Robert, what a charming surprise he has
prepared for you! He spoils you, boy! I think you would not be so
petulant and imperious, if every wish of that wayward heart were not
gratified by his fond affection
I think it long till we are afloat
and so, I
dare say, does my dear nephew. However, that the time may not appear so
very tedious, I have sent him a little pleasure-brig, the most complete
that could be procured: he can sail and manoeuvre it on your lake; not
that I approve of freshwater sailing, but it is better than dancing
after horses and dogs, and such landsmen's amusements
Is there anything like a boat on the estate
that I may pursue that insolent young Harley, and take my property from
him
No, my Lord
there is nothing of the
kind on any of the pieces of water within a mile or two of the hall.
Your Lordship may remember that when you were very young, and took such
a fancy to everything relating to ships and sailing, my Lady had all the
boats destroyed, for fear you should endanger your life by venturing on
the water
And have they never been replaced
No, my Lord: there were two boats and a fishing-punt staved in by her
Ladyship's order
You may recollect that your
Lordship got into sad disgrace, the next day, by embarking on the lake
in a large washing-tub
On my honour, Edwards
I could find it in my heart to embark in a washing-tub at present, if I
thought it of any use
I think, my Lord
Captain Bently has a small boat on
the river, about a mile from the Park
Run, carry my compliments to Captain Bently, and ask him to lend it to
me for an hour
That one story is good
till another is told
That is the way all the game is poached off the estate
What a fool the fellow makes of himself about a dog
It is the dog that used to lead about his blind sister
She is just dead
Was it blind Kate's dog
Had I known that, he might
have destroyed every head of game on the estate before I would have shot
him
I find myself mentally uneasy,
perhaps from accidental events, or even from indisposition of body; why
then should I make myself odious to this person, who is in my power, and
must endure my ill treatment, when a little patience and forbearance
will remove the cloud that rests on my mind, and my spirit will rise
bright and unclouded, rejoicing in the consciousness of having overcome
one of the most painful infirmities of human nature
Summers, are you ill
No
let him remain; he will, in the discipline of
a man-of-war, be cured perhaps of his audacity, and learn submission to
proper authority
I can't tell what to make of that lad
he neither drinks nor
swears, nor associates with the more dissolute part of the crew: but we
have more trouble with him than with the most abandoned reprobate. Yet
he seems to me to be meant for better things
Oh
mutiny and
disobedience are nothing new to this fellow; his conduct at sea only
matches his behaviour on land -- he was always what you now see him
'Tis false! _You_ have made me what I am
False
Yes, oppressor, false
Madman
you have
forfeited your life
Then let him take it if he will! Thank God, it will be the last injury
he can do me
Harley
you have shown a bold spirit in a bad cause; let us now see
what you can do for your country. It will be my duty to head the
boarding-party. Let me see you near me
You _shall_ see me near you
I would do much for you! You are the only
man who has felt for me as a fellow-creature since I was torn from my
home
Young man
you have done your duty to-day. I have to
thank you for twice saving the life of my friend, Lieutenant Cary: he
speaks highly of your conduct in boarding. Your offences are
forgiven -- you may return to your duty; and, I hope, from this day, your
conduct will be as remarkable for obedience, as it has before been the
reverse
Then
ask pardon of Lord Robert Summers for the
outrage you have committed, and all will be well, if you persevere in
your good resolutions
I will ask _your_ pardon, Sir Henry, on my knees, for having rebelled
against so good and gracious a commander, and for having struck one of
_your_ officers; but I cannot ask forgiveness of Lord Robert Summers,
since he was the first to injure me, long before I saw this ship
No conditions, sir
they don't become you. But pray
how has my nephew injured you
Lord Robert can inform you
I perceive
there has been some misunderstanding
between you and my nephew, before you came on board the Diomede; but
this is no excuse for your uniformly rebellious conduct. Had you done
your duty as a British sailor, you would have met with encouragement and
mild treatment. My nephew, dear as he is to me, could not have
influenced me to commit an act of injustice against any individual of my
ship's company. Go, and get your hurts examined; and let me have reason
to praise your future conduct
misfortunes never come alone
Haste, with your weapons cut the shrouds and stay,
      And hew at once the mizen-mast away!'
      He said: the attentive sailors on each side,
      At his command the trembling cords divide.
      Fast by the fated pine bold Rodmond stands,
      Th' impatient axe hung gleaming in his hands:
      Brandish'd on high, it fell with dreadful sound:
      The tall mast groaning, felt the deadly wound
They sound the well, and, terrible to hear,
     Five feet immersed along the line appear;
     At either pump they ply the clanking brake,
     And turn by turn the ungrateful office take
While on the quivering deck, from van to rear,
     Broad surges roll in terrible career,
     Rodmond, Arion, and a chosen crew,
     This office in the face of death pursue.
     The wheel'd artillery o'er the deck to guide,
     Rodmond descending, claim'd the weather side.
     Fearless of heart, the chief his orders gave,
     Fronting the rude attacks of every wave.
     Meantime Arion traversing the waist,             }
     The cordage of the leeward guns embraced,        }
     And pointed crows beneath the metal placed.      }
     Watching the roll, their forelocks they withdrew,
     And from their beds the reeling cannon threw.
     Then from the windward battlements unbound,
     Rodmond's associates wheel'd the artillery round;
     Then, hurl'd from sounding hinges o'er the side,
     Thundering they plunge into the flashing tide
Any one but him
My brave fellows! If the attempt seem to you hopeless, I will not urge
you to continue it; but if my single life only were at stake I would
willingly risk it to obtain a supply of water for our famishing
companions
Come, my lads
the gale freshens every minute; let us get
afloat, or we shall scarcely reach the ship before nightfall
Ah, my poor Neptune! Is it you
Yes
the Diomede must indeed
have foundered, or my kind, my benevolent uncle, would never have
committed this old memorial of his lost nephew to the mercy of the
waves, for the sake of lightening the vessel, or saving the morsel of
food he would have consumed
No; I cannot eat these
What cheer,
my lad
Thank God, he lives! I am not then his murderer! It is
true, that entire solitude would have been much more agreeable to me,
than the idea of breathing the same air with him, and being constantly
exposed to the chance of meeting him; but that is more than compensated
by the knowledge that he lives, and is, indeed, no worse off than
myself
A soft answer turneth
away wrath
Can he weep? _he_ that is so hard-hearted and proud
Perhaps his heart is not so very hard
as I have reason to believe
Yes; I must, though most reluctantly, share this only habitable place
with him; for such a day as the last I cannot endure again. Doubtless,
this grove was planted by some benevolent navigator (such as I have
often read of) on the soil formed by the accidental residence of
sea-birds; and the grass and trees&lsqb;4&rsqb; have gradually spread over a small
extent of land. Surely, as it was meant for universal benefit, I have a
right to a share of it
You must shorten the middle leg of your
stool, or it will never stand
Do you think that I can condescend to learn the low mechanic
art of a _carpenter_
Perhaps your
_Lordship_ will in a little time see which is of most service in this
place, _your_ title, or _my_ useful knowledge
Insolent plebeian
do you presume to insult
me
Lord Robert Summers
I would advise you to remember,
that you are neither in your father's park, nor on the deck of the
Diomede, where your imperious temper might be feared and indulged: but
here we are equals; and any outrage, either of words or actions, shall
meet with instant chastisement. I would therefore advise your Lordship
to be more guarded in your language, for it may be followed by
consequences which you may not approve
Villain
do you forget that I am your
commanding officer
No
no:-- you have put it out of my power
ever to forget that you were once enabled to gratify your ungenerous
malice to the utmost stretch of your power. Basely and cruelly did you
trample on me, when you knew that to resist the authority you abused was
impossible. I _was_ your victim, but am so no longer! And
beware how you provoke me to
take such signal vengeance for all the injuries you have inflicted on
me, as shall teach your proud heart to rue the hour that ever you made
Philip Harley the companion of your voyage
It is unnecessary
I am not going to attack you. You
have in many contests proved the strength of this arm: that it always
was superior to yours, I scarcely need remind you. That your late
injuries have not unnerved it, you may well believe; but, as long as you
observe a temperate line of conduct, and discontinue addressing me by
opprobrious names, you need not fear its force
Fear
I fear God; and have no other
fear! Dost thou imagine that I fear aught like thee
Perhaps not
but I would advise you not to provoke me
unnecessarily
house appointed
for all living
It was thy malice, tyrant! that added this worst wrong to all the
rest
that his haughty looks were useless,
when directed to him; and he advised him to reserve them for those who
cared for them, if he could find any such in the island
To the full as many as will endure your low-bred insolence
However, Mr. Harley, if I might
condescend to speak to you in the language of entreaty, it would be to
request the favour of your absence. You have taken possession of the
only habitable spot in the island, and _I_ have not attempted to deprive
you of it; and I think the least you can do, in return for my
moderation, is to leave me undisturbed on my barren domain
If all my security were the _moderation_ of Lord Robert Summers
I should be as soon driven
from my dwelling here as I was forced from the home of my parents: but
here I can, by the strength of my own right hand, maintain my rights;
and whoever attempts to invade them, may chance to repent of his folly
But these
I shall never see again: I shall perish
on this arid, frightful spot, without a living creature near who cares
for me, except my poor Neptune!-- And you, my tender mother, who are so
benevolently solicitous to provide comforts for the sick poor, what
would be your feelings, could you see your unhappy son stretched on this
burning flint
And yet
wretch that I am! I see her darling son,
through the criminal indulgence of my resentful feelings towards him,
reduced to a state so deplorable, that, if his fond mother could behold
him, the sight would kill her
_Water
Augustus! his beloved
brother
to remove him
from that horrid place, and to let him have a better bed than the hard
one on which he lay, which he assured him had sadly bruised his body
Alas! poor sufferer
if you knew to whom you were
addressing these tender names and moving petitions for assistance, your
proud spirit would make you reject my aid with scorn, and you would
perish rather than accept it
However
though I fear my help comes too late, yet you
shall at least die in a more comfortable place than this dreary cave
Why did you not return to
the Valley of Limes
Because
I was ill and alone, and totally unable
to cope with that insolent Harley, who menaced me with his superior
strength
You, Augustus, always blamed me about that
Philip Harley, and said you knew him to be an estimable youth, and that
he had been hardly used through a prejudice I had against him; but what
would you have thought, Augustus, had you seen him clench his hand and
threaten your unhappy brother with personal ill-treatment, when he was
too ill to defend himself from his violence
ices, peaches, and
strawberries
grapes
Harley, I don't deserve this kindness at _your_ hands
Had I avoided him half as carefully as I sought him
he would soon have forgotten an individual so much beneath his own
rank. I am accountable for many of his errors. True, he abused his power
on board the Diomede; but how have I behaved since our residence on this
island
Where am I? How came I here
Be composed, my Lord
Harley
I now comprehend my situation; cease to oppress
me with this unmerited kindness
No! it must not be! I have injured you too deeply! Go, leave
the oppressor to die alone; I saw _you_ suffering, and did not pity you;
and it is not fit for the merciless to receive mercy
Harley
can you forgive me
Ah, my Lord
I have to the full as much reason to ask
your forgiveness. We have both erred, from the indulgence of an
implacable temper; and if you repent of your offences as much as I have
done of my trespasses against you, we may both be, in future, more
acceptable in the eyes of our Heavenly Father, to whom 'hatred, malice,
and all uncharitableness,' are most offensive
Harley
you are too generous! How could I so
cruelly persecute one capable of such noble conduct
Cease to accuse yourself, my Lord; you are too ill to continue this
agitating conversation
No
I feel my thoughts begin to grow confused!
This may be the last interval of reason vouchsafed me; and I would
willingly make use of it to assure you that I die at peace with you, and
blessing you; and may your last hours be sweetened by the remembrance of
your generous conduct to your enemy! When I am no more, save a lock of
my hair, and give it to my mother when you return to England, which you
will soon have an opportunity of doing. Tell her, if I wished to live,
it was to see her again, and to confess to my father that I had been
guilty of prejudicing him against you, Harley, by misrepresenting the
reason of our first quarrel, which was the cause of your being pressed.
Tell me, sincerely, can you forgive me for that, Harley
I can -- I do
and, in
proof that your Lordship exchanges forgiveness with me, give me your
hand
And, oh
who could think that I, who now watch so
anxiously every change of his pallid countenance, could once have taken
delight in provoking him to fight with me, and then took a savage
pleasure in aiming my blows at his face, and disfiguring his fine
features with the marks of my violence? Ruffian that I was
If you, my dear Harley, so severely accuse yourself for what was a just
retaliation for my unfeeling arrogance, what must be my feelings of
self-condemnation for my conduct on board the Diomede, on which I cannot
think without agony
Never think of it again, my Lord
let me
beg you never again to agitate yourself by a painful remembrance of what
is past: I would endure much to see you well and happy
how long he had been awake, and how he found
himself
Long enough to miss you, and well enough to thank you for your
unwearied kindness
Why,
my Lord, did you rise till I was ready to assist you to dress? And,
above all, why do you fatigue yourself by an employment so little
suitable to your rank
Hush! hush! my dear Harley
Not a word about my useless rank now!
Remember _we are equals here_
Alas! my Lord
I perceive you have not wholly
forgiven me, or you would not repeat my impertinence
Which had much _truth_ in it, though I took it so ill at the time
However, Harley, without wishing to refer
to unpleasant occurrences, or designing to wound your feelings, (which I
should be a most ungrateful, cold-hearted fellow, were I to do,) I must
tell you, that I cannot consent to be attended on with the same
deference as if I were his Britannic Majesty in retirement,-- at least,
while I have done nothing to merit such distinction
Ah! my Lord
if you knew the pleasure which the
performance of these little services affords me, you would not wish to
deprive me of it: and, indeed, nothing but your absolute prohibition
shall prevent me from continuing them
You are a noble-minded fellow, Harley; but it is not for me to talk of
prohibiting or commanding _here_, where I am your superior in
nothing
Again, my Lord
Where
I am your inferior in everything, and
am so much in love with your just way of thinking, and noble
independence, that I would willingly imitate both; and, my dear Philip,
you must not take it ill, if I refuse to live by your labours while I
have hands of my own. Tell me, Harley, will you accept such an awkward
fellow as I have proved myself to be, for your pupil
I cannot refuse you anything
but while you are so
debilitated from your long illness, you neither must nor shall do
anything to fatigue yourself
But
perseverance overcomes all difficulties; and before long, I may become
as good a carpenter as I have this morning proved myself a cook
So you doubt my abilities
now that is mortifying, Harley! But I forgive you,
considering that the circumstance of the three-legged stool could not
have impressed you with a very favourable opinion of my genius in such
matters
Let me entreat your Lordship never to allude to my conduct in that
affair again
Now, on the contrary
I have serious
thoughts of fetching the aforesaid stool from under the tree where I so
petulantly flung it; and of soliciting you to lend me that rule and saw,
which I so rudely refused when you would have permitted me to make use
of them to correct my blunders; which was very generous on your part,
considering how awkwardly I handled my only tool, and how easily I might
have injured yours
Had you told me anything but the _truth_
perhaps I might be excused if I repeated your remarks with displeasure.
But the lesson was too salutary to be forgotten. In common with many of
high birth, I have been too much accustomed to the language of flattery,
instead of that of truth and justice; till, forgetting the relative
obligations of society, and never checking the defects of my temper, I
was led to commit outrages on every one who did not yield a blind
submission to my whims. You, Harley, have opened my eyes to my faults;
and it will, in future, be my constant study to correct them, convinced,
as I now am, of the folly of trusting to rank and riches alone for
influence and consideration among my fellow-creatures
What do you think it contains
Tools, I hope
for the chest is weighty
Not tools, but books
Tools would have been of unspeakable service
But these will be of infinitely more service
Lucius Cary
Alas! poor Cary
was it _your_
chest that we thought ourselves so fortunate in finding, and that we
opened with such glee
This
should I ever be permitted to revisit my native
country, I will carry to England, and keep as long as I live, in memory
of our deceased friend
Him Science taught by mystic lore to trace
     The planets wheeling in eternal race;
     To mark the ship in floating balance held,
     By earth attracted, and by seas repelled;
     Or point her devious track through climes unknown,
     That leads to every shore, and every zone.--
     He saw the moon through heaven's blue concave glide,
     And into motion charm the expanding tide;
     While earth impetuous round her axle rolls,
     Exalts her watery zone, and sinks the poles.
     Light and attraction from their genial source,
     He saw still wandering with diminish'd force;
     While on the margin of declining day
     Night's shadowy cone reluctant melts away
That never seaman more serenely brave
    Led Britain's conquering squadrons o'er the wave
Pleasures of Hope
Joy! joy! my dear Harley! I have
just seen a sail, and have hastened home to bring you the delightful
news
Is that all
No, not all
for I climbed to the top of the
cross, and hoisted my handkerchief as a signal of distress. And the lads
are now making the island! And we shall see Old England again, my boy
How now
what are these dismal looks for? Shall you
be sorry to see your home again? Or does the name of England recall to
your remembrance some of my former exploits? Or do you think, if I
found myself on board ship once more, I should feel the temptation of
authority, and play the tyrant again
No
you do me great injustice if you suppose
that I can for a moment form such an opinion of your Lordship
My Lordship, too! Very formal, Mr. Harley!-- But, Philip, my dear
fellow, tell me, what is the matter with you
Nay, then, Harley
I shall
soon begin to think that you are willing to consider our present amity
only in the light of a truce, occasioned by the breaking out of a
pestilence; and that you are anxious to recommence hostilities as soon
as an opportunity offers. But tell me, without more ado, are you
offended with me
Your Lordship is very gay this afternoon
But I
hope I have seen my own errors in too strong a light, and am too well
convinced of my own insignificance, ever to take offence at anything
done by a person of _your_ rank and consequence
How can I share in your joy at the prospect of leaving the island, when
that event will separate us for ever
How so
To be sure, you don't mean to
remain here playing Robinson Crusoe or the Hermit Quarl, by yourself
No
that is not my intention; though,
perhaps, the wisest thing I could do. But the forms of society, you well
know, will as effectually separate us, as if I were to remain here
Is that all?-- Am I, then, so dear to you, Harley
Courage, man! We shall find a way to satisfy the most precise on
the article of etiquette
On the 3rd of June, 17 --, Lieutenant Lord Robert Summers, and Philip
Harley, of his Britannic Majesty's ship of war the Diomede, were by the
especial mercy of God preserved from the fury of the waves, and
permitted to land safely on this island; where, after enduring many
hardships, they became reconciled to their situation, and passed six
months in a state of great happiness, and were at last removed by the
Brazilian ship St. Sebastian
Oh
we are both
able seamen; and, at the worst, we can work our passage in the first
Portuguese vessel that sails for Lisbon: and then, you know, my lad, we
are within a stone's throw of Old England
You work your passage to Europe
Does your Lordship mean to degrade your rank and
talents by taking the berth of a common seaman
Once, perhaps, I might have been alarmed at such an idea
but since my residence on the Island of Probation, I have
learnt the useful lesson, that nothing is really disgraceful but vice;
and that no useful employment can degrade a man, let his rank be what it
may, if there is an actual necessity for his taking it upon him. Of
course, I, Lord Robert Summers, who have the honour to hold the rank of
Lieutenant in his Majesty's navy, would not, willingly take upon myself
the post of a common sailor in the Portuguese service: but will not that
be less disgraceful than applying to some convent here for relief, and
living lazily on their charity till some English ship of war arrives,
whose officers, even if they disbelieve my noble birth, may, by
cross-questioning me, contrive to recognise my rank on the navy-list
But surely it was thoughtless of your Lordship to give away your last
shilling to those imposing fellows, when you have no means of procuring
necessaries in a foreign land; and, you know, your health is still
delicate
But
I never felt the want of money enough to know the
value of it. Perhaps, as there is no infliction of Providence sent in
vain, I may, in the privations which I shall most likely suffer in the
Brazils, be cured of my bad habit of thoughtless extravagance; and if I
can contrive to leave one of my follies at every port we touch at in our
return, I may chance to arrive at home a very perfect character
Look at that vessel, Harley! I protest, if her rigging were not
evidently Portuguese, I should declare it was our old friend the
Diomede! But, alas! that brave bark foundered in the heavy gale which we
escaped
If these fellows knew the
state of your Lordship's purse, they would not move their oars quite so
nimbly
neither would they
pay such regard to your impatient gestures to quicken their motions; and
you might chance to get thrown into the sea, in return for your
vociferating, in Spanish, that they are the laziest dogs you ever met
with
But, Philip, how came you, who are not quite so familiar in the Spanish
terms of abuse as I am, to guess what I was saying to them
Truly, my Lord
I guessed, by your tone and manner, that
you were not addressing the most polite expressions to them: and it
would perhaps be prudent to remember, that you are not _their_
commanding officer; therefore, they are not obliged to put up with any
incivility
True, Philip; I certainly have no right to abuse them; and I perceive I
have already violated one of my good resolutions, by giving way to my
usual intemperance of tongue, on a very slight occasion. Tell me,
Harley, were you not astonished, after all I had determined on that
subject, to see me swaggering and ordering about me, in the boat, quite
in my old way
No, my Lord
for I have always heard that good
resolutions are much easier made than adhered to
Well, well! my dear Harley, I must exert all my strength of mind to
adhere to mine, though I own this is but a bad beginning
It is a British ship of the line, though Portuguese rigged
It is the Diomede itself
Oh, my beloved uncle! My heroic commander! Shall I see you again
Can it be?-- Is it possible
Look up, my dear boy
Look up, and let me once more behold that beloved face, which I never
thought to have seen again
Compose yourself, my dear boy
or you will give these
gentlemen reason to suspect that it is one of your sisters, who has
taken it into her head to assume the appearance of my brave young
lieutenant
And now
I hope that you will consider how powerfully
the curiosity of all present is excited, to learn by what means you have
been enabled to appear among us alive and well, when we thought we saw
you perish before our eyes, without being able to render you any
assistance, and after we had deeply deplored your loss
For this interview
under the especial providence of God,
you must thank my kind preserver, the brave and noble-minded Harley
Ah, my dear uncle
you know not half his merit yet; nor are you aware
of half my unworthiness
Aware of your unworthiness! No, my dear boy -- that is what I hope I
shall never be
I fear
you will have reason to blush for your
nephew soon; for I must summon courage to relate to you a story which
will, I fear, deprive me of your affection and esteem for ever
I shall be sorry to hear anything that is likely to have such effects
Ah! my poor books
the chest was weighty; and, in the
extremity to which we were reduced, after you left the ship, we threw it
overboard, in common with everything else that was likely to lighten the
ship
And pray, how came my poor Neptune overboard? Did you commit him to the
mercy of the waves in order to lighten the ship
What became of Neptune we never knew
but we supposed that
he went away with the pinnace; for in the height of our distress, when
all on board expected the Diomede to founder every minute, the
boatswain, with one midshipman, and two or three sailors, contrived to
lower the pinnace and steal away, selfishly leaving their commander and
messmates to endure the worst; and, most likely, Neptune, being uneasy
at missing his master, jumped into the boat and went with them
They met with a fitting reward for their cowardly desertion
for Neptune was the only creature that reached the island with
life: some of the bodies we found and buried. But how came the ship to
reach the shore of Brazil
By the mercy of Heaven, we met some Brazilian proas, which took us on
board, and the Diomede in tow; and, having favourable winds and a smooth
sea, we contrived to get the hulk into the King's dock at Rio de
Janeiro; where, being a fine new ship, she was found worth repairing and
refitting; and here we have been ever since, the Portuguese workmen
being very slow in their operations
We had six Portuguese caulkers to assist our carpenters, who
were paid at the rate of 6s. per diem; though it is certain an English
caulker could do as much in one day as they did in three; but, though
slow and inactive, they perform their work very effectually
Joy, my dear Harley! My noble uncle has forgiven me! For I have
confessed everything that has passed between us; and so highly does he
approve of your generous conduct towards me, that he has granted my
earnest request of placing you on the quarter-deck of the Diomede, where
you are now privileged to appear with the other midshipmen
It is not
because I am proud and ambitious, and you have raised me
from my lowly rank, and given me an opportunity of distinguishing
myself -- this is, indeed, much,-- but it is not that which makes my heart
overflow with joy: it is the consciousness that I shall now sometimes be
suffered to be near you, and that my humble situation will not deprive
me of your friendship
Now, my dear friend
I must leave you, though
against my wishes: as the barge is waiting to convey my uncle on shore,
to spend two days with the Governor, and it is his pleasure that I shall
attend him. You will, in the mean time, find sufficient amusement, I
doubt not, among your brother officers
Well might Lord Robert have been enraged at my repeated trespasses
I went on deck with a heart full of goodwill to every one
and expecting to find every one there noble, generous, and refined,
like yourself. But see how they have treated me
For which, my young friend, you have no one to blame but yourself
You perhaps forget, but they doubtless remember, that at the time you
thought proper to act the part of a mutineer, among the other
accomplishments of that character, you had a most provoking tongue; and
there is not one of these gentlemen but has had a specimen of your
sarcastic repartees, addressed to them, while in the lawful exercise of
the authority with which their country has intrusted them. And they now
think fit to show how much they disapprove of your former conduct when
on board the Diomede, and that they do not think one worthy to command
who formerly would not obey
Nonsense! Cary; they must have seen that I only was to blame for his
behaviour then
Perhaps, as far as related to the blow which he struck, you were
and during your residence at the island, to which you
have given so _appropriate_ a name, it appears he completely satisfied
you for all his offences, and forgave you for yours. But, remember, the
other officers who had given him no reasonable cause of offence, are not
obliged to look over all the saucy speeches he addressed to them,
because a reconciliation has taken place between you
But when they know all his noble conduct to me, they must and shall
treat him with respect
Gentlemen
give me leave to present to you my friend, Mr.
Harley; for whose former faults I own myself more than answerable. He
is sensible that you all have had cause to be offended with him at
different times; but he trusts that you will have reason in future to
forget the rashness of the pressed man in the merits of the midshipman;
to which rank our noble captain, in reward of his valour in the last
engagement, has thought proper to promote him. I say nothing of his
admirable conduct to myself; though, I trust, that, with all my faults,
his having been the means of saving my life will be a recommendation to
my brother officers; and I should hope that his lowly birth will not be
remembered to his prejudice by officers of the British navy, whose boast
it is that some of its proudest ornaments&lsqb;7&rsqb; have risen from before the
mast
Spoken like yourselves, my gallant friends
it shall never be said
by our enemies, that valour and merit were slighted in the British navy,
unless recommended by the adventitious advantages of rank or riches in
their possessor
I will overcome it
Arthur
Arthur
your father is away; but tell him from me to take
care of your aunt Rachel and your cousin Phoebe: I have little to
leave them; for the farm is entailed on my eldest son, and must descend
to you. Tell him that my dying request is, that he will never suffer
them to want a home. They will find, in my oaken box, eighty guineas in
a yellow canvas bag, and my will, which directs the money to be divided
between them. And now, Arthur, my dear boy, you have ever been a dutiful
child to me; be the same to your father, whatever his commands may be,
and make it your rule to do your duty in that state of life unto which
it may please God to call you
Oh, Arthur
we
shall never see May-flowers again without mourning
Never fear, pretty one, I'll take care of you and your mother; you
shall never want for a shilling, whilst Wat Ridley has one, if it's only
for the sake of poor brother Hugh. Your uncle Hugh was a brave fellow,
Arthur! I wish I could see some of his manly spirit in you, boy!-- So,
sister Rachel, you shall live in the farm, and look after the kine and
sheep, and live as comfortably as you can. If you have a shiner or two
over and above at the end of the year for me, it's all very well; and if
you have not, I shan't complain; so don't starve your little one here.
And when Arthur and I come back, after roving the salt waters for five
or six years, mayhap we may stay at home for good; that is, if Phoebe
should like the lad for a husband, and he should fancy her
Are you determined that I shall be a sailor
Hark'e, boy
I am determined to make a man of
you. So don't let's have any puling and muling, but pluck up a good
heart: and if you be a coward, don't show it. I have bought a good tight
ship at Hamburgh, and have laid out all my earnings for these twenty
years, that I may be owner of the vessel I sail in; she is freighted
with a valuable cargo, and will soon sail for Norway; and you are to
have a berth in her: so say no more, for I have made up my mind on the
matter
I shall leave them in the bosom of our peaceful
home
so I must not displease my father, for he must have
a good heart to be so kind to them
No, no
the boy has been made too much of a pet
and cosset already. I shall fit him out with check-shirts and blue
jackets at Newcastle. I'll make a brave fellow of him, I warrant you.
There's been too many parsons and farmers among the Ridleys. Nobody
would believe they came of the same bold fellows who used to ride the
border some three hundred years ago. Who ever heard of a boy making a
brave, manly character, who spent his time lounging at the tails of two
or three kine or sheep? So, Arthur, my boy, your aunt and cousin will
find you quite a different sort of a lad when you come home from your
first voyage
Well, Captain
what do you think of our
young seaman now? To my mind, he will turn out as brave a fellow as ever
stepped between stem and stern
He is better than might be expected from his breeding
but I doubt he will turn out a sad chicken-hearted
thing in time of danger
We shall see
but if young Arthur don't show more
spirit than many of those who talk big and bluster, never believe a word
that old Jack Travers says to you again
Well, well, old shipmate, I wish it may be as you say; but, I own, I
have not such good hopes of him
The last ship I sailed in
the unfortunate Daedalus, was wrecked on one of the small
islands that stud the coast of Norway, off Drontheim. Now, there was no
very good understanding between the English and the subjects of the King
of Denmark, because of the battle of Copenhagen, the carnage of which
was so great as to occasion general mourning and sorrow throughout
Denmark and Norway. However, the brave Norwegians did not look upon us
in the light of enemies, but as suffering and shipwrecked men, and
treated us most kindly during the time we remained with them; which was
more than three of their winter months. A merchant of Drontheim gave me
a berth in a ship of his, that was bound to Hamburgh; and there I met
with your father, Arthur, who never was yet the man to see an old
shipmate in distress without giving a helping hand. He offered to put me
as mate in the Aurora, which he had just purchased. So here I am; but
whether my bad fortune will pursue me still, I know not
I hope not
for it is hard, at your time of life, to be
without the means of obtaining those comforts you will soon greatly
need: but did you not spend your time very miserably, to pass so many
months in a strange country, the language of which was unknown to you
As for that
thank God! I am not given to be very
miserable anywhere. A seaman, who knows his duty, bears cheerfully
whatever hap Heaven may send him. But in fact, I never passed any time
pleasanter than I did in Norway. We were quartered on the farmers and
pilots who inhabited the coast where we were thrown. The good people,
instead of murmuring at the burden of our maintenance, came down with
their sledges, and contended whose home should afford shelter to the
shipwrecked strangers. I was not willing to eat the bread of idleness,
so I lent a helping hand to whatever work was going forward. As to
language, I found the inhabitants of the sea-coast very familiar with
the English tongue; and I knew a little German, by reason of trading to
Hamburgh; so, between the two, we made out very well. The coast of
Norway is tremendous to the sailor at the fall of the year, when the
equinoctial winds begin to blow; as you will judge when I tell you the
observations I have made during my acquaintance with it. The coast
extending upwards of three hundred leagues, is beset with a multitude of
small islands, affording habitations to fishermen and pilots, and
pasture to a few cattle. They form an infinite number of narrow
channels, and a natural barrier of rocks, which render Norway
inaccessible to the naval power of its enemies. Attempts of this kind
are the more dangerous, as the shore is generally bold, steep, and
impending; so that, close to the rocks, the depth of the sea amounts to
one hundred, two hundred, and even three hundred fathoms. You may easily
judge of the fate of the unfortunate ship that is hurled by tempests
against any of these frightful rocks: if she breaks, she instantly
fills, and must go down into a dreadful depth of water; and it is only
by the most signal mercy that any of the crew is ever saved. The perils
of the North Sea are also increased by sudden streams, sunk rocks,
violent currents, and dreadful whirlpools. The most remarkable vortex on
the coast is called Moskoestrom, from the small island Moskoe,
belonging to the district Lofoden. In time of flood, the stream runs up
between Lofoden and Moskoe, with the most boisterous rapidity; but in
its ebb to the sea it roars like a hundred cataracts, so as to be heard
at the distance of many leagues. On the surface are many vortices; and
if in one of those any ship be absorbed, it is whirled down to the
bottom, and dashed in pieces against the rocks.

"When its fury has been heightened by a storm, no vessel ought to
venture within a league of it. Whales are frequently absorbed within the
vortex, and howl and bellow hideously during their fruitless endeavours
to free themselves. A bear, in attempting to swim from Lofoden to
Moskoe, was once hurried to this whirlpool, from which he struggled in
vain for deliverance, roaring so loud as to be heard on shore; but,
notwithstanding all his efforts, he was borne down and destroyed. Large
trees, being drawn into the current, are sucked down, and rise again all
shattered to splinters. There are three vortices of the same kind near
the islands of Ferroe
Is it possible
can this blooming land be one of the coldest and most barren
regions of the North
Ah
but you see it in the midst of its short, lovely
summer; its aspect would be bleak and horrid, were you to visit it
during the nine winter months. Were you to hear the roaring of the winds
among the mountains, the fall of great heaps of snow, and oftentimes of
huge masses of stone and rocks from their heights -- sometimes choking up
the course of rivers, and overwhelming the cottages of the peasants -- you
would then hardly believe that the return of the sun could produce so
much beauty as you now see before you
I have heard
that, farther to the North, the sun never
sets in the height of summer, nor rises in the depth of winter
I have been at Tronsen
near the northern extremity
of this country, where the sun is continually in view at midsummer; I
have seen it circulate day and night round the North Pole, contracting
its orbit, and then gradually enlarging it, until it leaves the horizon.
In the depth of the winter, therefore, it is for some weeks invisible:
and all the light perceived at noon is a faint glimmering, for about one
hour and a half, which proceeds from the sun's rays being reflected from
the highest mountains. But the inhabitants have other lights, by which
they follow their work in the open air. The sky being very clear, the
moonshine is remarkably bright: they are likewise much assisted by the
Northern Lights,&lsqb;10&rsqb; which are very frequent in these parts of Europe
My grandfather showed me the Northern Lights once, in Cumberland
and told me they signified that something very dreadful would
soon happen to the country; for they were never seen but when famine, or
plagues or rebellions were about to come to pass. What do you think
about it, Travers? are such bad things very common in Norway
Not that ever I heard
Indeed, the poor people
would be in a desperate way, if they were to have plagues and battles
every time they saw the Northern Lights. Why, Arthur, they see them as
often as we see the stars in England; and I have read, on a Sunday
night, the psalm for the day out of my prayer-book, as plain in the open
air, at ten o'clock, as ever I did by a candle. But that's the way with
you landsmen: you sit at home and scare yourselves, and shake your wise
heads, and prophesy evil, if a little glimmer reaches you of what is as
common as the air you breathe in other countries
Look
abaft, Captain; for I think we are chased
Here
my poor
father will be dragged to a French prison, and there he must die; for,
in his weak state, the hardships he will have to go through will
certainly kill him; and, perhaps, I shall never see England, nor my
home, nor my cousin Phoebe again! Is there no remedy to be found for
all this
What hinders our retaking the ship? Surely it might be
done with a little prudence and courage
And dare you venture on a scheme so full of peril? Can you look death
stoutly in the face? For I tell you plainly, if we should fail, death,
without mercy, would be our portion. Think on it, boy, and search your
own mind; for an undertaking of this kind requires a cool head and an
undaunted heart
I dare
I will
freely venture my life to regain the ship and our liberty. Think of a
plan, and I will do my part as far as my strength will go
I have thought much of it already
but your years
were so tender, that I mistrusted your prudence, though not your
courage. If we attempt it, we must proceed by art, rather than by force.
We must take the opportunity of mastering the French, when one part of
the crew are asleep and the other off their guard
In the night, I suppose
Yes
It will be a sanguinary business; but the
provocation was theirs. Surely a man may strive even unto death for his
liberty
Ah
but it is a frightful thing to murder so many
sleeping men -- to send so many to their great account, without a moment's
warning. I have thought that it is possible to take them prisoners
without hurting them
Well
let us hear your plan. I should be glad of
anything that would save me the horrid work of despatching sleeping
men
If I had a large gimblet and a dozen strong nails
I
would engage to secure all the Frenchmen but two, without hurting a hair
of their heads
Yours seems a notable plan
and if it is only the want
of such tools that stops you, here is a great gimblet that the
Frenchmen lent me, instead of a corkscrew, and you will find two or
three hundred large nails in that cupboard. But tell me how such a
little fellow as you can think of mastering six stout men
You know
that if a hole were bored in the panels of
our sleeping berths, and a nail slipped in when they are shut, it would
be impossible to slide them back, to open them. I go about the ship
without being suspected, and could take the opportunity, when the men
are all on deck, of boring a hole, and fitting a strong nail in each
berth, ready to be put in when I choose; and when the Frenchmen are all
safe asleep in their berths, I may put in the nails, and they will be as
safe as if they were caught in so many traps
It is an ingenious scheme
and I allow that it has
every prospect of success. To-night, therefore, we will make the
attempt; for every hour brings us nearer to Dunkirk. But hark'e, Arthur;
don't let your father know our plan till it has either succeeded or
failed; for he is so impatient, and still so weak, that the suspense
would probably kill him
It will be much the best
but I must go, for the
Frenchmen are all on deck,-- so now or never
Every
man in the ship is secured excepting two; one of whom is at the helm,
and the other in the shrouds: master them, and the ship is ours
Now
you must take the helm, my friend; whilst I go
below, and set at liberty our two shipmates, who are confined between
decks
I
have just been wakened
by those detestable Frenchmen making
the most hateful noise I ever heard: I thought they were certainly
murdering you all
Come, come, Walter
don't look so sulky at the most
noble boy that ever a father was blessed with: but take Arthur in your
arms, and thank him for the recovery of your ship and of your liberty
What
have we met with one of our cruisers? And
are we retaken? Well, Travers, if you are in your right wits, and know
what you are talking of, this is the news that will presently make me
well again
Did I say that we had fallen in with any of our ships
But I tell you now, in plain English, that by the prudence and
courage of your brave boy, your ship is your own again: we are all
free; the Frenchmen are in irons; and we have tacked about for Old
England, instead of being carried into Dunkirk
And _Arthur_, you say, has done all this; but how?-- You are not given
to tell lies, Jack Travers,-- and yet I can hardly believe it
I don't wonder that you can't
for I can scarcely
trust my own senses that it is so. But this is the short of the matter:
Arthur, this morning, contrived a scheme for fastening the Frenchmen in
their berths when they were asleep. He went away to prepare matters for
it. The attempt was not to have been made till night. But, to my
surprise, he came to me, an hour ago, and told me he had all our enemies
secure, except two. Those we easily managed; and, after getting the
assistance of our two men, we as easily mastered the others. How Arthur
contrived to execute his plan so soon, he can best tell you, for I have
not yet heard
You know
I left you with the intention of fitting the
nails into the panels. I got safely into the cabin, where they slept,
and soon bored all the holes; but when I came to fit in my nails, I
found they might be pushed out with a violent shake; and, you know, they
could not be knocked in tight without a great noise. For some minutes I
thought our scheme was at an end; but at last I remembered there was a
paper of large screws in the locker. These I soon found, and made holes
in the top and bottom of each panel, and then greased the screws; so
that I could put them all in with a screw-driver without the least
noise. I likewise greased the slides of the panels, that they might slip
easily. Well, while I was at work, I recollected that the Frenchmen were
in the habit of sleeping for an hour or two in the middle of the day,
leaving only two men on deck. This, therefore, appeared the best time
for the execution of our plan; for it was likely we might blunder in the
dark, and they were off their guard and in such security in the middle
of the day, that I was determined to try. About three o'clock, they all
came down and tumbled into their berths. I waited more than half an
hour, and then stole into the cabin, hoping they were asleep. Some of
the panels were open; my hands trembled as I closed them; but
fortunately I made no noise. After I had put in the screws, I tried
every panel, and found that all were well secured. I then went to you:
and, by the blessing of Heaven, everything has thus far gone
prosperously
And all we have now to do
is to keep what we have
gained; that, Arthur, is not the least part of the work: but there shall
be no exertion wanting on my part to bring the good ship safe into an
English port
And, Travers, my friend
I need
hardly tell you, that whilst I have a guinea, you shall share it; and
whilst I have a home, it shall shelter you
Father
I am very young, and have a life before me that
I am now convinced may be more usefully employed than in a state of
inactive ease. I will serve my country with alacrity; and I pray God I
may be able to do something for her service
Do thy duty in
that state of life unto which it shall please God to call thee
God
bless the poor babes
they are all that is left me of my
good dutiful James: I will do my best to bring them up; and, if my life
be spared so long, I may see them prove a blessing and a comfort to me;
and, perhaps, they may lay my head in the same grave with my poor son
Before the winter comes again
my little boys will run
alone; and when these aged arms are relieved from their heavy burden, I
shall be able to work hard for their living
I have staid later than usual, granny
to look after the horses of some gentry, who have just arrived
at the Hall to spend the Christmas holidays; but the good 'Squire has
sent you this nice piece of beef for your dinner to-morrow, and this
wood to warm your poor limbs this bitter weather
May heaven bless both you and your good master
and may both he and his ever have good cheer and warm fires, when the
cold and hard weather comes on! But, James, have you seen your brother
I have been lucky to-day,
grandmother
I have caught as many fish along-shore as I sold
in the town for seven groats. Here is the money; let it be put in the
earthen pot, with the rest that is to buy you a red cloak this cold
weather
Thank you, my dear Michael
how good and dutiful you both
are! The time was, when I thought that the Almighty had dealt hardly in
taking from the lone widow her only son,-- but he has restored me that
blessing in a twofold degree; and if I could but see you take to quiet
farming-work like James
Well
I will do my best to like it: though, I am
afraid, I shall never get over my wish to be a sailor. But look at these
fine fish! I might have sold them in town; but, I thought, as it was
Christmas-tide, that you should have them for supper
Heaven help them
it is some poor distressed ship's crew at
sea, firing guns for help this stormy night. Oh, Michael! this is what
you wish for! This is the life you love so much! Can you say you wish to
be a sailor now
I wish
I had been sailor enough to go off in the
pilot-boat I saw trying to put off just now as I came under the cliffs.
There's a brave ship -- a king's ship, I believe,-- has been in distress
all the evening; and they want a pilot to go to her, for they fear she
will be driven by the gale right on to the bar;-- but the wind and waves
run so contrary, that though they have been trying for this hour, they
cannot get the boat off. Hark! there is another gun! She has certainly
struck! Oh that I could help them
Oh, stay, my dear boy
don't go off to
sea! Don't let me see another child perish before these old eyes
No
I will not disobey you; besides, I
have not experience enough to be of any great use. Our brave pilots
would help them, if help were possible
See, brother
there lies the ship; she is beating on the
Barnet-reef, sure enough; and yet the moon shines bright through the
storm
Yes
and could they have got a pilot that knew the
coast, they might have been saved. Look! they are putting out boats.
See! There are two
Where? where
the white flashing billows dazzle my eyes.
I can see but one little black speck dancing among the waves
Oh, yes
even I can see two; but they will never reach the
shore. See, there goes down one of them
No, no! I hope not
it is only hidden for a moment
between the high waves
I tell you it is gone
Alas! I know that shocking sight
too well?-- Don't I _know_ what it is to see a boat swallowed by the sea?
Come in, boys, or I shall think I see your father again washed on shore
at my feet
Go you in
but I will stay and see if indeed some one
be thrown on shore; for we may give timely help
Is he dead
I am afraid
that the waves, in throwing him ashore,
have beaten the breath out of him; but he was alive just now, for I saw
him struggle with the breakers
Then the storm has spared one of the bravest captains in his Majesty's
fleet
What! is he a sea-captain
Yes
our brave Captain Lucas
Is that you, Tom
Yes, your Honour
Only ten
the long-boat came safe ashore; and
several of those in the boat with you were picked up by the good
town's-people. We thought all night that you were lost: it would have
been a bitter loss to us, Captain; for you are, indeed, the sailor's
friend. It was a dreadful sight for us to see your boat go down; but
your Honour knows that we all begged you to go in the long-boat, for we
said the other could not live in such a sea
Well, Tom
mine was but a single life; most of you
were fathers and husbands. I am thankful that so many have been spared;
and, as for myself, I could not have fallen into better hands. Mind and
get a good Christmas dinner, you and your messmates, to cheer your poor
hearts; I'll be at the expense: thank God! I have enough to spare a few
comforts for my brave sailors, after all their sufferings
You are the
brave fellow
that pulled me ashore
I helped my brother James
It is not always
that shipwrecked men fall into
such good hands; but it shall be the better for you, my lad
My young friend, I thought of
giving you and your brother the watch and rings which I had about me
when I was thrown ashore; but I think these pieces will be more
serviceable: and I give them to you as much for your uncommon honesty as
the humanity you have shown to me
Ah, Sir
you could do me
a favour, that I should prize more than your little golden clock&lsqb;12&rsqb; and
all the Caroluses&lsqb;13&rsqb; in the world
Ah
and what is that, my lad
To persuade my grandmother to let me go to sea with you
Well, my brave boy, I should be glad to have you under my command. What
do you say, Amy? You hear your grandson's wish. But, remember, that I
will never repay your hospitality so basely, as to take him away without
your consent
Well, your Honour, as it is Michael's desire, and as he has
wished it for a long time, I wont deny him; for I see his heart is
wholly set on being a sailor. I should have thought that the lives he
had just seen lost would have shown him his folly; but, as it is, I
would rather he should go to sea with such a noble gentleman as yourself
than with any one else
While I can have Captain Lucas for a commander, and King Charles for a
master
I never will serve a Suffolk farmer
I know the Captain wont despise me for crying
I saw _him_ weep when the poor sailors were
buried
Ay! ay
he has a tender heart, and he is the better for it,
and so are you; and considering as how you are but a young one, I think
you have borne it very well. Why I sometimes pipe a bit myself when I
bid good b'ye to my Jane, and mother, and the little ones
The sea-fight has surely begun
so
near in shore! Our cottage will certainly be knocked down with the
balls
Well might you hear their guns, I guess,
    From Sizewell Gap to Easton Ness;
    They fill'd up all the hollow coast,
    From Walberswick to Dunwich
But, who knows
but I may drag her into the very danger she dreads so much
It is my own
boy Michael
Yes, it is Michael
Ah, my poor grandmother! and my dear James
I have come
home to you in a sorrowful hour! My noble Captain is mortally wounded
Is this the brave gentleman who took you away, and behaved so kindly to
us? Alas, how wan he looks
But you look as white and ill as he does, Michael
Yes
I was wounded whilst fighting near him -- I return to my
home once more; but it is to die. Our Captain's brother took the command
of the ship after he fell; and when the fight slackened, he sent the
boat ashore with him, in hopes of getting better assistance. He did not
know I was wounded, but he told me to go on shore with my master, and
take care of him. Instead of suffering the sailors to take him to the
town, I bade them steer direct for the cottage on the beach. He laid his
noble head there when he was in distress before; and I resolved that he
should not die among strangers
William
is England victorious
Oh yes, Charles! The Duke has gained the
battle, but it is a dearly-purchased victory
Many a one has fallen, William, who will be more missed than I shall
be
I have but one dear brother to weep my
loss.-- Hear my last request: you know, by my will, you inherit my
estates;-- but give my faithful Michael the gold in my portmanteau, and a
hundred pounds besides, to be divided between him and his brother: if
Michael should die, give his share to his grandmother -- I fear I have
robbed her of one of the props of her age! It is owing to the good
inhabitants of this cottage that my death has been a glorious one: three
years ago they saved my life from the waves on this coast
</text>
