<text>
What! that wicked, brave, delightful Prince Bulbo
so handsome, so accomplished, so witty -- the conqueror of
Rimbombamento, where he slew ten thousand giants
Who told you of him, my dear
A little bird
Poor Giglio
Bother Giglio
I wish
I wish Giglio was
Was better? Yes, dear, he is better
Angelica's
little maid, Betsinda, told me so when she came to my room this morning
with my early tea
You are always drinking tea
It is better than drinking port or brandy and water
Well, well, my dear, I only said you were fond of drinking tea
Angelica! I hope you have plenty of new dresses; your milliners' bills
are long enough. My dear Queen, you must see and have some parties. I
prefer dinners, but of course you will be for balls. Your everlasting
blue velvet quite tires me: and, my love, I should like you to have a
new necklace. Order one. Not more than a hundred or a hundred and fifty
thousand pounds
And Giglio, dear
GIGLIO MAY GO TO THE
Oh, sir
Your own nephew! our late King's only
son
Giglio may go to the tailor's, and order the bills to be sent in to
Glumboso to pay. Confound him! I mean bless his dear heart. He need want
for nothing; give him a couple of guineas for pocket-money, my dear;
and you may as well order yourself bracelets while you are about the
necklace, Mrs. V
Ha, ha, ha! now Valoroso
is a man again
But oh
ere I was a
king, I needed not this intoxicating draught; once I detested the hot
brandy wine, and quaffed no other fount but nature's rill. It dashes not
more quickly o'er the rocks than I did, as, with blunderbuss in hand,
I brushed away the early morning dew, and shot the partridge, snipe, or
antlered deer! Ah! well may England's dramatist remark, "Uneasy lies
the head that wears a crown!" Why did I steal my nephew's, my young
Giglio's --? Steal! said I? no, no, no, not steal, not steal. Let me
withdraw that odious expression. I took, and on my manly head I set, the
royal crown of Paflagonia; I took, and with my royal arm I wield, the
sceptral rod of Paflagonia; I took, and in my outstretched hand I hold,
the royal orb of Paflagonia! Could a poor boy, a snivelling, drivelling
boy -- was in his nurse's arms but yesterday, and cried for sugarplums and
puled for pap -- bear up the awful weight of crown, orb, sceptre? gird
on the sword my royal fathers wore, and meet in fight the tough Crimean
foe
Not now. Business first; pleasure afterwards. I will go and see
dear Giglio this afternoon; and now I will drive to the jeweller's, to
look for the necklace and bracelets
What good am I
doing by sending this Princess to sleep for a hundred years? by fixing a
black pudding on to that booby's nose? by causing diamonds and pearls to
drop from one little girl's mouth, and vipers and toads from another's?
I begin to think I do as much harm as good by my performances. I might
as well shut my incantations up, and allow things to take their natural
course.

'There were my two young goddaughters, King Savio's wife, and Duke
Padella's wife, I gave them each a present, which was to render them
charming in the eyes of their husbands, and secure the affection of
those gentlemen as long as they lived. What good did my Rose and my Ring
do these two women? None on earth. From having all their whims indulged
by their husbands, they became capricious, lazy, ill-humoured, absurdly
vain, and leered and languished, and fancied themselves irresistibly
beautiful, when they were really quite old and hideous, the ridiculous
creatures! They used actually to patronise me when I went to pay them
a visit -- ME, the Fairy Blackstick, who knows all the wisdom of the
necromancers, and could have turned them into baboons, and all their
diamonds into strings of onions, by a single wave of my rod
My poor child, the
best thing I can send you is a little MISFORTUNE
My good woman (for the Fairy was very familiar, and
no more minded a Queen than a washerwoman)-- my good woman, these people
who are following you will be the first to turn against you; and as for
this little lady, the best thing I can wish her is a LITTLE MISFORTUNE
What an odious Fairy she is (they said)-- a
pretty Fairy, indeed! Why, she went to the King of Paflagonia's
christening, and pretended to do all sorts of things for that family;
and what has happened -- the Prince, her godson, has been turned off his
throne by his uncle. Would we allow our sweet Princess to be deprived of
her rights by any enemy? Never, never, never, never
Never, never, never, never
Any one rebel against our beloved and august
Monarch
any one resist HIM? Pooh! He is
invincible, irresistible. He will bring home Padella a prisoner, and tie
him to a donkey's tail, and drive him round the town, saying, "This is
the way the Great Cavolfiore treats rebels
Countess! Duchess
Tountess, Duttess
bring me my mutton sop; my Royal Highness
hungy! Tountess! Duttess
So the poor little Princess is done for
well, what's done
can't be helped. Gentlemen, let us go to luncheon
Git away, hold Blackstick
I tell you, Master and Missis
ain't at home to you
whether she thought he was a going to stay at
that there door hall day
You ARE going to stay at that door all day and all night, and for many
a long year
Ha, ha, ha! this is a good un! Ha -- ah -- what's
this? Let me down -- O -- o -- H'm
O -- o -- H'm
Hullo, my dear! you have
had a new knocker put on the door. Why, it's rather like our porter in
the face! What has become of that boozy vagabond
You little wretch, who let you in here
Div me dat bun
me vely hungy
Hungry! what is that
Oh, Princess
how good, how kind, how truly
angelical you are! See, Your Majesties
how kind the
Princess is! She met this little dirty wretch in the garden -- I can't
tell how she came in here, or why the guards did not shoot her dead at
the gate!-- and the dear darling of a Princess has given her the whole of
her bun
I didn't want it
But you are a darling little angel all the same
Yes; I know I am
Dirty little girl, don't you think
I am very pretty
Oh, pooty, pooty
Oh,
what fun to have a plum bun! how I wis it never was done
I can dance as well as sing
I can dance, and I
can sing, and I can do all sorts of ting
Who was your mother -- who were your relations, little girl
Little lion was my brudder; great big lioness my
mudder; neber heard of any udder
Mamma, my parrot flew away yesterday out
of its cage, and I don't care any more for any of my toys; and I think
this funny little dirty child will amuse me. I will take her home, and
give her some of my old frocks
Oh, the generous darling
Which I have worn ever so many times, and am quite tired of
and she shall be my little maid. Will you come home with me,
little dirty girl
Go home with you -- yes! You pooty
Princess!-- Have a nice dinner, and wear a new dress
These were the old clothes in which little BETSINDA was found
when the great goodness and admirable kindness of Her Royal Highness the
Princess Angelica received this little outcast
My good Betsinda, you may as well finish
what I have begun
Yes, miss
Was there ever a genius
like Angelica
There is the Bear
Where
Don't be afraid,
Angelica! if a dozen bears come, I will kill them rather than they shall
hurt you
Oh, you silly creature
you are very good, but
you are not very wise
when Prince Giglio marries his cousin and comes to the throne, what a
pretty position we shall be in, whom he dislikes, and who have always
been unkind to him. We shall lose our places in a trice; Mrs. Gruffanuff
will have to give up all the jewels, laces, snuff-boxes, rings, and
watches which belonged to the Queen, Giglio's mother; and Glumboso will
be forced to refund two hundred and seventeen thousand millions nine
hundred and eighty-seven thousand four hundred and thirty-nine pounds,
thirteen shillings, and sixpence halfpenny, money left to Prince Giglio
by his poor dear father
He flatters very much
Nay
I am above flattery, and I think he did not make my
picture handsome enough. I can't bear to hear a man of genius unjustly
cried down, and I hope my dear papa will make Lorenzo a knight of his
Order of the Cucumber
Dear Signor Lorenzo, who is this
I never saw anyone so handsome
That
that, Madam, is the portrait of my august
young master, his Royal Highness Bulbo, Crown Prince of Crim Tartary,
Duke of Acroceraunia, Marquis of Poluphloisboio, and Knight Grand Cross
of the Order of the Pumpkin. That is the order of the Pumpkin glittering
on his manly breast, and received by His Royal Highness from his august
father, His Majesty King PADELLA I., for his gallantry at the battle
of Rimbombamento, when he slew with his own princely hand the King
of Ograria and two hundred and eleven giants of the two hundred and
eighteen who formed the King's bodyguard. The remainder were destroyed
by the brave Crim Tartar army after an obstinate combat, in which the
Crim Tartars suffered severely
He is as accomplished as he is brave
He knows all languages perfectly: sings deliciously: plays every
instrument: composes operas which have been acted a thousand nights
running at the Imperial Theatre of Crim Tartary, and danced in a ballet
there before the King and Queen; in which he looked so beautiful, that
his cousin, the lovely daughter of the King of Circassia, died for love
of him
Why did he not marry the poor Princess
Because they were FIRST COUSINS, Madam, and the clergy forbid these
unions
And, besides, the young Prince had given his
royal heart ELSEWHERE
And to whom
I am not at liberty to mention the Princess's name
But you may tell me the first letter of it
That Your Royal Highness is at liberty to guess
Does it begin with a Z
O dearest Gruffanuff
lend me your
smelling-bottle
Ah, Signor, can it be A
It was A; and though I may not, by my Royal Master's orders, tell Your
Royal Highness the Princess's name, whom he fondly, madly, devotedly,
rapturously loves, I may show you her portrait
Which among you can paint a picture like that
Aha! we see how things are going
Betsinda, Betsinda, how is the Princess Angelica
The Princess is very well, thank you, my
Lord
Betsinda, has the Princess Angelica asked for
me today
No, my Lord, not today
she
was very busy practicing the piano when I saw her
she was writing
invitations for an evening party, and did not speak to me
that the Princess had made the jelly, or the
bread-sauce, with her own hands, on purpose for Giglio
Heavens, Giglio
YOU here in such a dress! What a
figure you are
Yes, dear Angelica, I am come downstairs, and feel so well today,
thanks to the FOWL and the JELLY
What do I know about fowls and jellies, that you allude to them in that
rude way
Why, didn't -- didn't you send them, Angelica dear
I send them indeed! Angelica dear! No, Giglio dear
_I_ was engaged in getting the rooms ready for His Royal Highness
the Prince of Crim Tartary, who is coming to pay my papa's Court a
visit
The -- Prince -- of -- Crim -- Tartary
Yes, the Prince of Crim Tartary
I dare
say you never heard of such a country. What DID you ever hear of? You
don't know whether Crim Tartary is on the Red Sea or on the Black Sea, I
dare say
Yes, I do, it's on the Red Sea
Oh, you ninny! You are so
ignorant, you are really not fit for society! You know nothing but about
horses and dogs, and are only fit to dine in a mess-room with my Royal
father's heaviest dragoons. Don't look so surprised at me, sir: go
and put your best clothes on to receive the Prince, and let me get the
drawing-room ready
Oh, Angelica, Angelica, I didn't think this of you. THIS
wasn't your language to me when you gave me this ring, and I gave you
mine in the garden, and you gave me that k
Get out, you saucy, rude creature! How dare you to remind me of your
rudeness? As for your little trumpery twopenny ring, there, sir, there
It was my mother's marriage-ring
_I_ don't care whose marriage-ring it was
Marry the
person who picks it up if she's a woman; you shan't marry ME. And give
me back MY ring. I've no patience with people who boast about the things
they give away! _I_ know who'll give me much finer things than you ever
gave me. A beggarly ring indeed, not worth five shillings
Yes
_I_
know who'll give me much finer things than your beggarly little pearl
nonsense
Very good, miss! You may take back your ring too
Ha! what does this mean? Is THIS the woman I have
been in love with all my life? Have I been such a ninny as to throw away
my regard upon you? Why -- actually -- yes -- you are a little crooked
Oh, you wretch
And, upon my conscience, you -- you squint a little
Eh
And your hair is red -- and you are marked with the smallpox -- and what?
you have three false teeth -- and one leg shorter than the other
You brute, you brute, you
Oh dear me, Angelica, don't pull out MY hair, it hurts! You might
remove a great deal of YOUR OWN, as I perceive, without scissors or
pulling at all. Oh, ho, ho! ha, ha, ha! ho he he
Royal Highnesses! Their
Majesties expect you in the Pink Throne-room, where they await the
arrival of the Prince of CRIM TARTARY
Oh, mum
how -- how beyoutiful you do
look, mum, today, mum
And you, too, Jacky
My
dear madam, you look like an angel today
I have
ridden three hundred miles since breakfast
so eager was I to
behold the Prin -- the Court and august family of Paflagonia, and I could
not wait one minute before appearing in Your Majesties' presences
Your R. H. is welcome in any dress
Glumboso, a chair for His Royal Highness
Any dress His Royal Highness wears IS a Court dress
Ah! but you should see my other clothes
I should
have had them on, but that stupid carrier has not brought them. Who's
that laughing
I was laughing
because you said
just now that you were in such a hurry to see the Princess, that you
could not wait to change your dress; and now you say you come in those
clothes because you have no others
And who are you
My father was King of this country, and I am his only son, Prince
Ha
Dear Prince Bulbo, I forgot to introduce to
Your Royal Highness my dear nephew, His Royal Highness Prince Giglio!
Know each other! Embrace each other! Giglio, give His Royal Highness
your hand
My rose! my rose
Oh, dear Prince
how
could you speak so haughtily in presence of Their Majesties? I protest I
thought I should have fainted
I should have caught you in my arms
Why were you so cruel to Prince Bulbo, dear Prince
Because I hate him
You are jealous of him, and still love poor Angelica
I did, but I love her no more
I despise her! Were she
heiress to twenty thousand thrones, I would despise her and scorn her.
But why speak of thrones? I have lost mine. I am too weak to recover
it -- I am alone, and have no friend
Oh, say not so, dear Prince
Besides
I am so happy here BEHIND THE THRONE that I would
not change my place, no, not for the throne of the world
What are you two people chattering about there
It is
time to dress for dinner. Giglio, show Prince Bulbo to his room. Prince,
if your clothes have not come, we shall be very happy to see you as you
are
Prince Giglio, may I have the honour of taking a glass of wine
with you
Oh, you satirical Prince! Oh,
fie, the Prince will hear
Well, I don't mind
This is to give
notice that I, Giglio, only son of Savio, King of Paflagonia, hereby
promise to marry the charming and virtuous Barbara Griselda, Countess
Gruffanuff, and widow of the late Jenkins Gruffanuff, Esq
What is it you are writing, you charming Gruffy
Only an order for you to sign, dear Prince, for giving coals and
blankets to the poor, this cold weather. Look! the King and Queen are
both asleep, and your Royal Highness's order will do
Griselda
Paflagonia
Barbara Regina
Griselda Barbara, Paf. Reg
Betsinda
you dressed my hair very nicely today; I promised
you a little present. Here are five sh -- no, here is a pretty little
ring, that I picked -- that I have had some time
It's like the ring the Princess used to wear
No such thing
I have had it this ever so long.
There, tuck me up quite comfortable; and now, as it's a very cold night
(the snow was beating in at the window), you may go and warm dear Prince
Giglio's bed, like a good girl, and then you may unrip my green silk,
and then you can just do me up a little cap for the morning, and then
you can mend that hole in my silk stocking, and then you can go to
bed, Betsinda. Mind I shall want my cup of tea at five o'clock in the
morning
I suppose I had best warm both the young gentlemen's beds, Ma'am
Hau-au-ho!-- Grauhawhoo!-- Hong-hrho
My eyes
O mussey
What a pretty girl Betsinda is
O jemmany
O ciel
Hands off; none of your impertinence, you vulgar, low people
O! O! O!
O! O! O! what a beyou -- oo -- ootiful creature you are! You angel -- you
peri -- you rosebud, let me be thy bulbul -- thy Bulbo, too! Fly to the
desert, fly with me! I never saw a young gazelle to glad me with its
dark blue eye that had eyes like shine. Thou nymph of beauty, take, take
this young heart. A truer never did itself sustain within a soldier's
waistcoat. Be mine! Be mine! Be Princess of Crim Tartary! My Royal
father will approve our union; and, as for that little carroty-haired
Angelica, I do not care a fig for her any more
Go away, Your Royal Highness, and go to bed, please
No, never, till thou swearest to be mine, thou lovely,
blushing chambermaid divine! Here, at thy feet, the Royal Bulbo lies,
the trembling captive of Betsinda's eyes
O-o-o-o
Oh, divine Betsinda
how have I lived fifteen years
in thy company without seeing thy perfections? What woman in all
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, nay, in Australia, only it is not
yet discovered, can presume to be thy equal? Angelica? Pish! Gruffanuff?
Phoo! The Queen? Ha, ha! Thou art my Queen. Thou art the real Angelica,
because thou art really angelic
Oh, Prince! I am but a poor chambermaid
Didst thou not tend me in my sickness, when all forsook me
Did not thy gentle hand smooth my pillow, and bring me jelly
and roast chicken
Yes, dear Prince, I did
and I sewed Your Royal
Highness's shirt-buttons on too, if you please, Your Royal Highness
You great big blubbering booby, tearing your hair in the corner there;
of course you will give me satisfaction for insulting Betsinda. YOU dare
to kneel down at Princess Giglio's knees and kiss her hand
She's not Princess Giglio
She shall be Princess
Bulbo, no other shall be Princess Bulbo
You are engaged to my cousin
I hate your
cousin
You shall give me satisfaction for insulting her
I'll have your life
I'll run you through
I'll cut your throat
I'll blow your brains out
I'll knock your head off
I'll send a friend to you in the morning
I'll send a bullet into you in the afternoon
We'll meet again
It's the young gentlemen smoking, perhaps, sir
Charming chambermaid
never mind the young men! Turn thy eyes on a middle-aged autocrat, who
has been considered not ill-looking in his time
Oh, sir! what will Her Majesty say
Her Majesty
Her Majesty be hanged. Am I not
Autocrat of Paflagonia? Have I not blocks, ropes, axes, hangmen -- ha?
Runs not a river by my palace wall? Have I not sacks to sew up wives
withal? Say but the word, that thou wilt be mine own,-- your mistress
straightway in a sack is sewn, and thou the sharer of my heart and
throne
Ho! my captain of the guards
Hedzoff
Hedzoff, good Hedzoff, seize upon the Prince.
Thou'lt find him in his chamber two pair up. But now he dared, with
sacrilegious hand, to strike the sacred night-cap of a king -- Hedzoff,
and floor me with a warming-pan! Away, no more demur, the villain dies!
See it be done, or else,-- h'm -- ha!-- h'm! mind shine own eyes
Poor, poor Giglio
my noble young Prince, is it
my hand must lead thee to death
Lead him to fiddlestick, Hedzoff
The King said you were to hang the Prince. Well, hang the
Prince
I don't understand you
You Gaby! he didn't say WHICH Prince
No; he didn't say which, certainly
Well then, take Bulbo, and hang HIM
Obedience is a soldier's honour
Prince Bulbo's head will do
capitally
Who's there
Captain Hedzoff?
Step in, pray, my good Captain; I'm delighted to see you; I have been
expecting you
Have you
Sleibootz, my Chamberlain, will act for me
I beg Your Royal Highness's pardon, but you will have to act for
yourself, and it's a pity to wake Baron Sleibootz
Of
course, Captain
you are come about that affair with Prince
Giglio
Precisely
that affair of Prince Giglio
Is it to be pistols, or swords, Captain
I'm a pretty
good hand with both, and I'll do for Prince Giglio as sure as my name is
My Royal Highness Prince Bulbo
There's some mistake, my Lord
The business is done
with AXES among us
Axes? That's sharp work
Call my Chamberlain, he'll be my
second, and in ten minutes, I flatter myself, you'll see Master Giglio's
head off his impertinent shoulders. I'm hungry for his blood Hoooo, aw
I beg your pardon, sir, but by this warrant I am to take you prisoner,
and hand you over to -- to the executioner
Pooh, pooh, my good man!-- Stop, I say,-- ho!-- hulloa
So much for Giglio. Now let's go to
breakfast
VALOROSO XXIV
It's a mistake
Poo -- poo -- pooh
Fetch Jack Ketch instantly. Jack
Ketch
Well, dear Giglio
Well, dear Gruffy
I have been thinking, darling, what you must do in this scrape. You
must fly the country for a while
What scrape?-- fly the country? Never without her I love, Countess
No, she will accompany you, dear Prince
First, we must get the jewels belonging to our royal parents.
and those of her and his present Majesty. Here is the key, duck; they
are all yours, you know, by right, for you are the rightful King of
Paflagonia, and your wife will be the rightful Queen
Will she
Yes; and having got the jewels, go to Glumboso's apartment, where,
under his bed, you will find sacks containing money to the amount of
L2I7,000,000,987,439, 13S. 6 1/2d., all belonging to you, for he took
it out of your royal father's room on the day of his death. With this we
will fly
WE will fly
Yes, you and your bride -- your affianced love -- your Gruffy
YOU my bride
You, you hideous old woman
Oh, you -- you wretch! didn't you give me this paper promising marriage
Get away, you old goose! I love Betsinda, and Betsinda only
He! he! he
a promise is a promise if there are
laws in Paflagonia! And as for that monster, that wretch, that fiend,
that ugly little vixen -- as for that upstart, that ingrate, that beast,
Betsinda, Master Giglio will have no little difficulty in discovering
her whereabouts. He may look very long before finding HER, I warrant. He
little knows that Miss Betsinda is
And now
when Her Majesty rings her
bell twice, I'll trouble you, miss, to attend
You wretch
You little vulgar thing
You beast
Get out of my sight
Go away with you, do
Quit the premises
Alas! and woe is me
Take off that {cap   } I gave you
How    (the King
Give her the rags she wore when she came into the house, and turn her
out of it
Mind she does not go with MY shoes on, which I lent her so kindly
Come with me, you filthy hussy
Won't you give me a pair of shoes to go out in the snow, mum, if you
please, mum
No, you wicked beast
And now let us think about breakfast
What dress shall I put on, mamma? the pink or the peagreen
Which do you think the dear Prince will like best
Mrs. V
let us have
sausages for breakfast! Remember we have Prince Bulbo staying with us
Where is Bulbo
John, where is His Royal Highness
Stepped out before breakfast in the snow! Impossible
My dear, take one. Angelica, won't
you have a saveloy
I am afraid Your Majesty
No business before breakfast, Glum
Sire, I am afraid if we wait till after breakfast it will be too late
He -- he -- he'll be hanged at half-past nine
Don't talk about hanging and spoil my breakfast, you unkind, vulgar
man you
John, some mustard. Pray who is to be
hanged
Sire, it is the Prince
Talk about business after breakfast, I tell you
We shall have a war, Sire, depend on it
His
father, King Padella
His father, King WHO
King Padella is not Giglio's
father. My brother, King Savio, was Giglio's father
It's Prince Bulbo they are hanging, Sire, not Prince Giglio
You told me to hang the Prince, and I took the ugly one
I didn't, of course, think Your Majesty intended to murder your own
flesh and blood
Hee-kareekaree
Turn the cock of the urn upon Her Royal Highness
The great question is
am I fast or am I slow? If I'm
slow, we may as well go on with breakfast. If I'm fast, why, there
is just the possibility of saving Prince Bulbo. It's a doosid awkward
mistake, and upon my word, Hedzoff, I have the greatest mind to have you
hanged too
Sire, I did but my duty; a soldier has but his orders. I didn't expect
after forty-seven years of faithful service that my sovereign would
think of putting me to a felon's death
A hundred thousand plagues upon you! Can't you see that while you are
talking my Bulbo is being hung
By Jove! she's always right, that girl, and I'm so absent
Ha! there go the drums! What a doosid
awkward thing though
Oh, papa, you goose! Write the reprieve, and let me run with it
Confound it! where are my spectacles
Angelica! go up into my bedroom, look under my pillow, not your
mamma's; there you'll see my keys. Bring them down to me, and -- Well,
well! what impetuous things these girls are
Now, love
you must
go all the way back for my desk, in which my spectacles are. If you
would but have heard me out. . . Be hanged to her! There she is off
again. Angelica! ANGELICA
My dear, when you go out of a room, how often have I told you, SHUT THE
DOOR. That's a darling. That's all
You'd better stay, my love, and finish the muffins. There's no use
going. Be sure it's too late. Hand me over that raspberry jam, please
Bong! Bawong! There goes the half-hour. I knew it
was
Reprieve
Reprieve
Reprieve
Oh, my Prince! my lord! my
love! my Bulbo! Thine Angelica has been in time to save thy precious
existence, sweet rosebud; to prevent thy being nipped in thy young
bloom! Had aught befallen thee, Angelica too had died, and welcomed
death that joined her to her Bulbo
H'm! there's no accounting for tastes
I tell you what it is, Angelica
since I came here
yesterday, there has been such a row, and disturbance, and quarrelling,
and fighting, and chopping of heads off, and the deuce to pay, that I am
inclined to go back to Crim Tartary
But with me as thy bride, my Bulbo! Though wherever thou art is Crim
Tartary to me, my bold, my beautiful, my Bulbo
Well, well, I suppose we must be married
Doctor, you
came to read the Funeral Service -- read the Marriage Service, will you?
What must be, must. That will satisfy Angelica, and then, in the name of
peace and quietness, do let us go back to breakfast
Sweet rose
that bloomed upon my Bulbo's lip, never, never will I part
from thee
POOH, stuff
We will have no more of this shilly-shallying! Call the
Archbishop, and let the Prince and Princess be married offhand
Ah
how I should like
to be on that coach
Look, father
look at this poor girl,
and see what pretty cold feet she has. They are as white as our milk!
And look and see what an odd cloak she has, just like the bit of velvet
that hangs up in our cupboard, and which you found that day the little
cubs were killed by King Padella, in the forest! And look, why, bless
us all! she has got round her neck just such another little shoe as
that you brought home, and have shown us so often -- a little blue velvet
shoe
What
what is all this about a shoe and a
cloak
Hopkins,
maker to the Royal Family
Hopkins,
maker to the Royal Family
PRIN ROSAL
CESS BA. NO. 246
PRINCESS ROSALBA. NO. 246
O my Princess, O my gracious royal lady, O my rightful Queen of Crim
Tartary,-- I hail thee -- I acknowledge thee -- I do thee homage
Why
my good woodman, you must be a nobleman of my royal
father's Court
Marry, indeed, am I, my gracious liege -- the poor Lord Spinachi
once -- the humble woodman these fifteen years syne. Ever since the tyrant
Padella (may ruin overtake the treacherous knave!) dismissed me from my
post of First Lord
First Lord of the Toothpick and Joint Keeper of the Snuffbox? I mind
me! Thou heldest these posts under our royal Sire. They are restored to
thee, Lord Spinachi! I make thee knight of the second class of our Order
of the Pumpkin (the first class being reserved for crowned heads alone).
Rise, Marquis of Spinachi
The House of Broccoli should remain
faithful to us
they were ever welcome at our Court. Have
the Articiocchi, as was their wont, turned to the Rising Sun? The family
of Sauerkraut must sure be with us -- they were ever welcome in the halls
of King Cavolfiore
God save the Queen
Madam and liege lady! it
becomes the great nobles of the Crimean realm to show every outward sign
of respect to the wearer of the Crown, whoever that may be. We testify
to our own nobility in acknowledging yours. The bold Hogginarmo bends
the knee to the first of the aristocracy of his country
The bold Count of Hogginarmo was uncommonly kind
The first Count of the Empire, madam
salutes the
Sovereign. The Prince addresses himself to the not more noble lady!
Madam, my hand is free, and I offer it, and my heart and my sword to
your service! My three wives lie buried in my ancestral vaults. The
third perished but a year since; and this heart pines for a consort!
Deign to be mine, and I swear to bring to your bridal table the head of
King Padella, the eyes and nose of his son Prince Bulbo, the right hand
and ears of the usurping Sovereign of Paflagonia, which country shall
thenceforth be an appanage to your -- to OUR Crown! Say yes; Hogginarmo is
not accustomed to be denied. Indeed I cannot contemplate the possibility
of a refusal: for frightful will be the result; dreadful the murders;
furious the devastations; horrible the tyranny; tremendous the tortures,
misery, taxation, which the people of this realm will endure, if
Hogginarmo's wrath be aroused! I see consent in Your Majesty's lovely
eyes -- their glances fill my soul with rapture
Oh, sir
Your
Lordship is exceedingly kind; but I am sorry to tell you that I have a
prior attachment to a young gentleman by the name of -- Prince Giglio -- and
never -- never can marry any one but him
R-r-r-r-rr -- Rejected! Fiends and perdition! The bold Hogginarmo
rejected! All the world shall hear of my rage; and you, madam, you above
all shall rue it
Get a horse-van
clap the hussy into it, and
send her, with my compliments, to His Majesty King Padella
Nice weather for travelling
outside! I wish you a pleasant journey, my dear
I will give up my place to her
rather than she should travel in the cold air with that horrid
cough
YOU'D keep her warm, I am
sure, if it's a MUFF she wants
My dear Gigl -- my good Mr. Giles, you
are a young man, and have plenty of time before you. You have nothing to
do but to improve yourself. Who knows but that you may find use for your
knowledge some day? When -- when you may be wanted at home, as some people
may be
Good heavens, madam
do you know me
I know a number of funny things
I have been at some
people's christenings, and turned away from other folks' doors. I have
seen some people spoilt by good fortune, and others, as I hope, improved
by hardship. I advise you to stay at the town where the coach stops for
the night. Stay there and study, and remember your old friend to whom
you were kind
And who is my old friend
When you want anything
look in this bag, which I
leave to you as a present, and be grateful to
To whom, madam
To the Fairy Blackstick
What lady
there has been no lady in this coach, except
the old woman, who got out at the last stage
What are you a hollering and a bellaring for here, young man
There's no warm water -- no servants; my boots are not even cleaned
em yourself
You young students
give yourselves pretty airs. I never heard such impudence
I'll quit the house this instant
The sooner the better, young man. Pay your bill and be off. All my
rooms is wanted for gentlefolks, and not for such as you
You may well keep the Bear Inn
You should have yourself
painted as the sign
I hope it has some
breakfast in it
for I have only a very little
money left
Hurrah! Hurray for Giles! Giles is
the boy -- the student's joy! Hurray for Giles
ROMANTIC CIRCUMSTANCE.-- One of the most extraordinary adventures that
we have ever heard has set the neighbouring country of Crim Tartary in a
state of great excitement.

'It will be remembered that when the present revered sovereign of Crim
Tartary, His Majesty King PADELLA, took possession of the throne, after
having vanquished, in the terrific battle of Blunderbusco, the late
King CAVOLFIORE, that Prince's only child, the Princess Rosalba, was not
found in the royal palace, of which King Padella took possession, and,
it was said, had strayed into the forest (being abandoned by all her
attendants) where she had been eaten up by those ferocious lions, the
last pair of which were captured some time since, and brought to the
Tower, after killing several hundred persons.

'His Majesty King Padella, who has the kindest heart in the world,
was grieved at the accident which had occurred to the harmless little
Princess, for whom His Majesty's known benevolence would certainly have
provided a fitting establishment. But her death seemed to be certain.
The mangled remains of a cloak, and a little shoe, were found in the
forest, during a hunting-party, in which the intrepid sovereign of
Crim Tartary slew two of the lions' cubs with his own spear. And these
interesting relics of an innocent little creature were carried home
and kept by their finder, the Baron Spinachi, formerly an officer in
Cavolfiore's household. The Baron was disgraced in consequence of his
known legitimist opinions, and has lived for some time in the humble
capacity of a wood-cutter, in a forest on the outskirts of the Kingdom
of Crim Tartary.

'Last Tuesday week Baron Spinachi and a number of gentlemen, attached
to the former dynasty, appeared in arms, crying, "God save Rosalba,
the first Queen of Crim Tartary!" and surrounding a lady whom report
describes as "BEAUTIFUL EXCEEDINGLY." Her history MAY be authentic, is
certainly most romantic.

'The personage calling herself Rosalba states that she was brought out
of the forest, fifteen years since, by a lady in a car drawn by dragons
(this account is certainly IMPROBABLE), that she was left in the Palace
Garden of Blombodinga, where Her Royal Highness the Princess Angelica,
now married to His Royal Highness Bulbo, Crown Prince of Crim Tartary,
found the child, and, with THAT ELEGANT BENEVOLENCE which has always
distinguished the heiress of the throne of Paflagonia, gave the little
outcast a SHELTER AND A HOME! Her parentage not being known, and her
garb very humble, the foundling was educated in the Palace in a menial
capacity, under the name of BETSINDA.

'She did not give satisfaction, and was dismissed, carrying with her,
certainly, part of a mantle and a shoe, which she had on when first
found. According to her statement she quitted Blombodinga about a year
ago, since which time she has been with the Spinachi family. On the
very same morning the Prince Giglio, nephew to the King of Paflagonia,
a young Prince whose character for TALENT and ORDER were, to say truth,
none of the HIGHEST, also quitted Blombodinga, and has not been since
heard of
What an extraordinary story
Ha! what is this
SECOND EDITION, EXPRESS.-- We hear that the troop under Baron Spinachi
has been surrounded, and utterly routed, by General Count Hogginarmo,
and the soidisant Princess is sent a prisoner to the capital.

'UNIVERSITY NEWS.-- Yesterday, at the Schools, the distinguished young
student, Mr. Giles, read a Latin oration, and was complimented by
the Chancellor of Bosforo, Dr. Prugnaro, with the highest University
honour -- the wooden spoon
Never mind that stuff
Come home
with me, my friends. Gallant Smith! intrepid Jones! friends of my
studies -- partakers of my academic toils -- I have that to tell which shall
astonish your honest minds
Go it, old boy
Talk away, my buck
Jones, Smith, my good friends
disguise is henceforth useless; I am no more the humble student
Giles, I am the descendant of a royal line
Atavis edite regibus, I know, old co
Friends
I am that Giglio, I am, in fact,
Paflagonia. Rise, Smith, and kneel not in the public street. Jones, thou
true heart! My faithless uncle, when I was a baby, filched from me that
brave crown my father left me, bred me, all young and careless of my
rights, like unto hapless Hamlet, Prince of Denmark; and had I any
thoughts about my wrongs, soothed me with promises of near redress. I
should espouse his daughter, young Angelica; we two indeed should reign
in Paflagonia. His words were false -- false as Angelica's heart!-- false
as Angelica's hair, colour, front teeth! She looked with her skew eyes
upon young Bulbo, Crim Tartary's stupid heir, and she preferred him
ROSALBA FOR EVER
Rosalba for ever
Lieutenant Smith
Jones, Esq
Whom do I see? Yes! No! It is,
it is! Phoo! No, it can't be! Yes! It is my friend, my gallant faithful
veteran, Captain Hedzoff! Ho! Hedzoff! Knowest thou not thy Prince, thy
Giglio? Good Corporal, methinks we once were friends. Ha, Sergeant, an
Tell me, what means this mighty armament
and whither march my Paflagonians
My Lord
we march as the allies of
great Padella, Crim Tartary's monarch
Crim Tartary's usurper, gallant Hedzoff! Crim Tartary's grim tyrant,
honest Hedzoff
A soldier, Prince, must needs obey his orders: mine are to help His
Majesty Padella. And also (though alack that I should say it!) to seize
wherever I should light upon him
First catch your hare! ha, Hedzoff
On the body of GIGLIO, whilome Prince of Paflagonia
My Prince, give up your sword without ado.
Look! we are thirty thousand men to one
Give up my sword! Giglio give up his sword
Hurray! Hurray! Long live King
Giglio
We will wait here, good friend, to beat the Prince
and THEN will make his royal father wince
Hurray! Now for it! Soo-soo-soo
Dear, dear sister don't you recollect your brothers in
the forest
Pooh
Gammon
Ha
you dare to say "gammon" to your Sovereign, do
you? These lions are no lions at all, aren't they? Ho! my beef-eaters!
Ho! my bodyguard! Take this Count Hogginarmo and fling him into the
circus! Give him a sword and buckler, let him keep his armour on, and
his weather-eye out, and fight these lions
Touch me not, dogs
or by St. Nicholas the Elder, I will gore you! Your Majesty thinks
Hogginarmo is afraid? No, not of a hundred thousand lions! Follow me
down into the circus, King Padella, and match thyself against one of
yon brutes. Thou darest not. Let them both come on, then
Serve him right, the rebellious ruffian! And
now, as those lions won't eat that young woman
Let her off!-- let her off
NO
Let the beef-eaters go down and chop her into
small pieces. If the lions defend her, let the archers shoot them to
death. That hussy shall die in tortures
A-a-ah
Shame! shame
Who dares cry out shame
Fling any scoundrel who says a word
down among the lions
Ha
tis Elephant and Castle,
pursuivant of my brother of Paflagonia; and the Knight, an
Bespeaking first safe conduct from your Lordship
before we take a drink of anything, permit us to deliver our
King's message
My Lordship, ha
That title
soundeth strange in the anointed ears of a crowned King. Straightway
speak out your message, Knight and Herald
O Yes! O Yes! O Yes! Know all men by these presents, that we, Giglio,
King of Paflagonia, Grand Duke of Cappadocia, Sovereign Prince of Turkey
and the Sausage Islands, having assumed our rightful throne and title,
long time falsely borne by our usurping Uncle, styling himself King of
Paflagonia
Ha
Hereby summon the false traitor, Padella, calling himself King of Crim
Tartary
Go on, Elephant and Castle
To release from cowardly imprisonment his liege lady and rightful
Sovereign, ROSALBA, Queen of Crim Tartary, and restore her to her royal
throne: in default of which, I, Giglio, proclaim the said Padella sneak,
traitor, humbug, usurper, and coward. I challenge him to meet me, with
fists or with pistols, with battle-axe or sword, with blunderbuss or
singlestick, alone or at the head of his army, on foot or on horseback;
and will prove my words upon his wicked ugly body
God save the King
Is that all
That, sir, is all my royal master's message. Here is His Majesty's
letter in autograph, and here is his glove, and if any gentleman of
Crim Tartary chooses to find fault with His Majesty's expressions, I,
Tuffskin Hedzoff, Captain of the Guard, am very much at his service
And what says my good brother of Paflagonia, my dear son's
father-in-law, to this rubbish
The King's uncle hath been deprived of the crown he unjustly wore
He and his axminister, Glumboso, are now in
prison waiting the sentence of my royal master. After the battle of
Bombardaro
Of what
Of Bombardaro, where my liege, his present Majesty, would have
performed prodigies of velour, but that the whole of his uncle's army
came over to our side, with the exception of Prince Bulbo
Ah! my boy, my boy, my Bulbo was no traitor
Prince Bulbo, far from coming over to us, ran away, sir; but I caught
him. The Prince is a prisoner in our army, and the most terrific
tortures await him if a hair of the Princess Rosalba's head is injured
Do they
The brutal ruthless ruffian royal wretch
As England's poesy has well remarked, "The man that lays
his hand upon a woman, save in the way of kindness, is a villain." Ha,
Hedzoff
That he is, your Majesty
And didst thou see her flung into the oil? and didn't the soothing
oil -- the emollient oil, refuse to boil, good Hedzoff -- and to spoil the
fairest lady ever eyes did look on
Faith, good my liege, I had no heart to look and see a beauteous lady
boiling down; I took your royal message to Padella, and bore his back
to you. I told him you would hold Prince Bulbo answerable. He only said
that he had twenty sons as good as Bulbo, and forthwith he bade the
ruthless executioners proceed
O cruel father -- O unhappy son
Go, some of you, and
bring Prince Bulbo hither
Oh, my poor Bulbo
hast thou heard the news
thy brutal father has condemned
Rosalba -- p-p-p-ut her to death, P-p-p-prince Bulbo
What, killed Betsinda! Boo-hoo-hoo
Betsinda! pretty
Betsinda! dear Betsinda! She was the dearest little girl in the world.
I love her better twenty thousand times even than Angelica
Yes! But that is no comfort to me now
Bother your album
Git up, your Royal Ighness, if
you please, it's TEN MINUTES TO EIGHT
Lead on
Oh, you
darling old beast, oh, how glad I am to see you, and the dear, dear
Bets -- that is, Rosalba
What, is it you? poor Bulbo
Bulbo, my boy, I am delighted, for your
sake, that Her Majesty has arrived
So am I
and YOU KNOW WHY
Sire, it is half-past eight: shall we proceed with the execution
Execution! what for
An officer only knows his orders
Prince Bulbo
was reprieved this time
Yes
That ring I gave
the Queen, Giglio's mother, who was not, saving your presence, a very
wise woman; it is enchanted, and whoever wears it looks beautiful in the
eyes of the world, I made poor Prince Bulbo, when he was christened, the
present of a rose which made him look handsome while he had it; but he
gave it to Angelica, who instantly looked beautiful again, whilst Bulbo
relapsed into his natural plainness
Rosalba needs no ring, I am sure
She is
beautiful enough, in my eyes, without any enchanted aid
Oh, sir
Take off the ring and try
Bulbo, my poor lad! come and try on this ring. The Princess Rosalba
makes it a present to you
How very odd! she is very pretty, but not so EXTRAORDINARILY handsome
Oh no, by no means
But what care I, dear sir
if YOU
think I am good-looking enough
Bless you, my
darling children! Now you are united and happy; and now you see what I
said from the first, that a little misfortune has done you both good.
YOU, Giglio, had you been bred in prosperity, would scarcely have
learned to read or write -- you would have been idle and extravagant, and
could not have been a good King as now you will be. You, Rosalba, would
have been so flattered, that your little head might have been turned
like Angelica's, who thought herself too good for Giglio
As if anybody could be good enough for HIM
Oh, you, you darling
My Lord, the
enemy
To arms
Oh, mercy
Forward, my men
This way, lads
em, boys
Fight for
King Giglio, and the cause of right
King Padella for ever
Stay, traitor! Turn, miscreant, and
defend thyself! Stand, tyrant, coward, ruffian, royal wretch, till I cut
thy ugly head from thy usurping shoulders
If
you ride a fairy horse, and wear
fairy armour, what on earth is the use of my hitting you? I may as well
give myself up a prisoner at once. Your Majesty won't, I suppose, be so
mean as to strike a poor fellow who can't strike again
Do you
yield yourself a prisoner, Padella
Of course I do
Do you acknowledge Rosalba as your rightful Queen, and give up the
crown and all your treasures to your rightful mistress
If I must, I must
I cannot stay with you long, sir
I am engaged to dance the
next quadrille with Her Majesty Queen Rosalba, and I hear the fiddles
playing at this very moment
A soldier, sir, knows but his duty; my
orders are to lock you up along with the Ex-King Padella, whom I have
brought hither a prisoner under guard
A good King, my dear Fairy
Of course he will. Break
his promise! can you fancy my Giglio would ever do anything so improper,
so unlike him? No! never
Why is Fairy Blackstick always advising me, and telling me how to
manage my government, and warning me to keep my word? Does she suppose
that I am not a man of sense, and a man of honour
Methinks she rather presumes upon her position
Hush! dear Giglio
You know Blackstick has been very
kind to us, and we must not offend her
What can have induced that hideous old Gruffanuff to dress herself up
in such an absurd way? Did you ask her to be your bridesmaid, my dear
What a figure of fun Gruffy is
Eleven o'clock
Gentlemen and ladies, we must be
starting. Archbishop, you must be at church, I think, before twelve
We must be at church before twelve
And then I shall be the happiest man in my dominions
Oh, my Giglio! Oh, my dear Majesty
and can it
be that this happy moment at length has arrived
Of course it has arrived
and that I am about to become the enraptured bride of my adored
Giglio
Lend me a smelling-bottle, somebody. I
certainly shall faint with joy
YOU my bride
YOU marry my Prince
Pooh! Nonsense! The woman's mad
I should like to know who else is going to be married, if I am not
I should like to know if King Giglio is a
gentleman, and if there is such a thing as justice in Paflagonia? Lord
Chancellor! my Lord Archbishop! will your Lordships sit by and see a
poor, fond, confiding, tender creature put upon? Has not Prince Giglio
promised to marry his Barbara? Is not this Giglio's signature? Does not
this paper declare that he is mine, and only mine
This is to give notice, that I, Giglio, only son of Savio, King of
Paflagonia, hereby promise to marry the charming Barbara Griselda,
Countess Gruffanuff, and widow of the late Jenkins Gruffanuff, Esq
H'm
the document is certainly a -- a document
Phoo
the signature is not in His Majesty's
handwriting
Is it your handwriting, Giglio
Y -- y -- y -- es
I had quite forgotten the
confounded paper: she can't mean to hold me by it. You old wretch, what
will you take to let me off? Help the Queen, some one -- Her Majesty has
fainted
Chop her head off
Smother the old witch
Pitch her into the river
Justice, justice, my Lord Chancellor
Justice, justice
Won't you take that sum of money which Glumboso hid
two
hundred and eighteen thousand millions, or thereabouts. It's a handsome
sum
I will have that and you too
Let us throw the crown jewels into the bargain
I will wear them by my Giglio's side
Will half, three-quarters, five-sixths, nineteen-twentieths, of my
kingdom do, Countess
What were all Europe to me without YOU, my Giglio
I won't, I can't, I shan't,-- I'll resign the crown first
I have a competency, my love
and with thee and a cottage
thy Barbara will be happy
I will not marry her
Oh, Fairy, Fairy, give me counsel
Why is Fairy Blackstick always advising me, and warning me to keep my
word? Does she suppose that I am not a man of honour
Well, Archbishop
since this Fairy has led me to the height of happiness but to
dash me down into the depths of despair, since I am to lose Rosalba, let
me at least keep my honour. Get up, Countess, and let us be married; I
can keep my word, but I can die afterwards
Oh, dear Giglio
I knew, I knew I
could trust thee -- I knew that my Prince was the soul of honour. Jump
into your carriages, ladies and gentlemen, and let us go to church at
once; and as for dying, dear Giglio, no, no:-- thou wilt forget that
insignificant little chambermaid of a Queen -- thou wilt live to be
consoled by thy Barbara! She wishes to be a Queen, and not a Queen
Dowager, my gracious Lord
I cannot marry him, but I shall love him always
I will go and be present at his marriage with the Countess,
and sign the book, and wish them happy with all my heart. I will see,
when I get home, whether I cannot make the new Queen some handsome
presents. The Crim Tartary crown diamonds are uncommonly fine, and I
shall never have any use for them. I will live and die unmarried like
Queen Elizabeth, and, of course, I shall leave my crown to Giglio when
I quit this world. Let us go and see them married, my dear Fairy, let me
say one last farewell to him; and then, if you please, I will return to
my own dominions
Get out of the way, pray
I wonder why you
are always poking your nose into other people's affairs
Are you determined to make this poor young man unhappy
To marry him, yes! What business is it of yours? Pray, madam, don't say
"you" to a Queen
You won't take the money he offered you
No
You won't let him off his bargain, though you know you cheated him when
you made him sign the paper
Impudence! Policemen, remove this woman
You won't take anything in exchange for your bond, Mrs. Gruffanuff
I speak for the last time
No
I'll have my husband,
my husband, my husband
YOU SHALL HAVE YOUR HUSBAND
Master's not at home
Huzzay! huzzay
Hip, hip, hurray
Long
live the King and Queen
Were such things ever seen
No, never,
never, never
The Fairy Blackstick for ever
</text>
