<text>
Why did you come
I will not let you
stay.  Send my Ayah to me
Pig! Pig! Daughter of Pigs
full of lace
Is it so very bad? Oh, is it
Awfully
Awfully, Mrs.
Lennox.  You ought to have gone to the hills two weeks ago
Oh, I know I ought
I only stayed to go to that silly
dinner party.  What a fool I was
What is it? What is it
Some one has died
You did not say it had
broken out among your servants
I did not know
Come with me!  Come with me
How queer and quiet it is
It sounds as if there were no
one in the bungalow but me and the snake
What
desolation
That pretty, pretty woman!  I
suppose the child, too.  I heard there was a child, though no one ever
saw her
Barney
There is a child here! A child alone! In a
place like this! Mercy on us, who is she
I am Mary Lennox
A
place like this
I fell asleep when everyone had the cholera and I
have only just wakened up.  Why does nobody come
It is the child no one ever saw
She has actually been forgotten
Why was I forgotten
Why does nobody
come
Poor little kid
There is nobody left to come
Why don't you put a heap of stones there and pretend it is a rockery
There in the middle
Go away
I don't want boys.  Go away
Mistress Mary, quite contrary,
          How does your garden grow?
          With silver bells, and cockle shells,
          And marigolds all in a row
You are going to be sent home
at the end of the
week.  And we're glad of it
I am glad of it, too
Where is home
She doesn't know where home is
It's England, of course.  Our grandmama lives there and our
sister Mabel was sent to her last year.  You are not going to your
grandmama.  You have none.  You are going to your uncle.  His name is
Mr. Archibald Craven
I don't know anything about him
I know you don't
You don't know anything.  Girls
never do.  I heard father and mother talking about him.  He lives in a
great, big, desolate old house in the country and no one goes near him.
He's so cross he won't let them, and they wouldn't come if he would let
them.  He's a hunchback, and he's horrid
I don't believe you
She is such a plain child
And her mother was such a pretty creature.  She had a very pretty
manner, too, and Mary has the most unattractive ways I ever saw in a
child.  The children call her 'Mistress Mary Quite Contrary,' and
though it's naughty of them, one can't help understanding it
Perhaps if her mother had carried her pretty face and her pretty
manners oftener into the nursery Mary might have learned some pretty
ways too.  It is very sad, now the poor beautiful thing is gone, to
remember that many people never even knew that she had a child at all
I believe she scarcely ever looked at her
When her Ayah was dead there was no one to give a thought to the
little thing.  Think of the servants running away and leaving her all
alone in that deserted bungalow.  Colonel McGrew said he nearly jumped
out of his skin when he opened the door and found her standing by
herself in the middle of the room
My word! she's a plain little piece of goods
And we'd
heard that her mother was a beauty.  She hasn't handed much of it down,
has she, ma'am
Perhaps she will improve as she grows older
If she were not so sallow and had
a nicer expression, her features are rather good.  Children alter so
much
She'll have to alter a good deal
And,
there's nothing likely to improve children at Misselthwaite -- if you ask
me
stand no nonsense from
young ones
Captain Lennox and his wife died of the cholera
Captain Lennox was my wife's brother and I am
their daughter's guardian.  The child is to be brought here.  You must
go to London and bring her yourself
A more marred-looking young one I never saw in my life
I suppose I may as well tell you something about where you are going
to
Do you know anything about your uncle
No
Never heard your father and mother talk about him
No
Humph
I suppose you might as well be told something -- to prepare you.  You
are going to a queer place
Not but that it's a grand big place in a gloomy way, and Mr. Craven's
proud of it in his way -- and that's gloomy enough, too.  The house is
six hundred years old and it's on the edge of the moor, and there's
near a hundred rooms in it, though most of them's shut up and locked.
And there's pictures and fine old furniture and things that's been
there for ages, and there's a big park round it and gardens and trees
with branches trailing to the ground -- some of them
But there's nothing else
Well
What do you think of it
Nothing
I know nothing about such places
Eh
but you are like an old woman.  Don't you care
whether I care or not
You are right enough there
It doesn't. What
you're to be kept at Misselthwaite Manor for I don't know, unless
because it's the easiest way.  He's not going to trouble himself about
you, that's sure and certain.  He never troubles himself about no one
He's got a crooked back
That set him wrong.  He was a
sour young man and got no good of all his money and big place till he
was married
She was a sweet, pretty thing and he'd have walked the world over to
get her a blade o' grass she wanted.  Nobody thought she'd marry him,
but she did, and people said she married him for his money.  But she
didn't -- she didn't
When she died
Oh! did she die
Riquet a
la Houppe
Yes, she died
And it made him queerer than
ever.  He cares about nobody.  He won't see people.  Most of the time
he goes away, and when he is at Misselthwaite he shuts himself up in
the West Wing and won't let any one but Pitcher see him.  Pitcher's an
old fellow, but he took care of him when he was a child and he knows
his ways
full of lace
You needn't expect to see him, because ten to one you won't
And you mustn't expect that there will be people to
talk to you.  You'll have to play about and look after yourself.
You'll be told what rooms you can go into and what rooms you're to keep
out of.  There's gardens enough.  But when you're in the house don't go
wandering and poking about.  Mr. Craven won't have it
I shall not want to go poking about
You have had a sleep
It's time to open your eyes! We're
at Thwaite Station and we've got a long drive before us
I see tha's got back
An' tha's browt th' young 'un with
thee
Aye, that's her
How's thy Missus
Well enow.  Th' carriage is waitin' outside for thee
What is a moor
Look out of the window in about ten minutes and you'll see
We've got to drive five miles across Missel Moor before we
get to the Manor.  You won't see much because it's a dark night, but
you can see something
Eh! We're on the moor now sure enough
It's -- it's not the sea, is it
No, not it
Nor it isn't fields nor
mountains, it's just miles and miles and miles of wild land that
nothing grows on but heather and gorse and broom, and nothing lives on
but wild ponies and sheep
I feel as if it might be the sea, if there were water on it
It sounds like the sea just now
That's the wind blowing through the bushes
It's
a wild, dreary enough place to my mind, though there's plenty that
likes it -- particularly when the heather's in bloom
I don't like it
I don't like it
Eh, I am glad to see that bit o' light twinkling
It's the light in the lodge window.  We shall get a good cup of tea
after a bit, at all events
after a bit
You are to take her to her room
He
doesn't want to see her.  He's going to London in the morning
Very well, Mr. Pitcher
So long as I know
what's expected of me, I can manage
What's expected of you, Mrs. Medlock
is that you
make sure that he's not disturbed and that he doesn't see what he
doesn't want to see
Well, here you are! This room and the next are where you'll live -- and
you must keep to them.  Don't you forget that
What is that
That there
Yes
That's th' moor
Does tha' like it
No
I hate it
That's because tha'rt not used to it
Tha' thinks it's too big an' bare now.  But tha' will like
it
Do you
Aye, that I do
I just love it.  It's none bare.  It's covered wi' growin'
things as smells sweet.  It's fair lovely in spring an' summer when th'
gorse an' broom an' heather's in flower.  It smells o' honey an'
there's such a lot o' fresh air -- an' th' sky looks so high an' th' bees
an' skylarks makes such a nice noise hummin' an' singin'. Eh! I
wouldn't live away from th' moor for anythin
You are a strange servant
Eh! I know that
If there was a grand Missus at
Misselthwaite I should never have been even one of th' under
house-maids. I might have been let to be scullerymaid but I'd never
have been let upstairs.  I'm too common an' I talk too much Yorkshire.
But this is a funny house for all it's so grand.  Seems like there's
neither Master nor Mistress except Mr. Pitcher an' Mrs. Medlock.  Mr.
Craven, he won't be troubled about anythin' when he's here, an' he's
nearly always away.  Mrs. Medlock gave me th' place out o' kindness.
She told me she could never have done it if Misselthwaite had been like
other big houses
Are you going to be my servant
I'm Mrs. Medlock's servant
An' she's Mr.
Craven's -- but I'm to do the housemaid's work up here an' wait on you a
bit.  But you won't need much waitin' on
Who is going to dress me
Canna' tha' dress thysen
What do you mean? I don't understand your language
Eh! I forgot
Mrs. Medlock told me I'd have to be
careful or you wouldn't know what I was sayin'.  I mean can't you put
on your own clothes
No
I never did in my life.  My
Ayah dressed me, of course
Well
it's time tha' should learn.  Tha' cannot begin younger.
It'll do thee good to wait on thysen a bit.  My mother always said she
couldn't see why grand people's children didn't turn out fair
fools -- what with nurses an' bein' washed an' dressed an' took out to
walk as if they was puppies
It is different in India
Eh! I can see it's different
I dare say it's because there's such a lot o' blacks there instead o'
respectable white people.  When I heard you was comin' from India I
thought you was a black too
What
What! You thought I was a native.  You -- you
daughter of a pig
Who are you callin' names
You needn't be so vexed.
That's not th' way for a young lady to talk.  I've nothin' against th'
blacks.  When you read about 'em in tracts they're always very
religious.  You always read as a black's a man an' a brother.  I've
never seen a black an' I was fair pleased to think I was goin' to see
one close.  When I come in to light your fire this mornin' I crep' up
to your bed an' pulled th' cover back careful to look at you.  An'
there you was
no more black than me -- for all you're
so yeller
You
thought I was a native! You dared! You don't know anything about
natives! They are not people -- they're servants who must salaam to you.
You know nothing about India.  You know nothing about anything
Eh! you mustn't cry like that there
You mustn't for
sure.  I didn't know you'd be vexed.  I don't know anythin' about
anythin'-- just like you said.  I beg your pardon, Miss. Do stop cryin
It's time for thee to get up now
Mrs. Medlock said I was
to carry tha' breakfast an' tea an' dinner into th' room next to this.
It's been made into a nursery for thee.  I'll help thee on with thy
clothes if tha'll get out o' bed.  If th' buttons are at th' back tha'
cannot button them up tha'self
Those are not mine
Mine are black
Those are nicer than mine
These are th' ones tha' must put on
Mr. Craven
ordered Mrs. Medlock to get 'em in London.  He said 'I won't have a
child dressed in black wanderin' about like a lost soul,' he said.
'It'd make the place sadder than it is.  Put color on her.' Mother she
said she knew what he meant.  Mother always knows what a body means.
She doesn't hold with black hersel
I hate black things
Why doesn't tha' put on tha' own shoes
My Ayah did it
It was the custom
It was the custom
It is
not the custom
Eh! you should see 'em all
There's twelve of us an' my
father only gets sixteen shilling a week.  I can tell you my mother's
put to it to get porridge for 'em all.  They tumble about on th' moor
an' play there all day an' mother says th' air of th' moor fattens 'em.
She says she believes they eat th' grass same as th' wild ponies do.
Our Dickon, he's twelve years old and he's got a young pony he calls
his own
Where did he get it
He found it on th' moor with its mother when it was a little one an'
he began to make friends with it an' give it bits o' bread an' pluck
young grass for it.  And it got to like him so it follows him about an'
it lets him get on its back.  Dickon's a kind lad an' animals likes
him
I don't want it
Tha' doesn't want thy porridge
No
Tha' doesn't know how good it is.  Put a bit o' treacle on it or a bit
o' sugar
I don't want it
Eh
I can't abide to see good victuals go to waste.
If our children was at this table they'd clean it bare in five minutes
Why
Why
Because they scarce
ever had their stomachs full in their lives.  They're as hungry as
young hawks an' foxes
I don't know what it is to be hungry
Well, it would do thee good to try it.  I can see that plain enough
I've no patience with folk as sits an' just
stares at good bread an' meat.  My word! don't I wish Dickon and Phil
an' Jane an' th' rest of 'em had what's here under their pinafores
Why don't you take it to them
It's not mine
An' this isn't my day out.
I get my day out once a month same as th' rest.  Then I go home an'
clean up for mother an' give her a day's rest
You wrap up warm an' run out an' play you
It'll do
you good and give you some stomach for your meat
Out? Why should I go out on a day like this
Well, if tha' doesn't
go out tha'lt have to stay in, an' what has tha' got to do
Who will go with me
You'll go by yourself
You'll have to learn to play
like other children does when they haven't got sisters and brothers.
Our Dickon goes off on th' moor by himself an' plays for hours.  That's
how he made friends with th' pony.  He's got sheep on th' moor that
knows him, an' birds as comes an' eats out of his hand.  However little
there is to eat, he always saves a bit o' his bread to coax his pets
If tha' goes round that way tha'll come to th' gardens
There's lots o' flowers in
summer-time, but there's nothin' bloomin' now
One of th' gardens is locked up.  No one
has been in it for ten years
Why
Mr. Craven had it shut when his wife died so sudden.  He won't let no
one go inside.  It was her garden.  He locked th' door an' dug a hole
and buried th' key.  There's Mrs. Medlock's bell ringing -- I must run
What is this place
One o' th' kitchen-gardens
What is that
Another of 'em
There's another on t'other side o' th'
wall an' there's th' orchard t'other side o' that
Can I go in them
If tha' likes.  But there's nowt to see
People never like me and I never like people
And I
never can talk as the Crawford children could.  They were always
talking and laughing and making noises
I believe that tree was in the secret garden -- I feel sure it was
There was a wall round the place and there was no door
I have been into the other gardens
There was nothin' to prevent thee
I went into the orchard
There was no dog at th' door to bite thee
There was no door there into the other garden
What garden
The one on the other side of the wall
There are trees there -- I saw the tops of them.  A bird with a red
breast was sitting on one of them and he sang
Here he is
Where has tha' been, tha' cheeky little beggar
I've not
seen thee before today.  Has tha, begun tha' courtin' this early in th'
season? Tha'rt too forrad
Will he always come when you call him
Aye, that he will.  I've knowed him ever since he was a fledgling.  He
come out of th' nest in th' other garden an' when first he flew over
th' wall he was too weak to fly back for a few days an' we got
friendly.  When he went over th' wall again th' rest of th' brood was
gone an' he was lonely an' he come back to me
What kind of a bird is he
Doesn't tha' know? He's a robin redbreast an' they're th' friendliest,
curiousest birds alive.  They're almost as friendly as dogs -- if you
know how to get on with 'em. Watch him peckin' about there an' lookin'
round at us now an' again.  He knows we're talkin' about him
He's a conceited one
He likes to hear folk talk about
him.  An' curious -- bless me, there never was his like for curiosity an'
meddlin'. He's always comin' to see what I'm plantin'. He knows all th'
things Mester Craven never troubles hissel' to find out.  He's th' head
gardener, he is
Where
did the rest of the brood fly to
There's no knowin'. The old ones turn 'em out o' their nest an' make
'em fly an' they're scattered before you know it.  This one was a
knowin' one an' he knew he was lonely
I'm lonely
Art tha' th' little wench from India
Then no wonder tha'rt lonely.  Tha'lt be lonlier before tha's done
What is your name
Ben Weatherstaff
I'm lonely mysel' except when he's with me
He's th' only friend I've got
I have no friends at all
I never had.  My Ayah didn't
like me and I never played with any one
Tha' an' me are a good bit alike
We was wove out of th'
same cloth.  We're neither of us good lookin' an' we're both of us as
sour as we look.  We've got the same nasty tempers, both of us, I'll
warrant
nasty tempered
What did he do that for
He's made up his mind to make friends with thee
Dang
me if he hasn't took a fancy to thee
To me
Would you make friends with me
Would you
Why
tha' said that as nice an' human as if tha' was a
real child instead of a sharp old woman.  Tha' said it almost like
Dickon talks to his wild things on th' moor
Do you know Dickon
Everybody knows him.  Dickon's wanderin' about everywhere.  Th' very
blackberries an' heather-bells knows him.  I warrant th' foxes shows
him where their cubs lies an' th' skylarks doesn't hide their nests
from him
He has flown over the wall
He has
flown into the orchard -- he has flown across the other wall -- into the
garden where there is no door
He lives there
He came out o' th' egg there.  If
he's courtin', he's makin' up to some young madam of a robin that lives
among th' old rose-trees there
Rose-trees
Are there rose-trees
There was ten year' ago
I should like to see them
Where is the green door?
There must be a door somewhere
There was ten year' ago, but there isn't now
No door
There must be
None as any one can find, an'
none as is any one's business.  Don't you be a meddlesome wench an'
poke your nose where it's no cause to go.  Here, I must go on with my
work.  Get you gone an' play you.  I've no more time
Tha' got on well enough with that this mornin', didn't tha
It tastes nice today
It's th' air of th' moor that's givin' thee stomach for tha'
victuals
It's lucky for thee that tha's got
victuals as well as appetite.  There's been twelve in our cottage as
had th' stomach an' nothin' to put in it.  You go on playin' you out o'
doors every day an' you'll get some flesh on your bones an' you won't
be so yeller
I don't play
I have nothing to play with
Nothin' to play with
Our children plays with
sticks and stones.  They just runs about an' shouts an' looks at
things
Oh
is it you -- is it you
Good morning! Isn't the wind nice? Isn't the sun nice? Isn't
everything nice? Let us both chirp and hop and twitter.  Come on! Come
on
I like you! I like you
It's in the garden no one can go into
It's
the garden without a door.  He lives in there.  How I wish I could see
what it is like
It is the garden
I am sure it is
It's very queer
Ben Weatherstaff said there was no door
and there is no door.  But there must have been one ten years ago,
because Mr. Craven buried the key
Why did Mr. Craven hate the garden
blacks
Art tha' thinkin' about that garden yet
I knew tha'
would.  That was just the way with me when I first heard about it
Why did he hate it
Listen to th' wind wutherin' round the house
You could
bare stand up on the moor if you was out on it tonight
wutherin
But why did he hate it so
Mind
Mrs. Medlock said it's not to be talked about.
There's lots o' things in this place that's not to be talked over.
That's Mr. Craven's orders.  His troubles are none servants' business,
he says.  But for th' garden he wouldn't be like he is.  It was Mrs.
Craven's garden that she had made when first they were married an' she
just loved it, an' they used to 'tend the flowers themselves.  An' none
o' th' gardeners was ever let to go in.  Him an' her used to go in an'
shut th' door an' stay there hours an' hours, readin' and talkin'. An'
she was just a bit of a girl an' there was an old tree with a branch
bent like a seat on it.  An' she made roses grow over it an' she used
to sit there.  But one day when she was sittin' there th' branch broke
an' she fell on th' ground an' was hurt so bad that next day she died.
Th' doctors thought he'd go out o' his mind an' die, too.  That's why
he hates it.  No one's never gone in since, an' he won't let any one
talk about it
wutherin
wutherin
Do you hear any one crying
No
It's th' wind.  Sometimes it sounds like as if
some one was lost on th' moor an' wailin'. It's got all sorts o'
sounds
But listen
It's in the house -- down one of those long
corridors
There
I told you so! It is some one crying -- and it
isn't a grown-up person
wutherin
It was th' wind
An' if it wasn't, it was
little Betty Butterworth, th' scullery-maid. She's had th' toothache
all day
What do you do in your cottage when it rains like this
Try to keep from under each other's feet mostly
Eh! there does seem a lot of us then.  Mother's a good-tempered woman
but she gets fair moithered.  The biggest ones goes out in th' cow-shed
and plays there.  Dickon he doesn't mind th' wet.  He goes out just th'
same as if th' sun was shinin'. He says he sees things on rainy days as
doesn't show when it's fair weather.  He once found a little fox cub
half drowned in its hole and he brought it home in th' bosom of his
shirt to keep it warm.  Its mother had been killed nearby an' th' hole
was swum out an' th' rest o' th' litter was dead.  He's got it at home
now.  He found a half-drowned young crow another time an' he brought it
home, too, an' tamed it.  It's named Soot because it's so black, an' it
hops an' flies about with him everywhere
If I had a raven or a fox cub I could play with it
But
I have nothing
Can tha' knit
No
Can tha' sew
No
Can tha' read
Yes
Then why doesn't tha, read somethin', or learn a bit o' spellin'?
Tha'st old enough to be learnin' thy book a good bit now
I haven't any books
Those I had were left in India
That's a pity
If Mrs. Medlock'd let thee go into th'
library, there's thousands o' books there
Hasn't tha' got good sense
Our Susan Ann is twice
as sharp as thee an' she's only four year' old.  Sometimes tha' looks
fair soft in th' head
Where do you live now
I wish you were
here
Perhaps she slept here once
She stares at me so that
she makes me feel queer
If they wouldn't be so frightened I would take them back with me
I believe I have taken a wrong turning again
I don't know which way to go.  How still everything is
It's nearer than it was
And it is crying
What are you doing here
What did I tell you
I turned round the wrong corner
I didn't know
which way to go and I heard some one crying
You didn't hear anything of the sort
You
come along back to your own nursery or I'll box your ears
Now
you stay where you're told to stay or you'll find
yourself locked up.  The master had better get you a governess, same as
he said he would.  You're one that needs some one to look sharp after
you.  I've got enough to do
There was some one crying -- there was -- there was
Look at the moor! Look at the moor
Aye
Th' storm's over for a bit.
It does like this at this time o' th' year.  It goes off in a night
like it was pretendin' it had never been here an' never meant to come
again.  That's because th' springtime's on its way.  It's a long way
off yet, but it's comin
I thought perhaps it always rained or looked dark in England
Eh! no
Nowt o' th' soart
What does that mean
There now
I've talked broad Yorkshire again like Mrs.
Medlock said I mustn't. 'Nowt o' th' soart' means
'nothin'-of-the-sort
but it takes so long to
say it.  Yorkshire's th' sunniest place on earth when it is sunny.  I
told thee tha'd like th' moor after a bit.  Just you wait till you see
th' gold-colored gorse blossoms an' th' blossoms o' th' broom, an' th'
heather flowerin', all purple bells, an' hundreds o' butterflies
flutterin' an' bees hummin' an' skylarks soarin' up an' singin'. You'll
want to get out on it as sunrise an' live out on it all day like Dickon
does
Could I ever get there
I don't know
Tha's never used tha' legs since
tha' was born, it seems to me.  Tha' couldn't walk five mile.  It's
five mile to our cottage
I should like to see your cottage
I'll ask my mother about it
She's one o' them that
nearly always sees a way to do things.  It's my day out today an' I'm
goin' home.  Eh! I am glad.  Mrs. Medlock thinks a lot o' mother.
Perhaps she could talk to her
I like your mother
I should think tha' did
I've never seen her
No, tha' hasn't
Well, she's that sensible an' hard workin' an' goodnatured an' clean
that no one could help likin' her whether they'd seen her or not.  When
I'm goin' home to her on my day out I just jump for joy when I'm
crossin' the moor
I like Dickon
And I've never seen him
Well
I've told thee that th' very birds likes
him an' th' rabbits an' wild sheep an' ponies, an' th' foxes
themselves.  I wonder
what Dickon would
think of thee
He wouldn't like me
No
one does
How does tha' like thysel
Not at all -- really
But I never thought of that
before
Mother said that to me once
She was at her wash-tub an'
I was in a bad temper an' talkin' ill of folk, an' she turns round on
me an' says: 'Tha' young vixen, tha'! There tha' stands sayin' tha'
doesn't like this one an' tha' doesn't like that one.  How does tha'
like thysel'?' It made me laugh an' it brought me to my senses in a
minute
Springtime's comin
Cannot tha' smell it
I smell something nice and fresh and damp
That's th' good rich earth
It's in a
good humor makin' ready to grow things.  It's glad when plantin' time
comes.  It's dull in th' winter when it's got nowt to do.  In th'
flower gardens out there things will be stirrin' down below in th'
dark.  Th' sun's warmin' 'em. You'll see bits o' green spikes stickin'
out o' th' black earth after a bit
What will they be
Crocuses an' snowdrops an' daffydowndillys.  Has tha' never seen them
No. Everything is hot, and wet, and green after the rains in India
And I think things grow up in a night
These won't grow up in a night
Tha'll have to
wait for 'em. They'll poke up a bit higher here, an' push out a spike
more there, an' uncurl a leaf this day an' another that.  You watch
'em
I am going to
Do you think he remembers me
Remembers thee
He knows every
cabbage stump in th' gardens, let alone th' people.  He's never seen a
little wench here before, an' he's bent on findin' out all about thee.
Tha's no need to try to hide anything from him
Are things stirring down below in the dark in that garden where he
lives
What garden
The one where the old rose-trees are
Are all the flowers dead, or do
some of them come again in the summer? Are there ever any roses
Ask him
He's the only one as knows.  No one else has seen inside it
for ten year
You do remember me
You do! You are prettier than
anything else in the world
Perhaps it has been buried for ten years
Perhaps it is the key to the garden
contrary
I got up at four o'clock
Eh! it was pretty on th' moor
with th' birds gettin' up an' th' rabbits scamperin' about an' th' sun
risin'. I didn't walk all th' way.  A man gave me a ride in his cart
an' I did enjoy myself
I had 'em all pipin' hot when they came in from playin' on th' moor.
An' th' cottage all smelt o' nice, clean hot bakin' an' there was a
good fire, an' they just shouted for joy.  Our Dickon he said our
cottage was good enough for a king
Eh! they did like to hear about you
They wanted to
know all about th' blacks an' about th' ship you came in.  I couldn't
tell 'em enough
I'll tell you a great deal more before your next day out
so that you will have more to talk about.  I dare say they would like
to hear about riding on elephants and camels, and about the officers
going to hunt tigers
My word
It would set 'em clean off their
heads.  Would tha' really do that, Miss? It would be same as a wild
beast show like we heard they had in York once
India is quite different from Yorkshire
I never thought of that.  Did Dickon and
your mother like to hear you talk about me
Why, our Dickon's eyes nearly started out o' his head, they got that
round
But mother, she was put out about your
seemin' to be all by yourself like.  She said, 'Hasn't Mr. Craven got
no governess for her, nor no nurse?' and I said, 'No, he hasn't, though
Mrs. Medlock says he will when he thinks of it, but she says he mayn't
think of it for two or three years
I don't want a governess
But mother says you ought to be learnin' your book by this time an'
you ought to have a woman to look after you, an' she says: 'Now,
Martha, you just think how you'd feel yourself, in a big place like
that, wanderin' about all alone, an' no mother.  You do your best to
cheer her up,' she says, an' I said I would
You do cheer me up
I like to hear you talk
What does tha' think
I've brought
thee a present
A present
A man was drivin' across the moor peddlin
An'
he stopped his cart at our door.  He had pots an' pans an' odds an'
ends, but mother had no money to buy anythin'. Just as he was goin'
away our 'Lizabeth Ellen called out, 'Mother, he's got skippin'-ropes
with red an' blue handles.' An' mother she calls out quite sudden,
'Here, stop, mister! How much are they?' An' he says 'Tuppence', an'
mother she began fumblin' in her pocket an' she says to me, 'Martha,
tha's brought me thy wages like a good lass, an' I've got four places
to put every penny, but I'm just goin' to take tuppence out of it to
buy that child a skippin'-rope,' an' she bought one an' here it is
What is it for
For
Does tha' mean that they've not got
skippin'-ropes in India, for all they've got elephants and tigers and
camels! No wonder most of 'em's black.  This is what it's for; just
watch me
I could skip longer than that
I've
skipped as much as five hundred when I was twelve, but I wasn't as fat
then as I am now, an' I was in practice
It looks nice
Your mother is a kind woman.  Do you think
I could ever skip like that
You just try it
You
can't skip a hundred at first, but if you practice you'll mount up.
That's what mother said.  She says, 'Nothin' will do her more good than
skippin' rope.  It's th' sensiblest toy a child can have.  Let her play
out in th' fresh air skippin' an' it'll stretch her legs an' arms an'
give her some strength in 'em
Put on tha' things and run an' skip out o' doors
Mother said I must tell you to keep out o' doors as much as you could,
even when it rains a bit, so as tha' wrap up warm
Martha
they were your wages.  It was your two-pence
really.  Thank you
Thank you
Eh! th' art a queer, old-womanish thing
If tha'd been
our 'Lizabeth Ellen tha'd have given me a kiss
Do you want me to kiss you
Nay, not me
If tha' was different, p'raps tha'd want
to thysel'. But tha' isn't. Run off outside an' play with thy rope
Well
Upon my word.  P'raps tha' art a young 'un,
after all, an' p'raps tha's got child's blood in thy veins instead of
sour buttermilk.  Tha's skipped red into thy cheeks as sure as my
name's Ben Weatherstaff.  I wouldn't have believed tha' could do it
I never skipped before
I'm just beginning.  I can only
go up to twenty
Tha' keep on
Tha' shapes well enough at it for a young
'un that's lived with heathen.  Just see how he's watchin' thee
He followed after thee yesterday.
He'll be at it again today.  He'll be bound to find out what th'
skippin'-rope is.  He's never seen one.  Eh
tha' curiosity will be th' death of thee sometime if tha'
doesn't look sharp
You showed me where the key was yesterday
You ought to
show me the door today; but I don't believe you know
How still it is
How still
No wonder it is still
I am the first person
who has spoken in here for ten years
I wonder if they are all quite dead
Is it all a quite dead garden? I wish it wasn't
Yes, they are tiny growing things and they might be crocuses or
snowdrops or daffodils
Perhaps there are some other ones coming up in other places
I will go all over the garden and look
It isn't a quite dead garden
Even
if the roses are dead, there are other things alive
Now they look as if they could breathe
I am going to do ever so many more.
I'll do all I can see.  If I haven't time today I can come tomorrow
I shall come back this afternoon
Two pieces o' meat an' two helps o' rice puddin
Eh!
mother will be pleased when I tell her what th' skippin'-rope's done
for thee
Martha
what are those white roots that look like onions
They're bulbs
Lots o' spring flowers grow from
'em. Th' very little ones are snowdrops an' crocuses an' th' big ones
are narcissuses an' jonquils and daffydowndillys.  Th' biggest of all
is lilies an' purple flags.  Eh! they are nice.  Dickon's got a whole
lot of 'em planted in our bit o' garden
Does Dickon know all about them
Our Dickon can make a flower grow out of a brick walk.  Mother says he
just whispers things out o' th' ground
Do bulbs live a long time? Would they live years and years if no one
helped them
They're things as helps themselves
That's why poor
folk can afford to have 'em. If you don't trouble 'em, most of 'em'll
work away underground for a lifetime an' spread out an' have little
'uns. There's a place in th' park woods here where there's snowdrops by
thousands.  They're the prettiest sight in Yorkshire when th' spring
comes.  No one knows when they was first planted
I wish the spring was here now
I want to see all the
things that grow in England
I wish -- I wish I had a little spade
Whatever does tha'
want a spade for
Art tha' goin' to take to
diggin'? I must tell mother that, too
This is such a big lonely place
The house is lonely, and the park
is lonely, and the gardens are lonely.  So many places seem shut up.  I
never did many things in India, but there were more people to look
at -- natives and soldiers marching by -- and sometimes bands playing, and
my Ayah told me stories.  There is no one to talk to here except you
and Ben Weatherstaff.  And you have to do your work and Ben
Weatherstaff won't speak to me often.  I thought if I had a little
spade I could dig somewhere as he does, and I might make a little
garden if he would give me some seeds
There now
if that wasn't one of th' things mother
said.  She says, 'There's such a lot o' room in that big place, why
don't they give her a bit for herself, even if she doesn't plant
nothin' but parsley an' radishes? She'd dig an' rake away an' be right
down happy over it.' Them was the very words she said
Were they
How many things she knows, doesn't she
Eh
It's like she says: 'A woman as brings up twelve
children learns something besides her A B C. Children's as good as
'rithmetic to set you findin' out things
How much would a spade cost -- a little one
Well
at Thwaite village there's a
shop or so an' I saw little garden sets with a spade an' a rake an' a
fork all tied together for two shillings.  An' they was stout enough to
work with, too
I've got more than that in my purse
Mrs. Morrison gave
me five shillings and Mrs. Medlock gave me some money from Mr. Craven
Did he remember thee that much
Mrs. Medlock said I was to have a shilling a week to spend.  She gives
me one every Saturday.  I didn't know what to spend it on
My word! that's riches
Tha' can buy anything in th'
world tha' wants.  Th' rent of our cottage is only one an' threepence
an' it's like pullin' eye-teeth to get it.  Now I've just thought of
somethin
What
In the shop at Thwaite they sell packages o' flower-seeds for a penny
each, and our Dickon he knows which is th' prettiest ones an' how to
make 'em grow.  He walks over to Thwaite many a day just for th' fun of
it.  Does tha' know how to print letters
I know how to write
Our Dickon can only read printin'. If tha' could print we could write
a letter to him an' ask him to go an' buy th' garden tools an' th'
seeds at th' same time
Oh! you're a good girl
You are, really! I didn't know
you were so nice.  I know I can print letters if I try.  Let's ask Mrs.
Medlock for a pen and ink and some paper
I've got some of my own
I bought 'em so I could print
a bit of a letter to mother of a Sunday.  I'll go and get it
If I have a spade
I can make the earth nice and soft
and dig up weeds.  If I have seeds and can make flowers grow the garden
won't be dead at all -- it will come alive
Your loving sister,
                     Martha Phoebe Sowerby
We'll put the money in th' envelope an' I'll get th' butcher boy to
take it in his cart.  He's a great friend o' Dickon's
How shall I get the things when Dickon buys them
He'll bring 'em to you himself.  He'll like to walk over this way
Oh
then I shall see him! I never thought I should
see Dickon
Does tha' want to see him
Yes, I do.  I never saw a boy foxes and crows loved.  I want to see
him very much
Now to
think
to think o' me forgettin' that there; an' I
thought I was goin' to tell you first thing this mornin'. I asked
mother -- and she said she'd ask Mrs. Medlock her own self
Do you mean
What I said Tuesday.  Ask her if you might be driven over to our
cottage some day and have a bit o' mother's hot oat cake, an' butter,
an' a glass o' milk
Does she think Mrs. Medlock would let me go
Aye, she thinks she would.  She knows what a tidy woman mother is and
how clean she keeps the cottage
If I went I should see your mother as well as Dickon
She doesn't seem to
be like the mothers in India
Martha
has the scullery-maid had the toothache again
today
What makes thee ask that
Because when I waited so long for you to come back I opened the door
and walked down the corridor to see if you were coming.  And I heard
that far-off crying again, just as we heard it the other night.  There
isn't a wind today, so you see it couldn't have been the wind
Eh
Tha' mustn't go walkin' about in
corridors an' listenin'. Mr. Craven would be that there angry there's
no knowin' what he'd do
I wasn't listening
I was just waiting for you -- and I
heard it.  That's three times
My word! There's Mrs. Medlock's bell
It's the strangest house any one ever lived in
snowdrops by the thousands
Tha'rt like th' robin
I never knows when I shall see thee
or which side tha'll come from
He's friends with me now
That's like him
Makin' up to th' women
folk just for vanity an' flightiness.  There's nothin' he wouldn't do
for th' sake o' showin' off an' flirtin' his tail-feathers. He's as
full o' pride as an egg's full o' meat
How long has tha' been here
I think it's about a month
Tha's beginnin' to do Misselthwaite credit
Tha's a bit
fatter than tha' was an' tha's not quite so yeller.  Tha' looked like a
young plucked crow when tha' first came into this garden.  Thinks I to
myself I never set eyes on an uglier, sourer faced young 'un
I know I'm fatter
My stockings are getting tighter.
They used to make wrinkles.  There's the robin, Ben Weatherstaff
Aye, there tha' art
Tha' can put up with me for a bit
sometimes when tha's got no one better.  Tha's been reddenin' up thy
waistcoat an' polishin' thy feathers this two weeks.  I know what tha's
up to.  Tha's courtin' some bold young madam somewhere tellin' thy lies
to her about bein' th' finest cock robin on Missel Moor an' ready to
fight all th' rest of 'em
Oh! look at him
Tha' thinks tha'll get over me by doin' that
Tha' thinks no one can stand out against thee -- that's what
tha' thinks
Well, I'm danged
Tha' does know how to get at a chap -- tha' does!
Tha's fair unearthly, tha's so knowin
Have you a garden of your own
No. I'm bachelder an' lodge with Martin at th' gate
If you had one
what would you plant
Cabbages an' 'taters an' onions
But if you wanted to make a flower garden
what
would you plant
Bulbs an' sweet-smellin' things -- but mostly roses
Do you like roses
Well, yes, I do.  I was learned that by a young lady I was gardener
to.  She had a lot in a place she was fond of, an' she loved 'em like
they was children -- or robins.  I've seen her bend over an' kiss 'em
That were as much as
ten year' ago
Where is she now
Heaven
cording to what parson says
What happened to the roses
They was left to themselves
Did they quite die? Do roses quite die when they are left to
themselves
Well, I'd got to like 'em -- an' I liked her -- an' she liked 'em
Once or twice a year I'd go an'
work at 'em a bit -- prune 'em an' dig about th' roots.  They run wild,
but they was in rich soil, so some of 'em lived
When they have no leaves and look gray and brown and dry, how can you
tell whether they are dead or alive
Wait till th' spring gets at 'em -- wait till th' sun shines on th' rain
and th' rain falls on th' sunshine an' then tha'll find out
How -- how
Look along th'
twigs an' branches an' if tha' see a bit of a brown lump swelling here
an' there, watch it after th' warm rain an' see what happens
Why does
tha' care so much about roses an' such, all of a sudden
I -- I want to play that -- that I have a garden of my own
I -- there is nothing for me to do.  I have nothing -- and no
one
Well
that's true.
Tha' hasn't
Do you go and see those other roses now
Not been this year.  My rheumatics has made me too stiff in th'
joints
Now look here
Don't tha' ask so many questions.
Tha'rt th' worst wench for askin' questions I've ever come a cross.
Get thee gone an' play thee.  I've done talkin' for today
Don't tha' move
It'd flight 'em
I'm Dickon
I know tha'rt Miss Mary
I got up slow
because if tha' makes a quick move it
startles 'em. A body 'as to move gentle an' speak low when wild things
is about
Did you get Martha's letter
That's why I come
I've got th' garden tools.  There's a little spade an' rake an' a fork
an' hoe.  Eh! they are good 'uns. There's a trowel, too.  An' th' woman
in th' shop threw in a packet o' white poppy an' one o' blue larkspur
when I bought th' other seeds
Will you show the seeds to me
Let us sit down on this log and look at them
There's a lot o' mignonette an' poppies
Mignonette's th'
sweetest smellin' thing as grows, an' it'll grow wherever you cast it,
same as poppies will.  Them as'll come up an' bloom if you just whistle
to 'em, them's th' nicest of all
Where's that robin as is callin' us
Is it really calling us
Aye
he's callin' some one he's friends with.  That's same as sayin' 'Here
I am.  Look at me.  I wants a bit of a chat.' There he is in the bush.
Whose is he
He's Ben Weatherstaff's, but I think he knows me a little
Aye, he knows thee
An' he
likes thee.  He's took thee on.  He'll tell me all about thee in a
minute
Aye, he's a friend o' yours
Do you think he is
Do you think he really likes me
He wouldn't come near thee if he didn't
Birds is
rare choosers an' a robin can flout a body worse than a man.  See, he's
making up to thee now.  'Cannot tha' see a chap?' he's sayin
Do you understand everything birds say
I think I do, and they think I do
I've lived on th' moor
with 'em so long.  I've watched 'em break shell an' come out an' fledge
an' learn to fly an' begin to sing, till I think I'm one of 'em.
Sometimes I think p'raps I'm a bird, or a fox, or a rabbit, or a
squirrel, or even a beetle, an' I don't know it
See here
I'll
plant them for thee myself.  Where is tha' garden
Tha's got a bit o' garden, hasn't tha
Wouldn't they give thee a bit
Hasn't tha' got any yet
I don't know anything about boys
Could you keep a
secret, if I told you one? It's a great secret.  I don't know what I
should do if any one found it out.  I believe I should die
I'm keepin'
secrets all th' time
If I couldn't keep secrets from th'
other lads, secrets about foxes' cubs, an' birds' nests, an' wild
things' holes, there'd be naught safe on th' moor.  Aye, I can keep
secrets
I've stolen a garden
It isn't mine.  It isn't
anybody's. Nobody wants it, nobody cares for it, nobody ever goes into
it.  Perhaps everything is dead in it already.  I don't know
I don't care, I don't care! Nobody has any right to take it from me
when I care about it and they don't. They're letting it die, all shut
in by itself
Eh-h-h
I've nothing to do
Nothing belongs to me.  I found it
myself and I got into it myself.  I was only just like the robin, and
they wouldn't take it from the robin
Where is it
Come with me and I'll show you
It's this
It's a secret garden, and I'm the only one in
the world who wants it to be alive
Eh
it is a queer, pretty place!  It's like as
if a body was in a dream
I never thought I'd see this place
Did you know about it
We must talk low
or some one'll hear us an' wonder what's
to do in here
Oh! I forgot
Did you know about the garden
Martha told me there was one as no one ever went inside
Us used to wonder what it was like
Eh! the nests as'll be here come springtime
It'd be th'
safest nestin' place in England.  No one never comin' near an' tangles
o' trees an' roses to build in.  I wonder all th' birds on th' moor
don't build here
Will there be roses
Can you tell? I thought perhaps
they were all dead
Eh! No! Not them -- not all of 'em
Look here
There's lots o' dead wood as ought to be cut out
An'
there's a lot o' old wood, but it made some new last year.  This here's
a new bit
That one
Is that one quite alive quite
It's as wick as you or me
lively
I'm glad it's wick
I want them all
to be wick.  Let us go round the garden and count how many wick ones
there are
They've run wild
but th' strongest ones has fair thrived
on it.  The delicatest ones has died out, but th' others has growed an'
growed, an' spread an' spread, till they's a wonder.  See here
A body might think this
was dead wood, but I don't believe it is -- down to th' root.  I'll cut
it low down an' see
There
I told thee so.  There's green in that
wood yet.  Look at it
When it looks a bit greenish an' juicy like that, it's wick
When th' inside is dry an' breaks easy, like this here
piece I've cut off, it's done for.  There's a big root here as all this
live wood sprung out of, an' if th' old wood's cut off an' it's dug
round, and took care of there'll be
there'll be a
fountain o' roses here this summer
Why
Who did that
there
I did it
Why, I thought tha' didn't know nothin' about gardenin
I don't
but they were so little, and the grass was so
thick and strong, and they looked as if they had no room to breathe.
So I made a place for them.  I don't even know what they are
Tha' was right
A gardener couldn't have told thee better.
They'll grow now like Jack's bean-stalk. They're crocuses an'
snowdrops, an' these here is narcissuses
an here's daffydowndillys.  Eh! they will be a sight
Tha' has done a lot o' work for such a little wench
I'm growing fatter
and I'm growing stronger.  I used
always to be tired.  When I dig I'm not tired at all.  I like to smell
the earth when it's turned up
It's rare good for thee
There's
naught as nice as th' smell o' good clean earth, except th' smell o'
fresh growin' things when th' rain falls on 'em. I get out on th' moor
many a day when it's rainin' an' I lie under a bush an' listen to th'
soft swish o' drops on th' heather an' I just sniff an' sniff.  My nose
end fair quivers like a rabbit's, mother says
Do you never catch cold
Not me
I never ketched cold since I was born.
I wasn't brought up nesh enough.  I've chased about th' moor in all
weathers same as th' rabbits does.  Mother says I've sniffed up too
much fresh air for twelve year' to ever get to sniffin' with cold.  I'm
as tough as a white-thorn knobstick
There's a lot of work to do here
Will you come again and help me to do it
I'm sure I
can help, too.  I can dig and pull up weeds, and do whatever you tell
me.  Oh! do come, Dickon
I'll come every day if tha' wants me, rain or shine
It's the best fun I ever had in my life -- shut in here an'
wakenin' up a garden
If you will come
if you will help me to make it alive
I'll -- I don't know what I'll do
I'll tell thee what tha'll do
Tha'll get fat an' tha'll get as hungry as a young fox an' tha'll
learn how to talk to th' robin same as I do.  Eh! we'll have a lot o'
fun
I wouldn't want to make it look like a gardener's garden, all clipped
an' spick an' span, would you
It's nicer like this with
things runnin' wild, an' swingin' an' catchin' hold of each other
Don't let us make it tidy
It wouldn't seem
like a secret garden if it was tidy
It's a secret garden sure enough
but seems like some one
besides th' robin must have been in it since it was shut up ten year'
ago
But the door was locked and the key was buried
No one
could get in
That's true
It's a queer place.  Seems to me as if
there'd been a bit o' prunin' done here an' there, later than ten year'
ago
But how could it have been done
Aye! how could it
With th' door locked an' th' key
buried
Are there any flowers that look like bells
Lilies o' th' valley does
an' there's Canterbury bells, an' campanulas
Let's plant some
There's lilies o' th, valley here
already; I saw 'em. They'll have growed too close an' we'll have to
separate 'em, but there's plenty.  Th' other ones takes two years to
bloom from seed, but I can bring you some bits o' plants from our
cottage garden.  Why does tha' want 'em
Mistress Mary
Quite Contrary
I wasn't as contrary as they were
Eh
There doesn't seem to be no need for no
one to be contrary when there's flowers an' such like, an' such lots o'
friendly wild things runnin' about makin' homes for themselves, or
buildin' nests an' singin' an' whistlin', does there
Dickon
you are as nice as Martha said you were.  I like
you, and you make the fifth person.  I never thought I should like five
people
Only five folk as tha' likes
Who is th' other four
Your mother and Martha
and
the robin and Ben Weatherstaff
I know tha' thinks I'm a queer lad
but I think tha' art
th' queerest little lass I ever saw
Does tha' like me
Eh
that I does.  I likes thee wonderful, an'
so does th' robin, I do believe
That's two, then
That's two for me
I shall have to go
And you will have to go
too, won't you
My dinner's easy to carry about with me
Mother always
lets me put a bit o' somethin' in my pocket
It's oftenest naught but bread
but I've got a fine slice
o' fat bacon with it today
Run on an' get thy victuals
I'll be done with mine first.
I'll get some more work done before I start back home
I'll call th' robin up
and give him th' rind o' th' bacon
to peck at.  They likes a bit o' fat wonderful
Whatever happens, you -- you never would tell
If tha' was a missel thrush an' showed me where thy nest was, does
tha' think I'd tell any one? Not me
Tha' art as safe as a
missel thrush
Tha's a bit late
Where has tha' been
I've seen Dickon
I've seen Dickon
I knew he'd come
How does tha' like him
I think -- I think he's beautiful
Well
he's th' best lad as ever was born, but us never
thought he was handsome.  His nose turns up too much
I like it to turn up
An' his eyes is so round
Though
they're a nice color
I like them round
And they are
exactly the color of the sky over the moor
Mother says he made 'em that color with always lookin' up at th' birds
an' th' clouds.  But he has got a big mouth, hasn't he, now
I love his big mouth
I wish mine were just
like it
It'd look rare an' funny in thy bit of a face
But I
knowed it would be that way when tha' saw him.  How did tha' like th'
seeds an' th' garden tools
How did you know he brought them
Eh! I never thought of him not bringin' 'em. He'd be sure to bring 'em
if they was in Yorkshire.  He's such a trusty lad
Who did tha' ask about it
I haven't asked anybody yet
Well, I
wouldn't ask th' head gardener.  He's too grand, Mr. Roach is
I've never seen him
I've only seen undergardeners and
Ben Weatherstaff
If I was you, I'd ask Ben Weatherstaff
He's not
half as bad as he looks, for all he's so crabbed.  Mr. Craven lets him
do what he likes because he was here when Mrs. Craven was alive, an' he
used to make her laugh.  She liked him.  Perhaps he'd find you a corner
somewhere out o' the way
If it was out of the way and no one wanted it, no one could mind my
having it, could they
There wouldn't be no reason
You wouldn't do no
harm
I've got somethin' to tell you
I thought I'd let you eat
your dinner first.  Mr. Craven came back this mornin' and I think he
wants to see you
Oh
Why! Why! He didn't want to see me when I came.  I
heard Pitcher say he didn't
Well
Mrs. Medlock
says it's because o' mother.  She was walkin' to Thwaite village an'
she met him.  She'd never spoke to him before, but Mrs. Craven had been
to our cottage two or three times.  He'd forgot, but mother hadn't an'
she made bold to stop him.  I don't know what she said to him about you
but she said somethin' as put him in th' mind to see you before he goes
away again, tomorrow
Oh
is he going away tomorrow? I am so glad
He's goin' for a long time.  He mayn't come back till autumn or
winter.  He's goin' to travel in foreign places.  He's always doin' it
Oh! I'm so glad -- so glad
When do you think he will want to see
Your hair's rough
Go and brush it.  Martha, help
her to slip on her best dress.  Mr. Craven sent me to bring her to him
in his study
Come in
This is Miss Mary, sir
You can go and leave her here.  I will ring for you when I want you to
take her away
Come here
Are you well
Yes
Do they take good care of you
Yes
You are very thin
I am getting fatter
I forgot you
How could I remember you? I intended to send
you a governess or a nurse, or some one of that sort, but I forgot
Please
Please
What do you want to say
I am -- I am too big for a nurse
And please -- please don't
make me have a governess yet
That was what the Sowerby woman said
Is she -- is she Martha's mother
Yes, I think so
She knows about children
She has twelve.  She knows
What do you want to do
I want to play out of doors
I never liked it in India.  It makes me hungry here, and
I am getting fatter
Mrs. Sowerby said it would do you good.  Perhaps it will
She thought you had better get stronger before you had a governess
It makes me feel strong when I play and the wind comes over the moor
Where do you play
Everywhere
Martha's mother sent me a skipping-rope. I
skip and run -- and I look about to see if things are beginning to stick
up out of the earth.  I don't do any harm
Don't look so frightened
You could not
do any harm, a child like you! You may do what you like
May I
Don't look so frightened
Of course you may.  I am
your guardian, though I am a poor one for any child.  I cannot give you
time or attention.  I am too ill, and wretched and distracted; but I
wish you to be happy and comfortable.  I don't know anything about
children, but Mrs. Medlock is to see that you have all you need.  I
sent for you to-day because Mrs. Sowerby said I ought to see you.  Her
daughter had talked about you.  She thought you needed fresh air and
freedom and running about
She knows all about children
She ought to
I thought her rather bold to stop me
on the moor, but she said -- Mrs. Craven had been kind to her
She is a respectable
woman.  Now I have seen you I think she said sensible things.  Play out
of doors as much as you like.  It's a big place and you may go where
you like and amuse yourself as you like.  Is there anything you want
Do you want toys, books,
dolls
Might I
might I have a bit of earth
Earth
What do you mean
To plant seeds in -- to make things grow -- to see them come alive
Do you -- care about gardens so much
I didn't know about them in India
I was always ill and
tired and it was too hot.  I sometimes made little beds in the sand and
stuck flowers in them.  But here it is different
A bit of earth
You can have as much earth as you want
You remind me of
some one else who loved the earth and things that grow.  When you see a
bit of earth you want
take it, child,
and make it come alive
May I take it from anywhere -- if it's not wanted
Anywhere
There! You must go now, I am tired
Good-by. I shall be away all
summer
Mrs. Medlock
now I have seen the child I
understand what Mrs. Sowerby meant.  She must be less delicate before
she begins lessons.  Give her simple, healthy food.  Let her run wild
in the garden.  Don't look after her too much.  She needs liberty and
fresh air and romping about.  Mrs. Sowerby is to come and see her now
and then and she may sometimes go to the cottage
Thank you, sir
Susan Sowerby and me went to school
together and she's as sensible and good-hearted a woman as you'd find
in a day's walk.  I never had any children myself and she's had twelve,
and there never was healthier or better ones.  Miss Mary can get no
harm from them.  I'd always take Susan Sowerby's advice about children
myself.  She's what you might call healthy-minded -- if you understand
me
I understand
Take Miss Mary away now and send
Pitcher to me
I can have my garden
I may have it where I like! I am
not going to have a governess for a long time! Your mother is coming to
see me and I may go to your cottage! He says a little girl like me
could not do any harm and I may do what I like -- anywhere
Eh
that was nice of him wasn't it
Martha
he is really a nice man, only his face
is so miserable and his forehead is all drawn together
He's gone
Oh! was he -- was
he -- was he only a wood fairy
I will cum bak
Eh
I never knew our Dickon was as
clever as that.  That there's a picture of a missel thrush on her nest,
as large as life an' twice as natural
The rain is as contrary as I ever was
It came because it
knew I did not want it
wuthering
It sounds just like a person lost on the moor and wandering on and on
crying
It isn't the wind now
That isn't the
wind.  It is different.  It is that crying I heard before
I am going to find out what it is
Everybody is in bed
and I don't care about Mrs. Medlock -- I don't care
Who are you
Are you
a ghost
No, I am not
Are you one
No
I am Colin
Who is Colin
I am Colin Craven.  Who are you
I am Mary Lennox.  Mr. Craven is my uncle
He is my father
Your father
No one ever told me he had a boy! Why
didn't they
Come here
You are real, aren't you
I have such real dreams very
often.  You might be one of them
Rub that and see how thick and warm it is
I will pinch
you a little if you like, to show you how real I am.  For a minute I
thought you might be a dream too
Where did you come from
From my own room.  The wind wuthered so I couldn't go to sleep and I
heard some one crying and wanted to find out who it was.  What were you
crying for
Because I couldn't go to sleep either and my head ached.  Tell me your
name again
Mary Lennox.  Did no one ever tell you I had come to live here
No
They daren't
Why
Because I should have been afraid you would see me.  I won't let
people see me and talk me over
Why
Because I am like this always, ill and having to lie down.  My father
won't let people talk me over either.  The servants are not allowed to
speak about me.  If I live I may be a hunchback, but I shan't live.  My
father hates to think I may be like him
Oh, what a queer house this is
What a queer house!
Everything is a kind of secret.  Rooms are locked up and gardens are
locked up -- and you!  Have you been locked up
No. I stay in this room because I don't want to be moved out of it.
It tires me too much
Does your father come and see you
Sometimes. Generally when I am asleep.  He doesn't want to see me
Why
My mother died when I was born and it makes him wretched to look at
me.  He thinks I don't know, but I've heard people talking.  He almost
hates me
He hates the garden, because she died
What garden
Oh! just -- just a garden she used to like
Have you
been here always
Nearly always.  Sometimes I have been taken to
places at the seaside, but I won't stay because people stare at me.  I
used to wear an iron thing to keep my back straight, but a grand doctor
came from London to see me and said it was stupid.  He told them to
take it off and keep me out in the fresh air.  I hate fresh air and I
don't want to go out
I didn't when first I came here
Why do you keep looking
at me like that
Because of the dreams that are so real
Sometimes when I open my eyes I don't believe I'm awake
We're both awake
It looks quite
like a dream, and it's the middle of the night, and everybody in the
house is asleep -- everybody but us.  We are wide awake
I don't want it to be a dream
If you don't like people to see you
do you want me to go
away
No
I should be sure you were a dream if you went.  If you
are real, sit down on that big footstool and talk.  I want to hear
about you
What do you want me to tell you
Everyone is obliged
to do what pleases me
It makes me ill to be
angry.  No one believes I shall live to grow up
How old are you
I am ten
and so
are you
How do you know that
Because when you were born the garden door was locked and the key was
buried.  And it has been locked for ten years
What garden door was locked? Who did it? Where was the key buried
It -- it was the garden Mr. Craven hates
He
locked the door.  No one -- no one knew where he buried the key
What
sort of a garden is it
No one has been allowed to go into it for ten years
They won't talk about it
I think they have been told
not to answer questions
I would make them
Could you
Everyone is obliged to please me.  I told you that
If I
were to live, this place would sometime belong to me.  They all know
that.  I would make them tell me
Do you think you won't live
I don't suppose I shall
Ever since I remember anything I have heard people say
I shan't. At first they thought I was too little to understand and now
they think I don't hear.  But I do.  My doctor is my father's cousin.
He is quite poor and if I die he will have all Misselthwaite when my
father is dead.  I should think he wouldn't want me to live
Do you want to live
No
But I don't want to
die.  When I feel ill I lie here and think about it until I cry and
cry
I have heard you crying three times
but I did not know
who it was.  Were you crying about that
I dare say
Let us talk about something else.  Talk
about that garden.  Don't you want to see it
Yes
I do
I don't think I ever really wanted
to see anything before, but I want to see that garden.  I want the key
dug up.  I want the door unlocked.  I would let them take me there in
my chair.  That would be getting fresh air.  I am going to make them
open the door
They have to please me
I will make them take me there and
I will let you go, too
Oh, don't -- don't -- don't -- don't do that
Why
You said you wanted to see it
I do
but if you make
them open the door and take you in like that it will never be a secret
again
A secret
What do you mean? Tell me
You see -- you see
if no one knows but ourselves -- if
there was a door, hidden somewhere under the ivy -- if there was -- and we
could find it; and if we could slip through it together and shut it
behind us, and no one knew any one was inside and we called it our
garden and pretended that -- that we were missel thrushes and it was our
nest, and if we played there almost every day and dug and planted seeds
and made it all come alive
Is it dead
It soon will be if no one cares for it
The bulbs will
live but the roses
What are bulbs
They are daffodils and lilies and snowdrops.  They are working in the
earth now -- pushing up pale green points because the spring is coming
Is the spring coming
What is it like? You don't see it in
rooms if you are ill
It is the sun shining on the rain and the rain falling on the
sunshine, and things pushing up and working under the earth
If the garden was a secret and we could get into it we could
watch the things grow bigger every day, and see how many roses are
alive.  Don't you see?  Oh, don't you see how much nicer it would be
if it was a secret
I never had a secret
except that one about not living to
grow up.  They don't know I know that, so it is a sort of secret.  But
I like this kind better
If you won't make them take you to the garden
perhaps -- I feel almost sure I can find out how to get in sometime.
And then -- if the doctor wants you to go out in your chair, and if you
can always do what you want to do, perhaps -- perhaps we might find some
boy who would push you, and we could go alone and it would always be a
secret garden
I should -- like -- that
I should like that.  I should not mind fresh air in a secret garden
I'll tell you what I think it would be like, if we could go into it
It has been shut up so long things have grown into a tangle
perhaps
I did not know birds could be like that
But if you stay
in a room you never see things.  What a lot of things you know.  I feel
as if you had been inside that garden
I am going to let you look at something
Do you see that
rose-colored silk curtain hanging on the wall over the mantel-piece
Yes
There is a cord hanging from it
Go and pull it
She is my mother
I don't see why she
died.  Sometimes I hate her for doing it
How queer
If she had lived I believe I should not have been ill always
I dare say I should have lived, too.  And my father would
not have hated to look at me.  I dare say I should have had a strong
back.  Draw the curtain again
She is much prettier than you
but her eyes are just like
yours -- at least they are the same shape and color.  Why is the curtain
drawn over her
I made them do it
Sometimes I don't like to see her
looking at me.  She smiles too much when I am ill and miserable.
Besides, she is mine and I don't want everyone to see her
What would Mrs. Medlock do if she found out that I had been here
She would do as I told her to do
And I should tell
her that I wanted you to come here and talk to me every day.  I am glad
you came
So am I
I will come as often as I can, but
I shall have to look every day for the garden door
Yes, you must
and you can tell me about it afterward
I think you shall be a secret, too
I will not tell them
until they find out.  I can always send the nurse out of the room and
say that I want to be by myself.  Do you know Martha
Yes, I know her very well
She waits on me
She is the one who is asleep in the other room.  The nurse went away
yesterday to stay all night with her sister and she always makes Martha
attend to me when she wants to go out.  Martha shall tell you when to
come here
Martha knew about you all the time
Yes; she often attends to me.  The nurse likes to get away from me and
then Martha comes
I have been here a long time
Shall I go away now? Your
eyes look sleepy
I wish I could go to sleep before you leave me
Shut your eyes
and I will
do what my Ayah used to do in India.  I will pat your hand and stroke
it and sing something quite low
I should like that perhaps
That is nice
What's the matter with thee
Tha' looks as if tha'd somethin' to say
I have.  I have found out what the crying was
Tha' hasn't
Never
I heard it in the night
And I got up and went to see
where it came from.  It was Colin.  I found him
Eh! Miss Mary
Tha' shouldn't have done
it -- tha' shouldn't! Tha'll get me in trouble.  I never told thee
nothin' about him -- but tha'll get me in trouble.  I shall lose my place
and what'll mother do
You won't lose your place
He was glad I came.  We
talked and talked and he said he was glad I came
Was he
Art tha' sure? Tha' doesn't know what he's
like when anything vexes him.  He's a big lad to cry like a baby, but
when he's in a passion he'll fair scream just to frighten us.  He knows
us daren't call our souls our own
He wasn't vexed
I asked him if I should go away and he
made me stay.  He asked me questions and I sat on a big footstool and
talked to him about India and about the robin and gardens.  He wouldn't
let me go.  He let me see his mother's picture.  Before I left him I
sang him to sleep
I can scarcely believe thee
It's as if tha'd walked
straight into a lion's den.  If he'd been like he is most times he'd
have throwed himself into one of his tantrums and roused th' house.  He
won't let strangers look at him
He let me look at him.  I looked at him all the time and he looked at
me.  We stared
I don't know what to do
If Mrs. Medlock
finds out, she'll think I broke orders and told thee and I shall be
packed back to mother
He is not going to tell Mrs. Medlock anything about it yet.  It's to
be a sort of secret just at first
And he says
everybody is obliged to do as he pleases
Aye, that's true enough -- th' bad lad
He says Mrs. Medlock must.  And he wants me to come and talk to him
every day.  And you are to tell me when he wants me
Me
I shall lose my place -- I shall for sure
You can't if you are doing what he wants you to do and everybody is
ordered to obey him
Does tha' mean to say
that he was
nice to thee
I think he almost liked me
Then tha' must have bewitched him
Do you mean Magic
I've heard about Magic in India,
but I can't make it.  I just went into his room and I was so surprised
to see him I stood and stared.  And then he turned round and stared at
me.  And he thought I was a ghost or a dream and I thought perhaps he
was.  And it was so queer being there alone together in the middle of
the night and not knowing about each other.  And we began to ask each
other questions.  And when I asked him if I must go away he said I must
not
Th' world's comin' to a end
What is the matter with him
Nobody knows for sure and certain
Mr. Craven went off
his head like when he was born.  Th' doctors thought he'd have to be
put in a 'sylum.  It was because Mrs. Craven died like I told you.  He
wouldn't set eyes on th' baby.  He just raved and said it'd be another
hunchback like him and it'd better die
Is Colin a hunchback
He didn't look like one
He isn't yet
But he began all wrong.  Mother said
that there was enough trouble and raging in th' house to set any child
wrong.  They was afraid his back was weak an' they've always been
takin' care of it -- keepin' him lyin' down and not lettin' him walk.
Once they made him wear a brace but he fretted so he was downright ill.
Then a big doctor came to see him an' made them take it off.  He talked
to th' other doctor quite rough -- in a polite way.  He said there'd been
too much medicine and too much lettin' him have his own way
I think he's a very spoiled boy
He's th' worst young nowt as ever was
I won't say as
he hasn't been ill a good bit.  He's had coughs an' colds that's nearly
killed him two or three times.  Once he had rheumatic fever an' once he
had typhoid.  Eh! Mrs. Medlock did get a fright then.  He'd been out of
his head an' she was talkin' to th' nurse, thinkin' he didn't know
nothin', an' she said, 'He'll die this time sure enough, an' best thing
for him an' for everybody.' An' she looked at him an' there he was with
his big eyes open, starin' at her as sensible as she was herself.  She
didn't know wha'd happen but he just stared at her an' says, 'You give
me some water an' stop talkin
Do you think he will die
Mother says there's no reason why any child should live that gets no
fresh air an' doesn't do nothin' but lie on his back an' read
picture-books an' take medicine.  He's weak and hates th' trouble o'
bein' taken out o' doors, an' he gets cold so easy he says it makes him
ill
I wonder
if it
would not do him good to go out into a garden and watch things growing.
It did me good
One of th' worst fits he ever had
was one time they
took him out where the roses is by the fountain.  He'd been readin' in
a paper about people gettin' somethin' he called 'rose cold' an' he
began to sneeze an' said he'd got it an' then a new gardener as didn't
know th' rules passed by an' looked at him curious.  He threw himself
into a passion an' he said he'd looked at him because he was going to
be a hunchback.  He cried himself into a fever an' was ill all night
If he ever gets angry at me, I'll never go and see him again
He'll have thee if he wants thee
Tha' may as well
know that at th' start
I dare say th' nurse wants me to stay with him a bit
I
hope he's in a good temper
Well, tha' has bewitched him
He's up on his sofa with
his picture-books. He's told the nurse to stay away until six o'clock.
I'm to wait in the next room.  Th' minute she was gone he called me to
him an' says, 'I want Mary Lennox to come and talk to me, and remember
you're not to tell any one.' You'd better go as quick as you can
Come in
I've been thinking about you all morning
I've been thinking about you, too
You don't know
how frightened Martha is.  She says Mrs. Medlock will think she told me
about you and then she will be sent away
Go and tell her to come here
She is in the next room
Have you to do what I please or have you not
I have to do what you please, sir
Has Medlock to do what I please
Everybody has, sir
Well, then, if I order you to bring Miss Mary to me, how can Medlock
send you away if she finds it out
Please don't let her, sir
I'll send her away if she dares to say a word about such a thing
She wouldn't like that, I can tell you
Thank you, sir
I want to do my duty, sir
What I want is your duty
I'll take
care of you.  Now go away
Why do you look at me like that
What are you
thinking about
I am thinking about two things
What are they? Sit down and tell me
This is the first one
Once in India I saw a boy who was a Rajah.  He had rubies and emeralds
and diamonds stuck all over him.  He spoke to his people just as you
spoke to Martha.  Everybody had to do everything he told them -- in a
minute.  I think they would have been killed if they hadn't
I shall make you tell me about Rajahs presently
but first
tell me what the second thing was
I was thinking
how different you are from Dickon
Who is Dickon
What a queer name
He is Martha's brother.  He is twelve years old
He
is not like any one else in the world.  He can charm foxes and
squirrels and birds just as the natives in India charm snakes.  He
plays a very soft tune on a pipe and they come and listen
There is a picture of a snake-charmer in this
Come and look at it
Can he do that
He played on his pipe and they listened
But he
doesn't call it Magic.  He says it's because he lives on the moor so
much and he knows their ways.  He says he feels sometimes as if he was
a bird or a rabbit himself, he likes them so.  I think he asked the
robin questions.  It seemed as if they talked to each other in soft
chirps
Tell me some more about him
He knows all about eggs and nests
And he knows where
foxes and badgers and otters live.  He keeps them secret so that other
boys won't find their holes and frighten them.  He knows about
everything that grows or lives on the moor
Does he like the moor
How can he when it's such a
great, bare, dreary place
It's the most beautiful place
Thousands of lovely
things grow on it and there are thousands of little creatures all busy
building nests and making holes and burrows and chippering or singing
or squeaking to each other.  They are so busy and having such fun under
the earth or in the trees or heather.  It's their world
How do you know all that
I have never been there once, really
I only drove over it in the dark.  I thought it was hideous.  Martha
told me about it first and then Dickon.  When Dickon talks about it you
feel as if you saw things and heard them and as if you were standing in
the heather with the sun shining and the gorse smelling like honey -- and
all full of bees and butterflies
You never see anything if you are ill
You can't if you stay in a room
I couldn't go on the moor
You might -- sometime
Go on the moor! How could I? I am going to die
How do you know
Oh, I've heard it ever since I remember
They
are always whispering about it and thinking I don't notice.  They wish
I would, too
If they wished I would
I wouldn't. Who wishes you would
The servants -- and of course Dr. Craven because he would get
Misselthwaite and be rich instead of poor.  He daren't say so, but he
always looks cheerful when I am worse.  When I had typhoid fever his
face got quite fat.  I think my father wishes it, too
I don't believe he does
Don't you
I like
the grand doctor from London, because he made them take the iron thing
off
Did he say you were going to die
No
What did he say
He didn't whisper
Perhaps he knew I hated
whispering.  I heard him say one thing quite aloud.  He said, 'The lad
might live if he would make up his mind to it.  Put him in the humor.'
It sounded as if he was in a temper
I'll tell you who would put you in the humor, perhaps
I believe Dickon would.  He's always talking about
live things.  He never talks about dead things or things that are ill.
He's always looking up in the sky to watch birds flying -- or looking
down at the earth to see something growing.  He has such round blue
eyes and they are so wide open with looking about.  And he laughs such
a big laugh with his wide mouth -- and his cheeks are as red -- as red as
cherries
See here
Don't let us talk about dying; I don't like it.
Let us talk about living.  Let us talk and talk about Dickon.  And then
we will look at your pictures
Do you know there is one thing we have never once thought
of
We are cousins
Good Lord
Good Lord
What is this
What does it mean
This is my cousin, Mary Lennox
I asked her to come and
talk to me.  I like her.  She must come and talk to me whenever I send
for her
I don't know how it's happened.  There's not a servant on the place
tha'd dare to talk -- they all have their orders
Nobody told her anything
She heard me crying and found
me herself.  I am glad she came.  Don't be silly, Medlock
I am afraid there has been too much excitement.  Excitement is not
good for you, my boy
I should be excited if she kept away
I am better.  She makes me
better.  The nurse must bring up her tea with mine.  We will have tea
together
He does look rather better, sir
But
he looked better this morning before
she came into the room
She came into the room last night.  She stayed with me a long time.
She sang a Hindustani song to me and it made me go to sleep
I was better when I wakened up.  I wanted my breakfast.  I
want my tea now.  Tell nurse, Medlock
I want to forget it
She makes me forget it.  That
is why I want her
They are always wanting me to eat things when I don't want to
Now, if you'll eat I will.  Those muffins look so nice and hot.
Tell me about Rajahs
You are a sly young one to listen and get out of your bed to go
following things up like you did that night
But there's no saying it's not been a sort of blessing to the lot of
us.  He's not had a tantrum or a whining fit since you made friends.
The nurse was just going to give up the case because she was so sick of
him, but she says she doesn't mind staying now you've gone on duty with
her
Th' air from th' moor has done thee good already
Tha'rt not nigh so yeller and tha'rt not nigh so scrawny.  Even tha'
hair doesn't slamp down on tha' head so flat.  It's got some life in it
so as it sticks out a bit
It's like me
It's growing stronger and fatter.  I'm
sure there's more of it
It looks it, for sure
Tha'rt not half so ugly when it's that way an' there's a bit o'
red in tha' cheeks
Why does it make you angry when you are looked at
I always hated it
even when I was very little.  Then
when they took me to the seaside and I used to lie in my carriage
everybody used to stare and ladies would stop and talk to my nurse and
then they would begin to whisper and I knew then they were saying I
shouldn't live to grow up.  Then sometimes the ladies would pat my
cheeks and say 'Poor child!' Once when a lady did that I screamed out
loud and bit her hand.  She was so frightened she ran away
She thought you had gone mad like a dog
I don't care what she thought
I wonder why you didn't scream and bite me when I came into your
room
I thought you were a ghost or a dream
You can't bite a
ghost or a dream, and if you scream they don't care
Would you hate it if -- if a boy looked at you
There's one boy
there's one boy I believe I shouldn't mind.  It's that boy
who knows where the foxes live -- Dickon
I'm sure you wouldn't mind him
The birds don't and other animals
perhaps that's why I shouldn't. He's a sort of animal charmer and I am
a boy animal
It's warm -- warm
It will make the green points push up
and up and up, and it will make the bulbs and roots work and struggle
with all their might under the earth
It must be very early
The
little clouds are all pink and I've never seen the sky look like this.
No one is up.  I don't even hear the stable boys
I can't wait! I am going to see the garden
It is all different already
The grass is greener and
things are sticking up everywhere and things are uncurling and green
buds of leaves are showing.  This afternoon I am sure Dickon will come
Oh, Dickon! Dickon
How could you get here so early!
How could you! The sun has only just got up
Eh
I was up long before him.  How could I have stayed
abed! Th' world's all fair begun again this mornin', it has.  An' it's
workin' an' hummin' an' scratchin' an' pipin' an' nest-buildin' an'
breathin' out scents, till you've got to be out on it 'stead o' lyin'
on your back.  When th' sun did jump up, th' moor went mad for joy, an'
I was in the midst of th' heather, an' I run like mad myself, shoutin'
an' singin'. An' I come straight here.  I couldn't have stayed away.
Why, th' garden was lyin' here waitin
Oh, Dickon! Dickon
I'm so happy I can scarcely breathe
This is th' little fox cub
It's named Captain.  An' this here's Soot.  Soot he
flew across th' moor with me an' Captain he run same as if th' hounds
had been after him.  They both felt same as I did
See here
See how these has pushed up, an' these an'
these! An' Eh! Look at these here
You never kiss a person in that way
Flowers are so different
Eh
I've kissed mother many a time that way when I come in
from th' moor after a day's roamin' an' she stood there at th' door in
th' sun, lookin' so glad an' comfortable
We munnot stir
We munnot scarce
breathe.  I knowed he was mate-huntin' when I seed him last.  It's Ben
Weatherstaff's robin.  He's buildin' his nest.  He'll stay here if us
don't fight him
Us mustn't seem as if us was watchin' him too close
He'd be out with us for good if he got th' notion us was interferin'
now.  He'll be a good bit different till all this is over.  He's
settin' up housekeepin'.  He'll be shyer an' readier to take things
ill.  He's got no time for visitin' an' gossipin'. Us must keep still a
bit an' try to look as if us was grass an' trees an' bushes.  Then when
he's got used to seein' us I'll chirp a bit an' he'll know us'll not be
in his way
It's part o' th' springtime, this nest-buildin' is
I
warrant it's been goin' on in th' same way every year since th' world
was begun.  They've got their way o' thinkin' and doin' things an' a
body had better not meddle.  You can lose a friend in springtime easier
than any other season if you're too curious
If we talk about him I can't help looking at him
We must talk of something else.  There is something I
want to tell you
He'll like it better if us talks o' somethin' else
What is it tha's got to tell me
Well -- do you know about Colin
What does tha' know about him
I've seen him.  I have been to talk to him every day this week.  He
wants me to come.  He says I'm making him forget about being ill and
dying
I am glad o' that
I'm right down glad.  It makes me
easier.  I knowed I must say nothin' about him an' I don't like havin'
to hide things
Don't you like hiding the garden
I'll never tell about it
But I says to mother,
'Mother,' I says, 'I got a secret to keep.  It's not a bad 'un, tha'
knows that.  It's no worse than hidin' where a bird's nest is.  Tha'
doesn't mind it, does tha
What did she say
It was just like her, what she said
She give my head
a bit of a rub an' laughed an' she says, 'Eh, lad, tha' can have all
th' secrets tha' likes.  I've knowed thee twelve year
How did you know about Colin
Everybody as knowed about Mester Craven knowed there was a little lad
as was like to be a cripple, an' they knowed Mester Craven didn't like
him to be talked about.  Folks is sorry for Mester Craven because Mrs.
Craven was such a pretty young lady an' they was so fond of each other.
Mrs. Medlock stops in our cottage whenever she goes to Thwaite an' she
doesn't mind talkin' to mother before us children, because she knows us
has been brought up to be trusty.  How did tha' find out about him?
Martha was in fine trouble th' last time she came home.  She said tha'd
heard him frettin' an' tha' was askin' questions an' she didn't know
what to say
Them's just like his mother's eyes, only hers was always laughin',
they say
They say as Mr. Craven can't bear to see him when
he's awake an' it's because his eyes is so like his mother's an' yet
looks so different in his miserable bit of a face
Do you think he wants to die
No, but he wishes he'd never been born.  Mother she says that's th'
worst thing on earth for a child.  Them as is not wanted scarce ever
thrives.  Mester Craven he'd buy anythin' as money could buy for th'
poor lad but he'd like to forget as he's on earth.  For one thing, he's
afraid he'll look at him some day and find he's growed hunchback
Colin's so afraid of it himself that he won't sit up
He
says he's always thinking that if he should feel a lump coming he
should go crazy and scream himself to death
Eh! he oughtn't to lie there thinkin' things like that
No lad could get well as thought them sort o' things
When first we got in here
it seemed like everything was
gray.  Look round now and tell me if tha' doesn't see a difference
Why
the gray wall is changing.  It is as if a green mist
were creeping over it.  It's almost like a green gauze veil
Aye
An' it'll be greener and greener till th' gray's
all gone.  Can tha' guess what I was thinkin
I know it was something nice
I believe it was
something about Colin
I was thinkin' that if he was out here he wouldn't be watchin' for
lumps to grow on his back; he'd be watchin' for buds to break on th'
rose-bushes, an' he'd likely be healthier
I was
wonderin' if us could ever get him in th' humor to come out here an'
lie under th' trees in his carriage
I've been wondering that myself.  I've thought of it almost every time
I've talked to him
I've wondered if he could keep a
secret and I've wondered if we could bring him here without any one
seeing us.  I thought perhaps you could push his carriage.  The doctor
said he must have fresh air and if he wants us to take him out no one
dare disobey him.  He won't go out for other people and perhaps they
will be glad if he will go out with us.  He could order the gardeners
to keep away so they wouldn't find out
It'd be good for him, I'll warrant
Us'd not be thinkin'
he'd better never been born.  Us'd be just two children watchin' a
garden grow, an' he'd be another.  Two lads an' a little lass just
lookin' on at th' springtime.  I warrant it'd be better than doctor's
stuff
He's been lying in his room so long and he's always been so afraid of
his back that it has made him queer
He knows a good many
things out of books but he doesn't know anything else.  He says he has
been too ill to notice things and he hates going out of doors and hates
gardens and gardeners.  But he likes to hear about this garden because
it is a secret.  I daren't tell him much but he said he wanted to see
it
Us'll have him out here sometime for sure
I could
push his carriage well enough.  Has tha' noticed how th' robin an' his
mate has been workin' while we've been sittin' here? Look at him
perched on that branch wonderin' where it'd be best to put that twig
he's got in his beak
Wheres'ever tha' puts it
it'll be all right.  Tha' knew
how to build tha' nest before tha' came out o' th' egg.  Get on with
thee, lad.  Tha'st got no time to lose
Oh, I do like to hear you talk to him
Ben Weatherstaff scolds him and makes fun of him, and he
hops about and looks as if he understood every word, and I know he
likes it.  Ben Weatherstaff says he is so conceited he would rather
have stones thrown at him than not be noticed
Tha' knows us won't trouble thee
Us is near
bein' wild things ourselves.  Us is nest-buildin' too, bless thee.
Look out tha' doesn't tell on us
Tell Colin that I can't come and see him yet
I'm very busy in the garden
Eh! Miss Mary
it may put him all out of humor when I tell
him that
I can't stay
Dickon's waiting for me
There'll be apple blossoms an' cherry blossoms overhead
An' there'll be peach an' plum trees
in bloom against th' walls, an' th' grass'll be a carpet o' flowers
Tha's a good bit stronger than tha' was
Tha's beginning to look different, for sure
I'm getting fatter and fatter every day
Mrs. Medlock will have to get me some bigger dresses.  Martha says my
hair is growing thicker.  It isn't so flat and stringy
It'll be fine tomorrow
I'll be at work by sunrise
So will I
What is the matter
What did Colin say when you told him
I couldn't come
Eh
I wish tha'd gone.  He was nigh goin' into one o'
his tantrums.  There's been a nice to do all afternoon to keep him
quiet.  He would watch the clock all th' time
Why didn't you get up
I did get up this morning when I thought you were coming
I made them put me back in bed this
afternoon.  My back ached and my head ached and I was tired.  Why
didn't you come
I was working in the garden with Dickon
I won't let that boy come here if you go and stay with him instead of
coming to talk to me
If you send Dickon away, I'll never come into this room again
You'll have to if I want you
I won't
I'll make you
They shall drag you in
Shall they, Mr. Rajah
They may drag me in but
they can't make me talk when they get me here.  I'll sit and clench my
teeth and never tell you one thing.  I won't even look at you.  I'll
stare at the floor
You are a selfish thing
What are you
Selfish people always say that.  Any one
is selfish who doesn't do what they want.  You're more selfish than I
am.  You're the most selfish boy I ever saw
I'm not
I'm not as selfish as your fine Dickon is!
He keeps you playing in the dirt when he knows I am all by myself.
He's selfish, if you like
He's nicer than any other boy that ever lived
He's -- he's
like an angel
A nice angel
He's a common cottage boy
off the moor
He's better than a common Rajah
He's a thousand
times better
I'm not as selfish as you, because I'm always ill, and I'm sure there
is a lump coming on my back
And I am going to die besides
You're not
I'm not
I am! You know I am! Everybody says so
I don't believe it
You just say that to make
people sorry.  I believe you're proud of it.  I don't believe it! If
you were a nice boy it might be true -- but you're too nasty
Get out of the room
I'm going
And I won't come back
I was going to tell you all sorts of nice things
Dickon
brought his fox and his rook and I was going to tell you all about
them.  Now I won't tell you a single thing
What are you laughing at
At you two young ones
It's the best thing that
could happen to the sickly pampered thing to have some one to stand up
to him that's as spoiled as himself
If he'd had a young vixen of a sister to fight
with it would have been the saving of him
Is he going to die
I don't know and I don't care
Hysterics and temper
are half what ails him
What are hysterics
You'll find out if you work him into a tantrum after this -- but at any
rate you've given him something to have hysterics about, and I'm glad
of it
Mr. Craven sent it to you
It looks as if it had
picture-books in it
Do you want anything -- dolls -- toys -- books
I can write better than I can print
and the first thing I
shall write with that pen will be a letter to tell him I am much
obliged
He always began to think about it when he was cross or tired
And he has been cross today.  Perhaps -- perhaps he
has been thinking about it all afternoon
I said I would never go back again
but perhaps, just perhaps, I will go and see -- if he wants
me -- in the morning.  Perhaps he'll try to throw his pillow at me again,
but -- I think -- I'll go
I'll go out before breakfast and work with Dickon and then
afterward -- I believe -- I'll go to see him
It's Colin
He's having one of those tantrums the nurse
called hysterics.  How awful it sounds
I don't know what to do.  I don't know what to do
I can't bear it
He ought to be stopped! Somebody ought to make him stop!  Somebody
ought to beat him
He's worked himself into hysterics
He'll do himself harm.  No one can do anything with him.  You come and
try, like a good child.  He likes you
He turned me out of the room this morning
That's right
You're in the right humor.  You go and
scold him.  Give him something new to think of.  Do go, child, as quick
as ever you can
You stop
You stop! I hate you!  Everybody
hates you! I wish everybody would run out of the house and let you
scream yourself to death! You will scream yourself to death in a
minute, and I wish you would
If you scream another scream
I'll scream too -- and I can
scream louder than you can and I'll frighten you, I'll frighten you
I can't stop
I can't -- I can't
You can
Half that ails you is hysterics and
temper -- just hysterics -- hysterics -- hysterics
I felt the lump -- I felt it
I knew I should.  I
shall have a hunch on my back and then I shall die
You didn't feel a lump
If you did it
was only a hysterical lump.  Hysterics makes lumps.  There's nothing
the matter with your horrid back -- nothing but hysterics! Turn over and
let me look at it
Nurse
come here and show me his back this minute
Perhaps he -- he won't let me
Sh-show her! She-she'll see then
There's not a single lump there
There's not a
lump as big as a pin -- except backbone lumps, and you can only feel them
because you're thin.  I've got backbone lumps myself, and they used to
stick out as much as yours do, until I began to get fatter, and I am
not fat enough yet to hide them.  There's not a lump as big as a pin!
If you ever say there is again, I shall laugh
I didn't know
that he thought he had a lump on
his spine.  His back is weak because he won't try to sit up.  I could
have told him there was no lump there
C-could you
Yes, sir
There
Do you think -- I could -- live to grow up
You probably will if you will do what you are told to do and not give
way to your temper, and stay out a great deal in the fresh air
I'll -- I'll go out with you, Mary
I shan't hate fresh air
if we can find
if we can find the secret garden
I shall like
to go out with you if Dickon will come and push my chair.  I do so want
to see Dickon and the fox and the crow
You must go back and get your sleep out
He'll drop off
after a while -- if he's not too upset.  Then I'll lie down myself in the
next room
Would you like me to sing you that song I learned from my Ayah
Oh, yes
It's such a soft song.  I shall go to sleep
in a minute
I will put him to sleep
You can go
if you like
Well
If he doesn't
go to sleep in half an hour you must call me
Very well
I almost told
but I stopped myself in time.  I won't talk
and I'll go to sleep, but you said you had a whole lot of nice things
to tell me.  Have you -- do you think you have found out anything at all
about the way into the secret garden
Ye-es
I think I have.  And if you will go to sleep I
will tell you tomorrow
Oh, Mary
Oh, Mary! If I could get into it I think I
should live to grow up! Do you suppose that instead of singing the Ayah
song -- you could just tell me softly as you did that first day what you
imagine it looks like inside? I am sure it will make me go to sleep
Yes
Shut your eyes
I think it has been left alone so long -- that it has grown all into a
lovely tangle.  I think the roses have climbed and climbed and climbed
until they hang from the branches and walls and creep over the
ground -- almost like a strange gray mist.  Some of them have died but
many -- are alive and when the summer comes there will be curtains and
fountains of roses.  I think the ground is full of daffodils and
snowdrops and lilies and iris working their way out of the dark.  Now
the spring has begun -- perhaps -- perhaps
Perhaps they are coming up through the grass -- perhaps there are
clusters of purple crocuses and gold ones -- even now.  Perhaps the
leaves are beginning to break out and uncurl -- and perhaps -- the gray is
changing and a green gauze veil is creeping -- and creeping
over -- everything. And the birds are coming to look at it -- because it
is -- so safe and still.  And perhaps -- perhaps -- perhaps
the robin has found a mate -- and is building a nest
He says he wishes tha' would please go and see him as soon as tha'
can
It's queer what a fancy he's took to thee.  Tha'
did give it him last night for sure -- didn't tha? Nobody else would have
dared to do it.  Eh! poor lad! He's been spoiled till salt won't save
him.  Mother says as th' two worst things as can happen to a child is
never to have his own way -- or always to have it.  She doesn't know
which is th' worst.  Tha' was in a fine temper tha'self, too.  But he
says to me when I went into his room, 'Please ask Miss Mary if she'll
please come an' talk to me?' Think o' him saying please! Will you go,
Miss
I'll run and see Dickon first
No, I'll go and
see Colin first and tell him -- I know what I'll tell him
I'm glad you came
My head aches and I ache all over
because I'm so tired.  Are you going somewhere
I won't be long
I'm going to Dickon, but I'll come back.
Colin, it's -- it's something about the garden
Oh! is it
I dreamed about it all night I heard you
say something about gray changing into green, and I dreamed I was
standing in a place all filled with trembling little green leaves -- and
there were birds on nests everywhere and they looked so soft and still.
I'll lie and think about it until you come back
I came over on the pony this mornin
Eh! he
is a good little chap -- Jump is! I brought these two in my pockets.
This here one he's called Nut an' this here other one's called Shell
Just listen to them birds -- th' world seems full of 'em -- all whistlin'
an' pipin
Look at 'em dartin' about, an' hearken at 'em
callin' to each other.  Come springtime seems like as if all th'
world's callin'. The leaves is uncurlin' so you can see 'em -- an', my
word, th' nice smells there is about
An' that poor lad lyin' shut up an' seein' so little
that he gets to thinkin' o' things as sets him screamin'. Eh! my!  we
mun get him out here -- we mun get him watchin' an listenin' an' sniffin'
up th' air an' get him just soaked through wi' sunshine.  An' we munnot
lose no time about it
Aye, that we mun
I'll tell thee what us'll do first
He's took a graidely
fancy to thee.  He wants to see thee and he wants to see Soot an'
Captain.  When I go back to the house to talk to him I'll ax him if
tha' canna' come an' see him tomorrow mornin'-- an'.  bring tha'
creatures wi' thee -- an' then -- in a bit, when there's more leaves out,
an' happen a bud or two, we'll get him to come out an' tha' shall push
him in his chair an' we'll bring him here an' show him everything
Tha' mun talk a bit o' Yorkshire like that to Mester Colin
Tha'll make him laugh an' there's nowt as good for ill folk
as laughin' is.  Mother says she believes as half a hour's good laugh
every mornin' 'ud cure a chap as was makin' ready for typhus fever
I'm going to talk Yorkshire to him this very day
You smell like flowers and -- and fresh things
What is it you smell of? It's cool and warm and sweet all
at the same time
It's th' wind from th' moor
It comes o' sittin' on th'
grass under a tree wi' Dickon an' wi' Captain an' Soot an' Nut an'
Shell.  It's th' springtime an' out o' doors an' sunshine as smells so
graidely
What are you doing
I never heard you talk like that
before.  How funny it sounds
I'm givin' thee a bit o' Yorkshire
I
canna' talk as graidely as Dickon an' Martha can but tha' sees I can
shape a bit.  Doesn't tha' understand a bit o' Yorkshire when tha'
hears it? An' tha' a Yorkshire lad thysel' bred an' born! Eh! I wonder
tha'rt not ashamed o' thy face
Well, upon my word
Whoever heard th' like! Whoever on earth would ha' thought it
Does he really understand everything Dickon says
It seems as if he does
Dickon says anything will
understand if you're friends with it for sure, but you have to be
friends for sure
I wish I was friends with things
but I'm not.  I
never had anything to be friends with, and I can't bear people
Can't you bear me
Yes, I can
It's funny but I even like you
Ben Weatherstaff said I was like him
He said he'd
warrant we'd both got the same nasty tempers.  I think you are like him
too.  We are all three alike -- you and I and Ben Weatherstaff.  He said
we were neither of us much to look at and we were as sour as we looked.
But I don't feel as sour as I used to before I knew the robin and
Dickon
Did you feel as if you hated people
Yes
I should have detested
you if I had seen you before I saw the robin and Dickon
Mary
I wish I hadn't said what I did about sending Dickon
away.  I hated you when you said he was like an angel and I laughed at
you but -- but perhaps he is
Well, it was rather funny to say it
because
his nose does turn up and he has a big mouth and his clothes have
patches all over them and he talks broad Yorkshire, but -- but if an
angel did come to Yorkshire and live on the moor -- if there was a
Yorkshire angel -- I believe he'd understand the green things and know
how to make them grow and he would know how to talk to the wild
creatures as Dickon does and they'd know he was friends for sure
I shouldn't mind Dickon looking at me
I want to see
him
I'm glad you said that
because -- because
Because what
Can I trust you? I trusted Dickon because birds trusted him.  Can I
trust you -- for sure -- for sure
Yes -- yes
Well, Dickon will come to see you tomorrow morning, and he'll bring
his creatures with him
Oh! Oh
But that's not all
The rest is better.  There is a door into the garden.  I found it.  It
is under the ivy on the wall
Hooray! Hooray! Hooray
Oh! Mary
Shall I see it? Shall I get
into it? Shall I live to get into it
Of course you'll see it
Of course you'll
live to get into it! Don't be silly
It is just what you thought it would be
It sounds
just as if you had really seen it.  You know I said that when you told
me first
I had seen it -- and I had been in
I found the key and got
in weeks ago.  But I daren't tell you -- I daren't because I was so
afraid I couldn't trust you -- for sure
How is he
He will break a blood-vessel in one of those fits some day.  The boy
is half insane with hysteria and self-indulgence
Well, sir
you'll scarcely believe your eyes
when you see him.  That plain sour-faced child that's almost as bad as
himself has just bewitched him.  How she's done it there's no telling.
The Lord knows she's nothing to look at and you scarcely ever hear her
speak, but she did what none of us dare do.  She just flew at him like
a little cat last night, and stamped her feet and ordered him to stop
screaming, and somehow she startled him so that he actually did stop,
and this afternoon -- well just come up and see, sir.  It's past
crediting
Those long spires of blue ones -- we'll have a lot of those
They're called Del-phin-iums
Dickon says they're larkspurs made big and grand
There are clumps there already
I am sorry to hear you were ill last night, my boy
I'm better now -- much better
I'm going out in my chair in a day or two if it is fine.  I want some
fresh air
It must be a very fine day
and you must be very careful
not to tire yourself
Fresh air won't tire me
I thought you did not like fresh air
I don't when I am by myself
but my cousin is
going out with me
And the nurse, of course
No, I will not have the nurse
My cousin knows how to take care of me.  I am always better when she
is with me.  She made me better last night.  A very strong boy I know
will push my carriage
He must be a strong boy and a steady boy
And I must know
something about him.  Who is he? What is his name
It's Dickon
Oh, Dickon
If it is Dickon you will be safe enough.  He's
as strong as a moor pony, is Dickon
And he's trusty
He's th' trustiest lad i' Yorkshire
Did Dickon teach you that
I'm learning it as if it was French
It's
like a native dialect in India.  Very clever people try to learn them.
I like it and so does Colin
Well, well
If it amuses you
perhaps it won't do you any harm.  Did you take your bromide last
night, Colin
No
I wouldn't take it at first and after Mary made
me quiet she talked me to sleep -- in a low voice -- about the spring
creeping into a garden
That sounds soothing
You are evidently better, but you must
remember
I don't want to remember
When I lie by myself and remember I begin to have pains everywhere and
I think of things that make me begin to scream because I hate them so.
If there was a doctor anywhere who could make you forget you were ill
instead of remembering it I would have him brought here
It is because my cousin makes me forget that
she makes me better
Well, sir
could you have believed it
It is certainly a new state of affairs
And
there's no denying it is better than the old one
I believe Susan Sowerby's right -- I do that
I
stopped in her cottage on my way to Thwaite yesterday and had a bit of
talk with her.  And she says to me, 'Well, Sarah Ann, she mayn't be a
good child, an' she mayn't be a pretty one, but she's a child, an'
children needs children.' We went to school together, Susan Sowerby and
me
She's the best sick nurse I know
When I find her
in a cottage I know the chances are that I shall save my patient
She's got a way with her, has Susan
I've been thinking all morning of one thing she said yesterday.  She
says, 'Once when I was givin' th' children a bit of a preach after
they'd been fightin' I ses to 'em all
she says
them's too bitter to eat
She's a shrewd woman
Well, she's got a way of saying things
Sometimes I've said to her, 'Eh! Susan, if you was a
different woman an' didn't talk such broad Yorkshire I've seen the
times when I should have said you was clever
You've been out! You've been out! There's that nice smell of leaves
It's so beautiful
You never saw anything so beautiful!  It has come! I thought it had
come that other morning, but it was only coming.  It is here now! It
has come, the Spring! Dickon says so
Has it
Open the window
Perhaps we may hear golden trumpets
That's fresh air
Lie on your back and draw in long
breaths of it.  That's what Dickon does when he's lying on the moor.
He says he feels it in his veins and it makes him strong and he feels
as if he could live forever and ever.  Breathe it and breathe it
Forever and ever'! Does it make him feel like that
Things are crowding up out of the earth
And
there are flowers uncurling and buds on everything and the green veil
has covered nearly all the gray and the birds are in such a hurry about
their nests for fear they may be too late that some of them are even
fighting for places in the secret garden.  And the rose-bushes look as
wick as wick can be, and there are primroses in the lanes and woods,
and the seeds we planted are up, and Dickon has brought the fox and the
crow and the squirrels and a new-born lamb
Are you sure you are not chilly, Master Colin
No
I am breathing long breaths of fresh air.  It
makes you strong.  I am going to get up to the sofa for breakfast.  My
cousin will have breakfast with me
had found his master, and good for
him
for a good hiding
A boy, and a fox, and a crow, and two squirrels, and a new-born lamb,
are coming to see me this morning.  I want them brought upstairs as
soon as they come
You are not to begin playing with the
animals in the servants' hall and keep them there.  I want them here
Yes, sir
I'll tell you what you can do
You
can tell Martha to bring them here.  The boy is Martha's brother.  His
name is Dickon and he is an animal charmer
I hope the animals won't bite, Master Colin
I told you he was a charmer
Charmers'
animals never bite
There are snake-charmers in India
And they can put
their snakes' heads in their mouths
Goodness
You will begin to get fatter just as I did
I never
wanted my breakfast when I was in India and now I always want it
I wanted mine this morning
Perhaps it was the fresh
air.  When do you think Dickon will come
Listen
Did you hear a caw
caw-caw
Yes
That's Soot
Listen again.  Do you hear a bleat -- a tiny
one
Oh, yes
That's the new-born lamb
He's coming
If you please, sir
if you
please, sir, here's Dickon an' his creatures
What is it doing
What does it want
It wants its mother
I brought
it to thee a bit hungry because I knowed tha'd like to see it feed
Come on, little 'un
This is what tha's after.  Tha'll get more
out o' this than tha' will out o' silk velvet coats.  There now
I'd almost lost him but for his song an' I was wonderin' how a chap
could hear it when it seemed as if he'd get out o' th' world in a
minute -- an' just then I heard somethin' else far off among th' gorse
bushes.  It was a weak bleatin' an' I knowed it was a new lamb as was
hungry an' I knowed it wouldn't be hungry if it hadn't lost its mother
somehow, so I set off searchin'.  Eh! I did have a look for it.  I went
in an' out among th' gorse bushes an' round an' round an' I always
seemed to take th' wrong turnin'. But at last I seed a bit o' white by
a rock on top o' th' moor an' I climbed up an' found th' little 'un
half dead wi' cold an' clemmin
I couldna' say that there name
Aquilegia
but us calls that a columbine, an' that there
one it's a snapdragon and they both grow wild in hedges, but these is
garden ones an' they're bigger an' grander.  There's some big clumps o'
columbine in th' garden.  They'll look like a bed o' blue an' white
butterflies flutterin' when they're out
I'm going to see them
I am going to see them
Aye, that tha' mun
An' tha' munnot lose
no time about it
They're same as us
only they have to build their homes
every year.  An' it keeps 'em so busy they fair scuffle to get 'em
done
Well, well
what's to do now? His Royal Highness that wasn't to be looked at
calling up a man he's never set eyes on
Things are changing in this house, Mr. Roach
Let's hope they're changing for the better, Mrs. Medlock
They couldn't well change for the worse
and queer as
it all is there's them as finds their duties made a lot easier to stand
up under.  Don't you be surprised, Mr. Roach, if you find yourself in
the middle of a menagerie and Martha Sowerby's Dickon more at home than
you or me could ever be
He'd be at home in Buckingham Palace or at the bottom of a coal mine
And yet it's not impudence, either.  He's just fine, is that
lad
Here is Mr. Roach, Master Colin
Oh, you are Roach, are you
I sent for you to give you
some very important orders
Very good, sir
I am going out in my chair this afternoon
If the fresh
air agrees with me I may go out every day.  When I go, none of the
gardeners are to be anywhere near the Long Walk by the garden walls.
No one is to be there.  I shall go out about two o'clock and everyone
must keep away until I send word that they may go back to their work
Very good, sir
Mary
what is that thing you say in India when you have
finished talking and want people to go
You say, 'You have my permission to go
You have my permission to go, Roach
But, remember, this
is very important
Caw -- Caw
Very good, sir.  Thank you, sir
My word
he's got a fine lordly way with him, hasn't he?
You'd think he was a whole Royal Family rolled into one -- Prince Consort
and all
Eh
we've had to let him trample all over
every one of us ever since he had feet and he thinks that's what folks
was born for
Perhaps he'll grow out of it, if he lives
Well, there's one thing pretty sure
If he does
live and that Indian child stays here I'll warrant she teaches him that
the whole orange does not belong to him, as Susan Sowerby says.  And
he'll be likely to find out the size of his own quarter
It's all safe now
And this afternoon I shall see it -- this
afternoon I shall be in it
What big eyes you've got, Colin
When you are thinking
they get as big as saucers.  What are you thinking about now
I can't help thinking about what it will look like
The garden
The springtime
I was thinking that I've really never seen
it before.  I scarcely ever went out and when I did go I never looked
at it.  I didn't even think about it
I never saw it in India because there wasn't any
That morning when you ran in and said 'It's come! It's come!', you made
me feel quite queer.  It sounded as if things were coming with a great
procession and big bursts and wafts of music.  I've a picture like it
in one of my books -- crowds of lovely people and children with garlands
and branches with blossoms on them, everyone laughing and dancing and
crowding and playing on pipes.  That was why I said, 'Perhaps we shall
hear golden trumpets' and told you to throw open the window
How funny
That's really just what it feels like.  And
if all the flowers and leaves and green things and birds and wild
creatures danced past at once, what a crowd it would be! I'm sure
they'd dance and sing and flute and that would be the wafts of music
This is one of his good days, sir
He's in such good spirits that it makes
him stronger
I'll call in again later in the afternoon, after he has come in
I must see how the going out agrees with him.  I wish
that he would let you go with him
I'd rather give up the case this moment, sir, than even stay here
while it's suggested
I hadn't really decided to suggest it
We'll try the experiment.  Dickon's a lad I'd
trust with a new-born child
You have my permission to go
There are so many sounds of singing and humming and calling out
What is that scent the puffs of wind bring
It's gorse on th' moor that's openin' out
Eh! th'
bees are at it wonderful today
This is it
This is where I used to walk up and down
and wonder and wonder
Is it
But I can see nothing
There is no door
That's what I thought
That is the garden where Ben Weatherstaff works
Is it
This is where the robin flew over the wall
Is it
Oh! I wish he'd come again
And that
is where he perched on the little heap of earth and showed me
the key
Where? Where? There
And this
is
where I went to talk to him when he chirped at me from the top of the
wall.  And this is the ivy the wind blew back
Oh! is it -- is it
And here is the handle, and here is the door.  Dickon push him
in -- push him in quickly
I shall get well! I shall get well
Mary! Dickon! I
shall get well! And I shall live forever and ever and ever
Eh! it is graidely
I'm twelve goin' on thirteen an'
there's a lot o' afternoons in thirteen years, but seems to me like I
never seed one as graidely as this 'ere
Aye, it is a graidely one
I'll warrant it's the graidelest one as ever was in this world
Does tha' think
as happen it
was made loike this 'ere all o' purpose for me
My word
that there is a bit o' good
Yorkshire.  Tha'rt shapin' first-rate -- that tha' art
I wonder if we shall see the robin
Tha'll see him often enow after a bit
When th'
eggs hatches out th' little chap he'll be kep' so busy it'll make his
head swim.  Tha'll see him flyin' backward an' for'ard carryin' worms
nigh as big as himsel' an' that much noise goin' on in th' nest when he
gets there as fair flusters him so as he scarce knows which big mouth
to drop th' first piece in.  An' gapin' beaks an' squawks on every
side.  Mother says as when she sees th' work a robin has to keep them
gapin' beaks filled, she feels like she was a lady with nothin' to do.
She says she's seen th' little chaps when it seemed like th' sweat must
be droppin' off 'em, though folk can't see it
That's a very old tree over there, isn't it
Yes
The branches are quite gray and there's not a single leaf anywhere
It's quite dead, isn't it
Aye
But them roses as has climbed all over it
will near hide every bit o' th' dead wood when they're full o' leaves
an' flowers.  It won't look dead then.  It'll be th' prettiest of all
It looks as if a big branch had been broken off
I
wonder how it was done
It's been done many a year
Eh
Look at that robin!
There he is! He's been foragin' for his mate
He's taking her
tea to her.  Perhaps it's five o'clock. I think I'd like some tea
myself
It was Magic which sent the robin
I know it was Magic
We mun look as if it wasn't no different from th' other trees
We couldn't never tell him how it broke, poor lad.  If he says
anything about it we mun -- we mun try to look cheerful
Aye, that we mun
Mrs. Craven was a very lovely young lady
An' mother she thinks maybe she's about Misselthwaite
many a time lookin' after Mester Colin, same as all mothers do when
they're took out o' th' world.  They have to come back, tha' sees.
Happen she's been in the garden an' happen it was her set us to work,
an' told us to bring him here
Go and make one of the men servants bring some in a basket to the
rhododendron walk
And then you and Dickon can bring it
here
I don't want this afternoon to go
but I shall come back
tomorrow, and the day after, and the day after, and the day after
You'll get plenty of fresh air, won't you
I'm going to
get nothing else
I've seen the spring now and I'm
going to see the summer.  I'm going to see everything grow here.  I'm
going to grow here myself
That tha' will
Us'll have thee walkin' about here an'
diggin' same as other folk afore long
Walk
Dig! Shall I
For sure tha' will
Tha -- tha's got legs o' thine
own, same as other folks
Nothing really ails them
but they are so thin and weak.
They shake so that I'm afraid to try to stand on them
When tha' stops bein' afraid tha'lt stand on 'em
An' tha'lt stop bein' afraid in a bit
I shall
Who is that man
Man
Look
Just
look
If I wasn't a bachelder, an' tha' was a wench o' mine
I'd
give thee a hidin
I never thowt much o' thee
I couldna' abide thee th'
first time I set eyes on thee.  A scrawny buttermilk-faced young besom,
allus askin' questions an' pokin' tha' nose where it wasna, wanted.  I
never knowed how tha' got so thick wi' me.  If it hadna' been for th'
robin --  Drat him
Ben Weatherstaff
Ben Weatherstaff,
it was the robin who showed me the way
Tha' young bad 'un
Layin' tha' badness on a
robin -- not but what he's impidint enow for anythin'. Him showin' thee
th' way! Him! Eh! tha' young nowt
however i' this world did
tha' get in
It was the robin who showed me the way
He didn't know he was doing it but he did.  And I can't tell you from
here while you're shaking your fist at me
Wheel me over there
Wheel me quite close and stop
right in front of him
Do you know who I am
Do you know who
I am
Answer
Who tha' art
Aye, that I do -- wi' tha' mother's eyes
starin' at me out o' tha' face.  Lord knows how tha' come here.  But
tha'rt th' poor cripple
I'm not a cripple
I'm not
He's not
He's not got a lump as big as a pin! I looked and there
was none there -- not one
Tha'-- tha' hasn't got a crooked back
No
Tha'-- tha' hasn't got crooked legs
Come here
Come here!
Come here! This minute
He can do it! He can do it! He can do it! He can
Look at me
Just look at me -- you!  Just look at me
He's as straight as I am
He's as straight as any lad
i' Yorkshire
Eh
th' lies folk tells! Tha'rt as thin as a lath
an' as white as a wraith, but there's not a knob on thee.  Tha'lt make
a mon yet.  God bless thee
I'm your master
when my father is away.  And you are to
obey me.  This is my garden.  Don't dare to say a word about it! You
get down from that ladder and go out to the Long Walk and Miss Mary
will meet you and bring you here.  I want to talk to you.  We did not
want you, but now you will have to be in the secret.  Be quick
Eh! lad
Eh! my lad
Yes,
sir! Yes, sir
Go and meet him
I can stand
I told thee tha' could as soon as tha' stopped bein' afraid
An' tha's stopped
Yes, I've stopped
Are you making Magic
Tha's doin' Magic thysel
It's same Magic as made these
'ere work out o' th' earth
Aye
there couldna' be bigger Magic than that
there -- there couldna' be
I'm going to walk to that tree
I'm going to be standing when Weatherstaff comes here.
I can rest against the tree if I like.  When I want to sit down I will
sit down, but not before.  Bring a rug from the chair
What art sayin
You can do it! You can do it! I told you you could!  You can do it!
You can do it! You can
Look at me
Look at me all over! Am I a hunchback?
Have I got crooked legs
Not tha
Nowt o' th' sort.  What's tha' been doin' with
thysel'-- hidin' out o' sight an' lettin' folk think tha' was cripple
an' half-witted
Half-witted
Who thought that
Lots o' fools
Th' world's full o' jackasses brayin' an'
they never bray nowt but lies.  What did tha' shut thysel' up for
Everyone thought I was going to die
I'm not
Tha' die
Nowt o' th' sort! Tha's got
too much pluck in thee.  When I seed thee put tha' legs on th' ground
in such a hurry I knowed tha' was all right.  Sit thee down on th' rug
a bit young Mester an' give me thy orders
What work do you do in the gardens, Weatherstaff
Anythin' I'm told to do
I'm kep' on by
favor -- because she liked me
She
Tha' mother
My mother
This was
her garden, wasn't it
Aye, it was that
She
were main fond of it
It is my garden now.  I am fond of it.  I shall come here every day
But it is to be a secret.  My orders are that no one
is to know that we come here.  Dickon and my cousin have worked and
made it come alive.  I shall send for you sometimes to help -- but you
must come when no one can see you
I've come here before when no one saw me
What
When
Th' last time I was here
was
about two year' ago
But no one has been in it for ten years
There was no door
I'm no one
An' I didn't come through th' door.
I come over th' wall.  Th' rheumatics held me back th' last two year
Tha' come an' did a bit o' prunin
I couldn't make
out how it had been done
She was so fond of it -- she was
An'
she was such a pretty young thing.  She says to me once, 'Ben,' says
she laughin', 'if ever I'm ill or if I go away you must take care of my
roses.' When she did go away th' orders was no one was ever to come
nigh.  But I come
Over th' wall I
come -- until th' rheumatics stopped me -- an' I did a bit o' work once a
year.  She'd gave her order first
It wouldn't have been as wick as it is if tha' hadn't done it
I did wonder
I'm glad you did it, Weatherstaff
You'll know how to
keep the secret
Aye, I'll know, sir
An' it'll be easier for a man
wi' rheumatics to come in at th' door
You can do it! You can do it
I tell you, you
can
Tha' said as tha'd have me walkin' about here same as other folk -- an'
tha' said tha'd have me diggin'. I thowt tha' was just leein' to please
me.  This is only th' first day an' I've walked -- an' here I am diggin
Eh
that sounds as if tha'd got wits enow.  Tha'rt a
Yorkshire lad for sure.  An' tha'rt diggin', too.  How'd tha' like to
plant a bit o' somethin'? I can get thee a rose in a pot
Go and get it
Quick! Quick
I want to do it before the sun goes quite -- quite down
Here, lad
Set it in the earth
thysel' same as th' king does when he goes to a new place
It's planted
And the sun is only slipping over
the edge.  Help me up, Dickon.  I want to be standing when it goes.
That's part of the Magic
You should not have stayed so long
You must not overexert
yourself
I am not tired at all
It has made me well.  Tomorrow I
am going out in the morning as well as in the afternoon
I am not sure that I can allow it
I am afraid
it would not be wise
It would not be wise to try to stop me
I am going
What are you looking at me for
I'm thinking that I am rather sorry for Dr. Craven
So am I
He won't get Misselthwaite at all now I'm not going to
die
I'm sorry for him because of that, of course
but I was
thinking just then that it must have been very horrid to have had to be
polite for ten years to a boy who was always rude.  I would never have
done it
Am I rude
If you had been his own boy and he had been a slapping sort of man
he would have slapped you
But he daren't
No, he daren't
Nobody ever dared to do anything you didn't
like -- because you were going to die and things like that.  You were
such a poor thing
But
I am not going to be a poor thing.
I won't let people think I'm one.  I stood on my feet this afternoon
It is always having your own way that has made you so queer
Am I queer
Yes
very. But you needn't be cross
because so am I queer -- and so is Ben Weatherstaff.  But I
am not as queer as I was before I began to like people and before I
found the garden
I don't want to be queer
I am not going to be
I shall stop being queer
if I go every day to the garden.
There is Magic in there -- good Magic, you know, Mary.  I am sure there
is
So am I
Even if it isn't real Magic
we can pretend it is.
Something is there -- something
It's Magic
but not black.  It's as white as snow
She was main fond o' them -- she was
She
liked them things as was allus pointin' up to th' blue sky, she used to
tell.  Not as she was one o' them as looked down on th' earth -- not her.
She just loved it but she said as th' blue sky allus looked so joyful
watching things growing
Of course there must be lots of Magic in the world
but people don't know what it is like or how to make it.
Perhaps the beginning is just to say nice things are going to happen
until you make them happen.  I am going to try and experiment
Good morning, Ben Weatherstaff
I want you and Dickon and
Miss Mary to stand in a row and listen to me because I am going to tell
you something very important
Aye, aye, sir
I am going to try a scientific experiment
When I grow up I am going to make great scientific discoveries and I
am going to begin now with this experiment
Aye, aye, sir
The great scientific discoveries I am going to make
will be about Magic.  Magic is a great thing and scarcely any one
knows anything about it except a few people in old books -- and Mary a
little, because she was born in India where there are fakirs.  I
believe Dickon knows some Magic, but perhaps he doesn't know he knows
it.  He charms animals and people.  I would never have let him come to
see me if he had not been an animal charmer -- which is a boy charmer,
too, because a boy is an animal.  I am sure there is Magic in
everything, only we have not sense enough to get hold of it and make it
do things for us -- like electricity and horses and steam
Aye, aye, sir
When Mary found this garden it looked quite dead
Then something began pushing things up out of the soil and
making things out of nothing.  One day things weren't there and another
they were.  I had never watched things before and it made me feel very
curious.  Scientific people are always curious and I am going to be
scientific.  I keep saying to myself, 'What is it? What is it?' It's
something.  It can't be nothing! I don't know its name so I call it
Magic.  I have never seen the sun rise but Mary and Dickon have and
from what they tell me I am sure that is Magic too.  Something pushes
it up and draws it.  Sometimes since I've been in the garden I've
looked up through the trees at the sky and I have had a strange feeling
of being happy as if something were pushing and drawing in my chest and
making me breathe fast.  Magic is always pushing and drawing and making
things out of nothing.  Everything is made out of Magic, leaves and
trees, flowers and birds, badgers and foxes and squirrels and people.
So it must be all around us.  In this garden -- in all the places.  The
Magic in this garden has made me stand up and know I am going to live
to be a man.  I am going to make the scientific experiment of trying to
get some and put it in myself and make it push and draw me and make me
strong.  I don't know how to do it but I think that if you keep
thinking about it and calling it perhaps it will come.  Perhaps that is
the first baby way to get it.  When I was going to try to stand that
first time Mary kept saying to herself as fast as she could, 'You can
do it! You can do it!' and I did.  I had to try myself at the same
time, of course, but her Magic helped me -- and so did Dickon's. Every
morning and evening and as often in the daytime as I can remember I am
going to say, 'Magic is in me! Magic is making me well! I am going to
be as strong as Dickon, as strong as Dickon!' And you must all do it,
too.  That is my experiment Will you help, Ben Weatherstaff
Aye, aye, sir
Aye, aye
If you keep doing it every day as regularly as soldiers go through
drill we shall see what will happen and find out if the experiment
succeeds.  You learn things by saying them over and over and thinking
about them until they stay in your mind forever and I think it will be
the same with Magic.  If you keep calling it to come to you and help
you it will get to be part of you and it will stay and do things
I
once heard an officer in India tell my mother that there were fakirs
who said words over and over thousands of times
I've heard Jem Fettleworth's wife say th' same thing over thousands o'
times -- callin' Jem a drunken brute
Summat allus come o' that, sure enough.  He gave her a good hidin' an'
went to th' Blue Lion an' got as drunk as a lord
Well
you see something did come of it.  She used the wrong
Magic until she made him beat her.  If she'd used the right Magic and
had said something nice perhaps he wouldn't have got as drunk as a lord
and perhaps -- perhaps he might have bought her a new bonnet
Tha'rt a clever lad as well as a straight-legged one, Mester Colin
Next time I see Bess Fettleworth I'll give her a bit of a
hint o' what Magic will do for her.  She'd be rare an' pleased if th'
sinetifik 'speriment worked -- an' so 'ud Jem
Do you think the experiment will work
Aye
that I do.  It'll work same as th' seeds do when
th' sun shines on 'em. It'll work for sure.  Shall us begin it now
It will be like sitting in a sort of temple
I'm rather
tired and I want to sit down
Eh
tha' mustn't begin by sayin' tha'rt tired.  Tha'
might spoil th' Magic
That's true
I must only think of the Magic
The 'creatures' have come
They want to help
us
Now we will begin
Shall we sway backward and forward,
Mary, as if we were dervishes
I canna' do no swayin' back'ard and for'ard
I've got th' rheumatics
The Magic will take them away
but
we won't sway until it has done it.  We will only chant
I canna' do no chantin
They turned me out o' th' church choir th' only time I ever tried it
Then I will chant
The sun is shining -- the sun is shining.  That is the Magic.
The flowers are growing -- the roots are stirring.  That is the Magic.
Being alive is the Magic -- being strong is the Magic.  The Magic is in
me -- the Magic is in me.  It is in me -- it is in me.  It's in every one
of us.  It's in Ben Weatherstaff's back.  Magic! Magic! Come and help
Now I am going to walk round the garden
You have been asleep
Nowt o' th' sort
Th' sermon was good enow -- but I'm
bound to get out afore th' collection
You're not in church
Not me
Who said I were? I heard
every bit of it.  You said th' Magic was in my back.  Th' doctor calls
it rheumatics
That was the wrong Magic
You will get better.  You have
my permission to go to your work.  But come back tomorrow
I'd like to see thee walk round the garden
The Magic is in me
The Magic is making me strong!
I can feel it! I can feel it
I did it! The Magic worked
That is my first scientific
discovery
What will Dr. Craven say
He won't say anything
because he will not be told.
This is to be the biggest secret of all.  No one is to know anything
about it until I have grown so strong that I can walk and run like any
other boy.  I shall come here every day in my chair and I shall be
taken back in it.  I won't have people whispering and asking questions
and I won't let my father hear about it until the experiment has quite
succeeded.  Then sometime when he comes back to Misselthwaite I shall
just walk into his study and say 'Here I am; I am like any other boy.
I am quite well and I shall live to be a man.  It has been done by a
scientific experiment
He will think he is in a dream
He won't believe his
eyes
He'll be obliged to believe them
One of the things I am going to do, after the Magic works and before I
begin to make scientific discoveries, is to be an athlete
We shall have thee takin' to boxin' in a week or so
Tha'lt end wi' winnin' th' Belt an' bein' champion
prize-fighter of all England
Weatherstaff
that is disrespectful.  You must not take
liberties because you are in the secret.  However much the Magic works
I shall not be a prize-fighter.  I shall be a Scientific Discoverer
Ax pardon -- ax pardon, sir
I ought to have seed it wasn't a jokin' matter
We'd never get on as comfortable as we do
if it
wasn't for Dickon's garden.  Anything'll grow for him.  His 'taters and
cabbages is twice th' size of any one else's an' they've got a flavor
with 'em as nobody's has
All a chap's got to do to make 'em thrive, mother
is
to be friends with 'em for sure.  They're just like th' 'creatures.' If
they're thirsty give 'em drink and if they're hungry give 'em a bit o'
food.  They want to live same as we do.  If they died I should feel as
if I'd been a bad lad and somehow treated them heartless
come
into the secret
safe for
sure
My word
It was a good thing that little lass came to th'
Manor.  It's been th' makin' o' her an' th' savin, o' him.  Standin' on
his feet! An' us all thinkin' he was a poor half-witted lad with not a
straight bone in him
What do they make of it at th' Manor -- him being so well an' cheerful
an' never complainin
They don't know what to make of
it
Every day as comes round his face looks
different.  It's fillin' out and doesn't look so sharp an' th' waxy
color is goin'.  But he has to do his bit o' complainin
What for, i' Mercy's name
He does it to keep them from guessin' what's happened.  If the doctor
knew he'd found out he could stand on his feet he'd likely write and
tell Mester Craven.  Mester Colin's savin' th' secret to tell himself.
He's goin' to practise his Magic on his legs every day till his father
comes back an' then he's goin' to march into his room an' show him he's
as straight as other lads.  But him an' Miss Mary thinks it's best plan
to do a bit o' groanin' an' frettin' now an' then to throw folk off th'
scent
Eh
that pair's enjoyin' their-selves I'll warrant.
They'll get a good bit o' actin' out of it an' there's nothin' children
likes as much as play actin'. Let's hear what they do, Dickon lad
Mester Colin is carried down to his chair every time he goes out
An' he flies out at John, th' footman, for not carryin'
him careful enough.  He makes himself as helpless lookin' as he can an'
never lifts his head until we're out o' sight o' th' house.  An' he
grunts an' frets a good bit when he's bein' settled into his chair.
Him an' Miss Mary's both got to enjoyin' it an' when he groans an'
complains she'll say, 'Poor Colin! Does it hurt you so much? Are you so
weak as that, poor Colin?'-- but th' trouble is that sometimes they can
scarce keep from burstin' out laughin'. When we get safe into the
garden they laugh till they've no breath left to laugh with.  An' they
have to stuff their faces into Mester Colin's cushions to keep the
gardeners from hearin', if any of, 'em's about
Th' more they laugh th' better for 'em
Good healthy child laughin's better than pills any
day o' th' year.  That pair'll plump up for sure
They are plumpin' up
They're that hungry they don't
know how to get enough to eat without makin' talk.  Mester Colin says
if he keeps sendin' for more food they won't believe he's an invalid at
all.  Miss Mary says she'll let him eat her share, but he says that if
she goes hungry she'll get thin an' they mun both get fat at once
I'll tell thee what, lad
I've thought of a way to help 'em. When tha' goes to 'em in th'
mornin's tha' shall take a pail o' good new milk an' I'll bake 'em a
crusty cottage loaf or some buns wi' currants in 'em, same as you
children like.  Nothin's so good as fresh milk an' bread.  Then they
could take off th' edge o' their hunger while they were in their garden
an' th, fine food they get indoors 'ud polish off th' corners
Eh! mother
what a wonder tha' art! Tha'
always sees a way out o' things.  They was quite in a pother yesterday.
They didn't see how they was to manage without orderin' up more
food -- they felt that empty inside
They're two young 'uns growin' fast, an' health's comin' back to both
of 'em. Children like that feels like young wolves an' food's flesh an'
blood to 'em
Eh! but they're enjoyin' theirselves for sure
play actin
Your appetite.  Is improving very much, Master Colin
You used to eat nothing, and so many things disagreed
with you
Nothing disagrees with me now
At least things don't so often
disagree with me.  It's the fresh air
Perhaps it is
But I must talk to Dr. Craven about it
How she stared at you
As if she
thought there must be something to find out
I won't have her finding out things
No one must begin
to find out yet
You stay out in the garden a great deal
Where do you
go
I will not let any one know where I go
I go to a
place I like.  Every one has orders to keep out of the way.  I won't be
watched and stared at.  You know that
You seem to be out all day but I do not think it has done you harm -- I
do not think so.  The nurse says that you eat much more than you have
ever done before
Perhaps
perhaps it is
an unnatural appetite
I do not think so, as your food seems to agree with you
You are gaining flesh rapidly and your color is better
Perhaps -- perhaps I am bloated and feverish
People who are not going to live are
often -- different
You are not feverish
and such flesh as you
have gained is healthy.  If you can keep this up, my boy, we need not
talk of dying.  Your father will be happy to hear of this remarkable
improvement
I won't have him told
It will only
disappoint him if I get worse again -- and I may get worse this very
night.  I might have a raging fever.  I feel as if I might be beginning
to have one now.  I won't have letters written to my father -- I won't -- I
won't!  You are making me angry and you know that is bad for me.  I
feel hot already.  I hate being written about and being talked over as
much as I hate being stared at
Hush-h! my boy
Nothing shall be written
without your permission.  You are too sensitive about things.  You must
not undo the good which has been done
The boy is extraordinarily better
His advance seems
almost abnormal.  But of course he is doing now of his own free will
what we could not make him do before.  Still, he excites himself very
easily and nothing must be said to irritate him
play actin
I may be obliged to have a tantrum
I don't
want to have one and I'm not miserable enough now to work myself into a
big one.  Perhaps I couldn't have one at all.  That lump doesn't come
in my throat now and I keep thinking of nice things instead of horrible
ones.  But if they talk about writing to my father I shall have to do
something
I think we shall have to eat it all this morning, Mary
We can send away some of the lunch and a great deal
of the dinner
I do wish
I do wish the slices of ham were
thicker, and one muffin each is not enough for any one
It's enough for a person who is going to die
but it's not enough for a person who is going to
live.  I sometimes feel as if I could eat three when those nice fresh
heather and gorse smells from the moor come pouring in at the open
window
Magic is in her just as it is in Dickon
It makes her
think of ways to do things -- nice things.  She is a Magic person.  Tell
her we are grateful, Dickon -- extremely grateful
Tell her she has been most bounteous and our gratitude is extreme
Yesterday
I went to Thwaite
for mother an' near th' Blue Cow Inn I seed Bob Haworth.  He's the
strongest chap on th' moor.  He's the champion wrestler an' he can jump
higher than any other chap an' throw th' hammer farther.  He's gone all
th' way to Scotland for th' sports some years.  He's knowed me ever
since I was a little 'un an' he's a friendly sort an' I axed him some
questions.  Th' gentry calls him a athlete and I thought o' thee,
Mester Colin, and I says, 'How did tha' make tha' muscles stick out
that way, Bob? Did tha' do anythin' extra to make thysel' so strong?'
An' he says 'Well, yes, lad, I did.  A strong man in a show that came
to Thwaite once showed me how to exercise my arms an' legs an' every
muscle in my body.  An' I says, 'Could a delicate chap make himself
stronger with 'em, Bob?' an' he laughed an' says, 'Art tha' th'
delicate chap?' an' I says, 'No, but I knows a young gentleman that's
gettin' well of a long illness an' I wish I knowed some o' them tricks
to tell him about.' I didn't say no names an' he didn't ask none.  He's
friendly same as I said an' he stood up an' showed me good-natured
like, an' I imitated what he did till I knowed it by heart
Can you show me
Will you
Aye, to be sure
But he says tha' mun
do 'em gentle at first an' be careful not to tire thysel'. Rest in
between times an' take deep breaths an' don't overdo
I'll be careful
Show me! Show me! Dickon, you are the
most Magic boy in the world
They are eating next to nothing
They'll die of
starvation if they can't be persuaded to take some nourishment.  And
yet see how they look
Look
Eh! I'm moithered to
death with them.  They're a pair of young Satans.  Bursting their
jackets one day and the next turning up their noses at the best meals
Cook can tempt them with.  Not a mouthful of that lovely young fowl and
bread sauce did they set a fork into yesterday -- and the poor woman fair
invented a pudding for them -- and back it's sent.  She almost cried.
She's afraid she'll be blamed if they starve themselves into their
graves
I am sorry to hear that you do not eat anything
That will
not do.  You will lose all you have gained -- and you have gained
amazingly.  You ate so well a short time ago
I told you it was an unnatural appetite
What is the matter
It was something between a sneeze and a cough
and it got into my throat
But
I couldn't stop myself.  It just
burst out because all at once I couldn't help remembering that last big
potato you ate and the way your mouth stretched when you bit through
that thick lovely crust with jam and clotted cream on it
Is there any way in which those children can get food secretly
There's no way unless they dig it out of the earth or pick it off the
trees
They stay out in the grounds all day
and see no one but each other.  And if they want anything different to
eat from what's sent up to them they need only ask for it
Well
so long as going without food agrees with
them we need not disturb ourselves.  The boy is a new creature
So is the girl
She's begun to be downright
pretty since she's filled out and lost her ugly little sour look.  Her
hair's grown thick and healthy looking and she's got a bright color.
The glummest, ill-natured little thing she used to be and now her and
Master Colin laugh together like a pair of crazy young ones.  Perhaps
they're growing fat on that
Perhaps they are
Let them laugh
Now that I am a real boy
my legs and arms and all
my body are so full of Magic that I can't keep them still.  They want
to be doing things all the time.  Do you know that when I waken in the
morning, Mary, when it's quite early and the birds are just shouting
outside and everything seems just shouting for joy -- even the trees and
things we can't really hear -- I feel as if I must jump out of bed and
shout myself.  If I did it, just think what would happen
The nurse would come running and Mrs. Medlock would come running and
they would be sure you had gone crazy and they'd send for the doctor
I wish my father would come home
I want to tell him
myself.  I'm always thinking about it -- but we couldn't go on like this
much longer.  I can't stand lying still and pretending, and besides I
look too different.  I wish it wasn't raining today
Colin
do you know how many rooms there are
in this house
About a thousand, I suppose
There's about a hundred no one ever goes into
And one
rainy day I went and looked into ever so many of them.  No one ever
knew, though Mrs. Medlock nearly found me out.  I lost my way when I
was coming back and I stopped at the end of your corridor.  That was
the second time I heard you crying
A hundred rooms no one goes into
It sounds almost like a
secret garden.  Suppose we go and look at them.  Wheel me in my chair
and nobody would know we went
That's what I was thinking
No one would dare to follow
us.  There are galleries where you could run.  We could do our
exercises.  There is a little Indian room where there is a cabinet full
of ivory elephants.  There are all sorts of rooms
Ring the bell
I want my chair
Miss Mary and I are going to look at the
part of the house which is not used.  John can push me as far as the
picture-gallery because there are some stairs.  Then he must go away
and leave us alone until I send for him again
I am going to run from one end of the gallery to the other
and then I am going to jump and then we will do Bob Haworth's
exercises
All these
must be my relations.  They lived a long time
ago.  That parrot one, I believe, is one of my great, great, great,
great aunts.  She looks rather like you, Mary -- not as you look now but
as you looked when you came here.  Now you are a great deal fatter and
better looking
So are you
I'm glad we came
I never knew I lived in such a big
queer old place.  I like it.  We will ramble about every rainy day.  We
shall always be finding new queer corners and things
Look at that
This is a house of mystery, and those two
children are the greatest mysteries in it
If they keep that up every day
there'd be small wonder that he weighs twice as much to-day as he did
a month ago.  I should have to give up my place in time, for fear of
doing my muscles an injury
I know what you want me to tell you
I always know when you want me to tell you something.
You are wondering why the curtain is drawn back.  I am going to keep it
like that
Why
Because it doesn't make me angry any more to see her laughing.  I
wakened when it was bright moonlight two nights ago and felt as if the
Magic was filling the room and making everything so splendid that I
couldn't lie still.  I got up and looked out of the window.  The room
was quite light and there was a patch of moonlight on the curtain and
somehow that made me go and pull the cord.  She looked right down at me
as if she were laughing because she was glad I was standing there.  It
made me like to look at her.  I want to see her laughing like that all
the time.  I think she must have been a sort of Magic person perhaps
You are so like her now
that sometimes I think perhaps
you are her ghost made into a boy
If I were her ghost -- my father would be fond of me
Do you want him to be fond of you
I used to hate it because he was not fond of me.  If he grew fond of
me I think I should tell him about the Magic.  It might make him more
cheerful
I like to do it
because when I grow up and make great
scientific discoveries I shall be obliged to lecture about them and so
this is practise.  I can only give short lectures now because I am very
young, and besides Ben Weatherstaff would feel as if he were in church
and he would go to sleep
Th' best thing about lecturin
is that a chap can get up
an' say aught he pleases an' no other chap can answer him back.  I
wouldn't be agen' lecturin' a bit mysel' sometimes
What are you thinking about, Ben Weatherstaff
I was thinkin
as I'd warrant tha's, gone up three or
four pound this week.  I was lookin' at tha' calves an' tha' shoulders.
I'd like to get thee on a pair o' scales
It's the Magic and -- and Mrs. Sowerby's buns and milk and things
You see the scientific experiment has succeeded
The Magic works best when you work, yourself
You can feel it in your bones and muscles.  I
am going to read books about bones and muscles, but I am going to write
a book about Magic.  I am making it up now.  I keep finding out things
Mary! Dickon
Just look at me
Do you remember that first morning you brought me in here
Aye, that
we do
Just this minute
all at once I remembered it
myself -- when I looked at my hand digging with the trowel -- and I had to
stand up on my feet to see if it was real.  And it is real! I'm
well -- I'm well
Aye, that th' art
I'm well! I'm well
I shall live forever and ever and ever
I shall
find out thousands and thousands of things.  I shall find out about
people and creatures and everything that grows -- like Dickon -- and I
shall never stop making Magic.  I'm well! I'm well! I feel -- I feel as
if I want to shout out something -- something thankful, joyful
Tha' might sing th' Doxology
What is that
Dickon can sing it for thee, I'll warrant
They sing it i' church
Mother says she believes th'
skylarks sings it when they gets up i' th' mornin
If she says that, it must be a nice song
I've
never been in a church myself.  I was always too ill.  Sing it, Dickon.
I want to hear it
Tha' must take off tha' cap
an' so mun tha',
Ben -- an' tha' mun stand up, tha' knows
Praise God from whom all blessings flow,
         Praise Him all creatures here below,
         Praise Him above ye Heavenly Host,
         Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.
                     Amen
It is a very nice song
I like it.  Perhaps it means just
what I mean when I want to shout out that I am thankful to the Magic
Perhaps they are both the
same thing.  How can we know the exact names of everything? Sing it
again, Dickon.  Let us try, Mary.  I want to sing it, too.  It's my
song.  How does it begin? 'Praise God from whom all blessings flow
I never seed no sense in th' Doxology afore
but I
may change my mind i' time.  I should say tha'd gone up five pound this
week Mester Colin -- five on 'em
Who is coming in here
Who is it
It's mother -- that's who it is
It's mother
I knowed tha'
wanted to see her an' I told her where th' door was hid
Even when I was ill I wanted to see you
you and Dickon and
the secret garden.  I'd never wanted to see any one or anything before
Eh! dear lad
Eh! dear lad
Mester
Colin
Are you surprised because I am so well
Aye, that I am
but tha'rt so like thy mother tha' made my heart jump
Do you think
that will make my
father like me
Aye, for sure, dear lad
He mun come home -- he mun come home
Susan Sowerby
Look at
th' lad's legs, wilt tha'? They was like drumsticks i' stockin' two
month' ago -- an' I heard folk tell as they was bandy an' knock-kneed
both at th' same time.  Look at 'em now
They're goin' to be fine strong lad's legs in a bit
Let
him go on playin' an' workin' in the garden an' eatin' hearty an'
drinkin' plenty o' good sweet milk an' there'll not be a finer pair i'
Yorkshire, thank God for it
An' thee, too
Tha'rt grown near as hearty as our
'Lisabeth Ellen.  I'll warrant tha'rt like thy mother too.  Our Martha
told me as Mrs. Medlock heard she was a pretty woman.  Tha'lt be like a
blush rose when tha' grows up, my little lass, bless thee
It doesn't stand
to reason that a pretty woman could be th' mother o' such a fou' little
lass
creatures
I suppose learnin' 'em to fly is like learnin' children to walk, but
I'm feared I should be all in a worrit if mine had wings instead o'
legs
Do you believe in Magic
I do hope you do
That I do, lad
I never knowed it by that name but
what does th' name matter? I warrant they call it a different name i'
France an' a different one i' Germany.  Th' same thing as set th' seeds
swellin' an' th' sun shinin' made thee a well lad an' it's th' Good
Thing.  It isn't like us poor fools as think it matters if us is called
out of our names.  Th' Big Good Thing doesn't stop to worrit, bless
thee.  It goes on makin' worlds by th' million -- worlds like us.  Never
thee stop believin' in th' Big Good Thing an' knowin' th' world's full
of it -- an' call it what tha' likes.  Tha' wert singin' to it when I
come into th' garden
I felt so joyful
Suddenly I felt how different I was -- how strong my arms and legs
were, you know -- and how I could dig and stand -- and I jumped up and
wanted to shout out something to anything that would listen
Th' Magic listened when tha' sung th' Doxology.  It would ha' listened
to anything tha'd sung.  It was th' joy that mattered.  Eh! lad,
lad -- what's names to th' Joy Maker
You see we can't help laughing nearly all the time when we are
together
And it doesn't sound ill at all.  We try
to choke it back but it will burst out and that sounds worse than ever
There's one thing that comes into my mind so often
and I
can scarcely ever hold in when I think of it suddenly.  I keep thinking
suppose Colin's face should get to look like a full moon.  It isn't
like one yet but he gets a tiny bit fatter every day -- and suppose some
morning it should look like one -- what should we do
Bless us all, I can see tha' has a good bit o' play actin' to do
But tha' won't have to keep it up much longer.
Mester Craven'll come home
Do you think he will
Why
I suppose it 'ud nigh break thy heart if he found out before tha' told
him in tha' own way
Tha's laid awake nights plannin' it
I couldn't bear any one else to tell him
I think about
different ways every day, I think now I just want to run into his
room
That'd be a fine start for him
I'd like
to see his face, lad.  I would that! He mun come back -- that he mun
You are just what I -- what I wanted
I wish you were my
mother -- as well as Dickon's
Eh! dear lad
Thy own mother's in this 'ere very garden,
I do believe.  She couldna' keep out of it.  Thy father mun come back
to thee -- he mun
creatures
Where, you tend a rose, my lad,
         A thistle cannot grow
Archibald Craven, Misselthwaite Manor, Yorkshire,
England
bit of earth
What is it
I almost feel as if -- I were alive
I am going to live forever and ever and ever
Perhaps
my body is growing stronger
Archie! Archie! Archie
Archie! Archie
Lilias! Lilias
Lilias! where are you
In the garden
In
the garden
In the garden
In the garden! But
the door is locked and the key is buried deep
I will go back to Misselthwaite
Yes, I'll go at once
Perhaps I have been all wrong for ten years
Ten years is a long time.  It may be too late to do anything -- quite
too late.  What have I been thinking of
too late
Could it be possible that she sees that I may be able to do him good
and control him
I will go and see her on my way to
Misselthwaite
Our Dickon
If you divide that into eight parts there will be half a crown for
each of, you
In the garden -- In the
garden
I will try to find the key
I will try to open the door.
I must -- though I don't know why
How is Master Colin, Medlock
Well, sir
he's -- he's different, in a manner of speaking
Worse
Well, you see, sir
neither Dr. Craven, nor
the nurse, nor me can exactly make him out
Why is that
To tell the truth, sir, Master Colin might be better and he might be
changing for the worse.  His appetite, sir, is past understanding -- and
his ways
Has he become more -- more peculiar
That's it, sir.  He's growing very peculiar -- when you compare him with
what he used to be.  He used to eat nothing and then suddenly he began
to eat something enormous -- and then he stopped again all at once and
the meals were sent back just as they used to be.  You never knew, sir,
perhaps, that out of doors he never would let himself be taken.  The
things we've gone through to get him to go out in his chair would leave
a body trembling like a leaf.  He'd throw himself into such a state
that Dr. Craven said he couldn't be responsible for forcing him.  Well,
sir, just without warning -- not long after one of his worst tantrums he
suddenly insisted on being taken out every day by Miss Mary and Susan
Sowerby's boy Dickon that could push his chair.  He took a fancy to
both Miss Mary and Dickon, and Dickon brought his tame animals, and, if
you'll credit it, sir, out of doors he will stay from morning until
night
How does he look
If he took his food natural, sir, you'd think he was putting on
flesh -- but we're afraid it may be a sort of bloat.  He laughs sometimes
in a queer way when he's alone with Miss Mary.  He never used to laugh
at all.  Dr. Craven is coming to see you at once, if you'll allow him.
He never was as puzzled in his life
Where is Master Colin now
In the garden, sir.  He's always in the garden -- though not a human
creature is allowed to go near for fear they'll look at him
In the garden
In the garden
Who -- What? Who
Father
I'm Colin.  You can't believe it.  I scarcely can
myself.  I'm Colin
In the garden! In the garden
Yes
It was the garden that did it -- and Mary and
Dickon and the creatures -- and the Magic.  No one knows.  We kept it to
tell you when you came.  I'm well, I can beat Mary in a race.  I'm
going to be an athlete
Aren't you glad, Father
Aren't you glad?  I'm going to
live forever and ever and ever
Take me into the garden, my boy
And tell me all
about it
I thought it would be dead
Mary thought so at first
But it came alive
Now
it need not be a secret any
more.  I dare say it will frighten them nearly into fits when they see
me -- but I am never going to get into the chair again.  I shall walk
back with you, Father -- to the house
Did you see either of them, Weatherstaff
Aye, that I did
Both of them
Both of 'em
Thank ye kindly, ma'am, I
could sup up another mug of it
Together
Together, ma'am
Where was Master Colin? How did he look? What did they say to each
other
I didna' hear that
along o' only bein' on th' stepladder
lookin, over th' wall.  But I'll tell thee this.  There's been things
goin' on outside as you house people knows nowt about.  An' what tha'll
find out tha'll find out soon
Look there
if tha's curious.  Look what's comin' across
th' grass
</text>
