<text>
Alas!" said Hildegarde with a deep
sigh, "we must look our last on this ancestral home
I'll tell you what, we must go and seek for treasure: it is always what
you do to restore the fallen fortunes of your House
We must do something
because the exchequer is empty
Yes -- but what shall we do
It's so jolly easy to say
let's do _something_
Let's read all the books again. We shall get lots of ideas out of
them
Look here. We'll be quite quiet for ten minutes by
the clock -- and each think of some way to find treasure. And when we've
thought we'll try all the ways one after the other, beginning with the
eldest
I shan't be able to think in ten minutes, make it half an hour
Eat H. O
Oh, it must be more than
half an hour
One at a time, please. We aren't playing Babel
I think we might stop people on Blackheath -- with
crape masks and horse-pistols -- and say "Your money or your life!
Resistance is useless, we are armed to the teeth"-- like Dick Turpin
and Claude Duval. It wouldn't matter about not having horses, because
coaches have gone out too
That would be
very wrong: it's like pickpocketing or taking pennies out of Father's
great-coat when it's hanging in the hall
Oh, very well. I can think of lots of other ways. We could rescue an
old gentleman from deadly Highwaymen
There aren't any
Oh, well, it's all the same -- from deadly peril, then. There's plenty
of that. Then he would turn out to be the Prince of Wales, and he would
say, "My noble, my cherished preserver! Here is a million pounds a year.
Rise up, Sir Oswald Bastable
I think we might try the divining-rod. I'm sure I could do
it. I've often read about it. You hold a stick in your hands, and when
you come to where there is gold underneath the stick kicks about. So you
know. And you dig
Oh
I have an idea. But I'll say last. I hope the
divining-rod isn't wrong. I believe it's wrong in the Bible
So is eating pork and ducks
You can't go by that
Anyhow, we'll try the other ways first
Now, H. O
Let's be Bandits
I dare say it's wrong but it would be
fun pretending
I'm sure it's wrong
Dora needn't play if she doesn't want to. Nobody asked her. And, Dicky,
don't be an idiot: do dry up and let's hear what Noel's idea is
Whichever it is
none of you shall want for anything,
though Oswald did kick me, and say I was a snivelling pig
I didn't
I told you not to be
You must all of you have noticed the advertisements in the papers,
telling you that ladies and gentlemen can easily earn two pounds a
week in their spare time, and to send two shillings for sample and
instructions, carefully packed free from observation. Now that we don't
go to school all our time is spare time. So I should think we could
easily earn twenty pounds a week each. That would do us very well. We'll
try some of the other things first, and directly we have any money we'll
send for the sample and instructions. And I have another idea, but I
must think about it before I say
Out with it -- what's the other idea
No
Keep your silly old secret, then. Now, Dora, drive ahead. We've all
said except you
Let's try my way _now_. Besides, I'm the eldest, so it's only fair.
Let's dig for treasure. Not any tiresome divining-rod -- but just plain
digging. People who dig for treasure always find it. And then we shall
be rich and we needn't try your ways at all. Some of them are rather
difficult: and I'm certain some of them are wrong -- and we must always
remember that wrong things
thus
the sad days passed slowly by
the years rolled on their weary
course
time went on
Quite
right, that's what we call selection, a necessity of true art
Hallo
What are you up to
We're digging for treasure
an ancient parchment revealed
to us the place of concealment. Come over and help us. When we have
dug deep enough we shall find a great pot of red clay, full of gold and
precious jewels
What silly nonsense
Come and dig! Then you shall share the treasure when
we've found it
I shan't -- I don't like digging -- and I'm just going in to
my tea
Come along and dig, there's a good boy
You can use my
spade. It's much the best
I expect we shall have to make a tunnel
to reach the
rich treasure
Rats
Take your turn like a man
It's quite easy
You just crawl in and dig with your
hands. Then when you come out we can scrape out what you've done, with
the spades. Come -- be a man. You won't notice it being dark in the tunnel
if you shut your eyes tight. We've all been in except Dora -- and she
doesn't like worms
I don't like worms neither
Let me go in feet first
I'll dig with my
boots -- I will truly, honour bright
Now dig with your boots
and, Alice, do catch hold of
Pincher, he'll be digging again in another minute, and perhaps it would
be uncomfortable for Albert if Pincher threw the mould into his eyes
Kick! dig with your feet, for all you're worth
This promises to be a protracted if agreeable task
I will get another spade
Mind you keep very still
or I might chunk a bit out of you
with the spade
I confess that I am not absolutely insensible to the dramatic interest
of the situation. My curiosity is excited. I own that I should like to
know how my nephew happened to be buried. But don't tell me if you'd
rather not. I suppose no force was used
Only moral force
Only moral force, eh
Well
Well
I'm very sorry it happened to Albert -- I'd rather it
had been one of us. It would have been my turn to go into the tunnel,
only I don't like worms, so they let me off. You see we were digging for
treasure
Yes
and I think we were just coming to the underground
passage that leads to the secret hoard, when the tunnel fell in on
Albert. He _is_ so unlucky
So you were digging for treasure
Well, I fear that your
chances of success are small. I have made a careful study of the whole
subject. What I don't know about buried treasure is not worth knowing.
And I never knew more than one coin buried in any one garden -- and that
is generally -- Hullo -- what's that
Well, that's lucky, at all events
Let's see, that's fivepence each for you
It's fourpence -- something; I can't do fractions
there
are seven of us, you see
Oh, you count Albert as one of yourselves on this occasion, eh
Of course
and I say, he was buried after all. Why
shouldn't we let him have the odd somethings, and we'll have fourpence
each
To think that there should be two
in all my experience of
buried treasure I never heard of such a thing
I should like to be a detective
I should like to be a detective
and find out strange and hidden crimes
You have to be much cleverer than you are
Not so very
because when you've read the books you know
what the things mean: the red hair on the handle of the knife, or the
grains of white powder on the velvet collar of the villain's overcoat. I
believe we could do it
I shouldn't like to have anything to do with murders
somehow it doesn't seem safe
And it always ends in the poor murderer being hanged
I don't care. I'm sure no one would ever do murdering _twice_. Think
of the blood and things, and what you would see when you woke up in the
night! I shouldn't mind being a detective to lie in wait for a gang
of coiners, now, and spring upon them unawares, and secure
them -- single-handed, you know, or with only my faithful bloodhound
You always get hold of the wrong end of the stick
You can't choose what crimes you'll be a detective about.
You just have to get a suspicious circumstance, and then you look for a
clue and follow it up. Whether it turns out a murder or a missing will
is just a fluke
That's one way
Another is to get a paper and find
two advertisements or bits of news that fit. Like this: "Young Lady
Missing," and then it tells about all the clothes she had on, and the
gold locket she wore, and the colour of her hair, and all that; and then
in another piece of the paper you see, "Gold locket found," and then it
all comes out
Mysterious deaths in Holloway
I believe we might be detectives ourselves, but I should not like to
get anybody into trouble
Not murderers or robbers
It wouldn't be murderers
but I _have_ noticed something
strange. Only I feel a little frightened. Let's ask Albert's uncle
first
Well, promise you won't do anything without me
This is a dark secret, and any one who thinks it is better not to be
involved in a career of crime-discovery had better go away ere yet it be
too late
Now then
Well
you know the house next door? The people have gone
to Scarborough. And the house is shut up. But last night _I saw a light
in the windows_
I'll tell you if you boys will promise not ever to go fishing again
without me
It was last night. I had forgotten to feed my rabbits and I woke up and
remembered it. And I was afraid I should find them dead in the morning,
like Oswald did
It wasn't my fault
there was something the matter with
the beasts. I fed them right enough
I came down into the garden, and I saw a light in the house, and dark
figures moving about. I thought perhaps it was burglars, but Father
hadn't come home, and Eliza had gone to bed, so I couldn't do anything.
Only I thought perhaps I would tell the rest of you
Why didn't you tell us this morning
But
we might watch to-night
and see if we see the light again
They might have been burglars
You know the people next door are very grand. They
won't know us -- and they go out in a real private carriage sometimes. And
they have an "At Home" day, and people come in cabs. I daresay they have
piles of plate and jewellery and rich brocades, and furs of price and
things like that. Let us keep watch to-night
It's no use watching to-night
if it's only burglars they
won't come again. But there are other things besides burglars that are
discovered in empty houses where lights are seen moving
You mean coiners
I wonder what the reward is
for setting the police on their track
What about the coiners
Of course I meant to watch, only my collar's
rather tight, so I thought I'd take it off first
My eye
It's not burglars
the mysterious stranger was
bringing things in, not taking them out. They must be coiners -- and oh,
Oswald!-- don't let's! The things they coin with must hurt very much. Do
let's go to bed
They locked the back door
I heard it go. And I could
look in quite well through the holes in the shutters and be back over
the wall long before they'd got the door open, even if they started to
do it at once
If any one goes it ought to be me, because I thought of
it
Well, go then
Not for anything
Murder
So I got the salmon three-halfpence cheaper, and the lettuces are only
six a penny in the Broadway, just fancy! We must save as much as ever we
can on our housekeeping money if we want to go away decent next year
I wish we could _all_ go _every_ year, or
else -- Really, I almost wish
I
almost
You've done it this time
Murder
Confound those kids
I want
to speak to you
Well
I am very sorry, and I beg your pardon. We wanted to be detectives, and
we thought a gang of coiners infested your house, so we looked through
your window last night. I saw the lettuce, and I heard what you said
about the salmon being three-halfpence cheaper, and I know it is very
dishonourable to pry into other people's secrets, especially ladies',
and I never will again if you will forgive me this once
So it was you tumbling into the flower-pots last night? We thought it
was burglars. It frightened us horribly. Why, what a bump on your poor
head
I thought you
were all at Scarborough; your servant told Eliza so. Why didn't you want
people to know you were at home
Never mind the reason why. I hope your head doesn't hurt much. Thank
you for your nice, manly little speech. _You've_ nothing to be ashamed
of, at any rate
Run away now, dear. I'm going to -- I'm going to pull up the blinds
and open the shutters, and I want to do it at _once_, before it gets
dark, so that every one can see we're at home, and not at Scarborough
You ought to get her those, Oswald, because you know you broke the
points off hers getting the marble out of the brass thimble
It's H. O
He's such a little kid
Look here! I'll pay sixpence of the scissors, and H. O. shall pay the
rest, to teach him to be careful
I only hope
that they won't have got all the ladies and
gentlemen they want before we have got the money to write for the sample
and instructions
Well, what can we do
You are so fond of saying "Let's do
something!" and never saying what
We can't try the advertisement yet. Shall we try rescuing some one
What was Noel's plan
A Princess or a poetry book
Only I shall look for the Princess
all by myself. But I'll let you see her when we're married
Have you got enough poetry to make a book
Lines on a Dead Black Beetle that was poisoned
We might wait a year or two
I shall be sure to make some
more some time. I thought of a piece about a fly this morning that knew
condensed milk was sticky
But we want the money _now_
and you can go on writing
just the same. It will come in some time or other
There's poetry in newspapers
Down, Pincher! you'll never
be a clever dog, so it's no good trying
Do they pay for it
I don't know. But I shouldn't think any one would let them print their
poetry without. I wouldn't I know
We might try, anyway
The Wreck of the Malabar
Good hunting
What was that he said
It was "Good hunting"-- it's out of the Jungle Book
That's very
pleasant to hear
I am very pleased to meet people who
know their Jungle Book. And where are you off to -- the Zoological Gardens
to look for Bagheera
We are going to restore the fallen fortunes of the House of
Bastable -- and we have all thought of different ways -- and we're going to
try them all. Noel's way is poetry. I suppose great poets get paid
Look here -- if you'll show me yours I'll show you some of mine
I write serious poetry like yours myself; too, but I have a piece
here that I think you will like because it's about a boy
_He's_ done _his_ mischief for the day
I've got two new shillings here! Do you think they would help to smooth
the path to Fame
Thank you
Thank you very much, but Father told us we ought never to take anything
from strangers
That's a nasty one
a
very nasty one! But don't you think as Noel and I are both poets I might
be considered a sort of relation? You've heard of brother poets, haven't
you? Don't you think Noel and I are aunt and nephew poets, or some
relationship of that kind
It's awfully straight of you to stick to what your Father tells you,
but look here, you take the shillings, and here's my card. When you
get home tell your Father all about it, and if he says No, you can just
bring the shillings back to me
Good-bye, and good hunting
The Editor can't see you. Will you please write your business
Yes, I'll write it if you'll give me a pen and ink, and
a sheet of paper and an envelope
No, I'll write it _now_
Look at the price penny stamps are since the coal strike
The Editor says,
please will you step up
Well
so you are Mrs Leslie's friends
I think so
at least she gave us each a shilling, and she
wished us "good hunting
Good hunting, eh? Well, what about this poetry of yours? Which is the
poet
This is my brother Noel. He is the poet
to conceal his emotion
I like your poetry very much, young man. I'll give you -- let me see; how
much shall I give you for it
As much as ever you can
You see I want a good deal of
money to restore the fallen fortunes of the house of Bastable
That's a good idea
Tell me how you came to think of it.
And, I say, have you had any tea? They've just sent out for mine
I shall print all your poems, my poet; and now what do you think
they're worth
I don't know
You see I didn't write them to sell
Why did you write them then
Art for Art's sake, eh
Well, would a guinea meet your views
I should jolly well think so
Buck up, old man! It's your first guinea, but it won't be your last.
Now go along home, and in about ten years you can bring me some more
poetry. Not before -- see? I'm just taking this poetry of yours because I
like it very much; but we don't put poetry in this paper at all. I shall
have to put it in another paper I know of
What _do_ you put in your paper
Oh, news
and dull articles, and things about Celebrities.
If you know any Celebrities, now
Oh, the Queen and the Princes, and people with titles, and people who
write, or sing, or act -- or do something clever or wicked
I don't know anybody wicked
But I know some one with a title -- Lord Tottenham
The mad old Protectionist, eh? How did you come to know him
We don't know him to speak to. But he goes over the Heath every day at
three, and he strides along like a giant -- with a black cloak like Lord
Tennyson's flying behind him, and he talks to himself like one o'clock
What does he say
We only heard him once, close enough to understand, and then he said,
"The curse of the country, sir -- ruin and desolation!" And then he went
striding along again, hitting at the furze-bushes as if they were the
heads of his enemies
Excellent descriptive touch
Well, go on
That's all I know about him, except that he stops in the middle of the
Heath every day, and he looks all round to see if there's any one about,
and if there isn't, he takes his collar off
You're not romancing
I beg your pardon
Drawing the long bow, I mean
We were hiding among the furze-bushes one day, and we saw him do it. He
took off his collar, and he put on a clean one, and he threw the other
among the furze-bushes. We picked it up afterwards, and it was a beastly
paper one
Thank you
That's well worth five shillings, and there they are. Would you
like to see round the printing offices before you go home
I've made a poem about you. It is called "Lines
to a Noble Editor." Shall I write it down
Thank you
I don't think I ever had a poem addressed
to me before. I shall treasure it, I assure you
I've made some pasties for you, and you might
as well go into the Park as not. It's a lovely day
It was a long way to the enchanted wood, but it is very nice now we are
there. I wonder what we shall find in it
We shall find deer
if we go to look; but they go on the
other side of the Park because of the people with buns
I see the white witch bear yonder among the trees! Let's track it and
slay it in its lair
I am the bear
When we catch it there'll be a great fight
and I shall
be Count Folko of Mont Faucon
I'll be Gabrielle
I'll be Sintram
and H. O. can be the Little Master
What about Dicky
Oh, I can be the Pilgrim with the bones
Hist
See his white fairy fur gleaming amid yonder
covert
The bear has hidden himself in these mountain fastnesses
I will draw my good sword and after him
'Tis the lair of the Monster Serpent; I hear his deadly hiss! Beware!
Courage and despatch
It is not a bear
Who are
you
I'm Prince Camaralzaman
I thought at first you were a common boy
Are you all Princesses and Princes too
Yes
I am a Princess also
I _am_ a
Princess
I fancy I've seen you at
Baden
Very likely
Katinka
Let's get away from the windows; if you play near windows some one
inside generally knocks at them and says "Don't
I am forbidden to walk off the grass
That's a pity
But I will if you like
You mustn't do things you are forbidden to do
That's jolly good! Say it again
You are quite old enough to know your own name
How pleasant! And did you come here alone
Yes
we came across the Heath
You are very fortunate
I should like to go on
the Heath. There are donkeys there, with white saddle covers. I should
like to ride them, but my governess will not permit
I'm glad we haven't a governess
We ride the donkeys
whenever we have any pennies, and once I gave the man another penny to
make it gallop
You are indeed fortunate
Never mind
I've got a lot of money. Come out and have a
ride now
Do not go yet
At what time did they order your
carriage
Our carriage is a fairy one, drawn by griffins, and it comes when we
wish for it
That is out of a
picture-book
Pauline, who are these children
Princes, indeed! They're only common children
Common children! Oh, I am so glad! When I am grown up I'll always play
with common children
Your
Highness -- go indoors at once
I won't
Wilson, carry her Highness indoors
Common children! I am glad, glad, glad! Common children! Common
children
Go at once, or I will send for the
police
So she was
really a Princess. Fancy a Princess living _there_
Even Princesses have to live somewhere
And I thought it was play. And it was real. I wish I'd known! I should
have liked to ask her lots of things
I wish I could give _her_ some! It is
very good
good
hunting
Hist, an unwary traveller approaches
Muffle your horses' heads and see to the priming of your pistols
Steal softly upon him
tis dusk, and no human
eyes can mark our deeds
Surrender
All right! I'm
surrendering as hard as I can. You needn't pull my arm off
All right, I don't want to tell
you. You'll wish I had afterwards. You never saw such a guy
I can see _you_
You haven't any manners, and I want to go in to
my tea. Let go of me
I'm not
I'm going home. Leave go! I've got
a bad cold. You're making it worse
Leave go of me! You see my cold's getting worse
You should have thought of that before
you're coming in
with us
Don't be a silly
you know we told you at the very
beginning that resistance was useless. There is no disgrace in yielding.
We are five to your one
Now you're a prisoner really and truly
There will be no violence
no violence. But you will be confined in a dark,
subterranean dungeon where toads and snakes crawl, and but little of the
light of day filters through the heavily mullioned windows. You will be
loaded with chains. Now don't begin again, Baby, there's nothing to
cry about; straw will be your pallet; beside you the gaoler will set a
ewer -- a ewer is only a jug, stupid; it won't eat you -- a ewer with water;
and a mouldering crust will be your food
Albert Morrison is held a prisoner by Bandits.
    On payment of three thousand pounds he will be
    restored to his sorrowing relatives, and all
    will be forgotten and forgiven
What is all this, Albert
Alas, alas, my nephew! Do I find
you the prisoner of a desperate band of brigands
Bandits
you know it says bandits
I beg your pardon, gentlemen
bandits
it is, of course. This, Albert, is the direct result of the pursuit of
the guy on an occasion when your doting mother had expressly warned you
to forgo the pleasures of the chase
So ho
impenitent too! Where's the dungeon
Very pretty and complete
Albert, you are more highly
privileged than ever I was. No one ever made me a nice dungeon when I
was your age. I think I had better leave you where you are
And on this old familiar basis you expect me to ransom you, do you?
Honestly, my nephew, I doubt whether you are worth it. Besides, the sum
mentioned in this document strikes me as excessive: Albert really is
_not_ worth three thousand pounds. Also by a strange and unfortunate
chance I haven't the money about me. Couldn't you take less
Say eightpence
which is all the
small change I happen to have on my person
Thank you very much
but are you sure
you can spare it? Because really it was only play
Quite sure. Now, Albert, the game is over. You had better run home to
your mother and tell her how much you've enjoyed yourself
Look here, young-uns. I like to see you play and enjoy yourselves, and
I don't think it hurts Albert to enjoy himself too
I don't think he did much
But what about Albert's mother? Didn't you think how anxious she would
be at his not coming home? As it happens I saw him come in with you, so
we knew it was all right. But if I hadn't, eh
We're very, very sorry. We didn't think about his mother. You see we
try very hard not to think about other people's mothers because
Poor little beggars
I will help you if you like,
Dora
You're more trouble than all the rest of them!
Come and be editor and see how you like it. I give it up to you
Come on, you valiant man and true, I'd like to have a set-to along of
you
My blade is sharp, my axe is keen,
     You're not nearly as big
     As a good many dragons I've seen
Now, my dears
one,
two, three all purr together
Well, Annie, I have bad news for you
Sam Redfern the
Bushranger is about this part of the Bush just now. I hope he will not
attack us with his gang
I hope not
It is Sam Redfern the Bushranger, father
The same
Must be Injuns
I
know them
they are Apaches
Ha! ha
now I am enjoying myself
Who are you
I am Jim Carlton, the celebrated detective
Are you eating peppermints
No, Sir
Yes
A Dream of Ancient Ancestors
ah little we think
       How soon she will be the elements' sport
Good riddance
How _can_ we restore those beastly fallen fortunes
We've tried digging and writing and princesses and being editors
And being bandits
When did you try that
You know I told you it was
wrong
It wasn't wrong the way we did it
Who asked you to tell us anything about it
We only caught
Albert-next-door
Oh, Albert-next-door
Who asked you, and cetera
This sounds
likely
L100 secures partnership in lucrative business for sale of
    useful patent.  L10 weekly.  No personal attendance necessary.
    Jobbins, 300, Old Street Road
I wish we could secure that partnership
Bother the bice! And, Oswald, it's no use thinking about
that. Where are we to get a hundred pounds
Ten pounds a week is five pounds to us
because partnership means
halves. It would be A1
I wish a fairy would come down the chimney and drop a
jewel on the table -- a jewel worth just a hundred pounds
She might as well give you the hundred pounds while she was about it
Or while she was about it she might as well give us five pounds a
week
Or fifty
Or five hundred
Or five
thousand
Well, she won't give us fivepence, but if you'd only do as I am always
saying, and rescue a wealthy old gentleman from deadly peril he would
give us a pot of money, and we could have the partnership and five
pounds a week. Five pounds a week would buy a great many things
Why shouldn't we borrow it
Who from
What does it all mean
It means that there is a kind gentleman who has a lot of money, and he
doesn't know enough poor people to help, so he puts it in the paper
that he will help them, by lending them his money -- that's it, isn't it,
Dicky
Yes
No inquiries
Oh -- Dicky -- do you think he would
Yes, I think so
I wonder Father doesn't go to this kind
gentleman. I've seen his name before on a circular in Father's study
Perhaps he has
Ladies _and_ gentlemen
You're little sillies, both of you
Don't cry, Alice; he only meant you weren't a grown-up
lady
What else did you think I meant, Disagreeable
Don't be disagreeable yourself, H. O. Let her alone and
say you're sorry, or I'll jolly well make you
Now I'm _really and
truly_ sorry
Money advanced, young shaver! and don't be all day about it
Mr Rosenbaum will see you
Are you the G. B
The _what_
The G. B
It stands for Generous Benefactor
Your Father sent you here, I
suppose
No he didn't
Why did you think so
Doesn't he know you've come
No
we shan't tell him till we've got the partnership,
because his own business worries him a good deal and we don't want to
bother him with ours till it's settled, and then we shall give him half
our share
Then what _did_ you come for
We saw your advertisement
and we want a hundred pounds
on our note of hand, and my sister came so that there should be both
kinds of us; and we want it to buy a partnership with in the lucrative
business for sale of useful patent. No personal attendance necessary
I don't think I quite follow you
But one thing I
should like settled before entering more fully into the matter: why did
you call me Generous Benefactor
Well, you see
we thought it was so
_very_ kind of you to try to find out the poor people who want money and
to help them and lend them your money
Hum
Sit down
Now
you ought to be at school, instead of thinking about
money. Why aren't you
You wish to borrow money. When will you repay it
As soon as we've got it, of course
You seem the eldest
You are a minor, I presume
Minor, not miner
I mean you're not of age
I shall be in ten years, though
Then you might repudiate
the loan
What
I beg your pardon. I didn't quite catch
what you said
What
Repudiate the loan
I mean you might say you would
not pay me back the money, and the law could not compel you to do so
Oh, well, if you think we're such sneaks
Sit down, sit down; I was only
joking
I don't advise you to
enter into that partnership. It's a swindle. Many advertisements are.
And I have not a hundred pounds by me to-day to lend you. But I will
lend you a pound, and you can spend it as you like. And when you are
twenty-one you shall pay me back
I shall pay you back long before that
Thanks, awfully!
And what about the note of hand
Oh
a word is as good
as a bond
No
I won't give you the sovereign. I'll give you fifteen
shillings, and this nice bottle of scent. It's worth far more than the
five shillings I'm charging you for it. And, when you can, you shall pay
me back the pound, and sixty per cent interest -- sixty per cent, sixty
per cent
What's that
You've been to Mr Rosenbaum's
You haven't done any harm this time, children; rather good than harm,
indeed. Mr Rosenbaum has written me a very kind letter
Is he a friend of yours, Father
He is an
acquaintance
we have done some
business together. And this letter
No;
you didn't do any harm to-day; but I want you for the future not to do
anything so serious as to try to buy a partnership without consulting
me, that's all. I don't want to interfere with your plays and pleasures;
but you will consult me about business matters, won't you
We didn't like to bother you
I haven't much time to be with you, for my business takes
most of my time. It is an anxious business -- but I can't bear to think of
your being left all alone like this
We don't mean that exactly, Father. It is rather
lonely sometimes, since Mother died
Well, the fact is, that letter took a weight off my mind
New
every morning
We're wasting our time, not trying to rescue the old gentleman
in deadly peril. Come -- buck up! Do let's do something
It's only fair to try Oswald's way -- he has tried all the things the
others thought of. Why couldn't we rescue Lord Tottenham
Lord Tottenham's all right -- but where's the deadly peril
What about Pincher
Seize him
Seize him
How can I
reward you, my noble young preservers
I _am_ so cold! Isn't he coming yet
Hist! he approaches. You'll know when to set Pincher on by hearing Lord
Tottenham talking to himself -- he always does while he is taking off his
collar
Ruin of the country, sir! Fatal error, fatal
error
Help, help, murder
Dicky, we must rescue this good old man
Good old man be
Call the dog off
It is a dangerous task -- but who would hesitate to do an
act of true bravery
Haste, ere yet it be too late
Stand still, aged sir, and I will endeavour to alleviate your
distress
Drop it, sir; drop it
I'm much obliged, I'm sure. Nasty vicious brute! Here's something to
drink my health
Well, I'm much obliged any way. And
now I come to look at you -- of course, you're not young ruffians, but
gentlemen's sons, eh? Still, you won't be above taking a tip from an old
boy -- I wasn't when I was your age
The dog seems to know you
Good morning
Not so fast
So there are more of you
Do you complete the party
To the Police Station
Well,
don't take Noel; he's not strong, and he easily gets upset. Besides, it
wasn't his doing. If you want to take any one take me -- it was my very
own idea
If you take Oswald I'll go too, but
don't take Noel; he's such a delicate little chap
You should have thought of that
before
Oh, do let Noel go, dear, good, kind Lord Tottenham; he'll faint if you
don't, I know he will, he does sometimes. Oh, I wish we'd never done it!
Dora said it was wrong
Dora displayed considerable common sense
Will you give me your word of honour not to try to escape
Then follow me
You set your dog on me, and you tried to make me believe you were
saving me from it. And you would have taken my half-sovereign. Such
conduct is most -- No -- you shall tell me what it is, sir, and speak the
truth
Then what did you do it for
The truth, mind
I see now it was very silly, and Dora said it was wrong,
but it didn't seem so till we did it. We wanted to restore the fallen
fortunes of our house, and in the books if you rescue an old gentleman
from deadly peril, he brings you up as his own son -- or if you prefer
to be your father's son, he starts you in business, so that you end in
wealthy affluence; and there wasn't any deadly peril, so we made Pincher
into one -- and so
A very nice way to make your fortune -- by deceit and trickery. I have a
horror of dogs. If I'd been a weak man the shock might have killed me.
What do you think of yourselves, eh
Well, well, I see you're sorry. Let this be a lesson
to you; and we'll say no more about it. I'm an old man now, but I was
young once
I think you're very good to forgive us, and we are really very,
very sorry. But we wanted to be like the children in the books -- only
we never have the chances they have. Everything they do turns out all
right. But we _are_ sorry, very, very. And I know Oswald wasn't going to
take the half-sovereign. Directly you said that about a tip from an old
boy I began to feel bad inside, and I whispered to H. O. that I wished
we hadn't
Always remember never to do a dishonourable thing, for money or for
anything else in the world
I told you so
Please, Lord Tottenham, we have not been on
the Heath for a week, to be a punishment because you let us off. And we
have brought you a present each if you will take them to show you are
willing to make it up
All's fair weather now, mates
Any lady or gentleman
can easily earn two pounds a week in their spare time. Sample and
instructions, two shillings. Packed free from observation
Why don't you try the sample and instructions about our spare
time
free from
observation
I don't think it's much good, and I don't think it's quite nice to sell
wine
and besides, it's not easy to suddenly begin to sell
things when you aren't used to it
I don't know
I believe I could
Why, you've got to get people to taste that stuff in the bottle. It's
sherry -- Castilian Amoroso its name is -- and then you get them to buy it,
and then you write to the people and tell them the other people want the
wine, and then for every dozen you sell you get two shillings from the
wine people, so if you sell twenty dozen a week you get your two pounds.
I don't think we shall sell as much as that
We might not the first week
but when people found out
how nice it was, they would want more and more. And if we only got ten
shillings a week it would be something to begin with, wouldn't it
No one must have more than that
however nice it is
It's like the tonic Noel had in the spring; but perhaps
sherry ought to be like that
Only half a teaspoonful for me,
Dora. We mustn't use it all up
Look here, I chuck this. I'm not going to hawk round
such beastly stuff. Any one who likes can have the bottle. Quis
I know
what's the matter with it. It wants sugar
You see it's all right when you get used to it
Quis
Of course
it's rather dusty. We must crush the sugar
carefully in clean paper before we put it in the bottle
You see
I shall just tell them, quite truthfully, what
we have done to it, and when their dozens come they can do it for
themselves
I shall
ask everybody who comes to the house. And while we are doing that, we
can be thinking of outside people to take it to. We must be careful:
there's not much more than half of it left, even counting the sugar
Will you walk
in, please
I called to see your Pa,
miss. Is he at home
Will you walk in, please
He is in, then
Will you walk in, please
Please sit down
Will you tell your Pa I'd like a word with him
He'll be in very soon, I think
I want to call your attention to a sample of sherry wine I
have here. It is called Castilian something or other, and at the price
it is unequalled for flavour and bouquet
Well -- I never
Would you like to taste it
Thank you very much, I'm sure, miss
Excuse me, miss, but
isn't it a little sweet?-- for sherry I mean
The _Real_ isn't
If you order a dozen it will come quite
different to that -- we like it best with sugar. I wish you _would_ order
some
I don't mind telling _you_: you are in business yourself, aren't
you? We are trying to get people to buy it, because we shall have two
shillings for every dozen we can make any one buy. It's called a purr
something
A percentage. Yes, I see
You see there are reasons
why we want to make our
fortunes as quickly as we can
Quite so
And this seems a good way
We paid two shillings for
the sample and instructions, and it says you can make two pounds a week
easily in your leisure time
I'm sure I hope you may, miss
Sherry is my favourite wine
No, thank you, miss
it's my favourite wine, but it doesn't
agree with me; not the least bit. But I've an uncle drinks it. Suppose I
ordered him half a dozen for a Christmas present? Well, miss, here's the
shilling commission, anyway
But I thought the wine people paid that
Not
for worlds
How's that
A1
Would you like some wine
Thank you very much
You naughty, wicked children! What do you mean by playing a trick like
this? You ought to be ashamed of yourselves! I shall write to your Mamma
about it. You dreadful little girl!-- you might have poisoned me. But
your Mamma
I'm very sorry; the butcher liked it, only he said it
was sweet. And please don't write to Mother. It makes Father so unhappy
when letters come for her
What do you mean, you silly child
Why doesn't your Father like your Mother to have
letters -- eh
OH, you
Our Mother is dead, and will you please go away now
I'm very sorry. I didn't know. Never mind about the wine. I
daresay your little sister meant it kindly
I didn't
know -- I'm very sorry
Don't mention it
I won't go unless you all go too
and I won't do the
talking
Rot
Jane! Jane
It's all right. He asked us to come
Well
what is all this about
You asked us to call
about your little Sunday school. We
are the Bastables of Lewisham Road
Oh -- ah, yes
and shall I expect you all to-morrow
We always spend Sunday afternoon with Father
but we
wished to thank you for being so kind as to ask us
And we wished to ask you something else
My time is limited
but
still
Tell
me what is troubling you, my little man, and I will try to give you any
help in my power. What is it you want
I want your opinion on that
On _that_
What is it
It is a shipment
but it's quite enough for you to
taste
A shipment
Yes
an exceptional opportunity. Full-bodied and
nutty
It really does taste rather like one kind of Brazil-nut
It is of a quality never before offered at the price. Old Delicate
Amoro -- what's its name
Amorolio
Amoroso
H. O., you just shut up -- Castilian
Amoroso -- it's a true after-dinner wine, stimulating and yet
_Wine_
Do you
_know_
have you never been _taught_ that it is
the drinking of _wine_ and _spirits_ -- yes, and _beer_, which makes half
the homes in England full of _wretched_ little children, and _degraded_,
_miserable_ parents
Not if you put sugar in it
eight lumps and shake
the bottle. We have each had more than a teaspoonful of it, and we were
not ill at all. It was something else that upset H. O. Most likely all
those acorns he got out of the Park
But why
why did you bring this dreadful fluid,
this curse of our country, to _me_ to taste
Because we thought you might buy some
In books the parson loves his bottle of old port; and new
sherry is just as good -- with sugar -- for people who like sherry. And if
you would order a dozen of the wine, then we should get two shillings
Good gracious! Nasty, sordid
little things! Haven't they any one to teach them better
No, we are not those things you say; but we
are sorry we came here to be called names. We want to make our fortune
just as much as Mr Mallow does -- only no one would listen to us if we
preached, so it's no use our copying out sermons like him
I should think
so
No; you can leave that
It's no good
you all hate me, and you think I'm
a prig and a busybody, but I do try to do right -- oh, I do! Oswald, go
away; don't come here making fun of me
I'm not making fun, Sissy; don't cry, old girl
Oh dear, oh dear -- I do try, I do. And when Mother died she said, "Dora,
take care of the others, and teach them to be good, and keep them out of
trouble and make them happy." She said, "Take care of them for me, Dora
dear." And I have tried, and all of you hate me for it; and to-day I let
you do this, though I knew all the time it was silly
What have you been doing now
Has Mr Mallow written to you to say
he will buy a dozen of the sherry after all? It is really not half bad
with sugar in it
wine that maketh glad the heart of man
It's all right, kids. Only don't
do it again. The wine trade is overcrowded; and besides, I thought you
promised to consult me before going into business
Before buying one I thought you meant
This was only on
commission
This reminds me
What of
Why, you remember when we first began about treasure-seeking, I said
I had thought of something, only I could not tell you because I hadn't
finished thinking about it
Yes
Well, this liquorice water
Tea
Well, tea then -- made me think
I say; let's finish off this
old tea-party and have a council of war
Every one in the world wants money. Some people get it. The people who
get it are the ones who see things. I have seen one thing
Out with it
I see that glass bottles only cost a penny. H. O., if you dare to
snigger I'll send you round selling old bottles, and you shan't have any
sweets except out of the money you get for them. And the same with you,
Noel
Noel wasn't sniggering
it is only his taking
so much interest in what you were saying makes him look like that. Be
quiet, H. O., and don't you make faces, either. Do go on, Dicky dear
There must be hundreds of millions of bottles of medicines sold every
year. Because all the different medicines say, "Thousands of cures
daily," and if you only take that as two thousand, which it must be, at
least, it mounts up. And the people who sell them must make a great deal
of money by them because they are nearly always two-and-ninepence
the bottle, and three-and-six for one nearly double the size. Now the
bottles, as I was saying, don't cost anything like that
It's the medicine costs the money
look how expensive
jujubes are at the chemist's, and peppermints too
That's only because they're nice
nasty things are
not so dear. Look what a lot of brimstone you get for a penny, and the
same with alum. We would not put the nice kinds of chemist's things in
our medicine
Not ointment -- it's so messy
Who has wounds,
especially now there aren't any wars? We shouldn't sell a bottle a day
It ought to be something very common, and only one thing. Not the pains
in the back and all the hundreds of things the people have in somebody's
syrup. What's the commonest thing of all
Colds
I can't help it
You should have caught it yourself, then
it wouldn't have come to me
Don't cry silly
you know I didn't hurt you
Oh, it's not that, Oswald
Don't be a pig! I am so
miserable. Do be kind to me
It's about Noel
I'm sure he's very ill; and playing about
with medicines is all very well, but I know he's ill, and Eliza won't
send for the doctor: she says it's only a cold. And I know the doctor's
bills are awful. I heard Father telling Aunt Emily so in the summer. But
he _is_ ill, and perhaps he'll die or something
Cheer up
Why not write to Father
I've lost the paper with the address. H.
O. had it to draw on the back of, and I can't find it now; I've looked
everywhere. I'll tell you what I'm going to do. No I won't. But I'm
going out. Don't tell the others. And I say, Oswald, do pretend I'm in
if Eliza asks. Promise
Tell me what you're going to do
I am glad you've come
Alice began to think Noel
I only said I thought Noel ought to have the doctor. Don't
you think he ought
Let's have a look at you, young man
It was revealed to the Arab physician as he made merry in his tents on
the wild plains of Hastings that the Presence had a cold in its head. So
he immediately seated himself on the magic carpet, and bade it bear him
hither, only pausing in the flight to purchase a few sweetmeats in the
bazaar
The physician's are the words of wisdom: it's high time this kid was
asleep. I have spoken. Ye have my leave to depart
Now then
You may tell them what I did. I daresay they'll all be in a
wax, but I don't care
I think you were very wise
I am very glad you telegraphed
Come home. We have given Noel a cold, and I think we
are killing him
Look here
You're old enough not to play the fool like this.
Health is the best thing you've got; you ought to know better than to
risk it. You might have killed your little brother with your precious
medicines. You've had a lucky escape, certainly. But poor Noel
Oh, do you think he's going to die
No, no
but look here. Do you see how silly
you've been? And I thought you promised your Father
You know I
promised to take you all to the pantomime
Yes
Well, I will take you if you like, or I will take Noel to the sea for a
week to cure his cold. Which is it to be
Take Noel
Oh, Oswald
I am so unhappy. Suppose I should die in the
night
I must tell
you; I wish I'd told Albert's uncle. I'm a thief, and if I die to-night
I know where thieves go to
Go ahead
I
hadn't enough money for the telegram, so I took the bad sixpence out of
the exchequer. And I paid for it with that and the fivepence I had. And
I wouldn't tell you, because if you'd stopped me doing it I couldn't
have borne it; and if you'd helped me you'd have been a thief too. Oh,
what shall I do
You'd better have told me. But I think it will be all right if we pay
it back. Go to bed. Cross with you? No, stupid! Only another time you'd
better not keep secrets
I'd no idea it was so late
For the sick poet, with my love
A little girl gave you a bad sixpence yesterday. Here are six good
pennies
Honesty is the best Policy
Oh, it's all right
I think it would be very interesting. And you would only rob rich
people, and be very generous to the poor and needy, like Claude Duval
It is wrong to be a robber
Yes
you would never know a happy hour. Think of trying
to sleep with the stolen jewels under your bed, and remembering all the
quantities of policemen and detectives that there are in the world
There are ways of being robbers that are not wrong
if you
can rob a robber it is a right act
But you can't
he is too clever, and besides, it's wrong
anyway
Yes you can, and it isn't; and murdering him with boiling oil is a
right act, too, so there
What about Ali Baba? Now then
What would you do if there _was_ a robber
It's ghosts, I know it is'-- and then we listened again, but there was
no more noise. Presently Dora said in a whisper --

'Whatever shall we do? Oh, whatever shall we do -- what _shall_ we do
Hist
Shall we open the window and call police
I _know_ it's not ghosts, and I don't believe it's robbers. I expect
it's a stray cat got in when the coals came this morning, and she's
been hiding in the cellar, and now she's moving about. Let's go down and
see
All right; I will if you will
Do you think it's _really_ a cat
Fire
Murder
Let's play at burglars; Dicky and I are armed
to the teeth, we will go first. You keep a flight behind us, and be
a reinforcement if we are attacked. Or you can retreat and defend the
women and children in the fortress, if you'd rather
Come on,
Dick
Surrender! you are discovered! Surrender, or I fire! Throw up your
hands
I surrender; don't shoot me! How many of you are there
You are outnumbered. Are you armed
No, not in the least
Turn out your pockets
Well, you've caught me; what are you going to do with me? Police
Bravo, boys
If he gives his word of honour not to escape,
I shouldn't call the police: it seems a pity. Wait till Father comes
home
Yes
I wasn't always in this low way of business
It's
a great come-down to a man like me. But, if I must be caught, it's
something to be caught by brave young heroes like you. My stars! How you
did bolt into the room,--"Surrender, and up with your hands!" You might
have been born and bred to the thief-catching
And what made you think there was any one in the house
Surrender
Why, this is Father's screwdriver and his gimlets, and all! Well, I do
call it jolly cheek to pick a man's locks with his own tools
True, true
It is cheek, of the jolliest! But you
see I've come down in the world. I was a highway robber once, but
horses are so expensive to hire -- five shillings an hour, you know -- and
I couldn't afford to keep them. The highwayman business isn't what it
was
What about a bike
I don't say there are no ups and downs in it
especially
in stormy weather. But what a trade! And a sword at your side, and the
Jolly Roger flying at the peak, and a prize in sight. And all the black
mouths of your guns pointed at the laden trader -- and the wind in your
favour, and your trusty crew ready to live and die for you! Oh -- but it's
a grand life
I'm sure you weren't brought up to be a pirate
No
I was brought up to the law. I was at Balliol, bless
your hearts, and that's true anyway
That was my Father's college
Why did you leave off being a pirate
A pirate
Oh, yes; why I gave it up because -- because I could not get over the
dreadful sea-sickness
Nelson was sea-sick
Ah
but I hadn't his luck or his pluck, or
something. He stuck to it and won Trafalgar, didn't he? "Kiss me,
Hardy"-- and all that, eh? _I_ couldn't stick to it -- I had to resign. And
nobody kissed _me_
And what did you do then
Besides, the coins are so ugly nowadays
no one could really
find any pleasure in making them. And it's a hole-and-corner business
at the best, isn't it?-- and it must be a very thirsty one -- with the hot
metal and furnaces and things
As a matter of fact
I was bush-ranging this afternoon,
among the furze-bushes on the Heath, but I had no luck. I stopped the
Lord Mayor in his gilt coach, with all his footmen in plush and gold
lace, smart as cockatoos. But it was no go. The Lord Mayor hadn't a
stiver in his pockets. One of the footmen had six new pennies: the Lord
Mayor always pays his servants' wages in new pennies. I spent fourpence
of that in bread and cheese, that on the table's the tuppence. Ah, it's
a poor trade
Shish
They're filing something
here -- shut up, give
me that pistol, and the poker. There is a burglar now, and no mistake
It's only a toy one and it won't go off
but you can cock
it
There goes the window bar
Jove! what an adventure! You kids stay here, I'll tackle it
Surrender! You are discovered! Surrender, or I'll fire! Throw up your
hands
All right, governor! Stow that scent sprinkler. I'll give in. Blowed if
I ain't pretty well sick of the job, anyway
Well, go on: why don't yer fetch the pleece
Upon my word, I don't know
Oswald, why don't we fetch the police
Do you mean
I'm to fetch one
ere, governor
I was stony broke, so help me, I
was. And blessed if I've nicked a haporth of your little lot. You know
yourself there ain't much to tempt a bloke
andy at it
No
you certainly are not
eart
Your family certainly fits your circumstances very nicely
Oh, do let him go! If he's got a little girl like me, whatever will she
do? Suppose it was Father
I don't think he's got a little girl like you, my dear
and I think he'll be safer under lock and key
You ask yer Father to let me go, miss
art to refuse you
If I do
will you promise never to come back
Not me, miss
And will you be good and not rob any more
I'll turn over a noo leaf, miss, so help me
Oh, do let him go! I'm sure he'll be good
I don't think it's at all fair, when you're a robber yourself
Kidded, by gum
Hullo
Let's put up the shutters. It never rains but it pours.
Now you've had two burglars I daresay you'll have twenty
What a night we are having
Here's Father
And now for the police
Oh, _no_ -- run! Dicky will let you out at the back door.
Oh, do go, go _now_
Yes, _go_
It's
all right, Foulkes, I've got
Children, what is the
meaning of all this
Foulkes, I must really apologize for these very
naughty
You're mistaken, my dear sir, I'm not Foulkes; I'm a robber, captured
by these young people in the most gallant manner. "Hands up, surrender,
or I fire," and all the rest of it. My word, Bastable, but you've got
some kids worth having! I wish my Denny had their pluck
Oh, it's all right: poor
beggar; if he really had kids at home: you never can tell -- forgive us
our debts, don't you know; but tell me about the first business. It must
have been moderately entertaining
Look here, Father, I didn't really think
there was any one in the study. We thought it was a cat at first, and
then I thought there was no one there, and I was just larking. And when
I said surrender and all that, it was just the game, don't you know
Yes, old chap; but when you found there really
_was_ someone there, you dropped the pistol and bunked, didn't you, eh
No; I thought, "Hullo! here's a robber! Well, it's all up,
I suppose, but I may as well hold on and see what happens
Good-bye, Hardy
I wanted to, when you said no one kissed you when you
left off being a pirate
I know you did, my dear
I suppose none of these tales were
true
I tried to play the part properly, my dear
Well, Dora began
Don't let's quarrel about
nothing. You know let dogs delight -- and I made up another piece while
you were talking --

    Quarrelling is an evil thing,
    It fills with gall life's cup;
    For when once you begin
    It takes such a long time to make it up
Don't
Do
let's try the divining-rod
Fair priestess, we do greatly desire to find gold
beneath our land, therefore we pray thee practise with the divining-rod,
and tell us where we can find it
Do ye desire to fashion of it helms and hauberks
Yes
and chains and ouches
I bet you don't know what an "ouch" is
Yes I do, so there
It's a carcanet. I looked it out in
the dicker, now then
And we want to make fair goblets of the gold
Yes, to drink coconut milk out of
And we desire to build fair palaces of it
And to buy things
a great many things. New Sunday frocks
and hats and kid gloves and
If your intentions are correct, fear nothing and follow me
Heroes
Now, great altar of the golden idol, yield me the divining-rod that I
may use it for the good of the suffering people
Now
I shall sing the magic chant. You mustn't say
anything, but just follow wherever I go -- like follow my leader, you
know -- and when there is gold underneath the magic rod will twist in the
hand of the priestess like a live thing that seeks to be free. Then you
will dig, and the golden treasure will be revealed. H. O., if you make
that clatter with your boots they'll come and tell us not to. Now come
on all of you
Get along with you
All right, wait a minute
It
moves, it moves! Once more the choral hymn
Heroes' again,
and in the middle the umbrella dropped from her hands.

'The magic rod has spoken
dig here, and that with courage
and despatch
Don't
be so silly! It's the place where they come to do the gas. The board's
loose. Dig an you value your lives, for ere sundown the dragon who
guards this spoil will return in his fiery fury and make you his
unresisting prey
See the rich treasure -- the gold in thick layers, with silver and
diamonds stuck in it
Like currants in cake
It's a lovely treasure
Let's come back and carry
it away another day
Let me feast my eyes on the golden splendour
hidden these
long centuries from the human eye. Behold how the magic rod has led
us to treasures more -- Oswald, don't push so!-- more bright than ever
monarch -- I say, there _is_ something down there, really. I saw it
shine
Let's
have a squint
All right, we will in a minute. But
now -- I'm sure I saw it; do get a match, Noel, there's a dear
What did you see
Something bright, away in the corner under the board against the beam
Perhaps it was a rat's eye
or a snake's
There it is
I don't know that it's our
money. Let's wait and ask Father
My hero's folly has involved him in a difficulty
It is his
own fault. I will leave him to meditate on the incredible fatuity -- the
hare-brained recklessness -- which have brought him to this pass. It will
be a lesson to him. I, meantime, will give myself unreservedly to the
pleasures of your conversation
Let the priestess herself set forth the tale in fitting speech
O high priest of the great idol, the humblest of thy
slaves took the school umbrella for a divining-rod, and sang the song of
inver -- what's-it's-name
Invocation perhaps
Yes; and then I went about
and about and the others got tired, so the divining-rod fell on a
certain spot, and I said, "Dig", and we dug -- it was where the loose
board is for the gas men -- and then there really and truly was a
half-sovereign lying under the boards, and here it is
The great high priest will bite it to see if it's good
I congratulate you
you are indeed among those
favoured by the Immortals. First you find half-crowns in the garden, and
now this. The high priest advises you to tell your Father, and ask if
you may keep it. My hero has become penitent, but impatient. I must pull
him out of this scrape. Ye have my leave to depart
You'd better bunk, and
be sharp about it
Your dear Mother's Indian Uncle is coming to dinner here
to-morrow night. So will you not drag the furniture about overhead,
please, more than you're absolutely obliged; and H. O. might wear
slippers or something. I can always distinguish the note of H. O
This Indian Uncle is not used to children, and he is coming to talk
business with me. It is really important that he should be quiet. Do you
think, Dora, that perhaps bed at six for H. O. and Noel
Father, I really and truly won't make a noise. I'll
stand on my head all the evening sooner than disturb the Indian Uncle
with my boots
All right
Only for goodness' sake don't try to go in for business
with it
It's always a mistake to go into business with an
insufficient capital
God bless my soul
Shocking bad dinner! Eh!-- what
Pooh, pooh
It is not a pleasant subject:
I am sorry I introduced it. Suppose we change it, sir. Let me fill your
glass
Well, whisky then
We ought
not to stay here any longer. Perhaps they would not like us to hear
Oh, do you think it could possibly matter
Now I understand. Of course my Father is making a
banquet for the Indian, because he is a poor, broken-down man. We might
have known that from "Lo, the poor Indian!" you know
Poor people are very proud
and I expect Father thought
the Indian would be ashamed, if all of us children knew how poor he
was
Poverty is no disgrace. We should honour honest
Poverty
I wish his dinner had not been so nasty
I am afraid the dinner was horrid
The table looked
very nice with the flowers we got. I set it myself, and Eliza made me
borrow the silver spoons and forks from Albert-next-door's Mother
I hope the poor Indian is honest
when you are a
poor, broken-down man silver spoons must be a great temptation
And the brussels sprouts were all wet and swimmy
and
the potatoes looked grey -- and there were bits of black in the gravy -- and
the mutton was bluey-red and soft in the middle. I saw it when it came
out. The apple-pie looked very nice -- but it wasn't quite done in the
apply part. The other thing that was burnt -- you must have smelt it, was
the soup
It is a pity
I don't suppose he gets a good dinner
every day
No more do we
but we shall to-morrow
Let's ask the poor Indian to come to dinner with _us_ to-morrow
Father has given you a beastly, nasty
dinner, but if you will come to dinner with us tomorrow, we will show
you our idea of good things to eat
Good evening, Uncle
Good evening, Uncle
Good evening, Uncle
Time you were in bed, young man. Eh!-- what
You've been dining with my Father, and we couldn't help hearing you
say the dinner was shocking. So we thought as you're an Indian, perhaps
you're very poor
because of "Lo, the poor
Indian"-- you know -- and you can't get a good dinner every day. And we are
very sorry if you're poor; and won't you come and have dinner with
us to-morrow -- with us children, I mean? It's a very, very good
dinner -- rabbit, and hardbake, and coconut -- and you needn't mind us
knowing you're poor, because we know honourable poverty is no disgrace,
and
Upon my word! And what's your name, eh
Oswald Bastable
Oswald Bastable, eh? Bless my soul
Yes, I'll
dine with you, Mr Oswald Bastable, with all the pleasure in life. Very
kind and cordial invitation, I'm sure. Good night, sir. At one o'clock,
I presume
Yes, at one
Good night, sir
The poor Indian is coming at one. He seemed very grateful to me for my
kindness
Do you carve, sir, or shall I
Would you like grown-up dinner, Uncle, or play-dinner
Play-dinner, by all means.
Eh!-- what
No, thank you; think of
my liver. Eh!-- what
I never enjoyed a dinner more
There's one and threepence farthing left out
of our half-sovereign. Will you take it, please, because we do like you
very much indeed, and we don't want it, really; and we would rather you
had it
I'll take the threepenny-bit
but I couldn't rob you of the rest. By the way, where
did you get the money for this most royal spread -- half a sovereign you
said -- eh, what
Well, silver, then
let's hide the plate-basket, and little
Alice shall make the divining-rod find it. Eh!-- what
There isn't any silver in the plate-basket now
Eliza
asked me to borrow the silver spoons and forks for your dinner last
night from Albert-next-door's Mother. Father never notices, but she
thought it would be nicer for you. Our own silver went to have the dents
taken out; and I don't think Father could afford to pay the man for
doing it, for the silver hasn't come back
Bless my soul
And how much
pocket-money do you get? Eh!-- what
We don't have any now
but indeed we don't want the other
shilling. We'd much rather you had it, wouldn't we
Yes
Well, youngsters, I've enjoyed myself very much. I shan't forget your
kind hospitality. Perhaps the poor Indian may be in a position to ask
you all to dinner some day
A contented mind is a continual
feast
They'll eat H. O. if you don't look out
Here comes the coach of the Fairy Godmother. It'll stop here, you see
if it doesn't
It is a pity some one doesn't tell him this isn't the
house
It's the poor Indian
I say, Dick, I dined with your kids yesterday -- as I daresay they've
told you. Jolliest little cubs I ever saw! Why didn't you let me see
them the other night? The eldest is the image of poor Janey -- and as to
young Oswald, he's a man! If he's not a man, I'm a nigger! Eh!-- what?
And Dick, I say, I shouldn't wonder if I could find a friend to put a
bit into that business of yours -- eh
Fly
Peeping at the baggage, eh
I didn't touch
Are you coming to stay? I hope you are
No harm done if you did touch
For all these parcels are _for you_
I told an old friend of mine what a
pleasant dinner I had with you, and about the threepenny-bit, and the
divining-rod, and all that, and he sent all these odds and ends as
presents for you. Some of the things came from India
Have you come from India, Uncle
This is for you,
young man
Little Alice will like this fan
Miss Dora would
look well in this green silk, I think. Eh!-- what
My old friend
sent you these, Dick; he's an old friend of yours too, he says
You remember when I dined with you, some time ago, you promised to dine
with me some day, if I could ever afford to give a dinner-party. Well,
I'm going to have one -- a Christmas party. Not on Christmas Day, because
every one goes home then -- but on the day after. Cold mutton and rice
pudding. You'll come? Eh!-- what
No, your Father won't object -- he's coming too, bless your soul
I wonder whether he has taken a place as butler here
A poor, broken-down man
Flint. Ashford. 1776
We'll just come into my study first
and wish each
other a Merry Christmas
To match his boots
You tell them, sir
Ladies and gentlemen, we are met together to discuss an important
subject which has for some weeks engrossed the attention of the
honourable member opposite and myself
Hear, hear
What happened to the
guinea-pig
I am going to live in this house, and as it's rather big for me, your
Father has agreed that he and you shall come and live with me. And so,
if you're agreeable, we're all going to live here together, and, please
God, it'll be a happy home for us all. Eh!-- what
Thank you all very much for your presents; but I've got a present here
I value more than anything else I have
You children gave me that when you thought I was the poor
Indian, and I'll keep it as long as I live. And I've asked some friends
to help us to be jolly, for this is our house-warming. Eh!-- what
Your Uncle has been most kind -- most
Now, Dick, no nonsense
Then you're not poor at all
I have enough for my simple wants, thank you, H.
O.; and your Father's business will provide him with enough for yours.
Eh!-- what
Oh, I don't want your
dirty one and three-pence! I'm very rich indeed
Where is my noble editor that I wrote the poetry
to
What about Mr Rosenbaum? He was kind; it would have
been a pleasant surprise for him
Your father has paid him the sovereign he lent you. I don't think he
could have borne another pleasant surprise
I don't think I've done so badly either, if you come
to that, though I was never a regular professional treasure seeker.
Eh!-- what
</text>
