<text>
Now we shall have a set of new cups for the spring, presently
Cups for the waters
So that is the reason of
this prodigious hurry, is it, my boy?  You think tin cups not good
enough for your mother, or for her customers, or for the waters.  Which
of them do you think ought to be ashamed of tin cups
The water, most of all.  Instead of sparkling in a clear bright glass,
it looks as nasty as it tastes in a thing that is more brown and rusty
every time it is dipped.  I will give the folk a pair of cups that shall
tempt them to drink -- a pair of cups as white as milk
They will not long remain white: and those who broke the glasses will
be the more bent upon spoiling your cups, the more pains you spend upon
them
I hope the Redfurns will not happen to hear of them.  We need not blab;
and the folk who drink the waters go their way, as soon as they have
done
Whether the Redfurns be here or there, my boy, there is no want of
prying eyes to see all that the poor foreigners do.  Your mother is
watched, it is my belief, every time she dips her cup; and I in the
mill, and you in the garden.  There is no hope of keeping anything from
our enemies
Let them watch us, Oliver.  We do nothing that we need be ashamed of.
The whole world is welcome to know how we live,-- all we do, from year's
end to year's end
Yes, if they would let us alone, father.  But it is so hard to have our
things broken and spoiled
So it is; and to know what ill-natured talk is going on about us.  But
we must let them take their own way, and bear it as well as we can; for
there is no help for it
I wish I were a justice
How I would punish them,
every one
Then I wish you were a justice, my dear; for we cannot get anybody
punished as it is
Mildred
I wish you would finish the cabbages.  You know
they must be done; and I am very busy
Oh, Oliver!  I am such a little thing to plant a whole cabbage bed.
You will be able to come by and by; I want to help you
You cannot help me, dear: and you know how to do the cabbages as well
as anybody.  You really cannot help me
Well, I want to see you then
There is nothing to see yet.  You will have done, if you make haste,
before I begin to cut.  Do, dear
Well, I will
Look,-- look there!-- under that bank, by the dyke
Eh!  Look -- if it be not the gipsies
Eh dear!  We have got the
gipsies upon us now; and what will become of my poultry?  Yon is a gipsy
tent, sure; and we must tell the master and mistress, and keep an eye on
the poultry.  Sure, yon is a gipsy tent
I do not think it is the gipsies
I am afraid it is worse
than that.  I am afraid it is the Redfurns.  This is just the way they
settle themselves -- in just that sort of tent -- when they come to fowl,
all autumn
If I catch that Roger
I'll
I will go and call father, shall I
What is the matter, children?  Mildred, what have you been doing, that
you are so out of breath?  Have you been running all the way from
Lincoln spire
No, sir; not running -- but
The Redfurns are come, sir
Father, the Redfurns are
come
Roger has been peeping over the hedge into the garden
Are you all at the mercy of a boy like Roger Redfurn
so that you look as if a plague had come with this fresh
breeze
And his uncle, sir
And his aunt
You know what Stephen Redfurn is, sir
Roger
beats even him for mischief.  And we are at their mercy, sir.  There is
not a magistrate, as you know, that will hear a complaint from one of us
against the country-people.  We get nothing but trouble, and expense,
and ridicule, by making complaints.  We know this beforehand; for the
triumph is always on the other side
It is hard
but still,-- here is only a man, a woman,
and a boy.  Cannot you defend yourselves against them
No, sir; because they are not an honourable enemy
If Stephen would fight it out with me on even ground, we
would see who would beat: and I dare say my boy there, though none of
the roughest, would stand up against Roger.  But such fair trials do not
suit them, sir.  People who creep through drains, to do us mischief, and
hide in the reeds when we are up and awake, and come in among us only
when we are asleep, are a foe that may easily ruin any honest man, who
cannot get protection from the law.  They houghed my cow, two years ago,
sir
And they mixed all mother's feathers, for the whole year
And they blinded my dog
put out its eyes
Oh!  What will they do next
Worse things than even these have been done to some of the people in my
village
and they have been borne, Mildred,
without tears
And what do you think, my dears, of the life our Protestant brethren
are leading now, in some parts of the world
Father came away from France because he was ill-used for being a
Protestant
The pastor knows all about that, my boy
Yes, I do
I know that you suffered worse things
there than here; and I know that things worse than either are at present
endured by our brethren in Piedmont.  You have a warm house over your
heads; and you live in sunshine and plenty.  They are driven from their
villages, with fire and sword -- forced to shelter among the snow-drifts,
and pent up in caves till they rush out starving, to implore mercy of
their scoffing persecutors.  Could you bear this, children
They suffer these things for their religion
They
feel that they are martyrs
Do you think there is comfort in that thought,-- in the pride of
martyrdom,-- to the son who sees his aged parents perish by the
wayside,-- to the mother whose infant is dashed against the rock before
her eyes
How _do_ they bear it all, then
They keep one another in mind that it is God's will, my dears; and that
obedient children can, if they try, bear all that God sees fit to lay
upon them.  So they praise His name with a strong heart, though their
voices be weak.  Morning and night, those mountains echo with hymns;
though death, in one form or another, is about the sufferers on every
side.

"My dear
let us make no more complaints about the
Redfurns.  I am ashamed, when I think of our brethren abroad, that we
ever let Stephen and Roger put us up to anger.  You will see no more
tears here, sir, I hope
Mildred will not quite promise that
Make no promises, my dear, that a little girl like
you may be tempted to break.  Only try to forgive all people who tease
and injure you; and remember that nothing more ever happens than God
permits,-- though He does not yet see fit to let us know why
I would only just ask this, sir
Is there anything
going forward just now which particularly encourages our enemies to
attack us
The parliament have a committee sitting at Lincoln, at present; and the
king's cause seems to be low in these parts.  We are thus at the mercy
of such as choose to consider us king's men: but there is a higher and
truer mercy always about us
I think you might attempt something far prettier than beading
particularly with so many patterns before your eyes to work
by
I see some foliage there which would answer your purpose, Oliver, if
you could make a model from it.  Let us look closer
They have been sound asleep, however
and it is still so early, that I do not believe they have been abroad
about mischief in the night.  They would not have been awake yet if they
had
Look!  There is a woman
Is that Nan
Yes; that is Nan Redfurn,-- Stephen's wife.  That is their great net
that she has over her arm.  They are going to draw the oval pond, I
think.  We can watch their sport nicely here.  They cannot see an inch
of us
But we do not like that they should watch us
We should not like to know that they were peeping at us from
behind a hedge
We should not mind it if we were not afraid of them
It is because they plot mischief that we cannot bear their prying.  We
are not going to do them any mischief, you know; and they cannot mean to
make any secret of what they are doing in the middle of the carr, with
high ground all about it
Will they come this way when they have done drawing the pond
I think they will sweep the shallow waters, there to the left, for more
stickleback
They will make up a load, to sell before
the heat of the day, before they set about anything else
There, now
that is all because we forgot to go
to breakfast.  So much for my not having a watch!  Mother need not have
sent George to make such a noise; but, if I had had a watch, he would
not have come at all; and these people would not have been put in mind
of us
You will soon be able to have a watch now, like the boys in Holland
Your alabaster things will change away for a watch; will
not they?  But we might not have remembered breakfast, if you had had a
watch
We are forgetting it now
I will tell you what we will do
Let us dress up a figure to look
like father, and set him at the mill-window; so that those Redfurns
shall not find out that he is away.  Won't that be good
Put him on the mill-steps.  They may not look up at the window
The mill-steps, then.  Where is father's old hat?  Put it on the broom
there, and see how it looks.  Run up to the mill, dear, and bring his
jacket -- and his apron
That will never do
Look how the sleeves hang; and how
he holds his head!  It is not a bit like a man
'Tis a good scarecrow
I have seen many a worse
scarecrow than that
But this is to scare the Redfurns, and they are far wiser than crows
Look how George pulls at the apron, and tugs at the
broomstick behind!  It does not scare even him
It will look very different on the steps -- in the open air
A bunch or two of straw in the sleeves, and under the
jacket, will make it seem all alive
There
that makes a
very good master for me.  I will obey him in everything he bids me till
master comes home
You shall have it,-- you shall have my cup;-- you don't know what a
beauty it will be, when it is done.  Only let me finish it, and you
shall have it in exchange for the stickleback you caught this morning.
The stickleback will do to manure our garden; and I am sure you will
like the cup, if you will only let me finish it
Manure your garden, indeed
I'll cut up your
garden to shreds first.  What business has your garden in our carr?  You
and your great landlord will find what it is to set your outlandish
plants growing where our geese ought to be grazing.  We'll show you that
we don't want any foreigners here; and if you don't like our usage, you
may go home again; and nobody will cry for you back
We pay for our garden and our mill
We wrong nobody,
and we work for our living, and you are a very cruel man
You pay the king: and the parliament does not choose that the king
should have any more money to spend against them.  Mind you that, boy!
And
I am sure I don't know anything about the king and the parliament, or
any such quarrels
It is very hard to punish us for
them, it is very cruel
You shall have reason to call me cruel twenty times over, if you don't
get away out of our carr
Manure your garden, indeed!
Not I!  And you shall not manure another yard in these Levels.  Come
here, Roger
Here's your cup, however
This bit of plaster is the only thing they have
laid hands on that they have not ruined
What Mildred will say, I don't know
That boy has wrung
the neck of her white hen
Did you ever see the like
And there is nothing master
is so particular about as keeping that stuff dry.  See the woman, too!
How I'd like to tug the hair off her head!  She looks badly, poor
creature, too
There were such ague-struck folk to be seen at every turn
before the foreigners came to live in the carr.  I suppose they
brought some healing with them; for one does not often see now such a
poor creature as that.  She might be ashamed of herself,-- that woman;
she laughs all her poor sides can, at every pailful Roger pours out.--
Eh!  But she's not laughing now!  Eh!  What's the matter now
That I will
I will go through with the thing now I am in
it.  I came off the minute I saw your red flag; and I might have been
here sooner, if I had not been so full of watching the mill-sails, that
I never looked off from them till my wife came to help to watch.  Come,
you woman
make no faces about going to
prison, for I am about to give you a ride there
She looks very ill
not fit to be jolted on a
horse
You'll get no magistrate to send me to prison
The
justices are with the parliament, every one.  You will only have to
bring me back, and be sorry you caught me, when you see what comes of
it
Cannot we take care of her here till father comes home
No, no
Don't let that
woman stay here
Neighbour Gool will take care of us till father comes home
and the woman looks so ill!  We can lock her up here: and, you
see, Ailwin is ever so much stronger than she is, poor thing
Do you feel yourself warmer now, neighbour
If not, you are past my understanding
Do you think a drop of cherry-brandy would warm you, neighbour
I wonder I never thought of that before; only,
it is a sort of thing one does not recollect till winter comes.  Shall I
get you a sup of cherry-brandy
Oh!  My best stockings
You have saved your cherry-brandy, my woman, that is certain
I shall never have any pleasure in it
I shall
never enjoy it on account of its reminding me how yon woman has fooled
me
Then we will save you that pain
If you will oblige us
with it to-day we won't leave any to pain you in the winter
For shame
when you know she has lost her stockings and
her cloak already!  And all out of kindness!  I would not drink a drop
of her cherry-brandy, I am sure
Then you shall, Oliver, for saying so, and taking my part
I am not going to give it to anyone else that has not the
ague; some people may be assured of that
If I thought there was any cherry-brandy for me when I came back
I would get below there, and try what I could find.  I might
lay hold of a linsey-woolsey cloak somewhere in the bog
You can never catch the Redfurns, I doubt
What was it
they said to you, Oliver, as they were going off
They laughed at me for not being able to catch eels, and asked how I
thought I should catch _them_.  They said when I could decoy wild-fowl,
I might set a trap for the Redfurns.  But it does not follow that that
is all true because they said it.  I don't see but they might be caught
if there was anyone to do us justice afterwards.  That's the worst part
of it, father says
There's father
We must want a wise head or two among us
If
we were as sharp as these times require, we surely could not be at the
mercy of folk we should scorn to be like.  We must give more heed and
see what is to be done
Rather late for that, neighbour, when here is the stock you were
grinding and grinding for a week, all gone to plaster
That is what I say
but
it may be better late than not at all
We deserve it all
for leaving our place and our
children to the care of Gool's men, or of anybody but ourselves.  I will
go no more to the spring.  I have been out of my duty; and we may be
thankful that we have been no further punished
Look at Geordie
Do look at him!  Don't you think you
hear him now
I hope you will not mind being hungry, Mildred
We are not likely to have any dinner to-day,
I think
I don't mind that, very much
but how do you think we
are to get away, with this great river between us and home
We shall see what father does
He is further off still,
on the other side
But what is all this water?  When will it go away
I am afraid the embankments have burst.  And yet the weather has been
fine enough lately.  Perhaps the sluices are broken up
You know, all these Levels were watery grounds once; more wet than the
carr yonder.  Well,-- great clay banks were made to keep out the Humber
waters, over there, to the north-east, and on the west and north-west
yonder, to keep two or three rivers there from overflowing the land.
Then several canals and ditches were cut, to drain the land; and there
are great gates put up, here and there, to let the waters in and out, as
they are wanted.  I am afraid those gates are gone, or the clay banks
broken down, so that the sea and the rivers are pouring in all the water
they have
But when will it be over?  Will it ever run off again?  Shall we ever
get home again
I do not know anything about it.  We must wait, and watch what father
will do.  See!  What is this coming
A dead horse
Drowned, I suppose.  Don't you
think so, Oliver
Drowned, of course.-- Do you know, Mildred
do you know, Mildred
I think
father will be completely ruined by this flood
Do you
How?  Why
Why, it was bad enough that so much gypsum was spoiled yesterday.  I am
afraid now the whole quarry will be spoiled.  And then I doubt whether
the harvest will not be ruined all through the Levels: and I am pretty
sure nothing will be growing in the garden when the waters are gone.
That was not our horse that went by; but our horse may be drowned, and
the cow, and the sow, and everything
Not the fowls
Look at them, all in a row on the top
of the cow-shed.  They will not be drowned, at any rate
But then they may be starved.  O dear
I wonder whether Ailwin has thought of moving the meal
and the grain up-stairs.  It will be all rotted and spoiled if the water
runs through it
So she is
but it does not signify now.  Look how
the water is pouring out of the parlour-window.  The meal and grain must
have been wet through long ago.  Is not that a pretty waterfall?  A
waterfall from our parlour-window, down upon the tulip-bed!  How very
odd
If one could think how to feed these poor animals
and
the fowls!  If there was anything here that one could get for them!  One
might cut a little grass for the cow;-- but there is nothing else
Only the leaves of the trees, and a few blackberries, when they are
ripe
and flowers,-- wild-flowers, and
a few that mother planted
The bees
Let us save them.  They can feed themselves.
We will save the bees
Why, you don't think they are drowned
You cannot do it, Oliver
You can never get round, Oliver.  You
will slip in, Oliver
These poor bees
How it rocks
I wish it would turn quite over, so
that the poor things might get out, and fly away
They never will
I wish I had thought of the bees a
little sooner.  It is very odd that you did not, Mildred
I don't know how to think of anything
it is
all so odd and so frightful
Well, don't cry, if you can help it, dear
We
shall see what father will do.  He won't cry;-- I am sure of that
He was not far off crying yesterday, though
when he saw
your poor hen lying dead.  He looked -- but, O Mildred!  What can have
become of the Redfurns?  We have, been thinking all this while about the
bees; and we never once remembered the Redfurns.  Why, their tent was
scarcely bigger than our hives; and I am sure it could not stand a
minute against the flood
Hark!  What was that?  Did you hear
I thought I heard a child crying a great way off
It was not a child, dear.  It was a shriek,-- a woman's shriek, I am
afraid.  I am afraid it is Nan Redfurn, somewhere in the carr.  O dear,
if they should all be drowned, and nobody there to help them
No, no,-- I don't believe it
They have got up
somewhere,-- climbed up something,-- that bank or something
It has got something fastened to it
something tied
round its neck
It is somebody swimming
They will get safe here
now.  Cannot we help them?  I wish I had a rope!  A long switch may do.
I will get a long switch
Yes, cut a long switch
It is Roger, I do believe; but I see nothing of the others
Look at his head, as it bobs up and down.  Is it not Roger
O dear!  I hope not
What shall
we do if he comes
We must see that afterwards: we must save him first.  Now for it
Try again
Don't let go, Mildred
Oh, I am so glad you are safe, Roger
You might have found something better than that thorny switch to throw
me
My hands are all blood with the spikes
Look at hers
No, no.  Never mind that now
I do not like to leave him, all wet, and so tired that I could knock
him over with my little finger
But he won't trust
me about any thing
There is father again!  Tell him
I know what father is watching us for.  He is afraid that Stephen is
here too, and no one to take care of us;-- not even Ailwin
Perhaps Stephen is here,-- in the wood
I
wish this water would make haste and run away, and let us get home
It cannot run faster than it does.  Look how the waves dash along!
That is the worst of it:-- it shows what a quantity there is, where this
came from.  But I don't believe Stephen is here.  I have a good mind to
ask Roger, and make him tell me
No, don't, Oliver!  Stephen may be drowned.  Do not put him in mind
Why, you see he does not care for anything.  He is teasing some live
thing at this minute,-- there, on the ground
All soaked out of their holes;-- don't know what to do with themselves;--
fine sport for those that have a mind to it
You have no mind for sport to-day, I suppose, Roger.  I should not
think anybody has
I don't know;-- I'm rarely hungry
So were we; but we forgot it again.  Father is in the mill there
You need not tell me that.  Don't I see him
But we think he is looking out for Stephen
He won't find him
He is not here on the hill, then, Roger
On the hill,-- no!  I don't know where he is, nor the woman either.  I
suppose they are drowned, as I was, nearly.  If they did not swim as I
did, they must be drowned: and they could hardly do that, as I had the
dog
There might have been a boat, perhaps, out on the carr.  Don't you
think the country-people in the hills would get out boats when they saw
the flood spreading
Boats, no!  The hill-people have not above three boats among them all.
There are about three near the ponds; and they are like nut-shells.  How
should any boat live in such a flood as that?  Why, that flood would
sweep a ship out to sea in a minute.  You need not think about boats, I
can tell you
But won't anybody send a boat for us
If they don't send a boat, and the flood goes on, what
are we to do?  We can't live here, with nothing to eat, and no beds, and
no shelter, if it should rain
Are you now beginning to cry about that?  Are you now beginning to find
that out, after all this time
I thought we should get away
I thought a
boat or something would come
A pretty silly thing you must be
If she is silly, I am silly too
I am not sure that
it is silly to look for a boat.  There are plenty out on the coast
there
They are all dashed to pieces long ago
And they that
let in the flood will take good care you don't get out of it,-- you, and
your outlanders.  It is all along of you that I am in this scrape.  But
it was shameful of them not to give us notice;-- it was too bad to catch
us in the same trap with you.  If uncle is drowned, and I ever get out
alive, I will be revenged on them
I don't know a word of what you mean
I dare say not.  You foreigners never know anything like other people
But won't you tell us?  Who made this flood
To be sure, you weren't meant to know this.  It would not have done to
show you the way out of the trap.  Why -- the Parliament Committee at
Lincoln ordered the Snow-sewer sluice to be pulled up to-day, to drown
the king's lands, and get rid of his tenants.  It will be as good as a
battle gained to them
We shall see what father does
Father will be wet, and so cold all night
If I could only swim
I would get over to him
somehow, and carry a rope from the house.  I am sure there must be a
rope long enough somewhere about the yard.  If I could only swim, I
would get to him
That you wouldn't
Your father can swim; and why does
not he?  Because nobody could swim across that stream.  It is a torrent.
It would carry any stout man out over the carr; and you would be no
better than a twig in the middle of it
I am afraid now this torrent will not slacken
I am afraid there is some hollow near which will keep up
the current
What do you mean by that
They say in Holland, where they have floods sometimes, that when water
flows into a hollow, it gets out in a current, and keeps it up for some
way.  Oh!  The quarry
Mildred,
let us go, and look what is doing on that side before it is dark
Be quiet -- you must
We must
bestir ourselves now, instead of stopping to see what other folks will
do
Oh, father!  Father will be drowned
You don't know that.  If he drifts out to the Humber, which is likely,
by the way he is going, some ship may pick him up -- or he may light upon
some high ground.  We can't settle that now, however; and the clear
thing is that he wouldn't wish us to starve, whether he drowns or not.
Come, get up, lad
Don't lie there, Oliver; do get up
You say there is a long rope somewhere about the house
Where is it
There is one in the cow-shed, I know
And if I cannot get there, is there one in the house
In the lumber-room
The spare bed is tied round and
round with a long rope -- I don't know how long
I wish we had set about it an hour ago
instead of
waiting for dark.  A pretty set of fools we have been to lose the
daylight!  I say, lad, can you think of anyway of making a fire?  Here
are sticks enough, if one could set them alight
To cook a supper
No; I mean to sup within doors; only we must do some work first
Well, don't plague any more about a fire
but listen to
me.  Can you climb a tree?  I'll be bound you can't: and now you'll die
if you can't
I can
but what is Mildred to do
We'll see that afterwards.  Which of these trees stands nearest to the
nearest of yon upper windows
That is not strong enough
Show me a stouter one
Mind you that
If you don't, you will be drowned, that's
all.  Do as I tell you, and you'll see what you will see
What do you think he means
I don't know exactly.  He cannot mean that we are to climb over by a
rope.  I do not think I could do that; and I am sure you could not
Oh, no, no!  Let us stay here!  Stay with me under the trees, here,
Oliver
Why, it would be much more comfortable to be at home by the fire.  You
are shivering now, already, as if it was winter: and the night will be
very long, with nothing to eat
But Roger is gone; and I don't like to be where he is,-- he is such a
rude boy!  How he snatched your ribbon, and pulled you about!  And he
calls you &bquo;lad,' when he might just as well say &bquo;Oliver
We must not mind such things now, dear.  And we must get home, if he
can show us how.  Think how glad Ailwin and George will be: and I am
sure father would wish it, and mother too.  You must not cry now,
Mildred; indeed you must not.  People must do what they can at such a
time as this.  Come, help me to shout.  Shriek as loud and as long as
ever you can
I wish I might say my prayers
Do, dear.  Kneel down here;-- nobody sees us.  Let us ask God to save
father,-- and us too, and George and Ailwin, if it pleases Him;-- and
Roger
Now again
What have we here
There now
we shall soon know what we are about.  Do you
know where the tree was cut down, the other day
Close by?  Yes
Well; bring a lapful of chips,-- quick; and then any dry sticks you can
find.  We can get on twice as fast with a light; and then they will see
from the house how we manage
Roger is a clever fellow,-- that is certain
Now for
fastening the rope.  Do you take care that the fire keeps up.  Don't
spare for chips.  Keep a good fire till I have done
Look!  Look
it is moving;-- the rope is not so slack!
They are tightening it.  How much tighter it is than I could pull it!
That must be Ailwin's strong arm,-- together with Roger's
But still I never can creep across that way
I
wish you would not try.  Oliver.  Do stay with me
I will not leave you, dear: but we do not know what they mean us to do
yet.  There!  Now the rope is shaking!  We shall see something.  Do you
see anything coming?  Don't look at the flashing water.  Fix your eye on
the rope, with the light upon it.  What do you see
I see something like a basket,-- like one of our clothes' baskets,--
coming along the line
How shall I get in
Here
Climb upon my back.
Now hold by the tree, and stand upon my shoulders.  Don't be afraid.
You are light enough.  Now, can't you step in
'tis one of them, that's certain.  Well!
If I didn't think it was some vile conjuring trick, up to this very
moment
Ailwin, get
something for Oliver to eat.  He will be here presently
That I will: and for you first.  You shall both have a drop of my
cherry-brandy too
You can't catch game without my dog
and my dog shan't put his nose to the ground, if you don't feed him
well: and he shall be where I am,-- mind you that
I am sure, Roger, Mildred and I shall never forget,-- nor father and
mother either, if ever they know, it,-- what you have done for us
to-night.  We might have died on the Red-hill but for you
Stuff
Stuff!  As if I cared
whether you and she sink or swim!  I like sport that's all
Don't, Ailwin,-- don't
Mildred and I should not have
been here now but for him
And I should not have been terrified out of my wits, for these two
hours past, nor have lost my cherry-brandy, but for him.  Mercy!  I
shall never forget his popping up his face at that window, and sending
his dog in before him.  I was as sure as death that the flood was all of
their making, and that they were come for me, after having carried off
my master, and as I thought, you two
Why, Ailwin, what nonsense
How could a boy make a flood
And you see what he has done, instead of carrying us off
Well, it is almost worth my cherry-brandy to see him lie so,-- dead
drunk,-- only it would be better still to see him really dead.-- Well,
that may be a wicked thing to say; but it is not so wicked as some
things he has done;-- and I am so mortally afraid of him
I wish you would say your prayers, Ailwin, instead of saying such
things: and then, perhaps, you would find yourself not afraid of
anybody
Well, that is almost as good as if the pastor had preached it.  I will
just hang up the chicks in the hand-basket, for fear of the dog; and
then we will say our prayers, and go to sleep, please God.  I am sure we
all want it
Be quiet, George.  Lie still, dear
Why, Oliver
you won't let one do anything; and you say,
all the time, that there is not a minute to be lost
Now for it
Oh, Oliver, stop a minute
Don't be in such a hurry to
drown us all, Oliver.  Stop a moment, Oliver
You have George safe
Very well!  I believe we can all
get out.  There is Roger's head above water; and I don't think it is
more than up to my neck; though everybody laughs at me for being a short
boy
That will do
Now, Ailwin, you are the
tallest;-- please carry George out on the roof of the house, and stay
there with him till I come
O, mother!  Mother
Mother!  Mother
No, Oliver, no.  I was only thinking about mother; and so, I suppose,
was George.  I am afraid you are disappointed;-- I am sorry
Unless she should be an angel now
unless she
died yesterday; and then she might be with us now, at this very moment,
though we cannot see her;-- might not she
Yes, I believe so, dear.  And, for one thing, I almost wish she may not
come in a boat.  Who should tell her that father was carried away into
all those waters, without having spoken one word to us
If they are both dead, do you not think they are together now
Certainly.  Pastor Dendel says that all who love one another well
enough will live together, where they will never die any more
And I am sure they did
If they see us now
it must make a great difference to
them whether we are frightened and miserable, or whether we behave as we
ought to do.  Let us try not to be frightened, for their sakes, dear
And if they are not with us all the while, God is
O, yes; but God knows ...  God will not expect
Surely He will feel in some way as they do about us
Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that
fear him
For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust
There comes the sun
I say, Oliver, the cow is alive.  I heard her low, I'm certain
I am afraid it was only George
He was lowing like the
cow, a minute ago
That might be because he heard the real cow
I had rather save the cow than anything.  I will see if I cannot
get into one of the upper rooms that looks towards the yard.  We might
have a bridge-rope from more windows than one.  Where is Roger?  What is
he fit for?  Is he awake
Awake!  Yes, indeed
There is more mischief about that boy than you think for.
He is now on the stairs, with more mice, and rats, and spiders, and
creeping things about him than I ever saw before in all my days.  We are
like to be devoured as we stand on our feet; to say nothing of what is
to become of us if we lie down
We must get rid of them, if they really do us hurt
We must drown them, if they
are mischievous.  We can do that, you know -- at least with the larger
things.  They cannot get away from us
Drown away
Drown away!  The more you
drown the more will come up.  Why, did you never hear of the plagues of
Egypt
Yes, to be sure.  What then
I take this to be a plague of Egypt that that boy has brought upon us.
It is his doing; and you will see that, if you will just look down from
where I stand, and watch him making friends with them all
There is not one word of sense in it all, Mildred.  There is a
wonderful number of live things there, to be sure; and here, too, all
over the roof -- if you look.  But Roger is not making friends with them.
He is teasing them -- hurting all he can get hold of.  I think the
creatures have come up here because the water has driven them out of
their holes; and that there would have been quite as many if Roger had
been drowned in the carr.  They have nothing to do with Roger, or the
plagues of Egypt, Mildred.  Don't believe a word of it
Then I wish Ailwin would not say such things
About this cow
We must plan some way to feed
her
Take care
Have you heard the cow low, Roger
Yes, to be sure.  She may well low; for she must be hungry enough
And wet and cold enough, too, poor thing!  I am going to see whether, I
can find out exactly where she is, and whether we cannot do something
for her
I see her
I see poor cow's head, and
the ridge of her back above water
I'll go, too
Either you will go, or I
One must stay to manage the
rope, in case of the tub upsetting.  You had better let me go, Roger,
because poor cow knows me
Capital!  Now that is clever
He is going to lift her up out
of the water.  How she struggles to help herself!  She knows there is
somebody caring for her; and she will do what she can for herself
Don't you touch that
If you lay a finger on that, it will be the worse for
you.  They are mine -- both puss and the boiler
Here, Ailwin
take the
flint and the tinder, and the wood in the basket, and make a fire.  I
have brought you nothing to eat
No need
You must broil the green corn, unless we can manage to get a fowl from
across the yard.  But I really cannot go any more errands till I am
rested
No need, Oliver dear
What do you think we have found to eat
What is the matter with him, Ailwin?  Why does not he speak
He is so tired, he does not know what to do
No, don't
get down into the water again, dear.  I'll carry you.  Put your arm
round my neck, and I'll carry you
Only one thing
Take particular care of the gravel in
the tub
Gravel
The fowls eat gravel; but I don't see that
we can.  However, you shall have your way, Oliver
How very sound asleep he is!  I can't make him stir.  Here, Oliver,--
just eat this, and then you can go to sleep again directly
Is that for me
Yes, indeed, for who but you
Who deserves it, if you do not, I should like to
know?  It is not so good as I could have wished, though, Oliver.  I
could not broil it, for want of butter and everything; and we have no
salt, you know.  But, come!  Eat it, such as it is.  Come, begin
But have you all got some too
Oh, yes,-- George and all
We ate ours first, because
you were so sound asleep, we did not like to wake you
How long have I been asleep
How could you get this nice fish?  How busy you must have been
all this time that I have been asleep
All this time
Why, you have been asleep only
half an hour; hardly so much.  We have only just lighted the fire, and
cooked the fish, and fed Geordie, and put him to sleep, and got our own
breakfast;-- and we were not long about that,-- we were so very hungry!
That is all we have done since you went to sleep
It seems a great deal for half an hour
How good this
fish is!  Where did you get it
I found it on the stairs.  Ah!  I thought you would not believe it; but
we shall find more, I dare say, as the water sinks; and then you will
believe what you see
On the stairs!  How did it get there
The same way that the water got there, I suppose, and the poor little
drowned pig that lay close by the same place.  There was a whole heap of
fish washed up at the turn of the stairs; enough for us all to-day.
Ailwin said we must eat them first, because the pig will keep.  Such a
nice little clean sucking-pig
That puts me in mind of the poor sow
I forgot her when
we were busy about the cow.  I am afraid she is drowned or starved
before this; but we must see about it
Not now
Do you go to sleep again now.  There is not
such a hurry as there was, the waters are going down so fast
Are they, indeed?-- Oh, I do not want to sleep any more.  I am quite
wide awake now.  Are you sure the flood is going down
Only look!  Look at that steep red bank on the Red-hill, where it was
all a green slope yesterday, and covered with water this morning.  Look
at the little speck of a hillock, where neighbour Gool's house was.  We
could not see that this morning, I am sure.  And if you will come down,
you will find that there is scarcely any water in the upper rooms now.
Geordie might play at paddling there, as he is so fond of doing in his
tub.  Ailwin thinks we might sleep there to-night, if we could only get
everything dried
We might get many things dried before night, in such a sun as this.
How very hot it is
Bishop
Spy
Whirr away
You can't go far.  You will have to
light again upon my island.  You all belong to me -- you swarming
creatures!  You may run about awhile, and flutter away a bit; but you
will all belong to me at last, with Spy to help me.  I'll have some
sport, now.  Here, Spy!  Spy
Somebody has been here
What business
has anybody in my island?  Coming when my back is turned!  If I had only
heard them coming to meddle
However
I got over to the house before anyone else
crossed the water, and I can do the same again whenever I please.  I
have only to swim over with Spy, and bring away anything I like, while
they are busy on the other side, about their good-for-nothing cow, or
something.  That will be tit-for-tat
Pull away!  That's right!  Glad to see you
Halloo,
Spy!  Down, sir!  Pleased to see you, Oliver
Would you like some milk
Ay, that I should
Leave yonder water to your dog, then, and drink this
You must let me have the can, though.
Almost all our kitchen things floated out through the wall, at that
breach that you see, during the night.  You must give me the can again,
if you would like that I should bring you some more milk this afternoon.
The poor cow is doing but badly, and we cannot feed her as we should
like: but she has given milk enough for George this morning, with a
little to spare for us and you.  You seem to like it
That I do.  It is good stuff, I know
Then I will bring you some more in the afternoon, if there is any to
spare from poor George's supper
That's a pity.  You've enough to do, I think.  Suppose I come over.
Eh
There is something to be said about that
We do not want to keep what we have to ourselves.  We have got a chest
of meal, this morning
A chest of meal
Yes: a large chest, and not wet at all, except an inch deep all round
the outside.  We caught it just now as it was floating by; and we should
like you to have some of it, as you have no bread here: but you know,
Roger, you kicked our poor cow when she was too weak to stand; and you
carried away our tinder-box when you knew we had no fire.  We don't want
to have you with us to do such things: and so I think I had better bring
you some of the meal over here.  And yet it is a pity; for the broth
that Ailwin is making will be very good
I'll come over
I am stronger than you, and I can help
you to feed the cow, and everything
I can do all that, with Ailwin to help: and I am sure Mildred had much
rather you should stay here, unless you behave differently.  And poor
little George, too!  He is not well, and we do not like that he should
be frightened
I sha'n't frighten him or anybody, you'll see.  You had better let me
come; and Spy and I will bring you a lot of game
We don't want any game, at present.  We have plenty to eat
You had better let me come and help you.  I won't hurt George, or
anything.  Come, I promise you you shan't repent doing me a good turn
Then you shall come, Roger.  But do remember that Mildred is only a
little girl; and consider poor Geordie too; he is quite ill.  You wont
tease him?  Well, here's the line.  Come as soon as you please, after I
am landed
Here he is
Here
he is
Yes, here I am!  And here's what I have brought
That boy has some good in him after all
unless this
be a trick.  It is some trick, I'll be bound
You are tight and dry enough here
By the look of the house from the hill, I thought you had been
all in ruins
Where are they
To be sure you did not let
them float off, along with the kitchen things that got away through the
wall
We must not dream of getting away on our raft, dear.  It would upset in
the currents twenty times, between this place and the hills
Well, what of that
Who wants to get to the hills?  We
have got all we want for a good while here.  We can take our pleasure,
and live as free as wild-ducks in a pond that nobody comes near
What's the matter now, dear
Is the baby worse?  No,-- he
don't seem worse to me
I don't know, I'm sure.  But, Ailwin, I am so tired, I don't know what
to do; and I cannot bear to hear him cry so.  He has been crying in this
way all to-day; and it is the longest day I ever knew
Well, I'm sure I wish we could think of anything that would quiet him.
If we had only his go-cart, now, or his wooden lamb, with the white wool
upon it, that he is so fond of ...  But they are under water below
But if you could only take him for a little while, Ailwin, I should be
so glad!  I would wash up all your dishes for you
Take him!  Oh, that's what you are at!  To be sure I will; and I might
have thought of that before,-- only I had my pans and things to put away.
I'll wash my hands now directly, and take him:-- only, there is not much
use in washing one's hands: this foul damp smell seems to stick to
everything one touches.  It is that boy's doing, depend upon it.  He is
at the bottom of all mischief.-- Ay, Mildred, you need not object to what
I say.  After what I saw of him yesterday morning, with all that plague
of animals about him on the stairs, you will never persuade me that he
has not some league with bad creatures, a good way off.  I don't half
like Oliver's being with him on the raft, in the stream there.  That
raft was wonderfully ready made for two slips of boys
They had the planks ready to their hands
and leather harness and ropes to tie it with.  I think they might to do
it as they said.  What harm do you suppose will happen, Ailwin?  I am
sure Oliver would do nothing wrong, about making the raft, or anything
else.-- O dear!  I wish George would not cry so
Here, give him to me
There, go you and finish the dishes, and
then to play,-- there's a dear!  And don't think about George, or about
Roger, and the raft, or anything that will vex you,-- there's a dear
How hungry they are
and how they tease one
another
Well done, Oliver!  Well rid of him!  Pull away from him, Oliver!  He
is full able to take care of himself, depend upon it.  He was never made
to be drowned.  Come and help Mildred, there's a dear!  Never mind
Roger
Oh!  Oliver, where is he?  What have you done
I don't know what I have done.  I could not help it.  He wanted me not
to come to you when you screamed.  He wanted to catch the chest instead.
I tripped him up -- off into the water.  He can swim.  But there is the
tub -- give me hold of the rope -- quick!  I will send it out into the
stream.  He may meet it
I wish I had never screamed
I am sure I wish so too.  You _must_ leave off screaming so, Mildred.
I am sure I thought you were in the water, in the middle of all that
splash, or I should not have been in such a hurry.  If Roger should be
drowned, it will be all your doing, for screaming so
Oh, look at him!  He will kill you
I never will
scream again
Never mind, as long as he is safe
I don't care for his
shaking his fists.  It was my business to save you, before caring about
him, or all the chests in the Levels.  Never mind now, dear.  You wont
scream again without occasion, I know.  What made you do so?  You can't
think what a shriek it was.  It went through my head
Part of the wall fell; and the whole of it shakes so, I am sure it will
all be down presently.  I wish we were at home.  But what shall we ever
do about Roger?  He will kill you, if you go near him: and he can't stay
there
Leave Roger to me
May we use it?  We did not make it, or buy it
I thought of that too
We will see about that.
It is our business to save it, at any rate; so help me with it.  How
heavy it is with the water
Roger must be fetched, however
and the sooner the
better
Oh not yet
He is so angry
That is the very thing
I want to show him that I
tripped him over, not in anger, but because I could not help it.  He
will never believe but that it was malice, from beginning to end, if I
do not go for him directly
But he will thrash you.  You know he can.  He is ever so much stronger
than you; and he is in such a passion, I do not know what he may not
do
What can I do
I can't leave him there, standing
dripping wet, with the cow and the pony
Would it be of any use if I were to go with you, and say it was all my
fault
No, no; you must not go
I would go, if there was no water between, and if Mildred would take
care of the baby
Oh do,-- do go!  You are so strong
Why, you see, I can't abide going on the water, any way, and never
could: and most of all without so much as a boat
But I will row you as carefully
as safely as in any
boat.  You see how often we have crossed, and how easy it is.  You
cannot think what care I will take of you, if you will go
Then there's the coming back
If I am on board the
same raft with Roger, we shall all go to the bottom, that's certain
How often have I been to the bottom?  And yet I have been on the raft
with Roger, ever since it was made
Well, and think how near Mildred was going to the bottom, only just
now.  I declare I thought we had seen the last of her
Roger had nothing to do with that, you know very well.  But I will tell
you how we can manage.  You can carry your pail over, and,--(never mind
its being so early)-- you can be milking the cow while I bring Roger over
here; and I can come back for you.  That will do,-- wont it?  Come,--
fetch your pail.  Depend upon it that is the best plan
I shall try to set Roger down somewhere, so that he cannot plague you
and George; but you had better bolt yourself into the room up-stairs
when you see us coming; and on no account open the door again till I bid
you
I am as sorry for that as you can be
I wish I were as old and as tall
as you: but I am not.  And this is no fighting for play, when it would
not signify if I was beaten every day for a week.  Here are Mildred and
the baby; I have to take care of them till we know what has become of my
father and mother: and if you try to prevent me, I will get Ailwin, or
anybody or thing I can, to help me, sooner than they shall be hurt.  If
father and mother ever come back to take care of Mildred, I will fight
you every day till I beat you, and let nobody interfere: but till then,
I will go to Mildred as often as she calls, if you drown for it, as I
showed you this morning
That will never do
Ailwin, do you think we could get
him over to the Red-hill?  He would have plenty to eat there, and might
do as he pleased, and be out of our way and the cow's.  I could carry
him his dog
Come, now, Roger
you picked this quarrel; and you may get
out of it in a moment.  We don't want to quarrel at such a time as this.
Never mind what has happened.  Only say you wont meddle between me and
the others while the flood lasts; and you shall help me to row home, and
I will thank you.  After all, we can fight it out some other day, if you
like
The poor thing ain't long for this world
Depend upon
it that boy has bewitched her.  I don't believe she trembles in that way
when he is on the other side of the water
You will see that in the morning
Shall we take him on
the raft now?  I don't like to carry him tied so, for fear he should
throw himself about, and roll over into the water.  He would certainly
be drowned
Leave that to him, Oliver: and take my word for it, that boy was never
made to be drowned
You thought the same about Stephen, you know; and he is drowned, I am
afraid
Neither you nor I know that.  I will believe it when I see it
Ailwin, for shame
I will fight you next, if you do
so.  You know you durst not, if his hands were free
To be sure, Oliver, that is the very reason.  One must take one's
revenge while one can.  However, I wont notice him any more till you
do
Cannot you set down your pail, and help me to row
There is a chest
Roger, I do believe it is the very
chest that ... that we began our quarrel about.  Come, now, is not this
a sign that we ought to make it up
There
we have done their business.  There they are, in their
desert island, as they were before.  Now we need not think any more
about them, but attend to our own affairs
Your face, Oliver!  Pray do
Never mind my face, dear, if it does not frighten poor Geordie.  How is
poor Geordie
I do not think he is any better.  I never saw him so fretful, and so
hot and ill.  And he cries so dreadfully
What is that
It is a crack
in the wall or somewhere.  I heard just
such a one while Mildred was gone out to play, after dinner
And there was another while you were away
Some
plaster fell that time:-- look here!  In this corner.-- What is the
matter, Oliver?  What makes you look so frightened?  What does it mean
It means, I am afraid, that more of the house is coming down.  Look at
this great zigzag crack in the wall!-- and how loose the plaster hangs in
that part of the ceiling!  I really think,-- I am quite sure, we ought
not to stay here any longer
But where can we go?  What shall we do
We must think about that, and lose no time.  I think this room will
fall very soon
No, dear, never
and thousands of people, far older
than you, never saw anything like this flood.  But you know, Mildred, we
must not die, if we can help it
If ever we meet father and mother again, we shall not mind our having
been ever so much tired now.  We shall like telling them all our plans
and doings, if it should please God that we should ever sit with them by
the fire-side
Or whenever we meet them in heaven, if they should not be alive now
Yes, dear; but we will talk over all that when we get to the
Red-hill:-- we must not talk any more now, but set to work.  However, I
really think, Mildred, that father and mother are still alive somewhere.
I feel as if they were
But the Red-hill
what do you mean about the Red-hill?
We are not going there, where Roger is,-- are we
We must, dear.  There is no other place.  Roger is very unkind: but
floods and falling houses are unkinder still.  Come, Ailwin, help me
with the raft.  We must carry away what we can before dark.  There will
be no house standing to-morrow morning, I am afraid
Sleep on the ground
Without a roof to cover us!
My poor grandfather little thought I should ever come to that
If you will move the beds, you need not sleep on the bare ground
Now, Ailwin, don't you begin to cry.  Pray don't.  You are a
grown-up woman, and Mildred and I are only children.  You ought to take
care of us, instead of beginning to cry
That is pretty true
but I little thought ever to sleep
without a roof over my head
Come, come, there are the trees
They are something of
a roof, while the leaves are on
And there is all that cloth
that immensely long piece
of cloth.  Would not that make a tent, somehow
Capital
How well we shall be off with a cloth tent!
It seems as if that cloth was sent on purpose.  It is so spoiled
already, that we can hardly do it any harm.  And I am sure the person
that wove it would be very glad that it should cover our heads to-night.
I shall carry it and you across before anything else -- this very minute.
I will run down and bring the raft round to the door below.  The water
is low enough now for you to get out that way.-- Oh dear!  I wish I was
not so tired!  I can hardly move.  But I must forget all that; for it
will not do to stay here
Pretty much; but not so bad as he
Then do not you think you and I could fetch off a good many things,
while he watches Geordie on the grass?  If you thought you could row the
raft, I am sure I could carry a great many things down-stairs, and land
them on the hill
It is as wet as water now
but we must not quarrel with
anything to-day on that account; and matting will dry on the hill better
than at home.  If it turns out rotten, we must try and spare a piece of
the cloth from overhead, to lay underfoot: but George will feel it more
like home, if he has a bit of matting to trip his little foot against
Will not that do for to-night
You know we have to put up the tent, and get something
to eat before we can go to sleep; and it has been such a long, long
day
As you please
but you said the house would be down in
the night; and there are many things yet that we should be sorry to have
to do without
Never mind them:-- let them go, I am sure we all want to be asleep more
than anything else
Sleep, indeed!  Do you suppose I shall sleep with that boy hid among
the trees?  Not I, you may rely upon it.  Those may that can: and I will
watch
Roger!  Where are you, Roger?  I want to speak to
you
Bishop
Why don't you call him Spy
What business have you to call him by his wrong name?-- how
is he ever to learn his name if people come calling him by the wrong
one?  Get away -- will you?  I know what I'll do if you come here,
spoiling my dog
I will go back directly when I have said one thing.  It was all my
fault that you and Oliver quarrelled this morning.  I was frightened,
and screamed when I ought not; and it is my fault that you are not now
by our fire, getting your supper with us, in our tent. I am sure, I wish
you were there
Very fine
He knows I thrashed him; and he does not want
any more of it.  But I'll thrash him as long as I live; I tell you
that
Oliver does not know about my coming -- he is asleep in the tent
Nobody knows of my coming.  I don't believe Oliver
would have let me come, if he had known it.  Only go and look yourself;
and you will see how he lies asleep on the grass.  We know you can beat
him in fighting, because you are so much bigger; and that is why I
cannot bear that he should fight.  It was all about me this time; and I
know he will never give up; and I don't know how long it will be before
he is big enough to thrash you
Long enough, I can tell you: so get away, and let me go to sleep; or
I'll thrash you too
How can you talk so, Roger, and keep your anger so, when we are all so
unhappy?  I did not wonder much before, when Ailwin had to help
Oliver...  That was enough to make you or anybody be angry.  But now,
when I come to tell you how sorry I am, and that I know, if I ask
Oliver, that he will be glad to forget everything, and that you should
come to supper with us, instead of lying here in the dark, with nothing
to eat, I do think you ought to forgive and forget; to forgive me, and
forget all about thrashing Oliver
Good-bye, Roger
I am sorry that you choose to lie
here, hungry and cold, instead of
What business have you in my island
How dared you settle upon my ground, to mock me with your fire and your
supper?  I'll have my fire and my supper too
I hope you will, if you will not come to ours.  We were obliged to
settle here -- the house is all cracking, and falling to pieces.  We were
very sorry to come,-- we were all so tired;-- but we dared not stay in the
house
Poor Geordie is so ill, we were most sorry to have to move him.  The
time will come, Roger, though you don't think so now, when you will be
vexed that while we cannot tell whether father and mother are alive or
dead, and whether George will live or die, you put the pain of quarrels
upon us too
Well, get you gone now
They don't know that I came to find you
Oliver will think
it so kind of you to come and be friends!  He will be so pleased!  And
there is plenty of supper for everybody
He likes it!  He likes such a whistle as that
Do go on
Thank you
Thank you, Roger
You will do it again to-morrow, will not you, if he should be fretful
Look how that wall stands out
The faster the house
falls, the more haste we must make to save what we can
Oh!  Cannot you stay quietly to-day
I think we have
got all we really want; and this bustle and hurry and hard work every
day are so tiresome!  Cannot we keep still and rest to-day
To-morrow, dear
To-morrow is Sunday!  And we
will try to rest.  But there is no knowing how long we may have to live
in this place, in the middle of the waters; and it is my duty to save
everything I can that can make George and you and the rest of us
comfortable when the colder weather comes on
I wonder what all the world is about, that nobody comes to see after
us
Out of sight, out of mind, Mildred
That is the way,
all the world over
I am sure it is not
Mildred and I say as little as we
can about father and mother, but don't you imagine such a thing as that
they are out of our minds.  I know Mildred never shuts her eyes, but she
sees the mill floating away, as it did that evening, and father
standing
When the flood came,
I suppose, there were no boats to be had.  It would take the first day
to bring them from a distance, and get them afloat.  Then the people
would look round (as they ought to do) to see where they could do most
good.  Nobody who looked through a glass this way, since the day before
yesterday, and saw those rafters sticking up in the air,-- the house in
ruins as it is,-- would suppose that any one could be left alive here.
From a distance, they can hardly fancy that even any little mouse could
help being either drowned or starved.  This will be about the last spot
in the Levels that any boat will come to.-- You see, Mildred, our
Red-hill, though it is everything to us, is but a speck compared with
the grounds that have stood above water since the waters began to sink.
We had better not think of anything but living on as we can, unless it
should please God that we should die
How should you
you who never had a dog, or caught any
sort of a bird in your life, I dare say
No, I never could.  One day, long ago, when mother was very busy, and I
was tired of playing, she gave me some salt into my hand, and told me I
might put it upon the birds' tails in the garden, and so catch them: but
I did not get one.  At last, half the salt was spilt, and the other half
was melted in my hand; and then dinner was ready.  I suppose that was a
joke of mother's
She wanted you out of the way; and what a fool you must have been not
to find that out!  Why, the birds could not have been sillier, if they
had let you put the salt upon their tails
It was a long while ago
Here, take him
Show him how to catch birds if
you like.  I can't spend my time any longer here
How he cries after you
Can't you tell him I will come again by-and-by?  I must be off now
Here, dear, put this in some safe place,-- where no one will know of it
but you and me
A watch!-- mother's watch
I found it, with several things in her cupboard, thrown down by the
wall breaking
It does not seem to be hurt
And how often you
have wished for a watch
I think I shall never wish for anything again
So you have heard, Mildred,-- you have heard, I see by your being so
white.  Oliver says she has been dead ever so many hours.  I say, if we
had gone the first thing, instead of staring and poking about yon
tumble-down house, we might have saved her.  I shall never milk her
again,-- not a drop!-- nor any other either, so far as I see; for there is
no saying that we shall ever get away.  Here I have not a drop of milk
to give you, my dear, though you are as white as the wall
Never mind
if it is only the cow.  I thought it had
been Oliver
Oliver!  Bless your heart!  There he is as busy about the house and
things, as if nothing had happened; and just as provoking as you for
caring nothing about the poor cow.  There she lies, poor soul!  Dead and
cold, half in the water, and half out.  She was worth you two put
together, for some things,-- I can tell you that
Indeed I am very sorry
I do not know exactly what you mean, dear
but I
understand that you must be crying about the cow.  I am very sorry,--
very.  I had rather have lost anything we have left than the cow, now
George is so ill
I have been thinking that it will never do for us who may be near
losing everything we have, and our lives, after all, to grieve over each
separate loss as it happens.  When you said your prayers the first night
of the flood
How long ago that does seem
It does, indeed
When we said our prayers that night, and whenever we have
said them since, we begged that we might be able to bear dying in this
flood,-- to bear whatever it pleased God to do.  Now, our right way is to
make up our minds at once to everything, and just in the way it pleases
God.  Let us try to bear it cheerfully, whether we lose the cow or
anything else first; or whether we all die together.  That is the way,
Mildred!-- And if you and I should not die together, that must be the way
too
I hope we shall though
I think it is very likely; and that before long.  And then how useless
it will have been to be unhappy about anything we can lose here!  People
who may be so near to death need not be anxious about this and that,
like those who seem to have long to live.  So come, dear, and see this
chest; and help us to settle what should be done with it
I wonder who this chest belonged to
I was just thinking so
Never mind that
We may know, some day or other, or we
may not.  Meantime, it is ours.  Come, make haste, and see what there is
to wrap up poor baby in, on cold nights
We will look for something of that sort,-- I am sure we might use such a
thing as that
but
But
I don't think these other things are ours, any
more than they ever were.  Nobody ever gave them to us.  They have
belonged to somebody else;-- to somebody that may be wondering at this
moment where they are
Nonsense, Mildred
Who gave you the harness that
braces the raft, or the meal you have been living on these two days, I
wonder: and how do you know but somebody is hungry, and longing for it,
at this minute
I wish they had it, then
But, Oliver, were we
wrong to use the meal?  I never thought of that
Nor I: but I think we were right enough there.  The meal would all have
been spoiled presently; and meal (and the harness too) is a sort of
thing that we can pay for, or make up for in some way, if ever we can
meet with the people who lost that chest
And George, and all of us, might have starved without it
Yes: we must take what we want to eat, when it comes in our way, and
there is nobody to ask leave of: and, if ever we get out of this place,
we can inquire who lost a meal-chest or set of harness, and offer to pay
for what we took.  But I do think it is different with these things
So do I
Those table-cloths, and that embroidered
cap,-- somebody has taken pains to make them, and might not like to sell
them.  And look!  Look at Roger!  He has pulled out a great heavy bag of
money
Now, Roger, put that bag where you found it
It is none
of yours
How do I know that I shall find it again, the next time I look
Don't be afraid, dear
If Roger chooses to do a dishonest
thing, it is his own affair.  We have warned him; and that is all we
have to do with it.  We must be honest ourselves,-- that is all
Then I think we had better not look any further into the chest
only just to find something warm to wrap Geordie in.  The
clothes look so nice -- we might fancy we wanted things that we can very
well do without
I am not much afraid of that
and it would be a
pity the things should spoil with the damp.  They would be dry in an
hour in this warm sun; and we could pack them away again before night
Roger will never let you do that
Not a rag will he
leave to anybody that you don't stow away while he is out of sight.
Never did I see such perverse children as you, and so thankless for
God's gifts.  I should be ashamed to be no more grateful than you for
what He puts into your very hands
Roger cannot carry off anything
He may bury and hide
what he pleases; but they will all be somewhere about the Red-hill; and
we can tell anybody who comes to fetch us off whatever we know about the
goods
Nobody will ever come and fetch us off
The people at a distance don't care a straw what becomes of us; and
you children here at hand are so perverse and troublesome, I don't know
how to bear my life between you
If nobody comes to save us
I do not see what
good this money and these fine clothes will do to Roger and you
Roger and me!  Pray what do you mean by that
I mean that you and he are for taking these things that do not belong
to us; and Mildred and I are against it.  Only tell me this one thing,
Ailwin.  Do you believe that your cloak and stockings were sent in Nan
Redfurn's way, that she might take them?  And do you think it would have
been perverse in her not to run away with them
Now, Oliver, what nonsense you talk!  As if I wanted a rag of these
things for my own wear!  As if I would touch a penny that was not
honestly got
So I always thought before; and so I shall think now, if you will help
Mildred to dry whatever is damp, and then pack all away safely -- all but
such things as may do poor Geordie good
Never mind, now, Roger
what is likely to become of you and
me.  Wait, and find that out by-and-by.  What I am afraid of is seeing
Mildred look at all as George does now.  Come, let us set to work!
Don't stand looking up in the sky, in that way.  Help me -- do.  Cannot
Spy help?  Call him; will you
We can't get away
Those vile birds -- they can go where they
like -- nasty creatures -- and we cannot stir from where we are
I wish we had our singing birds back again, instead of these
creatures
Our shy, pretty, innocent little birds, that
used to be so pleased to pick up twigs and straws to build their nests
with, and be satisfied with the worms and slugs and flies that they
cleared away from the garden.  I wish we had them, instead of these
ugly, saucy, dirty birds.  But our birds are happier somewhere else, I
dare say; in some dry, pleasant place among those hills, all sweet with
flowers, and cool with clear running water
They can get there, and we can't.  We can't get out of this hot
steaming place: and those hills look further off every day.  I wish my
uncle had been dead before he brought us down off the moors last time.
I wish he had, I know.  If I was on the moor now, after the plovers
Come, come; forget all that now, and set to work
If you won't call Spy to help, I will see whether he will mind me
I am sure it does him a great deal of good
I
will filter quantities of water; and he shall have a bath as often as
ever it is good for him.  Suppose it should make him well
Whistle to him, Roger
Try
if he cannot hear that.  Whistle to him softly
Listen, dear!  Hark, George!  Only hear
O hush!  All of you
Be quiet, Mildred dear!  Our
little brother is dead
Come away with me, dear
Ailwin,
give George to me.  Let me have him in my arms
Bless you, my dears; it is not George any longer.  It is a poor little
dead body.  You must not call it George
Give him to me
Let him lie on my knee now
Presently
How easy and quiet he looks
And how quietly he died
I did not think it had
been such an easy thing to die,-- or half so easy for us to bear to see
The hard part is to come, dear.  We are glad now to see him out of his
pain -- so comfortable as he looks at this moment.  The hard part will be
not to hear his little voice any more -- never ...  But we must not think
of that now.  I hope, Mildred, that you are not sorry that George is
dead.  I am not, when I think that he may be with father and mother
already
Already
Yes -- if they are dead.  Perhaps they have been pitying poor baby all
the time he has been ill, crying and moaning so sadly; and now he may be
with them, quite happy, and full of joy to meet them again
Then they may be seeing us now
Yes; they will not forget us, even the first moment that George's
little spirit is with them.  Do not let them see us sad, Mildred.  Let
them see that we are glad that they should have George, when we could do
nothing for him
But we shall miss him so when ...  Oliver!  He must be buried
Yes.  When that is done, we shall miss him sadly.  We must expect that.
But we must bear it
If we die here
it will be easy to do without, him for
such a little while.  But if we ever get away, if we grow up to be as
old as father and mother, what shall we do, all those years, without
once hearing Geordie laugh, or having him to wake us in the morning?
What long things people's lives are!  It will seem as if ours would
never be done, if we have to wait all that time to see Geordie again
I wish we were dead
I am sure, so do I.  And dying
is so very easy
The pastor always said there was nothing to be afraid of
I mean, for innocent people.  And Geordie was so innocent, he
was fit to go directly to God
If we die here
Roger must too.  What was the matter
with him just now, do you think?  Was he thinking about that
He was very miserable about something.  Oh, Mildred, do look!  Did you
ever see Geordie look sweeter?  Yes, you may have him now
Yet
we must bury him
Oh, when
Better do it while his face looks as it does now.  To-morrow is Sunday.
We will do no work to-morrow, and bury Geordie
Where?  How
We will choose the prettiest place we can find, and the quietest
I wish the pastor was here
I never saw a funeral,
except passing one in the road sometimes
We need not be afraid of doing wrong about the funeral, dear.  We must
make some kind of little coffin; and Roger will help me to dig a grave,
and if we have no pastor to say prayers, you and I know that in our
hearts we shall be thanking God for taking our little brother to be safe
and happy with him
And then I may plant some flowers upon his grave, may not I?  And that
will bring the bees humming over it.  How fond he was of going near the
hives, to hear the bees hum!  Where shall his grave be
Under one of the trees, one of the shadiest
Oh, dear -- here comes Ailwin!  I wish she would let us alone
Do help Oliver all you can.  I know how he would have tried to help you
if George had been your little brother
'Tis all the same as if he had been
I'm sure I am
just as sorry
Are you, indeed
I dare say you have
There are all manner of things
found by those who dig in the Levels -- except useful things, I mean.  No
one ever knew anything useful come out of these odd places
You are wrong there
I have got useful things myself
from under the carr, that brought me more money than any fish and fowl I
ever took out of the ponds on it.  Uncle and I found some old red
earthenware things
Old red earthenware
As if old earthenware was
better than fish and fowl, when there is so much new to be had
now-a-days!  My uncle is a sailor, always going between this and
Holland; and he says the quantity of ware they bring over in a year will
hold victuals for all Lincolnshire.  And Dutch ware does not cost above
half what it did in my grandfather's time: so don't you be telling your
wonderful tales, Roger.  We sha'n't believe them
Well, then don't.  But I say again, uncle Stephen and I took gold for
the old red ware we got out of a deep hole in the carr
Very likely, indeed.  I wonder who has gold to throw away in that
manner.  However, I don't say but there may be such.  &bquo;Fools and their
money are soon parted,' some folks say
Who gave you the gold
You may ask that
but you may not believe me when I tell
you.  You know the Earl of Arundel comes sometimes into these parts.
Well,-- it was he
When?  Why
He often comes down to see the Trent, having the care of the forests
upon it: and one time he stopped near here, on his way into Scotland,
about some business.  They say he has a castle full of wonderful things
somewhere
What sort of things
Horn spoons and pewter
drinking-mugs to his old red earthenware
Perhaps
But I heard nothing of them.  What I heard of
was old bricks, and stone figures, and all manner of stone jars.  Well,
a gentleman belonging to the Earl of Arundel chanced to come across us,
just after we had found a pitcher or two down in the moss; and he made
us go with him to the Earl
You don't mean that you ever saw a lord to speak to
I tell you I did, and uncle too
He asked us all manner of questions about the Levels
I mean about the things that lie in the moss.  He did not seem
to care about the settlers and the crops, otherwise than in the way of
business.  All that he did about the earthenware was plainly for his
pleasure.  He bought all we could find on that spot; and he said if we
found any more curiosities at any time, we were ...  But I can't stand
talking any more
And what were you to do, if you found anything more
One might easily bury some of the ware my uncle brings, and keep it in
the moss till it is well wetted; and then some earl might give one gold
for it.  Come, Roger, tell me what you were to do with your findings.
You owe it to me to tell me; considering that your people have got away
my cloak and warm stockings
Look for them in the moss,-- you had better
You will
find them there or nowhere
You _have_ found a curiosity
That is a
mummy
No --'tis a man
At least it is
something like a man.  Is not this like an arm, with a hand at the end
of it?-- a little dried, shrunk, ugly arm.  'Tis not stiff, neither.
Look!  It can't be Uncle Stephen, sure -- or Nan
No, no: it is a mummy -- a human body which has been buried for hundreds
and thousands of years
What do you mean by hundreds and thousands of years
Look here, how the arm bends, and the wrist!  I believe I could make
its fingers close on mine
If I was sure now, that it
was not Stephen or Nan ...  But the peat water does wonders, they say,
with whatever lies in it
So it does.  It preserves bodies, as I told you.  I will show you in a
minute that it is nobody you have ever known
Don't, don't now
Don't uncover the face!  If you
do, I will go away
Go, then
Look here
come closer and look, or you will see nothing in the dusk.
Did either Stephen or Nan wear their hair this way?  And is this dress
anything like Ailwin's cloak?  Look at the long black hair hanging all
round the little flat brown face.  And the dress: it is the skin of some
beast, with the hair left on -- a rough-edged skin, fastened with a bit of
something like coal on the left shoulder.  I dare say it was once a
wooden skewer.  I wonder how long ago this body was alive.  I wonder
what sort of a country this was to live in, at that day
I say
I say -- don't you meddle any more.  The curiosity is
mine, you know.  I found it, and it's mine
What will you do with it
It will make a show.  If I don't happen to see the earl, so as to get
gold for it, I'll make people give me a penny a piece to see it; and
that will be as good as gold presently
I wish you would bury it
Don't go yet, Oliver.  Wait a minute, and I will come with you
What is the use of guessing and guessing
If people
should dig up George's bones, out of this bank, a thousand years hence,
and find them lying in a sort of oven, as they would call it, with a
fine carved stone for one of the six sides, do you think they could ever
guess how all these things came to be here
This way of burying is an accident, such as no one would think of
guessing
And this dried body may be here, to
be sure, by some other accident that we know nothing about.  I really
wish, Roger, you would cover up the corpse again; at least, till we know
whether we shall all die together here
If this old man and George lie together here, I wonder whether their
spirits will know it, and come together in heaven
Are you going to be ill, do you think, dear
I don't know.  Don't you think Roger is ill
Yes; and I dare say we shall all have the fever, from the damps and bad
smells of this place
Well -- never mind about me, Oliver.  I am only very, very tired yet
Come home, and lie down, and I will sit beside you
You
will be patient, I know, dear.  I will try if I can be patient, if I
should see you very ill
What is the matter, dear?  Are you afraid of the storm?  I never knew
you afraid of thunder and lightning; but perhaps you may be now, because
you are ill
No
I cannot help being glad of this storm
though it
is disagreeable, at the time, to people who have no house to go to.  I
hope it will clear the air, and freshen it; and that is the very thing
we want, to make you better
It is not that, Oliver.  I don't mind the storm at all
Then what makes you cry so, dear?  Is it about Geordie
Yes.  Something about him that I don't think you know; something that I
shall never bear to think of.  It will make me miserable as long as I
live.  Do you know, I was tired of nursing him, and hearing him cry; and
I gave it up -- the only thing I could do for him!  I asked Ailwin to take
him.  And in two days he was dead; and I could never do anything for him
any more
Now, Mildred, listen to me,-- to the little I can say -- for you know I
cannot, in this place, stay and talk with you as we should both like,
and as we might have done at home.  I think you were almost always very
kind to Geordie; and I am sure he loved you very dearly.  But I have
heard mother say that the worst part of losing dear friends is that we
have to blame ourselves, more or less, for our behaviour to them,-- even
to those we loved the very most.  So I will not flatter you, dear:
though I don't at all wonder at your being tired of hearing Geordie cry
that day.  I will not say whether you were right or wrong; but only put
you in mind that we may always ask for pardon.  Remember, too, that you
may meet Geordie again; and perhaps be kinder to him than we ever are to
one another here.  Now I will go, and come back again soon
Stop one minute
I dreamed that you all went away
from this hill, and left me alone
Don't be afraid, Roger
I am not going to touch your
findings, or meddle with you.  I want you to change your clothes,-- to
put off that finery,-- and to let me know where the bag of money is that
you took out of the chest
I am going to pack that chest again; and I want to see everything in
it, that it may be ready if any boat should come
Boat
Yes: a boat may come, you know; and we must not detain it, if such a
thing should happen.  If you die without restoring that money, Roger, it
will be a sin upon your soul: so tell me where it is, and have an easy
mind, I advise you.  That will be a good thing, if you live an hundred
years
There is a boat here now!  You are going to leave me behind
I knew it
I dreamt it all last night;
and it is going to come true to-day
Mildred dreamed the same thing; and it is because you are both ill
Lean upon me -- as heavily as you like -- and I will go home
with you, as slowly as you will, if you will tell me where the money-bag
is.  You will find no boat there now, whatever there may be by-and-by:
but if you will not tell me where the money-bag is, I will shake you off
now, and leave you here.  It is another person's money: and I must have
it
That is the thing
and you have had so many
from me and mine
I am sure I forgive them all, now you have once said that
I forgive and forget them all: and so would father, if he
heard you
No!  Would he?  And he said once that he and his would scorn to be like
me and mine
Did you hear him say that?  You used to hear every word we said to one
another, I think
It was Ailwin that threw that in my teeth
Father would not say so now: never after you had had Geordie on your
knees and made him fond of you, as you did
Do you really think so
I am almost sure of it.  But he could not help thinking badly of you if
you keep that money
I am not going to keep it.  Do you go and find it, if you like, for I
can't.  It is in a hollow elm that stands between two beeches, on the
other side of the wood.  There is a little cross cut in the bark, on the
south side -- that will help you to find it.  But don't you go till you
have got me to the tent
Now, Oliver
I am vexed with you that you did not sleep
while you might, before this growling, splashing weather came on, and
while there was something of a shelter over your head.  If you don't go
to sleep the minute this tempest is over, I must see what I must do to
you: for you will be having the fever else; and then what is to become
of me, among you all, I should like to know?  I wish you would creep in
now between the mattresses under the tree, and never think of the storm,
but go to sleep like a good boy.  It is hardly likely that the lightning
should strike that particular tree, just while you are under it
But if you should chance to find me a cinder, when you thought it time
for me to be waking, Ailwin -- would not that be as bad as my having the
fever
Oliver!  How can you talk so?  How dare you think of such a shocking
thing
You put it into my head, Ailwin.  But come -- let me tell you a thing I
want you to do, if I should be away when it stops raining.  Here are
Roger's old clothes, safe and dry here between the beds.  When it leaves
off raining, make him pull off his wet finery, and put on his own dry
things; and keep that finery somewhere out of his way, that I may put it
back into the chest, where it ought to be lying now.  Will you do this,
Ailwin
Why, I'll see.  If I was quite sure that he had nothing to do with this
storm, I might manage him as I could any other boy
Anybody may manage him to-day, with a little kindness.  He is ill and
weak-spirited; and you can touch his heart with a word.  If you only
remember how George cried after him, you will be gentle with him, I
know
Well, that's true: and I doubt whether a lord would have spoken with
him, if he had been so dangerous as he seems sometimes.  Now, as to
dinner to-day, Oliver -- I really don't like to give Mildred such food as
the game on the island now is.  I am sure it is downright unwholesome.
Bird and beast, they are all dying off faster than we can kill them
The fowls are not all done, I hope.  I thought we had some meal-fed
fowls left
Just two; and that is all: and the truth is, I don't like to part those
two poor things, enjoying the meal-picking together; and then, they are
the last of our wholesome food
Then let us have them while they are wholesome.  Boil one to-day, and
make the broth as nice as you can for Mildred.  We will cook the other
to-morrow
And what next day
We will see to that when the day comes.  Oh dear!  When will these
clouds have emptied themselves?  Surely they cannot pour down at this
rate long
The thunder and lightning are just over, and that's a comfort
You might stand under any tree, now, Oliver; and you go
wandering about, as if you were a duck in your heart, and loved the
rain
Mother
She is safe, my boy: and she will be well when I take you to her.  Are
you alone here, Oliver
Alone!  O no!  Don't let these men go and startle Mildred and the
rest
Thank God
Mildred, and who else, my dear?  We know nothing, you are aware.  Your
father
He was carried off in the mill,-- out to the Humber
We have something like news of your father too, Oliver.  There is a
rumour which makes us hope that he may be safe at a distance.  Your
mother believes it, as she will tell you.  Is it possible that you are
all alive, after such a calamity as this
George is dead, sir.  We buried him yesterday.  Ailwin is here, with
Mildred and me; and Roger Redfurn
Do not say that
Roger has helped us in many things;
and he was kind to little George.  Let me go, sir.  I can walk now very
well: and I want to tell them that you are come
Go, my boy: but do it gently, Oliver,-- gently
That is what I want, sir,-- that they should not see or hear you: for
Mildred is ill,-- and Roger too.  Please keep out of sight till I come
for you.  So mother is safe,-- really
Really, and we will take you all to her
Will some one have the charity to tell the
wife of Linacre of the Levels that he is saved
Two children are here restored to you.  Will you not patiently resign
your other little one
Mother, help me to keep a promise I have made.  Here is Roger Redfurn --
very ill.  I promised we would not forsake him.  Let him go with us,
till he is well
Whatever you will, my boy; but do not leave me, Oliver,-- not for a
moment
Go on
We are bringing Roger after you.  We shall
be at home as soon as you
Home
</text>
