<text>
tollas
A sharp spear
needs no polish
Ingoldsby Legends
_sutjes, sutjes_
niggers
That pendulum's wrong; it is not properly weighted
Indeed, now what makes you think so
Think so. I don't think at all. Why there
if the ship had really rolled to the degree that thing
pointed to, then she would never have rolled again, that's all. But it
is just like these merchant skippers, they are always so confoundedly
careless
Ah, sir
you've reached
the right man for that; Hunter Quatermain should be able to tell you
about elephants if anybody can
Excuse me, sir
Excuse me, sir, but is your name
Allan Quatermain
Mr. Quatermain
the year before last about this time, you
were, I believe, at a place called Bamangwato, to the north of the
Transvaal
I was
You were trading there, were you not
I was. I took up a wagon-load of goods, made a camp outside the
settlement, and stopped till I had sold them
Did you happen to meet a man called Neville there
Oh, yes; he outspanned alongside of me for a fortnight to rest his
oxen before going on to the interior. I had a letter from a lawyer a
few months back, asking me if I knew what had become of him, which I
answered to the best of my ability at the time
Yes
your letter was forwarded to me. You said in it
that the gentleman called Neville left Bamangwato at the beginning of
May in a wagon with a driver, a voorlooper, and a Kafir hunter called
Jim, announcing his intention of trekking if possible as far as Inyati,
the extreme trading post in the Matabele country, where he would sell
his wagon and proceed on foot. You also said that he did sell his
wagon, for six months afterwards you saw the wagon in the possession of
a Portuguese trader, who told you that he had bought it at Inyati from
a white man whose name he had forgotten, and that he believed the white
man with the native servant had started off for the interior on a
shooting trip
Yes
Mr. Quatermain
I suppose you know or can
guess nothing more of the reasons of my -- of Mr. Neville's journey to
the northward, or as to what point that journey was directed
I heard something
Mr. Quatermain
I am going to tell you a story,
and ask your advice, and perhaps your assistance. The agent who
forwarded me your letter told me that I might rely on it implicitly, as
you were
well known and universally respected in Natal, and
especially noted for your discretion
Mr. Neville was my brother
Oh
He was
my only and younger brother, and till
five years ago I do not suppose that we were ever a month away from
each other. But just about five years ago a misfortune befell us, as
sometimes does happen in families. We quarrelled bitterly, and I
behaved unjustly to my brother in my anger
As I daresay you know
if a man dies intestate,
and has no property but land, real property it is called in England, it
all descends to his eldest son. It so happened that just at the time
when we quarrelled our father died intestate. He had put off making his
will until it was too late. The result was that my brother, who had not
been brought up to any profession, was left without a penny. Of course
it would have been my duty to provide for him, but at the time the
quarrel between us was so bitter that I did not -- to my shame I say it
(and he sighed deeply)-- offer to do anything. It was not that I grudged
him justice, but I waited for him to make advances, and he made none. I
am sorry to trouble you with all this, Mr. Quatermain, but I must to
make things clear, eh, Good
Quite so, quite so
Mr. Quatermain will, I am
sure, keep this history to himself
Of course
Well
my brother had a few hundred pounds to his
account at the time. Without saying anything to me he drew out this
paltry sum, and, having adopted the name of Neville, started off for
South Africa in the wild hope of making a fortune. This I learned
afterwards. Some three years passed, and I heard nothing of my brother,
though I wrote several times. Doubtless the letters never reached him.
But as time went on I grew more and more troubled about him. I found
out, Mr. Quatermain, that blood is thicker than water
That's true
I found out, Mr. Quatermain, that I would have given half my fortune
to know that my brother George, the only relation I possess, was safe
and well, and that I should see him again
But you never did, Curtis
Well, Mr. Quatermain, as time went on I became more and more anxious
to find out if my brother was alive or dead, and if alive to get him
home again. I set enquiries on foot, and your letter was one of the
results. So far as it went it was satisfactory, for it showed that till
lately George was alive, but it did not go far enough. So, to cut a
long story short, I made up my mind to come out and look for him
myself, and Captain Good was so kind as to come with me
Yes
nothing else to do, you see. Turned out by my
Lords of the Admiralty to starve on half pay. And now perhaps, sir, you
will tell us what you know or have heard of the gentleman called
Neville
What was it that you heard about my brother's journey at Bamangwato
I heard this
and I have never mentioned it to a soul
till to-day. I heard that he was starting for Solomon's Mines
Solomon's Mines
Where are they
I don't know
I know where they are said to be. Once I saw
the peaks of the mountains that border them, but there were a hundred
and thirty miles of desert between me and them, and I am not aware that
any white man ever got across it save one. But perhaps the best thing I
can do is to tell you the legend of Solomon's Mines as I know it, you
passing your word not to reveal anything I tell you without my
permission. Do you agree to that? I have my reasons for asking
Certainly, certainly
Well
as you may guess, generally speaking, elephant
hunters are a rough set of men, who do not trouble themselves with much
beyond the facts of life and the ways of Kafirs. But here and there you
meet a man who takes the trouble to collect traditions from the
natives, and tries to make out a little piece of the history of this
dark land. It was such a man as this who first told me the legend of
Solomon's Mines, now a matter of nearly thirty years ago. That was when
I was on my first elephant hunt in the Matabele country. His name was
Evans, and he was killed the following year, poor fellow, by a wounded
buffalo, and lies buried near the Zambesi Falls. I was telling Evans
one night, I remember, of some wonderful workings I had found whilst
hunting koodoo and eland in what is now the Lydenburg district of the
Transvaal. I see they have come across these workings again lately in
prospecting for gold, but I knew of them years ago. There is a great
wide wagon road cut out of the solid rock, and leading to the mouth of
the working or gallery. Inside the mouth of this gallery are stacks of
gold quartz piled up ready for roasting, which shows that the workers,
whoever they were, must have left in a hurry. Also, about twenty paces
in, the gallery is built across, and a beautiful bit of masonry it is
Ay,' said Evans, 'but I will spin you a queerer yarn than that'; and
he went on to tell me how he had found in the far interior a ruined
city, which he believed to be the Ophir of the Bible, and, by the way,
other more learned men have said the same long since poor Evans's time.
I was, I remember, listening open-eared to all these wonders, for I was
young at the time, and this story of an ancient civilisation and of the
treasures which those old Jewish or Phoenician adventurers used to
extract from a country long since lapsed into the darkest barbarism
took a great hold upon my imagination, when suddenly he said to me,
'Lad, did you ever hear of the Suliman Mountains up to the north-west
of the Mushakulumbwe country?' I told him I never had. 'Ah, well,' he
said, 'that is where Solomon really had his mines, his diamond mines, I
mean.'

"'How do you know that?' I asked.

"'Know it! why, what is
but a corruption of Solomon?&lsqb;1&rsqb;
Besides, an old Isanusi or witch doctoress up in the Manica country
told me all about it. She said that the people who lived across those
mountains were a
of the Zulus, speaking a dialect of Zulu, but
finer and bigger men even; that there lived among them great wizards,
who had learnt their art from white men when
and who had the secret of a wonderful mine of
Well, I laughed at this story at the time, though it interested me,
for the Diamond Fields were not discovered then, but poor Evans went
off and was killed, and for twenty years I never thought any more of
the matter. However, just twenty years afterwards -- and that is a long
time, gentlemen; an elephant hunter does not often live for twenty
years at his business -- I heard something more definite about Suliman's
Mountains and the country which lies beyond them. I was up beyond the
Manica country, at a place called Sitanda's Kraal, and a miserable
place it was, for a man could get nothing to eat, and there was but
little game about. I had an attack of fever, and was in a bad way
generally, when one day a Portugee arrived with a single companion -- a
half-breed. Now I know your low-class Delagoa Portugee well. There is
no greater devil unhung in a general way, battening as he does upon
human agony and flesh in the shape of slaves. But this was quite a
different type of man to the mean fellows whom I had been accustomed to
meet; indeed, in appearance he reminded me more of the polite doms I
have read about, for he was tall and thin, with large dark eyes and
curling grey mustachios. We talked together for a while, for he could
speak broken English, and I understood a little Portugee, and he told
me that his name was Jose Silvestre, and that he had a place near
Delagoa Bay. When he went on next day with his half-breed companion, he
said 'Good-bye,' taking off his hat quite in the old style.

"'Good-bye, senor,' he said; 'if ever we meet again I shall be the
richest man in the world, and I will remember you.' I laughed a
little -- I was too weak to laugh much -- and watched him strike out for
the great desert to the west, wondering if he was mad, or what he
thought he was going to find there.

"A week passed, and I got the better of my fever. One evening I was
sitting on the ground in front of the little tent I had with me,
chewing the last leg of a miserable fowl I had bought from a native for
a bit of cloth worth twenty fowls, and staring at the hot red sun
sinking down over the desert, when suddenly I saw a figure, apparently
that of a European, for it wore a coat, on the slope of the rising
ground opposite to me, about three hundred yards away. The figure crept
along on its hands and knees, then it got up and staggered forward a
few yards on its legs, only to fall and crawl again. Seeing that it
must be somebody in distress, I sent one of my hunters to help him, and
presently he arrived, and who do you suppose it turned out to be
Jose Silvestre, of course
Yes, Jose Silvestre, or rather his skeleton and a little skin. His
face was a bright yellow with bilious fever, and his large dark eyes
stood nearly out of his head, for all the flesh had gone. There was
nothing but yellow parchment-like skin, white hair, and the gaunt bones
sticking up beneath.

"'Water! for the sake of Christ, water!' he moaned and I saw that his
lips were cracked, and his tongue, which protruded between them, was
swollen and blackish.

"I gave him water with a little milk in it, and he drank it in great
gulps, two quarts or so, without stopping. I would not let him have any
more. Then the fever took him again, and he fell down and began to rave
about Suliman's Mountains, and the diamonds, and the desert. I carried
him into the tent and did what I could for him, which was little
enough; but I saw how it must end. About eleven o'clock he grew
quieter, and I lay down for a little rest and went to sleep. At dawn I
woke again, and in the half light saw Silvestre sitting up, a strange,
gaunt form, and gazing out towards the desert. Presently the first ray
of the sun shot right across the wide plain before us till it reached
the faraway crest of one of the tallest of the Suliman Mountains more
than a hundred miles away.

"'There it is!' cried the dying man in Portuguese, and pointing with
his long, thin arm, 'but I shall never reach it, never. No one will
ever reach it!'

"Suddenly, he paused, and seemed to take a resolution. 'Friend,' he
said, turning towards me, 'are you there? My eyes grow dark.'

"'Yes,' I said; 'yes, lie down now, and rest.'

"'Ay,' he answered, 'I shall rest soon, I have time to rest -- all
eternity. Listen, I am dying! You have been good to me. I will give you
the writing. Perhaps you will get there if you can live to pass the
desert, which has killed my poor servant and me.'

"Then he groped in his shirt and brought out what I thought was a Boer
tobacco pouch made of the skin of the Swart-vet-pens or sable antelope.
It was fastened with a little strip of hide, what we call a rimpi, and
this he tried to loose, but could not. He handed it to me. 'Untie it,'
he said. I did so, and extracted a bit of torn yellow linen on which
something was written in rusty letters. Inside this rag was a paper.

"Then he went on feebly, for he was growing weak: 'The paper has all
that is on the linen. It took me years to read. Listen: my ancestor, a
political refugee from Lisbon, and one of the first Portuguese who
landed on these shores, wrote that when he was dying on those mountains
which no white foot ever pressed before or since. His name was Jose da
Silvestra, and he lived three hundred years ago. His slave, who waited
for him on this side of the mountains, found him dead, and brought the
writing home to Delagoa. It has been in the family ever since, but none
have cared to read it, till at last I did. And I have lost my life over
it, but another may succeed, and become the richest man in the
world -- the richest man in the world. Only give it to no one, senor; go
yourself!'

"Then he began to wander again, and in an hour it was all over.

"God rest him! he died very quietly, and I buried him deep, with big
boulders on his breast; so I do not think that the jackals can have dug
him up. And then I came away
Ay, but the document
Yes, the document; what was in it
Well, gentlemen, if you like I will tell you. I have never showed it
to anybody yet except to a drunken old Portuguese trader who translated
it for me, and had forgotten all about it by the next morning. The
original rag is at my home in Durban, together with poor Dom Jose's
translation, but I have the English rendering in my pocket-book, and a
facsimile of the map, if it can be called a map. Here it is
Well
I have been round the world twice, and put
in at most ports, but may I be hung for a mutineer if ever I heard a
yarn like this out of a story book, or in it either, for the matter of
that
It's a queer tale, Mr. Quatermain
I suppose you are
not hoaxing us? It is, I know, sometimes thought allowable to take in a
greenhorn
If you think that, Sir Henry
if
you think that, why, there is an end to the matter
Sit down, Mr.
Quatermain
I beg your pardon; I see very well you do not
wish to deceive us, but the story sounded so strange that I could
hardly believe it
You shall see the original map and writing when we reach Durban
But
I have not told you about your brother. I knew the
man Jim who was with him. He was a Bechuana by birth, a good hunter,
and for a native a very clever man. That morning on which Mr. Neville
was starting I saw Jim standing by my wagon and cutting up tobacco on
the disselboom.

"'Jim,' said I, 'where are you off to this trip? It is elephants?'

"'No, Baas,' he answered, 'we are after something worth much more than
ivory.'

"'And what might that be?' I said, for I was curious. 'Is it gold?'

"'No, Baas, something worth more than gold,' and he grinned.

"I asked no more questions, for I did not like to lower my dignity by
seeming inquisitive, but I was puzzled. Presently Jim finished cutting
his tobacco.

"'Baas,' said he.

"I took no notice.

"'Baas,' said he again.

"'Eh, boy, what is it?' I asked.

"'Baas, we are going after diamonds.'

"'Diamonds! why, then, you are steering in the wrong direction; you
should head for the Fields.'

"'Baas, have you ever heard of Suliman's Berg?'-- that is, Solomon's
Mountains, Sir Henry.

"'Ay!'

"'Have you ever heard of the diamonds there?'

"'I have heard a foolish story, Jim.'

"'It is no story, Baas. Once I knew a woman who came from there, and
reached Natal with her child, she told me:-- she is dead now.'

"'Your master will feed the assvogels'-- that is, vultures --'Jim, if he
tries to reach Suliman's country, and so will you if they can get any
pickings off your worthless old carcass,' said I.

"He grinned. 'Mayhap, Baas. Man must die; I'd rather like to try a new
country myself; the elephants are getting worked out about here.'

"'Ah! my boy,' I said, 'you wait till the
gets a grip of
your yellow throat, and then we shall hear what sort of a tune you
sing.'

"Half an hour after that I saw Neville's wagon move off. Presently Jim
came back running. 'Good-bye, Baas,' he said. 'I didn't like to start
without bidding you good-bye, for I daresay you are right, and that we
shall never trek south again.'

"'Is your master really going to Suliman's Berg, Jim, or are you lying?'

"'No,' he answered, 'he is going. He told me he was bound to make his
fortune somehow, or try to; so he might as well have a fling for the
diamonds.'

"'Oh!' I said; 'wait a bit, Jim; will you take a note to your master,
Jim, and promise not to give it to him till you reach Inyati?' which
was some hundred miles off.

"'Yes, Baas.'

"So I took a scrap of paper, and wrote on it, 'Let him who comes . . .
climb the snow of Sheba's left breast, till he reaches the nipple, on
the north side of which is Solomon's great road.'

"'Now, Jim,' I said, 'when you give this to your master, tell him he
had better follow the advice on it implicitly. You are not to give it
to him now, because I don't want him back asking me questions which I
won't answer. Now be off, you idle fellow, the wagon is nearly out of
sight.'

"Jim took the note and went, and that is all I know about your brother,
Sir Henry; but I am much afraid
Mr. Quatermain
I am going to look for my brother; I
am going to trace him to Suliman's Mountains, and over them if
necessary, till I find him, or until I know that he is dead. Will you
come with me
No, thank you, Sir Henry, I think I had rather not
I am
too old for wild-goose chases of that sort, and we should only end up
like my poor friend Silvestre. I have a son dependent on me, so I
cannot afford to risk my life foolishly
Mr. Quatermain
I am well off, and I am bent upon
this business. You may put the remuneration for your services at
whatever figure you like in reason, and it shall be paid over to you
before we start. Moreover, I will arrange in the event of anything
untoward happening to us or to you, that your son shall be suitably
provided for. You will see from this offer how necessary I think your
presence. Also if by chance we should reach this place, and find
diamonds, they shall belong to you and Good equally. I do not want
them. But of course that promise is worth nothing at all, though the
same thing would apply to any ivory we might get. You may pretty well
make your own terms with me, Mr. Quatermain; and of course I shall pay
all expenses
Sir Henry
this is the most liberal proposal I ever had, and
one not to be sneezed at by a poor hunter and trader. But the job is
the biggest I have come across, and I must take time to think it over.
I will give you my answer before we get to Durban
Very good
tagati
Well, Mr. Quatermain
have you been
thinking about my proposals
Ay
what do you think of them, Mr. Quatermain?
I hope that you are going to give us the pleasure of your company so
far as Solomon's Mines, or wherever the gentleman you knew as Neville
may have got to
Yes, gentlemen
I will go, and by your
leave I will tell you why, and on what conditions. First for the terms
which I ask.

"1. You are to pay all expenses, and any ivory or other valuables we
may get is to be divided between Captain Good and myself.

"2. That you give me &pound;500 for my services on the trip before we start,
I undertaking to serve you faithfully till you choose to abandon the
enterprise, or till we succeed, or disaster overtakes us.

"3. That before we trek you execute a deed agreeing, in the event of my
death or disablement, to pay my boy Harry, who is studying medicine
over there in London, at Guy's Hospital, a sum of &pound;200 a year for five
years, by which time he ought to be able to earn a living for himself
if he is worth his salt. That is all, I think, and I daresay you will
say quite enough too
No
I accept them gladly. I am bent upon this
project, and would pay more than that for your help, considering the
peculiar and exclusive knowledge which you possess
Pity I did not ask it, then, but I won't go back on my word. And now
that I have got my terms I will tell you my reasons for making up my
mind to go. First of all, gentlemen, I have been observing you both for
the last few days, and if you will not think me impertinent I may say
that I like you, and believe that we shall come up well to the yoke
together. That is something, let me tell you, when one has a long
journey like this before one.

"And now as to the journey itself, I tell you flatly, Sir Henry and
Captain Good, that I do not think it probable we can come out of it
alive, that is, if we attempt to cross the Suliman Mountains. What was
the fate of the old Dom da Silvestra three hundred years ago? What was
the fate of his descendant twenty years ago? What has been your
brother's fate? I tell you frankly, gentlemen, that as their fates were
so I believe ours will be
We must take our
chance
You may perhaps wonder
why, if I think this, I, who am,
as I told you, a timid man, should undertake such a journey. It is for
two reasons. First I am a fatalist, and believe that my time is
appointed to come quite without reference to my own movements and will,
and that if I am to go to Suliman's Mountains to be killed, I shall go
there and shall be killed. God Almighty, no doubt, knows His mind about
me, so I need not trouble on that point. Secondly, I am a poor man. For
nearly forty years I have hunted and traded, but I have never made more
than a living. Well, gentlemen, I don't know if you are aware that the
average life of an elephant hunter from the time he takes to the trade
is between four and five years. So you see I have lived through about
seven generations of my class, and I should think that my time cannot
be far off, anyway. Now, if anything were to happen to me in the
ordinary course of business, by the time my debts are paid there would
be nothing left to support my son Harry whilst he was getting in the
way of earning a living, whereas now he will be set up for five years.
There is the whole affair in a nutshell
Mr. Quatermain
your motives for undertaking an enterprise which
you believe can only end in disaster reflect a great deal of credit on
you. Whether or not you are right, of course time and the event alone
can show. But whether you are right or wrong, I may as well tell you at
once that I am going through with it to the end, sweet or bitter. If we
are to be knocked on the head, all I have to say is, that I hope we get
a little shooting first, eh, Good
Yes, yes
We have all three of us been
accustomed to face danger, and to hold our lives in our hands in
various ways, so it is no good turning back now. And now I vote we go
down to the saloon and take an observation just for luck, you know
cartle
salted
lung sick
Three heavy breech-loading double-eight elephant guns, weighing about
fifteen pounds each, to carry a charge of eleven drachms of black
powder
Three double-500 Expresses, constructed to stand a charge of six
drachms
One double No. 12 central-fire Keeper's shot-gun, full choke both
barrels
Three Winchester repeating rifles (not carbines), spare guns.

"Three single-action Colt's revolvers, with the heavier, or American
pattern of cartridge
windbird
spoorers
Well
What is your name
Umbopa
I have seen your face before
Yes; the Inkoosi, the chief, my father, saw my face at the place of
the Little Hand
on the day before the battle
I remember
what is it you want
It is this, 'Macumazahn
I hear that you go on a great expedition far into
the North with the white chiefs from over the water. Is it a true word
It is
I hear that you go even to the Lukanga River, a moon's journey beyond
the Manica country. Is this so also, 'Macumazahn
Why do you ask whither we go? What is it to you
It is this, O white men, that if indeed you travel so far I would
travel with you
O white men
O
Inkosis
You forget yourself a little
Your words run out unawares.
That is not the way to speak. What is your name, and where is your
kraal? Tell us, that we may know with whom we have to deal
My name is Umbopa. I am of the Zulu people, yet not of them. The house
of my tribe is in the far North; it was left behind when the Zulus came
down here a 'thousand years ago,' long before Chaka reigned in
Zululand. I have no kraal. I have wandered for many years. I came from
the North as a child to Zululand. I was Cetewayo's man in the
Nkomabakosi Regiment, serving there under the great Captain,
Umslopogaasi of the Axe,&lsqb;1&rsqb; who taught my hands to fight. Afterwards I
ran away from Zululand and came to Natal because I wanted to see the
white man's ways. Next I fought against Cetewayo in the war. Since then
I have been working in Natal. Now I am tired, and would go North again.
Here is not my place. I want no money, but I am a brave man, and am
worth my place and meat. I have spoken
They make a good pair, don't they
one as big as the
other
I like your looks, Mr. Umbopa, and I will take you as my servant
It is well
We are men, thou and I
Nada the Lily
tulip
idoro
wacht-een-beche
wait-a-little thorn
Curse it
curse it! I've killed him
_Ou_, Bougwan
_ou! ou
Bougwan
Oh, 'Bougwan
You see, they weigh so little
and I always like to turn out
like a gentleman
_woof_,
_woof_
That's a lion
_Unkungunklovo_!
_Indlovu_
Elephant! Elephant
It's no good
let them go
It seems that we are in a paradise of game. I vote we stop here a day
or two, and have a go at them
All right, my hearties
I think we want a little recreation.
And now let's turn in, for we ought to be off by dawn, and then perhaps
we may catch them feeding before they move on
Now
Ah, well
he is dead, but he died like a man
There
there is the wall round Solomon's Mines, but God
knows if we shall ever climb it
My brother should be there, and if he is, I shall reach him somehow
I hope so
Is it to that land that thou wouldst journey, Incubu
How dost thou know that I am not the equal of the Inkosi whom I
serve
He is of a royal house, no doubt; one can see it in
his size and by his mien; so, mayhap, am I. At least, I am as great a
man. Be my mouth, O Macumazahn, and say my words to the Inkoos Incubu,
my master, for I would speak to him and to thee
Yes, Umbopa
I would journey there
The desert is wide and there is no water in it, the mountains are high
and covered with snow, and man cannot say what lies beyond them behind
the place where the sun sets; how shalt thou come thither, Incubu, and
wherefore dost thou go
Tell him
that I go because I believe that a man
of my blood, my brother, has gone there before me, and I journey to
seek him
That is so, Incubu; a Hottentot I met on the road told me that a white
man went out into the desert two years ago towards those mountains with
one servant, a hunter. They never came back
How do you know it was my brother
Nay, I know not. But the Hottentot, when I asked what the white man
was like, said that he had thine eyes and a black beard. He said, too,
that the name of the hunter with him was Jim; that he was a Bechuana
hunter and wore clothes
There is no doubt about it
I knew Jim well
I was sure of it
If George set his mind
upon a thing he generally did it. It was always so from his boyhood. If
he meant to cross the Suliman Berg he has crossed it, unless some
accident overtook him, and we must look for him on the other side
It is a far journey, Incubu
Yes
it is far. But there is no journey upon
this earth that a man may not make if he sets his heart to it. There is
nothing, Umbopa, that he cannot do, there are no mountains he may not
climb, there are no deserts he cannot cross, save a mountain and a
desert of which you are spared the knowledge, if love leads him and he
holds his life in his hands counting it as nothing, ready to keep it or
lose it as Heaven above may order
Great words, my father
great swelling words fit to fill
the mouth of a man. Thou art right, my father Incubu. Listen! what is
life? It is a feather, it is the seed of the grass, blown hither and
thither, sometimes multiplying itself and dying in the act, sometimes
carried away into the heavens. But if that seed be good and heavy it
may perchance travel a little way on the road it wills. It is well to
try and journey one's road and to fight with the air. Man must die. At
the worst he can but die a little sooner. I will go with thee across
the desert and over the mountains, unless perchance I fall to the
ground on the way, my father
What is life? Tell me, O white men, who are wise, who know the secrets
of the world, and of the world of stars, and the world that lies above
and around the stars; who flash your words from afar without a voice;
tell me, white men, the secret of our life -- whither it goes and whence
it comes!

"You cannot answer me; you know not. Listen, I will answer. Out of the
dark we came, into the dark we go. Like a storm-driven bird at night we
fly out of the Nowhere; for a moment our wings are seen in the light of
the fire, and, lo! we are gone again into the Nowhere. Life is nothing.
Life is all. It is the Hand with which we hold off Death. It is the
glow-worm that shines in the night-time and is black in the morning; it
is the white breath of the oxen in winter; it is the little shadow that
runs across the grass and loses itself at sunset
You are a strange man
It seems to me that we are much alike, Incubu. Perhaps
_I_ seek a brother over the mountains
What dost thou mean
what
dost thou know of those mountains
A little; a very little. There is a strange land yonder, a land of
witchcraft and beautiful things; a land of brave people, and of trees,
and streams, and snowy peaks, and of a great white road. I have heard
of it. But what is the good of talking? It grows dark. Those who live
to see will see
You need not fear me, Macumazahn
I
dig no holes for you to fall in. I make no plots. If ever we cross
those mountains behind the sun I will tell what I know. But Death sits
upon them. Be wise and turn back. Go and hunt elephants, my masters. I
have spoken
That is an odd man
Yes
too odd by half. I don't like his little ways. He
knows something, and will not speak out. But I suppose it is no use
quarrelling with him. We are in for a curious trip, and a mysterious
Zulu won't make much difference one way or another
Put the live devils out of the way up there in the thatch
or they will murder us all
Gentlemen
we are going
on about as strange a journey as men can make in this world. It is very
doubtful if we can succeed in it. But we are three men who will stand
together for good or for evil to the last. Now before we start let us
for a moment pray to the Power who shapes the destinies of men, and who
ages since has marked out our paths, that it may please Him to direct
our steps in accordance with His will
And now
_trek_
The Girl I left behind me
not
as single spies, but in battalions
Phew
My word
It is hot
What is to be done
we can't stand this for long
I have it
we must dig a hole, get in it, and cover
ourselves with the karoo bushes
If we cannot find water we shall all be dead before the moon rises
to-morrow
The Jackdaw of Rheims
A nice little boy held a golden ewer,
  Embossed, and filled with water as pure
  As any that flows between Rheims and Namur
worthy of washing the hands of the Pope
If we do not find water we shall die
If we can trust to the old Dom's map there should be some about
What is it
Well
it is fresh Springbok spoor; what of it
Springbucks do not go far from water
No
I forgot; and thank God for it
I _smell_ water
You are a fool
there is no water
I smell it, Baas
it is somewhere in the air
Yes
no doubt it is in the clouds, and about two months
hence it will fall and wash our bones
Perhaps it is on the
top of the hill
Rot
whoever heard of water being found at the top of a
hill
Let us go and look
_Nanzia manzie_
Here is water
biltong
What is it, Umbopa, son of a fool
It is food and water, Macumazahn
Melons
_Skit, Baas, skit
Shoot, master, shoot
21st May.-- Started 11 a.m., finding the atmosphere quite cold enough
to travel by day, and carrying some water-melons with us. Struggled on
all day, but found no more melons, having evidently passed out of their
district. Saw no game of any sort. Halted for the night at sundown,
having had no food for many hours. Suffered much during the night from
cold.

"22nd.-- Started at sunrise again, feeling very faint and weak. Only
made about five miles all day; found some patches of snow, of which we
ate, but nothing else. Camped at night under the edge of a great
plateau. Cold bitter. Drank a little brandy each, and huddled ourselves
together, each wrapped up in his blanket, to keep ourselves alive. Are
now suffering frightfully from starvation and weariness. Thought that
Ventvogel would have died during the night.

"23rd.-- Struggled forward once more as soon as the sun was well up, and
had thawed our limbs a little. We are now in a dreadful plight, and I
fear that unless we get food this will be our last day's journey. But
little brandy left. Good, Sir Henry, and Umbopa bear up wonderfully,
but Ventvogel is in a very bad way. Like most Hottentots, he cannot
stand cold. Pangs of hunger not so bad, but have a sort of numb feeling
about the stomach. Others say the same. We are now on a level with the
precipitous chain, or wall of lava, linking the two Breasts, and the
view is glorious. Behind us the glowing desert rolls away to the
horizon, and before us lie mile upon mile of smooth hard snow almost
level, but swelling gently upwards, out of the centre of which the
nipple of the mountain, that appears to be some miles in circumference,
rises about four thousand feet into the sky. Not a living thing is to
be seen. God help us; I fear that our time has come
I say
we ought to be somewhere near that
cave the old gentleman wrote about
Yes
if there is a cave
Come, Quatermain
don't talk like that; I have
every faith in the Dom; remember the water! We shall find the place
soon
If we don't find it before dark we are dead men, that is all about
it
make his hunger
small
Look
It is the cave
I am going back
Why
Because it has struck me that -- what we saw -- may be my brother
Thank God
it is _not_ my brother
Who on earth can it be
Can't you guess
Why, the old Dom, Jose da Silvestra, of course -- who else
Impossible
he died three hundred years ago
And what is there to prevent him from lasting for three thousand years
in this atmosphere, I should like to know
If only the
temperature is sufficiently low, flesh and blood will keep fresh as New
Zealand mutton for ever, and Heaven knows it is cold enough here. The
sun never gets in here; no animal comes here to tear or destroy. No
doubt his slave, of whom he speaks on the writing, took off his clothes
and left him. He could not have buried him alone. Look
here is the 'cleft bone' that Silvestra used to draw
the map with
Ay
and this is where he got his ink from
Did ever man see such
a thing before
Let us go
stay, we will give him a
companion
Well, we must have a try from where we are
Which
shall it be, Quatermain, the repeating rifles or the expresses
expanding
Let each of us take the buck opposite to him. Aim well at the point of
the shoulder and high up
and Umbopa, do you give the word,
so that we may all fire together
Fire
Starving men should not be fanciful
we must eat raw
meat
Thank Heaven
that brute has saved our lives. What
is it, Quatermain
_inco_
Isn't there something on the map about Solomon's Great Road
Well, look; there it is
Well
it must be quite near us if we cut off to the
right. Hadn't we better be making a start
What do you make of this, Quatermain
I have it
the road no doubt ran right over the range and
across the desert on the other side, but the sand there has covered it
up, and above us it has been obliterated by some volcanic eruption of
molten lava
Well
it
is very well to call this Solomon's Road, but my humble opinion is that
the Egyptians had been here before Solomon's people ever set a foot on
it. If this isn't Egyptian or Phoenician handiwork, I must say that it
is very like it
Ah
here is lots of wood, let us stop and cook some dinner; I
have about digested that raw heart
Surely
he is not going to try to shave
Put down your guns
Greeting
Greeting
Whence come you
who are you? and why are the faces of
three of you white, and the face of the fourth as the face of our
mother's sons
We are strangers, and come in peace
and this man is our servant
You lie
no strangers can cross the mountains where all
things perish. But what do your lies matter?-- if ye are strangers then
ye must die, for no strangers may live in the land of the Kukuanas. It
is the king's law. Prepare then to die, O strangers
What does that beggar say
He says we are going to be killed
Oh, Lord
What's up
It's his teeth
He moved them. Take
them out, Good, take them out
How is it, O strangers
that this fat
man (pointing to Good, who was clad in nothing but boots and a flannel
shirt, and had only half finished his shaving), whose body is clothed,
and whose legs are bare, who grows hair on one side of his sickly face
and not on the other, and who wears one shining and transparent
eye -- how is it, I ask, that he has teeth which move of themselves,
coming away from the jaws and returning of their own will
Open your mouth
Where are his teeth
with our eyes we saw them
I see that ye are spirits
did ever man born of
woman have hair on one side of his face and not on the other, or a
round and transparent eye, or teeth which moved and melted away and
grew again? Pardon us, O my lords
It is granted
Nay, ye shall know the
truth. We come from another world, though we are men such as ye; we
come
from the biggest star that shines at night
Oh! oh
Yes
we do, indeed
We come to stay with you a little while, and
to bless you by our sojourn. Ye will see, O friends, that I have
prepared myself for this visit by the learning of your language
It is so, it is so
Only, my lord
thou hast learnt it very
badly
Now friends
ye might think that after so long a
journey we should find it in our hearts to avenge such a reception,
mayhap to strike cold in death the imperious hand that -- that, in
short -- threw a knife at the head of him whose teeth come and go
Spare him, my lords
he is the
king's son, and I am his uncle. If anything befalls him his blood will
be required at my hands
Yes, that is certainly so
Ye may perhaps doubt our power to avenge
Stay, I will show you. Here, thou dog and slave (addressing
Umbopa in a savage tone), give me the magic tube that speaks
It is here, O Lord of Lords
Ye see that buck
Tell me, is it possible for man born of woman to kill it from here
with a noise
It is not possible, my lord
Yet shall I kill it
That my lord cannot do
Bang! thud
If you want meat
go fetch that buck
Ye see
I do not speak empty words
If ye yet doubt our power
let one of you go stand upon
that rock that I may make him as this buck
It is well said. Do thou, my uncle, go stand upon the rock. It is but
a buck that the magic has killed. Surely it cannot kill a man
No! no
my old eyes have seen enough. These
are wizards, indeed. Let us bring them to the king. Yet if any should
wish a further proof, let _him_ stand upon the rock, that the magic
tube may speak with him
Let not good magic be wasted on our poor bodies
we are
satisfied. All the witchcraft of our people cannot show the like of
this
It is so
without any doubt it is so. Listen, children of the Stars, children of
the shining Eye and the movable Teeth, who roar out in thunder, and
slay from afar. I am Infadoos, son of Kafa, once king of the Kukuana
people. This youth is Scragga
He nearly scragged me
Scragga, son of Twala, the great king -- Twala, husband of a thousand
wives, chief and lord paramount of the Kukuanas, keeper of the great
Road, terror of his enemies, student of the Black Arts, leader of a
hundred thousand warriors, Twala the One-eyed, the Black, the Terrible
So
lead us then to Twala. We do not talk
with low people and underlings
It is well, my lords, we will lead you; but the way is long. We are
hunting three days' journey from the place of the king. But let my
lords have patience, and we will lead them
So be it
all time is before us, for we do not
die. We are ready, lead on. But Infadoos, and thou Scragga, beware!
Play us no monkey tricks, set for us no foxes' snares, for before your
brains of mud have thought of them we shall know and avenge. The light
of the transparent eye of him with the bare legs and the half-haired
face shall destroy you, and go through your land; his vanishing teeth
shall affix themselves fast in you and eat you up, you and your wives
and children; the magic tubes shall argue with you loudly, and make you
as sieves. Beware
_Koom
Koom_
Let not my lord of the transparent Eye and the melting Teeth touch
them
Surely his slave shall carry the things
But I want to put 'em on
Nay, my lord
would my lord cover up his
beautiful white legs (although he is so dark Good has a singularly
white skin) from the eyes of his servants? Have we offended my lord
that he should do such a thing
Damn it
that black villain has got my trousers
Look here, Good
you have appeared in this country
in a certain character, and you must live up to it. It will never do
for you to put on trousers again. Henceforth you must exist in a
flannel shirt, a pair of boots, and an eye-glass
Yes
and with whiskers on one side of your face and not on
the other. If you change any of these things the people will think that
we are impostors. I am very sorry for you, but, seriously, you must. If
once they begin to suspect us our lives will not be worth a brass
farthing
Do you really think so
I do, indeed. Your 'beautiful white legs' and your eye-glass are now
_the_ features of our party, and as Sir Henry says, you must live up to
them. Be thankful that you have got your boots on, and that the air is
warm
Infadoos
who made this road
It was made, my lord, of old time, none know how or when, not even the
wise woman Gagool, who has lived for generations. We are not old enough
to remember its making. None can fashion such roads now, but the king
suffers no grass to grow upon it
And whose are the writings on the wall of the caves through which we
have passed on the road
My lord, the hands that made the road wrote the wonderful writings. We
know not who wrote them
When did the Kukuana people come into this country
My lord, the race came down here like the breath of a storm ten
thousand thousand moons ago, from the great lands which lie there
beyond
They could travel no further
because of the high mountains which ring in the land, so say the old
voices of our fathers that have descended to us the children, and so
says Gagool, the wise woman, the smeller out of witches
The country, too, was good, so they
settled here and grew strong and powerful, and now our numbers are like
the sea sand, and when Twala the king calls up his regiments their
plumes cover the plain so far as the eye of man can reach
And if the land is walled in with mountains, who is there for the
regiments to fight with
Nay, my lord, the country is open there towards the north, and now and
again warriors sweep down upon us in clouds from a land we know not,
and we slay them. It is the third part of the life of a man since there
was a war. Many thousands died in it, but we destroyed those who came
to eat us up. So since then there has been no war
Your warriors must grow weary of resting on their spears, Infadoos
My lord, there was one war, just after we destroyed the people that
came down upon us, but it was a civil war; dog ate dog
How was that
My lord the king, my half-brother, had a brother born at the same
birth, and of the same woman. It is not our custom, my lord, to suffer
twins to live; the weaker must always die. But the mother of the king
hid away the feebler child, which was born the last, for her heart
yearned over it, and that child is Twala the king. I am his younger
brother, born of another wife
Well
My lord, Kafa, our father, died when we came to manhood, and my
brother Imotu was made king in his place, and for a space reigned and
had a son by his favourite wife. When the babe was three years old,
just after the great war, during which no man could sow or reap, a
famine came upon the land, and the people murmured because of the
famine, and looked round like a starved lion for something to rend.
Then it was that Gagool, the wise and terrible woman, who does not die,
made a proclamation to the people, saying, 'The king Imotu is no king.'
And at the time Imotu was sick with a wound, and lay in his kraal not
able to move.

"Then Gagool went into a hut and led out Twala, my half-brother, and
twin brother to the king, whom she had hidden among the caves and rocks
since he was born, and stripping the '_moocha_' (waist-cloth) off his
loins, showed the people of the Kukuanas the mark of the sacred snake
coiled round his middle, wherewith the eldest son of the king is marked
at birth, and cried out loud, 'Behold your king whom I have saved for
you even to this day!'

"Now the people being mad with hunger, and altogether bereft of reason
and the knowledge of truth, cried out --'_The king! The king!_' but I
knew that it was not so, for Imotu my brother was the elder of the
twins, and our lawful king. Then just as the tumult was at its height
Imotu the king, though he was very sick, crawled from his hut holding
his wife by the hand, and followed by his little son Ignosi -- that is,
by interpretation, the Lightning.

"'What is this noise?' he asked. 'Why cry ye _The king! The king!_'

"Then Twala, his twin brother, born of the same woman, and in the same
hour, ran to him, and taking him by the hair, stabbed him through the
heart with his knife. And the people being fickle, and ever ready to
worship the rising sun, clapped their hands and cried, '_Twala is
king!_ Now we know that Twala is king
And what became of Imotu's wife and her son Ignosi? Did Twala kill
them too
Nay, my lord. When she saw that her lord was dead the queen seized the
child with a cry and ran away. Two days afterward she came to a kraal
very hungry, and none would give her milk or food, now that her lord
the king was dead, for all men hate the unfortunate. But at nightfall a
little child, a girl, crept out and brought her corn to eat, and she
blessed the child, and went on towards the mountains with her boy
before the sun rose again, and there she must have perished, for none
have seen her since, nor the child Ignosi
Then if this child Ignosi had lived he would be the true king of the
Kukuana people
That is so, my lord; the sacred snake is round his middle. If he lives
he is king; but, alas! he is long dead
See, my lord
That is the kraal where the
wife of Imotu was last seen with the child Ignosi. It is there that we
shall sleep to-night, if, indeed
my lords sleep
at all upon this earth
When we are among the Kukuanas, my good friend Infadoos, we do as the
Kukuanas do
Let not my lords be afraid
for in my breast there
dwells no guile. This regiment is one under my command, and comes out
by my orders to greet you
_bangwan_
_tollas_
_Koom_
Greys
beautiful white legs
Enter, Sons of the Stars
and
deign to rest awhile in our humble habitations. A little food shall be
brought to you, so that ye may have no need to draw your belts tight
from hunger; some honey and some milk, and an ox or two, and a few
sheep; not much, my lords, but still a little food
It is good
Infadoos; we are weary with travelling through
realms of air; now let us rest
white lords' gift
the Stars
The road ends there
Three Witches
Why does it end
Who knows
the mountains are full of
caves, and there is a great pit between them. It is there that the wise
men of old time used to go to get whatever it was they came for to this
country, and it is there now that our kings are buried in the Place of
Death
What was it they came for
Nay, I know not. My lords who have dropped from the Stars should
know
Yes
you are right, in the Stars we learn many things. I
have heard, for instance, that the wise men of old came to these
mountains to find bright stones, pretty playthings, and yellow iron
My lord is wise
I am but a child and cannot
talk with my lord on such matters. My lord must speak with Gagool the
old, at the king's place, who is wise even as my lord
There are Solomon's diamond mines
Yes, Macumazahn
the diamonds are surely there,
and you shall have them, since you white men are so fond of toys and
money
How dost thou know that, Umbopa
I dreamed it in the night, white men
Now what
is our black friend driving at? He knows
more than he chooses to say, that is clear. By the way, Quatermain, has
he heard anything of -- of my brother
Nothing; he has asked everyone he has become friendly with, but they
all declare that no white man has ever been seen in the country before
Do you suppose that he got here at all
we have only
reached the place by a miracle; is it likely he could have reached it
without the map
I don't know
but somehow I think that I
shall find him
If my lords are rested we will journey on to Loo, where a hut is made
ready for my lords to-night. The moon is now bright, so that we shall
not fall by the way
Unlimited Loo
make ready
Make ready, indeed
when one has only a flannel shirt
and a pair of boots, that does not take long. I wish you would ask them
for my trousers, Quatermain
_Koom_
Be humble, O people
it is the king
_It is the king_
_Be humble, O people, it is the king
Come hither, thou
It was thy shield that fell, thou awkward dog. Wilt thou make me a
reproach in the eyes of these strangers from the Stars? What hast thou
to say for thyself
It was by chance, O Calf of the Black Cow
Then it is a chance for which thou must pay. Thou hast made me
foolish; prepare for death
I am the king's ox
Scragga
let me see how thou canst use thy spear.
Kill me this blundering fool
Once, twice
The thrust was a good one
take him away
Cover up the blood-stains, cover them up
the king's word is spoken,
the king's doom is done
Sit down, for heaven's sake
our lives depend on it
White people
who come hither, whence I know not, and why I
know not, greeting
Greeting, Twala, King of the Kukuanas
White people, whence come ye, and what seek ye
We come from the Stars, ask us not how. We come to see this land
Ye journey from far to see a little thing. And that man with you
does he also come from the Stars
Even so; there are people of thy colour in the heavens above; but ask
not of matters too high for thee, Twala the king
Ye speak with a loud voice, people of the Stars
Remember that the Stars are far off, and
ye are here. How if I make you as him whom they bore away
O king
be careful, walk warily over hot stones, lest thou
shouldst burn thy feet; hold the spear by the handle, lest thou should
cut thy hands. Touch but one hair of our heads, and destruction shall
come upon thee. What, have not these
told thee what manner of men we
are? Hast thou seen the like of us
It is true, I have not
Have they not told thee how we strike with death from afar
They have told me, but I believe them not. Let me see you kill. Kill
me a man among those who stand yonder
and I will believe
Nay
we shed no blood of men except in just punishment;
but if thou wilt see, bid thy servants drive in an ox through the kraal
gates, and before he has run twenty paces I will strike him dead
Nay
kill me a man and I will believe
Good, O king, so be it
do thou walk across the
open space, and before thy feet reach the gate thou shalt be dead; or
if thou wilt not, send thy son Scragga
Let a young ox be driven in
Now, Sir Henry
do you shoot. I want to show this ruffian
that I am not the only magician of the party
express
I hope I shall make a good shot
You must
If you miss with the first barrel, let him
have the second. Sight for 150 yards, and wait till the beast turns
broadside on
Now's your time
Have I lied, O king
Nay, white man, it is the truth
Listen, Twala
Thou hast seen. Now know we come in peace,
not in war. See
here is a
hollow staff that shall enable thee to kill even as we kill, only I lay
this charm upon it, thou shalt kill no man with it. If thou liftest it
against a man, it shall kill thee. Stay, I will show thee. Bid a
soldier step forty paces and place the shaft of a spear in the ground
so that the flat blade looks towards us
Now, see, I will break yonder spear
Now, Twala, we give this magic tube to thee, and by-and-by I will show
thee how to use it; but beware how thou turnest the magic of the Stars
against a man of earth
Listen, O king! Listen, O warriors! Listen, O mountains and plains and
rivers, home of the Kukuana race! Listen, O skies and sun, O rain and
storm and mist! Listen, O men and women, O youths and maidens, and O ye
babes unborn! Listen, all things that live and must die! Listen, all
dead things that shall live again -- again to die! Listen, the spirit of
life is in me and I prophesy. I prophesy! I prophesy
_Blood! blood! blood!_ rivers of blood; blood everywhere. I see it, I
smell it, I taste it -- it is salt! it runs red upon the ground, it rains
down from the skies.

"_Footsteps! footsteps! footsteps!_ the tread of the white man coming
from afar. It shakes the earth; the earth trembles before her master.

"Blood is good, the red blood is bright; there is no smell like the
smell of new-shed blood. The lions shall lap it and roar, the vultures
shall wash their wings in it and shriek with joy.

"I am old! I am old! I have seen much blood; _ha, ha!_ but I shall see
more ere I die, and be merry. How old am I, think ye? Your fathers knew
me, and _their_ fathers knew me, and _their_ fathers' fathers' fathers.
I have seen the white man and know his desires. I am old, but the
mountains are older than I. Who made the great road, tell me? Who wrote
the pictures on the rocks, tell me? Who reared up the three Silent Ones
yonder, that gaze across the pit, tell me
Ye know not, but I know. It was a white people who were before ye are,
who shall be when ye are not, who shall eat you up and destroy you.
_Yea! yea! yea!_

"And what came they for, the White Ones, the Terrible Ones, the skilled
in magic and all learning, the strong, the unswerving? What is that
bright stone upon thy forehead, O king? Whose hands made the iron
garments upon thy breast, O king? Ye know not, but I know. I the Old
One, I the Wise One, I the _Isanusi_, the witch doctress
What seek ye, white men of the Stars -- ah, yes, of the Stars? Do ye
seek a lost one? Ye shall not find him here. He is not here. Never for
ages upon ages has a white foot pressed this land; never except once,
and I remember that he left it but to die. Ye come for bright stones; I
know it -- I know it; ye shall find them when the blood is dry; but shall
ye return whence ye came, or shall ye stop with me? _Ha! ha! ha!_

"And thou, thou with the dark skin and the proud bearing
who art _thou_, and what seekest
_thou_? Not stones that shine, not yellow metal that gleams, these thou
leavest to 'white men from the Stars.' Methinks I know thee; methinks I
can smell the smell of the blood in thy heart. Strip off the girdle
White people
it passes in my mind to kill you. Gagool has
spoken strange words. What say ye
Be careful, O king, we are not easy to slay. Thou hast seen
the fate of the ox; wouldst thou be as the ox is
It is not well to threaten a king
We threaten not, we speak what is true. Try to kill us, O king, and
learn
Go in peace
To-night is the great dance. Ye
shall see it. Fear not that I shall set a snare for you. To-morrow I
will think
It is well, O king
Now, Infadoos
we would speak with thee
Let my lords say on
It seems to us, Infadoos, that Twala the king is a cruel man
It is so, my lords. Alas! the land cries out because of his cruelties.
To-night ye shall see. It is the great witch-hunt, and many will be
smelt out as wizards and slain. No man's life is safe. If the king
covets a man's cattle, or a man's wife, or if he fears a man that he
should excite a rebellion against him, then Gagool, whom ye saw, or
some of the witch-finding women whom she has taught, will smell that
man out as a wizard, and he will be killed. Many must die before the
moon grows pale to-night. It is ever so. Perhaps I too shall be killed.
As yet I have been spared because I am skilled in war, and am beloved
by the soldiers; but I know not how long I have to live. The land
groans at the cruelties of Twala the king; it is wearied of him and his
red ways
Then why is it, Infadoos, that the people do not cast him down
Nay, my lords, he is the king, and if he were killed Scragga would
reign in his place, and the heart of Scragga is blacker than the heart
of Twala his father. If Scragga were king his yoke upon our neck would
be heavier than the yoke of Twala. If Imotu had never been slain, or if
Ignosi his son had lived, it might have been otherwise; but they are
both dead
How knowest thou that Ignosi is dead
What meanest thou, boy
who told thee to speak
Listen, Infadoos
and I will tell thee a story.
Years ago the king Imotu was killed in this country and his wife fled
with the boy Ignosi. Is it not so
It is so
It was said that the woman and her son died upon the mountains. Is it
not so
It is even so
Well, it came to pass that the mother and the boy Ignosi did not die.
They crossed the mountains and were led by a tribe of wandering desert
men across the sands beyond, till at last they came to water and grass
and trees again
How knowest thou this
Listen. They travelled on and on, many months' journey, till they
reached a land where a people called the Amazulu, who also are of the
Kukuana stock, live by war, and with them they tarried many years, till
at length the mother died. Then the son Ignosi became a wanderer again,
and journeyed into a land of wonders, where white people live, and for
many more years he learned the wisdom of the white people
It is a pretty story
For years he lived there working as a servant and a soldier, but
holding in his heart all that his mother had told him of his own place,
and casting about in his mind to find how he might journey thither to
see his people and his father's house before he died. For long years he
lived and waited, and at last the time came, as it ever comes to him
who can wait for it, and he met some white men who would seek this
unknown land, and joined himself to them. The white men started and
travelled on and on, seeking for one who is lost. They crossed the
burning desert, they crossed the snow-clad mountains, and at last
reached the land of the Kukuanas, and there they found _thee_, O
Infadoos
Surely thou art mad to talk thus
Thou thinkest so; see, I will show thee, O my uncle.

"_I am Ignosi, rightful king of the Kukuanas
Look
what is this
_Koom! Koom
it is my brother's son; it is the king
Did I not tell thee so, my uncle? Rise; I am not yet the king, but
with thy help, and with the help of these brave white men, who are my
friends, I shall be. Yet the old witch Gagool was right, the land shall
run with blood first, and hers shall run with it, if she has any and
can die, for she killed my father with her words, and drove my mother
forth. And now, Infadoos, choose thou. Wilt thou put thy hands between
my hands and be my man? Wilt thou share the dangers that lie before me,
and help me to overthrow this tyrant and murderer, or wilt thou not?
Choose thou
Ignosi, rightful king of the Kukuanas, I put my hand between thy
hands, and am thy man till death. When thou wast a babe I dandled thee
upon my knees, now shall my old arm strike for thee and freedom
It is well, Infadoos; if I conquer, thou shalt be the greatest man in
the kingdom after its king. If I fail, thou canst only die, and death
is not far off from thee. Rise, my uncle
And ye, white men, will ye help me? What have I to offer you! The
white stones! If I conquer and can find them, ye shall have as many as
ye can carry hence. Will that suffice you
Tell him
that he mistakes an Englishman. Wealth
is good, and if it comes in our way we will take it; but a gentleman
does not sell himself for wealth. Still, speaking for myself, I say
this. I have always liked Umbopa, and so far as lies in me I will stand
by him in this business. It will be very pleasant to me to try to
square matters with that cruel devil Twala. What do you say, Good, and
you, Quatermain
Well
to adopt the language of hyperbole, in which all
these people seem to indulge, you can tell him that a row is surely
good, and warms the cockles of the heart, and that so far as I am
concerned I'm his boy. My only stipulation is that he allows me to wear
trousers
It is well, my friends
and what sayest
thou, Macumazahn, art thou also with me, old hunter, cleverer than a
wounded buffalo
Umbopa, or Ignosi
I don't like revolutions. I am a man of
peace and a bit of a coward
but, on the other
hand, I stick up for my friends, Ignosi. You have stuck to us and
played the part of a man, and I will stick by you. But mind you, I am a
trader, and have to make my living, so I accept your offer about those
diamonds in case we should ever be in a position to avail ourselves of
it. Another thing: we came, as you know, to look for Incubu's (Sir
Henry's) lost brother. You must help us to find him
That I will do
Stay, Infadoos, by the sign of the
snake about my middle, tell me the truth. Has any white man to thy
knowledge set his foot within the land
None, O Ignosi
If any white man had been seen or heard of, wouldst thou have known
I should certainly have known
Thou hearest, Incubu
he has not been
here
Well, well
there it is; I suppose that
he never got so far. Poor fellow, poor fellow! So it has all been for
nothing. God's will be done
Now for business
It is very well to be a king by right divine, Ignosi, but how dost
thou propose to become a king indeed
Nay, I know not. Infadoos, hast thou a plan
Ignosi, Son of the Lightning
to-night is the
great dance and witch-hunt. Many shall be smelt out and perish, and in
the hearts of many others there will be grief and anguish and fury
against the king Twala. When the dance is over, then I will speak to
some of the great chiefs, who in turn, if I can win them over, will
speak to their regiments. I shall speak to the chiefs softly at first,
and bring them to see that thou art indeed the king, and I think that
by to-morrow's light thou shalt have twenty thousand spears at thy
command. And now I must go and think, and hear, and make ready. After
the dance is done, if I am yet alive, and we are all alive, I will meet
thee here, and we can talk. At the best there must be war
The gifts of my lord the king to the white men from the Stars
We thank the king
withdraw
Do you make these things in this country, Infadoos
they
are very beautiful
Nay, my lord, they came down to us from our forefathers. We know not
who made them, and there are but few left.&lsqb;1&rsqb; None but those of royal
blood may be clad in them. They are magic coats through which no spear
can pass, and those who wear them are well-nigh safe in the battle. The
king is well pleased or much afraid, or he would not have sent these
garments of steel. Clothe yourselves in them to-night, my lords
Surely
the whole army is here
Nay, Macumazahn
but a third of it. One third is
present at this dance each year, another third is mustered outside in
case there should be trouble when the killing begins, ten thousand more
garrison the outposts round Loo, and the rest watch at the kraals in
the country. Thou seest it is a great people
They are very silent
What says Bougwan
Those over whom the shadow of Death is hovering are silent
Will many be killed
Very many
It seems
that we are going to assist at a
gladiatorial show arranged regardless of expense
Tell me
are we in danger
I know not, my lords, I trust not; but do not seem afraid. If ye live
through the night all may go well with you. The soldiers murmur against
the king
It is the king Twala, Scragga his son, and Gagool the old; and see,
with them are those who slay
Greeting, white lords
be seated, waste
not precious time -- the night is all too short for the deeds that must
be done. Ye come in a good hour, and shall see a glorious show. Look
round, white lords; look round
Can the Stars show you such a sight as this? See
how they shake in their wickedness, all those who have evil in their
hearts and fear the judgment of 'Heaven above
_Begin! begin
the hyaenas
are hungry, they howl for food. _Begin! begin
_What is the lot of man born of woman
_Death
Mother, old mother, we are here
_Good! good! good
Are your eyes keen,
_Isanusis_ &lsqb;witch doctresses&rsqb;, ye seers in dark places
Mother, they are keen
_Good! good! good!_ Are your ears open, _Isanusis_, ye who hear words
that come not from the tongue
Mother, they are open
_Good! good! good!_ Are your senses awake, _Isanusis_ -- can ye smell
blood, can ye purge the land of the wicked ones who compass evil
against the king and against their neighbours? Are ye ready to do the
justice of 'Heaven above,' ye whom I have taught, who have eaten of the
bread of my wisdom, and drunk of the water of my magic
Mother, we can
Then go! Tarry not, ye vultures; see, the slayers
make sharp their spears; the
white men from afar are hungry to see. _Go
I smell him, the evil-doer
He is near, he who poisoned his mother
I hear the thoughts of him who thought evil of the king
_Kill
_Kill
_Kill
_One_
_Two_
event
Let the law take its course, white men. These dogs are magicians and
evil-doers; it is well that they should die
Hang me if I don't believe she is going to try her games on us
Nonsense
Which is it to be
I smell him out
Kill him, kill him, he is full of
evil; kill him, the stranger, before blood flows from him. Slay him, O
king
O king
this man is the servant
of thy guests, he is their dog; whosoever sheds the blood of our dog
sheds our blood. By the sacred law of hospitality I claim protection
for him
Gagool, mother of the witch-finders, has smelt him out; he must die,
white men
Nay, he shall not die
he who tries to touch him shall
die indeed
Seize him
Stand back, ye dogs
if ye would see to-morrow's light.
Touch one hair of his head and your king dies
Well
what is it to be, Twala
Put away your magic tubes
ye have adjured me in the name
of hospitality, and for that reason, but not from fear of what ye can
do, I spare him. Go in peace
It is well
we are weary of slaughter, and
would sleep. Is the dance ended
It is ended
Let these dead dogs
be flung out to the hyaenas and the
vultures
Well
well, I feel uncommonly inclined to be sick
If I had any doubts about helping Umbopa to rebel against that
infernal blackguard
they are gone now. It was as much
as I could do to sit still while that slaughter was going on. I tried
to keep my eyes shut, but they would open just at the wrong time. I
wonder where Infadoos is. Umbopa, my friend, you ought to be grateful
to us; your skin came near to having an air-hole made in it
I am grateful, Bougwan
and I shall not forget. As for Infadoos, he will be here by-and-by. We
must wait
My lords
I have come according to my word. My lords and
Ignosi, rightful king of the Kukuanas, I have brought with me these
men
who are great men among us,
having each one of them the command of three thousand soldiers, that
live but to do their bidding, under the king's. I have told them of
what I have seen, and what my ears have heard. Now let them also behold
the sacred snake around thee, and hear thy story, Ignosi, that they may
say whether or no they will make cause with thee against Twala the
king
Now ye have heard, chiefs
what say
ye: will ye stand by this man and help him to his father's throne, or
will ye not? The land cries out against Twala, and the blood of the
people flows like the waters in spring. Ye have seen to-night. Two
other chiefs there were with whom I had it in my mind to speak, and
where are they now? The hyaenas howl over their corpses. Soon shall ye
be as they are if ye strike not. Choose then, my brothers
Thy words are true, Infadoos; the land cries out. My own brother is
among those who died to-night; but this is a great matter, and the
thing is hard to believe. How know we that if we lift our spears it may
not be for a thief and a liar? It is a great matter, I say, of which
none can see the end. For of this be sure, blood will flow in rivers
before the deed is done; many will still cleave to the king, for men
worship the sun that still shines bright in the heavens, rather than
that which has not risen. These white men from the Stars, their magic
is great, and Ignosi is under the cover of their wing. If he be indeed
the rightful king, let them give us a sign, and let the people have a
sign, that all may see. So shall men cleave to us, knowing of a truth
that the white man's magic is with them
Ye have the sign of the snake
My lord, it is not enough. The snake may have been placed there since
the man's childhood. Show us a sign, and it will suffice. But we will
not move without a sign
I think that I have it
ask them to give us a
moment to think
Now look
here, you fellows, isn't to-morrow the 4th of June
Very good; then here we have it --'4 June, total eclipse of the moon
commences at 8.15 Greenwich time, visible in Teneriffe -- _South Africa_,
&amp;c.' There's a sign for you. Tell them we will darken the moon
to-morrow night
Suppose that the almanack is wrong
I see no reason to suppose anything of the sort
Eclipses always come up to time; at least that is my experience of
them, and it especially states that this one will be visible in South
Africa. I have worked out the reckonings as well as I can, without
knowing our exact position; and I make out that the eclipse should
begin here about ten o'clock tomorrow night, and last till half-past
twelve. For an hour and a half or so there should be almost total
darkness
Well
I suppose we had better risk it
Great men of the Kukuanas, and thou, Infadoos, listen. We love not to
show our powers, for to do so is to interfere with the course of
nature, and to plunge the world into fear and confusion. But since this
matter is a great one, and as we are angered against the king because
of the slaughter we have seen, and because of the act of the _Isanusi_
Gagool, who would have put our friend Ignosi to death, we have
determined to break a rule, and to give such a sign as all men may see.
Come hither
What see ye there
We see the sinking moon
It is so. Now tell me, can any mortal man put out that moon before her
hour of setting, and bring the curtain of black night down upon the
land
No, my lord, that no man
can do. The moon is stronger than man who looks on her, nor can she
vary in her courses
Ye say so. Yet I tell you that to-morrow night, about two hours before
midnight, we will cause the moon to be eaten up for a space of an hour
and half an hour. Yes, deep darkness shall cover the earth, and it
shall be for a sign that Ignosi is indeed king of the Kukuanas. If we
do this thing, will ye be satisfied
Yea, my lords
_if_ ye do this thing, we
will be satisfied indeed
It shall be done; we three, Incubu, Bougwan, and Macumazahn, have said
it, and it shall be done. Dost thou hear, Infadoos
I hear, my lord, but it is a wonderful thing that ye promise, to put
out the moon, the mother of the world, when she is at her full
Yet shall we do it, Infadoos
It is well, my lords. To-day, two hours after sunset, Twala will send
for my lords to witness the girls dance, and one hour after the dance
begins the girl whom Twala thinks the fairest shall be killed by
Scragga, the king's son, as a sacrifice to the Silent Ones, who sit and
keep watch by the mountains yonder
Then
let my lords darken the moon, and save the maiden's life, and the
people will believe indeed
Ay
the people will
believe indeed
Two miles from Loo
there is a hill curved like a
new moon, a stronghold, where my regiment, and three other regiments
which these chiefs command, are stationed. This morning we will make a
plan whereby two or three other regiments may be moved there also.
Then, if in truth my lords can darken the moon, in the darkness I will
take my lords by the hand and lead them out of Loo to this place, where
they shall be safe, and thence we can make war upon Twala the king
It is good
Let leave us to sleep awhile and to make ready
our magic
My friends
can ye do this
wonderful thing, or were ye speaking empty words to the captains
We believe that we can do it, Umbopa -- Ignosi, I mean
It is strange
and had ye not been Englishmen I would
not have believed it; but I have learned that English 'gentlemen' tell
no lies. If we live through the matter, be sure that I will repay you
Ignosi
promise me one thing
I will promise, Incubu, my friend, even before I hear it
What is it
This: that if ever you come to be king of this people you will do away
with the smelling out of wizards such as we saw last night; and that
the killing of men without trial shall no longer take place in the
land
The ways of black people are not as the ways of white men, Incubu, nor
do we value life so highly. Yet I will promise. If it be in my power to
hold them back, the witch-finders shall hunt no more, nor shall any man
die the death without trial or judgment
That's a bargain, then
and now let us get a little
rest
I hope that eclipse will come off
If it does not it will soon be all up with us
for so sure as we are living men some of those chiefs will tell the
whole story to the king, and then there will be another sort of
eclipse, and one that we shall certainly not like
Welcome, white men from the Stars
this is another sight
from that which your eyes gazed on by the light of last night's moon,
but it is not so good a sight. Girls are pleasant, and were it not for
such as these
we should none of us be here
this day; but men are better. Kisses and the tender words of women are
sweet, but the sound of the clashing of the spears of warriors, and the
smell of men's blood, are sweeter far! Would ye have wives from among
our people, white men? If so, choose the fairest here, and ye shall
have them, as many as ye will
Thanks to thee, O king, but we white men wed only with white women
like ourselves. Your maidens are fair, but they are not for us
It is well. In our land there is a proverb which
runs, 'Women's eyes are always bright, whatever the colour,' and
another that says, 'Love her who is present, for be sure she who is
absent is false to thee;' but perhaps these things are not so in the
Stars. In a land where men are white all things are possible. So be it,
white men; the girls will not go begging! Welcome again; and welcome,
too, thou black one; if Gagool here had won her way, thou wouldst have
been stiff and cold by now. It is lucky for thee that thou too camest
from the Stars; ha! ha
I can kill thee before thou killest me, O king
and thou shalt be stiff before my limbs cease to bend
Thou speakest boldly, boy
presume not too far
He may well be bold in whose lips are truth. The truth is a sharp
spear which flies home and misses not. It is a message from 'the
Stars,' O king
Let the dance begin
Which deem ye the fairest, white men
The first
Then is my mind as your minds, and my eyes as your eyes. She is the
fairest! and a sorry thing it is for her, for she must die
_Ay, must die
Why, O king
the
girl has danced well, and pleased us; she is fair too; it would be hard
to reward her with death
It is our custom, and the figures who sit in stone yonder
must have their due. Did I
fail to put the fairest girl to death to-day, misfortune would fall
upon me and my house. Thus runs the prophecy of my people: 'If the king
offer not a sacrifice of a fair girl, on the day of the dance of
maidens, to the Old Ones who sit and watch on the mountains, then shall
he fall, and his house.' Look ye, white men, my brother who reigned
before me offered not the sacrifice, because of the tears of the woman,
and he fell, and his house, and I reign in his stead. It is finished;
she must die
Bring her hither; Scragga,
make sharp thy spear
What is thy name, girl
What! wilt thou not answer?
Shall the king's son do his work at once
See
she shrinks from the sight of my
little plaything even before she has tasted it
If ever I get the chance you shall pay for that, you young hound
Now that thou art quiet, give us thy name, my dear. Come, speak out,
and fear not
Oh, mother
my name is
Foulata, of the house of Suko. Oh, mother, why must I die? I have done
no wrong
Be comforted
Thou must die, indeed, as a sacrifice to the Old Ones who sit yonder
but it is better to sleep in the night
than to toil in the daytime; it is better to die than to live, and thou
shalt die by the royal hand of the king's own son
Oh,
cruel! and I so young! What have I done that I should never again see
the sun rise out of the night, or the stars come following on his track
in the evening, that I may no more gather the flowers when the dew is
heavy, or listen to the laughing of the waters? Woe is me, that I shall
never see my father's hut again, nor feel my mother's kiss, nor tend
the lamb that is sick! Woe is me, that no lover shall put his arm
around me and look into my eyes, nor shall men children be born of me!
Oh, cruel, cruel
Oh, white father from the Stars
throw over me the mantle
of thy protection; let me creep into the shadow of thy strength, that I
may be saved. Oh, keep me from these cruel men and from the mercies of
Gagool
All right, my hearty, I'll look after you
Come, get up, there's a good girl
Now's your time
what are you waiting
for
I am waiting for that eclipse
I have had my eye on the
moon for the last half-hour, and I never saw it look healthier
Well, you must risk it now, or the girl will be killed. Twala is
losing patience
King
it shall not be; we will not endure this thing; let
the girl go in safety
_Shall not be!_ thou white dog, that yappest at the lion in his cave;
_shall not be!_ art thou mad? Be careful, lest this chicken's fate
overtake thee, and those with thee. How canst thou save her or thyself?
Who art thou that thou settest thyself between me and my will? Back, I
say. Scragga, kill her! Ho, guards! seize these men
Stop
Stop! we, the white men from the Stars, say that it shall not
be. Come but one pace nearer, and we will put out the moon like a
wind-blown lamp, as we who dwell in her House can do, and plunge the
land in darkness. Dare to disobey, and ye shall taste of our magic
Hear him! hear him
hear the liar who says that he
will put out the moon like a lamp. Let him do it, and the girl shall be
speared. Yes, let him do it, or die by the girl, he and those with him
Look, O king
look, Gagool! Look, chiefs and people and
women, and see if the white men from the Stars keep their word, or if
they be but empty liars!

"The moon grows black before your eyes; soon there will be
darkness -- ay, darkness in the hour of the full moon. Ye have asked for
a sign; it is given to you. Grow dark, O Moon! withdraw thy light, thou
pure and holy One; bring the proud heart of usurping murderers to the
dust, and eat up the world with shadows
It will pass
I have often seen the like before; no man
can put out the moon; lose not heart; sit still -- the shadow will pass
Wait, and ye shall see
O Moon!
Moon! Moon! wherefore art thou so cold and fickle
Keep it up, Good, I
can't remember any more poetry. Curse away, there's a good fellow
The moon is dying -- the white wizards have killed the moon
We shall all perish in the dark
Chiefs
we have given you the sign. If ye are satisfied, let
us fly swiftly to the place of which ye spoke. The charm cannot now be
stopped. It will work for an hour and the half of an hour. Let us cover
ourselves in the darkness
Come
I sent for them
and also for these
Surely my lord will not hide his beautiful white legs
O chiefs, captains, soldiers, and people, ye have heard my words. Now
must ye make choice between me and him who sits upon my throne, the
uncle who killed his brother, and hunted his brother's child forth to
die in the cold and the night. That I am indeed the king
these
can tell you, for they have seen the
snake about my middle. If I were not the king, would these white men be
on my side with all their magic? Tremble, chiefs, captains, soldiers,
and people! Is not the darkness they have brought upon the land to
confound Twala and cover our flight, darkness even in the hour of the
full moon, yet before your eyes
It is
I am the king; I say to you, I am the king
If there be any man among you who says that
it is not so, let him stand forth and I will fight him now, and his
blood shall be a red token that I tell you true. Let him stand forth, I
say
Dilly,
Dilly, come and be killed
I am indeed the king, and should ye stand by my side in the battle, if
I win the day ye shall go with me to victory and honour. I will give
you oxen and wives, and ye shall take place of all the regiments; and
if ye fall, I will fall with you.

"And behold, I give you this promise, that when I sit upon the seat of
my fathers, bloodshed shall cease in the land. No longer shall ye cry
for justice to find slaughter, no longer shall the witch-finder hunt
you out so that ye may be slain without a cause. No man shall die save
he who offends against the laws. The 'eating up' of your kraals shall
cease; each one of you shall sleep secure in his own hut and fear
naught, and justice shall walk blindfold throughout the land. Have ye
chosen, chiefs, captains, soldiers, and people
We have chosen, O king
It is well. Turn your heads and see how Twala's messengers go forth
from the great town, east and west, and north and south, to gather a
mighty army to slay me and you, and these my friends and protectors.
To-morrow, or perchance the next day, he will come against us with all
who are faithful to him. Then I shall see the man who is indeed my man,
the man who fears not to die for his cause; and I tell you that he
shall not be forgotten in the time of spoil. I have spoken, O chiefs,
captains, soldiers, and people. Now go to your huts and make you ready
for war
_Koom
Greeting
the king's greeting to those who
make unholy war against the king; the lion's greeting to the jackals
that snarl around his heels
Speak
These are the king's words. Surrender to the king's mercy ere a worse
thing befall you. Already the shoulder has been torn from the black
bull, and the king drives him bleeding about the camp
What are Twala's terms
His terms are merciful, worthy of a great king. These are the words of
Twala, the one-eyed, the mighty, the husband of a thousand wives, lord
of the Kukuanas, keeper of the Great Road (Solomon's Road), beloved of
the Strange Ones who sit in silence at the mountains yonder (the Three
Witches), Calf of the Black Cow, Elephant whose tread shakes the earth,
Terror of the evil-doer, Ostrich whose feet devour the desert, huge
One, black One, wise One, king from generation to generation! these are
the words of Twala: 'I will have mercy and be satisfied with a little
blood. One in every ten shall die, the rest shall go free; but the
white man Incubu, who slew Scragga my son, and the black man his
servant, who pretends to my throne, and Infadoos my brother, who brews
rebellion against me, these shall die by torture as an offering to the
Silent Ones.' Such are the merciful words of Twala
Go back, thou dog, to Twala, who sent thee, and say that we, Ignosi,
veritable king of the Kukuanas, Incubu, Bougwan, and Macumazahn, the
wise ones from the Stars, who make dark the moon, Infadoos, of the
royal house, and the chiefs, captains, and people here gathered, make
answer and say, 'That we will not surrender; that before the sun has
gone down twice, Twala's corpse shall stiffen at Twala's gate, and
Ignosi, whose father Twala slew, shall reign in his stead.' Now go, ere
we whip thee away, and beware how thou dost lift a hand against such as
we are
Ye frighten not men with such swelling
words
Show yourselves as bold to-morrow, O ye who
darken the moon. Be bold, fight, and be merry, before the crows pick
your bones till they are whiter than your faces. Farewell; perhaps we
may meet in the fight; fly not to the Stars, but wait for me, I pray,
white men
How many of these do you suppose will be alive at this time
to-morrow
upon
their spears
Curtis
I am in a condition of pitiable fear
I have heard you make that sort of remark before, Quatermain
Well, I mean it now. Do you know, I very much doubt if one of us will
be alive to-morrow night. We shall be attacked in overwhelming force,
and it is quite a chance if we can hold this place
We'll give a good account of some of them, at any rate. Look here,
Quatermain, this business is nasty, and one with which, properly
speaking, we ought not to be mixed up, but we are in for it, so we must
make the best of our job. Speaking personally, I had rather be killed
fighting than any other way, and now that there seems little chance of
our finding my poor brother, it makes the idea easier to me. But
fortune favours the brave, and we may succeed. Anyway, the battle will
be awful, and having a reputation to keep up, we shall need to be in
the thick of the thing
When you are in
Kukuanaland, do as the Kukuanas do
Ah
they are going to attack us on three sides at
once
Oh, for a gatling
I would clear that plain in twenty minutes
We have not got one, so it is no use yearning for it; but suppose you
try a shot, Quatermain
See how near you can go to
that tall fellow who appears to be in command. Two to one you miss him,
and an even sovereign, to be honestly paid if ever we get out of this,
that you don't drop the bullet within five yards
Bravo, Quatermain
you've frightened him
_Twala! Twala! Chiele!
Chiele
_Ignosi! Ignosi! Chiele!
Chiele
_Nanzia Incubu! Nanzia Unkungunklovo
_Chiele! Chiele
How do you feel, old fellow
Pretty well, thank you
Thank Heaven! When I saw them carry you in, I felt quite sick; I
thought you were done for
Not this time, my boy. I fancy I only got a rap on the head, which
knocked me stupid. How has it ended
They are repulsed at every point for a while. The loss is dreadfully
heavy; we have quite two thousand killed and wounded, and they must
have lost three. Look, there's a sight
Thank Heaven, here you are, Quatermain! I can't quite make out what
Ignosi wants to do. It seems that though we have beaten off the attack,
Twala is now receiving large reinforcements, and is showing a
disposition to invest us, with the view of starving us out
That's awkward
Yes; especially as Infadoos says that the water supply has given out
My lord, that is so
the spring cannot supply the
wants of so great a multitude, and it is failing rapidly. Before night
we shall all be thirsty. Listen, Macumazahn. Thou art wise, and hast
doubtless seen many wars in the lands from whence thou camest -- that is
if indeed they make wars in the Stars. Now tell us, what shall we do?
Twala has brought up many fresh men to take the place of those who have
fallen. Yet Twala has learnt his lesson; the hawk did not think to find
the heron ready; but our beak has pierced his breast; he fears to
strike at us again. We too are wounded, and he will wait for us to die;
he will wind himself round us like a snake round a buck, and fight the
fight of 'sit down
I hear thee
So, Macumazahn, thou seest we have no water here, and but a little
food, and we must choose between these three things -- to languish like a
starving lion in his den, or to strive to break away towards the north,
or
to launch ourselves straight at Twala's throat. Incubu, the
great warrior -- for to-day he fought like a buffalo in a net, and
Twala's soldiers went down before his axe like young corn before the
hail; with these eyes I saw it -- Incubu says 'Charge'; but the Elephant
is ever prone to charge. Now what says Macumazahn, the wily old fox,
who has seen much, and loves to bite his enemy from behind? The last
word is in Ignosi the king, for it is a king's right to speak of war;
but let us hear thy voice, O Macumazahn, who watchest by night, and the
voice too of him of the transparent eye
What sayest thou, Ignosi
Nay, my father
do thou speak, and let me, who am but a child in wisdom beside thee,
hearken to thy words
before our wounds grew stiff
to wax small like fat before a fire
Incubu, Macumazahn, and Bougwan, brave white men, and my friends;
Infadoos, my uncle, and chiefs; my heart is fixed. I will strike at
Twala this day, and set my fortunes on the blow, ay, and my life -- my
life and your lives also. Listen; thus will I strike. Ye see how the
hill curves round like the half-moon, and how the plain runs like a
green tongue towards us within the curve
We see
Good; it is now mid-day, and the men eat and rest after the toil of
battle. When the sun has turned and travelled a little way towards the
darkness, let thy regiment, my uncle, advance with one other down to
the green tongue, and it shall be that when Twala sees it he will hurl
his force at it to crush it. But the spot is narrow, and the regiments
can come against thee one at a time only; so may they be destroyed one
by one, and the eyes of all Twala's army shall be fixed upon a struggle
the like of which has not been seen by living man. And with thee, my
uncle, shall go Incubu my friend, that when Twala sees his battle-axe
flashing in the first rank of the Greys his heart may grow faint. And I
will come with the second regiment, that which follows thee, so that if
ye are destroyed, as it might happen, there may yet be a king left to
fight for; and with me shall come Macumazahn the wise
It is well, O king
And whilst the eyes of the multitude of Twala's soldiers are thus
fixed upon the fight
behold, one-third of the men
who are left alive to us (i.e. about 6,000) shall creep along the right
horn of the hill and fall upon the left flank of Twala's force, and
one-third shall creep along the left horn and fall upon Twala's right
flank. And when I see that the horns are ready to toss Twala, then will
I, with the men who remain to me, charge home in Twala's face, and if
fortune goes with us the day will be ours, and before Night drives her
black oxen from the mountains to the mountains we shall sit in peace at
Loo. And now let us eat and make ready; and, Infadoos, do thou prepare,
that the plan be carried out without fail; and stay, let my white
father Bougwan go with the right horn, that his shining eye may give
courage to the captains
Good-bye, you fellows
I am off with the right wing
according to orders; and so I have come to shake hands, in case we
should not meet again, you know
It is a queer business
and I confess I never expect to see to-morrow's sun. So far as
I can make out, the Greys, with whom I am to go, are to fight until
they are wiped out in order to enable the wings to slip round unawares
and outflank Twala. Well, so be it; at any rate, it will be a man's
death. Good-bye, old fellow. God bless you! I hope you will pull
through and live to collar the diamonds; but if you do, take my advice
and don't have anything more to do with Pretenders
Behold your king
go fight
and fall for him, as is the duty of brave men, and cursed and shameful
for ever be the name of him who shrinks from death for his king, or who
turns his back to the foe. Behold your king, chiefs, captains, and
soldiers! Now do your homage to the sacred Snake, and then follow on,
that Incubu and I may show you a road to the heart of Twala's host
about to die
_S'gee, s'gee_
Ah, these are _men_, indeed; they will conquer again
See, it
is done
Ingoldsby Legends
Are we to stand here till we put out roots, Umbopa -- Ignosi, I
mean -- while Twala swallows our brothers yonder
Nay, Macumazahn
see, now is the ripe moment: let us
pluck it
The stubborn spearmen still made good
  The dark impenetrable wood,
  Each stepping where his comrade stood
    The instant that he fell
_O-hoy! O-hoy
_umtagati_
_Twala, y' Twala_
Where art thou, Incubu, thou white man, who slewest Scragga my
son -- see if thou canst slay me
Men
ye
have kept up the reputation of your regiment, and this day's fighting
will be well spoken of by your children's children
Thou art a great
captain, Incubu
I have lived a long life among
warriors, and have known many a brave one, yet have I never seen a man
like unto thee
He must be wounded
Take that,
wizard
Capital armour this
How sold that beggar must have been
fallen from his
high estate
Hail, O king
thou who hast eaten of
my bread, and now by the aid of the white man's magic hast seduced my
regiments and defeated mine army, hail! What fate hast thou in store
for me, O king
The fate thou gavest to my father, whose throne thou hast sat on these
many years
It is good. I will show thee how to die, that thou mayest remember it
against thine own time. See, the sun sinks in blood
it is well that my sun
should go down in its company. And now, O king! I am ready to die, but
I crave the boon of the Kukuana royal House&lsqb;1&rsqb; to die fighting. Thou
canst not refuse it, or even those cowards who fled to-day will hold thee
shamed
It is granted. Choose -- with whom wilt thou fight? Myself I cannot
fight with thee, for the king fights not except in war
Incubu, what sayest thou, shall we end what we began to-day, or shall
I call thee coward, white -- even to the liver
Nay
thou shalt not fight with Incubu
Not if he is afraid
I will fight him
he shall see if I am afraid
For Heaven's sake
don't risk your life against that of
a desperate man. Anybody who saw you to-day will know that you are
brave enough
I will fight him
No living man shall call me
a coward. I am ready now
Fight not, my white brother
thou hast fought enough, and if
aught befell thee at his hands it would cut my heart in twain
I will fight, Ignosi
It is well, Incubu; thou art a brave man. It will be a good fray.
Behold, Twala, the Elephant is ready for thee
Go it, old fellow
That was a good one! Give it him
amidships
Get his axe
Take it
lawful king of the Kukuanas -- king by birth and
victory
Now
now our rebellion is swallowed up in victory, and our
evil-doing is justified by strength.

"In the morning the oppressors arose and stretched themselves; they
bound on their harness and made them ready to war.

"They rose up and tossed their spears: the soldiers called to the
captains, 'Come, lead us'-- and the captains cried to the king, 'Direct
thou the battle.'

"They laughed in their pride, twenty thousand men, and yet a twenty
thousand.

"Their plumes covered the valleys as the plumes of a bird cover her
nest; they shook their shields and shouted, yea, they shook their
shields in the sunlight; they lusted for battle and were glad.

"They came up against me; their strong ones ran swiftly to slay me;
they cried, 'Ha! ha! he is as one already dead.'



"Then breathed I on them, and my breath was as the breath of a wind,
and lo! they were not.

"My lightnings pierced them; I licked up their strength with the
lightning of my spears; I shook them to the ground with the thunder of
my shoutings.

"They broke -- they scattered -- they were gone as the mists of the morning.

"They are food for the kites and the foxes, and the place of battle is
fat with their blood.


"Where are the mighty ones who rose up in the morning?

"Where are the proud ones who tossed their spears and cried, 'He is as
a man already dead'?

"They bow their heads, but not in sleep; they are stretched out, but
not in sleep.

"They are forgotten; they have gone into the blackness; they dwell in
the dead moons; yea, others shall lead away their wives, and their
children shall remember them no more.


"And I --! the king -- like an eagle I have found my eyrie.

"Behold! far have I flown in the night season, yet have I returned to
my young at the daybreak.

"Shelter ye under the shadow of my wings, O people, and I will comfort
you, and ye shall not be dismayed.

"Now is the good time, the time of spoil.

"Mine are the cattle on the mountains, mine are the virgins in the
kraals.

"The winter is overpast with storms, the summer is come with flowers.

"Now Evil shall cover up her face, now Mercy and Gladness shall dwell
in the land.

"Rejoice, rejoice, my people!

"Let all the stars rejoice in that this tyranny is trodden down, in
that I am the king
_Thou art the king
beautiful white leg
Of farewells to the dying
  And mournings for the dead
Incubu's blow
Yes
but the Kukuana people can
only be kept cool by letting their blood flow sometimes. Many are
killed, indeed, but the women are left, and others must soon grow up to
take the places of the fallen. After this the land would be quiet for a
while
Hail, O king
Yes, Macumazahn. King at last, by the might of your three right
hands
She is the evil genius of the land
and I shall kill
her, and all the witch doctors with her! She has lived so long that
none can remember when she was not very old, and she it is who has
always trained the witch-hunters, and made the land wicked in the sight
of the heavens above
Yet she knows much
it is easier to destroy knowledge,
Ignosi, than to gather it
That is so
She, and she only, knows the
secret of the 'Three Witches,' yonder, whither the great road runs,
where the kings are buried, and the Silent Ones sit
Yes, and the diamonds are. Forget not thy promise, Ignosi; thou must
lead us to the mines, even if thou hast to spare Gagool alive to show
the way
I will not forget, Macumazahn, and I will think on what thou sayest
He will live
Hush -- h -- h
Tell her
that I owe her my life, and that I will never
forget her kindness to my dying day
Nay, my lord; my lord forgets! Did he not save _my_ life, and am I not
my lord's handmaiden
indaba
indunas
My friends
I have discovered this. It is there that
the three great figures sit, who here are called the 'Silent Ones,' and
to whom Twala would have offered the girl Foulata as a sacrifice. It is
there, too, in a great cave deep in the mountain, that the kings of the
land are buried; there ye shall find Twala's body, sitting with those
who went before him. There, also, is a deep pit, which, at some time,
long-dead men dug out, mayhap for the stones ye speak of, such as I
have heard men in Natal tell of at Kimberley. There, too, in the Place
of Death is a secret chamber, known to none but the king and Gagool.
But Twala, who knew it, is dead, and I know it not, nor know I what is
in it. Yet there is a legend in the land that once, many generations
gone, a white man crossed the mountains, and was led by a woman to the
secret chamber and shown the wealth hidden in it. But before he could
take it she betrayed him, and he was driven by the king of that day
back to the mountains, and since then no man has entered the place
The story is surely true, Ignosi, for on the mountains we found the
white man
Yes, we found him. And now I have promised you that if ye can come to
that chamber, and the stones are there
The gem upon thy forehead proves that they are there
Mayhap; if they are there
ye shall have as many as ye can
take hence -- if indeed ye would leave me, my brothers
First we must find the chamber
There is but one who can show it to thee -- Gagool
And if she will not
Then she must die
I have saved her alive but
for this. Stay, she shall choose
Leave her
What will ye with me, Ignosi
Ye dare not touch me. If ye
touch me I will slay you as ye sit. Beware of my magic
Thy magic could not save Twala, old she-wolf, and it cannot hurt me
Listen; I will this of thee, that thou reveal to us
the chamber where are the shining stones
Ha! ha
none know its secret but I, and I will never tell
thee. The white devils shall go hence empty-handed
Thou shalt tell me. I will make thee tell me
How, O king? Thou art great, but can thy power wring the truth from a
woman
It is difficult, yet will I do so
How, O king
Nay, thus; if thou tellest not thou shalt slowly die
Die
ye dare not touch me -- man, ye
know not who I am. How old think ye am I? I knew your fathers, and your
fathers' fathers' fathers. When the country was young I was here; when
the country grows old I shall still be here. I cannot die unless I be
killed by chance, for none dare slay me
Yet will I slay thee. See, Gagool, mother of evil, thou art so old
that thou canst no longer love thy life. What can life be to such a hag
as thou, who hast no shape, nor form, nor hair, nor teeth -- hast naught,
save wickedness and evil eyes? It will be mercy to make an end of thee,
Gagool
Thou fool
thou accursed fool, deemest thou
that life is sweet only to the young? It is not so, and naught thou
knowest of the heart of man to think it. To the young, indeed, death is
sometimes welcome, for the young can feel. They love and suffer, and it
wrings them to see their beloved pass to the land of shadows. But the
old feel not, they love not, and, _ha! ha!_ they laugh to see another
go out into the dark; _ha! ha!_ they laugh to see the evil that is done
under the stars. All they love is life, the warm, warm sun, and the
sweet, sweet air. They are afraid of the cold, afraid of the cold and
the dark, _ha! ha! ha
Cease thine evil talk and answer me
Wilt thou
show the place where the stones are, or wilt thou not? If thou wilt not
thou diest, even now
I will not show it; thou darest not kill me, darest not! He who slays
me will be accursed for ever
Nay, I will show thee. Only let me live, let me sit in the sun and
have a bit of meat to suck, and I will show thee
It is well. I thought that I should find a way to reason with thee.
To-morrow shalt thou go with Infadoos and my white brothers to the
place, and beware how thou failest, for if thou showest it not, then
thou shalt slowly die. I have spoken
I will not fail, Ignosi. I always keep my word -- _ha! ha! ha!_ Once
before a woman showed the chamber to a white man, and behold! evil
befell him
Her name was Gagool
also. Perchance I was that woman
Thou liest
that was ten generations gone
Mayhap, mayhap; when one lives long one forgets. Perhaps it was my
mother's mother who told me; surely her name was Gagool also. But mark,
ye will find in the place where the bright things are a bag of hide
full of stones. The man filled that bag, but he never took it away.
Evil befell him, I say, evil befell him! Perhaps it was my mother's
mother who told me. It will be a merry journey -- we can see the bodies
of those who died in the battle as we go. Their eyes will be gone by
now, and their ribs will be hollow. _Ha! ha! ha
Three
Witches
Walk more slowly, white men
why will ye run to meet the evil that shall
befall you, ye seekers after treasure
Can't you guess what this is
Then it is clear that you have never seen the diamond diggings at
Kimberley. You may depend on it that this is Solomon's Diamond Mine.
Look there
the formation is the same. I'll be bound that if we went
down there we should find 'pipes' of soapy brecciated rock. Look, too
if those are not tables once
used to wash the 'stuff,' I'm a Dutchman
Silent Ones
Silent Ones
Ashtoreth, the goddess
of the Zidonians, Chemosh, the god of the Moabites, and Milcom, the god
of the children of Ammon
Hum
there may be something in that; Ashtoreth of the
Hebrews was the Astarte of the Phoenicians, who were the great traders
of Solomon's time. Astarte, who afterwards became the Aphrodite of the
Greeks, was represented with horns like the half-moon, and there on the
brow of the female figure are distinct horns. Perhaps these Colossi
were designed by some Phoenician official who managed the mines. Who
can say
biltong
Now, white men from the Stars
great warriors, Incubu,
Bougwan, and Macumazahn the wise, are ye ready? Behold, I am here to do
the bidding of my lord the king, and to show you the store of bright
stones. _Ha! ha! ha
We are ready
Good, good! Make strong your hearts to bear what ye shall see. Comest
thou too, Infadoos, thou who didst betray thy master
Nay, I come not; it is not for me to enter there. But thou, Gagool,
curb thy tongue, and beware how thou dealest with my lords. At thy
hands will I require them, and if a hair of them be hurt, Gagool, be'st
thou fifty times a witch, thou shalt die. Hearest thou
I hear Infadoos; I know thee, thou didst ever love big words; when
thou wast a babe I remember thou didst threaten thine own mother. That
was but the other day. But, fear not, fear not, I live only to do the
bidding of the king. I have done the bidding of many kings, Infadoos,
till in the end they did mine. _Ha! ha!_ I go to look upon their faces
once more, and Twala's also! Come on, come on, here is the lamp
Art thou coming, Foulata
I fear, my lord
Then give me the basket
Nay, my lord, whither thou goest there I go also
The deuce you will
that may be rather awkward
if we ever get out of this
Hullo! what's that
somebody hit me in the face
Bats
on you go
Are ye prepared to enter the Place of Death, white men
Lead on, Macduff
This is getting rather ghastly
Come on, Quatermain -- _seniores priores_. We mustn't keep
the old lady waiting
Come, get on, old fellow
or we shall lose our fair
guide
Great heavens
what can it be
And what are _those things_
And what on earth is _that thing_
_Hee! hee! hee
To those who enter the Hall of the
Dead, evil comes. _Hee! hee! hee! ha! ha
Come, Incubu, brave in battle, come and see him thou slewest
Paradise Lost
With these in troop
    Came Ashtoreth, whom the Phoenicians called
    Astarte, Queen of Heaven, with crescent horns;
    To whose bright image nightly by the moon
    Sidonian virgins paid their vows and songs
Now haste ye, my handmaidens, haste and see
    How he sits there and glowers with his head on his knee
pickling
Now, Gagool
lead us to the chamber
My lords are not afraid
Lead on
Good, my lords
Here is the chamber; let my lords light the lamp, and enter
The
way is there, my lords. _Ha! ha! ha
Do not jest with us
I jest not, my lords. See
Enter, white men from the Stars
but first hear your servant, Gagool the old. The bright
stones that ye will see were dug out of the pit over which the Silent
Ones are set, and stored here, I know not by whom, for that was done
longer ago than even I remember. But once has this place been entered
since the time that those who hid the stones departed in haste, leaving
them behind. The report of the treasure went down indeed among the
people who lived in the country from age to age, but none knew where
the chamber was, nor the secret of the door. But it happened that a
white man reached this country from over the mountains -- perchance he
too came 'from the Stars'-- and was well received by the king of that
day. He it is who sits yonder
And it came to pass that he and a woman of the
country who was with him journeyed to this place, and that by chance
the woman learnt the secret of the door -- a thousand years might ye
search, but ye should never find that secret. Then the white man
entered with the woman, and found the stones, and filled with stones
the skin of a small goat, which the woman had with her to hold food.
And as he was going from the chamber he took up one more stone, a large
one, and held it in his hand
Well
what
happened to Da Silvestra
How knowest thou the dead man's name
None can tell what happened; but it came about that the white man was
frightened, for he flung down the goat-skin, with the stones, and fled
out with only the one stone in his hand, and that the king took, and it
is the stone which thou, Macumazahn, didst take from Twala's brow
Have none entered here since
None, my lords. Only the secret of the door has been kept, and every
king has opened it, though he has not entered. There is a saying, that
those who enter there will die within a moon, even as the white man
died in the cave upon the mountain, where ye found him, Macumazahn, and
therefore the kings do not enter. _Ha! ha!_ mine are true words
Enter, my lords. If I speak truth, the goat-skin with the stones will
lie upon the floor; and if there is truth as to whether it is death to
enter here, that ye will learn afterwards. _Ha! ha! ha
Oh, confound it all
here goes. I am not going to be
frightened by that old devil
See, my lords
those who
stored the treasure here fled in haste, and bethought them to guard
against any who should find the secret of the door, but had not the
time
_Hee! hee!_ white men
What did I tell you, that the white man who came here
fled in haste, and dropped the woman's bag -- behold it! Look within also
and ye will find a water-gourd amongst the stones
By Jove! I believe it's full of diamonds
Go on
Here, old lady, give me the
lamp
great throne of ivory
there was not
the like made in any kingdom
There are the diamonds
bring the light
Ah
we shan't go back empty-handed,
anyhow. There must be a couple of thousand pieces in each box, and
there are eighteen boxes. I suppose this was the money to pay the
workmen and merchants
Well
I think that is the lot; I don't see any
diamonds, unless the old Portuguese put them all into his bag
Let my lords look yonder where it is darkest, if they would find the
stones
There my lords will find
a nook, and three stone chests in the nook, two sealed and one open
Ah, Macumazahn, the watcher by night
ye who
dwell in the stars, do ye not know that some live long, and that some
have eyes which can see through rock? _Ha! ha! ha
Look in that corner, Curtis
Hullo, you fellows
here's a recess. Great heavens! see
here
_See
We are the richest men in the whole world
Monte Christo was
a fool to us
We shall flood the market with diamonds
Got to get them there first
_Hee! hee! hee
There are the bright stones ye love, white men, as
many as ye will; take them, run them through your fingers, _eat_ of
them, _hee! hee! drink_ of them, _ha! ha
Open the other chests, white men
there are surely
more therein. Take your fill, white lords! _Ha! ha!_ take your fill
off coloured
_Oh, Bougwan! help! help! the stone falls
Leave go, girl! Then
_Help! help! she has stabbed me
Ah! Bougwan, I die
She crept
out -- Gagool; I did not see her, I was faint -- and the door began to
fall; then she came back, and was looking up the path -- I saw her come
in through the slowly falling door, and caught her and held her, and
she stabbed me, and _I die_, Bougwan
Poor girl! poor girl
Bougwan
is Macumazahn there? It grows so
dark, I cannot see
Here I am, Foulata
Macumazahn, be my tongue for a moment, I pray thee, for Bougwan cannot
understand me, and before I go into the darkness I would speak to him a
word
Say on, Foulata, I will render it
Say to my lord, Bougwan, that -- I love him, and that I am glad to die
because I know that he cannot cumber his life with such as I am, for
the sun may not mate with the darkness, nor the white with the black.

"Say that, since I saw him, at times I have felt as though there were a
bird in my bosom, which would one day fly hence and sing elsewhere.
Even now, though I cannot lift my hand, and my brain grows cold, I do
not feel as though my heart were dying; it is so full of love that it
could live ten thousand years, and yet be young. Say that if I live
again, mayhap I shall see him in the Stars, and that -- I will search
them all, though perchance there I should still be black and he
would -- still be white. Say -- nay, Macumazahn, say no more, save that I
love -- Oh, hold me closer, Bougwan, I cannot feel thine arms -- _oh! oh
She is dead -- she is dead
You need not let that trouble you, old fellow
Eh
what do you mean
I mean that you will soon be in a position to join her. _Man, don't
you see that we are buried alive
This will never do
the lamp will soon go
out. Let us see if we can't find the spring that works the rock
Depend on it
it does not work from the inside; if it did
Gagool would not have risked trying to crawl underneath the stone. It
was the knowledge of this that made her try to escape at all hazards,
curse her
At all events
retribution
was swift; hers was almost as awful an end as ours is likely to be. We
can do nothing with the door; let us go back to the treasure room
Let us divide the food
so as to make it last as
long as possible
biltong
Now
let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we
die
biltong
Quatermain
what is the time -- your watch goes
Infadoos will miss us
If we do not return to-night he
will search for us in the morning, Curtis
He may search in vain. He does not know the secret of the door, nor
even where it is. No living person knew it yesterday, except Gagool.
To-day no one knows it. Even if he found the door he could not break it
down. All the Kukuana army could not break through five feet of living
rock. My friends, I see nothing for it but to bow ourselves to the will
of the Almighty. The search for treasure has brought many to a bad end;
we shall go to swell their number
Good
how many matches have you in the box
Eight, Curtis
Strike one and let us see the time
We had better eat something and keep up our strength
What is the good of eating
the sooner we die and get
it over the better
While there is life there is hope
How is it
that the air in this place keeps fresh? It is
thick and heavy, but it is perfectly fresh
Great heavens
I never thought of that. It
can't come through the stone door, for it's air-tight, if ever a door
was. It must come from somewhere. If there were no current of air in
the place we should have been stifled or poisoned when we first came
in. Let us have a look
I say, you fellows
come here
Quatermain, put your hand here where mine is. Now, do you feel
anything
I _think_ I feel air coming up
Now listen
Let me try
Now, Curtis
tackle on, and put your back into it; you are
as strong as two. Stop
Quatermain, get Curtis round the middle and
pull for dear life when I give the word. _Now
Heave! heave! it's giving
Light a match, Quatermain
carefully, now
Now what is to be done
Follow the stair, of course, and trust to Providence
Stop
Quatermain, get the bit of biltong and the
water that are left; we may want them
I say, you fellows
won't you take some diamonds with
you? I've filled my pockets and the basket
Oh, come on, Quatermain! and hang the diamonds
I
hope that I may never see another
Come on, Quatermain
Steady, I will go first
Mind where you put your feet, there may be some awful hole
underneath
Much more likely to be another room
Here's the bottom
Thank goodness! I think it's a passage. Follow me down
Let us go against the draught
air draws inwards, not
outwards
By heaven! it's running water
Come on
Go gently, Good
we must be close
Good! Good! where are you
All right; I've got hold of a rock. Strike a light to show me where
you are
Stand clear to catch me
I must swim for it
My word
that was touch and go. If I
hadn't managed to catch that rock, and known how to swim, I should have
been done. It runs like a mill-race, and I could feel no bottom
We may as well take it
all roads are alike
here; we can only go on till we drop
Look
is my brain going, or is that light
Infadoos, Infadoos! it is we, thy friends
Oh, my lords, my lords, it is indeed you come back from the
dead!-- come back from the dead
Can the sun mate with the
darkness, or the white with the black
rock
Open Sesame
Come hither
Thou art aged
Ay, my lord the king! Thy father's father and I were born on the same
day
Tell me, when thou wast little, didst thou know Gagaoola the witch
doctress
Ay, my lord the king
How was she then -- young, like thee
Not so, my lord the king! She was even as she is now and as she was in
the days of my great grandfather before me; old and dried, very ugly,
and full of wickedness
She is no more; she is dead
So, O king! then is an ancient curse taken from the land
Go
_Koom!_ I go, Black Puppy, who tore out the old dog's throat. _Koom
Ye see, my brothers
this was a strange woman, and I
rejoice that she is dead. She would have let you die in the dark place,
and mayhap afterwards she had found a way to slay me, as she found a
way to slay my father, and set up Twala, whom her black heart loved, in
his place. Now go on with the tale; surely there never was its like
And now, Ignosi
the time has come for us to bid thee
farewell, and start to see our own land once more. Behold, Ignosi, thou
camest with us a servant, and now we leave thee a mighty king. If thou
art grateful to us, remember to do even as thou didst promise: to rule
justly, to respect the law, and to put none to death without a cause.
So shalt thou prosper. To-morrow, at break of day, Ignosi, thou wilt
give us an escort who shall lead us across the mountains. Is it not so,
O king
My heart is sore
your words split my heart in
twain. What have I done to you, Incubu, Macumazahn, and Bougwan, that
ye should leave me desolate? Ye who stood by me in rebellion and in
battle, will ye leave me in the day of peace and victory? What will
ye -- wives? Choose from among the maidens! A place to live in? Behold,
the land is yours as far as ye can see. The white man's houses? Ye
shall teach my people how to build them. Cattle for beef and milk?
Every married man shall bring you an ox or a cow. Wild game to hunt?
Does not the elephant walk through my forests, and the river-horse
sleep in the reeds? Would ye make war? My Impis wait your word. If
there is anything more which I can give, that will I give you
Nay, Ignosi, we want none of these things
we would seek
our own place
Now do I learn
that
ye love the bright stones more than me, your friend. Ye have the
stones; now ye would go to Natal and across the moving black water and
sell them, and be rich, as it is the desire of a white man's heart to
be. Cursed for your sake be the white stones, and cursed he who seeks
them. Death shall it be to him who sets foot in the place of Death to
find them. I have spoken. White men, ye can go
Ignosi
tell us, when thou
didst wander in Zululand, and among the white people of Natal, did not
thine heart turn to the land thy mother told thee of, thy native place,
where thou didst see the light, and play when thou wast little, the
land where thy place was
It was even so, Macumazahn
In like manner, Ignosi, do our hearts turn to our land and to our own
place
I do perceive that now as ever thy words are wise and full of reason,
Macumazahn; that which flies in the air loves not to run along the
ground; the white man loves not to live on the level of the black or to
house among his kraals. Well, ye must go, and leave my heart sore,
because ye will be as dead to me, since from where ye are no tidings
can come to me.

"But listen, and let all your brothers know my words. No other white
man shall cross the mountains, even if any man live to come so far. I
will see no traders with their guns and gin. My people shall fight with
the spear, and drink water, like their forefathers before them. I will
have no praying-men to put a fear of death into men's hearts, to stir
them up against the law of the king, and make a path for the white folk
who follow to run on. If a white man comes to my gates I will send him
back; if a hundred come I will push them back; if armies come, I will
make war on them with all my strength, and they shall not prevail
against me. None shall ever seek for the shining stones: no, not an
army, for if they come I will send a regiment and fill up the pit, and
break down the white columns in the caves and choke them with rocks, so
that none can reach even to that door of which ye speak, and whereof
the way to move it is lost. But for you three, Incubu, Macumazahn, and
Bougwan, the path is always open; for, behold, ye are dearer to me than
aught that breathes.

"And ye would go. Infadoos, my uncle, and my Induna, shall take you by
the hand and guide you with a regiment. There is, as I have learned,
another way across the mountains that he shall show you. Farewell, my
brothers, brave white men. See me no more, for I have no heart to bear
it. Behold! I make a decree, and it shall be published from the
mountains to the mountains; your names, Incubu, Macumazahn, and
Bougwan, shall be
even as the names of dead kings, and he
who speaks them shall die.&lsqb;1&rsqb; So shall your memory be preserved in the
land for ever.

"Go now, ere my eyes rain tears like a woman's. At times as ye look
back down the path of life, or when ye are old and gather yourselves
together to crouch before the fire, because for you the sun has no more
heat, ye will think of how we stood shoulder to shoulder, in that great
battle which thy wise words planned, Macumazahn; of how thou wast the
point of the horn that galled Twala's flank, Bougwan; whilst thou stood
in the ring of the Greys, Incubu, and men went down before thine axe
like corn before a sickle; ay, and of how thou didst break that wild
bull Twala's strength, and bring his pride to dust. Fare ye well for
ever, Incubu, Macumazahn, and Bougwan, my lords and my friends
Speak on
Let my lord show his servant his beautiful white legs, that his
servant may look upon them, and remember them all her days, and tell of
them to her children; his servant has travelled four days' journey to
see them, for the fame of them has gone throughout the land
I'll be hanged if I do
Come, come, my dear fellow
you can't refuse to
oblige a lady
I won't
it is positively indecent
transparent eye
Never, my lords
shall mine old eyes see the like of
you again. Ah! the way that Incubu cut his men down in the battle! Ah!
for the sight of that stroke with which he swept off my brother Twala's
head! It was beautiful -- beautiful! I may never hope to see such
another, except perchance in happy dreams
Do you know
I think that there are worse
places than Kukuanaland in the world, and that I have known unhappier
times than the last month or two, though I have never spent such queer
ones. Eh! you fellows
I almost wish I were back
What the dickens
can a hut be doing here
Look here, you fellows
is that a white man, or am I mad
Great Powers
_it is my brother George
Macumazahn
don't you know me, Baas? I'm Jim the hunter.
I lost the note you gave me to give to the Baas, and we have been here
nearly two years
You careless scoundrel
you ought to be well
_sjambocked_
My dear old fellow
I thought you were
dead. I have been over Solomon's Mountains to find you. I had given up
all hope of ever seeing you again, and now I come across you perched in
the desert, like an old _assvogel_
I tried to cross Solomon's Mountains nearly two years ago
but when I reached here a
boulder fell on my leg and crushed it, and I have been able to go
neither forward nor back
How do you do, Mr. Neville
do you remember
me
Why
isn't it Hunter Quatermain, eh, and Good too? Hold on
a minute, you fellows, I am getting dizzy again. It is all so very
strange, and, when a man has ceased to hope, so very happy
And so
we have lived for nearly two years,
like a second Robinson Crusoe and his man Friday, hoping against hope
that some natives might come here to help us away, but none have come.
Only last night we settled that Jim should leave me, and try to reach
Sitanda's Kraal to get assistance. He was to go to-morrow, but I had
little hope of ever seeing him back again. And now _you_, of all people
in the world, _you_, who, as I fancied, had long ago forgotten all
about me, and were living comfortably in old England, turn up in a
promiscuous way and find me where you least expected. It is the most
wonderful thing that I have ever heard of, and the most merciful too
By Jove
well, at least you have got something for your pains, besides my
worthless self
They belong to Quatermain and Good. It was a part
of the bargain that they should divide any spoils there might be
beautiful white legs
</text>
