<text>
Let us now praise famous men
wuzzy
All up
I spotted Heffy's fairy feet round our
hut after dinner. 'Blessing they're so big
Con-found! Did you hide our pipes
Oh, no. Left 'em in the middle of the hut, of course. What a blind ass
you are, Beetle! D'you think nobody thinks but yourself? Well, we can't
use the hut any more. Hoofer will be watchin' it
Nice job! This means we're under
suspicion for the rest of the term
Why? All that Heffy has found is a hut. He and Foxy will watch it. It's
nothing to do with us; only we mustn't be seen that way for a bit
Yes, and where else are we to go
You chose that place,
too -- an'-- an' I wanted to read this afternoon
You're a despondin' brute, Beetle. Sometimes I think I shall have to
drop you altogether. Did you ever know your Uncle Stalky forget you yet?
_His rebus infectis_ -- after I'd seen Heffy's man-tracks marchin'
round our hut, I found little Hartopp -- _destricto ense_ -- wavin' a
butterfly-net. I conciliated Hartopp. 'Told him that you'd read papers
to the Bug-hunters if he'd let you join, Beetle. 'Told him you liked
butterflies, Turkey. Anyhow, I soothed the Hartoffles, and we're
Bug-hunters now
What's the good of that
Oh, Turkey, kick him
I'm an ass, Stalky
_Pax_,
Turkey. I'm an ass
Don't stop, Turkey. Isn't your Uncle Stalky a great man
Great man
All the same bug-huntin's a filthy business
How the
deuce does one begin
This way
Fags
are dabs at Natural History. Here's young Braybrooke's botany-case
Gives one
no end of a professional air, I think. Here's Clay Minor's geological
hammer. Beetle can carry that. Turkey, you'd better covet a
butterfly-net from somewhere
I'm blowed if I do
Beetle, give me the hammer
All right. I'm not proud. Chuck us down that net on top of the lockers,
Stalky
That's all right. It's a collapsible jamboree, too. Beastly luxurious
dogs these fags are. Built like a fishin'-rod. 'Pon my sainted Sam,
but we look the complete Bug-hunters! Now, listen to your Uncle Stalky!
We're goin' along the cliffs after butterflies. Very few chaps come
there. We're goin' to leg it, too. You'd better leave your book behind
Not much
I'm not goin' to be done out of my fun
for a lot of filthy butterflies
Then you'll sweat horrid. You'd better carry my Jorrocks. 'Twon't make
you any hotter
Are we going to Clovelly
Fee-rocious old cove, this
_Prosecuted with the utmost rigour of the law_. G. M. Dabney, Col.,
J.P.,' an' all the rest of it. 'Don't seem to me that any chap in his
senses would trespass here, does it
You've got to prove damage 'fore you can prosecute for anything! 'Can't
prosecute for trespass
That's all rot
Glad of that, 'cause this looks like what we wanted. Not straight
across, Beetle, you blind lunatic! Anyone could spot us half a mile off.
This way; and furl up your beastly butterfly-net
_Now_ we can get straight down through the furze, and never show up
at all
Beetle, go ahead and explore. Snf! Snf!
Beastly stink of fox somewhere
By gum! There isn't a single thing to do except lie down
Look here
Whew! What a place! Talk of natural history; this is it
Isn't it scrumptious? Good old sea
Hullo, here's a keeper
Confound him, he's going to sit down
He'd swear we were poachin', too
What's the good of
pheasants' eggs? They're always addled, too
Might as well get up to the wood, I think
We don't want
G. M. Dabney, Col., J.P., to be bothered about us so soon. Up the wuzzy
and keep quiet! He may have followed us, you know
Aie! yeou little red rascal. I see yeou
Narrow squeak
I'll swear some of the pellets went
through my hair
Did you see him
I almost put my hand on him. Wasn't
he a wopper! Didn't he stink! Hullo, Turkey, what's the matter? Are you
hit
Do you know that that was just as bad as murder
Well, he didn't hit us
I think it was rather a lark.
Here, where are you going
I'm going up to the house, if there is one
I am going to tell this Colonel Dabney
Are you crazy? He'll swear it served us jolly well right. He'll report
us. It'll be a public lickin'. Oh, Turkey, don't be an ass! Think of
us
You fool
D'you suppose I'm thinkin'
of _us_? It's the keeper
He's cracked
Are you Colonel Dabney
I -- I am, and
who -- what the
devil d'you want? Ye've been disturbing my pheasants. Don't attempt to
deny it. Ye needn't laugh at it
You've
been birds'-nesting. You needn't hide your hat. I can see that you
belong to the College. Don't attempt to deny it. Ye do! Your name
and number at once, sir. Ye want to speak to me -- Eh? You saw my
notice-boards? Must have. Don't attempt to deny it. Ye did! Damnable, oh
damnable
Lo-look here, sir. Do -- do you shoot foxes? Because, if you don't, your
keeper does. We've seen him! I do-don't care what you call us -- but it's
an awful thing. It's the ruin of good feelin' among neighbors. A ma-man
ought to say once and for all how he stands about preservin'. It's
worse than murder, because there's no legal remedy
Do you know who I am
No, sorr, nor do I care if ye belonged to the Castle itself. Answer me
now, as one gentleman to another. Do ye shoot foxes or do ye not
I do not
Then you must sack your keeper. He's not fit to live in the same county
with a God-fearin' fox. An' a vixen, too -- at this time o' year
Did ye come up on purpose to tell me this
Of course I did, ye silly man
Would you
not have done as much for me if you'd seen that thing happen on my land,
now
I apologize
I apologize unreservedly -- to you, and to the
Old Country. Now, will you be good enough to tell me your story
We were in your combe
So you see he must be in the habit of
it. I -- we --- one never wants to accuse a neighbor's man; but I took the
liberty in this case
I see. Quite so. For a reason ye had. Infamous --- oh, infamous
This comes of promoting a
fisherman -- a fisherman -- from his lobster-pots. It's enough to ruin the
reputation of an archangel. Don't attempt to deny it. It is! Your father
has brought you up well. He has. I'd much like the pleasure of his
acquaintance. Very much, indeed. And these young gentlemen? English
they are. Don't attempt to deny it. They came up with you, too?
Extraordinary! Extraordinary, now! In the present state of education I
shouldn't have thought any three boys would be well enough grounded.
But out of the mouths of -- No -- no! Not that by any odds. Don't attempt to
deny it. Ye're not! Sherry always catches me under the liver, but -- beer,
now? Eh? What d'you say to beer, and something to eat? It's long since
I was a boy -- abominable nuisances; but exceptions prove the rule. And a
vixen, too
My dear man, of course ye can come again. Did I not say exceptions
prove the rule? The lower combe? Man, dear, anywhere ye please, so long
as you do not disturb my pheasants. The two are not incompatible. Don't
attempt to deny it. They're not! I'll never allow another gun, though.
Come and go as ye please. I'll not see you, and ye needn't see me. Ye've
been well brought up. Another glass of beer, now? I tell you a fisherman
he was and a fisherman he shall be to-night again. He shall! Wish
I could drown him. I'll convoy you to the Lodge. My people are not
precisely -- ah -- broke to boy, but they'll know you again
Oh, Paddy dear, and did ye hear the news that's goin' round
Turkey, it was immense
I didn't know you
had it in you. You've got us a hut for the rest of the term, where
we simply _can't_ be collared. Fids! Fids! Oh, Fids! I gloat! Hear me
gloat
gloat
wuzzy
_Ti-ra-ra-la-i-tu_! I gloat! Hear me
_Ti-ra-la-la-i-tu_! I gloat! Hear me
_Ti-ra-la-la-i-tu_! I gloat! Hear me
Ah-haa
Curious!
Now _my_ house never dream of doing these things
But you see I've no proof, exactly
Proof? With the egregious Beetle! As if one wanted it! I suppose it
is not impossible for the Sergeant to supply it? Foxy is considered
at least a match for any evasive boy in my house. Of course they were
smoking and drinking somewhere. That type of boy always does. They think
it manly
But they've no following in the school, and they are distinctly -- er
brutal to their juniors
Ah! They consider themselves superior to ordinary delights.
Self-sufficient little animals! There's something in McTurk's Hibernian
sneer that would make me a little annoyed. And they are so careful
to avoid all overt acts, too. It's sheer calculated insolence. I am
strongly opposed, as you know, to interfering with another man's house;
but they need a lesson, Prout. They need a sharp lesson, if only to
bring down their over-weening self-conceit. Were I you, I should devote
myself for a week to their little performances. Boys of that order -- and
I may flatter myself, but I think I know boys -- don't join the
Bug-hunters for love. Tell the Sergeant to keep his eye open; and, of
course, in my peregrinations I may casually keep mine open, too
_Ti-ra-la-la-i-tu_! I gloat! Hear me
Disgusting
Where do they pick up these obscene noises?
One sharp lesson is what they want
And even if it wasn't
Even suppose we were miles out of bounds, no one could get at us
through this wuzzy, unless he knew the tunnel. Isn't this better than
lyin' up just behind the Coll.-- in a blue funk every time we had a
smoke? Isn't your Uncle Stalky
No
We've got to thank Turkey for this. Turkey is the Great
Man. Turkey, dear, you're distressing Heffles
Gloomy old ass
They've got us under suspicion
Hoophats _is_ so
suspicious somehow; and Foxy always makes every stalk he does a sort
of -- sort of
Scalp
Foxy's a giddy Chingangook
Poor Foxy
He's goin' to catch us one of these days.
'Said to me in the Gym last night, 'I've got my eye on you, Mister
Corkran. I'm only warning you for your good.' Then I said: 'Well, you
jolly well take it off again, or you'll get into trouble. I'm only
warnin' you for your good.' Foxy was wrath
Yes, but it's only fair sport for Foxy
It's Hefflelinga
that has the evil mind. 'Shouldn't wonder if he thought we got tight
I never got squiffy but once -- that was in the holidays
an' it made me horrid sick. 'Pon my sacred Sam, though,
it's enough to drive a man to drink, havin' an animal like Hoof for
house-master
If we attended the matches an' yelled, 'Well hit, sir,' an' stood on
one leg an' grinned every time Heffy said, 'So ho, my sons. Is it thus?'
an' said, 'Yes, sir,' an' 'No, sir,' an' 'O, sir,' an' 'Please, sir,'
like a lot o' filthy fa-ags, Heffy 'ud think no end of us
Too late to begin that
It's all right. The Hefflelinga means well. _But_ he is an ass. _And_
we show him that we think he's an ass. An' _so_ Heffy don't love us.
'Told me last night after prayers that he was _in loco parentis_
The deuce he did
That means he's maturin' something
unusual dam' mean. Last time he told me that he gave me three hundred
lines for dancin' the cachuca in Number Ten dormitory. _Loco parentis_,
by gum! But what's the odds as long as you're 'appy? _We're_ all right
They're
deep -- day-vilish deep
Why are they drawin' those
covers
Me
I asked Foxy if he had ever tasted the beer
there. That was enough for Foxy, and it cheered him up a little. He and
Heffy were sniffin' round our old hut so long I thought they'd like a
change
Well, it can't last forever
Heffy's bankin' up like
a thunder-cloud, an' King goes rubbin' his beastly hands, an' grinnin'
like a hyena. It's shockin' demoralizin' for King. He'll burst some
day
Tired of pubs, eh? He's gone up to the top of the bill with his
binoculars to spot us
Wonder he didn't think of that
before. Did you see old Heffy cock his eye at us when we answered our
names? Heffy's in it, too. _Ti-ra-la-la-i-tu_! I gloat! Hear me! Come
on
Aves
Of course, but I'm not smokin' _aujourd'hui_. _Parceque je_ jolly well
_pense_ that we'll be _suivi_. We'll go along the cliffs, slow, an' give
Foxy lots of time to parallel us up above
Oh, don't let _me_ interrupt you
Engaged in scientific
pursuits, of course? I trust you will enjoy yourselves, my young
friends
You see
He _can't_ keep
a secret. He's followin' to cut off our line of retreat. He'll wait
at the baths till Heffy comes along. They've tried every blessed place
except along the cliffs, and now they think they've bottled us. No need
to hurry
Listen a shake. Foxy's up wind comin' down hill like beans. When you
hear him move in the bushes, go straight across to Aves. They want to
catch us _flagrante delicto_
What did I tell you
Aha! Foxy don't like the notice-boards, and he don't like the prickles
either. Now we'll cut up the tunnel and go to the Lodge. Hullo! They've
sent Foxy into cover
Hellish noise
Don't think Colonel Dabney
will like it. I move we go into the Lodge and get something to eat. We
might as well see the fun out
Who'm they to combe-bottom
for Lard's sake? Master'll be crazy
Poachers simly
I'll poach 'em to raights
Go on, Sergeant! Leave him alone, you, sir. He is executing my orders
Who'm yeou to give arders here, gingy whiskers? Yeou come up to the
master. Come out o' that wuzzy! &lsqb;This is to the Sergeant.&rsqb; Yiss, I
reckon us knows the boys yeou'm after. They've tu long ears an' vuzzy
bellies, an' you nippies they in yeour pockets when they'm dead. Come on
up to master! He'll boy yeou all you're a mind to. Yeou other folk bide
your side fence
Explain to the proprietor. You can explain, Sergeant
Come
yeou right in an' set down, my little dearrs
They'll
niver touch my man. He'll poach 'em to rights. Iss fai! Fresh berries
an' cream. Us Dartymoor folk niver forgit their friends. But them
Bidevor poachers, they've no hem to their garments. Sugar? My man he've
digged a badger for yeou, my dearrs. 'Tis in the linhay in a box
Us'll take un with us when we're finished here. I reckon yeou'm busy.
We'll bide here an'--'tis washin' day with yeou, simly
We'm no company to make all vitty for. Never yeou mind us. Yiss.
There's plenty cream
Ye can read? You've eyes in your head? Don't attempt to deny it. Ye
have
You saw my notice-boards. Your duty? Curse your impudence, sir. Your
duty was to keep off my grounds. Talk of duty to _me_! Why -- why -- why, ye
misbegotten poacher, ye'll be teaching me my A B C next! Roarin' like a
bull in the bushes down there! Boys? Boys? Boys? Keep your boys at home,
then! I'm not responsible for your boys! But I don't believe it -- I
don't believe a word of it. Ye've a furtive look in your eye -- a furtive,
sneakin', poachin' look in your eye, that 'ud ruin the reputation of an
archangel! Don't attempt to deny it! Ye have! A sergeant? More shame to
you, then, an' the worst bargain Her Majesty ever made! A sergeant, to
run about the country poachin'-- on your pension! Damnable! Oh, damnable!
But I'll be considerate. I'll be merciful. By gad, I'll be the very
essence o' humanity! Did ye, or did ye not, see my notice-boards? Don't
attempt to deny it! Ye did. Silence, Sergeant
Now. March
My duty! A
sergeant to tell me my duty
Good Lard! more
sergeants
It's King! It's King
I -- I protest against this outrage
The man was entirely within his duty. Let -- let me give you my
card
He's in flannels
Unfortunately -- most unfortunately -- I have not one with me, but my
name is King, sir, a house-master of the College, and you will find me
prepared -- fully prepared -- to answer for this man's action. We've seen
three
Did ye see my notice-boards
I admit we did; but under the circumstances
I stand _in loco parentis_
F'what
I'm responsible for the boys under my charge
Ye are, are ye? Then all I can say is that ye set them a very bad
example -- a dam' bad example, if I may say so. I do not own your boys.
I've not seen your boys, an' I tell you that if there was a boy grinnin'
in every bush on the place, _still_ ye've no shadow of a right here,
comin' up from the combe that way, an' frightenin' everything in it.
Don't attempt to deny it. Ye did. Ye should have come to the Lodge an'
seen me like Christians, instead of chasin' your dam' boys through the
length and breadth of my covers. _In loco parentis_ ye are? Well,
I've not forgotten my Latin either, an' I'll say to you:
'_Quis custodiet ipsos custodes_.' If the masters trespass, how can we
blame the boys
But if I could speak to you privately
I'll have nothing private with you! Ye can be as private as ye please
on the other side o' that gate an'-- I wish ye a very good afternoon
Oh, my Soul! Oh, my King! Oh, my Heffy! Oh, my Foxy! Zeal, all zeal,
Mr. Simple
Oh! Oh I Oh!--'I _did_ boil the
exciseman!' We must get out of this or we'll be late for tea
Ge -- Ge -- get the badger and make little Hartopp happy. Ma -- ma -- make
'em all happy
Well, take this box to Mr. Hartopp's rooms, then. We've done something
for the Natural History Society, at any rate
Fraid that won't save you, young gen'elmen
All sereno, Foxibus
We -- we'll never desert you, Foxy. Hounds choppin' foxes in cover is
more a proof of vice, ain't it?... No, you're right. I'm -- I'm not quite
well
They've gone a bit too far this time
Very
far gone, _I'd_ say, excep' there was no smell of liquor. An' yet it
isn't like 'em -- somehow. King and Prout they 'ad their dressin'-down
same as me. That's one comfort
Now, we must pull up
We're injured innocence -- as usual. We don't know what
we've been sent up here for, do we
No explanation. Deprived of tea. Public disgrace before the house
It's dam' serious
Well, hold on, till King loses his temper
He's a
libelous old rip, an' he'll be in a ravin' paddy-wack. Prout's too
beastly cautious. Keep your eye on King, and, if he gives us a chance,
appeal to the Head. That always makes 'em sick
Well, sir, there was a badger
He'll break cover in a minute
Then we'll run
into him before he gets away
I appeal to the Head, sir
I appeal to the head, sir
I appeal to the Head, sir
Thou hast appealed unto Caesar: unto Caesar shalt thou go
None the
less
you would be better advised to abide by our
decision, my young friends
Are we allowed to associate with the rest of the school till we see the
Head, sir
Well -- er -- if you persist in your defiant attitude
There is no alternative
We've got him -- got him on the Caudine Toasting-fork
King'll have to prove his charges up to
the giddy hilt
Too much ticklee, him bust
Didn't I say he'd go pop if we lat un bide
No prep., either, O ye incipient drunkards
and it's
trig night, too. Hullo! Here's our dear friend Foxy. More tortures,
Foxibus
I've brought you something to eat, young gentlemen
I -- I noticed you 'adn't 'ad anything to eat, an' I spoke to Gumbly, an'
he said you wasn't exactly cut off from supplies. So I brought up this.
It's your potted 'am tin, ain't it, Mr. Corkran
Why, Foxibus, you're a brick
I didn't think you had
this much -- what's the word, Beetle
Bowels
Thank you, Sergeant. That's young
Carter's potted ham, though
There was a C on it. I thought it was Mr. Corkran's. This is a very
serious business, young gentlemen. That's what it is. I didn't know,
perhaps, but there might be something on your side which you hadn't said
to Mr. King or Mr. Prout, maybe
There is. Heaps, Foxibus
Then you see, if that was the case, it seemed to me I might represent
it, quiet so to say, to the 'Ead when he asks me about it. I've got to
take 'im the charges to-night, an'-- it looks bad on the face of it
Trocious bad, Foxy. Twenty-seven cuts in the Gym before all the
school, and public expulsion. 'Wine is a mocker, strong drink is
ragin
It's nothin' to make fun of, young gentlemen. I 'ave to go to the 'Ead
with the charges. An'-- an' you mayn't be aware, per'aps, that I was
followin' you this afternoon; havin' my suspicions
Did ye see the notice-boards
Ye've eyes in your head. Don't attempt to deny it. Ye did
A sergeant! To run about poachin' on your pension! Damnable, O
damnable
Good Lord
Where -- where the devil _was_ you? I might ha' known it was a
do -- somewhere
Oh, you clever maniac
We mayn't be aware you were
followin' us this afternoon, mayn't we? 'Thought you were stalkin' us,
eh? Why, we led you bung into it, of course. Colonel Dabney -- don't
you think he's a nice man, Foxy?-- Colonel Dabney's our pet particular
friend. We've been goin' there for weeks and weeks, he invited us.
You and your duty! Curse your duty, sir! Your duty was to keep off his
covers
You'll never be able to hold up your head again, Foxy. The fags 'll
hoot at you
Think of your giddy prestige
Look 'ere, young gentlemen
You aren't surely
ever goin' to tell, are you? Wasn't Mr. Prout and Mr. King in -- in it
too
Foxibusculus, they _was_. They was -- singular horrid. Caught it worse
than you. We heard every word of it. You got off easy, considerin'. If
I'd been Dabney I swear I'd ha' quodded you. I think I'll suggest it to
him to-morrow
An' it's all goin' up to the 'Ead. Oh, Good Lord
Every giddy word of it, my Chingangook
Why
shouldn't it? _We've_ done nothing wrong. _We_ ain't poachers. _We_
didn't cut about blastin' the characters of poor, innocent boys -- saying
they were drunk
That I didn't
I -- I only said that you be'aved uncommon
odd when you come back with that badger. Mr. King may have taken the
wrong hint from that
Course he did; an' he'll jolly well shove all the blame on you when
he finds out he's wrong. We know King, if you don't. I'm ashamed of you.
You ain't fit to be a sergeant
Not with three thorough-goin' young devils like you, I ain't. I've
been had. I've been ambuscaded. Horse, foot, an' guns, I've been had,
an'-- an' there'll be no holdin' the junior forms after this. M'rover,
the 'Ead will send me with a note to Colonel Dabney to ask if what you
say about bein' invited was true
Then you'd better go in by the Lodge-gates this time, instead of
chasin' your dam' boys -- oh, that was the Epistle to King -- so it was.
We-el, Foxy
_Ti-ra-la-la-i-tu_! I gloat! Hear me
Foxy brought us
tea when we were moral lepers. Foxy has a heart. Foxy has been in the
Army, too
I wish I'd ha' had you in my company, young gentlemen
I'd ha' given you something
Silence at drum-head court-martial
I'm advocate for
the prisoner; and, besides, this is much too good to tell all the other
brutes in the Coll. They'd _never_ understand. They play cricket, and
say: 'Yes sir,' and 'O, sir,' and 'No, sir
Never mind that. Go ahead
Well, Foxy's a good little chap when he does not esteem himself so as
to be clever
Take not out your 'ounds on a werry windy day
_I_ don't care if you let him off
Nor me
Heffy is my only joy -- Heffy and King
I 'ad to do it
Right, O! Led away by bad companions in the execution of his duty
or -- or words to that effect. You're dismissed with a reprimand, Foxy.
_We_ won't tell about _you_. I swear we won't
Bad
for the discipline of the school. Horrid bad
Well
knowin' what I
know o' the young dev -- gentlemen of the College, I'm very glad to 'ear
it. But what am I to tell the 'Ead
Anything you jolly well please, Foxy. We aren't the criminals
Corkran, McTurk, and Co., I see. Bounds as usual. Hullo! What the deuce
is this? Suspicion of drinking. Whose charge
Mr. King's, sir. I caught 'em out of bounds, sir: at least that was 'ow
it looked. But there's a lot be'ind, sir
Go on
Let us have your version
I thought they were out of bounds along the cliffs. But it come out
they wasn't, sir. I saw them go into Colonel Dabney's woods, and -- Mr.
King and Mr. Prout come along -- and the fact was, sir, we was mistook
for poachers by Colonel Dabney's people -- Mr. King and Mr. Prout and me.
There were some words, sir, on both sides. The young gentlemen slipped
'ome somehow, and they seemed 'ighly humorous, sir. Mr. King was mistook
by Colonel Dabney himself -- Colonel Dabney bein' strict. Then they
preferred to come straight to you, sir, on account of what -- what Mr.
King may 'ave said about their 'abits afterwards in Mr. Prout's study.
I only said they was 'ighly humorous, laughin' an' gigglin', an' a bit
above 'emselves. They've since told me, sir, in a humorous way, that
they was invited by Colonel Dabney to go into 'is woods
I see. They didn't tell their house-master that, of course
They took up Mr. King on appeal just as soon as he spoke about
their --'abits. Put in the appeal at once, sir, an' asked to be sent
to the dormitory waitin' for you. I've since gathered, sir, in their
humorous way, sir, that some'ow or other they've 'eard about every word
Colonel Dabney said to Mr. King and Mr. Prout when he mistook 'em for
poachers. I -- I might ha' known when they led me on so that they 'eld the
inner line of communications. It's -- it's a plain do, sir, if you ask me;
an' they're gloatin' over it in the dormitory
Send them to me at once, Sergeant. This case needn't wait over
Good evening
I want
your undivided attention for a few minutes. You've known me for five
years, and I've known you for -- twenty-five. I think we understand one
another perfectly. I am now going to pay you a tremendous compliment
(the brown one, please, Sergeant. Thanks. You needn't wait). I'm going
to execute you without rhyme, Beetle, or reason. I know you went to
Colonel Dabney's covers because you were invited. I'm not even going to
send the Sergeant with a note to ask if your statement is true; because
I am convinced that on this occasion you have adhered strictly to the
truth. I know, too, that you were not drinking. (You can take off
that virtuous expression, McTurk, or I shall begin to fear you don't
understand me.) There is not a flaw in any of your characters. And that
is why I am going to perpetrate a howling injustice. Your reputations
have been injured, haven't they? You have been disgraced before the
house, haven't you? You have a peculiarly keen regard for the honor of
your house, haven't you? Well, now I am going to lick you
And this I think
covers the situation. When you
find a variation from the normal -- this will be useful to you in later
life -- always meet him in an abnormal way. And that reminds me. There are
a pile of paper-backs on that shelf. You can borrow them if you put them
back. I don't think they'll take any harm from being read in the open.
They smell of tobacco rather. You will go to prep. this evening as
usual. Good-night
Good-night, and thank you, sir
I swear I'll pray for the Head to-night
Those last two
cuts were just flicks on my collar. There's a 'Monte Cristo' in that
lower shelf. I saw it. Bags I, next time we go to Aves
Dearr man
No gating. No impots. No beastly questions.
All settled. Hullo! what's King goin' in to him for -- King and Prout
I say, Beetle, _quis custodet ipsos custodes_
Don't ask me
I'll have nothin' private with you. Ye can
be as private as ye please the other end of the bench; and I wish ye a
very good afternoon
Well, ye should ha' come up to the lodge like Christians instead o'
chasin' your -- a-hem -- boys through the length an' breadth of my covers.
_I_ think these house-matches are all rot. Let's go over to Colonel
Dabney's an' see if he's collared any more poachers
come
all right on the night
What about the last song, though
We need a rousing old tune
John Peel'? 'Drink, Puppy, Drink
Stale
Might as well have 'Grandfather's Clock.' What's
that thing you were humming at prep. last night, Stalky
Once more, and I can pick it up
Sing the words
Arrah, Patsy, mind the baby! Arrah, Patsy, mind the child! Wrap him in
an overcoat, he's surely going wild! Arrah, Patsy, mind the baby! just
you mind the child awhile! He'll kick and bite and cry all night! Arrah,
Patsy, mind the child
Rippin'! Oh, rippin
Only we shan't have any piano
on the night. We must work it with the banjoes -- play an' dance at the
same time. You try, Tertius
Yes, but I'm dead all this time. Bung in the middle of the stage, too
Oh, that's Beetle's biznai
Vamp it up, Beetle. Don't
keep us waiting all night. You've got to get Pussy out of the light
somehow, and bring us all in dancin' at the end
All right. You two play it again
Um! Ah! Er --'Aladdin now has won his wife
Now jump up, Pussy! Say, 'I think I'd better come to life! Then we
all take hands and come forward: 'We hope you've all been pleased.'
_Twiggez-vous_
_Nous twiggons_. Good enough. What's the chorus for the final ballet?
It's four kicks and a turn
Oh! Er!

   John Short will ring the curtain down.
   And ring the prompter's bell;
   We hope you know before you go
   That we all wish you well
Rippin'! Rippin'! Now for the Widow's scene with the Princess. Hurry
up, Turkey
Play up,
Turkey
this is serious
Locked doors! Locked doors
What's the
meaning of this; and what, may I ask, is the intention of this -- this
epicene attire
Pantomime, sir. The Head gave us leave
As usual
Futile foolery just when your careers, such
as they may be, are hanging in the balance. I see! Ah, I see! The old
gang of criminals -- allied forces of disorder -- Corkran
McTurk
and, of course,
the unspeakable Beetle, our friend Gigadibs
Come
forth, my inky buffoon, from behind yonder instrument of music! You
supply, I presume, the doggerel for this entertainment. Esteem yourself
to be, as it were, a poet
He's found one of 'em
I have just had the pleasure of reading an effusion of yours to my
address, I believe -- an effusion intended to rhyme. So -- so you despise
me, Master Gigadibs, do you? I am quite aware -- you need not
explain -- that it was ostensibly not intended for my edification. I read
it with laughter -- yes, with laughter. These paper pellets of inky
boys -- still a boy we are, Master Gigadibs -- do not disturb my equanimity
Wonder which it was
And the worst of it
is
that I waste such gems of sarcasm on their thick heads. It's miles above
them, I'm certain
We-ell
I don't know what Corkran's
appreciation of your style may be, but young McTurk reads Ruskin for his
amusement
Nonsense! He does it to show off. I mistrust the dark Celt
He does nothing of the kind. I went into their study the other night,
unofficially, and McTurk was gluing up the back of four odd numbers of
'Fors Clavigera
I don't know anything about their private lives
but I've learned by bitter experience that Number Five
study are best left alone. They are utterly soulless young devils
That little swine Manders miner must have shown him your stuff. He's
always suckin' up to King. Go and kill him
Which one was
it, Beetle
Dunno
There was one about
his hunting for popularity with the small boys, and the other one was
one about him in hell, tellin' the Devil he was a Balliol man. I swear
both of 'em rhymed all right. By gum! P'raps Manders minor showed him
both! _I'll_ correct his caesuras for him
brew
My hat
Who stumped
up for this, Stalky
You
Confound you! You haven't been popping my Sunday bags, then
Keep your hair on. It's only your watch
Watch! I lost it -- weeks ago. Out on the Burrows, when we tried to shoot
the old ram -- the day our pistol burst
It dropped out of your pocket (you're so beastly careless, Beetle), and
McTurk and I kept it for you. I've been wearing it for a week, and you
never noticed. Took it into Bideford after dinner to-day. Got thirteen
and sevenpence. Here's the ticket
Well, that's pretty average cool
You gave him the ticket, Stalky? You pawned it? You unmitigated beast!
Why, last month you and Beetle sold mine! 'Never got a sniff of any
ticket
Ah, that was because you locked your trunk, and we wasted half the
afternoon hammering it open. We might have pawned it if you'd behaved
like a Christian, Turkey
My Aunt
you chaps are communists. Vote of thanks to
Beetle, though
That's beastly unfair
when I took all the trouble to
pawn it. Beetle never knew he had a watch. Oh, I say, Rabbits-Eggs gave
me a lift into Bideford this afternoon
He was
pretty average drunk, or he wouldn't have done it. Rabbits-Eggs is a
little shy of me, somehow. But I swore it was _pax_ between us, and gave
him a bob. He stopped at two pubs on the way in, so he'll be howling
drunk to-night. Oh, don't begin reading, Beetle; there's a council of
war on. What the deuce is the matter with your collar
Chivied Manders minor into the Lower Third box-room. 'Had all his
beastly little friends on top of me
You ass! Any fool could have told you where Manders would bunk to
I didn't think
Course you didn't. You never do
Don't drop oil all over my 'Fors' or I'll scrag you
Shut up, you -- you Irish Biddy! 'Tisn't your beastly 'Fors.' It's one of
mine
Beetle! You're oppressed and insulted and bullied by King. Don't you
feel it
Let me alone! I can write some more poetry about him if I am, I
suppose
Mad! Quite mad
Beetle reads an ass called Brownin', and McTurk reads an ass
called Ruskin; and
Ruskin isn't an ass
He's almost as good as the Opium
Eater. He says 'we're children of noble races trained by surrounding
art.' That means _me_, and the way I decorated the study when you two
badgers would have stuck up brackets and Christmas cards. Child of a
noble race, trained by surrounding art, stop reading, or I'll shove a
pilchard down your neck
It's two to one
What rot do you want now
King! War
Then we shall be turned out of the study again
Mason turned us out for -- just warbling on it
Warbling?-- O Lord
We couldn't hear ourselves speak in
our study when you played the infernal thing. What's the good of getting
turned out of your study, anyhow
We lived in the form-rooms for a week, too
And it was beastly cold
Ye-es, but Mason's rooms were filled with rats every day we were out.
It took him a week to draw the inference
He loathes
rats. 'Minute he let us go back the rats stopped. Mason's a little shy
of us now, but there was no evidence
Jolly well there wasn't
when I got out on the roof and
dropped the beastly things down his chimney. But, look here -- question
is, are our characters good enough just now to stand a study row
Never mind mine
King swears I haven't any
I'm not thinking of you
You aren't
going up for the Army, you old bat. I don't want to be expelled -- and the
Head's getting rather shy of us, too
Rot
The Head never expels except for beastliness or
stealing. But I forgot; you and Stalky _are_ thieves -- regular burglars
Well, you know, that little beast Manders minor saw Beetle and me
hammerin' McTurk's trunk open in the dormitory when we took his watch
last month. Of course Manders sneaked to Mason, and Mason solemnly took
it up as a case of theft, to get even with us about the rats
That just put Mason into our giddy hands
We
were nice to him, because he was a new master and wanted to win the
confidence of the boys. 'Pity he draws inferences, though. Stalky went
to his study and pretended to blub, and told Mason he'd lead a new life
if Mason would let him off this time, but Mason wouldn't. 'Said it was
his duty to report him to the Head
Vindictive swine
It was all those rats! Then _I_
blubbed, too, and Stalky confessed that he'd been a thief in regular
practice for six years, ever since he came to the school; and that I'd
taught him -- _a la_ Fagin. Mason turned white with joy. He thought he had
us on toast
Gorgeous! Gorgeous
We never heard of this
Course not. Mason kept it jolly quiet. He wrote down all our
statements on impot-paper. There wasn't anything he wouldn't believe
And handed it all up to the Head, _with_ an extempore prayer. It took
about forty pages
I helped him a lot
And then, you crazy idiots
Oh, we were sent for; and Stalky asked to have the 'depositions' read
out, and the Head knocked him spinning into a waste-paper basket. Then
he gave us eight cuts apiece -- welters -- for -- for -- takin' unheard-of
liberties with a new master. I saw his shoulders shaking when we went
out. Do you know
that Mason can't look at us
now in second lesson without blushing? We three stare at him sometimes
till he regularly trickles. He's an awfully sensitive beast
He read 'Eric, or Little by Little
so we gave him 'St.
Winifred's, or the World of School.' They spent all their spare time
stealing at St. Winifred's, when they weren't praying or getting drunk
at pubs. Well, that was only a week ago, and the Head's a little bit shy
of us. He called it constructive deviltry. Stalky invented it all
Not the least good having a row with a master unless you can make an
ass of him
If Mason
didn't know Number Five -- well, he's learnt, that's all. Now, my dearly
beloved 'earers
we've got that strong', perseverin' man King on our hands. He
went miles out of his way to provoke a conflict
He has
oppressed Beetle, McTurk, and me, _privatim et seriatim_, one by one,
as he could catch us. But now, he has insulted Number Five up in
the music-room, and in the presence of these -- these ossifers of the
Ninety-third, wot look like hairdressers. Binjimin, we must make him cry
'Capivi
And, besides
he's a Philistine, a basket-hanger. He
wears a tartan tie. Ruskin says that any man who wears a tartan tie
will, without doubt, be damned everlastingly
Bravo, McTurk
I thought he was only a beast
He's that, too, of course, but he's worse. He has a china basket with
blue ribbons and a pink kitten on it, hung up in his window to grow musk
in. You know when I got all that old oak carvin' out of Bideford Church,
when they were restoring it (Ruskin says that any man who'll restore a
church is an unmitigated sweep), and stuck it up here with glue? Well,
King came in and wanted to know whether we'd done it with a fret-saw!
Yah! He is the King of basket-hangers
_Placete_, child of a generous race
Well
he comes from Balliol, but I'm going
to give the beast a chance. You see I can always make him hop with
some more poetry. He can't report me to the Head, because it makes him
ridiculous. (Stalky's quite right.) But he shall have his chance
Or who in Moscow toward the Czar
   With the demurest of footfalls,
   Over the Kremlin's pavement white
   With serpentine and syenite,
   Steps with five other generals
That's no good. Try another
Hold on a shake; I know what's coming
Don't understand a word of it
More fool you! Construe
Those six bargees scragged the
Czar, and left no evidence. _Actum est_ with King
He gave me that book, too
There's a great text in Galatians,
   Once you trip on it entails
   Twenty-nine distinct damnations,
   One sure if another fails
Setebos! Setebos! and Setebos!
   Thinketh he liveth in the cold of the moon
He's just come in from dinner
Manders minor is with him
Safest place for Manders minor just now
Then you chaps had better clear out
Tisn't fair to mix you up in a study row. Besides, we can't
afford to have evidence
Are you going to begin at once?' said Aladdin.

"Immediately, if not sooner
Strong, perseverin' man -- King. Make him cry 'Capivi.' G'way, Binjimin
When Stalky blows out his nostrils like a horse
he's on the war-path. 'Wonder what King will get
Beans
Number Five generally pays in full
Wonder if I ought to take any notice of it officially
It's none of your business, Pussy. Besides, if you did, we'd have them
hostile to us; and we shouldn't be able to do any work
They've begun already
Turned out for a week
Key to be brought down to his study in five minutes. 'Brutes!
Barbarians! Savages! Children!' He's rather agitated. 'Arrah, Patsy,
mind the baby
Looks like no end of a mess
A week in the form-rooms isn't any
advantage to us
Yes, but don't you see that Stalky isn't here, you owl
Take down the key, and look sorrowful. King'll only jaw you for half an
hour. I'm going to read in the lower form-room
But it's always me
Wait till we see
I don't know any more than
you do what Stalky means, but it's something. Go down and draw King's
fire. You're used to it
It's a
way we have in the Army
Where he gwaine tu
_Habet_
And so
and so, Master
Beetle, in spite of all our verses, which we are so proud of, when
we presume to come into direct conflict with even so humble a
representative of authority as myself, for instance, we are turned out
of our studies, are we not
Yes, sir
You are _not_ required to criticise, thank you. Turned out of our
studies, we are, just as if we were no better than little Manders minor.
Only inky schoolboys we are, and must be treated as such
I zee 'un! I zee 'un
Yiss, yeou, yeou
long-nosed, fower-eyed, gingy-whiskered beggar! Yeu'm tu old for such
goin's on. Aie! Poultice yeour nose, I tall 'ee! Poultice yeour long
nose
Poor chap
Let it
bleed a little. That'll prevent apoplexy
You never told me to go, sir
Go to the dormitory and get me my things. Bring 'em to Number Five
lavatory. I'm still in tights
Don't run. Walk
_Moi_! _Je_! _Ich_! _Ego_
I waited till I
couldn't hear myself think, while you played the drum! Hid in the
coal-locker -- and tweaked Rabbits-Eggs -- and Rabbits-Eggs rocked King.
Wasn't it beautiful? Did you hear the glass
Why, he -- he -- he
Why, I -- I -- I was through it all
in his study, being
jawed
Oh, my soul
The -- the glass was nothing. Manders minor's head's cut open.
La -- la -- lamp upset all over the rug. Blood on the books and papers. The
gum! The gum! The gum! The ink! The ink! The ink! Oh, Lord
I bunked for the boot-cupboard the second I heard King go down-stairs.
Beetle tumbled in on top of me. The spare key's hid behind the loose
board. There isn't a shadow of evidence
And he turned us out himself -- himself -- himself
He
can't begin to suspect us. Oh, Stalky, it's the loveliest thing we've
ever done
Gum! Gum! Dollops of gum
Ink and blood all mixed. I held the little
beast's head all over the Latin proses for Monday. Golly, how the oil
stunk! And Rabbits-Eggs told King to poultice his nose! Did you hit
Rabbits-Eggs, Stalky
Did I jolly well not? Tweaked him all over. Did you hear him curse? Oh,
I shall be sick in a minute if I don't stop
Shockin
So dam' bad, too, for innocent boys like us! Wonder what
they'd say at 'St. Winifred's, or the World of School.'-- By gum! That
reminds me we owe the Lower Third one for assaultin' Beetle when he
chivied Manders minor. Come on! It's an alibi, Samivel; and, besides, if
we let 'em off they'll be worse next time
Phew
Oh, you beastly ca-ads! You think yourselves awful funny
_That's_ all right. Never let the sun go down upon your wrath.
Rummy little devils, fags. Got no notion o' combinin
Six of 'em sat on my head when I went in after Manders minor
I warned 'em what they'd get, though
Everybody paid in full -- beautiful feelin
Don't think we'd better say much
about King, though, do you, Stalky
Not _much_. Our line is injured innocence, of course -- same as when the
Sergeant reported us on suspicion of smoking in the bunkers. If I hadn't
thought of buyin' the pepper and spillin' it all over our clothes,
he'd have smelt us. King was gha-astly facetious about that. 'Called us
bird-stuffers in form for a week
Ah, King hates the Natural History Society because little Hartopp is
president. Mustn't do anything in the Coll. without glorifyin' King
But he must be a putrid ass, know, to suppose at our time
o' life we'd go and stuff birds like fags
Poor old King
He's unpopular in Common-room, and
they'll chaff his head off about Rabbits-Eggs. Golly! How lovely! How
beautiful! How holy! But you should have seen his face when the first
rock came in! _And_ the earth from the basket
What's the matter
You know jolly well
You'll be expelled if you get
caught. King is a gibbering maniac
Who? Which? What? Expelled for how? We only played the war-drum. We've
got turned out for that already
Do you chaps mean to say you didn't make Rabbits-Eggs drunk and bribe
him to rock King's rooms
Bribe him? No, that I'll swear we didn't
What a low mind you've got,
Pussy! We've been down having a bath. Did Rabbits-Eggs rock King?
Strong, perseverin' man King? Shockin
Awf'ly. King's frothing at the mouth. There's bell for prayers. Come
on
Wait a sec
What did Rabbits-Eggs
rock King for
I know
I was in his
study
Hush, you ass
Oh, he's gone down to
prayers
Rabbits-Eggs was only a bit drunk, swearin' at his horse, and
King jawed him through the window, and then, of course, he rocked King
Do you mean to say
that King began it
I can only swear
that King cursed like a
bargee. Simply disgustin'. I'm goin' to write to my father about it
Better report it to Mason
He knows our tender
consciences. Hold on a shake. I've got to tie my boot-lace
You see
he begins by
bullying little chaps; then he bullies the big chaps; then he bullies
some one who isn't connected with the College, and then catches it.
Serves him jolly well right... I beg your pardon, sir. I didn't see you
were coming down the staircase
Arrah, Patsy, mind the baby! Arrah, Patsy, mind the child!
   Wrap him up in an overcoat, he's surely goin' wild!
   Arrah, Patsy, mind the baby; just ye mind the child awhile!
   He'll kick an' bite an' cry all night! Arrah, Patsy, mind
     the child
To dearest Artie, on his sixteenth birthday
Eric; or,
Little by Little
St. Winifred's
An' I don't think much of your aunt. We're nearly out of cartridges,
too -- Artie, dear
Here we are
Corporal punishment produced on Eric the
worst effects. He burned _not_ with remorse or regret'-- make a note o'
that, Beetle --' but with shame and violent indignation. He glared'-- oh,
naughty Eric! Let's get to where he goes in for drink
Hold on half a shake. Here's another sample. 'The Sixth,' he says, 'is
the palladium of all public schools.' But this lot
can't prevent fellows drinkin' and stealin', an' lettin'
fags out of window at night, an'-- an' doin' what they please. Golly,
what we've missed -- not goin' to St. Winifred's
I'm sorry to see any boys of my house taking so little interest in
their matches
Very sorry,
indeed, I am to see you frowsting in your studies
We've been out ever since dinner, sir
I can't see a ball when it's coming, sir
I've had my
gig-lamps smashed at the Nets till I got excused. I wasn't any good even
as a fag, then, sir
Tuck is probably your form. Tuck and brewing. Why can't you three take
any interest in the honor of your house
If you order us to go down, sir, of course we'll go
Must we go down, sir?' said McTurk.

"I don't want to order you to do what a right-thinking boy should do
gladly. I'm sorry
Now what does he suppose is the use of that
Oh, he's cracked. King jaws him in Common-room about not keepin' us up
to the mark, an' Macrea burbles about 'dithcipline,' an' old Heffy sits
between 'em sweatin' big drops. I heard Oke (the Common-room butler)
talking to Richards (Prout's house-servant) about it down in the
basement the other day when I went down to bag some bread
What did Oke say
Oh, he said, 'They make more nise nor a nest full o' jackdaws, an' half
of it like we'd no ears to our heads that waited on 'em. They talks over
old Prout -- what he've done an' left undone about his boys. An' how their
boys be fine boys, an' his'n be dom bad.' Well, Oke talked like that,
you know, and Richards got awf'ly wrathy. He has a down on King for
something or other. Wonder why
Why, King talks about Prout in form-room -- makes allusions, an' all
that -- only half the chaps are such asses they can't see what he's
drivin' at. And d'you remember what he said about the 'Casual House'
last Tuesday? He meant us. They say he says perfectly beastly things to
his own house, making fun of Prout's
Well, we didn't come here to mix up in their rows
Who'll bathe after call-over? King's takin' it in the
cricket-field. Come on
Ah, ha
and from
what I have seen this afternoon, I fancy many others of your house hold
the same view. And may I ask what you purpose to do with your noble
selves till tea-time
Going down to bathe, sir
And whence this sudden zeal for cleanliness? There is nothing about you
that particularly suggests it. Indeed, so far as I remember -- I may be at
fault -- but a short time ago
Five years, sir
_One_ of you was that thing called a water-funk. Yes,
a water-funk. So now you wish to wash? It is well. Cleanliness never
injured a boy or -- a house. We will proceed to business
What the deuce did you say anything to him for, Beetle
Twasn't fair -- remindin' one of bein' a water-funk. My first term, too.
Heaps of chaps are -- when they can't swim
Yes, you ass; but he saw he'd fetched you. You ought never to answer
King
But it wasn't fair, Stalky
My Hat! You've been here six years, and you expect fairness. Well, you
are a dithering idiot
That's what comes of King's jawin' and messin'. Those young animals
wouldn't have thought of it unless he'd put it into their heads. Now
they'll be funny about it for weeks
Don't take any
notice
That's pretty
They'll be sayin' our house stinks next
with the compliments of
King's House
Hold on
Who put you up
to this, Nixon? Rattray and White? (Those were two leaders in King's
house.) Thank you. There's no answer
Oh, it's too sickening to have this kind o' rot shoved on to a chap.
What's the sense of it? What's the fun of it
It will go on to the end of the term, though
There seems to be some disability attaching to you, my Beetle, or else
why should Burton major withdraw, so to speak, the hem of his garments?
I confess I am still in the dark. Will some one be good enough to
enlighten me
Extraordinary! Most extraordinary! However, each house has its
traditions, with which I would not for the world interfere.
_We_ have a prejudice in favor of washing. Go on, Beetle -- from
'_jugurtha tamen_'-- and, if you can, avoid the more flagrant forms of
guessing
Gentlemen, we
have met on this occasion
It's a beastly shame
You jabber and jaw and burble, and that's about all you can do. What's
the good of it? King's house'll only gloat because they've drawn
you, and King will gloat, too. Besides, that resolution of Orrin's is
chock-full of bad grammar, and King'll gloat over that
I thought you an' Beetle would put it right, an'-- an' we'd post it in
the corridor
_Par si je le connai_. I'm not goin' to meddle with the biznai
It's a gloat for King's house. Turkey's quite right
Well, won't Stalky, then
Oh, you abject burblers
You're three beastly scabs
This is piffling
Let's get our sallies, and go and
shoot bunnies
What's all this? I've never noticed it before. What are you tryin' to
do, Fatty
Fillin' basins, Muster Corkran
They've been savin' me trouble. Yiss
Looks like it
Hi! You'll stick if you don't take
care
I can't rache un. Yiss, 'tess a turncock, Muster McTurk. They've took
an' runned all the watter-pipes a storey higher in the houses -- runned
'em all along under the 'ang of the heaves, like. Runned 'em in last
holidays. _I_ can't rache the turncock
Let me try
Slip 'ee to the left, then, Muster Corkran. Slip 'ee to the left, an'
feel in the dark
Rummy show. How far does it go
Right along, Muster Corkran -- right along from end to end. Her runs
under the 'ang of the heaves. Have 'ee rached the stopcock yet? Mr. King
got un put in to save us carryin' watter from down-stairs to fill the
basins. No place for a lusty man like old Richards. I'm tu thickabout to
go ferritin'. Thank 'ee, Muster Corkran
It has been papered over till now
If we'd only known before
I vote we go down and explore. No one will come up this time o' day. We
needn't keep _cave
Here's Macrea's house
I can see Barnes's name on his trunk. Don't make such a row,
Beetle! We can get right to the end of the Coll. Come on!... We're in
King's house now -- I can see a bit of Rattray's trunk. How these beastly
boards hurt one's knees
That's the ceiling below. Look out! If we smashed that the plaster 'ud
fall down in the lower dormitory
Let's
An' be collared first thing? Not much. Why, I can shove my hand ever so
far up between these boards
No good stayin' here. I vote we go back and talk it over. It's a crummy
place. 'Must say I'm grateful to King for his water-works
You know
we
could hide our sallies in there like anything
Huh
Did you ever read a book called 'The History
of a House' or something? I got it out of the library the other day. A
French woman wrote it -- Violet somebody. But it's translated, you know;
and it's very interestin'. Tells you how a house is built
Well, if you're in a sweat to find out that, you can go down to the new
cottages they're building for the coastguard
My Hat! I will
Give me tuppence, some one
Rot! Stay here, and don't mess about in the sun
Gi' me tuppence
I say, Beetle, you aren't stuffy about anything, are you
No, I'm not. I'm thinking
Well, we'll come, too
Don't want you
Oh, leave him alone. He's been taken worse with a poem
He'll go burbling down to the Pebbleridge and spit it all up in the
study when he comes back
Then why did he want the tuppence, Turkey? He's gettin' too beastly
independent. Hi! There's a bunny. No, it ain't. It's a cat, by Jove! You
plug first
Well, let's have your beastly epic
We've had no end of a lark
Epic? What epic? I've been down to the coastguard
No epic? Then we will slay you, O Beetle
You've got something up your sleeve. _I_ know, when you talk in
that tone
Your Uncle Beetle
is
a great man
Oh, no; he jolly well isn't anything of the kind. You deceive yourself,
Beetle. Scrag him, Turkey
A great man
_You_ are futile -- look
out for my tie!-- futile burblers. I am the Great Man. I gloat. Ouch!
Hear me
Beetle, de-ah
we love
you, an' you're a poet. If I ever said you were a doggaroo, I apologize;
but you know as well as we do that you can't do anything by yourself
without mucking it
I've got a notion
And you'll spoil the whole show if you don't tell your Uncle Stalky.
Cough it up, ducky, and we'll see what we can do. Notion, you fat
impostor -- I knew you had a notion when you went away! Turkey said it was
a poem
I've found out how houses are built. Le' me get up. The floor-joists of
one room are the ceiling-joists of the room below
Don't be so filthy technical
Well, the man told me. The floor is laid on top of those joists -- those
boards on edge that we crawled over -- but the floor stops at a partition.
Well, if you get behind a partition, same as you did in the attic, don't
you see that you can shove anything you please under the floor between
the floor-boards and the lath and plaster of the ceiling below? Look
here. I've drawn it
I see
I shoved my hand there. An' then
An' then They've been calling us stinkers, you know. We might shove
somethin' under -- sulphur, or something that stunk pretty bad -- an' stink
'em out. I know it can be done somehow
Stinks
By gum! I've got it. Horrid stinks! Turkey
This afternoon -- just after Beetle went away! _She's_ the very
thing
Come to my arms, my beamish boy
Oh, frabjous day! Calloo, callay! She will!
She will
Hold on
I don't understand
Dearr man! It shall, though. Oh, Artie, my pure-souled youth, let us
tell our darling Reggie about Pestiferous Stinkadores
Not until after call-over. Come on
I say
The house are goin' to hold another meeting
Hold away, then
It's about you three this time
All right, give 'em my love... _Here, sir_
Well-nourished old lady, ain't she
How long d'you
suppose it'll take her to get a bit whiff in a confined space
Bit whiff! What a coarse brute you are
Can't a poor
pussy-cat get under King's dormitory floor to die without your pursuin'
her with your foul innuendoes
What did she die under the floor for?' said Beetle, looking to the
future.

"Oh, they won't worry about that when they find her
A cat may look at a king
Pussy, you don't know how useful you're goin' to be to three
pure-souled, high-minded boys
They'll have to take up the floor for her, same as they did in Number
Nine when the rat croaked. Big medicine -- heap big medicine! Phew! Oh,
Lord, I wish I could stop laughin
Stinks! Hi, stinks! Clammy ones
And
it's all for the honor of the house, too
An' they're holdin' another meeting -- on us
Well, let's get the bullet
out of her and hurry up. The sooner she's bedded out the better
Are you sure you shoved her far enough under
Hang it, man, I shoved her the full length of my arm and Beetle's
brolly. That must be about six feet. She's bung in the middle of King's
big upper ten-bedder. Eligible central situation, _I_ call it. She'll
stink out his chaps, and Hartopp's and Macrea's, when she really begins
to fume. I swear your Uncle Stalky is a great man. Do you realize what a
great man he is, Beetle
Well, I had the notion first, hadn't I --? only
You couldn't do it without your Uncle Stalky, could you
They've been calling us stinkers for a week now
Oh,
_won't_ they catch it
Stinker! Yah! Stink-ah
And she's there
She -- is -- there, gettin' ready to surprise 'em. Presently she'll begin
to whisper to 'em in their dreams. Then she'll whiff. Golly, how she'll
whiff! Oblige me by thinkin' of it for two minutes
Don't
mind us, Orrin; sit down. You don't know how we respect and admire you.
There's something about your pure, high young forehead, full of the
dreams of innocent boyhood, that's no end fetchin'. It is, indeed
The house sent me to give you this
It's the resolution! Oh, read it, some one. I'm too silly-sick
with laughin' to see
Phew! Phew! Listen. '_The house notices with pain
and contempt the attitude of indiference_' -- how many f's in
indifference, Beetle
Two for choice
Only one here -- adopted by the occupants of Number Five study in
relation to the insults offered to Mr. Prout's house at the recent
meeting in Number Twelve form-room, and the House hereby pass a
vote of censure on the said study. That's all
And she bled all down my shirt, too
An' I'm catty all over
though I washed twice
An' I nearly broke Beetle's brolly plantin' her where she would
blossom
You see
the trouble
with you is that you're a set of unthinkin' asses. You've no more brains
than spidgers. We've told you that heaps of times, haven't we
We'll give the three of you a dormitory lickin'. You always jaw at us
as if you were prefects
Oh, no, you won't
because you know that if you did
you'd get the worst of it sooner or later. _We_ aren't in any hurry. We
can afford to wait for our little revenges. You've made howlin' asses
of yourselves, and just as soon as King gets hold of your precious
resolutions to-morrow you'll find that out. If you aren't sick an' sorry
by to-morrow night, I'll -- I'll eat my hat
Now
_now_ what have you got to say for
yourselves? Foster, Carton, Finch, Longbridge, Marlin, Brett! I heard
you chaps catchin' it from King -- he made hay of you -- an' all you could
do was to wriggle an' grin an' say, 'Yes, sir,' an' 'No, sir,' an' 'Oh
sir,' an' 'Please, sir'! You an' your resolution! Urh
Oh, shut up, Stalky
Not a bit of it. You're a gaudy lot of resolutionists, you are! You've
made a sweet mess of it. Perhaps you'll have the decency to leave us
alone next time
But you chaps are so beastly conceited, an'-- an' you swaggered into the
meetin' as if we were a lot of idiots
That's precisely what you are! That's what we've been tryin' to hammer
into your thick heads all this time
Never mind, we'll
forgive you. Cheer up. You can't help bein' asses, you know
An'-- an' they've been calling us 'stinkers' all this week. Why, Harland
minor says they simply can't sleep in his dormitory for the stink. Come
on
With one shout and with one cry
stinker
Hark to the minute-gun at sea
I thought his
azure brow was a bit cloudy at prayers. 'She is comin', sister Mary. She
is
If they make such a row now, what will they do when she really begins
to look up an' take notice
Well, no vulgar repartee, Beetle. All we want is to keep out of this
row like gentlemen
Tis but a little faded flower.' Where's my Horace? Look here, I don't
understand what she means by stinkin' out Rattray's dormitory first. We
holed in under White's, didn't we
Skittish little thing. She's rompin' about all over the place, I
suppose
My Aunt! King'll be a cheerful customer at second lesson. I haven't
prepared my Horace one little bit, either
Come on
Oh, it's nothing
He says that King's house stinks.
That's all
Stale
We knew that years ago, only we didn't
choose to run about shoutin' 'stinker.' We've got some manners, ir they
haven't. Catch a fag, Turkey, and make sure of it
Oh, McTurk, please let me go. I don't stink -- I swear I don't
Guilty conscience
Who said you did
What d'you make of it
Snf! Snf! He does, though. I think it's leprosy -- or thrush. P'raps it's
both. Take it away
Indeed, Master Beetle
we are vastly indebted to you for your
diagnosis, which seems to reflect almost as much credit on the natural
unwholesomeness of your mind as it does upon your pitiful ignorance of
the diseases of which you discourse so glibly. We will, however, test
your knowledge in other directions
The
Lazar-house
My word, she _is_ doin' herself proud
Did you ever
smell anything like it? Ah, an' she isn't under White's dormitory at all
yet
But she will be. Give her time
She'll twine like
a giddy honeysuckle. What howlin' Lazarites they are! No house is
justified in makin' itself a stench in the nostrils of decent
High-minded, pure-souled boys. Do you burn with remorse and regret
And they look all right, too
It can't be Rattray, can
it? Rattray
Rattray, dear? He seems stuffy about something or other. Look here, old
man, we don't bear any malice about your sending that soap to us last
week, do we? Be cheerful, Rat. You can live this down all right. I dare
say it's only a few fags. Your house is so beastly slack, though
You aren't going back to the house, are you
You've simply no conception of the reek up
there. Of course, frowzin' as you do, you wouldn't notice it; but, after
this nice wash and the clean, fresh air, even you'd be upset. 'Much
better camp on the Burrows. We'll get you some straw. Shall we
John Brown's body
Lord, have mercy upon us
They're usin' carbolic now. Malpas told me
King thinks
it's the drains
She'll need a lot o' carbolic
No harm tryin', I
suppose. It keeps King out of mischief
I swear I thought he was goin' to kill me when I sniffed just now. He
didn't mind Burton major sniffin' at me the other day, though. He never
stopped Alexander howlin' 'Stinker!' into our form-room before -- before
we doctored 'em. He just grinned
What was he frothing
over you for, Beetle
Aha! That, was my subtle jape. I had him on toast. You know he always
jaws about the learned Lipsius
Who at the age of four'-- that chap
Yes. Whenever he hears I've written a poem. Well, just as I was sittin'
down, I whispered, 'How is our learned Lepsius?' to Burton major. Old
Butt grinned like an owl. _He_ didn't know what I was drivin' at; but
King jolly well did. That was really why he hove us out. Ain't you
grateful? Now shut up. I'm goin' to write the 'Ballad of the Learned
Lipsius
Keep clear of anything coarse, then
I shouldn't like to
be coarse on this happy occasion
Not for wo-orlds. What rhymes to 'stenches,' someone
But you didn't seem to consider this when your house called
us -- ah -- stinkers. If you hadn't assured me that you never interfere with
another man's house, I should almost believe that it was a few casual
remarks of yours that started all this nonsense
You spoke to Beetle yourself, didn't you? Something about not bathing,
and being a water-funk
I was scoring in
the pavilion that day
I may have -- jestingly. I really don't pretend to remember every remark
I let fall among small boys; and full well I know the Beetle has no
feelings to be hurt
May be; but he, or they -- it comes to to same thing -- have the fiend's
own knack of discovering a man's weak place. I confess I rather go out
of my way to conciliate Number Five study. It may be soft, but so far,
I believe, I am the only man here whom they haven't maddened by
their -- well -- attentions
That is all beside the point. I flatter myself I can deal with them
alone as occasion arises. But if they feel themselves morally supported
by those who should wield an absolute and open-handed justice, then I
say that my lot is indeed a hard one. Of all things I detest, I admit
that anything verging on disloyalty among ourselves is the first
I deny it absolutely
Er -- in fact, I own that I personally
object to all three of them. It is not fair, therefore, to
How long do you propose to allow it
But surely
the blame, if
there be any, rests with you, King. You can't hold them responsible
for the -- you prefer the good old Anglo-Saxon, I believe -- stink in your
house. My boys are complaining of it now
What can you expect? You know what boys are. Naturally they take
advantage of what to them is a heaven-sent opportunity
What _is_ the trouble in your dormitories, King
Heigho
Ours is a dwarfing life -- a belittling
life, my brethren. God help all schoolmasters! They need it
I don't like the boys, I own
and I don't pretend to be a strong man, as you know.
But I confess I can't see any reason why I should take steps against
Stalky and the others because King happens to be annoyed by -- by
Falling into the pit he has digged
Certainly
not, Prout. No one accuses you of setting one house against another
through sheer idleness
A belittling life -- a belittling life
I go to
correct French exercises. By dinner King will have scored off some
unlucky child of thirteen; he will repeat to us every word of his
brilliant repartees, and all will be well
But about those three. Are they so prurient-minded
Nonsense
If you thought for a minute, Prout,
you would see that the 'precocious flow of fetid imagery,' that King
complains of, is borrowed wholesale from King. He 'nursed the pinion
that impelled the steel.' Naturally he does not approve. Come into the
smoking-room for a minute. It isn't fair to listen to boys; but they
should be now rubbing it into King's house outside. Little things please
little minds
Rattray
D'you
know if Mr. King's anywhere about? I've got a
No, he's gone out
Ah! The learned Lipsius is airing himself, is he? His Royal Highness
has gone to fumigate
Now in all the Coll. there was no stink like the stink of King's house,
for it stank vehemently and none knew what to make of it. Save King. And
he washed the fags _privatim et seriatim_. In the fishpools of Hesbon
washed he them, with an apron about his loins
Shut up, you mad Irishman
It's no good getting wrathy, Rattray. We've come to jape with you. Come
on, Beetle. They're all at home. You can wind 'em
Where's the Pomposo Stinkadore? 'Tisn't safe for a pure-souled,
high-minded boy to be seen round his house these days. Gone out, has he?
Never mind. I'll do the best I can, Rattray. I'm _in loco parentis_ just
now
One for you, Prout
I have a few words to impart to you, my young friend. We will discourse
together a while
I repeat, Master Rattray, we will confer, and the matter of our
discourse shall not be stinks, for that is a loathsome and obscene
word. We will, with your good leave -- granted, I trust, Master Rattray,
granted, I trust -- study this -- this scabrous upheaval of latent
demoralization. What impresses me most is not so much the blatant
indecency with which you swagger abroad under your load of putrescence
as the cynical immorality with which you
revel in your abhorrent aromas. Far be it from me to interfere with
another's house
Good Lord
but this is King
Line for line, letter for letter; listen
But to say that you stink, as certain lewd fellows of the baser sort
aver, is to say nothing -- less than nothing. In the absence of your
beloved house-master, for whom no one has a higher regard than myself,
I will, if you will allow me, explain the grossness -- the unparalleled
enormity -- the appalling fetor of the stenches (I believe in the good old
Anglo-Saxon word), stenches, sir, with which you have seen fit to infect
your house... Oh, bother! I've forgotten the rest, but it was very
beautiful. Aren't you grateful to us for laborin' with you this way,
Rattray? Lots of chaps 'ud never have taken the trouble, but we're
grateful, Rattray
Yes, we're horrid grateful
We don't forget that
soap. We're polite. Why ain't you polite, Rat
Hallo
Exhortin' the
Whiffers, eh? I'm afraid they're too far gone to repent. Rattray!
White! Perowne! Malpas! No answer. This is distressin'. This is truly
distressin'. Bring out your dead, you glandered lepers
You think yourself funny, don't you
It's only a rat or something under the floor.
We're going to have it up to-morrow
Don't try to shuffle it off on a poor dumb animal, and dead, too. I
loathe prevarication. 'Pon my soul, Rattray
Hold on. The Hartoffles never said 'Pon my soul' in all his little
life
Ah
Upon my word, sir, upon my word, sir, I expected better things of you,
Rattray. Why can you not own up to your misdeeds like a man? Have _I_
ever shown any lack of confidence in _you_
It's not brutality
It's boy; only boy
And this was the house
This was the -- the -- open cesspit that dared
to call us 'stinkers.' And now -- and now, it tries to shelter itself
behind a dead rat. You annoy me, Rattray. You disgust me! You irritate
me unspeakably! Thank Heaven, I am a man of equable temper
This is to your address, Macrea
I fear so, I fear so
Or I should scarcely be able to contain myself before your mocking
visage
_Cave_
And what may you be doing here, my little friends
I had a fleeting notion -- correct me if I am wrong
that if I found you outside my house
I should visit you with dire pains and penalties
We were just goin' for a walk, sir
And you stopped to speak to Rattray _en route_
Yes, sir. We've been throwing golf-balls
Old Rat is more of a diplomat than I thought. So far he is strictly
within the truth
Observe the ethics of it,
Prout
Oh, you were sporting with them, were you? I must say I do not envy
you your choice of associates. I fancied they might have been engaged in
some of the prurient discourse with which they have been so disgustingly
free of late. I should strongly advise you to direct your steps most
carefully in the future. Pick up those golf-balls
We need not neglect all our work for a trumpery incident of this
nature; though I am quite aware that little things please little
minds. Yes, I have decreed the boards to be taken up after lunch under
Richards's auspices. I have no doubt it will be vastly interesting to
a certain type of so-called intellect; but any boy of my house or
another's found on the dormitory stairs will _ipso facto_ render himself
liable to three hundred lines
Tis a cat, a dead cat
Cat be blowed
It's a dead fag left over from last
term. Three cheers for King's dead fag
Show it, show it! Let's have a squint at it
Give
her to the Bug-hunters
The
cat looked at the King -- and died of it! Hoosh! Yai! Yaow! Maiow! Ftzz
She've been
dead a long taime
Well, come on out for a walk
It's all very disgustin', and I do hope the Lazar-house won't do it
again
Do what
Kill a poor innocent cat every time you want to get off washing. It's
awfully hard to distinguish between you as it is. I prefer the cat, I
must say. She isn't quite so whiff. What are you goin' to do, Beetle
_Je vais gloater. Je vais gloater tout le blessed afternoon. Jamais
j'ai gloate' comme je gloaterai aujourd'hui. Nous bunkerons aux_
bunkers
Yiss. Her were in a shockin' staate an' condition. Her nigh made me
sick, I tal 'ee. But I rowted un out, and I rowted un out, an' I made
all shipshape, though her smelt like to bilges
Her died mousin', I reckon, poor thing
Then her moused different to any made cat o' God's world, Lena. I up
with the top-board, an' she were lying on her back, an' I turned un
ovver with the brume-handle, an' 'twas her back was all covered with
the plaster from 'twixt the lathin'. Yiss, I tal 'ee. An' under her
head there lay, like, so's to say, a little pillow o' plaster druv up
in front of her by raison of her slidin' along on her back. No cat niver
went mousin' on her back, Lena. Some one had shoved her along right
underneath, so far as they could shove un. Cats don't make theyselves
pillows for to die on. Shoved along, she were, when she was settin' for
to be cold, laike
Oh, yeou'm too clever to live, Fatty. Yeou go get wed an' taught some
sense
Larned a little 'fore iver some maidens was born. Sarved in the Queen's
Navy, I have, where yeou'm taught to use your eyes. Yeou go 'tend your
own business, Lena
Do 'ee mean what you'm been tellin' us
Ask me no questions, I'll give 'ee no lies. Bullet-hole clane thru from
side to side, an' tu heart-ribs broke like withies. I seed un when I
turned un ovver. They're clever, oh, they'm clever, but they'm not too
clever for old Richards! 'Twas on the born tip o' my tongue to tell,
tu, but... he said us niver washed, he did. Let his dom boys call us
'stinkers,' he did. Sarve un dom well raight, I say
Now remember
I
impute nothing. But every time that any one has taken direct steps
against Number Five study, the issue has been more or less humiliating
to the taker
I can't admit that. I pulverize the egregious Beetle daily for his
soul's good; and the others with him
Well, take your own case, King, and go back a couple of years. Do
you remember when Prout and you were on their track for hutting and
trespass, wasn't it? Have you forgotten Colonel Dabney
That was one instance. Again, when you had rooms below them -- I always
said that that was entering the lion's den -- you turned them out
For making disgusting noises. Surely, Gillett, you don't excuse
All I say is that you turned them out. That same evening your study was
wrecked
By Rabbits-Eggs -- most beastly drunk -- from the road
What
has that
Lastly, they conceive that aspersions are cast upon their personal
cleanliness -- a most delicate matter with all boys. Ve-ry good. Observe
how, in each case, the punishment fits the crime. A week after your
house calls them 'stinkers,' King, your house is, not to put too fine a
point on it, stunk out by a dead cat who chooses to die in the one
spot where she can annoy you most. Again the long arm of coincidence!
_Summa_. You accuse them of trespass. Through some absurd chain of
circumstances -- they may or may not be at the other end of it -- you and
Prout are made to appear as trespassers. You evict them. For a time your
study is made untenable. I have drawn the parallel in the last case.
Well
She was under the centre of White's dormitory
There are
double floor-boards there to deaden noise. No boy, even in my own house,
could possibly have pried up the boards without leaving some trace -- and
Rabbits-Eggs was phenomenally drunk that other night
They are singularly favored by fortune. That is all I ever said.
Personally, I like them immensely, and I believe I have a little of
their confidence. I confess I like being called 'Padre.' They are at
peace with me; consequently I am not treated to bogus confessions of
theft
You mean Mason's case
That always struck me
as peculiarly scandalous. I thought the Head should have taken up the
matter more thoroughly. Mason may be misguided, but at least he is
thoroughly sincere and means well
I confess I cannot agree with you, Prout
He
jumped at some silly tale of theft on their part; accepted another boy's
evidence without, so far as I can see, any inquiry; and -- frankly, I
think he deserved all he got
They deliberately outraged Mason's best feelings
A word
to me on their part would have saved the whole thing. But they preferred
to lure him on; to play on his ignorance of their characters
That may be
but I don't like Mason. I dislike him for the
very reason that Prout advances to his credit. He means well
Our criminal tradition is not theft -- among ourselves, at least
For the head of a house that raided seven head of cattle from the
innocent pot-wallopers of Northam, isn't that rather a sweeping
statement
Precisely so
That, with gate-lifting, and a
little poaching and hawk-hunting on the cliffs, is our salvation
It does us far more harm as a school
Than any hushed-up scandal could? Quite so. Our reputation among the
farmers is most unsavory. But I would much sooner deal with any amount
of ingenious crime of that nature than -- some other offenses
They may be all right, but they are unboylike, abnormal, and, in
my opinion, unsound
The moral effect of their
performances must pave the way for greater harm. It makes me doubtful
how to deal with them. I might separate them
You might, of course; but they have gone up the school together for six
years. _I_ shouldn't care to do it
They use the editorial 'we
It annoys me.
'Where's your prose, Corkran?' 'Well, sir, we haven't quite done it
yet.' 'We'll bring it in a minute,' and so on. And the same with the
others
There's great virtue in that 'we
You know I
take them for trig. McTurk may have some conception of the meaning of
it; but Beetle is as the brutes that perish about sines and cosines. He
copies serenely from Stalky, who positively rejoices in mathematics
Why don't you stop it
It rights itself at the exams. Then Beetle shows up blank sheets, and
trusts to his 'English' to save him from a fall. I fancy he spends most
of his time with me in writing verse
I wish to Heaven he would transfer a little of his energy in that
direction to Elegiaes
He is, with the
single exception of Stalky, the very vilest manufacturer of 'barbarous
hexameters' that I have ever dealt with
The work is combined in that study
Stalky does
the mathematics, McTurk the Latin, and Beetle attends to their English
and French. At least, when he was in the sick-house last month
Malingering
Quite possibly. I found a very distinct falling off in their 'Roman
d'un Jeune Homme Pauvre' translations
I think it is profoundly immoral
I've always been
opposed to the study system
It would be hard to find any study where the boys don't help each
other; but in Number Five the thing has probably been reduced to a
system
They have a system in most things
They confess as much
I've seen McTurk being
hounded up the stairs to elegise the 'Elegy in a Churchyard,' while
Beetle and Stalky went to punt-about
It amounts to systematic cribbing
No such thing
You can't teach a cow the
violin
In intention it is cribbing
But we spoke under the seal of the confessional, didn't we
You say you've heard them arranging their work in this way, Gillett
Good Heavens! Don't make me Queen's evidence, my dear fellow. Hartopp
is equally incriminated. If they ever found out that I had sneaked, our
relations would suffer -- and I value them
I think your attitude in this matter is weak
It would be really better to break up the study -- for
a while -- wouldn't it
Oh, break it up by all means
We shall see then if
Gillett's theory holds water
Be wise, Prout. Leave them alone, or calamity will overtake you; and
what is much more important, they will be annoyed with me. I am too fat,
alas! to be worried by bad boys. Where are you going
Nonsense! They would not dare --- but I am going to think this out
It needs thought. In intention they cribbed, and I must think
out my duty
He's perfectly capable of putting the boys on their honor. It's _I_
that am a fool
Never
again will I forget that a master is not a man. Mark my words
There will be trouble
What's the good of cursing
We're all in the
same boat. We've got to go back and consort with the house. A locker
in the form-room, and a seat at prep. in Number Twelve
Yes! Heffy lurchin' into the form-rooms like a frowzy old retriever,
to see if we aren't up to something. You know he never leaves his house
alone, these days
Oh, it will be giddy
Why aren't you down watchin' cricket? I like a robust, healthy boy. You
mustn't frowst in a form-room. Why don't you take an interest in your
house? Yah
Yes, why don't we? Let's! We'll take an interest in the house. We'll
take no end of interest in the house! He hasn't had us in the form-rooms
for a year. We've learned a lot since then. Oh, we'll make it a
be-autiful house before we've done! 'Member that chap in 'Eric' or 'St.
Winifred's'-- Belial somebody? I'm goin' to be Belial
Right O
and I'll be Mammon. I'll lend money at
usury -- that's what they do at all schools accordin' to the B.O.P. Penny
a week on a shillin'. That'll startle Heffy's weak intellect. You can be
Lucifer, Turkey
What have I got to do
Head conspiracies -- and cabals -- and boycotts. Go in for that 'stealthy
intrigue' that Heffy is always talkin' about. Come on
Quite like old times, ain't it
We've come to sport with you, my young friends, for a while,
because our beloved house-master has hove us out of our diggin's
Serve you jolly well right
you cribbers
This will never do
We can't maintain our giddy
prestige, Orrin, de-ah, if you make these remarks
Rescue, Kings! Kings! Kings! Number Twelve form-room! Rescue,
Prouts -- Prouts! Rescue, Macreas! Rescue, Hartopps
Not bad for the first evening's work
I fancy Prout'll be somewhat annoyed. We'd better establish an
alibi
You see
if you get the houses well mixed up an' scufflin', it's even
bettin' that some ass will start a real row. Hullo, Orrin, you look
rather metagrobolized
It was all your fault, you beast! You started it. We've got two hundred
lines apiece, and Heffy's lookin' for you. Just see what that swine
Malpas did to my eye
I like your saying we started it. Who called us cribbers? Can't your
infant mind connect cause and effect yet? Some day you'll find out that
it don't pay to jest with Number Five
Where's that shillin' you owe me
I only owed you ninepence, you old usurer
You've forgotten the interest
A halfpenny a week per
bob is Beetle's charge. You must be beastly rich, Beetle
Well, Beetle lent me sixpence
Sixpence on the nineteenth, didn't he
Yes; but you've forgotten you paid no interest on the other bob -- the
one I lent you before
But you took my watch as security
Never mind. Pay me my interest, or I'll charge you interest on
interest. Remember, I've got your note-of-hand
You are a cold-blooded Jew
Hush
I didn't see you in that disgraceful affair in the form-room just now
What, sir? We're just come up from Mr. King's
Please,
sir, what am I to do about prep.? They've broken the desk you told me to
sit at, and the form's just swimming with ink
Find another seat -- find another seat. D'you expect me to dry-nurse you?
I wish to know whether you are in the habit of advancing money to your
associates, Beetle
No, sir; not as a general rule, sir
It is a most reprehensible habit. I thought that my house, at least,
would be free from it. Even with my opinion of you, I hardly thought it
was one of your vices
There's no harm in lending money, sir, is there
I am not going to bandy words with you on your notions of morality. How
much have you lent Corkran
I -- I don't quite know
You seemed certain enough just now
I think it's two and fourpence
brew
Understand this, then. You are not to continue your operations as a
money-lender. Two and fourpence, you said, Corkran
Your influence for evil is quite strong enough without buying a hold
over your companions
Bring me what you call Corkran's note-of-hand,
and be thankful that I do not carry the matter any further. The money
is stopped from your pocket-money, Corkran. The receipt to my study, at
once
But what the dooce is a note-of-hand
I only read about
it in a book
Now you've jolly well got to make one
Yes -- but our ink don't turn black till next day. S'pose he'll spot
that
Not him. He's too worried
Sign your name on a bit of
impot-paper, Stalky, and write, 'I O U two and fourpence.' Aren't
you grateful to me for getting that out of Prout? Stalky'd never have
paid... Why, you ass
And
if he don't think the house is putrid with it, I'm
several Dutch-men -- that's all... I've been to Mr. Prout's study, sir
He said I could sit where I liked, sir... Oh,
he is just tricklin' with emotion... Yes, sir, I'm only askin' Corkran
to let me have a dip in his ink
What have you been doing to Heffy this time, Beetle? He's been
jawing us all the evening
What has His Serene Transparency been vexin' you for
About Beetle lendin' money to Stalky
and then Beetle
went and told him that there was any amount of money-lendin' in the
house
No, you don't
That's just
what I didn't tell him. I spoke the giddy truth. He asked me if there
was much of it in the house; and I said I didn't know
He thinks you're a set of filthy Shylocks
It's just as
well for you he don't think you're burglars. You know he never gets a
notion out of his conscientious old head
Well-meanin' man. Did it all for the best
Head in a drain-pipe. Full confession in the left
boot. Bad for the honor of the house -- very
Shut up
You chaps always behave as if you were jawin'
us when we come to jaw you
You're a lot too cheeky
I don't quite see where the cheek comes in, except on your part, in
interferin' with a private matter between me an' Beetle after it has
been settled by Prout
That's the worst of clever little swots
They get made prefects before they have any tact, and then they
annoy chaps who could really help 'em to look after the honor of the
house
We won't trouble you to do that
Then what are you badgerin' us for
On your own showing,
you've been so beastly slack, looking after the house, that Prout
believes it's a nest of money-lenders. I've told him that I've lent
money to Stalky, and no one else. I don't know whether he believes me,
but that finishes my case. The rest is your business
Now we find out
that there is apparently an
organized conspiracy throughout the house. For aught we know, the
fags may be lendin' and borrowin' far beyond their means. We aren't
responsible for it. We're only the rank and file
Are you surprised we don't wish to associate with the house
We've kept ourselves to ourselves in our study
till we were turned out, and now we find ourselves let in for for this
sort of thing. It's simply disgraceful
Then you hector and bullyrag us on the stairs
about
matters that are your business entirely. You know we aren't prefects
You threatened us with a prefect's lickin' just now
And if you expect you'll gain anything from us by your way of
approachin' us, you're jolly well mistaken. That's all. Good-night
But -- but what the dickens have we done
I don't know. Only -- it always happens that way when one has anything to
do with them. They're so beastly plausible
You see, Harrison, Thornton minor lent me a penny last Saturday,
because I was fined for breaking the window; and I spent it at Keyte's.
I didn't know there was any harm in it. And Wray major borrowed twopence
from me when my uncle sent me a post-office order -- I cashed it at
Keyte's -- for five bob; but he'll pay me back before the holidays. We
didn't know there was anything wrong in it
_Cave
Don't tell
Do you think there's much of it going on in the house
Well, one can't be too careful, you know
The tone of the house seems changed -- changed for the worse
Have you noticed it? I don't for an instant
impute
As you know, I am not the kind of man who puts himself out for every
little thing he hears. I believe in letting the house work out their own
salvation -- with a light guiding hand on the reins, of course. But there
is a perceptible lack of reverence --- a lower tone in matters that touch
the honor of the house, a sort of hardness
That's a thing no sensible man objects to
but you know straws show which way the wind blows. Can you trace
it to any direct influence? I am speaking to you now as heads of the
house
There isn't the least doubt of it
I know
what you mean, sir. It all began when Number Five study came to the
form-rooms. There's no use blinkin' it, Craye. You know that, too
They make things rather difficult for us, sometimes
It's
more their manner than anything else, that Harrison means
Do they hamper you in the discharge of your duties, then
Well, no, sir. They only look on and grin -- and turn up their noses
generally
Ah
I think, sir
it would
be a great deal better if they were sent back to their study -- better for
the house. They are rather old to be knocking about the form-rooms
They are younger than Orrin, or Flint, and a dozen others that I can
think of
Yes, sir; but that's different, somehow. They're rather influential.
They have a knack of upsettin' things in a quiet way that one can't take
hold of. At least, if one does
And you think they would be better in their own study again
They've weakened our authority. They're too big
to lick; they've made an exhibition of us over this usury business,
and we're a laughing-stock to the rest of the school. I'm going up (for
Sandhurst, understood) next term. They've managed to knock me out of
half my work already with their -- their lunacy. If they go back to their
study we may have a little peace
Hullo, Harrison
Bearin' up, old man? That's right. Live it down!
Live it down
What d'you mean
You look a little pensive
Exhaustin' job superintendin'
the honor of the house, ain't it? By the way, how are you off for
mares'-nests
Look here
We've
recommended Prout to let you go back to your study
The dooce you have! And who under the sun are _you_ to interfere
between us and our house-master? Upon my Sam, you two try us very
hard -- you do, indeed. Of course we don't know how far you abuse your
position to prejudice us with Mr. Prout; but when you deliberately
stop me to tell me you've been makin' arrangements behind our back -- in
secret -- with Prout -- I -- I don't know really what we ought to do
That's beastly unfair
It is
Hang it all! A prefect's one thing and an usher's
another; but you seem to combine 'em. You recommend this -- you recommend
that! _You_ say how and when we go back to our study
But -- but -- we thought you'd like it, Turkey. We did, indeed. You know
you'll be ever so much more comfortable there
They're broke
They're
sick! They've been beggin' Heffy to let us go back to Number Five. Poor
devils! Poor little devils
It's the olive branch
It's the giddy white
flag, by gum! Come to think of it, we _have_ metagrobolized 'em
Consequences of what, sir
But what was the baser-side-of-imagination business
I never knew such an ass as you are for justifyin' yourself
I hope I jolly well skinned your ankle. Why do you let yourself
be drawn by everybody
Draws be blowed! I must have tickled him up in some way I didn't know
about. If I'd had a notion of that before, of course I could have rubbed
it in better. It's too late now. What a pity! 'Baser side.' What _was_
he drivin' at
Never mind
I knew we could make it a happy little
house. I said so, remember -- but I swear I didn't think we'd do it so
soon
No
I maintain that Gillett is
wrong. True, I let them return to their study
With your known views on cribbing, too
What
an immoral compromise
One moment
I -- we -- all of us have exercised
an absolutely heart-breaking discretion for the last ten days. Now we
want to know. Confess -- have you known a happy minute since
As regards my house, I have not
But you are entirely
wrong in your estimate of those boys. In justice to the others -- in
self-defence
Ha! I said it would come to that
I was forced to send them back. Their moral influence was
unspeakable -- simply unspeakable
Beetle in the _ro'le_ of Shylock is new to me
I heard rumors of it
Before
No, after you had dealt with them; but I was careful not to inquire. I
never interfere with
I myself
would cheerfully give him five shillings
if he could work out one simple sum in compound interest without three
gross errors
Why -- why -- why
you've been had -- precisely the same as me
And so you held an inquiry
The boy himself hinted at the existence of a deal of it in the house
He is past master in that line
But, as regards
the honor of the house
They lowered it in a week. I have striven to build it up for years.
My own house-prefects -- and boys do not willingly complain of each
other -- besought me to get rid of them. You say you have their
confidence, Gillett: they may tell you another tale. As far as I am
concerned, they may go to the devil in their own way. I'm sick and tired
of them
Come in, Padre, come in
We've only met you official-like these last ten days
You were under sentence
I do not consort
with malefactors
Ah, but we're restored again
Mr. Prout has relented
Without a stain on our characters
It was a painful
episode, Padre, most painful
Now, consider for a while, and perpend, _mes enfants_. It is about
your characters that I've called to-night. In the language of the
schools, what the dooce _have_ you been up to in Mr. Prout's house? It
isn't anything to laugh over. He says that you so lowered the tone of
the house he had to pack you back to your studies. Is that true
Every word of it, Padre
Don't be flippant, Turkey. Listen to me. I've told you very often that
no boys in the school have a greater influence for good or evil than
you have. You know I don't talk about ethics and moral codes, because I
don't believe that the young of the human animal realizes what they mean
for some years to come. All the same, I don't want to think you've been
perverting the juniors. Don't interrupt, Beetle. Listen to me. Mr. Prout
has a notion that you have been corrupting your associates somehow or
other
Mr. Prout has so many notions, Padre
Which one
is this
Well, he tells me that he heard you telling a story in the twilight in
the form-room, in a whisper. And Orrin said, just as he opened the door,
'Shut up, Beetle; it's too beastly.' Now then
You remember Mrs. Oliphant's 'Beleaguered City' that you lent me last
term
I got the notion out of that. Only, instead of a city, I made it the
Coll. in a fog -- besieged by ghosts of dead boys, who hauled chaps out of
their beds in the dormitory. All the names are quite real. You tell it
in a whisper, you know with the names. Orrin didn't like it one little
bit. None of 'em have ever let me finish it. It gets just awful at the
end part
But why in the world didn't you explain to Mr. Prout, instead of
leaving him under the impression
Padre Sahib
it isn't the least good explainin' to Mr.
Prout. If he hasn't one impression, he's bound to have another
He'd do it with the best o' motives. He's _in loco parentis_
You young demons
And am I to understand
that the --- the usury business was another of your house-master's
impressions
Well -- we helped a little in that
I did owe Beetle two
and fourpence at least, Beetle says I did, but I never intended to pay
him. Then we started a bit of an argument on the stairs, and -- and Mr.
Prout dropped into it accidental. That was how it was, Padre. He paid me
cash down like a giddy Dook (stopped it out of my pocket-money just the
same), and Beetle gave him my note-of-hand all correct. I don't know
what happened after that
I was too truthful
I always am. You see, he was under
an impression, Padre, and I suppose I ought to have corrected that
impression; but of course I couldn't be _quite_ certain that his
house wasn't given over to money-lendin', could I? I thought the
house-prefects might know more about it than I did. They ought to.
They're giddy palladiums of public schools
They did, too -- by the time they'd finished
As nice a
pair of conscientious, well-meanin', upright, pure-souled boys as you'd
ever want to meet, Padre. They turned the house upside down -- Harrison
and Craye --- with the best motives in the world
They said so. 'They said it very loud and clear. They went and shouted
in our ear
My own private impression is that all three of you will infallibly be
hanged
Why, we didn't do anything
It was all Mr. Prout. Did
you ever read a book about Japanese wrestlers? My uncle --- he's in the
Navy -- gave me a beauty once
Don't try to change the subject, Turkey
I'm not, sir. I'm givin' an illustration -- same as a sermon. These
wrestler-chaps have got sort sort of trick that lets the other chap do
all the work. Than they give a little wriggle, and he upsets himself.
It's called _shibbuwichee_ or _tokonoma_, or somethin'. Mr. Prout's a
_shibbuwicher_. It isn't our fault
Did you suppose we went round corruptin' the minds of the fags
They haven't any, to begin with; and if they had, they're
corrupted long ago. I've been a fag, Padre
Well, I fancied I knew the normal range of your iniquities; but if
you take so much trouble to pile up circumstantial evidence against
yourselves, you can't blame any one if
We don't blame any one, Padre. We haven't said a word against Mr.
Prout, have we
We love him. He hasn't a
notion how we love him
H'm! You dissemble your love very well. Have you ever thought who got
you turned out of your study in the first place
It was Mr. Prout turned us out
Well, I was that man. I didn't mean it; but some words of mine, I'm
afraid, gave Mr. Prout the impression
You see it's just the same thing with you, Padre
He
is quick to get an impression, ain't he? But you mustn't think we don't
love him, 'cause we do. There isn't an ounce of vice about him
The Head to see Number Five study in his study at once
Whew
It seems to me that there is a great
deal of trouble coming for some people
My word! Mr. Prout's gone and told the Head
He's a
moral double-ender. Not fair, luggin' the Head into a house-row
I should recommend a copy-book on a -- h'm -- safe and certain part
Huh! He licks across the shoulders, an' it would slam like a beastly
barn-door
Good-night, Padre. We're in for it
You've been bothering Mr. Prout
House-masters
aren't here to be bothered by boys more than is necessary. I don't like
being bothered by these things. You are bothering _me_. That is a very
serious offense. You see it
Yes, sir
Well, now, I purpose to bother you, on personal and private grounds,
because you have broken into my time. You are much too big to lick, so
I suppose I shall have to mark my displeasure in some other way. Say, a
thousand lines apiece, a week's gating, and a few things of that kind.
Much too big to lick, aren't you
Oh, no, sir
Ve-ry good. Then we will do what we can. I wish you wouldn't bother
me
Among the -- lower classes this would lay me open to
a charge of -- assault. You should be more grateful for your -- privileges
than you are. There is a limit -- one finds it by experience,
Beetle -- beyond which it is never safe to pursue private vendettas,
because -- don't move -- sooner or later one comes -- into collision with
the -- higher authority, who has studied the animal. _Et ego_ -- McTurk,
please -- _in Arcadia vixi_. There's a certain flagrant injustice about
this that ought to appeal to -- your temperament. And that's all! You will
tell your house-master that you have been formally caned by me
My word
That was business! The Prooshan Bates has an infernal
straight eye
Wasn't it wily of me to ask for the lickin
instead of
those impots
Rot! We were in for it from the first. I knew the look of his old eye
I was within an inch of blubbing
Well, I didn't exactly smile
Let's go down to the lavatory and have a look at the damage. One of us
can hold the glass and t'others can squint
What are you doing down there
We've only been caned by the Head, sir, and we're washing off the
blood. The Head said we were to tell you. We were coming to report
ourselves in a minute, sir. (_Sotto voce_.) That's a score for Heffy
Well, he deserves to score something, poor devil
We've sweated a stone and a half off him since we began
But look here, why aren't we wrathy with the Head? He said it was a
flagrant injustice. So it is
Dear man
You _are_ a funny ass! What's that for
I'm -- I'm thinking of the flagrant injustice of it
One licking once a week would do you an immense amount of good
and, as you say, you were
entirely in the right
Ra-ather, Padre! We could have proved it if he'd let us talk
but he didn't. The Head's a downy bird
He understands you perfectly. Ho! ho! Well, you worked hard enough for
it
But he's awfully fair. He doesn't lick a chap in the morning an' preach
at him in the afternoon
He can't; he ain't in Orders, thank goodness
Almost all other schools have clerical Heads
It isn't fair on the chaps
Makes 'em sulky. Of
course it's different with you, sir. You belong to the school -- same as
we do. I mean ordinary clergymen
Well, I am a most ordinary clergyman; and Mr. Hartopp's in Orders,
too
Ye -- es, but he took 'em after he came to the Coll. We saw him go up for
his exam. That's all right
But just think if the Head
went and got ordained
What would happen, Beetle
Oh, the Coll. 'ud go to pieces in a year, sir. There's no doubt o'
that
How d'you know
We've been here nearly six years now. There are precious few things
about the Coll. we don't know
Why, even you came the
term after I did, sir. I remember your asking our names in form your
first lesson. Mr. King, Mr. Prout, and the Head, of course, are the only
masters senior to us -- in that way
Yes, we've changed a good deal -- in Common-room
Huh
They came here, an' they went away to
get married. Jolly good riddance, too
Doesn't our Beetle hold with matrimony
No, Padre; don't make fun of me. I've met chaps in the holidays who've
got married house-masters. It's perfectly awful! They have babies and
teething and measles and all that sort of thing right bung _in_
the school; and the masters' wives give tea-parties -- tea-parties,
Padre!-- and ask the chaps to breakfast
That don't matter so much
But the house-masters let
their houses alone, and they leave everything to the prefects. Why, in
one school, a chap told me, there were big baize doors and a passage
about a mile long between the house and the master's house. They could
do just what they pleased
Satan rebuking sin with a vengeance
Oh, larks are right enough; but you know what we mean, Padre. After a
bit it gets worse an' worse. Then there's a big bust-up and a row that
gets into the papers, and a lot of chaps are expelled, you know
Always the wrong un's; don't forget that. Have a cup of cocoa, Padre
No, thanks; I'm smoking. Always the wrong 'uns? Pro-ceed, my Stalky
And then
everybody says, 'Who'd ha'
thought it? Shockin' boys! Wicked little kids!' It all comes of havin'
married house-masters, _I_ think
A Daniel come to judgment
But it does
I've met chaps in the holidays, an'
they've told me the same thing. It looks awfully pretty for one's people
to see -- a nice separate house with a nice lady in charge, an' all that.
But it isn't. It takes the house-masters off their work, and it gives
the prefects a heap too much power, an'-- an'-- it rots up everything. You
see, it isn't as if we were just an ordinary school. We take crammers'
rejections as well as good little boys like Stalky. We've got to do that
to make our name, of course, and we get 'em into Sandhurst somehow or
other, don't we
True, O Turk. Like a book thou talkest, Turkey
And so we want rather different masters, don't you think so, to other
places? We aren't like the rest of the schools
It leads to all sorts of bullyin', too, a chap told me
Well, you _do_ need most of a single man's time, I must say
But do you never feel
that the world -- the Common-room -- is too much with you sometimes
Not exactly -- in summer, anyhow
Our bounds are pretty big, too, and they leave us to ourselves
a good deal
For example, here am I sitting in your study, very much in your way,
eh
Indeed you aren't, Padre. Sit down. Don't go, sir. You know we're glad
whenever you come
And we generally know where the Common-room are
Didn't you come through our lower dormitories last night
after ten, sir
I went to smoke a pipe with your house-master. No, I didn't give him
any impressions. I took a short cut through your dormitories
I sniffed a whiff of 'baccy, this mornin'. Yours is stronger than Mr.
Prout's. _I_ knew
Good heavens
Talking about bullying
you all caught it
pretty hot when you were fags, didn't you
Well, we must have been rather awful little beasts
My Hat, what
bullies they were then -- Fairburn, 'Gobby' Maunsell, and all that gang
Member when 'Gobby' called us the Three Blind Mice, and we had to get
up on the lockers and sing while he buzzed ink-pots at us
They _were_ bullies if you like
But there isn't any of it now
That's where you make a mistake. We're all inclined to say that
everything is all right as long we aren't ourselves hurt. I sometimes
wonder if it is extinct -- bullying
Fags bully each other horrid; but the upper forms are supposed to be
swottin' for exams. They've got something else to think about
Why? What do you think
I have my doubts
On my word, for three moderately
intelligent boys you aren't very observant. I suppose you were too busy
making things warm for your house-master to see what lay under your
noses when you were in the form-rooms last week
What, sir? I -- I swear we didn't see anything
Then I'd advise you to look. When a little chap is whimpering in a
corner and wears his clothes like rags, and never does any work, and
is notoriously the dirtiest little 'corridor-caution' in the Coll.,
something's wrong somewhere
That's Clewer
Yes, Clewer. He comes to me for his French. It's his first term, and
he's almost as complete a wreck as you were, Beetle. He's not naturally
clever, but he has been hammered till he's nearly an idiot
Oh, no. They sham silly to get off more tickings
_I_
know that
I've never actually seen him knocked about
The genuine article don't do that in public
Fairburn
never touched me when any one was looking on
You needn't swagger about it, Beetle
We all caught it
in our time
But I got it worse than any one
If you want an
authority on bullyin', Padre, come to me. Corkscrews -- brush-drill
keys -- head-knucklin'-- arm-twistin'-- rockin'-- Ag Ags -- and all the rest
of it
Yes. I do want you as an authority, or rather I want your authority to
stop it -- all of you
What about Abana and Pharpar, Padre -- Harrison and Craye? They are
Mr. Prout's pets
We aren't even
sub-prefects
I've considered that, but on the other hand, since most bullying is
mere thoughtlessness
Not one little bit of it, Padre
Bullies like bullyin'.
They mean it. They think it up in lesson and practise it in the
quarters
Never mind. If the thing goes up to the prefects it may make another
house-row. You've had one already. Don't laugh. Listen to me. I ask
you -- my own Tenth Legion -- to take the thing up quietly. I want little
Clewer made to look fairly clean and decent
Blowed if _I_ wash him
Decent and self-respecting. As for the other boy, whoever he is,
you can use your influence
in any way you please to -- to dissuade him. That's all.
I'll leave it to you. Good-night, _mes enfants_
Well, what are we goin' to do
Young Clewer would give his eyes for a place to be quiet in. _I_ know
that
If we made him a study-fag, eh
No
He's a dirty little brute, and he'd mess up
everything. Besides, we ain't goin' to have any beastly Erickin'. D'you
want to walk about with your arm round his neck
He'd clean out the jam-pots, anyhow; an' the burnt-porridge
saucepan -- it's filthy now
Not good enough
If we find the merry jester who's been bullyin' him an' make
him happy, that'll be all right. Why didn't we spot him when we were in
the form-rooms, though
Maybe a lot of fags have made a dead set at Clewer. They do that
sometimes
Then we'll have to kick the whole of the lower school in our house -- on
spec. Come on
Keep your hair on! We mustn't make a fuss about the biznai. Whoever
it is he's kept quiet or we'd have seen him
We'll walk
round and sniff about till we're sure
Rum
Golly
As beautiful Kitty one morning was tripping
Louder, you young devil, or I'll buzz a book at you
With a pitcher of milk --'
  Oh, Campbell, _please_ don't!
  'To the fair of
Well, I never thought it was a study-chap, anyhow. That accounts for
our not spotting him
Sefton and Campbell are rather
hefty chaps to tackle. Besides, one can't go into their study like a
form-room
What swine
Where's the fun of it? I suppose
Clewer's faggin' for them
They aren't prefects. That's one good job
Sefton and Campbell! Um! Campbell and Sefton! Ah! One of
'em's a crammer's pup
crammers' pups
Shall we go in an' dissuade 'em
I've never had much to
do with 'em, but I'll bet my hat Campbell's a funk
No -- o! That's _oratio directa_
I like
_oratio obliqua_. 'Sides, where'd our moral influence be then? Think o'
that
Rot! What are you goin' to do
Me
Oh, I want to
jape with 'em. Shut up a bit
Beetle is the sacrifice
I'm sorry for you,
Beetle. 'Member Galton's 'Art of Travel' &lsqb;one of the forms had been
studying that pleasant work&rsqb; an' the kid whose bleatin' excited the
tiger
Oh, curse
Can't you get on without me
Fraid not, Beetle, dear. You've got to be bullied by Turkey an' me.
The more you howl, o' course, the better it'll be. Turkey, go an'
covet a stump and a box-rope from somewhere. We'll tie him up for a
kill -- _a' la_ Galton. 'Member when 'Molly' Fairburn made us cock-fight
with our shoes off, an' tied up our knees
But that hurt like sin
Course it did. What a clever chap you are, Beetle! Turkey'll knock
you all over the place. 'Member we've had a big row all round, an' I've
trapped you into doin' this. Lend us your wipe
Ruffle his hair, Turkey. Now you get down, too. 'The bleatin' of the
kid excites the tiger.' You two are in such a sweatin' wax with me that
you only curse. 'Member that. I'll tickle you up with a stump. You'll
have to blub, Beetle
Right O! I'll work up to it in half a shake
Now begin -- and remember the bleatin' o' the kid
Shut up, you brutes! Let me up! You've nearly cut my knees off. Oh, you
_are_ beastly cads! _Do_ shut up. 'Tisn't a joke
Give it to him, Turkey! Kick him! Roll him over! Kill him! Don't funk,
Beetle, you brute. Kick him again, Turkey
He's not blubbin' really. Roll up, Beetle, or I'll kick you into the
fender
Hullo! What's the giddy jest
It's only Beetle
He's shammin' hurt. I can't get
Turkey to go for him properly
All right, I'll attend to 'em. Get up an' cock-fight,
you two. Give me the stump. I'll tickle 'em. Here's a giddy jest! Come
on, Campbell. Let's cook 'em
You said you were goin' to cock-fight too, Stalky. Come on
More ass you for believin' me, then
Have you chaps had a row
Row
Huh! I'm
only educatin' them. D'you know anythin' about cock-fighting, Seffy
Do I know? Why, at Maclagan's, where I was crammin' in town, we used
to cock-fight in his drawing-room, and little Maclagan daren't say
anything. But we were just the same as men there, of course. Do I know?
_I_'ll show you
Can't I get up
Don't jaw, you fat piffler. You're going to fight Seffy
He'll slay me
Oh, lug 'em into our study
It's nice an' quiet in
there. I'll cock-fight Turkey. This is an improvement on young Clewer
Right O! I move it's shoes-off for them an' shoes-on for us
Now I'll tie you two up an' direct the
bull-fight. Golly, what wrists you have, Seffy. They're too thick for a
wipe; got a box-rope
Lots in the corner
Hurry up! Stop blubbin', you
brute, Beetle. We're goin' to have a giddy campaign. Losers have to sing
for the winners -- sing odes in honor of the conqueror. You call yourself
a beastly poet, don't you, Beetle? I'll poet you
And that's all right
What the devil
The bleatin' of the kid excites the tiger.' Oh, you frabjous asses
We'll give you the finest lickin' you ever had
in your young lives when we get up
You'll laugh the other side of your mouth before you've done. What the
deuce d'you mean by this
You'll see in two shakes
Don't swear like that. What we
want to know is, why you two hulkin' swine have been bullyin' Clewer
It's none of your business
What did you bully Clewer for
Because we jolly well chose
Let's get up
Well, now we're goin' to bully you because we jolly well choose. We're
goin' to be just as fair to you as you were to Clewer. He couldn't do
anything against you. You can't do anything to us. Odd, ain't it
Can't we? You wait an' see
Ah
that shows you've never been properly
jested with. A public lickin' ain't in it with a gentle jape. Bet a bob
you'll weep an' promise anything
Look here, young Beetle, we'll half kill you when we get up. I'll
promise you that, at any rate
You're going to be half killed first, though. Did you give Clewer
Head-knuckles
Did you give Clewer Head-knuckles
We did, confound you
Then you'll be knuckled
Molly
Did you give Clewer Brush-drill
Did you give Clewer the Key
No; we didn't. I swear we didn't
Then we'll give it to you, so you can see what it would be like if you
had
Did you give Clewer Corkscrews
Yes. Oh, curse your silly souls! Let us alone, you cads
Now are those all the things you did to Clewer? Take out the gag,
Turkey, and let 'em answer
Yes, I swear that was all. Oh, you're killing us, Stalky
Pre-cisely what Clewer said to you. I heard him. Now we're goin' to
show you what real bullyin' is. 'What I don't like about you, Sefton,
is, you come to the Coll. with your stick-up collars an' patent-leather
boots, an' you think you can teach us something about bullying. Do you
think you can teach us anything about bullying? Take out the gag and let
him answer
No
He says no. Rock him to sleep. Campbell can watch
My Aunt
Put him away
Bring on Campbell. Now this _is_ bullyin'.
Oh, I forgot! I say, Campbell, what did you bully Clewer for? Take out
his gag and let him answer
I -- I don't know. Oh, let me off! I swear I'll make it _pax_. Don't
'rock' me
The bleatin' of the kid excites the tiger.' He says he don't know. Set
him up, Beetle. Give me the glove an' put in the gag
I believe I'm goin' to die
He says he is goin' to die.
Put him away. Now, Sefton! Oh, I forgot! Sefton, what did you bully
Clewer for
Make him an Ag Ag, Turkey
He says we are sweeps. Put him away! Now, Campbell! Oh, I forgot! I
say, Campbell, what did you bully Clewer for
You seem hurt, Campbell. Are you hurt
Yes. Awfully
He says he is hurt. Are you broke
Yes, yes! I swear I am. Oh, stop
He says he is broke. Are you humble
Yes
He says he is humble. Are you devilish humble
Yes
He says he is devilish humble. Will you bully Clewer any more
No. No -- ooh
He says he won't bully Clewer. Or any one else
No. I swear I won't
Or any one else. What about that lickin' you and Sefton were goin' to
give us
I won't! I won't! I swear I won't
He says he won't lick us. Do you esteem yourself to know anything about
bullyin
No, I don't
He says he doesn't know anything about bullyin'. Haven't we taught you
a lot
Yes -- yes
He says we've taught him a lot. Aren't you grateful
Yes
He says he is grateful. Put him away. Oh, I forgot! I say, Campbell,
what did you bully Clewer for
Because I was a bully. I suppose
that's what you want me to say
He says he is a bully. Right he is. Put him in the corner. No more
japes for Campbell. Now, Sefton
You devils! You young devils
The bleatin' of the kid excites the tiger.' We're goin' to make you
beautiful. Where does he keep his shaving things? &lsqb;Campbell told.&rsqb;
Beetle, get some water. Turkey, make the lather. We're goin' to shave
you, Seffy, so you'd better lie jolly still, or you'll get cut. I've
never shaved any one before
Don't! Oh, don't! Please don't
Gettin' polite, eh? I'm only goin' to take off one ducky little
whisker
I'll -- I'll make it _pax_, if you don't. I swear I'll let you off your
lickin' when I get up
_And_ half that mustache we're so proud of. He says he'll let us off
our lickin'. Isn't he kind
Hold on a shake
you can't shave long hairs. You've got
to cut all that mustache short first, an' then scrape him
Well, I'm not goin' to hunt about for scissors. Won't a match do? Chuck
us the match-box. He _is_ a hog, you know; we might as well singe him.
Lie still
I only want to take
off half, though
That's all right
I'll lather up to the
middle -- see? and you can burn off the rest
Now the whisker on the other side. Turn him over
Give him his shaving-glass. Take the gag
out. I want to hear what he'll say
Oh, I forgot! I say, Sefton, what did you bully Clewer for
Leave me alone! Oh, you infernal bullies, leave me alone! Haven't I had
enough
He says we must leave him alone
He says we are bullies, an' we haven't even begun yet
You're ungrateful, Seffy. Golly! You do look an atrocity and a half
He says he has had enough
He errs
Well, to work, to work
Come on, my
giddy Narcissus. Don't fall in love with your own reflection
Oh, let him off
he's blubbing, too
You'll make it _pax_, Sefton, won't you? You can't stand up to those
young devils
Don't be rude, Campbell, de-ah
or you'll catch it
again
You _are_ devils, you know
What? for a little bullyin'-- same as you've been givin' Clewer! How
long have you been jestin' with him
All this term
We didn't always knock him about, though
You did when you could catch him
Don't
I know it
I -- perhaps we did
And you went out of your way to catch him? Don't I know it! Because he
was an awful little beast, eh? Don't I know it! Now, you see, _you_'re
awful beasts, and you're gettin' what he got -- for bein' a beast. Just
because we choose
We never really bullied him -- like you've done us
Yah
They never really bully --'Molly' Fairburn didn't.
Only knock 'em about a little bit. That's what they say. Only kick their
souls out of 'em, and they go and blub in the box-rooms. Shove their
heads into the ulsters an' blub. Write home three times a day -- yes,
you brute, I've done that -- askin' to be taken away. You've never been
bullied properly, Campbell I'm sorry you made _pax_
I'm not
Look out, you're
slaying Sefton
An' you
You've never been bullied,
either. Where were you before you came here
I -- I had a tutor
Yah! You would. You never blubbed in your life. But you're blubbin'
now, by gum. Aren't you blubbin
Can't you see, you blind beast
Blind, am I
and a beast? Shut up, Stalky. I'm goin' to
jape a bit with our friend, _a' la_ 'Molly' Fairburn. _I_ think I can
see. Can't I see, Sefton
The point is well taken
You'd better say that he sees, Seffy
You do -- you can! I swear you do
Aren't my eyes lovely
Yes
A gentle hazel, aren't they
Yes -- oh, yes
What a liar you are! They're sky-blue. Ain't they sky-blue
Yes -- oh, yes
You don't know your mind from one minute to another. You must
learn -- you must learn
What a bait you're in
Keep your hair on, Beetle
I've had it done to me
Now -- about my being a beast
_Pax_ -- oh, _pax_
make it _pax_. I'll give up! Let me
off! I'm broke! I can't stand it
Ugh! Just when we were gettin' our hand in
They didn't let Clewer off, I'll swear
Confess -- apologize -- quick
We've got to take it, I suppose
All right, Sefton.
You're broke? Very good. Shut up, Beetle! But before we let you up, you
an' Campbell will kindly oblige us with 'Kitty of Coleraine'-- _a' la_
Clewer
That's not fair
we've surrendered
Course you have. Now you're goin' to do what we tell you -- same as
Clewer would. If you hadn't surrendered you'd ha' been really bullied.
Havin' surrendered -- do you follow, Seffy?-- you sing odes in honor of the
conquerors. Hurry up
Kitty of
Coleraine
Vile bad
If you hadn't
surrendered it would have been our painful duty to buzz books at you for
singin' out o' tune. Now then
Ca -- can't he shave clean before tea, please
It's ten
minutes to bell
If I knew anything about it, I swear I'd give you a moral lecture
Don't jaw; they've surrendered
This moral suasion
biznai takes it out of a chap
Don't you see how gentle we've been? We might have called Clewer in to
look at you
The bleatin' of the tiger excites the kid.'
But we didn't. We've only got to tell a few chaps in Coll. about this
and you'd be hooted all over the shop. Your life wouldn't be worth
havin'. But we aren't goin' to do that, either. We're strictly moral
suasers, Campbell; so, unless you or Seffy split about this, no one
will
I swear you're a brick
I suppose I was rather a brute
to Clewer
It looked like it
But I don't think Seffy need come
into hall with cock-eye whiskers. Horrid bad for the fags if they saw
him. He can shave. Ain't you grateful, Sefton
That's rummy
Cheek, _I_
think; or else he's shammin
No, 'tisn't
When 'Molly' Fairburn had attended to me
for an hour or so I used to go bung off to sleep on a form sometimes.
Poor devil! But he called me a beastly poet, though
Well, come on
Good-by, Campbell. 'Member,
if you don't talk, nobody will
A most extraordinary letter. Are all parents incurably mad? What do you
make of it
The only son of his mother, and she a widow.' That is the least
reasonable sort
If half
those charges are true he should be in the sick-house; whereas he is
disgustingly well. Certainly he has shaved. I noticed that
Under compulsion, as his mother points out. How delicious! How
salutary
You haven't to answer her. It isn't often I don't know what has
happened in the school; but this is beyond me
If you asked me I should say seek not to propitiate. When one is forced
to take crammers' pups
He was perfectly well at extra-tuition -- with me -- this morning
Unusually well behaved, too
they either educate the school, or the school, as in this case,
educates them. I prefer our own methods
You think it was that
I'm sure of it! And nothing excuses his trying to give the College a
bad name
That's the line I mean to take with him
Why haven't
we seen you before, Padre
I've been watching times and seasons and events and men -- and boys
I am pleased with my Tenth Legion. I make them my compliments.
Clewer was throwing ink-balls in form this morning, instead of doing his
work. He is now doing fifty lines for -- unheard-of audacity
You can't blame us, sir
You told us to remove
the -- er -- pressure. That's the worst of a fag
I've known boys five years his senior throw ink-balls, Beetle. To such
an one have I given two hundred lines -- not so long ago. And now I come
to think of it, were those lines ever shown up
Were they, Turkey?' said Beetle unblushingly.

"Don't you think Clewer looks a little cleaner, Padre
We're no end of moral reformers
It was all Stalky, but it was a lark
I have noticed the moral reform in several quarters. Didn't I tell you
you had more influence than any boys in the Coll. if you cared to use
it
It's a trifle exhaustin' to use frequent -- our kind of moral suasion.
Besides, you see, it only makes Clewer cheeky
I wasn't thinking of Clewer; I was thinking of -- the other people,
Stalky
Oh, we didn't bother much about the other people
Did
we
But _I_ did -- from the beginning
Then you knew, sir
Boys educate each other, they say, more than
we can or dare. If I had used one half of the moral suasion you may or
may not have employed
With the best motives in the world. Don't forget our pious motives,
Padre
I suppose I should be now languishing in Bideford jail, shouldn't I?
Well, to quote the Head, in a little business which we have agreed to
forget, that strikes me as flagrant injustice... What are you laughing
at, you young sinners? Isn't it true? I will not stay to be shouted at.
What I looked into this den of iniquity for was to find out if any one
cared to come down for a bathe off the Ridge. But I see you won't
Won't we, though! Half a shake, Padre Sahib, till we get our towels,
and _nous sommes avec vous_
Downy old bird
He must have gone on a bend and been locked up under a false
name
What for
Forty shillin's or a month for hackin' the chucker-out of the Pavvy on
the shins. Bates always has a spree when he goes to town. Wish he
was back, though. I'm about sick o' King's 'whips an' scorpions' an'
lectures on public-school spirit -- yah!-- and scholarship
Crass an' materialized brutality of the middle-classes -- readin' solely
for marks. Not a scholar in the whole school
That's rather a sickly way of spending an afternoon. Stinks too.
Let's come out an' smoke. Here's a treat
Bagged it from my pater last holidays. I'm a bit shy of it
though; it's heftier than a pipe. We'll smoke it palaver-fashion. Hand
it round, eh? Let's lie up behind the old harrow on the Monkey-farm
Road
Out of bounds. Bounds beastly strict these days, too. Besides, we shall
cat
It's a regular Pomposo
Stinkadore
You can; I shan't. What d'you say, Turkey
Oh, may's well, I s'pose
Chuck on your cap, then. It's two to one. Beetle, out you come
More bounds, I expect
Hullo, Foxibus, who are you in
mournin' for
He was in my old regiment
By gum
It's old
Duncan -- Fat-Sow Duncan -- killed on duty at something or other Kotal.
'_Rallyin' his men with conspicuous gallantry._' He would, of course.
'_The body was recovered_.' That's all right. They cut 'em up sometimes,
don't they, Foxy
Horrid
Poor old Fat-Sow! I was a fag when he left. How many does that make to
us, Foxy
Mr. Duncan, he is the ninth. He come here when he was no bigger
than little Grey tertius. My old regiment, too. Yiss, nine to us, Mr.
Corkran, up to date
Wonder how it feels -- to be shot and all that
Where did it happen, Beetle
Oh, out in India somewhere. We're always rowin' there. But look here,
Stalky, what _is_ the good o' sittin' under a hedge an' cattin'? It's
be-eastly cold. It's be-eastly wet, and we'll be collared as sure as a
gun
Shut up! Did you ever know your Uncle Stalky get you into a mess yet
Good job we hadn't one apiece, ain't it
I told you
Oh, Stalky, you are
a fool
_Je cat_, _tu cat_, _il cat_. _Nous cattons_
Something's wrong with the beastly thing. I say, Beetle, have you been
droppin' ink on it
Ah
Very good. I might have guessed
who it was. You will go back to the College and give my compliments to
Mr. King and ask him to give you an extra-special licking. You will then
do me five hundred lines. I shall be back to-morrow. Five hundred lines
by five o'clock to-morrow. You are also gated for a week. This is not
exactly the time for breaking bounds. Extra-special, please
Oh, you Prooshan brute
Stalky,
it's all your silly fault
Kill him! Kill him
I ca-an't. I'm going to cat again... I don't mind that, but King'll
gloat over us horrid. Extra-special, ooh
Strange, how desire doth outrun performance
You're quite right, Beetle
Now, if the Head had sent us up to a prefect, we'd have got
something to remember
Look here
we aren't goin' to row you
about this business, because it's too bad for a row; but we want you
to understand you're jolly well excommunicated, Stalky. You're a plain
ass
How was I to know that the Head 'ud collar us? What was he doin' in
those ghastly clothes, too
Don't try to raise a side-issue
Well, it was all Stettson major's fault. If he hadn't gone an' got
diphtheria 'twouldn't have happened. But don't you think it rather
rummy -- the Head droppin' on us that way
Shut up! You're dead
We've chopped your spurs off your
beastly heels. We've cocked your shield upside down and --- and I don't
think you ought to be allowed to brew for a month
Oh, stop jawin' at me. I want
Stop? Why -- why, we're gated for a week
A lickin' from King, five hundred
lines, _and_ a gatin'. D'you expect us to kiss you, Stalky, you beast
Drop rottin' for a minute. I want to find out about the Head bein'
where he was
Well, you have. You found him quite well and fit. Found him makin' love
to Stettson major's mother. That was her in the lane -- I heard her. And
so we were ordered a lickin' before a day-boy's mother. Bony old widow,
too
Anything else you'd like to find out
I don't care. I swear I'll get even with him some day
Looks like it
Extra-special, week's gatin' and five
hundred... and now you're goin' to row about it! Help scrag him,
Beetle
But there isn't any rule against marbles, sir. Very interestin' game
Oh, I say, Flint. King has sent me to you for playin' marbles in the
corridor an' shoutin' 'alley tor' an' 'knuckle down
What does he suppose I have to do with that
Dunno. Well
What am I to tell him? He's
rather wrathy about it
If the Head chooses to put a notice in the corridor forbiddin' marbles,
I can do something; but I can't move on a house-master's report. He
knows that as well as I do
Am I to understand it is your intention to allow board-school games
under your study windows, Flint? If so, I can only say
Well, sir, if the Head sees fit to call a prefects' meeting we are
bound to take the matter up. But the tradition of the school is that the
prefects can't move in any matter affecting the whole school without the
Head's direct order
He's been playin' for this for a week, and now he's got it. You know as
well as I do that if he hadn't been gassing at us the way he has, that
young devil Beetle wouldn't have dreamed of marbles
We know that
but that isn't the question. On
Flint's showin' King has called the prefects names enough to justify
a first-class row. Crammers' rejections, ill-regulated hobble-de-hoys,
wasn't it? Now it's impossible for prefects
Rot
King's the best classical cram we've got; and
'tisn't fair to bother the Head with a row. He's up to his eyes with
extra-tu and Army work as it is. Besides, as I told King, we _aren't_ a
public school. We're a limited liability company payin' four per cent.
My father's a shareholder, too
What's that got to do with it
Well, seems to me that we should be interferin' with ourselves. We've
got to get into the Army or -- get out, haven't we? King's hired by the
Council to teach us. All the rest's gumdiddle. Can't you see
Prefects' meeting
Not exactly, sir; we're just talking things over. Won't you take the
easy chair
Thanks. Luxurious infants, you are
Well, since you're all
here, I may confess that I'm the mute with the bowstring
Yes, I've come for my pound of flesh. I ought to have had you out
before the Exeter match; but it's our sacred duty to beat Exeter
Isn't the Old Boys' match sacred, too, sir
We'll hope they aren't in training. Now for the list. First I want
Flint. It's the Euclid that does it. You must work deductions with me.
Perowne, extra mechanical drawing. Dawson goes to Mr. King for extra
Latin, and Venner to me for German. Have I damaged the First Fifteen
much
Ruined it, I'm afraid, sir
Can't you let us off till the
end of the term
Impossible. It will be a tight squeeze for Sandhurst this year
And all to be cut up by those vile Afghans, too
Wouldn't think there'd be so much competition, would you
Oh, that reminds me. Crandall is coming down with the Old Boys -- I've
asked twenty of them, but we shan't get more than a weak team. I don't
know whether he'll be much use, though. He was rather knocked about,
recovering poor old Duncan's body
Crandall major -- the Gunner
No, the minor --'Toffee' Crandall -- in a native infantry regiment. He was
almost before your time, Perowne
The papers didn't say anything about him. We read about Fat-Sow, of
course. What's Crandall done, sir
I've brought over an Indian paper that his mother sent me. It was
rather a -- hefty, I think you say -- piece of work. Shall I read it
Good for the old Coll
Pity he wasn't in time to save
Fat-Sow, though. That's nine to us, isn't it, in the last three years
Yes... And I took old Duncan off all games for extra-tu five years ago
this term
By the way, who do you hand over the Games
to, Flint
Haven't thought yet. Who'd you recommend, sir
No, thank you. I've heard it casually hinted behind my back that the
Prooshan Bates is a downy bird, but he isn't going to make himself
responsible for a new Head of the Games. Settle it among yourselves.
Good-night
And that's the man
that you want to
bother with a dame's school row
I was only pullin' your fat leg
You're so
easy to draw, Flint
Well, never mind that. The Head's knocked the First Fifteen to bits,
and we've got to pick up the pieces, or the Old Boys will have a
walk-over. Let's promote all the Second Fifteen and make Big Side play
up. There's heaps of talent somewhere that we can polish up between now
and the match
Hullo! What's the Shop
like
Good Heavens! What do
you mean by growing in this way? You were a beastly little fag when I
left
a downy bird
Don't stop smoking for a minute
The more you're out
of training the better for us. I've demoralized the First Fifteen with
extra-tu
Ah, but we're a scratch lot. Have you told 'em we shall need a
substitute even if Crandall can play
He wrote me he'd play, so he can't have been much hurt. He's coming
down to-morrow morning
Crandall minor that was, and brought off poor Duncan's body
Where are you going to put him? We've turned you out of house
and home already, Head Sahib
I'm afraid he'll have to go up to his old dormitory. You know old boys
can claim that privilege. Yes, I think little Crandall minor must bed
down there once more
you've got something up your sleeve. Confess! I know that
twinkle
Can't you see, you cuckoo
Crandall
goes up to the dormitory as an object-lesson, for moral effect and so
forth. Isn't that true, Head Sahib
It is. You know too much, Purvis. I licked you for that in '79
You did, sir, and it's my private belief you chalked the cane
N-no. But I've a very straight eye. Perhaps that misled you
What d'you take any notice of those rotters for
I talked to _him_ up in the dormitory
when he was changin'. Pulled his sweater down for him. He's cut about
all over the arms -- horrid purply ones. He's goin' to tell us about it
to-night. I asked him to when I was lacin' his boots
Well, you _have_ got cheek
Slipped out before I thought. But he wasn't a bit angry. He's no end of
a chap. I swear, I'm goin' to play up like beans. Tell Turkey
Put down your heads and shove
done each other proud
Well played. Oh, played indeed
Hullo, Stettson
Is it safe to come near you
yet
Oh, yes. I'm all right. They wouldn't let me out before, but I had to
come to the match. Your mouth looks pretty plummy
Turkey trod on it accidental-done-a-purpose. Well, I'm glad you're
better, because we owe you something. You and your membranes got us into
a sweet mess, young man
I heard of that
The Head told me
Dooce he did! When
Oh, come on up to Coll. My shin'll stiffen if we stay jawin' here
Shut up, Turkey. I want to find out about this. Well
He was stayin' at our house all the time I was ill
What for? Neglectin' the Coll. that way? 'Thought he was in town
I was off my head, you know, and they said I kept on callin' for him
Cheek! You're only a day-boy
He came just the same, and he about saved my life. I was all bunged up
one night -- just goin' to croak, the doctor said -- and they stuck a tube
or somethin' in my throat, and the Head sucked out the stuff
Ugh! 'Shot if _I_ would
He ought to have got diphtheria himself, the doctor said. So he stayed
on at our house instead of going back. I'd ha' croaked in another twenty
minutes, the doctor says
My Hat
That's pretty average heroic
Pretty average
You ought to be hung
And the Head ought to get the V.C
Why, he might have
been dead _and_ buried by now. But he wasn't. But he didn't. Ho! ho! He
just nipped through the hedge like a lusty old blackbird. Extra-special,
five hundred lines, an' gated for a week -- all sereno
I've read o' somethin' like that in a book
Gummy, what
a chap! Just think of it
I'm thinking
Shut your fat mouth
Leave it
to your Uncle Stalky, and he'll have the Head on toast. If you say
a word, Beetle, till I give you leave, I swear I'll slay you.
_Habeo Capitem crinibus minimis._ I've got him by the short hairs! Now
look as if nothing had happened
Yes, it's all very fine
but the
boys are getting a little out of hand. There will be trouble and sorrow
later, I'm afraid. You'd better turn in early, Crandall. The dormitory
will be sitting up for you. I don't know to what dizzy heights you may
climb in your profession, but I do know you'll never get such absolute
adoration as you're getting now
Confound the adoration. I want to finish my cigar, sir
It's all pure gold. Go where glory waits, Crandall -- minor
Same old bed -- same old mattress, I believe
Same old everything. Oh, but I'm lame! I'd no notion you chaps could
play like this
You've given us all
something to remember you by
Oh, I _am_ sorry. I've forgotten to put out the gas
Please don't bother
Worthington
does that
How d'you manage when he's asleep
Shove a cold cleek down his neck
It was a wet sponge when I was junior in the dormitory... Hullo! What's
happening
Be quiet, you ass!... Squattez-vous on the floor, then!... I swear you
aren't going to sit on _my_ bed!... Mind the tooth-glass
Sta -- Corkran said
that perhaps you'd tell us about that business with
Duncan's body
Yes -- yes -- yes
There's nothing to tell. What on earth are you chaps hoppin' about in
the cold for
Never mind us
Tell about Fat-Sow
Well, about three months ago he was commanding a treasure-guard -- a cart
full of rupees to pay troops with -- five thousand rupees in silver. He
was comin' to a place called Fort Pearson, near Kalabagh
I was born there
It was called after my
uncle
Shut up -- you and your uncle! Never mind him, Crandall
Well, ne'er mind. The Afridis found out that this treasure was on the
move, and they ambushed the whole show a couple of miles before he got
to the fort, and cut up the escort. Duncan was wounded, and the escort
hooked it. There weren't more than twenty Sepoys all told, and there
were any amount of Afridis. As things turned out, I was in charge at
Fort Pearson. Fact was, I'd heard the firing and was just going to see
about it, when Duncan's men came up. So we all turned back together.
They told me something about an officer, but I couldn't get the hang of
things till I saw a chap under the wheels of the cart out in the open,
propped up on one arm, blazing away with a revolver. You see, the escort
had abandoned the cart, and the Afridis -- they're an awfully suspicious
gang -- thought the retreat was a trap -- sort of draw, you know -- and the
cart was the bait. So they had left poor old Duncan alone. 'Minute they
spotted how few we were, it was a race across the flat who should reach
old Duncan first. We ran, and they ran, and we won, and after a little
hackin' about they pulled off. I never knew it was one of us till I was
right on top of him. There are heaps of Duncans in the service, and of
course the name didn't remind me. He wasn't changed at all hardly. He'd
been shot through the lungs, poor old man, and he was pretty thirsty.
I gave him a drink and sat down beside him, and -- funny thing, too -- he
said, 'Hullo, Toffee!' and I said, 'Hullo, Fat-Sow! hope you aren't
hurt,' or something of the kind. But he died in a minute or two -- never
lifted his head off my knees... I say, you chaps out there will get your
death of cold. Better go to bed
All right. In a minute. But your cuts -- your cuts. How did you get
wounded
That was when we were taking the body back to the Fort. They came on
again, and there was a bit of a scrimmage
Did you kill any one
Yes. Shouldn't wonder. Good-night
Good-night. Thank you, Crandall. Thanks awf'ly, Crandall. Good-night
I say, Crandall
Well, what
Suppose a chap found another chap croaking with diphtheria -- all bunged
up with it -- and they stuck a tube in his throat and the chap sucked the
stuff out, what would you say
Um
I've only heard of one case, and
that was a doctor. He did it for a woman
Oh, this wasn't a woman. It was just a boy
Makes it all the finer, then. It's about the bravest thing a man can
do. Why
Oh, I heard of a chap doin' it. That's all
Then he's a brave man
Would _you_ funk it
Ra-ather. Anybody would. Fancy dying of diphtheria in cold blood
Well -- ah! Er! Look here
Well, I'm awf'ly sorry
I don't think I told
'em anything they oughtn't to hear. Don't let them get into trouble on
my account
Tck
It isn't the boys
that make trouble; it's the masters. However, Prout and King don't
approve of dormitory gatherings on this scale, and one must back up the
house-masters. Moreover, it's hopeless to punish two houses only, so
late in the term. We must be fair and include everybody. Let's see. They
have a holiday task for the Easters, which, of course, none of them
will ever look at. We will give the whole school, except prefects and
study-boys, regular prep. to-night; and the Common-room will have to
supply a master to take it. We must be fair to all
Prep. on the last night of the term. Whew
I fancy there will be larks
prep
take it all in play
take fifty lines for not 'olding up 'is 'and before
speaking
prep
If it goes on much
longer the Head will come up
We'll tell the studies first,
and then the dorm-rooms. Look sharp
prep
He's gone to fetch
the Head. Hurry up! Come on
The Head! The Head! The Head
He went and sucked the
diphtheria stuff out of Stettson major's throat when we thought he was
in town. Stop rotting, you asses! Stettson major would have croaked if
the Head hadn't done it. The Head might have died himself. Crandall
says it's the bravest thing any livin' man can do, and I
the Head don't know we know
It's all right
He can't do much. 'Tisn't as if you'd
pulled the desks up like we did when old Carleton took prep. once. Keep
it up! Hear 'em cheering in the studies
It is not often that I do not understand you; but I confess I do not
to-night. Some of you, after your idiotic performances at prep., seem to
think me a fit person to cheer. I am going to show you that I am not
That is enough. You will gain nothing. The
little boys (the Lower School did not like that form of address) will do
me three hundred lines apiece in the holidays. I shall take no further
notice of them. The Upper School will do me one thousand lines apiece in
the holidays, to be shown up the evening of the day they come back. And
further
Gummy, what a glutton
For your behavior towards Mr. Mason I intend to lick the whole of the
Upper School to-morrow when I give you your journey-money. This will
include the three study-boys I found dancing on the form-room desks when
I came up. Prefects will stay after call-over
And now, Flint
will you be good enough to give me
some explanation of your conduct
Well, sir
if you save a chap's life at the
risk of your own when he's dyin' of diphtheria, and the Coll. finds it
out, wha-what can you expect, sir
Um, I see. Then that noise was not meant for -- ah, cheek. I can connive
at immorality, but I cannot stand impudence. However, it does not excuse
their insolence to Mr. Mason. I'll forego the lines this once, remember;
but the lickings hold good
It's all right, Head Sahib. _We_ know
I found out just
now from our substitute. He was gettin' my opinion of your performance
last night in the dormitory. I didn't know then that it was you he was
talkin' about. Crafty young animal. Freckled chap with eyes --- Corkran, I
think his name is
Oh, I know _him_, thank you
Ye-es,
I should have included them even if I hadn't seen 'em
If the old Coll. weren't a little above themselves already, we'd chair
you down the corridor
Oh, Bates, how could you?
You might have caught it yourself, and where would we have been, then
I always knew you were worth twenty of us any day. Now I'm sure of it
He isn't fit to manage a school, though. Promise you'll never do it
again, Bates Sahib. We -- we can't go away comfy in our minds if you take
these risks
Bates Sahib, you aren't ever goin' to cane the whole Upper School, are
you
I can connive at immorality, as I said, but I can't stand impudence.
Mason's lot is quite hard enough even when I back him. Besides, the
men at the golf-club heard them singing 'Aaron and Moses.' I shall have
complaints about that from the parents of day-boys. Decency must be
preserved
We're coming to help
And here's your journey-money. Good-by, and pleasant holidays
Good-by. Thank you, sir. Good-by
Desire don't outrun performance -- much -- this mornin'.
We got the cream of it
Now wait till a few chaps come
out, and we'll really cheer him
Don't wait on our account, please
We're going to begin now
Didn't I say I'd get even with him
Now all together -- takin'
time from your Uncle Stalky:

   It's a way we have in the Army,
   It's a way we have in the Navy,
   It's a way we have at the Public Schools,
   Which nobody can deny
Don't think it's
any pleasure to me
I'd much sooner
be smoking a quiet pipe in my own quarters -- but I see we 'ave the Old
Brigade on our 'ands this afternoon. If I only 'ad you regular, Muster
Corkran
You've had me for nearly six weeks, you old glutton. Number off from
the right
Not _quite_ so previous, please. I'm taking this drill. Left,
half -- turn! Slow -- march
Quietly provide yourselves with the requisite
dumb-bells; returnin' quietly to your place. Number off from the right,
in a low voice. Odd numbers one pace to the front. Even numbers stand
fast. Now, leanin' forward from the 'ips, takin' your time from me
Ve-ry good. I shall be sorry when any of you resume your 'abits of
punctuality. Quietly return dumb-bells. We will now try some simple
drill
Ugh! I know that simple drill
It would he 'ighly to your discredit if you did not, Muster Corkran.
_At_ the same time, it is not so easy as it looks
Bet you a bob, I can drill as well as you, Foxy
We'll see later. Now try to imagine you ain't defaulters at all, but
an 'arf company on parade, me bein' your commandin' officer. There's
no call to laugh. If you're lucky, most of you will 'ave to take drills
'arf your life. Do me a little credit. You've been at it long enough,
goodness knows
Not so bad
Not 'arf so bad. The pivot-man of the wheel _honly_ marks time, Muster
Swayne. Now, Muster Corkran, you say you know the drill? Oblige me by
takin' over the command and, reversin' my words step by step, relegate
them to their previous formation
What's this? What's this
A -- a little drill, sir
Excellent -- excellent. I only wish there were more of it
Don't let me interrupt. You were just going to hand over to someone,
weren't you
I shall muck it. I
know I shall
Eh -- what
Collinson, K.C.B.-- He commanded the Pompadours -- my father's old
regiment
Take your time
_I_ know how it feels. Your first
drill -- eh
Yes, sir
Tention. Dress
He does you credit, Sergeant
A good
drill -- and good material to drill. Now, it's an extraordinary thing:
I've been lunching with your head-master and he never told me you had a
cadet-corps in the College
We 'aven't, sir. This is only a little drill
But aren't they keen on it
Why aren't you in it, though, Willy
Oh, I'm not punctual enough
The Sergeant only takes the
pick of us
Dismiss! Break off
I -- I ought to have told you, sir, that
But you should have a cadet-corps
You _shall_ have a cadet-corps, too, if my recommendation
in Council is any use. I don't know when I've been so pleased. Boys
animated by a spirit like yours should set an example to the whole
school
They do
Bless my soul! Can it be so late? I've kept my fly waiting half an
hour. Well, I must run away. Nothing like seeing things for one's self.
Which end of the buildings does one get out at? Will you show me, Willy?
Who was that boy who took the drill
Corkran, I think his name is
You ought to know him. That's the kind of boy you should cultivate.
Evidently an unusual sort. A wonderful sight. Five and twenty boys, who,
I dare say, would much sooner be playing cricket
drilling for the sheer love of it. A shame to waste so much good
stuff; but I think I can carry my point
An' who's your friend with the white whiskers
General Collinson. He comes over to shoot with my father sometimes.
Rather a decent old bargee, too. He said I ought to cultivate your
acquaintance, Stalky
Did he tip you
Ah
We'll have a
hefty brew. You'd pretty average cool cheek, Turkey, to jaw about our
keenness an' punctuality
Didn't the old boy know we were defaulters
Not him. He came down to lunch with the Head. I found him pokin' about
the place on his own hook afterwards, an' I thought I'd show him the
giddy drill. When I found he was so pleased, I wasn't goin' to damp his
giddy ardor. He mightn't ha' given me the quid if I had
Wasn't old Foxy pleased? Did you see him get pink behind the ears
It was an awful score for him. Didn't we back him
up beautifully? Let's go down to Keyte's and get some cocoa and
sassingers
You owe us something
I'm 'ighly grateful, Muster Corkran. I've 'ad to run against you pretty
hard in the way o' business, now and then, but I will say that outside
o' business -- bounds an' smokin', an' such like -- I don't wish to have a
more trustworthy young gentleman to 'elp me out of a hole. The way
you 'andled the drill was beautiful, though I say it. Now, if you come
regular henceforward
But he'll have to be late three times a week
You can't
expect a chap to do that -- just to please you, Foxy
Ah, that's true. Still, if you could manage it -- and you, Muster
Beetle -- it would give you a big start when the cadet-corps is formed. I
expect the General will recommend it
I make what we've
taken seven and six
but you'd
better count for yourself
No -- no. I'd take your word any day, Muster Corkran.-- In the Pompadours,
was he, Sergeant? We lay with them once at Umballa, I think it was
I don't know whether this ham-and-tongue tin is eighteen pence or one
an' four
Say one an' fourpence, Muster Corkran... Of course, Sergeant, if it was
any use to give my time, I'd be pleased to do it, but I'm too old. I'd
like to see a drill again
Oh, come on, Stalky
He isn't listenin' to you. Chuck
over the money
I want the quid changed, you ass. Keyte! Private Keyte! Corporal Keyte!
Terroop-Sergeant-Major Keyte, will you give me change for a quid
Yes -- yes, of course. Seven an' six
Now those two'll jaw about the Mutiny till tea-time
Old Keyte was at Sobraon
Hear him talk about that
sometimes! Beats Foxy hollow
What do you think
It's a good idea. There's no denying that -- an estimable idea
We concede that much. Well
I have my doubts about it -- that's all. The more I know of boys the less
do I profess myself capable of following their moods; but I own I shall
be very much surprised if the scheme takes. It -- it isn't the temper of
the school. We prepare for the Army
My business -- in _this_ matter -- is to carry out the wishes of the
Council. They demand a volunteer cadet-corps. A volunteer cadet-corps
will be furnished. I have suggested, however, that we need not embark
upon the expense of uniforms till we are drilled. General Collinson is
sending us fifty lethal weapons -- cut-down Sniders, he calls them -- all
carefully plugged
Yes, that is necessary in a school that uses loaded saloon-pistols to
the extent we do
Therefore there will be no outlay except the Sergeant's time
But if he fails you will be blamed
Oh, assuredly. I shall post a notice in the corridor this afternoon,
and
I shall watch the result
Kindly keep your 'ands off the new arm-rack
Nor it won't do even a condemned
Snider any good to be continual snappin' the lock, Mr. Swayne.-- Yiss,
the uniforms will come later, when we're more proficient; at present we
will confine ourselves to drill. I am 'ere for the purpose o' takin' the
names o' those willin' to join.-- Put down that Snider, Muster Hogan
What are you goin' to do, Beetle
I've had all the drill _I_ want, thank you
What! After all you've learned? Come on! Don't be a scab! They'll make
you corporal in a week
I'm not goin' up for the Army
Hold on a shake, Foxy
Where are you goin' to drill us
Here -- in the gym -- till you are fit an' capable to be taken out on the
road
For all the Northam cads to look at? Not good enough, Foxibus
Well, we won't make a point of it. You learn your drill first, an'
later we'll see
Hullo
What's
all this about a giddy cadet-corps
It will save you a lot o' time at Sandburst
You'll be dismissed your drills early if you go up with a
good groundin' before'and
Hm! 'Don't mind learnin' my drill, but I'm not goin' to ass about the
country with a toy Snider. Perowne, what are you goin' to do? Hogan's
joinin
Don't know whether I've the time
I've got no end of
extra-tu as it is
Well, call this extra-tu
Twon't take us long to mug up
the drill
Oh, that's right enough, but what about marchin' in public
Afraid the uniform won't suit your creamy complexion
Shut up, Turkey. You aren't goin' up for the Army
No, but I'm goin' to send a substitute. Hi! Morrell an' Wake! You two
fags by the arm-rack, you've got to volunteer
But I don't want the little chaps -- not at first
I want -- I'd like some of the Old Brigade the
defaulters -- to stiffen 'em a bit
Don't be ungrateful, Sergeant. They're nearly as big as you get 'em
in the Army now
tweaker
Foxy don't like my recruits
You get him some
Here you are, Foxy. Here's food for powder. Strike for your
hearths an' homes, you young brutes -- an' be jolly quick about it
Still he isn't happy
For the way we have with our Army
   Is the way we have with our Navy
Punch
An' both of 'em led to adversity,
   Which nobody can deny
You be quiet, young gentlemen. If you can't 'elp -- don't 'inder
Wait a shake
Can't we turn out those
rotters before we get to work
Certainly
Any one wishful to join will stay 'ere. Those
who do not so intend will go out, quietly closin' the door be'ind 'em
Well, why don't you join
Why didn't you
What's the good? We aren't goin' up for the Army. Besides, I know the
drill -- all except the manual, of course. 'Wonder what they're doin'
inside
Makin' a treaty with Foxy. Didn't you hear Stalky say: 'That's what
we'll do -- an' if he don't like it he can lump it'? They'll use Foxy for
a cram. Can't you see, you idiot? They're goin' up for Sandhurst or the
Shop in less than a year. They'll learn their drill an' then they'll
drop it like a shot. D'you suppose chaps with their amount of extra-tu
are takin' up volunteerin' for fun
Well, I don't know. I thought of doin' a poem about it -- rottin' 'em,
you know --'The Ballad of the Dogshooters'-- eh
I don't think you can, because King'll be down on the corps like a
cartload o' bricks. He hasn't been consulted, he's sniffin' round the
notice-board now. Let's lure him
How's this
Methought you
would be learning to fight for your country
I think the company's full, sir
It's a great pity
Forty valiant defenders, have we, then? How noble! What devotion!
I presume that it is possible that a desire to evade their normal
responsibilities may be at the bottom of this zeal. Doubtless they will
be accorded special privileges, like the Choir and the Natural History
Society -- one must not say Bug-hunters
Oh, I suppose so, sir
The Head hasn't said
anything about it yet, but he will, of course
Oh, sure to
It is just possible, my Beetle
that the house-masters -- a necessary but somewhat neglected factor in
our humble scheme of existence -- may have a word to say on the matter.
Life, for the young at least, is not all weapons and munitions of war.
Education is incidentally one of our aims
What a consistent pig he is
One always knows where to have him. Did you see how he rose to
that draw about the Head and special privileges
Confound him, he might have had the decency to have backed the scheme.
I could do such a lovely ballad, rottin' it; and now I'll have to be a
giddy enthusiast. It don't bar our pulling Stalky's leg in the study,
does it
Oh, no; but in the Coll. we must be pro-cadet-corps like anything.
Can't you make up a giddy epigram, _a' la Catullus_, about King
objectin' to it
Hullo, my ramrod-bunger
Where's your dead dog? Is it
Defence or Defiance
Defiance
Look here,
Turkey, you mustn't rot the corps. We've arranged it beautifully. Foxy
swears he won't take us out into the open till we say we want to go
_Dis_-gustin' exhibition of immature infants apin' the idiosyncrasies
of their elders. Snff
Have you drawn King, Beetle
Not exactly; but that's his genial style
Well, listen to your Uncle Stalky -- who is a great man. Moreover
and subsequently, Foxy's goin' to let us drill the corps in
turn -- _privatim et seriatim_ -- so that we'll all know how to handle a
half company anyhow. _Ergo_, an' _propter hoc_, when we go to the Shop
we shall be dismissed drill early; thus, my beloved 'earers, combinin'
education with wholesome amusement
I knew you'd make a sort of extra-tu of it, you cold-blooded brute
Don't you want to die for your giddy country
Not if I can jolly well avoid it. So you mustn't rot the corps
We'd decided on that, years ago
King'll do
the rottin
Then you've got to rot King, my giddy poet. Make up a good catchy
Limerick, and let the fags sing it
Look here, you stick to volunteerin', and don't jog the table
He won't have anything to take hold of
This is sweet cheek
Mustn't look through the key-hole
I like that. Why, Wake, you little beast, I made you a volunteer
Can't help it. My orders are not to allow any one to look
S'pose we do
S'pose we jolly well slay you
My orders are, I am to give the name of anybody who interfered with
me on my post, to the corps, an' they'd deal with him after drill,
accordin' to martial law
What a brute Stalky is
You esteem yourself a giddy centurion, don't you
My orders are, not to talk except to explain my orders -- they'll lick me
if I do
I swear Stalky _is_ a great man
One
consolation is that this sort of secret-society biznai will drive King
wild
I never come across such nonsense in my life. They've tiled the lodge,
inner and outer guard, all complete, and then they get to work, keen as
mustard
But what's it all for
To learn their drill. You never saw anything like it. They begin after
I've dismissed 'em -- practisin' tricks; but out into the open they will
_not_ come -- not for ever so. The 'ole thing is pre-posterous. If you're
a cadet-corps, _I_ say, be a cadet-corps, instead o' hidin' be'ind
locked doors
And what do the authorities say about it
That beats me again
I go to the 'Ead
an' 'e gives me no help. There's times when I think he's makin' fun o'
me. I've never been a Volunteer-sergeant, thank God -- but I've always had
the consideration to pity 'em. I'm glad o' that
I'd like to see 'em
From your statements, Sergeant, I
can't get at what they're after
Don't ask me, Major! Ask that freckle-faced young Corkran. He's their
generalissimo
They shape well. They shape uncommon well
Oh, this isn't what they're after. Wait till I dismiss 'em
Old 'ard, Muster Corkran. That ain't in any drill
All right, Sergeant. You never know what you may have to say to your
men.-- For pity's sake, try to stand up without leanin' against each
other, you blear-eyed, herrin'-gutted gutter-snipes. It's no pleasure to
me to comb you out. That ought to have been done before you came here,
you -- you militia broom-stealers
The old touch -- the old touch. _We_ know it
But where did he pick it up
From his father -- or his uncle. Don't ask me! Half of 'em must have been
born within earshot o' the barracks
I've heard more back-talk since this volunteerin' nonsense
began than I've heard in a year in the service
There's a rear-rank man lookin' as though his belly were in the
pawn-shop. Yes, you, Private Ansell
Hullo
First blood to me. You
flushed, Ansell. You wriggled
Couldn't help flushing
Don't think I wriggled,
though
Well, it's your turn now
Lord, Lord! It's as good as a play
Blood to me
You couldn't stand it, either
I didn't think I would
but after
a bit I got in no end of a bait. Curious, ain't it
Good for the temper
Did you ever
I don't know much about volunteers, but it's the rummiest show I ever
saw. I can see what they're gettin' at, though. Lord! how often I've
been told off an' dressed down in my day! They shape well -- extremely
well they shape
If I could get 'em out into the open, there's nothing I couldn't do
with 'em, Major. Perhaps when the uniforms come down, they'll change
their mind
Just talked
to the boys a little -- eh? You know the kind of thing that would be
acceptable; and he'd be the very man to do it. The sort of talk that
boys understand, you know
They didn't talk to 'em much in my time
Ah! but times change -- with the spread of education and so on. The boys
of to-day are the men of to-morrow. An impression in youth is likely to
be permanent. And in these times, you know, with the country going to
the dogs
You're quite right
And I don't think I am very far wrong in that last
Do you happen to know anything of one Raymond Martin
I was at College with a man of that name
He was without form and void, so far as I remember, but desperately
earnest
He will address the Coll. on 'Patriotism' next Saturday
If there is one thing our boys detest more than another it is having
their Saturday evenings broken into. Patriotism has no chance beside
'brewing
Nor art either. D'you remember our 'Evening with Shakespeare
Or the humorous gentleman with the magic
lantern
An' who the dooce is this Raymond Martin, M.P
Why do the brutes
always turn up on a Saturday
Ouh! Reomeo, Reomeo. Wherefore art thou Reomeo
Well, he won't
be as bad as _her_, I hope. Stalky, are you properly patriotic? Because
if you ain't, this chap's goin' to make you
Hope he won't take up the whole of the evening. I suppose we've got to
listen to him
Wouldn't miss him for the world
A lot of chaps thought
that Romeo-Romeo woman was a bore. _I_ didn't. I liked her! 'Member
when she began to hiccough in the middle of it? P'raps he'll hiccough.
Whoever gets into the Gym first, bags seats for the other two
Looks a bit of a bargee
Shouldn't be surprised
if he was a Radical. He rowed the driver about the fare. I heard him
That was his giddy patriotism
What's that, Foxy? What are
you stealin' the gentleman's brolly for?-- We don't birch here. We cane!
Take away that bauble!-- Number off from the right
One good job -- the Common-room hate this as much as we do. Watch King
wrigglin' to get out of the draft
Where's the Raymondiferous Martin? Punctuality, my beloved 'earers, is
the image o' war
Shut up. Here's the giddy Dook. Golly, what a dewlap
Look at his back while he's talkin' to the Head. Vile bad form to turn
your back on the audience! He's a Philistine -- a Bopper -- a Jebusite -- an'
a Hivite
Well, boys
This man
is _the_ Gadarene Swine
If this goes on, my beloved 'earers, it will be my painful duty to rot
this bargee
Can't do that
He ain't chargin' anything for his
Romeo
marbles
Yes, life was not
all marbles
And I am sure
that you
will all join me in a very hearty vote of thanks to Mr. Raymond Martin
for the most enjoyable address he has given us
enjoyable
Without vanity,
I think my few words went to their hearts. I never knew boys could cheer
like that
After a fine speech like what you 'eard night before last,
you ought to take 'old of your drill with _re_-newed activity. I don't
see how you can avoid comin' out an' marchin' in the open now
Can't we get out of it, then, Foxy
No, not with his giving the flag so generously. He told me before he
left this morning that there was no objection to the corps usin' it as
their own. It's a handsome flag
Look here,
oughtn't we
I'll get it out of the locker in a minute
Then we can
Come on
What the devil are you waiting for? Dismiss!
Break off
Why -- what the -- where the
I -- I don't know that I shan't have to report this to the Head
Report, then, and be damned to you
Rummy thing
I was in the study, doin' a
simply lovely poem about the Jelly-Bellied Flag-Flapper, an' Stalky
came in, an' I said 'Hullo!' an' he cursed me like a bargee, and then
he began to blub like anything. Shoved his head on the table and howled.
Hadn't we better do something
P'raps he's smashed himself up somehow
Did I take you in, Beetle? I thought I would. Wasn't it a good draw?
Didn't you think I was blubbin'? Didn't I do it well? Oh, you fat old
ass
milking
I knew you were blubbin
Why aren't you
at drill
Drill! What drill
Don't try to be a clever fool. Drill in the Gym
Cause there isn't any. The volunteer cadet-corps is broke
up -- disbanded -- dead -- putrid -- corrupt --- stinkin'. An' if you look at me
like that, Beetle, I'll slay you too... Oh, yes, an' I'm goin' to be
reported to the Head for swearin
Swillingford Patriot
Ruba'iyat
The Earthly Paradise
Atalanta in
Calydon
_But_
come to think of it, we've done more giddy
jesting with the Sixth since we've been passed over than any one else in
the last seven years
Pussy
You begin on a hundred a year
Rot
And my passage out! It's all settled. The Head says he's been breaking
me in for this for ever so long, and I never knew -- I never knew. One
don't begin with writing straight off, y'know. Begin by filling in
telegrams and cutting things out o' papers with scissors
Oh, Scissors! What an ungodly mess you'll make of it
But, anyhow, this will be your last term, too. Seven years, my dearly
beloved 'earers -- though not prefects
Not half bad years, either
I shall be sorry to leave
the old Coll.; shan't you
Wonder where we shall all be this time next year
This time five years
Oh
my leavin's between ourselves. The Head hasn't told
any one. I know he hasn't, because Prout grunted at me to-day that if
I were more reasonable -- yah!-- I might be a prefect next term. I s'ppose
he's hard up for his prefects
Let's finish up with a row with the Sixth
Dirty little schoolboys
What's the use
Moral effect
Leave an imperishable tradition, and all
the rest of it
Better go into Bideford an' pay up our debts
I've got
three quid out of my father -- _ad hoc_. Don't owe more than thirty bob,
either. Cut along, Beetle, and ask the Head for leave. Say you want to
correct the 'Swillingford Patriot
Well, I do
It'll be my last issue, and I'd like it to
look decent. I'll catch him before he goes to his lunch
Aha! Enjoying the study of light literature, my friends
Common mathematics are not for such soaring minds as
yours, are they
One hundred a year
Our open incompetence takes refuge in the flowery paths of inaccurate
fiction. But a day of reckoning approaches, Beetle mine. I myself have
prepared a few trifling foolish questions in Latin prose which can
hardly be evaded even by your practised acts of deception. Ye-es, Latin
prose. I think, if I may say so -- but we shall see when the papers are
set --'Ulpian serves your need.' Aha! '_Elucescebat_, quoth our friend.'
We shall see! We shall see
He doesn't know. He'll go on correctin' exercises an' jawin' an'
showin' off before the little boys next term -- and next
Cokey, what's that for
To turn the gas on to the kitchens
If so be I
didn't turn her on, yeou young gen'lemen 'ud be larnin' your book by
candlelight
Um
Hullo! Where are you chaps going
What the devil is that to you
Look here, I'm not goin'-- I'm not goin' to be sworn at by the Fifth
Then cut along and call a prefects' meeting
Mustn't yell at the Fifth that way
It's vile bad form
Cough it up, ducky
I -- I want to know what you chaps are doing out of bounds
Ah
Now we're gettin' at it. Why didn't you ask that
before
Well, I ask it now. What are you doing
We're admiring you, Tulke
We think you're no end of a
fine chap, don't we
We do! We do
I've reason to believe
Oyez! Oyez! Oyez
Tulke has reason to believe! Three cheers for Tulke
It's all our giddy admiration
You know
how we love you, Tulke. We love you so much we think you ought to go
home and die. You're too good to live, Tulke
Yes
Do oblige us by dyin'. Think how lovely you'd look
stuffed
That means a prefects' meeting -- sure pop
Honor of the
Sixth involved, and all the rest of it. Tulke'll write notes all this
afternoon, and Carson will call us up after tea. They daren't overlook
that
Bet you a bob he follows us
He's King's pet, and it's
scalps to both of 'em if we're caught out. We must be virtuous
Then I move we go to Mother Yeo's for a last gorge. We owe her about
ten bob, and Mary'll weep sore when she knows we're leaving
She gave me an awful wipe on the head last time -- Mary
She does if you don't duck
But she generally kisses one
back. Let's try Mother Yeo
We've come to pay our debts, mother
To
pay our debts and say good-by -- and -- and we're awf'ly hungry
Aie
makkin' love to me! I'm shaamed of 'ee
Rackon us wouldn't du no such thing if Mary was here
Who'm takin' my name in vain
Niver kiss the maid when 'e can kiss the mistress
Glad to see one of 'ee don't want his head slapped no more
Neu! Reckon I can get 'em give me
Not by me -- yeou little masterpiece
Niver asked 'ee. There's maids to Northam. Yiss -- an' Appledore
Aie! Yeou won't niver come to no good end. Whutt be 'baout, smellin'
the cream
Tees bad
Zmell 'un
Bidevoor kiss
Niver amiss
Yeou -- yeou -- yeou
They'm better to Northam -- more rich, laike an' us gets them give back
again
Yiss. Yeou'll niver zee us no more, Mary. We're goin' to be passons an'
missioners
Steady the Buffs
Tulke has
followed us. He's comin' up the street now
They've niver put us out o' bounds
Bide yeou still,
my little dearrs
Mary
Do 'ee lov' me,
Mary
Iss -- fai! Talled 'ee zo since yeou was zo high
Zee 'un comin' up street, then
He've niver been kissed by no sort or manner o' maid in hees
borned laife, Mary. Oh, 'tees shaamful
Whutt's to do with me? 'Twill come to 'un in the way o' nature, I
rackon
You niver want me to kiss
un -- sure-_ly_
Give 'ee half-a-crown if 'ee will
Yeu'm afraid
Aie
There's not a maid to
Northam 'ud think twice. An' yeou such a fine maid, tu
Where be 'ee gwaine tu, my dearr
Gie I a kiss! Don't they larn 'ee manners to College
Kissed 'un
Iss, fai! But, oh, my little body, he'm no Colleger. 'Zeemed tu-minded
to cry, like
Well, we won't. Yell couldn't make us cry that way
Try
Don't think
there'll be much of a prefects' meeting
Won't there, just
Look here. If he kissed her -- which
is our tack -- he is a cynically immoral hog, and his conduct is blatant
indecency. _Confer orationes Regis furiosissimi_, when he collared me
readin' 'Don Juan
Course he kissed her
In the middle of the street. With
his house-cap on
Time, 3.57 p.m. Make a note o' that. What d'you mean, Beetle
Well! He's a truthful little beast. He may say he was kissed
And then
Why, then
Don't you see?
The corollary to the giddy proposition is that the Sixth can't protect
'emselves from outrages an' ravishin's. Want nursemaids to look after
'em! We've only got to whisper that to the Coll. Jam for the Sixth! Jam
for us! Either way it's jammy
By Gum
Our last term's endin' well. Now you cut along
an' finish up your old rag, and Turkey and me will help. We'll go in the
back way. No need to bother Randall
Don't play the giddy garden-goat, then
Times
You won't show off like that
when you've got to do it
for your living. Upside down and backwards, isn't it? Let's see if I can
read it
Get out
Go and read those formes in the rack there, if
you think you know so much
Formes in a rack! What's that? Don't be so beastly professional
Come here a shake, Beetle. What's this thing
Looks familiar
It's King's Latin prose exam. paper.
_In -- In Varrem: actio prima_. What a lark
Think o' the pure-souled, high-minded boys who'd give their eyes for a
squint at it
No, Willie dear
that would be wrong and painful to our
kind teachers. You wouldn't crib, Willie, would you
Can't read the beastly stuff, anyhow
Besides, we're
leavin' at the end o' the term, so it makes no difference to us
Member what the Considerate Bloomer did to Spraggon's account of the
Puffin'ton Hounds? We must sugar Mr. King's milk for him
Let's see what Beetle can do
with those forceps he's so proud of
Don't see now you can make Latin prose much more cock-eye than it is,
but we'll try
Let's see! We'll put that full-stop a little further on,
and begin the sentence with the next capital. Hurrah! Here's three lines
that can move up all in a lump
One of those scientific rests for which this eminent huntsman is so
justly celebrated
Hold on! Here's a _vol_ -- _voluntate quidnam_ all by itself
I'll attend to her in a shake. _Quidnam_ goes after _Dolabella_
Good old Dolabella
Don't break him. Vile prose
Cicero wrote, didn't he? He ought to be grateful for
Hullo
What price a giddy ode?
_Qui_ -- _quis_ -- oh, it's _Quis multa gracilis_, o' course
Bring it along. We've sugared the milk here
Never thrash your hounds unnecessarily
_Quis munditiis_? I swear that's not bad
Don't that interrogation look pretty? _Heu quoties fidem_!
That sounds as if the chap were anxious an' excited. _Cui flavam religas
in rosa_ -- Whose flavor is relegated to a rose. _Mutatosque Deos flebit
in antro_
Mute gods weepin' in a cave
Pon my Sam, Horace
needs as much lookin' after as -- Tulke
Aha! Elucescebat, quoth our friend.' Ulpian serves my need, does it?
If King can make anything out of _that_, I'm a blue-eyed squatteroo
It's no good
Bet a bob Foxy is waiting for defaulters
under the lamp by the Fives Court. It's a nuisance, too, because the
Head gave us long leave, and one doesn't like to break it
Let me now from the bonded ware'ouse of my knowledge
Oh, rot! Don't Jorrock. Can we make a run for it
Bishops' boots Mr. Radcliffe also condemned, an' spoke 'ighly in favor
of tops cleaned with champagne an' abricot jam.' Where's that thing
Cokey was twiddlin' this afternoon
Blister my kidneys. It _is_ a frost. The dahlias are dead
Bunk
Gas! gas! gas
Hellish dark and smells of cheese
Cokey must have gone for a walk.
Foxy'll have to find him
Vive la Compagnie
And that's all right
Hullo! 'Ere's
Pomponius Ego
Prefects' meetin'! Prefects' meetin
How are we goin' to jest with 'em
It's your play this time
Look here
all I want you to do is not to laugh. I'm
goin' to take charge o' young Tulke's immorality -- _a' la_ King, and it's
goin' to be serious. If you can't help laughin' don't look at me, or
I'll go pop
I see. All right
Look here, you chaps, I've -- we've sent for you to tell you you're a
good deal too cheeky to the Sixth -- have been for some time -- and -- and
we've stood about as much as we're goin' to, and it seems you've been
cursin' and swearin' at Tulke on the Bideford road this afternoon, and
we're goin' to show you you can't do it. That's all
Well, that's awfully good of you
but we happen to have
a few rights of our own, too. You can't, just because you happen to
be made prefects, haul up seniors and jaw 'em on spec., like a
house-master. We aren't fags, Carson. This kind of thing may do for
Davies Tertius, but it won't do for us
It's only old Prout's lunacy that we weren't prefects long ago. You
know that
You haven't any tact
Hold on
A prefects' meetin' has to be reported to the
Head. I want to know if the Head backs Tulke in this business
Well -- well, it isn't exactly a prefects' meeting
We
only called you in to warn you
But all the prefects are here
Where's the
difference
My Gum
Do you mean to say you've just called us in for
a jaw -- after comin' to us before the whole school at tea an' givin' 'em
the impression it was a prefects' meeting? 'Pon my Sam, Carson, you'll
get into trouble, you will
Hole-an'-corner business -- hole-an'-corner business
Beastly suspicious
cheek
Well, you chaps deserve a lickin
For interferin' with Tulke's amours, eh
Oh, no, you don't
You've had your innings.
We've been sent up for cursing and swearing at you, and we're goin' to
be let off with a warning! _Are_ we? Now then, you're going to catch
it
Don't let that young devil start jawing
If you've anything to say you must say it decently,'' said Carson.

"Decently? I will. Now look here. When we went into Bideford we met this
ornament of the Sixth -- is that decent enough?-- hanging about on the
road with a nasty look in his eye. We didn't know _then_ why he was so
anxious to stop us, _but_ at five minutes to four, when we were in Yeo's
shop, we saw Tulke in broad daylight, with his house-cap on, kissin' an'
huggin' a woman on the pavement. Is that decent enough for you
I didn't -- I wasn't
We saw you
And now -- I'll be decent, Carson -- you sneak
back with her kisses
hot on your lips and call prefects' meetings, which aren't
prefects' meetings, to uphold the honor of the Sixth
And how do we know
how do we know how many of the Sixth are mixed up in this
abominable affair
Yes, that's what we want to know
We meant to come to you about it quietly, Carson, but you would have
the meeting
It -- it isn't so much the cynical immorality of the
biznai, as the blatant indecency of it, that's so awful. As far as we
can see, it's impossible for us to go into Bideford without runnin' up
against some prefect's unwholesome amours. There's nothing to snigger
over, Naughten. I don't pretend to know much about these things -- but it
seems to me a chap must be pretty far dead in sin
when he takes to embracing his paramours
He might at least have the decency -- you're authorities on decency,
I believe -- to wait till dark. But he didn't. You didn't! Oh, Tulke.
You -- you incontinent little animal
Here, shut up a minute. What's all this about, Tulke
I -- look here. I'm awfully sorry. I never thought Beetle would take this
line
Because -- you've -- no decency -- you -- thought -- I hadn't
Tried to cover it all up with a conspiracy, did you
Direct insult to all three of us
A most filthy mind you
have, Tulke
I'll shove you fellows outside the door if you go on like this
That proves it's a conspiracy
I -- I was goin' along the street -- I swear I was
and -- and
I'm awfully sorry about it -- a woman came up and kissed me. I swear I
didn't kiss her
On my honor
Oh, do stop him jawing
Very good
We are compelled, of course, to accept
your statement
Confound it
You aren't head-prefect here, McTurk
Oh, well
you know Tulke better than we do. I
am only speaking for ourselves. _We_ accept Tulke's word. But all I can
say is that if I'd been collared in a similarly disgustin' situation,
and had offered the same explanation Tulke has, I -- I wonder what you'd
have said. However, it seems on Tulke's word of honor
And Tulkus -- beg pardon -- _kiss_, of course --- Tulkiss is an honorable
man
that the Sixth can't protect 'emselves from bein' kissed when they
go for a walk
Sweet
business, isn't it? Cheerful thing to tell the fags, ain't it? We aren't
prefects, of course, but we aren't kissed very much. Don't think that
sort of thing ever enters our heads; does it, Stalky
Oh, no
Well, you seem to know a lot about it
Can't help it -- when you chaps shove it under our noses
Well, it's all very sufficiently
vile and disgraceful, isn't it? I don't know who comes out of it
worst: Tulke, who happens to have been caught; or the other fellows who
haven't. And we
we've
got to stand up and be jawed by them because we've disturbed their
intrigues
Hang it! I only wanted to give you a word of warning
Warn? You
Carson, would you be good enough to tell us what conceivable
thing there is that you are entitled to warn us about after this
exposure? Warn? Oh, it's a little too much! Let's go somewhere where
it's clean
Oh, Beetle! Beetle! Beetle! Golden Beetle
However did you do it
Pretty lips -- sweeter than -- cherry or plum.
   Always look -- jolly and -- never look glum;
   Seem to say -- Come away. Kissy!-- come, come!
   Yummy-yum! Yummy-yum! Yummy-yum-yum
Look out. You'll smash my gig-lamps
Wasn't
it glorious? Didn't I 'Eric' 'em splendidly? Did you spot my cribs
from King? Oh, blow
There's one adjective
I didn't use -- obscene. Don't know how I forgot that. It's one of King's
pet ones, too
Never mind. They'll be sendin' ambassadors round in half a shake to
beg us not to tell the school. It's a deuced serious business for them
Poor Sixth -- poor old Sixth
Immoral young rips
What an example to pure-souled
boys like you and me
Well
You've made
a pretty average ghastly mess of it, Tulke
Why -- why didn't you lick that young devil Beetle before he began
jawing
I knew there'd be a row
But you
would insist on the meeting, Tulke
Yes, and a fat lot of good it's done us
They come in
here and jaw our heads off when we ought to be jawin' them. Beetle talks
to us as if we were a lot of blackguards and -- and all that. And
when they've hung us up to dry, they go out and slam the door like a
house-master. All your fault, Tulke
But I didn't kiss her
You ass! If you'd said you _had_ and stuck to it, it would have been
ten times better than what you did
Now they'll
tell the whole school -- and Beetle'll make up a lot of beastly rhymes and
nick-names
But, hang it, she kissed me
I'm not thinking of you. I'm thinking of us. I'll go up to their study
and see if I can make 'em keep quiet
Tulke's awf'ly cut up about this business
Who's kissed him this time
and I've come to ask you chaps, and especially you, Beetle, not to
let the thing be known all over the school. Of course, fellows as senior
as you are can easily see why
Um
I suppose I must go and talk to the Sixth
again
Not the least need, my dear chap, I assure you
I'll take any message you care to send
There seems
there
seems to be a certain amount of uneasiness among you as to the steps
we may think fit to take in regard to this last revelation of
the -- ah -- obscene. If it is any consolation to you to know that we have
decided -- for the honor of the school, you understand -- to keep our mouths
shut as to these -- ah -- obscenities, you -- ah -- have it
This, I presume, is a par-ergon on your part
One final exhibition ere you are translated to loftier
spheres? A last attack on the classics? It seems to confound you
already
I can't make head or tail of
it
What does it mean
No, no
We depend upon you
to give us the meaning. This is an examination, Beetle mine, not a
guessing-competition. You will find your associates have no difficulty
in
Stalky's missing a heap
Wonder how King'll get out
of it
There seems
a certain modicum of truth
in our Beetle's remark. I am -- er -- inclined to believe that the worthy
Randall must have dropped this in ferule -- if you know what that means.
Beetle, you purport to be an editor. Perhaps you can enlighten the form
as to formes
What, sir! Whose form! I don't see that there's any verb in this
sentence at all, an'-- an'-- the Ode is all different, somehow
I was about to say, before you volunteered your criticism, that an
accident must have befallen the paper in type, and that the printer
reset it by the light of nature. No
our Randall is not an authority on Cicero or Horace
Rather mean to shove it off on Randall
King must ha' been as screwed as an owl when he wrote it
out
But we can amend the error by dictating it
No, sir
That cuts
the time for the exam. Only two hours allowed, sir. 'Tisn't fair. It's
a printed-paper exam. How're we goin' to be marked for it! It's all
Randall's fault. It isn't our fault, anyhow. An exam.'s an exam
Eh? What? What was that you were saying to MacLagan
I only said I thought the papers ought to have been looked at before
they were given out, sir
Hear, hear
Oh, it was a giddy time
He gibbered a bit, and I kept him on the gibber, and then he
dictated about a half of Dolabella &amp; Co
Good old Dolabella! Friend of mine. Yes
Then we had to ask him how every other word was spelt, of course, and
he gibbered a lot more. He cursed me and MacLagan (Mac played up like a
trump) and Randall, and the 'materialized ignorance of the unscholarly
middle classes,' 'lust for mere marks,' and all the rest. It was what
you might call a final exhibition -- a last attack -- a giddy par-ergon
But o' course he was blind squiffy when he wrote the paper. I hope you
explained that
Oh, yes. I told Tulke so. I said an immoral prefect an' a drunken
house-master were legitimate inferences. Tulke nearly blubbed. He's
awfully shy of us since Mary's time
You see, Tulke, you may be a prefect
but I've left the
Coll. Do you see, Tulke, dear
Yes, I see. Don't bear malice, Stalky
Stalky? Curse your impudence, you young cub
I want you to understand that _I'm_ Mister
Corkran, an' you're a dirty little schoolboy
Besides bein' frabjously immoral
Wonder you aren't
ashamed to foist your company on pure-minded boys like us
Come on, Tulke,' cried Naughten, from the prefects' brake.

"Yes, we're comin'. Shove up and make room, you Collegers. You've all
got to be back next term, with your 'Yes, sir,' and 'Oh, sir,' an' 'No
sir' an' 'Please sir'; but before we say good-by we're going to tell you
a little story. Go on, Dickie
we're quite ready.
Kick that hat-box under the seat, an' don't crowd your Uncle Stalky
As nice a lot of high-minded youngsters as you'd wish to see
A trifle immoral, but
then -- boys will be boys. It's no good tryin' to look stuffy, Carson.
_Mister_ Corkran will now oblige with the story of Tulke an' Mary Yeo
Many Inventions
I've had to cut the service
but that's no reason
why my vast stores of experience should be lost to posterity
Got good haul; ex _Tamar_. Come along
Arabian Nights
You boys want to talk, so I shall say good-night now
Oh, bliss
First time I've been warm since I came home
If you say a word about cold tubs and brisk walks
I'll kill you, Infant. I've got a liver, too. 'Member when we used
to think it a treat to turn out of our beds on a Sunday
morning -- thermometer fifty-seven degrees if it was summer -- and bathe off
the Pebbleridge? Ugh
Thing I don't understand
was the way we chaps used to
go down into the lavatories, boil ourselves pink, and then come up with
all our pores open into a young snow-storm or a black frost. Yet none of
our chaps died, that I can remember
Talkin' of baths
member our bath in
Number Five, Beetle, the night Rabbits-Eggs rocked King? What wouldn't
I give to see old Stalky now! He is the only one of the two Studies not
here
Stalky is the great man of his Century
How d'you know
How do I know
If you've ever been in a
tight place with Stalky you wouldn't ask
I haven't seen him since the camp at Pindi in '87
He was
goin' strong then -- about seven feet high and four feet through
Adequate chap. Infernally adequate
Got dam' near court-martialed and broke in Egypt in '84
I went out in the same trooper with him -- as raw as he was.
Only _I_ showed it, and Stalky didn't
What was the trouble
Oh, nothing. His colonel trusted him to take twenty Tommies out to
wash, or groom camels, or something at the back of Suakin, and Stalky
got embroiled with Fuzzies five miles in the interior. He conducted a
masterly retreat and wiped up eight of 'em. He knew jolly well he'd
no right to go out so far, so he took the initiative and pitched in a
letter to his colonel, who was frothing at the mouth, complaining of the
'paucity of support accorded to him in his operations.' Gad, it might
have been one fat brigadier slangin' another! Then he went into the
Staff Corps
That -- is -- entirely -- Stalky
You've come across him, too
Oh, yes
I was at the tail of
that -- that epic. Don't you chaps know
Twasn't anything
We got into a mess up in the
Khye-Kheen Hills a couple o' years ago, and Stalky pulled us through.
That's all
Heavens
And it's you and your likes govern Ireland.
Tertius, aren't you ashamed
Well, I can't tell a yarn. I can chip in when the other fellow starts
_bukhing_. Ask him
I knew you wouldn't
Give me a whiskey and soda. I've
been drinking lemon-squash and ammoniated quinine while you chaps were
bathin' in champagne, and my head's singin' like a top
You know the Khye-Kheen-Malot expedition, when
we scared the souls out of 'em with a field force they daren't fight
against? Well, both tribes -- there was a coalition against us -- came in
without firing a shot; and a lot of hairy villains, who had no more
power over their men than I had, promised and vowed all sorts of things.
On that very slender evidence, Pussy dear
I was at Simla
Never mind, you're tarred with the same brush. On the strength of
those tuppenny-ha'penny treaties, your asses of Politicals reported the
country as pacified, and the Government, being a fool, as usual, began
road-makin'-- dependin' on local supply for labor. 'Member _that_, Pussy?
'Rest of our chaps who'd had no look-in during the campaign didn't think
there'd be any more of it, and were anxious to get back to India. But
I'd been in two of these little rows before, and I had my suspicions.
I engineered myself, _summa ingenio_, into command of a road-patrol -- no
shovellin', only marching up and down genteelly with a guard. They'd
withdrawn all the troops they could, but I nucleused about forty
Pathans, recruits chiefly, of my regiment, and sat tight at the
base-camp while the road-parties went to work, as per Political survey
Had some rippin' sing-songs in camp, too
My pup
was a pious
little beast. He didn't like the sing-songs, and so he went down with
pneumonia. I rootled round the camp, and found Tertius gassing about as
a D.A.Q.M.G., which, God knows, he isn't cut out for. There were six
or eight of the old Coll. at base-camp (we're always in force for a
frontier row), but I'd heard of Tertius as a steady old hack, and I told
him he had to shake off his D.A.Q.M.G. breeches and help _me_. Tertius
volunteered like a shot, and we settled it with the authorities, and out
we went -- forty Pathans, Tertius, and me, looking up the road-parties.
Macnamara's --'member old Mac, the Sapper, who played the fiddle so
damnably at Umballa?-- Mac's party was the last but one. The last was
Stalky's. He was at the head of the road with some of his pet Sikhs. Mac
said he believed he was all right
Stalky _is_ a Sikh
He takes his men to pray at the
Durbar Sahib at Amritzar, regularly as clockwork, when he can
Don't interrupt, Tertius. It was about forty miles beyond Mac's before
I found him; and my men pointed out gently, but firmly, that the country
was risin'. What kind o' country, Beetle? Well, _I_'m no word-painter,
thank goodness, but _you_ might call it a hellish country! When we
weren't up to our necks in snow, we were rolling down the khud. The
well-disposed inhabitants, who were to supply labor for the road-making
(don't forget that, Pussy dear), sat behind rocks and took pot-shots
at us. 'Old, old story! We all legged it in search of Stalky. I had a
feeling that he'd be in good cover, and about dusk we found him and his
road-party, as snug as a bug in a rug, in an old Malot stone fort, with
a watch-tower at one corner. It overhung the road they had blasted
out of the cliff fifty feet below; and under the road things went down
pretty sheer, for five or six hundred feet, into a gorge about half a
mile wide and two or three miles long. There were chaps on the other
side of the gorge scientifically gettin' our range. So I hammered on
the gate and nipped in, and tripped over Stalky in a greasy, bloody old
poshteen, squatting on the ground, eating with his men. I'd only seen
him for half a minute about three months before, but I might have met
him yesterday. He waved his hand all sereno.

"'Hullo, Aladdin! Hullo, Emperor!' he said. 'You're just in time for the
performance
I saw his Sikhs looked a bit battered. 'Where's your command? Where's
your subaltern?' I said.

"'Here -- all there is of it,' said Stalky. 'If you want young Everett,
he's dead, and his body's in the watch-tower. They rushed our road-party
last week, and got him and seven men. We've been besieged for five days.
I suppose they let you through to make sure of you. The whole country's
up. 'Strikes me you've walked into a first-class trap.' He grinned, but
neither Tertius nor I could see where the deuce the fun was. We hadn't
any grub for our men, and Stalky had only four days' whack for his. That
came of dependin' upon your asinine Politicals, Pussy dear, who told us
that the inhabitants were friendly.

"To make us _quite_ comfy, Stalky took us up to the watch-tower to see
poor Everett's body, lyin' in a foot o' drifted snow. It looked like a
girl of fifteen -- not a hair on the little fellow's face. He'd been shot
through the temple, but the Malots had left their mark on him. Stalky
unbuttoned the tunic, and showed it to us -- a rummy sickle-shaped cut on
the chest. 'Member the snow all white on his eyebrows, Tertius? 'Member
when Stalky moved the lamp and it looked as if he was alive
Ye-es
Member the beastly look on
Stalky's face, though, with his nostrils all blown out, same as he used
to look when he was bullyin' a fag? That was a lovely evening
We held a council of war up there over Everett's body. Stalky said the
Malots and Khye-Kheens were up together; havin' sunk their blood feuds
to settle us. The chaps we'd seen across the gorge were Khye-Kheens. It
was about half a mile from them to us as a bullet flies, and they'd made
a line of sungars under the brow of the hill to sleep in and starve us
out. The Malots, he said, were in front of us promiscuous. There wasn't
good cover behind the fort, or they'd have been there, too. Stalky
didn't mind the Malots half as much as he did the Khye-Kheens. He said
the Malots were treacherous curs. What I couldn't understand was, why
in the world the two gangs didn't join in and rush us. There must have
been at least five hundred of 'em. Stalky said they didn't trust each
other very well, because they were ancestral enemies when they were
at home; and the only time they'd tried a rush he'd hove a couple of
blasting-charges among 'em, and that had sickened 'em a bit.

"It was dark by the time we finished, and Stalky, always serene, said:
'You command now. I don't suppose you mind my taking any action I may
consider necessary to reprovision the fort?' I said, 'Of course not,'
and then the lamp blew out. So Tertius and I had to climb down the tower
steps (we didn't want to stay with Everett) and got back to our men.
Stalky had gone off -- to count the stores, I supposed. Anyhow, Tertius
and I sat up in case of a rush (they were plugging at us pretty
generally, you know), relieving each other till the mornin'.

"Mornin' came. No Stalky. Not a sign of him. I took counsel with his
senior native officer -- a grand, white-whiskered old chap -- Rutton Singh,
from Jullunder-way. He only grinned, and said it was all right. Stalky
had been out of the fort twice before, somewhere or other, accordin' to
him. He said Stalky 'ud come back unchipped, and gave me to understand
that Stalky was an invulnerable _Guru_ of sorts. All the same, I put the
whole command on half rations, and set 'em to pickin' out loopholes.

"About noon there was no end of a snow-storm, and the enemy stopped
firing. We replied gingerly, because we were awfully short of
ammunition. Don't suppose we fired five shots an hour, but we generally
got our man. Well, while I was talking with Rutton Singh I saw Stalky
coming down from the watch-tower, rather puffy about the eyes, his
poshteen coated with claret-colored ice.

"'No trustin' these snow-storms,' he said. 'Nip out quick and snaffle
what you can get. There's a certain amount of friction between the
Khye-Kheens and the Malots just now.'

"I turned Tertius out with twenty Pathans, and they bucked about in the
snow for a bit till they came on to a sort of camp about eight hundred
yards away, with only a few men in charge and half a dozen sheep by
the fire. They finished off the men, and snaffled the sheep and as much
grain as they could carry, and came back. No one fired a shot at 'em.
There didn't seem to be anybody about, but the snow was falling pretty
thick.

"'That's good enough,' said Stalky when we got dinner ready and he was
chewin' mutton-kababs off a cleanin' rod. 'There's no sense riskin' men.
They're holding a pow-wow between the Khye-Kheens and the Malots at
the head of the gorge. I don't think these so-called coalitions are much
good.'

"Do you know what that maniac had done? Tertius and I shook it out of
him by instalments. There was an underground granary cellar-room below
the watch-tower, and in blasting the road Stalky had blown a hole into
one side of it. Being no one else _but_ Stalky, he'd kept the hole open
for his own ends; and laid poor Everett's body slap over the well of the
stairs that led down to it from the watch-tower. He'd had to move and
replace the corpse every time he used the passage. The Sikhs wouldn't go
near the place, of course. Well, he'd got out of this hole, and dropped
on to the road. Then, in the night _and_ a howling snow-storm, he'd
dropped over the edge of the khud, made his way down to the bottom of
the gorge, forded the nullah, which was half frozen, climbed up on the
other side along a track he'd discovered, and come out on the right
flank of the Khye-Kheens. He had then -- listen to this!-- crossed over a
ridge that paralleled their rear, walked half a mile behind that, and
come out on the left of their line where the gorge gets shallow and
where there was a regular track between the Malot and the Khye-Kheen
camps. That was about two in the morning, and, as it turned out, a man
spotted him -- a Khye-Kheen. So Stalky abolished him quietly, and left
him -- _with_ the Malot mark on his chest, same as Everett had.

"'I was just as economical as I could be,' Stalky said to us. 'If he'd
shouted I should have been slain. I'd never had to do that kind of thing
but once before, and that was the first time I tried that path. It's
perfectly practicable for infantry, you know.'

"'What about your first man?' I said.

"'Oh, that was the night after they killed Everett, and I went out
lookin' for a line of retreat for my men. A man found me. I abolished
him -- _privatim_ -- scragged him. But on thinkin' it over it occurred to
me that if I could find the body (I'd hove it down some rocks) I might
decorate it with the Malot mark and leave it to the Khye-Kheens to draw
inferences. So I went out again the next night and did. The Khye-Kheens
are shocked at the Malots perpetratin' these two dastardly outrages
after they'd sworn to sink all bleed feuds. I lay up behind their
sungars early this morning and watched 'em. They all went to confer
about it at the head of the gorge. Awf'ly annoyed they are. Don't
wonder.' You know the way Stalky drops out his words, one by one
My God
Dear-r man
Stalky stalked
That's all there is to it
No, he didn't
Don't you remember how he insisted
that he had only applied his luck? Don't you remember how Rutton Singh
grabbed his boots and grovelled in the snow, and how our men shouted
None of our Pathans believed that was luck
They swore
Stalky ought to have been born a Pathan, and --'member we nearly had a
row in the fort when Rutton Singh said Stalky was a Pathan? Gad, how
furious the old chap was with my Jemadar! But Stalky just waggled his
finger and they shut up.

"Old Rutton Singh's sword was half out, though, and he swore he'd
cremate every Khye-Kheen and Malot he killed. That made the Jemadar
pretty wild, because he didn't mind fighting against his own creed, but
he wasn't going to crab a fellow Mussulman's chances of Paradise. Then
Stalky jabbered Pushtu and Punjabi in alternate streaks. Where the deuce
did he pick up his Pushtu from, Beetle
Never mind his language, Dick
Give us the gist of it
I flatter myself I can address the wily Pathan on occasion, but, hang
it all, I can't make puns in Pushtu, or top off my arguments with a
smutty story, as he did. He played on those two old dogs o' war like
a -- like a concertina. Stalky said -- and the other two backed up his
knowledge of Oriental nature -- that the Khye-Kheens and the Malots
between 'em would organize a combined attack on us that night, as
a proof of good faith. They wouldn't drive it home, though, because
neither side would trust the other on account, as Rutton Singh put it,
of the little accidents. Stalky's notion was to crawl out at dusk with
his Sikhs, manoeuvre 'em along this ungodly goat-track that he'd found,
to the back of the Khye-Kheen position, and then lob in a few long shots
at the Malots when the attack was well on. 'That'll divert their minds
and help to agitate 'em,' he said. 'Then you chaps can come out and
sweep up the pieces, and we'll rendezvous at the head of the gorge.
After that, I move we get back to Mac's camp and have something to eat
_You_ were commandin
I was about three months senior to Stalky, and two months Tertius's
senior
_But_ we were all from the same old Coll.
I should say ours was the only little affair on record where some one
wasn't jealous of some one else
_We_ weren't
but there was another row between Gul
Sher Khan and Rutton Singh. Our Jemadar said -- he was quite right -- that
no Sikh living could stalk worth a damn; and that Koran Sahib had better
take out the Pathans, who understood that kind of mountain work. Rutton
Singh said that Koran Sahib jolly well knew every Pathan was a born
deserter, and every Sikh was a gentleman, even if he couldn't crawl on
his belly. Stalky struck in with some woman's proverb or other, that had
the effect of doublin' both men up with a grin. He said the Sikhs and
the Pathans could settle their claims on the Khye-Kheens and
Malots later on, but he was going to take his Sikhs along for this
mountain-climbing job, because Sikhs could shoot. They can, too. Give
'em a mule-load of ammunition apiece, and they're perfectly happy
And out he gat
As soon as it was dark, and he'd had
a bit of a snooze, him and thirty Sikhs went down through the staircase
in the tower, every mother's son of 'em salutin' little Everett where
It stood propped up against the wall. The last I heard him say was,
'Kubbadar! tumbleinga! &lsqb;Look out; you'll fall!&rsqb; and they tumbleingaed
over the black edge of nothing. Close upon 9 p.m. the combined attack
developed; Khye-Kheens across the valley, and Malots in front of us,
pluggin' at long range and yellin' to each other to come along and cut
our infidel throats. Then they skirmished up to the gate, and began the
old game of calling our Pathans renegades, and invitin' 'em to join the
holy war. One of our men, a young fellow from Dera Ismail, jumped on
the wall to slang 'em back, and jumped down, blubbing like a child. He'd
been hit smack in the middle of the hand. 'Never saw a man yet who could
stand a hit in the hand without weepin' bitterly. It tickles up all the
nerves. So Tertius took his rifle and smote the others on the head to
keep them quiet at the loopholes. The dear children wanted to open the
gate and go in at 'em generally, but that didn't suit our book.

"At last, near midnight, I heard the wop, wop, wop, of Stalky's Martinis
across the valley, and some general cursing among the Malots, whose
main body was hid from us by a fold in the hillside. Stalky was brownin'
'em at a great rate, and very naturally they turned half right and began
to blaze at their faithless allies, the Khye-Kheens -- regular volley
firin'. In less than ten minutes after Stalky opened the diversion they
were going it hammer and tongs, both sides the valley. When we could
see, the valley was rather a mixed-up affair. The Khye-Kheens had
streamed out of their sungars above the gorge to chastise the Malots,
and Stalky -- I was watching him through my glasses -- had slipped in behind
'em. Very good. The Khye-Kheens had to leg it along the hillside up to
where the gorge got shallow and they could cross over to the Malots,
who were awfully cheered to see the Khye-Kheens taken in the rear.

"Then it occurred to me to comfort the Khye-Kheens. So I turned out the
whole command, and we advanced _a' la pas de charge_, doublin' up what,
for the sake of argument, we'll call the Malots' left flank. Even then,
if they'd sunk their differences, they could have eaten us alive;
but they'd been firin' at each other half the night, and they went on
firin'. Queerest thing you ever saw in your born days! As soon as our
men doubled up to the Malots, they'd blaze at the Khye-Kheens more
zealously than ever, to show they were on our side, run up the valley
a few hundred yards, and halt to fire again. The moment Stalky saw our
game he duplicated it his side the gorge; and, by Jove! the Khye-Kheens
did just the same thing
Yes, but
you've forgot him playin' 'Arrah, Patsy, mind
the baby' on the bugle to hurry us up
Did he
Rather
Yes, he played 'Patsy.' Go on, Dick
Finally
we drove both mobs into each other's arms on
a bit of level ground at the head of the valley, and saw the whole crew
whirl off, fightin' and stabbin' and swearin' in a blindin' snow-storm.
They were a heavy, hairy lot, and we didn't follow 'em.

"Stalky had captured one prisoner -- an old pensioned Sepoy of twenty-five
years' service, who produced his discharge -- an awf'ly sportin' old card.
He had been tryin' to make his men rush us early in the day. He was
sulky -- angry with his own side for their cowardice, and Rutton Singh
wanted to bayonet him -- Sikhs don't understand fightin' against the
Government after you've served it honestly -- but Stalky rescued him, and
froze on to him tight -- with ulterior motives, I believe. When we got
back to the fort, we buried young Everett -- Stalky wouldn't hear of
blowin' up the place -- and bunked. We'd only lost ten men, all told
Only ten, out of seventy. How did you lose 'em
Oh, there was a rush on the fort early in the night, and a few Malots
got over the gate. It was rather a tight thing for a minute or two, but
the recruits took it beautifully. Lucky job we hadn't any badly wounded
men to carry, because we had forty miles to Macnamara's camp. By Jove,
how we legged it! Half way in, old Rutton Singh collapsed, so we slung
him across four rifles and Stalky's overcoat; and Stalky, his prisoner,
and a couple of Sikhs were his bearers. After that I went to sleep. You
can, you know, on the march, when your legs get properly numbed. Mac
swears we all marched into his camp snoring and dropped where we halted.
His men lugged us into the tents like gram-bags. I remember wakin' up
and seeing Stalky asleep with his head on old Rutton Singh's chest. _He_
slept twenty-four hours. I only slept seventeen, but then I was coming
down with dysentery
Coming down? What rot! He had it on him before we joined Stalky in the
fort
Well, _you_ needn't talk! You hove your sword at Macnamara and demanded
a drum-head court-martial every time you saw him. The only thing that
soothed you was putting you under arrest every half hour. You were off
your head for three days
Don't remember a word of it
I remember my
orderly giving me milk, though
How did Stalky come out
Stalky? Like a serene Brahmini bull. Poor old Mac was at his Royal
Engineers' wits' end to know what to do. You see I was putrid with
dysentery, Tertius was ravin', half the men had frost-bite, and
Macnamara's orders were to break camp and come in before winter. So
Stalky, who hadn't turned a hair, took half his supplies to save him
the bother o' luggin' 'em back to the plains, and all the ammunition he
could get at, and, _consilio et auxilio_ Rutton Singhi, tramped back
to his fort with all his Sikhs and his precious prisoners, and a lot of
dissolute hangers-on that he and the prisoner had seduced into service.
He had sixty men of sorts -- and his brazen cheek. Mac nearly wept with
joy when he went. You see there weren't any explicit orders to Stalky to
come in before the passes were blocked: Mac is a great man for orders,
and Stalky's a great man for orders -- when they suit his book
He told me he was goin' to the Engadine
Sat on my cot
smokin' a cigarette, and makin' me laugh till I cried. Macnamara bundled
the whole lot of us down to the plains next day. We were a walkin'
hospital
Stalky told me that Macnamara was a simple godsend to him
I used to see him in Mac's tent listenin' to Mac playin' the
fiddle, and, between the pieces, wheedlin' Mac out of picks and shovels
and dynamite cartridges hand-over-fist. Well, that was the last we saw
of Stalky. A week or so later the passes were shut with snow, and I
don't think Stalky wanted to be found particularly just then
He didn't
He didn't. Ho, ho
Hold on a minute, Pussy; I'll let you in at the proper time. I went
down to my regiment, and that spring, five mouths later, I got off
with a couple of companies on detachment: nominally to look after some
friends of ours across the border; actually, of course, to recruit.
It was a bit unfortunate, because an ass of a young Naick carried a
frivolous blood-feud he'd inherited from his aunt into those hills, and
the local gentry wouldn't volunteer into my corps. Of course, the Naick
had taken short leave to manage the business; that was all regular
enough; _but_ he'd stalked my pet orderly's uncle. It was an infernal
shame, because I knew Harris of the Ghuznees would be covering that
ground three months later, and he'd snaffle all the chaps I had my eyes
on. Everybody was down on the Naick, because they felt he ought to
have had the decency to postpone his -- his disgustful amours till our
companies were full strength.

"Still the beast had a certain amount of professional feeling left.
He sent one of his aunt's clan by night to tell me that, if I'd take
safeguard, he'd put me on to a batch of beauties. I nipped over the
border like a shot, and about ten miles the other side, in a nullah,
my rapparee-in-charge showed me about seventy men variously armed, but
standing up like a Queen's company. Then one of 'em stepped out and
lugged round an old bugle, just like -- who's the man?-- Bancroft, ain't
it?-- feeling for his eye-glass in a farce, and played 'Arrah, Patsy,
mind the baby. Arrah, Patsy, mind'-- that was as for as he could get
He explained that if I knew the rest of the song he had a note for me
from the man the song belonged to. Whereupon, my children, I finished
that old tune on that bugle, and _this_ is what I got. I knew you'd like
to look at it. Don't grab
A. L. Cockran.'

"Well, that was all
I chaperoned the
gang across the border as quick as I could. They were rather homesick,
but they cheered up when they recognized some of my chaps, who had been
in the Khye-Kheen row, and they made a rippin' good lot. It's rather
more than three hundred miles from Fort Everett to where I picked 'em
up. Now, Pussy, tell 'em the latter end o' Stalky as you saw it
Oh, it wasn't much. I was at Simla in the spring, when our Stalky, out
of his snows, began corresponding direct with the Government
After the manner of a king
My turn now,
Dick. He'd done a whole let of things he shouldn't have done, and
constructively pledged the Government to all sorts of action
Pledged the State's ticker, eh
About that; but the embarrassin' part was that it was all so thunderin'
convenient, so well reasoned, don't you know? Came in as pat as if he'd
had access to all sorts of information -- which he couldn't, of course
Pooh
I back Stalky against the Foreign Office any
day
He'd done pretty nearly everything he could think of, except strikin'
coins in his own image and superscription, all under cover of buildin'
this infernal road and bein' blocked by the snow. His report was simply
amazin'. Von Lennaert tore his hair over it at first, and then he
gasped, 'Who the dooce is this unknown Warren Hastings? He must be
slain. He must be slain officially! The Viceroy'll never stand it. It's
unheard of. He must be slain by his Excellency in person. Order him up
here and pitch in a stinger.' Well, I sent him no end of an official
stinger, and I pitched in an unofficial telegram at the same time
You
Yes -- me
Twasn't much, but after what you've said,
Dicky, it was rather a coincidence, because I wired:

   "'Aladdin now has got his wife,
   Your Emperor is appeased.
   I think you'd better come to life:
   We hope you've all been pleased.'

"Funny how that old song came up in my head. That was fairly
non-committal and encouragin'. The only flaw was that his Emperor
wasn't appeased by very long chalks. Stalky extricated himself from his
mountain fastnesses and leafed up to Simla at his leisure, to be offered
up on the horns of the altar
But
surely the Commander-in-Chief is the proper
His Excellency had an idea that if he blew up one single junior
captain -- same as King used to blow us up -- he was holdin' the reins
of empire, and, of course, as long as he had that idea, Von Lennaert
encouraged him. I'm not sure Von Lennaert didn't put that notion into
his head
They've changed the breed, then, since my time
P'r'aps. Stalky was sent up for his wiggin' like a bad little boy. I've
reason to believe that His Excellency's hair stood on end. He walked
into Stalky for one hour -- Stalky at attention in the middle of the
floor, and (so he vowed) Von Lennaert pretending to soothe down His
Excellency's topknot in dumb show in the background. Stalky didn't dare
to look up, or he'd have laughed
Now, wherefore was Stalky not broken publicly
Ah, wherefore
To give him a chance to retrieve his
blasted career, and not to break his father's heart. Stalky hadn't a
father, but that didn't matter. He behaved like a -- like the Sanawar
Orphan Asylum, and His Excellency graciously spared him. Then he came
round to my office and sat opposite me for ten minutes, puffing out his
nostrils. Then he said, 'Pussy, if I thought that basket-hanger
Hah! He remembered that
That two-anna basket-hanger governed India, I swear I'd become a
naturalized Muscovite to-morrow. I'm a _femme incomprise_. This thing's
broken my heart. It'll take six months' shootin'-leave in India to mend
it. Do you think I can get it, Pussy?'

"He got it in about three minutes and a half, and seventeen days later
he was back in the arms of Rutton Singh -- horrid disgraced -- with orders
to hand over his command, etc., to Cathcart MacMonnie
Observe
One colonel of the Political Department in
charge of thirty Sikhs, on a hilltop. Observe, my children
Naturally, Cathcart not being a fool, even if he _is_ a Political, let
Stalky do his shooting within fifteen miles of Fort Everett for the
next six months, and I always understood they and Rutton Singh and
the prisoner were as thick as thieves. Then Stalky loafed back to his
regiment, I believe. I've never seen him since
I have, though
It was at the beginning of this hot weather.
I was in camp in the Jullunder doab and stumbled slap on Stalky in
a Sikh village; sitting on the one chair of state, with half the
population grovellin' before him, a dozen Sikh babies on his knees,
an old harridan clappin' him on the shoulder, and a garland o' flowers
round his neck. Told me he was recruitin'. We dined together that night,
but he never said a word of the business at the Fort. Told me, though,
that if I wanted any supplies I'd better say I was Koran Sahib's _bhai_;
and I did, and the Sikhs wouldn't take my money
Ah! That must have been one of Rutton Singh's villages
I say
did Stalky ever
tell you _how_ Rabbits-Eggs came to rock King that night
No
I see
Practically he duplicated that trick over again. There's
nobody like Stalky
That's just where you make the mistake
India's full of
Stalkies -- Cheltenham and Haileybury and Marlborough chaps -- that we don't
know anything about, and the surprises will begin when there is really a
big row on
Who will be surprised
The other side. The gentlemen who go to the front in first-class
carriages. Just imagine Stalky let loose on the south side of Europe
with a sufficiency of Sikhs and a reasonable prospect of loot. Consider
it quietly
There's something in that, but you're too much of an optimist, Beetle
Well, I've a right to be. Ain't I responsible for the whole thing? You
needn't laugh. Who wrote 'Aladdin now has got his wife'-- eh
What's that got to do with it
Everything
Prove it
</text>
