<text>
What tale did Iseult to the children say,
           Under the hollies, that bright winter's day
Maitre Corbeau, sur un arbre perche
Silly creatures
Dudu
Mademoiselle Jeanne
Mademoiselle Jeanne, what are you doing at the window?
You will catch cold
If I did catch cold, it would not be bad
I would stay in
bed, and you, Marcelline, would make me nice things to eat, and nobody
would say, 'Don't do that, Mademoiselle.' It would be charming
Why do
you smile like that, Marcelline? _Speak!_ When I speak I like you to
speak too
Well,
Mademoiselle, it is very well what you say
How pretty they are, are they not, Marcelline
Naughty Marcelline
you are not to smile. You are to
_speak_. I want you to speak very much, for it is so dull, and I have
nothing to do. I want you to tell me stories, Marcelline. Do you hear,
you naughty little thing
And what am I to tell you stories about then, Mademoiselle? You have
got all out of my old head long ago; and when the grain is all ground
what can the miller do
Get some more, of course
Why, _I_ could make stories if
I tried, I daresay, and I am only seven, and you who are a hundred -- are
you _quite_ a hundred, Marcelline
Not _quite_, Mademoiselle
Well, never mind, you are old enough to make stories, any way. Tell me
more about the country where you lived when you were little as I; the
country you will never tell me the name of. Oh, I do like that one about
the Golden Princess shut up in the castle by the sea! I like stories
about princesses best of all. I do wish I were a princess; next to my
best wish of all, I wish to be a princess. Marcelline, do you hear? I
want you to tell me a story
One, two, three
Quick, now, Mademoiselle, quick, quick.
Wish a wish before that last spark is gone. Quick, Mademoiselle
Oh dear, what shall I wish
When you tell me to be
quick it all goes out of my head; but I know now. I wish
Hush, Mademoiselle
You must not say
it aloud. Never mind, it is all right. You have wished it before the
spark is gone. It will come true, Mademoiselle
How do you know it will come true
I know, Mademoiselle, and that is all I can say. And when the time
comes for your wish to be granted, you will see if I am not right
Shall I
Do the fairies
tell you things, Marcelline? Not that I believe there are any
fairies -- not now, any way
Don't say that, Mademoiselle
In that country I have
told you of no one ever said such a thing as that
Why didn't they? Did they really _see_ fairies there
Perhaps
O Marcelline
I didn't know you had
gone away. What does mamma want? O Marcelline, I am so sleepy, I would
like to go to bed
To go to bed, Mademoiselle, and not yet five o'clock! Oh no, you will
wake up nicely by the time you get down to the salon
I am so tired, Marcelline
These winter days it is
so dull. I don't mind in summer, for then I can play in the garden with
Dudu and the tortoise, and all the creatures. But in winter it is so
dull. I would not be tired if I had a little friend to play with me
Keep up your heart, Mademoiselle. Stranger things have happened than
that you should have some one to play with
What do you mean, Marcelline
Do you know
something, Marcelline? Tell me, do. Did you know what my wish was
I know, Mademoiselle, that Madame will be waiting for you in the
salon. We can talk about your wish later; when I am putting you to bed
I can see the terrace ever so much better from the tapestry room
window
I wonder what Dudu is doing, poor old
fellow. Oh, how cold he must be! I suppose Grignan is asleep in a hole
in the hedge, and the chickens will be all right any way. I have not
seen Houpet all day
Poor Houpet
I am sure he must have been very sad without me all
day. He has such a loving heart. The others are nice too, but not half
so loving. And Grignan has no heart at all; I suppose tortoises never
have; only he is very comical, which is nearly as nice. As for Dudu, I
really cannot say, he is so stuck up, as if he knew better than any one
else. Ah, there he is, the old fellow! Well, Dudu
well, Dudu, how are you to-day, my dear sir? How do you
like the snow and the cold
I am going downstairs to see mamma, Dudu
I love mamma
very much, but I wish she wasn't my mother at all, but my sister. I wish
she was turned into a little girl to play with me, and that papa was
turned into a little boy. How funny he would look with his white hair,
wouldn't he, Dudu? Oh, you stupid Dudu, why won't you speak to me? I
wish you would come up here; there's a beautiful castle and garden in
the tapestry, where you would have two peacocks to play with
Dudu, Dudu
the peacocks want you to come; they're
beginning to jump about
Let me in, Mademoiselle, let me in. Why do you mock me by calling me if
you won't let me in
He must be a fairy
I'll never make fun of Dudu
any more -- _never_. He must be a fairy, or how else could he have got up
from the terrace on to the window-sill all in a minute? And I don't
think a raven fairy would be nice at all; he'd be a sort of an imp, I
expect. I wouldn't mind now if Houpet was a fairy, he's so gentle and
loving; but Dudu would be a sort of ogre fairy, he's so black and
solemn. Oh dear, how he startled me! How did he get up there? I'm very
glad _I_ don't sleep in the tapestry room
Nothing
Dudu stood on the window-sill outside the tapestry room
impossible, my child! Why, Dudu could not by any conceivable
means get up there; you might as well say you saw the tortoise there
too
If I had called him perhaps he _would_ have come too; I believe Dudu
and he are great friends
I'm sure he was
there, dear papa
Nothing of the kind to be seen, my little girl
Master Dudu was hobbling about in the snow on his favourite terrace
walk as usual. I hope the servants give him a little meat in this cold
weather, by the by. I must speak to Eugene about it. What you fancied
was Dudu, my little Jeanne
must have been a branch of
the ivy blown across the window. In the moonlight, and with the
reflections of the snow, things take queer shapes
But there is no wind, and the ivy doesn't grow so high up, and the ivy
could not have _croaked_
Perhaps so, dear papa
She cannot be quite well
She must be feverish. I
must tell Marcelline to make her a little tisane when she goes to bed
Ah, bah
What we were speaking of
will be a much better cure than tisane. She needs companionship of her
own age
The naughty little Marcelline
She has been
tricking me. I believe she knew something was going to happen. Mamma, my
dear mamma
have you something to
tell me? Have you had letters, mamma, from the country, where the
little cousin lives
Yes, my child
I have had a letter. It was for that I
sent for you -- to tell you about it. I have a letter from the grandfather
of Hugh, with whom he has lived since his parents died, and he accepts
my invitation. Hugh is to come to live with us, as his mother would have
wished. His grandfather can spare him, for he has other grandchildren,
and we need him, do we not, my Jeanne? My little girl needs a little
brother -- and I loved his mother so much
O, mamma
O mamma
And when will he come
Soon, I hope. In a few days; but it depends on the weather greatly. The
snow has stopped the diligences in several places, they say; but his
grandfather writes that he would like Hugh to come soon, as he himself
has to leave home
And will he be always with us? Will he do lessons with me, mamma, and
go to the chateau with us in summer, and always be with us
I hope so. For a long time at least. And he will do lessons with you at
first -- though when he gets big he will need more teachers, of course
He is a year older than I, mamma
Yes, he is eight
And, mamma
what room will he
have
The tapestry room
It is the warmest, and Hugh is
rather delicate, and may feel it cold here. And the tapestry room is not
far from yours, my little Jeanne, so you can keep your toys and books
together. There is only one thing I do not quite understand in the
letter
Hugh's grandfather says Hugh has begged leave to bring a pet
with him, and he hopes I will not mind. What can it be? I cannot read
the other word
A little dog probably
a pet -- gu -- ga -- and then comes
another word beginning with 'p.' It almost looks like 'pig,' but it
could not be a pet pig. No, I cannot read it either; we must wait to see
till he comes
Look in my face, Marcelline
Now look in my face and
confess. Now, didn't you know that mamma had got a letter to-night and
what it said, and was not that how you knew my wish would come true
That was one way I knew, Mademoiselle
Well, it shows I'm right not to believe in fairies any way. I really
did think at first that the fairies had told you something, but
Dudu may be a fairy, whether Marcelline has
anything to do with fairies or not
Marcelline
there is only one thing I don't like. I
wish the little cousin were not going to sleep in the tapestry room
Not in the tapestry room, Mademoiselle
why, it
is the best room in the house! You, who are so fond of stories,
Mademoiselle -- why there are stories without end on the walls of the
tapestry room; particularly on a moonlight night
_Are_ there
I wonder then if the little cousin will be
able to find them out. If he does he must tell them to me. Are they
fairy stories, Marcelline
I'll take my guinea-pig always to church
pet
monsieur
Are you very tired, my cousin
Not very, thank you
I am rather tired, but I am not very
hungry
I am not very hungry, but I think Nibble is.
Might I have a little milk for Nibble, please
I want my supper; please to see at
once about my supper, little girl
Neeble
O my cousin, is Neeble your pet? Why, he is a
'cochon de Barbarie!' O the dear little fellow! We could not -- at least
papa and mamma could not -- read what he was. And have you brought him all
the way, my cousin, and do you love him very much? Marcelline,
Marcelline, oh, do give us some milk for the cochon de Barbarie -- oh,
see, Marcelline, how sweet he is
I hope you will like your room, cheri
It is not very far from mine, and mamma says we can
keep all our toys and books together in my big cupboard in the passage
What was that name
you called me just now, Jeanne
Mon cousin,' was it that
Oh no, I remember, it was
'cheri.' I _cannot_ say your name -- I have tried all these days. I cannot
say it better than 'Ee-ou,' which is not pretty
Hugh
Never mind
I like 'cheri' ever so much better. I like it
better than 'mon cousin' or any name, because, do you know
I remember now, though I had forgotten
till you said it -- that was the name mamma called me by
Cheri
_Cheri!_ I shall always call
you so, then. You shall be my Prince Cheri. Don't you love fairy
stories, mon cousin
_Awfully_
ISN'T IT A FUNNY ROOM, CHERI
I knew you would
And oh, so do I!
Marcelline says, Cheri, that the tapestry room -- that's the room you're
going to have -- is full of fairy stories. I wonder if you'll find out
any of them. You must tell me if you do
The tapestry room
I don't think I ever saw a tapestry
room. Oh
is it like
what that queen long ago worked about the battles and all that? I mean
all about William the Conqueror
No
it's quite different from that work. I've seen that,
so I know. It isn't pretty at all. It's just long strips of linen with
queer-shaped horses and things worked on. Not _at all_ pretty. And I
think the pictures on the walls of your room _are_ pretty. Here it is.
Isn't it a funny room, Cheri
Jeanne
Jeanne, it is very
funny, but, do you know, I am _sure_ I have seen this room before. I
seem to know the pictures on the walls. Oh, _how_ nice they are! I
didn't think that was what tapestry meant. Oh, how glad I am this is to
be my room -- is yours like this too, Jeanne
Oh no, Cheri
My room has a nice paper -- roses and things
like that running up and down. I am very glad my room is not like this.
I don't think I should like to see all these funny creatures in the
night. You don't know how queer they look in the moonlight. They quite
frightened me once
_Frightened_ you
I should never be frightened at them. They
are so nice and funny. Just look at those peacocks, Jeanne. They are
lovely
I don't think so
I can't bear those peacocks. But I'm very
glad _you_ like them, Cheri
I wish it was moonlight to-night
I don't think I
should go to sleep at all. I would lie awake watching all the pictures.
I dare say they look rather nice in the firelight too, but still not
_so_ nice as in the moonlight
No, Monsieur
A moonlight night is the time to see them best. It makes the
colours look quite fresh again. Mademoiselle Jeanne has never looked at
the tapestry properly by moonlight, or she would like it better
I shouldn't mind with Cheri
You must call me some night
when it's very pretty, Cheri, and we'll look at it together
And the cochon de Barbarie, where is he to sleep, Monsieur
I don't know
At home he slept in his little house on a sort
of balcony there was outside my window. But there isn't any balcony
here -- besides, it's so _very_ cold, and he's quite strange, you know
I daresay, while it is so cold, Madame would not mind if we put him in
the cupboard in the passage
Oh no
He would be far better in the chickens' house. It's
nice and warm, I know, and his cage can be in one corner. He wouldn't be
nearly so lonely, and to-morrow I'll tell Houpet and the others that
they must be very kind to him. Houpet always does what I tell him
Who is Houpet
He's my pet chicken
They're all pets, of course, but
he's the most of a pet of all. He lives in the chicken-house with the
two other little chickens. O Cheri
do let us run out and peep at
Houpet for a minute. We can go through the tonnelle, and the chickens'
house is close by
the tonnelle
O Jeanne
how pretty it is! oh, how very pretty
What's pretty
Do you mean the
garden with the snow
No, no, that's pretty too, but I mean the trees. Look up, Jeanne, do
Yes
it's pretty. If it was moonlight it would be prettier
still, for then we could see right along the tonnelle to the end
I don't think that _would_ be prettier
the dark at the
end makes it look so nice -- like as if it was a fairy door into some
queer place -- a magic cavern, or some place like that
So it does
What nice fancies you have, Cheri! But I
wish you could see the tonnelle in summer. It _is_ pretty then, with all
the leaves on. But we must run quick, or else Marcelline will be calling
us before we have got to the chicken-house
Jeanne
it's _quite_ dark. We can't possibly see the
chickens. Hadn't we better wait till to-morrow, and put Nibble in the
cupboard, as Marcelline said, for to-night
Oh no
It doesn't matter a bit that it's dark
Look
there is a very, very little light from the
kitchen window after all, when the door is opened. Look, Cheri, up in
that corner sleep Houpet and the others. Put the cochon de Barbarie down
here -- so -- that will do. He will be quite safe here, and you feel it is
not cold
And are there no rats, or naughty dogs about -- nothing like that
Of course not
Do you think I'd leave Houpet here if
there were? I'll call to Houpet now, and tell him to be kind to the
little cochon
But Houpet's asleep, and, besides, how would he know what you say
Houpet, Houpet
we've brought a little
cochon de Barbarie to sleep in your house. You must be very kind to
him -- do you hear, Houpet dear? and in the morning you must fly down and
peep in at his cage and tell him you're very glad to see him
That's Houpet
Dear little fellow, he's too sleepy to
crow -- he just gives a little wriggle to show that he's heard me. Now put
down the cage, Cheri -- oh, you have put it down -- and let's run in again.
Your pet will be quite safe, you see, but if we're not quick, Marcelline
will be running out to look for us
Houpet, dear
don't let Dudu come into your house. If he
tries to, you must fly at him and scold him and peck him
Who is Dudu
He is
Hush
there
he is! I do believe he heard what I said, and he's angry
He's a raven
Why, what funny pets you have,
Jeanne
Dudu isn't my pet
I don't like him. To tell you the truth,
Cheri, I'm rather frightened of him. I think he's a sort of a fairy
Do you really, Jeanne
Yes
I do. And I'm not _sure_ but that Grignan is too. At
least I think Grignan is enchanted, and that Dudu is the spiteful fairy
that did it. Grignan is the tortoise, you know
Yes
you told me about him. I do wonder if what you think
is true
We must try to find out, Jeanne
But we mustn't offend Dudu
He might, you know, turn
_us_ into something -- two little mice, perhaps -- that wouldn't be very
nice, would it, Cheri
I don't know
I wouldn't mind for a little, if he would
turn us back again. We could get into such funny places and see such
funny things -- couldn't we, Jeanne
My children
Monsieur Cheri and Mademoiselle Jeanne!
Where have you been? And in the snow too! Who would have thought it
Marcelline is very kind
At home, grandmamma's maid would have scolded me
dreadfully if I had run out in the snow
Yes
she is very
kind. Nice little old Marcelline
Perhaps
she remembers that when she was a
little girl she liked to do things like that herself
I don't believe you ever were a little girl, were you, Marcelline
I believe you were always a little old woman like what you
are now
Ask Dudu
If he is a fairy, he should know
Marcelline
I believe you do know something about
Dudu. Oh, _do_ tell us, dear Marcelline
You're sure you're not frightened, Cheri
Frightened! what is there to be frightened at
The funny figures
Those peacocks look just as if they
were going to jump out at you
I think they look very nice
I am sure I shall have nice
dreams. I shall make the peacocks give a party some night, Jeanne, and
we'll invite Dudu and Grignan, and Houpet and the two little hens, and
Nibble, of course, and we'll make them all tell stories
Oh, what fun
And you'll ask me and let me hear the
stories, won't you, Cheri
_Of course_
O moon! in the night I have seen you sailing,
           And shining so round and low
And what did you dream, Cheri
I don't know
At least
little breakfast
very well
No, I don't know
But you did dream _something_
Can't
you tell me about it? I thought you were going to have all sorts of
funny things to tell me. You said you would have a party of the peacocks
and all the pets, and make them tell stories
Yes
But I couldn't make them -- I must wait till
they come. I think I did dream some funny things last night, but I can't
remember. There seemed to be a lot of chattering, and once I thought I
saw the raven standing at the end of the bed, but that time I wasn't
dreaming. I'm sure I wasn't; but I was very sleepy, and I couldn't hear
what he said. He seemed to want me to do something or other, and then he
nodded his head to where the peacocks are, and do you know, Jeanne, I
thought they nodded too. Wasn't that funny? But I daresay it was only
the firelight -- the fire had burnt low, and then it bobbed up again all
of a sudden
And what more
O Cheri, I think that's
wonderful! Do tell me some more
I don't think I remember any more
After that I went to
sleep, and then it was all a muddle. There were the chickens and Nibble
and the tortoise all running about, and Dudu seemed to be talking to me
all the time. But it was just a muddle; you know how dreams go
sometimes. And when I woke up the fire was quite out and it was all
dark. And then I saw the light of Marcelline's candle through the hinge
of the door, and she came to tell me it was time to get up
Oh dear
I do hope you'll dream some more to-night
I daresay I shan't dream at all
Some nights I go to
sleep, and it's morning in one minute. I don't like that much, because
it's nice to wake up and feel how cosy it is in bed
But, Cheri
there's one thing I don't
understand. It's about Dudu. You said it wasn't a dream, you were sure.
Do you think he was really there, at the foot of the bed? It might have
been the firelight that made you think you saw the peacocks nodding, but
it couldn't have been the firelight that made you think you saw Dudu
No
I can't understand it either. If it was a dream it was
a very queer one, for I never felt more awake in my life. I'll tell you
what, Jeanne, the next time I think I see Dudu like that I'll run and
tell you
Yes, do
though I don't know that it would be much good.
Dudu's dreadfully tricky
If Dudu thinks I've told Cheri all about his funny ways
perhaps he'll be angry and not do any more queer things
He looks very happy, doesn't he, Cheri
I am sure Houpet
has been kind to him. What a pity pets can't speak, isn't it? they could
tell us such nice funny things
Yes
I've often thought that, and I often have thought
Nibble could speak if he liked
_Houpet_ could, I'm quite sure
and I believe Dudu and
he do speak to each other. You should just see them sometimes. Why,
there they are
Do come here, Cheri, quick, but come very quietly
Silly young people
They _do_ look as if they were talking to each other
I
wonder what it's about
Perhaps it's about the party
the party you said you'd
give to the peacocks on the wall, and all the pets
Perhaps
I am sure there must be beautiful big rooms in
that castle with the lots of steps up to it, where the peacocks stand.
Don't you think it would be nice to get inside that castle and see what
it's like
Oh, wouldn't it
How I do wish we
could! You might tell Dudu to take us, Cheri. Perhaps it's a fairy
palace really, though it only looks like a picture, and if Dudu's a
fairy, he might know about it
I'll ask him if I get a chance
Good morning, Monsieur
Dudu
Good morning, Monsieur Dudu; I hope you won't catch
cold with this snowy weather. It's best to be very polite to him, you
see
for if he took offence we should
get no fun out of him
Oh yes
it is much best to be very polite to him. Look
at him now, Cheri; _doesn't_ he look as if he knew what we were saying
That's _just_ how he stood at the foot of the bed, on the wood part,
you know
And weren't you frightened, Cheri
I always think Dudu
looks not at all like a good fairy, when he cocks his head on one side
and sticks his claw out like that. I quite believe then that he's a
wicked enchanter. O Cheri
what
_should_ we do if he was to turn us into two little frogs or toads
We should have to live in the water, and eat nasty little worms and
flies, I suppose
And that sort of thick green stuff that grows at the top of dirty
ponds; fancy having that for soup
O Cheri,
we must indeed be very polite to Dudu, and take _great_ pains not to
offend him; and if he comes to you in the night, you must be sure to
call me at once
See how tame he is
isn't he a darling,
Cheri, with his _dear_ little tuft of feathers on the top of his head
He's awfully funny-looking
do you really
think he's very pretty, Jeanne
Of course I do
all my pets are pretty, but
Houpet's the prettiest of all
He's prettier than Grignan, certainly
but
I like Grignan, he's so comical
I think Grignan must know a great deal
he's so solemn
So is Dudu
By the by, Jeanne
What
It just came into my head while we were talking that I must have
dreamt of Dudu again last night; but now I try to remember it, it has
all gone out of my head
_What_ a pity
do try to remember. Was it that he came
and stood at the foot of the bed again, like the last time? You promised
to call me if he did
No, I don't think he did. I have more a sort of feeling that he and the
peacocks on the wall were whispering to each other -- something about
us -- you and me, Jeanne -- it was, I think
Perhaps they were going to give a party, and were planning about
inviting us
I don't know
it's no good my trying to think. It's just a
sleepy feeling of having heard something. I can't remember anything
else, and the more I think, the less I remember
Well, you must be sure to tell me if you do hear anything more. I was
awake ever so long in the night, ever so long; but I didn't mind, there
was such nice moonlight
Moonlight, was there
I didn't know that. I'll try to keep
awake to-night, because Marcelline says the figures on the walls are so
pretty when it's moonlight
And if Dudu comes, or you see anything funny, you'll promise to call
me
Remember to call me, Cheri
remembering
I wonder what Marcelline meant about the moonlight
I hardly see the figures on the wall at all.
The moon must be going behind a cloud. I wonder if it will be brighter
in the middle of the night. I don't see that I need stay awake all the
night to see. I can easily wake again. I'll just take a little sleep
first
Oh dear
what a pity! I meant to stay awake all night
to watch the moonlight
You would find it very difficult to do that, I think, my little
Monsieur
However, you did not miss much last night. The
clouds came over so that the moon had no chance. Perhaps it will be
clearer to-night
To-night
_I_ shall stay awake all night, and if the
moonlight is very nice and bright I shall come and wake _you_, you
sleepy Cheri. I do _so_ want to go up those steps and into the castle
where the peacocks are standing at the door
So do I
but if one goes to sleep,
whose fault is it? I am sure you will go to sleep too, if you try to
keep awake. There's _nothing_ makes people go to sleep so fast as trying
to keep awake
Well, don't try then
and see what comes then
Dear me
it must be very late;
it looks just as if summer had come
Oh, how pretty it is
No wonder Marcelline told us that
we should see the tapestry in the moonlight. I never could have thought
it would have looked so pretty. Why, even the peacocks' tails seem to
have got all sorts of new colours
IT WAS DUDU
Perhaps they are going to furl their tails again
Here you see me for the first time in my rightful character -- monarch of
all I survey
One, two, three, four
what a lot of steps! Five,
six, seven
what is he going
to do now
You have been expecting me, have you not
I don't know exactly. I'm not quite sure. Yes, I think I thought
perhaps you'd come. But oh! if you please, Monsieur Dudu
do let me go and call Jeanne. I promised her I
would if you came, or if I saw anything funny. Do let me go. I won't be
a minute
No
You cannot go for Jeanne. I do not wish it at present
But I promised
People should not promise what they are not sure of being able to
perform
Besides, even if you did go to get
Jeanne, she couldn't come. She is ever so far away
Away
away! Little Jeanne gone away. Oh
no, you must be joking Du --, I beg your pardon, Monsieur Dudu
Not at all
She _is_ away, and farther away than you or
she has any notion of, even though if you went into her room you would
see her little rosy face lying on the pillow. _She_ is away
You mean that her thinking is away, I suppose
But I could
wake her
No
You must be content to do my way at present. Now, tell
me what it is you want. Why did you wish me to come to see you
I wanted -- at least I thought, and Jeanne said so
We
thought perhaps you were a fairy, Monsieur Dudu, and that you could take
us into the castle in the tapestry. It looked so bright and real a few
minutes ago
What has become of the beautiful light,
Monsieur Dudu? And the peacocks? They have shut up their tails
again
Never mind
So you want to see the castle, do you
Yes
but not so much as Jeanne. It was she wanted it most.
She wants dreadfully to see it. _I_ thought
_I_ thought we might play at giving a party in the castle, and inviting
Houpet, you know, and Nibble
_Only_
there is one little objection to
that. _Generally_ -- I may be mistaken, of course, my notions are very
old-fashioned, I daresay -- but, _generally_, people give parties in their
own houses, don't they
Rose and amethyst, gold and grey
ONCE
I wish Jeanne were here
she would think of
something to put him down a little
So Jeanne could put me down, you think? I confess, I don't agree with
you. However, never mind about that. We shall be very good friends in
time. And now, how about visiting the castle
I should like to go
I should like to see
the castle very much, though I should have liked Jeanne to be with me;
but still
if you will be so kind as to show me the way, Monsieur
Dudu, I'd like to go, and then, any way, I can tell Jeanne all about
it
I cannot exactly show you the way
I am only the
guardian on this side. But if you will attend to what I say, you will
get on very well. Here, in the first place, is a pair of wall-climbers
to put on your feet
blobby
What funny things
They are made after the pattern of the fly's wall-climbers
Put them on -- tie them on, that is to say, so that they will
be just in the middle of your foot, underneath of course. That's right;
now jump out of bed and follow me
Shall I take them off now
I don't need them to walk up
steps with
Take them off
oh dear no. When you don't need them
they won't incommode you, and they'll be all ready for the next time.
Besides, though it mayn't seem so to you, these steps are not so easy to
get up as you think. At least they wouldn't be without the
wall-climbers
I must leave you now
but you will get on very well.
Only remember these two things -- don't be impatient, and don't take off
your wall-climbers; and if you are very much at a loss about anything,
call me
How shall I call you
Whistle softly three times. Now, I think it is time to light up.
Peacocks
Ring
I wish Dudu had come with me
Why, this of itself is
worth staying awake ever so many nights to see
only I do wish Jeanne were with me
I shall learn them by heart if I go on here much longer
I think I'll sit down a little to rest. Not that I feel tired of
walking, but I may as well sit down a little
Anyhow, I'll run on a little farther
and if I
don't come to the end of this passage soon, I'll run back again to the
other end. It feels just as if I had got inside a kaleidoscope
I'm very glad poor little Jeanne isn't here
she _would_ have been afraid. But as I'm
a boy it doesn't matter. I'll just try to find my way all the same. I
suppose it's some trick of that Dudu's
Oh dear
what shall I do
Kurroo -- kurroorulloo
Try again
O Cheri
I _couldn't_ keep quiet any longer, though I
wanted to hide my face till you had got into the carriage, and then
surprise you. But it was so nice to hear you laugh -- I _couldn't_ keep
still
Jeanne
you here! Why, Dudu told me you were ever so
far away
And so I am
and so are you, Cheri.
You have no idea how far away you are -- miles, and miles, and miles, only
in this country they don't have milestones. It's all quite different
How do you mean
How do you know all about it? You have
never been here before, have you? I couldn't quite understand Dudu -- _he_
meant, I think, that it was only your thinking part or your fancying
part, that was away
_Jeanne_
do leave off laughing and speak to me. What is
this place? and how did you come here? and have you ever been here
before
Yes
I think so; but I don't know how I came. And I
don't want to do anything but laugh and have fun. Never mind how we
came. It's a beautiful country, any way, and did you _ever_ see anything
so sweet as the little carriage they've sent for us, and wasn't it nice
to see Houpet and all the others
Yes
very. But whom do you mean by 'they,' Jeanne
Oh dear, dear
what a terrible boy you are. Do
leave off asking questions, and let us have fun. Look, there are Grignan
and the little cochon quite eager to be off. Now, do jump in -- we shall
have such fun
_Isn't_ it nice
Yes
it's very nice _now_, but it wasn't very nice when I
was all alone in the dark in that long passage. As you seem to know all
about everything, Jeanne, I suppose you know about that
I think very often we have to find our way in the dark
I think I remember about that. But
it's not dark now, Cheri, and it's going to
be ever so bright. Just look at the lovely moon through the trees. Do
let us go now. Gee-up, gee-up, crack your whip, Houpet, and make them
gallop as fast as you can
_What_ a good coachman Houpet is
I never should have
thought he could drive so well. How does he know the road, Jeanne
There isn't any road, so he doesn't need to know it
Look before you, Cheri. You see there is no road. It makes itself as we
go, so we can't go wrong
Are they not real trees
Of course they are
Now they're beginning to change;
that shows we are getting to the middle of the forest. Look, look,
Cheri
Oh, how pretty
It is like
the lamps, only much prettier. I think, Jeanne, this must be the country
of pretty colours
This forest is called the Forest of the Rainbows. I know _that_
But I don't think they call this the country of pretty colours,
Cheri. You see it is the country of so many pretty things. If we lived
in it always, we should never see the end of the beautiful things there
are. Only
Only what
I don't think it would be a good plan to live in it _always_. Just
sometimes is best, I think. Either the things wouldn't be so pretty, or
our eyes wouldn't see them so well after a while. But see, Cheri, the
trees are growing common-coloured again, and Houpet is stopping. We must
have got to the end of the Forest of the Rainbows
And where shall we be going to now
Must we get out, do
you think, Jeanne? Oh, listen, I hear the sound of water! Do you hear
it, Jeanne? There must be a river near here. I wish the moonlight was a
little brighter. Now that the trees don't shine, it seems quite dull.
But oh, how plainly I hear the water. Listen, Jeanne, don't you hear it
too
Yes
It must be
You see we are to get down
Yes
Cheri, do
you know, I feel just a very, very little bit frightened. It is such a
queer place, and I don't know what we should do. Don't you think we'd
better ask Houpet to take us back again
Oh no
I'm sure we'll be all right. You said you wanted to
have some fun, Jeanne, and you seemed to know all about it. You needn't
be frightened with _me_, Jeanne
No, of course not
but let us
stand up a minute, Hugh, before we get out of the carriage, and look all
about us. _Isn't_ it a queer place
It seems as if somebody must be shooting them up with a gun, doesn't
it
I never saw such queer fountains
Let's go and look at them close
What do you want, Houpet
They're going to show us the way
They have a pretty island,
             Whereon at night they rest;
           They have a sparkling lakelet,
             And float upon its breast
I wonder where they are going to take us to
having fun
Where _do_ you think they are going to take us to
I don't know -- at least I'm not sure
but, Cheri, isn't
it a good thing that Houpet and the others are with us to show us the
way, for though the ground looks so pretty it is quite boggy here and
there. I notice that Houpet never goes quite close to the fountains, and
just when I went the least bit near one a minute ago my feet began to
slip down
I haven't felt it like that at all
Perhaps it's because
of my wall-climbers. Dudu gave me a pair of wall-climbers like the
flies', you know, Jeanne
Did he
He didn't give me any, but then I
came a different way from you. I think every one comes a different way
to this country, do you know, Cheri
And very likely Dudu thought I could carry you if there was anywhere
you couldn't climb
I'm sure I
It's getting like a quite real fairy tale, isn't it, Jeanne
I'm _afraid_ you can't lift it, Cheri
I think I'd better
stand behind and pull _you_ -- the ring isn't big enough for us both to
put our hands in it
Try again
oranges and
lemons
fox and geese
Not that _they_ can be any use
but it's very
good-natured of them all the same
I am not so sure that they can't be of any use
Think of how well Houpet drove
Here goes, then
One, two, _three_
There should be
there _should_ be a
little staircase for us to go down, if it is like the stories in the
_Arabian Nights_
He means that we're to go down
Shall we
Of course
I'm not a bit afraid. We won't have any fun
if we don't go on
Well then
I'll go first as I'm a boy, just _in case_, you
know, Jeanne, of our meeting anything disagreeable
I suppose Houpet and the others will come after us
Jeanne
it must be all right. I don't think we need be
frightened. See, it is quite light! The light comes up from below -- down
there it must be quite bright and cheerful. Give me your hand -- if we go
down sideways -- so -- we can hold each other's hands all the way
Oh, how lovely
It is even nicer than the carriage. Get
in, Hugh, and let us row down the river. The boat must be on purpose for
us
I suppose we are meant to go on shore here
The boat won't
go any farther, any way
Cheri
I shouldn't wonder if the stream gets wider again on
the other side of this little narrow place. Don't you think we'd better
try to pull the boat through, and then we might get into it again
Perhaps
We may try
We'd better leave it and clamber through ourselves
But, O Cheri, we can't
From where I am I can see that
the water gets wider again a little farther on. And the rocks come quite
sharp down to the side. There is nowhere we could clamber on to, and I
dare say the water is very deep. There are lots of little streams
trickling into it from the rocks, and the boat could go quite well if we
could but get it a little farther
But we can't
it just won't go
Oh dear
we'll have to go back. But how should we find
the door in the hillside to go up the stair; or if we did get up, how
should we push away the stone? And even then, there would be the forest
to go through, and perhaps we couldn't find our way among the trees as
Houpet did. O Cheri, what shall we do
I think
I think the time's come for whistling
Hark, Cheri, hark
what a queer noise! What can it be
O Cheri
why did you whistle? It's all that naughty Dudu.
He's going to turn us into frogs too, I do believe, because he thinks I
laughed at him. Oh dear, oh dear, what shall we do
It does look like a shabby trick
but still I do not think
the creatures mean to do us any harm. And I don't feel myself being
turned into a frog yet; do you, Jeanne
I don't know
I don't know what
it would feel like to be turned into a frog; I've always been a little
girl, and so I can't tell. I feel rather creepy and chilly, but perhaps
it's only with seeing the frogs. What funny red eyes they've got. What
can they be going to do
They are throwing over little lines, Cheri -- lots and lots of little
lines. There must be frogs down below waiting to catch them
Why, how clever they are
We go as smoothly as if we
were on wheels. Nice little frogs. I am sure we are very much obliged to
them -- aren't we, Cheri
And to Dudu
Oh, do let us row on to the island
First, any way, we must thank the frogs
They are very polite frogs
Jeanne, do stand up and
bow to them too
I don't like to stand up
for fear the frogs should run up
my legs. But I can thank them just as well sitting down. Frogs
frogs, I am very much obliged to you, and I hope you will excuse
my not standing up
Monsieur and Mademoiselle
are very welcome to what we have
done for them -- the small service we have rendered. Monsieur and
Mademoiselle, I and my companions
He should say, 'My companions and
I
are well brought up frogs. We know our place in
society. We disapprove of newfangled notions. We are frogs -- we desire to
be nothing else, and we are deeply sensible of the honour Monsieur and
Mademoiselle have done us by this visit
He really speaks very nicely
Before Monsieur and Mademoiselle bid us farewell -- before they leave our
shores
top legs
we should desire to give them what, without
presumption, I may call a treat. Monsieur and Mademoiselle are,
doubtless, aware that in our humble way we are artists. Our
weakness -- our strength I should rather say -- is music. Our croaking
concerts are renowned far and wide, and by a most fortunate coincidence
one is about to take place, to celebrate the farewell -- the departure to
other regions -- of a songster whose family fame for many ages has been
renowned. Monsieur and Mademoiselle, to-night is to be heard for the
first time in this century the 'Song of the Swan
The song of the swan
I didn't know
swans ever sang. I thought it was just an old saying that they sing once
only -- when they are dying
Just so
it is the truth. And, therefore, the extreme
difficulty of assisting at so unique a performance. It is but
seldom -- not above half-a-dozen times in the recollection of the oldest
of my venerated cousins, the toads, that such an opportunity has
occurred -- and as to whether human ears have _ever_ before been regaled
with what you are about to enjoy, you must allow me, Monsieur and
Mademoiselle, with all deference to your race, for whom naturally we
cherish the highest respect, to express a doubt
It's a little difficult to understand quite what he means, isn't it,
Cheri
But, of course, we mustn't say so. It might
hurt his feelings
Yes
it might. But we must say something polite
You say it
I really daren't stand up, and it's not so
easy to make a speech sitting down
Monsieur Frog, we are very much obliged to you
Please
tell all the other frogs so too. We would like very much to hear the
concert. When does it begin, and where will it be
All round the lake the performers will be stationed
The chief artist occupies the island which you see from
here. If you move forward a little -- to about half-way between the shore
and the island -- you will, I think, be excellently placed. But first
first, you will
allow us, Monsieur and Mademoiselle, to offer you a little
collation -- some slight refreshment after all the fatigues of your
journey to our shores
Oh dear! oh dear
please say
'No, thank you,' Cheri. I _know_ they'll be bringing us that horrid
green stuff for soup
Thank you very much
you are very kind indeed, Monsieur
Frog, only, really, we're not hungry
A little refreshment -- a mere nothing
Tadpoles
tadpoles, refreshments for our guests
Flag-flour cakes
We roast and grind the flour in our
own mills. You will find them good
Those are made from the sugar of water-brambles
No doubt you are surprised at the delicacy
and refinement of our tastes. Many human beings are under the deplorable
mistake of supposing we live on slimy water and dirty insects -- ha, ha,
ha! whereas our cuisine is astounding in variety and delicacy of
material and flavour. If it were not too late in the season, I wish you
could have tasted our mushroom pates and minnows' eggs vols-au-vent
Thank you
what we have had is very nice indeed
I _couldn't_ eat minnows' eggs
Now
we're quite ready for the concert. Shall I row out to
the middle of the lake, Monsieur Frog
Midway between the shore and the island
that will be
the best position
If I were on that shore,
          I should live there and not die, but sing evermore
About here will do, I should think -- eh, Monsieur Frog
What a queer way all these creatures behave, don't they, Jeanne
First Dudu, then Houpet and the others. They go off all of a
sudden in the oddest way
I suppose they have to go when we don't need them any more
I daresay they are obliged to
Who obliges them
Oh, I don't know! The fairies, I suppose
Was it the fairies you meant when you kept saying 'they
I don't know -- perhaps -- it's no use asking me
Fairies,
or dream-spirits, or something like that. Never mind who they are if
they give us nice things. I am sure the frogs have been _very_ kind,
haven't they
Yes; you won't be so afraid of them now, will you, Jeanne
Oh, I don't know. I daresay I shall be, for they're quite different
from _our_ frogs. Ours aren't so bright green, and their eyes aren't
red, and they can't _talk_. Oh no, our frogs are quite different from
_theirs_, Cheri
Just like our trees and everything else, I suppose
Certainly this is a funny country. But hush, Jeanne! I believe the
concert's going to begin
I don't like this very much
It makes me sad, and I
wanted to have fun
It must be sad for the poor swan if it's going to die
But
I don't mind this sort of sad feeling. I think it's rather nice. Ah!
Jeanne, listen, there it is again. They must be going to begin
Jeanne
Cheri
What was it? Was it not an angel, and not a swan
I don't know
It was wonderful. Did you hear all it told,
Cheri
Yes
But no one could ever tell it again, Jeanne. It is a
secret for us
And for the frogs
And for the frogs
But
I thought the swan was going to die. _That_ was not
dying
Yes
yes, my children
for such as the swan that _is_ dying. And now once more -- for
you will never see me again, nor revisit this country -- once again, my
children, I bid you farewell
Cheri
I feel rather sad, and a
very little sleepy. Do you think I might lie down a little -- it is not
the least cold -- and take a tiny sleep? You might go to sleep too, if you
like. I should think there will be time before we row back to the shore,
only I do not know how we shall get the boat through the narrow part if
the frogs have all gone. And no doubt Houpet and the others will be
wondering why we are so long
We can whistle for Dudu again if we need
He helped us
very well the last time. I too am rather sleepy, Jeanne, but still I
think I had better not go _quite_ asleep. You lie down, and I'll just
paddle on very slowly and softly for a little, and when you wake up
we'll fix whether we should whistle or not
They'll take us safe back
Good-night, Cheri, good-night
Good-night, Cheri
good-night. I have gone home the other
way
Jeanne, Jeanne, where are you? Wait
good-night
after all
after all, bed is very nice, even though that little
carriage was awfully jolly, and the boat almost better. What fun it will
be to talk about it all to-morrow morning with Jeanne
Well, Cheri
you are rather late this morning.
Have you slept well
Jeanne
Well, Cheri
what is the matter? How funny you look
Jeanne
it is so queer to see you just the same as usual,
with nothing to say about it all
About all what
About our adventures -- the drive in the carriage, with Houpet as
coachman, and the stair down to the frog's country, and the frogs and
the boat, and the concert, and O Jeanne! the song of the swan
Cheri
you've been dreaming all these funny things
O Jeanne
it is very unkind to say that
Cheri, Cheri
I didn't mean to vex you, but I _don't_
understand
Jeanne
don't you remember _any_ of it -- don't you remember
the trees changing their colours so prettily?-- don't you remember the
frogs' banquet
I think -- I think
When you say that
of the trees, I think I did see rainbow colours all turning into each
other. I think, Cheri, part of me was there and part not; can there be
two of me, I wonder? But please, Cheri, don't ask me any more. It
puzzles me so, and then perhaps I may say something to vex you. Let us
play at our day games now, Cheri, and never mind about the other things.
But if you go anywhere else like that, ask the fairies to take me too,
for I always like to be with you, you know, Cheri
I thought you didn't much care for dolls. It was one of the things I
liked you for at the first
ragout a la
I thought you didn't care for dolls, Jeanne
It would
be ever so much nicer to have all the animals at our feast. We could put
them on chairs all round the table. That _would_ be some fun
They wouldn't sit still one minute
How funny you are to
think of such a thing, Cheri! Of course it would be fun if they _would_,
but fancy Dudu and Grignan helping themselves with knives and forks like
people
I'm sure Dudu and the others _could_ sit at the table and behave like
ladies and gentlemen if they chose. How _very_ funny of Jeanne to forget
about all the clever things they did! But it is no use saying any more
to her. It would only make us quarrel. There must be two Jeannes, or
else 'they,' whoever they are, make her forget on purpose
Ah
my poor Zephyrine has fainted
Oh dear! oh dear
all the chocolate ragout is spilt,
and the whipped-up egg is mixed with the orange-juice soup. Oh dear! oh
dear! and I thought we should have had the whole feast to eat up
ourselves after the dolls had had enough
Yes
that's what comes of having stupid sticks of dolls at
your feasts. The _animals_ wouldn't have behaved like that
I don't think I _do_ care much for dolls
I like almonds
terribly -- don't you, Cheri
No, I don't
care for dolls. You are quite right about them; they _are_ stupid, and
you can't make fancies about them, because their faces always have the
same silly look. I don't know what I like playing at best. O
Marcelline
O Marcelline! _do_ tell us a story; we are tired of playing
Does Monsieur Cheri, too, wish me tell him a story
Yes, of course
Why do you look at me that funny way,
Marcelline
Why
I was thinking only that perhaps
Monsieur finds so many stories in the tapestry that he would no longer
care for my stupid little old tales
Marcelline
I don't understand you
Do you understand yourself, my little Monsieur
Do
any of us understand ourselves? all the different selves that each of us
is
No
I daresay we don't. It is very puzzling; it's all very
puzzling
In the country where I lived when I was a little girl
Have you never been there since, Marcelline
Oh dear, yes
often, very often. I should not have been
near so happy as I am if I had not often visited that country
Dear me
how very queer! I had no idea of that. You
haven't been there for a great many years any way, Marcelline. I heard
mamma telling a lady the other day that she never remembered your going
away, not even for a day -- never since she was born
Ah
but, Mademoiselle, we don't always know what
even those nearest us do. I might have gone to that country without your
mamma knowing. Sometimes we are far away when those beside us think us
close to them
Yes
that is true, Marcelline
You naughty little old woman
you very naughty little old
woman, to say things like that to puzzle me -- just what you know I don't
like. Go back to your own country, naughty old Marcelline; go back to
your fairyland, or wherever it was you came from, if you are going to
tease poor little Jeanne so
_Tease_ you, Mademoiselle
Yes, tease me
You know I hate people to go on
about things I don't understand. Now you're to tell us a story at once,
do you hear, Marcelline
You must keep the story for another day, Marcelline
I am getting too old to tell stories
Too old
Yes, Monsieur Cheri, too old
The thoughts do not
come so quickly as they once did, and the words, too, hobble along like
lamesters on crutches
But
it is never -- you would never, I mean,
be too old to visit that country, where there are so many stories to be
found
Perhaps not
but even if I found them, I might not
be able to tell them. Go and look for them for yourself, Monsieur
Cheri; you have not half seen the tapestry castle yet
Only
if I get into the castle, Jeanne really
must come with me, especially if it is to hear stories
And all their cattish gestures plainly spoke
           They thought the affair they'd come upon no joke
There's been no moonlight for a good while Marcelline, has there
No, Monsieur, there has not
Will it be coming back soon
Do you like it so much, my child
Yes
At least, of course when I'm fast asleep it doesn't
matter to me if it's moonlight or not. But you know what I like it for,
Marcelline, and you said the other day that I hadn't half seen the
tapestry castle, and I want very much to see it, Marcelline, only I'd
like Jeanne to be with me; for I don't think I could tell her well about
the fairy things if she hadn't been with me. She didn't seem to
understand the words, and I don't think I could get the right ones to
tell, do you know, Marcelline
No
you're right. The words wouldn't come, and if they did,
it would be no use. You're older than Mademoiselle Jeanne, Monsieur
Hugh, and it's different for her. But it doesn't matter -- the days bring
their own pleasures and interests, which the moonlight wouldn't suit.
You wouldn't have cared for a dinner like what you have every day when
you were listening to the song of the swan
No, certainly not
I see you do understand, Marcelline,
better than anybody. It must be as I said; there must be two of me, and
two of Jeanne, and two of you, and
And two of everything
and the great thing is to
keep each of the twos in its right place
_Will_ the moonlight nights come again soon, Marcelline? Do tell me.
I'm sure you know
Have a little patience
you shall be told. Never
fear
I shan't be able to go to sleep for ever so long
I shall
stay awake all the night, I believe
Oh no, you won't
Cheri dear
Cheri, I have come for you. And see what I have got for you
Have you been dressing up
and in the middle of the night?
oh how funny! But O, Jeanne, how pretty you look
Come, get up quick, then
and I'll
make you pretty too. Only I can't promise you a head-dress like mine,
Cheri
Dudu
Of course
You didn't suppose we could have gone without
him, Cheri
Gone where
Up into the tapestry castle
where we've been wishing so
to go, though we had to wait for the moonlight, you know
Are these for me
Certainly
Aren't they pretty? Much nicer than your
wall-climbers, Cheri. I chose them. Turn round and let me put them on
You said you'd make me look pretty too, Jeanne
I don't
care for myself -- boys never care about being grandly dressed -- but I
shall look rather funny beside you, shan't I
Wait a minute
you're not ready yet. I'm going to powder
you. Shut your eyes
There now
aren't you pleased? You don't know how nice
you look. Now, Dudu we're quite ready. Are we to fly up to the castle
Are they asleep
Perhaps
They lead a
monotonous life, you see. But there is no occasion to disturb them
How shall we ever get out again
We needn't trouble about that
We got back all right the
last time. What I want to know is what are we to do next? I see no way
out of this hall, and though it's rather nice, it's not very amusing.
Dudu, I wish you would sit still -- you keep giving little juggles on my
head that are very uncomfortable, and make me feel as if I had a hat on
that was always tumbling off
I beg your pardon, Mademoiselle Jeanne
You really do say such foolish things sometimes that it is
impossible to restrain one's feelings altogether. No way out of this
hall, do you say, when it is the entrance to everywhere
But how are we to get to everywhere, or anywhere
Really
When you are running
up and down the terrace, in your other life, you don't stand still at
one end and say, 'Dudu, how am I to get to the other?' You move your
feet, which were given you for the purpose. And in present
circumstances, instead of your feet, you naturally
Move our wings
Oh, of course. We're to fly. But you
see, Dudu, we're accustomed to having feet, and to running and walking
with them, but having wings is something new
Let's set off
But where are we to go to
Really
What am I here for
Oh, to show us the way, of course
You're going to steer
us, I suppose, on the top of my head. Well, we're quite ready
Don't turn round
for fear it should make you giddy. Push
the door and go in at once
Here
I will leave you. You can't go wrong
I don't mind you getting off my head, Dudu
But you might
take a turn on Cheri's for a change. I think it's rather shabby of you
to leave us already
I think it's very good-natured of Monsieur Dudu to have come with us so
far
We could never have got into the tapestry castle at all
but for him
No
that you certainly wouldn't
Good-bye
and if you're in any trouble remember
the former arrangement. Whistle three times
Good-bye
What a queer way he has of going off all of a sudden
And what are we to do now
Go up the stairs, of course, till we find where they lead to
It will be rather awkward with our wings
The stair is so
very narrow and twisting
Wings
Why, Cheri, your wings are gone
And so are yours
It's too bad
It's all Dudu
Never mind
He wouldn't have taken them away if we had
been going to need them again; and really, Jeanne, the more I think of
it the more sure I am we could never have got up that stair with our
wings on
Perhaps not
Any way _I_ couldn't have got up it with
Dudu on my head. But let's go on, Cheri. Are you frightened? I'm not a
bit
I'm not, either
Still, it's a very queer place. I wish
Dudu, or Houpet, or some of them, had come with us
It's worse than the staircase down to the frogs' country
There now, Jeanne, you _do_ remember
I believe it was just
pretence your saying you thought I had dreamt it all
No
it wasn't. You don't understand, Cheri. I'm
moonlight Jeanne, now -- when we were having the dolls' feast I was
daylight Jeanne. And you know it's never moonlight in the day-time
Well, certainly, I _don't_ understand
And one thing
particularly -- how is it that in the moon-time you remember about the
day-time, if in the day you forget all about the other
I don't exactly forget
but it spoils things to mix them
together. And lots of things would be _quite_ spoilt if you took them
into the regular daylight. I fancy, too, one can see farther in the
moonlight -- one can see more ways
Jeanne
you're a perfect puzzle. I do wonder whether you're
half a fairy, or an angel, or a dream. I do hope you're not a dream when
you're in the moonlight. But, oh dear, I cannot understand
Do leave off trying to understand, Cheri
and let us
amuse ourselves. I always love _you_, Cheri, whatever I am, don't I
Do let us go on quickly
I do so want to see where this
stair goes to
Let me go first. I'm a boy, you know, and it's right I should go first
in case of meeting anything that might frighten you
mew
Mew, mew
Cats
It's just as well
that none of the animals did come with
us, as so many of them are birds
Mew
Mew
Mew
Madame is expecting you
Thank you
She has been waiting a good while
I'm very sorry to have kept her waiting
I hope she has not been waiting very long
Oh no
not long; not above three hundred
years
Three hundred
years
You are not to be surprised
You must not _think_ of being surprised. Nobody is ever surprised
here
No one is ever surprised here
This is
the Castle of Whiteness, you know. You are sure you have nothing
coloured about you
Only our hair
Mine's light-brown, you see
And mine's bl
Oh, oh, oh
Where are your manners? You must never mention
such a word. Your hair, Mademoiselle, is _shadowy_. That is the proper
expression
You needn't be so sharp
your eyes are as green
as they can be
Green doesn't count
And how were we to know that
I don't know
Well, but can't you be sensible
Perhaps we might be if we tried
But
Madame's turning her wheel
Now's the time
Delicate, strong, and white,
           Hurrah for the magic thread!
           The warp and the woof come right
Won't you speak to her
You see
they're
getting angry
I don't care
I don't care. It's
not our fault. They said she was waiting for us, and they made us come
in
_She_ is the cat,' so I've been told
And 'don't care;' something was once spun about 'don't care,' I think
_She_ the cat
Oh, what presumption! And who said 'don't
care'? Oh dear! oh dear! who would have thought of such a thing
Hush, cats
Don't be silly; it's nearly
as bad as being surprised
Aren't you glad she has put them down a
little
It is quite ready
the threads are all straight
Madame
I don't mean to be rude, but I _am_ so thirsty.
It's with flying, I think, for we're not accustomed to it
Why did you not say so before
I can give you anything
you want. It has all been ready a long time. Will you have snow water or
milk
Milk, please
Fetch it
Now
are you ready
We are _very_ sorry
but we really don't understand what it
is you would like us to do
Do
Why, you have nothing to do but to listen. Isn't
that what you came for? To hear some of the stories I spin
Oh
Is _that_ what you're spinning?
Stories
Of course
Where did you think they all come
from?-- all the stories down there
Why, here I have been
for -- no, it would frighten you to tell you how long, by your counting, I
have been up here at my spinning. I spin the round of the clock at this
window, then I turn my wheel -- to get the light, you see -- and spin the
round again at the other. If you saw the tangle it comes to me in! And
the threads I send down! It is not _often_ such little people as you
come up here themselves, but it does happen sometimes. And there is
plenty ready for you -- all ready for the wheel
How wonderful
And oh
I suppose sometimes
the threads get twisted again when you have to send them down such a
long way, and that's how stories get muddled sometimes
Just so
My story threads need gentle handling,
and sometimes people seize them roughly and tear and soil them, and then
of course they are no longer pretty. But listen now. What will you have?
The first in the wheel is a very, very old fairy story. I span it for
your great-great-grandmothers; shall I spin it again for you
Oh, please
Then sit down on the floor and lean your heads against my knees
Shut your eyes and listen. That is all you have to do. Never
mind the cats, they will be quite quiet
Listen, children
We are listening
You needn't say that
again
Hush, Jeanne
you'll stop the story if you're not quiet
Listen, children
Once on a time -- a very long time ago -- in a beautiful castle there lived
a beautiful Princess. She was young and sweet and very fair to see. And
she was the only child of her parents, who thought nothing too rare or
too good for her. At her birth all the fairies had given her valuable
gifts -- no evil wishes had been breathed over her cradle. Only the fairy
who had endowed her with good sense and ready wit had dropped certain
words, which had left some anxiety in the minds of her parents.

"'She will need my gifts,' the fairy had said. 'If she uses them well,
they and these golden balls will stand her in good need.

"And as she kissed the baby she left by her pillow three lovely golden
balls, at which, as soon as the little creature saw them, she smiled
with pleasure, and held out her tiny hands to catch them.

"They were of course balls of fairy make -- they were small enough for the
little Princess at first to hold in her baby hands, but as she grew they
grew, till, when she had reached her sixteenth year, they were the size
of an orange. They were golden, but yet neither hard nor heavy, and
nothing had power to dint or stain them. And all through her babyhood
and childhood, and on into her girlhood, they were the Princess's
favourite toy. They were never away from her, and by the time she had
grown to be a tall and beautiful girl, with constant practice she had
learnt to catch them as cleverly as an Indian juggler. She could whiz
them all three in the air at a time, and never let one drop to the
ground. And all the people about grew used to seeing their pretty
Princess, as she wandered through the gardens and woods near the castle,
throwing her balls in the air as she walked, and catching them again
without the slightest effort.

"And remembering the words of the fairy who had given them, naturally
her father and mother were pleased to see her love for the magic gift,
and every one about the palace was forbidden to laugh at her, or to say
that it was babyish for a tall Princess to play so much with a toy that
had amused her as an infant.

"She was not a silly Princess at all. She was clever at learning, and
liked it, and she was sensible and quick-witted and very brave. So no
one was inclined to laugh at her pretty play, even if they had not been
forbidden to do so. And she was so kind-hearted and merry, that if ever
in her rambles she met any little children who stared at her balls with
wondering eyes, she would make her ladies stop, while she threw the
balls up in the air, higher and yet higher, ever catching them again as
they flew back, and laughed with pleasure to see the little creatures'
delight in her skill.

"She was such a happy Princess that the bright balls seemed like
herself -- ready to catch every ray of sunshine and make it prisoner. And
till she had reached her sixteenth year no cloud had come over her
brightness. About this time she noticed that the king, her father, began
to look anxious and grave, and messengers often came in haste to see him
from far-off parts of his kingdom. And once or twice she overheard words
dropped which she could not understand, except that it was evident some
misfortune was at hand. But in their desire to save their daughter all
sorrow, the king and queen had given orders that the trouble which had
come to the country was not to be told her; so the Princess could find
out nothing even by questioning her ladies or her old nurse, who
hitherto had never refused to tell her anything she wanted to know.

"One day when she was walking about the gardens, playing as usual with
her golden balls, she came upon a young girl half hidden among the
shrubs, crying bitterly. The Princess stopped at once to ask her what
was the matter, but the girl only shook her head and went on weeping,
refusing to answer.

"'I dare not tell you, Princess,' she said. 'I dare not. You are good
and kind, and I do not blame you for my misfortunes. If you knew all,
you would pity me.'

"And that was all she would say.

"She was a pretty girl, about the same age and height as the Princess,
and the Princess, after speaking to her, remembered that she had
sometimes seen her before.

"'You are the daughter of the gardener, are you not?' she inquired.

"'Yes,' said the girl. 'My father is the king's gardener. But I have
been away with my grandmother. They only sent for me yesterday to come
home -- and -- and -- oh, I was to have been married next week to a young
shepherd, who has loved me since my childhood!'

"And with this the girl burst into fresh weeping, but not another word
would she say.

"Just then the Princess's governess, who had been a little behind -- for
sometimes in playing with her balls the Princess ran on faster -- came up
to where the two young girls were talking together. When the governess
saw who the Princess's companion was she seemed uneasy.

"'What has she been saying to you, Princess?' she asked eagerly. 'It is
the gardener's daughter, I see.'

"'Yes,' said the Princess. 'She is the gardener's daughter, and she is
in some great trouble. That is all I know, for she will tell me nothing
but that she was to have been married next week, and then she weeps. I
wish I knew what her sorrow is, for, perhaps, I could be of use to her.
I would give her all my money if it would do her any good,' and the
Princess looked ready to cry herself. But the girl only shook her head.
'No Princess,' she said; 'it would do me no good. It is not your fault;
but oh, it is very hard on me!'

"The governess seemed very frightened and spoke sharply to the girl,
reproving her for annoying the Princess with her distress. The Princess
was surprised, for all her ladies hitherto had, by the king and queen's
desire, encouraged her to be kind and sympathising to those in trouble,
and to do all she could to console them. But as she had also been taught
to be very obedient, she made no remonstrance when her governess desired
her to leave the girl and return to the castle. But all that day the
Princess remained silent and depressed. It was the first time a shadow
had come near her happiness.

"The next morning when she awoke the sun was shining brilliantly. It was
a most lovely spring day. The Princess's happy spirits seemed all to
have returned. She said to herself that she would confide to the queen
her mother her concern about the poor girl that she had seen, and no
doubt the queen would devise some way of helping her. And the thought
made her feel so light-hearted that she told her attendants to fetch her
a beautiful white dress trimmed with silver, which had been made for her
but the day before. To her surprise the maidens looked at each other in
confusion. At last one replied that the queen had not been pleased with
the dress and had sent it away, but that a still more beautiful one
trimmed with gold should be ready by that evening. The Princess was
perplexed; she was not so silly as to care about the dress, but it
seemed to her very strange that her mother should not admire what she
had thought so lovely a robe. But still more surprised was she at a
message which was brought to her, as soon as she was dressed, from the
king and queen, desiring her to remain in her own rooms the whole of
that day without going out, for a reason that should afterwards be
explained to her. She made no objection, as she was submissive and
obedient to her parents' wishes, but she found it strange and sad to
spend that beautiful spring day shut up in her rooms, more especially as
in her favourite boudoir, a turret chamber which overlooked the castle
courtyard, she found the curtains drawn closely, as if it were night,
and was told by her governess that this too was by the king's orders;
the Princess was requested not to look out of the windows. She grew at
this a little impatient.

"'I am willing to obey my parents,' she said, 'but I would fain they
trusted me, for I am no longer a child. Some misfortune is threatening
us, I feel, and it is concealed from me, as if I could be happy or at
rest if sorrow is hanging over my dear parents or the nation.'

"But no explanation was given to her, and all that day she sat in her
darkened chamber playing sadly with her golden balls and thinking deeply
to herself about the mystery. And towards the middle of the day sounds
of excitement reached her from the courtyard beneath. There seemed a
running to and fro, a noise of horses and of heavy feet, and now and
then faint sounds of weeping.

"'Goes the king a hunting to-day?' she asked her ladies. 'And whose
weeping is it I hear?'

"But the ladies only shook their heads without speaking.

"By the evening all seemed quiet. The Princess was desired to join her
parents as usual, and the white and golden robe was brought to her to
wear. She put it on with pleasure, and said to herself there could after
all be no terrible misfortune at hand, for if so there would not be the
signs of rejoicing she observed as she passed through the palace. And
never had her parents been more tender and loving. They seemed to look
at her as if never before they had known how they treasured her, and the
Princess was so touched by these proofs of their affection that she
could not make up her mind to trouble them by asking questions which
they might not wish to answer.

"The next day everything went on as usual in the palace, and it seemed
to the Princess that there was a general feeling as if some great danger
was safely passed. But this happiness did not last long; about three
days later, again a messenger, dusty and wearied with riding fast and
hard, made his appearance at the castle; and faces grew gloomy, and the
king and queen were evidently overwhelmed with grief. Yet nothing was
told to the Princess.

"She wandered out about the gardens and castle grounds, playing as usual
with her balls, but wondering sadly what meant this mysterious trouble.
And as she was passing the poultry-yard, she heard a sound which seemed
to suit her thoughts -- some one was crying sadly. The Princess turned to
see who it was. This time too it was a young girl about her own age, a
girl whom she knew very well by sight, for she was the daughter of the
queen's henwife, and the Princess had often seen her driving the flocks
of turkeys or geese to their fields, or feeding the pretty cocks and
hens which the queen took great pride in.

"'What is the matter, Bruna?' said the Princess, leaning over the gate.
'Have the rats eaten any of the little chickens, or has your mother been
scolding you for breaking some eggs?'

"'Neither, Princess,' said the girl among her sobs. 'The chickens are
never eaten, and my mother seldom scolds me. My trouble is far worse
than that, but I dare not tell it to you -- to you of all people in the
world.'

"And the Princess's governess, who just then came up, looked again very
frightened and uneasy.

"'Princess, Princess,' she said, 'what a habit you are getting of
talking to all these foolish girls. Come back to the palace at once with
me.'

"'I have often talked to Bruna before,' said the Princess gently, 'and
I never was blamed for doing so. She is a pretty girl, and I have known
her all my life. Some one said she was betrothed to one of my father's
huntsmen, and I would like to ask if it is true. Perhaps they are too
poor to marry, and it may be for that she is weeping.'

"Bruna heard what the Princess said, and wept still more violently. 'Ah,
yes, it is true!' she said, 'but never, never shall I now be married to
him.'

"But the Princess's governess would not let her wait to ask more. She
hurried her back to the castle, and the Princess -- more sure than ever
that some mysterious trouble was in question -- could get no explanation.

"She did not see the king and queen that night, and the next morning a
strange thing happened -- her white and golden robe was missing. And all
that her attendants could tell her was that it had been taken away by
the queen's orders.

"'Then,' said the Princess, 'there is some sad trouble afloat which is
hidden from me.'

"And when she went to her turret room, and found, as before, that the
windows were all closed, so that she could not see out, she sat down and
cried with distress and anxiety.

"And, again, about mid-day, the same confused noises were to be heard. A
sound of horses and people moving about in the courtyard, a tramping of
heavy feet, and through all a faint and smothered weeping. The Princess
could bear her anxiety no longer. She drew back the curtains, and
unfastened the shutters, and leaned out. From her window she could
clearly see the courtyard. It was, as she suspected, filled with people;
rows of soldiers on horse-back lined the sides, and in front, on the
steps, the king and queen were standing looking at a strange object. It
was an enormous bull: never had the Princess seen such a bull. He was
dark brown in colour, and pawed the ground in front of him impatiently,
and on his back was seated a young girl whom the Princess gazed at with
astonishment. She really thought for a moment it was herself, and that
she was dreaming! For the girl was dressed in the Princess's own white
and golden robe, and her face could not be seen, for it was covered with
a thick veil, and numbers of women and servants standing about were
weeping bitterly. And so, evidently, was the girl herself. Then the
great bull gave another impatient toss, the girl seized his horns to
keep herself from falling, and off he set, with a terrible rush: and a
great shout, half of fear, half of rejoicing, as seeing him go, rose
from the people about.

"Just at this moment the Princess heard some one approaching her room.
She hastily drew the curtains, and sat down playing with her balls, as
if she had seen nothing.

"She said not a word to any one, but she had her own thoughts, and that
evening she was sent for to her father and mother, who, as usual,
received her with caresses and every sign of the tenderest affection.
And several days passed quietly, but still the Princess had her own
thoughts.

"And one evening when she was sitting with her mother, suddenly the king
entered the room in the greatest trouble, and not seeing the Princess,
for it was dusk, he exclaimed,

"'It has failed again. The monster is not to be deceived. He vows he
will not cease his ravages till he gets the real Princess, our beloved
daughter. He has appeared again, and is more infuriated than ever,
tearing up trees by the roots, destroying the people's houses, tramping
over their fields, and half killing all the country with terror. What is
to be done? The people say they can endure it no longer. The girl Bruna
was found bruised and bleeding by the wayside a long way from this, and
she gives the same account as the gardener's daughter of the monster's
rage at finding he had been deceived.'

"The queen had tried to prevent the king's relating all this, but he was
too excited to notice her hints, and, indeed, after the first few words,
the Princess had heard enough. She started from her seat and came
forward. And when he saw her, the king threw up his hands in despair.
But the Princess said quietly, 'Father, you must tell me the whole.'

"So they had to tell her the whole. For many weeks past the terrible
monster she had seen in the courtyard had been filling the country with
fear. He had suddenly appeared at a distant part of the kingdom -- having
come, it was said, from a country over the sea named 'Norrowa'-- and had
laid it waste, for though he did not actually kill or devour, he tore
down trees, trampled crops, and terrified every one that came in his
way, as the king had said. And when begged to have mercy and to return
to his own country, he roared out with a voice between the voice of a
man and the bellow of a bull, that he would leave them in peace once the
king gave him his daughter in marriage.

"Messenger after messenger had been sent to the palace to entreat for
assistance. Soldiers in numbers had been despatched to seize the monster
and imprison him. But it was no use -- he was not to be caught. Nothing
would content him but the promise of the Princess; and as it was of
course plain that he was not a common bull, but a creature endowed with
magical power, the country-people's fear of him was unbounded. They
threatened to rise in revolution unless some means were found of ridding
them of their terrible visitor. Then the king called together the wisest
of his counsellors, and finding force of no avail, they determined to
try cunning. The giving the Princess was not to be thought of, but a
pretty girl about her age and size -- the gardener's daughter, the same
whom the Princess had found weeping over her fate -- was chosen, dressed
in one of her royal mistress's beautiful robes, and a message sent to
the bull that his request was to be granted. He came. All round, the
castle was protected by soldiers, though they well knew their power
against him was nothing. The king and queen, feigning to weep over the
loss of their daughter, themselves presented to him the false Princess.

"She was mounted on his back, and off he rushed with her -- up hill, down
dale, by rocky ground and smooth, across rivers and through forests he
rushed, said the girl, faster and faster, till at last, as evening fell,
he came to a stand and spoke to her for the first time.

"'What time of day must it be by this, king's daughter?' he said.

"The girl considered for a moment. Then, forgetting her pretended
position, she replied thoughtlessly,

"'It must be getting late. About the time that my father gathers the
flowers to adorn the king's and queen's supper table.'

"'Throw thee once, throw thee twice, throw thee _thrice_,' roared the
bull, each time shaking the girl roughly, and the last time flinging her
off his back. 'Shame on thee, gardener's daughter, and thou wouldst call
thyself a true Princess.'

"And with that he left her bruised and frightened out of her wits on the
ground, and rushed off by himself whither she knew not. And it was not
till two days later that the unfortunate gardener's daughter found her
way home, glad enough, one may be sure, to be again there in safety.

"In the meantime the ravages and terrors caused by the terrible bull had
begun again, and, as before, messengers came incessantly to the king
entreating him to find some means of protecting his unfortunate
subjects. And the king and queen were half beside themselves with
anxiety. Only one thing they were determined on -- nothing must be told to
the Princess.




CHAPTER IX. THE BROWN BULL --(_Continued_).

                               "And she
          Told them an old-world history
I thank thee, thou true Princess,' said the bull in the same tone, and
he hastened on.

"And ere long the night fell, and the poor Princess was so tired and
sleepy, that without knowing it her pretty head drooped lower and lower,
and at last she lay fast asleep on the bull's broad back, her fair head
resting between his horns.

"She slept so soundly that she did not notice when he stopped, only she
had a strange dream. Some one lifted her gently and laid her on a couch,
it seemed to her, and a kind voice whispered in her ear, 'Good-night, my
fair Princess.'

"But it must have been a dream, she said to herself. How could a bull
have arms to lift her, or how could a rough, ferocious creature like him
be so gentle and kind? It must have been a dream, for when she awoke she
saw the great monster standing beside her on his four legs as usual; yet
it was strange, for she found herself lying on a delicious mossy couch,
and the softest and driest moss had been gathered together for a pillow,
and beside her a cup of fresh milk and a cake of oaten bread were lying
for her breakfast. How had all this been done for her? she asked
herself, as she ate with a very good appetite, for she had had no food
since the morning before. She began to think the bull not so bad after
all, and to wonder if it was to Fairyland he was going to take her. And
as she thought this to herself she threw her balls, which were lying
beside her, up into the air, and the morning sun caught their sparkle
and seemed to send it dancing back again on to her bright fair hair. And
a sudden fancy seized her.

"'Catch,' she said to the bull, throwing a ball at him as she spoke. He
tossed his head, and to her surprise the ball was caught on one of his
horns.

"'Catch,' she said again, and he had caught the second.

"'Catch,' a third time. The great creature caught it in his mouth like a
dog, and brought it gently to the Princess and laid it at her feet. She
took it and half timidly stroked his head; and no one who had seen the
soft pathetic look which crept into his large round eyes would have
believed in his being the cruel monster he had been described. He did
not speak, he seemed without the power to do so now, but by signs he
made the Princess understand it was time to continue their journey, and
she mounted his back as before.

"All that day the bull travelled on, but the Princess was now getting
accustomed to her strange steed, and felt less tired and frightened. And
when the sun grew hot the bull was sure to find a sheltered path, where
the trees shaded her from the glare, and when the road was rough he went
the more slowly, that she should not be shaken.

"Late in the evening the Princess heard a far-off rushing sound, that as
they went seemed to grow louder and louder.

"'What is that, brown bull?' she asked, feeling somehow a little
frightened.

"The brown bull raised his head and looked round him. Yes, the sun had
sunk, he might speak. And in the same deep voice he answered,

"'The sea, king's daughter, the sea that is to bear you and me to my
country of Norrowa.'

"'And how shall we cross it, brown bull?' she said.

"'Have no fear,' he replied. 'Lay down your head and shut your eyes, and
no harm will come near you.'

"The Princess did as he bade her. She heard the roar of the waves come
nearer and nearer, a cold wind blew over her face, and she felt at last
that her huge steed had plunged into the water, for it splashed on to
her hand, which was hanging downwards, and then she heard him, with a
gasp and a snort, strike out boldly. The Princess drew herself up on the
bull's back as closely as she could; she had no wish to get wet. But she
was not frightened. She grew accustomed to the motion of her great
steed's swimming, and as she kept her eyes fast shut she did not see how
near she was to the water, and felt as if in a peaceful dream. And after
a while the feeling became reality, for she fell fast asleep and dreamt
she was in her little turret chamber, listening to the wind softly
blowing through the casement.

"When she awoke she was alone. She was lying on a couch, but this time
not of moss, but of the richest and softest silk. She rubbed her eyes
and looked about her. Was she in her father's castle? Had her youth and
her courage softened the monster's heart, and made him carry her back
again to her happy home? For a moment she thought it must be so; but no,
when she looked again, none of the rooms in her old home were so
beautiful as this one where she found herself. Not even her mother's
great saloon, which she had always thought so magnificent, was to be
compared with it. It was not very large, but it was more like Fairyland
than anything she had ever dreamt of. The loveliest flowers were
trained against the walls, here and there fountains of delicately
scented waters refreshed the air, the floor was covered with carpets of
the richest hues and the softest texture. There were birds singing among
the flowers, gold and silver fish sporting in the marble basins -- it was
a perfect fairy's bower. The Princess sat up and looked about her. There
was no one to be seen, not a sound but the dropping of the fountains and
the soft chatter of the birds. The Princess admired it all exceedingly,
but she was very hungry, and as her long sleep had completely refreshed
her, she felt no longer inclined to lie still. So she crossed the room
to where a curtain was hanging, which she thought perhaps concealed a
door. She drew aside the curtain, the door behind was already open; she
found herself in a second room, almost as beautiful as the first, and
lighted in the same way with coloured lamps hanging from the roof. And
to her great delight, before her was a table already laid for supper
with every kind of delicious fruit and bread, and cakes, and everything
that a young Princess could desire. She was so hungry that she at once
sat down to the table, and then she perceived to her surprise that it
was laid for two!

"'Can the bull be coming to sup with me?' she said to herself, half
laughing at the idea. And she added aloud, 'Come if you like, Mr. Bull;
I find your house very pretty, and I thank you for your hospitality.'

"And as she said the words, a voice which somehow seemed familiar to
her, replied,

"'I thank you, gracious Princess, for your permission. Without it I
could not have entered your presence as I do now,' and looking up, she
saw, coming in by another door that she had not noticed, a most
unexpected visitor.

"It was not the bull, it was a young Prince such as our pretty Princess,
who was not without her daydreams, like other young girls, had sometimes
pictured to herself as coming on a splendid horse, with his followers
around him in gallant attire, to ask her of her parents. He was well
made and manly, with a bright and pleasant expression, and dressed, of
course, to perfection. The Princess glanced at her plain black robe in
vexation, and her fair face flushed.

"'I knew not,' she began. 'I thought I should see no one but the brown
bull.'

"The Prince laughed merrily. He was in good spirits naturally, as any
one would be who, after being forced for ten years to wear a frightful
and hideous disguise, and to behave like a rough and surly bull,
instead of like a well-born gentleman, should suddenly find himself in
his own pleasant person again.

"'I _was_ the bull,' he said, 'but you, Princess, have transformed me.
How can I ever show you my gratitude?'

"'You owe me none,' said the Princess gently. 'What I did was to save my
parents and their people. If it has served you in good stead, that for
me is reward enough. But,' she added, 'I wish I had brought some of my
pretty dresses with me. It must look so rude to you to have this ugly
black one.'

"The Prince begged her not to trouble herself about such a trifle -- to
him she was beautiful as the day in whatever attire she happened to be.
And then they ate their supper with a good appetite, though it seemed
strange to the Princess to be quite without attendants, sitting alone at
table with a young man whom she had never seen before.

"And after supper a new idea struck her.

"'Catch,' she said, drawing the first ball out of the little pocket in
the front of her dress, where she always carried her balls, and flinging
it across the table to the Prince with her usual skill, not breaking a
glass or bending a leaf of the flowers with which the dishes were
adorned.

"In an instant the Prince had caught it, and as she sent off the second,
crying again 'Catch,' he returned her the first, leaving his hand free
for the third.

"'Yes,' said the Princess, after continuing this game for a little
while. 'Yes, I see that you are a true Prince,' for strange to say, he
was as skilful at her game as she was herself.

"And they played with her balls for a long time throwing them higher and
higher without ever missing, and laughing with pleasure, like two merry
children.

"Then suddenly the Prince started from his seat, and his face grew sad
and grave.

"'I must go,' he said; 'my hour of liberty is over.'

"'Go?' said the Princess in surprise and distress, for she had found the
Prince a very pleasant companion. 'You must go? and leave me alone
here?'

"She looked as if she were going to cry, and the Prince looked as if he
were going to cry too.

"'Alas, Princess!' he said, 'in my joy for the moment, I had almost
forgotten my sad fate;' and then he went on to explain to her that for
many years past he had been under a fairy spell, the work of an evil
fairy who had vowed to revenge herself on his parents for some fancied
insult to her. He had been forced to take the form of a bull and to
spread terror wherever he went; and the power of this spell was to
continue till he should meet with a beautiful Princess who of her own
free will would return with him to his country and treat him with
friendliness, both of which conditions had been now fulfilled.

"'Then all is right!' exclaimed the Princess joyfully. 'Why should you
look so sad?'

"'Alas! no,' repeated the Prince, 'the spell is but partly broken. I
have only power to regain my natural form for three hours every evening
after sunset. And for three years more must it be so. Then, if your
goodness continues so long, all will indeed be right. But during that
time it will be necessary for you to live alone, except for the three
hours I can pass with you, in this enchanted palace of mine. No harm
will befall you, all your wants will be supplied by invisible hands; but
for a young and beautiful Princess like you, it will be a sad trial, and
one that I feel I have no right to ask your consent to.'

"'And can nothing be done?' said the Princess, 'nothing to shorten your
endurance of the spell?'

"'Nothing,' said the Prince, sadly. 'Any effort to do so would only
cause fearful troubles. I drop my hated skin at sunset, but three hours
later I must resume it.'

"He glanced towards the corner of the room where, though the Princess
had not before observed it, the brown bull's skin lay in a heap.

"'Hateful thing!' said the Princess, clenching her pretty hands, 'I
would like to burn it.'

"The Prince grew pale with fright. 'Hush! Princess,' he said. 'Never
breathe such words. Any rash act would have the most fearful
consequences.'

"'What?' said the Princess, curiously.

"The Prince came nearer her and said in a low voice, 'For _me_ they
would be such. In such a case I might too probably never see you more.'

"The Princess blushed. Considering that he had spent ten years as a
bull, it seemed to her that the Prince's manners were really not to be
found fault with, and she promised him that she would consider the
matter over, and by the next evening tell him her decision.

"She felt rather inclined to cry when she found herself again quite
alone in the great strange palace, for she was only sixteen, even though
so brave and cheerful. But still she had nothing whatever to complain
of. Not a wish was formed in her heart but it was at once fulfilled, for
this power was still the Prince's. She found, in what was evidently
intended for her dressing-room, everything a young Princess could
possibly desire in the shape of dresses, each more lovely than the
others; shoes of silk or satin, exquisitely embroidered to suit her
various costumes; laces and shawls, ribbons and feathers, and jewels of
every conceivable kind in far greater abundance than so sensible a young
lady found at all necessary. But believing all these pretty things to be
provided to please her by the Prince's desire, she endeavoured to amuse
herself with them, and found it rather interesting for the first time in
her life to have to choose for herself. Her breakfasts and dinners, and
everything conceivable in the shape of delicate and delicious food,
appeared whenever she wished for anything of the kind; invisible hands
opened the windows and shut the doors, lighted the lamps when the
evening closed in, arranged her long fair hair more skilfully than any
mortal maid, and brushed it softly when at night she wished to have it
unfastened. Books in every language to interest her, for the Princess
had been well taught, appeared on the tables, also materials for
painting and for embroidery, in which she was very clever. Altogether it
was impossible to complain, and the next day passed pleasantly enough,
though it must be confessed the young Princess often found herself
counting the hours till it should be that of sunset.

"Punctual to the moment the Prince made his appearance, but to his
guest's distress he seemed careworn and anxious.

"'Has some new misfortune threatened you?' she asked.

"'No,' replied the Prince, 'but I have to-day scarcely been able to
endure my anxiety to learn your decision. Never in all these terrible
years has my suffering been greater, never have I so loathed the hideous
disguise in which I am compelled to live.'

"Tears filled the Princess's eyes. Had anything been wanting to decide
her, the deep pity which she now felt for the unfortunate Prince would
have done so.

"'I _have_ decided!' she exclaimed. 'Three years will soon pass, and I
shall be well able to amuse myself with all the charming things with
which I am surrounded. Besides, I shall see you every day, and the
looking forward to that will help to cheer me.'

"It would be impossible to tell the Prince's delight. He became at once
as gay and lively as the day before. The Princess and he had supper
together, and amused themselves afterwards with the enchanted balls, and
the evening passed so quickly that the princess could hardly believe
more than one hour instead of three had gone, when he started up, saying
his time was over. It was sad to see him go, forced, through no fault of
his own, to return to his hated disguise; but still it was with a
lightened heart that the poor brown bull went tramping about during the
next one-and-twenty hours.

"And on her side the Princess's lonely hours were cheered by the thought
that she was to be the means of freeing him from the power of the
terrible spell, for all that she saw of him only served to increase her
sympathy and respect.

"So time went on. The Princess got more and more accustomed to her
strange life, and every day more attached to the Prince, who on his side
could not do enough to prove to her his gratitude. For many weeks he
never failed to enter her presence the instant the sun had sunk below
the horizon, and the three hours they spent together made amends to both
for the loneliness of the rest of the day. And whenever the Princess
felt inclined to murmur, she renewed her patience and courage by the
thought of how much harder to bear was the Prince's share of the trial.
She was allowed to remain in peaceful security, and to employ her time
in pleasant and interesting ways; while he was forced to rove the world
as a hateful monster, shunned by any of the human race whom he happened
to meet, constantly exposed to fatigue and privation.

"Sometimes they spent a part of the evening in the beautiful gardens
surrounding the palace. There, one day, as sunset was approaching, the
Princess had betaken herself to wait the Prince's arrival, when a sad
shock met her. It was past the usual hour of his coming. Several times
she had wandered up and down the path by which he generally approached
the castle, tossing her balls as she went, for more than once he had
seen their glitter from a distance, and known by it that she was
waiting. But this evening she waited and watched in vain, and at last, a
strange anxiety seizing her, she turned towards the castle to see if
possibly he had entered from the other side, and was hurrying back when
a low moan reached her ears, causing her heart for an instant almost to
leave off beating with terror.




CHAPTER X. THE END OF THE BROWN BULL.

          "'And happy they ever lived after'--
            Yes, that was the end of the tale
The Princess collected her courage, and turned in the direction of the
sound. It seemed to come from a little thicket of close-growing bushes
near which she had been passing. For a minute or two she could
distinguish nothing, but another moan guided her in the right direction,
and there, to her horror and distress, she saw the poor Prince lying on
the ground, pale and death-like. At first she thought he was without
consciousness, but when she hastened up to him with a cry, he opened his
eyes.

"'Ah!' he said, faintly; 'I never thought I should have escaped alive.
How good of you to have come to seek for me, Princess; otherwise I might
have died here without seeing you again.'

"'But you must not die,' said the Princess, weeping; 'can nothing be
done for you?'

"He tried to sit up, and when the Princess had fetched him some water
from one of the numerous springs in the garden, he seemed better. But
his right arm was badly injured.

"'How did it happen?' asked the Princess. 'I thought no mortal weapon
had power to hurt you. That has been my only consolation through these
lonely days of waiting.'

"'You are right,' replied the Prince; 'as a bull nothing can injure me,
but in my own form I am in no way magically preserved. All day long I
have been chased by hunters, who saw in me, I suppose, a valuable prize.
I was terrified of the hour of sunset arriving and finding me far from
home. I used my utmost endeavour to reach this in time, but, alas! I was
overcome with fatigue, from which no spell protects me. At the entrance
to these gardens I saw the sun disappear, and I fell exhausted, just as
an arrow struck my right arm at the moment of my transformation. All I
could do was to crawl in among these bushes, and here I have lain,
thankful to escape from my persecutors, and most thankful to the happy
thought, Princess, which brought you this way.'

"The Princess, her eyes still full of tears, helped him to the palace,
where she bound up his arm and tended him carefully, for, young as she
was, she had learnt many useful acts of this kind in her father's
castle. The wound was not a very serious one; the Prince was suffering
more from exhaustion and fatigue.

"'If I could spend a day or two here in peace,' he said sadly, 'I should
quickly recover. But, alas! that is impossible. I must submit to my
cruel fate. But this night I must confine my wanderings to the forests
in this neighbourhood, where, perhaps, I may be able to hide from the
huntsmen, who, no doubt, will be watching for me.'

"He sighed heavily, and the Princess's heart grew very sad.

"'I have little more than an hour left,' he said.

"'Yes,' said the Princess, 'sleep if you can; I will not disturb you.'

"And when she saw that he had fallen asleep she went into the other
room, where in a corner lay the bull's skin, which the Prince had
dragged behind him from the spot where it had fallen off as the sun
sank.

"The Princess looked at it with a fierce expression, very different to
the usual gentle look in her pretty eyes.

"'Hateful thing!' she said, giving it a kick with her little foot; 'I
wonder how I could get rid of you. Even if the Prince did risk never
seeing me again, I am not sure but that it would be better for him than
to lead this dreadful life.'

"And as her fancy pictured her poor Prince forced in this monstrous
disguise to wander about all night tired and shelterless, her
indignation rose beyond her control. She forgot where she was, she
forgot the magic power that surrounded her, she forgot everything except
her distress and anxiety.

"'Hateful thing!' she repeated, giving the skin another kick; 'I wish
you were burnt to cinders.'

"Hardly had she said the words when a sudden noise like a clap of
thunder shook the air; a flash of lightning seemed to glance past her
and alight on the skin, which in an instant shrivelled up to a cinder
like a burnt glove. Too startled at first to know whether she should
rejoice or not, the Princess gazed at her work in bewilderment, when a
voice of anguish, but, alas! a well-known voice, made her turn round. It
was the Prince, hastening from the palace with an expression half of
anger half of sorrowful reproach on his face.

"'O Princess, Princess,' he cried, 'what have you done? But a little
more patience and all might have been well. And now I know not if I
shall ever see you again.'

"'O Prince, forgive me, I did not mean it,' sobbed the poor Princess. 'I
_will_ see you again, and all shall yet be well.'

"'Seek for me across the hill of ice and the sea of glass,' said the
Prince; but almost before the words had passed his lips a second
thunderclap, louder and more terrific than the first, was heard. The
Princess sank half fainting on the ground. When she again opened her
eyes, Prince, palace, everything had disappeared. She was alone, quite
alone, on a barren moorland, night coming on, and a cold cutting wind
freezing the blood in her veins. And she was clothed in the plain black
dress with which she had made her strange journey riding on the brown
bull.

"It must be a dream, she thought, a terrible dream, and she shut her
eyes again. But no, it was no dream, and soon her courage revived, and
she began to ask herself what she should do.

"'Seek me beyond the hill of ice and the sea of glass,' the Prince had
said; and she rose up to begin her weary journey. As she rose her hand
came in contact with something hard in the folds of her dress; it was
her golden balls. With the greatest delight she took them out of her
pocket and looked at them. They were as bright and beautiful as ever,
and the fairy's prophecy returned to the Princess's mind.

"'With my balls and my ready wit I shall yet conquer the evil powers
that are against my poor Prince,' she said to herself cheerfully.
'Courage! all will be well
But there were sore trials to go through in the first place. The
Princess set off on her journey. She had to walk many weary miles across
the moor, the cold wind blowing in her face, the rough ground pricking
her tender feet. But she walked on and on till at last the morning broke
and she saw a road before her, bordered on one side by a forest of
trees, for she had reached the extreme edge of the moor. She had gone
but a little way when she came to a small and miserable hovel, from
which issued feeble sounds of distress. The Princess went up to the door
and looked in -- a very old woman sat huddled up in a corner weeping and
lamenting herself.

"'What is the matter, my friend?' asked the Princess.

"'Matter enough,' replied the old woman. 'I cannot light my fire, and I
am bitterly cold. Either the sticks are wet, or the strength has gone
out of my poor old arms.'

"'Let me help you,' said the Princess. 'My arms are strong enough.'

"She took the sticks and arranged them cleverly in the fireplace, and
just as she was choosing two of the driest to rub together to get a
light, one of her balls dropped out of her pocket. It fell on to the
piled-up wood, and immediately a bright flame danced up the chimney. The
Princess picked up her ball and put it back in her pocket, cheered and
encouraged by this proof of their magic power. The old woman came near
to the fire, and stretched out her withered hands to the blaze.

"'What can I do for you, my pretty lady,' she said, 'in return for your
good nature?'

"'Give me a cup of milk to refresh me for my journey,' said the
Princess. 'And perhaps, too, you can tell me something about my journey.
Are the hill of ice and the sea of glass anywhere in this
neighbourhood?'

"The old woman smiled and nodded her head two or three times.

"'Seven days must you travel,' she said, 'before you see them. At the
foot of the hill of ice lies the sea of glass. No mortal foot unaided
has ever crossed the one or ascended the other. Here, take these
shoes -- with them you can safely walk over the sea of glass, and with
this staff you can mount the hill of ice,' and as she spoke she handed
to the Princess a pair of curiously carved wooden shoes and a short
sharp-pointed stick. The Princess took them gratefully, and would have
thanked the old woman, whom she now knew to be a fairy, but she stopped
her
Think not
that your difficulties will be over when
you have reached the summit of the hill of ice. But all I can do for you
more is to give you this nut, which you must open in your moment of
sorest perplexity
And as the Princess held out her hand for the nut the old woman had
disappeared.

"But refreshed and encouraged the Princess left the cottage, carrying
with her her three gifts, and prepared to face all the perils of her
journey with an undaunted heart.

"It would be impossible to describe all she went through during the
seven days which passed before she reached the sea of glass. She saw
some strange and wonderful sights, for in those days the world was very
different from what it is now. She was often tired and hungry, thankful
for a cup of milk or crust of bread from those she happened to meet on
the way. But her courage never failed her, and at last, on the morning
of the eighth day, she saw shining before her in the sunlight the great
silent sea of glass of which she had been told.

"It would have been hopeless to attempt to cross it without fairy aid,
for it was polished more brightly than any mirror, and so hard that no
young Princess's bones could have borne a fall on its cruel surface. But
with the magic shoes there was less than no difficulty, for no sooner
had the Princess slipped her feet into them than they turned into
skates, and very wonderful skates, for they possessed the power of
enabling their wearer to glide along with the greatest swiftness. The
Princess had never skated in her life, and she was delighted.

"'Next to flying,' she said to herself, 'nothing could be pleasanter,'
and she was almost sorry when her skim across the sea of glass was over,
and she found herself at the foot of the hill of ice.

"She looked upwards with something like despair. It was a terrible
ascent to attempt, for the mountain was all but straight, so steep were
its sides of hard, clear, sparkling ice. The Princess looked at her
feet, the magic shoes had already disappeared; she looked at the staff
she still held in her hand -- how could a stick help her up such a
mountain? and half impatiently, half hopelessly, she threw it from her.
Instantly it stretched itself out, growing wider and wider, the notches
in the wood expanding, till it had taken the shape of a roughly-made
ladder of irregular steps, hooked on to the ice by the sharp spike at
its end, and the Princess, ashamed of her discouragement, mounted up the
steps without difficulty, and as she reached the top one, of itself the
ladder pushed up before her, so that she could mount straight up without
hesitation.

"She stepped forward bravely. It took a long time, even though she had
the fairy aid, and by the time she reached the top of the hill night had
fallen, and but for the light of the stars, she would not have known
where to step. A long plain stretched before her -- no trees or bushes
even broke the wide expanse. There was no shelter of any kind, and the
Princess found herself obliged to walk on and on, for the wind was very
cold, and she dared not let herself rest. This night and the next day
were the hardest part of all the journey, and seemed even more so,
because the Princess had hoped that the sea of glass and the hill of ice
were to be the worst of her difficulties. More than once she was tempted
to crack the nut, the last of the old woman's presents, but she
refrained, saying to herself she might yet be in greater need, and she
walked on and on, though nearly dead with cold and fatigue, till late in
the afternoon. Then at last, far before her still, she saw gleaming the
lights of a city, and, encouraged by the sight, she gathered her courage
together and pressed on, till, at the door of a little cottage at the
outskirts of the town, she sank down with fatigue. An old woman, with a
kind face, came out of the house and invited her to enter and rest.

"'You look sorely tired, my child,' she said. 'Have you travelled far?'

"'Ah yes!' replied the poor Princess, 'very far. I am nearly dead with
fatigue;' and indeed she looked very miserable. Her beautiful fair hair
was all tumbled and soiled, her poor little feet were scratched and
blistered, her black dress torn and draggled -- she looked far more like a
beggar-maiden than like a princess. But yet, her pretty way of speaking
and gentle manners showed she was not what she seemed, and when she had
washed her face and combed her hair, the old woman looked at her with
admiration.

"'Tis a pity you have not a better dress,' she said, 'for then you could
have gone with me to see the rejoicings in the town for the marriage of
our Prince.'

"'Is your Prince to be married to-day?' asked the Princess.

"'No, not to-day -- to-morrow,' said the old woman. 'But the strange thing
is that it is not yet known who is to be his bride. The Prince has only
lately returned to his home, for, for many years, he has been shut up by
a fairy spell in a beautiful palace in the north, and now that the spell
is broken and he is restored to his parents, they are anxious to see him
married. But he must still be under a spell of some kind, they say, for
though he has all that heart can wish, he is ever sad and silent, and as
if he were thinking of something far away. And he has said that he will
marry no princess but one who can catch three golden balls at a time, as
if young princesses were brought up to be jugglers! Nevertheless, all
the princesses far and wide have been practising their best at catching
balls, and to-morrow the great feasts are to begin, and she who catches
best is to be chosen out of all the princesses as the bride of our
Prince.'

"The poor Princess listened with a beating heart to the old woman's
talk. There could be no doubt as to who the Prince of this country was.

"'I have come but just in time,' she said to herself, and then she
rose, and thanking her hostess for her kindness, said she must be going.

"'But where are you going, you poor child?' said the old woman. 'You
look far too tired to go farther and for two or three days all these
rejoicings will make the country unpleasant for a young girl to travel
through alone. Stay with me till you are rested.'

"The Princess thanked her with tears in her eyes for her kindness. 'I
have nothing to reward you with,' she said, 'but some day I may be able
to do so' and then she thankfully accepted her offer.

"'And to-morrow,' said the old woman, 'you must smarten yourself up as
well as you can, and then we shall go out to see the gay doings.'

"But the Princess lay awake all night thinking what she should do to
make herself known to her faithful Prince.

"The next day the old woman went out early to hear all about the
festivities. She came back greatly excited.

"'Come quickly,' she said. 'The crowd is so great that no one will
notice your poor clothes. And, indeed, among all the pretty girls there
will be none prettier than you,' she added, looking admiringly at the
Princess, who had arranged her beautiful hair and brushed her soiled
dress, and who looked sweeter than ever now that she was rested and
refreshed. 'There are three princesses who have come to the feast,' she
went on, 'the first from the south, the second from the east, the third
from the west, each more beautiful than another, the people say. The
trial of the golden balls is to be in the great hall of the palace, and
a friend of mine has promised me a place at one of the windows which
overlook it, so that we can see the whole;' and the Princess, feeling as
if she were in a dream, rose up to accompany the old woman, her balls
and her precious nut in her pocket.

"They made their way through the crowd and placed themselves at the
window, as the old woman had said. The Princess looked down at the great
hall below, all magnificently decorated and already filled with
spectators. Suddenly the trumpet sounded, and the Prince in whose honour
was all the rejoicing entered. At sight of him -- her own Prince indeed,
but looking so strangely pale and sad that she would hardly have
recognised him -- the Princess could not restrain a little cry.

"'What is it?' said the old woman.

"'A passer-by trod on my foot,' said the Princess, fearful of attracting
attention. And the old woman said no more, for at this moment another
blast of trumpets announced the arrival of the princesses, who were to
make the trial of the balls. The first was tall and dark, with raven
tresses and brilliant, flashing eyes. She was dressed in a robe of rich
maize colour, and as she took her place on the dais she looked round
her, as if to say, 'Who can compete with me in beauty or in skill?' And
she was the Princess of the south.

"The second was also tall, and her hair was of a deep rich brown, and
her eyes were sparkling and her cheeks rosy. She was dressed in bright
pink, and laughed as she came forward, as if sure of herself and her
attractions. And she was the Princess of the east.

"The third moved slowly, and as if she cared little what was thought of
her, so confident was she of her pre-eminence. She wore a blue robe, and
her face was pale and her eyes cold, though beautiful. And her hair had
a reddish tinge, but yet she too was beautiful. And she was the Princess
of the west.

"The Prince bowed low to each, but no smile lit up his grave face, and
his glance rested but an instant on each fair Princess as she
approached.

"'Are these ladies all?' he asked, in a low voice, as if expecting yet
more. And when the answer came, 'Yes, these are all,' a still deeper
melancholy settled on his face, and he seemed indifferent to all about
him.

"Then the trial began. The Prince had three golden balls, one of which
he offered to each Princess. They took them, and each threw one back to
him. Then one after another, as quick as lightning, he threw all three
to the yellow Princess. She caught them all and threw them back; again
he returned them, but the first only, reached her hand, the second and
third fell to the ground, and with another low bow the Prince turned
from her, and her proud face grew scarlet with anger. The pink Princess
fared no better. She was laughing so, as if to show her confidence, that
she missed the third ball, even at the first throw, and when the Prince
turned also from her she laughed again, though this time her laughter
was not all mirth. Then the cold blue Princess came forward. She caught
the balls better, but at the third throw, one of them rising higher than
the others, she would not trouble herself to stretch her arm out
farther, so it fell to the ground, and as the Prince turned from her
likewise, a great silence came over the crowd.

"Suddenly a cry arose. 'A fourth Princess,' the people shouted, and the
old woman up at the window was so eager to see the new-comer that she
did not notice that her companion had disappeared. She had watched the
failure of the two first Princesses, then seeing what was coming she had
quietly made her way through the crowd to a hidden corner behind the
great pillars of the hall. There, her hands trembling with eagerness,
she drew forth from the magic nut, which she had cracked with her pretty
teeth, a wonderful fairy robe of spotless white. In an instant her black
dress was thrown to her feet, and the white garment, which fitted her as
if by magic, had taken its place. Never was Princess dressed in such a
hurry, but never was toilette more successful. And as the cry arose of
'A fourth Princess' she made her way up the hall. From one end to the
other she came, rapidly making her way through the crowd, which cleared
before her in surprise and admiration, for as she walked she threw
before her, catching them ever as she went, her golden balls. Her fair
hair floated on her shoulders, her white robe gleamed like snow, her
sweet face, flushed with hope and eagerness, was like that of a happy
child, her eyes saw nothing but the one figure standing at the far end
of the hall, the figure of the Prince, who, as the cry reached his
ears, started forward with a hope he hardly dared encourage, holding out
his hands as she came nearer and yet nearer in joyfulness of welcome.

"But she waved him back -- then, taking her place where the other
Princesses had stood, she threw her balls, one, two, three; in an
instant they were caught by the Prince, and returned to her like flashes
of lightning over and over again, never failing, never falling, as if
attached by invisible cords, till at last a great cry arose from the
crowds, and the Prince led forward, full in the view of the people, his
beautiful bride, his true Princess.

"Then all her troubles were forgotten, and every one rejoiced, save
perhaps the three unsuccessful Princesses, who consoled themselves by
saying there was magic in it, and so possibly there was. But there is
more than one kind of magic, and some kinds, it is to be hoped, the
world will never be without. And messengers were sent to summon to the
wedding the father and mother of the Princess, who all this time had
been in doubt and anxiety as to the fate of their dear child. And the
kind old woman who had sheltered her in her poverty and distress was not
forgotten
Well
and didn't you like the story
Of course I liked it
It's a beautiful story. But,
Marcelline, how did you turn into yourself -- _was_ it you all the time?
Why didn't you leave us with the white lady
How did these come here
Yes
And where are our wings, if you please, Mrs.
Marcelline
I went to fetch you
and of course I didn't want you to
catch cold on the way back
It was not a story, however,
           But just of old days that had been
They were fairy balls, you know, Cheri
Yes
he knew they were; he did not expect such balls as
they were, of course, but still he didn't see why they might not get
some sort of gold-looking balls. There were red and blue, and green ones
in plenty. He didn't see why there should be no gold ones
Gold is so very dear
Yes, real gold is, of course
but there are lots of things
that look like gold that can't be real gold -- picture frames, and the
edges of books, and lots of other things
Yes
but still, I don't see that the stuff any of those
are made of would do to make balls of
I really think, Cheri
I really think our balls are _getting_ to be
rather like fairy ones. Every day they go better and better
Perhaps it is our hands that are getting to be like fairy ones
But it is growing too dark to see to play any more
O Cheri
that is the first time I have
missed. Oh dear, where can the ball have gone to
IS THIS A NEW PART OF THE HOUSE
It must have got behind the tapestry
Why, is this a new part of the house
Jeanne, did you
know there were stairs behind the tapestry
No, of course not
It must be a part of our house, I
suppose, but I never saw it before. Shall we go up, Cheri, and see where
it takes us to? Perhaps it's another way to the white lady's turret, and
she'll tell us another story
No
I don't believe it leads to her turret, and I don't
think we could find our way there again. She seemed to mean we could
never go again, I think. But we may as well go up this stair, and see
what we do find, Jeanne
Why, Cheri
it's turned into gold
Cheri
I do believe
this is another way into Fairyland, or into some other queer place like
what we've seen. Come on, quick
Come on, Cheri
I believe this stair leads out on to the
roof of the house
Dudu
Did you not expect to see me
Why, I thought it would
amuse you to come up here and see the stars
So it will
But, you see, we thought -- at least we hoped -- we should find some new
adventures up here, especially when the ball hopped down the stairs, all
gold
What did you expect
Fairies, I suppose,
or enchanted princesses, or something of that kind. What creatures
children are for wonders, to be sure
Now, Dudu
you needn't talk that way. Whether we're fond
of wonders or not, anyhow it's you that's given us them to be fond of.
It was you that sent us to the frogs' country, and all that, and it was
you that took us to hear the white lady's story. So you're not to laugh
at us, and you must find us some more adventures, now you've brought us
up here
Adventures don't grow on every tree, Mademoiselle Jeanne
Well, _Dudus_ don't either
but as we've got _you_,
you see, it all depends on you to get us the adventures. I know you can,
if you like
No
there are many things I can't do. But come out on to the
roof, we can talk there just as well
It's rather nice up here, eh
Yes, very
We're very much obliged to you for bringing
us up here. Aren't we, Jeanne
Yes
not counting fairies and adventures that's to say,
it's very nice up here
I often come up here at night
I wonder how many thousand
times I've been up here
Are you so very old, Dudu
as old as the white lady
I daresay
Yes
I suppose I am what
_you_ would call very old, though the white lady would consider me quite
a baby. Yes, I've seen queer things in my time
_What
oh, do tell us some
of them. If you would tell us a story, Dudu, it would be as nice as an
adventure
Stories
are hardly in my line. I might tell you a little
of some things I've seen, but I don't know that they would interest
you
Oh yes! oh yes
of course they would. And it's so
nice and warm up here, Dudu -- much warmer than in the house
Sit down, then
here, in this corner. You can lean against
the parapet
and look at the stars
while you listen to me. Well -- one day, a good long while ago you would
consider it, no doubt
Was it a hundred years ago
About that, I daresay
I cannot be quite
exact to twenty or thirty years, or so. Well, one day -- it was a very hot
day, I remember, and I had come up here for a little change of air -- I
was standing on the edge of the parapet watching our two young ladies
who were walking up and down the terrace path down there, and thinking
how nice they looked in their white dresses and blue sashes tied close
up under their arms, like the picture of your great-grandmother as a
young girl, in the great salon, Mademoiselle Jeanne
Oh yes, I know it
She has a nice face, but _I_ don't
think her dress is at all pretty, Dudu
And I don't suppose your great-grandmother would think yours at all
pretty, either, Mademoiselle Jeanne
It is one of the things that has
amazed me very much in my observations -- the strange fancies the human
race has about clothes. Of course you are not so fortunate as we are in
having them ready-made, but still I cannot understand why you don't do
the best you can -- adopt a pattern and keep to it always. It would be the
next best thing to having feathers, _I_ should say
I don't think so
It would be very stupid every morning
when you got up, and every time you were going out, or friends coming to
see you, or anything like that -- it would be _very_ stupid never to have
to think, 'What shall I put on?' or to plan what colours would look nice
together. There would hardly be any use in having shops or dressmakers,
or anything. And _certainly_, Monsieur Dudu, I wouldn't choose to be
dressed like you, never anything but black -- as if one were always going
to a funeral
It is all a matter of taste, Mademoiselle
For my part, I confess I have always
had a great fancy for white -- the force of contrast, I suppose -- and this
brings me back to telling you how very nice your great-grandmother and
her sister looked that day walking up and down the terrace path in their
white dresses
My great-grandmother
Why, you said 'our young
ladies
So they were our young ladies
Even though one was your
great-grandmother, Mademoiselle, and not yours only but Monsieur Cheri's
too, and the other, of course, your great-grand-aunt. There have been
many 'our young ladies' that I can remember in this house, which has so
long been the home of one family, and my home always. In three or four
hundred years one sees a good deal. Ah yes! Well, as I was saying, I was
standing on the edge of the parapet looking over at the young ladies,
and admiring them and the sunshine and the flowers in the garden all at
once, when I suddenly heard a window open. It was not one of the windows
of our house. I have very quick ears, and I knew that in an instant, so
I looked about to see what window it was. In those days there were not
quite so many houses behind our garden as there are now. Your
great-great-grandfather sold some of the land about that time, and then
houses were built, but just then there were only two or three that
overlooked one side of the garden. One of them was a large high house,
which was let in flats to various families, often visitors to the town,
or strangers who had come for a short time for the education of their
children, or some other reason. It was not long before I discovered
that the window I had heard open was in this house. It was one on the
second story, looking on to a little balcony which at one end was not
very high above the terrace walk. I watched to see who had opened the
window, and in a few moments I saw peeping out half timidly the pretty
fair face of a little girl. Quite a little girl she was, not much older
than you, Mademoiselle Jeanne, but not like you, for she had light hair
and soft blue eyes, and a fair face like Monsieur Cheri. She was a
little English girl. She peeped out, and then, seeing that no one was
observing her, she came quietly on to the balcony, and, creeping down
into a corner where she could scarcely be seen, she sat watching our two
pretty young ladies with all her eyes. No wonder, I thought; they were
very pretty young ladies, and it was nice to see them together, walking
up and down with arms intertwined, and talking eagerly, their talk
sometimes interrupted by merry bursts of soft girlish laughter. And all
the time the lonely little creature on the balcony sat and watched them
longingly, her little pale face pressed against the bars, her plain
black dress almost hiding her from notice.

"'How happy they look, those pretty young ladies,' the lonely little
girl said to herself. 'How happy I should be if I had a sister, for I
have no one to talk to, no one to kiss me and play with me and if ever I
say I am sad my aunt is angry. O mother! why did you go away and leave
me
Could you hear all that from up here on the roof
Dear
me, Dudu, you must have good ears
Of course I have; I told you so, Mademoiselle
I had
better ears than your great-grandmother and her sister, for they heard
nothing, not even when the poor little girl took courage to push her
face farther forward between the railings, and to say very softly and
timidly,

"'Mesdemoiselles, Mesdemoiselles, _might_ I come and walk with you? I am
so tired of being here all alone.'

"They did not hear her. They were talking too busily about the fete of
their mother, I think, which was to be in a few days, and of what they
were to prepare for her. And the poor little girl sat up there for more
than an hour watching them with longing eyes, but not daring to call out
more loudly. It made me quite melancholy to see her, and when at last
our young ladies went in, and she had to give up hopes of gaining their
attention, it made me more melancholy still, she looked so
disappointed, and her eyes were full of tears; and I felt quite upset
about her, and kept turning over in my head what I could do to make her
happier. I thought about it for some time, and at last I decided that
the first thing to do was to find out more about the little stranger and
the cause of her grief. For this purpose I stationed myself the next
morning just below the window of the kitchen of her house, which, by
hopping from the balcony, I was easily able to do, and by listening to
the conversation of the servants I soon learned all I wanted to know.
She was, as I had supposed, a little English girl. Her mother had died
in Italy but a short time before, and she was now in the charge of her
mother's aunt, an elderly and severe lady, who understood nothing about
children, and took no pains to make poor little Charlotte happy. So it
was a sad life for the child, whose father also was dead; and as from
the talk of the servants I gathered that she was a good and gentle
little girl, I felt more sorry for her than before; and as I hopped back
on to the balcony I looked to see if she was again at the window. Yes,
there she was, her face pressed against the glass, staring out in the
direction of the terrace walk, watching, no doubt, to see if our young
ladies were coming out again. I hopped in front of the window backwards
and forwards two or three times to catch her attention, and a smile lit
up her little pale face when she saw me.

"'Good day, Mr. Raven,' she said politely. 'Have you come to see me? It
is very kind of you if you have, for I have nobody to play with. But,
oh! if you could tell those pretty young ladies how I should like to
walk about their garden with them, how pleased I should be.'

"I bowed to her in token of understanding what she said, but I was not
sure that she noticed it, for she just went on chattering in her soft
little voice.

"'Poor old raven,' she said. 'What a pity you can't speak, for if you
could I might send a message by you to those pretty young ladies;' and
though I walked slowly backwards and forwards on the balcony, and bowed
most politely each time I passed her, yet she did not seem to
understand
Why didn't you speak
You can speak quite well to
Cheri and me. Had you not learned to speak at that time, Dudu
It is not to the point, Mademoiselle
to enter into all
these explanations. If you would have the goodness to let me continue my
reminiscences without interrupting me, I should really be obliged. I
warned you I had not any amusing stories to tell, merely recollections
of scenes in my past life. If you would prefer my leaving off, you have
only to say so
Oh no, no. Please go on
I think it's _very_ interesting, and I'll promise not
to interrupt you any more
Well
I bowed, as I told you, very politely two or
three times, and at last I hopped away, still revolving in my mind how I
could serve the poor little girl. That afternoon our young ladies came
again on to the terrace, but they did not stay long, and the little girl
was not to be seen on the balcony, though I daresay she was peering out
through the window to see as far as she could. And the next day and the
day after were very rainy, so there was nothing I could do. But after
that again there came a very fine day -- a beautiful sunny day it was, I
remember it well -- and our young ladies came out like the flowers and the
birds to enjoy it. Out, too, came the forlorn little black figure,
hiding itself as before behind the railings of the balcony, but looking
with longing eyes at the garden below, which to her must have seemed a
kind of Paradise. I directed my steps to the terrace, and walked slowly
in front of the young ladies, slowly and solemnly straight in front of
them, for I wanted to attract their attention.

"'How particularly solemn Dudu looks to-day,' said one of them to the
other.

"'Yes,' she replied, 'quite as if he had something on his mind. Have you
been doing anything naughty, Dudu?'

"I turned and looked at her reproachfully. I was not offended, I knew
she was only joking, my character stood far above any imputation; but
still, there are subjects on which jokes are better avoided, and there
_was_ a cousin of mine whose honesty, I am sorry to say, had been more
than once suspected; altogether, I hardly thought the remark in good
taste, and Mademoiselle Eliane was not slow to perceive it.

"'Poor old Dudu,' she cried; 'have I hurt your feelings? But tell me
what are you looking so solemn about?'

"I looked at her again, and then, sure that she and her sister were
both watching me with attention, I sprang up the side of the wall next
the little stranger's house, hopped over the balcony railings, and
finding, as I expected, my little friend crouched down in the corner, I
gave a loud, sharp croak, as if something were the matter. Charlotte
started up in a fright, and the young ladies, watching me curiously, for
the first time observed her little figure.

"'Why, Dudu has a friend up there!' exclaimed Mademoiselle Jeanne -- your
great-grandmother, my dears. 'Mademoiselle,' she called out to the
little girl, whose small black figure did not look very much bigger than
mine as we stood up there side by side; 'Mademoiselle, do not be
frightened of our old raven. He will not hurt you.'

"'I am not frightened, thank you,' said the little girl's gentle voice.
'He has been to see me before. I was only startled when he made that
funny noise. But O Mesdemoiselles,' she continued, clasping her hands in
entreaty, 'you do not know how I should like to come down into your
garden and play with you, or at least,' as she suddenly recollected that
such tall young ladies were rather past the age for mere 'playing,'
'walk about and talk with you. I have watched you so many days, and I am
so lonely. But I did not like to speak to you unless you spoke to me.'

"'We never saw you,' said Mademoiselle Eliane. 'We should have seen you
now but for the funny way Dudu has been going on, as if he wanted to
introduce us to each other.'

"I felt quite proud when Mademoiselle Eliane said that. It has always
been a gratification to me to find myself understood. And I felt still
prouder when the little girl replied, looking at me gratefully,

"'How nice of him! He must have understood what I said to him in fun the
other day. But O Mesdemoiselles,' she went on, '_may_ I come down to
you?'

"'How can you get down?' said Mademoiselle Jeanne; 'and are you sure your
mother would not mind?'

"'I have no mother,' said the little girl sadly, 'and my aunt would not
mind, I know. She never minds what I do, if I don't make a noise.'

"'But how can you get down?' repeated Mademoiselle Jeanne, 'unless Dudu
can take you on his back and fly with you!'

"'Oh, I can easily get down,' said the little girl; 'I have often
planned it. I can climb over the railings at this end -- look, there is a
jutting-out ledge that I can put my foot on. Then I can stand a minute
outside and jump -- if you will come close to, so that I shall not roll
down the terrace bank.'




CHAPTER XII. AU REVOIR.

          "One after another they flew away
             Far up to the heavenly blue,
           To the better country, the upper day
Little Charlotte climbed over the railings
but she
did not jump down on the other side, for Mademoiselle Eliane, who was
tall, found that by standing half-way up the bank she could reach the
child and hand her down to Mademoiselle Jeanne, a little way below.
There was a good deal of laughing over it all, and this helped them to
make friends more quickly than anything else would have done. But indeed
Charlotte was not a shy child, she had travelled too much and seen too
many people to be so, and our young ladies, besides, were so kind and
merry that no little girl could long have been strange with them. She
ran about the garden in the greatest delight; her new friends showed
her all their favourite nooks, and allowed her to make a bouquet of the
flowers she liked best; and when they were tired of standing about they
all sat down together on a bank, and Charlotte told to the young ladies
the story of her short life. It was a sad little story; her father had
died when she was very young, and her mother, whose health had never
been good after the shock of his death, had gone to Italy with the aunt
who had brought her up, in hopes of growing stronger. But through two or
three years of sometimes seeming better and sometimes worse, she had
really been steadily failing, and at last she died, leaving her poor
little girl almost alone, 'for the old aunt was now,' said Charlotte,
'always ill, and not ill as mamma used to be,' she added, for however
tired _she_ was, she always liked her little girl to be beside her, and
never wearied of listening to all she had to say.

"'But now,' said the child, 'I am always alone, and it is _so_ sad. And
I have watched you so often from the balcony, and wished I might come
down to you. And now, if you will let me come to see you every day, I
shall be _so_ happy.'

"She was a dear little girl, so sweet, and simple, and loving. She
quite gained our young ladies' hearts with her pretty ways and her funny
little English, accent. They kissed her on both cheeks, and told her
they would be very pleased for her to come to them in the garden
whenever she saw them from the balcony, as she was so sure her aunt
would not object to it. They could not invite her to the house, they
explained, unless their mother and her aunt had made acquaintance. Of
course it would not have done, as little Charlotte quite understood; for
in those days
politeness and ceremony were
much more observed than is at present, I am sorry to say, the case.

"The little English girl, however
was only too delighted
to have received permission to visit them in their garden. And not many
days passed on which she did not join them there. It was a lovely summer
that year -- I remember it so well. Never now does the sun seem to me to
shine quite so brightly as in those days. Perhaps it is that I am
growing old, perhaps the sad days that soon after followed left a cloud
on my memory and a mist on my spirit which have never since entirely
cleared away; however that may be, I never remember so bright and
beautiful a summer as the one I am telling you of. And little
Charlotte's merry laugh was often heard on the terrace walk, as she ran
races with Mademoiselle Eliane's dog, or made daisy wreaths for
Mademoiselle Jeanne's dark hair. Kindness and companionship were all she
required to make her a bright and happy child. But the pleasant summer
faded, and with the first autumn days came a fresh sorrow for the little
girl. One morning, before the usual time for meeting in the garden, I
caught sight of her on the balcony, her face looking again like the
little pale Charlotte I had first known her, her eyes red with weeping.
And as by good chance the young ladies came out soon the reason was soon
explained.

"'I am going away, my dear young ladies,' cried Charlotte, as she threw
herself into their arms. 'My aunt has just told me. We return to England
in a few days. To England, where I have no friends, where I shall be
again all alone. O Mademoiselle Eliane! O Mademoiselle Jeanne! what
shall I do without you, and your pretty garden, and your kindness, and
poor old Dudu, and the flowers, and everything?'

"They consoled her as well as they could, my kind young ladies, whose
hearts were always full of sympathy. But the tears came to their own
eyes when they saw how real and acute was the little girl's grief.

"'You will come back to see us again, little Charlotte, perhaps,' they
said. 'Your aunt has travelled so much, very likely she will not wish to
remain always in England. And you would always find us here -- in the
winter at any rate; generally in the summer we spend some months at our
chateau, though this summer our father had business which obliged him to
stay here. But for that we should not have seen you so much.'

"But Charlotte was not to be consoled. Her aunt, she was sure, would
never travel any more. She had said only that very morning, that once
she got back to England she would stay there for the rest of her life,
she was too old to move about any more.

"'And I,' added Charlotte, with a fresh burst of weeping, 'I am to be
sent to an English school as soon as aunt can settle about it.'

"'But you will be happier at school, dear,' said Mademoiselle Eliane.
'You will have friends of your own age.'

"'I don't want friends of my own age. I shall never love _any_ friends
as much as my dear Mademoiselle Jeanne and my dear Mademoiselle
Eliane,' sobbed Charlotte; and the only thing that consoled her at all
was when the two young ladies found for her among their little treasures
a very prettily painted 'bonbonniere,' and a quaint little workcase,
fitted with thimble, scissors, and all such things, which she promised
them she would always keep, _always_, as souvenirs of their kindness.

"And in return, the poor little thing went out with her aunt's maid the
next morning and bought two little keepsakes -- a scent-bottle for
Mademoiselle Jeanne, and a fan for Mademoiselle Eliane. She spent on
them all the money she had; and at this very moment
the
scent-bottle is downstairs in your mother's large old dressing-case, the
dressing-case she got from her grandfather. What became of the fan I
cannot say.

"Well, the few remaining days passed, and one cold, dreary morning poor
Charlotte clambered over the railings for the last time, to embrace her
friends and bid them farewell. She might have come in by the door and
seen them in the salon; of course neither her aunt nor our young ladies'
mother would have objected to such a thing, as she was going away, even
though no visits of ceremony had been exchanged between the families.
But this would not have suited Charlotte; it was in the garden she had
first seen her friends, and in the garden must she bid them good-bye. I
assisted at the interview
and very touching it was.
Had I been of a nature to shed tears, I really think my feelings would
have been too much for me. And Charlotte would have kissed and hugged me
too, no doubt, had I encouraged anything of the kind. But, fortunately
perhaps for the preservation of my feathers and my dignity, I am not,
and never have been, of a demonstrative disposition
The parting was over at last, and little Charlotte was away -- quite away
over the sea in cold, rainy England. Cold and rainy it must have been
that winter in any case, for it was cold and rainy even here, and many
changes happened, and shadows of strange events were already faintly
darkening the future. It was the next year that our pretty Mademoiselle
Jeanne married and went away with her husband from the old house, which
yet was to be her home, and the home of her children in the end, for
Mademoiselle Eliane never married, and so all came to be inherited by
her sister's sons. But with that we have nothing to do at present. I
wished only to tell you what concerns our young ladies' friendship with
the little stranger. Years went on, as they always do, whether they
leave the world happy or miserable, and the shadows I have told you of
grew darker and darker. Then, at last, the terrible days began -- the
storm burst forth, our happy, peaceful home, with hundreds and thousands
of others, was broken up, and its kindly inhabitants forced to flee.
Mademoiselle Jeanne came hurrying up from her husband's home, where
things were even worse than with us, with her boys, to seek for shelter
and safety, which, alas! could not be given her here. For all had to
flee -- my poor old master, frail as he was, his delicate wife, our young
ladies, and the boys -- all fled together, and after facing perils such as
I trust none of their descendants will ever know, they reached a safe
refuge. And then they had to endure a new misery, for months and months
went by before they had any tidings of poor Mademoiselle Jeanne's
husband, your great-grandfather, my children, who, like all of his
name -- a name you may well be proud of, my little Mademoiselle
Jeanne -- stayed at the post of danger till every hope was passed. Then at
last, in disguise, he managed to escape, and reached this place in
safety, hoping here to find something to guide him as to where his wife
and children were. But he found nothing -- the house was deserted, not a
servant or retainer of any kind left except myself, and what, alas!
could _I_ do? He was worn out and exhausted, poor man; he hid in the
house for a few days, creeping out at dusk in fear and trembling to buy
a loaf of bread, trusting to his disguise and to his not being well
known in the town. But he would have died, I believe, had he been long
left as he was, for distress of mind added to his other miseries, not
knowing anything as to what had become of your great-grandmother and his
children.

"She was a good wife
Our
Mademoiselle Jeanne, I mean. Just when her poor husband was losing heart
altogether, beginning to think they must all be dead, that there was
nothing left for him to do but to die too, she came to him. She had
travelled alone, quite alone, our delicate young lady -- who in former
days had scarcely been allowed to set her little foot on the
pavement -- from Switzerland to the old home, with a strange belief that
here if anywhere she should find him. And she was rewarded. The worst of
the terrible days were now past, but still disguise was necessary, and
it was in the dress of one of her own peasants -- the dress in which she
had fled -- that Mademoiselle Jeanne returned. But he knew her -- through
all disguises he would have known her -- and she him. And the first
evening they were together in the bare, deserted house, even with all
the terrors behind them, the perils before them, the husband and wife
were happy
Go on, dear Dudu
How were they to get away to safety? That was the question
They dared not stay long where they were; yet they dared not go.
Monsieur was far too feeble to stand much fatigue, and the two of them
journeying together might attract notice.

"'If we could get to the sea,' said Mademoiselle Jeanne -- Madame I should
call her, but it never comes naturally -- there we might find a ship to
take us to England or Holland, and thence find our way to our dear ones
again.'

"But Monsieur shook his head. 'Impossible,' he said. 'I have not the
strength for even the four leagues' walk to the sea, and finding a ship
that would take us is a mere chance. We have almost no money. Here at
least we have shelter, and still some sous for bread. Jeanne, my
beloved, you must make up your mind to leave me again -- alone and
unhindered you might find your way back in safety.'

"'I will never leave you,' said Jeanne. 'We will die together, if it
must be so. The boys are safe -- my father and mother and Eliane will care
for them. I will never leave you.'

"And Monsieur said no more; but in his own mind I could see that he
thought himself fast dying, that want of comforts and nourishment much
longer would exhaust his little strength, and that his poor Jeanne
would, in the end, be forced to attempt the journey back alone. They
were sitting at the end of the terrace walk that evening -- the end near
little Charlotte's balcony; it was a mild, still evening -- it seemed less
dreary and miserable than in the house; from the distance came the sound
of the children playing in the old streets, and near at hand some birds
were singing still -- for children will play and birds will sing whatever
happens. Suddenly a sound close at hand made Mademoiselle Jeanne look
up. And I too, for I was close beside them on the terrace, I looked up
in amazement, half imagining it must be a dream. For we heard -- both
Mademoiselle Jeanne and I knew it again -- the sound of the window on to
the balcony opening, the window through which the little English girl
used to come out to meet her friends. We looked and could scarcely
believe our eyes. Out on to the balcony stepped a young lady, a young
girl rather she seemed, for she was tall and slight and had fair curls
about her sweet fresh face. She stood for one instant looking at us all
as if bewildered, then, with a sudden cry, almost before we knew what
she was doing, she was over the railings and down the bank.

"'Mademoiselle Jeanne or Mademoiselle Eliane!' she cried, 'which of you
is it? for it is one of you, I know! And you are _not_ dead -- not all
dead and gone -- and there is Dudu, too. Oh, how glad, how very glad, I am
that I came!'

"Laughing and crying both at once, she threw herself into Madame's arms,
while Monsieur looked on in amazement.

"'You know me?' she cried --'your little English Charlotte. See, here is
the bonbonniere,' feeling for it in her pocket as she spoke. 'And you
are Mademoiselle Jeanne. I know you now -- if you had twenty peasant caps
on I should know you. But how thin and pale you are, my poor Jeanne!
And is this your husband? I knew you were married. I saw it in the
newspapers ever so many years ago. Do you know it is fifteen years since
I went away? And I am married, too. But tell me first how it is you are
here and dressed like that, and why you look so sad and Monsieur so ill.
Tell me all. You may trust me, you may indeed, and perhaps my husband
and I may be able to be of some use. You may trust me,' seeing that
Madame and her husband looked at each other in bewilderment; 'may they
not, Dudu?' she added, turning to me. 'Tell Mademoiselle Jeanne that she
can indeed trust me.'

"I flapped my wings and croaked.

"'You see,' said Charlotte, and at that they all laughed.

"'It is not that we do not trust you, my dear friend,' said Madame; 'and
indeed you see all in seeing us here as you do. There is nothing to tell
but the same sad story that has been to tell in so many once happy
French homes. But explain to me, my dear Charlotte, how you are here. It
is so strange, so extraordinary.'

"And Charlotte explained. Her husband was a sailor. To be near him, she
had been in Spain at the outbreak of the revolution, and had remained
there till he was ordered home. Now that the terror was subsiding, there
was -- for them, as foreigners -- but little risk. She had persuaded her
husband, whose vessel, owing to some slight accident at sea, had been
obliged to put in at the neighbouring port, to let her come to have a
look at the old town, at the old house, or garden rather, she still
loved so dearly. 'The house we used to live in,' she said, 'was empty. I
easily found my way in, and out on to the balcony, as you saw. I had a
sort of wild idea that perhaps I might see or hear something of you. Yet
I was almost afraid to ask, such terrible things have happened,' added
Charlotte, with a shudder.

"But nothing more terrible was in store for our young ladies, I am glad
to say
The faithful-hearted Charlotte and her husband
were able to be of the greatest service to Mademoiselle Jeanne and _her_
husband. They conveyed them in safety to the port and saw them on board
a friendly vessel, and not many weeks passed before they were again with
their children and the old Monsieur and Madame and Mademoiselle Eliane
in their home for the time in Switzerland
Oh, how glad I am
I was dreadfully afraid your
story was going to end badly, Dudu
It is not ended yet
Isn't it
Oh dear, then go on quick, please. I _hope_
Mademoiselle Jeanne's poor husband
Your great-grandfather, you mean
Oh, well then, my great-grandfather, _our_ great-grandfather, for he
was Cheri's, too, you said. I do so hope he got better. Did he, Dudu
Yes
he got better, but never quite well again. However,
he lived some years, long enough to see his boys grown up and to
return -- after the death of our old Monsieur and Madame -- to return to his
own country with his wife and sister-in-law. But before very long, while
still far from an old man, he died. Then our young ladies, young no
longer, came back, after a time, to their childish home; and here they
lived together quietly, kind and charitable to all, cheered from time to
time by the visits of Madame's two sons, out in the world now and
married, and with homes of their own. And time went on gently and
uneventfully, and gradually Madame's hair became quite, quite white, and
Mademoiselle Eliane took to limping a little in her walk with the
rheumatism, and when they slowly paced up and down the terrace it was
difficult for me to think they were really my pretty young ladies with
the white dresses and blue ribbons of half a century ago. For it was now
just thirty-five years since the last visit of their English friend. She
too, if she were alive, must be a woman of more than sixty. They had
never heard of her again. In the hurry and anxiety of their last meeting
they had forgotten to ask and she to give her exact address, so they
could not write. She might have written to them to the old house
perhaps, on the chance of it finding them; but if so, they had never got
the letter. Yet they often spoke of her, and never saw the balcony at
the end of the terrace without a kindly thought of those long ago days.

"One evening -- an autumn evening -- mild and balmy, the two old ladies were
slowly pacing up and down their favourite walk, when a servant came out
to say that they were wanted -- a lady was asking for them. But not to
disturb them, he added, the visitor would be glad to see them in the
garden, if they would allow it. Wondering who it could be, Madame and
her sister were hesitating what to do, when a figure was seen
approaching them from the house.

"'I could not wait,' she said, almost before she reached them. 'I wished
so much to see you once more in the old spot, dear friends;' and they
knew her at once. They recognised in the bowed and worn but still sweet
and lovely woman, their pretty child-friend of fifty years ago. She had
come to bid them farewell, she said. She was on her way to the
south -- not to live but to die, for she had suffered much and her days
were numbered.

"'My dear husband is dead some years ago,' she said. 'But we were very
happy together, which is a blessed thought. And my children -- one after
another they faded. So I am an old woman now and quite alone, and I am
glad to go to them all. My friends wished me to go to the south, for I
have always loved the sunshine, and there my little daughter died, and
perhaps death will there come to me in gentler shape. But on my way, I
wished to say good-bye to you, dear friends of long ago, whom I have
always loved, though we have been so little together.'

"And then they took each other's hands, gently and quietly, the three
old ladies, and softly kissed each other's withered cheeks, down which a
few tears made their way; the time was past for them for anything but
gentle and chastened feelings. And whispering to their old friend not
good-bye, but 'Au revoir, au revoir in a better country,' my ladies
parted once more with their childish friend.

"She died a few months later; news of her death was sent them. _They_
lived to be old -- past eighty both of them, when they died within a few
days of each other. But I never hobble up and down the terrace walk
without thinking of them
and on the whole, my dears, even
if I had my choice, I don't think I should care to live another two or
three hundred years in a world where changes come so quickly
Thank you, dear Dudu
There is Marcelline calling you
Run downstairs. Take a look at the
beautiful stars overhead before you go. Good-bye, my dears
Good-night, Dudu, and thank you again
We have been with Dudu
He has told us lovely stories -- nicer even than fairy
adventures
A strange thing has happened
I
feel quite distressed about it. Old Dudu the raven has disappeared. He
is nowhere to be found since yesterday afternoon, the gardener tells me.
They have looked for him everywhere in vain. I feel quite sorry -- he has
been in the family so long -- how long indeed I should be afraid to say,
for my father remembered him as a child
Dudu has gone
We shall have no more stories
Nor fairy adventures
He may come back again
I think not
Don't
you remember, Cheri, what he said about not wishing to stay here
longer
And he said 'good-bye
I fear he will not come
back
</text>
