<text>
AS THE HIGHLANDERS HAD CLUNG TO THE CAVALRY
    STIRRUPS AT BALACLAVA
Picton Smith of Windy Standard
Was-it-then? A
darling -- goo-goo -- then it was
on the sly
Look here, Pris
if you put me into your
beastly girl books all about dolls and love and trumpery, I'll bat you
over the head with a wicket
Hum -- I dare say, if you could catch me
Catch you! I'll catch and bat you now if you say much
Much, much! Can't, can't! There! 'Fraid cat! Um-m-um
By Jove, then, I just will
All right, then, I will listen to your old stuff if you will say you
are sorry, and promise to be my horse, and let me lick you for an hour
afterwards -- besides giving me a penny
It's a penny more for listening to poetry
I know it is
but you might be nice about it
just this once. I'm dreadfully, dreadfully poor this week, Hugh John
So am I
if I wasn't, do you think
I would listen at all to your beastly old poetry? Drive on
_My love he is a soldier bold,
      And my love is a knight;
    He girds him in a coat of mail,
      When he goes forth to fight
That's not quite so bad as usual
_He rides him forth across the sand_
Who rides whom
Didn't the fool ride a horse
It means himself
Then why doesn't _it_ say so
It's poetry
It's silly
_He rides him forth across the sand,
      Upon a stealthy steed
You mean 'stately,' you know
No, I don't mean 'stately
I mean 'stealthy,' the
way a horse goes on sand. You go and gallop on the sea-shore and
you'll find out
I shan't. I haven't got any sea-shore
But do hurry.
I've listened quite a pennyworth now
_He rides him forth across the sand,
      Upon a stealthy steed,
    And when he sails upon the sea,
      He plays upon a reed
Great soft _he_ was
and if ever I hear you
say that I did such a thing
_In all the world there's none can do
      The deeds that he hath done:
    When he hath slain his enemies,
      Then he comes back alone
That's better
At any rate it
isn't long. Now, give me my penny
Shan't
besides, it isn't Saturday yet, and you've only
listened to three verses anyway. You will have to listen to ever so
much more than that before you get a penny
Hugh John! Priscilla
There's Jane calling us
she wants us to go in and
be washed for dinner
Course she does
think she's out screeching like
that for fun? Well, let her. I am not going in to be towelled till I'm
all over red and scurfy, and get no end of soap in my eyes
But Jane wants you; she'll be _so_ cross if you don't come
_I_ don't care for Jane
But if you don't come in, Jane will tell father
_I_ don't care for father
_John
Yes, father
Yes, father; were you calling me,
father
red and scurfy
Wait till I get you out
First catch your
hare
Say grace, Hugh John
real-real trains
MR. DICK TURPIN, LATE OF YORK AND TYBURN
He-whom-it-was-decidedly-most-healthy-to-obey
Out of the way with you, Betty
or you will get
hurt -- sure
Boom
Bang-whack
be a bomb-shell
It would
be dasht-mean to go off without telling them
not to
Hang it! I won't be dasht-mean
I must see them. I must -- I must
_Tug-tug-tug
It's a blooming shame
and they won't care anyway. But I
_can't_ be dasht-mean
Come back, Master Hugh
finest troop in the finest regiment in the world
IT COULD NOT HAVE BEEN BETTER DONE FOR A
FIELD-MARSHAL
_Attention, men, draw swords
_Eyes right! Carry swords
_Eyes front! Slope swords
I'm not hurt, father
I'm not crying. It was only that the
Scots Greys saluted me. And I _can't_ help it, father. It goes
_tick-tick_ in my throat, and I can't keep it back. But I'm not
crying, father! I'm not indeed
_The Scots Greys saluted me.
May I die-and-rot if ever I am dasht-mean again
Those who want sixpenny shows will find plenty at Edam Fair
I have no doubt a footpath passed through my dining-room a few
centuries ago
but that does not compel me to keep
my front and back doors open for all the rabble of Edam to come and go
at their pleasure
to make it
well
muvver
boosting her up
NO WONDER THAT JANET SHEEPSHANKS AWAITED THIS SORRY
PROCESSION WITH A GRIM TIGHTENING OF THE LIPS
Eh, Priscilla Smith, but ye are a ba-a-ad, bad lassie. Ye should ha'e
your bare back slashit wi' nettles! Where ha'e ye been, and what ha'e
ye done to these twa bairns? Ye shall be marched straight to your
father, and if he doesna gar ye loup when ye wad raither stand still,
and claw where ye are no yeuky, he will no be doing his duty to the
Almichty, and to your puir mither that's lang syne in her restin'
grave in the kirk-yaird o' Edom
My wee man
what have they done to you
hit him
hurted him
kicked him
so muckle
as a sponge or a brush-and-comb being laid upon them
keep the maister to his duty, and mind him o' his
responsibilities to them that's gane
my
bairns
my bonnie lassie your mither
bad, bad boys at the castle that had striked him
and hurted his dear Prissy
Well, what is the meaning of this
Be quiet, sir
I will hear you all one by one, but
let Priscilla begin -- she is the eldest
We went to the castle after dinner, over by the stepping-stones
and when we got to the castle we found out that our
pet lamb Donald had come after us by the ford; and he was going
everywhere about the castle, trying to rub his bell off his neck on
the gate-posts and on the stones at the corners
Yes, and I stooded on a rock, and Donald he butted me over behind
And then we played on the grass in the inside of the castle. Toady
Lion and I were plaiting daisy-chains and garlands for Donald, and
Hugh John was playing at being the Prisoner of Chillyon: he had tied
himself to the gate-post with a rope
Twasn't
it
was a plough-chain
And it rattled
And just when we were playing nicely, a lot of horrid boys from the
town came swarming and clambering in. They had run over the bridge and
climbed the gate, and then they began calling us names and throwing
mud. So Hugh John said he would tell on them
Didn't
I said I'd knock the
heads off them if they didn't stop and get out; and they only laughed
and said things about father. So I hit one of them with a stone
Then
after Hugh John threw the stone, the horrid boys all came and said
that they would kill us, and that we had no business there anyway
They frowed me down the well, and I went splass! Yes, indeedy
Then Donald, our black pet lamb, that is, came into the court, and
they all ran away after him and caught him. First he knocked down one
or two of them, and then they put a rope round his neck and began to
take rides on his back
Yes, and he bleated and 'kye-kyed' just feeful
So Hugh John said he would kill them if they did not let Donald go,
and that he was a soldier. But they only laughed louder, and one of
them struck him across the lip with a stick -- I know him, he's the
butch
Shut up, Pris
it's
dasht-mean to tell names
Be quiet, sir
let your sister finish her
story in her own way
Well
I won't tell if you say not. But that was the boy who hurt
Donald the worst
Well, I smashed him for that
And then when Hugh John saw them dragging Donald away and heard him
bleating
And 'kye-kying' big, big tears, big as cherries
He was overcome with rage and anger
and
he rushed upon them fearlessly, though they were ten to one; and they
all struck him and kicked him. But Hugh John fought like a lion
Yes, like Wichard Toady Lion
and
I helpted him and bited a bad boy on the leg, and didn't let go though
he kicked and hurted feeful! Yes, indeedy
And I went to their assistance and fought as Hugh John showed me.
And -- I forget the rest
But it was dreadful,
and they swore, and said they would cut Donald's throat. And one boy
took out a great knife and said he knew how to do it. He was the
butch
Shut up, Pris! Now don't you dare
And when Hugh John rushed in to stop him, he hit him over the head
with a stick, and Hugh John fell down. And, oh! I thought he was dead,
and I didn't know what to do
and I ran to him and tried to lift him up. But I could not -- he
was so wobbly and soft
I bited the boy's leg. It was dood. I bited hard
And when I looked up again they had taken away p-p-poor Donald
and I think they
killed him because he belonged to you, and -- they said he had no
business there! Oh, they were such horrid cruel boys, and much bigger
than us. And I can't bear that Don should have his throat cut. I was
promised that he should never be sold for mutton, but only clipped for
wool. And he had such a pretty throat to hang daisy-chains on, and was
such a dear, dear thing
I don't think they would dare to kill him
besides, they could not lift him over the gate. I will send at once
and see. In fact I will go myself
I
couldn't help getting beaten, father -- there were too many of them
his head was hurting like fun
But I'm afraid I shall never remember all that, Mr.
General-Field-Marshal Napoleon Smith
Well, you'd better
What a funny smell
Do field-marshals _all_ smell
like that
Get out, silly
Don't you know that's
the stuff they rub on the wounded when they have fought bravely?
That's arnicay
And what do they yub on them when they don't fight bravely
First of all they catch them and kick them for being cowards. Then
they shoot at them till they are dead; and may the Lord have mercy on
their souls! Amen
Yes; the squashy ones _were_ rather streaky
if one of the brutes were to settle on your nose, you
could only wait for him to crawl up, and then snatch at him with your
left eyelid
Outch
Crikey, but don't I smell just
I suppose
I'll have to howl out for Janet. What a swot
Janet!-- Ja-a-a-a-net
Deil tak' the laddie
what service is there in taking the rigging aff the hoose wi' your
noise? Did ye think I was doon at Edam Cross? What do ye want,
callant, that ye deafen my auld lugs like that? I never heard sic a
laddie
putting it on
Go and fetch _it_
Thank you
are you sure that the children are out
They are sailing paper boats on the mill-dam
I hope every boat will go down the mill lade, and get mashed in the
wheel
For shame, Master Hugh
Sambo
fearful head, crowned
with a red night-cap
Look here
supposing the governor tells me to split on Nipper Donnan, the
butcher boy, will it be dasht-mean if I do
Sit up and answer
or else I'll hike you out of
that pretty quick, for a silly old owl
Now speak up, Soulis
I ask you would it be
dasht-mean
I thought so
But look
here, how are we to get back Donald unless we split? Would it not be
all right to split just to get Donald back
I suppose you are right
but if it would be
dasht-mean to split, we must just try to get him back ourselves -- that
is, if the beasts have not cut his throat, as they said they would
fool with the bandages
Do you know me
Yes
you are Sammy Carter's father. I
can jolly well lick
Hugh John
remember what you are
saying to Mr. Davenant Carter
Well, anyway, I _can_ lick Sammy Carter till he's dumb-sick
Oh, let him say just what he likes
Sammy is the better of being licked, if that is what the
boy was going to say. I sometimes try my hand at it myself with some
success
no end of a
nice girl
This, Hugh
is Mr.
Mant, the Chief Constable of the county. Mr. Carter and he have come
to ask you a few questions, which you will answer at once
I won't be dasht-mean
What's that
Only my leg that hurted
Don't you think we should have the other children here
Certainly
Janet
Yes, sir
Prissy's all right
but if that little fool
Toady Lion
Now, Priscilla
tell Mr. Davenant Carter and Mr.
Mant what happened in the castle, and the names of any of the bad boys
who stole your pet lamb
Wasn't no lamb -- Donald was a sheep, and he could fight
Now
tell me what were the
names of the assailants
I think
that they were
_A-chew
Are you catching cold with the draught, Hugh John
I think I have a little cold
Don't know all their names, but the one that hurted me was
Black Sambo
What did I understand you to say, little boy
Ow -- it was Black Sambo
What in the world does he mean
He means 'Black Sambo
What is his other name
Soulis
What did I tell you
Try as I will, I
cannot get the simplest thing out of my Sammy and Cissy if they don't
choose to tell
There is no black boy in the neighbourhood
now tell the truth, children -- at once, when I bid you
Us is telling the troof, father dear
Perhaps the boy had blackened his face to deceive the eye
Was the ringleader's face blackened?-- Answer at once
I think so
leastways some has come off on my knuckles
Didn't I tell you?-- It isn't a bit of use badgering children when
they don't want to tell. Let's go over to the castle
Now look here
if you'd told, I'd have jolly well
flattened you when I got up. 'Tisn't our business to tell p'leecemen
things
That wasn't a p'leeceman
hadn't no shiny
buttons
That's the worst kind
all the same you stood to it like bricks, and now I'm going to get
well and begin on the campaign at once
Don't you be greedy-teeth and eat it all yourself
What are you going to do
I know their secret hold
and in the hour of their fancied security we will fall upon them
and
And what
Destroy them
The Potwalloping Elephant
WAIT TILL THE NEXT TIME YOU WON'T LEND ME THE FERRET,
TOM CANNON! O-HO, JANE HOUSEMAID, WILL YOU TELL MY FATHER THE NEXT
TIME I TAKE YOUR DUST SCOOP
Aha
wait till the next time you won't lend me
the ferret, Tom Cannon! O-ho, Jane Housemaid, will you tell my father
the next time I take your dust scoop out to the sand-hole to help dig
trenches? I think not
Now,
sir, you will do as I tell you, or I will give you a character -- _but_,
such a character as you will carry through the world with you, and
which will be buried with you when you die
bunkers
grin
Maa-aaa
Donald! Donald
Down,
Towser! What's the matter, Grip? Sic' them! Good dogs
Who's up there
come down this
moment and show yourself, you dirty poacher, or by Heaven I'll shoot
you sitting
All right, Tom, I'm coming as fast as I can
Heavens and earth, Master Hugh -- what be you doing here? Whatever will
master say
He won't say anything, for he won't know, Tom Cannon
Oh yes, he will
I won't have you bringing a pack
of dogs into my covers at twelve of the clock -- blow me if I will
Well, you won't tell my father, anyway
And why not
Cause if you do, I'll tell where I saw you kissing Jane Housemaid an
hour ago
Hang that boy
You young imp of Satan -- it ain't true, anyway
All right, you can tell my father that
All
right, it's none of my business if you wander over every acre, and
break your neck off every tree on the blame estate. But you'd better
be getting home before master comes out and catches you himself! Then
you'd eat strap, my lad
Tom, Tom
What now
I say, Tom -- I'll tell Jane Housemaid to-morrow that you're a proper
brick
Thank'ee, sir
bothy
Hum-m! Thought you hurt, didn't you? Well, it just
didn't a bit
When I have childwens I sail
beat them wif a big boot and tackets in the heel
DEPOSITED GENERAL-FIELD-MARSHAL SMITH IN THE HORSE
POND
Foine frish hirrings -- foive for sixpince
Yus, Masther Smith, wanst I had
a crown, but I lost it. 'Twas the Red Lion, bad scran to ut, that did
the deed
odd man
welted
I can lick Peter Greg
till he can't stand
shtand
but Peter an' me can knock the stuffin' out of any half-dozen
spalpeens in this dirthy counthry
Are you the general-major, or am I
GENERALS OF DIVISION, EQUAL IN RANK
Attention! eyes right
Me eyes is as roight as yours, ye dirthy baste av a
Scotchy
the division of General Peter Greg
Well, sir, and what is this I hear
Did I not tell you not to go to the orchard
Now, look here, sir
If ever I catch you again in that orchard,
I'll -- I'll give you as sound a thrashing, sir, as ever you got in your
life
Oh, father
I wish dreadfully that you had
caught me before the last time I was in the orchard
to the last gaiter-button
Besides
let's get Donald back
first, and then we can be chivalrous all you want. Perhaps they are
keeping him to fatten him up for the Odd Coons' Bank Holiday Feast
We attack to-morrow at daybreak
I wants Victowya Cyoss _now_
Don't care for Janet
I wants Victowya
Cyoss -- I wants it _now
Well
that's all right. That's in the Bible, so I s'pose
you have got to believe it. But I was looking at it last Sunday in
sermon time, and it doesn't say what you are to do _after_ you turn
the other cheek. So yesterday I tried it on Tommy Pratt to see how it
worked, and he hit me on the other cheek like winking, and made my
eyes water. So then I took off my coat, and, Jove!-- didn't I just give
him Billy-O! Texts aren't so bad. They are mostly all right, if you
only read on a bit
But
perhaps you forgot that a soft answer turneth
away wrath
Don't, nother
Tried soft answer on big horse in the
farm-yard, yesterday, and he didn't turn away a little bit, but comed
right on, and tried to eat me _all_ up
Love your
Well
at least you won't deny that it says in the New
Testament that you are to love your enemies
I don't yike the New Test'ment
ain't never nobody killed dead in
the New Test'ment
Hush, Arthur George
you must not
speak like that about the New Testament. It says 'Love your enemies!'
'Do good to them that hate you!' Now then
Oh
of course, if you were to go on like that, there would
never be any soldiers, nor bloody wars, nor nothing nice
Right-left, Right-left
Here they are -- go at them! Give them fits, boys! We'll learn them to
come sneaking into our field
A Smith for
Merry England
Scotland for ever
THE BATTLE OF THE BLACK SHEDS
Quiet now, Donald! Or they will come back. Stand still, 'oo horrid
little beast 'oo, till I get the rope off
Wi beast, whaur hae ye come frae?-- I declare I am _that_ glad to see
ye
OH, THE BONNY LADDIE
Oh, the bonny laddie! Whatever will I say to his faither when he
comes hame? His auldest son and the aipple o' his e'e! My certie, if
the ill-set loon were to come up the road the noo, I wad thresh the
very skin aff his banes! To think that he should bide awa' like this.
Oh, the dear, dear lamb that he is; and will thae auld e'en never mair
rest on his bonnie face? Cauld, cauld noo it looks up frae the bottom
o' some pool in the Edam Water
Surrender
A Smith dies but does not surrender
THE HEAD SMOUTCHY
Black Bull
blackfaces
thirty days without the option of a
fine
Got you at last, young prig! Now I'll do you to rights
Sulky, hey
Ah, lads, I thought that would wake the young swell
up. Oh, our father is the owner of this property, is he? So nice! He
owns the town, does he? Nasty pauper he is! Too poor to keep a proper
carriage, but thinks us all dirt under his feet. Yaw, yaw, we aw-w so
fine, we aw-w, we a-aw
You wouldn't dare to do this if my father were here
_Your_ father, I'll show you
Who asked you to come here anyway to meddle with us? Who invited you
into our parks? What business have you in our castle? Fetch him along,
boys; we'll show him something that neither he nor his father know
anything about. They and the likes of them used to shut up people in
the castle dungeons, so they say. We are just the boys to give 'em a
taste of what it is like theirselves
Hooray
fetch him along, lads
I'm glad I didn't tell -- I'm glad I wasn't 'dasht-mean.' I'm a
soldier. The Scots Greys saluted me; and these fellows _shan't_ make
me cry
Say this is not your father's castle, and we'll let you down
It _is_ my father's and nobody else's! And when it is mine, I shan't
let one of you beasts come near it
Promise you won't tell on us if we let you go
I shan't promise; I will tell every one of your names to the
policeman, and get you put in jail -- so there! My father has gone to
London to see the Queen, and have you all put into prison -- yes, and
whipped with a cat-o'-nine-tails as soon as ever he comes back
It is none of their business whether I tell on them or not. They
shan't think that I don't tell because I am afraid of them
Let's put him in the dungeon, and leave him there! I can come and
let him out after, and then kick the beggar home the way he came! That
will learn him to let us alone for ever and ever
Come on, lads
let's go and have a smoke at
the Black Sheds, and then go up to the Market Hill to see the shows.
The proud swine will do well enough down there till his father comes
back from London with the cat-o'-nine-tails
That for you
Will ye say now that the castle is your
father's, and that we have no right here
WILL YE SAY NOW THAT THE CASTLE IS YOUR FATHER'S, AND
THAT WE HAVE NO RIGHT HERE!' SAID NIPPER DONNAN
There's ethers (adders) down there -- and weasels and whopper rats that
eat off your fingers and toes. Yes, and my father saw a black beast
like an otter, but as big as a calf, run in there out of the Edam
Water; and they'll bite ye and stang ye and suck your blood! And we
are never coming back no more, so ye'll die of starvation besides
Who's afraid? They shan't say Hugh John Picton Smith is afraid
But I won't cry -- even to myself
First
I must wriggle my hands loose, then I can get the
gag out of my mouth easy enough. After that I've got to count my
stores, and see if I can find a rusty nail to write my name on the
wall and the date of my captivity
Then I must find a pin or a needle (a needle if possible -- a pin is
poisonous, and besides it is so much more easy to prick blood from
your thumb with a needle), and then I have got to write an account of
my sufferings on linen like the abbe, or on tablets of bread like
Latude. As I have no bread, except the lump that was left over at
breakfast, I suppose it will need to be written on linen; but bread
tablets are much the more interesting. Of course I could make one or
two tablets, write secret messages on them, and eat them after
HE BENT THE WEIGHT OF HIS BODY THIS WAY AND THAT
No, I won't, I am a Napoleon -- Smith
I have not done any of these things
I don't like
it. But I suppose I've got to try
dasht fools
Help! Help! Murder! Police! Fire
hunk
I declare I could drink up the whole tea-pot full without ever
stopping
shut it
None knoweth when our lips shall touch the blessed bread again!'
This prog's too hanged dry for anything
Life and Death of Arthur the King
I do not
believe in ghosts, but I am afraid of them
You see
it's very easy
for them. They have nothing else to do. They haven't to wash, and take
baths, and comb their hair, and be ordered about! It's easy to be good
when you're leading a natural life
Our Father Witch-Charta-Nevin
help me to get out of
this beastly hole. Help me to lick Nipper Donnan till he can't stand,
and bust Sammy Carter for running away. For we are all miserable
sinners. God bless father and Prissy, Arthur George (I wonder where
the little beast went to -- guess he sneaked -- just wait!), Janet
Sheepshanks, Mary Jane Housemaid, and everybody about the house and
down at the stables, except Bella Murdoch, that is a clash-bag and a
tell-tale-tit. And make me a good boy. For Jesus' sake. Aymen
A-men
cared for none of these things
OVER THE CLOSELY PACKED WOOLLY BACKS HE SAW A STRETCH
OF RIPPLED RIVER
Rough-on-rats
I bet the poor chap down here had toothache
Horrid beasts every one of them
going on all as comfortable as you please, just as if I had
not been pining in a dungeon cell for years and years
Oh, thank the Lord, laddie
that He hath spared ye to your widowed
faither -- and to me, your auld unworthy nurse
Do get me some mustard, Janet
and
where on earth have you put the pickles
some bad boys
Who found him
I CREATE YOU GENERAL OF THE COMM'SARIAT
Salute, you little beast
_I_ did -- nobody but me. I d'livered him, all by mineself. I cutted
the rope and d'livered Donald. Yes, I did -- Prissy will tell 'oo. I
wented into the Black Sheds all alone-y -- and d'livered him
delivered
I create you
General of the Comm'sariat for distinguished conduct in the field.
From this time forth you can keep the key of the biscuit box, but I
know just how many are in. So mind out
Can I have the biggest and nicerest saucer of the scrapings of the
preserving-pan to-night
Yes, you can
that is, if it isn't rasps
Huh
Thank 'oo for
nuffin! I like wasps just as much as 'oo, Hugh John Picton Smiff
Don't answer me back, sir
Sall if I like
Sall go and
tell Janet Sheepshanks, and she'll give me yots of wasps! Not
scrapin's neither, but weal-weal wasps -- so there
Toady Lion, I shall degrade you to the ranks. You are a little pig
and a disgrace to the army
Don't care, I wants wasps -- and I d'livered Donald
Toady Lion, you
little ass, stop snivelling -- and I'll give you a bone button and the
half of a knife
Let's see them
All yight
I won't cry no more -- but I wants three saucers
full of the wasps too
But it hurts so confoundedly
if it didn't, I
shouldn't mind getting killed a bit
Look at me
I'm all over peels and I don't
complain
Oh! I dare say -- it's all very well for you
you
like to fight, and it was you that began the fuss, but I only fight
because you'd jolly-well-hammer me if I didn't
Course I would
don't you know that's what
generals are for
Well
tain't my castle anyway
I don't see that we've done so very much to make a brag about
anyhow
I should say _you_ didn't do much
you hooked
it as hard as you could after the first skirmish. Why, you haven't got
a single sore place about you to show for it
Yes, I have
SAMMY CARTER MUTINOUS
Well, let's see it then
Can't -- ladies present
All _my_ wounds are in front. _I_ fought and died with my face to the
foe
And I d'livered Donald
Oh, _that_ ain't anything
Shut up, Sammy, or I'll come and kick you. None of us did anything
except Toady Lion. You ran away, and I got taken prisoner. Toady Lion
is the only man among us
I runned away too -- at first
But I comed back quick -- and I d'livered
Donald out of prison, anyway -- I did
Well
I don't think
much of your old castle anyway. My father could have twice as good a
castle if he liked
Oh, 'course he could
he
might plant it on a peaty soil, and grow it from seed in two years; or
perhaps he would like a cutting off ours
Don't you speak against my father
Who's touching your father
See here, Sammy, you've got your coat on wrong side out
to-day. Go home and sleep on it. 'Tisn't my fault if you did run away,
and got home before your sister -- with a blue place on your back
Yes, go on to Prissy; I think she has a spare doll. Go and play at
'house'! It's all you're good for
_Lassie-boy, lassie-boy, fie for shame!
    Coward's your nature, and Jennie's your name
You think a lot of your old tumble-down castle; but the town boys
have got it in spite of you; and what's more, they've a flag flying on
it with 'Down with Smith!' on it. I saw it. Hooray for the town boys
Down with Smith
I have it
we must find an ally
Don't tell lies
Don't tell tales
Don't be dasht-mean
Go it, old blind patch
One, two, three -- and a tiger
The lady declines to come in, m'am. She says she must see you
immediately at the door
LOOK AT HIM, MADAM,' SAID MRS. BAKER
Look at him, madam. That is the handiwork of your daughter. The poor
boy was quietly digging in the garden, cultivating a few unpretending
flowers, when your daughter, madam, suddenly flew at him over the
railings and struck him on the face so furiously that, if I had not
come to the rescue, the dear boy might have lost the use of both his
eyes. But most happily I heard the disturbance and went out and
stopped her
Dear me, this is _very_ sad
I'm sure
I don't know what can have come over Cissy. Are you sure there is no
mistake
Mistake! No, indeed, madam, there is no mistake, I saw her with my
own eyes -- a great girl twice Wedgwood's size
What's this -- what's this
Cissy and
your son been fighting
No indeed, sir
this dear boy
never so much as lifted a hand to her. Ah, here she comes -- the
very -- ahem, young lady herself
Come here, Cissy
Did you strike this boy
to-day in front of his mother's gate
Yes, I did
and what's more, I'll do it
again, and give him twice as much, if he ever dares to call _my_
grandmother 'Old Blind Patch' again -- I don't care if he is two years
and three months older than me
Did you call names at my mother
Come, Wedgwood dear, tell them that you did not call names. You know
you could not
I never called nobody names. It was her that hit me
Now, you hear
Oh, you little liar! Wait till I catch you out
I'll teach you to
tell lies on me
What
a dreadful girl
Madam
I regret exceedingly that you should have
been put to this trouble. I think that for the future you will have no
reason to complain of my daughter. Will you allow me to conduct you
across the policies by the shorter way? Cissy, go to bed _at once_,
and stop there till I bid you get up! That will teach you to take the
law into you own hands when your father is a Justice of the Peace
Sir
I hope you will not be too severe with
the young lady. Perhaps after all she was only a trifle impulsive
Discipline must be maintained
It shows what a humbug pa is
he knows very well it is bed-time anyway. I don't believe he is angry
one bit
Jane
what does Cissy like most of all for
supper
A little bit of chicken and bread-sauce done with broiled bacon -- at
least I think so, dear -- why do you ask
Walbridge
take that disgraceful girl up the
breast and both wings of a chicken, also three nice pieces of crisp
bacon, four new potatoes with butter-sauce, some raspberrytart with
thick cream and plenty of sugar -- and a whole bottle of zoedone. But
mind you, _nothing else_, as you value your place -- not another bite
for such a bold bad girl. This will teach her to go about the country
thrashing boys two years older than herself
Let this be a lesson to you, sir
Yes, sir
Let me look at him
Watch out, miss
he's nasty with the sore. He'll bite
quick as mustard
He won't bite me
This should be thoroughly washed, and have some boracic ointment put
on it at once
Ain't got none o' the stuff
nor can't
afford to buy it. Besides, who's to wash him first off, and him in a
temper like that
Come over with me to Oaklands and I'll get you some ointment. I'll
wash him myself in a minute
That's a good 'un
likely thing me to go to Oaklands
And why
it's my father's place. I've just come from
there
Then your father's a beak, and I ain't going a foot -- not if I know
it
A what -- oh! you mean a magistrate -- so he is. Well, then, if you feel
like that about it I'll run over by myself, and sneak some ointment
from the stables
LET ME LOOK AT HIM,' SHE SAID
Say, chaps, did you hear her? She said she'd 'sneak' the ointment
from the stables. I tell 'ee what, she'll be a rare good plucked one
that. And her a beak's daughter! Her mother mun ha' been a piece
I had to wait till the coachman had gone to his tea
and then send the stable boy with a message to the village to get him
out of the way
There
that will keep him from biting at it, and you must
see that he doesn't scratch off the bandage. I'll be passing
to-morrow and will drop in. Here's the pot of ointment. Put some more
on in the morning and some again at night, and he will be all right in
a day or two
Thank'ee, miss
I don't
mean to forget, you be sure
By the way, what is your name? Whom shall I ask for if you are not
about to-morrow
Billy Blythe
but I'll be here
to-morrow right enough
Why did you tell the beak's daughter your name, Bill, you blooming
Johnny
You'll get thirty days for that sure
Shut up, Fish Lee
the girl is main
right. D'ye think she'd ha' said 'sneaked' if she wasn't. G'way,
Bacon-chump
sneaking
Oo
what 'oo fink? Father sented us each a great big
half-crown from London -- all to spend. And we have spended it
Well
and what did you buy
Us all wented down to Edam and boughted -- oh! yots of fings
Show me what you've bought, Toady Lion! I want to see! How much money
had you, did you say
Money
well, dere's the money that
you get gived you, and wot Janet sez you muss put in your money-box.
That's no good! Money-box locked! Janet keeps money-box. 'Get money
when you are big,' she sez -- rubbage, I fink -- shan't want it then -- lots
and lots in trowsies' pocket then, gold sixpences and fings
Then there's miss'nary money in a round box wif a slit on the top.
That's lots better! Sits on mantlepiece in dining-room. Can get it out
wif slimmy-jimmy knife when nobody's looking. Hugh John showed me how.
Prissy says boys who grab miss'nary's pennies won't not go to heaven,
but Hugh John, he says -- yes. 'Cause why miss'nary's money is for bad
wicked people to make them good. Then if it is wicked to take
miss'nary money, the money muss be meaned for us -- to do good to me and
Hugh John. Hugh John finks so. Me too
Yes, I know
a thinbladed kitchen knife is
best
And then the miss'nary money is weally-weally our money, 'cause Janet
_makes_ us put it in. Onst Hugh John tried metal buttons off of his
old serge trowsies. But Janet she found out. And he got smacked. An'
nen, us only takes a penny out when us is _tony-bloke_
Is which? Oh, stone-broke
who taught you to say that word
Hugh John
him and me tony-bloke
all-ee-time, all-ee-ways, all-ee-while
Does Prissy have any of -- the missionary money
I
should
No
don't you know? Our Prissy's awful good,
juss howwid! She likes goin' to church, an' washing, an' having to
wear gloves. Girls is awful funny
They are
But tell me, Toady Lion
does Hugh
John like going to church, and being washed, and things
Who? Hugh John -- him
Course
he don't. Why, he's a boy. And once he told Mr. Burnham so -- he did
Yes, indeedy. It was under the elm. Us was having tea. An' Mist'r
Burnham, he was having tea. And father and Prissy. And, oh! such a lot
of peoples. And he sez, Mist'r Burnham sez to Hugh John, 'You are good
little boy. I saw you in church on Sunday. Do you like to go to
church?' He spoke like this-a-way, juss like I'm tellin' oo, down here
under his silk waistcoat -- kind of growly, but nice
Hugh John say that he liked to go to church --'cos father was there
listenin', you see. Then Mist'r Burnham ask Hugh John WHY he like to
go to church, and of course, he say wight out that it was to look at
Sergeant Steel's wed coat. An' nen everybody laugh -- I don't know why.
But Mist'r Burnham he laughed most
Yes, indeedy, and one Sunday _I_ didn't have to go to church --'cos
I'd yet up such a yot of gween gooseb
All right, Toady Lion, I know
Of gween gooseberries
so I had got my
tummy on in front. It hurted like -- well, like when you get sand down
'oo trowsies. Did 'oo ever get sand in 'oo trowsies, Cissy
Hush -- of course not
girls don't have
trowsers -- they have
No, should juss fink not. Girls is too great softs to
have trowsies.

"Onst though on the sands at a seaside, when I was '_kye-kying_' out
loud an' kickin' fings, 'cos I was not naughty but only fractious,
dere was a lady wat said 'Be dood, little boy, why can't you be dood?'

"An' nen I says, 'How can I be dood? Could 'oo be dood wif all that
sand in 'oo trowsies?'

"An' nen -- the lady she wented away quick, so quick -- I can't tell why.
P'raps _she_ had sand in her trowsies! Does 'oo fink so, Cissy
That'll do -- I quite understand
An' nen 'nother day after we comed home I went into the park and
clum up a nice tree. An' it was ever so gween and scratchy. 'An it was
nice. Nen father he came walking his horse slow up the road, n' I hid.
But father he seen me. And he say, 'What you doing there, little boy?
You break you neck. Nen I whip you. Come down, you waskal!' He said it
big -- down here, (Toady Lion illustrated with his hand the place from
which he supposed his father's voice to proceed). An' it made me feel
all queer an' trimbly, like our guinea pig's nose when father speak
like that. An' I says to him, 'Course, father, you never clumb up no
trees on Sundays when _you_ was little boy!' An' nen he didn't speak
no more down here that trimbly way, but laughed, and pulled me down,
and roded me home in front of him, and gived me big hunk of pie -- yes,
indeedy
Where did you get all those nice new cannons? You haven't told me
yet
Boughted them
least I boughted some,
and Hugh John boughted some, an' Prissy she boughted some
And how do you come to have them all
Well
'twas this way. 'Oo sees
Prissy had half-a-crown, an' she boughted a silly book all about a
'Lamplighter' for herself -- an' two brass cannons -- one for Hugh John
an' one for me. And Hugh John he had half-a-crown, an' he boughted
three brass cannon, two for himself and one for me
And what did you buy with your half-crown
Wif my half-a-crown? Oh, I just boughted three brass cannons -- _dey
was all for mine-self_
Toady Lion
you are a selfish little pig!
I shan't stop with you any more
Little pigs is nice
their
noses
Don't speak to me about their noses, you selfish little boy! Blow
your own nose
No use
won't stay blowed. 'Tis
too duicy
With Prissy you can't never tell. Like as not she may go and pray
that Nipper Donnan may get converted, or die and go to heaven, or
something like that. She'd do it like winking, without a thought for
how I should feel! That's the sort of girl our Priss is
Oh, surely not so bad as that
She would, indeed
she's good no end, our Prissy is. And never shirks prayers, nor
forgets altogether, nor even says them in bed. I believe she'd get up
on a frosty night and say them without a fire -- she would, I'm telling
you. And she doats on these nasty Smoutchies. She'd just love to have
been tortured. She'd have regularly spread herself on forgiving them
too, our Priss would
I wouldn't have forgived them
I
wouldn't have forgived them a bit. I'd have cutted off all their
heads
Go 'way, little pig
Toady Lion isn't a little pig
he is
my brother
But he kept all the cannons to himself
Course he did; why shouldn't he? He's only a little boy, and can't
grow good all at once
You've been growing good yourself
I'd better go home
I'll hit you if you say that, Cissy
but anyway
you shan't call Toady Lion a little pig
I like being little pig
little piggie
goes '_Grunt-grunt
Little pigs is nice
Good little boy
it is such a mother's pet! It
will be good then, and go and ask Nipper's pardon, and send back
Donald to make nice mutton pies; it shall then
Yes
hit a girl! Any boy can beat you. But you can hit
a girl! Hit hard, brave soldier
I never did
I fought ten of them at once and never even
cried when they -- when they
When they what
Well, when they tortured me
HIT HARD, BRAVE SOLDIER
There, now
I've done it. I promised I would, and what's
more, I'll say it out loud --'I love you!' There! And if you don't mind
and behave, I'll tell people. I will, now then. But all the same, I'm
sorry I was a beast to you
Well, don't do it again
Anybody might
have seen you, and then what would they think
All right
I won't any more
Say 'Hope-you-may-die
Now, Hugh John
I've something to tell you. I've found the allies
for you; and we can whop the Smoutchies and take the castle now -- any
time
If that's true
you can kiss me again -- no, not now
but after, when it's all over,
you know. There's a good place behind the barn. You can do it there
if you like
Will _you_ say 'I love you, Cissy
It won't be till the Smoutchy boys are beaten and the castle ours for
good
Well, I'll try
but you must say, 'Hope-you'll-die and
double-die,' if you ever tell
Well
Oh, you can't never tell a bit beforehand
They
just hate the town boys; and Bill Blythe says that Nipper Donnan's
father said, that when the town got the castle they would soon clear
the gipsies off your common -- for that goes with the castle
Chronicles
You are a brick
you are indeed, Cissy. Come on, let's go
at once and see Billy Blythe
Couldn't you say it now
I wish you could. Try
Well, I won't ask you till after
Tain't
fair, I know; but
don't you think you could do the other -- just
once
What other
Oh, _you_ know
what I did to you a little while ago
Twasn't to be till after
Just a little one to be going on with
Well
goodness knows why you like it. I'm sure I don't and
never shall. But
All right
Come on, Cissy, and get it over -- only don't be
too long
You needn't go shutting your eyes and holding your breath, as if it
were medicine. 'Tisn't so very horrid
Go on
Hold on
that isn't fair. You know it ain't
WASN'T IT SPLENDID
Oh, I don't mind
I can easily do it over again -- for
keeps this time, mind
jumpetty-jump
Just once
Are you not coming
No
to-morrow will do for Billy
Good-night
Look here
Wasn't it splendid
Oh, middling
Good-bye
Get up, Toady Lion
it is the birthday
Ow don' care
don' care wat it is. I'se goin' to sleep some more.
Don't go 'prog' me like that
Come
we are going to give Hugh
John a surprise, and sing a lovely hymn at his door. You can have my
ivory Prayer-book
For keeps
Oh, no, you know that was mother's, and father gave it to me to take
care of. But you shall have it to hold in your hand while we are
singing
Well, then, can I have the picture of the anzel Michael castin' out
the baddy-baddy anzels and hittin' the Bad Black Man O-such-a-whack on
the head
All right
you can have my 'Michael and the Bad Angels,'
but you are not to spoil it
Shan't play then
shan't sing, not unless 'Michael
and the Bad Angels' is mine to spoil if I like
But you won't -- will you, dear Toady Lion
You'll
keep it so nice and careful, and then next Saturday, when I have my
week's money and you are poor, I'll buy it off you again
Shan't promise
p'rhaps yes,
and p'rhaps no
Come on then, Toady Lion
nighties
You see, pink flannel pyjams are not proper to sing in church in
now -- you must hold your hymn-book so, and look up at
the roof when you sing -- like the 'Child Samuel' on the nursery wall
Mine eyes don't goggle like his
Eh, sir
the lassie
Priscilla was sae like her mither, my puir bairn that is noo singing
psalms wi' the angels o' God, that I declare, my verra heart stood
still, for I thocht that she had come back for yin o' the bairns. And,
oh! I couldna pairt wi' ony o' them noo. It wad fairly break my heart.
And there the twa young things stood at the door, but when they began
to sing, I declare I juist slippit awa' doon to the closet and grat
on the tap o' a cask o' paraffeen
Now, mind, your eyes on the crack of the door above
and when I count three under my breath -- sing out for your
very life
One -- two -- three
_Hark! the herald angels sing,
    Glory to the new-born King,
    Peace on earth and mercy mild,
    God and sinners reconciled
What is 'weconciled
Oh, never mind now
keep your eyes on the
top crack of the door and open your mouth wide
Don't know no more
Oh yes, you do
go on. Sing _La-La_,
if you don't, and we'll soon be at the chorus, and you know that
anyway
_Joyful all ye nations rise,
    Join the triumph of the skies:
    Universal nature, say,
    'Christ the Lord is risen to-day
Tain't Christmas, what's the horrid row? Shut it
Your birthday, silly
chorus now
_Hark! the herald angels sing,
    Glory to the newborn King
it was just beautiful -- they
was for all the world like little angels a-praisin' God, and -- _a-hoo!_
I can't help it, no more I can't! And their mother never to see them
growed up -- her bein' in her grave, the blessed lamb
_I_ don't see nuffin to kye for
it was a nice
sing-song
it was as good as a watering-can, and useful too, for it laid the
dust on Jane's carpets ready for sweeping, ever so much better than
tea-leaves
Hillo,
boy! what have you been up to -- stealing apples, eh? Come! What is it?
Out with it
Oh, Davenant
do let the boy alone. Don't you see he
is bashful before so many people
What a
long time it is since we saw you at Oaklands, Hugh John -- isn't it
girls are
funny things
Have you seen Sammy, mother; I wonder if he has
fallen into the mill-dam. He went over there more than an hour ago to
sail his new boat
Oh, do you think so?-- Run Cissy, run Hugh, and find him
How could you tell such a whopper? Of course he would not fall into
the water like a baby
Goos-ee gander
of course not! I knew that very
well. But if I had not said something we should have had to stay there
moping among all those Grown-Ups, and doing nothing but talking proper
for hours and hours
But I thought you liked it, Cissy
Like it
I've got to _do_ it. And if they dreamed I
didn't like it, they'd think I hadn't proper manners, and make me stop
just twice as long. Mother wants me to acquire a good society
something-or-other, so that's why I've to stop and make tea, and
pretend to like to talk to Mr. Burnham
Oh -- him
he isn't half bad. And he's a ripping good
wicket-keep
I dare say
that's all very well for you. He talks
to you about cricket and W. G.'s scores -- I've heard him. But he speaks
to me in that peeky far-away voice from the back of his throat, like
he does in the service when he comes to the bit about 'young
children'-- and what do you think the _Creature_ says
I dunno
Well, he said that he hoped the time would soon come when a young
lady of so much decision of character (that's me!) would be able to
assist him in his district visiting
What's 'decision of character' when he's at home
Oh, nothing -- only one of the things parsons say. It doesn't mean
anything -- not in particular
But
did you ever hear such rot
Perhaps Mr. Burnham has heard that you went with medicine and stuff
to the gipsy camp
Well, perhaps he had
but that was quite different
How different
Well, that was only dogs and Billy Blythe
that doesn't count, and besides I like it. Doing good
has got to be something you don't like -- teaching little brats their
duty to their godfathers and godmothers, or distributing tracts which
only make people stamp and swear and carry on
Isn't there something somewhere about helping the fatherless and the
widow
talking good
Well, I don't suppose that the fox-terrier's pa does much for him
but come along and I'll 'interjuce' you to your ally
Billy Blythe
This is my birthday
Oh no -- it can't be
I thought it was next week, and they
aren't nearly ready
Now don't you, Ciss
I don't want anything -- presents and
things, I mean. Just let's be jolly
Hu-uh-uh
and Janet Sheepshanks told me it was next
week. I'm sure she did; and I set them so nicely to be ready in
time -- more than two months ago, and now they aren't ready after all
What aren't ready
The bantam chickens
and they are lovely as lovely.
And peck -- you should just see them peck
I'd just as soon have them next week, or the next after that -- rather
indeed. Shut up now, Ciss. Stop crying, I tell you. Do you hear
_I_
don't care if you cry pints, but I'll hit you if you won't stop! So
there
I would indeed
I'd ever so much rather have the
nicest presents a week after; for on a regular birthday you get so
many things. But by next week, when you've got tired of them all, and
don't have anything new -- that's the proper time to get a present
Oh, you _are_ nice
Yes, you are the nicest thing. Only don't tell any body
I won't
And I'll give you the mother too
she is a perfect
darling, and won a prize at the last Edam show. It was only a second,
but everybody said that she ought by rights to have had the first.
Yes, and she would have got it too -- only that the other old hen was a
cousin of the judge's. That wasn't fair, was it
Certainly not
I declare
they are painting the waggons. I wish
they would let me help. I can slick it on like a daisy. Now I'm
telling you. Andrew Penman at the coach-works in Church Street showed
me how. He says I can 'line' as well as any workman in the place. I'm
going to be a coach-painter. They get bully wages, I tell you
I thought you were going to be a soldier
Oh yes, of course I am going to be a soldier
but I'm
to be a coach-painter in my odd time and on holidays. Besides,
officers get so little pay now-a-days, it's shameful -- I heard my
father say. So one must do something
Oh, here's the terrier -- pretty thing, I declare he quite knows
me -- see, Hugh John
Yes, miss
I done it. He's better a'ready, and as lively
as a green grass-chirper. Never seed the like o' that ointment. 'Tis
worth its weight in gold when ye have dogs
Ah, young lady and gentleman, sure I can see by your eyes that you
are going to buy something from a poor girl -- ribbons for the hair, or
for the house some nice collanders, saucepans, fish-pans, stew-pans,
patty-pans, jelly-pans
SHE CARRIED A BACK LOAD OF TINWARE
Go 'way, Lepronia Lovell
don't you see that this is
the young lady that cured my dog
And who may the young gentleman be
Certain I am
I've seen him before somewhere at the back o' beyant
Belike aye, Lepronia, tha art a clever wench, and hast got eyes in
the back o' thee yead
Do you not
know the son of Master Smith o' t' Windy Standard -- him as lets us bide
on his land, when all the neighbours were on for nothing else but
turning us off with never a rest for the soles of our feet
And what is his name
Why, the same as his father of course, lass -- what else
young Master Smith as ever was. Did you think it was Blythe
Faith then, God forbid
ye have lashin's of that
name in them parts already. Sure it is lonesome for a poor orphan like
me among so many Blythes; and good-looking young chaps some o' them
too, and never a wan o' ye man enough to ask me to change my name, and
go to church and be thransmogrified into a Blythe like the rest of
yez
I'm not by way of takin' up with no Paddy
Paddy is ut
faith now, and
it wad be tellin' ye if ye could get a daycent single woman only half
as good lookin' as me, to take as much notice av the likes o' ye as to
kick ye out of her road
Can I tell your
fortune, pretty lady
No, but I can tell yours
Tell it then
You will live to marry Billy
Never while
there's a daycent scarecrow in the world will I set up a tent-stick
along with the likes of Billy Blythe
We are the lads to help ye to turn out Nipper Donnan and all his
crew
Him and his would soon make short work of us gipsies
if they had the rights of castle and common. Why, Nipper's father is
what they call a bailie of their burgh court, and he fined my father
for leaving his horses out on the roadside, while he went for a doctor
when my mother was took ill a year past last November
There's a round dozen and more of us lads
that
'ud make small potatoes and mince meat of every one of them, if they
was all Nipper Donnans -- which they ain't, not by a long sight. I know
them. A fig for them and their flag! We'll take their castle, and
we'll take it too in a way they won't forget till their dying day
Of course it's part pretending
for my father could put
them out if we were to tell on them. But then we won't tell, and we
want just to drive them out ourselves, and thrash them for stealing
our pet lamb as well
Right
don't be afraid; we won't do more than just give
them a blazing good hiding. Tell 'ee what, they'll be main sore from
top to toe before we get through with 'em
would be as good as a sixpenny
surprise-packet to them
Isn't it prime?-- we'll beat them till they can't speak
They'll never come back to our castle again after
we finish with them
Poor things
perhaps they never had fathers
to teach them, nor godfathers and godmothers to see that they learned
their Catechism
Precious lot mine ever did for me -- only one old silver mug
Oh, Hugh John
I so sorry -- I'se broked one of the cannons, and it's your
cannon what I'se broked
What were you doing with my cannon
I was juss playin' wif it so as to save my cannons, and a great bid
stone fell from the wall and broked it all to bits. I beg'oo pardon,
Hugh John
All right
you can give me one of yours
for it
That's not right, Hugh John
I saided that I was
sorry, and I begged 'oo pardon. Father says then 'oo must fordiv me
Oh, I'll forgive you right enough
after I get the
cannon. It's all the same to me which cannon I have
But _your_ cannon is broked -- all to little bits
Well, another cannon
I ain't particular
But the other cannons is all mine
No matter -- one of them is mine now
I declare
can you not give the poor little boy what he
wants? A great fellow like you pestering and teasing a child like
that. Think shame of yourself! What is the matter, Arthur George
Hugh John tooked my cannon
Haven't got your cannon, little sneak
Won't give me back my cannon
I wants
Oh, take the cannon, sneak
chucking
Oo-oo-ooooh
Hugh John hitted me on the head wif my
cannon
Oh, you bad boy, wait till I catch you, Hugh Picton Smith
you don't get any supper to-night, rascal that you
are, never letting that poor innocent lamb alone for one minute
Oh, golly
just wait till Toady Lion grows up a bit.
By hokey, won't I take this out of him with a wicket? Oh no -- not at
all
Please, Hugh John
I'se welly solly I broked your
cannon. I bringed you mine supper. Will 'oo forgive me
All right, old chap
that's all right! Let's have a jolly feed
Smith
     for ever, and No Quarter
favour of the 13th
poor folk like us couldna juist gie Tammas champeen-an'-ighsters, but
we did the next best thing -- we gied him whelks-an'-ginger-beer
five sheep ready dressed
spoiling for another
taste of Donnybrook
Faix
sure 'tis a long road to sind a young lady wid a
heavy load like that
Don't go near thim ruins till after Saturday, when we will clean
every dirty spalpeen out of the place like thunder on the mountains
Thank you
Go-to-bed-John
I want just dreadfully to gather you
I hope all this
warring and battling will be over before you have done blooming, you
nice waterside things
Hey, boys
here's the Smith lass. Let's go and hit her
OH, PLEASE DON'T, SIR
If you please, sir
I've come to ask you not
to fight any more. It isn't right, you know, and God will be angry
Oh, _please_ don't, sir
I came because I wanted to speak to your captain, and
I've brought a lot of nice things for you all. I think you will be
sure to like them
Humbug
the basket's ours anyway. I captured it. Hey, Bob, catch hold
of this chuck, while I give the girl _toko_ -- I'll teach her to come
spying here about our castle
Now, what's all this
What's all this, I say -- you
I don't know any bloomin' thing about it
Salute
don't you know enough to salute when
you speak to me? Want to get knocked endways
Well
This girl she come to the drawbridge and hollered -- that's all I
know
I don't know what she hollered, but
Nosie he runs an' begins twisting her arm, and then the girl she
begins to holler again
I didn't mean to
but he _was_ hurting so
dreadfully
Come here, you
Run after him and bring him back, two of you fellows! Don't dare come
back without him
Oh, don't hurt him -- perhaps he didn't mean it
He didn't hurt me much after all, and it is quite
better now anyway
THE RETURN OF THE TWO SWIFT FOOTMEN
Well, what do you want
You know that I didn't come to spy or find out anything, don't you
only I was so sorry to think you were fighting with each
other, when the Bible tells us to love one another. Why can't we all
be nice together? I'm sure Hugh John would if you would
Gammon -- this is our castle
my father
he says so. Everybody says so. Your father has no right to it
Well, but
I'm sure you would let us come
here and have picnics and things. And you could come too, and play at
soldiers and marching and drills -- all without fighting to hurt
Fighting is the best fun
besides, 'twasn't us that
begun it
Then
wouldn't it be all the nicer of you if you
were to stop first
Cast him into the deepest dungeon beneath the castle moat
Can't
can't -- we couldn't get him out again if we
did
Well then
chuck
him down anywhere on the stones, and get Fat Sandy to sit on him
HYDRAULIC PRESSURE
If you please, Mr. Captain
I thought you would
like to taste our nice sheep's-head-pie. Janet makes it all out of her
own head. Besides, there are some dee-licious fruits which I have
brought you; and if you will let me come in, I will make you some
lovely tea
I don't know
tisn't regular. How do we know that you
aren't a spy
You could bind my eyes with a napkin, and
That's the thing
Well
that's according to rule. Here, Timothy
Tracy, tell us if that is all right
The Wild Boys of New York
Then Bendigo Bill went to the gateway of the stockade to interview
the emissary of the besiegers. With keen unerring eyes he examined
his credentials, and finding them correct, he took from the breast of
his fringed buckskin hunting-dress a handkerchief of fine Indian silk,
and with it he swathed the eyes of the ambassador. Then taking the
envoy by the hand he led him past the impregnable defences of the
Comanche Cowboys into the presence of their haughty chief, who was
seated with the fair Luluja beside him, holding her delicate hand, and
inhaling the fragrance of a choice Havanna cigar through his noble
aquiline nose.'

"That's all it says
Well, that's all pretty straight and easy. Nobody can say fairer nor
that
Shut up
who asked for your oar? I'll knock the
bloomin' nut off you if you don't watch out. Blindfold the emissary of
the enemy, and bring her before me into the inner court
Tell me if you
see anything -- mind, true as 'Hope-you-may-Die
I do see something, something very dirty
but I can't
quite tell what it is
She _can_ see, boys
it's my hand
Please let me carry my basket myself -- I've got my best china
tea-service in it -- and then I will be sure that it won't get broken
Give the girl the basket! Do you hear -- you
_Death
_Vengeance
Pass, '_Death_
I think we had better have tea first
Have you got a
match-box
I have
only fusees
but perhaps they will do. You see
regular smokers never use anything else
Oh yes, they will do perfectly
it is just
to light the spirit-lamp. See how nicely it fits in. Isn't it a
beauty? I got that from father on my birthday. Wasn't it nice of him
I shall need some more fresh spring water for so many cups
I only brought the full of the kettle with me
Bring some fresh water from
the well
What is it
Oh, please, Mr. Captain
his hands -- I think he has
perhaps been working
Tracy, fetch the water, you lazy jaundiced toad
The Wild Boys of New York
Do you take sugar
_Rather
if the grocer's not lookin
I mean in your tea! Do you take sugar in your tea
One lump or two
Eh, what
As many as I can get
like snow off a dyke
Besides it's so much better for your nerves, you know
Please will you let that boy get up?-- I think he must have been sat
upon quite long enough now
Oh, it is so dreadful -- I _quite_ forgot
Why, we forgot to say grace
well, anyway I am glad I
remembered in time. We can say it now. Who is the youngest
You say it, little boy
What is the matter with that boy? Couldn't he say grace? Didn't he
remember the beginning? Well, you say it then
Better say it yourself
Right
go ahead -- Joe Craig laughed.
I'll teach him to laugh except when I tell him to
_God bless our table,
      Bless our food;
    And make us stable,
      Brave and good
Oh, I was nearly forgetting -- how dreadfully rude of me
I'm sorry I have not my
brother's card to leave also
Oh
we shall be pleased to see him if he drops
in on Saturday -- or any other time
Three proper cheers for the little lady
Thank you so much
you are very kind. Come and see me
soon -- and be sure you stop to tea
Blessed are the peace-makers, for they shall be
called the children of God
Oh dear
I should so like to be one some day
Hello
at it already
The mornin's the best time for suppling the jints
ask Lepronia Lovell, there. She should know with all
them tin pans going clitter-clatter on her back
I'll be thankin' ye, Billy Blythe, to kape a tight holt on the slack
o' that whopper jaw of yours. It will be better for you at supper-time
than jeerin' at a stranger girl, that is arnin' her bite o' bread
daycent. And that's a deal more than ye can do, aye, or anny wan like
ye
Are you afraid
No?-- then take off your boots
Up with him
We'll have it low and mean enough this night as ever was, before the
edge o' dark
They can't be at the castle all the time
why not let
my mates and me go in before they get there? Then we could easily keep
every one of them out
making two blazes of the same
wasps' byke
Do for them once out and out, and be done with it
done for
Why, opening them's as easy as falling off a stool when you're
asleep. Gimme a hairpin
Go and ask Jane Housemaid to give us one
A good thick 'un
She-won't-give-us-any-unless-we-tell-her-what-it-is-for
Rats
ask her where she was last
Friday week at eleven o'clock at night
I'se going round by the white bwidge -- so long, everybody! I'll be at
the castle as soon as you
All right
Prissy
and Toady Lion are round the corner, and Janet Sheepshanks has just
gone into the high garden to get parsley
Up anchors
the hour has come
Overboard every man
Soldiers
we've got to fight, and it's dead earnest this
time, mind you. We're going to lick the Smoutchies, so that they will
stay licked a long time. Now, come on
It's no use wasting time
follow me to the
door
Give them the point -- cold steel
Cowld steel it is
Cauld steel -- tak' you that
Don't be bad, Toady Lion
come and look at nice picture-books
Will be bad
doan want t' look at pitchur-books -- want to go and
fight! And I will go too, so there
That's a rare well-plucked little 'un
See how
he shuts his fists, and cuts up rough
A little man
walks into his
sister's shins, don't he, the little codger
Let me go wif you, please
I'll kill you
unless!-- Kill you every one
Last time 'twas me that d'livered Donald, when they all runned away
or got took prisoner; and now they won't even take me wif them
Wait till we come back, little 'un
run away and
play with your sister
Shan't stop and play wif a girl. If you don't let me come, I shall
kill you
Well fielded
Chuck her in hard
Hit him with a big
one
Shan't spare none -- shall kill 'oo every one
Will smass 'oo with this, Billy Blythe -- bad Billy
Oh, spare me -- think of my family, Toady Lion, my pore wife and
childer
Oo should have finked of 'oo fambly sooner
little Toady Lion, the best man of the lot
I'll kill 'oo! I'll kill 'oo
dead
scrubbery
Betty, come quick, p'raps they's some
soldiers comin' down the road -- maybe Tom's comin', 'oo come and look
Sodjers -- where?-- what
Oh no, they
isn't no soldiers. 'Tis only a silly old fish-man wif a tin trumpet
Come back, sir, or I'll tell your father! Come back at once
fighting it out on
that line if it took all summer
Nipper! Nipper-r-r-r! Oh, wait till I catch you
Get away out of my field, little boy -- where are you going? What are
you doing there
Please I finks I'se going to Mist'r Burnham's house
I'se keepin' off the
grass -- and I didn't know it was your grass anyway, please, sir
Why, little shaver
this isn't the way to
Mr. Burnham's house. There it is over among the trees. But, hello,
talk of the -- ahem -- why, here comes Mr. Burnham himself
I
wants to go to the castle. You come
Take me to the castle on the island. I 'ants to go there
And who may you be, little boy
Don't 'oo know? 'Oo knows me when 'oo comes to tea at our house
I'se Mist'r Smiff's little boy; and I
'ants to go to the castle
Why do you want to go to the castle island
To find my bruvver Hugh John
This little boy wants to go on the island to find his brother
I suppose I may pass through your field with him
Certainly! The path is over at the other side of the field. But I
don't know but what I'll come along with you. I've lost my son and my
message-boy too. It is possible they may be at the castle.

"There is some dust being kicked up among the boys. I can't get my
rascals to attend to business at all this last week or two
Mr.
Smift's little boy
Hurrah -- yonder they'se fightin'. Come on, Mist'r Burnham, we'll be in
time yet
They saided that I couldn't come; and
I've comed
Come on both of you!
Come on, quick
Hark to 'em
ain't they pitching it into
them slick, over there on the other side. It's surely about our time
to go at it
Just you shut up and wait
That's all your job just now
Go at them, boys! They're giving in. Sammy Carter, you sneak, I'll
smash you, if you don't charge! Go it, Mike! Wire in, boys! Hike them
out like Billy-O
Won't we punch them! Oh no
Now's our time
come on, boys. Now for it
If that man does that again, burke him
Bless that roof
If Billy Blythe says that again, burke him
Silence -- or by the Lord I'll slay you
Ready
THE LIVING CHAIN
They are all at their windows, yelling like fun
Up, and at 'em
_Now then! Ready all! Double-quick! Char-r-r-ge
Now
Oo is a bwick. Us likes 'oo
You fought splendidly
We all fought splendidly
Oh, you _are_ a nice thing, Hugh John
No, I'm not
dasht-mean
Come in
Saint Catherine of Siena would not have been afraid
Well, little girl, what is it? What can I do for you
Father
you don't really want to keep people out
of the castle altogether, do you
Certainly not, if they behave themselves
but the
mischief is that they don't
But suppose, father, that there was some one always there to see that
they did behave, would you mind
Of course not
but you know, Prissy, I can't
afford to keep a man down on the island to see that sixpenny trippers
don't pull down my castle stone by stone, or break their own necks by
falling into the dungeon
Father
does the land beyond the bridge belong to you
No, Prissy
but what do you know about such
things
Nothing at all
but I am trying to learn. I want
everybody to love you, and think you as nice as I know you to be.
Don't you think you could let some one you knew very well live in the
little lodge by the white bridge, and keep out the horrid people, or
see that they behaved themselves
The town would never agree to that
Don't you think the town's people would if you gave them the
sixpences all for themselves
Little girl
who has been putting all this
into your head? Has anybody told you to come to me about this
Well, what is it? Go on
Nobody told me about anything -- I just thought about it all myself,
father
once I heard you say that the money was what the
town's-people cared about. And -- and -- well, I knew that Jane Housemaid
wanted to get married to Tom Cannon, and you see they can't, because
Tom has not enough wages to take a house
And you know I remembered last night when I was lying awake that
Catherine would have done this
What Catherine
Saint Catherine of Siena, of course
so I came to you, and I want you to let Tom
and Jane have the cottage, and Jane can take up the sixpences in a
little brass plate like the one Mr. Burnham gets from the
churchwardens on Sunday. And, oh! but I would just love to help her.
May I sometimes, father
Well
there is perhaps something in what
you say; but I don't think the Provost and Magistrates would ever
agree. Now run away and play, and I will see what can be done
Well, billies
what do you think? There's a lass
has keep'd me from the meetin' of this council for a full half-hour
A lass
that's
surely less than proper. I will be compelled to inform Mrs. Lamont of
the fact
Oh, it was a lassie of twelve or thirteen
So
none of your insinuations, Bailie Tawse, and I'll thank you. She had a
most astonishing tale to tell. It appears she is Picton Smith's
lassie from Windy Standard; and she says to me, says she, 'Provost, do
you want to have the tourist folk that come to Edam admitted to the
castle?' says she. 'Of course,' says I, 'that is what the law-plea is
about. That dust is no settled yet.' 'Then,' says she, brisk as if she
was hiring me at Yedam fair, 'suppose my father was willing to let ye
charge a sixpence for admission, would you pay a capable man his wages
summer and winter to look after it -- a man that my father would approve
of?' 'Aye,' says I, 'the council would be blythe and proud to do
that'-- me thinking of my sister's son Peter that was injured by a
lamp-post falling against him last New Year's night as he was coming
hame frae the Blue Bell. 'Then,' says she, 'I think it can be managed.
My father will put Tom Cannon in the lodge at the white bridge. You
will pay him ten shillings in the week for his wife looking after the
gate and taking the parties over the castle.' 'His wife,' says I; 'Tom
is no married that ever I heard.' 'No,' says she, 'but he will be very
quick if he gets the lodge.' Then I thocht that somebody had put her
up to all this, and I questioned her tightly. But no -- certes, she is a
clever lass. I verily believe if I had said the word she would hae
comed along here to the council meeting and faced the pack o' ye. But
I said to her that she might gang her ways hame, and that I would put
the matter before the council mysel
THEN,' SAID PRISSY, 'I THINK IT CAN BE MANAGED
For
how do we know that Mrs. Cannon might not keep every second
sixpence for herself -- or maybe send it up to Mr. Smith? We all know
that she was long a servant in his house. No, no, honesty is
honesty -- but it's better when well looked after. Let us have a patent
'clicker.' I have used one attached to my till for years, and found it
of great utility in the bacon-and-ham trade
Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of
God
There is one here to-day
whom I might without offence or flattery call a true child of God. I
will not say who that is; but this I will say, that I, for one, would
rather be such a peacemaker, and have a right to be called by that
other name, than be general of the greatest army in the world
I think he must mean the Provost -- or else my father
Oh, I is so tired
Never mind, Toady Lion
the truth is, I was a
little tired myself to-day. I promise not to keep you quite so long
next Sunday morning. You must remind me if I transgress. Nobody will,
if you don't, Toady Lion
Doan know what 'twansguess' is -- but shall call out loud if you goes
on too long -- telling out sermons and textises and fings
Oh, I wish I could have been a peacemaker too, like him
and then Mr. Burnham might have preached about me. Perhaps I will
when I grow up
Money cannot buy love
but you, my
dear, win it by loving actions
Arthur George
if anybody was to give you a piece
of money and say, 'Will you love me for half-a-crown,' you couldn't do
it, could you
Could just, though
Oh no
if it were a bad person
who asked you to love him, you wouldn't love him for half-a-crown,
surely
Well
it might have to be five sillin's if he was _very_ bad
Work hard, my boy
Tell the truth, never tell tales, nor
yet listen to them. Mind your own business. Don't fight, if you can
help it; but if you have to, be sure you get home with your left
before the other fellow. Practise your bowling, the batting will
practise itself. And when you play golf, keep your eye on the ball
I'll try to play up, father
and anyway I won't be
'dasht-mean
For
shame, Miss Priscilla, think shame o' yoursel'-- garring the laddie
greet like that when he's gaun awa
There's a funny fing 'at you wants to see at the stile behind the
stable
but I promised not to tell
w'at it is
office houses
Hugh John Picton, you don't care
And I don't
care either
I do, I do
only every fellow has
to. Sammy is going too, you know
Oh, I don't care a button for Sammy
Say, don't now, Ciss! Stop it, or you'll make me cry too
You don't care! You don't love me a bit! You know you don't
I do -- I do
there -- there -- _now_ you
can't say I don't care
But you'll be so different when you come back, and you'll have lost
your half of the crooked sixpence
I won't, for true, Cissy -- and I shan't ever look at another girl nor
play horses with them even if they ask me ever so
You will, I know you will
Hugh John -- wherever
can that boy have got to
Good-bye, Ciss, I must go. Oh hang it, don't go making a fellow cry.
Well, I _will_ say it then, 'I love you, Ciss!' There -- will that
satisfy you
A SLIM BUNDLE OF LIMP WOE
Good-bye, Master Hugh
Good-bye, everybody
soon be back again, you know
_Ugh -- ugh -- ugh
Go upstairs instantly, Jane. Don't disgrace yourself
Come on, Hugh John -- the time is up
than nothing at all
Good-bye, Toady Lion
you can have my other bat
and the white rat with the pink eyes
Did 'oo find the funny fing behind the stable, Hugh John
Why is 'oo so moppy
Oh, you go away -- you've got no heart
It was a _very_ funny fing w'at was behind the stable
the fellows
old book or other
I say, Ashwell Major
about that Good Conduct Prize -- who
are you going to vote for
Well
I haven't thought much -- I suppose
Sammy Carter
Oh, humbug
see here, Sammy will get tons of prizes
anyway. What does he want with that one too
Well
let's give it to little Brown. Butter
wouldn't melt in his mouth. He's such a cake
Smell that
SMELL THAT
I rejoice to announce that the Good Conduct Prize has been awarded by
the unanimous vote of all the scholars of Saint Salvator's to Hugh
John Picton Smith of the fifth form. I am the more pleased with this
result, that I have never before known such complete and remarkable
unanimity of choice in the long and distinguished history of this
institution
such a pretty girl
Oh hang
somebody that's stopping with
the Carters. She'll go taking up all Cissy's time, and I wanted to see
such a lot of her
I tell you what
I'll scoot through the
woods and give them a surprise
Why, Hugh John
have you really come? How could you
frighten us like that, you bad boy
Cissy
won't you come and shake hands
with Hugh John
How do you do -- ah, Mr. Smith
Why, Cissy, how you've grown
I mean how do you do, Miss -- Miss Carter
He is _such_ a nice partner, don't you know! He
dances -- oh, like an angel, and the floor was -- well, just perfection
Have you seen 'The White Lady of Avenel' at the Sobriety Theatre, Mr.
Smith
No
but I've seen the Drury Lane pantomime. It
was prime
Ah, yes
I used quite to
like going to pantomimes when I was a child
Good-evening, Courtenay
this is my friend,
Prissy Smith, of whom you have heard me speak; and this is her brother
just home from school
What a beast! I hate him! Calls that a moustache, I daresay. Ha, ha!
he should just see Ashwell Major's. And I can lick Ashwell Major with
one hand
Aw
the preparatory school, I daresay -- Lord, was at
one once myself -- beastly hole
I don't doubt it, you look it
Saint Salvator's is a ripping place. We beat Glen Fetto by
an innings and ninety-one
Come on, Priss
let's go home
Good-night
Ah -- ta-ta -- got lots of pets to run round and see, I s'pose -- rabbits
and guinea-pigs; used to keep 'em myself, you know, beastly things,
ta-ta
What an awful brute
Oh, how _can_ you say so
why, every
one thinks him so nice. He has such lots of money, and is going to
stand for Parliament -- that is, if his uncle would only die, or have
something happen to him
Do you know
I could not sleep last night for
thinking of your coming! It is so splendid. There's the loveliest lot
of roses being planted in the new potting house, and I've got a pearl
necklace to show you -- such a beauty -- and
Oh, you dear
Come on
I'm so excited
I don't know what to do. I can't keep quiet. I believe I can race you
yet, for all you're so big and have won a silver cricket bat. How I
shall love to see it! Come on, Hugh John, I'll race you to the gipsy
camp for a pound of candy
Oh, I'm so sorry, Hugh John
I ought to have told you it
had been widened. Don't let's race any more. I think I must have
started too soon, and you'd have beaten me anyway. Here's the gipsy
camp
Eh, master -- Billy Blythe -- why, he be 'listed for a sodger -- a
corp'ral they say he be, and may be sergeant by this time, shouldn't
wonder. Eh, dearie, and the Boundin' Brothers -- oh! ye mean the
joompin' lads. They're off wi' a circus in Ireland. Nowt left but me
and my owd mon! Thank ye, sir, you be a gentleman born, as anybody can
see without the crossin' o' the hand
Is the Pen mightier than the Sword
All ages of the world's history have borne
testimony to the fact that peace is preferable to war, right to might,
and the sweet still voice of Reason to the savage compulsions of
brutal Force
Oh, hang
did you ever
hear such rot? I wish I could jolly well fetch Nipper Donnan one on
the nob
There's nothing exclusive
about me. I'll adopt them
He was young, but he lived nobly, though, alas!
there was none to appreciate him. Ah, would that he were again alive
Oh, Hugh John
how could you? And they took such a
long time to do
All right, Prissy
it was no end good of you. But really,
you know, a fellow couldn't be expected to put up with these things.
Why, they'd stick in your nails and tangle up all your traps so that
you'd wish you were dead ten times a day, or else they'd make you say
'Hang!' and things
Very well
then I will take
them for myself, but I did think you would have liked them
Did you, Priss -- you are a good sort
Good-night, you dear
I'll wake you in the morning, and
have your bath ready for you at eight
Good old girl
Oh, well played
I remember when I was at the 'Varsity
like a jolly little brick
see Miss Carter home
Do you remember what you once made me say here, Cissy
No
I don't remember ever being here with you before
Oh, come, no humbug, Cissy -- you could remember very well if you
wanted to
his monkey was getting up. Cissy had better look out
You
don't remember that either, I suppose
No
it looks like half of a sixpence which
somebody has stepped upon. How quaint! Did you find it, or did some
one give it to you
IT LOOKS LIKE HALF OF A SIXPENCE WHICH SOMEBODY HAS
STEPPED UPON. HOW QUAINT
Give it back to me this moment
I didn't think any
one in the world could be so mean. But I might have known. Do you
hear -- give it back to me, Hugh John
Do you know, Cissy, you are a regular little fraud
Oh, I hate you, I despise you
I'll never
speak to you again -- not as long as I live, Hugh John Smith
The Girl I left behind me
</text>
