<text>
I'm the Poet of White Horse Vale, sir,
     With liberal notions under my cap
Blood is thicker than water
We are born in a vale, and
must take the consequences of being found in such a situation
camp
the Ridgeway
the
Rudge
Aescendum
The heathen had beforehand seized the higher
ground
The Christians led up their line from the
lower ground. There stood also on that same spot a single thorn-tree,
marvellous stumpy (which we ourselves with our very own eyes have
seen
marvellous stumpy
around which, as I was saying, the
two lines of foemen came together in battle with a huge shout. And in
this place one of the two kings of the heathen and five of his earls
fell down and died, and many thousands of the heathen side in the same
place
Pagani editiorem Iocum praeoccupaverant.  Christiani ab
     inferiori loco aciem dirigebant.  Erat quoque in eodem loco
     unica spinosa arbor, brevis admodum (quam nos ipsi nostris
     propriis oculis vidimus).  Circa quam ergo hostiles inter se
     acies cum ingenti clamore hostiliter conveniunt.  Quo in
     loco alter de duobus Paganorum regibus et quinque comites
     occisi occubuerunt, et multa millia Paganae partis in eodem
     loco. Cecidit illic ergo Boegsceg Rex, et Sidroc ille senex
     comes, et Sidroc Junior comes, et Obsbern comes
the Manger
the Giant's Stairs
What is the name of your hill, landlord
Blawing STWUN Hill, sir, to be sure
Stuym
Stone, stupid -- the Blowing Stone
And of your house? I can't make out the sign
Blawing Stwun, sir
What queer names
Bean't queer at all, as I can see, sir
seeing as this here is the Blawing Stwun, his self
Like to hear un, sir
Stwun
Um do say,
sir
as they used in old times to warn the
country-side by blawing the Stwun when the enemy was a-comin', and as
how folks could make un heered then for seven mile round; leastways, so
I've heered Lawyer Smith say, and he knows a smart sight about them old
times
And what's the name of the village just below, landlord
Kingstone Lisle, sir
Fine plantations you've got here
Yes, sir; the Squire's 'mazing fond of trees and such like
No wonder. He's got some real beauties to be fond of. Good-day,
landlord
Good-day, sir, and a pleasant ride to 'ee
the cloister walk
Angular Saxon
Gaarge Ridler
Throo aall the waarld owld Gaarge would bwoast,
     Commend me to merry owld England mwoast;
     While vools gwoes prating vur and nigh,
     We stwops at whum, my dog and I
rheumatiz
Comme le limacon,
     Portant tout son bagage,
     Ses meubles, sa maison
sar' it out
holus bolus
And the King commandeth and forbiddeth, that from
     henceforth neither fairs nor markets be kept in Churchyards,
     for the honour of the Church
The child is father to the man
Prudence! Prudence!
thee cum' out o' the gutter
Mercy! drat the girl, what bist thee
a-doin' wi' little Faith
Charity, Charity, thee lazy
huzzy, where bist
allus hankering about arter our Willum,
instead of minding Master Tom
Poor
old Noah, dead and gone
Tom Brown so sorry. Put him in the
coffin, wig and all
Pebbly Brook
veast or no veast
cheap Jacks
root-too-too-too
Lawk a' massey, Mr. Benjamin
be that you? Well, I never! You do look
purely. And how's the Squire, and madam, and the family
Bless his little heart! I must gi' un a kiss.-- Here, Susannah,
Susannah
come and see
Mr. Benjamin and young Master Tom.-- You minds our Sukey, Mr. Benjamin;
she be growed a rare slip of a wench since you seen her, though her'll
be sixteen come Martinmas. I do aim to take her to see madam to get her
a place
Wooy, Willum Smith, thee canst plaay wi' he arra daay
For twenty times was Peter feared
     For once that Peter was respected
old gamesters
hold
Blood, blood
hold
Bless 'ee, child,
doan't 'ee go a'nigst it
Hold
Now doan't 'ee, Rachel! I wouldn't ha' done it, only I wanted summut
to buy 'ee a fairing wi', and I be as vlush o' money as a twod o'
feathers
Thee mind what I tells 'ee
and doan't 'ee
kep blethering about fairings
agin any gamester as hasn't played already
Imp'dent old wosbird
I'll
break the bald head on un to the truth
Cry 'hold,' Joe;
thee'st met thy match
Blood, blood
Joe's head's broke
Keep thy money,
man, and gi's thy hand
Who can a be
Wur do a cum from
veast
society
have your ways made for you
ain't so green
a run
Us be cum to pay 'ee a visit. I've a been long minded to do't for old
sake's sake, only I vinds I dwon't get about now as I'd used to't. I be
so plaguy bad wi' th' rheumatiz in my back
Ah, I see as you bean't quite so lissom as you was
we
bean't so young as we was, nother on us, wuss luck
Not as 't'll
do 'ee much good -- leastways I be afeard not
There's only one thing as I
knows on as'll cure old folks like you and I o' th' rheumatiz
Wot be that then, farmer
Churchyard mould
Job!
Job! where's thy cap
What! bean't 'ee on ma head, mother
as fine as a lord's
O Master Brown,
I forgot to tell you before, but your letter isn't sealed
Young
mammy-sick
mud-patties
My dear, I
have arranged that Tom shall go to Rugby at once, for the last six weeks
of this half-year, instead of wasting them in riding and loitering about
home. It is very kind of the doctor to allow it. Will you see that his
things are all ready by Friday, when I shall take him up to town, and
send him down the next day by himself
Let the steam-pot hiss till it's hot;
     Give me the speed of the Tantivy trot
Now, sir, time to get up, if you please. Tally-ho coach for
Leicester'll be round in half an hour, and don't wait for nobody
And now, Tom, my boy
remember you are going, at
your own earnest request, to be chucked into this great school, like a
young bear, with all your troubles before you -- earlier than we should
have sent you perhaps. If schools are what they were in my time, you'll
see a great many cruel blackguard things done, and hear a deal of foul,
bad talk. But never fear. You tell the truth, keep a brave and kind
heart, and never listen to or say anything you wouldn't have your mother
and sister hear, and you'll never feel ashamed to come home, or we to
see you
I'll try, father
I know you will, my boy. Is your money all safe?

"Yes
And your keys
All right
Well, then, good-night. God bless you! I'll tell boots to call you, and
be up to see you off
I
won't tell him to read his Bible, and love and serve God; if he don't do
that for his mother's sake and teaching, he won't for mine. Shall I go
into the sort of temptations he'll meet with? No, I can't do that.
Never do for an old fellow to go into such things with a boy. He won't
understand me. Do him more harm than good, ten to one. Shall I tell him
to mind his work, and say he's sent to school to make himself a good
scholar? Well, but he isn't sent to school for that -- at any rate,
not for that mainly. I don't care a straw for Greek particles, or the
digamma; no more does his mother. What is he sent to school for? Well,
partly because he wanted so to go. If he'll only turn out a brave,
helpful, truth-telling Englishman, and a gentleman, and a Christian,
that's all I want
Now, then, Tom, give us your things here, and drink this. There's
nothing like starting warm, old fellow
Tally-ho,
sir
Anything for us, Bob
Young gen'lm'n, Rugby; three parcels, Leicester; hamper o' game,
Rugby
Tell young gent to look alive
Here; shove
the portmanteau up a-top. I'll fasten him presently.-- Now then, sir,
jump up behind
Good-bye, father -- my love at home
Sharp work
Now, sir
you just jump
down, and I'll give you a drop of something to keep the cold out
Rare tackle that, sir, of a cold morning
Time's up
Twenty minutes here, gentlemen
Tea or coffee, sir
Coffee, please
Now, sir, please
A good run to you
Let 'em go, Dick
Goes through it every day of my life. Twenty minutes afore twelve
down -- ten o'clock up
What sort of place is it, please
Werry out-o'-the-way
place, sir; no paving to streets, nor no lighting. 'Mazin' big horse and
cattle fair in autumn -- lasts a week -- just over now. Takes town a week to
get clean after it. Fairish hunting country. But slow place, sir, slow
place -- off the main road, you see -- only three coaches a day, and one on
'em a two-oss wan, more like a hearse nor a coach -- Regulator -- comes from
Oxford. Young genl'm'n at school calls her Pig and Whistle, and goes up
to college by her (six miles an hour) when they goes to enter. Belong to
school, sir
Yes
That is to
say, I'm on my way there. I'm a new boy
You're werry late, sir
only six weeks to-day to the
end of the half
We takes up fine loads this day six
weeks, and Monday and Tuesday arter. Hopes we shall have the pleasure of
carrying you back
It pays uncommon cert'nly
Werry free with their
cash is the young genl'm'n. But, Lor' bless you, we gets into such rows
all 'long the road, what wi' their pea-shooters, and long whips, and
hollering, and upsetting every one as comes by, I'd a sight sooner
carry one or two on 'em, sir, as I may be a-carryin' of you now, than a
coach-load
What do they do with the pea-shooters
Do wi' 'em! Why, peppers every one's faces as we comes near, 'cept the
young gals, and breaks windows wi' them too, some on 'em shoots so hard.
Now 'twas just here last June, as we was a-driving up the first-day
boys, they was mendin' a quarter-mile of road, and there was a lot of
Irish chaps, reg'lar roughs, a-breaking stones. As we comes up, 'Now,
boys,' says young gent on the box (smart young fellow and desper't
reckless), 'here's fun! Let the Pats have it about the ears.' 'God's
sake sir!' says Bob (that's my mate the coachman); 'don't go for to
shoot at 'em. They'll knock us off the coach.' 'Damme, coachee,' says
young my lord, 'you ain't afraid.-- Hoora, boys! let 'em have it.'
'Hoora!' sings out the others, and fill their mouths choke-full of peas
to last the whole line. Bob, seeing as 'twas to come, knocks his hat
over his eyes, hollers to his osses, and shakes 'em up; and away we goes
up to the line on 'em, twenty miles an hour. The Pats begin to hoora
too, thinking it was a runaway; and first lot on 'em stands grinnin'
and wavin' their old hats as we comes abreast on 'em; and then you'd ha'
laughed to see how took aback and choking savage they looked, when they
gets the peas a-stinging all over 'em. But bless you, the laugh weren't
all of our side, sir, by a long way. We was going so fast, and they was
so took aback, that they didn't take what was up till we was half-way
up the line. Then 'twas, 'Look out all!' surely. They howls all down the
line fit to frighten you; some on 'em runs arter us and tries to clamber
up behind, only we hits 'em over the fingers and pulls their hands off;
one as had had it very sharp act'ly runs right at the leaders, as though
he'd ketch 'em by the heads, only luck'ly for him he misses his tip and
comes over a heap o' stones first. The rest picks up stones, and gives
it us right away till we gets out of shot, the young gents holding out
werry manful with the pea-shooters and such stones as lodged on us, and
a pretty many there was too. Then Bob picks hisself up again, and looks
at young gent on box werry solemn. Bob'd had a rum un in the ribs,
which'd like to ha' knocked him off the box, or made him drop the reins.
Young gent on box picks hisself up, and so does we all, and looks round
to count damage. Box's head cut open and his hat gone; 'nother young
gent's hat gone; mine knocked in at the side, and not one on us as
wasn't black and blue somewheres or another, most on 'em all over. Two
pound ten to pay for damage to paint, which they subscribed for there
and then, and give Bob and me a extra half-sovereign each; but I
wouldn't go down that line again not for twenty half-sovereigns
What fun
Taint such good fun, though, sir, for the folk as meets the coach, nor
for we who has to go back with it next day. Them Irishers last summer
had all got stones ready for us, and was all but letting drive, and we'd
got two reverend gents aboard too. We pulled up at the beginning of
the line, and pacified them, and we're never going to carry no more
pea-shooters, unless they promises not to fire where there's a line of
Irish chaps a-stonebreaking
Oh, don't stop! Tell us something more about the pea-shooting
Well, there'd like to have been a pretty piece of work over it at
Bicester, a while back. We was six mile from the town, when we meets an
old square-headed gray-haired yeoman chap, a-jogging along quite quiet.
He looks up at the coach, and just then a pea hits him on the nose, and
some catches his cob behind and makes him dance up on his hind legs. I
see'd the old boy's face flush and look plaguy awkward, and I thought we
was in for somethin' nasty.

"He turns his cob's head and rides quietly after us just out of shot.
How that 'ere cob did step! We never shook him off not a dozen yards
in the six miles. At first the young gents was werry lively on him; but
afore we got in, seeing how steady the old chap come on, they was quite
quiet, and laid their heads together what they should do. Some was for
fighting, some for axing his pardon. He rides into the town close after
us, comes up when we stops, and says the two as shot at him must come
before a magistrate; and a great crowd comes round, and we couldn't get
the osses to. But the young uns they all stand by one another, and says
all or none must go, and as how they'd fight it out, and have to be
carried. Just as 'twas gettin' serious, and the old boy and the mob was
going to pull 'em off the coach, one little fellow jumps up and says,
'Here -- I'll stay. I'm only going three miles farther. My father's name's
Davis; he's known about here, and I'll go before the magistrate with
this gentleman.' 'What! be thee parson Davis's son?' says the old boy.
'Yes,' says the young un. 'Well, I be mortal sorry to meet thee in such
company; but for thy father's sake and thine (for thee bist a brave
young chap) I'll say no more about it.' Didn't the boys cheer him, and
the mob cheered the young chap; and then one of the biggest gets down,
and begs his pardon werry gentlemanly for all the rest, saying as they
all had been plaguy vexed from the first, but didn't like to ax his
pardon till then, 'cause they felt they hadn't ought to shirk the
consequences of their joke. And then they all got down, and shook hands
with the old boy, and asked him to all parts of the country, to their
homes; and we drives off twenty minutes behind time, with cheering and
hollering as if we was county 'members. But, Lor' bless you, sir
ten minutes arter they was all as bad as ever
a terrible stern
man he'd heard tell
sending three on 'em off next morning in a po-shay with a parish
constable
Look here, sir
there's two on 'em; out-and-out runners they be. They comes out about
twice or three times a week, and spirts a mile alongside of us
See how beautiful that there un
holds hisself together, and goes from his hips, sir
he's a
'mazin' fine runner. Now many coachmen as drives a first-rate team'd
put it on, and try and pass 'em. But Bob, sir, bless you, he's
tender-hearted; he'd sooner pull in a bit if he see'd 'em a-gettin'
beat. I do b'lieve, too, as that there un'd sooner break his heart than
let us go by him afore next milestone
4.56
Foot and eye opposed
     In dubious strife
And so here's Rugby, sir, at last, and you'll be in plenty of time
for dinner at the School-house, as I telled you
Cherry
Bob
ramping, stamping, tearing, swearing Billy Harwood
How do, Jem
I say, you fellow, is your name Brown
Yes
Ah, I thought so. You know my old aunt, Miss East. She lives somewhere
down your way in Berkshire. She wrote to me that you were coming to-day,
and asked me to give you a lift
And hark 'ee, Cooey; it must be up in ten minutes, or no more jobs from
me. Come along, Brown
All right, sir
Hullo though
this'll never do. Haven't you got a hat? We never wear caps here. Only
the louts wear caps. Bless you, if you were to go into the quadrangle
with that thing on, I don't know what'd happen
You can send in a note for a tile on Monday, and make it all right, you
know
we're allowed two seven-and-sixers a half, besides
what we bring from home
You see
a great deal depends on
how a fellow cuts up at first. If he's got nothing odd about him, and
answers straightforward, and holds his head up, he gets on. Now, you'll
do very well as to rig, all but that cap. You see I'm doing the handsome
thing by you, because my father knows yours; besides, I want to please
the old lady. She gave me half a sov. this half, and perhaps'll double
it next, if I keep in her good books
You fellow, what's your name?
Where do you come from? How old are you? Where do you board
What
form are you in
And now come in and see my study -- we shall have just time before
dinner; and afterwards, before calling over, we'll do the close
And shall I have a study like this too
Yes, of course; you'll be chummed with some fellow on Monday, and you
can sit here till then
What nice places
They're well enough
only uncommon cold
at nights sometimes. Gower -- that's my chum -- and I make a fire with paper
on the floor after supper generally, only that makes it so smoky
But there's a big fire out in the passage
Precious little we get out of that, though
Jones the
praepostor has the study at the fire end, and he has rigged up an iron
rod and green baize curtain across the passage, which he draws at night,
and sits there with his door open; so he gets all the fire, and hears if
we come out of our studies after eight, or make a noise. However, he's
taken to sitting in the fifth-form room lately, so we do get a bit of
fire now sometimes; only to keep a sharp lookout that he don't catch you
behind his curtain when he comes down -- that's all
Stand up
That's the chapel, you see
and there, just behind it, is
the place for fights. You see it's most out of the way of the masters,
who all live on the other side, and don't come by here after first
lesson or callings-over. That's when the fights come off. And all this
part where we are is the little-side ground, right up to the trees; and
on the other side of the trees is the big-side ground, where the great
matches are played. And there's the island in the farthest corner;
you'll know that well enough next half, when there's island fagging. I
say, it's horrid cold; let's have a run across
I say
you ain't a bad scud, not by no means. Well,
I'm as warm as a toast now
But why do you wear white trousers in November
Why, bless us, don't you know? No; I forgot. Why, to-day's the
School-house match. Our house plays the whole of the School at football.
And we all wear white trousers, to show 'em we don't care for hacks.
You're in luck to come to-day. You just will see a match; and Brooke's
going to let me play in quarters. That's more than he'll do for any
other lower-school boy, except James, and he's fourteen
Who's Brooke
Why, that big fellow who called over at dinner, to be sure. He's cock
of the school, and head of the School-house side, and the best kick and
charger in Rugby
Oh, but do show me where they play. And tell me about it. I love
football so, and have played all my life. Won't Brooke let me play
Not he
Why, you don't know the
rules; you'll be a month learning them. And then it's no joke playing-up
in a match, I can tell you -- quite another thing from your private school
games. Why, there's been two collar-bones broken this half, and a dozen
fellows lamed. And last year a fellow had his leg broken
This is one of the goals
and you see the other, across
there, right opposite, under the Doctor's wall. Well, the match is for
the best of three goals; whichever side kicks two goals wins: and it
won't do, you see, just to kick the ball through these posts -- it must go
over the cross-bar; any height'll do, so long as it's between the posts.
You'll have to stay in goal to touch the ball when it rolls behind the
posts, because if the other side touch it they have a try at goal. Then
we fellows in quarters, we play just about in front of goal here, and
have to turn the ball and kick it back before the big fellows on the
other side can follow it up. And in front of us all the big fellows
play, and that's where the scrummages are mostly
off your side
drop-kicks
punts
places
But how do you keep the ball between the goals
I can't see
why it mightn't go right down to the chapel
Why; that's out of play
You see this gravel-walk
running down all along this side of the playing-ground, and the line
of elms opposite on the other? Well, they're the bounds. As soon as the
ball gets past them, it's in touch, and out of play. And then whoever
first touches it has to knock it straight out amongst the players-up,
who make two lines with a space between them, every fellow going on his
own side. Ain't there just fine scrummages then! And the three trees you
see there which come out into the play, that's a tremendous place when
the ball hangs there, for you get thrown against the trees, and that's
worse than any hack
Hurrah! here's the punt-about; come along and try your hand at a kick
I may come in, mayn't I
Yes, come along; nobody'll say anything. You won't be so eager to get
into calling-over after a month
Silence, silence
They
trust to our honour
they know very well
that no School-house boy would cut the match. If he did, we'd very soon
cut him, I can tell you
Hold the punt-about
To the goals
fighting brigade
die-hards
Are you ready
Off your side
Down with him
Put him over
Bravo
a scrummage
Look out in quarters
Old
fellow, wasn't that just a splendid scrummage by the three trees
In touch
Our ball
Look out in goal
He is down
Now
Over
Are you ready
Yes
Look out in goal
Our ball
but get up there; there's a little
fellow under you
Stand back, give him air
No bones broken.-- How do you feel, young un
Hah-hah
pretty well, thank
you -- all right
Who is he
Oh, it's Brown; he's a new boy; I know him
Well, he is a plucky youngster, and will make a player
Some food we had
Bravo, youngster; you
played famously. Not much the matter, I hope
No, nothing at all
only a little twist from that
charge
Well, mind and get all right for next Saturday
Tea's directly after locking-up, you see
so you come along down to Sally Harrowell's; that's
our School-house tuck-shop. She bakes such stunning murphies, we'll have
a penn'orth each for tea. Come along, or they'll all be gone
I say, East, can't we get something else besides potatoes? I've got
lots of money, you know
Bless us, yes; I forgot
you've only just come. You see
all my tin's been gone this twelve weeks -- it hardly ever lasts beyond
the first fortnight; and our allowances were all stopped this morning
for broken windows, so I haven't got a penny. I've got a tick at
Sally's, of course; but then I hate running it high, you see, towards
the end of the half, 'cause one has to shell out for it all directly one
comes back, and that's a bore
Well, what shall I buy
I'm uncommon hungry
I say
you're a
trump, Brown. I'll do the same by you next half. Let's have a pound of
sausages then. That's the best grub for tea I know of
Very well
where do they sell
them
Oh, over here, just opposite
Stumps, you lout, you've had too
much beer again to-day
Twasn't of your paying for, then
Stumps's
calves are running down into his ankles; they want to get to grass
Better be doing that than gone altogether like yours
Put me down two-penn'orth, Sally
Put down
three-penn'orth between me and Davis
Cause
you're a new boy, and they'll play you some trick and get
our butter; but you can toast just as well as I
What's singing
Well, you are jolly green
Why, the last six Saturdays of every half we sing of course; and
this is the first of them. No first lesson to do, you know, and lie in
bed to-morrow morning
But who sings
Why, everybody, of course; you'll see soon enough. We begin directly
after supper, and sing till bed-time. It ain't such good fun now,
though, as in the summer half; 'cause then we sing in the little fives
court, under the library, you know. We take out tables, and the big boys
sit round and drink beer -- double allowance on Saturday nights; and we
cut about the quadrangle between the songs, and it looks like a lot of
robbers in a cave. And the louts come and pound at the great gates, and
we pound back again, and shout at them. But this half we only sing in
the hall. Come along down to my study
A wet sheet and a flowing sea,
     And a wind that follows fast
The British Grenadiers
Billy Taylor
The Siege of Seringapatam
Three Jolly Postboys
The Chesapeake and Shannon
Brave Broke he waved his sword, crying, Now, my lads, aboard,
     And we'll stop their playing Yankee-doodle-dandy oh
He sees that they know what he
is going to say already
and so won't keep them, but
only ask them to treat the toast as it deserves. It is the head of the
eleven, the head of big-side football, their leader on this glorious
day -- Pater Brooke
Gentlemen of the School-house! I am very proud of the way in which
you have received my name, and I wish I could say all I should like in
return. But I know I shan't. However, I'll do the best I can to say what
seems to me ought to be said by a fellow who's just going to leave,
and who has spent a good slice of his life here. Eight years it is, and
eight such years as I can never hope to have again. So now I hope you'll
all listen to me
for I'm going to
talk seriously. You're bound to listen to me for what's the use of
calling me 'pater,' and all that, if you don't mind what I say? And
I'm going to talk seriously, because I feel so. It's a jolly time,
too, getting to the end of the half, and a goal kicked by us first day
after one of the hardest and fiercest day's play
I can remember in eight years
The School played
splendidly, too, I will say, and kept it up to the last. That last
charge of theirs would have carried away a house. I never thought to see
anything again of old Crab there, except little pieces, when I saw him
tumbled over by it
Well, but we beat 'em
Ay, but why did we beat 'em? Answer me that
Your play
Nonsense! 'Twasn't the wind and kick-off either -- that
wouldn't do it. 'Twasn't because we've half a dozen of the best players
in the school, as we have. I wouldn't change Warner, and Hedge, and
Crab, and the young un, for any six on their side
But half a dozen fellows can't keep it up for two hours against two
hundred. Why is it, then? I'll tell you what I think. It's because we've
more reliance on one another, more of a house feeling, more fellowship
than the School can have. Each of us knows and can depend on his
next-hand man better. That's why we beat 'em to-day. We've union,
they've division -- there's the secret
But how's this to be
kept up? How's it to be improved? That's the question. For I take it
we're all in earnest about beating the School, whatever else we care
about. I know I'd sooner win two School-house matches running than get
the Balliol scholarship any day
Now, I'm as proud of the house as any one. I believe it's the best
house in the school, out and out
But it's a long way from
what I want to see it. First, there's a deal of bullying going on. I
know it well. I don't pry about and interfere; that only makes it
more underhand, and encourages the small boys to come to us with their
fingers in their eyes telling tales, and so we should be worse off than
ever. It's very little kindness for the sixth to meddle generally -- you
youngsters mind that. You'll be all the better football players for
learning to stand it, and to take your own parts, and fight it through.
But depend on it, there's nothing breaks up a house like bullying.
Bullies are cowards, and one coward makes many; so good-bye to the
School-house match if bullying gets ahead here
Then there's fuddling about in the public-house, and drinking
bad spirits, and punch, and such rot-gut stuff. That won't make good
drop-kicks or chargers of you, take my word for it. You get plenty of
good beer here, and that's enough for you; and drinking isn't fine or
manly, whatever some of you may think of it.

"One other thing I must have a word about. A lot of you think and say,
for I've heard you, 'There's this new Doctor hasn't been here so long
as some of us, and he's changing all the old customs. Rugby, and the
Schoolhouse especially, are going to the dogs. Stand up for the good old
ways, and down with the Doctor!' Now I'm as fond of old Rugby customs
and ways as any of you, and I've been here longer than any of you, and
I'll give you a word of advice in time, for I shouldn't like to see any
of you getting sacked. 'Down with the Doctor's' easier said than done.
You'll find him pretty tight on his perch, I take it, and an awkwardish
customer to handle in that line. Besides now, what customs has he put
down? There was the good old custom of taking the linchpins out of the
farmers' and bagmen's gigs at the fairs, and a cowardly, blackguard
custom it was. We all know what came of it, and no wonder the Doctor
objected to it. But come now, any of you, name a custom that he has put
down
The hounds
Well, we had six or seven mangy harriers and beagles belonging to the
house, I'll allow, and had had them for years, and that the Doctor
put them down. But what good ever came of them? Only rows with all the
keepers for ten miles round; and big-side hare-and-hounds is better fun
ten times over. What else
Well, I won't go on. Think it over for yourselves. You'll find, I
believe, that he don't meddle with any one that's worth keeping. And
mind now, I say again, look out for squalls if you will go your own way,
and that way ain't the Doctor's, for it'll lead to grief. You all know
that I'm not the fellow to back a master through thick and thin. If I
saw him stopping football, or cricket, or bathing, or sparring, I'd be
as ready as any fellow to stand up about it. But he don't; he encourages
them. Didn't you see him out to-day for half an hour watching us
and he's a strong, true man, and a wise one
too, and a public-school man too
and so let's stick to him,
and talk no more rot, and drink his health as the head of the house
And now I've done blowing up, and very glad I am to have
done. But it's a solemn thing to be thinking of leaving a place which
one has lived in and loved for eight years; and if one can say a word
for the good of the old house at such a time, why, it should be said,
whether bitter or sweet. If I hadn't been proud of the house and
you -- ay, no one knows how proud -- I shouldn't be blowing you up. And now
let's get to singing. But before I sit down I must give you a toast to
be drunk with three-times-three and all the honours. It's a toast which
I hope every one of us, wherever he may go hereafter, will never fail
to drink when he thinks of the brave, bright days of his boyhood. It's a
toast which should bind us all together, and to those who've gone before
and who'll come after us here. It is the dear old School-house -- the best
house of the best school in England
the best house of the best school in England
Auld Lang
Syne
Bill you old muff, the half-hour hasn't struck
Here, Bill, drink
some cocktail
Sing us a song, old boy
Don't you wish you may
get the table
Now gentlemen, there's only
ten minutes to prayers, and we must get the hall straight
No, no
Now then, lend a hand, you youngsters, and get the
tables back; clear away the jugs and glasses. Bill's right. Open
the windows, Warner
God Save the King
Come, neighbours all, both great and small,
     Perform your duties here,
     And loudly sing, 'Live Billy, our king,'
     For bating the tax upon beer
God save our good King William,
     Be his name for ever blest;
     He's the father of all his people,
     And the guardian of all the rest
Hush
I say, were you ever tossed in a blanket
No
why
Cause there'll be tossing to-night, most likely, before the sixth come
up to bed. So if you funk, you just come along and hide, or else they'll
catch you and toss you
Were you ever tossed? Does it hurt
Oh yes, bless you, a dozen times
It don't hurt unless you fall on the floor. But
most fellows don't like it
I shan't hide, East
Very well, old fellow
no more shall
I. They'll be here for us directly
Gone to ground, eh
Push 'em out then, boys; look
under the beds
Who-o-op
Here, lend a hand, one of you, and help me pull out this young howling
brute.-- Hold your tongue, sir, or I'll kill you
Oh, please, Flashman, please, Walker, don't toss me! I'll fag for
you -- I'll do anything -- only don't toss me
You be hanged
twon't
hurt you,-- you!-- Come along, boys; here he is
I say, Flashey
drop that; you
heard what old Pater Brooke said to-night. I'll be hanged if we'll toss
any one against their will. No more bullying. Let him go, I say
There's plenty of youngsters don't care about it
Here,
here's Scud East -- you'll be tossed, won't you, young un
Yes
if you like, only mind my foot
And here's another who didn't hide.-- Hullo! new boy; what's your name,
sir
Brown
Well, Whitey Brown, you don't mind being tossed
No
Come along then, boys
What a trump Scud is
They won't come back here now
And that new boy, too; he must be a good-plucked one
Ah! wait till he has been tossed on to the floor; see how he'll like it
then
In with Scud; quick! there's no time to lose
Once, twice, thrice, and away
Now, boys, with a will
once, twice, thrice, and away
once, twice, thrice
Let's toss two of them together, Walker
What a cursed bully you are, Flashey
Up with
another one
Says Giles, ''Tis mortal hard to go,
     But if so be's I must
     I means to follow arter he
     As goes hisself the fust
What a pull
that it's lie-in-bed, for I shall be as lame as
a tree, I think
Go it, Tadpole
Now, young Green
Haul away his blanket
Slipper him on the hands
Hold that noise up in the corner
Hullo! past eight. Whose turn for hot water
East's and Tadpole's
I can't go
I'm dead lame
Well, be quick some of you, that's all
Let me go for you
I should like it
Well, thank 'ee, that's a good fellow. Just pull on your trousers, and
take your jug and mine. Tadpole will show you the way
Thos's hole
Better than going down again though
as we
should have had to do if those beggars had caught us
Fag
Come and help us tear up scent
It's the turn of our house to find scent for big-side hare-and-hounds
Tear away; there's no time to lose before
calling-over
I think it's a great shame
to have such a
hard run for the last day
Which run is it
Oh, the Barby run, I hear
nine miles at least,
and hard ground; no chance of getting in at the finish, unless you're a
first-rate scud
Well, I'm going to have a try
it's the last run of the
half, and if a fellow gets in at the end big-side stands ale and bread
and cheese and a bowl of punch; and the Cock's such a famous place for
ale
I should like to try too
Well, then, leave your waistcoat behind, and listen at the door, after
calling-over, and you'll hear where the meet is
Big-side hare-and-hounds meet at White Hall
They're
to have six minutes' law. We run into the Cock, and every one who comes
in within a quarter of an hour of the hares'll be counted, if he has
been round Barby church
You'll cross a lane after next field;
keep down it, and you'll hit the Dunchurch road below the Cock
Hang it all
I told you how it would be. What a thick I was to come! Here we
are, dead beat, and yet I know we're close to the run in, if we knew the
country
Well
it can't be helped. We did our best anyhow. Hadn't we better find this
lane, and go down it, as young Brooke told us
I suppose so -- nothing else for it
If ever I go out
last day again
I say, it must be locking-up, I should think
it's so dark
What if we're late
No tea, and sent up to the Doctor
Ah! East,
Hall, and Brown, late for locking-up. Must go up to the Doctor's study
at once
Well but, Thomas, mayn't we go and wash first? You can put down the
time, you know
Doctor's study d'rectly you come in -- that's the orders
What a pickle they boys be
in
Who'll go in first
You -- you're the senior
Catch me. Look at the state I'm in
I must get behind you two
Well, but look at me
I'm worse than you, two to one. You might grow
cabbages on my trousers
That's all down below, and you can keep your legs behind the sofa
Here, Brown; you're the show-figure. You must lead
But my face is all muddy
Oh, we're all in one boat for that matter; but come on; we're only
making it worse, dawdling here
Well, just give us a brush then
That's the library door
Come in
Well, my little fellows
what makes you so
late
Please, sir, we've been out big-side hare-and-hounds, and lost our
way
Hah! you couldn't keep up, I suppose
Well, sir
we got round Barby all
right; but then
Why, what a state you're in, my boy
That's the fall I got, sir, in the road
the Old Pig came by
The what
The Oxford coach, sir
Hah! yes, the Regulator
And I tumbled on my face, trying to get up behind
You're not hurt, I hope
Oh no, sir
Well now, run upstairs, all three of you, and get clean things on, and
then tell the housekeeper to give you some tea. You're too young to try
such long runs. Let Warner know I've seen you. Good-night
Good-night, sir
What a brick, not to give us even twenty lines to learn
Twice as good a grub as we should have got in the
hall
A southerly wind and a cloudy sky
Thomas, do be quick; we shall never catch the Highflyer at Dunchurch
That's your money all right, Green
Hullo, Thomas, the Doctor said I was to have two pound ten; you've only
given me two pound
Here, Thomas -- never mind him; mine's thirty shillings
And mine too
And mine
Drops of Brandy
Robinson's coach will be down the road in a minute; it has gone up to
Bird's to pick up. We'll wait till they're close, and make a race of
it
Now, boys, half a sovereign apiece if you beat
'em into Dunchurch by one hundred yards
All right, sir
Where to, sir
Red Lion, Farringdon
All right, sir.-- Red Lion, Jem
They are slaves who will not choose
     Hatred, scoffing, and abuse,
     Rather than in silence shrink
     From the truth they needs must think;
     They are slaves who dare not be
     In the right with two or three
If he would only begin
I shouldn't
mind
Triste lupus stabulis
There, that will do
now construe
Triste lupus, the sorrowful wolf
I say, Scud
what right have the fifth-form boys to fag us as they do
No more right than you have to fag them
Pickwick
Do you know, old fellow, I've been thinking it over a good deal
Oh yes, I know -- fagging you are thinking of. Hang it all! But listen
here, Tom -- here's fun. Mr. Winkle's horse
And I've made up my mind
that I won't fag except for
the sixth
Quite right too, my boy
but a pretty peck of troubles you'll get into, if
you're going to play that game. However, I'm all for a strike myself, if
we can get others to join. It's getting too bad
Can't we get some sixth-form fellow to take it up
Well, perhaps we might. Morgan would interfere, I think. Only
you see, we should have to tell him about
it, and that's against School principles. Don't you remember what old
Brooke said about learning to take our own parts
Ah, I wish old Brooke were back again. It was all right in his time
Why, yes, you see, then the strongest and best fellows were in the
sixth, and the fifth-form fellows were afraid of them, and they kept
good order; but now our sixth-form fellows are too small, and the fifth
don't care for them, and do what they like in the house
And so we get a double set of masters
the
lawful ones, who are responsible to the Doctor at any rate, and the
unlawful, the tyrants, who are responsible to nobody
Down with the tyrants
I'm all for law and order, and
hurrah for a revolution
I shouldn't mind if it were only for young Brooke now
he's
such a good-hearted, gentlemanly fellow, and ought to be in the sixth.
I'd do anything for him. But that blackguard Flashman, who never speaks
to one without a kick or an oath
The cowardly brute
how I hate him! And he knows it
too; he knows that you and I think him a coward. What a bore that he's
got a study in this passage! Don't you hear them now at supper in his
den? Brandy-punch going, I'll bet. I wish the Doctor would come out and
catch him. We must change our study as soon as we can
Change or no change, I'll never fag for him again
Fa-a-a-ag
Fa-a-a-ag
Here, Brown! East! you cursed young skulks
I know you're in; no shirking
Barricade the first
Now, Tom, mind, no surrender
Trust me for that
I know the young brutes are
in
They're in safe enough. Don't you see how the door
holds at top and bottom? So the bolts must be drawn. We should have
forced the lock long ago
Now then, stand by for a run
He wouldn't mind killing one, if he wasn't caught
I've a good mind to go to the Doctor straight
That'll never do. Don't you remember the levy of the school last half
Well, then, let's try the sixth. Try Morgan
No
use
Blabbing won't do
I'll give you fellows a piece of advice
Don't you go to anybody at
all -- you just stand out; say you won't fag. They'll soon get tired of
licking you. I've tried it on years ago with their forerunners
No! Did you? Tell us how it was
Well, just as it is with you. The fifth form would fag us, and I and
some more struck, and we beat 'em. The good fellows left off directly,
and the bullies who kept on soon got afraid
Was Flashman here then
Yes; and a dirty, little, snivelling, sneaking fellow he was too. He
never dared join us, and used to toady the bullies by offering to fag
for them, and peaching against the rest of us
Why wasn't he cut, then
Oh, toadies never get cut; they're too useful. Besides, he has no end
of great hampers from home, with wine and game in them; so he toadied
and fed himself into favour
the Mucker
Poor Diggs
He couldn't
make me cry, though
and I kicked his shins well, I know
valuable assortment of old metals
You're uncommon good-hearted little beggars, you two. I value
that paper-case; my sister gave it to me last holidays. I won't
forget
Gentlemen sportsmen of the
School-house; the lottery's going to be drawn in the hall
Here you are! Wanderer -- the third favourite
I say, just give me my ticket, please
Hullo! don't be in a hurry
what'll you sell
Wanderer for now
I don't want to sell
Oh, don't you! Now listen, you young fool: you don't know anything
about it; the horse is no use to you. He won't win, but I want him as a
hedge. Now, I'll give you half a crown for him
Wanderer mayn't win, and
the tizzy is safe anyhow
Here you are then
Harkaway!-- By Jove, Flashey, your
young friend's in luck
Give me the ticket
Wouldn't you like it
Here, Brown, catch hold
Now, young Brown, come, what'll you sell me Harkaway for? I hear he
isn't going to start. I'll give you five shillings for him
I'll give you seven
shillings
No, no
leave me to deal with him; we'll
draw lots for it afterwards. Now sir, you know me: you'll sell Harkaway
to us for five shillings, or you'll repent it
I won't sell a bit of him
You hear that now
He's the
coxiest young blackguard in the house. I always told you so. We're
to have all the trouble and risk of getting up the lotteries for the
benefit of such fellows as he
That's true. We always draw blanks
Now, sir, you shall
sell half, at any rate
I won't
Very well then; let's roast him
Will you sell now for ten shillings
I say, Flashey, he has had enough
No, no; another turn'll do it
You cowardly brutes
Good God! he's dying. Here, get
some cold water -- run for the housekeeper
Mother
it's
very cold to-night
Where
am I
Ah! I remember now
I say
we can't do any good, and the housekeeper will
be here in a minute
How did he come so
There's been some bad work here
and I shall speak to the Doctor about it
Hadn't we better carry him to the sick-room
Oh, I can walk now
Did he peach
Does she know about it
Not a word; he's a stanch little fellow
I'm sick of this work; what brutes we've been
Are you much hurt, dear old boy
Only the back of my legs
Where the wicked cease from troubling, And the weary are at rest
Wherein I &lsqb;speak&rsqb; of most disastrous chances,
     Of moving accidents by flood and field,
     Of hair-breadth 'scapes
Hullo, who's there
Open, sir, directly; it's Snooks
Oh, I'm very sorry; I didn't know it was you, Snooks
What's that for
Because I choose. You've no business here. Go to your study
You can't send us
Can't I? Then I'll thrash you if you stay
I say, you two
you'll never get rid of that fellow till
you lick him. Go in at him, both of you. I'll see fair play
Shall we try
Yes
You
impudent young blackguards
Stop there
the round's over -- half-minute time allowed
What the --- is it to you
I'm going to see fair, I tell you
taint fair for you to be fighting one
of them at a time.-- Are you ready, Brown? Time's up
He's bleeding awfully. Come here, East! Diggs, he's
dying
Not he
it's all sham;
he's only afraid to fight it out
What's the matter
My skull's fractured
Oh, let me run for the housekeeper
What shall we do
Fiddlesticks! It's nothing but the skin broken
Cold water and a bit of rag's all he'll want
Let me go
I don't want your
help
We're really very sorry
Hang your sorrow
you shall pay for this, I can tell you, both of you
He can't be very bad
Not he
and you'll see you won't be troubled with him any
more. But, I say, your head's broken too; your collar is covered with
blood
Is it though
I didn't know it
Well, mop it up, or you'll have your jacket spoilt. And you have got a
nasty eye, Scud. You'd better go and bathe it well in cold water
Cheap enough too, if we're done with our old friend Flashey
Confoundedly coxy those young rascals will get, if we don't mind
I say, Green
isn't that new boy, Harrison,
your fag
Yes; why
Oh, I know something of him at home, and should like to excuse him.
Will you swop
Who will you give me
Well, let's see. There's Willis, Johnson. No, that won't do. Yes, I
have it. There's young East; I'll give you him
Don't you wish you may get it
I'll give you two for
Willis, if you like
Who, then
Hall and Brown
Wouldn't have 'em at a gift
Better than East, though; for they ain't quite so sharp
Did I ever tell you how the young
vagabond sold me last half
No; how
Well, he never half cleaned my study out -- only just stuck the
candlesticks in the cupboard, and swept the crumbs on to the floor. So
at last I was mortal angry, and had him up, and made him go through the
whole performance under my eyes. The dust the young scamp made nearly
choked me, and showed that he hadn't swept the carpet before. Well, when
it was all finished, 'Now, young gentleman,' says I, 'mind, I expect
this to be done every morning -- floor swept, table-cloth taken off and
shaken, and everything dusted.' 'Very well,' grunts he. Not a bit of
it though. I was quite sure, in a day or two, that he never took the
table-cloth off even. So I laid a trap for him. I tore up some paper,
and put half a dozen bits on my table one night, and the cloth over them
as usual. Next morning after breakfast up I came, pulled off the cloth,
and, sure enough, there was the paper, which fluttered down on to the
floor. I was in a towering rage. 'I've got you now,' thought I, and sent
for him, while I got out my cane. Up he came as cool as you please, with
his hands in his pockets. 'Didn't I tell you to shake my table-cloth
every morning?' roared I. 'Yes,' says he. 'Did you do it this morning?'
'Yes.' 'You young liar! I put these pieces of paper on the table last
night, and if you'd taken the table-cloth off you'd have seen them, so
I'm going to give you a good licking.' Then my youngster takes one hand
out of his pocket, and just stoops down and picks up two of the bits
of paper, and holds them out to me. There was written on each, in great
round text, 'Harry East, his mark.' The young rogue had found my
trap out, taken away my paper, and put some of his there, every bit
ear-marked. I'd a great mind to lick him for his impudence; but, after
all, one has no right to be laying traps, so I didn't. Of course I was
at his mercy till the end of the half, and in his weeks my study was so
frowzy I couldn't sit in it
They spoil one's things so, too
Hall and
Brown were night-fags last week. I called 'fag,' and gave them my
candlesticks to clean. Away they went, and didn't appear again. When
they'd had time enough to clean them three times over, I went out to
look after them. They weren't in the passages so down I went into the
hall, where I heard music; and there I found them sitting on the table,
listening to Johnson, who was playing the flute, and my candlesticks
stuck between the bars well into the fire, red-hot, clean spoiled.
They've never stood straight since, and I must get some more. However, I
gave them a good licking; that's one comfort
It's all his look
that frightens fellows. Don't you remember, he never
said anything to us my first half-year for being an hour late for
locking-up
the Planks
S-s-s-s-i-lenc-c-c-c-e
I see'd some of you young gentlemen over this side a-fishing just now
Hullo! who are you? What business is that of yours, old Velveteens
I'm the new under-keeper, and master's told me to keep a sharp lookout
on all o' you young chaps. And I tells 'ee I means business, and you'd
better keep on your own side, or we shall fall out
Well, that's right, Velveteens; speak out, and let's know your mind at
once
Look here, old boy
would you like to smell 'em and see which bank
they lived under
I'll give you a bit of advice, keeper
you'd better go down
there to Swift's, where the big boys are; they're beggars at setting
lines, and'll put you up to a wrinkle or two for catching the
five-pounders
As I and my companions
     Were setting of a snare
     The gamekeeper was watching us;
     For him we did not care:
     For we can wrestle and fight, my boys,
     And jump out anywhere.
     For it's my delight of a likely night,
     In the season of the year
If I could only get the rod hidden
willowtrees don't throw out
straight hickory shoots twelve feet long, with no leaves, worse luck
Oh, be up ther', be 'ee
Now you
come down this minute
Tree'd at last
I'm
in for it, unless I can starve him out
Hullo, Velveteens; mind your fingers if you come any higher
Oh! be you,
be it, young measter? Well, here's luck. Now I tells 'ee to come down at
once, and 't'll be best for 'ee
Thank 'ee, Velveteens; I'm very comfortable
Werry well; please yourself
I bean't in no
hurry, so you may take your time. I'll l'arn 'ee to gee honest folk
names afore I've done with 'ee
My luck as usual
what a fool I was to give him a black!
If I'd called him 'keeper,' now, I might get off. The return match is
all his way
It must be getting near second
calling-over
If he takes me up,
I shall be flogged safe enough. I can't sit here all night. Wonder if
he'll rise at silver
I say, keeper
let me go for two bob
Not for twenty neither
I'm coming down, keeper
Now what are you going to do
Walk 'ee up to School, and give 'ee over to the Doctor; them's my
orders
Very good
but hands off, you know. I'll go with you
quietly, so no collaring or that sort of thing
Werry good
Rescue
Indeed, sir
it was only Velveteens
You know the rule about the banks, Brown
Yes, sir
Then wait for me to-morrow, after first lesson
I thought so
And about the rod, sir
Master's told we as we
might have all the rods
Oh, please, sir
the rod isn't mine
I say,
Tom
couldn't we get those balls
somehow
Let's try, anyhow
He has
sent for them to speak to very seriously before they go home. They have
each been flogged several times in the half-year for direct and
wilful breaches of rules. This cannot go on. They are doing no good to
themselves or others, and now they are getting up in the School, and
have influence. They seem to think that rules are made capriciously, and
for the pleasure of the masters; but this is not so. They are made for
the good of the whole School, and must and shall be obeyed. Those who
thoughtlessly or wilfully break them will not be allowed to stay at the
School. He should be sorry if they had to leave, as the School might
do them both much good, and wishes them to think very seriously in the
holidays over what he has said. Good-night
Come in
You see, I do not know
anything of the case officially, and if I take any notice of it at all,
I must publicly expel the boy. I don't wish to do that, for I think
there is some good in him. There's nothing for it but a good sound
thrashing
I understand. Good-night, sir
Good-night, Holmes. And remember
a good sound thrashing before the whole house
A gross case of bullying.
Wharton, the head of the house, is a very good fellow, but slight and
weak, and severe physical pain is the only way to deal with such a
case; so I have asked Holmes to take it up. He is very careful and
trustworthy, and has plenty of strength. I wish all the sixth had as
much. We must have it here, if we are to keep order at all
good sound thrashing
I want to speak
to you about two boys in your form, East and Brown. I have just been
speaking to them. What do you think of them
Well, they are not hard workers, and very thoughtless and full of
spirits; but I can't help liking them. I think they are sound, good
fellows at the bottom
I'm glad of it. I think so too: But they make me very uneasy. They are
taking the lead a good deal amongst the fags in my house, for they are
very active, bold fellows. I should be sorry to lose them, but I shan't
let them stay if I don't see them gaining character and manliness. In
another year they may do great harm to all the younger boys
Oh, I hope you won't send them away
Not if I can help it. But now I never feel sure, after any
half-holiday, that I shan't have to flog one of them next morning, for
some foolish, thoughtless scrape. I quite dread seeing either of them
They don't feel that they have any duty or work to do in the school,
and how is one to make them feel it
I think if either of them had some little boy to take care of, it would
steady them. Brown is the most reckless of the two, I should say. East
wouldn't get into so many scrapes without him
Well
I'll think of it
I &lsqb;hold&rsqb; it truth, with him who sings,
     To one clear harp in divers tones,
     That men may rise on stepping-stones
     Of their dead selves to higher things
Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide,
     In the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good or evil side.
     . . . .
     Then it is the brave man chooses, while the coward stands aside,
     Doubting in his abject spirit, till his Lord is crucified
Well, Mrs. Wixie
here we are
again, you see, as jolly as ever. Let us help you put the things away
And, Mary
who's come back? Has the Doctor made old Jones leave? How many
new boys are there
Am I and East to have Gray's study? You know you promised to get it for
us if you could
And am I to sleep in Number 4
How's old Sam, and Bogle, and Sally
Bless the boys
why, you'll
shake me to death. There, now, do go away up to the housekeeper's room
and get your suppers; you know I haven't time to talk. You'll find
plenty more in the house.-- Now, Master East, do let those things alone.
You're mixing up three new boys' things
Hullo! look here, Tommy
here's fun
Now, Master East, I shall be very angry if you don't go
there's some capital cold beef and pickles upstairs, and I won't have
you old boys in my room first night
Hurrah for the pickles! Come along, Tommy -- come along, Smith. We shall
find out who the young count is, I'll be bound. I hope he'll sleep in my
room. Mary's always vicious first week
Master Brown, please stop a minute; I want to speak to you
Very well, Mary. I'll come in a minute, East. Don't finish the
pickles
O Master Brown
you're to have Gray's study, Mrs. Arnold says. And she wants you to
take in this young gentleman. He's a new boy, and thirteen years old
though he don't look it. He's very delicate, and has never been from
home before. And I told Mrs. Arnold I thought you'd be kind to him, and
see that they don't bully him at first. He's put into your form, and
I've given him the bed next to yours in Number 4; so East can't sleep
there this half
Poor little fellow
his
father's dead, and he's got no brothers. And his mamma -- such a kind,
sweet lady -- almost broke her heart at leaving him this morning; and she
said one of his sisters was like to die of decline, and so
Well, well
I suppose I must give up East.-- Come along, young un. What's your name?
We'll go and have some supper, and then I'll show you our study
His name's George Arthur
I've had
his books and things put into the study, which his mamma has had new
papered, and the sofa covered, and new green-baize curtains over the
door
And Mrs. Arnold told
me to say
that she should like you both to come up to tea
with her. You know the way, Master Brown, and the things are just gone
up, I know
Ah, Brown, you here! I hope you
left your father and all well at home
Yes, sir, quite well
And this is the little fellow who is to share your study. Well, he
doesn't look as we should like to see him. He wants some Rugby air, and
cricket. And you must take him some good long walks, to Bilton Grange,
and Caldecott's Spinney, and show him what a little pretty country we
have about here
Hullo, Brown! where do you come from
Oh, I've been to tea with the Doctor
My eye
Oh! so that's why Mary called you back, and you
didn't come to supper. You lost something. That beef and pickles was no
end good
I say, young fellow
what's your name? Where do you come from? How old are you
Arthur, sir. I come from Devonshire
Don't call me 'sir,' you young muff. How old are you
Thirteen
Can you sing
You be
hanged, Tadpole. He'll have to sing, whether he can or not, Saturday
twelve weeks, and that's long enough off yet
Do you know him at home, Brown
No; but he's my chum in Gray's old study, and it's near prayer-time,
and I haven't had a look at it yet.-- Come along, Arthur
What a queer chum for Tom Brown
I say, Arthur, what a brick your mother is to make us so cozy! But look
here now; you must answer straight up when the fellows speak to you, and
don't be afraid. If you're afraid, you'll get bullied. And don't you
say you can sing; and don't you ever talk about home, or your mother and
sisters
But, please
mayn't I talk about -- about home to you
Oh yes; I like it. But don't talk to boys you don't know, or they'll
call you home-sick, or mamma's darling, or some such stuff. What a jolly
desk! Is that yours? And what stunning binding! Why, your school-books
look like novels
Please, Brown
may I wash my face and hands
Of course, if you like
that's your
washhand-stand, under the window, second from your bed. You'll have to
go down for more water in the morning if you use it all
Confound you, Brown! what's that for
Never mind what I mean
if any fellow wants the other boot, he
knows how to get it
Good-night, gen'lm'n
Square-toes
Shall I
not be showing myself braver than others by doing this? Have I any right
to begin it now? Ought I not rather to pray in my own study, letting
other boys know that I do so, and trying to lead them to it, while in
public at least I should go on as I have done
God be merciful to me a sinner
What doest thou here, Elijah
And Heaven's rich instincts in him grew
     As effortless as woodland nooks
     Send violets up and paint them blue
dry-nurse
Tell you what, Tommy
you'll spoil young Hopeful with
too much coddling. Why can't you let him go about by himself and find
his own level? He'll never be worth a button if you go on keeping him
under your skirts
Well, but he ain't fit to fight his own way yet; I'm trying to get him
to it every day, but he's very odd. Poor little beggar! I can't make him
out a bit. He ain't a bit like anything I've ever seen or heard of -- he
seems all over nerves; anything you say seems to hurt him like a cut or
a blow
That sort of boy's no use here
he'll only spoil. Now I'll
tell you what to do, Tommy. Go and get a nice large band-box made, and
put him in with plenty of cotton-wool and a pap-bottle, labelled 'With
care -- this side up,' and send him back to mamma
I think I shall make a hand of him though
say
what you will. There's something about him, every now and then, which
shows me he's got pluck somewhere in him. That's the only thing after
all that'll wash, ain't it, old Scud? But how to get at it and bring it
out
Tom
blest if
you ain't the best old fellow ever was. I do like to see you go into a
thing. Hang it, I wish I could take things as you do; but I never
can get higher than a joke. Everything's a joke. If I was going to be
flogged next minute, I should be in a blue funk, but I couldn't help
laughing at it for the life of me
Brown and East, you go and fag for Jones on the great fives court
Hullo, though, that's past a joke
Here, Tommy, catch hold of him t'other side before he can
holla
The small friend system was not so utterly bad from
     1841-1847
Let me out, let me go
I'll
go and tell Jones this minute, and he'll give you both the --- thrashing
you ever had
Pretty little dear
Hark how
he swears, Tom. Nicely brought up young man, ain't he, I don't think
Let me alone, --- you
Gently, young fellow
tain't improving for little
whippersnappers like you to be indulging in blasphemy; so you stop that,
or you'll get something you won't like
I'll have you both licked when I get out, that I will
Two can play at that game, mind you
Now you just listen here. We've just come
across the fives court, and Jones has four fags there already -- two
more than he wants. If he'd wanted us to change, he'd have stopped us
himself. And here, you little blackguard, you've got seven names down on
your list besides ours, and five of them School-house
Now just listen to me. We ain't going to fag for
Jones. If you tell him you've sent us, we'll each of us give you such
a thrashing as you'll remember
And mind you, too
don't let me catch you again sneaking
about the School-house, and picking up our fags. You haven't got the
sort of hide to take a sound licking kindly
Nice boy, Tommy
Worst sort we breed
Thank
goodness, no big fellow ever took to petting me
You'd never have been like that
I should like to have put
him in a museum: Christian young gentleman, nineteenth century, highly
educated. Stir him up with a long pole, Jack, and hear him swear like a
drunken sailor. He'd make a respectable public open its eyes, I think
Think he'll tell Jones
No
Don't care if he does
Nor I
Why, young un, what's the matter
you ain't unhappy,
are you
Oh no, Brown
you are so kind to me, I'm very happy
Why don't you call me Tom? Lots of boys do that I don't like half so
much as you. What are you reading, then? Hang it! you must come about
with me, and not mope yourself
Lesson Number 2, Tom Brown
I'm very
glad to see this, Arthur, and ashamed that I don't read the Bible more
myself. Do you read it every night before supper while I'm out
Yes
Well, I wish you'd wait till afterwards, and then we'd read together.
But, Arthur, why does it make you cry
Oh, it isn't that I'm unhappy. But at home, while my father was alive,
we always read the lessons after tea; and I love to read them over now,
and try to remember what he said about them. I can't remember all and I
think I scarcely understand a great deal of what I do remember. But
it all comes back to me so fresh that I can't help crying sometimes to
think I shall never read them again with him
a devoted man
I can't stand that fellow Naaman
after what he'd seen and
felt, going back and bowing himself down in the house of Rimmon, because
his effeminate scoundrel of a master did it. I wonder Elisha took the
trouble to heal him. How he must have despised him
Yes; there you go off as usual, with a shell on your head
How do you know he didn't think better
of it? How do you know his master was a scoundrel? His letter don't look
like it, and the book don't say so
I don't care
why did Naaman talk about bowing down,
then, if he didn't mean to do it? He wasn't likely to get more in
earnest when he got back to court, and away from the prophet
Well, but, Tom
look what Elisha says to him --'Go in
peace.' He wouldn't have said that if Naaman had been in the wrong
I don't see that that means more than saying, 'You're not the man I
took you for
No, no; that won't do at all
Read the words fairly, and
take men as you find them. I like Naaman, and think he was a very fine
fellow
I don't
Well, I think East is right
I can't see but what it's
right to do the best you can, though it mayn't be the best absolutely.
Every man isn't born to be a martyr
Of course, of course
but he's on one of his pet
hobbies.-- How often have I told you, Tom, that you must drive a nail
where it'll go
And how often have I told you
that it'll always go
where you want, if you only stick to it and hit hard enough. I hate
half-measures and compromises
Yes, he's a whole-hog man, is Tom. Must have the whole animal-hair and
teeth, claws and tail
Sooner have no bread any day than
half the loaf
I don't know
it's rather puzzling; but ain't most right
things got by proper compromises -- I mean where the principle isn't given
up
That's just the point
I don't object to a compromise,
where you don't give up your principle
Not you
I know him of old, Arthur, and you'll
find him out some day. There isn't such a reasonable fellow in the
world, to hear him talk. He never wants anything but what's right
and fair; only when you come to settle what's right and fair, it's
everything that he wants, and nothing that you want. And that's his idea
of a compromise. Give me the Brown compromise when I'm on his side
Now, Harry
no more chaff. I'm serious. Look here. This is
what makes my blood tingle
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego answered and said to the
king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this
matter. If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from
the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O
king. But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve
thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up
Yes, that's a glorious
story, but it don't prove your point, Tom, I think. There are times when
there is only one way, and that the highest, and then the men are found
to stand in the breach
There's always a highest way, and it's always the right one
How many times has the Doctor told us that in his sermons in the last
year, I should like to know
Well, you ain't going to convince us -- is he, Arthur? No Brown
compromise to-night
But it's past
eight, and we must go to first lesson. What a bore
Let Nature be your teacher:
     Sweet is the lore which Nature brings.
     Our meddling intellect
     Misshapes the beauteous forms of things.
     We murder to dissect.
     Enough of Science and of Art:
     Close up those barren leaves;
     Come forth, and bring with you a heart
     That watches and receives
Tom, do you know anything of Martin
Yes
I know him pretty well.
He's a very good fellow, but as mad as a hatter. He's called Madman, you
know. And never was such a fellow for getting all sorts of rum things
about him. He tamed two snakes last half, and used to carry them about
in his pocket; and I'll be bound he's got some hedgehogs and rats in his
cupboard now, and no one knows what besides
I should like very much to know him
he was next to me
in the form to-day, and he'd lost his book and looked over mine, and he
seemed so kind and gentle that I liked him very much
Ah, poor old Madman, he's always losing his books
and
getting called up and floored because he hasn't got them
I like him all the better
Well, he's great fun, I can tell you
We had such a game with
him one day last half. He had been kicking up horrid stinks for some
time in his study, till I suppose some fellow told Mary, and she told
the Doctor. Anyhow, one day a little before dinner, when he came down
from the library, the Doctor, instead of going home, came striding into
the hall. East and I and five or six other fellows were at the fire, and
preciously we stared, for he don't come in like that once a year, unless
it is a wet day and there's a fight in the hall. 'East,' says he, 'just
come and show me Martin's study.' 'Oh, here's a game,' whispered the
rest of us; and we all cut upstairs after the Doctor, East leading. As
we got into the New Row, which was hardly wide enough to hold the Doctor
and his gown, click, click, click, we heard in the old Madman's den.
Then that stopped all of a sudden, and the bolts went to like fun. The
Madman knew East's step, and thought there was going to be a siege.

"'It's the Doctor, Martin. He's here and wants to see you,' sings out
East.

"Then the bolts went back slowly, and the door opened, and there was
the old Madman standing, looking precious scared -- his jacket off, his
shirt-sleeves up to his elbows, and his long skinny arms all covered
with anchors and arrows and letters, tattooed in with gunpowder like a
sailor-boy's, and a stink fit to knock you down coming out. 'Twas
all the Doctor could do to stand his ground, and East and I, who were
looking in under his arms, held our noses tight. The old magpie was
standing on the window-sill, all his feathers drooping, and looking
disgusted and half-poisoned.

"'What can you be about, Martin?' says the Doctor. 'You really mustn't
go on in this way; you're a nuisance to the whole passage.'

"'Please, sir, I was only mixing up this powder; there isn't any harm
in it. And the Madman seized nervously on his pestle and mortar, to
show the Doctor the harmlessness of his pursuits, and went on
pounding -- click, click, click. He hadn't given six clicks before, puff!
up went the whole into a great blaze, away went the pestle and mortar
across the study, and back we tumbled into the passage. The magpie
fluttered down into the court, swearing, and the Madman danced out,
howling, with his fingers in his mouth. The Doctor caught hold of him,
and called to us to fetch some water. 'There, you silly fellow,' said
he, quite pleased, though, to find he wasn't much hurt, 'you see you
don't know the least what you're doing with all these things; and now,
mind, you must give up practising chemistry by yourself.' Then he took
hold of his arm and looked at it, and I saw he had to bite his lip, and
his eyes twinkled; but he said, quite grave, 'Here, you see, you've been
making all these foolish marks on yourself, which you can never get out,
and you'll be very sorry for it in a year or two. Now come down to the
housekeeper's room, and let us see if you are hurt.' And away went
the two, and we all stayed and had a regular turn-out of the den, till
Martin came back with his hand bandaged and turned us out. However, I'll
go and see what he's after, and tell him to come in after prayers to
supper
Open, Martin, old boy; it's only I, Tom Brown
Oh, very well; stop a moment
You're sure East
isn't there
No, no; hang it, open
Well, old boy, you haven't got any sweeter in the den this half. How
that stuff in the bottle stinks! Never mind; I ain't going to stop; but
you come up after prayers to our study. You know young Arthur. We've got
Gray's study. We'll have a good supper and talk about bird-nesting
Please may I go
out
Well, hang it, it's very hard of the Doctor to have saddled me
with Arthur. Why couldn't he have chummed him with Fogey, or Thomkin, or
any of the fellows who never do anything but walk round the close, and
finish their copies the first day they're set
The old Madman is the very fellow
he will take him scrambling over half the country after
birds' eggs and flowers, make him run and swim and climb like an Indian,
and not teach him a word of anything bad, or keep him from his lessons.
What luck
Here's Arthur, a regular young
town-mouse, with a natural taste for the woods, Martin, longing to break
his neck climbing trees, and with a passion for young snakes
Well, I say
will you come to-morrow,
both of you, to Caldecott's Spinney then? for I know of a kestrel's
nest, up a fir-tree. I can't get at it without help; and, Brown, you can
climb against any one
Oh yes, do let us go
I never saw a hawk's nest nor a
hawk's egg
You just come down to my study, then, and I'll show you five sorts
Ay, the old Madman has got the best collection in the house, out and
out
There's Harry
we'll let him in. I'll keep him steady,
Martin. I thought the old boy would smell out the supper
Ah, you greedy vagabonds
I knew
there was something going on when I saw you cut off out of hall so
quick with your suppers. What a stunning tap, Tom! You are a wunner for
bottling the swipes
I've had practice enough for the sixth in my time, and it's hard if I
haven't picked up a wrinkle or two for my own benefit
Well, old Madman, and how goes the bird-nesting campaign? How's
Howlett? I expect the young rooks'll be out in another fortnight, and
then my turn comes
There'll be no young rooks fit for pies for a month yet; shows how much
you know about it
Scud knows nothing and cares for nothing but grub and mischief
but young rook pie, specially when you've had to climb for them,
is very pretty eating.-- However, I say, Scud, we're all going after a
hawk's nest to-morrow, in Caldecott's Spinney; and if you'll come and
behave yourself, we'll have a stunning climb
And a bathe in Aganippe. Hooray! I'm your man
No, no; no bathing in Aganippe; that's where our betters go
Well, well, never mind. I'm for the hawk's nest, and anything that
turns up
that sneak Jones
No one
goes near New Row
so you may just as well stop here and do
your verses, and then we'll have some more talk. We'll be no end quiet.
Besides, no praepostor comes here now. We haven't been visited once this
half
more worlds than one
O genus
humanum
I have found out a gift for my fair --
     I have found where the wood-pigeons breed;
     But let me the plunder forbear,
     She would say 'twas a barbarous deed
And now, my lad, take them five shilling,
     And on my advice in future think;
     So Billy pouched them all so willing,
     And got that night disguised in drink
O Tom, look here
we've
been down the Barby road, to the pool Martin told us of last night, and
just see what we've got
Why, young un
what have you been after? You don't mean to
say you've been wading
Well, I didn't think, Madman, that you'd have been such a muff as to
let him be getting wet through at this time of day. You might have done
the wading yourself
So I did, of course; only he would come in too, to see the nest. We
left six eggs in. They'll be hatched in a day or two
Hang the eggs
a fellow can't turn his back for a moment
but all his work's undone. He'll be laid up for a week for this precious
lark, I'll be bound
Indeed, Tom, now
my feet ain't wet, for Martin made
me take off my shoes and stockings and trousers
But they are wet, and dirty too; can't I see
and
you'll be called up and floored when the master sees what a state you're
in. You haven't looked at second lesson, you know
What an ill-tempered beast I am! Here's just what I
was wishing for last night come about, and I'm spoiling it all
We
ain't out hare-and-hounds. What's the good of grinding on at this rate
There's the Spinney
the nest is in one of those high fir-trees at this end.
And down by the brook there I know of a sedge-bird's nest. We'll go and
look at it coming back
Oh, come on, don't let us stop
Oh, where? which is it
There, don't you see
Well, how curious! It doesn't look a bit like what I expected
Very odd birds, kestrels
But I thought it was in a fir-tree
Ah, don't you know? That's a new sort of fir which old Caldecott
brought from the Himalayas
Really
I'm glad I know that. How unlike our firs they
are! They do very well too here, don't they? The Spinney's full of
them
What's that humbug he's telling you
Only about this fir
Fir
why, you don't mean to say, young un, you don't
know a beech when you see one
I've hardly ever seen any trees
What a shame to hoax him, Scud
Never mind, Arthur;
you shall know more about trees than he does in a week or two
And isn't that the kestrel's nest, then
That! Why,
that's a piece of mistletoe. There's the nest, that lump of sticks up
this fir
Don't believe him, Arthur
I just
saw an old magpie go out of it
Two to one on the old magpie
We must try a pyramid
Now, Scud, you lazy rascal,
stick yourself against the tree
I dare say! and have you standing on my shoulders with the irons on.
What do you think my skin's made of
Now then, Madman
you next
No, I'm lighter than you; you go next
All up with the old magpie now
Isn't it very dangerous
Not a bit
you can't hurt if you only get good
hand-hold. Try every branch with a good pull before you trust it, and
then up you go
All right -- four eggs
Take 'em all
that'll be one a-piece
No, no; leave one, and then she won't care
Ugh, ugh! something to drink -- ugh! it was addled
Look here
here's luck! I've been longing for some
good, honest pecking this half-hour. Let's fill the bags, and have no
more of this foozling bird-nesting
There he is again
Head him
Let drive
I had him there
Take
care where you're throwing, Madman
Good gracious, Tom, what a lot of feathers a duck has
And I do think he's getting high, too, already
so we must finish him up soon
Yes, all very well; but how are we to cook him? I'm sure I ain't going
to try it on in the hall or passages; we can't afford to be roasting
ducks about -- our character's too bad
I wish we were rid of the brute
Come back, come back
Come back, come back
Louts, 'ware louts, your side!
Madman, look ahead
You won't leave the young un, will you
Not we
On
Let's go to them and surrender
Will they stand by us
Hullo there; not so fast
Now what's all this about
I've got the young varmint at last, have I
why,
they've been a-skulking about my yard and stealing my fowls -- that's
where 'tis; and if I doan't have they flogged for it, every one on 'em,
my name ain't Thompson
I haven't been near his old barn this half
Nor I
Nor
I
Now, Willum, didn't you see 'em there last week
Ees, I seen 'em sure enough
if it worn't
they 'twas chaps as like 'em as two peas'n
leastways he'll swear
he see'd them two in the yard last Martinmas
Now, sir
you see
you can't remember what you have seen, and I believe the boys
I doan't care
they was arter my fowls
to-day -- that's enough for I.-- Willum, you catch hold o' t'other chap.
They've been a-sneaking about this two hours, I tells 'ee
and have druv a matter of a
dozen young pullets pretty nigh to death
Oh, there's a whacker
we haven't been within a hundred
yards of his barn; we haven't been up here above ten minutes, and we've
seen nothing but a tough old guinea-hen, who ran like a greyhound
Indeed, that's all true, Holmes, upon my honour
we
weren't after his fowls; guinea-hen ran out of the hedge under our feet,
and we've seen nothing else
Drat their talk. Thee catch hold o' t'other, Willum, and come along wi'
un
Farmer Thompson
now listen to reason. The boys haven't been after
your fowls, that's plain
Tells 'ee I see'd'em. Who be you, I should like to know
Never you mind, farmer
And now I'll just tell you
what it is: you ought to be ashamed of yourself for leaving all that
poultry about, with no one to watch it, so near the School. You deserve
to have it all stolen. So if you choose to come up to the Doctor with
them, I shall go with you, and tell him what I think of it
Half a sovereign
well, that is a good one! The old hen ain't hurt a bit, and she's seven
years old, I know, and as tough as whipcord; she couldn't lay another
egg to save her life
Now, you youngsters
mind this; you're very well out of this scrape. Don't you go near
Thompson's barn again; do you hear
Mind, I don't ask questions
but I rather think some
of you have been there before this after his chickens. Now, knocking
over other people's chickens, and running off with them, is stealing.
It's a nasty word, but that's the plain English of it. If the chickens
were dead and lying in a shop, you wouldn't take them, I know that, any
more than you would apples out of Griffith's basket; but there's no real
difference between chickens running about and apples on a tree, and the
same articles in a shop. I wish our morals were sounder in such matters.
There's nothing so mischievous as these school distinctions, which
jumble up right and wrong, and justify things in us for which poor boys
would be sent to prison
Gee'd 'em a sight of good advice
Surgebat Macnevisius
     Et mox jactabat ultro,
     Pugnabo tua gratia
     Feroci hoc Mactwoltro
Iliad
I am not going to look out any more words
we've done the
quantity. Ten to one we shan't get so far. Let's go out into the close
Come along, boys
the grind
our old coach is laid up, you know, and we shall have one of
the new masters, who's sure to go slow and let us down easy
Why, bless us
what can be the
matter with the young un? He's never going to get floored. He's sure
to have learnt to the end
Yes, yes
Very well
Never mind, my little
man, you've construed very well. Stop a minute; there's no hurry
Sneaking little brute
clapping
on the water-works just in the hardest place; see if I don't punch his
head after fourth lesson
Whose
Why, that little sneak, Arthur's
No, you shan't
Hullo
Williams, go down three places, and then go on
I haven't learnt any more, sir; our lesson is
only forty lines
Is that so
Who is the head boy of the form
Arthur, sir
Oh, your name's Arthur. Well, now, what is the length of your regular
lesson
We call it only forty lines,
sir
How do you mean -- you call it
Well, sir, Mr. Graham says we ain't to stop there when there's time to
construe more
I understand
Williams, go down three more places,
and write me out the lesson in Greek and English. And now, Arthur,
finish construing
Oh! would I be in Arthur's shoes after fourth lesson
There, you young sneak
what made you say that
Hullo
you drop that, Williams;
you shan't touch him
Who'll stop me
I
Will you fight
Yes, of course
Huzza! There's going to be a fight between Slogger Williams and Tom
Brown
Just run and tell East to come and back me
Fight! Tom Brown and
Slogger Williams
Now, old boy, don't you
open your mouth to say a word, or try to help yourself a bit -- we'll do
all that; you keep all your breath and strength for the Slogger
peels well
If Tom'll only condescend to fight with his head and heels
we shall do
Can't last at this rate
Take it easy, take it easy; keep away; let him come after you
Time's up
There he goes again, hang it all
Two to one in half-crowns on the big un
Done
Tom, old boy
this may be fun for you, but it's death to
me. He'll hit all the fight out of you in another five minutes, and then
I shall go and drown myself in the island ditch. Feint him; use your
legs; draw him about. He'll lose his wind then in no time, and you can
go into him. Hit at his body too; we'll take care of his frontispiece
by-and-by
He's funking; go in, Williams
Catch him up
Finish him off
Just what we want
Now, then, Tom
Double your two to one
Stop a bit
All right, Tommy
hold on's the horse that's to win.
We've got the last. Keep your head, old boy
Well done, Brown
Huzza for the
School-house
It's all fair
It isn't
No hugging
Oh, hurrah! now we shall get fair
play
Please, Brooke, come up. They won't let Tom Brown throw him
Throw whom
Oh! Williams, I see.
Nonsense! Of course he may throw him, if he catches him fairly above the
waist
Anything wrong
Not a bit
Not beat at all
Bless you, no! Heaps of fight in him.-- Ain't there, Tom
How's he
So so; rather done, I think, since his last fall. He won't stand above
two more
Time's up
You'd better stop, gentlemen
the Doctor knows that Brown's
fighting -- he'll be out in a minute
You go to Bath, Bill
I'll give you three or two on the little one in half-crowns
No, thank 'ee
The Doctor! the Doctor
Hah! Brooke. I am surprised to see you here. Don't you know that I
expect the sixth to stop fighting
Yes, sir, generally. But I thought you wished us to exercise a
discretion in the matter too -- not to interfere too soon
But they have been fighting this half-hour and more
Yes, sir; but neither was hurt. And they're the sort of boys who'll be
all the better friends now, which they wouldn't have been if they had
been stopped, any earlier -- before it was so equal
Who was fighting with Brown
Williams, sir, of Thompson's. He is bigger than Brown, and had the best
of it at first, but not when you came up, sir. There's a good deal of
jealousy between our house and Thompson's, and there would have been
more fights if this hadn't been let go on, or if either of them had had
much the worst of it
Well but, Brooke
doesn't this look a little as
if you exercised your discretion by only stopping a fight when the
School-house boy is getting the worst of it
Now remember
this fight is not to go on; you'll see to that. And I expect you to
stop all fights in future at once
Very well, sir
Don't make such eyes, young un
there's nothing the matter
Oh, but, Tom, are you much hurt? I can't bear thinking it was all for
me
Not a bit of it; don't flatter yourself. We were sure to have had it
out sooner or later
Well, but you won't go on, will you? You'll promise me you won't go
on
Can't tell about that -- all depends on the houses. We're in the hands
of our countrymen, you know. Must fight for the School-house flag, if so
be
Brown, young Brooke wants you in the sixth-form room
Well, Brown
how do you feel
Oh, very well, thank you, only I've sprained my thumb, I think
Sure to do that in a fight. Well, you hadn't the worst of it, I could
see. Where did you learn that throw
Down in the country when I was a boy
Hullo! why, what are you now? Well, never mind, you're a plucky fellow.
Sit down and have some supper
You must shake hands to-morrow
morning; I shall come and see that done after first lesson
Ah! but you should just have seen the fight
between Slogger Williams and Tom Brown
No
This our hope for all that's mortal
     And we too shall burst the bond;
     Death keeps watch beside the portal,
     But 'tis life that dwells beyond
They say
that Thompson is very ill,
and that Dr. Robertson has been sent for from Northampton
Then we shall all be sent home
Hurrah! five weeks'
extra holidays, and no fifth-form examination
I hope not
there'll be no Marylebone match then at the end
of the half
When I came yesterday from visiting all but the very death-bed of him
who has been taken from us, and looked around upon all the familiar
objects and scenes within our own ground, where your common amusements
were going on with your common cheerfulness and activity, I felt there
was nothing painful in witnessing that; it did not seem in any way
shocking or out of tune with those feelings which the sight of a dying
Christian must be supposed to awaken. The unsuitableness in point of
natural feeling between scenes of mourning and scenes of liveliness did
not at all present itself. But I did feel that if at that moment any of
those faults had been brought before me which sometimes occur amongst
us; had I heard that any of you had been guilty of falsehood, or of
drunkenness, or of any other such sin; had I heard from any quarter the
language of profaneness, or of unkindness, or of indecency; had I heard
or seen any signs of that wretched folly which courts the laugh of
fools by affecting not to dread evil and not to care for good, then the
unsuitableness of any of these things with the scene I had just quitted
would indeed have been most intensely painful. And why? Not because such
things would really have been worse than at any other time, but because
at such a moment the eyes are opened really to know good and evil,
because we then feel what it is so to live as that death becomes an
infinite blessing, and what it is so to live also that it were good for
us if we had never been born
Yes, Geordie's eyes are opened; he knows what
it is so to live as that death becomes an infinite blessing. But do I? O
God, can I bear to lose him
Dear George
I am so glad to be let up to see you at last.
I've tried hard to come so often, but they wouldn't let me before
Oh, I know, Tom; Mary has told me every day about you, and how she was
obliged to make the Doctor speak to you to keep you away. I'm very glad
you didn't get up, for you might have caught it; and you couldn't stand
being ill, with all the matches going on. And you're in the eleven, too,
I hear. I'm so glad
Yes; ain't it jolly
I'm ninth too. I made forty at
the last pie-match, and caught three fellows out. So I was put in
above Jones and Tucker. Tucker's so savage, for he was head of the
twenty-two
Well, I think you ought to be higher yet
Never mind. I don't care about cricket or anything now you're getting
well, Geordie; and I shouldn't have hurt, I know, if they'd have let me
come up. Nothing hurts me. But you'll get about now directly, won't you?
You won't believe how clean I've kept the study. All your things are
just as you left them; and I feed the old magpie just when you used,
though I have to come in from big-side for him, the old rip. He won't
look pleased all I can do, and sticks his head first on one side and
then on the other, and blinks at me before he'll begin to eat, till I'm
half inclined to box his ears. And whenever East comes in, you should
see him hop off to the window, dot and go one, though Harry wouldn't
touch a feather of him now
Old Gravey has a good memory; he can't forget the
sieges of poor Martin's den in old times
You can't think how often I've been thinking of old Martin
since I've been ill. I suppose one's mind gets restless, and likes to
wander off to strange, unknown places. I wonder what queer new pets the
old boy has got. How he must be revelling in the thousand new birds,
beasts, and fishes
Fancy him
on a South Sea island, with the Cherokees, or Patagonians, or some
such wild niggers
They'll make the old Madman cock
medicine-man, and tattoo him all over. Perhaps he's cutting about now
all blue, and has a squaw and a wigwam. He'll improve their boomerangs,
and be able to throw them too, without having old Thomas sent after him
by the Doctor to take them away
He'll convert all the island, I know
Yes, if he don't blow it up first
Do you remember, Tom, how you and East used to laugh at him and chaff
him, because he said he was sure the rooks all had calling-over or
prayers, or something of the sort, when the locking-up bell rang? Well,
I declare
I do think he was right. Since I've been lying here, I've watched them
every night; and, do you know, they really do come and perch, all of
them, just about locking-up time; and then first there's a regular
chorus of caws; and then they stop a bit, and one old fellow, or perhaps
two or three in different trees, caw solos; and then off they all go
again, fluttering about and cawing anyhow till they roost
I wonder if the old blackies do talk
How they must abuse me and East, and pray for the Doctor for stopping
the slinging
There! look, look
don't you see the old fellow without
a tail coming up? Martin used to call him the 'clerk.' He can't steer
himself. You never saw such fun as he is in a high wind, when he can't
steer himself home, and gets carried right past the trees, and has to
bear up again and again before he can perch
Tom, will you be angry if I talk to you very seriously
No, dear old boy, not I. But ain't you faint, Arthur, or ill? What can
I get you? Don't say anything to hurt yourself now -- you are very weak;
let me come up again
No, no; I shan't hurt myself. I'd sooner speak to you now, if you don't
mind. I've asked Mary to tell the Doctor that you are with me, so you
needn't go down to calling-over; and I mayn't have another chance, for
I shall most likely have to go home for change of air to get well, and
mayn't come back this half
Oh, do you think you must go away before the end of the half? I'm
so sorry. It's more than five weeks yet to the holidays, and all the
fifth-form examination and half the cricket-matches to come yet. And
what shall I do all that time alone in our study? Why, Arthur, it will
be more than twelve weeks before I see you again. Oh, hang it, I can't
stand that! Besides who's to keep me up to working at the examination
books? I shall come out bottom of the form, as sure as eggs is eggs
Oh, please, Tom, stop, or you'll drive all I had to say out of my head.
And I'm already horribly afraid I'm going to make you angry
Don't gammon, young un
you know you ain't afraid, and you've never made me angry since
the first month we chummed together. Now I'm going to be quite sober for
a quarter of an hour, which is more than I am once in a year; so make
the most of it; heave ahead, and pitch into me right and left
Dear Tom, I ain't going to pitch into you
and
it seems so cocky in me to be advising you, who've been my backbone ever
since I've been at Rugby, and have made the school a paradise to me. Ah,
I see I shall never do it, unless I go head over heels at once, as
you said when you taught me to swim. Tom, I want you to give up using
vulgus-books and cribs
Billy Taylor
Why, young un
Because you're the honestest boy in Rugby, and that ain't honest
I don't see that
What were you sent to Rugby for
Well, I don't know exactly -- nobody ever told me. I suppose because all
boys are sent to a public school in England
But what do you think yourself? What do you want to do here, and to
carry away
I want to be A1 at cricket and football, and all
the other games, and to make my hands keep my head against any fellow,
lout or gentleman. I want to get into the sixth before I leave, and to
please the Doctor; and I want to carry away just as much Latin and Greek
as will take me through Oxford respectably. There, now, young un; I
never thought of it before, but that's pretty much about my figure.
Ain't it all on the square? What have you got to say to that
Why, that you are pretty sure to do all that you want, then
Well, I hope so. But you've forgot one thing -- what I want to leave
behind me. I want to leave behind me
the name of a fellow who never bullied a little
boy, or turned his back on a big one
You say,
Tom, you want to please the Doctor. Now, do you want to please him by
what he thinks you do, or by what you really do
By what I really do, of course
Does he think you use cribs and vulgus-books
He
was at Winchester himself
he knows all about it
Yes; but does he think you use them? Do you think he approves of it
You young villain
I never think about it. Hang it! there, perhaps he
don't. Well, I suppose he don't
I would sooner have the
doctor's good opinion of me as I really am than any man's in the world
Look here, young un. How on
earth am I to get time to play the matches this half if I give up cribs?
We're in the middle of that long crabbed chorus in the Agamemnon. I can
only just make head or tail of it with the crib. Then there's Pericles's
speech coming on in Thucydides, and 'The Birds' to get up for the
examination, besides the Tacitus
I say, young un, there's only five weeks or so
left to holidays. Mayn't I go on as usual for this half? I'll tell the
Doctor about it some day, or you may
In this thing the Lord pardon thy
servant, that when my master goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship
there, and he leaneth on my hand, and I bow down myself in the house of
Rimmon, when I bow down myself in the house of Rimmon, the Lord pardon
thy servant in this thing
You've been very ill indeed, haven't
you, Geordie
Yes, very. I'm sure the Doctor thought I was going to die. He gave me
the Sacrament last Sunday, and you can't think what he is when one is
ill. He said such brave, and tender, and gentle things to me, I felt
quite light and strong after it, and never had any more fear. My mother
brought our old medical man, who attended me when I was a poor sickly
child. He said my constitution was quite changed, and that I'm fit for
anything now. If it hadn't, I couldn't have stood three days of this
illness. That's all thanks to you, and the games you've made me fond
of
More thanks to old Martin
he's been your real friend
Nonsense, Tom; he never could have done for me what you have
Well, I don't know; I did little enough. Did they tell you -- you won't
mind hearing it now, I know -- that poor Thompson died last week? The
other three boys are getting quite round, like you
Oh yes, I heard of it
And though the Doctor never said a word about it
and it was a half-holiday and match-day, there wasn't a game played in
the close all the afternoon, and the boys all went about as if it were
Sunday
I'm very glad of it
But, Tom, I've had such strange
thoughts about death lately. I've never told a soul of them, not even my
mother. Sometimes I think they're wrong, but, do you know, I don't think
in my heart I could be sorry at the death of any of my friends
What in the world is the young un after
now
I've swallowed a good many of his crotchets, but this
altogether beats me. He can't be quite right in his head
I don't
think I quite see what you mean, Geordie. One's told so often to think
about death that I've tried it on sometimes, especially this last week.
But we won't talk of it now. I'd better go. You're getting tired, and I
shall do you harm
No, no; indeed I ain't, Tom. You must stop till nine; there's only
twenty minutes. I've settled you shall stop till nine. And oh! do let me
talk to you -- I must talk to you. I see it's just as I feared. You think
I'm half mad. Don't you, now
Well, I did think it odd what you said, Geordie, as you ask me
I'll tell you how it all
happened. At first, when I was sent to the sick-room, and found I had
really got the fever, I was terribly frightened. I thought I should
die, and I could not face it for a moment. I don't think it was sheer
cowardice at first, but I thought how hard it was to be taken away from
my mother and sisters and you all, just as I was beginning to see my way
to many things, and to feel that I might be a man and do a man's work.
To die without having fought, and worked, and given one's life away,
was too hard to bear. I got terribly impatient, and accused God of
injustice, and strove to justify myself. And the harder I strove the
deeper I sank. Then the image of my dear father often came across me,
but I turned from it. Whenever it came, a heavy, numbing throb seemed to
take hold of my heart, and say, 'Dead-dead-dead.' And I cried out, 'The
living, the living shall praise Thee, O God; the dead cannot praise
thee. There is no work in the grave; in the night no man can work. But
I can work. I can do great things. I will do great things. Why wilt thou
slay me?' And so I struggled and plunged, deeper and deeper, and went
down into a living black tomb. I was alone there, with no power to stir
or think; alone with myself; beyond the reach of all human fellowship;
beyond Christ's reach, I thought, in my nightmare. You, who are brave
and bright and strong, can have no idea of that agony. Pray to God you
never may. Pray as for your life
I don't know how long
I was in that state -- for more than a day, I know; for I was quite
conscious, and lived my outer life all the time, and took my medicines,
and spoke to my mother, and heard what they said. But I didn't take much
note of time. I thought time was over for me, and that that tomb was
what was beyond. Well, on last Sunday morning, as I seemed to lie in
that tomb, alone, as I thought, for ever and ever, the black, dead wall
was cleft in two, and I was caught up and borne through into the light
by some great power, some living, mighty spirit. Tom, do you remember
the living creatures and the wheels in Ezekiel? It was just like that.
'When they went, I heard the noise of their wings, like the noise of
great waters, as the voice of the Almighty, the voice of speech, as the
noise of an host; when they stood, they let down their wings.' 'And
they went every one straight forward: whither the spirit was to go, they
went; and they turned not when they went.' And we rushed through the
bright air, which was full of myriads of living creatures, and paused
on the brink of a great river. And the power held me up, and I knew that
that great river was the grave, and death dwelt there, but not the death
I had met in the black tomb. That, I felt, was gone for ever. For on the
other bank of the great river I saw men and women and children rising up
pure and bright, and the tears were wiped from their eyes, and they put
on glory and strength, and all weariness and pain fell away. And beyond
were a multitude which no man could number, and they worked at some
great work; and they who rose from the river went on and joined in the
work. They all worked, and each worked in a different way, but all at
the same work. And I saw there my father, and the men in the old town
whom I knew when I was a child -- many a hard, stern man, who never came
to church, and whom they called atheist and infidel. There they were,
side by side with my father, whom I had seen toil and die for them, and
women and little children, and the seal was on the foreheads of all. And
I longed to see what the work was, and could not; so I tried to plunge
in the river, for I thought I would join them, but I could not. Then I
looked about to see how they got into the river. And this I could not
see, but I saw myriads on this side, and they too worked, and I knew
that it was the same work, and the same seal was on their foreheads. And
though I saw that there was toil and anguish in the work of these, and
that most that were working were blind and feeble, yet I longed no more
to plunge into the river, but more and more to know what the work was.
And as I looked I saw my mother and my sisters, and I saw the Doctor,
and you, Tom, and hundreds more whom I knew; and at last I saw myself
too, and I was toiling and doing ever so little a piece of the great
work. Then it all melted away, and the power left me, and as it left
me I thought I heard a voice say, 'The vision is for an appointed time;
though it tarry, wait for it, for in the end it shall speak and not lie,
it shall surely come, it shall not tarry.' It was early morning I know,
then -- it was so quiet and cool, and my mother was fast asleep in the
chair by my bedside; but it wasn't only a dream of mine. I know it
wasn't a dream. Then I fell into a deep sleep, and only woke after
afternoon chapel; and the Doctor came and gave me the Sacrament, as I
told you. I told him and my mother I should get well -- I knew I should;
but I couldn't tell them why. Tom
do you see why I could not grieve now to see my dearest friend
die? It can't be -- it isn't -- all fever or illness. God would never have
let me see it so clear if it wasn't true. I don't understand it all yet;
it will take me my life and longer to do that -- to find out what the work
is
My dearest boy, you feel a little feverish again. Why didn't you have
lights? You've talked too much, and excited yourself in the dark
Oh no, mother; you can't think how well I feel. I shall start with
you to-morrow for Devonshire. But, mother, here's my friend -- here's Tom
Brown. You know him
Yes, indeed; I've known him for years
Now, Tom
where are your manners? You'll stare
my mother out of countenance
There, sit down, both of you.-- Here, dearest mother; there's room
here
Tom, you needn't go;
I'm sure you won't be called up at first lesson
And now
I have
realized one of the dearest wishes of my life -- to see you two together
Shall I see you in the morning, Geordie
Never mind, though; you'll be back next half. And I
shan't forget the house of Rimmon
Good-night. You are one who knows what our Father has promised to the
friend of the widow and the fatherless. May He deal with you as you have
dealt with me and mine
TOM BROWN, from his affectionate and grateful
friends, Frances Jane Arthur; George Arthur
The Holy Supper is kept indeed,
     In whatso we share with another's need
     Not that which we give, but what we share,
     For the gift without the giver is bare.
     Who bestows himself with his alms feeds three,
     Himself, his hungering neighbour and Me
how that, having learnt his lessons with
them for so many years, it would grieve him much to put an end to the
arrangement, and he hoped, at any rate, that if they wouldn't go on
with him, they should still be just as good friends, and respect one
another's motives; but
Stuff and nonsense
Here, East, get down the crib and
find the place
O Tommy, Tommy
that it
should ever have come to this! I knew Arthur'd be the ruin of you some
day, and you of me. And now the time's come
I don't know about ruin
I know that you and I would
have had the sack long ago if it hadn't been for him. And you know it as
well as I
Well, we were in a baddish way before he came, I own; but this new
crotchet of his is past a joke
Let's give it a trial, Harry; come. You know how often he has been
right and we wrong
Now, don't you two be jawing away about young Square-toes
He's no end of a sucking wiseacre, I dare say; but we've no time
to lose, and I've got the fives court at half-past nine
I say, Gower
be a good fellow, and let's try
if we can't get on without the crib
What! in this chorus? Why, we shan't get through ten lines
I say, Tom
don't you remember,
when we were in the upper fourth, and old Momus caught me construing
off the leaf of a crib which I'd torn out and put in my book, and which
would float out on to the floor, he sent me up to be flogged for it
Yes, I remember it very well
Well, the Doctor, after he'd flogged me, told me himself that he didn't
flog me for using a translation, but for taking it in to lesson, and
using it there when I hadn't learnt a word before I came in. He said
there was no harm in using a translation to get a clue to hard passages,
if you tried all you could first to make them out without
Did he, though
then Arthur must be wrong
Of course he is
the little prig. We'll only use the crib
when we can't construe without it.-- Go ahead, East
Don't you think this is the meaning
I think you must take
it this way, Brown
Well, Tom
I don t see any objection
to the new way. It's about as good as the old one, I think, besides the
advantage it gives one of feeling virtuous, and looking down on one's
neighbours
I ain't so sure
you
two fellows carried me off my legs. I don't think we really tried one
sentence fairly. Are you sure you remember what the Doctor said to you
Yes. And I'll swear I couldn't make out one of my sentences to-day -- no,
nor ever could. I really don't remember
to have come across one Latin or Greek sentence this half
that I could go and construe by the light of nature. Whereby I am sure
Providence intended cribs to be used
The thing to find out
is how long one ought
to grind at a sentence without looking at the crib. Now I think if one
fairly looks out all the words one don't know, and then can't hit it,
that's enough
To be sure, Tommy
Your new doctrine too, old fellow
when one comes to
think of it, is a cutting at the root of all school morality. You'll
take away mutual help, brotherly love, or, in the vulgar tongue, giving
construes, which I hold to be one of our highest virtues. For how can
you distinguish between getting a construe from another boy and using a
crib? Hang it, Tom, if you're going to deprive all our school-fellows
of the chance of exercising Christian benevolence and being good
Samaritans, I shall cut the concern
I wish you wouldn't joke about it, Harry; it's hard enough to see one's
way -- a precious sight harder than I thought last night. But I suppose
there's a use and an abuse of both, and one'll get straight enough
somehow. But you can't make out, anyhow, that one has a right to use old
vulgus-books and copy-books
Hullo, more heresy! How fast a fellow goes downhill when he once gets
his head before his legs. Listen to me, Tom. Not use old vulgus-books!
Why, you Goth, ain't we to take the benefit of the wisdom and admire and
use the work of past generations? Not use old copy-books! Why, you
might as well say we ought to pull down Westminster Abbey, and put up a
go-to-meeting shop with churchwarden windows; or never read Shakespeare,
but only Sheridan Knowles. Think of all the work and labour that our
predecessors have bestowed on these very books; and are we to make their
work of no value
I say, Harry, please don't chaff; I'm really serious
And then, is it not our duty to consult the pleasure of others rather
than our own, and above all, that of our masters? Fancy, then, the
difference to them in looking over a vulgus which has been carefully
touched and retouched by themselves and others, and which must bring
them a sort of dreamy pleasure, as if they'd met the thought
or expression of it somewhere or another -- before they were born
perhaps -- and that of cutting up, and making picture-frames round all
your and my false quantities, and other monstrosities. Why, Tom, you
wouldn't be so cruel as never to let old Momus hum over the 'O genus
humanum' again, and then look up doubtingly through his spectacles, and
end by smiling and giving three extra marks for it -- just for old sake's
sake, I suppose
Well
it's deuced hard that when a fellow's really trying to do
what he ought, his best friends'll do nothing but chaff him and try to
put him down
Now don't be an ass, Tom
you know
me well enough by this time; my bark's worse than my bite. You can't
expect to ride your new crotchet without anybody's trying to stick a
nettle under his tail and make him kick you off -- especially as we shall
all have to go on foot still. But now sit down, and let's go over it
again. I'll be as serious as a judge
Very cool of Tom
seeing as how he only came out of Egypt himself last night at bedtime
Well, Tom
you see, when you and I came to school
there were none of these sort of notions. You may be right -- I dare say
you are. Only what one has always felt about the masters is, that it's
a fair trial of skill and last between us and them -- like a match at
football or a battle. We're natural enemies in school -- that's the fact.
We've got to learn so much Latin and Greek, and do so many verses, and
they've got to see that we do it. If we can slip the collar and do so
much less without getting caught, that's one to us. If they can get more
out of us, or catch us shirking, that's one to them. All's fair in war
but lying. If I run my luck against theirs, and go into school without
looking at my lessons, and don't get called up, why am I a snob or a
sneak? I don't tell the master I've learnt it. He's got to find out
whether I have or not. What's he paid for? If he calls me up and I get
floored, he makes me write it out in Greek and English. Very good. He's
caught me, and I don't grumble. I grant you, if I go and snivel to him,
and tell him I've really tried to learn it, but found it so hard without
a translation, or say I've had a toothache, or any humbug of that kind,
I'm a snob. That's my school morality; it's served me, and you too, Tom,
for the matter of that, these five years. And it's all clear and fair,
no mistake about it. We understand it, and they understand it, and I
don't know what we're to come to with any other
Thank you, old fellow
You're a good old brick to be
serious, and not put out with me. I said more than I meant, I dare say,
only you see I know I'm right. Whatever you and Gower and the rest do, I
shall hold on. I must. And as it's all new and an uphill game, you see,
one must hit hard and hold on tight at first
Very good
hold on and hit away, only don't hit under the
line
But I must bring you over, Harry, or I shan't be comfortable. Now, I'll
allow all you've said. We've always been honourable enemies with the
masters. We found a state of war when we came, and went into it of
course. Only don't you think things are altered a good deal? I don't
feel as I used to the masters. They seem to me to treat one quite
differently
Yes, perhaps they do
there's a new set you see, mostly,
who don't feel sure of themselves yet. They don't want to fight till
they know the ground
I don't think it's only that
And then the Doctor, he does
treat one so openly, and like a gentleman, and as if one was working
with him
Well, so he does
he's a splendid fellow, and when I get
into the sixth I shall act accordingly. Only you know he has nothing to
do with our lessons now, except examining us. I say, though
it's just the quarter. Come along
So you've been at it again, through that hot-headed convert of yours
there. He's been making our lives a burden to us all the morning about
using cribs. I shall get floored to a certainty at second lesson, if I'm
called up
Oh, it's all right. He's converted already; he always comes through the
mud after us, grumbling and sputtering
vice Arthur on leave
play enough to throw a midge tied on a single
hair against the wind, and strength enough to hold a grampus
that life wasn't worth having, now they were tied to a young beggar
who was always 'raising his standard;' and that he, East, was like a
prophet's donkey, who was obliged to struggle on after the donkey-man
who went after the prophet; that he had none of the pleasure of starting
the new crotchets, and didn't half understand them, but had to take the
kicks and carry the luggage as if he had all the fun
Well, after all, he's the most wonderful little fellow I ever came
across. There ain't such a meek, humble boy in the school. Hanged if
I don't think now, really, Tom, that he believes himself a much worse
fellow than you or I, and that he don't think he has more influence in
the house than Dot Bowles, who came last quarter, and isn't ten yet. But
he turns you and me round his little finger, old boy -- there's no mistake
about that
Now or never
Thank you very much, old fellow. There's no other boy in
the house would have done it for me but you or Arthur. I can see well
enough
all the best big fellows look on me
with suspicion; they think I'm a devil-may-care, reckless young scamp.
So I am -- eleven hours out of twelve, but not the twelfth. Then all of
our contemporaries worth knowing follow suit, of course: we're very good
friends at games and all that, but not a soul of them but you and
Arthur ever tried to break through the crust, and see whether there was
anything at the bottom of me; and then the bad ones I won't stand and
they know that
Don't you think that's half fancy, Harry
Not a bit of it
I see it all plain enough. Bless you, you think everybody's as
straightforward and kindhearted as you are
Well, but what's the reason of it? There must be a reason. You can play
all the games as well as any one and sing the best song, and are the
best company in the house. You fancy you're not liked, Harry. It's all
fancy
I only wish it was, Tom. I know I could be popular enough with all the
bad ones, but that I won't have, and the good ones won't have me
Why not
you don't drink or swear, or get out at
night; you never bully, or cheat at lessons. If you only showed you
liked it, you'd have all the best fellows in the house running after
you
Not I
I'll tell you what
it is. I never stop the Sacrament. I can see, from the Doctor downwards,
how that tells against me
Yes, I've seen that
and I've been very sorry for it, and
Arthur and I have talked about it. I've often thought of speaking to
you, but it's so hard to begin on such subjects. I'm very glad you've
opened it. Now, why don't you
I've never been confirmed
Not been confirmed
I never thought of
that. Why weren't you confirmed with the rest of us nearly three years
ago? I always thought you'd been confirmed at home
No
you see this was how it happened. Last
Confirmation was soon after Arthur came, and you were so taken up with
him I hardly saw either of you. Well, when the Doctor sent round for us
about it, I was living mostly with Green's set. You know the sort. They
all went in. I dare say it was all right, and they got good by it; I
don't want to judge them. Only all I could see of their reasons drove me
just the other way. 'Twas 'because the Doctor liked it;' 'no boy got
on who didn't stay the Sacrament;' it was the 'correct thing,' in fact,
like having a good hat to wear on Sundays. I couldn't stand it. I didn't
feel that I wanted to lead a different life. I was very well content
as I was, and I wasn't going to sham religious to curry favour with the
Doctor, or any one else
Dear old boy
how careless and selfish I've been. But why
didn't you come and talk to Arthur and me
I wish to Heaven I had
but I was a fool. It's too late
talking of it now
Why too late? You want to be confirmed now, don't you
I think so
I've thought about it a good deal; only, often
I fancy I must be changing, because I see it's to do me good here -- just
what stopped me last time. And then I go back again
I'll tell you now how 'twas with me
If it hadn't
been for Arthur, I should have done just as you did. I hope I should. I
honour you for it. But then he made it out just as if it was taking the
weak side before all the world -- going in once for all against everything
that's strong and rich, and proud and respectable, a little band of
brothers against the whole world. And the Doctor seemed to say so too,
only he said a great deal more
Ah
but there again, that's just another of my
difficulties whenever I think about the matter. I don't want to be one
of your saints, one of your elect, whatever the right phrase is. My
sympathies are all the other way -- with the many, the poor devils who run
about the streets and don't go to church. Don't stare, Tom; mind, I'm
telling you all that's in my heart -- as far as I know it -- but it's all a
muddle. You must be gentle with me if you want to land me. Now I've seen
a deal of this sort of religion; I was bred up in it, and I can't stand
it. If nineteen-twentieths of the world are to be left to uncovenanted
mercies, and that sort of thing, which means in plain English to go to
hell, and the other twentieth are to rejoice at it all, why
Oh! but, Harry, they ain't, they don't
Oh, how I wish Arthur hadn't gone! I'm such a fool about these things.
But it's all you want too, East; it is indeed. It cuts both ways
somehow, being confirmed and taking the Sacrament. It makes you feel on
the side of all the good and all the bad too, of everybody in the world.
Only there's some great dark strong power, which is crushing you and
everybody else. That's what Christ conquered, and we've got to fight.
What a fool I am! I can't explain. If Arthur were only here
I begin to get a glimmering of what you mean
I say, now
do you remember how we both hated
Flashman
Of course I do
I hate him still. What then
Well, when I came to take the Sacrament, I had a great struggle about
that. I tried to put him out of my head; and when I couldn't do that, I
tried to think of him as evil -- as something that the Lord who was loving
me hated, and which I might hate too. But it wouldn't do. I broke down;
I believe Christ Himself broke me down. And when the Doctor gave me the
bread and wine, and leant over me praying, I prayed for poor Flashman,
as if it had been you or Arthur
Thank you again, Tom
you
don't know what you may have done for me to-night. I think I see now how
the right sort of sympathy with poor devils is got at
And you'll stop the Sacrament next time, won't you
Can I, before I'm confirmed
Go and ask the Doctor
I will
Hah, East! Do you want to speak to me, my man
If you please, sir
Well, it's all right
I feel as
if a ton weight were off my mind
Hurrah
I knew it would be; but tell us all about it
Well, I just told him all about it. You can't think how kind and gentle
he was, the great grim man, whom I've feared more than anybody on earth.
When I stuck, he lifted me just as if I'd been a little child. And he
seemed to know all I'd felt, and to have gone through it all. And I
burst out crying -- more than I've done this five years; and he sat down
by me, and stroked my head; and I went blundering on, and told him
all -- much worse things than I've told you. And he wasn't shocked a bit,
and didn't snub me, or tell me I was a fool, and it was all nothing but
pride or wickedness, though I dare say it was. And he didn't tell me
not to follow out my thoughts, and he didn't give me any cut-and-dried
explanation. But when I'd done he just talked a bit. I can hardly
remember what he said yet; but it seemed to spread round me like
healing, and strength, and light, and to bear me up, and plant me on a
rock, where I could hold my footing and fight for myself. I don't know
what to do, I feel so happy. And it's all owing to you, dear old boy
And you're to come to the Communion
Yes, and to be confirmed in the holidays
Well, Tom, you ain't going to punch my
head, I hope, because I insist upon being sorry when you got to earth
Heaven grant the manlier heart, that timely ere
     Youth fly, with life's real tempest would be coping;
     The fruit of dreamy hoping
     Is, waking, blank despair
To veer how vain! on, onward strain,
     Brave barks, in light, in darkness too;
     Through winds and tides one compass guides,--
     To that, and your own selves, be true.

     "But, O blithe breeze, and O great seas,
     Though ne'er that earliest parting past,
     On your wide plain they join again;
     Together lead them home at last.

     "One port, methought, alike they sought,
     One purpose hold where'er they fare.
     O bounding breeze, O rushing seas,
     At last, at last, unite them there
With larger other eyes than ours,
     To make allowance for us all
This hop will be worth thirty runs to
us to-morrow, and will be the making of Raggles and Johnson
Oh, well bowled! well bowled, Johnson
How many runs
Only eighteen runs, and three
wickets down
Huzza for old Rugby
Swiper Jack
Steady there; don't be such an ass, Jack
we
haven't got the best wicket yet. Ah, look out now at cover-point
And, Jack, mind your hits. He steals more runs than any
man in England
Pretty cricket
I don't object to your theory
and I allow you have
made a fair case for yourself. But now, in such books as Aristophanes,
for instance, you've been reading a play this half with the Doctor,
haven't you
Yes, the Knights
Well, I'm sure you would have enjoyed the wonderful humour of it twice
as much if you had taken more pains with your scholarship
Well, sir, I don't believe any boy in the form enjoyed the sets-to
between Cleon and the Sausage-seller more than I did -- eh, Arthur
Yes, I must say he did
I think, sir, you've hit upon
the wrong book there
Not a bit of it
Why, in those very passages of
arms, how can you thoroughly appreciate them unless you are master of
the weapons? and the weapons are the language, which you, Brown, have
never half worked at; and so, as I say, you must have lost all the
delicate shades of meaning which make the best part of the fun
Oh, well played! bravo, Johnson
Bravo, Johnson
Eh! what was it? I didn't see
They only got one
run, I thought
No, but such a ball, three-quarters length, and coming straight for his
leg bail. Nothing but that turn of the wrist could have saved him, and
he drew it away to leg for a safe one.-- Bravo, Johnson
How well they are bowling, though
they don't mean to be
beat, I can see
There now
you see that's just what I have been
preaching this half-hour. The delicate play is the true thing. I don't
understand cricket, so I don't enjoy those fine draws which you tell me
are the best play, though when you or Raggles hit a ball hard away for
six I am as delighted as any one. Don't you see the analogy
Yes, sir
I see; only the
question remains whether I should have got most good by understanding
Greek particles or cricket thoroughly. I'm such a thick, I never should
have had time for both
I see you are an incorrigible
but
I refute you by an example. Arthur there has taken in Greek and cricket
too
Yes, but no thanks to him; Greek came natural to him. Why, when he
first came I remember he used to read Herodotus for pleasure as I did
Don Quixote, and couldn't have made a false concord if he'd tried ever
so hard; and then I looked after his cricket
Out! Bailey has given him out. Do you see, Tom
How
foolish of them to run so hard
Well, it can't be helped; he has played very well. Whose turn is it to
go in
I don't know; they've got your list in the tent
Let's go and see
O Brown, mayn't I go in next
Whose name is next on the list
Winter's, and then Arthur's
but
there are only twenty-six runs to get, and no time to lose. I heard
Mr. Aislabie say that the stumps must be drawn at a quarter past eight
exactly
Oh, do let the Swiper go in
I dare say now I've lost the match by this nonsense
they'll be sure to get Jack's wicket in three or four
minutes; however, you'll have the chance, sir, of seeing a hard hit or
two
Come, none of your irony, Brown
I'm beginning to
understand the game scientifically. What a noble game it is, too
Isn't it? But it's more than a game. It's an institution
Yes
the birthright of British boys old and young, as
habeas corpus and trial by jury are of British men
The discipline and reliance on one another which it teaches is
so valuable, I think
it ought to be such an
unselfish game. It merges the individual in the eleven; he doesn't play
that he may win, but that his side may
That's very true
and that's why football and cricket,
now one comes to think of it, are such much better games than fives or
hare-and-hounds, or any others where the object is to come in first or
to win for oneself, and not that one's side may win
And then the captain of the eleven
what a post is
his in our School-world! almost as hard as the Doctor's -- requiring skill
and gentleness and firmness, and I know not what other rare qualities
Which don't he may wish he may get
at any rate
he hasn't got them yet, or he wouldn't have been such a flat to-night as
to let Jack Raggles go in out of his turn
Ah, the Doctor never would have done that
Tom,
you've a great deal to learn yet in the art of ruling
Well, I wish you'd tell the Doctor so then, and get him to let me stop
till I'm twenty. I don't want to leave, I'm sure
What a sight it is
the Doctor as a ruler!
Perhaps ours is the only little corner of the British Empire which
is thoroughly, wisely, and strongly ruled just now. I'm more and more
thankful every day of my life that I came here to be under him
So am I, I'm sure
and more and more sorry that I've got to
leave
Every place and thing one sees here reminds one of some wise act of
his
This island now -- you remember the time,
Brown, when it was laid out in small gardens, and cultivated by
frost-bitten fags in February and March
Of course I do
didn't I hate spending two hours in the
afternoon grubbing in the tough dirt with the stump of a fives bat? But
turf-cart was good fun enough
I dare say it was, but it was always leading to fights with the
townspeople; and then the stealing flowers out of all the gardens in
Rugby for the Easter show was abominable
Well, so it was
but we fags couldn't help
ourselves. But what has that to do with the Doctor's ruling
A great deal, I think
what brought island-fagging
to an end
Why, the Easter speeches were put off till midsummer
and
the sixth had the gymnastic poles put up here
Well, and who changed the time of the speeches, and put the idea of
gymnastic poles into the heads of their worships the sixth form
The Doctor, I suppose
I never thought of that
Of course you didn't
or else, fag as you were,
you would have shouted with the whole school against putting down old
customs. And that's the way that all the Doctor's reforms have been
carried out when he has been left to himself -- quietly and naturally,
putting a good thing in the place of a bad, and letting the bad die out;
no wavering, and no hurry -- the best thing that could be done for the
time being, and patience for the rest
Just Tom's own way
driving a nail where it will go
Exactly so
See if I don't finish it all off now in three hits
I have
it
I knew how it would be
Come along; the game's
getting very serious
Arthur
is the steadiest, and Johnson will make the runs if the wicket is only
kept up
I am surprised to see Arthur in the eleven
Well, I'm not quite sure that he ought to be in for his play
but I couldn't help putting him in. It will do him so much good,
and you can't think what I owe him
Well played, well played, young un
I must compliment you, sir, on your eleven, and I
hope we shall have you for a member if you come up to town
I won't keep you more than half an hour, and
ask Arthur to come up too
I'll come up with you directly, if you'll let me
for I
feel rather melancholy, and not quite up to the country-dance and supper
with the rest
Do, by all means
I'll wait here for you
Well, we shall all miss you quite as much as you will miss us
You are the Nestor of the School now, are you not
Yes, ever since East left
By-the-bye, have you heard
from him
Yes, I had a letter in February, just before he started for India to
join his regiment
He will make a capital officer
Ay, won't he
No fellow could handle boys
better, and I suppose soldiers are very like boys. And he'll never tell
them to go where he won't go himself. No mistake about that. A braver
fellow never walked
His year in the sixth will have taught him a good deal that will be
useful to him now
So it will
Poor dear Harry
how well I remember the day we were put out of the twenty! How
he rose to the situation, and burnt his cigar-cases, and gave away his
pistols, and pondered on the constitutional authority of the sixth, and
his new duties to the Doctor, and the fifth form, and the fags! Ay, and
no fellow ever acted up to them better, though he was always a people's
man -- for the fags, and against constituted authorities. He couldn't
help that, you know. I'm sure the Doctor must have liked him
The Doctor sees the good in every one, and appreciates it
but I hope East will get a good colonel. He won't
do if he can't respect those above him. How long it took him, even here,
to learn the lesson of obeying
Well, I wish I were alongside of him
If I can't be at
Rugby, I want to be at work in the world, and not dawdling away three
years at Oxford
What do you mean by 'at work in the world
Well, I mean real work -- one's profession -- whatever one will have really
to do and make one's living by. I want to be doing some real good,
feeling that I am not only at play in the world
You are mixing up two very different things in your head, I think,
Brown
and you ought
to get clear about them. You talk of 'working to get your living,' and
'doing some real good in the world,' in the same breath. Now, you may be
getting a very good living in a profession, and yet doing no good at all
in the world, but quite the contrary, at the same time. Keep the latter
before you as your one object, and you will be right, whether you make
a living or not; but if you dwell on the other, you'll very likely drop
into mere money-making, and let the world take care of itself for good
or evil. Don't be in a hurry about finding your work in the world for
yourself -- you are not old enough to judge for yourself yet; but just
look about you in the place you find yourself in, and try to make things
a little better and honester there. You'll find plenty to keep your hand
in at Oxford, or wherever else you go. And don't be led away to think
this part of the world important and that unimportant. Every corner of
the world is important. No man knows whether this part or that is most
so, but every man may do some honest work in his own corner
I wonder where Arthur can be
why, it's nearly half-past nine already
Oh, he is comfortably at supper with the eleven, forgetful of his
oldest friends
Nothing has given me greater
pleasure
than your friendship for him; it has been the
making of you both
Of me, at any rate
I should never have been here now
but for him. It was the luckiest chance in the world that sent him to
Rugby and made him my chum
Why do you talk of lucky chances
I don't know that
there are any such things in the world; at any rate, there was neither
luck nor chance in that matter
Do you remember when the
Doctor lectured you and East at the end of one half-year, when you were
in the shell, and had been getting into all sorts of scrapes
Yes, well enough
it was the half-year before Arthur came
Exactly so
Now, I was with him a few minutes
afterwards, and he was in great distress about you two. And after some
talk, we both agreed that you in particular wanted some object in the
School beyond games and mischief; for it was quite clear that you never
would make the regular school work your first object. And so the Doctor,
at the beginning of the next half-year, looked out the best of the new
boys, and separated you and East, and put the young boy into your study,
in the hope that when you had somebody to lean on you, you would
begin to stand a little steadier yourself, and get manliness and
thoughtfulness. And I can assure you he has watched the experiment ever
since with great satisfaction. Ah! not one of you boys will ever know
the anxiety you have given him, or the care with which he has watched
over every step in your school lives
For he's a jolly good fellow
Strange friend, past, present, and to be;
     Loved deeplier, darklier understood;
     Behold I dream a dream of good,
     And mingle all the world with thee
improving his mind
What a bother they are making about these wretched corn-laws! Here's
three or four columns full of nothing but sliding scales and fixed
duties. Hang this tobacco, it's always going out! Ah, here's something
better -- a splendid match between Kent and England, Brown, Kent winning
by three wickets. Felix fifty-six runs without a chance, and not out
Anything about the Goodwood
Rory O'More drawn. Butterfly colt amiss
Just my luck
I say, can't you throw lighter over there? We ain't fishing for
grampuses
Hullo, Brown! here's something for you
Why, your old master, Arnold of Rugby, is dead
It may
be all false -- a mere newspaper lie
Let me look at the paper
Nothing else in it
Hullo, Brown! what's the matter, old fellow? Ain't you
well
Where is it
What? What are you looking for
That -- about Arnold
Oh, here
Thank you
I shall go for a
walk. Don't you and Herbert wait supper for me
I'm afraid that confounded newspaper has spoiled Brown's fun for this
trip
How odd that he should be so fond of his old master
Where shall I find Thomas
In the servants' hall, I think, sir. But won't you take anything
No, thank you
Ah! you've heard all about it, sir, I see
Where is he buried, Thomas
Under the altar in the chapel, sir
You'd like to
have the key, I dare say
Thank you, Thomas -- yes, I should, very much
Perhaps you'd like to go by yourself, sir
Why
should I go on? It's no use
Pshaw!
they won't remember me. They've more right there than I
But am I
sure that he does not know it all
May he
not even now be near me, in this very chapel? If he be, am I sorrowing
as he would have me sorrow, as I should wish to have sorrowed when I
shall meet him again
</text>
