<text>
Fifteen men on the dead man's chest --
             Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum
This is a handy cove
and a pleasant sittyated
grog-shop. Much company, mate
Well, then
this is the berth for me. Here you, matey
bring up alongside and help
up my chest. I'll stay here a bit
I'm a plain man; rum
and bacon and eggs is what I want, and that head up there for to watch
ships off. What you mought call me? You mought call me captain. Oh, I
see what you're at -- there
You can tell me when I've worked through that
weather-eye open for a seafaring man with one leg
the seafaring man with one leg
Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum
Fifteen men on the dead man's chest --
             Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!
           Drink and the devil had done for the rest --
             Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum
Silence, there, between decks
Were you addressing me, sir
I have only one thing to
say to you, sir
that if you keep on drinking rum,
the world will soon be quit of a very dirty scoundrel
If you do not put that
knife this instant in your pocket, I promise, upon my honour, you shall
hang at the next assizes
And now, sir
since I now know there's such a
fellow in my district, you may count I'll have an eye upon you day and
night. I'm not a doctor only; I'm a magistrate; and if I catch a breath
of complaint against you, if it's only for a piece of incivility like
tonight's, I'll take effectual means to have you hunted down and routed
out of this. Let that suffice
Come here, sonny
Come nearer here
Is this here table for my mate Bill
Well
my mate Bill would be called the captain, as like
as not. He has a cut on one cheek and a mighty pleasant way with him,
particularly in drink, has my mate Bill. We'll put it, for argument
like, that your captain has a cut on one cheek -- and we'll put it, if you
like, that that cheek's the right one. Ah, well! I told you. Now, is my
mate Bill in this here house
Which way, sonny? Which way is he gone
Ah
this'll be as good as drink to my mate Bill
I have a son of my own
as like
you as two blocks, and he's all the pride of my 'art. But the great
thing for boys is discipline, sonny -- discipline. Now, if you had sailed
along of Bill, you wouldn't have stood there to be spoke to twice -- not
you. That was never Bill's way, nor the way of sich as sailed with him.
And here, sure enough, is my mate Bill, with a spy-glass under his arm,
bless his old 'art, to be sure. You and me'll just go back into the
parlour, sonny, and get behind the door, and we'll give Bill a little
surprise -- bless his 'art, I say again
Bill
Come, Bill, you know me; you know an old shipmate, Bill, surely
Black Dog
And who else
Black
Dog as ever was, come for to see his old shipmate Billy, at the Admiral
Benbow inn. Ah, Bill, Bill, we have seen a sight of times, us two, since
I lost them two talons
Now, look here
you've run me down; here I am;
well, then, speak up; what is it
That's you, Bill
you're in the right of it,
Billy. I'll have a glass of rum from this dear child here, as I've took
such a liking to; and we'll sit down, if you please, and talk square,
like old shipmates
None of your keyholes for
me, sonny
No, no, no, no; and an end of it
If it
comes to swinging, swing all, say I
Jim
rum
Are you hurt
Rum
I must get away from here. Rum! Rum
Dear, deary me
what a disgrace upon the house! And
your poor father sick
Oh, doctor
what shall we do? Where is he wounded
Wounded? A fiddle-stick's end
No more wounded than
you or I. The man has had a stroke, as I warned him. Now, Mrs. Hawkins,
just you run upstairs to your husband and tell him, if possible, nothing
about it. For my part, I must do my best to save this fellow's trebly
worthless life; Jim, you get me a basin
Here's luck
A fair wind
Billy Bones his
fancy
Prophetic
And now, Master Billy Bones, if that be your name, we'll have a look at
the colour of your blood. Jim
are you afraid of blood
No, sir
Well, then
you hold the basin
Where's Black Dog
There is no Black Dog here
except what you have
on your own back. You have been drinking rum; you have had a stroke,
precisely as I told you; and I have just, very much against my own will,
dragged you headforemost out of the grave. Now, Mr. Bones
That's not my name
Much I care
It's the name of a buccaneer of my
acquaintance; and I call you by it for the sake of shortness, and what I
have to say to you is this; one glass of rum won't kill you, but if
you take one you'll take another and another, and I stake my wig if you
don't break off short, you'll die -- do you understand that?-- die, and go
to your own place, like the man in the Bible. Come, now, make an effort.
I'll help you to your bed for once
Now, mind you
I clear my conscience -- the name of
rum for you is death
This is nothing
I have
drawn blood enough to keep him quiet awhile; he should lie for a week
where he is -- that is the best thing for him and you; but another stroke
would settle him
Jim
you're the only one here that's worth anything, and you
know I've been always good to you. Never a month but I've given you a
silver fourpenny for yourself. And now you see, mate, I'm pretty low,
and deserted by all; and Jim, you'll bring me one noggin of rum, now,
won't you, matey
The doctor
Doctors is all swabs
and that doctor there, why, what do
he know about seafaring men? I been in places hot as pitch, and mates
dropping round with Yellow Jack, and the blessed land a-heaving like the
sea with earthquakes -- what to the doctor know of lands like that?-- and I
lived on rum, I tell you. It's been meat and drink, and man and wife,
to me; and if I'm not to have my rum now I'm a poor old hulk on a lee
shore, my blood'll be on you, Jim, and that doctor swab
Look, Jim, how my fingers fidges
I can't keep 'em still, not I. I
haven't had a drop this blessed day. That doctor's a fool, I tell you.
If I don't have a drain o' rum, Jim, I'll have the horrors; I seen some
on 'em already. I seen old Flint in the corner there, behind you; as
plain as print, I seen him; and if I get the horrors, I'm a man that
has lived rough, and I'll raise Cain. Your doctor hisself said one glass
wouldn't hurt me. I'll give you a golden guinea for a noggin, Jim
I want none of your money
but what you owe my father. I'll
get you one glass, and no more
Aye, aye
that's some better, sure enough. And now, matey,
did that doctor say how long I was to lie here in this old berth
A week at least
Thunder
A week! I can't do that; they'd have the black
spot on me by then. The lubbers is going about to get the wind of me
this blessed moment; lubbers as couldn't keep what they got, and want to
nail what is another's. Is that seamanly behaviour, now, I want to know?
But I'm a saving soul. I never wasted good money of mine, nor lost it
neither; and I'll trick 'em again. I'm not afraid on 'em. I'll shake out
another reef, matey, and daddle 'em again
That doctor's done me
My ears is singing. Lay me back
Jim
you saw that seafaring man today
Black Dog
Ah! Black Dog
HE'S a bad un; but there's worse that put him
on. Now, if I can't get away nohow, and they tip me the black spot, mind
you, it's my old sea-chest they're after; you get on a horse -- you can,
can't you? Well, then, you get on a horse, and go to -- well, yes,
I will!-- to that eternal doctor swab, and tell him to pipe all
hands -- magistrates and sich -- and he'll lay 'em aboard at the Admiral
Benbow -- all old Flint's crew, man and boy, all on 'em that's left. I was
first mate, I was, old Flint's first mate, and I'm the on'y one as knows
the place. He gave it me at Savannah, when he lay a-dying, like as if I
was to now, you see. But you won't peach unless they get the black spot
on me, or unless you see that Black Dog again or a seafaring man with
one leg, Jim -- him above all
But what is the black spot, captain
That's a summons, mate. I'll tell you if they get that. But you keep
your weather-eye open, Jim, and I'll share with you equals, upon my
honour
If ever a seaman wanted drugs, it's me
Will any kind friend
inform a poor blind man, who has lost the precious sight of his eyes in
the gracious defence of his native country, England -- and God bless King
George!-- where or in what part of this country he may now be
You are at the Admiral Benbow, Black Hill Cove, my good man
I hear a voice
a young voice. Will you give me your hand,
my kind young friend, and lead me in
Now, boy
take me in to the captain
Sir
upon my word I dare not
Oh
that's it! Take me in straight or I'll break your
arm
Sir
it is for yourself I mean. The captain is not what he
used to be. He sits with a drawn cutlass. Another gentleman
Come, now, march
Lead me
straight up to him, and when I'm in view, cry out, 'Here's a friend
for you, Bill.' If you don't, I'll do this
Now, Bill, sit where you are
If I can't see, I can
hear a finger stirring. Business is business. Hold out your left hand.
Boy, take his left hand by the wrist and bring it near to my right
And now that's done
Ten o'clock
Six hours. We'll do them yet
If none of the rest of you dare
Jim and I dare. Back we will go, the way we came, and small
thanks to you big, hulking, chicken-hearted men. We'll have that chest
open, if we die for it. And I'll thank you for that bag, Mrs. Crossley,
to bring back our lawful money in
Draw down the blind, Jim
they might come and
watch outside. And now
we have to get
the key off THAT; and who's to touch it, I should like to know
You
have till ten tonight
He had till ten, Mother
Now, Jim
that key
Perhaps it's round his neck
Give me the key
I'll show these rogues that I'm an honest woman
I'll
have my dues, and not a farthing over. Hold Mrs. Crossley's bag
Mother
take the whole and let's be going
I'll take what I have
And I'll take this to square the count
My dear
take the money and run on. I am
going to faint
Down with the door
Aye, aye, sir
In, in, in
Bill's dead
Search him, some of you shirking lubbers, and the rest of you aloft and
get the chest
Pew
they've been before us. Someone's turned the chest out
alow and aloft
Is it there
The money's there
Flint's fist, I mean
We don't see it here nohow
Here, you below there, is it on Bill
Bill's been overhauled
a'ready
nothin' left
It's these people of the inn -- it's that boy. I wish I had put his eyes
out
There were no time ago -- they had the
door bolted when I tried it. Scatter, lads, and find 'em
Sure enough, they left their glim here
Scatter and find 'em! Rout the house out
There's Dirk again
Twice! We'll have to budge, mates
Budge, you skulk
Dirk was a fool and a coward from the
first -- you wouldn't mind him. They must be close by; they can't be far;
you have your hands on it. Scatter and look for them, dogs! Oh, shiver
my soul
if I had eyes
You have your hands on thousands, you fools, and you hang a leg! You'd
be as rich as kings if you could find it, and you know it's here, and
you stand there skulking. There wasn't one of you dared face Bill, and
I did it -- a blind man! And I'm to lose my chance for you! I'm to be a
poor, crawling beggar, sponging for rum, when I might be rolling in a
coach! If you had the pluck of a weevil in a biscuit you would catch
them still
Hang it, Pew, we've got the doubloons
They might have hid the blessed thing
Take the
Georges, Pew, and don't stand here squalling
Johnny, Black Dog, Dirk
you won't leave old Pew, mates -- not old Pew
like a fish out of water
And that
is just about as good as nothing. They've got off clean, and there's
an end. Only
I'm glad I trod on Master Pew's corns
They got the money, you say? Well, then, Hawkins, what in fortune were
they after? More money, I suppose
No, sir; not money, I think
In fact, sir, I believe I
have the thing in my breast pocket; and to tell you the truth, I should
like to get it put in safety
To be sure, boy; quite right
I'll take it, if you like
I thought perhaps Dr. Livesey
Perfectly right
perfectly right -- a
gentleman and a magistrate. And, now I come to think of it, I might as
well ride round there myself and report to him or squire. Master Pew's
dead, when all's done; not that I regret it, but he's dead, you see, and
people will make it out against an officer of his Majesty's revenue,
if make it out they can. Now, I'll tell you, Hawkins, if you like, I'll
take you along
Dogger
you have a good horse; take up this lad
behind you
Is Dr. Livesey in
So there we go, boys
Come in, Mr. Dance
Good evening, Dance
And good evening to
you, friend Jim. What good wind brings you here
Bravo
Mr. Dance
you are a very noble fellow. And as for
riding down that black, atrocious miscreant, I regard it as an act of
virtue, sir, like stamping on a cockroach. This lad Hawkins is a trump,
I perceive. Hawkins, will you ring that bell? Mr. Dance must have some
ale
And so, Jim
you have the thing that they were
after, have you
Here it is, sir
Squire
when Dance has had his ale he must, of course, be
off on his Majesty's service; but I mean to keep Jim Hawkins here to
sleep at my house, and with your permission, I propose we should have up
the cold pie and let him sup
As you will, Livesey
Hawkins has earned better than
cold pie
And now, squire
And now, Livesey
One at a time, one at a time
You have heard of
this Flint, I suppose
Heard of him
Heard of him, you say! He was the
bloodthirstiest buccaneer that sailed. Blackbeard was a child to Flint.
The Spaniards were so prodigiously afraid of him that, I tell you, sir,
I was sometimes proud he was an Englishman. I've seen his top-sails with
these eyes, off Trinidad, and the cowardly son of a rum-puncheon that I
sailed with put back -- put back, sir, into Port of Spain
Well, I've heard of him myself, in England
But the
point is, had he money
Money
Have you heard the story? What were these
villains after but money? What do they care for but money? For what
would they risk their rascal carcasses but money
That we shall soon know
But you are so
confoundedly hot-headed and exclamatory that I cannot get a word in.
What I want to know is this: Supposing that I have here in my pocket
some clue to where Flint buried his treasure, will that treasure amount
to much
Amount, sir
It will amount to this: If we have the
clue you talk about, I fit out a ship in Bristol dock, and take you and
Hawkins here along, and I'll have that treasure if I search a year
Very well
Now, then, if Jim is agreeable, we'll
open the packet
First of all we'll try the book
Billy Bones his fancy
Mr. W.
Bones, mate
No more rum
Off Palm Key he got itt
got itt
Not much instruction there
Offe Caraccas
62o
17' 20
Bones, his pile
I can't make head or tail of this
The thing is as clear as noonday
This is the
black-hearted hound's account-book. These crosses stand for the names of
ships or towns that they sank or plundered. The sums are the scoundrel's
share, and where he feared an ambiguity, you see he added something
clearer. 'Offe Caraccas,' now; you see, here was some unhappy vessel
boarded off that coast. God help the poor souls that manned her -- coral
long ago
Right
See what it is to be a traveller. Right! And
the amounts increase, you see, as he rose in rank
Thrifty man
He wasn't the one to be cheated
And now
for the other
The Spy-glass
Bulk of treasure here
Livesey
you will give up this wretched practice
at once. Tomorrow I start for Bristol. In three weeks' time -- three
weeks!-- two weeks -- ten days -- we'll have the best ship, sir, and the
choicest crew in England. Hawkins shall come as cabin-boy. You'll make
a famous cabin-boy, Hawkins. You, Livesey, are ship's doctor; I am
admiral. We'll take Redruth, Joyce, and Hunter. We'll have favourable
winds, a quick passage, and not the least difficulty in finding the
spot, and money to eat, to roll in, to play duck and drake with ever
after
Trelawney
I'll go with you; and I'll go bail for
it, so will Jim, and be a credit to the undertaking. There's only one
man I'm afraid of
And who's that
Name the dog, sir
You
for you cannot hold your tongue. We are not
the only men who know of this paper. These fellows who attacked the
inn tonight -- bold, desperate blades, for sure -- and the rest who stayed
aboard that lugger, and more, I dare say, not far off, are, one and all,
through thick and thin, bound that they'll get that money. We must none
of us go alone till we get to sea. Jim and I shall stick together in the
meanwhile; you'll take Joyce and Hunter when you ride to Bristol, and
from first to last, not one of us must breathe a word of what we've
found
Livesey
you are always in the right of it. I'll
be as silent as the grave
To be opened, in the case of his
absence, by Tom Redruth or young Hawkins
Redruth
Dr. Livesey will not like
that. The squire has been talking, after all
Well, who's a better right
A pretty rum go
if squire ain't to talk for Dr. Livesey, I should think
Where are we
Bristol
Get down
Here you are
and the doctor came last night from London.
Bravo! The ship's company complete
Oh, sir
when do we sail
Sail
We sail tomorrow
Mr. Silver, sir
Yes, my lad
such is my name, to be sure. And who may you
be
Oh
I see. You are our
new cabin-boy; pleased I am to see you
Oh
stop him! It's Black Dog
I don't care two coppers who he is
But he hasn't paid
his score. Harry, run and catch him
If he were Admiral Hawke he shall pay his score
Who did you say he was
Black
what
Dog, sir
Has Mr. Trelawney not told you of the buccaneers?
He was one of them
So
In my house! Ben, run and help Harry. One of those
swabs, was he? Was that you drinking with him, Morgan? Step up here
Now, Morgan
you never clapped your eyes
on that Black -- Black Dog before, did you, now
Not I, sir
You didn't know his name, did you
No, sir
By the powers, Tom Morgan, it's as good for you
If you had been mixed up with the like of that, you would
never have put another foot in my house, you may lay to that. And what
was he saying to you
I don't rightly know, sir
Do you call that a head on your shoulders, or a blessed dead-eye
Don't rightly know, don't you! Perhaps you don't
happen to rightly know who you was speaking to, perhaps? Come, now, what
was he jawing -- v'yages, cap'ns, ships? Pipe up! What was it
We was a-talkin' of keel-hauling
Keel-hauling, was you? And a mighty suitable thing, too, and you may
lay to that. Get back to your place for a lubber, Tom
He's
quite an honest man, Tom Morgan, on'y stupid. And now
let's see -- Black Dog? No, I don't know the name, not I. Yet I
kind of think I've -- yes, I've seen the swab. He used to come here with a
blind beggar, he used
That he did, you may be sure
I knew that blind man too. His
name was Pew
It was
Pew! That were his name for
certain. Ah, he looked a shark, he did! If we run down this Black Dog,
now, there'll be news for Cap'n Trelawney! Ben's a good runner; few
seamen run better than Ben. He should run him down, hand over hand, by
the powers! He talked o' keel-hauling, did he? I'LL keel-haul him
See here, now, Hawkins
here's a blessed hard thing on a
man like me, now, ain't it? There's Cap'n Trelawney -- what's he to think?
Here I have this confounded son of a Dutchman sitting in my own house
drinking of my own rum! Here you comes and tells me of it plain; and
here I let him give us all the slip before my blessed deadlights! Now,
Hawkins, you do me justice with the cap'n. You're a lad, you are, but
you're as smart as paint. I see that when you first come in. Now, here
it is: What could I do, with this old timber I hobble on? When I was an
A B master mariner I'd have come up alongside of him, hand over hand,
and broached him to in a brace of old shakes, I would; but now
The score
Three goes o' rum! Why, shiver my timbers,
if I hadn't forgotten my score
Why, what a precious old sea-calf I am
You and me should get on well, Hawkins, for I'll take my davy
I should be rated ship's boy. But come now, stand by to go about. This
won't do. Dooty is dooty, messmates. I'll put on my old cockerel hat,
and step along of you to Cap'n Trelawney, and report this here affair.
For mind you, it's serious, young Hawkins; and neither you nor me's come
out of it with what I should make so bold as to call credit. Nor you
neither, says you; not smart -- none of the pair of us smart. But dash my
buttons! That was a good un about my score
That was how it were, now, weren't it,
Hawkins
All hands aboard by four this afternoon
Aye, aye, sir
Well, squire
I don't put much faith in your
discoveries, as a general thing; but I will say this, John Silver suits
me
The man's a perfect trump
And now
Jim may come on board with us, may he
not
To be sure he may
Take your hat, Hawkins, and we'll see
the ship
Captain Smollett, sir, axing to speak with you
I am always at the captain's orders. Show him in
Well, Captain Smollett, what have you to say? All well, I hope; all
shipshape and seaworthy
Well, sir
better speak plain, I believe, even at
the risk of offence. I don't like this cruise; I don't like the men; and
I don't like my officer. That's short and sweet
Perhaps, sir, you don't like the ship
I can't speak as to that, sir, not having seen her tried
She seems a clever craft; more I can't say
Possibly, sir, you may not like your employer, either
Stay a bit
stay a bit. No use of such questions as that but
to produce ill feeling. The captain has said too much or he has said too
little, and I'm bound to say that I require an explanation of his words.
You don't, you say, like this cruise. Now, why
I was engaged, sir, on what we call sealed orders, to sail this ship
for that gentleman where he should bid me
So far
so good. But now I find that every man before the mast knows more than I
do. I don't call that fair, now, do you
No
I don't
Next
I learn we are going after treasure -- hear
it from my own hands, mind you. Now, treasure is ticklish work; I don't
like treasure voyages on any account, and I don't like them, above all,
when they are secret and when (begging your pardon, Mr. Trelawney) the
secret has been told to the parrot
Silver's parrot
It's a way of speaking
Blabbed, I mean. It's my
belief neither of you gentlemen know what you are about, but I'll tell
you my way of it -- life or death, and a close run
That is all clear, and, I dare say, true enough
We take the risk, but we are not so ignorant as you believe us. Next,
you say you don't like the crew. Are they not good seamen
I don't like them, sir
And I think I
should have had the choosing of my own hands, if you go to that
Perhaps you should
My friend should, perhaps,
have taken you along with him; but the slight, if there be one, was
unintentional. And you don't like Mr. Arrow
I don't, sir. I believe he's a good seaman, but he's too free with
the crew to be a good officer. A mate should keep himself to
himself -- shouldn't drink with the men before the mast
Do you mean he drinks
No, sir
only that he's too familiar
Well, now, and the short and long of it, captain
Tell us what you want
Well, gentlemen, are you determined to go on this cruise
Like iron
Very good
Then, as you've heard me very patiently,
saying things that I could not prove, hear me a few words more. They are
putting the powder and the arms in the fore hold. Now, you have a good
place under the cabin; why not put them there?-- first point. Then, you
are bringing four of your own people with you, and they tell me some of
them are to be berthed forward. Why not give them the berths here beside
the cabin?-- second point
Any more
One more
There's been too much blabbing already
Far too much
I'll tell you what I've heard myself
that you have a map of an island, that there's crosses on the map to
show where treasure is, and that the island lies
I never told that
to a soul
The hands know it, sir
Livesey, that must have been you or Hawkins
It doesn't much matter who it was
Well, gentlemen
I don't know who has this
map; but I make it a point, it shall be kept secret even from me and Mr.
Arrow. Otherwise I would ask you to let me resign
I see
You wish us to keep this matter dark and to
make a garrison of the stern part of the ship, manned with my friend's
own people, and provided with all the arms and powder on board. In other
words, you fear a mutiny
Sir
with no intention to take offence, I
deny your right to put words into my mouth. No captain, sir, would be
justified in going to sea at all if he had ground enough to say that. As
for Mr. Arrow, I believe him thoroughly honest; some of the men are the
same; all may be for what I know. But I am responsible for the ship's
safety and the life of every man Jack aboard of her. I see things going,
as I think, not quite right. And I ask you to take certain precautions
or let me resign my berth. And that's all
Captain Smollett
did ever you hear
the fable of the mountain and the mouse? You'll excuse me, I dare say,
but you remind me of that fable. When you came in here, I'll stake my
wig, you meant more than this
Doctor
you are smart. When I came in here I meant
to get discharged. I had no thought that Mr. Trelawney would hear a
word
No more I would
Had Livesey not been here I should
have seen you to the deuce. As it is, I have heard you. I will do as you
desire, but I think the worse of you
That's as you please, sir
You'll find I do my
duty
Trelawney
contrary to all my notions, I believed
you have managed to get two honest men on board with you -- that man and
John Silver
Silver, if you like
but as for that intolerable
humbug, I declare I think his conduct unmanly, unsailorly, and downright
un-English
Well
we shall see
So ho, mates
What's this
We're a-changing of the powder, Jack
Why, by the powers
if we do, we'll miss the morning
tide
My orders
You may go below, my man. Hands
will want supper
Aye, aye, sir
That's a good man, captain
Very likely, sir
Easy with that,
men -- easy
Here you, ship's boy
out o' that! Off
with you to the cook and get some work
I'll have no favourites on my ship
Now, Barbecue, tip us a stave
The old one
Aye, aye, mates
Fifteen men on the dead man's chest
Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum
Ho
Overboard
Well, gentlemen, that saves the trouble
of putting him in irons
He's no common man, Barbecue
He had good
schooling in his young days and can speak like a book when so minded;
and brave -- a lion's nothing alongside of Long John! I seen him grapple
four and knock their heads together -- him unarmed
Come away, Hawkins
come and have a yarn with John.
Nobody more welcome than yourself, my son. Sit you down and hear the
news. Here's Cap'n Flint -- I calls my parrot Cap'n Flint, after the
famous buccaneer -- here's Cap'n Flint predicting success to our v'yage.
Wasn't you, cap'n
Pieces of eight! Pieces
of eight! Pieces of eight
Now, that bird
is, maybe, two hundred years
old, Hawkins -- they live forever mostly; and if anybody's seen more
wickedness, it must be the devil himself. She's sailed with England,
the great Cap'n England, the pirate. She's been at Madagascar, and at
Malabar, and Surinam, and Providence, and Portobello. She was at the
fishing up of the wrecked plate ships. It's there she learned 'Pieces
of eight,' and little wonder; three hundred and fifty thousand of 'em,
Hawkins! She was at the boarding of the viceroy of the Indies out of
Goa, she was; and to look at her you would think she was a babby. But
you smelt powder -- didn't you, cap'n
Stand by to go about
Ah, she's a handsome craft, she is
There
you can't touch pitch and not be mucked, lad. Here's this poor old
innocent bird o' mine swearing blue fire, and none the wiser, you may
lay to that. She would swear the same, in a manner of speaking, before
chaplain
She'll lie a point nearer the wind than a man
has a right to expect of his own married wife, sir. But
all I say is, we're not home again, and I don't like the cruise
A trifle more of that man
and I shall explode
Never knew good come of it yet
Spoil forecastle hands, make devils. That's my belief
NO, not I
Flint was cap'n; I was quartermaster, along
of my timber leg. The same broadside I lost my leg, old Pew lost his
deadlights. It was a master surgeon, him that ampytated me -- out of
college and all -- Latin by the bucket, and what not; but he was hanged
like a dog, and sun-dried like the rest, at Corso Castle. That
was Roberts' men, that was, and comed of changing names to their
ships -- ROYAL FORTUNE and so on. Now, what a ship was christened, so let
her stay, I says. So it was with the CASSANDRA, as brought us all safe
home from Malabar, after England took the viceroy of the Indies; so it
was with the old WALRUS, Flint's old ship, as I've seen amuck with the
red blood and fit to sink with gold
Ah
He was the flower of the flock, was
Flint
Davis was a man too, by all accounts
I never sailed
along of him; first with England, then with Flint, that's my story;
and now here on my own account, in a manner of speaking. I laid by nine
hundred safe, from England, and two thousand after Flint. That ain't bad
for a man before the mast -- all safe in bank. 'Tain't earning now, it's
saving does it, you may lay to that. Where's all England's men now? I
dunno. Where's Flint's? Why, most on 'em aboard here, and glad to get
the duff -- been begging before that, some on 'em. Old Pew, as had lost
his sight, and might have thought shame, spends twelve hundred pound in
a year, like a lord in Parliament. Where is he now? Well, he's dead now
and under hatches; but for two year before that, shiver my timbers,
the man was starving! He begged, and he stole, and he cut throats, and
starved at that, by the powers
Well, it ain't much use, after all
Tain't much use for fools, you may lay to it -- that, nor nothing
But now, you look here: you're young, you are, but you're
as smart as paint. I see that when I set my eyes on you, and I'll talk
to you like a man
Here it is about gentlemen of fortune. They lives rough, and they risk
swinging, but they eat and drink like fighting-cocks, and when a cruise
is done, why, it's hundreds of pounds instead of hundreds of farthings
in their pockets. Now, the most goes for rum and a good fling, and to
sea again in their shirts. But that's not the course I lay. I puts it
all away, some here, some there, and none too much anywheres, by reason
of suspicion. I'm fifty, mark you; once back from this cruise, I set up
gentleman in earnest. Time enough too, says you. Ah, but I've lived easy
in the meantime, never denied myself o' nothing heart desires, and slep'
soft and ate dainty all my days but when at sea. And how did I begin?
Before the mast, like you
Well
but all the other money's gone now, ain't it?
You daren't show face in Bristol after this
Why, where might you suppose it was
At Bristol, in banks and places
It were
it were when we weighed anchor. But my old
missis has it all by now. And the Spy-glass is sold, lease and goodwill
and rigging; and the old girl's off to meet me. I would tell you where,
for I trust you, but it'd make jealousy among the mates
And can you trust your missis
Gentlemen of fortune
usually trusts little among
themselves, and right they are, you may lay to it. But I have a way with
me, I have. When a mate brings a slip on his cable -- one as knows me, I
mean -- it won't be in the same world with old John. There was some that
was feared of Pew, and some that was feared of Flint; but Flint his own
self was feared of me. Feared he was, and proud. They was the roughest
crew afloat, was Flint's; the devil himself would have been feared to go
to sea with them. Well now, I tell you, I'm not a boasting man, and you
seen yourself how easy I keep company, but when I was quartermaster,
LAMBS wasn't the word for Flint's old buccaneers. Ah, you may be sure of
yourself in old John's ship
Well, I tell you now
I didn't half a quarter like
the job till I had this talk with you, John; but there's my hand on it
now
And a brave lad you were, and smart too
and a finer figurehead for
a gentleman of fortune I never clapped my eyes on
Dick's square
Oh, I know'd Dick was square
He's no fool, is Dick
But look here
here's what I want to know, Barbecue: how
long are we a-going to stand off and on like a blessed bumboat? I've had
a'most enough o' Cap'n Smollett; he's hazed me long enough, by thunder!
I want to go into that cabin, I do. I want their pickles and wines, and
that
Israel
your head ain't much account, nor ever was. But
you're able to hear, I reckon; leastways, your ears is big enough.
Now, here's what I say: you'll berth forward, and you'll live hard, and
you'll speak soft, and you'll keep sober till I give the word; and you
may lay to that, my son
Well, I don't say no, do I
What I say is,
when? That's what I say
When! By the powers
Well now, if you want to know,
I'll tell you when. The last moment I can manage, and that's when.
Here's a first-rate seaman, Cap'n Smollett, sails the blessed ship for
us. Here's this squire and doctor with a map and such -- I don't know
where it is, do I? No more do you, says you. Well then, I mean this
squire and doctor shall find the stuff, and help us to get it aboard,
by the powers. Then we'll see. If I was sure of you all, sons of double
Dutchmen, I'd have Cap'n Smollett navigate us half-way back again before
I struck
Why, we're all seamen aboard here, I should think
We're all forecastle hands, you mean
We can steer
a course, but who's to set one? That's what all you gentlemen split on,
first and last. If I had my way, I'd have Cap'n Smollett work us back
into the trades at least; then we'd have no blessed miscalculations and
a spoonful of water a day. But I know the sort you are. I'll finish with
'em at the island, as soon's the blunt's on board, and a pity it is. But
you're never happy till you're drunk. Split my sides, I've a sick heart
to sail with the likes of you
Easy all, Long John
Who's a-crossin' of you
Why, how many tall ships, think ye, now, have I seen laid aboard? And
how many brisk lads drying in the sun at Execution Dock
And all for this same hurry and hurry and hurry. You hear me? I seen
a thing or two at sea, I have. If you would on'y lay your course, and a
p'int to windward, you would ride in carriages, you would. But not you!
I know you. You'll have your mouthful of rum tomorrow, and go hang
Everybody knowed you was a kind of a chapling, John; but there's others
as could hand and steer as well as you
They liked a bit
o' fun, they did. They wasn't so high and dry, nohow, but took their
fling, like jolly companions every one
So
Well, and where are they now? Pew was that sort,
and he died a beggar-man. Flint was, and he died of rum at Savannah. Ah,
they was a sweet crew, they was! On'y, where are they
But
when we do lay 'em athwart, what are we to do with
'em, anyhow
There's the man for me
That's what I call
business. Well, what would you think? Put 'em ashore like maroons? That
would have been England's way. Or cut 'em down like that much pork? That
would have been Flint's, or Billy Bones's
Billy was the man for that
Dead men don't bite,' says
he. Well, he's dead now hisself; he knows the long and short on it now;
and if ever a rough hand come to port, it was Billy
Right you are
rough and ready. But mark you here,
I'm an easy man -- I'm quite the gentleman, says you; but this time it's
serious. Dooty is dooty, mates. I give my vote -- death. When I'm in
Parlyment and riding in my coach, I don't want none of these sea-lawyers
in the cabin a-coming home, unlooked for, like the devil at prayers.
Wait is what I say; but when the time comes, why, let her rip
John
you're a man
You'll say so, Israel when you see
Only one thing I
claim -- I claim Trelawney. I'll wring his calf's head off his body with
these hands, Dick
You just jump up, like a
sweet lad, and get me an apple, to wet my pipe like
Oh, stow that! Don't you get sucking of
that bilge, John. Let's have a go of the rum
Dick
I trust you. I've a gauge on the keg, mind.
There's the key; you fill a pannikin and bring it up
Not
another man of them'll jine
To luck
Here's to old Flint
Here's to ourselves, and hold your
luff, plenty of prizes and plenty of duff
Land ho
And now, men
has any
one of you ever seen that land ahead
I have, sir
I've watered there with a trader I was cook
in
The anchorage is on the south, behind an islet, I fancy
Yes, sir; Skeleton Island they calls it. It were a main place for
pirates once, and a hand we had on board knowed all their names for it.
That hill to the nor'ard they calls the Fore-mast Hill; there are three
hills in a row running south'ard -- fore, main, and mizzen, sir. But the
main -- that's the big un, with the cloud on it -- they usually calls
the Spy-glass, by reason of a lookout they kept when they was in the
anchorage cleaning, for it's there they cleaned their ships, sir, asking
your pardon
I have a chart here
See if that's the place
Yes, sir
this is the spot, to be sure, and very prettily
drawed out. Who might have done that, I wonder? The pirates were too
ignorant, I reckon. Aye, here it is: 'Capt. Kidd's Anchorage'-- just
the name my shipmate called it. There's a strong current runs along the
south, and then away nor'ard up the west coast. Right you was, sir
to haul your wind and keep the weather of the island.
Leastways, if such was your intention as to enter and careen, and there
ain't no better place for that in these waters
Thank you, my man
I'll ask you later on to
give us a help. You may go
Ah
this here is a sweet spot, this island -- a sweet spot for
a lad to get ashore on. You'll bathe, and you'll climb trees, and you'll
hunt goats, you will; and you'll get aloft on them hills like a goat
yourself. Why, it makes me young again. I was going to forget my timber
leg, I was. It's a pleasant thing to be young and have ten toes, and you
may lay to that. When you want to go a bit of exploring, you just ask
old John, and he'll put up a snack for you to take along
Doctor, let me speak. Get
the captain and squire down to the cabin, and then make some pretence to
send for me. I have terrible news
Thank you, Jim
that was all I wanted to know
My lads
I've a word to say to you. This
land that we have sighted is the place we have been sailing for. Mr.
Trelawney, being a very open-handed gentleman, as we all know, has just
asked me a word or two, and as I was able to tell him that every man on
board had done his duty, alow and aloft, as I never ask to see it done
better, why, he and I and the doctor are going below to the cabin to
drink YOUR health and luck, and you'll have grog served out for you to
drink OUR health and luck. I'll tell you what I think of this: I think
it handsome. And if you think as I do, you'll give a good sea-cheer for
the gentleman that does it
One more cheer for Cap'n Smollett
Now, Hawkins
you have something to say. Speak up
Jim
take a seat
Now, captain
you were right, and I was wrong. I own
myself an ass, and I await your orders
No more an ass than I, sir
I never heard of a
crew that meant to mutiny but what showed signs before, for any man that
had an eye in his head to see the mischief and take steps according. But
this crew
beats me
Captain
with your permission, that's Silver. A very
remarkable man
He'd look remarkably well from a yard-arm, sir
But this is talk; this don't lead to anything. I see three or four
points, and with Mr. Trelawney's permission, I'll name them
You, sir, are the captain. It is for you to speak
First point
We must go on, because we can't turn
back. If I gave the word to go about, they would rise at once. Second
point, we have time before us -- at least until this treasure's found.
Third point, there are faithful hands. Now, sir, it's got to come
to blows sooner or later, and what I propose is to take time by the
forelock, as the saying is, and come to blows some fine day when they
least expect it. We can count, I take it, on your own home servants, Mr.
Trelawney
As upon myself
Three
ourselves make seven, counting Hawkins
here. Now, about the honest hands
Most likely Trelawney's own men
those he had picked
up for himself before he lit on Silver
Nay
Hands was one of mine
I did think I could have trusted Hands
And to think that they're all Englishmen
Sir,
I could find it in my heart to blow the ship up
Well, gentlemen
the best that I can say is not
much. We must lay to, if you please, and keep a bright lookout. It's
trying on a man, I know. It would be pleasanter to come to blows. But
there's no help for it till we know our men. Lay to, and whistle for a
wind, that's my view
Jim here
can help us more than anyone. The men are
not shy with him, and Jim is a noticing lad
Hawkins, I put prodigious faith in you
Well
it's not forever
There's a strong scour with the ebb
and this here passage
has been dug out, in a manner of speaking, with a spade
I don't know about treasure
but I'll stake my wig there's
fever here
Aye, aye, sir
Sir
if I risk another order, the whole ship'll
come about our ears by the run. You see, sir, here it is. I get a rough
answer, do I not? Well, if I speak back, pikes will be going in two
shakes; if I don't, Silver will see there's something under that, and
the game's up. Now, we've only one man to rely on
And who is that
Silver, sir
he's as anxious as you and I to
smother things up. This is a tiff; he'd soon talk 'em out of it if he
had the chance, and what I propose to do is to give him the chance.
Let's allow the men an afternoon ashore. If they all go, why we'll fight
the ship. If they none of them go, well then, we hold the cabin, and God
defend the right. If some go, you mark my words, sir, Silver'll bring
'em aboard again as mild as lambs
My lads
we've had a hot day and are all tired and out of
sorts. A turn ashore'll hurt nobody -- the boats are still in the water;
you can take the gigs, and as many as please may go ashore for the
afternoon. I'll fire a gun half an hour before sundown
Is that you, Jim?
Keep your head down
Jim, Jim
Mate
it's because I thinks gold dust of you -- gold
dust, and you may lay to that! If I hadn't took to you like pitch, do
you think I'd have been here a-warning of you? All's up -- you can't make
nor mend; it's to save your neck that I'm a-speaking, and if one of the
wild uns knew it, where'd I be, Tom -- now, tell me, where'd I be
Silver
Silver
you're old, and you're honest, or has the
name for it; and you've money too, which lots of poor sailors hasn't;
and you're brave, or I'm mistook. And will you tell me you'll let
yourself be led away with that kind of a mess of swabs? Not you! As sure
as God sees me, I'd sooner lose my hand. If I turn agin my dooty
John
Hands off
Hands off, if you like, John Silver
It's a black
conscience that can make you feared of me. But in heaven's name, tell
me, what was that
That
That? Oh, I reckon that'll be Alan
Alan
Then rest his soul for a true seaman! And as for you,
John Silver, long you've been a mate of mine, but you're mate of mine
no more. If I die like a dog, I'll die in my dooty. You've killed Alan,
have you? Kill me too, if you can. But I defies you
Who are you
Ben Gunn
I'm poor Ben Gunn, I am; and I haven't spoke with a
Christian these three years
Three years
Were you shipwrecked
Nay, mate
marooned
Marooned three years agone
and lived on goats since
then, and berries, and oysters. Wherever a man is, says I, a man can
do for himself. But, mate, my heart is sore for Christian diet. You
mightn't happen to have a piece of cheese about you, now? No? Well,
many's the long night I've dreamed of cheese -- toasted, mostly -- and woke
up again, and here I were
If ever I can get aboard again
you shall have cheese by the
stone
If ever you can get aboard again, says you
Why, now,
who's to hinder you
Not you, I know
And right you was
Now you -- what do you call yourself,
mate
Jim
Jim, Jim
Well, now, Jim, I've
lived that rough as you'd be ashamed to hear of. Now, for instance, you
wouldn't think I had had a pious mother -- to look at me
Why, no, not in particular
Ah, well
but I had -- remarkable pious. And I was a civil,
pious boy, and could rattle off my catechism that fast, as you couldn't
tell one word from another. And here's what it come to, Jim, and it
begun with chuck-farthen on the blessed grave-stones! That's what it
begun with, but it went further'n that; and so my mother told me, and
predicked the whole, she did, the pious woman! But it were Providence
that put me here. I've thought it all out in this here lonely island,
and I'm back on piety. You don't catch me tasting rum so much, but just
a thimbleful for luck, of course, the first chance I have. I'm bound
I'll be good, and I see the way to. And, Jim
I'm rich
Rich! Rich! I says. And I'll tell you what: I'll make
a man of you, Jim. Ah, Jim, you'll bless your stars, you will, you was
the first that found me
Now, Jim, you tell me true: that ain't Flint's ship
It's not Flint's ship, and Flint is dead; but I'll tell you true, as
you ask me -- there are some of Flint's hands aboard; worse luck for the
rest of us
Not a man -- with one -- leg
Silver
Ah, Silver
That were his name
He's the cook, and the ringleader too
If you was sent by Long John
I'm as good as pork, and I
know it. But where was you, do you suppose
You're a good lad, Jim
and you're all in a clove hitch,
ain't you? Well, you just put your trust in Ben Gunn -- Ben Gunn's the man
to do it. Would you think it likely, now, that your squire would prove
a liberal-minded one in case of help -- him being in a clove hitch, as you
remark
Aye, but you see
I didn't mean giving me a gate
to keep, and a suit of livery clothes, and such; that's not my mark,
Jim. What I mean is, would he be likely to come down to the toon of, say
one thousand pounds out of money that's as good as a man's own already
I am sure he would
As it was, all hands were to share
AND a passage home
Why
the squire's a gentleman. And besides, if we got rid of
the others, we should want you to help work the vessel home
Ah
so you would
Now, I'll tell you what
So much I'll tell you, and no
more. I were in Flint's ship when he buried the treasure; he and
six along -- six strong seamen. They was ashore nigh on a week, and us
standing off and on in the old WALRUS. One fine day up went the signal,
and here come Flint by himself in a little boat, and his head done up in
a blue scarf. The sun was getting up, and mortal white he looked about
the cutwater. But, there he was, you mind, and the six all dead -- dead
and buried. How he done it, not a man aboard us could make out. It was
battle, murder, and sudden death, leastways -- him against six. Billy
Bones was the mate; Long John, he was quartermaster; and they asked him
where the treasure was. 'Ah,' says he, 'you can go ashore, if you like,
and stay,' he says; 'but as for the ship, she'll beat up for more, by
thunder!' That's what he said.

"Well, I was in another ship three years back, and we sighted this
island. 'Boys,' said I, 'here's Flint's treasure; let's land and find
it.' The cap'n was displeased at that, but my messmates were all of a
mind and landed. Twelve days they looked for it, and every day they had
the worse word for me, until one fine morning all hands went aboard. 'As
for you, Benjamin Gunn,' says they, 'here's a musket,' they says, 'and
a spade, and pick-axe. You can stay here and find Flint's money for
yourself,' they says.

"Well, Jim, three years have I been here, and not a bite of Christian
diet from that day to this. But now, you look here; look at me. Do I
look like a man before the mast? No, says you. Nor I weren't, neither, I
says
Just you mention them words to your squire, Jim
Nor he
weren't, neither -- that's the words. Three years he were the man of this
island, light and dark, fair and rain; and sometimes he would maybe
think upon a prayer (says you), and sometimes he would maybe think of
his old mother, so be as she's alive (you'll say); but the most part
of Gunn's time (this is what you'll say)-- the most part of his time was
took up with another matter. And then you'll give him a nip, like I do
Then
then you'll up, and you'll say this: Gunn is a
good man (you'll say), and he puts a precious sight more confidence -- a
precious sight, mind that -- in a gen'leman born than in these gen'leman
of fortune, having been one hisself
Well
I don't understand one word that you've been saying.
But that's neither here nor there; for how am I to get on board
Ah
that's the hitch, for sure. Well, there's my boat, that
I made with my two hands. I keep her under the white rock. If the worst
come to the worst, we might try that after dark. Hi
What's that
They have begun to fight
Follow me
Left, left
keep to your left hand, mate Jim! Under the
trees with you! Theer's where I killed my first goat. They don't come
down here now; they're all mastheaded on them mountings for the fear
of Benjamin Gunn. Ah! And there's the cetemery
You see the mounds? I come here and prayed, nows and thens, when
I thought maybe a Sunday would be about doo. It weren't quite a chapel,
but it seemed more solemn like; and then, says you, Ben Gunn was
short-handed -- no chapling, nor so much as a Bible and a flag, you says
Lillibullero
Lillibullero
Lillibullero
Jim Hawkins is gone
There's a man
new to
this work. He came nigh-hand fainting, doctor, when he heard the cry.
Another touch of the rudder and that man would join us
Mr. Hands
here are two of us with a brace of pistols each.
If any one of you six make a signal of any description, that man's
dead
Down, dog
Now, men
do you hear me
It's to you, Abraham Gray -- it's to you I am speaking
Gray
I am leaving this ship,
and I order you to follow your captain. I know you are a good man at
bottom, and I dare say not one of the lot of you's as bad as he makes
out. I have my watch here in my hand; I give you thirty seconds to join
me in
Come, my fine fellow
don't hang so long in
stays. I'm risking my life and the lives of these good gentlemen every
second
I'm with you, sir
I cannot keep her head for the stockade, sir
The tide keeps washing her down. Could you pull a little stronger
Not without swamping the boat
You must bear up, sir, if you
please -- bear up until you see you're gaining
We'll never get ashore at this rate
If it's the only course that we can lie, sir, we must even lie it
We must keep upstream. You see, sir
if once we dropped to leeward of the landing-place, it's hard to say
where we should get ashore, besides the chance of being boarded by the
gigs; whereas, the way we go the current must slacken, and then we can
dodge back along the shore
The current's less a'ready, sir
you can ease her off a bit
Thank you, my man
The gun
I have thought of that
They could never get the gun ashore, and if
they did, they could never haul it through the woods
Look astern, doctor
Israel was Flint's gunner
Who's the best shot
Mr. Trelawney, out and away
Mr. Trelawney, will you please pick me off one of these men, sir?
Hands, if possible
Now
easy with that gun, sir, or you'll swamp the
boat. All hands stand by to trim her when he aims
Here come the gigs, sir
Give way, then
We mustn't mind if we swamp her
now. If we can't get ashore, all's up
Only one of the gigs is being manned, sir
the crew of the
other most likely going round by shore to cut us off
They'll have a hot run, sir
Jack ashore, you
know. It's not them I mind; it's the round-shot. Carpet bowls! My lady's
maid couldn't miss. Tell us, squire, when you see the match, and we'll
hold water
If I durst
I'd stop and pick off another man
Ready
Hold
Captain
Trelawney is the dead shot. Give him your gun; his
own is useless
Be I going, doctor
Tom, my man
you're going home
I wish I had had a lick at them with the gun first
Tom
say you forgive me, won't you
Would that be respectful like, from me to you, squire
Howsoever, so be it, amen
It's the custom, sir
Don't you take on, sir
All's
well with him; no fear for a hand that's been shot down in his duty to
captain and owner. It mayn't be good divinity, but it's a fact
Dr. Livesey
in how many weeks do you and squire expect the
consort
You can calculate for yourself
Why, yes
and making a
large allowance, sir, for all the gifts of Providence, I should say we
were pretty close hauled
How do you mean
It's a pity, sir, we lost that second load. That's what I mean
As for powder and shot, we'll do. But the rations
are short, very short -- so short, Dr. Livesey, that we're perhaps as well
without that extra mouth
Oho
Blaze away! You've little enough powder
already, my lads
Captain
the house is quite invisible from the ship.
It must be the flag they are aiming at. Would it not be wiser to take it
in
Strike my colours
There is one good thing about all this
the
wood in front of us is likely clear. The ebb has made a good while; our
stores should be uncovered. Volunteers to go and bring in pork
Somebody hailing us
Doctor! Squire! Captain! Hullo, Hunter, is that you
Now
there's your friends, sure enough
Far more likely it's the mutineers
That
Why, in a place like this, where nobody puts in but
gen'lemen of fortune, Silver would fly the Jolly Roger, you don't make
no doubt of that. No, that's your friends. There's been blows too, and I
reckon your friends has had the best of it; and here they are ashore in
the old stockade, as was made years and years ago by Flint. Ah, he was
the man to have a headpiece, was Flint! Barring rum, his match were
never seen. He were afraid of none, not he; on'y Silver -- Silver was that
genteel
Well
that may be so, and so be it; all the more reason that
I should hurry on and join my friends
Nay, mate
not you. You're a good boy, or I'm mistook;
but you're on'y a boy, all told. Now, Ben Gunn is fly. Rum wouldn't
bring me there, where you're going -- not rum wouldn't, till I see your
born gen'leman and gets it on his word of honour. And you won't forget
my words; 'A precious sight (that's what you'll say), a precious sight
more confidence'-- and then nips him
And when Ben Gunn is wanted, you know where to find him, Jim. Just
wheer you found him today. And him that comes is to have a white thing
in his hand, and he's to come alone. Oh! And you'll say this: 'Ben
Gunn,' says you, 'has reasons of his own
Well
I believe I understand. You have something to propose,
and you wish to see the squire or the doctor, and you're to be found
where I found you. Is that all
And when? says you
Why, from about noon observation to
about six bells
Good
and now may I go
You won't forget
Precious sight, and reasons
of his own, says you. Reasons of his own; that's the mainstay; as
between man and man. Well, then
I reckon you can
go, Jim. And, Jim, if you was to see Silver, you wouldn't go for to sell
Ben Gunn? Wild horses wouldn't draw it from you? No, says you. And if
them pirates camp ashore, Jim, what would you say but there'd be widders
in the morning
to her bearings
That man Smollett
is a better man than I am. And when
I say that it means a deal, Jim
Is this Ben Gunn a man
I do not know, sir
I am not very sure whether he's sane
If there's any doubt about the matter, he is
A
man who has been three years biting his nails on a desert island, Jim,
can't expect to appear as sane as you or me. It doesn't lie in human
nature. Was it cheese you said he had a fancy for
Yes, sir, cheese
Well, Jim
just see the good that comes of being dainty in
your food. You've seen my snuff-box, haven't you? And you never saw me
take snuff, the reason being that in my snuff-box I carry a piece of
Parmesan cheese -- a cheese made in Italy, very nutritious. Well, that's
for Ben Gunn
must get back to this tomorrow rather
livelier
So
if we are not all shot down first they'll be glad to
be packing in the schooner. It's always a ship, and they can get to
buccaneering again, I suppose
First ship that ever I lost
Flag of truce
Silver himself
Keep indoors, men
Ten to one this is a trick
Who goes? Stand, or we fire
Flag of truce
Doctor's watch on the lookout. Dr. Livesey take the north side,
if you please; Jim, the east; Gray, west. The watch below, all hands to
load muskets. Lively, men, and careful
And what do you want with your flag of truce
Cap'n Silver, sir, to come on board and make terms
Cap'n Silver! Don't know him. Who's he
Cap'n, is it? My heart, and here's
promotion
Me, sir. These poor lads have chosen me
cap'n, after your desertion, sir
desertion
We're willing to submit, if we can come to terms,
and no bones about it. All I ask is your word, Cap'n Smollett, to let me
safe and sound out of this here stockade, and one minute to get out o'
shot before a gun is fired
My man
I have not the slightest desire to
talk to you. If you wish to talk to me, you can come, that's all. If
there's any treachery, it'll be on your side, and the Lord help you
That's enough, cap'n
A word from you's
enough. I know a gentleman, and you may lay to that
Come, Lasses and Lads
Here you are, my man
You had
better sit down
You ain't a-going to let me inside, cap'n
It's
a main cold morning, to be sure, sir, to sit outside upon the sand
Why, Silver
if you had pleased to be an honest
man, you might have been sitting in your galley. It's your own doing.
You're either my ship's cook -- and then you were treated handsome -- or
Cap'n Silver, a common mutineer and pirate, and then you can go hang
Well, well, cap'n
you'll have to give me a hand up again, that's all.
A sweet pretty place you have of it here. Ah, there's Jim! The top of
the morning to you, Jim. Doctor, here's my service. Why, there you all
are together like a happy family, in a manner of speaking
If you have anything to say, my man, better say it
Right you were, Cap'n Smollett
Dooty is dooty, to be
sure. Well now, you look here, that was a good lay of yours last
night. I don't deny it was a good lay. Some of you pretty handy with a
handspike-end. And I'll not deny neither but what some of my people was
shook -- maybe all was shook; maybe I was shook myself; maybe that's
why I'm here for terms. But you mark me, cap'n, it won't do twice, by
thunder! We'll have to do sentry-go and ease off a point or so on the
rum. Maybe you think we were all a sheet in the wind's eye. But I'll
tell you I was sober; I was on'y dog tired; and if I'd awoke a second
sooner, I'd 'a caught you at the act, I would. He wasn't dead when I got
round to him, not he
Well
Well, here it is
We want that treasure, and we'll have
it -- that's our point! You would just as soon save your lives, I reckon;
and that's yours. You have a chart, haven't you
That's as may be
Oh, well, you have, I know that
You needn't be
so husky with a man; there ain't a particle of service in that, and you
may lay to it. What I mean is, we want your chart. Now, I never meant
you no harm, myself
That won't do with me, my man
We know
exactly what you meant to do, and we don't care, for now, you see, you
can't do it
If Abe Gray
Avast there
Gray told me nothing, and I asked
him nothing; and what's more, I would see you and him and this whole
island blown clean out of the water into blazes first. So there's my
mind for you, my man, on that
Like enough
I would set no limits to what gentlemen might
consider shipshape, or might not, as the case were. And seein' as how
you are about to take a pipe, cap'n, I'll make so free as do likewise
Now
here it is. You give us the chart to get the
treasure by, and drop shooting poor seamen and stoving of their heads in
while asleep. You do that, and we'll offer you a choice. Either you come
aboard along of us, once the treasure shipped, and then I'll give you my
affy-davy, upon my word of honour, to clap you somewhere safe ashore. Or
if that ain't to your fancy, some of my hands being rough and having
old scores on account of hazing, then you can stay here, you can. We'll
divide stores with you, man for man; and I'll give my affy-davy, as
before to speak the first ship I sight, and send 'em here to pick you
up. Now, you'll own that's talking. Handsomer you couldn't look to get,
now you. And I hope
that all hands in this here
block house will overhaul my words, for what is spoke to one is spoke to
all
Is that all
Every last word, by thunder
Refuse that, and you've
seen the last of me but musket-balls
Very good
Now you'll hear me. If you'll come up
one by one, unarmed, I'll engage to clap you all in irons and take you
home to a fair trial in England. If you won't, my name is Alexander
Smollett, I've flown my sovereign's colours, and I'll see you all
to Davy Jones. You can't find the treasure. You can't sail the
ship -- there's not a man among you fit to sail the ship. You can't fight
us -- Gray, there, got away from five of you. Your ship's in irons, Master
Silver; you're on a lee shore, and so you'll find. I stand here and tell
you so; and they're the last good words you'll get from me, for in the
name of heaven, I'll put a bullet in your back when next I meet you.
Tramp, my lad. Bundle out of this, please, hand over hand, and double
quick
Give me a hand up
Not I
Who'll give me a hand up
There
That's what I think of ye. Before an hour's out,
I'll stove in your old block house like a rum puncheon. Laugh, by
thunder, laugh! Before an hour's out, ye'll laugh upon the other side.
Them that die'll be the lucky ones
Quarters
Gray
I'll put your name in the log; you've stood by your
duty like a seaman. Mr. Trelawney, I'm surprised at you, sir. Doctor,
I thought you had worn the king's coat! If that was how you served at
Fontenoy, sir, you'd have been better in your berth
My lads
I've given Silver a broadside. I pitched it in
red-hot on purpose; and before the hour's out, as he said, we shall be
boarded. We're outnumbered, I needn't tell you that, but we fight in
shelter; and a minute ago I should have said we fought with discipline.
I've no manner of doubt that we can drub them, if you choose
Toss out the fire
the chill is past, and we
mustn't have smoke in our eyes
Hawkins hasn't had his breakfast. Hawkins, help yourself, and back to
your post to eat it
Lively, now, my lad;
you'll want it before you've done. Hunter, serve out a round of brandy
to all hands
Doctor, you will take the door
See, and don't expose
yourself; keep within, and fire through the porch. Hunter, take the east
side, there. Joyce, you stand by the west, my man. Mr. Trelawney, you
are the best shot -- you and Gray will take this long north side, with the
five loopholes; it's there the danger is. If they can get up to it and
fire in upon us through our own ports, things would begin to look dirty.
Hawkins, neither you nor I are much account at the shooting; we'll stand
by to load and bear a hand
Hang them
This is as dull as the doldrums. Gray,
whistle for a wind
If you please, sir
if I see anyone, am I to fire
I told you so
Thank you, sir
Did you hit your man
No, sir
I believe not, sir
Next best thing to tell the truth
Load
his gun, Hawkins. How many should say there were on your side, doctor
I know precisely
Three shots were fired on this
side. I saw the three flashes -- two close together -- one farther to the
west
Three
And how many on yours, Mr. Trelawney
At 'em, all hands -- all hands
Out, lads, out, and fight 'em in the open! Cutlasses
Round the house, lads! Round the house
Fire -- fire from the house
And you, lads, back into
cover
The captain's wounded
Have they run
All that could, you may be bound
but there's
five of them will never run again
Five
Come, that's better. Five against three
leaves us four to nine. That's better odds than we had at starting. We
were seven to nineteen then, or thought we were, and that's as bad to
bear
got their rations for that day
Why, in the name of Davy Jones
is Dr. Livesey mad
Why no
He's about the last of this crew for that, I take
it
Well, shipmate
mad he may not be; but if HE'S not, you
mark my words, I am
I take it
the doctor has his idea; and if I am right,
he's going now to see Ben Gunn
queer
to handle till you knew her way
But one man of her crew alive,
     What put to sea with seventy-five
Fifteen men on the dead man's chest --
              Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!
           Drink and the devil had done for the rest --
              Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum
Well, now
it is plain I must lie where I am and
not disturb the balance; but it is plain also that I can put the paddle
over the side and from time to time, in smooth places, give her a shove
or two towards land
Clumsy fellows
they must still be drunk as owls
Come aboard, Mr. Hands
Brandy
Aye
by thunder, but I wanted some o' that
Much hurt
If that doctor was aboard
I'd be right enough in a couple
of turns, but I don't have no manner of luck, you see, and that's what's
the matter with me. As for that swab, he's good and dead, he is
He warn't no seaman anyhow.
And where mought you have come from
Well
I've come aboard to take possession of this ship,
Mr. Hands; and you'll please regard me as your captain until further
notice
By the by
I can't have these colours, Mr. Hands; and by
your leave, I'll strike 'em. Better none than these
God save the king
And there's an end to
Captain Silver
I reckon
I reckon, Cap'n Hawkins, you'll kind of
want to get ashore now. S'pose we talks
Why, yes
with all my heart, Mr. Hands. Say on
This man
O'Brien were his
name, a rank Irelander -- this man and me got the canvas on her, meaning
for to sail her back. Well, HE'S dead now, he is -- as dead as bilge; and
who's to sail this ship, I don't see. Without I gives you a hint, you
ain't that man, as far's I can tell. Now, look here, you gives me food
and drink and a old scarf or ankecher to tie my wound up, you do, and
I'll tell you how to sail her, and that's about square all round, I take
it
I'll tell you one thing
I'm not going back to Captain Kidd's
anchorage. I mean to get into North Inlet and beach her quietly there
To be sure you did
Why, I ain't sich an infernal lubber
after all. I can see, can't I? I've tried my fling, I have, and I've
lost, and it's you has the wind of me. North Inlet? Why, I haven't no
ch'ice, not I! I'd help you sail her up to Execution Dock, by thunder!
So I would
Cap'n
here's
my old shipmate, O'Brien; s'pose you was to heave him overboard. I ain't
partic'lar as a rule, and I don't take no blame for settling his hash,
but I don't reckon him ornamental now, do you
I'm not strong enough, and I don't like the job; and there he lies, for
me
This here's an unlucky ship, this HISPANIOLA, Jim
There's a power of men been killed in this HISPANIOLA -- a
sight o' poor seamen dead and gone since you and me took ship to
Bristol. I never seen sich dirty luck, not I. There was this here
O'Brien now -- he's dead, ain't he? Well now, I'm no scholar, and you're a
lad as can read and figure, and to put it straight, do you take it as a
dead man is dead for good, or do he come alive again
You can kill the body, Mr. Hands, but not the spirit; you must know
that already
O'Brien there is in another world, and may be
watching us
Ah
Well, that's unfort'nate -- appears as if killing parties
was a waste of time. Howsomever, sperrits don't reckon for much, by what
I've seen. I'll chance it with the sperrits, Jim. And now, you've spoke
up free, and I'll take it kind if you'd step down into that there cabin
and get me a -- well, a -- shiver my timbers! I can't hit the name on 't;
well, you get me a bottle of wine, Jim -- this here brandy's too strong
for my head
Some wine
Far better. Will you have white or red
Well, I reckon it's about the blessed same to me, shipmate
so it's strong, and plenty of it, what's the odds
All right
I'll bring you port, Mr. Hands. But I'll have
to dig for it
Here's luck
Cut me a junk o' that
for I haven't no knife and hardly
strength enough, so be as I had. Ah, Jim, Jim, I reckon I've missed
stays! Cut me a quid, as'll likely be the last, lad, for I'm for my long
home, and no mistake
Well
I'll cut you some tobacco, but if I was you and thought
myself so badly, I would go to my prayers like a Christian man
Why
Now, you tell me why
Why
You were asking me just now about the dead. You've
broken your trust; you've lived in sin and lies and blood; there's a man
you killed lying at your feet this moment, and you ask me why! For God's
mercy, Mr. Hands, that's why
For thirty years
I've sailed the seas and seen good and
bad, better and worse, fair weather and foul, provisions running out,
knives going, and what not. Well, now I tell you, I never seen good come
o' goodness yet. Him as strikes first is my fancy; dead men don't bite;
them's my views -- amen, so be it. And now, you look here
we've had about enough of this foolery. The
tide's made good enough by now. You just take my orders, Cap'n Hawkins,
and we'll sail slap in and be done with it
Now
look there; there's a pet bit for to beach a ship
in. Fine flat sand, never a cat's paw, trees all around of it, and
flowers a-blowing like a garding on that old ship
And once beached
how shall we get her off again
Why, so
you take a line ashore there on the other side
at low water, take a turn about one of them big pines; bring it back,
take a turn around the capstan, and lie to for the tide. Come high
water, all hands take a pull upon the line, and off she comes as sweet
as natur'. And now, boy, you stand by. We're near the bit now, and she's
too much way on her. Starboard a little -- so -- steady -- starboard -- larboard
a little -- steady -- steady
Now, my hearty, luff
One more step, Mr. Hands
and I'll blow your brains out! Dead
men don't bite, you know
Jim
I reckon we're fouled, you and me, and we'll have to
sign articles. I'd have had you but for that there lurch, but I don't
have no luck, not I; and I reckon I'll have to strike, which comes hard,
you see, for a master mariner to a ship's younker like you, Jim
All's
well
Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight!
Pieces of eight
Who goes
Bring a torch, Dick
So
here's Jim Hawkins, shiver my timbers! Dropped in, like,
eh? Well, come, I take that friendly
Give me a loan of the link, Dick
That'll do, lad
stick the glim in the wood
heap; and you, gentlemen, bring yourselves to! You needn't stand up
for Mr. Hawkins; HE'LL excuse you, you may lay to that. And so,
Jim
here you were, and quite a pleasant
surprise for poor old John. I see you were smart when first I set my
eyes on you, but this here gets away from me clean, it do
Now, you see, Jim, so be as you ARE here
I'll give you a
piece of my mind. I've always liked you, I have, for a lad of spirit,
and the picter of my own self when I was young and handsome. I always
wanted you to jine and take your share, and die a gentleman, and now, my
cock, you've got to. Cap'n Smollett's a fine seaman, as I'll own up to
any day, but stiff on discipline. 'Dooty is dooty,' says he, and right
he is. Just you keep clear of the cap'n. The doctor himself is gone dead
again you --'ungrateful scamp' was what he said; and the short and the
long of the whole story is about here: you can't go back to your own
lot, for they won't have you; and without you start a third ship's
company all by yourself, which might be lonely, you'll have to jine with
Cap'n Silver
I don't say nothing as to your being in our hands
though there you are, and you may lay to it. I'm all for argyment; I
never seen good come out o' threatening. If you like the service, well,
you'll jine; and if you don't, Jim, why, you're free to answer no -- free
and welcome, shipmate; and if fairer can be said by mortal seaman,
shiver my sides
Am I to answer, then
Lad
no one's a-pressing of you. Take your bearings.
None of us won't hurry you, mate; time goes so pleasant in your company,
you see
Well
if I'm to choose, I declare I
have a right to know what's what, and why you're here, and where my
friends are
Wot's wot
Ah, he'd
be a lucky one as knowed that
You'll perhaps batten down your hatches till you're spoke to, my
friend
Yesterday morning, Mr.
Hawkins
in the dog-watch, down came Doctor Livesey with a
flag of truce. Says he, 'Cap'n Silver, you're sold out. Ship's gone.'
Well, maybe we'd been taking a glass, and a song to help it round. I
won't say no. Leastways, none of us had looked out. We looked out, and
by thunder, the old ship was gone! I never seen a pack o' fools look
fishier; and you may lay to that, if I tells you that looked the
fishiest. 'Well,' says the doctor, 'let's bargain.' We bargained, him
and I, and here we are: stores, brandy, block house, the firewood you
was thoughtful enough to cut, and in a manner of speaking, the whole
blessed boat, from cross-trees to kelson. As for them, they've tramped;
I don't know where's they are
And lest you should take it into that head of yours
that
you was included in the treaty, here's the last word that was said: 'How
many are you,' says I, 'to leave?' 'Four,' says he; 'four, and one of us
wounded. As for that boy, I don't know where he is, confound him,' says
he, 'nor I don't much care. We're about sick of him.' These was his
words.

"Is that all
Well, it's all that you're to hear, my son
And now I am to choose
And now you are to choose, and you may lay to that
Well
I am not such a fool but I know pretty well what I have
to look for. Let the worst come to the worst, it's little I care. I've
seen too many die since I fell in with you. But there's a thing or two
I have to tell you
and
the first is this: here you are, in a bad way -- ship lost, treasure lost,
men lost, your whole business gone to wreck; and if you want to know who
did it -- it was I! I was in the apple barrel the night we sighted land,
and I heard you, John, and you, Dick Johnson, and Hands, who is now at
the bottom of the sea, and told every word you said before the hour was
out. And as for the schooner, it was I who cut her cable, and it was I
that killed the men you had aboard of her, and it was I who brought her
where you'll never see her more, not one of you. The laugh's on my side;
I've had the top of this business from the first; I no more fear you
than I fear a fly. Kill me, if you please, or spare me. But one thing
I'll say, and no more; if you spare me, bygones are bygones, and when
you fellows are in court for piracy, I'll save you all I can. It is for
you to choose. Kill another and do yourselves no good, or spare me and
keep a witness to save you from the gallows
And now, Mr. Silver
I believe you're the best man here, and if things go to the
worst, I'll take it kind of you to let the doctor know the way I took
it
I'll bear it in mind
I'll put one to that
It was him that knowed Black Dog
Well, and see here
I'll put another again to
that, by thunder! For it was this same boy that faked the chart from
Billy Bones. First and last, we've split upon Jim Hawkins
Then here goes
Avast, there
Who are you, Tom Morgan? Maybe you
thought you was cap'n here, perhaps. By the powers, but I'll teach you
better! Cross me, and you'll go where many a good man's gone before you,
first and last, these thirty year back -- some to the yard-arm, shiver
my timbers, and some by the board, and all to feed the fishes. There's
never a man looked me between the eyes and seen a good day a'terwards,
Tom Morgan, you may lay to that
Tom's right
I stood hazing long enough from one
I'll be hanged if
I'll be hazed by you, John Silver
Did any of you gentlemen want to have it out with ME
Put a name on what you're at; you ain't
dumb, I reckon. Him that wants shall get it. Have I lived this many
years, and a son of a rum puncheon cock his hat athwart my hawse at the
latter end of it? You know the way; you're all gentlemen o' fortune, by
your account. Well, I'm ready. Take a cutlass, him that dares, and I'll
see the colour of his inside, crutch and all, before that pipe's empty
That's your sort, is it
Well, you're a gay lot to look at, anyway. Not much worth to fight, you
ain't. P'r'aps you can understand King George's English. I'm cap'n here
by 'lection. I'm cap'n here because I'm the best man by a long sea-mile.
You won't fight, as gentlemen o' fortune should; then, by thunder,
you'll obey, and you may lay to it! I like that boy, now; I never seen
a better boy than that. He's more a man than any pair of rats of you in
this here house, and what I say is this: let me see him that'll lay a
hand on him -- that's what I say, and you may lay to it
You seem to have a lot to say
Pipe up and let me hear it, or lay to
Ax your pardon, sir
you're pretty free with
some of the rules; maybe you'll kindly keep an eye upon the rest. This
crew's dissatisfied; this crew don't vally bullying a marlin-spike; this
crew has its rights like other crews, I'll make so free as that; and by
your own rules, I take it we can talk together. I ax your pardon, sir,
acknowledging you for to be captaing at this present; but I claim my
right, and steps outside for a council
According to rules
Forecastle council
Now, look you here, Jim Hawkins
you're within half a plank of death, and what's
a long sight worse, of torture. They're going to throw me off. But, you
mark, I stand by you through thick and thin. I didn't mean to; no, not
till you spoke up. I was about desperate to lose that much blunt, and
be hanged into the bargain. But I see you was the right sort. I says to
myself, you stand by Hawkins, John, and Hawkins'll stand by you. You're
his last card, and by the living thunder, John, he's yours! Back to
back, says I. You save your witness, and he'll save your neck
You mean all's lost
Aye, by gum, I do
Ship gone, neck gone -- that's the
size of it. Once I looked into that bay, Jim Hawkins, and seen no
schooner -- well, I'm tough, but I gave out. As for that lot and their
council, mark me, they're outright fools and cowards. I'll save your
life -- if so be as I can -- from them. But, see here, Jim -- tit for tat -- you
save Long John from swinging
What I can do, that I'll do
It's a bargain
You speak up plucky, and by thunder,
I've a chance
Understand me, Jim
I've a head on my shoulders,
I have. I'm on squire's side now. I know you've got that ship safe
somewheres. How you done it, I don't know, but safe it is. I guess Hands
and O'Brien turned soft. I never much believed in neither of THEM. Now
you mark me. I ask no questions, nor I won't let others. I know when
a game's up, I do; and I know a lad that's staunch. Ah, you that's
young -- you and me might have done a power of good together
Will you taste, messmate
Well,
I'll take a drain myself, Jim
I need a caulker, for there's
trouble on hand. And talking o' trouble, why did that doctor give me the
chart, Jim
Ah, well, he did, though
And there's something under that,
no doubt -- something, surely, under that, Jim -- bad or good
There's a breeze coming, Jim
Here they come
Well, let 'em come, lad -- let 'em come
I've
still a shot in my locker
Step up, lad
I won't eat you. Hand it over, lubber. I
know the rules, I do; I won't hurt a depytation
The black spot! I thought so
Where might you have got
the paper? Why, hillo! Look here, now; this ain't lucky! You've gone and
cut this out of a Bible. What fool's cut a Bible
Ah, there
There! Wot did I say? No good'll come o'
that, I said
Well, you've about fixed it now, among you
You'll
all swing now, I reckon. What soft-headed lubber had a Bible
It was Dick
Dick, was it? Then Dick can get to prayers
He's seen
his slice of luck, has Dick, and you may lay to that
Belay that talk, John Silver
This crew has tipped you the
black spot in full council, as in dooty bound; just you turn it over, as
in dooty bound, and see what's wrote there. Then you can talk
Thanky, George
You always was brisk for
business, and has the rules by heart, George, as I'm pleased to see.
Well, what is it, anyway? Ah! 'Deposed'-- that's it, is it? Very pretty
wrote, to be sure; like print, I swear. Your hand o' write, George? Why,
you was gettin' quite a leadin' man in this here crew. You'll be cap'n
next, I shouldn't wonder. Just oblige me with that torch again, will
you? This pipe don't draw
Come, now
you don't fool this crew no more. You're a
funny man, by your account; but you're over now, and you'll maybe step
down off that barrel and help vote
I thought you said you knowed the rules
Leastways, if you don't, I do; and I wait here -- and I'm
still your cap'n, mind -- till you outs with your grievances and I reply;
in the meantime, your black spot ain't worth a biscuit. After that,
we'll see
Oh
you don't be under no kind of apprehension; WE'RE
all square, we are. First, you've made a hash of this cruise -- you'll be
a bold man to say no to that. Second, you let the enemy out o' this here
trap for nothing. Why did they want out? I dunno, but it's pretty plain
they wanted it. Third, you wouldn't let us go at them upon the march.
Oh, we see through you, John Silver; you want to play booty, that's
what's wrong with you. And then, fourth, there's this here boy
Is that all
Enough, too
We'll all swing and sun-dry for your
bungling
Well now, look here, I'll answer these four p'ints; one after another
I'll answer 'em. I made a hash o' this cruise, did I? Well now, you all
know what I wanted, and you all know if that had been done that we'd
'a been aboard the HISPANIOLA this night as ever was, every man of us
alive, and fit, and full of good plum-duff, and the treasure in the hold
of her, by thunder! Well, who crossed me? Who forced my hand, as was the
lawful cap'n? Who tipped me the black spot the day we landed and began
this dance? Ah, it's a fine dance -- I'm with you there -- and looks mighty
like a hornpipe in a rope's end at Execution Dock by London town, it
does. But who done it? Why, it was Anderson, and Hands, and you, George
Merry! And you're the last above board of that same meddling crew;
and you have the Davy Jones's insolence to up and stand for cap'n over
me -- you, that sank the lot of us! By the powers! But this tops the
stiffest yarn to nothing
That's for number one
Why, I give you my word, I'm sick to speak to you. You've neither sense
nor memory, and I leave it to fancy where your mothers was that let you
come to sea. Sea! Gentlemen o' fortune! I reckon tailors is your trade
Go on, John
Speak up to the others
Ah, the others
They're a nice lot, ain't they? You
say this cruise is bungled. Ah! By gum, if you could understand how bad
it's bungled, you would see! We're that near the gibbet that my neck's
stiff with thinking on it. You've seen 'em, maybe, hanged in chains,
birds about 'em, seamen p'inting 'em out as they go down with the tide.
'Who's that?' says one. 'That! Why, that's John Silver. I knowed him
well,' says another. And you can hear the chains a-jangle as you go
about and reach for the other buoy. Now, that's about where we are,
every mother's son of us, thanks to him, and Hands, and Anderson, and
other ruination fools of you. And if you want to know about number four,
and that boy, why, shiver my timbers, isn't he a hostage? Are we a-going
to waste a hostage? No, not us; he might be our last chance, and I
shouldn't wonder. Kill that boy? Not me, mates! And number three? Ah,
well, there's a deal to say to number three. Maybe you don't count it
nothing to have a real college doctor to see you every day -- you, John,
with your head broke -- or you, George Merry, that had the ague shakes
upon you not six hours agone, and has your eyes the colour of lemon peel
to this same moment on the clock? And maybe, perhaps, you didn't know
there was a consort coming either? But there is, and not so long till
then; and we'll see who'll be glad to have a hostage when it comes to
that. And as for number two, and why I made a bargain -- well, you came
crawling on your knees to me to make it -- on your knees you came, you was
that downhearted -- and you'd have starved too if I hadn't -- but that's a
trifle! You look there -- that's why
Yes
that's Flint, sure enough. J. F., and a score below,
with a clove hitch to it; so he done ever
Mighty pretty
But how are we to get away with it, and
us no ship
Now I give you warning, George
One more word
of your sauce, and I'll call you down and fight you. How? Why, how do I
know? You had ought to tell me that -- you and the rest, that lost me my
schooner, with your interference, burn you! But not you, you can't; you
hain't got the invention of a cockroach. But civil you can speak, and
shall, George Merry, you may lay to that
That's fair enow
Fair! I reckon so
You lost the ship; I found the
treasure. Who's the better man at that? And now I resign, by thunder!
Elect whom you please to be your cap'n now; I'm done with it
Silver
Barbecue forever! Barbecue for cap'n
So that's the toon, is it
George, I reckon you'll
have to wait another turn, friend; and lucky for you as I'm not a
revengeful man. But that was never my way. And now, shipmates, this
black spot? 'Tain't much good now, is it? Dick's crossed his luck and
spoiled his Bible, and that's about all
It'll do to kiss the book on still, won't it
A Bible with a bit cut out
Not it. It
don't bind no more'n a ballad-book
Don't it, though
Well, I reckon
that's worth having too
Here, Jim -- here's a cur'osity for you
Without are dogs and murderers
Depposed
Block house, ahoy
Here's the doctor
You, doctor! Top o' the morning to you, sir
Bright and early, to be sure;
and it's the early bird, as the saying goes, that gets the rations.
George, shake up your timbers, son, and help Dr. Livesey over the ship's
side. All a-doin' well, your patients was -- all well and merry
We've quite a surprise for you too, sir
We've a little
stranger here -- he! he! A noo boarder and lodger, sir, and looking fit
and taut as a fiddle; slep' like a supercargo, he did, right alongside
of John -- stem to stem we was, all night
Not
Jim
The very same Jim as ever was
Well, well
duty first and pleasure afterwards, as
you might have said yourself, Silver. Let us overhaul these patients of
yours
You're doing well, my friend
and if ever any person had a close shave, it was you; your head
must be as hard as iron. Well, George, how goes it? You're a pretty
colour, certainly; why, your liver, man, is upside down. Did you take
that medicine? Did he take that medicine, men
Aye, aye, sir, he took it, sure enough
Because, you see, since I am mutineers' doctor, or prison doctor as I
prefer to call it
I make
it a point of honour not to lose a man for King George (God bless him!)
and the gallows
Dick don't feel well, sir
Don't he
Well, step up here, Dick, and let me
see your tongue. No, I should be surprised if he did! The man's tongue
is fit to frighten the French. Another fever
Ah, there
that comed of sp'iling Bibles
That comes -- as you call it -- of being arrant asses
and not having sense enough to know honest air from poison,
and the dry land from a vile, pestiferous slough. I think it most
probable -- though of course it's only an opinion -- that you'll all have
the deuce to pay before you get that malaria out of your systems. Camp
in a bog, would you? Silver, I'm surprised at you. You're less of a fool
than many, take you all round; but you don't appear to me to have the
rudiments of a notion of the rules of health.

"Well
well, that's
done for today. And now I should wish to have a talk with that boy,
please
No
Si-lence
Doctor
I was a-thinking of that,
knowing as how you had a fancy for the boy. We're all humbly grateful
for your kindness, and as you see, puts faith in you and takes the drugs
down like that much grog. And I take it I've found a way as'll suit all.
Hawkins, will you give me your word of honour as a young gentleman -- for
a young gentleman you are, although poor born -- your word of honour not
to slip your cable
Then, doctor
you just step outside o' that stockade,
and once you're there I'll bring the boy down on the inside, and I
reckon you can yarn through the spars. Good day to you, sir, and all our
dooties to the squire and Cap'n Smollett
No, by thunder
It's us must break the treaty when the time
comes; and till then I'll gammon that doctor, if I have to ile his boots
with brandy
Slow, lad, slow
They might round upon us in a twinkle of an
eye if we was seen to hurry
You'll make a note of this here also, doctor
and the boy'll
tell you how I saved his life, and were deposed for it too, and you
may lay to that. Doctor, when a man's steering as near the wind as
me -- playing chuck-farthing with the last breath in his body, like -- you
wouldn't think it too much, mayhap, to give him one good word? You'll
please bear in mind it's not my life only now -- it's that boy's into the
bargain; and you'll speak me fair, doctor, and give me a bit o' hope to
go on, for the sake of mercy
Why, John, you're not afraid
Doctor, I'm no coward; no, not I -- not SO much
If I was I wouldn't say it. But I'll own up fairly, I've the
shakes upon me for the gallows. You're a good man and a true; I never
seen a better man! And you'll not forget what I done good, not any more
than you'll forget the bad, I know. And I step aside -- see here -- and
leave you and Jim alone. And you'll put that down for me too, for it's a
long stretch, is that
So, Jim
here you are. As you have brewed, so
shall you drink, my boy. Heaven knows, I cannot find it in my heart to
blame you, but this much I will say, be it kind or unkind: when Captain
Smollett was well, you dared not have gone off; and when he was ill and
couldn't help it, by George, it was downright cowardly
Doctor
you might spare
me. I have blamed myself enough; my life's forfeit anyway, and I should
have been dead by now if Silver hadn't stood for me; and doctor,
believe this, I can die -- and I dare say I deserve it -- but what I fear is
torture. If they come to torture me
Jim
Jim, I
can't have this. Whip over, and we'll run for it
Doctor
I passed my word
I know, I know
We can't help that, Jim, now. I'll take it
on my shoulders, holus bolus, blame and shame, my boy; but stay here,
I cannot let you. Jump! One jump, and you're out, and we'll run for it
like antelopes
No
you know right well you wouldn't do the thing
yourself -- neither you nor squire nor captain; and no more will I. Silver
trusted me; I passed my word, and back I go. But, doctor, you did not
let me finish. If they come to torture me, I might let slip a word of
where the ship is, for I got the ship, part by luck and part by risking,
and she lies in North Inlet, on the southern beach, and just below high
water. At half tide she must be high and dry
The ship
There is a kind of fate in this
Every
step, it's you that saves our lives; and do you suppose by any chance
that we are going to let you lose yours? That would be a poor return, my
boy. You found out the plot; you found Ben Gunn -- the best deed that
ever you did, or will do, though you live to ninety. Oh, by Jupiter, and
talking of Ben Gunn! Why, this is the mischief in person. Silver
Silver! I'll give you a piece of advice
don't you be in any great hurry after that
treasure
Why, sir, I do my possible, which that ain't
I can
only, asking your pardon, save my life and the boy's by seeking for that
treasure; and you may lay to that
Well, Silver
if that is so, I'll go one step
further: look out for squalls when you find it
Sir
as between man and man, that's too much and too
little. What you're after, why you left the block house, why you given
me that there chart, I don't know, now, do I? And yet I done your
bidding with my eyes shut and never a word of hope! But no, this here's
too much. If you won't tell me what you mean plain out, just say so and
I'll leave the helm
No
I've no right to say more; it's not my
secret, you see, Silver, or, I give you my word, I'd tell it you. But
I'll go as far with you as I dare go, and a step beyond, for I'll have
my wig sorted by the captain or I'm mistaken! And first, I'll give you a
bit of hope; Silver, if we both get alive out of this wolf-trap, I'll do
my best to save you, short of perjury
You couldn't say more, I'm sure, sir, not if
you was my mother
Well, that's my first concession
My second is a
piece of advice: keep the boy close beside you, and when you need help,
halloo. I'm off to seek it for you, and that itself will show you if I
speak at random. Good-bye, Jim
JIM
if I saved your life, you saved
mine; and I'll not forget it. I seen the doctor waving you to run for
it -- with the tail of my eye, I did; and I seen you say no, as plain as
hearing. Jim, that's one to you. This is the first glint of hope I had
since the attack failed, and I owe it you. And now, Jim, we're to go in
for this here treasure-hunting, with sealed orders too, and I don't like
it; and you and me must stick close, back to back like, and we'll save
our necks in spite o' fate and fortune
Aye, mates
it's lucky you have Barbecue to think for you
with this here head. I got what I wanted, I did. Sure enough, they have
the ship. Where they have it, I don't know yet; but once we hit the
treasure, we'll have to jump about and find out. And then, mates, us
that has the boats, I reckon, has the upper hand
As for hostage
that's his last talk, I guess, with
them he loves so dear. I've got my piece o' news, and thanky to him
for that; but it's over and done. I'll take him in a line when we go
treasure-hunting, for we'll keep him like so much gold, in case of
accidents, you mark, and in the meantime. Once we got the ship and
treasure both and off to sea like jolly companions, why then we'll talk
Mr. Hawkins over, we will, and we'll give him his share, to be sure, for
all his kindness
Look out for squalls when you
find it
He can't 'a found the treasure
for that's clean a-top
He was a seaman
Leastways, this
is good sea-cloth
Aye, aye
like enough; you wouldn't look to find a
bishop here, I reckon. But what sort of a way is that for bones to lie?
'Tain't in natur
I've taken a notion into my old numbskull
Here's
the compass; there's the tip-top p'int o' Skeleton Island, stickin'
out like a tooth. Just take a bearing, will you, along the line of them
bones
I thought so
this here is a p'inter. Right up there
is our line for the Pole Star and the jolly dollars. But, by thunder!
If it don't make me cold inside to think of Flint. This is one of HIS
jokes, and no mistake. Him and these six was alone here; he killed 'em,
every man; and this one he hauled here and laid down by compass, shiver
my timbers! They're long bones, and the hair's been yellow. Aye, that
would be Allardyce. You mind Allardyce, Tom Morgan
Aye, aye
I mind him; he owed me money, he did, and
took my knife ashore with him
Speaking of knives
why don't we find his'n lying
round? Flint warn't the man to pick a seaman's pocket; and the birds, I
guess, would leave it be
By the powers, and that's true
There ain't a thing left here
not a copper doit nor a baccy box. It don't look nat'ral to
me
No, by gum, it don't
not nat'ral, nor not nice, says
you. Great guns! Messmates, but if Flint was living, this would be a hot
spot for you and me. Six they were, and six are we; and bones is what
they are now
I saw him dead with these here deadlights
Billy took me
in. There he laid, with penny-pieces on his eyes
Dead -- aye, sure enough he's dead and gone below
but if ever sperrit walked, it would be Flint's. Dear
heart, but he died bad, did Flint
Aye, that he did
now he raged, and now he hollered
for the rum, and now he sang. 'Fifteen Men' were his only song, mates;
and I tell you true, I never rightly liked to hear it since. It was
main hot, and the windy was open, and I hear that old song comin' out as
clear as clear -- and the death-haul on the man already
Come, come
stow this talk. He's dead, and he don't
walk, that I know; leastways, he won't walk by day, and you may lay to
that. Care killed a cat. Fetch ahead for the doubloons
There are three 'tall trees'
about in the right line from
Skeleton Island. 'Spy-glass shoulder,' I take it, means that lower p'int
there. It's child's play to find the stuff now. I've half a mind to dine
first
I don't feel sharp
Thinkin' o' Flint -- I think it
were -- as done me
Ah, well, my son, you praise your stars he's dead
He were an ugly devil
that blue
in the face too
That was how the rum took him
Blue! Well, I reckon he
was blue. That's a true word
Fifteen men on the dead man's chest --
     Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum
It's Flint, by
Come
this won't do. Stand by to go about. This is a rum start, and I can't
name the voice, but it's someone skylarking -- someone that's flesh and
blood, and you may lay to that
Darby M'Graw
Darby M'Graw! Darby M'Graw
Fetch aft
the rum, Darby
That fixes it
Let's go
They was his last words
his last words above board
Nobody in this here island ever heard of Darby
not one
but us that's here
Shipmates
I'm here to get that stuff, and I'll not be beat by man or
devil. I never was feared of Flint in his life, and, by the powers, I'll
face him dead. There's seven hundred thousand pound not a quarter of a
mile from here. When did ever a gentleman o' fortune show his stern to
that much dollars for a boozy old seaman with a blue mug -- and him dead
too
Belay there, John
Don't you cross a sperrit
Sperrit? Well, maybe
But there's one thing not clear to me.
There was an echo. Now, no man ever seen a sperrit with a shadow; well
then, what's he doing with an echo to him, I should like to know? That
ain't in natur', surely
Well, that's so
You've a head upon your shoulders, John,
and no mistake. 'Bout ship, mates! This here crew is on a wrong tack, I
do believe. And come to think on it, it was like Flint's voice, I
grant you, but not just so clear-away like it, after all. It was liker
somebody else's voice now -- it was liker
By the powers, Ben Gunn
Aye, and so it were
Ben Gunn
it were
It don't make much odds, do it, now
Ben Gunn's not here
in the body any more'n Flint
Why, nobody minds Ben Gunn
dead or alive, nobody minds
him
I told you
I told you you had sp'iled your Bible. If it
ain't no good to swear by, what do you suppose a sperrit would give for
it? Not that
Huzza, mates, all together
Jim
take that, and stand by for trouble
Here is a narrow corner
So you've changed sides again
Two guineas
That's your seven
hundred thousand pounds, is it? You're the man for bargains, ain't you?
You're him that never bungled nothing, you wooden-headed lubber
Dig away, boys
you'll find
some pig-nuts and I shouldn't wonder
Pig-nuts
Mates, do you hear that? I
tell you now, that man there knew it all along. Look in the face of him
and you'll see it wrote there
Ah, Merry
standing for cap'n again? You're a
pushing lad, to be sure
Mates
there's two of them alone there; one's the old
cripple that brought us all here and blundered us down to this; the
other's that cub that I mean to have the heart of. Now, mates
George
I reckon I settled you
Forward
Double quick, my lads. We must head 'em
off the boats
Doctor
see there! No hurry
Thank ye kindly, doctor
You came in in about the nick, I
guess, for me and Hawkins. And so it's you, Ben Gunn
Well,
you're a nice one, to be sure
I'm Ben Gunn, I am
And
how do, Mr. Silver?
Pretty well, I thank ye, says you
Ben, Ben
to think as you've done me
As for you, Jim
it went against my heart, but I did what I
thought best for those who had stood by their duty; and if you were not
one of these, whose fault was it
Ah
it were fortunate for me that I had Hawkins here.
You would have let old John be cut to bits, and never given it a
thought, doctor
Not a thought
John Silver
you're a prodigious villain and imposter -- a
monstrous imposter, sir. I am told I am not to prosecute you. Well,
then, I will not. But the dead men, sir, hang about your neck like
mill-stones
Thank you kindly, sir
I dare you to thank me
It is a gross dereliction
of my duty. Stand back
Come in, Jim
You're a good boy in your line, Jim,
but I don't think you and me'll go to sea again. You're too much of the
born favourite for me. Is that you, John Silver? What brings you here,
man
Come back to my dooty, sir
Ah
Heaven forgive them
'tis the mutineers
All drunk, sir
Drunk or raving
Right you were, sir
and precious little odds which,
to you and me
I suppose you would hardly ask me to call you a humane man
and so my feelings may surprise you, Master
Silver. But if I were sure they were raving -- as I am morally certain
one, at least, of them is down with fever -- I should leave this camp,
and at whatever risk to my own carcass, take them the assistance of my
skill
Ask your pardon, sir, you would be very wrong
You
would lose your precious life, and you may lay to that. I'm on your side
now, hand and glove; and I shouldn't wish for to see the party weakened,
let alone yourself, seeing as I know what I owes you. But these men down
there, they couldn't keep their word -- no, not supposing they wished to;
and what's more, they couldn't believe as you could
No
You're the man to keep your word, we know that
that man with the one leg
had stayed aboard
Drink and the devil had done
for the rest
Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight
</text>
