<text>
thorough good
wash
Little savages
don't have their ears washed thoroughly,
and they don't have new dresses that are prickly in the insides round
their arms, and cut them round the neck. Do they, Pridmore
Stuff and nonsense
don't
wriggle so, child, for goodness' sake
I shan't be a minute
I'm top of my class, Auntie, thank you, and I'm very good.
And now let's have a little talk about you. Aunt, dear, how much money
have you got, and have you been scolding the servants again, or have
you tried to be good and patient as a properly brought up aunt should
be, eh, dear
Fie, for shame! What a
sulky face
I'm not
Oh, yes you are
you know you are, you don't
appreciate your blessings
I wish it was your Aunt Willoughby
Nasty, spiteful little thing
I'm sorry I was cross, Priddy dear
So you ought to be
The Vengeance of the Lady
Constantia
I don't care. I shan't tell her
she'd stop the 'bus
as likely as not
Well, I never
Hi, young man
you've brought
us to the wrong place. This isn't Streatham Common, this isn't
I fear
that you must have taken, by some
unfortunate misunderstanding, the wrong omnibus
When does the next go back
The omnibus does not go back. It runs from Brixton here once a month,
but it doesn't go back
But how does it get to Brixton again, to start again, I mean
We start a new one every time
And what becomes of the old ones
Ah
that depends. One never knows
beforehand, things change so nowadays. Good morning. Thank you so much
for your patronage. No, on no account, Madam
Elias Groves, Tinsmith
What a funny, nice place
I am glad we took the wrong
omnibus
I beg your pardon
but all strangers are
brought before the king at once. Please follow me
Well, of all the impudence
Strangers, indeed! And
who may you be, I should like to know
I
am the Prime Minister. I
know I do not look it, but appearances are deceitful. It's only for a
short time. I shall probably be myself again by to-morrow
Smacked
bed
If it's a game
I should like to play
I advise you to come at once
His Majesty's Palace is in this direction
It is kind of you to have come so far
Of _course_ you'll
stay at the Palace
Are you _quite_ comfortable, my dear
No
my frock cuts me round the arms
Ah
and you brought no luggage--some of the Princess's
frocks--her old ones perhaps--yes--yes--this person--your maid, no doubt
Yes
Pridmore is--Oh, dear
Oh, my poor child
your maid has turned into an
Automatic Machine
Don't be tiresome
If you don't give over I'll tell your Ma first thing when she comes
home
Go along with you do--always worrying
Yes
I fear there's no doubt about it. Your
maid has turned into an Automatic Nagging Machine. Never mind, my
dear, she'll be all right to-morrow
I like her best like this, thank you
I
needn't put in any more pennies, you see
Oh, we mustn't be unkind and neglectful
You tiresome boy, you. Leave me be this minute
I can't help it
you've no idea how suddenly
things change here. It's because--but I'll tell you all about it at
tea-time. Go with nurse now, my dear, and see if any of the Princess's
frocks will fit you
And now, dearie
you'd like to see the Princess,
wouldn't you? Take care you don't hurt yourself with her. She's rather
sharp
How are you
Very slim indeed, thank you
I have to be very careful or I should break
that's
why the cushion is so soft, and I can't play many games for fear of
accidents. Do you know any sitting-down games
What is that bird
Oh
that's my pet Cockatoucan; he's very
valuable. If he were to die or be stolen the Green Land would wither up
and grow like New Cross or Islington
How horrible
I've never been to those places, of course
but I hope I know my geography
All of it
Even the exports and imports
Goodbye, I'm so
thin I have to rest a good deal or I should wear myself out. Nurse,
take her away
You see
what a pretty place my Green Land was once. It
has points even now. But things aren't what they used to be. It's that
bird, that Cockatoucan. We daren't kill it or give it away. And every
time it laughs something changes. Look at my Prime Minister. He was a
six-foot man. And look at him now. I could lift him with one hand. And
then your poor maid. It's all that bad bird
Why _does_ it laugh
I can't think
I can't see anything to laugh at
Can't you give it lessons, or something nasty to make it miserable
I have, I do, I assure you, my dear child. The lessons that bird has
to swallow would choke a Professor
Does it eat anything else besides lessons
Christmas pudding. But there--what's the use of talking--that bird would
laugh if it were fed on dog-biscuits
You can't possibly
have any idea of the kind of things
that happen. That bird laughed one day at a Cabinet Council, and all my
ministers turned into little boys in yellow socks. And we can't get any
laws made till they come right again. It's not their fault, and I must
keep their situations open for them, of course, poor things
Of course
There was a Dragon, now
When he came I offered the
Princess's hand and half my kingdom to any one who would kill him.
It's an offer that is always made, you know
Yes
Well, a really respectable young Prince came along, and every one
turned out to see him fight the Dragon. As much as ninepence each was
paid for the front seats, I assure you. The trumpet sounded and the
Dragon came hurrying up. A trumpet is like a dinner-bell to a Dragon,
you know. And the Prince drew his bright sword and we all shouted, and
then that wretched bird laughed and the Dragon turned into a pussy-cat,
and the Prince killed it before he could stop himself. The populace was
furious
What happened then
Well, I did what I could. I said, 'You shall marry the Princess just
the same.' So I brought the Prince home, and when we got there the
Cockatoucan had just been laughing again, and the Princess had turned
into a very old German governess. The Prince went home in a great hurry
and an awful temper. The Princess was all right in a day or two. These
are trying times, my dear
I am so sorry for you
Well you may be
but if I were to try
to tell you all that that bird has brought on my poor kingdom I should
keep you up till long past your proper bedtime
I don't mind
Do tell me some more
Why
why, at one titter
from that revolting bird the long row of ancestors on my Palace wall
grew red-faced and vulgar; they began to drop their H's and to assert
that their name was Smith from Clapham Junction
How dreadful
And once
it laughed so loudly that two
Sundays came together and next Thursday got lost, and went prowling
away and hid itself on the other side of Christmas
And now
it's bedtime
Must I go
Yes please
I tell all strangers this tragic story
because I always feel that perhaps some stranger might be clever enough
to help me. You seem a very nice little girl. Do you think you are
clever
I don't think I am clever
Oh, dear
I feel so different. Oh! wait a minute. Oh!
whatever is it? Oh
I was wrong, your Majesty, I _am_ clever, and I know it is not good
for me to sit up late. Good-night. Thank you so much for your nice
party. In the morning I think I shall be clever enough to help you,
unless the bird laughs me back into the other kind of Matilda
I don't know how ever you can help me now
as
long as the Palace stays like this, it's no use trying to go on with
being a king, or anything. I can only try to be a good butcher. You
shall keep the accounts if you like, till that bird laughs me back into
my Palace again
Butcher
What price cat's meat
Send the Army to
crush him
Something must be done
Well
I've been thinking if you will make me the
Princess's governess, I'll see what I can do. I'm quite clever enough
I must open Parliament to do that
it's a
Constitutional change
No bird
shall keep me from my duty and my Parliament
Matilda
this is too much. You have always been a comfort
to me. You stood by me when I was a butcher; you kept the books; you
booked the orders; you ordered the stock. If you really are clever
enough, now is the time to help me. If you won't, I'll give up the
business. I'll leave off being a King. I'll go and be a butcher in the
Camberwell New Road, and I will get another little girl to keep my
books, not you
Very well, your Majesty, then give
me leave to prowl at night. Perhaps I shall find out what makes the
Cockatoucan laugh; if I can do that, we can take care he never gets it,
whatever it is
Ah
if you could only do that
Princess, what makes you so thin
Matilda
you have a noble heart. No one else has
ever asked me that, though they tried to cure it. And I couldn't answer
till I was asked, could I? It's a sad, a tragic tale, Matilda. I was
once as fat as you are
I'm not so very fat
Well
I was quite fat enough anyhow.
And then I got thin
But how
Because they would not let me have my favourite pudding every day
What a shame
and what is your favourite pudding
Bread and milk, of course, sprinkled with rose leaves--and with
pear-drops in it
Very well, I _am_ sorry then, but
I didn't want to say so, but now I will. And the Cockatoucan never
laughs except when he's tickled. So there! He hates to laugh
And you won't do it again
will you
No, of course not
why
should I? I was spiteful when I was thin, but now I'm fat again I want
every one to be happy
But how can any one be happy
when every
one is turned into something they weren't meant to be? There's your
dear father--he's a desirable villa--the Prime Minister was a little boy,
and he got back again, and now he's turned into a Comic Opera. Half the
Palace housemaids are breakers, dashing themselves against the Palace
crockery: the Navy, to a man, are changed to French poodles, and the
Army to German sausages. Your favourite nurse is now a flourishing
steam laundry, and I, alas! am too clever by half. Can't that horrible
bird do anything to put us all right again
No
he
told me once himself that when he laughed he could only change one or
two things at once, and then, as often as not, it turned out to be
something he didn't expect. The only way to make everything come right
again would be--but it can't be done! If we could only make him laugh on
the wrong side of his mouth. That's the secret. He told me so. But I
don't know what it _is_, let alone being able to do it. Could _you_ do
it, Matilda
No
but let me whisper. He's listening. Pridmore
could. She's often told me she'd do it to me. But she never has. Oh,
Princess, I've got an idea
Oh
if only some one would make me laugh, that horrible
thing would be the one to change. I know it would. It would change into
something much horrider than it is now. I feel it in all my feathers
Nice manners
what are you laughing at,
I should like to know--I'll make you laugh on the wrong side of your
mouth, my fine fellow
Pack of nonsense! Hold your tongue, do
near
I know he is, worse luck
I mean, miss
he's none too free with his
chink
He never gave me but a shilling in his life
and that turned out to be bad when I tried to change it at the
ginger-beer shop
All right, Silly
cheer up
It's too hot to cheer up
We've been very naughty
but it's all the heat. I heard Aunt Selina telling mother
the weather wore her nerves to fiddle-strings. That just meant she was
cross
Then it's not _our_ fault
People say be good and you'll
be happy. Uncle Reggy says, 'Be happy, and perhaps you'll be good.' _I_
could be good if I was happy
So could I
What _would_ make you happy
Halloa
We want to be at the seaside--and no aunts--and none of the things we
don't like--and no uncles, of course
Well
if you think you can be good, why not set me
bouncing
We're not allowed in here
because of the crinkly
ornaments people give me on my birthdays
Well, the street then
the nice shady side
It's not like respectable children
The garden, then
I don't mind, if you'll go on talking
Come on
You do like me
What
Why, do like I do--bounce
That's right--higher,
higher, higher
Higher, higher
Now, follow me, higher, higher
Don't
Where are we going
To the most delightful place in the world
What's it called
It's called Whereyouwantogoto
Here you
are! Now be good, for there's nothing here but the things that make
people happy
Oh, Tommy
Oh, Silly
There's silver-sand
miles of it
And rocks
And cliffs
And caves in the cliffs
And how cool it is
And yet it's nice and warm too
And what shells
And seaweed
And the downs behind
And trees in the distance
And here's a dog, to go after sticks. Here, Rover, Rover
And spades
And pails
And what pretty sea-poppies
And a basket--and grub in it
But won't it make us ill to bathe so soon after meals? Isn't it
wrong
Not at all
Nothing is wrong here--as long as you're
good. Let me teach you water-leapfrog--a most glorious game, so cool,
yet so exciting. You try it
I suppose you wear man-clothes. They're very
inconvenient. My two eldest have just outgrown their coats. If you'll
accept them
Thank you very much
You _are_ kind
Whereyouwantogoto
What will happen if we're naughty
I must not tell you; and I very strongly advise you not to try to find
out
We won't--indeed, we won't
What's the matter, girl-bouncer? Out with it
I was wondering how mother is, and whether she has one of
her bad headaches
Good little girl! Come with me and I'll show you
something
Now look
What a blessing those children are
away
Then they know where we are
They think they know
or you think they think they
know. Anyway, they're happy enough. Good-night
I don't see why I should make the beds
it's a girl's work,
not a boy's
I don't see why I should do it
it's a servant's
place, not a young lady's
You are quite right, miss; it is my place to make the beds. And I am
instructed to see that you are both in bed by seven
You see what comes of being naughty
Oh, shut up, do
My Bouncible Boy, you may be happy here for ever and ever if you're
contented and good. Otherwise--well, it's a quarter to seven--you've got
to go
I wish it was duck
Let's dig a bath
and the sea will come in and fill it,
and then we can bathe in it
Well
we've done it this time
You must not bathe any more except through me
You _are_ silly! You look like a Bank Holiday
I can't help it. They'd look lovely on a hat, if
they were only artificial. I wish I had a hat
Oh, you silly children
haven't you been warned enough?
You've everything a reasonable child could wish for. Can't you be
contented
Of course we can
Oh, Silly dear, how beautiful it is, just like fairyland
Silly yourself. There's no such thing as fairyland
Oh! Silly darling
it _is_ fairyland, and there's a
fairy, such a beautiful dear. Look--there she goes
There's no such thing as fairyland, I tell you
and I
don't believe in fairies
Whereyouwantogoto
Oh, you naughty, silly children
it
makes me bounce with rage to see how you've thrown away your chances,
and what a seaside resort you're making of 'Whereyouwantogoto
Now then, move along there, move along. You're obstructing of the
traffic
I wonder what makes him bounce
Oh no, _don't
Oh, _don't_
oh, Silly, he brought us here, he's been so
kind
Nonsense; balls can't feel, and it will be
almost as good to play with after I've looked inside it
I--I almost wish I hadn't
Oh, look
look at the sea
Oh dear, oh dear, I suppose he takes
after his grandfather, he is not in the least like _my_ family
gentle
lazy
Why is it, Grandfather
what is it all
about? why do they never sit down quietly like you and me
It is the great heart of the Nation, my boy
it
cannot be still; it is in the breed, you know, they can't help it. They
are all alike too, except you and me. Why, bless your heart, look at
the King, he is more in a hurry than all the rest, and more--and more
noble and active, bless him
Ha
talking treason, eh? well, you know what the punishment for that is.
Pinching with black pincers, you know, till--well--till you don't feel
the pinching any more
Aha! your Majesty always has such a pleasant way with you
Beware of
Luxury
King Anthony XXIII. is the noblest of monarchs
It's all right, grandfather, he has quite gone, he's not listening--for
a wonder
It seems like a foreign language
I can't make it out
it is not carved, it is in the
stone somehow. Looks as if it were coming through from the other side
HERE LIES HENRY BIRKBECK,
   MAGICIAN TO THE INSTITUTE,

   However humble he seems to you,
   His last foretelling is going to come true.

   P.S.--You see if it doesn't
Dear me
Poor old Henry Birkbeck, it seems like
yesterday; yes, he was very respectable, but only in a small way of
business. A magician he was by trade, but no one thought much of him,
except perhaps the King, and _he_ never gave him a lift. He used to do
things with eggs and a hat. He broke the eggs as often as not. And the
goldfish and handkerchief he hardly ever brought off
There's something here
let's set it upright instead of
laying it down, and I will scrub it and see what the letters are. Poor
old Mr. Birkbeck, I wonder what his last foretelling was. Was he good
at prophesying, grandfather
Not a bit
and to do him justice he almost gave
it up in his later years. You see people laughed at him so, because
the things that he foretold never happened. Towards the end he grew
very feeble--hardly prophesied a single prophecy from one year's end
to another. Sometimes he would say, 'I should not wonder if it rained
before Sunday,' but then he never wondered at anything. He was a calm
old man, was poor Henry. It took a good deal to astonish him
mountain
Jilk
reign
Tony
It must be something to do with me
because of my
name being in it
It must have something to do with the King
because
it says 'reign,' so you'd better cut off to the Palace, and look sharp
about it, or His Majesty will know the reason why
powerful man of middle height
Well, boy
what have you come here for
There is a prophecy
There are a good many
but they don't amount to
much since poor Henry Birkbeck died. He was something like a prophet
he foretold, when I was only a
baby, that if I grew up I should perhaps be king. The late King, my
father, was very pleased, I remember
Well, then you'd better come and have a look at this prophecy,
because it is the late Mr. Birkbeck's last one, and he said it'll come
true
Bring it here, can't you
No, I can't
It's on his tombstone, so there. I can't
carry tombstones about
No
of course you are not powerfully
built. You are nowhere near the medium height
Come and look at it if you want to
I'm in no hurry
Well
I don't care if I do. I'm tired of sitting
still
You hurry up, it's as plain now as the nose on your face
You should say the royal nose on your Majesty's royal face
When Tony drinks the Blue Mountain's milk
   He shall wear a Sunday suit of silk.
   He shall be tallest in all the Land,
   And hold the town under his command.
   He shall have greatness and we shall have grain;
   Soon may it happen and long may he reign!
                                       Hurrah.
                              H. T. BIRKBECK
Well, I never
Tony means Me
I am King Tony XXIII
I was christened Anthony, of course
but I know that my subjects have
always spoken of me behind my back by the endearing diminutive
I suppose there's no one else called Tony
No,
there wasn't
My name's Tony
Oh, is it
We'll soon see about that. Guards,
seize him! Now, what is your name
Tony
Your name is not Tony
your name is
My name is Tony
Take him to the Parliament House
Give him a taste of the Mace
But my name _is_ Tony after all
I wonder where
the Blue Mountain is
It must be an earthquake
Blue
Mountain
I am not a liar
I am very sorry I told you anything
about it; I might jolly well have gone and got it for myself. _My_ name
is----William----Waterbury----Watchett
I should think it was
if there is any mountain,
which I don't for a moment believe, you had better go and fetch me some
of the milk (not that I think there is any) out of the mountain's basin
(which I cannot believe exists outside of your imagination). If you
bring it to this address you will be suitably rewarded
All right
shall I fetch it in a jug, or will they lend
me a can
I will lend you my mug
and mind you bring it back
full
For a good little King. A present from
Antwerp
I suppose he will give me a reward if I get it
and if
not, well, it's an adventure, anyway
A present for a good King
I don't know however I shall get out again
perhaps I
never shall, but in case I do, I suppose I had better fill the mug
The milk's very thick
It's giant cow's milk
you drink it up and let's see what
happens
I don't know
suppose it's poison; I
shall have it analysed
Well, you promised me a reward
and you wouldn't grudge
it if you knew what a time I've had of it. I might have been killed,
you know
_Reward
_reward!_
when you have cracked my mug--my own only mug, with 'A present for a
good King' on it. Reward indeed! a stamp from the Great Seal would be
more
Dear grandson
the King has found out that my name was
entered in the register as Anthony Antrobus, and he refuses to believe
that the alteration to Sydney Cecil Ernest Watchett was made at my
birth. So I am seeking safety at a distance. I have only one piece of
advice to give you. _Do so too._--Your loving Grandfather
So this is my reward for getting the milk for him
I wish I had drunk the milk myself. This is what comes of
loyalty. But I don't care, my name is Tony, and his is not, and I will
say so too, if I hang for it
There is no pleasing some people
It is my duty to caution you
that everything
you say will be used against you
I am sure it will
but I can't help that,
everything I do is used against me too. I needn't have told any one
anything about it. I might have got the milk myself and been King, but
I got it for him, and I did not crack the mug. At least, I am almost
sure not. I only wish I had drunk the milk
Make him drink it now
Don't
it might not be poison after all
You can't have it both ways, your Majesty
either it is poison, in which case the Prisoner deserves to
drink it, or it is not poison, in which case the Prisoner leaves the
Court without a stain upon his character
It is poison
EVERYTHING YOU SAY WILL BE USED AGAINST YOU
It isn't
It is
It is not
It is not poison, it is milk
Hullo
where did you spring from
From the town down there
There
that's not a town, silly, you
know it's only an ant-heap, really
It is my town
and its name is Antioch, and
And that is where I used to live
and my name is Tony
I know that
but you live next door to us,
you know you do, you always did, and that is only an ant-heap
Don't tease the ants
People pour boiling
water sometimes, or dig up the heaps, but I think it's cruel
It is a nice story
of course the grass is like a forest
to the ants, and the big forest is the hedge. Your Sunday suit is silk
velvet, your aunt told mother so. Yes, it is a nice story, and an ant
did drop into my bread and milk yesterday, though I don't know how you
knew
You mayn't believe it
but I shall give them corn because
it says so in Mr. Birkbeck's prophecy, only I won't ever give them any
milk in case they grow big. They are too bad-tempered. Just think if
the King had been our size
Oh, come along home, do
I am tired. It is dinner time, it's no use pretending about Kings and
things. You know well enough you are only Tony-next-door
Tony-next-door
My dear, do be
very, very careful about the invitations. You know what fairies are.
They always come to the christening whether you invite them or not,
and if you forget to invite one of them she always makes herself so
terribly unpleasant
My love
I will invite them all
He shall have beauty
And wit
And a pretty sweetheart
who loves him
My dear, where's Malevola
I sent her a card
Then it must have been lost on the way
or she'd
have been here
She _is_ here
Oh don't
Now listen
You did not invite me to the christening. I've read
my fairy tales, and I know what's expected of a fairy who is left out
on an occasion like this. I intend to curse your son
Fancy deserting their godson like this! How unfairy-like
Great King and mighty Sovereign,
Malevola was not good enough to be asked to your tea-party. But
your family shall come down in the world; your son shall marry a
kitchen-maid and marry a lady with four feet and no hands
Can't you do _anything_
Can't you undo what she says,
and make it untrue
Not even a fairy can make a true thing untrue
Malevola's words will come true; but the Prince has already
many gifts, and our gifts are yet to give, and these you shall choose.
Whatever you wish shall be his
Let the boy be brave
He is brave
he fears nothing
Oh, dear
he is fearless, as you say. I wish he
were afraid of cats, poor darling
He is
you have your wish
Your Majesty has wasted one wish
let us now leave the last gift in the hands of the last fairy
He shall be happy
he shall have his heart's desire
Oh dear! oh dear
this is dreadful! A
kitchen-maid!--and a lady with four feet and no hands
At least we are not likely to have a kitchen-maid with less than two
hands
We might arrange only to have _titled_ kitchen-maids
The very thing
that would make the love affair
all that one could wish. But there's still the marriage
Of course he'll marry the lady he loves
It's not the way of the world
At any rate, let's
hope he'll love the lady he marries. Otherwise
Otherwise what
We know nothing about otherwise, do we, my Queen
I must watch o' nights--perhaps she is kept in prison in the tower
above the kitchen, and at night those who watch her may sleep, and so I
shall be able to talk to her
Don't cry, dear
I'll get you another bowl
It isn't that
but now they'll send me away
Who will
The noble Kitchen-Maids. They keep me to do the work because, being
Kings' daughters, they don't know how to do anything; but the Queen
doesn't know that there is a Real Kitchen-maid here, and now you have
found out they will send me away
Then you are a Real Kitchen-maid, and not noble at all
No
Never mind
You are twice as pretty as all the
Kings' daughters put together and twenty times as dear
Yes you are
and I love you with all my heart
I wish I had no hands and four feet
I wouldn't mind a bit, since it is me he loves
What are you saying
I am saying that you must go
If their Kitchen Highnesses
find you here with me they'll tear me into little pieces, for they all
love you--to a Highness
And you
how much do you love me
Oh
I love you better than my right hand and my left
Be careful: it has the power to change you into a mouse
Now what shall I do
Keep your own counsel and be contented. The Prince loves you
But
he is not to marry me, but a
horrible creature with four feet and no hands
Keep your secret and be content
and
if ever you see him in danger from a lady with four feet and no hands,
come straight to me
Poor Pussy, then
Alack-a-day
This witch has four feet and no hands; but
she can have hands whenever she chooses, and be a woman by her magic
arts as easily as she can be a cat. And then he will love her--and what
will become of me? Or, worse, she may marry him only to torment him.
She may shut him up in some enchanted dungeon far from the light of
day. Such things have happened before now
If ever you see him in danger from a lady with four feet and no hands
come straight to me
You've come for it, then
For what
The Magic Cat's-eye. I've guarded it some thousands of years. I knew
there would be a use for it at last. He may be saved yet, if some one
should love him well enough to die for him
I do that
Swallow it
and you'll turn into a mouse
What am I to do
I can't tell you
but Love will tell you
The witch is in cat's shape, and she must have cat nature, so she will
run after a mouse. She will run after _me_, and if I can lead her to a
running stream she will leap across it, and then she will have to take
her own shape again. That must be what the Great White Rat meant me to
do. And if the Cat catches me--well, at least if I can't save my Prince
I can die for him
I'm saved
My love and my lady
I
will marry you now. That will carry out the wicked fairy's prophecy.
Then we will go back to the Great White Rat, and you shall be changed
into a Princess
And now
if you will change her into a
lady again we will go home at once and begin living happily ever after
It's impossible
I am sorry, but the effects of the Magic
Cat's-eye are _permanent_. Once a mouse, always a mouse, if you get
moused by the Magic Cat's-eye
If it would be of any use to you, I've got another Magic Cat's-eye
You know what'll happen if you do
I shall change into a mouse and live happy ever after
Perhaps
nothing is impossible if people
love each other enough
You mustn't
My dear little Real Kitchen-Maid
you have
saved my life--and you _are_ my life. I would rather be a mouse with you
than a king without you
It's lucky for you
that you chose to
swallow the Cat's-eye, because people who have been moused by that
means can never be un-moused except _in pairs_. Nothing is impossible
if people only love each other enough
Nothing is impossible if people
only love each other enough
I've seen too much trouble come of christening parties
However carefully you keep your visiting-book, some fairy or other
is sure to get left out, and you know what _that_ leads to. Why, even
in my own family, the most shocking things have occurred. The Fairy
Malevola was not asked to my great-grandmother's christening--and you
know all about the spindle and the hundred years' sleep
Perhaps you're right
My own cousin by marriage
forgot some stuffy old fairy or other when she was sending out the
cards for her daughter's christening, and the old wretch turned up at
the last moment, and the girl drops toads out of her mouth to this day
Just so. And then there was that business of the mouse and the
kitchen-maids
we'll have no nonsense about it. I'll
be her godfather, and you shall be her godmother, and we won't ask a
single fairy; then none of them can be offended
Unless they all are
Please, your Majesty, several ladies have called. I told them you were
not at home, but they all said they'd wait
Are they in the parlour
I've shown them into the Throne Room, your Majesty
You see, there are several of them
Why didn't you ask _me_ to your christening
party
I haven't had a party
I told you so
You've had a christening
I'm very sorry
Hold your tongue
Don't begin to make excuses
That only makes your conduct worse. You know well enough what
happens if a fairy is left out of a christening party. We are all going
to give our christening presents _now_. As the fairy of highest social
position, I shall begin. The Princess shall be bald
No you don't
I wonder at you, ladies, I do indeed. How can
you be so unfairylike? Have none of you been to school--have none of you
studied the history of your own race? Surely you don't need a poor,
ignorant King like me to tell you that this is _no go_
How dare you
It is my turn, and I say the Princess
shall be
Look here
I won't have it. Listen to reason--or you'll
be sorry afterwards. A fairy who breaks the traditions of fairy
history goes out--you know she does--like the flame of a candle. And
all tradition shows that only _one_ bad fairy is ever forgotten at a
christening party and the good ones are always invited; so either this
is not a christening party, or else you were all invited except one,
and, by her own showing, that was Malevola. It nearly always is. Do I
make myself clear
Try it, if you don't believe me
give your nasty
gifts to my innocent child--but as sure as you do, out you go, like a
candle-flame. Now, then, will you risk it
It's been quite too lovely
_do_ ask us again soon, dear Queen. I shall be so _longing_ to see you
again, and the _dear_ baby
Don't cry, my love
I have a wish lying by, which
I've never had occasion to use. My fairy godmother gave it me for a
wedding present, but since then I've had nothing to wish for
Thank you, dear
I'll keep the wish till baby grows up
And then
I'll give it to her, and if she likes to wish for hair she can
Oh, won't you wish for it _now_
No, dearest. She may want something else more when she grows up. And
besides, her hair may grow by itself
My love, our dear daughter is old enough to know what she wants. Let
her have the wish
I have never had occasion to use it
though it has always
made me happy to remember that I had such a thing in the house. The
wish is as good as new, and my daughter is now of an age to appreciate
so valuable a present
FORTUNA F
Father, I will wish that all your subjects should
be quite happy
Then I wish them all to be good
Dearest, for my sake, wish what I tell you
Why, of course I will
I wish I had golden hair a yard long, and that it would grow an inch
every day, and grow twice as fast every time it was cut, and
Stop
Oh, how lovely
What a pity you interrupted her,
dear; she hadn't finished
What was the end
Oh
I was only going to say, 'and twice as thick
It's a very good thing you didn't
You've done about
enough
Why, what's the matter
You'll know soon enough
Come, let's be happy while
we may. Give me a kiss, little Melisande, and then go to nurse and ask
her to teach you how to comb your hair
I know
I've often combed mother's
Your mother has beautiful hair
but I fancy you will
find your own less easy to manage
I wish I was bald again
It seems a pity to waste all my hair; it does grow so very fast.
Couldn't we stuff things with it, or something, and sell them, to feed
the people
It was all very well while the famine lasted--but
now I shall write to my fairy godmother and see if something cannot be
done
Why not advertise for a competent Prince? Offer the usual reward
You are Melisande
And you are Florizel
There are many roses round your window
and none
down here
White rose trees are strong. May I climb up to you
Surely
Now
if I can do what your father asks, will you marry me
My father has promised that I shall
Dear Princess
your father's promise is nothing to me. I
want yours. Will you give it to me
Yes
I want your hand
Yes
And your heart with it
Yes
And a kiss to seal the promise
Yes
And a kiss to go with the hand
Yes
And a kiss to bring the heart
Yes
Now
to-night do not go
to bed. Stay by your window, and I will stay down here in the garden
and watch. And when your hair has grown to the filling of your room
call to me, and then do as I tell you
I will
Florizel! Florizel! My hair has grown so long that it is pushing me
out of the window
Get out on to the window-sill
and twist your hair three
times round the great iron hook that is there
Jump
How did you do it
The simplest thing in the world
You have
always cut the hair off the Princess. _I_ just cut the Princess off the
hair
Humph
I feared as much
I wonder what will be the
rate of progression. You see
when we cut
the hair off _it_ grows--when we cut the Princess off _she_ grows. I
wish you had happened to think of that
Alice in Wonderland
Gone
away. Left no address
I don't mind so much now
if I can really be of some use
this size
I do believe I'm getting too heavy
I wonder how soon I shall be big enough to knock my head against
them
Cut off your hair
Get close to the island
Be ready to swim
I crept on to your hand when you were carrying the island
and I got into your ear with an ear-trumpet. You
never noticed me because you were so great then
Oh, my dear Prince
you have
saved me. I am my proper size again
You've certainly had some fun for your money, young man, but don't
you see that we're just where we were before? Why, the child's hair is
growing already
Just back from my holidays. Sorry for your troubles. Why not try
scales
My darling Melisande, I must really speak seriously to you. We are
getting on in life. I am nearly twenty: it is time that we thought of
being settled. Will you trust me entirely and get into one of those
gold scales
And what is going into the other scale
Your hair
You see, when your hair is cut off you
it grows, and when you are cut off your hair you grow--oh, my heart's
delight, I can never forget how you grew, never! But if, when your
hair is no more than you, and you are no more than your hair, I snip
the scissors between you and it, then neither you nor your hair can
possibly decide which ought to go on growing
Suppose _both_ did
Impossible
there are limits even
to Malevola's malevolence. And, besides, Fortuna said 'Scales.' Will
you try it
I will do whatever you wish
but let me kiss
my father and mother once, and Nurse, and you, too, my dear, in case I
grow large again and can kiss nobody any more
You are a young man of sound judgment
polite letters
SELECT BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT FOR THE
   DAUGHTERS OF RESPECTABLE MONARCHS
A gentleman to see you, Miss
Dear me
Bother
Drat the man
It is indeed a pleasure
it
is indeed a pleasure to meet once more my old pupil
The pleasure is mutual, I am sure
I have been travelling about
increasing my stock of wisdom. Ah, dear lady--we live and
learn, do we not? And now I am really a far more competent teacher than
when I had the honour of instructing you. May I hope for an engagement
as Professor in your Academy
I have not yet been able to arrange for a regular course of Magic
it is a subject in which parents, especially
royal ones, take but too little interest
It was your favourite study
Yes--but--well, no doubt some day
But I want an engagement _now_
a thousand pounds for thirteen lessons--to _you_, dear lady
It's quite impossible
Oh, very well
You see my pupils are all princesses
they don't
require the use of magic, they can get all they want without it
Then it's '_No_
It's 'No thank you kindly
Well, I never
Oh, you naughty, bad, wicked man, you
No, I've only been a-doing of the
kitchen range--though, for the matter of that--but you'd best see missus
herself
I hope I'm
not too early
Your Majesty
not at all. You are always punctual, as
stated in your references. Something has happened. I will not aggravate
your misfortunes by breaking them to you. Your daughter Daisy, the
pride and treasure of our little circle, has disappeared. Her six royal
companions are with her. For the present all are safe, but at the
moment I am unable to lay my hand on any one of the seven
Your Majesty, I am not wholly to blame--hang me if I am--I mean hang me
if you must; but first allow me to have the honour of offering to you
one or two explanatory remarks
I never _was_ satisfied with the Professor's methods
and I always had my doubts as to his moral
character, doubts now set at rest for ever. After concluding my course
of instruction with him some years ago I took a series of lessons from
a far more efficient master, and thanks to those lessons, which were, I
may mention, extremely costly, I was mercifully enabled to put a spoke
in the wheel of the unprincipled ruffian
Did you save the Princesses
No; but I can if your Majesty and the other parents will leave the
matter entirely in my hands
It's rather a serious matter
my poor little Daisy
I would ask you
not to attach
too much importance to this event. Of course it is regrettable, but
unpleasant accidents occur in all schools, and the consequences of them
can usually be averted by the exercise of tact and judgment
I ought to hang you, you know
No doubt
and if you do you'll never
see your Daisy again. Your duty as a parent--yes--and your duty to
me--conflicting duties are very painful things
But can I trust you
I may remind you
that we exchanged satisfactory references at the
commencement of our business relations
Well, Miss Fitzroy Robinson
I have been
entirely satisfied with Daisy's progress since she has been in your
charge, and I feel I cannot do better than leave this matter entirely
in your able hands
My dear, you ought to do something to distract your mind. It's
unkinglike to sit and cry all day. Now, do make an effort; do something
useful, if it's only opening a bazaar or laying a foundation stone
I am frightened of bazaars
they are like bees--they
buzz and worry; but foundation stones
I am the owner of Clover Hill
and you may build on all
its acres except the seven at the top and the fifteen acres that go
round that seven, and you must build me a high wall round the seven
acres and another round the fifteen--of _red_ brick, mind; none of your
cheap yellow stuff--and you must make a brand new law that any one who
steals my fruit is to be hanged from the tree he stole it from. That's
all. What do you say
Yes
Oh bother! Do it this way
Martha will fly at any one who is not of kingly blood
Of
course she wouldn't dream of biting a royal person; but, then, on the
other hand, royal people don't rob orchards
Fortunatus, my love, do you _really_ think Miss Fitzroy Robinson is
trustworthy? Shall we ever see our Daisy again
My dear, you must be patient; you know we had the very highest
references
Bless their pretty
hearts
Open up Africa
Or cut through the Isthmus of Panama
Cut up China, then
It's like the ghost of a Tory newspaper
I'm inside
I can't get out. Oh, cut the
globe--anywhere--and let me out. But the African route is most
convenient
My other half's in there
Let my legs out, do
Not so fast
Why
were you shut up
I was shut up for as pretty a bit of parlour-magic as ever you saw in
all your born days
Oh, you were, were you
well, your legs aren't
coming out just yet. We want to engage a competent magician. You'll do
But I'm not all here
Quite enough of you
Now look here
we want to find our six
Princesses. We can give a very good guess as to how they were lost; but
we'll let bygones be bygones. You tell us how to find them, and after
our weddings we'll restore your legs to the light of day
This half of me feels so faint
What are we to do
if you don't
tell us, you shall never have a leg to stand on
Steal apples
The old woman at the top of Clover Hill has apples in her seven acres,
and in her fifteen acres, but there's a fierce bulldog in the seven
acres, and I've stolen all the apples in the fifteen acres myself
We'll try the seven acres
Very well
You'll be hanged if you're caught. So, as I
put you up to it, I'm coming too, and if you won't take me, I'll tell.
So there
My dear fellows, I hope you'll excuse me--the laws of hospitality are
strict--but business is business after all. I should not like to have
any constitutional unpleasantness over a little thing like this; you
must all be hanged to-morrow morning
What are we to do now
Steal apples
Do let my
legs out. Slice up the Great Bear--or the Milky Way would be a good one
for them to come out by
Not till we get the lost Princesses
now, what's to be
done
Steal apples I tell you
seven
apples--there--seven kisses. Cut them down. Oh go along with you, do.
Leave me to die, you heartless boy. I've got pins and needles in my
legs
Oh why did you cut us down
we were having such
happy dreams
Well
of all the ungrateful chaps
Well
it's no use dreaming about _them_. You've got your
own registered Princesses to find, and the half-Professor says, 'Steal
apples
There aren't any more to steal
Seven kisses
What is your name, dear and lovely lady
Sexta
You must be contented with what you have
We _are_
but what about our parents
They must put up with your choice
it's the
common lot of parents
I think you ought to sort yourselves out properly
I'm
the only one who's got his right Princess--because I wasn't greedy. I
took the smallest
They can't change, my dear. When a Prince has picked a gold apple that
has a Princess in it, and has kissed it till she comes out, no other
Princess will ever do for him, any more than any other Prince will ever
do for her
My talents won't be quite wasted
a little hanky-panky is
useful in most trades
Make the land green again, your Majesty
It was very clever of dear Miss Fitzroy Robinson to shut up that
Professor in those two globes
it shows the
advantage of having lessons from the best Masters
Yes
I always say that you cannot go far wrong if you
insist on the highest references
IF twenty-seven barrelsful of apples cost &pound;25 13_s._ 3_d._, what
would the same barrels be worth if they had been packed by a dishonest
person, who only put in 7/9ths of apples in each barrel and the rest
sawdust
But what's the use
Everything else leads to something
else, except lessons. If you put seeds in the garden they come up
flowers, unless they're rotten seeds or you forget where you put them.
And if you buy a rabbit--well, there it is, unless it dies. And if you
eat your dinner--well, you're not hungry any more for an hour or two.
But lessons
Those firework fusees, O Crikey
Upon my word
Did no one ever tell you
Did no one ever tell you that the things that
happen when you've done your sums right, happen when you're grown up
I don't care what happens then
I shall be a pirate, or a bushranger, or
something
A Pirate
a nice sort of pirate who can't calculate his
men's share of the plunder to three-seventeenths of a gold link of the
dead captain's chain! A fine bushranger who can't arrange the forty-two
bullets from the revolvers of his seven dauntless followers so that
each of the fifteen enemies gets his fair share! Go along with you
I say
how jolly pretty you are
I suppose you can't be expected to understand, yet
When I do things I want something to happen at once. 'I want a white
rabbit and I want it _now_
Get your Master to set you a little simple multiplication sum in white
rabbits
Goodbye, my child. You'll know me better in time,
and as you know me better you'll love me more
I ... you're lovely now
If seven thousand five hundred and sixty-three white rabbits
What a lot of hutches we shall want
Send for the poulterer
Oh, please 'm
the cellar is choke-full of apples--most of 'em bad 'm--_I_ never
see no one deliver them, nor yet give no receipt
Oh, good Fairy! One-two-three-four-five-six-seven; do come and help
me! Eight-nine-ten-eleven! Beautiful, dear, kind, lovely fairy! Nine
nines are eighty-one! Dear fairy, do come! Seven million two hundred
thousand six hundred and fifty-nine! I will always love you if you
will come to me now. Three-sevenths of five-ninths of five-twelfths
of sixteen-fiftieths. You were so kind the other day. Two and two are
four, and three are seven! Do come now--you've no idea what an awful
mess you've got me into. Seven nines are sixty-three--though I know
you meant it kindly. Dear Fairy. Thirteen from thirty-seven leaves
twenty-four. Do come and see what a hole I'm in--do come--and the product
will give you the desired result
I'll have another go in prep to-morrow
Only _one_, sir, please
Oh, good Fairy, if a sum of &pound;4,700 is to be divided between A, B, and
C,--do, do come and help me. Three-tenths of a pound is six shillings,
dear Fairy--eleven--twelve--thirteen--fourteen--oh, lovely Fairy
What are you chunnering about
Can't you do the beastly example
If 7,535 fairies were in my desk at school and I subtracted 710 and
added 1,006, and the rest flew away in 783 equal gangs, how many would
be left over in the desk
You careless boy
Why can't you learn to be accurate? It's
the merest chance you got me. You should have stated your problem more
clearly, and you should have said seven thousand _Arithmetic_ Fairies.
Why suppose you had found one fairy in your desk, and it had been the
Grammar Fairy, or the Football Fairy--what would you have done then
_Is_ there a Football Fairy
Of course. There's a fairy for everything you have to learn. There's a
Patience Fairy, and a Good-temper Fairy, and a Fairy to teach people to
make bread, and another to teach them to make love. Didn't you really
know that
No
but I say, look here
I am looking
No--I mean--oh--I say
So I hear
No, but--no kid
Of course there isn't any kid
Dear, kind, pretty Fairy
That's better
Didn't you hear all I was saying to you yesterday, when the water was
dripping from the ceiling all over the room
From nineteen several spots. Of course I did
Well then
You mean that you're tired of having things happen when you do your
sums correctly? You prefer the old way
Yes, _please_
if you're sure you don't mind? I know you
meant it for kindness, but, oh, it is most beastly, when you get into
the thick of it
I only did it to please you
I'll make
everything as it was before. Does _that_ please you? And there's your
third wish. You know we always give three wishes. It's customary in the
profession. What would you like
What would you like
I should like to see you again some day
I made sure you would ask for a
pony or a cricket bat or a pair of white mice
You _shall_
see me again, Edwin. Goodbye
Principia
The Fourth and
Further Dimensions
Dear, beautiful Fairy
how glad I am to see you again
I've been with you all the time
I wish I could do
something more for you. Is there anything you want
No
no
Unless
you could make me young again
I can't do _that_
You can't have _everything_. The only
person who could do that for you is the Love Fairy. If you had found
her instead of me you would have been always young, but you wouldn't
have invented the Hypernebular Hypothesis
I suppose I shall never never find her now
I wonder
The Love Fairy doesn't live in schooldesks or
books on Fourth Dimensions
I wonder
Does the Love Fairy live in gardens
I wonder
Look here, dears, you may play with your bricks, or make pictures
with your pretty blocks that kind Uncle Thomas gave you, but you must
not touch the two top-drawers of the bureau. Now don't forget. And if
you're good you shall have tea with me, and perhaps there will be cake.
Now you _will_ be good, won't you
I am going to be very good, I shall be much more good than Mother
expects me to
We _won't_ look in the drawers
We won't even _think_ about the insides of the drawers
I suppose
we may open the two _bottom_ drawers?
Mother couldn't have made a mistake--could she
I
think it would be right to play with the bricks and the pretty blocks
that Uncle Thomas gave us
I am tired of the
blocks, and I am tired of Uncle Thomas. I would rather look in the
drawers
So would I
Well, you might as well pull up your stockings
I say, Rom! mother only said we weren't to _touch_ the two
top-drawers
I _should_ like to be good
I _mean_ to be good
But if you took the little thin
poker that is not kept for best you could put it through one of the
brass handles and I could hold the other handle with the tongs. And
then we could open the drawer without touching it
So we could! How clever you are, Fabe
Vill: and anim: 5/9-1/2
I wish it was to-morrow
Oh dear, I wish we hadn't
Let us pull out the writing drawer and make a castle
Ancient History
Decline and Fall
It's almost big enough to get into
if we had
some steps
British Essayists
Spectator
Rambler
Observer
Why, Rom, that's the bureau
It's larger than I want it to be
Oh, there's our very own house
we shall be
safe there
Fabian! Rosamund! come down
We have taken this town, and you are our prisoners. Do not attempt to
escape, or I don't know what will happen to you
That doesn't follow at all. It's our town now. And I want provisions
for my soldiers
We haven't any
Won't the soldiers be very fierce if they are hungry
You are quite right, little girl. If you have any food, produce it. It
will be a generous act, and may stop any unpleasantness. My soldiers
_are_ very fierce. Besides
you need only feed the soldiers in the usual way
If you do not mind waiting a minute
I will
bring down any little things I can find
More--more, my gallant men are fainting for lack of food
They might shut us up in the dungeons
and then
Mother might lock us in, when she shut up the lid of the bureau, and we
should starve to death
I think it's all nonsense
If we could only find Mother
I wish we had that mouse that looked like clockwork--and the donkey,
and the other box of soldiers--perhaps they are red ones, and they would
fight the blue and lick them--because red-coats are English and they
always win
Oh, Fabe, I believe we could go into _this_ town, too, if we tried!
Let us put all the things in, and then try
I am thinking of all the raisins and things on the soldiers' bayonets
outside. It seems a pity not to eat the things for them
No, no; let's get into this town, and perhaps we shall be safe from
the blue soldiers. Oh, Fabe, never mind the raisins
I don't want you to come if you're frightened. I'll
go alone. Who's afraid
I'm sure we can get into this town
Come out and let's see if the soldiers can tell us what to do
I am sorry for _you_, but your brother is the kind of child that
overwinds clockwork mice the very first day he has them. I prefer to
stay this size
On my honour, I won't. If we get back home I'll give
you to Rosamund. That is, supposing I get you for one of my Christmas
presents
And you won't put coals in my panniers or unglue my feet from my green
grass-plot because I look more natural without wheels
I give you my word
I wouldn't think of such a thing
Very well
then I will tell you. It is a great
secret, but there is only one way to get out of this kind of town.
You--I hardly know how to explain--you--you just _walk out of the gate_,
you know
Dear me
I never thought of that
What are we to do now
We must walk out of this town as we did out of the other
Yes
only this town if full of blue soldiers and I am
afraid of them. Don't you think it would do if we _ran_ out
Observer
What a dreadful muddle! And what have you done with the raisins and
the candied fruits
Oh, Mother, my head does ache so
I don't wonder your head aches, after all those sweet
things
I don't know what Daddy will say
I wonder what he _will_ say
_I_ don't know
Come in
I am extremely sorry to disturb your Majesty
but your Majesty's long-lost brother Negretti has called
in from the Golden Indies, and he says he can't stay more than half an
hour
My dear brother! I haven't seen him since we were boys together
Welcome, welcome
WELCOME! WELCOME
Alban is not my sort of king
I'd make a better king out of a penn'orth of putty any day of the
week
What's the good of a king if you never see him
No processions, no flags, no gilt coaches, no rubies and diamonds and
sapphires, no royal robes of purple and gold--such as a loyal country
has a right to expect on its sovereign's back! Only that old white
thing
No better than a velvet nightgown
I like a bit of colour, I do
Graining I don't ask
for, for he's not had the education to know its beauty; but a good warm
maroon, or a royal blue, now! But, no; it's white, white, white, till
I'm sick of it. And us all wearing white by law, and washing done free,
by white magic, at the Palace, on Mondays from 10 to 4. And no one to
have more than a quart of beer of an evening! I tell you what it is, my
boys, we're miserable, degraded slaves; that's what we are
If we must have a king
why not good old
Negretti? He's something like a king, he is! Ah! if he only knew how
our free hearts beat with him, he'd be sitting on the throne to-morrow
Down-trodden slaves
poor benighted, oppressed people!
Follow me! Let us dethrone a king who seeks to mask tyranny with
hypocritical public kitchens, and cloaks his infamous autocracy with
free washing by white magic on a Monday! To the Palace, to the Palace
And who are you
POOR BENIGHTED, OPPRESSED PEOPLE, FOLLOW ME
I am a poor Princess seeking my fortune
You will rest under my roof to-night
Nothing will ever again content me, not even doing good to my people,
if I must part from you. Will you stay and be my Queen
I am seeking my fortune. Do you think you are it
I do not know, my dear
whether I am your fortune,
but I know well enough that _you_ are _mine_
That is the right
answer! I have travelled half round the world to hear it; and will you
love me always
Always, my Queen
exactly the same as you will love me. We
are not of the race that changes heart
Down with Alban
Down with the White King
Free Beer
No more washing
What have I done but seek for your good? When, till now, have I
thought of my own happiness? Who has stirred you up to these ill
thoughts of me? My people, my own beloved people, have my ears ever
been closed to your complaints? Have you wrongs? Tell me, and I will
right them. Have you sorrows? Make them known and let me soothe them.
Do you not know that your King is your servant, and lives but to do you
good
We don't want to be done good to. We want to enjoy ourselves
I did not know
But now you have spoken I
will at once appoint a Minister of Public Enjoyment, and
One word,
brother
be changed to a stone
Ha, ha
I regret to inform you that your King has proved quite unreliable as
a man of business. When I urged him to sign a written agreement to
keep you always in a good humour he refused, and then he remembered an
urgent appointment in Nova Scotia; and he has gone, and taken most of
the crown treasure with him. But, do not despair, I will be your King,
and I have an income quite sufficient to keep up a small establishment
of my own. And my golden argosies are now on the way from the Indies,
bearing all manner of precious things, and bales of plush are on their
way from Yorkshire. So now I am King
Long live the King
What are you crying for
I'm crying for the White King
And why do you cry _here_
I don't know
good, wholesome school cake
Come in
I've come to marry you
No, thank you
But you'll be Queen of the
land
and that's what you'd have been if you'd married my
brother, and, I suppose, what you wanted to be
O no, it isn't
Well, what did you want
I wanted to be the White King's wife
It's the same thing
No, it isn't, not a bit
Get a hand-cart, and carry the thing on to the middle of
the bridge and drop it into the river
Very well, then, you can
just do the free washing
I like a colour to _be_ a colour
I hate your half
measures
Who wants to
wash
Whatever shall we do
Smash it
I'll take a turn at the medicine while you
go and see the thing done
Such rubbish I never heard of
If they want to
look at anything, why can't they come and look at _me_? I'm sure I'm
coloured enough
It is a magic stone. It will bring us luck. Build it into the royal
Palace
I might do worse
If good Roman cement and a
double coat of magenta paint doesn't keep it quiet nothing will
Let it lie here to-night, and to-morrow, if you will let me go,
I will take it away to my own kingdom, so that it shall never trouble
you again
Poor stone, dear stone, what is it that troubles you so that you
cannot rest? If I only knew, I might help you with my Sunlight Magic.
Why are you so troubled, and why do I pity you so? Oh, if my White King
were here he would understand and help you! But I can do nothing
be
changed into a stone
I'm very sorry
Dear, he deserved it. And being a post is not painful. Let us never
think of him again. I have learned many things since I came here. I
have something to break to you. Do you think you can bear it
I can bear anything now
Well
I am Princess of the Sun, and if I marry you,
my own dear King, I shan't be able to help colouring your pretty white
kingdom a little. Just soft sweet colours, dear, and not an inch of
plush. We'll make a law against _that_ the very first thing. And you
shall go on teaching your people to be good, and I'll try to teach them
to be happy. Do you think I can
You've taught _me_
but now, before
we do anything for the people, let's go and get married, and we can
begin to make the new laws directly we've finished breakfast. We shall
just have time to be married if we go off to church at once
There is to be no Plush at all in this kingdom
</text>
