<text>
bringing out such a ridiculously small
corpse to so large a crowd
expects then who the little book,
for the care what he wrote him and her typographical corrections, will
commend itself to the -- _British Paterfamilias_ -- at which he dedicates
him particularly
In England, where boys go to boarding schools, if the holidays
     were not long there would be no opportunity for cultivating the
     domestic affections
feeling beastly
pleasant, good-hearted young gentleman, after all,
though that aggravating and contrairy sometimes
the best boy this next term as ever was, and work hard at
all his lessons, and bring home a prize
Lor bless his heart, what with all these telegrafts and things,
time flew so fast nowadays that they'd be having him back again before
they all knew where they were
There you are,
eh
So you're off at last?
Well, holidays can't last for ever -- by a merciful decree of Providence,
they don't last quite for ever! There, good-bye, good-bye, be a good boy
this term, no more scrapes, mind. And now you'd better run away, and put
on your coat -- you're keeping the cab waiting all this time
No, I'm not
Boaler hasn't gone to fetch one yet
Not gone to fetch a cab yet
why, God
bless my soul, what's the man thinking about? You'll lose your train! I
know you'll lose the train, and there will be another day lost, after
the extra week gone already through that snow! I must see to this
myself. Ring the bell, tell Boaler to start this instant -- I insist on
his fetching a cab this instant
Well, it's not my fault, you know
but Boaler has gone now. I just heard
the gate shut
Ah
and now
you'd better shake hands, and then go up and say good-bye to your
sister -- you've no time to spare
I've said good-bye to them
Mayn't I stay here till -- till
Boaler comes
I suppose you can if you want to
only do one
thing or the other -- stay outside, or shut the door and come in and sit
down quietly. I cannot sit in a thorough draught
There's one thing I want to talk to you about before you go
and that's this. I had a most unsatisfactory report of you this last
term; don't let me have that again. Dr. Grimstone tells me -- ah, I have
his letter here -- yes, he says (and just attend, instead of making
yourself ill with preserved ginger)-- he says, 'Your son has great
natural capacity, and excellent abilities; but I regret to say that,
instead of applying himself as he might do, he misuses his advantages,
and succeeds in setting a mischievous example to -- if not actually
misleading -- his companions.' That's a pleasant account for a father to
read! Here am I, sending you to an expensive school, furnishing you with
great natural capacity and excellent abilities, and -- and -- every other
school requisite, and all you do is to misuse them! It's disgraceful!
And misleading your companions, too! Why, at your age, they ought to
mislead _you_ -- No, I don't mean that -- but what I may tell you is that
I've written a very strong letter to Dr. Grimstone, saying what pain it
gave me to hear you misbehaved yourself, and telling him, if he ever
caught you setting an example of any sort, mind that, _any_ sort, in the
future -- he was to, ah, to remember some of Solomon's very sensible
remarks on the subject. So I should strongly advise you to take care
what you're about in future, for your own sake
only so many more weeks and days left
slow
Heigho
Boaler's
an uncommonly long time fetching that cab
I do wish, sir
you would try to break
yourself of that habit of breathing hard. The society of a grampus (for
it's no less) delights no one and offends many -- including me -- and for
Heaven's sake, Dick, don't kick the leg of the table in that way; you
know it simply maddens me. What do you do it for? Why can't you learn to
sit at table like a gentleman
Oh, I say, father, will you -- can you let me have some pocket-money,
please, to go back with
Pocket-money
why, you can't want money. Didn't your
grandmother give you a sovereign as a Christmas-box? And I gave you ten
shillings myself
I do want it, though
that's all spent. And you know you
always _have_ given me money to take back
If I do give you some, you'll only go and spend it
I shan't spend it all at once, and I shall want some to put in the
plate on Sundays. We always have to put in the plate when it's a
collection. And there's the cab to pay
Boaler has orders to pay your cab -- as you know well enough
but I suppose you must have some, though you cost me enough,
Heaven knows, without this additional expense
An uncommonly liberal allowance for a young fellow like you
Don't buy any foolishness with it, and if, towards the end of
the term you want a little more, and write an intelligible letter asking
for it, and I think proper to let you have it -- why, you'll get it, you
know
I nearly forgot
I didn't like to take it without asking you, but is this any use?
May I have it
Eh
what's that? Something else -- what is
it you want now
It's only that stone Uncle Duke brought mamma from India; the thing, he
said, they called a 'Pagoda stone,' or something, out there
Pagoda stone? The boy means Garuda Stone. I should like to know how you
got hold of that; you've been meddling in my drawers, now, a thing I
will not put up with, as I've told you over and over again
No, I haven't, then
I found it in a tray in the
drawing-room, and Barbara said, perhaps, if I asked you, you might let
me have it, as she didn't think it was any use to you
Then Barbara had no right to say anything of the sort
But may I have it? I may, mayn't I
Have it? certainly not. What could you possibly want with a thing like
that? It's ridiculous. Give it to me
Magnaque numinibus vota exaudita malignis
What use would a thing like this be to
you
Oh, I don't know, I should like
it
Well, any way
you certainly won't have it. It's worth
keeping, whatever it is, as the only thing your uncle Marmaduke was ever
known to give to anybody
insinuating manners and address
Isn't it a talisman, though
I'm sure I can't tell you
how do you mean
I don't know, only Uncle Duke once said something about it. Barbara
heard him tell mamma. I say, perhaps it's like the one in Scott, and
cures people of things, though I don't think it's that sort of talisman
either, because I tried it once on my chilblains, and it wasn't a bit of
good. If you would only let me have it, perhaps I might find out, you
know
You might
but you won't have the chance. If it has a secret, I
will find it out for myself
and, by the way, there's your cab -- at last
Father
there's something I want to say to you so much
before I go. Do let me ask you now
Well, what is it
Make haste, you haven't much time
It's this. I want you to -- to let me leave Grimstone's at the end of the
term
Let you leave Dr.
Grimstone's (oblige me by giving him his full title when you speak of
him
Why, what do you mean? It's an excellent
school -- never saw a better expressed prospectus in my life. And my old
friend Bangle, Sir Benjamin Bangle, who's a member of the School Board,
and ought to know something about schools, strongly recommended
it -- would have sent his own son there, if he hadn't entered him at Eton.
And when I pay for most of the extras for you too. Dancing, by Gad, and
meat for breakfast. I'm sure I don't know what you would have
I'd like to go to Marlborough, or Harrow, or somewhere
Jolland's going to Harrow at Easter. (Jolland's one of the
fellows at Grimstone's -- Dr. Grimstone's I mean.) And what does old
Bangle know about it? He hasn't got to go there himself! And -- and
Grimstone's jolly enough to fellows he likes, but he doesn't like
_me_ -- he's always sitting on me for something -- and I hate some of the
fellows there, and altogether it's beastly. Do let me leave! If you
don't want me to go to a public school, I -- I could stop at home and have
a private tutor -- like Joe Twitterley
It's all ridiculous nonsense, I tell you
ridiculous nonsense! And, once for all, I'll put a stop to it. I don't
approve of public schools for boys like you, and, what's more, I can't
afford it. As for private tutors, that's absurd! So you will just make
up your mind to stay at Crichton House as long as I think proper to keep
you there, and there's an end of that
Now, you know, it's no use to cry like that
It's -- ah -- the
usual thing for boys at school, I'm quite aware, to go about fancying
they're very ill-used, and miserable, and all the rest of it, just as if
people in my position had their sons educated out of spite! It's one of
those petty troubles all boys have to go through. And you mark my words,
my boy, when they go out into the world and have real trials to put up
with, and grow middle-aged men, like me, why, they see what fools
they've been, Dick; they see what fools they've been. All the -- hum, the
innocent games and delights of boyhood, and that sort of thing, you
know -- come back to them -- and then they look back to those hours passed
at school as the happiest, aye, the very happiest time of their life
Well
then I hope it won't be the happiest time in mine,
that's all! And you may have been happy at the school you went to,
perhaps, but I don't believe you would very much care about being a boy
again like me, and going back to Grimstone's, you know you wouldn't
Perhaps you will believe me
when I tell you,
old as I am and much as you envy me, I only wish, at this very moment, I
could be a boy again, like you. Going back to school wouldn't make me
unhappy, I can tell you
I should like it, my boy, but what's the good of wishing? I only
mention it to prove that I was not speaking at random. I'm an old man
and you're a young boy, and, that being so, why, of course -- What the
dooce are you giggling about
I -- ah -- I'm not aware that I've been saying anything
particularly ridiculous. You seem to be amused
Don't
It, it isn't anything you're saying -- it's,
it's -- oh, can't you feel any difference
The sooner you go back to school the better
I
wash my hands of you. When I do take the trouble to give you any advice,
it's received with ridicule. You always were an ill-mannered little cub.
I've had quite enough of this. Leave the room, sir
Now, perhaps, if you
are quite yourself again, you will be good enough to let me know what
the joke is
Haven't you found it out yet? Go and look at yourself in the glass -- it
will make you roar
You,
you've been playing some of your infernal tricks with this mirror, sir
What have you done to it
Done! how could I do anything to it? As if you didn't know that
Then
then do you, do
you mean to tell me you can see any -- alteration in me? Tell me the truth
now
I should just think I could
It's very queer,
but just look here
Why
we're -- he-he -- as like as two peas
Dick
what is all this? Who has been, been taking
these liberties with me
I'm sure I don't know
It wasn't me. I believe you
did it all yourself
Did it all myself
Is it likely I should?
It's some trickery, I tell you, some villainous plot. The worst of it
is
I don't understand who I'm supposed to be
now. Dick, who am I
You can't be me
because here I am, you know. And you're
not yourself, that's very plain. You must be _somebody_, I suppose
Of course I am. What do you mean
Never mind who
I am. I feel just the same as I always did. Tell me when you first began
to notice any change. Could you see it coming on at all, eh
It was all at once, just as you were talking about school and all that.
You said you only wished ---- Why of course; look here, it must be the
stone that did it
Stone! what stone
I don't know what you're talking
about
Yes, you do -- the Garuda Stone! You've got it in your hand still. Don't
you see? It's a real talisman after all! How jolly
I didn't do anything to set it off; and besides, oh, it's perfectly
absurd! How can there be such things as talismans nowadays, eh? Tell me
that
Well, something's happened to you, hasn't it? And it must have been
done somehow
I was holding the confounded thing, certainly
here it is.
But what could I have said to start it? What has it done this to me
for
I know
Don't you remember? You said you wished you were
a boy again, like me. So you are, you see, exactly like me! What a lark
it is, isn't it? But, I say, you can't go up to business like that, you
know, can you? I tell you what, you'd better come to Grimstone's with me
now, and see how you like it. I shouldn't mind so much if you came too.
Grimstone's face would be splendid when he saw two of us. Do come
That's ridiculous nonsense you're talking
and you know
it. What should I do at school at my age? I tell you I'm the same as
ever inside, though I may have shrunk into a little rascally boy to look
at. And it's simply an abominable nuisance, Dick, that's what it is! Why
on earth couldn't you let the stone alone? Just see what mischief
you've done by meddling now -- put me to all this inconvenience
You shouldn't have wished
Wished
Why, to be sure
of course -- I never thought of that. The
thing's a wishing stone; it must be! You have to hold it, I suppose, and
then say what you wish aloud, and there you are. If that's the case, I
can soon put it all right by simply wishing myself back again. I -- I
shall have a good laugh at all this by and by -- I know I shall
I wish I was back again
I wish I was the man I
was five minutes ago
I wish all this had not happened
I don't like this
It seems to me that this diabolical invention has got
out of order somehow; I can't make it work any more
Perhaps
perhaps it's one of those talismans that
only give you one wish, and you've had it, you know
Then it's all over
What the dooce am I to do? What
shall I do? Suggest something, for Heaven's sake; don't stand cackling
there in that unfeeling manner. Can't you see what a terrible, mess I've
got into? Suppose -- only suppose your sister or one of the servants were
to come in, and see me like this
Let's have 'em all up
it would be such fun! How they will laugh when we tell them
Touch that bell if you dare
I won't be seen in this
condition by anybody! What on earth could have induced that scoundrelly
uncle of yours to bring such a horrible thing as this over I can't
imagine! I never heard of such a situation as this in my life. I can't
stay like this, you know -- it's not to be thought of! I -- I wonder whether
it would be any use to send over to Dr. Bustard and ask him to step in;
he might give me something to bring me round. But then the whole
neighbourhood would hear about it! If I don't see my way out of this
soon, I shall go raving mad
I may as well try
give it to me
Take it, my dear boy
Take it, and wish your poor old father himself again
Isn't it any use
I don't know
I haven't wished yet
Then do so at once
do so at once. There's no time
to waste, every moment is of importance -- your cab will be here directly.
Although, although I'm altered in this ridiculous way, I hope I still
retain my authority as a father, and as a father, by Gad, I expect you
to obey me, sir
Oh, all right
you may keep the authority if
you like
Then do what I tell you. Can't you see how urgent it is that a scandal
like this shouldn't get about? I should be the laughing-stock of the
city. Not a soul must ever guess that such a thing has happened. You
must see that yourself
Yes
I see that. It will be all right. I'm going
to wish in a minute, and no one will guess there has been anything the
matter
That's a good boy
I know your heart is in
the right place -- only do make haste
I suppose
when you are yourself again, things would go
on just as usual
I -- I hope so
I mean you will go on sitting here, and I shall go off to Grimstone's
Of course, of course
don't ask so many questions. I'm
sure you quite understand what has to be done, so get on. We might be
found like this any minute
That settles it
any fellow would do it after that
Yes, yes, but you're so slow about it
Don't be in a hurry
you mayn't like it after all when
I've done it
Done what
Well, I don't mind telling you
it's fairer. You see, you
wished to be a boy just like me, didn't you
I didn't mean it
Ah, you couldn't expect a stone to know that; at any rate, it made you
into a boy like me directly. Now, if I wish myself a man just like you
were ten minutes ago, before you took the stone, that will put things
all right again, won't it
Is the boy mad
Why, why,
that would be worse than ever
I don't see that
No one would know
anything about it then
But, you little blockhead, can't I make you understand? It wouldn't do
at all. We should both of us be wrong then -- each with the other's
personal appearance
Well
I shouldn't mind that
But I should -- I mind very much. I object strongly to such a -- such a
preposterous arrangement. And what's more, I won't have it. Do you hear,
I forbid you to think of any such thing. Give me back that stone. I
can't trust you with it after this
I can't help it
You've had your wish, and I
don't see why I shouldn't have mine. I mean to have it, too
Why, you unnatural little rascal
do
you mean to defy me? I tell you I will have that stone! Give it up this
instant
I'd much rather you wouldn't make me hit you, you know
because, in spite of what's happened, you're still my father, I
suppose. But if you interfere with me before I've done with this stone,
I'm afraid I shall have to punch your head
Stand out of my way
I am going to do it. I wish I was a man like you were just
now
It's all
right, you see
The old stone's as good as ever. You can't
say anyone would ever know, to look at us
Well, you've had your way, and a pretty
mess you've made of it. We're both of us in false positions now. I hope
you're satisfied, I'm sure. Do you think you'll care about going back to
Crichton House in that state
No
I'm quite sure I shouldn't
Well, I can't help it. You've brought it on yourself; and, provided the
Doctor sees no objection to take you back as you are and receive you as
one of his pupils, I shall most certainly send you there
Oh
you're going to do that? But doesn't it strike you that
things are rather altered with us now
They are, to a certain extent, of course
through my folly
and your wicked cunning; but a word or two of explanation from me
You'll find it will take more explanation than you think
but, of course, you can try, if you think it worth while -- when you get
to Grimstone's
When I,-- I don't understand. When I,-- what did you say
Why, you see
it would never have done for us both to
go back; the chaps would have humbugged us so, and as I hate the place
and you seem so fond of being a boy and going back to school and that, I
thought perhaps it would be best for you to go and see how you liked
it
I never will! I'll not stir from this room! I dare you to try to move
me
You've no time to lose
get your coat on
Ha! ha! you've fairly caught your poor father this time; you've proved
him in the wrong. I admit I said more than I exactly meant. But that's
enough. Don't drive a good joke too far; shake hands, and let us see if
we can't find a way out of this
You are going back to
an excellent establishment, where you will enjoy all the comforts of
home -- I can specially recommend the stickjaw; look out for it on
Tuesdays and Fridays. You will once more take part in the games and
lessons of happy boyhood. (Did you ever play 'chevy' when you were a boy
before? You'll enjoy chevy.) And you will find your companions easy
enough to get on with, if you don't go giving yourself airs; they won't
stand airs. Now good-bye, my boy, and bless you
Had a deal of trouble to find a keb, sir, on a night like this
but the luggage is all on top, and the man says
there's plenty of time still
Good-bye then, my boy
My compliments to the Doctor,
remember
I beseech you let his lack of years be no impediment to let him
     lack a reverend estimation, for I never knew so young a body with
     so old a head
I wonder now how the dickens I came to dream such outrageous nonsense
Gad, what a shock the thing has given me
I can hardly
shake off the feeling even now
If I have dined already
I can't be going home to
dinner; and if I am not going home to dinner, what -- what am I doing in
this cab
wear-resisting fabrics, suitable for youths at school
presence
I must be
cool
quite cool and
collected. Everything will depend on that now
I won't lose a minute
Stop
I must pay him something extra
I'll give him a sovereign
to take me back
Here, you, Clegg
why the devil didn't you pull up when I told you? eh
Why didn't I pull up
Cause I didn't want to lose a good customer, that's why I didn't pull
up
Do you mean to say you don't know me
Know yer
I've knowed yer
when you was a babby in frocks. I've knowed yer fust nuss (and a fine
young woman she were till she took to drinking, as has been the ruin of
many). I've knowed yer in Infancy's hour and in yer byhood's bloom! I've
druv yer to this 'ere werry station twice afore. Know yer
Then, ah -- drive me back
at once. Let those boxes alone. I -- I've important business at home which
I'd forgotten
Lor, yer at it agin
What a artful young limb it is! But it ain't what yer may
call good enough, so to speak, it ain't. Clegg don't do that no more
Don't do what
Don't drive no young gents as is a-bein' sent to school back agin into
their family's bosims
You was took ill
sudden in my cab the larst time. Offal bad you was, to be sure -- to hear
ye, and I druv' yer back; and I never got no return fare, I didn't, and
yer par he made hisself downright nasty over it, said as if it occurred
agin he shouldn't employ me no more. I durstn't go and offend yer par;
he's a good customer to me, he is
I'll give you a sovereign to do it
If yer wouldn't tell no tales, I might put yer down at the corner
p'raps
not as it ain't cheap
at that, but let's see yer suffering fust. Why
y'ain't got no suffering! Garn away, and don't try to tempt a pore
cabby as has his livin' to make. What d'ye think of this, porter, now?
'Ere's a young gent a tryin' to back out o' going to school when he
ought to be glad and thankful as he's receivin' the blessin's of a good
eddication. Look at me. I'm a 'ard-workin' man. I am. I ain't 'ad no
eddication. The kids, they're a learnin' French, and free'and drorin,
and the bones on a skellington at the Board School, and I pays my
coppers down every week cheerful. And why, porter? Why, young master?
'Cause I knows the vally on it! But when I sees a real young gent a
despisin' of the oppertoonities as a bountiful Providence and a
excellent par has 'eaped on his 'ed, it -- it makes me sick, it inspires
Clegg with a pity and a contemp' for such ingratitood, which he cares
not for to 'ide from public voo
Go away
that's enough. You're drunk
Drunk
Ear that. 'Ark at this 'ere young cock sparrer as tells a fam'ly man
like Clegg as he's drunk! Drunk, after drivin' his par in this 'ere
werry cab through frost and fine fifteen year and more! I wonder yer
don't say the old 'orse is drunk; you'll be sayin' that next! Drunk! oh,
cert'nly, by all means. Never you darken my cab doors no more. I shall
take and tell your par, I shall. Drunk, indeed! A ill-conditioned young
wiper as ever I see. Drunk! yah
Where for, sir, please
Nowhere
I -- I'm not going by this train; find me
a cab with a sober driver
You might find one inside the station by the arrival platform
but there'll be sure to be one comin' up here in another
minute, sir, if you like to wait
Hallo, Bultitude
I thought it was you. Here we are again,
eh? Ugh
You might find a word to say to a fellow
Look here; come and get your luggage labelled
I don't want it labelled
I'm waiting for a cab to take me home again
That'll make it rather a short term,
won't it, if you're going home for the holidays already? You're a cool
chap, Bultitude! If I were to go back to my governor now, he wouldn't
see it. It would put him in no end of a bait. But you're chaffing
Aren't you well
Down in the mouth? It is
beastly, isn't it, having to go back to old Grimstone's! The snow gave
us an extra week, though -- we've that much to be thankful for. I wish it
was the first day of the holidays again, don't you? What's the matter
with you? What have I done to put you in a wax
Nothing at present
I don't speak to you merely because I
don't happen to have the -- ah -- pleasure of your acquaintance
Oh, very well, then; I daresay you know best
Only I thought -- considering we came the same half, and have been chums,
and always sat next one another ever since -- you might perhaps just
recollect having met me before, you know
Well, I don't
I tell you I haven't the least
idea what your name is. The fact is there has been a slight mistake,
which I can't stop to talk about now. There's a cab just driven up
outside now. You must excuse me, really, my boy, I want to go
What a fellow you are, Bultitude
always up to something or
other. You know me well enough. What is the use of keeping it up any
longer? Let's talk, and stop humbugging. How much grub have you brought
back this time
Porter
Where's that porter? I want my box put on that cab.
No, I don't care about the luggage; engage the cab. Now, you little
ruffian, are you going to let me go? Can't you see I'm anxious to get
away
Well, you _have_ got cheek
Go on, I wish you may get that cab, I'm sure
Ha, Bultitude, my boy, how are you? How are you, Jolland? Come back
braced in body and mind by your vacation, eh? That's as it should be.
Have you tickets? No? follow me then. You're both over age, I believe.
There you are; take care of them
This is awful
simply awful.
He evidently has no idea who I really am. Unless I'm very careful I
shall be dragged off to Crichton House before I can put him right. If I
could only get him away alone somewhere
I wish to have a little serious conversation with Richard in
private. Suppose you go to the bookstall and see if you can find out any
of our young friends. Tell them to wait for me there
I wished to tell you, Bultitude
that I hope you are
returning this term with the resolve to do better things. You have
caused your excellent father much pain in the past. You little know the
grief a wilful boy can inflict on his parent
I think I have a very fair idea of it
I hope you left him in good health? Such a devoted parent,
Richard -- such a noble heart
I had a letter from him during the vacation
a sweet letter, Richard, breathing in every line a father's anxiety and
concern for your welfare
sweet
But -- and this is what I wanted to say to you, Bultitude -- his is no
blind doting affection. He has implored me, for your own sake, if I see
you diverging ever so slightly from the path of duty, not to stay my
hand. And I shall not forget his injunctions
Perhaps I had better
leave him in his error till we get into the train
then we
will get rid of that other boy, and I can break it to him gradually in
the railway carriage as I get more accustomed to him
And now
we must be thinking of
starting. But don't forget what I have said
Aha
more of my fellows, eh? We shall be quite a party. How do you do, boys?
Welcome back to your studies
Some old friends here, Bultitude
You know Tipping, of course; Coker,
too, you've met before -- and Coggs. How are you, Siggers? You're looking
well. Ah, by the way, I see a new face -- Kiffin, I think? Kiffin, this is
Bultitude, who will make himself your mentor, I hope, and initiate you
into our various manners and customs
how-de-do
How are you, old boy
Boys are capital fellows in their own way among their mates; but
     they are unwholesome companions for grown people
I will let him speak first
then I shall be able to feel
my way
Well, boys, you have had an
unusually protracted vacation this time -- owing to the unprecedented
severity of the weather. We must try to make up for it by the zest and
ardour with which we pursue our studies during the term. I intend to
reduce the Easter holidays by a week by way of compensation
I'm uncommonly glad to hear it, Dr. Grimstone
an
excellent arrangement. Boys have too many holidays as it is. There's no
reason, to my mind, why parents should be the sufferers by every
snowstorm. It's no joke, I can assure you, to have a great idle boy
hanging about the place eating his empty head off
This is indeed finding Saul amongst the prophets;
your sentiments, if sincere, Bultitude -- I repeat, if sincere -- are very
creditable. But I am obliged to look upon them with suspicion
And how have
you all been spending your holidays, eh
How do you do
I took my boy Tom up to town the week before
Christmas to see the representation of the 'Agamemnon' at St. George's
Hall. The 'Agamemnon,' as most of you are doubtless aware, is a drama by
AEschylus, a Greek poet of established reputation. I was much pleased by
the intelligent appreciation Tom showed during the performance. He
distinctly recognised several words from his Greek Grammar in the course
of the dialogue
I may be old-fashioned
very likely I am; but
I -- ah -- decidedly disapprove of taking children to dramatic exhibitions
of any kind. It unsettles them, sir -- unsettles them
I've offended him now
I must be more careful what I
say. But I'll get him into conversation again presently
You have this evening's paper, I
see. No telegrams of importance, I suppose
No, sir
I saw a report in to-day's _Times_
I
saw a report that the camphor crop was likely to be a failure this
season. Now, it's a very singular thing about camphor, that the
Japanese
I am already acquainted with the method of obtaining camphor, thank
you, Bultitude
I was about to observe, when you interrupted me
and this
is really a fact that I doubt if you are aware of), that the Japanese
never
Well, well
probably they
never do, sir, but I shall have other opportunities of finding out what
you have read about the Japanese
He's most uncivil
almost insulting, but
I'll go on. I'm rousing his curiosity. I'm making way with him; he sees
a difference already
You're a smoker, of course, Dr. Grimstone
We don't stop
anywhere, I think, on the way, and I must confess myself, after dinner,
a whiff or two -- I think I can give you a cigar you'll appreciate
If I did not know, sir
that
this was ill-timed buffoonery, and not an intentional insult, I should
be seriously angry. As it is, I can overlook any exuberance of mirth
which is, perhaps, pardonable when the mind is elated by the return to
the cheerful bustle and activity of school-life. But be very careful
He needn't be so angry
how could I know he doesn't
smoke? But I'm afraid he doesn't quite know me, even now
Did I hear you mention the name of Kiffin amongst
those of your pupils here, Doctor? I thought so. Not the son of Jordan
Kiffin, of College Hill, surely? Yes? Why, bless my soul, your father
and I, my little fellow, were old friends in days before you were born
or thought of -- born or thought of. He was in a very small way then, a
very small ---- Eh, Dr. Grimstone, don't you feel well
I see what you're aiming at, sir. You wish to prove to me that I'm
making a mistake in my treatment of you
That was my idea, certainly
I'm very glad
you take me, Doctor
I shall take you in a way you won't appreciate soon, if this goes on
When the time comes I shall know how to deal with you. Till then
you'll have the goodness to hold your tongue
It's not a very polite way of putting it
but,
at any rate, he sees how the case stands now, and after all, perhaps, he
only speaks like that to put the boys off the scent. If so, it's
uncommonly considerate and thoughtful of him, by Gad. I won't say any
more
I'm sorry
to inconvenience you, Dr. Grimstone
but I positively must ask you
either to allow me to have this window up or to change places with you.
The night air, sir, at this time of the year is fatal, my doctor tells
me, simply fatal to a man of my constitution
I warn you, Bultitude
you are acting very
imprudently
So I am
so I am. Good of him to remind me. I must keep
it up before all these boys. This unpleasant business mustn't get about.
I'll hold my tongue till we get in. Then, I daresay, Grimstone will see
me off by the next train up, if there is one, and lend me enough for a
bed at an hotel for the night. I couldn't get to St. Pancras till very
late, of course. Or he might offer to put me up at the school. If he
does, I think I shall very possibly accept. It might be better
Dr. Grimstone
I'm not a man to
complain without good reason, but really I must ask you to interfere.
Will you tell this boy here, on my right, either to control his feelings
or to cry into his pocket-handkerchief, like an ordinary human being? A
good honest bellow I can understand, but this infernal whiffling and
sniffing, sir, I will not put up with. It's nothing less than unnatural
in a boy of that size
Kiffin
are you crying
N -- no, sir
I -- I think I must have caught cold,
sir
I hope you are telling me the truth, because I should be sorry to
believe you were beginning your new life in a spirit of captiousness and
rebellion. I'll have no mutineers in my camp. I'll establish a spirit of
trustful happiness and unmurmuring content in this school, if I have to
flog every boy in it as long as I can stand over him! As for you,
Richard Bultitude, I have no words to express my pain and disgust at the
heartless irreverence with which you persist in mimicking and
burlesquing a fond and excellent parent. Unless I perceive, sir, in a
very short time a due sense of your error and a lively repentance, my
disapproval will take a very practical form
Do you encourage your boys to make common nuisances of themselves in a
public place, may I ask, Dr. Grimstone
Some scarcely seem to require encouragement, Bultitude
what is the matter now
If he takes it medicinally
he should choose some other
time and place to treat his complaint. If he has a depraved liking for
the abominable stuff, for Heaven's sake make him refrain from it on
occasions when it is a serious annoyance to others
Will you explain? Who and what are you talking about
That boy opposite
he's sucking an infernal peppermint lozenge
strong enough to throw the train off the rails
Is what Bultitude tells me true, Coggs
bought the lozenges at a
chemist's
Have you any more of this pernicious stuff about you
Bultitude
I am obliged to you. A severe cold in the
head has rendered me incapable of detecting this insidious act of
insubordination and self-indulgence, on which I shall have more to say
on another occasion. Your moral courage and promptness in denouncing the
evil thing are much to your credit
Not at all
not at all, my dear sir. I mentioned it
because I -- ah -- happen to be peculiarly sensitive on the subject and
One of
these young savages has just given me a severe kick; it's that fellow
over there, with the blue necktie. I have given him no provocation, and
he attacks me in this brutal manner, sir; I appeal to you for
protection
you emulate
the wild ass in more qualities than those of stupidity and stubbornness,
do you? You lash out with your hind legs at an inoffensive
school-fellow, with all the viciousness of a kangaroo, eh? Write out all
you find in Buffon's Natural History upon those two animals a dozen
times, and bring it to me by to-morrow evening. If I am to stable wild
asses, sir, they shall be broken in
Market Rodwell
I should like to tell him all about it now
if he wasn't
so busy. I'll get him to go in a cab alone with me, and get it over
before we reach the house
It's scandalous, I tell you
scandalous! No cabs to
meet the train. My school reassembles to-day, and here I find no
arrangements made for their accommodation! Not even an omnibus! I shall
write to the manager and report this. Let some one go for a fly
immediately. Boys, go into the waiting room till I come to you.
Stay -- there are too many for one fly. Coker, Coggs, and, let me see,
yes, Bultitude, you all know your way. Walk on and tell Mrs. Grimstone
we are coming
They
will be valuable witnesses
that, whoever else I
may be, I am not Dick
Well
here you are,
young men, eh? Holidays all over now! Work while you're young, and
then ---- Gad, you're walking me off my legs. Stop; I'm not as young as I
used to be
Grim can't see us here, can he, Coker
Not he
Very well, then. Now then, young Bultitude, you used to be a decent
fellow enough last term, though you _were_ coxy. So, before we go any
further -- what do you mean by this sort of thing
Because
if you aren't quite right in your head,
through your old governor acting like a brute all the holidays, as you
said he does, just say so, and we won't be hard on you
I -- he -- always an excellent father
What am I to
explain
Why, what did you go and sneak of _him_ for bringing tuck back to
school for, eh
Yes, and sing out when he hacked your shin
and tell
Grimstone that new fellow was blubbing? Where's the joke in all that,
eh? Where's the joke
You don't suppose I was bound to sit calmly down and allow you to suck
your villainous peppermints under my very nose, do you
Why shouldn't I complain if a boy annoys me by sniffing, or
kicks me on the ankle? Just tell me that? Suppose my neighbour has a
noisy dog or a smoky chimney, am I not to venture to tell him of it? Is
he to
You little brute
I could have you up for assault for
that
Last term
you'd have shown fight for much less, Bultitude
Now, perhaps, you'll drop it for the future
Look here!
we'll give you one more chance. This sneaking dodge is all very well for
Chawner. Chawner could do that sort of thing without getting sat upon,
because he's a big fellow; but we're not going to stand it from you.
Will you promise on your sacred word of honour, now, to be a decent sort
of chap again, as you were last term
You don't understand
If I could only tell
you
We don't want any fine language, you know
Yes or no. Will you promise to be your old self again
I only wish I could
but I can't
Very well, then
we must try the torture. Coker,
will you screw the back of his hand, while I show him how they make
barley-sugar
This is a nice way
for a father to visit his son's school
Why, here you are
How cold you look! So you actually had to walk. No
cabs as usual. You poor boys! come in and warm yourselves. You'll find
all your old friends in the schoolroom
There
you'll have plenty to talk to
one another about. I'll send Tom in to see you presently
I say
did you
go to Drury Lane? Wasn't it stunning! That goose, you know, and the lion
in the forest, and all the wooden animals lumbering in out of the toy
Noah's Ark
Why couldn't you come to our party on Twelfth-night
We had great larks. I wish you'd been there
I had to go to young Skidmore's instead
It was like his
cheek to ask me, but I thought I'd go, you know, just to see what it was
like
What was it like
Oh, awfully slow! They've a poky little house in Brompton somewhere,
and there was no dancing, only boshy games and a conjurer, without any
presents. And, oh! I say, at supper there was a big cake on the table,
and no one was allowed to cut it, because it was hired. They're so poor,
you know. Skidmore's pater is only a clerk, and you should see his
sisters
Why, are they pretty
Pretty! they're just like young Skidmore -- only uglier; and just fancy,
his mother asked me 'if I was Skidmore's favourite companion, and if he
helped me in my studies
Does any
one know whether Chawner really has left this time
I hope so
He's been going to leave every term for the last year,
but I believe he really has done it this time. He wrote and told me he
wasn't coming back
Thank goodness
Look out -- here's Grimstone
Well, you fellows
Why, Chawner
how are you, old fellow? We thought you weren't coming back
Well
I was going to leave, but I thought you'd be
getting into mischief here without me to watch over you. Appleton, and
Lench, and Coker want looking after badly, I know. So, you see, I've
come back after all
I say, you chaps, have you done
your holiday task? Pa says he shall keep everyone in who hasn't. I've
done mine
Why, there's Dicky Bultitude there all
the time, and he never came to shake hands! Aren't you going to speak to
me
What's the matter with him
Does anyone know? Has he
lost his tongue
He hadn't lost it coming down in the train
I wish he
had. I tell you what, you fellows -- He -- here's Grim at last! I'll tell
you all about it up in the bedroom
supper
You got into trouble last term, Bultitude
on
account of this same fastidious daintiness. Your excellent father has
informed me of your waste and gluttony at his own bountifully spread
table. Don't let me have occasion to reprove you for this again
I must get away from here
Dick seems very
unpopular. I wish I didn't feel so low-spirited and unwell. Why can't I
carry it off easily as -- as a kind of joke? How hard these forms are, and
how those infernal boys did jog my back
Dr. Grimstone
before retiring I -- I must insist -- I mean I
must request ---- What I wish to say is
I see
You wish to
apologise for your extraordinary behaviour in the railway carriage?
Well, though you made some amends afterwards, an apology is very right
and proper. Say no more about it
It's not that
I wanted to explain
Your conduct with regard to the bread and butter? If it was simply
want of appetite, of course there is no more to be said. But I have an
abhorrence of
Quite right
I hate waste myself, but
there is something I must tell you before
If it concerns that disgraceful conduct of Coker's
you may speak on. I shall have to consider his case to-morrow. Has any
similar case of disobedience come to your knowledge? If so, I expect you
to disclose it to me. You have found some other boy with sweetmeats in
his possession
Good Heavens, sir
I haven't
been searching the whole school for sweetmeats! I have other things to
occupy my mind, sir. And, once for all, I demand to be heard! Dr.
Grimstone, there are, ahem, domestic secrets that can only be alluded to
in the strictest privacy. I see that one of your assistants is writing
at his table there. Cannot we go where there will be less risk of
interruption? You have a study, I suppose
Yes, sir
I have a study -- and
I have a cane. I can convince you of both facts, if you wish it. If you
insult me again by this brazen buffoonery, I will! Be off to your
dormitory, sir, before you provoke me to punish you. Not another word!
Go
Good night, Master Bultitude
you know your bedroom. No. 6, with Master Coker, and Master
Biddlecomb, and the others
Here he is! He's stayed
behind to tell more tales
Now
then, Bultitude, what have you got to say for yourself
You see he hasn't a word to say for himself
Look here,
what shall we do to him? Shall we try tossing in a blanket? I've never
tried tossing a fellow in one myself, but as long as you don't jerk him
too high, or out on the floor, you can't hurt him dangerously
No, I say, don't toss him in a blanket
anyone coming up would see
what was going on. I vote we flick at him with towels
Now just you understand this clearly
I
refuse to allow myself to be flicked at with towels. No one has ever
offered me such an indignity in my life! Oh, do you think I've not
enough on my mind as it is without the barbarities of a set of young
brutes like you
_Cave_, you fellows! I hear Grim. Let him undress now, and
we can lam it into him afterwards with slippers
Well had the boding tremblers learned to trace
     The day's disasters in his morning's face
Dick! dear Dick
I am so glad! I thought you'd be down
early; as you used to be. I wanted to sit up last night so very much,
but mamma wouldn't let me
Ah
and so you're Dr. Grimstone's little
girl, are you? How d'ye do, my dear
What makes you talk like that
How ought I to talk
You didn't talk like that before
I -- I
thought perhaps you'd be glad to see me. You were once. And -- and -- when
you went away last you asked me to -- to -- kiss you, and I did, and I wish
I hadn't. And you gave me a ginger lozenge with your name written on it
in lead pencil, and I gave you a cough-lozenge with mine; and you said
it was to show that you were my sweetheart and I was yours. But I
suppose you've eaten the one I gave you
This is dreadful
What shall I do now? The
child evidently takes me for that little scoundrel Dick
Tut-tut
little girls like you are too young for such nonsense. You
ought to think about -- about your dolls, and -- ah, your needlework -- not
sweethearts
You say that now
You know I'm not a little
girl, and I've left off playing with dolls -- almost. Oh, Dick, don't be
unkind! You haven't changed your mind, have you
No
I've changed my body. But there -- you wouldn't
understand. Run away and play somewhere, like a good little girl
I know what it is
You've been out to parties, or
somewhere, and seen some horrid girl ... you like ... better than me
This is absurd, you know
You can't think how
absurd it is! Now, you'll be a very foolish little girl if you cry.
You're making a mistake. I'm not the Dick you used to know
I know you're not
But oh, Dick, you will be. Promise
me you will be
Good gracious
let me go. Don't do that, for Heaven's sake!
I can hear some one coming. If it's your father, it will ruin me
What have you been saying to make her cry, eh
What's that to you, sir
Why, it's just this to me
that I've been spoons on
Dulcie myself ever since I came, and she never would have a word to say
to me. I never could think why, and now it turns out to be you! What do
you mean by cutting me out like this? I heard her call you 'dear Dick
Don't be an ass, sir
Now, none of your cheek, you know
You just mind what I say. I'm not going to have
Dulcie bothered by a young beggar in the second form; she deserves
something better than that, anyway, and I tell you that if I once catch
you talking to her in the way you did just now, or if I hear of her
favouring you more than any other fellows, I'll give you the very
juiciest licking you ever had in your life. So look out
I _must_ tell the Doctor how I'm situated
and yet
directly I open my mouth, he threatens to flog me. If I stay here, that
little girl will be always trying to speak to me, and I shall be
thrashed by the red-haired boy. If I could only manage to speak out
after breakfast
Dining Hall
assisted by a graduate of the University of Cambridge who has
taken honours in the Mathematical Tripos
Mr. Tinkler
if it were my
custom to rebuke my assistants before the school (which it is not), I
should feel forced to remind you that this tardiness in rising is a bad
beginning of the day's work, and sets a bad example to those under your
authority
Now, boys, you
have half-an-hour for 'chevy'-- make the most of it. When you come in I
shall have something to say to you all. Don't rise, Mr. Tinkler, unless
you have quite finished
made an excellent breakfast
chevy
prisoners'
base
chevy
The bore of a place like this, you know
is that a fellow can't have his pipe of a morning.
I've been used to it, and so, of course, I miss it. If I chose to insist
on it Grimstone couldn't say anything; but with a lot of young fellows
like you, you see, it wouldn't look well
Talking of smoking
did I ever tell you chaps of a
tremendous scrape I very nearly got into up at the 'Varsity? Well, you
must know there's a foolish rule there against smoking in the streets.
Not that that made any difference to some of us! Well, one night about
nine, I was strolling down Petty Cury with two other men, smoking
(Bosher of
and Peebles of
both pretty well known up
there for general rowdiness, you know -- great pals of mine!) and, just as
we turned the corner, who should we see coming straight down on us but a
Proctor with his bull-dogs (not dogs, you know, but the strongest 'gyps'
in college). Bosher said, 'Let's cut it!' and he and Peebles bolted.
(They were neither of them funks, of course, but they lost their heads.)
I went calmly on, smoking my cigar as if nothing was the matter. That
put the Proctor in a bait, I can tell you! He came fuming up to me.
'What do you mean, sir,' says he, quite pale with anger (he was a great
bull-headed fellow, one of the strongest dons of his year, that's why
they made him a Proctor)--'what do you mean by breaking the University
Statutes in this way?' 'It _is_ a fine evening,' said I (I was
determined to keep cool). 'Do you mean to insult me?' said he. 'No, old
boy,' said I, 'I don't; have a cigar?' He couldn't stand that, so he
called up his bull-dogs. 'I give him in charge!' he screamed out. 'I'll
have him sent down!' 'I'll send you down first,' said I, and I just gave
him a push -- I never meant to hurt the fellow -- and over he went. I rolled
over a bull-dog to keep him company, and, as the other fellow didn't
want any more and stood aside to let me pass, I finished my stroll and
my cigar
Was the Proctor hurt, sir
More frightened than hurt, I always said
but somehow he never would proctorise any more -- it spoilt his nerve. He
was a good deal chaffed about it, but of course no one ever knew I'd had
anything to do with it
All in
He's sent them out for a walk
It's a row
Ever since I have devoted myself to the cause of tuition
I have made it my object to provide boys under my roof with
fare so abundant and so palatable that they should have no excuse for
obtaining extraneous luxuries. I have presided myself at their meals, I
have superintended their very sports with a fatherly eye
He's wandering from the point
I have done all this on one understanding -- that the robustness of your
constitutions, acquired by the plain, simple, but abundant regimen of my
table, shall not be tampered with by the indulgence in any of the
pampering products of confectionery. They are absolutely and
unconditionally prohibited -- as every boy who hears me now knows
perfectly well!

"And yet
what do I find? There are some
natures so essentially base, so incapable of being affected by kindness,
so dead to honour and generosity, that they will not scruple to conspire
or set themselves individually to escape and baffle the wise precautions
undertaken for their benefit. I will not name the dastards at
present -- they themselves can look into their hearts and see their guilt
reflected there
I do not like to think
that the evil has a
wider existence than I yet know of. It may be so; nothing will surprise
me now. There may be some before me trembling with the consciousness of
secret guilt. If so, let those boys make the only reparation in their
power, and give themselves up in an honourable and straightforward
manner
Then let the being -- for I will not call him boy -- who is known to me,
step forth and confess his fault publicly, and sue for pardon
Then I name him
Cornelius Coggs -- stand up
Me, sir? Oh,
please sir -- no, not me, sir
Yes, you, sir, and let your companions regard you with the contempt and
abhorrence you so richly merit
So, Coggs
so you
thought to defy me; to smuggle compressed illness and concentrated
unhealthiness into this school with impunity? You flattered yourself
that after I had once confiscated your contraband poisons, you would
hear no more of it! You deceived yourself, sir! I tell you, once for
all, that I will not allow you to contaminate your innocent schoolmates
with your gifts of surreptitious sweetmeats; they shall not be perverted
with your pernicious peppermints, sir; you shall not deprave them by
jujubes, or enervate them with Turkish Delight! I will not expose
myself or them to the inroads of disease invited here by a hypocritical
inmate of my walls. The traitor shall have his reward
Thanks
to the fearless honesty of a youth
who, in an
eccentric manner, certainly, but with, I do not doubt, the best of
motives, opened my eyes to the fell evil, I am enabled to cope with it
at its birth. Richard Bultitude, I take this occasion of publicly
thanking and commending you; your conduct was noble
As for
you, Coggs
I
shall make a public example of you
One word more
I know that
you all think with me in your horror of the treachery I have just
exposed. I know that you would scorn to participate in it
You are anxious to prove that you do so beyond a doubt
I give you all that opportunity. I have
implicit trust and confidence in you -- let every boarder go down into the
box-room and fetch up his playbox, just as it is, and open it here
before me
playbox
Hallo
oh, I say,
you fellows, come here! Just look at this! Here's this impudent young
beggar, who sneaked of poor old Coggs for sucking jujubes, and very
nearly got us all into a jolly good row, with his own box full all the
time; butterscotch, if you please, and jam, and ginger wine! You'll just
put 'em all back again, will you, you young humbug
Do you use those words to me, sir
Yes, sir, please, sir
I did venture to take such a
liberty, sir
Then it was like your infernal impudence
You be kind
enough to leave my affairs alone. Upon my word, what boys are coming to
nowadays
Are you going to put that tuck back
No, sir, I'm not. Don't interfere with what you're not expected to
understand
Well, if you won't
I suppose we must.
Biddlecomb, kindly knock him down, and sit on his head while I fill his
playbox for him
As the box is heavy
I'll carry it
up for you myself
Bultitude's box was rather too heavy for him, sir
liked to see the strong
assisting the weak
Well, my boy
I'm not afraid of anything wrong here, at any rate
Eh? Come, open the box
What
are you fumbling at it for in this -- this highly suspicious manner? I'll
open it myself
Hardbake
wine, pots of strawberry jam! Oh,
Bultitude, this is a revelation indeed! So I have nourished one more
viper in my bosom, have I? A crawling reptile which curries favour by
denouncing the very crime it conceals in its playbox! Bultitude, I was
not prepared for such duplicity as this
I -- I swear I never put them in
I -- I
never touch such things: they would bring on my gout in half-an-hour.
It's ridiculous to punish me. I never knew they were there
Then why were you so anxious to avoid opening the box
No, sir, you're too ingenious; your guilt is clear. Go to your
dormitory, and wait there till I come to you
I shall be caned
I know I shall be caned! What on earth shall I do
What do you want up here
Go away, can't you
I wish I _could_ go away
but I'm -- hum -- I'm sent
up here too
What
you don't
mean to say you're going to catch it too
I've -- ah -- every reason to fear
that I am
indeed going to 'catch it,' as you call it
Hooray
I don't care now. And I'll have
some revenge on my own account as well. I don't mind an extra licking,
and you're in for one as it is. Will you stand up to me or not
I don't understand you
Don't come so near. Keep off, you
young demon, will you
There,
don't be annoyed, my good boy
It was a misunderstanding. I wish you no harm. There, my dear
young friend! Don't
When I get at you
I'll jolly well teach you to
sneak of me
Murder
Unless
help comes this young fiend will have my blood
I subscribe to Lucian: 'tis an elegant thing which cheareth up the
     mind, exerciseth the body, delights the spectators, which teacheth
     many comely gestures, equally affecting the ears, eyes and soul
     itself
What is this
Will one of you be good enough to explain how you come to be found
struggling in this unseemly manner? I sent you up here to meditate on
your past behaviour
I should be most happy to meditate, sir
if that -- that
bloodthirsty young ruffian there would allow me to do so. I am going
about in bodily fear of him, Dr. Grimstone. I want him bound over to
keep the peace. I decline to be left alone with him -- he's not safe
Is that so, Coggs? Are you mean and base enough to take this cowardly
revenge on a boy who has had the moral courage to expose your
deceit -- for your ultimate good -- a boy who is unable to defend himself
against you
He can fight when he chooses, sir
he blacked my eye last
term, sir
I assure you
that I never blacked anybody's eye in the whole course of my life. I am
not -- ah -- a pugnacious man. My age, and -- hum -- my position, ought to
protect me from these scandals
You've come back this year, sir
with a very odd
way of talking of yourself -- an exceedingly odd way. Unless I see you
abandoning it, and behaving like a reasonable boy again, I shall be
forced to conclude you intend some disrespect and open defiance by it
If you would allow me an opportunity of explaining my position, sir
I would undertake to clear your mind directly of such a
monstrous idea. I am trying to assert my rights, Dr. Grimstone -- my
rights as a citizen, as a householder! This is no place for me, and I
appeal to you to set me free. If you only knew one tenth
Let us understand one another, Bultitude
You may think it an excellent joke to talk nonsense to me like this.
But let me tell you there is a point where a jest becomes an insult.
I've spared you hitherto out of consideration for the feelings of your
excellent father, who is so anxious that you should become an object of
pride and credit to him; but if you dare to treat me to any more of this
bombast about 'explaining your rights,' you will force me to exercise
one of mine -- the right to inflict corporal punishment, sir -- which you
have just seen in operation upon another
Oh
As for those illicit luxuries in your playbox
the fact that you brought the box up as it was is in your favour; and I
am inclined on reflection to overlook the affair, if you can assure me
that you were no party to their being put there
On the contrary
I gave the strictest orders that there
was to be no such useless extravagance. I objected to have the kitchen
and housekeeper's room ransacked to make a set of rascally boys ill for
a fortnight at my expense
Take your Livy and Latin Primer, Bultitude
and sit down
At dinner time
I will insist on speaking
out, but just now it is simply prudent to humour them
I know, sir. Let me tell him. Ask me, sir
chevy
I've put him in a good temper
if I can only keep him in one till the evening, I really think
I might be able to go up and tell him what a ridiculous mess I've got
into. Why should I care, after all? At least I've done nothing to be
ashamed of. It's an accident that might have happened to any man
If I were there
I should have been run out and flogged long ago! How angry those stupid
young idiots are making him! How can I go up and speak to him when he's
like that? And yet I must. I'm sitting on dynamite as it is. The very
first time they want me to answer any questions from some of their
books, I shall be ruined! Why wasn't I better educated when I was a
boy, or why didn't I make a better use of my opportunities! It will be a
bitter thing if they thrash me for not knowing as much as Dick.
Grimstone's coming this way now; it's all over with me
Who were the boys who learnt dancing last
term
Mr. Burdekin was unable to give you the last lesson of his course last
term, and has arranged to take you to-day, as he will be in the
neighbourhood. So be off at once to Mrs. Grimstone and change your
shoes. Bultitude, you learnt last term, too. Go with the others
I suppose I must go
I needn't dance. Haven't danced
since I was a young man. But I can't afford to offend him just now
Dining Hall
Dick
you're not sulky still, are you
I do wish you wouldn't do this sort of thing in public. You'll
compromise me, you know
You didn't mind it once
I thought you might want to dance
with me. You liked to last term. But I'm sure I don't care if you choose
to be disagreeable. Go and dance with Mary Mutlow if you want to, though
you did say she danced like a pair of compasses, and I shall tell her
you said so, too. And you know you're not a good dancer yourself. _Are_
you going to dance with Mary
I tell you I never dance
I can't dance any
more than a lamp-post. You don't seem an ill-natured little girl, but
why on earth can't you let me alone
You're a nasty sulky boy
I'll never speak to you or look at you again. You're the
most horrid boy in the school -- and the ugliest
Good afternoon, madam. Young ladies, I trust I find you well. (The
curtsey just a leetle lower, Miss Mutlow -- the right foot less drawn
back. Beautiful! Feet closer at the recovery. Perfect!) Young gentlemen,
good evening. Take your usual places, please, all of you, for our
preliminary exercises. Now, the _chassee_ round the room. Will you lead
off, please, Dummer; the hands just lightly touching the shoulders, the
head thrown negligently back to balance the figure; the whole deportment
easy, but not careless. Now, please
If my clerks were to see me
now
The Lancers
Bultitude
you will take Miss Mutlow, please
Thank you
but -- ah -- I don't dance
Nonsense, nonsense, sir, you are one of my most promising pupils. You
mustn't tell me that. Not another word! Come, select your partners
Tops advance, retire and cross. Balance at corners. (Very
nice, Miss Grimstone!) More '_abandon_,' Chawner! Lift the feet more
from the floor. Not so high as that! Oh, dear me! that last figure over
again. And slide the feet, oh, slide the feet! (Bultitude, you're
leaving out all the steps
I suppose
if
Dick were ever to hear of this, he'd think it _funny_. Oh, if I ever get
the upper hand of him again ----. How much longer, I wonder, shall I have
to play the fool to this infernal fiddle
I wonder
now if we have forgotten our sailor's hornpipe. Perhaps Bultitude will
prove the contrary. If I remember right, he used to perform it with
singular correctness. And, let me tell you, there are a great number of
spurious hornpipe steps in circulation. Come, sir, oblige me by dancing
it alone
I shall do nothing of the sort. I've had quite enough of
this -- ah -- tomfoolery
That is a very impolite manner of declining, Bultitude; highly
discourteous and unpolished. I must insist now -- really, as a personal
matter -- upon your going through the sailor's hornpipe. Come, you won't
make a scene, I'm sure. You'll oblige me, as a gentleman
I tell you I can't
I never did such a
thing in my life; it would be enough to kill me at my age
This is untrue, sir. Do you mean to say you will not dance the
hornpipe
No
I'll be damned if I do
After that disgraceful language, sir, in the
presence of the fairer sex, I have no more to do with you. You will have
the goodness to stand in the centre of that form. Gentlemen, select your
partners for the Highland schottische
golden
And pray what may you be doing
up there, sir
Upon my soul I can't say
Ask that
gentleman there with the fiddle -- he knows
Bultitude was a little inattentive and, I may say, wanting in respect,
Dr. Grimstone
so I ventured to place him there as a punishment
Quite right, Mr. Burdekin
quite right. I am sorry
that any boy of mine should have caused you to do so. You are again
beginning your career of disorder and rebellion, are you, sir? Go up
into the schoolroom at once, and write a dozen copies before tea-time! A
very little more eccentricity and insubordination from you, Bultitude,
and you will reap a full reward -- a full reward, sir
Cultivate Habits of Courtesy
and Self-control
True Happiness is to be sought in Contentment
An earthquake
an explosion ... gas -- or dynamite! He must
go and call the children ... Boaler ... the plate
A Crowd is not Company; And Faces are but a Gallery of Pictures;
And Talke but a _Tinckling Cymball_, where there is no _Love_
Look here
why don't you confide in me? Do you think I'm
blind to what has happened to you? I can see the change in you -- if
others cannot. Why not trust me
Do you mean to say really
that you -- see -- the -- a -- the difference
I saw it almost directly
That's the most extraordinary thing
and yet it ought to
be evident enough, to be sure. But no, you can't have guessed the real
state of things
Listen, and stop me if I'm wrong. Within the last few days a great
change has been at work within you. You are not the idle, thoughtless,
mischievous boy who left here for his holidays
No
I'll swear I'm not
There is no occasion for such strong expressions. But, at all events,
you come back here an altogether different being. Am I right in saying
so
Perfectly
perfectly. You're a very intelligent young man, sir. Shake hands. Why,
I shouldn't be surprised, after that, if you knew how it all happened
That too
I can guess. It arose, I doubt
not, in a wish
Yes
you've hit it again. You're a conjurer, sir, by Gad
you are
Don't say 'by Gad,' Bultitude; it's inconsistent. It began, I was
saying, in a wish, half unconscious perhaps, to be something other than
what you had been
I was a fool
yes, that was the way it began
Then insensibly the wish worked a gradual transformation in your nature
(you are old enough to follow me
Old enough for him to follow _me_
Hardly gradual I should say
But go on, sir, pray go on. I see you know all about it
At first the other part of you struggled against the new feelings. You
strove to forget them -- you even tried to resume your old habits, your
former way of life -- but to no purpose; and when you came here, you found
no fellowship amongst your companions
Quite out of the question
Their pleasures give you no delight
Not a bit
They, on their side, perhaps misunderstand your lack of interest in
their pursuits. They cannot see -- how should they?-- that you have altered
your mode of life, and when they catch the difference between you and
the Richard Bultitude they knew, why, they are apt to resent it
They are
they resent it in a confounded
disagreeable way, you know. Why, I assure you, that only last night I
was
Hush
complaints are
unmanly. But I see you wonder at my knowing all this
Well
I am rather surprised
What would you say if I told you I had undergone it myself in my time
You don't mean to tell me there are _two_ Garuda Stones in this
miserable world
I don't know what you mean now, but I can say with truth that I too
have had my experiences -- my trials. Months ago, from certain signs, I
noticed, I foresaw that this was coming upon you
Then
I think, in common decency, you might have
warned me. A post-card would have done it. I should have been better
prepared to meet this, then
It would have been worse than fruitless to attempt to hurry on the
crisis. It might have even prevented what I fondly hoped would come to
pass
Fondly hoped
upon my word you speak plainly, sir
Yes
You see I knew the Dick Bultitude that was,
so well; he was frolicksome, impulsive, mischievous even, but under it
all there lay a nature of sterling worth
Sterling worth
A scoundrel, I tell you, a heartless,
selfish young scoundrel. Call things by their right names, if you
please
No, no
this extreme self-depreciation is morbid,
very morbid. There was no actual vice
No actual vice! Why, God bless my soul, do you call ingratitude -- the
basest, most unfilial, most treacherous ingratitude -- no vice, sir? You
may be a very excellent young man, but if you gloss over things in that
fashion, your moral sense must be perverted, sir -- strangely perverted
There were faults on both sides, I fear
I have
heard something of what you had to bear with. On the one hand, a father,
undemonstrative, stern, easily provoked; on the other, a son,
thoughtless, forgetful, and at times it may be even wilful. But you are
too sensitive; you think too much of what seems to me a not unnatural
(although of course improper) protest against coldness and injustice. I
should be the last to encourage a child against a parent, but, to
comfort your self-reproach, I think it right to assure you that, in my
judgment, the outburst you refer to was very excusable
Oh
you do? You call that comfort? Excusable! Why, what
the dooce do you mean, sir? You're taking the other side now
This is not the language of penitence, Bultitude
Remember, you have put off the
Old Man now
I'm not likely to forget _that_
I only wish I could see
my way to putting him on again
You want to be your old self again
Why, of course I do
I'm not an idiot
You are weary of the struggle so soon
Weary? I tell you I'm sick of it! If I had only known what was in store
for me before I had made such a fool of myself
This is horrible
I ought not to listen to you
But you must
I tell you I can't stand it any longer. I'm
not fit for it at my age. You must see that yourself, and you must make
Grimstone see it too
Never
Nor do I see how that would help
you. I will not let you go back in this deplorable way. You must nerve
yourself to go on now in the path you have chosen; you must force your
schoolfellows to love and respect you in your new character. Come, take
courage! After all, in spite of your altered life, there is no reason
why you should not be a frank and happy-hearted boy, you know
A frank and happy-hearted fiddlestick
don't talk rubbish, sir! I thought you
were going to show me some way out of all this, and instead of that,
knowing the shameful way I've been treated, you can stand there and
calmly recommend me to stay on here and be happy-hearted and frank
You must be calm, Bultitude, or I shall leave you. Listen to reason.
You are here for your good. Youth, it has been beautifully said, is the
springtime of life. Though you may not believe it, you will never be
happier than you are now. Our schooldays are
This is too much
you shall not palm off
that miserable rubbish on me. I see through it. It's a plot to keep me
here, and you're in it. It's false imprisonment, and I'll write to the
_Times_. I'll expose the whole thing
This violence is only ridiculous
If I were not
too pained by it, I should feel it my duty to report your language to
the Doctor. As it is, you have bitterly disappointed me; I can't
understand it at all. You seemed so subdued, so softened lately. But
until you come to me and say you regret this, I must decline to have
anything more to say to you. Take your book and sit down in your place
chevy
rot
Now, please
where we left off last term. Third
act, first scene -- Court before Tell's house. Tell is vid the carpenter
axe, Hedwig vid a domestig labour occupied. Walter and Wilhelm in the
depth sport with a liddle gross-bow. Biddlegom, you begin. Walter
(sings
Ach
it is brogressing. I haf just gompleted a gomprehensive
table of ze irregular virps, vith ze eggserzizes upon zem. And zere is
further an appendeeks which in itself gontains a goncise view of all ze
vort-blays possible in the Charman tong. But, come, let us gontinue vith
our Tell
What are vort-blays
A vort-blay
it is English, nicht so? A
sporting vid vorts -- a 'galembour'-- a -- Gott pless me, vat you call a
'pon
Like the one you made when you were a young man
Yes; tell us the one you made when you were a young man
Hah, you remember dat
ah, yes, I make him when a yong man; but, mind you, he was not a
pon -- he was a '_choke_.' I haf told you all about him before
We've forgotten it
tell it us again
jocked wi' deeficulty
I zent him into ze Charman _Kladderadatch_ (it is a paper like your
_Ponch_). It -- mein choke -- was upon ze Schleswig-Holstein gomplication;
ze beginning was in this way
choke
I dell you zis
not to aggustom your minds vid frivolity and
lightness, but as a lesson in ze gonstruction of ze langwitch. If you
can choke in Charman, you will be able also to gonverse in Charman
Did the German what's-its-name print your joke
It has not appeared yet
it takes a long
time to get an imbortant choke like that out in brint. But I vait -- I
write to ze editor every week -- and I vait
Why don't you put it in your Grammar
I haf -- ze greater part of it --(it vas a long choke, but I gompressed
him). If I haf time, some day I will make anozer liddle choke to
aggompany, begause I vant my Crammar to be a goot Crammar, you
understandt. And now to our Tell. Really you beople do noding but
chadder
Oh, I say, Bultitude
I forgot all
about it. Where's my rabbit
Is this a time
to talk of rabbits? Mind your
book, sir
Oh, I daresay
it's all
very well, but I want my rabbit
Hang it, sir
do you suppose I'm sitting on it
You promised to bring me back a rabbit
you know you did, and it's a beastly shame. I mean to have that
rabbit, or know the reason why
I vill tell you
a gurious thing
vat happened to me de oder day ven I
vas valking down de Strandt. I saw a leedle gommon dirty boy with a tall
round hat on him, and he stand in a side street right out in de road,
and he take off his tall round hat, and he put it on de ground, and he
stand still and look zo at it. So I shtop too, to see vat he vould do
next. And bresently he take out a large sheet of baper and tear it in
four pieces very garefully, and stick zem round de tall round hat, and
put it on his head again, and zen he set it down on de grount and look
at it vonce more, and all de time he never speak von vort. And I look
and look and vonder vat he would do next. And a great growd of beoples
com, and zey look and vonder too. And zen all at once de leedle dirty
boy he take out all de paper and put on de hat, and he valk avay,
laughing altogetter foolishly at zomzing I did not understand at all. I
haf been thinking efer since vat in the vorldt he do all zat nonsence
for. And zere is von ozer gurious thing I see in your London streets zat
very same day. Zere vas a poor house cat dat had been by a cab overrun
as I passed by, and von man vith a kind varm heart valk up and stamp it
on de head for to end its pain. And anozer man vith anozer kind heart,
he gom up directly and had not seen de cat overrun, but he see de first
man stamping and he knock him down for ill-treating animals; it was
quite gurious to see; till de policeman arrest dem both for fighting.
Goggs, degline 'Katze,' and gif me ze berfect and bast barticiple of
'kampfen,' to fight
I say, Dick
what's the matter with you this term
My name is not Dick
Oh, if you're so particular then
but, without humbug, what
is the matter
You see a change then
you do see a difference, eh
Rather
You've come back what I call a beastly
sneak, you know, this term. The other fellows don't like it; they'll
send you to Coventry unless you take care
I wish they would
You don't talk like the same fellow either
you use
such fine language, and you're always in a bait, and yet you don't stick
up for yourself as you used to. Look here, tell me (we were always
chums), is it one of your larks
Larks
I'm in a fine mood for larks. No, it's not one of
my larks
Perhaps your old governor has been making a cad of himself then, and
you're out of sorts about it
I'll thank you not to speak about him in that way
in my
presence
Why
I'm sure you said enough about him yourself last
term. It's my belief you're imitating him now
Ah
and what makes you think that
Why, you go about strutting and swelling just like he did when he came
about sending you here. I say, do you know what Mums said about him
after he went away
No
your mother struck me as a very sensible and
agreeable woman -- if I may say so to her son
Well, Mums said your governor seemed to leave you here just like they
leave umbrellas at picture galleries, and she believed he had a
large-sized money-bag inside him instead of a heart
Oh
your mother said that, did she? Vastly
entertaining to be sure -- ha, ha! He would be pleased to know she thought
that, I'm sure
Tell him, and see what he says
he is an awful brute
to you though, isn't he
If
slaving from morning till night to provide
education and luxury for a thankless brood of unprofitable young vipers
is 'being a brute,' I suppose he is
Why, you're sticking up for him now
I thought he was so
strict with you. Wouldn't let you have any fun at home, and never took
you to pantomimes
And why should he, sir, why should he? Tell me that. Tell me why a man
is to be hunted out of his comfortable chair after a well-earned dinner,
to go and sit in a hot theatre and a thorough draught, yawning at the
miserable drivel managers choose to call a pantomime? Now in my young
days there _were_ pantomimes. I tell you, sir, I've seen
Oh, if you're satisfied, I don't care
If you choose to come back and play the
corker like this, it's your look-out. Only, if you knew what Sproule
major said about you just now
I don't want to know
it doesn't concern me
Perhaps it doesn't concern you what pa thinks either? Dad told Mums
last night that he was altogether at a loss to know how to deal with
you, you had come back so queer and unruly. And he said, let me see, oh,
he said that 'if he didn't see an alteration very soon he should resort
to more drastic measures'-- drastic measures is Latin for a whopping
Good gracious
I haven't a moment to lose! he might
'resort to drastic measures' this very evening. I can't change my nature
at my time of life. I must run for it, and soon
Can you tell me, my -- my young friend, if,
supposing a boy were to ask to leave the field -- saying for instance that
he was not well and thought he should be better at home -- whether he
would be allowed to go
Of course he would
you ought to know that by this time.
You've only to ask Blinkhorn or Tinkler; they'll let you go right
enough
Thank you
thank you. I'm really uncommonly obliged
to you. You're a very intelligent boy. I should like to give you
sixpence
I pray you, give me leave to go from hence,
     I am not well
He will not blush, that has a father's heart,
     To take in childish plays a childish part;
     But bends his sturdy back to any toy
     That youth takes pleasure in,-- to please his boy
rules of
the game of football
I'll have young Bultitude
he used to
play up decently. Look here, you young beggar, you're on my side, and if
you don't play up it will be the worse for you
If you please, sir, will you allow me to go home? I'm -- I'm not feeling
at all well
Not well! What's the matter with you
A slight touch of liver
It takes me after meals
sometimes
Liver
you've no right to such a thing at your age;
it's all nonsense, you know. Run in and play, that'll set you up again
It's fatal, sir
My doctor expressly warned me against
taking any violent exercise soon after luncheon. If you knew what liver
is, you wouldn't say so
Oh,
well, don't bother me; I daresay it's all right. Cut along
I've managed that excellently
Not the slightest hitch. I defy the
fates themselves to stop me now
There you are, Bultitude, then
I want
you
I can't stop
I'm in a hurry -- another time
Another time won't do
I want that rabbit
I tell you, my good boy, I haven't such a thing about me. I haven't
indeed. I don't even know what you're talking about
I say, you fellows
come here! Do make Bultitude give
me my rabbit. He says he doesn't know anything about it now
What's the matter
Why
he promised to bring me back a rabbit this term,
and now he pretends he does not know anything about it. Make him say
what he's done with it
Gad
so I did -- to be sure, a
rabbit, of course, how could I forget it? It's -- it's a splendid rabbit.
I'll go and fetch it
Will you
Where is it, then
Where
Why,
in my playbox to be sure; where should it be
It isn't in your playbox, I know
because I saw it
turned out yesterday and there was no rabbit then. Besides, how could a
rabbit live in a playbox? He's telling lies. I can see it by his face.
He hasn't any rabbit
Of course I haven't
How should I? I'm not a
conjurer. It's not a habit of mine to go about with rabbits concealed on
my person. What's the use of coming to me like this? It's absurd, you
know; perfectly absurd
What's the row here, you fellows
Bultitude again, of
course. What's he been doing now
He had a rabbit he said he was keeping for me
and now he won't give it up or tell me what he's done with it
He has some mice he ought to give us, too
Keep that for the present
I say, we ought to have a regular
trial over this, and get at the truth of it properly. Let's fetch him
along to the goal-posts and judge him
You
chaps had better all be jurymen
I'll be judge, and unless he
makes a clean breast of it
the
court will jolly well punch his ugly young head off
What are you all doing here? Why don't you join the game? I've come
here to play football with you, and how can I do it if you all slink off
and leave me to play by myself
Please, sir
it's a trial, and I'm judge
Yes, sir
We're trying Bultitude,
sir
This is childish, you know
and it's not
football. The Doctor will be seriously angry if he comes and sees you
trifling here. Let the boy go
But he's cheated some of the fellows, sir
Well, _you_'ve no right to punish him if he has. Leave him to me
Will you see fair play between them, sir? He oughtn't to be let off
without being made to keep his word
If there is any dispute between you and Bultitude
I have no objection to settle it -- provided it is within my province
Settle it without me
I've leave to go home. I'm
ill
Who gave you leave to go home
That young man over there on the rails
I am the proper person to apply to for leave; you know that well
enough
Now
then, Porter, what is all this business about
Please, sir
he told me last term he had a lot of
rabbits at home, and if I liked he would bring me back a lop-eared one
and let me have it cheap, and I gave him two shillings, sir, and
sixpence for a hutch to keep it in; and now he pretends he doesn't know
anything about it
It's extremely unfortunate
but the fact is I'm not in a position to meet this -- this sudden call
upon me. Some other day, perhaps
None of your long words, now
Why haven't you brought the
rabbits
Yes
Why, having promised to bring the rabbits
with you, haven't you kept your word? You must be able to give some
explanation
Because
I -- that is
my father -- found out that my young rascal of a son -- I mean his young
rascal of a son (_me_, you know) was, contrary to my express orders,
keeping a couple of abominable rabbits in his bedroom, and a quantity of
filthy little white mice which he tried to train to climb up the
banisters. And I kept finding the brutes running about my bath-room,
and -- well, of course, I put a stop to it; and -- no, what am I saying?-- my
father, of course, he put a stop to it; and, in point of fact, had them
all drowned in a pail of water
Why did you let him do it? They were ours, not his. What right had your
governor to go and drown our rabbits, eh
What right
Mustn't a man do as he pleases in his own
house, then? I -- he was not obliged to see the house overrun with vermin,
I suppose
But you know the Doctor would never allow animals to be
kept in the school, if Bultitude had brought them. The whole thing is
against the rules, and I shall not interfere
Ah, but
he promised them all to day-boarders. The
Doctor couldn't object to that, could he, sir
True
true. I was not aware of that. Well then,
Bultitude, since you are prevented from performing what you promised to
do, I'm sure you won't object to do what is fair and right in the
matter
I don't think I quite follow you
It's very simple. You have taken money from these boys, and if you
can't give them value for it, you ought to return all you took from
them. I'm sure you see that yourself
I don't admit that I owe them anything
and at all events
it is highly inconvenient to pay them now
If your own sense of honour isn't enough
I must
take the matter into my own hands. Let every boy who has any claim upon
him tell me exactly what it is
plum saddle
Give me any money you have
about you, Bultitude
and I'll satisfy your debts with it, as
far as it goes
No
not that!
Don't make me do that! I -- I can't pay them -- not now. They don't
understand. If they only give me time they shall have double their money
back -- waggon-loads of rabbits, the best rabbits money can buy -- if
they'll wait. Tell them to wait. My dear sir, don't see me wronged! I
won't pay now
They have waited long enough
you must pay them
I tell you I won't
do you hear? Not one sixpence. Oh, if
you knew! That infernal Garuda Stone! What fools people are
Please, sir
I can feel something like a purse in his
pocket. Shall I take it out, sir
As he refuses to act with common honesty -- yes
Now, Bultitude
if you really wish to leave the
field, you may
_Cave_, you fellows, here's Grim
Well done, Mutlow! Finely played, sir!
Dribble it along now. Ah, you're afraid of it! Run into it, sir, run
into it! No running with the ball now, Siggers; play without those petty
meannesses, or leave the game! There, leave the ball to me, will
you -- leave it to me
For which side did I win that
Well then
you fellows must all back me up, or I shall not play for you any more
Here are a few of the unpleasantest words
     That ever blotted paper....
                                A letter,
     And every word in it a gaping wound
Master Richard Bultitude
MY DEAREST DARLING DICK,-- I hope you have not been expecting a
     letter from me before this, but I had such lots to tell you that I
     waited till I had time to tell it all at once. For I have such news
     for you! You can't think how pleased you will be when you hear it.
     Where shall I begin? I hardly know, for it still seems so funny and
     strange -- almost like a dream -- only I hope we shall never wake up.

     "I think I must tell you anyhow, just as it comes. Well, ever since
     you went away, dear Father has been completely changed; you would
     hardly believe it unless you saw him. He is quite jolly and
     boyish -- only fancy! and we are always telling him he is the biggest
     baby of us all, but it only makes him laugh. Once, you know, he
     would have been awfully angry if we had even hinted at it.

     "Do you know, I really think that the real reason he was so cross
     and sharp with us that last week was because you were going away;
     for now the wrench of parting is over, he is quite light-hearted
     again. You know how he always hates showing his feelings.

     "He is so altered now, you can't think. He has actually only once
     been up to the city since you left, and then he came home at four
     o'clock, and he seems to quite like to have us all about him.
     Generally he stays at home all the morning and plays at soldiers
     with baby in the dining-room. You would laugh to see him loading
     the cannons with real powder and shot, and he didn't care a bit
     when some of it made holes in the sideboard and smashed the
     looking-glass.

     "We had such fun the other afternoon; we played at brigands -- papa
     and all of us. Papa had the upper conservatory for a robber-cave,
     and stood there keeping guard with your pop-gun; and he wouldn't
     let the servants go by without a kiss, unless they showed a written
     pass from us! Miss McFadden called in the middle of it, but she
     said she wouldn't come in, as papa seemed to be enjoying himself
     so. Boaler has given warning, but we can't think why. We have been
     out nearly every evening -- once to Hengler's and once to the Christy
     Minstrels, and last night to the Pantomime, where papa was so
     pleased with the clown that he sent round afterwards and asked him
     to dine here on Sunday, when Sir Benjamin and Lady Bangle and
     Alderman Fishwick are coming. Won't it be jolly to see a clown
     close to? Should you think he'd come in _his_ evening dress? Miss
     Mangnall has been given a month's holiday, because papa didn't like
     to see us always at lessons. Think of that!

     "We are going to have the whole house done up and refurnished at
     last. Papa chose the furniture for the drawing-room yesterday. It
     is all in yellow satin, which is rather bright, I think. I haven't
     seen the carpet yet, but it is to match the furniture; and there is
     a lovely hearthrug, with a lion-hunt worked on it.

     "But that isn't the best of it; we are going to have the big
     children's party after all! No one but children invited, and
     everyone to do exactly what they like. I wanted so much to have you
     home for it, but papa says it would only unsettle you and take you
     away from your work.

     "Had Dulcie forgotten you? I should like to see her so much. Now I
     really must leave off, as I am going to the Aquarium with papa.
     Mind you write me as good a letter as this is, if that old Doctor
     lets you. Minnie and Roly send love and kisses, and papa sends his
     kind regards, and I am to say he hopes you are settling down
     steadily to work.

                              "With best love, your affectionate sister
P.S.-- I nearly forgot to say that Uncle Duke came the other day
     and has stayed here ever since. He is going to make papa's fortune!
     I believe by a gold mine he knows about somewhere, and a steam
     tramway in Lapland. But I don't like him very much -- he is so
     polite
This conduct at table is disgraceful, sir -- perfectly
disgraceful -- unworthy of a civilised being. I have been a teacher of
youth for many years, and never till now did I have the pain of seeing a
pupil of mine choke in his breakfast-cup with such deplorable
ill-breeding. It's pure greediness, sir, and you will have the goodness
to curb your indecent haste in consuming your food for the future. Your
excellent father has frequently complained to me, with tears in his
eyes, of the impossibility of teaching you to behave at meals with
common propriety
Dr. Grimstone
never mind my behaviour now. I've something
to tell you. I can't bear it any longer. I must go home at once -- at
once, sir
Now, sir
why must
you go home at once
I've just had a letter
No one ill at home, I hope
No, no
It's not that; it's worse! She doesn't know what
horrible things she tells me
Who is 'she
I decline to say
my daughter
But indeed I am wanted
most badly
What are you wanted for, pray
Everything
it's all going to rack and ruin without
me
That's absurd
you're not such an important
individual as all that, Bultitude. But let me see the letter
Excuse me, Dr. Grimstone, it is -- ah -- of a private nature. I don't feel
at liberty to show it to anyone
Then, sir
if you can't tell me
who or what it is that requires your presence at home, and decline to
show me the letter which would presumably give me some idea on the
subject, how do you expect that I am to listen to such a preposterous
demand -- eh? Just tell me that
Pooh
let me have no more of this
tomfoolery, Bultitude. It's getting to be a positive nuisance. Don't
come to me with any more of these ridiculous stories, or some day I
shall be annoyed. There, go away, and be contented where you are, and
try to behave like other people
Contented
Behave like
other people!' Ah, yes, I suppose I shall have to come to that in time.
But that letter ---- Everything upside down ---- Bangle asked to meet a
common clown! That fellow Duke letting me in for gold-mines and
tramways! It's all worse than I ever dreamed of; and I must stay here
and be 'contented!' It's -- it's perfectly damnable
It's no use doing that, Dick
I'm tired of sulking. I
shan't sulk any more till I have an explanation
Pshaw
You ought to tell me everything. I will know it. Oh, Dick, you might
tell me! I always told you anything you wanted to know; and I let mamma
think it was I broke the clock-shade last term, and you know you did it.
And I want to know something so very badly
It's no use coming to _me_, you know
I can't do anything
for you
Yes, you can; you know you can
You can tell
me what was in that letter you had at breakfast -- and you shall too
What an inquisitive little girl you are
It's not nice for little girls to be so inquisitive -- it doesn't look
well
I knew it
you don't want to tell me -- because -- because
it's from that other horrid girl you like better than me. And you
promised to belong to me for ever and ever, and now it's all over! Say
it isn't! Oh, Dick, promise to give the other girl up. I'm sure she's
not a nice girl. She's written you an unkind letter; now hasn't she
Upon my word
this is very forward; at your age too. Why,
my Barbara
Your Barbara! you dare to call her that? Oh, I knew I was right; I
_will_ see that letter now. Give it me this instant
No, no
it's all a mistake;
there's nothing to get into such a passion about -- there isn't indeed!
And -- don't cry -- you're really a pretty little girl. I only wish I could
tell you everything; but you'd never believe me
Oh, yes, I would, Dick
I'll believe anything, if
you'll only tell me. And I'm sorry I was so angry. Sit down by me and
tell me from the very beginning. I promise not to interrupt
Well
I think you're a good-natured little girl; you
won't laugh. Perhaps I will tell you
Not many days ago
I was somebody very different
from
Oh, indeed
was you
Go away, Tipping
we don't want you. Dick is telling me
a secret
He's very fond of telling, I know
If you knew what
a sneak he was you'd have nothing to do with him, Dulcie. I could tell
you things about him that
He's not a sneak
Are you, Dick? Why don't you go,
Tipping. Never mind what he says, Dick; go on as if he wasn't there. I
don't care what he says
I -- I think -- some other time, perhaps
Not now
Ah, you're afraid to say what you were going to say now I'm here
You're a coward; you know you are. You pretend to think such a lot of
Dulcie here, but you daren't fight
Fight
Eh, what for
Why, for her, of course. You can't care much about her if you daren't
fight for her. I want to show her who's the best man of the two
I don't want to be shown
I know. Don't fight with him, Dick. I say you're
not to
Certainly not
I shouldn't
think of such a thing
Yah, you're afraid
I wouldn't be a funk
Pooh
go away, sir, go away
Go away, eh
Who are you to tell me to go away? Go
away yourself
Certainly
Don't funk it, Dick
Go in and settle him as you did that last
time. I'll second you. You can do it
Don't hit each other in the face
You ought to be glad to stick up for her
I'll mash you for this -- see if I don't
Are you proposing
to -- to 'mash' me on
account of that little girl there on the seat
You'll soon see
Shut your head, and come on
No, but I want to know
Because
you see, I
don't want to be mashed. I'm not a potato. If I understand you aright,
you want to fight me because you think me likely to interfere with your
claim to that little girl's -- ah -- affections
That's it
so you'd better waste no more words
about it, and come on
But I don't care about coming on
It's all
a mistake. I've no doubt she's a very nice little girl, but I assure
you, my good boy, I've no desire to stand in your way for one instant.
She's nothing to me -- nothing at all! I give her up to you. Take her,
young fellow, with my blessing! There, now, that's all settled
comfortably -- eh
too beastly mean
Accelerated by ignominious shovings -- nay, as it is written, by
     smitings, twitchings, spurnings _a posteriori_ not to be
     named
This letter being so excellently ignorant will breed no terror in
     the youth
You shan't get off by a shabby trick like that
you've made her cry now,
and you shall smart for it. So, now, are you going to stand up to me
like a man, or will you take a licking
I'm not going to help you to commit a breach of the peace
Go away, you quarrelsome young ruffian! Get one of
your schoolfellows to fight you, if you must fight. I don't want to be
mixed up with you in any way
Shame
No hitting below
the belt
Cad -- coward
It's very odd
when I didn't fight they
called me a coward, and now, when I do, I don't seem to have pleased
them much. I don't care, though. I've settled _him_
Thanks
Of course -- I'm not
going -- to fight him after a low trick like that; but perhaps you fellows
will see that he doesn't escape quite as easily as he fancies
No; he shall pay for it! We'll teach him to
fight fair! We'll see if he tries that on again
I vote
we make him run the gauntlet. Grim won't come out and catch us. I saw
him go out for a drive an hour ago
running the gauntlet
set
him going
I shall be killed soon if I stay here
I know I shall.
These young brigands would murder me cheerfully, if they were not
afraid of being caned for it. I'm a miserable man, and I wish I was
dead
writing home
Don't begin to write yet, any of you
I have a few
words to say to you first. In most cases, and as a general rule, I think
it wisest to let every boy commit to paper whatever his feelings may
dictate to him. I wish to claim no censorship over the style and diction
of your letters. But there have been so many complaints lately from the
parents of some of the less advanced of you, that I find myself obliged
to make a change. Your father particularly, Richard Bultitude
has complained bitterly
of the slovenly tone and phrasing of your correspondence; he said very
justly that they would disgrace a stable-boy, and unless I could induce
you to improve them, he begged he might not be annoyed by them in
future
However
I wish your
people at home to be assured from time to time of your welfare, and to
prevent them from being shocked and distressed in future by the crudity
of your communications, I have drawn up a short form of letter for the
use of the lower boys in the second form -- which I shall now proceed to
dictate. Of course all boys in the first form, and all in the second
above Bultitude and Jolland, will write as they please, as usual.
Richard, I expect you to take particular pains to write this out neatly.
Are you all ready? Very well then, ... now
My dear Parents (or parent according to circumstances) comma
You will be rejoiced to
hear that, having arrived with safety at our destination, we have by
this time fully resumed our customary regular round of earnest work
relieved and sweetened by hearty play. ('Have you all got
down
I
hope, I trust I may say without undue conceit, to have made considerable
progress in my school-tasks before I rejoin the family circle for the
Easter vacation, as I think you will admit when I inform you of the
programme we intend
D.V. in brackets and capital letters'-- as before,
this was taken down verbatim by Jolland, who probably knew very much
better), "intend to work out during the term.

"In Latin, the class of which I am a member propose to thoroughly master
the first book of Virgil's magnificent Epic, need I say I refer to the
soul-moving story of the Pious AEneas?" (Jolland was understood by his
near neighbours to remark that he thought the explanation distinctly
advisable), "whilst, in Greek, we have already commenced the thrilling
account of the
echoed
the writers mechanically, contriving to insinuate a touch of irony into
the words).

"In German under the able tutelage of Herr Stohwasser, who, as I may
possibly have mentioned to you in casual conversation, is a graduate of
the University of Heidelberg
and a silly old hass
we have resigned ourselves to the spell of the
Teutonian Shakespeare
as, in my opinion,
Schiller may be not inaptly termed, and our French studies comprise such
exercises, and short poems and tales, as are best calculated to afford
an insight into the intricacies of the Gallic tongue.

"But I would not have you imagine, my dear parents (or parent, as
before), that, because the claims of the intellect have been thus amply
provided for, the requirements of the body are necessarily overlooked!

"I have no intention of becoming a mere bookworm, and, on the contrary,
we have had one excessively brisk and pleasant game at football already
this season, and should, but for the unfortunate inclemency of the
weather, have engaged again this afternoon in the mimic warfare.

"In the playground our favourite diversion is the game of 'chevy,' so
called from the engagement famed in ballad and history (I allude to the
battle of Chevy Chase), and indeed, my dear parents, in the rapid
alternations of its fortunes and the diversity of its incident, the game
(to my mind) bears a striking resemblance to the accounts of that
ever-memorable contest.

"I fear I must now relinquish my pen, as the time allotted for
correspondence is fast waning to its close, and tea-time is approaching.
Pray give my kindest remembrance to all my numerous friends and
relatives, and accept my fondest love and affection for yourselves, and
the various other members of the family circle.

"I am, I am rejoiced to say, in the enjoyment of excellent health, and
surrounded as I am by congenial companions, and employed in interesting
and agreeable pursuits, it is superfluous to add that I am happy.

"And now, my dear parents, believe me, your dutiful and affectionate
son, so and so
I think that will strike your respective parents as a chaste
and classical composition; I think so
There was a letter indeed to be intercepted by a man's father to
     do him good with him
I cannot lose the thought yet of this letter,
     Sent to my son; nor leave t' admire the change
     Of manners, and the breeding of our youth
     Within the kingdom, since myself was one
divine
crown
without looking at the book
When she knows who I really am
she'll be sorry she made
such a point of it. If there's one thing upon earth I loathe more than
another, it's marrow-oil pomade
A -- it's a collection Sunday to-day, boys
Have you all got
your threepenny-bits ready? I like to see my boys give cheerfully and
liberally of their abundance. If any boy does not happen to have any
small change, I can accommodate him if he comes to me
Are you going to put your threepenny-bit in
I won't if
you don't. Sometimes, you know, when the plate comes round, old Grim
squints down the pews to see we don't shirk. Then I put in sixpence.
Have you done your hymn? I do hate a hymn. What's the use of learning
hymns? They won't mark you for them, you know, in any exam. I ever heard
of, and it can't save you the expense of a hymnbook unless you learnt
all the hymns in it, and that would take you years. Oh, I say, look!
there's young Mutlow and his governor and mater. I wonder what Mutlow's
governor does? Mutlow says he's a 'gentleman' if you ask him, but I
believe he lies. See that fly driving past? Mother Grim
and Dulcie are in it.
I saw Dulcie look at you, Dick. It's a shame to treat her as you did
yesterday. There's young Tom on the box; don't his ears stick out
rummily? I wonder if the 'ugly family' will be at church to-day? You
know the ugly family; all with their mouths open and their eyes
goggling, like a jolly old row of pantomime heads. And oh, Dick, suppose
Connie Davenant's people have changed their pew -- that'll be a sell for
you rather, won't it
I don't understand you
and, if you don't
object, I prefer not to be called upon to talk just now
Oh, all right
there aren't so many fellows who will
talk to you; but just as you please -- I don't want to talk
I suppose _that's_ 'Connie Davenant
A very forward young person! I think somebody ought to speak
seriously to her father
Good gracious! she's writing something on the flyleaf of her
prayer-book
I hope she's not going to
send it to _me_. I won't take it. She ought to be ashamed of herself
Little
Miss Grimstone, excuse me, but there's a -- a note in the pew down by your
feet. I believe it's intended for me
Little Master Bultitude, I know it is
Could you -- can you manage to reach it
Yes
I could
Then will you -- when they sit down
No
I shan't
Don't be a naughty little girl
I tell you I must have it. You'll get me into a terrible mess
if you're not careful
_moue_
making a face
Bultitude, when you have taken off your
coat, I want you in the study
Look
at this, sir
Look at
this! what do you mean by receiving a flippant communication like this
in a sacred edifice? What do you mean by it
I -- I didn't receive it
Don't prevaricate with me, sir; you know well enough it was intended
for you. Have the goodness to read it now, and tell me what you have to
say for yourself
Well, sir
It's very forward and improper -- very
but it's not my
fault -- I can't help it. I gave the girl no encouragement. I never saw
her before in all my life
To my own knowledge, Bultitude, she has sat in that pew regularly for a
year
Very probably
but I don't notice these matters. I'm past
that sort of thing, my dear sir
What is her name? Come, sir, you know that
Connie Davenant
At least, I -- I heard so to-day
Very odd that you know her name if you never noticed her before
That young fellow -- what's-his-name -- Jolland told me
Ah, but it's odder still that she knows yours, for I perceive it is
directed to you by name
It's easily explained, my dear sir
easily explained. I've
no doubt she's heard it somewhere. At least, I never told her; it is not
likely. I do assure you I'm as much distressed and shocked by this
affair as you can be yourself. I am indeed. I don't know what girls are
coming to nowadays
Do you expect me to believe that you are perfectly innocent
Yes, I do
I can't prevent fast young ladies from
sending me notes. Why, she might have sent _you_ one
We won't go into hypothetical cases
she happened to prefer you.
But, although your virtuous indignation seems to me a trifle overdone,
sir, I don't see my way clear to punishing you on the facts, especially
as you tell me you never encouraged these -- these overtures, and my
Dulcie, I am bound to say, confirms your statement that it was all the
other young lady's doing. But if I had had any proof that you had begun
or responded to her -- hem -- advances, nothing could have saved you from a
severe flogging at the very least -- so be careful for the future
Ah
May
I -- ah -- take advantage of this -- this restored cordiality to -- to -- in fact
to make a brief personal explanation? It -- it's what I've been trying to
tell you for a long time, ever since I first came, only you never will
hear me out. It's highly important. You've no notion how serious it is
There's something about you this term, Richard Bultitude
that I confess I don't understand. This obstinacy is
unusual in a boy of your age, and if you really have a mystery it may be
as well to have it out and have done with it. But I can't be annoyed
with it now. Come to me after supper to-night, and I shall be willing to
hear anything you may have to say
Sunday reading
so suitable for Sundays
Dickie
did I hear the Doctor say
before dinner that he would hear anything you have to tell him after
supper? Did I
I really can't say, sir
if you were near the keyhole at
the time, very likely you did
The door was open
and I was in the cloak-room, so I
heard, and I want to know. What is it you're going to tell the Doctor
Mind your own business, sir
It is my own business
but I don't want to be told what
you're going to tell him. I know
Good heavens
Yes
I know, and I tell you what -- I won't have it
Won't have it! and why
Never mind why. Perhaps I don't choose that the Doctor shall be told
just yet; perhaps I mean to go up and tell him myself some other day. I
want to have a little more fun out of it before I've done
But -- but
you young ghoul, do you mean to say that all you
care for is to see other people's sufferings
Yes
it amuses me
And so
you want to hold me back a little longer -- because
it's so funny; and then, when you're quite tired of your sport, you'll
go up and tell the Doctor my -- my unhappy story yourself, eh? No, my
friend; I'd rather not tell him myself -- but I'll be shot if I let _you_
have a finger in it. I know my own interests better than that
Don't get in a passion, Dickie
it's Sunday. You'll
have to let me go up instead of you -- when I've frightened them a little
more
Who do you mean by them, sir
As if you didn't know! Oh, you're too clever for me, Dickie, I can
see
I tell you I don't know
Look here, Chawner -- your
confounded name is Chawner, isn't it?-- there's a mistake somewhere, I'm
sure of it. Listen to me. I'm not going to tell the Doctor what you
think I am
What do I think you are going to tell him
I haven't the slightest idea; but, whatever it is, you're wrong
Ah, you're too clever, Dickie; you won't betray yourself; but other
people want to pay Coker and Tipping out as well as you, and I say you
must wait
I shan't say anything to affect anyone but myself
if you
know all about it, you must know that -- it won't interfere with your
amusement that I can see
Yes, it will
it will -- you mayn't mean to
tell of anyone but yourself; but directly Grimstone asks you questions,
it all comes out. I know all about it. And, anyway, I forbid you to go
up till I give you leave
And who the dooce are you
How are you going to prevent me, may I ask
S'sh! here's the Doctor
I'll tell you
after tea. What am I doing out of my place, sir? Oh, I was only asking
Bultitude what was the collect for to-day, sir. Fourth Sunday after the
Epiphany? thank you, Bultitude
There is a kind of Followers likewise, which are dangerous, being
     indeed Espials; which enquire the Secrets of the House and beare
     Tales of them
Then give me leave that I may turn the key,
     That no man enter till my tale be done
schoolmaster's evidence
Now, sir
perhaps you'll be good enough to tell me how you mean to
prevent me from seeing Dr. Grimstone, and telling him -- telling him what
I have to tell him
I'll tell you, Dickie
You shall
know soon enough
Don't stand grinning at me like that, sir
say it out at once; it will make no difference to me, I give
you warning
Oh, yes it will, though. I think it will. Wait. I heard all you said to
Grimstone in the study to-day about that girl -- Connie Davenant, you
know
I don't care; I am innocent. I have nothing to reproach myself with
What a liar you are
You told him you never gave her any encouragement, didn't you? And he
said if he ever found you had, nothing could save you from a licking,
didn't he
He did
he was quite right from his point of view -- what
then
Why, this
Do you remember giving Jolland, the last
Sunday of last term, a note for that very girl
I never did
I never saw the wretched girl
before
Ah
but I've got the note in my pocket! Jolland was
seedy and asked me to take it for you, and I read it, and it was so
nicely written that I thought I should like to keep it myself, and so I
did -- and here it is
Don't snatch ... it's rude; there it
is, you see: 'My dear Connie' ... 'yours ever, Dick Bultitude.' No, you
don't come any nearer ... there, now it's safe.... Now what do you mean
to do
I -- I don't know
Give me
time
I tell you what I mean to do; I shall keep my eye on you, and directly
I see you making ready to go to Grimstone, I shall get up first and take
him this ... then you'll be done for. You'd better give in, really,
Dickie
Well
make up your mind; are you going to tell him, or
not
I must
I promise you I shall not bring any other
names in ... I don't want to ... I only want to save myself -- and I can't
stand it any longer. Why should you stand between me and my rights in
this currish way? I didn't know there were boys like you in the world,
sir; you're a young monster
I don't mean you to tell the Doctor anything at all
I
shall do what I said
Then do your worst
Very well, then
I will -- and we'll see who
wins
It's a foggy evening
the younger boys had
better stay in. Chawner, you and the rest of the first form can go to
church; get ready at once
Please, sir, may Richard
Bultitude come too
Can't Bultitude ask leave for himself
I, sir
it's a mistake -- I don't want to go.
I -- I don't feel very well this evening
Then you see, Chawner, you misunderstood him. By the way, Bultitude,
there was something you were to tell me, I think
Very well, I am going out to see a friend for an hour or so -- when I
come back I will hear you
If I get back in time, Bultitude, we'll see whether
you baulk me quite so easily. If I come back and find you've done it -- I
shall take in that letter
You may do what you please then
I shall be well out of your reach by that time. Now have
the goodness to take yourself off
I never in all my life saw such a
fellow as that, never! It would give me real pleasure to hire someone to
kick him
You cannot, my dear sir, have
failed to observe since our meeting this year, a certain difference in
my manner and bearing
I don't know how I shall ever get it all out
if I think about it much longer I shall begin to
disbelieve in it myself
Dick
did I hear the Doctor
say something about your having something to tell him
Oh Lord, here's another of them now
You are right,
young sir
have you any objection? mention it, you know, if
you have, pray mention it. It's a matter of life and death to me, but if
you at all disapprove, of course that ought to be final
No, but
I, I daresay I've not treated you very
well lately, I
You were kind enough to suggest several very uncommonly unpleasant ways
of annoying me, sir
if you mean that. You've
kicked me more than once, and your handkerchief, unless I am very much
mistaken, had the biggest and the hardest knot in it yesterday. If that
gives you the right to interfere and dictate to me now, like your
amiable friend, Master Chawner, I suppose you have it
Now you're angry
I don't wonder at it. I've
behaved like a cad, I know, but, and this is what I wanted to say, I was
sorry for you all the time
That's very comforting
thank you. I'm vastly
obliged to you
I was, though
I, I was led away by the other
fellows -- I always liked you, you know, Bultitude
You've a very odd way of showing your affection
but go on, let me hear all you have to say
It isn't much
only don't sneak
of me this time, Dick, let me off, there's a good fellow. I'll stick up
for you after this, I will really. You used not to be a fellow for
sneaking once. It's caddish to sneak
Don't be alarmed, my good friend
I won't poach on that
excellent young man Chawner's preserves. What I am going to tell the
Doctor has nothing to do with you
On your honour
Yes
on my honour. Now, perhaps, you'll let me
alone. No, I won't shake hands, sir. I've had to accept your kicks, but
I don't want your friendship
Thank goodness
he
wasn't as obstinate as the other fellow. What a set they are! I knew it,
there's another boy coming up now
I don't know what you've
said to all those chaps
they've come back looking precious
glum, but they won't tell me what you said
but I've got something to say to
you, and it's this. I never thought you would quite come down to this
sort of thing
What sort of thing
Why, going up and letting on against all of us -- it's mean, you know. If
you have got bashed about pretty well since you came back, it's been
all your own fault, and you know it. Last term you got on well
enough -- this time you began to be queer and nasty the very first day you
came. I thought it was one of your larks at first, but I don't know what
it is now, and I don't care. I stood up for you as long as I could, till
you acted like a funk yesterday. Then I took my share in lamming you,
and I'd do it again. But if you are cad enough to pay us all out in this
way, I'll have no more to do with you -- mind that. That's all I came to
say
You're on the wrong tack, my boy, the wrong tack. I've no wish to tell
tales of anyone, as I've been trying to explain to your friends. There's
something the matter with me which you wouldn't understand if I told
you
Oh, I didn't know
if it's only physic you
want
Whatever it is
it won't
affect you or anyone here, but myself. You're not a bad young fellow, I
believe. I don't want to get you into trouble, sir; you don't want much
assistance, I'm afraid, in that department. So be off, like a good
fellow, and leave me in peace
Now,
Bultitude, I will hear you
Now, Bultitude
Might I -- might I sit down
Sit by all means
Take your time, Bultitude
there's
no hurry, my boy
You see me in a very agitated state, Dr.
Grimstone -- a very agitated state, sir
Well, Bultitude
The fact is, sir, I'm in a most unfortunate position, and -- and the
worst of it is, I don't know how to begin
Do you see any prospect of your finding yourself able to begin soon
Perhaps if you
came to me later on
Not for the world
I shall
begin very soon, Doctor, I shall begin directly. Mine is such a very
singular case; it's difficult, as you see, to, to open it
Have you anything on your mind
Yes -- no
That's a somewhat extraordinary, not to say an ambiguous, reply
what am I to understand by
Don't
let him in
Hear me first -- you
shall hear me first! Say that other rascal is not to come in. He wants
to ruin me
I was going to say I was engaged
but there's
something under this I must understand. Come in, whoever you are
Now, then, Chawner
what is it? Have you
something on your mind, too
Please, sir
has Bultitude told you anything yet
No, why? Hold your tongue, Bultitude. I shall hear Chawner now -- not
you
Because, sir
he knew I had made up my mind to
tell you something I thought you ought to know about him, and so he
threatened to come first and tell some falsehood (I'm sure I don't know
what) about me, sir. I think I ought to be here too
It's a lie
What a villain that boy is! Don't believe a
word he says, Dr. Grimstone; it's all false -- all
This is very suspicious
if your conscience were
good, Bultitude, you could have no object in preventing me from hearing
Chawner. Chawner, in spite of some obvious defects in his character
is, on the whole, a right-minded and, ah, conscientious boy. I
hear Chawner first
Then, sir, if you please
I thought it was my duty to let
you see this. I found it to-day in Bultitude's prayerbook, sir
You did well to tell me of this, Chawner;
you may go now
Contemptible liar and hypocrite
you are
unmasked -- unmasked, sir! You led me to believe that you were as much
shocked and pained at this girl's venturing to write to you as I could
be myself. You called it, quite correctly, 'forward and improper'; you
pretended you had never given her the least encouragement -- had not heard
her name even -- till to-day. And here is a note, written, as I should
imagine, some time since, in which you address her as 'Connie Davenant,'
and have the impudence to admire the hat she wore the Sunday before! I
shudder, sir, to think of such duplicity, such precocious and shameless
depravity. It astounds me. It deprives me of all power to think
What shall I do with you
how shall I punish
such monstrous misconduct
Don't ask _me_, sir
only, for heaven's sake,
get it over as soon as possible
If I linger, sir
it is because I have grave
doubts whether your offence can be expiated by a mere flogging -- whether
that is not altogether too light a retribution
He can't want to _torture_ me
Yes
the doubt has prevailed. On a mind so
hardened the cane would leave no lasting impression. I cannot allow your
innocent companions to run the risk of contamination from your society.
I must not permit this serpent to glide uncrushed, this cockatrice to
practise his epistolary wiles, within my peaceful fold. My mind is made
up -- at whatever cost to myself -- however it may distress and grieve your
good father, who is so pathetically anxious for you to do him credit,
sir. I must do my duty to the parents of the boys entrusted to my care.
I shall not flog you, sir, for I feel it would be useless. I shall expel
you
What
Expel me? Do I hear you aright, Dr.
Grimstone? Say it again -- you will expel me
I have said it
no expostulations can move
me now
Mrs. Grimstone
will see that your boxes are packed the first thing to-morrow morning,
and I shall take you myself to the station and consign you to the home
you have covered with blushes and shame, by the 9.15 train, and I shall
write a letter to-night explaining the causes for your dismissal
But one night more, sir
shall you pass beneath
this roof, and that apart from your fellows. You will occupy the spare
bedroom until the morning, when you quit the school in disgrace -- for
ever
Discipulorum inter jubeo plorare cathedras
Bultitude
before sending you from us, I should like
to hear from your own lips that you are not altogether without
contrition for your conduct
he very much regretted what had passed
I am glad to hear that
very glad; it
relieves me from a very painful responsibility. It may not impossibly
induce me to take a more lenient view of your case
Oh
Yes; it is a serious step to ruin a boy's career at its outset by
unnecessary harshness. Nothing, of course, can palliate the extreme
baseness of your behaviour. Still from certain faint indications in your
character of better things, I do not despair even yet (after you have
received a public lesson at my hands, which you will never forget) of
rearing you to become in time an ornament to the society in which it
will be your lot to move. I will not give up in despair -- I will
persevere a little longer
Thank you
Mrs. Grimstone, too
has been interceding for you;
she has represented to me that a public expression of my view of your
conduct, together with a sharp, severe dose of physical pain, would be
more likely to effect a radical improvement in your character, and to
soften your perverted heart, than if I sent you away in hopeless
disgrace, without giving you an opportunity of showing a desire to
amend
It's -- very kind of Mrs. Grimstone
Then I hope you will show your appreciation of her kindness. Yes, I
will not expel you. I will give you one more chance to retrieve your
lost reputation. But, for your own sake, and as a public warning, I
shall take notice of your offence in public. I shall visit it upon you
by a sound flogging before the whole school at eleven o'clock. You need
not come down till then -- your breakfast will be sent up to you
Dr. Grimstone
I -- I should much prefer being
expelled, if it is all the same to you
It is not all the same to me
This is mere pride and
obstinacy, Bultitude; I should do wrong to take any notice of it
I -- I tell you I have great objection to -- to being flogged
it wouldn't improve me at all; it would harden me,
sir,-- harden me. I -- I cannot allow you to flog me, Dr. Grimstone. I have
strong prejudices against the system of corporal punishment. I object to
it on principle. Expulsion would make me quite a different being, I
assure you; it would reform me -- save me -- it would indeed
So, to escape a little personal inconvenience, you would be content to
bring sorrow upon your worthy father's grey head, would you, sir
I shall not oblige you in this. Nor, I may add, will your
cowardice induce me to spare you in your coming chastisement. I leave
you, sir -- we shall meet again at eleven
There
I got Mummy to let me take up
your breakfast; and there's an egg for you, and muffins
You might say 'thank you
That other girl
wouldn't have brought you up much breakfast if she'd been in my place. I
was going to tell you that I'd forgiven you, because very likely you
never meant her to write to you
But you don't
seem to care whether I do or not
I feel so miserable
Then you must drink some coffee
and you
must eat some breakfast. I brought an egg on purpose; it's so
strengthening, you know
Don't
Don't talk about the -- the flogging, I can't bear it
But it's not papa's _new_ cane, you know, Dick
I've hidden that; it's only the old one, and you always
said that didn't hurt so very much, after a little while. It isn't as if
it was the horsewhip, either. Daddy lost that out riding in the
holidays
Oh, the horsewhip's worse, is it
Tom says so
After all, Dick, it will be all over in
five minutes, or, perhaps, a little longer, and I do think you oughtn't
to mind that so much, now, after mamma and I have begged you off from
being expelled. We might never have seen one another again, Dick
You begged me off
Yes
Daddy wouldn't change his mind for ever so
long -- till I coaxed him. I couldn't bear to let you go
You've done a very cruel thing
For such a little girl as
you are, you've done an immense amount of mischief. But for you, that
letter would not have been found out. You need not have spoilt my only
chance of getting out of this horrible place
And is that all you say to me
That is all
I've no doubt you meant well, but you
shouldn't have interfered. All this has come upon me through that. Take
away the breakfast. It makes me ill even to look at it
Very well, then
I'm very sorry I ever did interfere. I wish I'd let
you be sent home to your papa, and see what he'd do to you. But I'll
never, never interfere one bit with you again. I won't say one single
word to you any more.... I'll never even look at you if you want me to
ever so much.... I shall tell Tipping he can hit you as much as ever he
likes, and I shall show Tom where I put the new cane -- and I only hope it
will hurt
would see him now, if he
pleased
Stand there, sir
out there in the middle, where your
schoolfellows can see you
Some of those here
may
wonder why I have called you all together on this, the first day of the
week; most of those who reside under my roof are acquainted with, and I
trust execrate, the miserable cause of my doing so.

"If there is one virtue which I have striven to implant more than any
other in your breasts
it is the cultivation of a modest
and becoming reserve in your intercourse with those of the opposite sex.

"With the majority I have, I hope, been successful, and it is as painful
for me to tell as for you to hear, that there exists in your midst a
youthful reprobate, trained in all the arts of ensnaring the vagrant
fancies of innocent but giddy girlhood.

"See him as he cowers there before your gaze, in all the bared
hideousness of his moral depravity
a libertine, young in years, but old in -- in everything
else, who has not scrupled to indite an amatory note, so appalling in
its familiarity, and so outrageous in the warmth of its sentiments, that
I cannot bring myself to shock your ears with its contents.

"You do well to shun him as a moral leper; but how shall I tell you
that, not satisfied with pressing his effusions upon the shrinking
object of his precocious affections, the impious wretch has availed
himself of the shelter of a church to cloak his insidious advances, and
even force a response to them from a heedless and imprudent girl!

"If
if I can succeed in bringing this coward, this
unmanly dallier in a sentiment which the healthy mind of boyhood rejects
as premature, to a sense of his detestable conduct; if I can score the
lesson upon his flesh so that some faint notion of its force and purport
may be conveyed to what has been supplied to him as a heart, then I
shall not have lifted this hand in vain!

"He shall see whether he will be allowed to trail the fair name of the
school for propriety and correctness of deportment in the dust of a
pew-floor, and spurn my reputation as a preceptor like a church hassock
beneath his feet!

"I shall say no more; I will not prolong these strictures, deserved
though they be, beyond their proper limits.... I shall now proceed to
act. Richard Bultitude, remain there till I return to mete out to you
with no sparing hand the punishment you have so richly merited
He's gone to fetch his cane
I told you, Dickie, you know
that it was better not to cross me
waxing
the cane
I want you outside, Bultitude
If anything can strike shame and confusion into your soul, Richard
it will be what I have to tell
you now. Your unhappy father is here, in the dining-room
I have not seen him yet
He has come at a most
inopportune moment
I
shall allow you to meet him first, and give you the opportunity of
breaking your conduct to him. I know how it will wring his paternal
heart
The Survivorship of a worthy Man in his Son is a Pleasure scarce
     inferior to the Hopes of the Continuance of his own Life
Du bist ein Knabe -- sei es immerhin
     Und fahre fort, den Frohlichen zu spielen
You young
scoundrel
What the devil do you mean
by laughing like that? It's no laughing matter, let me tell you, sir,
for one of us
I can't help laughing
you do look so queer
Queer! I may well look queer. I tell you that I have never, never in my
whole life, spent such a perfectly infernal week as this last
Ah
I thought you wouldn't find it _all_ jam! And yet
you seemed to be enjoying yourself, too
from
that letter you wrote
What made you come here? Couldn't you be content with your miserable
victory, without coming down to crow and jeer at me
It isn't that
I -- I thought I should like to see the
fellows, and find out how you were getting on, you know
Well, sir
you'll be
delighted to hear that I'm getting on uncommonly well -- oh, uncommonly!
Your high-spirited young friends batter me to sleep with slippers on
most nights, and, as a general thing, kick me about during the day like
a confounded football! And last night, sir, I was going to be expelled;
and this morning I'm forgiven, and sentenced to be soundly flogged
before the whole school! It was just about to take place as you came in;
and I've every reason to believe it is merely postponed
I say, though
you must have been going it rather, you
know. I've never been expelled. Has Chawner been sneaking again? What
have you been up to
Nothing. I solemnly swear -- nothing! They're finding out things you've
done, and thrashing _me_
Well
you'll work them all off during the term,
I daresay. There aren't many really bad ones. I suppose he's seen my
name cut on his writing-table
No; not that I'm aware of
Oh, he'd let you hear of it if he had
It's good for a
swishing, that is. But, after all, what's a swishing? I never cared for
a swishing
But I do care, sir. I care very much, and, I tell you, I won't stand
it. I can't! Dick
You,
you haven't come down here to say you're tired of your folly, have you?
Do you want to give it up
Rather not
Why should I? No school, no lessons, nothing
to do but amuse myself, eat and drink what I like, and lots of money.
It's not likely, you know
Have you ever thought that you're bringing yourself within reach of the
law, sir
Perhaps you don't know
that there's an offence known as 'false personation with intent to
defraud,' and that it's a felony. That's what you're doing at this
moment, sir
Not any more than you are
I never began it. I had as
much right to wish to be you as you had to wish to be me. You're just
what you said you wanted to be, so you can't complain
It's useless to argue with you, I see
And you've no
feelings. But I'll warn you of one thing. Whether that is my body or not
you've fraudulently taken possession of, I don't know; if it is not, it
is very like mine, and I tell you this about it. The sort of life you're
leading it, sir, will very soon make an end of you, if you don't take
care. Do you think that a constitution at my age can stand sweet wines
and pastry, and late hours? Why, you'll be laid up with gout in another
day or two. Don't tell me, sir. I know you're suffering from indigestion
at this very minute. I can see your liver (it may be _my_ liver for
anything I know) is out of order. I can see it in your eyes
Well, and if I am
seedy, I can get Barbara to take the stone and wish me all right again,
can't I? That's easy enough, I suppose
Oh, easy enough
But, Dick, you
don't go up to Mincing Lane in that suit and that hat? Don't tell me you
do that
When I do go up, I wear them
Why not? It's a
roomy suit, and I hate a great topper on my head; I've had enough of
that here on Sundays. But it's slow up at your office. The chaps there
aren't half up to any larks. I made a first-rate booby-trap, though, one
day for an old yellow buffer who came in to see you. He _was_ in a bait
when he found the waste-paper basket on his head
What was his name
Something like 'Shells.' He said he was a very old friend of mine, and
I told him he lied
Shellack -- my Canton correspondent -- a man I was anxious to be of use
to when he came over
Miserable young cub, you
don't know what mischief you've done
Well, it won't matter much to you now
you're out of it
all
Do you -- do you mean to keep me out of it for ever, then
As long as ever I can
It will be rather
interesting to see what sort of a fellow you'll grow into -- if you ever
do grow. Perhaps you will always be like that, you know. This magic is a
rum thing to meddle with
Do you think I will put up with it
Do you suppose I shall stand calmly by and
see you degrading and ruining me? I may never be my old self again, but
I don't mean to play into your hands for all that. You can't always keep
me here, and wherever I go I'll tell my tale. I know you, you clumsy
rogue, you haven't the sense to play your part with common intelligence
now. You would betray yourself directly I challenged you to deny my
story.... You know you would.... You couldn't face me for five minutes.
By Gad! I'll do it now. I'll expose you before the Doctor -- before the
whole school. You shall see if you can dispose of me quite so easily as
you imagine
Well, you can do it if
you choose, I suppose. I can't stop you. But I don't see what good it
would do
It would show people you were an impudent impostor, sir
Stop
Before you
call them in, just listen to me for a minute. Do you see this
You know it, I see
Don't trouble
to come any closer. Well, I give you fair warning. You can make things
very nasty for me if you like. I can't help that -- but, if you do -- if you
try to score off me in any way, now or at any time -- if you don't keep it
up when the Doctor comes in -- I tell you what I shall do. I shall go
straight home and find young Roly. I shall give him this stone, and just
tell him to say some wish after me. I don't believe there are many
things it can't do, and all I can say is -- if you find yourself and all
this jolly old school (except Dulcie) taken off somewhere and stuck down
all at once thousands of miles away on a desolate island, or see
yourself turned into a Red Indian, or, or a cabhorse, you'll have
yourself to thank for it -- that's all. Now you can have them all up and
fire away
No
I -- I was joking, Dick; at least I didn't mean it. I know of
course I'm helpless. It's a sad thing for a father to say, but you've
got the best of it.... I give in ... I won't interfere with you. There's
only one thing I ask. You won't try any more experiments with that
miserable stone.... You'll promise me that, at least
Yes
it's all right. I'll play fair. As long as you behave
yourself and back me up I won't touch it. I only want to stay as I am. I
don't want to hurt you
You won't lose it
Couldn't you lock it up? that
fastening doesn't look very safe
It will do well enough
I got it done at the watchmaker's
round the corner, for sixpence. But I'll have a stronger ring put in
somewhere, if I think of it
Now, you know, it's much better to
take things quietly. It can't be altered now, can it? And it's not such
bad fun being a boy after all -- for some things. You'll get into it
by-and-by, you see if you don't, and be as jolly as a sandboy. We shall
get along all right together, too. I shan't be hard on you. It isn't my
fault that you happen to be at this particular school -- you chose it! And
after this term you can go to any other school you like -- Eton or Rugby,
or anywhere. I don't mind the expense. Of, if you'd rather, you can have
a private tutor. And I'll buy you a pony, and you can ride in the Row.
You shall have a much better time of it than I ever had, as long as you
let me go on my own way
I don't want your pony
I might as well have a
white elephant, and I don't suppose I should enjoy myself much more at a
public school than I do here. Let's have no humbug, sir. You're up and
I'm down -- there's no more to be said -- I shall tell the Doctor nothing,
but I warn you, if ever the time comes
Oh, of course
If you can turn me out, I suppose you
will -- that's only fair. I shall take care not to give you the chance.
And, oh, I say, do you want any tin? How much have you got left
I came away with exactly five shillings, and I haven't a penny now
I say
you are a fellow; you must have been going it. How
did you get rid of it all in a week
It went, as far as I can understand
in rabbits
and mice. Some boys claimed it as money they paid you to get them, I
believe
All your own fault
you would have them drowned. But you'd
better have some tin to get along with. How much do you want? Will
half-a-crown do
Half-a-crown is not much, Dick
It's -- ahem -- a handsome allowance for a young fellow like you
but I haven't any half-crowns left. I must give
you this, I suppose
And now look out
I hear Grim. Remember what I told you;
keep it up
I hope
that your
son has spared me the pain of going into the details of his
misbehaviour; I wish I could give you a better report of him
Oh, ah
you were just going to swish him,
weren't you, when I turned up, sir
I found myself forced
forced to contemplate administering to
him (for his ultimate benefit) a sharp corrective in the presence of his
schoolfellows. I distress you, I see, but the truth must be told. He has
no doubt confessed his fault to you
No
he hasn't though. What's he been up to now
I had hoped he would have been more open, more straightforward, when
confronted with the father who has proved himself so often indulgent and
anxious for his improvement; it would have been a more favourable
symptom, I think. Well, I must tell you myself. I know too well what a
shock it will be to your scrupulously sensitive moral code, my dear Mr.
Bultitude
but I
have to break to you the melancholy truth that I detected this unhappy
boy in the act of conducting a secret and amorous correspondence with a
young lady in a sacred edifice
Oh, I say
that's bad
that's bad ... he shouldn't do
that sort of thing you know, should he? At his age too ... the young
dog
This horror is what I should have expected from you
Such boldness is indeed
characteristic of the dog, an animal which, as you are aware, was with
the ancients a synonym for shamelessness. No boy, however abandoned,
should hear such words of unequivocal condemnation from a father's lips
without a pang of shame
You're right there, sir
he ought to be well ragged for it
... he'll break my heart, if he goes on like this, the young beggar. But
we mustn't be too hard on him, eh? After all, it's nature, you know,
isn't it
I beg your pardon
I mean
we did much the same sort of thing in our time, eh? I'm
sure I did -- lots of times
I can't reproach myself on that head, Mr. Bultitude; and permit me to
say, that such a tone of treating the affair is apt to destroy the
effect, the excellent moral effect, of your most impressively conveyed
indignation just now. I merely give you a hint, you understand
Oh, ah
yes, I didn't
mean that. But I say, you haven't given him a -- a whopping yet, have
you
I had just stepped out to procure a cane for that purpose
when your name was announced
Well, look here, you won't want to start again when I'm gone, will
you
An ancient philosopher, my dear sir, was accustomed to postpone the
correction of his slaves until the first glow of his indignation had
passed away. He found that he could
Lay it on with more science
Perhaps so, but you might forgive him now, don't you think?
he won't do it again. If he goes writing any more love-letters, tell me,
and I'll come and talk to him; but he's had a lesson, you know. Let him
off this time
I have no right to resist such an entreaty
though I
may be inclined myself to think that a few strokes would render the
lesson more permanent. I must ask you to reconsider your plea for his
pardon
I'd rather let him off
I
don't approve of caning fellows myself. It never did me any good, I
know, and I got enough of it to tell
Well, well, I yield. Richard, your father has interceded for you; and I
cannot disregard his wishes, though I have my own view in the matter.
You will hear no more of this disgraceful conduct, sir, unless you do
something to recall it to my memory. Thank your father for his kindness,
which you so little deserved, and take your leave of him
Oh, there, it's all right
he'll behave himself after
this, I know. And oh! I say, sir
is -- is Dulcie
anywhere about
My daughter
Would you like to see her
I shouldn't mind
I'm sorry to say she has gone out for a walk with her mother
I'm afraid she cannot be back for some time. It's unfortunate
It doesn't matter
She's
all right, I hope
She is very seldom ailing, I'm happy to say; just now she is
particularly well, thank you
Oh, is she
Well, do you mind -- could I see the fellows again for a minute or two -- I
mean I should rather like to inspect the school, you know
See my boys? Certainly, my dear sir, by all means; this way
You'll find us at our studies, you see
Our workshop
My first form,
Mr. Bultitude. Some good workers here, and some idle ones
This is Tipping, my head boy
I expect
solid results from Tipping some day
He looks as if his head was pretty solid
My second boy, Biddlecomb. If he applies himself, he too will do me
credit in the world
How do, Biddlecomb
I owe you ninepence -- I mean -- oh hang
it, here's a shilling for you! Hallo, Chawner
how are you getting on, eh? Doing
much in the sneaking way lately
You know him
No, no; I don't know him. I've heard of him, you know -- heard of him
Well
I must be off, you know. Got some important business at home
this evening to look after. The fellows look very jolly and contented,
and all that sort of thing. Enough to make one want to be a boy again
almost, eh? Good-bye, you chaps -- ahem, young gentlemen, I wish you good
morning
young
Bultitude's governor wasn't half such a bad old buffer
Good-bye
I wish I'd seen Dulcie. I should
like to see your daughter, sir; but it can't be helped. Good-bye; and
you
you
mind what I told you. Don't try any games with me
You don't happen to know, Richard, my
boy, if your father has had any business troubles lately -- anything to
disturb him
My three schoolfellows,
     Whom I will trust -- as I will adders fanged;
     They bear the mandate
Jolland
what have you got there
An envelope, sir
What is in that envelope
In the envelope, sir? Pudding, sir
And why did you place pudding in the envelope
Shall I tell you why you did it, sir
You did
it, because you were scheming to obtain a second portion -- because you
did not feel yourself able to eat both portions at your leisure here,
and thought to put by a part to devour in secret at a future time. It's
a most painful exhibition of pure piggishness. There shall be no
pocketing at this table, sir. You will eat that pudding under my eye at
once, and you will stay in and write out French verbs for two days. That
will put an end to any more gorging in the garden for a time, at least
R. Bultitude
Surprise
I think these boys have had enough of it, Mr. Tinkler, eh? You
can send them out now till tea-time
I'll go to a shop
and change this sovereign, and ask to look at a
timetable -- then, if I find I can catch a train at once, I'll run for it;
if one is not due for some time, I can hang about near the station till
it comes in
I want a pencil-case,
one which screws up and down
You're one of Dr. Grimstone's young gentlemen up at Crichton House,
aren't you, sir
No
oh no; no connection with the place. Ah, could you allow
me to look at a time-table
Certainly, sir; expectin' some one to-night or to-morrow p'raps. Let me
see
There's a
train from Pancras comes in in half an hour from now, 6.5 that is;
there's another doo at 8.15, and one at 9.30. Then from Liverpool Street
they run
Thank you
but -- but I want the up-trains
Ah
I thought maybe
your par or mar was comin' down. Ain't Dr. Grimstone got the times the
trains go
Yes
yes, he has, but ah, not for this month; he -- he sent me to inquire
Did he though
I thought you wasn't one of his
young gentlemen
Go along with you
Lor bless you, I knew your face the minnit you come in.
To go and tell me a brazen story like that! You're a young pickle, you
are
Pickle, eh
No, no. Heaven knows I'm no pickle.
It's of no consequence about those trains. Don't trouble. Good evening
to you
Stop
don't be in such a nurry now. You tell me what
you want to know straightforward, and I don't mean to say as I won't
help you so far as I can. Don't be afraid of my telling no tales. I've
bin a schoolboy myself in my time, bless your 'art. I shouldn't wonder
now if I couldn't make a pretty good guess without telling at what
you're after. You've bin a catchin' of it hot, and you want to make a
clean bolt of it. I ain't very far off, now, am I
No
I do want to make a bolt of it. I've been most abominably treated
Well, look here, I ain't got no right to interfere; and if you're
caught, I look to you not to bring my name in. I don't want to get into
trouble up at Crichton House and lose good customers, you see. But I
like the looks of you, and you've always dealt 'ere pretty regular. I
don't mind if I give you a lift. Just see here. You want to get off to
London, don't you? What for is your business, not mine. Well, there's a
train, express, stops at only one station on the way, in at 5.50. It's
twenty minnits to six now. If you take that road just oppersite, it'll
bring you out at the end of the Station Road; you can do it easy in ten
minnits and have time to spare. So cut away, and good luck to you
I'm vastly obliged to you
Hallo
it's young Bultitude
What do you mean by cannoning into a fellow like this
What are you up to out here, eh
If it comes to that
what are you up to here
Why
if you want to know, Dick, we've been to fetch the
_St. James' Gazette_ for the Doctor. He said I might go if I liked, and
I asked for Coker and Coggs to come too; because there was something I
wanted to tell them, very important, and I have told them, haven't I,
Corny
I don't
care when you tell, Chawner. Do it to-night if you like. Let's talk
about something else. Bultitude hasn't told us yet how he came out here
after us
Oh
I? I came out here, after you, to say that Dr.
Grimstone will not require the _St. James' Gazette_. He wants the
_Globe_ and, ah, the _Star_ instead
Well, we've got the other now
We shall have to go back
and get the fellow at the bookstall to change it, I suppose. Come on,
you fellows
H-hadn't we better run, don't you think
Run
What for? I'm not going to run. You can,
if you like
Why, ah, really
do you know, I think I will
One moment, ma'am, if you please
I'm pressed for time
Now you've gone and put me out, little boy
I shall have to begin all over again. Young man, will you take and
count the other end and see if it adds up right? There's a halfpenny
wrong somewhere; I know there is
Now then
Any more going on
I'm going on
Wait for me. First single to St. Pancras,
quick
Drat the boy
Do you think the world's to
give way for you? Such impidence! Mind your manners, little boy, can't
you? You've made me drop a threepenny bit with your scrouging
First single, five shillings
Right
Stand back there, will
you
Hallo! so you haven't got the _Globe_ and the other thing after all,
then; they've shut you out
Yes
they've shut me out
Mark the poor wretch, to overshoot his troubles,
     How he outruns the wind, and with what care
     He cranks and crosses with a thousand doubles:
         The many musets through the which he goes
         Are like a labyrinth to amaze his foes
Dickie, you were very anxious to run just now
We were late for tea -- late for tea
If you think the tea worth racing like that for, I don't
it's muck
You don't catch me racing, except for something worth having
Why -- why
would you race if you had something
worth racing for, hey? would you now
Try us
What do you call 'something
Well
what do you say to a shilling
You haven't got a shilling
Here's a shilling, see
Now then, I'll give
this to any boy I see get into tea first
Bultitude thinks he can run
He means to get in first and keep the shilling
himself, I know
I'll back myself to run him any day
So will I
Well, is it agreed
Will you try
All right
You must give us a start to the next
lamp-post, though. You stay here, and when we're ready we'll say 'off
One-two-three-off
Look alive, there, Ing, Pickstones, some of you. There's those
three trucks on the A siding to go to Slopsbury by the 6.30
luggage -- she'll be in in another five minutes
These three, ain't it, Tommy
That's it, mate
get 'em along up to
the points there. Can't have the 6.30 standing about on this 'ere line
all night, 'cos of the Limited. Now then, all together, shove! they've
got the old 'orse on at the other end
Tommy, I say, Tommy
Bill
I'll take my Bible oath
I've never touched a drop this week, not to speak of -- but I've got 'em
again, Bill, I've got 'em again
Got what agin
What's the matter now
It's the jumps, Bill
the 'orrors -- they've got me
and no mistake. As I'm a livin' man, as I was a shovin' of that there
truck, I saw a imp -- a gashly imp, Bill, stick its hugly 'ed over the
side and say, 'Tommy,' it ses, jest like that -- it ses, 'Tommy, I wants
you!' I dursn't go near it, Bill. I'll get leave, and go 'ome and lay
up -- it glared at me so 'orrid, Bill, and grinned -- ugh! I'll take the
pledge after this 'ere, I will -- I'll go to chapel Sundays reg'lar
Let's see if there ain't something there first
Easy with the 'oss up there. Now then
Shin out of this, whatever y'are, we
don't contrack to carry no imps on this line -- Well, if ever I -- Tommy,
old man, it's all right, y'ain't got 'em this time --'ere's yer imp
That ain't your private kerridge, yer know, that ain't -- there wasn't no
bed made up there for you, that I know on. You ain't arter no good, now;
you're a wagabone! that's about your size, I can see -- what d'yer mean by
it, eh
Shet yer 'ed, Bill, will yer
this here's a young gent
Young gent, or no young gent
he's no
call to go 'idin' in our waggins and givin' 'ard-workin' men a turn.
'Old 'im tight, Tommy -- here's the luggage down on us
Look here, my men
I've run away from school, I want to go
on to town by the next train, and I took the liberty of hiding in the
truck, because the schoolmaster will be up here very soon to look for
me -- you understand
I understand
and a nice young party _you_ are
I -- I don't want to be caught
Naterally
Well, can't you hide me somewhere where he won't see me? Come, you can
do that
What do you say, Bill
What'll the Guv'nor say
I've got a little money
I'll make it worth your while
Why didn't you say that afore
the Guv'nor needn't know
Here's half-a-sovereign between you
That's something like a imp
if all bogeys acted
as 'andsome as this 'ere, I don't care how often they shows theirselves.
We'll have a supper on this, mates, and drink young Delirium Trimminses'
jolly good 'ealth. You come along o' me, young shaver, I'll stow you
away right enough, and let you out when yer train comes in
That's where we keeps the brooms and lamp-rags, and them
it ain't what you may call tidy, but if I lock you in no one
won't trouble you
I want to see the station-master. Ha, there he is. Good
evening, station-master, you know me -- Dr. Grimstone, of Crichton House.
I want you to assist me in a very unpleasant affair -- the fact is, one of
my pupils has had the folly and wickedness to run away
You don't say so
It's only too true, I'm sorry to say; he seemed happy and contented
enough, too; it's a black ungrateful business. But I must catch him, you
know; he must be about here somewhere, I feel sure. You don't happen to
have noticed a boy who looked as if he belonged to me? They can't tell
me at the booking-office
No
I can't say I have, sir, but some of my men may
have come across him. I'll inquire -- here, Ing, I want you; this
gentleman here has lost one of his boys, have you seen him
What sort of a young gentleman was he to look at
A bright intelligent-looking boy
medium height,
about thirteen, with auburn hair
No, I ain't seen no intelligent boys with median 'eight
not leastways, to speak to positive. What might he 'ave on,
now, besides his oburn 'air
Black cloth jacket, with a wide collar
grey
trousers, and a cloth cap with a leather peak
Oh
then I see 'im
When -- where
Bout arf an 'our since
Do you know where he is now
Well
I dessay I could give a guess if I give my mind to it
Out with it, Ing, now, if you know; no tricks
Excuse me,
sir, but I've some matters in there to see after
Come, you're keeping
something from me, I _will_ have it out of you. If I find you have
deceived me, I'll write to the manager and get you sent about your
business -- you'd better tell me the truth
You see
that young gent o'
yourn _was_ a gent
I tried my very best to render him so
here
is the result -- how did you discover he was one, pray
Cos he acted like a gent
he took and give me a
'arf-suffering
Well, I'll give you another
if you can tell me
where he is
Thankee, sir, don't you be afraid -- you're a gent right enough, too,
though you do 'appen to be a schoolmaster
Where is the unhappy boy
Seems as if I was a roundin' on 'im, like, don't it a'most, sir
Not at all
not at all, my good fellow;
you're -- ahem -- advancing the cause of moral order
Oh, ah
Well, if I'm a
doin' all that, I can't go fur wrong, can I? And arter all, we mayn't
like schools or schoolmasters, not over above, but we can't get on
without 'em, I s'pose. But, look ye here, sir -- if I goes and tells you
where you can get hold of this here boy, you won't go and wallop him
now, will ye
I can make no bargains
I shall act on my own
discretion
That's it
spoke like a merciful
Christian gen'leman; if you don't go actin' on nothing more nor your
discretion, you can't hurt him much, I take it. Well then, since you've
spoke out fair, I don't mind putting you on his track like
Well, you see
it was like this here -- he comes up to me, and
says -- your young gen'leman, I mean -- says he, 'Porter, I wants to 'ide,
I've run away.' And I says to him, says I, 'It's no use your 'anging
about 'ere,' I says, ''cause, if you do, your guv'nor (meanin' no
offence to you, sir) 'll be comin' up and ketchin' of you on the 'op.'
'Right you are, porter,' says he to me, 'what do you advise?' he says.
'Well,' I says, 'I don't know as I'm right in givin' you no advice at
all, havin' run away from them as has the care on you,' I says; 'but if
_I_ was a young gen'leman as didn't want to be ketched, I should just
walk on to Dufferton; it ain't on'y three mile or so, and you'll 'ave
time for to do it before the up-train comes along there.' 'Thankee,
porter,' he says, 'I'll do that,' and away he bolts, and for anything I
know, he's 'arf way there by this time
A fly
I'll catch the young rascal now -- who has a good
horse? Davis, I'll take you. Five shillings if you reach Dufferton
before the up-train. Take the
Are
you all right in there, sir? he's safe enough now -- orf on a pretty
dance. You didn't think I was goin' to tell on ye, did ye now? I ain't
quite sech a cur as that comes to, particular when a young gent saves me
from the 'orrors, and gives me a 'arf-suffering. I'll see you through,
you make yourself easy about that
Couldn't do it
afore
Our guv'nor would have seen me. Now's your
time. Here's a empty first-class coach I've kept for ye. In with you
now
I say
if I was you, I'd
get under the seat before you gets to Dufferton, otherways your
guv'nor'll be spottin' you. I'll lock you in
I'll get under now; some one might see me here
Porter! guard! Hi, somebody! open this door, will you; it's locked
This way, sir
Plenty of room
higher up
I don't want to go higher up. I'll go here. Just open it at once, I
tell you
Always take the middle carriage of a train
Safest in
any accident, y'know. Never heard of a middle carriage of a train
getting smashed up, to speak of
Still
it is lucky that I had time to get under here
before they came in; it would have seemed odd if I had done it
afterwards
What was it we were talking about just now
Let me
see. Ah! I remember. Yes; it was a very painful thing -- very, indeed, I
assure you
Yes
he was never, according to what I hear, a
man of any extraordinary capacity, but he was always spoken of as a man
of standing in the City, doing a safe business, not a risky one, and so
on, you know. So, of course, his manner, when I called, shocked me all
the more
Ah
Was he violent or insulting, then
No, no! I can only describe his conduct as eccentric -- what one might
call reprehensibly eccentric and extravagant. I didn't call exactly in
the way of business, but about a poor young fellow in my house, who is,
I fear, rather far gone in consumption, and, knowing he was a Life
Governor, y'know, I thought he might give me a letter for the hospital.
Well, when I got up to Mincing Lane
When I got there, I sent in my card with a message that, if he was
engaged or anything, I would take the liberty of calling at his private
house, and so on. But they said he would see me. The clerk who showed me
in said: 'You'll find him a good deal changed, if you knew him, sir.
We're very uneasy about him here,' which prepared me for something out
of the common. Well, I went into a sort of inner room, and there he was,
in his shirt-sleeves, busy over some abomination he was cooking at the
stove, with the office-boy helping him! I never was so taken aback in my
life. I said something about calling another time, but Bultitude
Bultitude says, just like a great awkward schoolboy, y'know, 'What's
your name? How d'ye do? Have some hardbake, it's just done?' Fancy
finding a man in his position cooking toffee in the middle of the day,
and offering it to a perfect stranger
Softening of the brain -- must be
I fear so. Well, he asked what I wanted, and I told him, and he
actually said he never did any business now, except sign his name where
his clerks told him. He'd worked hard all his life, he said, and he was
tired of it. Business was, I understood him to say, 'all rot
Then he wouldn't promise me votes or give me a letter or anything,
without consulting his head clerk; he seemed to know nothing whatever
about it himself, and when that was over, he asked me a quantity of
frivolous questions which appeared to have a sort of catch in them, as
far as I could gather, and he was exceedingly angry when I wouldn't
humour him
What kind of questions
Well, really I hardly know. I believe he wanted to know whether I would
rather be a bigger fool than I looked or look a bigger fool than I was,
and he pressed me quite earnestly to repeat some foolishness after him,
about 'being a gold key,' when he said 'he was a gold lock,' I was very
glad to get away from him, it was so distressing
They tell me he has begun to speculate, too, lately
You see his name about in some very queer things. It's a pitiful affair
altogether
risks
on
writing five hundred on everything
Get in, sir; kindly get in if you're
coming on, please. This draught is most unpleasant
I do not propose to travel by this train, sir
but,
as a person entrusted with the care of youth, permit me to inquire
whether you have seen (or, it may be assisted to conceal) a small boy of
intelligent appearance
Why should we conceal small boys of intelligent appearance about us,
pray
And may we ask you to shut that door, and make any communications you
wish to make through the window, or else come in and sit down
That's not an answer to my question, sir
I
notice you carefully decline to say whether you have seen a boy. I
consider your manner suspicious, sir; and I shall insist on searching
this carriage through and through till I find that boy
Guard, guard
Come here. Here's a
violent person who will search this carriage for something he has lost.
I won't be inconvenienced in this way without any reason whatever! He
says we're hiding a boy in here
Guard
I insist upon looking under
these seats before you start the train. I've looked through every other
carriage and he must be in here. Gentlemen, let me pass, I'll get him if
I have to travel in this compartment to town with you
For peace and quietness sake, gentlemen
let him look
round, just to ease his mind. Lend me your stick a minute, sir, please.
I'll turn him out if he's anywhere about this here compartment
There
there really ain't no one there, sir,
you see. I've felt everywhere and ---- Hello, I certainly did feel
something just then, gentlemen
You touch that again with that confounded stick if you dare
That's a parcel of mine. I won't have you poking
holes through it in that way. Don't tell that lunatic behind you, he'll
be wanting it opened to see if his boy's inside! Now perhaps you'll let
us alone
Well, sir
he
ain't in there. There's nothing under any of the seats. Your boy'll be
comin' on by the next train, most likely -- the 8.40. We're all behind.
Right
Good night, sir
You've put us to
all this inconvenience for nothing, and in the most offensive way too. I
hope you won't find your boy till you're in a better temper, for his
sake
If I had you out on this platform, sir
I'd
horsewhip you for that insult. I believe the boy's there and you know
it. I
What a violent fellow for a schoolmaster, eh
I wasn't going to have him
turning the cushions inside out here; we shouldn't have settled down
again before we got in
No; and if the guard hasn't, as it is, injured that Indian shawl in my
parcel, I shall be ---- Why, bless my soul, that parcel's not under the
seat after all! It's up in the rack. I remember putting it there now
The guard must have fancied he felt something; and yet ---- Look here,
Goldicutt; just feel under here with your feet. It certainly does seem
as if something soft was -- eh
Upon my word
it really does seem very like it. It's
not hard enough for a bag or a hat-box. It yields distinctly when you
kick it. Can you fetch it out with your umbrella, do you think? Shall we
tell the guard at the next ----? Lord, it's coming out of its own accord.
It's a dog! No, my stars -- it's the boy, after all
Why, you young rascal
you
don't mean to say you've been under there the whole time
I have indeed
I -- I didn't like to come out before
And are you the boy all this fuss was about? Yes? And we kept the
schoolmaster off without knowing it! Why, this is splendid, capital!
You're something like a boy, you little dog, you! This is the best joke
I've heard for many a day
I hope
I haven't inconvenienced you. I could not help it,
really
Inconvenienced us? Gad, your schoolmaster came very near
inconveniencing us and you too. But there, he won't trouble any of us
now. To think of our swearing by all our gods there was no boy in here,
and vowing he shouldn't come in, while you were lying down there under
the seat all the time! Why, it's lovely! The boy's got pluck and manners
too. Shake hands, young gentleman, you owe us no apologies. I haven't
had such a laugh for many a day
Then you -- you won't give me up
Well
we're not exactly going
to take the trouble of getting out at the next station, and bringing
you back to Dufferton, just to oblige that hot-tempered master of yours,
you know; he hasn't been so particularly civil as to deserve that
But if he were to telegraph and get some one to stop me at St.
Pancras
Ah, he might do that, to be sure -- sharp boy this -- well, as we've gone
so far, I suppose we must go through with the business now and smuggle
the young scamp past the detectives, eh, Travers
Jones
Beg
pardon, gentlemen
but does
that young gent in the corner happen to belong to either of you
Do you
hear that, Johnny, my boy
they want to know if you belong to me. I suppose
you'll allow a son to belong to his father to a certain extent, eh
We've orders
to look out for a young gent about the size of yours, sir
no offence meant, I'm sure
Now my advice to you, young man
is to
go straight home to Papa and tell him all about it. I daresay he won't
be very hard on you -- here's my card, refer him to me if you like.
Good-night, my boy, good-night, and good luck to you. Gad, the best joke
I've had for years
But homeward -- home -- what home? had he a home?
     His home -- he walk'd;
     Then down the long street having slowly stolen,
     His heart foreshadowing all calamity,
     His eyes upon the stones, he reached his home
They haven't give me a answer yet, Eliza
Lor, cook
you couldn't hardly expect it, seeing you only
wrote on Friday
No more I did, Eliza. You see it on'y began to come into my mind sudden
like this last week. I'm sure I no more dreamt ----. But they've answered
a lady who's bin in much the same situation as me aperiently. You just
'ark to this a minute
_Lady Bird._ -- You ask us (1) what are the signs by which you may
recognise the first dawnings of your lover's affection. On so delicate a
matter we are naturally averse from advising you; your own heart must be
your best guide. But perhaps we may mention a few of the most usual and
infallible symptoms'-- What sort of a thing is a symptim, Eliza
A symptim, cook
is somethink wrong with the inside.
Her at my last place in Cadogan Square had them uncommon bad. She was
what they call aesthetical, pore young thing. Them infallible ones are
always the worst
It don't seem to make sense though, Eliza
Hear how it goes on: 'Infallible symptoms. If you have truly inspired
him with a genuine and lasting passion' (don't he write beautiful?)
'passion, he will continually haunt those places in which you are most
likely to be found' (I couldn't tell you the times master's bin down in
my kitching this last week); 'he will appear awkward and constrained in
your presence' (anything more awkward than master _I_ never set eyes on.
He's knocked down one of the best porcelain vegetables this very
afternoon!); 'he will beg for any little favours, some trifle, it may
be, made by your own hand' (master's always a-asking if I've got any of
those doughnuts to give away); 'and, if granted, he will treasure them
in secret with pride and rapture' (I don't think master kep' any of them
doughnuts though, Eliza. I saw him swaller five; but you couldn't
treasure a doughnut, not to mention ---- I'll make him a pincushion when
I've time, and see what he does with it). 'If you detect all these
indications of liking in the person you suspect of paying his addresses
to you, you may safely reckon upon bringing him to your feet in a very
short space of time. (2) Yes, fuller's earth will make them exquisitely
white
There, Eliza
if
it had been meant for me it couldn't have been clearer. Ain't it written
nice? And on'y to think of my bringing master to my feet! It seems
almost too much for a cook to expect
I wouldn't say so, cook; I wouldn't. Have some proper pride. Don't let
him think he's only to ask and have! Why, in the _London Journal_ last
week there was a dook as married a governess; and I should 'ope as a
cook ranked above a governess. Nor yet master ain't a dook; he's only in
the City! But are you sure he's not only a-trifling with your
affections, cook? He's bin very affable and pleasant with all of us
lately
It ain't for me to speak too positive, Eliza
nor to lay bare the feelings of a bosom, beyond what's right
and proper. You're young yet, Eliza, and don't understand these
things -- leastways, it's to be hoped not
but do you remember that afternoon last week as master
stayed at home a-playin' games with the children? I was a-goin' upstairs
to fetch my thimble, and there, on the bedroom landin', was master all
alone, with one of Master Dick's toy-guns in his 'and, and a old slouch
'at on his head.

"'Have you got a pass, cook?' he says, and my 'art came right up into my
mouth, he looked that severe and lofty at me. I thought he was put out
about something
I said I didn't know as it was required, but I could get one, I says,
not knowing what he was alludin' to all the same
But he says, quite soft and tender-like
No, you needn't do that, cook, there ain't any occasion for
it; only,' he says, 'if you haven't got no pass, you'll have to give me
a kiss, you know, cook!' I thought I should have sunk through the
stairs, I was that overcome. I saw through his rouge with half an eye
Why, he said the same to me
only I had a pass, as luck
had it, which Miss Barbara give me. I'd ha' boxed his ears if he'd tried
it, too, master or no master
You talk light, Eliza
but you weren't
there to see. It wasn't only the words, it was the way he said it, and
the 'ug he gave me at the time. It was as good as a proposial. And, I
tell you, whatever you may say -- and mark my words -- I 'ave 'opes
Then, if I was you, cook
I'd try if I could get him to
speak out plain in writing; then, whatever came of it, there'd be as
good as five hundred pounds in your pockets
Love-letters
why, Lord love you, Eliza ---- Why,
William, how you made me jump! I thought you was up seein' to the
supper-table
The pastrycook's man is looking after all that, Jane
I've been up outside the droring-room all this time, lookin' at
the games goin' on in there. It's as good as a play to see the way as
master is a unbendin' of himself, and such a out and out stiff-un as he
used to be, too! But it ain't what I like to see in a respectable house.
I'm glad I give warning. It doesn't do for a man in my position to
compromise his character by such goings on. I never see anything like it
in any families I lived with before. Just come up and see for yourself.
You needn't mind about cleanin' of yourself -- they won't see you
That dreadful woman
Who would have dreamed that she would get such horrible ideas into her
head? I shall never be able to look either of those women in the face
again: they will both have to go -- and she made such excellent soup, too.
I do hope that miserable Dick has not been fool enough to write to
her -- but no, that's too absurd
No wonder
the fellow has been
living on me for a week
I hope you are making
yourself quite comfortable
Uncommonly attentive and
polite of you to inquire
whoever you are. If it will relieve
your mind at all to know, young man, I'm happy to say I am tolerably
comfortable, thanks
I -- I concluded as much
You've been very nicely brought up
I can see
that at a glance. So you've come in here, like me, eh? because the
children bore you, and you want a quiet gossip over the world in
general? Sit down then, take a cigar, if you don't think it will make
you very unwell. I shouldn't recommend it myself, you know, before
supper -- but you're a man of the world and know what's good for you. Come
along, enjoy yourself till you find yourself getting queer -- then drop
it
Don't you know me, Paradine
I don't think I have the privilege -- you're one of Miss Barbara's
numerous young friends, I suppose? and yet, now I look at you, you
don't seem to be exactly got up for an evening party; there's something
in your voice, too, I ought to know
You ought
My name is Paul Bultitude
To be sure
By Jove, then, you're my young nephew,
don't you know; I'm your long-lost uncle, my boy, I am indeed (I'll
excuse you from coming to my arms, however; I never was good at family
embraces). But, I say, you little rascal, you've never been asked to
these festivities, you ought to be miles away, fast asleep in your bed
at school. What in the name of wonder are you doing here
I've -- left school
So I perceive. Sulky because they left you out of all this, eh? Thought
you'd turn up in the middle of the banquet, like the spectre
bridegroom --'the worms they crawled in, and the worms they crawled out,'
eh? Well, I like your pluck, but, ahem -- I'm afraid you'll find they've
rather an unpleasant way of laying your kind of apparitions
Never mind about that
I have something I must
tell you -- I've no time to lose. I'm a desperate man
You are
oh, you are indeed! 'a
desperate man.' Capital! a stern chase, eh? the schoolmaster close
behind with the birch! It's quite exciting, you know, but, seriously,
I'm very much afraid you'll catch it
If
if I was to tell you
that I was not myself at all -- but somebody else, a -- in fact, an entirely
different person from what I seem to you to be -- I suppose you would
laugh
I beg your pardon
I don't think I
quite catch the idea
When I assure you now, solemnly, as I stand here before you, that I am
not the miserable boy whose form I am condemned to -- to wear, you'll say
it is incredible
Not at all -- by no means, I quite believe you. Only (really it's a mere
detail), but I should rather like to know, if you're not that particular
boy, what other boy you may happen to be. You'll forgive my curiosity
I'm not a boy at all -- I'm your own unhappy brother-in-law, Paul! You
don't believe me, I see
Oh, pardon me, it's perfectly clear! you're not your own son, but your
own father -- it's a little confusing at first, but no doubt common
enough. I'm glad you mentioned it, though
Go on
make light of it -- you fancy you are being
very clever, but you will find out the truth in time
Not without external assistance, I'm afraid
A
more awful little liar for your age I never saw
I'm tired of this
Only listen to reason and common
sense
Only give me a chance
I tell you
it's the sober awful truth -- I'm
not a boy, it's years since I was a boy -- I'm a middle-aged man, thrust
into this, this humiliating form
Don't say that
it's an excellent fit -- very
becoming, I assure you
Do you want to drive me mad with your clumsy jeers
Look
at me. Do I speak, do I behave, like an ordinary schoolboy
I really hope not -- for the sake of the rising generation
You are very jaunty to-day -- you look as if you were well off
I remember a time when a certain bill was presented to me,
drawn by you, and appearing to be accepted (long before I ever saw it)
by me. I consented to meet it for my poor Maria's sake, and because to
disown my signature would have ruined you for life. Do you remember how
you went down on your knees in my private room and swore you would
reform and be a credit to your family yet? You weren't quite so well
off, or so jaunty then, unless I am very much mistaken
You young hound
How did you get hold of that -- that lying story? Your father
must have let it out! Why do you bring up bygones like this? You -- you're
a confounded, disagreeable little prig! Who told you to play an
ill-natured trick of this sort on an uncle, who may have been wild and
reckless in his youth -- was in fact -- but who never, never misused his
relation towards you as -- as an uncle
How did I get hold of the story
Do you think if I were really a boy of thirteen I should
know as much about you as I do? Do you want to know more? Ask, if you
dare! Shall I tell you how it was you left your army coach without going
up for examination? Will you have the story of your career in my old
friend Parkinson's counting-house, or the real reason of your trip to
New York, or what it was that made your father add that codicil, cutting
you off with a set of engravings of the 'Rake's Progress,' and a guinea
to pay for framing them? I can tell you all about it, if you care to
hear
No
I won't listen. When you grow up, ask your
father to buy you a cheap Society journal. You're cut out for an editor
of one. It doesn't interest me
Do you believe my story or not
I don't know. Who could believe it
How can
you possibly account for it
Do you remember giving Maria a little sandal-wood box with a small
stone in it
I have some recollection of giving her something of that kind. A
curiosity, wasn't it
I wish I had never seen it. That infernal stone, Paradine, has done all
this to me. Did no one tell you it was supposed to have any magic
power
Why, now I think of it, that old black rascal, Bindabun Doss, did try
to humbug me with some such story; said it was believed to be a
talisman, but the secret was lost. I thought it was just his stingy way
of trying to make the rubbish out as something priceless, as it ought to
have been, considering all I did for the old ruffian
You told Maria it was a talisman. Bindabun what's-his-name was right.
It is a talisman of the deadliest sort. I'll soon convince you, if you
will only hear me out
Well
suppose I were to say that I
think there may be something in this story of yours, what then? What is
it you want me to do for you
Why
with all you owe to me, now you know the horrible
injustice I have had to bear, you surely don't mean to say that you
won't help me to right myself
And if I did help you, what then
Why, I should be able to recover all I have lost, of course
Ah, but I mean, what's to become of _me_
You
Well, hum, from what
I know and what you know that I know about your past life, you can't
expect me to encourage you to remain here
No
Of course not; very right and proper
But
anything
I can do to advance your prospects -- such as paying your passage out to
New York, you know, and so on -- I should be very ready to do
Thank you
And even, if necessary, provide you with a small fund to start afresh
upon -- honestly
you will not find me difficult to deal
with
It's a dazzling proposition
You have such
an alluring way of putting things. But the fact, is, you'll hardly
believe it, but I'm remarkably well off here. I am indeed. Your son, you
know, though not you (except as a mere matter of form), really makes, as
they say of the marmalade in the advertisements, an admirable
substitute. I doubt, I do assure you, whether you yourself would have
received me with quite the same warmth and hospitality I have met with
from him
So do I
very much
Just so; for, without your admirable business capacity and
extraordinary firmness of character, you know, he has, if you'll excuse
my saying so, a more open guileless nature, a more entire and touching
faith in his fellow-man and brother-in-law, than were ever yours
To say that to me
is nothing less than sheer
impudence
My dear Paul (it does seem deuced odd to be talking to a little shrimp
like you as a grown-up brother-in-law. I shall get used to it presently,
I daresay). I flatter myself I am a man of the world. We're dealing with
one another now, as the lawyers have it, at arm's length. Just put
yourself in my place (you're so remarkably good at putting yourself in
other people's places, you know). Look at the thing from my point of
view. Accidentally dropping in at your offices to negotiate (if I could)
a small temporary loan from anyone I chanced to meet on the premises, I
find myself, to my surprise, welcomed with effusion into what I then
imagined to be your arms. More than that, I was invited here for an
indefinite time, all my little eccentricities unmentioned, overlooked. I
was deeply touched (it struck me, I confess, at one time that you must
be touched too), but I made the best use of my opportunities. I made hay
while the sun shone
Do you mean to make me lose my temper
It will not
take much more
I have no objection. I find men as a rule easier to deal with when they
have once lost their temper, their heads so often go too. But to return:
a man with nerve and his fair share of brains, like myself, only wants a
capitalist (he need not be a millionaire) at his back to conquer the
world. It's not by any means my first campaign, and I've had my
reverses, but I see victory in my grasp, sir, in my grasp at last
Now you -- it's not your fault, I know, a mere defect of constitution;
but you, as a speculator, were, if I may venture to put it so, not worth
your salt; no boldness, no dash, all caution. But your promising son is
a regular whale on speculation, and I may tell you that we stand in
together in some little ventures that would very probably make your hair
stand on end -- _you_ wouldn't have touched them. And yet there's money in
every one of them
_My_ money
and it won't come out again
You don't know much about these things, you see
I
tell you I have my eye on some fine openings for capital
Your pockets always were very fine openings for capital
Ha, ha, deuced sharp that! But, to come to the point, you were always a
sensible practical kind of a fellow, and you must see, that, for me to
back you up and upset this young rascal who has stepped into your
slippers, might be morally meritorious enough, but, treating it from a
purely pecuniary point of view, it's not business
I see
then you side against me
Did I ever say I would side against you? Let us hear first what you
propose to do
A good idea that, Paul, my boy
but you
don't imagine our young friend would be quite such an idiot as not to
see your game! Why, he would pitch the Stone in the gutter or stamp it
to powder, rather than let you get hold of it
He's quite capable of it
in fact, he threatened to do
worse than that. I doubt if I shall ever be able to manage it myself;
but what am I to do? I must try, and I've no time to lose about it
either
I tell you this
if you let him see you here, it's
all up with you. What you want is some friend to manage this for you,
some one he won't suspect. Now, suppose I were willing to risk it for
you
You
Why not
Ah, I see, you
can't trust me. You've got an idea into your head that I'm a
thorough-paced rascal, without a trace of human feeling about me. I
daresay I deserve it, I daresay I do; but it's not generous, my boy, for
all that. I hope to show you your mistake yet, if you give me the
chance. You allow yourself to be prejudiced by the past, that's where
you make your mistake. I only put before you clearly and plainly what it
was I was giving up in helping you. A fellow may have a hard cynical
kind of way of putting things, and yet, take my word for it, Paul, have
a heart as tender as a spring chicken underneath. I believe I'm
something like that myself. I tell you I'm sorry for you. I don't like
to see a family man of your position in such a regular deuce of a hole.
I feel bound to give you a lift out of it, and let my prospects take
their own chance. I leave the gratitude to you. When I've done, kick me
down the doorsteps if you like. I shall go out into the world with the
glow of self-approval (and rapid motion) warming my system. Take my
advice, don't attempt to tackle Master Dick yourself. Leave him to me
If I could only make up my mind to trust you
The old distrust
you can't forget. You won't
believe a poor devil like me can have any gratitude, any
disinterestedness left in him. Never mind, I'll go. I'll leave it to
you. I'll send Dick in here, and we shall see whether he's such a fool
as you think him
No
no; I feel you're right; that would never do
It would be for my advantage, I think
but you had
better take me while I am in a magnanimous mood, the opportunity may
never occur again. Come, am I to help you or not? Yes or no
I must accept
I can't find Boaler now, and it
might take hours to make him see what I wanted. I'll trust to your
honour. What shall I do
Do? Get away from this, he'll be coming in here very soon to see me.
Run away and play with the children or hide in the china
closet -- anything but stay here
I -- I must be here while you are managing him
Nonsense
I tell you it will spoil all, unless
you -- who's that? it's his step -- too late now -- dash it all! Behind that
screen, quick -- don't move for your life till I tell you you may come
out
The is noon in this hous schuld bynde me this night
So here you are
Been lookin' for you everywhere. What's
good of shutting 'self in here? Come up and play gamesh. No? Come in and
have shupper. I've had shupper
So I perceive
Tell y'what I did
You know I never did
get what I call regular good blow out -- always some one to shay 'had
quite 'nough' 'fore I'd begun. So I thought this time I would have a
tuck-in till -- till I felt tired, and I -- he-he-he -- I got down 'fore
anybody elsh and helped myshelf. Had first go-in. No one to help to
thingsh. No girlsh to bother. It was prime! When they've all gone up
again you and me'll go in and have shome more, eh
You're a model host
It's a good shupper
I ought to know. I've had some of
everything. It'sh almost too good for kids. But it'sh a good thing I
went in first. After I'd been in a little time I saw a sponge-cake on
the table, and when I tried it, what d'ye think I found? It was as full
inside of brandy-an'-sherry as it could be. All it could do to shtand! I
saw d'rectly it washn't in condition come to table, and I said, 'Take it
away! take it away! It'sh drunk; it'sh a dishgraceful sight for
children!' But they wouldn't take it away; sho I had to take it away.
But you can't take away a whole tipshy-cake
I am quite sure you did your best
Been having such gamesh upstairs
That lil' Dolly Merridew's jolly girl. Not sho nice as Dulcie, though.
Here, you, let'sh go up and let off fireworksh on balcony, eh? Letsh
have jolly lark
No, no
You and I are too old for that sort of thing.
You should leave the larks to the young fellows
How do you know I'm too old for sorterthing
Well, you're not a young man any longer, you know. You ought to behave
like the steady old buffer you look
Why
why should I behave like shteady ole buffer, when
I don't feel shteady ole buffer? What do you want shpoil fun for? Tell
you I shall do jus' zackly wharriplease. And, if you shay any more, I'll
punch y' head
No, no
Come,
you're not going to quarrel with me, I'm sure
All ri
No; I won' quarrel. Don' wanter quarrel anybody
That's right
I knew you were a noble fellow
Sho I am
Sho are you. Nearly
ash noble 'sh me. There, you're jolly good fellow. I say, I've goo' mind
tell you something. Make you laugh. But I won't; not now
Oh, you can tell me
No secrets between friends, you
know
Shan't tell you now
Keep shecret little longer
Do you know, my friend, that there's something very odd about you I've
noticed lately? Something that makes me almost fancy sometimes you're
not what you pretend to be
Eh, what d'you shay
Shay tharragain
You look to me
like some one excellently made
up for the part of heavy father, without a notion how to play it. Dick,
you young dog, you see I know you! You can't take me in with all this.
You'd better tell me all about it
You've found me out
Then it's all up. If you've
found me out, everybody elsh can find me out
No, no; it's not so bad as that, my boy. I've better eyes than most
people, and then I had the privilege of knowing your excellent father
rather well once upon a time. You haven't studied his little
peculiarities closely enough; but you'll improve. By the way, where _is_
your excellent father all this time
He's all right
He-he. He's at
school, he is
At school. You mean to say you've put him to school at his time of
life! He's rather old for that sort of thing, isn't he? They don't take
him on the ordinary terms, do they
Ah
that'sh where it is. He isn't old, you see, now, to
look at
Not old to look at! Then how on earth ---- I should like to know how you
managed all that. What have you been doing to the poor gentleman
That'sh my affair
An' if I don' tell you you won' find
that out anyway
There's only one way you could have done it
It must have been done by some meddling with magic. Now
what ---- Let me see -- yes ---- Surely the Stone I brought your poor mother
from India was given to me as a talisman of some sort? You can't have
been sharp enough to get hold of that
How did you know
Who told you
I am right, then? Well, you are a clever fellow. I should like to know
how you did it, now
Did it with the Shtone
All my own idea. No one helped me. It -- it washn't sho bad
for me, wash it
Bad! it was capital
It was a
stroke of genius! And so my Indian Stone has done all this for you.
Sounds like an Arabian Night, by Jove! By-the-by, you don't happen to
have it about you, do you? I should rather like to look at it again.
It's a real curiosity after this
I dareshay you would
but I'm not sho green as all that.
Don't let that Stone out of my hands for anyone
Why, I only wanted to look at it for a minute or two
I wouldn't hurt it or lose it
You won' get chance
Oh, very well
just as you please, it
doesn't matter; though when we come to talk things over a little, you
may find it better to trust me more than that
Wha' do you mean
Well, I'll try to explain as well as I can, my boy (drink a little of
this soda water first, it's an excellent thing after supper); there,
you're better now, aren't you? Now, I've found you out, as you see; but
only because I knew something of the powers of this Stone of yours, and
guessed the rest. It doesn't at all follow that other people, who know
nothing at all, will be as sharp; if you're more careful about your
behaviour in future -- unless, unless, young fellow
Unless what
Unless I chose to tell them what I've found out
What would you tell them
What? Why, what I know of this talisman; tell them to use their eyes;
they wouldn't be very long before they found out that something was
wrong. And when one or two of your father's friends once get hold of the
idea, your game will be very soon over -- you know that as well as I do
But
you wouldn't go and do beastly mean thing like
that? I've not been bad fellow to you
The meanness, my dear boy, depends entirely upon the view you take of
it. Now, the question with me, as a man of honour (and I may tell you an
over-nice sense of honour has been a drawback I've had to struggle
against all my life), the question with me is this: Is it not my plain
duty to step in and put a stop to this topsy-turvy state of things, to
show you up as the barefaced young impostor you are, and restore my
unhappy brother-in-law to his proper position
Very well expressed
he has a heart, as he said, after all
How does that seem to strike you
It shtrikes me as awful rot
It's the language of conscience, but I don't expect you to see it in
the same light. I don't mind confessing to you, either, that I'm a poor
devil to whom money and a safe and respectable position (all of which I
have here) are great considerations. But whenever I see the finger of
duty and honour and family affection all beckoning me along a particular
road, I make a point of obeying their monitions -- occasionally. I don't
mean to say that I never have bolted down a back way, instead, when it
was made worth my while, or that I never will
I wonder what he's driving at now
I don't know about duty and honour, and all that
my head
aches, it's the noise they're making upstairs. Are you goin' to tell
The fact is, my dear boy, that when one has had a keen sense of honour
in constant use for several years, it's like most other articles, apt to
become a little the worse for wear. Mine is not what it used to be,
Dicky (that's your name, isn't it?). Our powers fail as we grow old
I don' know what you're talking about
Do tell
me what you mean to do
Well then, your head's clear enough to understand this much, I hope
that, if I did my duty and exposed
you, you wouldn't be able to keep up the farce for a single hour, in
spite of all your personal advantages -- you know that, don't you
I shpose I know that
You know too, that if I could be induced -- mind, I don't say I can -- to
hold my tongue and stay on here and look after you and keep you from
betraying yourself by any more of these schoolboy follies, there's not
much fear that anyone else will ever find out the secret
Which are you going to do, then
Suppose I say that I like you, that you have shown me more kindness in
a single week than ever your respectable father has since I first made
his acquaintance? Suppose I say that I am willing to let the sense of
honour and duty, and all the rest of it, go overboard together; that we
two together are a match for Papa, wherever he may be and whatever he
chooses to say and do
Will you say that
On one condition, which I'll tell you by-and-by. Yes, I'll stand by
you, my boy, I'll coach you till I make you a man of business every bit
as good as your father, and a much better man of the world. I'll show
you how to realise a colossal fortune if you only take my advice. And
we'll pack Papa off to some place abroad where he'll have no holidays
and give no trouble
No
I won't have that. After all, he's my
governor
Do what you like with him then, he can't do much harm. I tell you, I'll
do all this, on one condition -- it's a very simple one
What is it
This. You have, somewhere or other, the Stone that has done all this
for you -- you may have it about you at this very moment -- ah
I thought so! Well,
I want that Stone. You were afraid to leave it in my hands for a minute
or two just now; you must trust me with it altogether
No
I can't do that; I want it too
Why, man, what use is it to you? it only gives you one wish, you can't
use it again
I suppose I can do that as well as Barbara
Come,
don't be obstinate, give me the Stone; it's very important that it
should be in safe hands
No
I mean to keep it myself
Very well then, I have done with you. To-morrow morning I shall step up
to Mincing Lane, and then to your father's solicitor. I think his
offices are in Bedford Row, but I can easily find out at your father's
place. After that, young man, you'll have a very short time to amuse
yourself in, so make the best of it
No, don't leave me, let me alone for a minute
Go back
You infernal old idiot, you've ruined
everything
I won't go back
I don't believe in you. I'll hide no
longer. Dick, I forbid you to trust that man
Badly as you've treated me, I'd rather trust you than that shifty
plausible fellow there. Just look at me, Dick, and then say if you can
let this cruelty go on. If you knew all I've suffered since I have been
among those infernal boys, you would pity me, you would indeed.... If
you send me back there again, it will kill me.... You know as well as I
do that it is worse for me than ever it could be for you.... You can't
really justify yourself because of a thoughtless wish of mine, spoken
without the least intention of being taken at my word. Dick, I may not
have shown as much affection for you as I might have done, but I don't
think I deserve all this. Be generous with me now, and I swear you will
never regret it
Give papa the Stone by all means
If you do, he
will find some one to wish the pair of you back again, and then, back
you go to school again, the laughing-stock of everybody, you silly young
cub
Don't listen to him, Dick
Give it to me, for Heaven's
sake; if you let him have it, he'll use it to ruin us all
Papa, I'm shorry. It is a shame. If I
had the Shtone, I really would give it you, upon my word-an'-honour I
would. But -- but, now I can't ever give it up to you. It'sh gone. Losht
Lost
When, where? When do you last recollect seeing
it? you must know
In the morning
No; afternoon. I don't know
Sir
Roger de Coverley
The visitors' bell
It's all
over now
I've just seen Dr. Grimstone standing on my
doorstep; he has come after me
I'm sorry for you, my
friend
but I really can't help it
You can
you can tell him what you know. You can save me
Very poor economy that
I prefer spending to
saving, always did. I have my own interests to consider, my dear Paul
Dick
you said you were sorry just now. Will you tell him the
truth
I
daren't, I daren't
I -- I can't go back to the fellows
like this. I'm afraid to tell him. I -- I want to hide somewhere
Don't open the door
Keep him out, you mustn't let him
in. It's Dr. Grimstone
What name, if you please
I must go and ask your Par, then, Master Dick; there's time to 'ook it
upstairs while I'm gone. I won't say nothing
Buzzer Dicky
dear buzzer Dicky, tum 'ome to party
It's not brother Dicky
it's all a mistake
Oh, but it is though
and you don't know what Roly's
found
No, no
you
shall show me another time. I'm in a hurry, my boy, I've got an
appointment
Roly's got something better than that
Well, what has Roly found -- a cracker
No, no, better than a cwacker -- you guess
I can't guess
never mind, I don't want to know
Well then
there
Isn't it a pitty sing
A very pretty thing
but it's
mine, Roly, it's mine
It isn't yours
it's Roly's. Roly found it
Roly shall have it, then
if he will say after
me what I tell him. Say, 'I wish Papa and Brother Dick back as they were
before,' Roly
Ith it a game
No -- yes
it's a very funny game; only do what I tell you.
Now say, 'I wish Papa and Brother Dick back again as they were before.'
I'll give you a sugar-plum if you say it nicely
What sort of sugar-plum
Any sort you like best
oh, do get on
Lots of sugar-plums, then. 'I with'-- I forget what you told me -- oh, 'I
with Papa and ----' there'th thomebody tummin' upsthairs
it'h nurth tummin' to put me to bed. I don't want to go to
bed yet
And you shan't go to bed
Never mind nurse, finish the -- the game
Papa and Buzzy Dicky back again as -- as they were before
What a funny -- ow, ow, it'h Papa! it'h Papa! and he told
me it wath Dicky. I'm afwaid! Whereth Dicky gone to? I want Bab, take me
to Bab
Please, sir
the
schoolmaster gentleman, Master Dick -- he've run upstairs, haven't you
seen him
Don't be alarmed
Master Dick is safe enough. I know all about
it. Where is Dr. Grimstone? In the library, eh? Very well, I will see
him there
I am very glad to see you, Dr. Grimstone
but your coming at this time forces me to ask if there is any
unusual reason for, for my having the -- a -- pleasure of seeing you here
I am exceedingly distressed to have to say that there is
or I should not have troubled you at this hour. Try to
compose yourself, my dear sir, to bear this blow
I will
I will try
The fact is then, and I know how sad a story it must be for a parent's
ear, but the fact is, that your unhappy boy has had the inconceivable
rashness to quit my roof
God bless my soul
You don't say so
I do indeed; he has, in short, run away. But don't be alarmed, my dear
Mr. Bultitude, I think I can assure you he is quite safe at the present
moment
Thank Heaven, he is
I should certainly have recaptured him before he
could have left the railway station, where he seems to have gone at
once, only, acting on information (which I strongly suspect now was
intentionally misleading), I drove on to the station on the up-line,
thinking to find him there. He was not there, sir, I believe he never
went there at all; but, guessing how matters were, I searched the train,
carriage by carriage, compartment by compartment, when it came up
I am very sorry you should have had so much trouble
and so you found him
No, sir
I did not find him, but he was
there; he must have been there! but the shameless connivance of two
excessively ill-bred persons, who positively refused to allow me access
to their compartment, caused him to slip through my fingers
It was, indeed, but it is of no consequence fortunately. I was forced
to wait for the next train, but that was not a very slow one, and so I
was able to come on here before a very late hour and acquaint you with
what had taken place
Thank you very much
It's a painful thing to occur in a school
Most unfortunate
So apt to lead persons who are not acquainted with the facts to imagine
that the boy was unhappy under my care
In this case, I assure you, I have no doubts
Very kind of you to say so; really, it's a great mystery to me. I
certainly, as I felt it my duty to inform you at the time, came very
near inflicting corporal punishment upon him this morning -- very near.
But then he was pardoned on your intercession; and, besides, the boy
would never have run away for fear of a flogging
Oh, no, perfectly absurd
Such a merry, high-spirited lad, too
popular with his schoolfellows; a favourite (in spite of his
faults) with his teachers
No, was he though
All this, added to the comforts (or, may I say, the luxuries?) he
enjoyed under my supervision, does make it seem very strange and
ungrateful in the boy to take this sudden and ill-considered step
Very, indeed; but do you know, Dr. Grimstone, I can't help
thinking -- and pray do not misunderstand me if I speak plainly -- that,
perhaps, he had reasons for being unhappy you can have no idea of
He would have found me ready to hear any complaints and prompt to
redress them, sir
But, now I think of it, he
certainly did appear to have something on his mind which he wished to
tell me; but his manner was so strange and he so persistently refused to
come to the point, that I was forced to discourage him at last
You did discourage him, indeed
Perhaps some of his schoolfellows
may have -- eh
My dear sir
quite out of the question
Do you think so
And yet, do you know, some of them did not appear to me to look
very -- very good-natured, now
A more manly, pleasant, and gentlemanly set of youths never breathed
Curious
now that they should have struck you so differently
They certainly did strike me very differently
But I may
be mistaken
You are, my dear sir. And, pardon me, but you had no opportunity of
testing your opinion
Oh, pardon me
I had indeed
A cursory visit
a formal inspection -- you cannot
fairly judge boys by that. They will naturally be reserved and
constrained in the presence of an elder. But you should observe them
without their knowledge -- you want to know them, my dear Mr. Bultitude,
you want to go among them
And now
with regard to your misguided boy. I have
to tell you that he is here, in this very house. I tracked him here,
and, ten minutes ago, saw him with my own eyes at one of your windows.

"Here
you astonish me
It has occurred to me within the last minute
that
there may be a very simple explanation of his flight. I observe you are
giving a -- a juvenile entertainment on a large scale
I suppose I am
And so you think
I think that your son, who doubtless knew of your intention, was hurt
at being excluded from the festivities and, in a fit of mad wilful
folly, resolved to be present at them in spite of you
My dear Doctor
that must be it, of course -- that explains it all
So grave an act of insubordination
an act of double
disobedience -- to your authority and mine -- deserves the fullest
punishment. You agree with me, I trust
Nothing
can be too bad for the little scoundrel
He shall have it, sir, I swear to you; he shall be made to repent this
as long as he lives. This insult to me (and of course to you also) shall
be amply atoned for. If you will have the goodness to deliver him over
to my hands, I will carry him back at once to Market Rodwell, and
to-morrow, sir, to-morrow, I will endeavour to awaken his conscience in
a way he will remember
Well
we must find him first, and then
consider what shall be done to him. If you will allow me I will ring
and
Here he is, my boy
here's the scamp who has given
us all this trouble! He came into the billiard-room just now and told me
who he was, but I would have nothing to do with him of course. Not my
business, as I told him at the time. Then --(I think I have the pleasure
of seeing Dr. Grimstone? just so) well, then you, sir, arrived -- and he
made himself scarce. But when I saw him in the act of making a bolt up
the area, where he had been taking shelter apparently in the
coal-cellar, I thought it was time to interfere, and so I collared him.
I have much pleasure in handing him over now to the proper authorities
Stand where you are, sir
No, Dr. Grimstone,
allow me -- leave him to me for the present, please
That's much better
capital. Keep it
up, my boy; keep it up! Papa's as quiet as a lamb now. Go on
Have the goodness to leave my house at once, will you
You young fool
after all I have
done for you, too! Is this your gratitude? You know you can't get on
without me. Take care what you're about
If you can't see that the tables are turned at last
you're a duller knave than I take you to be
It's a trick
you want to get rid of me
I certainly intend to
Are you satisfied? Do you want
proofs -- shall I give them -- I did just now in the billiard-room
You young idiot
why didn't you tell me? What did you let me make a
fool of myself like this for, eh
I did tell you
only you wouldn't listen. It just
serves you right
Only my little joke
ha, ha, I thought I should take you in!... Why, I knew
it directly.... I've been working for you all the time -- but it wouldn't
have done to let you see my line
No
it was not a very straight one, as usual
Well
I shouldn't have stopped Master Dick there if I
hadn't been on your side, should I now? I knew you'd come out of it all
right, but I had a difficult game to play, don't you know? I don't
wonder that you didn't follow me just at first
You've lost your game
it's no use to say any more. So
now, perhaps, you'll go
Go, eh
oh, very well, just as you please, of
course. Let your poor wife's only brother go from your doors without a
penny in the world!-- but I warn you that a trifle or so laid out in
stopping my mouth would not be thrown away. Some editors would be glad
enough of a sensation from real life just now, and I could tell some
very odd tales about this little affair
Tell them, if a character for sanity is of no further use to you
Tell them to anyone you can get to believe you -- tell the
crossing-sweeper and the policemen, tell your grandmother, tell the
horse-marines -- it will amuse them. Only, you shall tell them on the
other side of my front door. Shall I call anyone to show you out
Not on my account, I beg
Good-bye, Paul, my boy,
no more dissolving views. Good-bye, my young friend Richard, it was good
fun while it lasted, eh? like the Servian crown -- always a pleasant
reminiscence! Good evening to you, Doctor. By the way, for educational
purposes let me recommend a 'Penang lawyer'-- buy one as you go back for
the boys -- just to show them you haven't forgotten them
Richard
you have not done
much to deserve consideration at my hands
Or at mine
No
I know I haven't. I've been a brute. I deserve a jolly
good licking
You do
Well
you've acted very wrongly. Because I thought
it best that you should not -- ahem, leave your studies for this party,
you chose to disobey me and alarm your master by defying my orders and
coming home by stealth -- that was your object, I presume
Y -- yes
that was it
You know as well as I do what good cause I have to be angry; but, if I
consent to overlook your conduct this time, if I ask Dr. Grimstone to
overlook it too
will you undertake to behave better for the
future -- will you
Oh, I will
I will, really. I never meant to go
so far when I began
Then, Dr. Grimstone
you will do me a great favour if you
will take no further notice of this. You see the boy is sorry, and I am
sure he will apologise to you amply for the grave slight he has done
you. And by the way -- I should have mentioned it before -- but he will have
to leave your care at the end of the term for a public school -- I intend
to send him to Harrow, so he will require some additional preparation,
perhaps: I may leave that in your hands
I will see to
that myself, my dear sir. I am sorry you did not tell me this earlier.
But, may I suggest that a large public school has its pitfalls for a
boy of your son's disposition? And I trust this leniency may not have
evil consequences, but I doubt it -- I greatly doubt it
Dad
you're a brick! I don't deserve any
of it, but I'll never forget this as long as I live
Well
prove to me that I have made no mistake. Go
back to Crichton House now, work and play well, and try to keep out of
mischief for the rest of the term. I trust to you
while you remain at Market Rodwell, to keep my -- my connection
with it a secret; you owe that at least to me. You may probably
have -- ahem, some inconveniences to put up with -- inconveniences you are
not prepared for. You must bear them as your punishment
Mind
_you_ have been at school all
this past week; you have run away to attend this party, you understand?
Good-bye, my boy, and here's something to put in your pocket, and
another for Jolland; but he need not know it comes from me
a little odd
to see
the fellows
</text>
