<text>
that, if the
Wallypug came to stay with me again, would I please invite him too
there never was a Wallypug, and it was all just a pack of nonsense
Girlie never went to Why at all, and that in fact there was no
such place in existence
a pack of
nonsense
pip
Every woman has her wrongs
and if she hasn't she
ought to have
The
shortest way to Why. This side up with _anxiety_
Well
I suppose they mean 'This side up with _care_
To Nowhere
And
I certainly don't want to go there
To Somewhere
To Everywhere Else
THAT'S NOT MUCH USE
And, good gracious me
that's not much use, for I don't
know in the least now which of the last two roads to take
Nowhere
_MR. NOBODY,_
    _No. 1 NONESUCH-STREET,_
      _NOWHERE
How do you do, sir? I am very pleased to make your acquaintance.
Perhaps you can be good enough to tell me
To tell me where I am
Yes, yes
of course I know that I'm
here, but what I want to know is, what place is this
You don't know
Dear me, this is very sad; the poor man is evidently dumb
What a remarkable little person
Man! man
Well! what are you staring at
Well, really
Haven't you ever seen a crow before
Of course I have
Very well, then, what do you want to stand there gaping at me in
that absurd way for
What did he say to you
Nothing
Very well, then, what was it
What do you mean
Why, stupid, you said Nobody and nothing, didn't you, and as two
negatives make an affirmative that means he must have said something
I'm afraid I don't quite understand
Ignorant ostrich
Look here
I will not be spoken to
like that by a mere bird
Oh, really! Who do you think you are, pray, you ridiculous biped?
Where's your hat
Somewhere
WHERE'S YOUR HAT
Let's pass him with withering contempt
All right
Drive on
I say, Man
we're not taking the
slightest notice of you
Oh, aren't you? Well, I'm sure I don't care
Do you know who I am
No, I don't
and what's more, I don't care
But I'm a person of consequence
You are only an ape or a monkey
Oh! I can clearly see that you don't know me
I'm Oom Hi
Indeed
I am afraid I've never heard of you
Never heard of Oom Hi
Why, I am the inventor of
Broncho
What's that
Good gracious! what ignorance
here, go and fetch my bag
This
is the article; it is
called 'Broncho,' and is excellent for coughs, colds, and affections
of the throat; you will notice that each bottle bears a label stating
that the mixture is prepared according to my own formula, and bears
my signature; none other is genuine without it. The Wallypug, when he
returned from England and heard that I had invented it, declared that I
must be a literary genius
There
is
the article; it is called 'Broncho
A what
A literary genius
Why, what on earth has cough mixture to do with literature
I don't know, I'm sure
but the Wallypug said that
in England any one who invented anything of that sort was supposed to
possess great literary talent
The Wallypug
Am I anywhere near
his Kingdom of Why, then
Of course you are; it's only about a mile or two down the road. Are
you going there
Well, yes
I've had an invitation from his Majesty, and
should rather like to go there, as I'm so near
His Majesty; he--he--he, that's good
Do you
call the Wallypug 'his Majesty
Of course
he is a king, isn't he
A _kind_ of king
You don't catch us calling him
'your Majesty,' I can tell you though, one animal is as good as another
here, and if anything, a little better. If you are going to Why, we may
as well go back with you, and give you a lift in the rickshaw
You're very kind
Not at all, not at all; jump in
Hold on a moment
It's _his_ turn to pull, you
know
Of course, of course
put
him in the shafts
What do you mean
Your turn to pull the rickshaw, you know; we always take turns, and
as I have been dragging it for some time it's your turn now
But I'm not going to pull that thing with you two animals in it. I
never heard of such a thing
Who are you calling an animal
You're one yourself, aren't you
Well, I suppose I am
But I'm not going to draw that
thing, all the same
Oh, get in, get in; don't make a fuss. I suppose I shall have to take
a turn myself
Strawberry Jam
When is a door not a door
When is a door not a door
SOLD AGAIN! SERVE YOU RIGHT
Ha--ha--ha
Sold again, were you? Serve you right
When is a door not
a door? Pooh! fancy not knowing that old chestnut. Why! when it's a
jar, of course, stupid. Bah
It's a very absurd practical joke, that's all that I can say
Perhaps you can tell
me how I am going to get into this remarkable place
Humph! Perhaps I can and perhaps I won't
I dare
say it's a better place than you came from, anyhow. You're not the
first man that has come down here with his superior airs and graces,
grumbling and finding fault with this, that, and the other; but we'll
soon take the conceit out of you, I can tell you. Where's your hat
Where's your hat? Where's your hat?
Where's your hat
Don't be so ridiculous
I've left it at home, if you must
know
Down with the hatters
Down
with the Wallypug! Down with men without hats! Down with everybody and
everything
Oh! it's you, is it, kicking up all this fuss
Well, really
I think you might have the politeness to
say 'How do you do?' considering that it is some months since we met
Oh, do you indeed
Well,
supposing I don't care one way or another. Where's your hat
DOWN WITH THE DOCTOR-IN-LAW
Down with the
Doctor-in-Law
I saw his Majesty, the Wallypug himself, running across
the lawn towards me, with both hands stretched out in welcome
How d'ye do? How d'ye do
So pleased to see you. Didn't
expect you quite so soon, though. Come along--this way
His Majesty the Wallypug. Strictly private
His Majesty
What cheek
I'm _so_ glad you came before _she_ returned; there's so much I want
to tell you
Who do you mean
Sh--Madame--er, my sister-in-law
Your sister-in-law
Why, I didn't know you were
married
Neither am I
That's the
awkward part about it
But how on earth can you possibly have a sister-in-law, unless you
have a wife or a married brother
Well, I've never quite been able to understand _how_ they make it
out
but I believe it is
something mixed up with the Deceased Wife's Sister's Bill, and the fact
that my uncle, The Grand Mochar of Gamboza, was married twice. Anyhow,
when I returned from London I found this lady, who _says_ that she
is my sister-in-law, established here in the palace; and--and
she rules me with a rod of iron
And _who_ is this person, pray
Oh, this
is the gentleman who was so kind to us in London, you know.
Allow me to present him, Mr. Er--er
I hope you have not been picking up any undesirable acquaintances,
Wallypug
I don't
like the look of him at all
I'm sorry, madame, that my appearance doesn't please you
perhaps under the circumstances I
had better
I DON'T APPROVE OF YOU IN THE LEAST
You had better do as you are bid and speak when you are spoken to
Where's your hat
I haven't one
and really I
don't see that it's of the slightest consequence
Oh! don't you
Well, that's one of the _many_ points upon which we shall
disagree. Now, look here, I may tell you at once that I don't approve
of you in the least; still, as you are here now you had better remain;
but mind, no putting on parts or giving yourself airs and graces, or
I shall have something to say to you. Do you understand
Great clumsy things--I can't think who can have left them there
Here! I say, what are you up to
He turned back the bedclothes with his enormous beak,
and was just about to hop into bed
Oh--h-h! Ah--h-h! There's a man in my room
Murder! Fire! Police! Thieves
Hold your tongue
What do you mean by making all that
noise at this time of night, and what are you doing in my room
Your room, indeed
my room you mean, you
featherless biped, you
Look here
Don't you talk to me like that, my good bird,
for I won't put up with it
But it _is_ my room. Let me go, I say
It is not your room
and what is more, you are not
going to stay here
We'll soon see all about that
Look here! this is beyond a joke--let me in, I say--where do you
suppose I am going to sleep
Anywhere you like except here
Go and perch or roost, or whatever you call it, on the
banisters, or sleep on the mat if you like--I don't care what you do
Impertinent wretch
You only wait till the morning.
I'll pay you out
What ridiculous nonsense it is
these creatures
giving themselves such airs. No wonder the Wallypug is such a meek
little person if he has been subjected to this sort of treatment
all his life
Oh! id's you iz id
You _have_ cub thed, I heard that you
were egspegded
Yes, here I am
How are you? How is your cold
Oh, id's quide cured, thags; dote you dotice how butch better I speak
I'm very glad to hear it, I'm sure
What's all this row about
Oh! thad's the troubadour, up to his old gabes agaid; he's ad awful
dusadce. I'll tell you aboud hib in the bordig--good dight
Bless my shell and fins
what's the creature wandering
about this time of the morning for; they'll be getting up in the
middle of the night next. Just mind where you're treading, please
The steps have been cleaned, and I don't want to have to
do them all over again
Good morning; have you
No, I haven't
and what's more, I
don't want to
What do you mean
Soap
I don't understand you
You're an advertisement for somebody's soap, aren't you
Certainly not
Your first remark sounded very much like it
Good morning, have you used
I wasn't going to say that at all
I was merely
going to ask if you could oblige me with a light
Oh, that's another thing entirely
But really we have got so sick of those advertisement catchwords since
the Doctor-in-Law returned from London with agencies for all sorts of
things, that we hate the very sound of them. We are continually being
told to 'Call a spade a spade,' which will be 'grateful and comforting'
to 'an ox in a teacup' who is 'worth a guinea a box,' and who 'won't be
happy till he gets it
It must be very trying
Oh, it is
Well
I'm sorry you can't stop--good morning
I didn't say anything about going
Oh, didn't you? Well, I did then
Move
on, please
You're very rude
Think so
That's all right
then--good-by
As if it were not enough
to be maltreated as I am
every night, without having all this trouble every morning. I declare
it is enough to make you throw stones at your grandfather
What's the matter
Matter
Why, these wretched rosebushes, they _will_
get out their beds at night, and wander about. I happened to leave the
gate open last night, and this one got out, and goodness knows where he
would have been by this time if I hadn't caught him meandering about
near the Palace
Why! I've never heard of such a thing as a rosebush walking about
IN YOU GO
Never heard of a----. Absurd
Of course they do. That's what you have hedges and fences around
the gardens for, isn't it? Why, you can't have been in a garden at
night-time, or you wouldn't talk such nonsense. All the plants are
allowed to leave their beds at midnight. They are expected to be back
again by daylight, though, and not go wandering about goodness knows
where like this beauty
In you go
Hullo
You've been fighting, have
you? I say, it's really too bad
But what does it matter to you
It's very sad, no doubt,
but I don't see why you should upset yourself so greatly about it
Well, you see
I'm the head gardener here as well as
Troubadour, and so am responsible for all these things. I do troubing
as an extra
Three shillings a week and my armor.
Little enough, isn't it, considering the risk
Well, the office certainly does not seem overpopular, judging from
last night
Who were you serenading
Oh, any one
I give it to them in turns. If any one
offends me in the daytime I pay them out at night, see?

"I serenaded the Sister-in-Law mostly, but I shall give that up. She
doesn't play fair. I don't mind people shying things at me in the
least, for you see I'm pretty well protected; but when it comes to
chivying me round the garden with a pair of tongs, it's more than I
bargained for. Look out! Here comes the Wallypug
Ah! good morning--good morning
I'd no idea you were out and about so early. I'm just having my
usual morning lesson
Yes
Ever sidse
I god rid of by cold I've been teaching the Wallypug elocutiod. We have
ad 'our every bordig before breakfast, ad he's geddig on spledidly
I'm sure his Majesty is to be congratulated on having so admirable an
instructor
His Majesty was walking down the path, attended by
A. Fish, Esq., who was wearing a cap and gown and carrying a huge
book
Thags
I say, Wallypug,
recide that liddle thig frob Richard III., jusd to show hib how well
you cad do id, will you? You doe thad thig begiddidg 'Ad 'orse, ad
'orse, by kigdob for ad 'orse
Yes, go on, Wallypug
Oh, I don't know
I'm afraid
I should break down
Doe you wondt, doe you wondt
Cub alog, try id
Good gracious, the breakfast bell! We shall be late
Look out! You're going to catch it
They are two minutes late, madame. I hope you are not going to
overlook it
You leave that to
me
Sit there
Just stop that noise, will you? I can't hear myself speak
STOP THAT NOISE
I beg your pardon
I'm waiting to know what you have to say for yourselves
The traid was late, add there was a fog od the lide
A likely story
A very convenient
excuse, I must say; but that train's been late too many times recently
to suit me. I don't believe a word of what you are saying
If I might venture a suggestion
I would advise that they should all be mulcted in heavy fines, and I
will willingly undertake the collection of the money for a trifling
consideration
It's too serious a matter for a fine
What
do you mean by it
Well, I'm sure we are all very sorry
but I really do
not see that being two minutes late for breakfast is such a dreadful
affair after all
Oh! you don't, don't you
Well, I do, then. Do you suppose
that you are going to do just as you please here? Do you think that I
am going to allow myself to be brow-beaten and imposed upon by a mere
man
Who hasn't a hat to his back
Hold your tongue
I'm dealing with him now.
Do you suppose
that I am to be openly defied by a
ridiculous Wallypug and a person with a cold in his head
I'b sure I havn'd
By code's
beed cured this last bunth or bore
Humph, sounds like it, doesn't it
However, we'll soon settle this matter. We'll have a public meeting,
and see who's to be master, you or I
Hooray, public meeting! Public meeting
Yes, and at once
You are commanded to attend the trial at once
What trial
Your own
You and the Wallypug are to be tried for
'Contempt of Sister-in-Law,' and A. Fish, Esq., is subpoenaed as a
witness
Oh, dear! Oh, dear
I
know what that means. Whatever shall we do
Dever bide, old chap. I do the best I cad to get you off
Cub alog, it will odly bake badders worse to delay
SILENCE IN COURT
Silence in court
We'll take the man creature first
Now then, speak up! What have you got to say for
yourself
Silence in court
Surely I may be allowed to explain
Silence in court
Call the first witness
Well, Turtle, what do you know about this man
So please your Importance, I was cleaning my steps very early this
morning, when the prisoner opened the door in a stealthy manner and
crept out very quietly. 'Ho!' thinks I, 'this 'ere man's up to no
good,' and so I keeps him in conversation a little while, but his
language--oh!--and what with one thing and another and noticing that he
hadn't a hat, I told him he had better move on. I saw him walk over to
the rose garden and afterwards join the Wallypug and Mr. Fish. I think
that's all, except--ahem--that I missed a small piece of soap
Soap
This is
important--er--er--what kind of soap
Yellow
Fourpence a pound
Hum
very mysterious, but not at all
surprising from what I know of this person--call the next witness
He's a story-teller, and a pickpocket, and a backbiter, and a fibber,
and a bottle-washer
and a heartless
deceiver, and an organ-grinder, so there
Down with him, down with him,
the wretch
Ah, that will about settle him, I fancy
What are you doing
Summing up
The judges always sum up in England, you
know; that's thirty-two pounds he owes. Shall I collect it
Wait a minute till I pass the sentence
Prisoner at the bar
you have since your arrival here
been given every latitude
And longitude
And have taken advantage of the fact to disobey the laws of the land
in every possible way. You have heard the evidence against you, and I
may say more clear proof could not have been given. It appears that you
are a thoroughly worthless character, and it is with great pleasure I
order you to be imprisoned in the deepest dungeon beneath the castle
moat, and fined thirty-two pounds and costs
Officers! take away
that Bauble
STOP a minute
We may as well
settle the Wallypug's affair at the same time and get rid of them both
at once. Put the creature into the dock
Aren't you ashamed of yourself
Ye-e-s
I should think so, indeed
Now then, call the
first witness
Let's see, what's your
name
By dabe is A. Fish, you doe thadt well edough
Don't be impertinent, or I shall commit you for contempt
Now then--ah--you are a reptile of some sort,
I believe, are you not
Certainly dot
Oh! I thought you were. Er--what do you do for a living
I'b a teacher of elocutiod add a lecturer
Oh! indeed. Teacher of elocution, are you? And how many pupils have
you, pray
Well, ad presend I've odly wud
and that the
Wallypug
Oh! the Wallypug's a pupil of yours, is he? I suppose you find him
very stupid, don't you
Doe, I don't
He's a very clever pupil,
ad he's gettig od splendidly with his recitig
Oh! is he, indeed; and what do you teach him, may I ask
I've taught hib 'Twinkle, twinkle, little star,' ad 'Billy's dead ad
gone to glory,' ad several other things frob Shakespeare
Shakespeare? hum--ha--Shakespeare? I seem to have heard the name
before. Who is he
A great poet, born in England in 1564, m'lud
Really! He must be getting quite an old man by now
He's dead
Dear me! poor fellow! what did he die of
Don't ask such a lot of silly questions
get on with the business. What has A. Fish
to say on behalf of the Wallypug? that is the question
He's gettig od very dicely with his recitig
He was repeatig a speech from Richard III. to us this bordig whed the
breakfast bell rang, ad that's why we were late at table
Oh! that's the reason, is it
Bah! I've no
patience with a man at his time of life repeating poetry. Positively
childish, I call it. What was the rubbish
A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse
What
Say
that again
A-a horse, a horse, my-my kingdom for a horse
Traitor! Monster
Hear him
He actually has the effrontery to tell us to our faces
that he is willing to sell the whole of this kingdom for a horse. Oh!
it is too much! the heartless creature! Oh-h
Traitor
Down with the Wallypug
Off with his head
Banish him
Send him to jail
I told you so. I told you so! Down with the Wallypug! Off with his
crown! Dance on his sceptre, and kick his orb round the town
It's all a mistake
TRAITOR! MONSTER
OFF WITH HIS HEAD
This is outrageous
You are making all this disturbance for
nothing. What the Wallypug said was merely a quotation from one of
Shakespeare's plays
Oh, it's all very well to try and blame it on to poor Shakespeare,
when you know very well he's dead and can't defend himself
That's your artfulness. I've no doubt you are quite as
bad as the Wallypug himself, and probably put him up to it
Yes. Down with him! Down with the hatless traitor
Special edition!
Arrest of the Wallypug! Shocking discovery! The Wallypug a traitor!
Sister-in-Law prostrate with excitement! The Hatless Man implicated
I saw the Doctor-in-Law rushing about with a packet
of newspapers under one arm, calling out in a loud voice, 'Special
edition! Arrest of the Wallypug
Well
You have got yourself
into a pretty muddle now, I must say. I should think you are thoroughly
ashamed of yourself, aren't you
Indeed, I'm not
I'm not conscious of having done
anything to be ashamed of, and as for that trial, why it was a
mere farce, and perfectly absurd
H'm! I'm glad you find it so amusing
You won't be so light-hearted about it to-morrow if
they treat you as the papers say they purpose doing
Why, what do they intend to do then
Execute you
And serve you jolly well right,
too
What nonsense
they can't execute me for doing nothing
Oh, you think so, do you? Didn't you instigate the Wallypug to become
a traitor, and sell the kingdom for the sake of a horse
Certainly not
Well, they say you did, anyhow
and they intend to
chop off your head and the Wallypug's too. It won't matter you not
having a hat then
But you don't mean it, surely
They certainly can't be
so ridiculous as to treat the affair seriously
Well, you see
things without doubt look very black
against you. In the first place what did you want to come here at all
for
I'm sure I wish I hadn't
Just so! So does every one else
Then, when
you did come, you were without a hat, which is in itself a very
suspicious circumstance
Why
Respectable people don't go gadding about without hats
And then, the first morning
after your arrival you must needs go prowling about the grounds before
any one else was up
WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO LEAVE ME IN YOUR WILL
What are you going to leave me in your will
Nothing at all
And besides, I'm not going to make a
will. I don't intend to let them kill me without a good struggle, I can
tell you
H'm, you might as well let me have your watch and chain. It will
only go to the Doctor-in-Law if you don't. He is sure to want to grab
everything. I expect he will want to seize the throne when the Wallypug
is executed. I saw him just now trying on the crown, and smirking and
capering about in front of the looking-glass
The Doctor-in-Law is an odious little monster
Oh, very well
I'll
just go and tell him what you say. I've no doubt he will be delighted
to hear your opinion of him--and perhaps it will induce him to add
something to your punishment. I hope so, I'm sure--ha--ha
Ting-a-ling-a-ling-a-ling
Are you there? Are you 987654321
Yes
Well
Aunt Kesiah has done it
at last
What
Are you there
Yes; what is it
Proposed to the curate, and so all those slippers will be wasted.
Don't you think we had better
It was all your fault
No it wasn't
Yes it was
Well, you
know A. Fish, Esq., is 13,579--so there
Yes, and he wanted to be
connected with the West Tower in the Palace
Connect me with 13,579, please
Are you there
Yes; what is it
There isn't a biddit to spare
lift up the loose stode
dear the fireplace, ad you will find a secret staircase leadig to the
dudgeod, where the Wallypug is ibprisod; hurry for your life, he has
discovered a way of escape
Thank goodness, you have come
I was afraid you would be too late. We must escape at
once if we would save our necks. Fortunately, I have just remembered
that this dungeon is connected with the shute which the late Wallypug
had constructed between here and Ling Choo, in China, which is on the
other side of the world--it is enormously long and very steep, but
quite safe--we must use it in order to get away. We are to be executed
in the morning if we stay here, so I am informed; therefore, we must
lose no time. I have just finished packing up. Ah! What's that
Quick! they are coming
Slipping along at this rate
we shall probably
be smashed to a jelly when we do arrive at the bottom. At any rate I
shall, for the Wallypug and the carpet-bag are bound to descend upon my
devoted head
Like being a bird, isn't it
H'm, not much
I feel more like a fish at the end of this
line. I wish some one would come and help us off. There's a hook, or
something, sticking into my shoulder, and it hurts no end
I wonder where we are
What a funny colour everything is, to be sure
I wonder where we are
What a
funny color everything is, to be sure
Yes, isn't it
I know what those trees are called
What
Gombobble trees
I've seen pictures of them
before
Where
On our willow-pattern plates at home
There were
those and the wiggle-woggely trees, you know
I wonder
if by any chance we are there
What do you mean
I wonder if this is the place which is shown on the willow-pattern
plates
Oh
we've caught something. What funny things! What
are they
I wonder if they bite
Do you bite, you funny things, you
No, of course not
Help us to get down, will you,
please
Not yet
What are your names
OH
WHAT ARE THEY
I'm the Wallypug
and this
gentleman is
He, he, he! He, he, he! He, he, he
They're Wallypugs. Two great big fat Wallypugs. Oh, oh! what funny
things. Let's go and fetch Ho-lor
Well! I do think that they might have helped us off the hooks, at any
rate
So do I
Why, they've got ever so many wings
Go away
Oh! take them away!--take them away
Throw your sandwich away
it's that they are after, I
believe
GO AWAY
Fortunate I tied my bag to the string of my cloak, wasn't it
I should have lost it else.
Oh, look! What's that coming down the shute
O--o--o--h
Why, it's my crown! They must have
thought that I wanted it, and sent it down after me. How very kind of
them. Wasn't it
Oh
it does seem nice
to have it on again. I'm afraid that I should soon have caught a cold
in my head, like A. Fish, Esq., if I had gone without it much longer
Gracious
there's something else coming down! Why it's the Doctor-in-Law and
Madame. Oh!--and the Cockatoo--and--the Rabbit and the Mole. Bless me!
if the whole of Why isn't coming along
Halt
squ-a-a-k
Oh, there you are then
Thought you had escaped us, I suppose
Down with the traitors
It's all right. We've found them
Just you come down and tie yourself to this rope at once
Shan't
What
Do you dare to
rebel
Yes, I do
I don't believe you are
my sister-in-law at all, and I'm not going back to Why to be snubbed
and ill-treated for you or any one else--so there. You can't get at me,
hanging up here, and I don't mean to get down till you're gone. Yah
Oh, we'll soon see all about that
He, he, he! Ha, ha
What a lark! Oh what a muddle they will be in when
they reach the bottom
See, there they are
Oh my! Aren't they a funny color
Shall we get them down
You're sure you won't bite
No, of course not. Don't be silly
This is Ho-Lor
How do you do
Do what
I mean, how are you
You mean _what_ am I, I suppose
No, I don't
I mean just what I say--How are you
But I don't understand
How am I what
His Majesty the Wallypug of Why
wishes to say, that he
hopes you are quite well
Oh! I beg your pardon
How very stupid of me. But
you know, the fact is, we get such a lot of foreigners down here,
and they do ask such funny questions. A Frenchman we caught the
other day actually asked me how I carried myself. Wasn't it rude of
him--considering my weight too
You're a Wallypug, too, aren't you
Oh, no
I am only his Majesty's guest
His Majesty! Do you mean that
I am not a 'that'; I'm a kind of a king
O-ooh
Pray forgive us, Majestuous Wallypug, we thought you
were only an ordinary person. You see we've never caught a king before.
Oh! don't chop our heads off, will you
PRAY FORGIVE US
Of course not
But kings always chop off people's heads, don't they
Oh dear no
Get up; or you'll spoil your clothes. Could we have a cup of tea,
please? We are rather fatigued with our long journey
I LIVE over there
Mi-Hy shall row us across, and Gra-Shus shall
make us some tea
Oh! yes
And we'll show Mr.
Majesty Wallypug our beautiful pet dog--won't we
Why, this must be the land of the Willow-pattern plate
Yes, it is
Don't you think it is a very pretty
spot
Charming
I have often wanted to come here
The real name of the place
is Wer-har-wei, and it is
a portion of China; but come, you must see our little dog; I can hear
that Mi-Hy has gone to fetch him
His name is Kis-Smee
and he is such a dear old
thing. We've had him ever since he was a puppy
Come along, good dog! come and speak to the pretty
Wallypugs
Come along, good dog! Come and speak to the pretty Wallypugs. Good
Kis-Smee. Good dog, then
flumped
He doesn't take to strangers as a rule
but he
certainly seems to have taken a fancy to you
He is a beautiful creature
Oh! I don't know about that
He is of a very rare breed, though
What kind of dog do you call him
He's a smirkler dog
A what
A smirkler. He smirkles for mivlets you know
Good gracious. What are they
Mivlets
HE IS A BEAUTIFUL CREATURE
Why young mivs, of course
But what are mivs
Things that are smirkled for
But come. I
see that Gra-Shus has prepared some tea for us
Why, what a funny color you are
We look like the Oxford and Cambridge boat race, don't we
I'm so glad that I'm Cambridge
Oh! Aren't they pretty now
I am glad you think so
Don't you like it? Would you rather have been green? We've plenty of
green tea, you know, if you wish
Thanks! I should prefer being my original color, if you don't mind
Dear me! I'm very sorry, but I'm afraid we're out of that color. Let's
see! Crushed strawberry, wasn't it
Oh! let's stay blue for a little while
It's
such a change, and so very uncommon, you know
Perhaps he will smirkle a mivlet while we are away
Let's go ashore and fish
Oh! yes, do
I love fishing; but I'm never
allowed to do so in my own land
Why not
The fishes object
they say that it
gives them the tooth-ache
How absurd of them
Yes; isn't it perfectly ridiculous
for they
really haven't any teeth, you know
I've
got one
I've got it
Oh, what a beauty
It's in
capital condition
and has a
beautifully-shaped neck
But it's only an old ink bottle
What else did you expect to catch, I should like to know
Some people are never satisfied. Many a time I have fished here a
whole day and only caught a piece of blotting paper or a pen-wiper
What funny things to catch
They are very appropriate things to get from a lake of ink
Oh! I'm sure I beg your pardon, I had no idea it was real ink
I don't think we had better fish any
longer
I hoped to have caught some
real fish, you know
Never heard of them. What are they
Why, things with scales, you know
Oh, you mean weighing machines
Hark! what's that
Come on! That's Kis-Smee barking. I expect he has smirkled a mivlet.
Come along, hurry up, or we shall be too late
Lie dowd, sir! Lie dowd, good dog, thed
Why, it's A. Fish, Esq
Come away, Kis-Smee! Lie down, sir
Good gracious
That's not a mivlet, I'm sure--what on earth is the creature
Oh, that's A. Fish, Esq., a great friend of mine
What a dreadful bodster
Keep hib off. Take hib away
It's all right
he won't bite you
now that we are here
FANCY seeing you
How ever did you get here? And what's the
news at Why
Oh, thad's a log story
It was a dreadful journey
ad I dever had so
bedy ups and dowds id all by life
If I were you
I should certaidly cub back to Why at
odce, for the people all seeb to be rejoiced thad Madame and the
Doctor-id-Law have gode away, ad I think thad they would willingly
forgive you for having said, 'Ad horse! ad horse! by kigdob for ad
horse
good-by
Fortunately there was not much in it
Only a
tooth-brush and small cake of soap
But it felt quite full
Yes
I stuffed it full of paper and things,
because I thought that it would look so bad for a king to be traveling
about without any luggage
Av yez plaze, sor
Why! I thought you were deaf and dumb
Och--that's all gammon sure--oi can talk all roight, and hear all
roight too when it suits me purpose. Well, now, ye see when the dog
fell off the roof he upset me coal-scuttle, and never a bit of coal is
there left. Would ye be good enough, kind gentlemen, to go back and
pick some up off the line, it's only about a moile and a half back
I shall amuse byself while you are away by giving Bike ad elocutiod
lessod
Not if I know it
Where's his muzzle
Can't you see
the dog is mad and must be muzzled immediately
I'm sure he's not
He is
All dogs are mad, and I insist upon them
being muzzled
Very well
You had better try and put a muzzle on this
one yourself
Oh! I'll soon do that
Come here, sir! Good dog,
then
Mad dog! Mad dog
The Long Man of Muzzledom
Well, he didn't muzzle Kis-Smee, anyhow
It's all right
I'm the Wallypug, you
know
Nonsense
The Wallypug was ugly enough, goodness
knows, but he hadn't a _blue_ face like you; besides, Wallypug or no
Wallypug, you don't get through here without a ticket, I can tell you
I certainly shan't let you pass the barrier without
But what are we to do
Can't we pay at this end
Certainly not. My instructions are to demand a ticket of every one
passing this barrier, and unless you give me one you cannot go through
But I tell you we haven't any. Can't you tell us what to do
Go back for them, I should say
Now then, one thing or another. Are you going to give
me the tickets or not
How can we give them to you if we haven't any
If we find any
suspicious-looking characters hanging about the station premises we
shoot them
What nonsense
We can't stop here all day. Let's call the station-master. Hi! hi!
station-master
Now then, what's all this noise about
We want to get out, if you please
Where are your tickets
We are very sorry
Hold your tongue, and speak when you are spoken to
Where are your tickets
They haven't any
They are trying
to defraud the company
H'm, funny-looking lot of people, too
Who are they, do you know
That
says he is the
Wallypug
What! _that_ color
The Wallypug!
Indeed, what nonsense
But, indeed, I am the Wallypug
and we turned
this color after we drank the tea, you know
Turned blue through drinking tea
Ha! ha! a _likely_ story
Perhaps it will wear off in time
like being
sunburnt does
Very well then, you had better stop here till it does
Look here
you stop
here at the barrier, and don't let them through until they have turned
a respectable color, and you can recognize them
But it may take weeks
Hold your tongue
If you have any
nonsense with them, shoot them
come in at once and mind the baby
did a little
shopping
But he's on duty, ma'am
I don't care anything about _that;_ you come in at once, Bill
Hullo, Wallypug
Why, we thought you were at
Wei-hai-wei
Wer-har-wei, you mean
It's all the same
Well, how have you been
getting on
Oh, not very well, I'm afraid
You see, there
has been no one to take the lead since you've been away. We tried a
Republican form of government, and elected Oom-Hi as president, but he
became so extravagant--wanted a new top-hat every day, and insisted on
a gilded coach to ride in; and at last we caught him tampering with the
public funds, so we had to dismiss him. Have you heard about Broncho
No
Well, it didn't answer as a cough mixture, so Oom-Hi turned it into a
patent meat extract, and called it Vimbril, and it killed ever so many
people
Indeed
Any one I know
Madame and a few other folk
and the Doctor-in-Law is
not expected to recover
Good gracious! Why, we thought them at the other end of the world.
However did they get back to Why again
Oh, they sent us a cablegram when they got to China, and we let down
an enormously long rope and pulled them up the shute again, you know.
But it was a very long journey, and they had nothing to eat on the
way. So as soon as we hauled them up we gave them each a large dose of
Vimbril. Madame expired at once
What about the Doctor-in-Law
Oh, he has a very strong constitution, you know, and he may pull
through. We've got him back at the palace in his old quarters
Poor fellow! Poor fellow
Let's
go and see what we can do for him
OH my! Good gracious me
Just look at these creatures. _What_ a color. Why,
why
I'm bothered if it isn't
the Wallypug and the Hatless Man, and the great Mr. A. Fish, Esq. Where
have you been? What did you come back for? What do you want
It's dud of your busidess
Oh! isn't it
I'll soon show you
whether it's none of my business or not. To begin with, the Wallypug
and the headless traitor
Do you mean me
because I am not headless yet, you
know
WHAT A COLOR
Headless, or hatless, it's all the same
you
might as well run about without your head for all the good it is to
you
Well you two are escaped prisoners
and I shall see that you are locked up again, so there
But it was all a mistake
What was
What I said about a 'horse a horse, my kingdom for a horse!' you
know
Why don't you say what you mean then
Well, I
shall have you locked up anyhow. Here, Crocodile
just
come and arrest these creatures will you
Shan't
who are you ordering about. If
you want them arrested, do it yourself. I'm not going to do as _you_
tell me, so there! besides, all the prisoners have been set free that
Madame sentenced, you know that well enough
Yah! Down with him, down with Crocodiles; down with pale-blue
Wallypugs and hatless men; down with fishes of all sorts. Down with
everybody and everything; down with
Yes, ad thed I'll teach you elocutiod for dothig
Unreasonableness of Misunderstandability
A
horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse
Ahem
I call on
behalf of the _Daily Whyer_ a new paper which I have just established,
and which I am happy to say has already an enormous circulation in Why.
It is very cheap (four copies for a penny), and contains an enormous
amount of totally unreliable information; besides which there is a page
devoted to domestic matters, highly interesting to ladies, and includes
receipts for artistically furnishing your house with old tea chests
and soap boxes, painted with enamel and draped with art muslin; there
are also several poems weekly on the subject of 'Baby's Little Socks,'
which are immensely popular with some people, here is one of them
Oh! the baby's little socks,
    Darling baby's little socks;
  When the kettle's softly steaming,
  When the firelight's glow is gleaming,
  And I'm sitting idly dreaming,
    Whisper gently, 'baby's socks.'

    "Oh the darling little socks;
    Baby's _baby's_ little socks;
  Toys that baby fingers scatter,
  Little feet that pitter-patter,
  Tittle tongues--but there--no matter,
    Let's get back to baby's socks
There
what do you think of that
Well, I don't wish to be rude
but I certainly think
it's the greatest rubbish I've ever heard in all my life
Rubbish
Why all the ladies who read the _Daily Whyer_
think it _beautiful_. I have to get the same gentleman to write verses
like that nearly every day
Do you mean to tell me
that a man writes such twaddle as
that
Oh! you're jealous, that's what's the matter with you. A man write
them? of course he does
And do you pay him for these precious contributions
I _promise_ to pay him ever so much a year
but--er--ahem--I have a very bad memory. I have several contributors
whom I pay on the same system, it's a very _cheap_ way
I've copied it from a contemporary
Well, we're very busy just dow
would you bind
telling us your busidess ad goig, because we wandt to ged to work
agaid
Oh! to tell you the truth
I wanted to know if the
Wallypug would let me print an interview with him in to-morrow's paper.
You have just returned from Wer-har-wei, I believe, haven't you; I was
sitting on the signal post at the station just now and saw you arrive.
I think my readers would be very interested in hearing your impressions
of the country
Let's see
When were you born
Well, really
I, er--was so young at the time that
I scarcely remember
Oh, well, I'll put it down as Y. D. 987; that will do as well as any
other date
Why Y. D
Year of disgrace
Bless me! this must be a
Post Office pen
They are always bad, you know
THIS MUST BE A POST OFFICE PEN
Look at them! _Look at them
did you ever see such
objects in all your life. What a color
Hm! Eggshell blue
Very extraordinary tint. Never seen a face that shade
before
The other one is worse
I always knew he was something disreputable. I believe
I believe he has
let himself out as an advertisement for Stephen's Blue-black Ink, or
Ricket's Paris Blue. What depravity. Down with him! Duck him in the
pond! Scrub him with sandpaper! Boil him
What's all this bother about
Don't you see that his
Majesty is engaged. If you don't immediately go about your business I
will have you put out of the room
Oh! will you indeed
I should like
to see you attempt it. It strikes me that _you_ are the one that will
be put out. We can stand a good deal down here, but a hatless object
with a _blue_ face. Ough
Here, come and do your duty
Bring them out into the courtyard
Ough! ough
You're putting it
all in my eyes. Oh, ach! do-o-n't! Stop! I say, _do_ leave off
Now then
see what soap and water will do
Ough! ough
You're putting it all in my
eyes. Oh, ach! do-o-on't! Stop! I say, _do_ leave off. Ough
Hasn't done the slightest good
better scrape him with
a putty knife, I think
Stop a minute
I have it
Capital! capital! go and fetch a bottle
Oh! don't! don't
I'm not going to take any
of that stuff. It killed the lady who called herself my Sister-in-Law
you know, and it made the Doctor-in-Law ill. Take it away
Of course you are not going to take any, Wallypug
but there will be no harm in trying the effect upon your
complexion. It _might_ make you the proper color again you know, and
in that case I could alter the name and call it 'Wallypug's Blush,' and
advertise it well; no doubt it would be a great success. Put some on
the sponge
No! no! don't. Ough
Worse than ever, he's light brown now
Oh! wipe it off! wipe it off
No
let it dry on
We had better put him in the stocks
to prevent him
from rubbing it off
We might keep _this_ as a curiosity
Put in a cage with a large label, 'Blue-faced
and hatless man, Dangerous!' he ought to be an attraction to our
menagerie. I think that's what we'll do with him
Come, this is better
HOW do you do
Quite well thanks, how are you
Can I be of any service to you
Do you know where the stocks are
His Majesty the Wallypug is there
Poor Wallypug
Would you like to help him
Take this to the Wallypug immediately and, _if he is
quite alone_, tell him to eat it all, and on no account to tell any one
how he became possessed of it
His Majesty has regained his complexion, and is very grateful to you
Now go and tell Oom Hi and the Kangaroo, and if they come to the
conclusion that his Majesty's complexion has been restored through
using the stuff they call 'Wallypug's Blush,' don't say anything to the
contrary; it will put them into a good temper and perhaps make them
kinder to his Majesty
Er, we didn't mean to be _too_ severe, you know, and what we have
done has been all for the best. You will be pleased to hear that my
invaluable preparation, 'Wallypug's Blush,' has proved perfectly
satisfactory, and his Majesty the Wallypug is a living testimony to
its worth. His beautiful complexion has entirely returned, and I have
no doubt if we could persuade you to use it too it would be equally
successful in your case. You will try it, won't you
Of course if my complexion, such as it is, is restored, I shall be
released from here
Oh! certainly
Wallypug's Blush
Go and fetch the Cockatoo
she shall judge for
herself
Wonderful preparation, isn't it
Wallypug's Blush
Very
I _knew_ it must be good for something or another
but
of course we could not tell exactly what till we had tried. It _very
nearly_ cured a cold once, you know, when I called it Broncho, though I
am bound to admit that it was not exactly a success as Vimbril. Do you
think 'Wallypug's Blush' a good title
It's a very striking one
I shall advertise it well in the _Daily Whyer_, you know, and--Oh!
here comes the Cockatoo
Now then, what's this I hear
Wallypug's Blush' restored your complexion. Why so it has, though I
cannot say much for it even now. However, since you have no longer a
blue face you are scarcely likely to be valuable as a curiosity, so you
had better get about your business
Well I dever
I heard you were going to be exhibited
as a freak. What stories people do tell, to be sure
Oh yes, he's gode back to the Palace
He's id a
rare way aboudt you
Come in
Oh! it's you
I was just wondering how on earth I could get you
out of the Cockatoo's clutches; she's a wretched creature, isn't she
Well she is a trial, certainly
and I think if I were
you I should adopt some very strong measures for preventing her from
interfering as she does
Hm! yes
let's go and hear what the Doctor-in-Law
has to say about it; he may be able to advise us as to the best way of
putting her down, and though he will probably charge pretty stiffly for
it, his advice _is_ worth having sometimes
Come in
I've been greatly interested in hearing of the success of 'Wallypug's
Blush
and am just helping Oom Hi (ahem, for a
consideration) to draw up a prospectus for turning it into a Limited
Company. In consideration of the payment to me of several thousands
of pounds, I am about to become a director, and am to be paid several
thousands more for persuading the Cockatoo to join the board too
But
what do you claim that 'Wallypug's Blush' does
Oh, it restores people with blue complexions to their natural color,
you know
But surely there will be a very limited sale
there cannot
be very many people with blue faces, you know
Oh, _of course_, you must try and spoil everything with your absurd
objections
Yes, I really don't see that your contention has much weight
Provided it is only advertised enough, the public
will buy _any_ rubbish, whether it does what it professes to do or not.
And we shall simply call it 'Wallypug's Blush _for the complexion_,'
you know; besides, even if it doesn't answer, we can turn it into
something else, Boot Polish or Hair Wash, you know
Unreasonableness of ability
Hullo, Wallypug
_What_ a fine fat dog
Is he for sale
Certainly not
Just my luck
I love dogs and I
should so enjoy taking this one home to tea with me. Perhaps you will
let him visit me sometimes. What's his name
OH! REALLY, WALLYPUG, THIS IS SO SUDDEN
Kis-Smee
Oh! really Wallypug, this is so sudden
I'd no idea you were so affectionate. I'm so bashful, too. I couldn't
really think of kissing you in public
No, no
Kis-Smee is the dog's name;
you asked me what his name was, you know
Oh
I
misunderstood you. Very sorry, I'm sure. Well, what are you going to do
now
That is
if I may bring my invalid with me
Who is that
Oh! a very feeble old joke I've got staying with me
I could bring him in the perambulator, you know--the one I
used to wheel the weak cup of tea about in--he's such a nice old man
What is he, did you say
An old joke
his name is Joe Miller, and
he eats nothing but chestnuts, and even they have to be very ancient
before he can digest them. Oh! he's a character, I can tell you. Make
you die of laughing the _first_ time you meet him; but as he always
says the same thing over and over again--for hours and hours, he is
rather trying at times. However, I will bring him along, and you can
judge for yourself
Laugh and grow fat
Down with domestic animals
Of course not
you're not a domestic animal,
are you
Sure an I am that same in me own counthry
Och down with the dirthy landlords thin
I couldn't bring the old joke along after all
he is more feeble
than ever
How's Kis-Smee
Quite well, I think, thank you
Isn't he delightfully fat
About three nice large mouthfuls, I should say
Unreasonableness of Misunderstandability
Hear! hear
Question
Withdraw
Order! order
His Majesty the Wallypug, The
Royal Palace, Why
_Not known. Insufficient address
And then on the top of the Caldon Low
  There was no one left but me
I LIKED the blue dwarfs the best--far, far the best of anything
What _do_ you mean? Why can't you
say what you mean plainly? Girls have such a stupid way of talking
What can be plainer than _the blue dwarfs_
We were
talking about the things we liked best at the china place. _You_ said
the stags' heads and the inkstands, and _I_ say the blue dwarfs
But I didn't see any dwarfs
Well, I can't help it if you didn't. You had just as much chance of
seeing them as I had. They were in a corner by themselves--little
figures about two inches high, all with blue coats on. There were about
twelve of them, all different, but all little dwarfs or gnomes. One was
sitting on a barrel, one was turning head-over-heels, one was cuddling
his knees--all funny ways like that. Oh, they were lovely
I wish I had seen them better
I do remember
seeing a tray full of little blue-looking dolls, but I didn't notice
what they were
Guten Tag
Guten Tag
Rex
that's _exactly_ like them--like the blue
dwarfs, I mean. Only, of course, their faces were prettier--nice
little china faces, rather crumply looking, but quite nice; and then
their coats were such a pretty nice blue. I think
I think if I had that little man and washed his face
_very_ well, and got him a bright blue coat, he would look just like
one of the blue dwarfs grown big
Olive
Olive, do you think
perhaps they're _real_? Do you think perhaps somewhere in this
country--in those queer dark woods, perhaps--that there are real blue
dwarfs, and that somebody must have seen them and made the little china
ones like them? Perhaps
_perhaps_, Olive, that little man's one of them, and they may
have to take off their blue coats when they're walking about. Do you
know, I think it's a little, just a very little frightening? Don't you,
Olive
No, of course I don't
Of course there's nothing frightening in it
It
would be rather a funny idea, I think. Of course it can't be, you know,
Rex. There are no dwarfs, and gnomes, and fairies now
But that little man was a dwarf
Yes, but a dwarf needn't be a fairy sort of person
He's just a common little man, only he's never grown as big as other
people. Perhaps he had a bad fall when he was a baby--that might stop
his growing
Would it
I didn't know that. I hope I hadn't a bad fall
when I was a baby. Everybody says I'm very small for my age
Oh, Rex, what a funny boy you are! No, certainly, you are not a dwarf.
You're as straight and strong as you can be
Well, but
I do think it's
very queer about that little dwarf man coming up the street just as
you were telling me about the blue dwarfs. And he _did_ look at us in
a funny way, Olive, whatever you say, just as if he had heard what we
were talking about
All the people look at us in a funny way here
We must
look very queer to them. Your sailor suit, Rex, and my 'Bolero' hat
must look to them quite as queer as the women's purple skirts, with
bright green aprons, look to us
Or the bullock-carts
Do you remember how queer we
thought them at first? _Now_ we've got quite used to seeing queer
things, haven't we, Olive? Oh! now do look there--at the top of the
street--there, Olive, did you ever see such a load as that woman is
carrying in the basket on her back? Why, it's as big as a house
What have you been chattering about all this time
I think I must have been asleep a little, but I
have heard your voices going on like two birds twittering
Have we disturbed you, Auntie
Oh no, not a bit; but come here and tell me what you have been talking
about
Auntie
perhaps you can tell me better than Olive
can. Are there really countries of dwarfs, and are they a kind of
fairies, Auntie
Dwarfs, Rex
countries of dwarfs! How do you mean
Certainly
we have already seen so many strange things in
our travels that it is better not to be too sure what we may not see.
But any way, Rex, you may be quite easy in your mind, that if ever you
come across any of the dwarfs, you will find them very good-natured and
amiable, only you must be very respectful--always say 'Sir,' or 'My
lord,' or something like that to them, and bow a great deal. And you
must never seem to think anything they do the least odd, not even if
they propose to you to walk on your head, or to eat roast fir-cones for
dinner, for instance
Auntie
you're not _in earnest_, are you, about there
being really a country of dwarfs
They may have taken the idea of dwarfs from the real ones, as Rex
said
Any way I shall look well about me if we go
through any of these forests again. They must live in the forests, for
Auntie said they eat roast fir-cones for dinner
Auntie, were you in earnest
In earnest, Olive
Of course! Why shouldn't I be in
earnest? But come, quick, we must get our things together. Your uncle
must have got a carriage
Yes
I have. _Not_ an ox-cart, Rex. I'm sorry for your
sake, but for no one else's; for I don't think there would be much
left of us by the end of the journey if we were to be jogged along the
forest roads in an ox-cart. No! I have got quite a respectable vehicle;
but we must stop an hour or two on the way, to rest the horses and give
them a feed, otherwise we could not get through to-night
Where shall we stop
There is a little place in the forest, where they can look after the
horses
and I daresay we can get some coffee there for
ourselves, if we want it. It is a pretty little nook. I remember it
long ago, and I shall be glad to see it again
A little place in the forest
that may be near where the dwarfs live: it is most likely
not far from here, because of the one we saw
Perhaps she _was_ joking
But perhaps she
doesn't know; _she_ didn't see the real dwarf. It would be rather nice
if I did find them, _then_ Auntie couldn't laugh at me any more
Is it a very large forest, Uncle
Yes, very large
The largest in Europe
Oh yes, by far
the largest hereabouts
Dear me
If there are dwarfs anywhere, then it must be here
And please, Uncle, is
Oh, my dear child, do be quiet! Can't you go to sleep yourself a
little! We shall have more than enough of the forest before we are out
of it
There would be no difficulty about the harnessing, any way
for all the vehicles hereabouts drawn by one
horse have the animal at one side of a pole, instead of between shafts
It really doesn't much matter
we can stay here well
enough. There are two bedrooms, and no doubt they can give us something
to eat; beer and sausages, and brown bread any way
a good long walk
would
do us good. And the landlady says we get out of the forest up there
behind the house, where the ground rises, and that there is a lovely
view. It will be rather a climb, but it isn't more than three quarters
of an hour from here, and we have not walked all day
Don't you want to come, Olive
Are you tired? You
didn't take a nap like the rest of us
I am a little tired
If you don't
mind, I would rather stay about here. I don't mind being alone, and I
have my book. And I do so like the forest
Very well
only don't lose yourself. She is
perfectly safe
there are neither
wolves, nor bears, nor robbers nowadays, in these peaceful forests
I'd better take my purse
in case I meet the
dwarfs. Auntie told me to be very polite, and perhaps they would like
some of these tiny pieces; they just look as if they were meant for
them
I may as well sit down a little
I have lots of time
to get back. This seems the very heart of the forest. They are just as
likely to be seen here as anywhere else
If I sit very still
who knows what I may see? Of
course, it would be much nicer and prettier if the dwarfs were quite
tiny--not like the little man we saw in the street at that place--I
forget the name--for he was not pretty at all--but like the blue dwarfs
at the manufactory. But that, I suppose, is impossible, for they would
be really like fairies. But they might be something between: not so big
as the little man, and yet bigger than the blue dwarfs
Any
way, they could not but be a good deal bigger than my thumb! What does
that mean? Perhaps it means more in German measures than in English,
perhaps
Roast fir-cones for dinner
It has a very roasty smell
where can it have come
from
Two of each
a double set of the blue dwarfs
How big are they
Bigger than my thumb? Oh yes,
a good deal. I should think they are about as tall as my arm would be
if it was standing on the ground. I should think they would come up
above my knee. I should like to stand up and measure, but perhaps it is
better for me not to speak to them till they speak to me
If they should ask you to
stand on your head, for instance
Dear me
how did Auntie know so much about them? But
I do hope they won't ask me to stand on _my_ head
We are afraid
That the fir-cones
Were rather underdone
I am very sorry
Mr.----, sir! my lord! I beg your pardon.
I don't quite know what I should call you
With all respect
And considering the circumstances
I beg your pardon
I don't quite understand
Nor do we
Do you mean you don't know what _my_ name is
It's Olive,
_Olive_
OLIVE
Green
No
Of course not! _Green_ is a very common name--at
least
But you called us 'blue
How do you know
How could you tell I called you the blue
dwarfs
I thought you were
German
How very amusing
And about the fir-cones
It is distressing
to think they were so underdone. But we have come, all of us
to invite you to supper in
our village. There you will find them done to perfection
You are very kind
I should like to come very much if it
isn't too far; but I am afraid I couldn't eat any supper. Indeed, I'm
not hungry
See here
I had to put
this in my pocket, for I couldn't finish it at our afternoon coffee
Not good
I don't know
I don't think it can be bad. It is the
regular bread of the country. I should have thought you would be
accustomed to it, as you live here
Gueton Tag
Now
I'm really going to have some adventures
Home, sweet Home
Here we are
at the
entrance to our village
Dear me
I had no idea _I_ could seem clumsy! I feel
like a great plowman. I wish I were not so big
Yes
it has its disadvantages
Everything has its disadvantages
Don't you find
yourself very inconveniently small when you are up in _our_ world
Exactly so
They are certainly very good-tempered
Your village is very neat and pretty
though, perhaps--I
don't mean to be rude, not on any account
No
Auntie told you on no account to be rude
Auntie
she is not _your_ auntie
On no account
It's no use trying to make them understand
Not the least
I was going to say
that to my taste the
village would be prettier if there was a little variety. Not all the
houses just the same, you know. And all of _you_ are so like each
other, and all your little brown wives too. Are there no _children_
dwarfs
Doubtless. Any quantity
Then where are they all
Are they all asleep
Yes, all asleep
all asleep, and dreaming. Children
are very fond of dreaming
Supper is ready
They are all waiting
I did not know I was so hungry
but I do _hope_ it
isn't fir-cones
Yes
they'll be better done this time
For you
Do you always have supper here altogether like that
How
funny
Not at all
it's a table d'hote. Be so good as to
take your place
What did you do that for
Why did you scream
out like that? I
Oh dear! oh dear
what shall I do? Where am I? How
can I ever find my way in the dark? I believe it was all a trick of
those nasty blue dwarfs. I don't believe I _was_ dreaming. They must
be spiteful goblins. I wish I had not gone with them to see their
village
If I but had a mariner's compass
If the stars
were out
Oh, please come and help me! I'm lost in the wood
_Ach Gott
_verirrt_
_armes Kind_
poor child
_What_ a good thing you were safe before the storm came on
I will take care never again to carry my jokes too far
Though all the same
I should have liked to
taste the roast fir-cones. They did smell so good
And, Auntie
were you singing in the wood on your way home with Uncle
and Rex
Yes
they begged me to sing 'Home, sweet Home.' Why do
you ask me
So it was _your_ voice I heard when I thought it was
the dwarfs
</text>
