<text>
I heard a thousand blended notes,
While in a grove I sate reclined;
In that sweet mood when pleasant thoughts
Bring sad thoughts to the mind.

"To her fair works did Nature link
The human soul that through me ran;
And much it grieved my heart to think,
What man has made of man
buirdly awd chap
gradely
lasses
This is a hard road for a gradely foot like that.  Will ye up,
lass, and ride behind me
No, thank you:  I'd sooner walk with your little lad here
You may please yourself
Why, master, I never saw you do that before
Nor will again, most likely.  'Twasn't for cleanliness I did it,
but for coolness.  I'd be ashamed to want washing every week or so,
like any smutty collier lad
I wish I might go and dip my head in
It
must be as good as putting it under the town-pump; and there is no
beadle here to drive a chap away
Thou come along
what dost want with washing
thyself?  Thou did not drink half a gallon of beer last night, like
me
I don't care for you
Are you not ashamed of yourself, Thomas Grimes
No, nor never was yet
True for you.  If you ever had been ashamed of yourself, you would
have gone over into Vendale long ago
What do you know about Vendale
I know about Vendale, and about you, too.  I know, for instance,
what happened in Aldermire Copse, by night, two years ago come
Martinmas
You do
Yes; I was there
You are no Irishwoman, by your speech
Never mind who I am.  I saw what I saw; and if you strike that boy
again, I can tell what I know
Stop
I have one more word for you both;
for you will both see me again before all is over.  Those that wish
to be clean, clean they will be; and those that wish to be foul,
foul they will be.  Remember
You come back
I was told to expect thee
Now thou'lt be so good as
to keep to the main avenue, and not let me find a hare or a rabbit
on thee when thou comest back.  I shall look sharp for one, I tell
thee
Not if it's in the bottom of the soot-bag
If that's thy sort, I may as well walk up with thee to the hall
I think thou best had.  It's thy business to see after thy game,
man, and not mine
What are bees
What make honey
What is honey
Thou hold thy noise
Let the boy be
He's a civil young chap now,
and that's more than he'll be long if he bides with thee
I wish I were a keeper
to live in such a beautiful
place, and wear green velveteens, and have a real dog-whistle at my
button, like you
Let well alone, lad, and ill too at times.  Thy life's safer than
mine at all events, eh, Mr. Grimes
Hast thou anything against
me
Not now
Then don't ask me any questions till thou hast, for I am a man of
honour
You will take care of this, and take care of that
You'll
mind that, you little beggar
Poor man
and he looks so kind and quiet.  But why should the lady have such
a sad picture as that in her room?  Perhaps it was some kinsman of
hers, who had been murdered by the savages in foreign parts, and
she kept it there for a remembrance
She must be a very dirty lady
by my
master's rule, to want as much scrubbing as all that.  But she must
be very cunning to put the dirt out of the way so well afterwards,
for I don't see a speck about the room, not even on the very
towels
And are all people like that
when they are washed
Certainly I should look much prettier then, if I grew at all like
her
Stop
thief
I must get out of this
or I shall stay here till
somebody comes to help me -- which is just what I don't want
Cur-ru-u-uck, cur-ru-u-uck -- murder, thieves,
fire -- cur-u-uck-cock-kick -- the end of the world is come -- kick-kick-
cock-kick
Cock-cock-kick; my dears, the end
of the world is not quite come; but I assure you it is coming the
day after to-morrow -- cock
Kick-kick-kick -- go and
catch spiders, go and catch spiders -- kick
Ah
where there is a church there will be houses and
people; and, perhaps, some one will give me a bit and a sup
Why, what a big place the world is
And is there care in heaven? and is there love
In heavenly spirits to these creatures base
That may compassion of their evils move?
There is:- else much more wretched were the case
Of men than beasts:  But oh! the exceeding grace
Of Highest God that loves His creatures so,
And all His works with mercy doth embrace,
That blessed Angels He sends to and fro,
To serve to wicked man, to serve His wicked foe
Ah, this will just suit me
What art thou, and what dost want
A
chimney-sweep!  Away with thee!  I'll have no sweeps here
Water
Water?  There's plenty i' the beck
But I can't get there; I'm most clemmed with hunger and drought
He's sick; and a bairn's a
bairn, sweep or none
Water
God forgive me
Water's bad for thee; I'll give thee milk
Where didst come from
Over Fell, there
Over Harthover? and down Lewthwaite Crag?  Art sure thou art not
lying
Why should I
And how got ye up there
I came over from the Place
Bless thy little heart!  And thou hast not been stealing, then
No
Bless thy little heart! and I'll warrant not.  Why, God's guided
the bairn, because he was innocent!  Away from the Place, and over
Harthover Fell, and down Lewthwaite Crag!  Who ever heard the like,
if God hadn't led him?  Why dost not eat thy bread
I can't
It's good enough, for I made it myself
I can't
Is it Sunday
No, then; why should it be
Because I hear the church-bells ringing so
Bless thy pretty heart!  The bairn's sick.  Come wi' me, and I'll
hap thee up somewhere.  If thou wert a bit cleaner I'd put thee in
my own bed, for the Lord's sake.  But come along here
Oh,
you're so dirty; go and be washed
Those that wish to be clean, clean they will
be
I must be clean, I must be clean
I must be clean, I must be
clean
I will be a fish; I
will swim in the water; I must be clean, I must be clean
Ah
I must be quick and wash myself; the bells are
ringing quite loud now; and they will stop soon, and then the door
will be shut, and I shall never be able to get in at all
Where have you been
I have been smoothing sick folks' pillows, and whispering sweet
dreams into their ears; opening cottage casements, to let out the
stifling air; coaxing little children away from gutters, and foul
pools where fever breeds; turning women from the gin-shop door, and
staying men's hands as they were going to strike their wives; doing
all I can to help those who will not help themselves:  and little
enough that is, and weary work for me.  But I have brought you a
new little brother, and watched him safe all the way here
But mind, maidens, he must not see you, or know that you are here.
He is but a savage now, and like the beasts which perish; and from
the beasts which perish he must learn.  So you must not play with
him, or speak to him, or let him see you:  but only keep him from
being harmed
C'est l'amour, l'amour, l'amour
Qui fait la monde a la ronde
My dear, the boy must have got over into the grouse-
moors, and lost himself; and he lies very heavily on my conscience,
poor little lad.  But I know what I will do
I tell you
he is gone down here
Heaven forgive us
If we find him at all, we
shall find him lying at the bottom
Who will go down over Lewthwaite Crag, and see if that boy is
alive?  Oh that I were twenty years younger, and I would go down
myself
Twenty pounds to the man who brings me that boy alive
Twenty pounds or none, I will go down over Lewthwaite Crag, if
it's only for the poor boy's sake.  For he was as civil a spoken
little chap as ever climbed a flue
Well, dame, and how are you
Blessings on you as broad as your back, Harthover
and welcome into Vendale:  but
you're no hunting the fox this time of the year
I am hunting, and strange game too
Blessings on your heart, and what makes you look so sad the morn
I'm looking for a lost child, a chimney-sweep, that is run away
Oh, Harthover, Harthover
ye were always a just man
and a merciful; and ye'll no harm the poor little lad if I give you
tidings of him
Not I, not I, dame.  I'm afraid we hunted him out of the house all
on a miserable mistake, and the hound has brought him to the top of
Lewthwaite Crag, and
So he told me the truth after all, poor little dear!  Ah, first
thoughts are best, and a body's heart'll guide them right, if they
will but hearken to it
Bring the dog here, and lay him on
But there are no such things as water-babies
But surely if there were water-babies, somebody would have caught
one at least
But they would have put it into spirits, or into the Illustrated
News, or perhaps cut it into two halves, poor dear little thing,
and sent one to Professor Owen, and one to Professor Huxley, to see
what they would each say about it
But a water-baby is contrary to nature
That cannot exist.  That is
contrary to nature
cannot exist
contrary to nature
cannot
The thing cannot be; it is contrary to nature
This is the shape, and plan, and anatomy of the
beast, and of his feet, and of his trunk, and of his grinders, and
of his tusks, though they are not tusks at all, but two fore teeth
run mad; and this is the section of his skull, more like a mushroom
than a reasonable skull of a reasonable or unreasonable beast; and
so forth, and so forth; and though the beast (which I assure you I
have seen and shot) is first cousin to the little hairy coney of
Scripture, second cousin to a pig, and (I suspect) thirteenth or
fourteenth cousin to a rabbit, yet he is the wisest of all beasts,
and can do everything save read, write, and cast accounts
Nonsense; your elephant is contrary to
nature
Your elephant is an impossible
monster, contrary to the laws of comparative anatomy, as far as yet
known
But all these things are only nicknames; the water things are not
really akin to the land things
Who would not
exclaim that a miracle had come to pass, if he saw a reptile come
out of the egg dropped by the hen in his poultry-yard, and the
reptile give birth at once to an indefinite number of fishes and
birds?  Yet the history of the jelly-fish is quite as wonderful as
that would be
We are fearfully and wonderfully made
He prayeth well who loveth well
Both men and bird and beast;
He prayeth best who loveth best
All things both great and small:
For the dear God who loveth us,
He made and loveth all
Amphibious.  Adjective, derived from two Greek words, amphi, a
fish, and bios, a beast.  An animal supposed by our ignorant
ancestors to be compounded of a fish and a beast; which therefore,
like the hippopotamus, can't live on the land, and dies in the
water
Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting;
The soul that rises with us, our life's star,
Hath elsewhere had its setting,
And cometh from afar:
Not in entire forgetfulness,
And not in utter nakedness,
But trailing clouds of glory, do we come
From God, who is our home
Hurrah! my sister has a tail,
and I'll have one too
Oh, you nasty horrid
boy; there you are at it again!  And she had just laid herself up
for a fortnight's sleep, and then she would have come out with such
beautiful wings, and flown about, and laid such lots of eggs:  and
now you have broken her door, and she can't mend it because her
mouth is tied up for a fortnight, and she will die.  Who sent you
here to worry us out of our lives
Oh
you are an ugly fellow to be sure
Yah, ah!  Oh, let me go
Then let me go
I want to be quiet.  I want
to split
Why do you want to split
Because my brothers and sisters have all split, and turned into
beautiful creatures with wings; and I want to split too.  Don't
speak to me.  I am sure I shall split.  I will split
Oh, you beautiful creature
No
you cannot catch me.  I am a dragon-fly now, the
king of all the flies; and I shall dance in the sunshine, and hawk
over the river, and catch gnats, and have a beautiful wife like
myself.  I know what I shall do.  Hurrah
Oh! come back, come back
you beautiful creature.  I
have no one to play with, and I am so lonely here.  If you will but
come back I will never try to catch you
I don't care whether you do or not
for you
can't.  But when I have had my dinner, and looked a little about
this pretty place, I will come back, and have a little chat about
all I have seen in my travels.  Why, what a huge tree this is! and
what huge leaves on it
Much obliged to you, indeed; but I don't want it yet
Want what
Your leg, which you are kind enough to hold out for me to sit on.
I must just go and see after my wife for a few minutes.  Dear me!
what a troublesome business a family is
When I come back, I shall be glad of it, if
you'll be so good as to keep it sticking out just so
Ah, you were tired
waiting?  Well, your other leg will do as well
So you live under the water?  It's a low place.  I lived there for
some time; and was very shabby and dirty.  But I didn't choose that
that should last.  So I turned respectable, and came up to the top,
and put on this gray suit.  It's a very business-like suit, you
think, don't you
Very neat and quiet indeed
Yes, one must be quiet and neat and respectable, and all that sort
of thing for a little, when one becomes a family man.  But I'm
tired of it, that's the truth.  I've done quite enough business, I
consider, in the last week, to last me my life.  So I shall put on
a ball dress, and go out and be a smart man, and see the gay world,
and have a dance or two.  Why shouldn't one be jolly if one can
And what will become of your wife
Oh! she is a very plain stupid creature, and that's the truth; and
thinks about nothing but eggs.  If she chooses to come, why she
may; and if not, why I go without her;-- and here I go
Why, you're ill
You're dead
No, I ain't
This is me up here, in my ball-dress; and that's my skin.  Ha, ha!
you could not do such a trick as that
Ha, ha
Ain't I
a pretty fellow now
Ah
now I will see the gay world.  My living, won't
cost me much, for I have no mouth, you see, and no inside; so I can
never be hungry nor have the stomach-ache neither
My wife shall dance, and I shall sing,
So merrily pass the day;
For I hold it for quite the wisest thing,
To drive dull care away
To drive dull care away-ay-ay
Quick,
children, here is something to eat, indeed
Come out
or it will be worse for
you
Come, away, children
it is not worth
eating, after all.  It is only a nasty eft, which nothing eats, not
even those vulgar pike in the pond
I am not an eft
efts have tails
You are an eft
I see your two
hands quite plain, and I know you have a tail
I tell you I have not
Look here
I say you are an eft, and therefore you are, and not fit food for
gentlefolk like me and my children.  You may stay there till the
salmon eat you (she knew the salmon would not, but she wanted to
frighten poor Tom).  Ha! ha! they will eat you, and we will eat
them
What are salmon
Fish, you eft, great fish, nice fish to eat.  They are the lords
of the fish, and we are lords of the salmon
We hunt them up and down the pools, and drive them up into
a corner, the silly things; they are so proud, and bully the little
trout, and the minnows, till they see us coming, and then they are
so meek all at once, and we catch them, but we disdain to eat them
all; we just bite out their soft throats and suck their sweet
juice -- Oh, so good
and then
throw them away, and go and catch another.  They are coming soon,
children, coming soon; I can smell the rain coming up off the sea,
and then hurrah for a fresh, and salmon, and plenty of eating all
day long
And where do they come from
Out of the sea, eft, the great wide sea, where they might stay and
be safe if they liked.  But out of the sea the silly things come,
into the great river down below, and we come up to watch for them;
and when they go down again we go down and follow them.  And there
we fish for the bass and the pollock, and have jolly days along the
shore, and toss and roll in the breakers, and sleep snug in the
warm dry crags.  Ah, that is a merry life too, children, if it were
not for those horrid men
What are men
Two-legged things, eft:  and, now I come to look at you, they are
actually something like you, if you had not a tail
only a great deal bigger,
worse luck for us; and they catch the fish with hooks and lines,
which get into our feet sometimes, and set pots along the rocks to
catch lobsters.  They speared my poor dear husband as he went out
to find something for me to eat.  I was laid up among the crags
then, and we were very low in the world, for the sea was so rough
that no fish would come in shore.  But they speared him, poor
fellow, and I saw them carrying him away upon a pole.  All, he lost
his life for your sakes, my children, poor dear obedient creature
that he was
We must run, we must run.
What a jolly thunderstorm!  Down to the sea, down to the sea
Now is your time, eft, if you want to see the world.
Come along, children, never mind those nasty eels:  we shall
breakfast on salmon to-morrow.  Down to the sea, down to the sea
Down to the sea, down to the sea
Oh stay!  Wait for me
Down to the sea
Down to the sea
everything is going to the sea, and I
will go too.  Good-bye, trout
Tullie-wheep, mind your sheep
Is there a salmon here, do you think, Dennis
Is it salmon, thin, your honour manes?  Salmon?  Cartloads it is
of thim, thin, an' ridgmens, shouldthering ache out of water, av'
ye'd but the luck to see thim
But there can't be a salmon here, Dennis! and, if you'll but
think, if one had come up last tide, he'd be gone to the higher
pools by now
Shure thin, and your honour's the thrue fisherman, and understands
it all like a book.  Why, ye spake as if ye'd known the wather a
thousand years!  As I said, how could there be a fish here at all,
just now
But you said just now they were shouldering each other out of
water
Shure, and didn't I think your honour would like a pleasant
answer
Where over a ledge of granite
Into a granite bason the amber torrent descended. . . . .
Beautiful there for the colour derived from green rocks under;
Beautiful most of all, where beads of foam uprising
Mingle their clouds of white with the delicate hue of the
stillness. . . .
Cliff over cliff for its sides, with rowan and pendant birch
boughs
You could not have the heart to shoot at us
If they want to describe a finished young gentleman in France, I
hear, they say of him, 'Il sait son Rabelais.'  But if I want to
describe one in England, I say, 'He knows his Bewick.'  And I think
that is the higher compliment
This must be
the sea
What a wide place it is!  If I go on into
it I shall surely lose my way, or some strange thing will bite me.
I will stop here and look out for the otter, or the eels, or some
one to tell me where I shall go
My dear
you really look
dreadfully tired, and you must not over-exert yourself at first.
Do rest yourself behind this rock
What do you want here
Oh, don't hurt me
I only want to look at you; you
are so handsome
Ah
I really
beg your pardon; I see what you are, my little dear.  I have met
one or two creatures like you before, and found them very agreeable
and well-behaved.  Indeed, one of them showed me a great kindness
lately, which I hope to be able to repay.  I hope we shall not be
in your way here.  As soon as this lady is rested, we shall proceed
on our journey
So you have seen things like me before
Several times, my dear.  Indeed, it was only last night that one
at the river's mouth came and warned me and my wife of some new
stake-nets which had got into the stream, I cannot tell how, since
last winter, and showed us the way round them, in the most
charmingly obliging way
So there are babies in the sea
Then I shall have some one to play with there?  How
delightful
Were there no babies up this stream
No! and I grew so lonely.  I thought I saw three last night; but
they were gone in an instant, down to the sea.  So I went too; for
I had nothing to play with but caddises and dragon-flies and
trout
Ugh
what low company
My dear, if he has been in low company, he has certainly not
learnt their low manners
No, indeed, poor little dear:  but how sad for him to live among
such people as caddises, who have actually six legs, the nasty
things; and dragon-flies, too! why they are not even good to eat;
for I tried them once, and they are all hard and empty; and, as for
trout, every one knows what they are
Why do you dislike the trout so
My dear, we do not even mention them, if we can help it; for I am
sorry to say they are relations of ours who do us no credit.  A
great many years ago they were just like us:  but they were so
lazy, and cowardly, and greedy, that instead of going down to the
sea every year to see the world and grow strong and fat, they chose
to stay and poke about in the little streams and eat worms and
grubs; and they are very properly punished for it; for they have
grown ugly and brown and spotted and small; and are actually so
degraded in their tastes, that they will eat our children
And then they pretend to scrape acquaintance with us again
Why, I have actually known one of them propose to a
lady salmon, the little impudent little creature
I should hope
that there are very few
ladies of our race who would degrade themselves by listening to
such a creature for an instant.  If I saw such a thing happen, I
should consider it my duty to put them both to death upon the
spot
There was a fish rose
Tak' that muckle fellow, lad; he's ower fifteen punds; and haud
your hand steady
Perhaps
the water has made him fall
asleep, as it did me
Oh dear me
now he will turn into a water-baby.
What a nasty troublesome one he will be!  And perhaps he will find
me out, and beat me again
How d'ye do, sir; what a beautiful place the sea
is
Good tide to you,
my little man; are you looking for your brothers and sisters?  I
passed them all at play outside
Oh, then
I shall have playfellows at last
Don't
hide; I do want some one to play with so much
Yes
Where do you
come from, you pretty creatures? and have you seen the water-
babies
Whence we come we know not; and
whither we are going, who can tell?  We float out our life in the
mid-ocean, with the warm sunshine above our heads, and the warm
gulf-stream below; and that is enough for us.  Yes; perhaps we have
seen the water-babies.  We have seen many strange things as we
sailed along
I'm sure I don't know; I've lost my way.  I meant to go to the
Chesapeake, and I'm afraid I've got wrong somehow.  Dear me! it was
all by following that pleasant warm water.  I'm sure I've lost my
way
I've lost my
way.  Don't talk to me; I want to think
Hush, hush, hush
Where do you come from
And why are YOU so sick and
sad
I come from the warm Carolinas, and the sandbanks fringed with
pines; where the great owl-rays leap and flap, like giant bats,
upon the tide.  But I wandered north and north, upon the
treacherous warm gulf-stream, till I met with the cold icebergs,
afloat in the mid ocean.  So I got tangled among the icebergs, and
chilled with their frozen breath.  But the water-babies helped me
from among them, and set me free again.  And now I am mending every
day; but I am very sick and sad; and perhaps I shall never get home
again to play with the owl-rays any more
Oh
And you have seen water-babies?  Have you seen
any near here
Yes; they helped me again last night, or I should have been eaten
by a great black porpoise
You couldn't do that
Yes
I don't care about all these
things, because they can't play with me, or talk to me.  If there
were little children now in the water, as there used to be, and I
could see them, I should like that
Children in the water, you strange little duck
Yes
I know there used to be children in the water,
and mermaids too, and mermen.  I saw them all in a picture at home,
of a beautiful lady sailing in a car drawn by dolphins, and babies
flying round her, and one sitting in her lap; and the mermaids
swimming and playing, and the mermen trumpeting on conch-shells;
and it is called 'The Triumph of Galatea;' and there is a burning
mountain in the picture behind.  It hangs on the great staircase,
and I have looked at it ever since I was a baby, and dreamt about
it a hundred times; and it is so beautiful, that it must be true
But why are there not water-babies
Because there ain't
Dear me
What a large pink Holothurian; with hands,
too!  It must be connected with Synapta
It has actually eyes
Why, it must be a Cephalopod!
This is most extraordinary
No, I ain't
It is a water-baby
Water-fiddlesticks, my dear
Maxima debetur pueris
reverentia
The greatest respectfulness is expected
from little boys
Yes, my darling, it is a
water-baby, and a very wonderful thing it is; and it shows how
little I know of the wonders of nature, in spite of forty years'
honest labour.  I was just telling you that there could be no such
creatures; and, behold! here is one come to confound my conceit and
show me that Nature can do, and has done, beyond all that man's
poor fancy can imagine.  So, let us thank the Maker, and Inspirer,
and Lord of Nature for all His wonderful and glorious works, and
try and find out something about this one
My dear little maid,
you must have dreamt of water-babies last night, your head is so
full of them
Oh! ah! yah
But it was a water-baby, and I heard it speak
Ah,
it is gone
The subanhypaposupernal anastomoses of peritomic diacellurite in
the encephalo digital region of the distinguished individual of
whose symptomatic phoenomena we had the melancholy honour
(subsequently to a preliminary diagnostic inspection) of making an
inspectorial diagnosis, presenting the interexclusively
quadrilateral and antinomian diathesis known as Bumpsterhausen's
blue follicles, we proceeded
It was quite shocking!  What can they think is the matter with
him
That his wit's just addled; may be wi' unbelief and heathenry
Then why can't they say so
Why indeed
will, without doubt, do much good
Incomparable drink for madmen
a man and a brother
Stern Lawgiver! yet thou dost wear
The Godhead's most benignant grace;
Nor know we anything so fair
As is the smile upon thy face:
Flowers laugh before thee on their beds
And fragrance in thy footing treads;
Thou dost preserve the stars from wrong;
And the most ancient heavens, through Thee, are fresh and strong
What, have you been naughty, and have they put you in the lock-
up
I can't
get out
Why did you get in
After that nasty piece of dead fish
Where did you get in
Through that round hole at the top
Then why don't you get out through it
Because I can't
I have jumped upwards, downwards, backwards, and sideways, at
least four thousand times; and I can't get out:  I always get up
underneath there, and can't find the hole
Stop a bit
Turn your tail up to me, and I'll pull
you through hindforemost, and then you won't stick in the spikes
Hullo! here is a pretty business
Now take your great
claws, and break the points off those spikes, and then we shall
both get out easily
Dear me, I never thought of that
and after
all the experience of life that I have had
Yar
you
little meddlesome wretch, I have you now!  I will serve you out for
telling the salmon where I was
Come along
don't you see she is dead
Come along, you stupid old stick-in-the-mud
or the
fisherman will catch you
What shall we do with
the drunken sailor, so early in the morning
Put him in the round house till he gets sober, so early in the
morning
It is a low spring-
tide; I shall go out this afternoon and cut my capers
No one allowed to cut capers here but me
Yah
Why, you are not one of us.  You are a new
baby!  Oh, how delightful
Oh, where have you been all this while?  I have
been looking for you so long, and I have been so lonely
We have been here for days and days.  There are hundreds of us
about the rocks.  How was it you did not see us, or hear us when we
sing and romp every evening before we go home
Well, this is wonderful!  I have seen things just like you again
and again, but I thought you were shells, or sea-creatures.  I
never took you for water-babies like myself
Now
come and help me, or I shall not have
finished before my brothers and sisters come, and it is time to go
home
What shall I help you at
At this poor dear little rock; a great clumsy boulder came rolling
by in the last storm, and knocked all its head off, and rubbed off
all its flowers.  And now I must plant it again with seaweeds, and
coralline, and anemones, and I will make it the prettiest little
rock-garden on all the shore
Now then
we must come away home, we
must come away home, or the tide will leave us dry.  We have mended
all the broken sea-weed, and put all the rock-pools in order, and
planted all the shells again in the sand, and nobody will see where
the ugly storm swept in last week
Ah that I had
wings as a dove
Those are
the islands of the blest
Take care what you are
at.  Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid is coming
frutta di mare
You are a very cruel woman
And you are a very cruel boy; who puts pebbles into the sea-
anemones' mouths, to take them in, and make them fancy that they
had caught a good dinner!  As you did to them, so I must do to
you
Who told you that
You did yourself, this very minute
Yes; every one tells me exactly what they have done wrong; and
that without knowing it themselves.  So there is no use trying to
hide anything from me.  Now go, and be a good boy, and I will put
no more pebbles in your mouth, if you put none in other
creatures'
I did not know there was any harm in it
Then you know now.  People continually say that to me:  but I tell
them, if you don't know that fire burns, that is no reason that it
should not burn you; and if you don't know that dirt breeds fever,
that is no reason why the fevers should not kill you.  The lobster
did not know that there was any harm in getting into the lobster-
pot; but it caught him all the same
Dear me
she knows everything
And so, if you do not know that things are wrong that is no reason
why you should not be punished for them; though not as much, not as
much, my little man
as if you did know
Well, you are a little hard on a poor lad
Not at all; I am the best friend you ever had in all your life.
But I will tell you; I cannot help punishing people when they do
wrong.  I like it no more than they do; I am often very, very sorry
for them, poor things:  but I cannot help it.  If I tried not to do
it, I should do it all the same.  For I work by machinery, just
like an engine; and am full of wheels and springs inside; and am
wound up very carefully, so that I cannot help going
Was it long ago since they wound you up
She will run down some day:
or they may forget to wind her up, as old Grimes used to forget to
wind up his watch when he came in from the public-house; and then I
shall be safe
I was wound up once and for all, so long ago, that I forget all
about it
Dear me
you must have been made a long time
I never was made, my child; and I shall go for ever and ever; for
I am as old as Eternity, and yet as young as Time
Yes.  You thought me very ugly just now, did you not
And I am very ugly.  I am the ugliest fairy in the world; and I
shall be, till people behave themselves as they ought to do.  And
then I shall grow as handsome as my sister, who is the loveliest
fairy in the world; and her name is Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby.  So
she begins where I end, and I begin where she ends; and those who
will not listen to her must listen to me, as you will see.  Now,
all of you run away, except Tom; and he may stay and see what I am
going to do.  It will be a very good warning for him to begin with,
before he goes to school.

"Now, Tom, every Friday I come down here and call up all who have
ill-used little children and serve them as they served the
children
Pray, ma'am, may I ask you a question
Certainly, my little dear
Why don't you bring all the bad masters here and serve them out
too?  The butties that knock about the poor collier-boys; and the
nailers that file off their lads' noses and hammer their fingers;
and all the master sweeps, like my master Grimes?  I saw him fall
into the water long ago; so I surely expected he would have been
here.  I'm sure he was bad enough to me
I look after them all the week
round; and they are in a very different place from this, because
they knew that they were doing wrong
But these people
did not know that they were doing
wrong:  they were only stupid and impatient; and therefore I only
punish them till they become patient, and learn to use their common
sense like reasonable beings.  But as for chimney-sweeps, and
collier-boys, and nailer lads, my sister has set good people to
stop all that sort of thing; and very much obliged to her I am; for
if she could only stop the cruel masters from ill-using poor
children, I should grow handsome at least a thousand years sooner.
And now do you be a good boy, and do as you would be done by, which
they did not; and then, when my sister, MADAME
DOASYOUWOULDBEDONEBY, comes on Sunday, perhaps she will take notice
of you, and teach you how to behave.  She understands that better
than I do
And who are you, you little darling
Oh, that is the new baby
and he never had any mother
Then I will be his mother, and he shall have the very best place;
so get out, all of you, this moment
Don't go away
This is so nice.  I never had
any one to cuddle me before
Don't go away
you have not sung us one
song
Well, I have time for only one.  So what shall it be
The doll you lost!  The doll you lost
Now
will you be a good boy for my sake,
and torment no more sea-beasts till I come back
And you will cuddle me again
Of course I will, you little duck.  I should like to take you with
me and cuddle you all the way, only I must not
Thou little child, yet glorious in the night
Of heaven-born freedom on thy Being's height,
Why with such earnest pains dost thou provoke
The Years to bring the inevitable yoke -
Thus blindly with thy blessedness at strife?
Full soon thy soul shall have her earthly freight,
And custom lie upon thee with a weight
Heavy as frost, and deep almost as life
Friends, it is borne upon my mind that that is a truly brave man
Ah, you poor little dear! you are just like all the rest
We have trained up the child in the way he should
go, and when he grew up he has departed from it.  Why then did
Solomon say that he would not depart from it
Ah! but the Fairy does not need to do that if
she knows everything already
I should like to cuddle you; but I cannot, you are so horny and
prickly
No, I don't want any:  I can't bear them
now
I will forgive you, little man
I always forgive
every one the moment they tell me the truth of their own accord
Then you will take away all these nasty prickles
That is a very different matter.  You put them there yourself, and
only you can take them away
But how can I do that
Well, I think it is time for you to go to school; so I shall fetch
you a schoolmistress, who will teach you how to get rid of your
prickles
There he is
and you must teach him to be good,
whether you like or not
I know
Dear me
why, I know you now.  You are the
very same little chimney-sweep who came into my bedroom
Dear me
And I know you, too, now.  You are the very
little white lady whom I saw in bed
Miss Ellie
I will know why I cannot go with
you when you go home on Sundays, or I shall have no peace, and give
you none either
You must ask the fairies that
Little boys who are only fit to play with sea-beasts cannot go
there
Those who go there must go first where they do
not like, and do what they do not like, and help somebody they do
not like
Why, did Ellie do that
Ask her
Yes, Tom; I did not like coming here
at first; I was so much happier at home, where it is always Sunday.
And I was afraid of you, Tom, at first, because -- because
Because I was all over prickles?  But I am not prickly now, am I,
Miss Ellie
No
I like you very much now; and I like coming
here, too
And perhaps
you will learn to like going where
you don't like, and helping some one that you don't like, as Ellie
has
Well
I am so miserable here, I'll go; if only
you will go with me
Ah
I wish I might; but the worst of it is, that the
fairy says that you must go alone if you go at all.  Now don't poke
that poor crab about, Tom
or the fairy will have to punish you
I don't care if she does
I know what she wants me to do
She wants me to go after that horrid old Grimes.  I don't like
him, that's certain.  And if I find him, he will turn me into a
chimney-sweep again, I know.  That's what I have been afraid of all
along
No, he won't -- I know as much as that.  Nobody can turn water-
babies into sweeps, or hurt them at all, as long as they are good
Ah
I see what you want; you are persuading me
all along to go, because you are tired of me, and want to get rid
of me
Oh, Tom, Tom
Oh,
Tom! where are you
Oh, Ellie, where are you
Oh
Oh dear, oh dear!  I have been naughty to Ellie,
and I have killed her -- I know I have killed her
Not quite that
but I have sent her away home,
and she will not come back again for I do not know how long
How cruel of you to send Ellie away
However, I
will find her again, if I go to the world's end to look for her
Only
if I might see Ellie once before I went
Why do you want that
Because -- because I should be so much happier if I thought she had
forgiven me
I am going, Ellie
I am going, if it is to the
world's end.  But I don't like going at all, and that's the truth
Pooh! pooh! pooh
You will like it very well
indeed, you little rogue, and you know that at the bottom of your
heart.  But if you don't, I will make you like it.  Come here, and
see what happens to people who do only what is pleasant
The History of the great and
famous nation of the Doasyoulikes, who came away from the country
of Hardwork, because they wanted to play on the Jews' harp all day
long
Come and eat me
Well, that is a jolly life
You think so
Do you see that great peaked
mountain there behind
with smoke coming out of
its top
Yes
And do you see all those ashes, and slag, and cinders lying
about
Yes
Then turn over the next five hundred years, and you will see what
happens next
You see
what comes of living on a burning
mountain
Oh, why did you not warn them
I did warn them all that I could.  I let the smoke come out of the
mountain; and wherever there is smoke there is fire.  And I laid
the ashes and cinders all about; and wherever there are cinders,
cinders may be again.  But they did not like to face facts, my
dears, as very few people do; and so they invented a cock-and-bull
story, which, I am sure, I never told them, that the smoke was the
breath of a giant, whom some gods or other had buried under the
mountain; and that the cinders were what the dwarfs roasted the
little pigs whole with; and other nonsense of that kind.  And, when
folks are in that humour, I cannot teach them, save by the good old
birch-rod
Why
they are growing no better than savages
And look how ugly they are all getting
Yes; when people live on poor vegetables instead of roast beef and
plum-pudding, their jaws grow large, and their lips grow coarse,
like the poor Paddies who eat potatoes
Why
the lions seem to have eaten a good many of
them, for there are very few left now
Yes
you see it was only the strongest and most
active ones who could climb the trees, and so escape
But what great, hulking, broad-shouldered chaps they are
they are a rough lot as ever I saw
Yes, they are getting very strong now; for the ladies will not
marry any but the very strongest and fiercest gentlemen, who can
help them up the trees out of the lions' way
Yes, and no
It was only those who could use
their feet as well as their hands who could get a good living:  or,
indeed, get married; so that they got the best of everything, and
starved out all the rest; and those who are left keep up a regular
breed of toe-thumb-men, as a breed of short-horns, or are skye-
terriers, or fancy pigeons is kept up
But there is a hairy one among them
Ah
that will be a great man in his time, and
chief of all the tribe
Why, there is one on the ground picking up roots
and he cannot walk upright
Why
I declare they are all apes
Something fearfully like it, poor foolish creatures
They are grown so stupid now, that they can hardly think:
for none of them have used their wits for many hundred years.  They
have almost forgotten, too, how to talk.  For each stupid child
forgot some of the words it heard from its stupid parents, and had
not wits enough to make fresh words for itself.  Beside, they are
grown so fierce and suspicious and brutal that they keep out of
each other's way, and mope and sulk in the dark forests, never
hearing each other's voice, till they have forgotten almost what
speech is like.  I am afraid they will all be apes very soon, and
all by doing only what they liked
Am I not a man and a brother
Ubboboo
But could you not have saved them from becoming apes
At first, my dear; if only they would have behaved like men, and
set to work to do what they did not like.  But the longer they
waited, and behaved like the dumb beasts, who only do what they
like, the stupider and clumsier they grew; till at last they were
past all cure, for they had thrown their own wits away.  It is such
things as this that help to make me so ugly, that I know not when I
shall grow fair
And where are they all now
Exactly where they ought to be, my dear
Yes
Folks say now that I can make beasts into men, by
circumstance, and selection, and competition, and so forth.  Well,
perhaps they are right; and perhaps, again, they are wrong.  That
is one of the seven things which I am forbidden to tell, till the
coming of the Cocqcigrues; and, at all events, it is no concern of
theirs.  Whatever their ancestors were, men they are; and I advise
them to behave as such, and act accordingly.  But let them
recollect this, that there are two sides to every question, and a
downhill as well as an uphill road; and, if I can turn beasts into
men, I can, by the same laws of circumstance, and selection, and
competition, turn men into beasts.  You were very near being turned
into a beast once or twice, little Tom.  Indeed, if you had not
made up your mind to go on this journey, and see the world, like an
Englishman, I am not sure but that you would have ended as an eft
in a pond
Oh, dear me
sooner than that, and be all over slime,
I'll go this minute, if it is to the world's end
And Nature, the old Nurse, took
The child upon her knee,
Saying, 'Here is a story book
Thy father hath written for thee.

"'Come wander with me,' she said,
'Into regions yet untrod,
And read what is still unread
In the Manuscripts of God.'

"And he wandered away and away
With Nature, the dear old Nurse,
Who sang to him night and day
The rhymes of the universe
Now
I am ready be off, if it's to the world's end
Ah
that is a brave, good boy.  But you must go
farther than the world's end, if you want to find Mr. Grimes; for
he is at the Other-end-of-Nowhere.  You must go to Shiny Wall, and
through the white gate that never was opened; and then you will
come to Peacepool, and Mother Carey's Haven, where the good whales
go when they die.  And there Mother Carey will tell you the way to
the Other-end-of-Nowhere, and there you will find Mr. Grimes
Oh, dear
But I do not know my way to Shiny Wall, or
where it is at all
Little boys must take the trouble to find out things for
themselves, or they will never grow to be men; so that you must ask
all the beasts in the sea and the birds in the air, and if you have
been good to them, some of them will tell you the way to Shiny
Wall
Well
it will be a long journey, so I had better start
at once.  Good-bye, Miss Ellie; you know I am getting a big boy,
and I must go out and see the world
I know you must
but you will not forget me, Tom.  I
shall wait here till you come
Deep deep Love, within thine own abyss abiding,
Pour Thyself abroad, O Lord, on earth and air and sea;
Worn weary hearts within Thy holy temple hiding,
Shield from sorrow, sin, and shame my helpless babe and me
What do you see, my darling
Babies in the sea?  Well, perhaps it is the happiest
place for them
Wait a
little, darling, only a little:  and perhaps we shall go with you
and be at rest
If I were you, young Gentleman, I should go to the Allalonestone,
and ask the last of the Gairfowl.  She is of a very ancient clan,
very nearly as ancient as my own; and knows a good deal which these
modern upstarts don't, as ladies of old houses are likely to do
Hi!  I say, can you fly
I never tried
Why
Because, if you can, I should advise you to say nothing to the old
lady about it.  There; take a hint.  Good-bye
Two little birds they sat on a stone,
One swam away, and then there was one,
With a fal-lal-la-lady.

"The other swam after, and then there was none,
And so the poor stone was left all alone;
With a fal-lal-la-lady
Have you wings?  Can you fly
Oh dear, no, ma'am; I should not think of such thing
Then I shall have great pleasure in talking to you, my dear.  It
is quite refreshing nowadays to see anything without wings.  They
must all have wings, forsooth, now, every new upstart sort of bird,
and fly.  What can they want with flying, and raising themselves
above their proper station in life?  In the days of my ancestors no
birds ever thought of having wings, and did very well without; and
now they all laugh at me because I keep to the good old fashion.
Why, the very marrocks and dovekies have got wings, the vulgar
creatures, and poor little ones enough they are; and my own cousins
too, the razor-bills, who are gentlefolk born, and ought to know
better than to ape their inferiors
Shiny Wall?  Who should know better than I?  We all came from
Shiny Wall, thousands of years ago, when it was decently cold, and
the climate was fit for gentlefolk; but now, what with the heat,
and what with these vulgar-winged things who fly up and down and
eat everything, so that gentlepeople's hunting is all spoilt, and
one really cannot get one's living, or hardly venture off the rock
for fear of being flown against by some creature that would not
have dared to come within a mile of one a thousand years ago -- what
was I saying?  Why, we have quite gone down in the world, my dear,
and have nothing left but our honour.  And I am the last of my
family.  A friend of mine and I came and settled on this rock when
we were young, to be out of the way of low people.  Once we were a
great nation, and spread over all the Northern Isles.  But men shot
us so, and knocked us on the head, and took our eggs -- why, if you
will believe it, they say that on the coast of Labrador the sailors
used to lay a plank from the rock on board the thing called their
ship, and drive us along the plank by hundreds, till we tumbled
down into the ship's waist in heaps; and then, I suppose, they ate
us, the nasty fellows!  Well -- but -- what was I saying?  At last,
there were none of us left, except on the old Gairfowlskerry, just
off the Iceland coast, up which no man could climb.  Even there we
had no peace; for one day, when I was quite a young girl, the land
rocked, and the sea boiled, and the sky grew dark, and all the air
was filled with smoke and dust, and down tumbled the old
Gairfowlskerry into the sea.  The dovekies and marrocks, of course,
all flew away; but we were too proud to do that.  Some of us were
dashed to pieces, and some drowned; and those who were left got
away to Eldey, and the dovekies tell me they are all dead now, and
that another Gairfowlskerry has risen out of the sea close to the
old one, but that it is such a poor flat place that it is not safe
to live on:  and so here I am left alone
If you only had had wings
then you might all have
flown away too
Yes, young gentleman:  and if people are not gentleman and ladies,
and forget that noblesse oblige, they will find it as easy to get
on in the world as other people who don't care what they do.  Why,
if I had not recollected that noblesse oblige, I should not have
been all alone now
How was that, ma'am
Why, my dear, a gentleman came hither with me, and after we had
been here some time, he wanted to marry -- in fact, he actually
proposed to me.  Well, I can't blame him; I was young, and very
handsome then, I don't deny:  but you see, I could not hear of such
a thing, because he was my deceased sister's husband, you see
Of course not, ma'am
She was very much diseased, I suppose
But, please, which is the way to Shiny Wall
Oh, you must go, my little dear -- you must go.  Let me see -- I am
sure -- that is -- really, my poor old brains are getting quite
puzzled.  Do you know, my little dear, I am afraid, if you want to
know, you must ask some of these vulgar birds about, for I have
quite forgotten
Shiny Wall?  Do you want Shiny Wall?  Then come with us, and we
will show you.  We are Mother Carey's own chickens, and she sends
us out over all the seas, to show the good birds the way home
And so the poor stone was left all alone;
With a fal-lal-la-lady
The old order changeth, giving place to the new,
And God fulfils himself in many ways
Oh, the baby, the baby
These are the fellows to show you the way
we cannot help you farther north.  We don't like to get
among the ice pack, for fear it should nip our toes:  but the
mollys dare fly anywhere
Come, come
you lazy greedy lubbers, this
young gentleman is going to Mother Carey, and if you don't attend
on him, you won't earn your discharge from her, you know
Greedy we are
but lazy we ain't;
and, as for lubbers, we're no more lubbers than you.  Let's have a
look at the lad
Come along, lads
and give this little chap
a cast over the pack, for Mother Carey's sake.  We've eaten blubber
enough for to-day, and we'll e'en work out a bit of our time by
helping the lad
Who are you, you jolly birds
We are the spirits of the old Greenland skippers (as every sailor
knows), who hunted here, right whales and horse-whales, full
hundreds of years agone.  But, because we were saucy and greedy, we
were all turned into mollys, to eat whale's blubber all our days.
But lubbers we are none, and could sail a ship now against any man
in the North seas, though we don't hold with this new-fangled
steam.  And it's a shame of those black imps of petrels to call us
so; but because they're her grace's pets, they think they may say
anything they like
And who are you
My name is Hendrick Hudson, and a right good skipper was I; and my
name will last to the world's end, in spite of all the wrong I did.
For I discovered Hudson River, and I named Hudson's Bay; and many
have come in my wake that dared not have shown me the way.  But I
was a hard man in my time, that's truth, and stole the poor Indians
off the coast of Maine, and sold them for slaves down in Virginia;
and at last I was so cruel to my sailors, here in these very seas,
that they set me adrift in an open boat, and I never was heard of
more.  So now I'm the king of all mollys, till I've worked out my
time
And where is the gate
There is no gate
No gate
None; never a crack of one, and that's the whole of the secret, as
better fellows, lad, than you have found to their cost; and if
there had been, they'd have killed by now every right whale that
swims the sea
What am I to do, then
Dive under the floe, to be sure, if you have pluck
I've not come so far to turn now
so here goes for a
header
A lucky voyage to you, lad
we knew you were
one of the right sort.  So good-bye
Why don't you come too
We can't go yet, we can't go
yet
There she sits in the middle
That's Mother Carey
as you will find when you
get to her.  There she sits making old beasts into new all the year
round
How does she do that
That's her concern, not mine
I suppose
she cuts up a great whale like you into a
whole shoal of porpoises
What do you want, my little man?  It is long since I have seen a
water-baby here
You ought to know yourself, for you have been there already
Have I, ma'am?  I'm sure I forget all about it
Then look at me
Thank you, ma'am
Then I won't trouble your ladyship
any more; I hear you are very busy
I am never more busy than I am now
I heard, ma'am, that you were always making new beasts out of
old
So people fancy.  But I am not going to trouble myself to make
things, my little dear.  I sit here and make them make themselves
You are a clever fairy, indeed
Know, silly child
that any one can make things, if
they will take time and trouble enough:  but it is not every one
who, like me, can make things make themselves
And now, my pretty little man
you are sure
you know the way to the Other-end-of-Nowhere
That is because you took your eyes off me
But what am I to do, ma'am?  For I can't keep looking at you when
I am somewhere else
You must do without me, as most people have to do, for nine
hundred and ninety-nine thousandths of their lives; and look at the
dog instead; for he knows the way well enough, and will not forget
it.  Besides, you may meet some very queer-tempered people there,
who will not let you pass without this passport of mine, which you
must hang round your neck and take care of; and, of course, as the
dog will always go behind you, you must go the whole way backward
Backward
Then I shall not be able to see my way
On the contrary, if you look forward, you will not see a step
before you, and be certain to go wrong; but, if you look behind
you, and watch carefully whatever you have passed, and especially
keep your eye on the dog, who goes by instinct, and therefore can't
go wrong, then you will know what is coming next, as plainly as if
you saw it in a looking-glass
So it is, my dear child
So Epimetheus got a great deal of trouble, as most men do in this
world:  but he got the three best things in the world into the
bargain -- a good wife, and experience, and hope:  while Prometheus
had just as much trouble, and a great deal more (as you will hear),
of his own making; with nothing beside, save fancies spun out of
his own brain, as a spider spins her web out of her stomach.

"And Prometheus kept on looking before him so far ahead, that as he
was running about with a box of lucifers (which were the only
useful things he ever invented, and do as much harm as good), he
trod on his own nose, and tumbled down (as most deductive
philosophers do), whereby he set the Thames on fire; and they have
hardly put it out again yet.  So he had to be chained to the top of
a mountain, with a vulture by him to give him a peck whenever he
stirred, lest he should turn the whole world upside down with his
prophecies and his theories.

"But stupid old Epimetheus went working and grubbing on, with the
help of his wife Pandora, always looking behind him to see what had
happened, till he really learnt to know now and then what would
happen next; and understood so well which side his bread was
buttered, and which way the cat jumped, that he began to make
things which would work, and go on working, too; to till and drain
the ground, and to make looms, and ships, and railroads, and steam
ploughs, and electric telegraphs, and all the things which you see
in the Great Exhibition; and to foretell famine, and bad weather,
and the price of stocks and (what is hardest of all) the next
vagary of the great idol Whirligig, which some call Public Opinion;
till at last he grew as rich as a Jew, and as fat as a farmer, and
people thought twice before they meddled with him, but only once
before they asked him to help them; for, because he earned his
money well, he could afford to spend it well likewise.

"And his children are the men of science, who get good lasting work
done in the world; but the children of Prometheus are the fanatics,
and the theorists, and the bigots, and the bores, and the noisy
windy people, who go telling silly folk what will happen, instead
of looking to see what has happened already
Look a-head, only look a-head; and we will show you what man never
saw before, and right away to the end of the world
For what are all our contrivings
And the wisdom of our books,
When compared with your caresses,
And the gladness of your looks?

"Ye are better than all the ballads
That ever were sung or said;
For ye are living poems,
And all the rest are dead
What do you want here
getting in my
way
I am too old to be taken in in that way.  You are come after gold-
-I know you are
Gold!  What is gold
Now is your time, youngster, to get down, if you are in earnest,
which I don't believe
You'll soon see
Parliament of Man, and the Federation of
the World
Victrix causa diis placuit, sed victa puellis
You mustn't go west, I tell you; it is destruction to go west
But I am not going west, as you may see
The east lies here, my dear; I assure you this is the
east
But I don't want to go east
Well, then, at all events, whichever way you are going, you are
going wrong
Oh, don't tell us
What? who are you?  And you actually don't run away, like all the
rest
No, no, no
I've not been round the world, and through
the world, and up to Mother Carey's haven, beside being caught in a
net and called a Holothurian and a Cephalopod, to be bottled up by
any old giant like you
Ah, you lucky little dog
ah, you lucky little dog!  If I had only been where
you have been, to see what you have seen
Well
if you want to do that, you had best put your
head under water for a few hours, as I did, and turn into a water-
baby, or some other baby, and then you might have a chance
Turn into a baby, eh?  If I could do that, and know what was
happening to me for but one hour, I should know everything then,
and be at rest.  But I can't; I can't be a little child again; and
I suppose if I could, it would be no use, because then I should
then know nothing about what was happening to me.  Ah, you lucky
little dog
But why do you run after all these poor people
My dear, it's they that have been running after me, father and
son, for hundreds and hundreds of years, throwing stones at me till
they have knocked off my spectacles fifty times, and calling me a
malignant and a turbaned Turk, who beat a Venetian and traduced the
State -- goodness only knows what they mean, for I never read poetry-
-and hunting me round and round -- though catch me they can't, for
every time I go over the same ground, I go the faster, and grow the
bigger.  While all I want is to be friends with them, and to tell
them something to their advantage, like Mr. Joseph Ady:  only
somehow they are so strangely afraid of hearing it.  But, I suppose
I am not a man of the world, and have no tact
But why don't you turn round and tell them so
Because I can't.  You see, I am one of the sons of Epimetheus, and
must go backwards, if I am to go at all
But why don't you stop, and let them come up to you
Why, my dear, only think.  If I did, all the butterflies and
cockyolybirds would fly past me, and then I should catch no more
new species, and should grow rusty and mouldy, and die.  And I
don't intend to do that, my dear; for I have a destiny before me,
they say:  though what it is I don't know, and don't care
Don't care
No.  Do the duty which lies nearest you, and catch the first
beetle you come across, is my motto; and I have thriven by it for
some hundred years.  Now I must go on.  Dear me, while I have been
talking to you, at least nine new species have escaped me
An entirely new Oniscus, and three obscure Podurellae!  Besides a
moth which M. le Roi des Papillons (though he, like all Frenchmen,
is given to hasty inductions) says is confined to the limits of the
Glacial Drift.  This is most important
Dear me!  This is even more important!  Here is a cognate species
to that which Macgilliwaukie Brown insists is confined to the
Buddhist temples of Little Thibet; and now when I look at it, it
may be only a variety produced by difference of climate
Well
this is a very pretty quarrel, with a good
deal to be said on both sides.  But it is no business of mine
Jack shall have Gill
Nought shall go ill
The man shall have his mare again, and all go well
I can't learn my lesson:  the examiner's coming
Playthings not allowed
here
I can't learn my lesson; do
come and help me
Can you show me how to extract
this square root
Can you tell me the distance between &lsqb;alpha&rsqb; Lyrae
and &lsqb;beta&rsqb; Camelopardis
What is the latitude and longitude of Snooksville, in
Noman's County, Oregon, U.S
What was the name of Mutius Scaevola's thirteenth
cousin's grandmother's maid's cat
How long would it take a school-inspector of average
activity to tumble head over heels from London to York
Can you tell me the name of a place that nobody ever
heard of, where nothing ever happened, in a country which has not
been discovered yet
Can you show me how to correct this hopelessly
corrupt passage of Graidiocolosyrtus Tabenniticus, on the cause why
crocodiles have no tongues
And what good on earth will it do you if I did tell you
Can you tell me anything at all about anything you like
About what
About anything you like; for as fast as I learn things I forget
them again.  So my mamma says that my intellect is not adapted for
methodic science, and says that I must go in for general
information
You see
there were as pretty little children
once as you could wish to see, and might have been so still if they
had been only left to grow up like human beings, and then handed
over to me; but their foolish fathers and mothers, instead of
letting them pick flowers, and make dirt-pies, and get birds'
nests, and dance round the gooseberry bush, as little children
should, kept them always at lessons, working, working, working,
learning week-day lessons all week-days, and Sunday lessons all
Sunday, and weekly examinations every Saturday, and monthly
examinations every month, and yearly examinations every year,
everything seven times over, as if once was not enough, and enough
as good as a feast -- till their brains grew big, and their bodies
grew small, and they were all changed into turnips, with little but
water inside; and still their foolish parents actually pick the
leaves off them as fast as they grow, lest they should have
anything green about them
Ah
if dear Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby knew of it she
would send them a lot of tops, and balls, and marbles, and
ninepins, and make them all as jolly as sand-boys
It would be no use
They can't play now, if
they tried.  Don't you see how their legs have turned to roots and
grown into the ground, by never taking any exercise, but sapping
and moping always in the same place?  But here comes the Examiner-
of-all-Examiners.  So you had better get away, I warn you, or he
will examine you and your dog into the bargain, and set him to
examine all the other dogs, and you to examine all the other water-
babies.  There is no escaping out of his hands, for his nose is
nine thousand miles long, and can go down chimneys, and through
keyholes, upstairs, downstairs, in my lady's chamber, examining all
little boys, and the little boys' tutors likewise.  But when he is
thrashed -- so Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid has promised me -- I shall have
the thrashing of him:  and if I don't lay it on with a will it's a
pity
Instruction sore long time I bore,
And cramming was in vain;
Till heaven did please my woes to ease
With water on the brain
Farewell, Tomtoddies all; I thank my stars
That nought I know save those three royal r's:
Reading and riting sure, with rithmetick,
Will help a lad of sense through thin and thick
What are you crying for
Because I am not as frightened as I could wish to be
Not frightened?  You are a queer little chap:  but, if you want to
be frightened, here goes -- Boo
Ah
that is very kind of you; but I don't
feel that it has made any impression
Here we are again
So
you can't feel frightened, my little dear -- eh?  I'll do that for
you.  I'll make an impression on you!  Yah!  Boo!  Whirroo!
Hullabaloo
Now, then
wouldn't you like to be
frightened, my little dear?  For I can see plainly that you are a
very wicked, naughty, graceless, reprobate boy
You're another
Boo
Boo
Woof
Help! thieves! murder! fire!  He
is going to kill me!  I am a ruined man!  He will murder me; and
break, burn, and destroy my precious and invaluable thunderbox; and
then you will have no more thunder-showers in the land.  Help!
help! help
Oh, the wicked, impudent, hard-hearted,
graceless boy!  Beat him, kick him, shoot him, drown him, hang him,
burn him
Stop
All right -- pass on
I had
better go with you, young man
Why have you no policeman to carry you
Because we are not like those clumsy-made truncheons in the land-
world, which cannot go without having a whole man to carry them
about.  We do our own work for ourselves; and do it very well,
though I say it who should not
Then why have you a thong to your handle
To hang ourselves up by, of course, when we are off duty
What case is this
If you please, sir, it is no case; only a young gentleman from her
ladyship, who wants to see Grimes, the master-sweep
Grimes
Grimes is up chimney No. 345
So the young
gentleman had better go on to the roof
Very good
Come along:  but it will be of no use.  He
is the most unremorseful, hard-hearted, foul-mouthed fellow I have
in charge; and thinks about nothing but beer and pipes, which are
not allowed here, of course
Attention, Mr. Grimes
here is a gentleman
come to see you
My pipe
won't draw.  My pipe won't draw
Keep a civil tongue, and attend
Hey
why, it's Tom!  I suppose you have come here to
laugh at me, you spiteful little atomy
I don't want anything except beer, and that I can't get; and a
light to this bothering pipe, and that I can't get either
I'll get you one
It's no use
I tell you, it is no use.  His heart is
so cold that it freezes everything that comes near him.  You will
see that presently, plain enough
Oh, of course, it's my fault.  Everything's always my fault
Now don't go to hit me again
you know, if my arms were only
free, you daren't hit me then
But can't I help you in any other way?  Can't I help you to get
out of this chimney
No
he has come to the place where
everybody must help themselves; and he will find it out, I hope,
before he has done with me
Oh, yes
of course it's me.  Did I ask to be
brought here into the prison?  Did I ask to be set to sweep your
foul chimneys?  Did I ask to have lighted straw put under me to
make me go up?  Did I ask to stick fast in the very first chimney
of all, because it was so shamefully clogged up with soot?  Did I
ask to stay here -- I don't know how long -- a hundred years, I do
believe, and never get my pipe, nor my beer, nor nothing fit for a
beast, let alone a man
No
No more did Tom, when you
behaved to him in the very same way
Oh, ma'am
don't think about me; that's all past and
gone, and good times and bad times and all times pass over.  But
may not I help poor Mr. Grimes?  Mayn't I try and get some of these
bricks away, that he may move his arms
You may try, of course
Oh, dear
I have come all this way, through all these
terrible places, to help you, and now I am of no use at all
You had best leave me alone
you are a good-natured
forgiving little chap, and that's truth; but you'd best be off.
The hail's coming on soon, and it will beat the eyes out of your
little head
What hail
Why, hail that falls every evening here; and, till it comes close
to me, it's like so much warm rain:  but then it turns to hail over
my head, and knocks me about like small shot
That hail will never come any more
I
have told you before what it was.  It was your mother's tears,
those which she shed when she prayed for you by her bedside; but
your cold heart froze it into hail.  But she is gone to heaven now,
and will weep no more for her graceless son
So my old mother's gone, and I never there to speak to her!  Ah! a
good woman she was, and might have been a happy one, in her little
school there in Vendale, if it hadn't been for me and my bad ways
Did she keep the school in Vendale
Ah
good reason she had to hate the sight of a
chimney-sweep.  I ran away from her and took up with the sweeps,
and never let her know where I was, nor sent her a penny to help
her, and now it's too late -- too late
Oh, dear, if I was but a little chap in Vendale again, to see the
clear beck, and the apple-orchard, and the yew-hedge, how different
I would go on!  But it's too late now.  So you go along, you kind
little chap, and don't stand to look at a man crying, that's old
enough to be your father, and never feared the face of man, nor of
worse neither.  But I'm beat now, and beat I must be.  I've made my
bed, and I must lie on it.  Foul I would be, and foul I am, as an
Irishwoman said to me once; and little I heeded it.  It's all my
own fault:  but it's too late
Never too late
Will you obey me if I give you a chance
As you please, ma'am.  You're stronger than me -- that I know too
well, and wiser than me, I know too well also.  And, as for being
my own master, I've fared ill enough with that as yet.  So whatever
your ladyship pleases to order me; for I'm beat, and that's the
truth
Be it so then -- you may come out.  But remember, disobey me again,
and into a worse place still you go
I beg pardon ma'am, but I never disobeyed you that I know of.  I
never had the honour of setting eyes upon you till I came to these
ugly quarters
Never saw me?  Who said to you, Those that will be foul, foul they
will be
I gave you your warning then:  but you gave it
yourself a thousand times before and since.  Every bad word that
you said -- every cruel and mean thing that you did -- every time that
you got tipsy -- every day that you went dirty -- you were disobeying
me, whether you knew it or not
If I'd only known, ma'am
You knew well enough that you were disobeying something, though
you did not know it was me.  But come out and take your chance.
Perhaps it may be your last
Take him away
and give him his
ticket-of-leave
And what is he to do, ma'am
Get him to sweep out the crater of Etna; he will find some very
steady men working out their time there, who will teach him his
business:  but mind, if that crater gets choked again, and there is
an earthquake in consequence, bring them all to me, and I shall
investigate the case very severely
And now
your work here is done.  You may
as well go back again
I should be glad enough to go
but how am I to get up
that great hole again, now the steam has stopped blowing
I will take you up the backstairs:  but I must bandage your eyes
first; for I never allow anybody to see those backstairs of mine
I am sure I shall not tell anybody about them, ma'am, if you bid
me not
But why do they want so to know about
the backstairs
That I shall not tell you.  I never put things into little folks'
heads which are but too likely to come there of themselves.  So
come -- now I must bandage your eyes
Now
you are safe up the stairs
Oh, Miss Ellie
how you are grown
Oh, Tom
how you are grown too
Perhaps I may be grown
I have had time enough; for I
have been sitting here waiting for you many a hundred years, till I
thought you were never coming
Many a hundred years
Attention, children.  Are you
never going to look at me again
We have been looking at you all this while
Then look at me once more
Oh, who are you,
after all
You are our dear Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby
No, you are good Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid; but you are grown quite
beautiful now
To you
But look again
You are Mother Carey
But you are grown quite young again
To you
Look again
You are the Irishwoman who met me the day I went to Harthover
My name is written in my eyes, if you have eyes to see it there
Now read my name
Not yet, young things, not yet
You may take him home with you now on Sundays, Ellie.  He has won
his spurs in the great battle, and become fit to go with you and be
a man; because he has done the thing he did not like
And of course Tom married Ellie
And Tom's dog
sae sair hadden doun
</text>
