<text>
Bother
O blow
Hang spring-cleaning
Up we go! Up we
go
This is fine
This is better than whitewashing
Hold up
Sixpence for the
privilege of passing by the private road
Onion-sauce!
Onion-sauce
How STUPID you are! Why didn't you tell
him
Well, why didn't YOU say
You might have reminded
him
whitewash
Hullo, Mole
Hullo, Rat
Would you like to come over
Oh, its all very well to TALK
Lean on that
Now then, step lively
This has been a wonderful day
Do you know, I've never been in a boat before in
all my life
What
Never been in a -- you never -- well
I -- what have you been doing, then
Is it so nice as all that
Nice? It's the ONLY thing
Believe me, my young friend, there is
NOTHING -- absolute nothing -- half so much worth doing as simply
messing about in boats. Simply messing
messing -- about -- in -- boats; messing
Look ahead, Rat
about in boats -- or WITH boats
em, it doesn't matter.
Nothing seems really to matter, that's the charm of it. Whether you get
away, or whether you don't; whether you arrive at your destination or
whether you reach somewhere else, or whether you never get anywhere at
all, you're always busy, and you never do anything in particular; and
when you've done it there's always something else to do, and you can do
it if you like, but you'd much better not. Look here! If you've really
nothing else on hand this morning, supposing we drop down the river
together, and have a long day of it
WHAT a day I'm having
Let us start at once
Hold hard a minute, then
Shove that under your feet
What's inside it
There's cold chicken inside it
coldtonguecoldhamcoldbeefpickledgherkinssaladfrenchrollscresssan-
dwichespottedmeatgingerbeerlemonadesodawater
O stop, stop
This is too much
Do you really think so
It's only what I
always take on these little excursions; and the other animals are always
telling me that I'm a mean beast and cut it VERY fine
I like your clothes awfully, old chap
I'm going to get a black velvet smoking-suit
myself some day, as soon as I can afford it
I beg your pardon
You must think me very rude; but all this is so new to me.
So -- this -- is -- a -- River
THE River
And you really live by the river? What a jolly life
By it and with it and on it and in it
It's brother
and sister to me, and aunts, and company, and food and drink, and
(naturally) washing. It's my world, and I don't want any other. What it
hasn't got is not worth having, and what it doesn't know is not worth
knowing. Lord! the times we've had together! Whether in winter or
summer, spring or autumn, it's always got its fun and its excitements.
When the floods are on in February, and my cellars and basement are
brimming with drink that's no good to me, and the brown water runs by my
best bedroom window; or again when it all drops away and, shows patches
of mud that smells like plum-cake, and the rushes and weed clog the
channels, and I can potter about dry shod over most of the bed of it and
find fresh food to eat, and things careless people have dropped out of
boats
But isn't it a bit dull at times
Just you
and the river, and no one else to pass a word with
No one else to -- well, I mustn't be hard on you
You're new to it, and of course you don't know. The bank
is so crowded nowadays that many people are moving away altogether: O
no, it isn't what it used to be, at all. Otters, kingfishers, dabchicks,
moorhens, all of them about all day long and always wanting you to DO
something -- as if a fellow had no business of his own to attend to
That? O, that's just the Wild Wood
We don't go
there very much, we river-bankers
Aren't they -- aren't they very NICE people in there
W-e-ll
em, but rabbits are a mixed lot. And then there's
Badger, of course. He lives right in the heart of it; wouldn't live
anywhere else, either, if you paid him to do it. Dear old Badger! Nobody
interferes with HIM. They'd better not
Why, who SHOULD interfere with him
Well, of course -- there -- are others
Weasels -- and stoats -- and foxes -- and so on. They're all right in a
way -- I'm very good friends with them -- pass the time of day when we meet,
and all that -- but they break out sometimes, there's no denying it, and
then -- well, you can't really trust them, and that's the fact
And beyond the Wild Wood again
Where it's all blue
and dim, and one sees what may be hills or perhaps they mayn't, and
something like the smoke of towns, or is it only cloud-drift
Beyond the Wild Wood comes the Wide World
And that's
something that doesn't matter, either to you or me. I've never been
there, and I'm never going, nor you either, if you've got any sense
at all. Don't ever refer to it again, please. Now then! Here's our
backwater at last, where we're going to lunch
O my! O my! O my
O my! O my
Now, pitch
in, old fellow
What are you looking at
I am looking
at a streak of bubbles that I see
travelling along the surface of the water. That is a thing that strikes
me as funny
Bubbles? Oho
Greedy beggars
Why didn't you
invite me, Ratty
This was an impromptu affair
By the way -- my
friend Mr. Mole
Proud, I'm sure
Such a rumpus everywhere
All the world seems
out on the river to-day. I came up this backwater to try and get a
moment's peace, and then stumble upon you fellows!-- At least -- I beg
pardon -- I don't exactly mean that, you know
Come on, old Badger
H'm! Company
That's JUST the sort of fellow he is
Simply hates Society! Now we shan't see any more of him to-day. Well,
tell us, WHO'S out on the river
Toad's out, for one
In his brand-new wager-boat;
new togs, new everything
Once, it was nothing but sailing
Then he tired of that
and took to punting. Nothing would please him but to punt all day
and every day, and a nice mess he made of it. Last year it was
house-boating, and we all had to go and stay with him in his house-boat,
and pretend we liked it. He was going to spend the rest of his life in
a house-boat. It's all the same, whatever he takes up; he gets tired of
it, and starts on something fresh
Such a good fellow, too
But no
stability -- especially in a boat
He'll be out of the boat in a minute if he rolls like that
Of course he will
Did I ever tell you that good
story about Toad and the lock-keeper? It happened this way. Toad
cloop
Well, well
I suppose we ought to be moving. I wonder
which of us had better pack the luncheon-basket
O, please let me
Ratty! Please, _I_ want to row, now
Not yet, my young friend
wait till you've had a few lessons. It's not so easy as it
looks
Stop it, you SILLY ass
You can't do it! You'll have us over
Now, then, old fellow! Trot up and down the towing-path
as hard as you can, till you're warm and dry again, while I dive for the
luncheon-basket
Ratty, my generous friend! I am very
sorry indeed for my foolish and ungrateful conduct. My heart quite fails
me when I think how I might have lost that beautiful luncheon-basket.
Indeed, I have been a complete ass, and I know it. Will you overlook it
this once and forgive me, and let things go on as before
That's all right, bless you
What's a
little wet to a Water Rat? I'm more in the water than out of it most
days. Don't you think any more about it; and, look here! I really think
you had better come and stop with me for a little time. It's very plain
and rough, you know -- not like Toad's house at all -- but you haven't seen
that yet; still, I can make you comfortable. And I'll teach you to row,
and to swim, and you'll soon be as handy on the water as any of us
Ratty
if you
please, I want to ask you a favour
I don't know that I think so VERY much of that little song, Rat
Nor don't the ducks neither
They say,
"WHY can't fellows be allowed to do what they like WHEN they like and AS
they like, instead of other fellows sitting on banks and watching them
all the time and making remarks and poetry and things about them? What
NONSENSE it all is!" That's what the ducks say
So it is, so it is
No, it isn't
Well then, it isn't, it isn't
But what
I wanted to ask you was, won't you take me to call on Mr. Toad? I've
heard so much about him, and I do so want to make his acquaintance
Why, certainly
Get the boat out, and
we'll paddle up there at once. It's never the wrong time to call on
Toad. Early or late he's always the same fellow. Always good-tempered,
always glad to see you, always sorry when you go
He must be a very nice animal
He is indeed the best of animals
So simple, so
good-natured, and so affectionate. Perhaps he's not very clever -- we
can't all be geniuses; and it may be that he is both boastful and
conceited. But he has got some great qualities, has Toady
There's Toad Hall
and that creek on the left, where
the notice-board says, "Private. No landing allowed," leads to his
boat-house, where we'll leave the boat. The stables are over there to
the right. That's the banqueting-hall you're looking at now -- very old,
that is. Toad is rather rich, you know, and this is really one of the
nicest houses in these parts, though we never admit as much to Toad
I understand
Boating is played
out. He's tired of it, and done with it. I wonder what new fad he has
taken up now? Come along and let's look him up. We shall hear all about
it quite soon enough
Hooray
this is splendid
How KIND of you
I was
just going to send a boat down the river for you, Ratty, with strict
orders that you were to be fetched up here at once, whatever you were
doing. I want you badly -- both of you. Now what will you take? Come
inside and have something! You don't know how lucky it is, your turning
up just now
Let's sit quiet a bit, Toady
delightful residence
Finest house on the whole river
Or anywhere
else, for that matter
All right, Ratty
It's only my way, you know.
And it's not such a very bad house, is it? You know you rather like it
yourself. Now, look here. Let's be sensible. You are the very animals I
wanted. You've got to help me. It's most important
It's about your rowing, I suppose
You're getting on fairly well, though you splash a good bit still. With
a great deal of patience, and any quantity of coaching, you may
O, pooh! boating
Silly boyish
amusement. I've given that up LONG ago. Sheer waste of time, that's what
it is. It makes me downright sorry to see you fellows, who ought to
know better, spending all your energies in that aimless manner. No, I've
discovered the real thing, the only genuine occupation for a life time.
I propose to devote the remainder of mine to it, and can only regret the
wasted years that lie behind me, squandered in trivialities. Come with
me, dear Ratty, and your amiable friend also, if he will be so very
good, just as far as the stable-yard, and you shall see what you shall
see
There you are
em all
myself, I did
All complete
You
see -- biscuits, potted lobster, sardines -- everything you can possibly
want. Soda-water here -- baccy there -- letter-paper, bacon, jam, cards and
dominoes -- you'll find
you'll find that nothing what ever has been forgotten, when we make our
start this afternoon
I beg your pardon
but
did I overhear you say something about "WE," and "START," and "THIS
AFTERNOON
Now, you dear good old Ratty
don't begin
talking in that stiff and sniffy sort of way, because you know you've
GOT to come. I can't possibly manage without you, so please consider it
settled, and don't argue -- it's the one thing I can't stand. You surely
don't mean to stick to your dull fusty old river all your life, and just
live in a hole in a bank, and BOAT? I want to show you the world! I'm
going to make an ANIMAL of you, my boy
I don't care
I'm not coming, and that's
flat. And I AM going to stick to my old river, AND live in a hole, AND
boat, as I've always done. And what's more, Mole's going to stick to me
and do as I do, aren't you, Mole
Of course I am
I'll always stick to you,
Rat, and what you say is to be -- has got to be. All the same, it sounds
as if it might have been -- well, rather fun, you know
Come along in, and have some lunch
and
we'll talk it over. We needn't decide anything in a hurry. Of course,
_I_ don't really care. I only want to give pleasure to you fellows.
"Live for others!" That's my motto in life
Good-day
O my! O my! O my
Well, good night, you fellows! This is the real life for a
gentleman! Talk about your old river
I DON'T talk about my river
You KNOW I
don't, Toad. But I THINK about it
I think about it -- all the time
I'll do whatever you like, Ratty
Shall we run away to-morrow morning, quite early -- VERY
early -- and go back to our dear old hole on the river
No, no, we'll see it out
Thanks awfully, but
I ought to stick by Toad till this trip is ended. It wouldn't be safe
for him to be left to himself. It won't take very long. His fads never
do. Good night
Yes,
precisely; and what did YOU say to HIM
Poop-poop
You villains
You scoundrels, you
highwaymen, you -- you -- roadhogs!-- I'll have the law of you! I'll report
you! I'll take you through all the Courts
Poop-poop
Hi! Toad
Come and bear a hand, can't
you
Poop-poop
Are you coming to help us, Toad
Glorious, stirring sight
The
poetry of motion! The REAL way to travel! The ONLY way to travel! Here
to-day -- in next week to-morrow! Villages skipped, towns and cities
jumped -- always somebody else's horizon! O bliss! O poop-poop! O my! O
my
O STOP being an ass, Toad
And to think I never KNEW
All
those wasted years that lie behind me, I never knew, never even DREAMT!
But NOW -- but now that I know, now that I fully realise! O what a flowery
track lies spread before me, henceforth! What dust-clouds shall spring
up behind me as I speed on my reckless way! What carts I shall fling
carelessly into the ditch in the wake of my magnificent onset! Horrid
little carts -- common carts -- canary-coloured carts
What are we to do with him
Nothing at all
Because there is really
nothing to be done. You see, I know him from of old. He is now
possessed. He has got a new craze, and it always takes him that way, in
its first stage. He'll continue like that for days now, like an animal
walking in a happy dream, quite useless for all practical purposes.
Never mind him. Let's go and see what there is to be done about the
cart
Come on
It's five or six miles to
the nearest town, and we shall just have to walk it. The sooner we make
a start the better
But what about Toad
We can't leave him here, sitting in the middle of the road
by himself, in the distracted state he's in! It's not safe. Supposing
another Thing were to come along
O, BOTHER Toad
I've done with him
Now, look here, Toad
as soon as we get to the
town, you'll have to go straight to the police-station, and see if they
know anything about that motor-car and who it belongs to, and lodge a
complaint against it. And then you'll have to go to a blacksmith's or a
wheelwright's and arrange for the cart to be fetched and mended and
put to rights. It'll take time, but it's not quite a hopeless smash.
Meanwhile, the Mole and I will go to an inn and find comfortable rooms
where we can stay till the cart's ready, and till your nerves have
recovered their shock
Police-station! Complaint
Me COMPLAIN of that
beautiful, that heavenly vision that has been vouchsafed me! MEND THE
CART! I've done with carts for ever. I never want to see the cart, or to
hear of it, again. O, Ratty! You can't think how obliged I am to you for
consenting to come on this trip! I wouldn't have gone without you,
and then I might never have seen that -- that swan, that sunbeam, that
thunderbolt! I might never have heard that entrancing sound, or smelt
that bewitching smell! I owe it all to you, my best of friends
You see what it is
He's quite hopeless. I give
it up -- when we get to the town we'll go to the railway station, and
with luck we may pick up a train there that'll get us back to riverbank
to-night. And if ever you catch me going a-pleasuring with this
provoking animal again
Heard the news
There's nothing else being talked
about, all along the river bank. Toad went up to Town by an early train
this morning. And he has ordered a large and very expensive motor-car
It's all right
Badger'll turn up some day or other -- he's always turning up -- and then
I'll introduce you. The best of fellows! But you must not only take him
AS you find him, but WHEN you find him
Couldn't you ask him here dinner or something
He wouldn't come
Badger hates Society, and
invitations, and dinner, and all that sort of thing
Well, then, supposing we go and call on HIM
O, I'm sure he wouldn't like that at ALL
He's so very shy, he'd be sure to be offended. I've never even ventured
to call on him at his own home myself, though I know him so well.
Besides, we can't. It's quite out of the question, because he lives in
the very middle of the Wild Wood
Well, supposing he does
You told me the Wild Wood was
all right, you know
O, I know, I know, so it is
But I think
we won't go there just now. Not JUST yet. It's a long way, and he
wouldn't be at home at this time of year anyhow, and he'll be coming
along some day, if you'll wait quietly
Get out of this, you fool, get out
Moly
Moly,
Moly, Moly! Where are you? It's me -- it's old Rat
Ratty! Is that really you
O Rat
I've been so frightened, you
can't think
O, I quite understand
You shouldn't really
have gone and done it, Mole. I did my best to keep you from it. We
river-bankers, we hardly ever come here by ourselves. If we have to
come, we come in couples, at least; then we're generally all right.
Besides, there are a hundred things one has to know, which we understand
all about and you don't, as yet. I mean passwords, and signs, and
sayings which have power and effect, and plants you carry in your
pocket, and verses you repeat, and dodges and tricks you practise; all
simple enough when you know them, but they've got to be known if you're
small, or you'll find yourself in trouble. Of course if you were Badger
or Otter, it would be quite another matter
Surely the brave Mr. Toad wouldn't mind coming here by himself, would
he
Old Toad
He wouldn't show his face
here alone, not for a whole hatful of golden guineas, Toad wouldn't
Now then
we really must pull ourselves
together and make a start for home while there's still a little light
left. It will never do to spend the night here, you understand. Too
cold, for one thing
Dear Ratty
I'm dreadfully sorry, but I'm simply
dead beat and that's a solid fact. You MUST let me rest here a while
longer, and get my strength back, if I'm to get home at all
O, all right
rest away. It's pretty
nearly pitch dark now, anyhow; and there ought to be a bit of a moon
later
Now then! I'll just take a look outside and see if
everything's quiet, and then we really must be off
Hullo! hullo!
here -- is -- a -- go
What's up, Ratty
SNOW is up
or rather, DOWN. It's snowing
hard
Well, well, it can't be helped
We
must make a start, and take our chance, I suppose. The worst of it is, I
don't exactly know where we are. And now this snow makes everything look
so very different
We can't sit here very long
We shall have to make
another push for it, and do something or other. The cold is too
awful for anything, and the snow will soon be too deep for us to wade
through
Look here
this is what occurs to me. There's a sort of dell down here in front of
us, where the ground seems all hilly and humpy and hummocky. We'll make
our way down into that, and try and find some sort of shelter, a cave
or hole with a dry floor to it, out of the snow and the wind, and there
we'll have a good rest before we try again, for we're both of us pretty
dead beat. Besides, the snow may leave off, or something may turn up
O my leg
O my poor shin
Poor old Mole
You don't seem to be having much luck to-day, do you? Let's have a look
at the leg. Yes
you've
cut your shin, sure enough. Wait till I get at my handkerchief, and I'll
tie it up for you
I must have tripped over a hidden branch or a stump
O, my! O, my
It's a very clean cut
That was never done by a branch or a stump. Looks as if it was made
by a sharp edge of something in metal. Funny
Well, never mind what done it
It hurts just the same, whatever done it
O, COME on, Rat
Hooray
Hooray-oo-ray-oo-ray-oo-ray
What HAVE you found, Ratty
Come and see
Well
I SEE it right enough. Seen the same
sort of thing before, lots of times. Familiar object, I call it. A
door-scraper! Well, what of it? Why dance jigs around a door-scraper
But don't you see what it MEANS, you -- you dull-witted animal
Of course I see what it means
It simply means that
some VERY careless and forgetful person has left his door-scraper lying
about in the middle of the Wild Wood, JUST where it's SURE to trip
EVERYBODY up. Very thoughtless of him, I call it. When I get home
I shall go and complain about it to -- to somebody or other, see if I
don't
O, dear! O, dear
Here,
stop arguing and come and scrape
There, what did I tell you
Absolutely nothing whatever
Well now
you seem to have found another
piece of domestic litter, done for and thrown away, and I suppose you're
perfectly happy. Better go ahead and dance your jig round that if you've
got to, and get it over, and then perhaps we can go on and not waste
any more time over rubbish-heaps. Can we EAT a doormat? or sleep under a
door-mat? Or sit on a door-mat and sledge home over the snow on it, you
exasperating rodent
Do -- you -- mean -- to -- say
that this door-mat
doesn't TELL you anything
Really, Rat
I think we'd had enough
of this folly. Who ever heard of a door-mat TELLING anyone anything?
They simply don't do it. They are not that sort at all. Door-mats know
their place
Now look here, you -- you thick-headed beast
this must stop. Not another word, but scrape -- scrape and scratch
and dig and hunt round, especially on the sides of the hummocks, if you
want to sleep dry and warm to-night, for it's our last chance
Rat
you're a wonder! A real wonder, that's
what you are. I see it all now! You argued it out, step by step, in that
wise head of yours, from the very moment that I fell and cut my shin,
and you looked at the cut, and at once your majestic mind said to
itself, "Door-scraper!" And then you turned to and found the very
door-scraper that done it! Did you stop there? No. Some people would
have been quite satisfied; but not you. Your intellect went on working.
"Let me only just find a door-mat," says you to yourself, "and my theory
is proved!" And of course you found your door-mat. You're so clever, I
believe you could find anything you liked. "Now," says you, "that door
exists, as plain as if I saw it. There's nothing else remains to be done
but to find it!" Well, I've read about that sort of thing in books, but
I've never come across it before in real life. You ought to go where
you'll be properly appreciated. You're simply wasted here, among us
fellows. If I only had your head, Ratty
But as you haven't
I suppose
you're going to sit on the snow all night and TALK? Get up at once and
hang on to that bell-pull you see there, and ring hard, as hard as you
can, while I hammer
Now, the VERY next time this happens
I shall be exceedingly angry. Who is it THIS time, disturbing
people on such a night? Speak up
Oh, Badger
let us in, please. It's me, Rat, and my
friend Mole, and we've lost our way in the snow
What, Ratty, my dear little man
Come along in, both of you, at once. Why, you must be
perished. Well I never! Lost in the snow! And in the Wild Wood, too, and
at this time of night! But come in with you
This is not the sort
of night for small animals to be out
I'm afraid
you've been up to some of your pranks again, Ratty. But come along;
come into the kitchen. There's a first-rate fire there, and supper and
everything
I told
you so
Just what I always said
Now then! tell us the news from your part of the world. How's
old Toad going on
Oh, from bad to worse
Another smash-up only last week,
and a bad one. You see, he will insist on driving himself, and he's
hopelessly incapable. If he'd only employ a decent, steady, well-trained
animal, pay him good wages, and leave everything to him, he'd get on all
right. But no; he's convinced he's a heaven-born driver, and nobody can
teach him anything; and all the rest follows
How many has he had
Smashes, or machines
Oh, well, after all, it's the
same thing -- with Toad. This is the seventh. As for the others -- you know
that coach-house of his? Well, it's piled up -- literally piled up to the
roof -- with fragments of motor-cars, none of them bigger than your hat!
That accounts for the other six -- so far as they can be accounted for
He's been in hospital three times
and as for the
fines he's had to pay, it's simply awful to think of
Yes, and that's part of the trouble
Toad's rich,
we all know; but he's not a millionaire. And he's a hopelessly bad
driver, and quite regardless of law and order. Killed or ruined -- it's
got to be one of the two things, sooner or later. Badger! we're his
friends -- oughtn't we to do something
Now look here
of course you know I can't do anything NOW
Very well then
BUT, when once the year has
really turned, and the nights are shorter, and halfway through them one
rouses and feels fidgety and wanting to be up and doing by sunrise, if
not before -- YOU know
Well, THEN
we -- that is, you and me and our
friend the Mole here -- we'll take Toad seriously in hand. We'll stand no
nonsense whatever. We'll bring him back to reason, by force if need be.
We'll MAKE him be a sensible Toad. We'll -- you're asleep, Rat
Not me
He's been asleep two or three times since supper
Well, it's time we were all in bed
Come along, you two, and I'll show you your
quarters. And take your time tomorrow morning -- breakfast at any hour you
please
There, sit down, sit down
and go on with
your porridge. Where have you youngsters come from? Lost your way in the
snow, I suppose
Yes, please, sir
Me and little Billy here, we was trying to find our way to
school -- mother WOULD have us go, was the weather ever so -- and of course
we lost ourselves, sir, and Billy he got frightened and took and cried,
being young and faint-hearted. And at last we happened up against Mr.
Badger's back door, and made so bold as to knock, sir, for Mr. Badger
he's a kind-hearted gentleman, as everyone knows
I understand
And what's
the weather like outside? You needn't "sir" me quite so much
O, terrible bad, sir, terrible deep the snow is
No getting out for the likes of you gentlemen to-day
Where's Mr. Badger
The master's gone into his study, sir
and he
said as how he was going to be particular busy this morning, and on no
account was he to be disturbed
Get off
Thought I should find you here all right
They were all in a great state of alarm along River Bank when I arrived
this morning. Rat never been home all night -- nor Mole either -- something
dreadful must have happened, they said; and the snow had covered up all
your tracks, of course. But I knew that when people were in any fix they
mostly went to Badger, or else Badger got to know of it somehow, so I
came straight off here, through the Wild Wood and the snow! My! it was
fine, coming through the snow as the red sun was rising and showing
against the black tree-trunks! As you went along in the stillness, every
now and then masses of snow slid off the branches suddenly with a flop!
making you jump and run for cover. Snow-castles and snow-caverns had
sprung up out of nowhere in the night -- and snow bridges, terraces,
ramparts -- I could have stayed and played with them for hours. Here and
there great branches had been torn away by the sheer weight of the snow,
and robins perched and hopped on them in their perky conceited way, just
as if they had done it themselves. A ragged string of wild geese passed
overhead, high on the grey sky, and a few rooks whirled over the trees,
inspected, and flapped off homewards with a disgusted expression; but I
met no sensible being to ask the news of. About halfway across I came on
a rabbit sitting on a stump, cleaning his silly face with his paws. He
was a pretty scared animal when I crept up behind him and placed a heavy
forepaw on his shoulder. I had to cuff his head once or twice to get any
sense out of it at all. At last I managed to extract from him that Mole
had been seen in the Wild Wood last night by one of them. It was the
talk of the burrows, he said, how Mole, Mr. Rat's particular friend,
was in a bad fix; how he had lost his way, and "They" were up and out
hunting, and were chivvying him round and round. "Then why didn't any of
you DO something?" I asked. "You mayn't be blest with brains, but there
are hundreds and hundreds of you, big, stout fellows, as fat as butter,
and your burrows running in all directions, and you could have taken
him in and made him safe and comfortable, or tried to, at all events."
 "What, US?" he merely said: "DO something? us rabbits?" So I cuffed him
again and left him. There was nothing else to be done. At any rate, I
had learnt something; and if I had had the luck to meet any of "Them"
 I'd have learnt something more -- or THEY would
Weren't you at all -- er -- nervous
Nervous
em nerves if any of them tried anything on with me.
Here, Mole, fry me some slices of ham, like the good little chap you
are. I'm frightfully hungry, and I've got any amount to say to Ratty
here. Haven't seen him for an age
It must
be getting on for luncheon time
Better stop
and have it with us. You must be hungry, this cold morning
Rather
The sight of these
greedy young hedgehogs stuffing themselves with fried ham makes me feel
positively famished
Here, you two youngsters be off home to your mother
I'll send some one with you to show you the way. You won't want
any dinner to-day, I'll be bound
Once well underground
em. When you want to, up you go, and there the things are,
waiting for you
That's exactly what I say
There's no security, or peace and tranquillity, except
underground. And then, if your ideas get larger and you want to
expand -- why, a dig and a scrape, and there you are! If you feel your
house is a bit too big, you stop up a hole or two, and there you are
again! No builders, no tradesmen, no remarks passed on you by fellows
looking over your wall, and, above all, no WEATHER. Look at Rat, now. A
couple of feet of flood water, and he's got to move into hired lodgings;
uncomfortable, inconveniently situated, and horribly expensive. Take
Toad. I say nothing against Toad Hall; quite the best house in these
parts, AS a house. But supposing a fire breaks out -- where's Toad?
Supposing tiles are blown off, or walls sink or crack, or windows get
broken -- where's Toad? Supposing the rooms are draughty -- I HATE a draught
myself -- where's Toad? No, up and out of doors is good enough to roam
about and get one's living in; but underground to come back to at
last -- that's my idea of HOME
When lunch is over
I'll take you all
round this little place of mine. I can see you'll appreciate it. You
understand what domestic architecture ought to be, you do
How on earth, Badger
did you ever find
time and strength to do all this? It's astonishing
It WOULD be astonishing indeed
if I HAD
done it. But as a matter of fact I did none of it -- only cleaned out the
passages and chambers, as far as I had need of them. There's lots more
of it, all round about. I see you don't understand, and I must explain
it to you. Well, very long ago, on the spot where the Wild Wood waves
now, before ever it had planted itself and grown up to what it now
is, there was a city -- a city of people, you know. Here, where we are
standing, they lived, and walked, and talked, and slept, and carried on
their business. Here they stabled their horses and feasted, from here
they rode out to fight or drove out to trade. They were a powerful
people, and rich, and great builders. They built to last, for they
thought their city would last for ever
But what has become of them all
Who can tell
People come -- they stay for a while,
they flourish, they build -- and they go. It is their way. But we remain.
There were badgers here, I've been told, long before that same city ever
came to be. And now there are badgers here again. We are an enduring
lot, and we may move out for a time, but we wait, and are patient, and
back we come. And so it will ever be
Well, and when they went at last, those people
When they went
the strong winds and persistent
rains took the matter in hand, patiently, ceaselessly, year after year.
Perhaps we badgers too, in our small way, helped a little -- who knows?
It was all down, down, down, gradually -- ruin and levelling and
disappearance. Then it was all up, up, up, gradually, as seeds grew
to saplings, and saplings to forest trees, and bramble and fern came
creeping in to help. Leaf-mould rose and obliterated, streams in their
winter freshets brought sand and soil to clog and to cover, and in
course of time our home was ready for us again, and we moved in. Up
above us, on the surface, the same thing happened. Animals arrived,
liked the look of the place, took up their quarters, settled down,
spread, and flourished. They didn't bother themselves about the
past -- they never do; they're too busy. The place was a bit humpy
and hillocky, naturally, and full of holes; but that was rather an
advantage. And they don't bother about the future, either -- the future
when perhaps the people will move in again -- for a time -- as may very well
be. The Wild Wood is pretty well populated by now; with all the usual
lot, good, bad, and indifferent -- I name no names. It takes all sorts to
make a world. But I fancy you know something about them yourself by this
time
I do indeed
Well, well
it was your
first experience of them, you see. They're not so bad really; and we
must all live and let live. But I'll pass the word around to-morrow, and
I think you'll have no further trouble. Any friend of MINE walks where
he likes in this country, or I'll know the reason why
Come along,
Mole
We must
get off while it's daylight. Don't want to spend another night in the
Wild Wood again
It'll be all right, my fine fellow
I'm coming along
with you, and I know every path blindfold; and if there's a head that
needs to be punched, you can confidently rely upon me to punch it
You really needn't fret, Ratty
My
passages run further than you think, and I've bolt-holes to the edge
of the wood in several directions, though I don't care for everybody to
know about them. When you really have to go, you shall leave by one of
my short cuts. Meantime, make yourself easy, and sit down again
Yes, quite
right; THIS leads home
It looks as if we were coming to a village
Oh, never mind
At this season of the year they're
all safe indoors by this time, sitting round the fire; men, women,
and children, dogs and cats and all. We shall slip through all right,
without any bother or unpleasantness, and we can have a look at them
through their windows if you like, and see what they're doing
smell
Ratty
hold on! Come
back! I want you, quick
Oh, COME along, Mole, do
PLEASE stop, Ratty
You
don't understand! It's my home, my old home! I've just come across the
smell of it, and it's close by here, really quite close. And I MUST go
to it, I must, I must! Oh, come back, Ratty! Please, please come back
Mole, we mustn't stop now, really
We'll come for
it to-morrow, whatever it is you've found. But I daren't stop now -- it's
late, and the snow's coming on again, and I'm not sure of the way! And I
want your nose, Mole, so come on quick, there's a good fellow
Look here, Mole old
chap, you seem dead tired. No talk left in you, and your feet dragging
like lead. We'll sit down here for a minute and rest. The snow has held
off so far, and the best part of our journey is over
What is it, old fellow? Whatever can be the
matter? Tell us your trouble, and let me see what I can do
I know it's a -- shabby, dingy little
place
not like -- your cosy
quarters -- or Toad's beautiful hall -- or Badger's great house -- but it was
my own little home -- and I was fond of it -- and I went away and forgot all
about it -- and then I smelt it suddenly -- on the road, when I called
and you wouldn't listen, Rat -- and everything came back to me with a
rush -- and I WANTED it!-- O dear, O dear!-- and when you WOULDN'T turn
back, Ratty -- and I had to leave it, though I was smelling it all the
time -- I thought my heart would break.-- We might have just gone and had
one look at it, Ratty -- only one look -- it was close by -- but you wouldn't
turn back, Ratty, you wouldn't turn back! O dear, O dear
I see
it all now! What a PIG I have been! A pig -- that's me! Just a pig -- a
plain pig
Well, now we'd really better be getting on, old chap
Wherever are you (hic) going to (hic), Ratty
We're going to find that home of yours, old fellow
so you had better come along, for it will take some
finding, and we shall want your nose
Oh, come back, Ratty, do
It's no good, I tell you! It's too late, and too dark, and
the place is too far off, and the snow's coming! And -- and I never meant
to let you know I was feeling that way about it -- it was all an accident
and a mistake! And think of River Bank, and your supper
Hang River Bank, and supper too
I tell you,
I'm going to find this place now, if I stay out all night. So cheer up,
old chap, and take my arm, and we'll very soon be back there again
held
up
Now, no more talking. Business! Use your nose, and give
your mind to it
O Ratty
why ever did I do it? Why did I bring you to this poor, cold
little place, on a night like this, when you might have been at River
Bank by this time, toasting your toes before a blazing fire, with all
your own nice things about you
What a capital
little house this is
So compact! So well
planned! Everything here and everything in its place! We'll make a jolly
night of it. The first thing we want is a good fire; I'll see to that -- I
always know where to find things. So this is the parlour? Splendid! Your
own idea, those little sleeping-bunks in the wall? Capital! Now, I'll
fetch the wood and the coals, and you get a duster, Mole -- you'll find
one in the drawer of the kitchen table -- and try and smarten things up a
bit. Bustle about, old chap
Rat
how about
your supper, you poor, cold, hungry, weary animal? I've nothing to give
you -- nothing -- not a crumb
What a fellow you are for giving in
Why, only just now I saw a sardine-opener on the kitchen dresser, quite
distinctly; and everybody knows that means there are sardines about
somewhere in the neighbourhood. Rouse yourself! pull yourself together,
and come with me and forage
There's a banquet for you
I know some animals who would give their ears to be sitting down to
supper with us to-night
No bread
no butter, no
No pate de foie gras, no champagne
And
that reminds me -- what's that little door at the end of the passage? Your
cellar, of course! Every luxury in this house! Just you wait a minute
Self-indulgent beggar you seem to be, Mole
Deny
yourself nothing. This is really the jolliest little place I ever was
in. Now, wherever did you pick up those prints? Make the place look so
home-like, they do. No wonder you're so fond of it, Mole. Tell us all
about it, and how you came to make it what it is
going without
wonderful
most remarkable
Now, all in a line -- hold the lantern up a bit,
Tommy -- clear your throats first -- no coughing after I say one, two,
three.-- Where's young Bill?-- Here, come on, do, we're all a-waiting
What's up
I think it must be the field-mice
They go round carol-singing regularly at this time
of the year. They're quite an institution in these parts. And they never
pass me over -- they come to Mole End last of all; and I used to give them
hot drinks, and supper too sometimes, when I could afford it. It will be
like old times to hear them again
Let's have a look at them
Now then, one, two,
three
Who were the first to cry NOWELL?
          Animals all, as it befell,
           In the stable where they did dwell!
            Joy shall be theirs in the morning
Very well sung, boys
And now come along in,
all of you, and warm yourselves by the fire, and have something hot
Yes, come along, field-mice
This is quite
like old times! Shut the door after you. Pull up that settle to the
fire. Now, you just wait a minute, while we -- O, Ratty
Whatever are we
doing? We've nothing to give them
You leave all that to me
Here, you with the
lantern! Come over this way. I want to talk to you. Now, tell me, are
there any shops open at this hour of the night
Why, certainly, sir
At this
time of the year our shops keep open to all sorts of hours
Then look here
You go off at once, you and your
lantern, and you get me
Fresh, mind!-- no, a pound of that will do -- see you get
Buggins's, for I won't have any other -- no, only the best -- if you can't
get it there, try somewhere else -- yes, of course, home-made, no tinned
stuff -- well then, do the best you can
I perceive this to be Old Burton
SENSIBLE Mole! The very thing! Now we shall be able to
mull some ale! Get the things ready, Mole, while I draw the corks
They act plays too, these fellows
Make them up all by themselves, and act them afterwards. And very
well they do it, too! They gave us a capital one last year, about a
field-mouse who was captured at sea by a Barbary corsair, and made to
row in a galley; and when he escaped and got home again, his lady-love
had gone into a convent. Here, YOU! You were in it, I remember. Get up
and recite a bit
Mole, old chap, I'm ready to drop. Sleepy
is simply not the word. That your own bunk over on that side? Very well,
then, I'll take this. What a ripping little house this is! Everything so
handy
Bother
See who it is, Mole, like a good
chap, since you've finished
Mr. Badger
The hour has come
What hour
WHOSE hour, you should rather say
Why, Toad's
hour! The hour of Toad! I said I would take him in hand as soon as the
winter was well over, and I'm going to take him in hand to-day
Toad's hour, of course
Hooray! I
remember now! WE'LL teach him to be a sensible Toad
This very morning
as
I learnt last night from a trustworthy source, another new and
exceptionally powerful motor-car will arrive at Toad Hall on approval or
return. At this very moment, perhaps, Toad is busy arraying himself in
those singularly hideous habiliments so dear to him, which transform him
from a (comparatively) good-looking Toad into an Object which throws any
decent-minded animal that comes across it into a violent fit. We must
be up and doing, ere it is too late. You two animals will accompany me
instantly to Toad Hall, and the work of rescue shall be accomplished
Right you are
We'll rescue the poor
unhappy animal! We'll convert him! He'll be the most converted Toad that
ever was before we've done with him
Hullo! come on, you fellows
You're just in time to come with me for a jolly -- to come for a
jolly -- for a -- er -- jolly
Take him inside
I'm afraid you won't be wanted to-day
Mr. Toad has changed
his mind. He will not require the car. Please understand that this is
final. You needn't wait
Now then
first of all, take those ridiculous things off
Shan't
What is the meaning of this
gross outrage? I demand an instant explanation
Take them off him, then, you two
You knew it must come to this, sooner or later, Toad
You've disregarded all the warnings we've given you, you've gone on
squandering the money your father left you, and you're getting us
animals a bad name in the district by your furious driving and your
smashes and your rows with the police. Independence is all very well,
but we animals never allow our friends to make fools of themselves
beyond a certain limit; and that limit you've reached. Now, you're a
good fellow in many respects, and I don't want to be too hard on you.
I'll make one more effort to bring you to reason. You will come with
me into the smoking-room, and there you will hear some facts about
yourself; and we'll see whether you come out of that room the same Toad
that you went in
THAT'S no good
TALKING to Toad'll never
cure him. He'll SAY anything
Sit down there, Toad
My
friends
I am pleased to inform you that Toad has at last
seen the error of his ways. He is truly sorry for his misguided conduct
in the past, and he has undertaken to give up motor-cars entirely and
for ever. I have his solemn promise to that effect
That is very good news
Very good news indeed
if only -- IF
only
There's only one thing more to be done
Toad, I want you solemnly to repeat, before your friends here,
what you fully admitted to me in the smoking-room just now. First, you
are sorry for what you've done, and you see the folly of it all
No
I'm NOT sorry. And it
wasn't folly at all! It was simply glorious
What
You backsliding animal,
didn't you tell me just now, in there
Oh, yes, yes, in THERE
I'd have said anything
in THERE. You're so eloquent, dear Badger, and so moving, and so
convincing, and put all your points so frightfully well -- you can do what
you like with me in THERE, and you know it. But I've been searching my
mind since, and going over things in it, and I find that I'm not a bit
sorry or repentant really, so it's no earthly good saying I am; now, is
it
Then you don't promise
never to touch a motor-car
again
Certainly not
On the contrary, I
faithfully promise that the very first motor-car I see, poop-poop! off I
go in it
Told you so, didn't I
Very well, then
Since
you won't yield to persuasion, we'll try what force can do. I feared it
would come to this all along. You've often asked us three to come and
stay with you, Toad, in this handsome house of yours; well, now we're
going to. When we've converted you to a proper point of view we may
quit, but not before. Take him upstairs, you two, and lock him up in his
bedroom, while we arrange matters between ourselves
It's for your own good, Toady, you know
Think what fun we shall all have together, just as we used to,
when you've quite got over this -- this painful attack of yours
We'll take great care of everything for you till you're well, Toad
and we'll see your money isn't wasted, as it has been
No more of those regrettable incidents with the police, Toad
And no more weeks in hospital, being ordered about by female nurses,
Toad
It's going to be a tedious business
I've
never seen Toad so determined. However, we will see it out. He must
never be left an instant unguarded. We shall have to take it in turns to
be with him, till the poison has worked itself out of his system
Toad's still in bed
Can't get
much out of him, except, "O leave him alone, he wants nothing, perhaps
he'll be better presently, it may pass off in time, don't be unduly
anxious," and so on. Now, you look out, Rat! When Toad's quiet and
submissive and playing at being the hero of a Sunday-school prize, then
he's at his artfullest. There's sure to be something up. I know him.
Well, now, I must be off
How are you to-day, old chap
Thank you so much, dear Ratty! So good of you to inquire! But
first tell me how you are yourself, and the excellent Mole
O, WE'RE all right
Mole
is going out for a run round with Badger. They'll be out till luncheon
time, so you and I will spend a pleasant morning together, and I'll do
my best to amuse you. Now jump up, there's a good fellow, and don't lie
moping there on a fine morning like this
Dear, kind Rat
how little you realise my condition,
and how very far I am from "jumping up" now -- if ever! But do not trouble
about me. I hate being a burden to my friends, and I do not expect to be
one much longer. Indeed, I almost hope not
Well, I hope not, too
You've been a fine
bother to us all this time, and I'm glad to hear it's going to stop. And
in weather like this, and the boating season just beginning! It's too
bad of you, Toad! It isn't the trouble we mind, but you're making us
miss such an awful lot
I'm afraid it IS the trouble you mind, though
I can quite understand it. It's natural enough. You're tired
of bothering about me. I mustn't ask you to do anything further. I'm a
nuisance, I know
You are, indeed
But I tell you, I'd take any trouble
on earth for you, if only you'd be a sensible animal
If I thought that, Ratty
then
I would beg you -- for the last time, probably -- to step round to the
village as quickly as possible -- even now it may be too late -- and fetch
the doctor. But don't you bother. It's only a trouble, and perhaps we
may as well let things take their course
Why, what do you want a doctor for
Surely you have noticed of late
But, no -- why
should you? Noticing things is only a trouble. To-morrow, indeed, you
may be saying to yourself, "O, if only I had noticed sooner! If only I
had done something!" But no; it's a trouble. Never mind -- forget that I
asked
Look here, old man
of
course I'll fetch a doctor to you, if you really think you want him. But
you can hardly be bad enough for that yet. Let's talk about something
else
I fear, dear friend
that "talk" can do
little in a case like this -- or doctors either, for that matter; still,
one must grasp at the slightest straw. And, by the way -- while you
are about it -- I HATE to give you additional trouble, but I happen to
remember that you will pass the door -- would you mind at the same time
asking the lawyer to step up? It would be a convenience to me, and there
are moments -- perhaps I should say there is A moment -- when one must face
disagreeable tasks, at whatever cost to exhausted nature
A lawyer! O, he must be really bad
It's best to be on the safe side
I've known
Toad fancy himself frightfully bad before, without the slightest reason;
but I've never heard him ask for a lawyer! If there's nothing really the
matter, the doctor will tell him he's an old ass, and cheer him up; and
that will be something gained. I'd better humour him and go; it won't
take very long
You've been a bit of a duffer this time, Ratty!
Toad, too, of all animals
He did it awfully well
He did YOU awfully well
However, talking
won't mend matters. He's got clear away for the time, that's certain;
and the worst of it is, he'll be so conceited with what he'll think is
his cleverness that he may commit any folly. One comfort is, we're free
now, and needn't waste any more of our precious time doing sentry-go.
But we'd better continue to sleep at Toad Hall for a while longer.
Toad may be brought back at any moment -- on a stretcher, or between two
policemen
Smart piece of work that
Brain
against brute force -- and brain came out on the top -- as it's bound to
do. Poor old Ratty! My! won't he catch it when the Badger gets back!
A worthy fellow, Ratty, with many good qualities, but very little
intelligence and absolutely no education. I must take him in hand some
day, and see if I can make something of him
The Red Lion
There cannot be any harm
in my only just LOOKING at it
I wonder
I wonder if this sort of car
STARTS easily
To my mind
the ONLY difficulty that presents itself in this otherwise
very clear case is, how we can possibly make it sufficiently hot for the
incorrigible rogue and hardened ruffian whom we see cowering in the
dock before us. Let me see: he has been found guilty, on the clearest
evidence, first, of stealing a valuable motor-car; secondly, of driving
to the public danger; and, thirdly, of gross impertinence to the rural
police. Mr. Clerk, will you tell us, please, what is the very stiffest
penalty we can impose for each of these offences? Without, of course,
giving the prisoner the benefit of any doubt, because there isn't any
Some people would consider
that stealing the motor-car was the worst offence; and so
it is. But cheeking the police undoubtedly carries the severest penalty;
and so it ought. Supposing you were to say twelve months for the
theft, which is mild; and three years for the furious driving, which is
lenient; and fifteen years for the cheek, which was pretty bad sort of
cheek, judging by what we've heard from the witness-box, even if you
only believe one-tenth part of what you heard, and I never believe more
myself -- those figures, if added together correctly, tot up to nineteen
years
First-rate
So you had better make it a round twenty years and be on the safe
side
An excellent suggestion
Prisoner!
Pull yourself together and try and stand up straight. It's going to be
twenty years for you this time. And mind, if you appear before us
again, upon any charge whatever, we shall have to deal with you very
seriously
wanted
Oddsbodikins
Rouse thee, old loon, and take over from us this
vile Toad, a criminal of deepest guilt and matchless artfulness and
resource. Watch and ward him with all thy skill; and mark thee well,
greybeard, should aught untoward befall, thy old head shall answer for
his -- and a murrain on both of them
O, the blessed coolness
You stayed to supper, of course
Simply had to
They wouldn't hear of my going before.
You know how kind they always are. And they made things as jolly for me
as ever they could, right up to the moment I left. But I felt a brute
all the time, as it was clear to me they were very unhappy, though they
tried to hide it. Mole, I'm afraid they're in trouble. Little Portly is
missing again; and you know what a lot his father thinks of him, though
he never says much about it
What, that child
Well, suppose he is; why
worry about it? He's always straying off and getting lost, and turning
up again; he's so adventurous. But no harm ever happens to him.
Everybody hereabouts knows him and likes him, just as they do old Otter,
and you may be sure some animal or other will come across him and bring
him back again all right. Why, we've found him ourselves, miles from
home, and quite self-possessed and cheerful
Yes; but this time it's more serious
He's been
missing for some days now, and the Otters have hunted everywhere, high
and low, without finding the slightest trace. And they've asked every
animal, too, for miles around, and no one knows anything about him.
Otter's evidently more anxious than he'll admit. I got out of him that
young Portly hasn't learnt to swim very well yet, and I can see
he's thinking of the weir. There's a lot of water coming down still,
considering the time of the year, and the place always had a fascination
for the child. And then there are -- well, traps and things -- YOU know.
Otter's not the fellow to be nervous about any son of his before it's
time. And now he IS nervous. When I left, he came out with me -- said he
wanted some air, and talked about stretching his legs. But I could see
it wasn't that, so I drew him out and pumped him, and got it all from
him at last. He was going to spend the night watching by the ford. You
know the place where the old ford used to be, in by-gone days before
they built the bridge
I know it well
But why should Otter choose to watch
there
Well, it seems that it was there he gave Portly his first
swimming-lesson
From that shallow, gravelly spit
near the bank. And it was there he used to teach him fishing, and there
young Portly caught his first fish, of which he was so very proud. The
child loved the spot, and Otter thinks that if he came wandering
back from wherever he is -- if he IS anywhere by this time, poor little
chap -- he might make for the ford he was so fond of; or if he came across
it he'd remember it well, and stop there and play, perhaps. So Otter
goes there every night and watches -- on the chance, you know, just on the
chance
Well, well
I suppose we ought to be thinking
about turning in
Rat
I simply can't go and turn in, and go to sleep,
and DO nothing, even though there doesn't seem to be anything to be
done. We'll get the boat out, and paddle up stream. The moon will be up
in an hour or so, and then we will search as well as we can -- anyhow, it
will be better than going to bed and doing NOTHING
Just what I was thinking myself
It's not the sort of
night for bed anyhow; and daybreak is not so very far off, and then we
may pick up some news of him from early risers as we go along
It's gone
So
beautiful and strange and new. Since it was to end so soon, I almost
wish I had never heard it. For it has roused a longing in me that is
pain, and nothing seems worth while but just to hear that sound once
more and go on listening to it for ever. No! There it is again
Now it passes on and I begin to lose it
O Mole!
the beauty of it! The merry bubble and joy, the thin, clear, happy call
of the distant piping! Such music I never dreamed of, and the call in
it is stronger even than the music is sweet! Row on, Mole, row! For the
music and the call must be for us
I hear nothing myself
but the wind playing in the reeds and rushes and osiers
Clearer and nearer still
Now you must surely
hear it! Ah -- at last -- I see you do
This is the place of my song-dream, the place the music played to me
Here, in this holy place, here if
anywhere, surely we shall find Him
Rat
Are you afraid
Afraid
Afraid! Of HIM? O, never, never! And yet -- and yet -- O, Mole, I am
afraid
I beg your pardon; what did you say, Rat
I think I was only remarking
that this was the
right sort of place, and that here, if anywhere, we should find him. And
look! Why, there he is, the little fellow
Some -- great -- animal -- has been here
Come along, Rat
Think of poor Otter, waiting up
there by the ford
I feel strangely tired, Rat
It's being up all night, you'll say, perhaps;
but that's nothing. We do as much half the nights of the week, at this
time of the year. No; I feel as if I had been through something very
exciting and rather terrible, and it was just over; and yet nothing
particular has happened
Or something very surprising and splendid and beautiful
I feel just as you do, Mole;
simply dead tired, though not body tired. It's lucky we've got the
stream with us, to take us home. Isn't it jolly to feel the sun again,
soaking into one's bones! And hark to the wind playing in the reeds
It's like music -- far away music
So I was thinking
Dance-music -- the lilting sort that runs on without a stop -- but with
words in it, too -- it passes into words and out of them again -- I catch
them at intervals -- then it is dance-music once more, and then nothing
but the reeds' soft thin whispering
You hear better than I
I cannot catch the
words
Let me try and give you them
Now it is turning into words again -- faint but clear -- Lest the
awe should dwell -- And turn your frolic to fret -- You shall look on my
power at the helping hour -- But then you shall forget! Now the reeds take
it up -- forget, forget, they sigh, and it dies away in a rustle and a
whisper. Then the voice returns --

'Lest limbs be reddened and rent -- I spring the trap that is set -- As I
loose the snare you may glimpse me there -- For surely you shall forget!
Row nearer, Mole, nearer to the reeds! It is hard to catch, and grows
each minute fainter.

'Helper and healer, I cheer -- Small waifs in the woodland wet -- Strays I
find in it, wounds I bind in it -- Bidding them all forget! Nearer, Mole,
nearer! No, it is no good; the song has died away into reed-talk
But what do the words mean
That I do not know
I passed them on to you
as they reached me. Ah! now they return again, and this time full and
clear! This time, at last, it is the real, the unmistakable thing,
simple -- passionate -- perfect
Well, let's have it, then
This is the end
of everything
at least it is the end of the career of Toad,
which is the same thing; the popular and handsome Toad, the rich and
hospitable Toad, the Toad so free and careless and debonair! How can I
hope to be ever set at large again
who have been imprisoned
so justly for stealing so handsome a motor-car in such an audacious
manner, and for such lurid and imaginative cheek, bestowed upon such a
number of fat, red-faced policemen
now I must languish in this dungeon, till
people who were proud to say they knew me, have forgotten the very name
of Toad! O wise old Badger
O clever, intelligent Rat and
sensible Mole! What sound judgments, what a knowledge of men and matters
you possess! O unhappy and forsaken Toad
Father! I can't bear to
see that poor beast so unhappy, and getting so thin! You let me have the
managing of him. You know how fond of animals I am. I'll make him eat
from my hand, and sit up, and do all sorts of things
Now, cheer up, Toad
and sit up
and dry your eyes and be a sensible animal. And do try and eat a bit of
dinner. See, I've brought you some of mine, hot from the oven
Tell me about Toad Hall
It sounds beautiful
Toad Hall
is an eligible self-contained
gentleman's residence very unique; dating in part from the fourteenth
century, but replete with every modern convenience. Up-to-date
sanitation. Five minutes from church, post-office, and golf-links,
Suitable for
Bless the animal
I don't want to TAKE it.
Tell me something REAL about it. But first wait till I fetch you some
more tea and toast
Toad
just listen, please. I have an aunt who is
a washerwoman
There, there
never mind; think no
more about it. _I_ have several aunts who OUGHT to be washerwomen
Do be quiet a minute, Toad
You talk too much, that's
your chief fault, and I'm trying to think, and you hurt my head. As I
said, I have an aunt who is a washerwoman; she does the washing for all
the prisoners in this castle -- we try to keep any paying business of that
sort in the family, you understand. She takes out the washing on Monday
morning, and brings it in on Friday evening. This is a Thursday. Now,
this is what occurs to me: you're very rich -- at least you're always
telling me so -- and she's very poor. A few pounds wouldn't make any
difference to you, and it would mean a lot to her. Now, I think if she
were properly approached -- squared, I believe is the word you animals
use -- you could come to some arrangement by which she would let you have
her dress and bonnet and so on, and you could escape from the
castle as the official washerwoman. You're very alike in many
respects -- particularly about the figure
We're NOT
I have a very elegant figure -- for
what I am
So has my aunt
for what SHE is. But have it your
own way. You horrid, proud, ungrateful animal, when I'm sorry for you,
and trying to help you
Yes, yes, that's all right; thank you very much indeed
But look here! you wouldn't surely have Mr. Toad of Toad
Hall, going about the country disguised as a washerwoman
Then you can stop here as a Toad
I suppose you want to go off in a coach-and-four
You are a
good, kind, clever girl
and I am indeed a proud and a stupid
toad. Introduce me to your worthy aunt, if you will be so kind, and
I have no doubt that the excellent lady and I will be able to arrange
terms satisfactory to both parties
Now it's your turn, Toad
Take off that coat and
waistcoat of yours; you're fat enough as it is
hook-and-eye
You're the very image of her
only I'm sure you never
looked half so respectable in all your life before. Now, good-bye, Toad,
and good luck. Go straight down the way you came up; and if any one says
anything to you, as they probably will, being but men, you can chaff
back a bit, of course, but remember you're a widow woman, quite alone in
the world, with a character to lose
Aha
this is a piece of luck!
A railway station is the thing I want most in the whole world at this
moment; and what's more, I needn't go through the town to get it, and
shan't have to support this humiliating character by repartees which,
though thoroughly effective, do not assist one's sense of self-respect
More luck
Look here! I find I've left my purse behind. Just
give me that ticket, will you, and I'll send the money on to-morrow? I'm
well-known in these parts
I should think you were pretty well known in these parts
if you've tried this game on often. Here, stand away from the
window, please, madam; you're obstructing the other passengers
Hullo, mother
what's the trouble? You don't
look particularly cheerful
O, sir
I am a poor unhappy washerwoman,
and I've lost all my money, and can't pay for a ticket, and I must get
home to-night somehow, and whatever I am to do I don't know. O dear, O
dear
That's a bad business, indeed
Lost your money -- and can't get home -- and got some kids, too, waiting
for you, I dare say
em
And they'll be hungry -- and
playing with matches -- and upsetting lamps, the little innocents!-- and
quarrelling, and going on generally. O dear, O dear
Well, I'll tell you what I'll do
em along, I'll give you a ride on my engine.
It's against the Company's regulations, but we're not so very particular
in these out-of-the-way parts
When I get safely home to Toad Hall, and have money
again, and pockets to put it in, I will send the engine-driver enough to
pay for quite a quantity of washing, and that will be the same thing, or
better
It's very strange; we're the last train
running in this direction to-night, yet I could be sworn that I heard
another following us
I can see it clearly now! It is an engine, on
our rails, coming along at a great pace! It looks as if we were being
pursued
They are gaining on us fast
And the engine
is crowded with the queerest lot of people! Men like ancient warders,
waving halberds; policemen in their helmets, waving truncheons; and
shabbily dressed men in pot-hats, obvious and unmistakable plain-clothes
detectives even at this distance, waving revolvers and walking-sticks;
all waving, and all shouting the same thing --"Stop, stop, stop
Save me, only save me, dear kind Mr.
Engine-driver, and I will confess everything! I am not the simple
washerwoman I seem to be! I have no children waiting for me, innocent
or otherwise! I am a toad -- the well-known and popular Mr. Toad, a landed
proprietor; I have just escaped, by my great daring and cleverness, from
a loathsome dungeon into which my enemies had flung me; and if
those fellows on that engine recapture me, it will be chains and
bread-and-water and straw and misery once more for poor, unhappy,
innocent Toad
Now tell
the truth; what were you put in prison for
It was nothing very much
I only
borrowed a motorcar while the owners were at lunch; they had no need
of it at the time. I didn't mean to steal it, really; but
people -- especially magistrates -- take such harsh views of thoughtless and
high-spirited actions
I fear that you have been
indeed a wicked toad, and by rights I ought to give you up to offended
justice. But you are evidently in sore trouble and distress, so I will
not desert you. I don't hold with motor-cars, for one thing; and I don't
hold with being ordered about by policemen when I'm on my own engine,
for another. And the sight of an animal in tears always makes me feel
queer and softhearted. So cheer up, Toad! I'll do my best, and we may
beat them yet
I'm afraid it's no good, Toad. You see, they
are running light, and they have the better engine. There's just one
thing left for us to do, and it's your only chance, so attend very
carefully to what I tell you. A short way ahead of us is a long tunnel,
and on the other side of that the line passes through a thick wood.
Now, I will put on all the speed I can while we are running through the
tunnel, but the other fellows will slow down a bit, naturally, for fear
of an accident. When we are through, I will shut off steam and put on
brakes as hard as I can, and the moment it's safe to do so you must jump
and hide in the wood, before they get through the tunnel and see you.
Then I will go full speed ahead again, and they can chase me if they
like, for as long as they like, and as far as they like. Now mind and be
ready to jump when I tell you
Now,
jump
Stop! stop! stop
Hullo, washerwoman! Half a pair of socks and a
pillow-case short this week! Mind it doesn't occur again
Here's old Ratty
Come and bear a
hand, Rat, and don't stand about idle
What sort of games are you up to
You
know it isn't time to be thinking of winter quarters yet, by a long
way
O yes, we know that
but
it's always as well to be in good time, isn't it? We really MUST get
all the furniture and baggage and stores moved out of this before those
horrid machines begin clicking round the fields; and then, you know,
the best flats get picked up so quickly nowadays, and if you're late you
have to put up with ANYTHING; and they want such a lot of doing up, too,
before they're fit to move into. Of course, we're early, we know that;
but we're only just making a start
O, bother STARTS
It's a splendid day. Come for a row,
or a stroll along the hedges, or a picnic in the woods, or something
Well, I THINK not TO-DAY, thank you
Perhaps some OTHER day -- when we've more TIME
If people would be more careful
and look where they're going, people wouldn't hurt themselves -- and
forget themselves. Mind that hold-all, Rat! You'd better sit down
somewhere. In an hour or two we may be more free to attend to you
You won't be "free" as you call it much this side of Christmas, I can
see that
What, ALREADY
What's the hurry?
I call it simply ridiculous
O, we're not off yet, if that's what you mean
We're only making plans and arranging things. Talking it over,
you know -- what route we're taking this year, and where we'll stop, and
so on. That's half the fun
Fun
now that's just what I don't understand. If you've
GOT to leave this pleasant place, and your friends who will miss you,
and your snug homes that you've just settled into, why, when the hour
strikes I've no doubt you'll go bravely, and face all the trouble and
discomfort and change and newness, and make believe that you're not very
unhappy. But to want to talk about it, or even think about it, till you
really need
No, you don't understand, naturally
First,
we feel it stirring within us, a sweet unrest; then back come the
recollections one by one, like homing pigeons. They flutter through our
dreams at night, they fly with us in our wheelings and circlings by
day. We hunger to inquire of each other, to compare notes and assure
ourselves that it was all really true, as one by one the scents and
sounds and names of long-forgotten places come gradually back and beckon
to us
Couldn't you stop on for just this year
We'll all do our best to make you feel at home. You've no
idea what good times we have here, while you are far away
I tried "stopping on" one year
I had grown
so fond of the place that when the time came I hung back and let the
others go on without me. For a few weeks it was all well enough, but
afterwards, O the weary length of the nights! The shivering, sunless
days! The air so clammy and chill, and not an insect in an acre of it!
No, it was no good; my courage broke down, and one cold, stormy night I
took wing, flying well inland on account of the strong easterly gales.
It was snowing hard as I beat through the passes of the great mountains,
and I had a stiff fight to win through; but never shall I forget the
blissful feeling of the hot sun again on my back as I sped down to the
lakes that lay so blue and placid below me, and the taste of my first
fat insect! The past was like a bad dream; the future was all happy
holiday as I moved southwards week by week, easily, lazily, lingering as
long as I dared, but always heeding the call! No, I had had my warning;
never again did I think of disobedience
Ah, yes, the call of the South, of the South
Its songs its hues, its radiant air! O, do you remember
Why do you ever come back, then, at all
What do you find to attract you in this poor drab little
country
And do you think
that the other call is
not for us too, in its due season? The call of lush meadow-grass, wet
orchards, warm, insect-haunted ponds, of browsing cattle, of haymaking,
and all the farm-buildings clustering round the House of the perfect
Eaves
Do you suppose
that you are the only living
thing that craves with a hungry longing to hear the cuckoo's note
again
In due time
we shall be home-sick once more for
quiet water-lilies swaying on the surface of an English stream. But
to-day all that seems pale and thin and very far away. Just now our
blood dances to other music
That was clover, that warm whiff on the breeze
and
those are cows we hear cropping the grass behind us and blowing softly
between mouthfuls. There is a sound of distant reapers, and yonder
rises a blue line of cottage smoke against the woodland. The river runs
somewhere close by, for I hear the call of a moorhen, and I see by your
build that you're a freshwater mariner. Everything seems asleep, and
yet going on all the time. It is a goodly life that you lead, friend; no
doubt the best in the world, if only you are strong enough to lead it
Yes, it's THE life, the only life, to live
I did not say exactly that
but no
doubt it's the best. I've tried it, and I know. And because I've just
tried it -- six months of it -- and know it's the best, here am I, footsore
and hungry, tramping away from it, tramping southward, following the old
call, back to the old life, THE life which is mine and which will not
let me go
Is this, then, yet another of them
And where have
you just come from
Nice little farm
Upalong in that
direction
Never mind about it. I had everything
I could want -- everything I had any right to expect of life, and more;
and here I am! Glad to be here all the same, though, glad to be here!
So many miles further on the road, so many hours nearer to my heart's
desire
You are not one of US
nor yet a farmer; nor
even, I should judge, of this country
Right
I'm a seafaring rat, I am, and the
port I originally hail from is Constantinople, though I'm a sort of a
foreigner there too, in a manner of speaking. You will have heard of
Constantinople, friend? A fair city, and an ancient and glorious one.
And you may have heard, too, of Sigurd, King of Norway, and how he
sailed thither with sixty ships, and how he and his men rode up through
streets all canopied in their honour with purple and gold; and how the
Emperor and Empress came down and banqueted with him on board his ship.
When Sigurd returned home, many of his Northmen remained behind and
entered the Emperor's body-guard, and my ancestor, a Norwegian born,
stayed behind too, with the ships that Sigurd gave the Emperor.
Seafarers we have ever been, and no wonder; as for me, the city of my
birth is no more my home than any pleasant port between there and the
London River. I know them all, and they know me. Set me down on any of
their quays or foreshores, and I am home again
I suppose you go great voyages
Months and months out of sight of land, and provisions
running short, and allowanced as to water, and your mind communing with
the mighty ocean, and all that sort of thing
By no means
Such a life as you describe
would not suit me at all. I'm in the coasting trade, and rarely out of
sight of land. It's the jolly times on shore that appeal to me, as much
as any seafaring. O, those southern seaports! The smell of them, the
riding-lights at night, the glamour
Well, perhaps you have chosen the better way
Tell me something of your coasting, then, if you
have a mind to, and what sort of harvest an animal of spirit might hope
to bring home from it to warm his latter days with gallant memories by
the fireside; for my life, I confess to you, feels to me to-day somewhat
narrow and circumscribed
My last voyage
that landed me eventually in this
country, bound with high hopes for my inland farm, will serve as a good
example of any of them, and, indeed, as an epitome of my highly-coloured
life. Family troubles, as usual, began it. The domestic storm-cone was
hoisted, and I shipped myself on board a small trading vessel bound from
Constantinople, by classic seas whose every wave throbs with a deathless
memory, to the Grecian Islands and the Levant. Those were golden days
and balmy nights! In and out of harbour all the time -- old friends
everywhere -- sleeping in some cool temple or ruined cistern during the
heat of the day -- feasting and song after sundown, under great stars
set in a velvet sky! Thence we turned and coasted up the Adriatic, its
shores swimming in an atmosphere of amber, rose, and aquamarine; we
lay in wide land-locked harbours, we roamed through ancient and noble
cities, until at last one morning, as the sun rose royally behind us, we
rode into Venice down a path of gold. O, Venice is a fine city, wherein
a rat can wander at his ease and take his pleasure! Or, when weary of
wandering, can sit at the edge of the Grand Canal at night, feasting
with his friends, when the air is full of music and the sky full of
stars, and the lights flash and shimmer on the polished steel prows of
the swaying gondolas, packed so that you could walk across the canal on
them from side to side! And then the food -- do you like shellfish? Well,
well, we won't linger over that now
Southwards we sailed again at last
coasting
down the Italian shore, till finally we made Palermo, and there I
quitted for a long, happy spell on shore. I never stick too long to one
ship; one gets narrow-minded and prejudiced. Besides, Sicily is one of
my happy hunting-grounds. I know everybody there, and their ways just
suit me. I spent many jolly weeks in the island, staying with friends up
country. When I grew restless again I took advantage of a ship that was
trading to Sardinia and Corsica; and very glad I was to feel the fresh
breeze and the sea-spray in my face once more
But isn't it very hot and stuffy, down in the -- hold, I think you call
it
I'm an old
hand
The captain's cabin's good
enough for me
It's a hard life, by all accounts
For the crew it is
From Corsica
I made use of a ship that was taking wine
to the mainland. We made Alassio in the evening, lay to, hauled up our
wine-casks, and hove them overboard, tied one to the other by a long
line. Then the crew took to the boats and rowed shorewards, singing as
they went, and drawing after them the long bobbing procession of casks,
like a mile of porpoises. On the sands they had horses waiting, which
dragged the casks up the steep street of the little town with a fine
rush and clatter and scramble. When the last cask was in, we went and
refreshed and rested, and sat late into the night, drinking with our
friends, and next morning I took to the great olive-woods for a spell
and a rest. For now I had done with islands for the time, and ports and
shipping were plentiful; so I led a lazy life among the peasants, lying
and watching them work, or stretched high on the hillside with the blue
Mediterranean far below me. And so at length, by easy stages, and partly
on foot, partly by sea, to Marseilles, and the meeting of old shipmates,
and the visiting of great ocean-bound vessels, and feasting once
more. Talk of shell-fish! Why, sometimes I dream of the shell-fish of
Marseilles, and wake up crying
That reminds me
you happened to mention
that you were hungry, and I ought to have spoken earlier. Of course, you
will stop and take your midday meal with me? My hole is close by; it is
some time past noon, and you are very welcome to whatever there is
Now I call that kind and brotherly of you
I was
indeed hungry when I sat down, and ever since I inadvertently happened
to mention shell-fish, my pangs have been extreme. But couldn't you
fetch it along out here? I am none too fond of going under hatches,
unless I'm obliged to; and then, while we eat, I could tell you more
concerning my voyages and the pleasant life I lead -- at least, it is very
pleasant to me, and by your attention I judge it commends itself to you;
whereas if we go indoors it is a hundred to one that I shall presently
fall asleep
That is indeed an excellent suggestion
And now
I take to the road again, holding on
southwestwards for many a long and dusty day; till at last I reach the
little grey sea town I know so well, that clings along one steep side of
the harbour. There through dark doorways you look down flights of stone
steps, overhung by great pink tufts of valerian and ending in a patch
of sparkling blue water. The little boats that lie tethered to the
rings and stanchions of the old sea-wall are gaily painted as those
I clambered in and out of in my own childhood; the salmon leap on the
flood tide, schools of mackerel flash and play past quay-sides and
foreshores, and by the windows the great vessels glide, night and day,
up to their moorings or forth to the open sea. There, sooner or later,
the ships of all seafaring nations arrive; and there, at its destined
hour, the ship of my choice will let go its anchor. I shall take my
time, I shall tarry and bide, till at last the right one lies waiting
for me, warped out into midstream, loaded low, her bowsprit pointing
down harbour. I shall slip on board, by boat or along hawser; and then
one morning I shall wake to the song and tramp of the sailors, the clink
of the capstan, and the rattle of the anchor-chain coming merrily in.
We shall break out the jib and the foresail, the white houses on the
harbour side will glide slowly past us as she gathers steering-way, and
the voyage will have begun! As she forges towards the headland she will
clothe herself with canvas; and then, once outside, the sounding slap of
great green seas as she heels to the wind, pointing South!

'And you, you will come too, young brother; for the days pass, and never
return, and the South still waits for you. Take the Adventure, heed the
call, now ere the irrevocable moment passes! 'Tis but a banging of the
door behind you, a blithesome step forward, and you are out of the old
life and into the new! Then some day, some day long hence, jog home here
if you will, when the cup has been drained and the play has been played,
and sit down by your quiet river with a store of goodly memories for
company. You can easily overtake me on the road, for you are young, and
I am ageing and go softly. I will linger, and look back; and at last I
will surely see you coming, eager and light-hearted, with all the South
in your face
Why, where are you off to, Ratty
Going South, with the rest of them
Seawards first and then on shipboard,
and so to the shores that are calling me
It's quite a long time since you did any poetry
You
might have a try at it this evening, instead of -- well, brooding over
things so much. I've an idea that you'll feel a lot better when you've
got something jotted down -- if it's only just the rhymes
Bother them
But,
anyhow, one thing's clear. They must both be coming FROM somewhere,
and going TO somewhere. You can't get over that. Toad, my boy
A nice morning, ma'am
I dare say it is, ma'am
I dare it IS a nice morning to them that's
not in sore trouble, like what I am. Here's my married daughter, she
sends off to me post-haste to come to her at once; so off I comes, not
knowing what may be happening or going to happen, but fearing the worst,
as you will understand, ma'am, if you're a mother, too. And I've left my
business to look after itself -- I'm in the washing and laundering line,
you must know, ma'am -- and I've left my young children to look after
themselves, and a more mischievous and troublesome set of young imps
doesn't exist, ma'am; and I've lost all my money, and lost my way, and
as for what may be happening to my married daughter, why, I don't like
to think of it, ma'am
Where might your married daughter be living, ma'am
She lives near to the river, ma'am
Close to a fine
house called Toad Hall, that's somewheres hereabouts in these parts.
Perhaps you may have heard of it
Toad Hall? Why, I'm going that way myself
This canal joins the river some miles further on, a little above Toad
Hall; and then it's an easy walk. You come along in the barge with me,
and I'll give you a lift
Toad's luck again
I always come out
on top
So you're in the washing business, ma'am
And a very good business you've got
too, I dare say, if I'm not making too free in saying so
Finest business in the whole country
All the
gentry come to me -- wouldn't go to any one else if they were paid, they
know me so well. You see, I understand my work thoroughly, and attend to
it all myself. Washing, ironing, clear-starching, making up gents' fine
shirts for evening wear -- everything's done under my own eye
But surely you don't DO all that work yourself, ma'am
O, I have girls
em
So do I, too
But I dare
say you set yours to rights, the idle trollops! And are you very fond of
washing
I love it
I simply dote on it. Never so happy as when
I've got both arms in the wash-tub. But, then, it comes so easy to me!
No trouble at all! A real pleasure, I assure you, ma'am
What a bit of luck, meeting you
A regular piece of good fortune for both of us
Why, what do you mean
Well, look at me, now
_I_ like washing,
too, just the same as you do; and for that matter, whether I like it or
not I have got to do all my own, naturally, moving about as I do. Now my
husband, he's such a fellow for shirking his work and leaving the barge
to me, that never a moment do I get for seeing to my own affairs. By
rights he ought to be here now, either steering or attending to the
horse, though luckily the horse has sense enough to attend to himself.
Instead of which, he's gone off with the dog, to see if they can't pick
up a rabbit for dinner somewhere. Says he'll catch me up at the next
lock. Well, that's as may be -- I don't trust him, once he gets off with
that dog, who's worse than he is. But meantime, how am I to get on with
my washing
O, never mind about the washing
Try and fix your mind on that rabbit. A nice fat young rabbit, I'll be
bound. Got any onions
I can't fix my mind on anything but my washing
and I wonder you can be talking of rabbits, with such a joyful prospect
before you. There's a heap of things of mine that you'll find in
a corner of the cabin. If you'll just take one or two of the most
necessary sort -- I won't venture to describe them to a lady like you, but
you'll recognise them at a glance -- and put them through the wash-tub as
we go along, why, it'll be a pleasure to you, as you rightly say, and a
real help to me. You'll find a tub handy, and soap, and a kettle on the
stove, and a bucket to haul up water from the canal with. Then I shall
know you're enjoying yourself, instead of sitting here idle, looking at
the scenery and yawning your head off
Here, you let me steer
em as you like. I'm more used to gentlemen's things
myself. It's my special line
Let you steer
It takes some
practice to steer a barge properly. Besides, it's dull work, and I want
you to be happy. No, you shall do the washing you are so fond of, and
I'll stick to the steering that I understand. Don't try and deprive me
of the pleasure of giving you a treat
If it comes to that
I suppose any fool can WASH
I've been watching you all the time
I thought you
must be a humbug all along, from the conceited way you talked. Pretty
washerwoman you are! Never washed so much as a dish-clout in your life,
I'll lay
You common, low, FAT barge-woman
don't you dare to talk
to your betters like that! Washerwoman indeed! I would have you to know
that I am a Toad, a very well-known, respected, distinguished Toad! I
may be under a bit of a cloud at present, but I will NOT be laughed at
by a bargewoman
Why, so you are
Well, I never! A horrid, nasty,
crawly Toad! And in my nice clean barge, too! Now that is a thing that I
will NOT have
Put
yourself through your mangle, washerwoman
and iron
your face and crimp it, and you'll pass for quite a decent-looking
Toad
Stop,
stop, stop
I've heard that song before
Want to sell that there horse of yours
What
me sell this beautiful young horse of mine? O, no;
it's out of the question. Who's going to take the washing home to my
customers every week? Besides, I'm too fond of him, and he simply dotes
on me
Try and love a donkey
Some people do
You don't seem to see
that this fine horse of mine
is a cut above you altogether. He's a blood horse, he is, partly;
not the part you see, of course -- another part. And he's been a Prize
Hackney, too, in his time -- that was the time before you knew him, but
you can still tell it on him at a glance, if you understand anything
about horses. No, it's not to be thought of for a moment. All the same,
how much might you be disposed to offer me for this beautiful young
horse of mine
A shilling a leg
If you please, I must take a little
time to work that out, and see just what it comes to
A shilling a
leg? Why, that comes to exactly four shillings, and no more. O, no; I
could not think of accepting four shillings for this beautiful young
horse of mine
Well
I'll tell you what I will do. I'll make it five
shillings, and that's three-and-sixpence more than the animal's worth.
And that's my last word
Look here, gipsy! I tell you what we will do; and
this is MY last word. You shall hand me over six shillings and sixpence,
cash down; and further, in addition thereto, you shall give me as much
breakfast as I can possibly eat, at one sitting of course, out of that
iron pot of yours that keeps sending forth such delicious and exciting
smells. In return, I will make over to you my spirited young horse, with
all the beautiful harness and trappings that are on him, freely thrown
in. If that's not good enough for you, say so, and I'll be getting on. I
know a man near here who's wanted this horse of mine for years
Ho, ho
what
a clever Toad I am! There is surely no animal equal to me for cleverness
in the whole world! My enemies shut me up in prison, encircled by
sentries, watched night and day by warders; I walk out through them all,
by sheer ability coupled with courage. They pursue me with engines,
and policemen, and revolvers; I snap my fingers at them, and vanish,
laughing, into space. I am, unfortunately, thrown into a canal by a
woman fat of body and very evil-minded. What of it? I swim ashore, I
seize her horse, I ride off in triumph, and I sell the horse for a whole
pocketful of money and an excellent breakfast! Ho, ho! I am The Toad,
the handsome, the popular, the successful Toad
The world has held great Heroes,
            As history-books have showed;
          But never a name to go down to fame
            Compared with that of Toad!

          'The clever men at Oxford
            Know all that there is to be knowed.
          But they none of them know one half as much
            As intelligent Mr. Toad!

          'The animals sat in the Ark and cried,
            Their tears in torrents flowed.
          Who was it said, "There's land ahead?"
             Encouraging Mr. Toad!

          'The army all saluted
            As they marched along the road.
          Was it the King? Or Kitchener?
            No. It was Mr. Toad.

          'The Queen and her Ladies-in-waiting
            Sat at the window and sewed.
          She cried, "Look! who's that _handsome_ man?"
             They answered, "Mr. Toad
This is something like
This is real life
again, this is once more the great world from which I have been missed
so long! I will hail them, my brothers of the wheel, and pitch them a
yarn, of the sort that has been so successful hitherto; and they will
give me a lift, of course, and then I will talk to them some more; and,
perhaps, with luck, it may even end in my driving up to Toad Hall in a
motor-car! That will be one in the eye for Badger
It's all up! It's all over now! Chains and
policemen again! Prison again! Dry bread and water again! O, what a
fool I have been! What did I want to go strutting about the country for,
singing conceited songs, and hailing people in broad day on the high
road, instead of hiding till nightfall and slipping home quietly by back
ways! O hapless Toad! O ill-fated animal
O dear! this is very sad! Here is a poor old thing -- a washerwoman
apparently -- who has fainted in the road! Perhaps she is overcome by the
heat, poor creature; or possibly she has not had any food to-day. Let
us lift her into the car and take her to the nearest village, where
doubtless she has friends
Look
she is better already. The fresh air
is doing her good. How do you feel now, ma'am
Thank you kindly, Sir
I'm feeling a
great deal better
That's right
Now keep quite
still, and, above all, don't try to talk
I won't
I was only thinking, if I might sit on the front
seat there, beside the driver, where I could get the fresh air full in
my face, I should soon be all right again
What a very sensible woman
Of course you shall
It is fate
Why strive? why struggle
Please, Sir
I wish you would kindly let me try and drive
the car for a little. I've been watching you carefully, and it looks so
easy and so interesting, and I should like to be able to tell my friends
that once I had driven a motor-car
Bravo, ma'am! I like your spirit. Let her have a try, and look after
her. She won't do any harm
How well she does it! Fancy a washerwoman driving a car as
well as that, the first time
Be careful, washerwoman
Washerwoman, indeed
Ho! ho!
I am the Toad, the motor-car snatcher, the prison-breaker, the Toad who
always escapes! Sit still, and you shall know what driving really
is, for you are in the hands of the famous, the skilful, the entirely
fearless Toad
Seize him
seize the Toad, the wicked animal who
stole our motor-car! Bind him, chain him, drag him to the nearest
police-station! Down with the desperate and dangerous Toad
Ho, ho
Toad again! Toad, as usual,
comes out on the top! Who was it got them to give him a lift? Who
managed to get on the front seat for the sake of fresh air? Who
persuaded them into letting him see if he could drive? Who landed them
all in a horse-pond? Who escaped, flying gaily and unscathed through the
air, leaving the narrow-minded, grudging, timid excursionists in the mud
where they should rightly be? Why, Toad, of course; clever Toad, great
Toad, GOOD Toad
The motor-car went Poop-poop-poop,
            As it raced along the road.
          Who was it steered it into a pond?
            Ingenious Mr. Toad!

'O, how clever I am! How clever, how clever, how very clev
O, my
what an ASS I am! What a
CONCEITED and heedless ass! Swaggering again! Shouting and singing songs
again! Sitting still and gassing again! O my! O my! O my
O my
if ever I steal a motor-car again! If ever I sing another conceited
song
O, Ratty
em all do exactly
what I wanted! Oh, I AM a smart Toad, and no mistake! What do you think
my last exploit was? Just hold on till I tell you
Toad
you go off upstairs
at once, and take off that old cotton rag that looks as if it might
formerly have belonged to some washerwoman, and clean yourself
thoroughly, and put on some of my clothes, and try and come down
looking like a gentleman if you CAN; for a more shabby, bedraggled,
disreputable-looking object than you are I never set eyes on in my whole
life! Now, stop swaggering and arguing, and be off! I'll have something
to say to you later
Now, Toady, I don't want to give
you pain, after all you've been through already; but, seriously, don't
you see what an awful ass you've been making of yourself? On your
own admission you have been handcuffed, imprisoned, starved, chased,
terrified out of your life, insulted, jeered at, and ignominiously flung
into the water -- by a woman, too! Where's the amusement in that? Where
does the fun come in? And all because you must needs go and steal a
motor-car. You know that you've never had anything but trouble from
motor-cars from the moment you first set eyes on one. But if you WILL
be mixed up with them -- as you generally are, five minutes after you've
started -- why STEAL them? Be a cripple, if you think it's exciting; be a
bankrupt, for a change, if you've set your mind on it: but why choose
to be a convict? When are you going to be sensible, and think of your
friends, and try and be a credit to them? Do you suppose it's any
pleasure to me, for instance, to hear animals saying, as I go about,
that I'm the chap that keeps company with gaol-birds
But it WAS fun, though! Awful fun
Quite right, Ratty! How SOUND you always are! Yes,
I've been a conceited old ass, I can quite see that; but now I'm going
to be a good Toad, and not do it any more. As for motor-cars, I've not
been at all so keen about them since my last ducking in that river of
yours. The fact is, while I was hanging on to the edge of your hole
and getting my breath, I had a sudden idea -- a really brilliant
idea -- connected with motor-boats -- there, there! don't take on so, old
chap, and stamp, and upset things; it was only an idea, and we won't
talk any more about it now. We'll have our coffee, AND a smoke, and a
quiet chat, and then I'm going to stroll quietly down to Toad Hall, and
get into clothes of my own, and set things going again on the old lines.
I've had enough of adventures. I shall lead a quiet, steady, respectable
life, pottering about my property, and improving it, and doing a little
landscape gardening at times. There will always be a bit of dinner for
my friends when they come to see me; and I shall keep a pony-chaise to
jog about the country in, just as I used to in the good old days, before
I got restless, and wanted to DO things
Stroll quietly down to Toad Hall
What are you talking about? Do you mean to say you haven't HEARD
Heard what
Go on, Ratty! Quick!
Don't spare me! What haven't I heard
Do you mean to tell me
that you've heard nothing about the Stoats and
Weasels
What, the Wild Wooders
No, not a
word! What have they been doing
And how they've been and taken Toad Hall
Go on, Ratty
tell me all. The worst is over.
I am an animal again. I can bear it
When you -- got -- into that -- that -- trouble of yours
I mean, when you -- disappeared from society for a
time, over that misunderstanding about a -- a machine, you know
Well, it was a good deal talked about down here, naturally
not only along the river-side, but even in the Wild Wood.
Animals took sides, as always happens. The River-bankers stuck up for
you, and said you had been infamously treated, and there was no justice
to be had in the land nowadays. But the Wild Wood animals said hard
things, and served you right, and it was time this sort of thing was
stopped. And they got very cocky, and went about saying you were done
for this time! You would never come back again, never, never
That's the sort of little beasts they are
But Mole
and Badger, they stuck out, through thick and thin, that you would come
back again soon, somehow. They didn't know exactly how, but somehow
They argued from history
They said that
no criminal laws had ever been known to prevail against cheek and
plausibility such as yours, combined with the power of a long purse. So
they arranged to move their things in to Toad Hall, and sleep there, and
keep it aired, and have it all ready for you when you turned up. They
didn't guess what was going to happen, of course; still, they had their
suspicions of the Wild Wood animals. Now I come to the most painful and
tragic part of my story. One dark night -- it was a VERY dark night, and
blowing hard, too, and raining simply cats and dogs -- a band of weasels,
armed to the teeth, crept silently up the carriage-drive to the front
entrance. Simultaneously, a body of desperate ferrets, advancing through
the kitchen-garden, possessed themselves of the backyard and offices;
while a company of skirmishing stoats who stuck at nothing occupied the
conservatory and the billiard-room, and held the French windows opening
on to the lawn.

'The Mole and the Badger were sitting by the fire in the smoking-room,
telling stories and suspecting nothing, for it wasn't a night for any
animals to be out in, when those bloodthirsty villains broke down the
doors and rushed in upon them from every side. They made the best fight
they could, but what was the good? They were unarmed, and taken by
surprise, and what can two animals do against hundreds? They took and
beat them severely with sticks, those two poor faithful creatures,
and turned them out into the cold and the wet, with many insulting and
uncalled-for remarks
And the Wild Wooders have been living in Toad Hall ever since
and going on simply anyhow! Lying in bed half the
day, and breakfast at all hours, and the place in such a mess (I'm told)
it's not fit to be seen! Eating your grub, and drinking your drink, and
making bad jokes about you, and singing vulgar songs, about -- well, about
prisons and magistrates, and policemen; horrid personal songs, with no
humour in them. And they're telling the tradespeople and everybody that
they've come to stay for good
O, have they
I'll jolly
soon see about that
It's no good, Toad
You'd better come back
and sit down; you'll only get into trouble
Who comes there
Stuff and nonsense
What do you mean by
talking like that to me? Come out of that at once, or I'll
What did I tell you
It's no good. They've got sentries
posted, and they are all armed. You must just wait
It will be your head next
time, Toady
Well, WHAT did I tell you
And, now, look
here! See what you've been and done! Lost me my boat that I was so fond
of, that's what you've done! And simply ruined that nice suit of clothes
that I lent you! Really, Toad, of all the trying animals -- I wonder you
manage to keep any friends at all
Ratty! I see that I have been
a headstrong and a wilful Toad! Henceforth, believe me, I will be humble
and submissive, and will take no action without your kind advice and
full approval
If that is really so
then my advice to you is, considering the lateness of the hour, to sit
down and have your supper, which will be on the table in a minute, and
be very patient. For I am convinced that we can do nothing until we
have seen the Mole and the Badger, and heard their latest news, and held
conference and taken their advice in this difficult matter
Oh, ah, yes, of course, the Mole and the Badger
What's become of them, the dear fellows? I had forgotten all about
them
Well may you ask
While you were riding
about the country in expensive motor-cars, and galloping proudly on
blood-horses, and breakfasting on the fat of the land, those two poor
devoted animals have been camping out in the open, in every sort of
weather, living very rough by day and lying very hard by night; watching
over your house, patrolling your boundaries, keeping a constant eye on
the stoats and the weasels, scheming and planning and contriving how to
get your property back for you. You don't deserve to have such true and
loyal friends, Toad, you don't, really. Some day, when it's too late,
you'll be sorry you didn't value them more while you had them
I'm an ungrateful beast, I know
Let me go out and find them, out into the cold, dark night, and share
their hardships, and try and prove by ---- Hold on a bit! Surely I heard
the chink of dishes on a tray! Supper's here at last, hooray! Come on,
Ratty
Welcome home,
Toad! Alas! what am I saying? Home, indeed! This is a poor home-coming.
Unhappy Toad
Never mind; don't take any
notice; and don't say anything to him just yet. He's always rather low
and despondent when he's wanting his victuals. In half an hour's time
he'll be quite a different animal
Hooray! Here's old Toad
Fancy
having you back again
We never
dreamt you would turn up so soon! Why, you must have managed to escape,
you clever, ingenious, intelligent Toad
Clever? O, no
I'm not really clever, according to my
friends. I've only broken out of the strongest prison in England, that's
all! And captured a railway train and escaped on it, that's all! And
disguised myself and gone about the country humbugging everybody, that's
all! O, no! I'm a stupid ass, I am! I'll tell you one or two of my
little adventures, Mole, and you shall judge for yourself
Well, well
supposing
you talk while I eat. Not a bite since breakfast! O my! O my
Look at that
That's not so bad, is it, for a few minutes' work? And how do you
think I done it, Mole? Horse-dealing! That's how I done it
Go on, Toad
Toad, do be quiet, please
And don't you egg him on,
Mole, when you know what he is; but please tell us as soon as possible
what the position is, and what's best to be done, now that Toad is back
at last
The position's about as bad as it can be
and as for what's to be done, why, blest if I know! The Badger and I
have been round and round the place, by night and by day; always the
same thing. Sentries posted everywhere, guns poked out at us, stones
thrown at us; always an animal on the look-out, and when they see us,
my! how they do laugh! That's what annoys me most
It's a very difficult situation
But
I think I see now, in the depths of my mind, what Toad really ought to
do. I will tell you. He ought to
No, he oughtn't
Nothing of
the sort! You don't understand. What he ought to do is, he ought to
Well, I shan't do it, anyway
I'm not
going to be ordered about by you fellows! It's my house we're talking
about, and I know exactly what to do, and I'll tell you. I'm going
to
Be quiet at once, all of you
Toad
You bad, troublesome little animal! Aren't
you ashamed of yourself? What do you think your father, my old friend,
would have said if he had been here to-night, and had known of all your
goings on
There, there
Never mind. Stop
crying. We're going to let bygones be bygones, and try and turn over a
new leaf. But what the Mole says is quite true. The stoats are on guard,
at every point, and they make the best sentinels in the world. It's
quite useless to think of attacking the place. They're too strong for
us
Then it's all over
I
shall go and enlist for a soldier, and never see my dear Toad Hall any
more
Come, cheer up, Toady
There are more ways of
getting back a place than taking it by storm. I haven't said my last
word yet. Now I'm going to tell you a great secret
There -- is -- an -- underground -- passage
that leads from the river-bank, quite near here, right up into the
middle of Toad Hall
O, nonsense! Badger
You've been listening
to some of the yarns they spin in the public-houses about here. I know
every inch of Toad Hall, inside and out. Nothing of the sort, I do
assure you
My young friend
your father,
who was a worthy animal -- a lot worthier than some others I know -- was
a particular friend of mine, and told me a great deal he wouldn't have
dreamt of telling you. He discovered that passage -- he didn't make it,
of course; that was done hundreds of years before he ever came to live
there -- and he repaired it and cleaned it out, because he thought it
might come in useful some day, in case of trouble or danger; and he
showed it to me. "Don't let my son know about it," he said. "He's a good
boy, but very light and volatile in character, and simply cannot hold
his tongue. If he's ever in a real fix, and it would be of use to him,
you may tell him about the secret passage; but not before
Well, well
perhaps I am a bit of a talker. A popular fellow
such as I am -- my friends get round me -- we chaff, we sparkle, we tell
witty stories -- and somehow my tongue gets wagging. I have the gift of
conversation. I've been told I ought to have a salon, whatever that may
be. Never mind. Go on, Badger. How's this passage of yours going to help
us
I've found out a thing or two lately
I got
Otter to disguise himself as a sweep and call at the back-door with
brushes over his shoulder, asking for a job. There's going to be a big
banquet to-morrow night. It's somebody's birthday -- the Chief Weasel's,
I believe -- and all the weasels will be gathered together in the
dining-hall, eating and drinking and laughing and carrying on,
suspecting nothing. No guns, no swords, no sticks, no arms of any sort
whatever
But the sentinels will be posted as usual
Exactly
that is my point. The weasels will trust
entirely to their excellent sentinels. And that is where the passage
comes in. That very useful tunnel leads right up under the butler's
pantry, next to the dining-hall
Aha! that squeaky board in the butler's pantry
Now I
understand it
We shall creep out quietly into the butler's pantry
with our pistols and swords and sticks
and rush in upon them
em
Very well, then
our
plan is settled, and there's nothing more for you to argue and squabble
about. So, as it's getting very late, all of you go right off to bed at
once. We will make all the necessary arrangements in the course of the
morning to-morrow
Here's-a-sword-for-the-Rat,
here's-a-sword-for-the Mole, here's-a-sword-for-the-Toad,
here's-a-sword-for-the-Badger! Here's-a-pistol-for-the-Rat,
here's-a-pistol-for-the-Mole, here's-a-pistol-for-the-Toad,
here's-a-pistol-for-the-Badger
That's all very well, Rat
I'm not blaming you.
But just let us once get past the stoats, with those detestable guns of
theirs, and I assure you we shan't want any swords or pistols. We four,
with our sticks, once we're inside the dining-hall, why, we shall clear
the floor of all the lot of them in five minutes. I'd have done the
whole thing by myself, only I didn't want to deprive you fellows of the
fun
It's as well to be on the safe side
em to
steal my house
em
em," Toad
It's not
good English
What are you always nagging at Toad for
What's the matter with his English? It's the same what I use
myself, and if it's good enough for me, it ought to be good enough for
you
I'm very sorry
em
em! And what's more, we're going to DO it, too
Oh, very well, have it your own way
em
I've been having such fun
I've been
getting a rise out of the stoats
I hope you've been very careful, Mole
I should hope so, too
I got the idea when
I went into the kitchen, to see about Toad's breakfast being kept
hot for him. I found that old washerwoman-dress that he came home in
yesterday, hanging on a towel-horse before the fire. So I put it on, and
the bonnet as well, and the shawl, and off I went to Toad Hall, as bold
as you please. The sentries were on the look-out, of course, with their
guns and their "Who comes there?" and all the rest of their nonsense.
"Good morning, gentlemen!" says I, very respectful. "Want any washing
done to-day?"

'They looked at me very proud and stiff and haughty, and said, "Go away,
washerwoman! We don't do any washing on duty." "Or any other time?" says
I. Ho, ho, ho! Wasn't I FUNNY, Toad
Poor, frivolous animal
Some of the stoats turned quite pink
and the
Sergeant in charge, he said to me, very short, he said, "Now run away,
my good woman, run away! Don't keep my men idling and talking on their
posts." "Run away?" says I; "it won't be me that'll be running away, in
a very short time from now
O MOLY, how could you
I could see them pricking up their ears and looking at each other
and the Sergeant said to them, "Never mind HER; she
doesn't know what she's talking about
em back again; and I heard them
saying to each other, "That's just like the weasels; they're to stop
comfortably in the banqueting-hall, and have feasting and toasts and
songs and all sorts of fun, while we must stay on guard in the cold and
the dark, and in the end be cut to pieces by bloodthirsty Badgers
Oh, you silly ass, Mole
You've been and spoilt
everything
Mole
I perceive you have
more sense in your little finger than some other animals have in the
whole of their fat bodies. You have managed excellently, and I begin to
have great hopes of you. Good Mole! Clever Mole
Well, we've got our work cut out
for us to-night, and it will probably be pretty late before we're quite
through with it; so I'm just going to take forty winks, while I can
Here's-a-belt-for-the-Rat, here's-a-belt-for-the-Mole,
here's-a-belt-for-the-Toad, here's-a-belt-for-the-Badger
All right, Ratty! It amuses you and it
doesn't hurt me. I'm going to do all I've got to do with this here
stick
PLEASE, Badger. You know I shouldn't
like you to blame me afterwards and say I had forgotten ANYTHING
cos I'm very pleased with him; Rat next; Toad last. And
look here, Toady! Don't you chatter so much as usual, or you'll be sent
back, as sure as fate
COME on, Toad
Now this time that tiresome Toad SHALL be left behind
We ought by now to
be pretty nearly under the Hall
They ARE going it, the Weasels
Ooo-ray-ooray-oo-ray-ooray
WHAT a time they're having
Come on
Now, boys,
all together
Well, I do not propose to detain you much
longer
but before I resume my seat
I should like to say one word about our kind host, Mr. Toad.
We all know Toad
GOOD Toad, MODEST Toad, HONEST
Toad
Only just let me get at him
Hold hard a minute
Get ready, all of you
Let me sing you a little song
which I have
composed on the subject of Toad
Toad he went a-pleasuring
          Gaily down the street
The hour is come! Follow me
A Mole! A Mole
Toad he went a-pleasuring
em
Mole
you're the best of fellows! Just cut along outside
and look after those stoat-sentries of yours, and see what they're
doing. I've an idea that, thanks to you, we shan't have much trouble
from them to-night
I want some grub, I do
Stir your stumps, Toad, and look
lively! We've got your house back for you, and you don't offer us so
much as a sandwich
It's all over
em rolled into the river! They've all
disappeared by now, one way or another; and I've got their rifles. So
that's all right
Excellent and deserving animal
Now, there's just one more thing I want you to do,
Mole, before you sit down to your supper along of us; and I wouldn't
trouble you only I know I can trust you to see a thing done, and I wish
I could say the same of every one I know. I'd send Rat, if he wasn't a
poet. I want you to take those fellows on the floor there upstairs with
you, and have some bedrooms cleaned out and tidied up and made really
comfortable. See that they sweep UNDER the beds, and put clean sheets
and pillow-cases on, and turn down one corner of the bed-clothes, just
as you know it ought to be done; and have a can of hot water, and clean
towels, and fresh cakes of soap, put in each room. And then you can give
them a licking a-piece, if it's any satisfaction to you, and put them
out by the back-door, and we shan't see any more of THEM, I fancy. And
then come along and have some of this cold tongue. It's first rate. I'm
very pleased with you, Mole
Quick march
And I didn't
have to lick them, either
I thought, on the whole, they had
had licking enough for one night, and the weasels, when I put the point
to them, quite agreed with me, and said they wouldn't think of troubling
me. They were very penitent, and said they were extremely sorry for
what they had done, but it was all the fault of the Chief Weasel and the
stoats, and if ever they could do anything for us at any time to make
up, we had only got to mention it. So I gave them a roll a-piece, and
let them out at the back, and off they ran, as hard as they could
Thank you kindly, dear Mole, for all
your pains and trouble tonight, and especially for your cleverness this
morning
There spoke my
brave Toad
I'm sorry, Toad, but I'm afraid
there's a heavy morning's work in front of you. You see, we really ought
to have a Banquet at once, to celebrate this affair. It's expected of
you -- in fact, it's the rule
O, all right
em, you
dear old Badger
Don't pretend to be stupider than you really are
em. Now, sit down at that table -- there's
stacks of letter-paper on it, with "Toad Hall" at the top in blue and
gold -- and write invitations to all our friends, and if you stick to it
we shall get them out before luncheon. And I'LL bear a hand, too; and
take my share of the burden. I'LL order the Banquet
What
Me stop indoors and write a lot of
rotten letters on a jolly morning like this, when I want to go around my
property, and set everything and everybody to rights, and swagger about
and enjoy myself! Certainly not! I'll be -- I'll see you ---- Stop a minute,
though! Why, of course, dear Badger! What is my pleasure or convenience
compared with that of others! You wish it done, and it shall be done.
Go, Badger, order the Banquet, order what you like; then join our young
friends outside in their innocent mirth, oblivious of me and my cares
and toils. I sacrifice this fair morning on the altar of duty and
friendship
Well, look after yourselves, you
fellows! Ask for anything you want
Now, look here, Toad
It's about this Banquet, and
very sorry I am to have to speak to you like this. But we want you to
understand clearly, once and for all, that there are going to be no
speeches and no songs. Try and grasp the fact that on this occasion
we're not arguing with you; we're just telling you
Mayn't I sing them just one LITTLE song
No, not ONE little song
It's no
good, Toady; you know well that your songs are all conceit and boasting
and vanity; and your speeches are all self-praise and -- and -- well, and
gross exaggeration and -- and
And gas
It's for your own good, Toady
You know you MUST
turn over a new leaf sooner or later, and now seems a splendid time to
begin; a sort of turning-point in your career. Please don't think that
saying all this doesn't hurt me more than it hurts you
You have conquered, my friends
It was,
to be sure, but a small thing that I asked -- merely leave to blossom
and expand for yet one more evening, to let myself go and hear the
tumultuous applause that always seems to me -- somehow -- to bring out my
best qualities. However, you are right, I know, and I am wrong. Hence
forth I will be a very different Toad. My friends, you shall never have
occasion to blush for me again. But, O dear, O dear, this is a hard
world
Badger
_I_ feel like a brute; I wonder what YOU feel
like
O, I know, I know
But the thing had to be
done. This good fellow has got to live here, and hold his own, and be
respected. Would you have him a common laughing-stock, mocked and jeered
at by stoats and weasels
Of course not
And, talking of weasels, it's lucky we
came upon that little weasel, just as he was setting out with Toad's
invitations. I suspected something from what you told me, and had a look
at one or two; they were simply disgraceful. I confiscated the lot,
and the good Mole is now sitting in the blue boudoir, filling up plain,
simple invitation cards
Not at all
On the
contrary
Badger's was the mastermind; the Mole and the Water
Rat bore the brunt of the fighting; I merely served in the ranks and did
little or nothing
Toad! Speech! Speech from Toad! Song! Mr. Toad's song
Look,
baby! There goes the great Mr. Toad! And that's the gallant Water Rat, a
terrible fighter, walking along o
</text>
