<text>
What do you mean, little boy -- closing up my window
What window
You stuffed hay into it three times last night. I had to blow it out
again three times
You can't mean this little hole! It isn't a window; it's a hole in my
bed
I did not say it was a window: I said it was my window
But it can't be a window, because windows are holes to see out of
Well, that's just what I made this window for
But you are outside: you can't want a window
You are quite mistaken. Windows are to see out of, you say. Well, I'm
in my house, and I want windows to see out of it
But you've made a window into my bed
Well, your mother has got three windows into my dancing room, and you
have three into my garret
But I heard father say, when my mother wanted him to make a window
through the wall, that it was against the law, for it would look into
Mr. Dyves's garden
The law would have some trouble to catch me
But if it's not right, you know
that's no matter. You
shouldn't do it
I am so tall I am above that law
You must have a tall house, then
Yes; a tall house: the clouds are inside it
Dear me
I think, then, you can
hardly expect me to keep a window in my bed for you. Why don't you make
a window into Mr. Dyves's bed
Nobody makes a window into an ash-pit
I like to see nice things out of my windows
But he must have a nicer bed than I have, though mine is very nice -- so
nice that I couldn't wish a better
It's not the bed I care about: it's what is in it.-- But you just open
that window
Well, mother says I shouldn't be disobliging; but it's rather hard. You
see the north wind will blow right in my face if I do
I am the North Wind
O-o-oh
Then will you promise not to blow
on my face if I open your window
I can't promise that
But you'll give me the toothache. Mother's got it already
But what's to become of me without a window
I'm sure I don't know. All I say is, it will be worse for me than for
you
No; it will not. You shall not be the worse for it -- I promise you that.
You will be much the better for it. Just you believe what I say, and do
as I tell you
Well, I can pull the clothes over my head
called Out-of-Doors, I suppose
What is your name, little boy
Diamond
What a funny name
It's a very nice name
I don't know that
Well, I do
Do you know to whom you are speaking
No
Then I must not be angry with you.-- You had better look and see,
though
Diamond is a very pretty name
Diamond is a useless thing rather
That's not true. Diamond is very nice -- as big as two -- and so quiet all
night! And doesn't he make a jolly row in the morning, getting upon his
four great legs! It's like thunder
You don't seem to know what a diamond is
Oh, don't I just! Diamond is a great and good horse; and he sleeps
right under me. He is old Diamond, and I am young Diamond; or, if you
like it better, for you're very particular, Mr. North Wind, he's big
Diamond, and I'm little Diamond; and I don't know which of us my father
likes best
I'm not Mr. North Wind
You told me that you were the North Wind
I did not say Mister North Wind
Well, then, I do; for mother tells me I ought to be polite
Then let me tell you I don't think it at all polite of you to say
Mister to me
Well, I didn't know better. I'm very sorry
But you ought to know better
I don't know that
I do. You can't say it's polite to lie there talking -- with your head
under the bed-clothes, and never look up to see what kind of person you
are talking to.-- I want you to come out with me
I want to go to sleep
You shall sleep all the better to-morrow night
Besides
you are out in Mr. Dyves's garden, and I can't
get there. I can only get into our own yard
Will you take your head out of the bed-clothes
No
Will you go with me now, you little Diamond? I am sorry I was forced to
be so rough with you
I will; yes, I will
But
how shall I get my clothes? They are in
mother's room, and the door is locked
Oh, never mind your clothes. You will not be cold. I shall take care of
that. Nobody is cold with the north wind
I thought everybody was
That is a great mistake. Most people make it, however. They are cold
because they are not with the north wind, but without it
Follow me, Diamond
Yes
You're not afraid
No, ma'am; but mother never would let me go without shoes: she never
said anything about clothes, so I dare say she wouldn't mind that
I know your mother very well
She is a good woman.
I have visited her often. I was with her when you were born. I saw her
laugh and cry both at once. I love your mother, Diamond
How was it you did not know my name, then, ma'am? Please am I to say
ma'am to you, ma'am
One question at a time, dear boy. I knew your name quite well, but I
wanted to hear what you would say for it. Don't you remember that day
when the man was finding fault with your name -- how I blew the window
in
Yes, yes
Our window opens like a door,
right over the coach-house door. And the wind -- you, ma'am -- came in, and
blew the Bible out of the man's hands, and the leaves went all flutter,
flutter on the floor, and my mother picked it up and gave it back to him
open, and there
Was your name in the Bible -- the sixth stone in the high priest's
breastplate
Oh!-- a stone, was it
I thought it had been a horse -- I
did
Never mind. A horse is better than a stone any day. Well, you see, I
know all about you and your mother
Yes. I will go with you
Now for the next question: you're not to call me ma'am. You must call
me just my own name -- respectfully, you know -- just North Wind
Well, please, North Wind, you are so beautiful, I am quite ready to go
with you
You must not be ready to go with everything beautiful all at once,
Diamond
But what's beautiful can't be bad. You're not bad, North Wind
No; I'm not bad. But sometimes beautiful things grow bad by doing
bad, and it takes some time for their badness to spoil their beauty.
So little boys may be mistaken if they go after things because they are
beautiful
Well, I will go with you because you are beautiful and good, too
Ah, but there's another thing, Diamond:-- What if I should look ugly
without being bad -- look ugly myself because I am making ugly things
beautiful?-- What then
I don't quite understand you, North Wind. You tell me what then
Well, I will tell you. If you see me with my face all black, don't be
frightened. If you see me flapping wings like a bat's, as big as the
whole sky, don't be frightened. If you hear me raging ten times worse
than Mrs. Bill, the blacksmith's wife -- even if you see me looking in at
people's windows like Mrs. Eve Dropper, the gardener's wife -- you must
believe that I am doing my work. Nay, Diamond, if I change into a
serpent or a tiger, you must not let go your hold of me, for my hand
will never change in yours if you keep a good hold. If you keep a hold,
you will know who I am all the time, even when you look at me and can't
see me the least like the North Wind. I may look something very awful.
Do you understand
Quite well
Come along, then
Good night, Diamond
She shan't say it was my fault, anyhow
I daresay she
is hiding somewhere to see what I will do. I will look for her
for
if
I am in a dream, I am safe in my bed, and I needn't cry. But if I'm not
in a dream, I'm out here, and perhaps I had better cry, or, at least,
I'm not sure whether I can help it
I'll give old Diamond a surprise
Diamond! Diamond! Where are you, Diamond
Here, mother
Where, Diamond
Here, mother, on Diamond's back
Come down, Diamond
I can't
How did you get up
Quite easily
but when I got up, Diamond would get up
too, and so here I am
Miss is very poorly
Mis'ess has been to
the doctor with her to-day, and she looked very glum when she came out
again. I was a-watching of them to see what doctor had said
And didn't Miss look glum too
Not half as glum as Mis'ess
You see
Open the window, Diamond
Are you North Wind
I don't hear you blowing
No; but you hear me talking. Open the window, for I haven't overmuch
time
Yes
But, please, North Wind, where's the use? You
left me all alone last time
Yes, but that was your fault
I had work to do;
and, besides, a gentleman should never keep a lady waiting
But I'm not a gentleman
I hope you won't say so ten years after this
I'm going to be a coachman, and a coachman is not a gentleman
We call your father a gentleman in our house
He doesn't call himself one
That's of no consequence: every man ought to be a gentleman, and your
father is one
Oh dear
I didn't know -- who are you,
please
I'm North Wind
Are you really
Yes. Make haste
But you're no bigger than me
Do you think I care about how big or how little I am? Didn't you see me
this evening? I was less then
No. Where was you
Behind the leaves of the primrose. Didn't you see them blowing
Yes
Make haste, then, if you want to go with me
But you are not big enough to take care of me. I think you are only
Miss North Wind
I am big enough to show you the way, anyhow. But if you won't come,
why, you must stay
I must dress myself. I didn't mind with a grown lady, but I couldn't go
with a little girl in my night-gown
Very well. I'm not in such a hurry as I was the other night. Dress
as fast as you can, and I'll go and shake the primrose leaves till you
come
Don't hurt it
Come along
Stop, stop
Please, I can't jump like that
Give me your hand again, and I will, try
This is nice
I have some rather disagreeable work to do to-night
before
I get out to sea, and I must set about it at once. The disagreeable work
must be looked after first
Surely
North Wind can't be eating one of the children
I hope you haven't eaten a baby, North Wind
No
I did not eat a baby. You would not have had
to ask that foolish question if you had not let go your hold of me. You
would have seen how I served a nurse that was calling a child bad names,
and telling her she was wicked. She had been drinking. I saw an ugly gin
bottle in a cupboard
And you frightened her
I believe so
I flew at her
throat, and she tumbled over on the floor with such a crash that they
ran in. She'll be turned away to-morrow -- and quite time, if they knew as
much as I do
But didn't you frighten the little one
She never saw me. The woman would not have seen me either if she had
not been wicked
Oh
Why should you see things
that you wouldn't
understand or know what to do with? Good people see good things; bad
people, bad things
Then are you a bad thing
No. For you see me, Diamond, dear
I had to make myself look like a bad thing before she could see me. If
I had put on any other shape than a wolf's she would not have seen me,
for that is what is growing to be her own shape inside of her
I don't know what you mean
but I suppose it's all
right
Now
whatever you do, do not let my hand go. I might
have lost you the last time, only I was not in a hurry then: now I am in
a hurry
Are you cold, North Wind
No, Diamond
I am
only getting ready to sweep one of my rooms. Those careless, greedy,
untidy children make it in such a mess
Diamond, I am afraid you would not keep hold of me, and if I were to
drop you, I don't know what might happen; so I have been making a place
for you in my hair. Come
Get in, Diamond
Are you comfortable, Diamond
Yes, indeed
Please, North Wind
what is that noise
The noise of my besom. I am the old woman that sweeps the cobwebs from
the sky; only I'm busy with the floor now
What makes the houses look as if they were running away
I am sweeping so fast over them
But, please, North Wind, I knew London was very big, but I didn't know
it was so big as this. It seems as if we should never get away from it
We are going round and round, else we should have left it long ago
Is this the way you sweep, North Wind
Yes; I go round and round with my great besom
Please, would you mind going a little slower, for I want to see the
streets
You won't see much now
Why
Because I have nearly swept all the people home
Oh! I forgot
Oh! please, North Wind
won't you help that little girl
No, Diamond; I mustn't leave my work
But why shouldn't you be kind to her
I am kind to her. I am sweeping the wicked smells away
But you're kinder to me, dear North Wind. Why shouldn't you be as kind
to her as you are to me
There are reasons, Diamond. Everybody can't be done to all the same.
Everybody is not ready for the same thing
But I don't see why I should be kinder used than she
Do you think nothing's to be done but what you can see, Diamond, you
silly! It's all right. Of course you can help her if you like. You've
got nothing particular to do at this moment; I have
Oh! do let me help her, then. But you won't be able to wait, perhaps
No, I can't wait; you must do it yourself. And, mind, the wind will get
a hold of you, too
Don't you want me to help her, North Wind
Not without having some idea what will happen. If you break down and
cry, that won't be much of a help to her, and it will make a goose of
little Diamond
I want to go
Only there's just one thing -- how am I to
get home
If you're anxious about that, perhaps you had better go with me. I am
bound to take you home again, if you do
There
I'm sure the wind will blow her over, and perhaps kill her. Do let me
go
Well, though I cannot promise to take you home
I can promise
you it will be all right in the end. You will get home somehow. Have you
made up your mind what to do
Yes; to help the little girl
Stop! stop! little girl
I can't
the wind won't leave go of me
Where are you going
Home
Then I will go with you
Where is your crossing
I don't sweep
What do you do, then
You ain't big enough for most
things
I don't know what I do do
Nothing, I suppose. My father's Mr. Coleman's coachman
Have you a father
Yes. Haven't you
No; nor mother neither. Old Sal's all I've got
I wouldn't go to her if she wasn't good to me
But you must go somewheres
Move on
I told you so
You must go somewheres. They're always
at it
But old Sal doesn't beat you, does she
I wish she would
What do you mean
She would if she was my mother. But she wouldn't lie abed a-cuddlin' of
her ugly old bones, and laugh to hear me crying at the door
You don't mean she won't let you in to-night
It'll be a good chance if she does
Why are you out so late, then
My crossing's a long way off at the West End, and I had been indulgin'
in door-steps and mewses
We'd better have a try anyhow
Come along
Now you lead me
and I'll take care of
you
I shouldn't like to live here
Oh, yes, you would, if you had nowhere else to go to
I only wish we may get in
I don't want to go in
Where do you mean to go, then
Home to my home
Where's that
I don't exactly know
Then you're worse off than I am
Oh no, for North Wind
What
I told you so
She is wide awake hearkening. But we
don't get in
What will you do, then
Move on
Where
Oh, anywheres. Bless you, I'm used to it
Hadn't you better come home with me, then
That's a good joke, when you don't know where it is. Come on
But where
Oh, nowheres in particular. Come on
Do let us rest a bit
Let's see
There's something like a railway there.
Perhaps there's an open arch
Hallo! here we are
A barrel's the jolliest bed
going -- on the tramp, I mean. We'll have forty winks, and then go on
again
This is jolly
I'm so glad
I don't think so much of it
I'm used to it, I
suppose. But I can't think how a kid like you comes to be out all alone
this time o' night
But I shouldn't have been out so late if I hadn't got down to help
you
North Wind is gone home long ago
I think you must ha' got out o' one o' them Hidget Asylms
You said something about the north wind afore that I couldn't get
the rights of
I thought we should have had a sleep
but I can't say
I'm very sleepy after all. Come, let's go on again
Ah, ah
I thought
so! North Wind takes nobody in! Here I am in master's garden! I tell you
what, little girl, you just bore a hole in old Sal's wall, and put your
mouth to it, and say, 'Please, North Wind, mayn't I go out with you?'
and then you'll see what'll come
I daresay I shall. But I'm out in the wind too often already to want
more of it
I said with the North Wind, not in it
It's all one
It's not all one
It is all one
But I know best
And I know better. I'll box your ears
I'm sorry I was cross
Come in, and my mother will give you
some breakfast
No, thank you. I must be off to my crossing. It's morning now
I'm very sorry for you
Well, it is a life to be tired of -- what with old Sal, and so many holes
in my shoes
I wonder you're so good. I should kill myself
Oh, no, you wouldn't! When I think of it, I always want to see what's
coming next, and so I always wait till next is over. Well! I suppose
there's somebody happy somewheres. But it ain't in them carriages. Oh
my! how they do look sometimes -- fit to bite your head off! Good-bye
Sit up, Diamond
Come up, Diamond
Then he was on the back of the
North Wind after all
North
Wind is his father's horse! That's the secret of it! Why couldn't he say
so
Thank you, mister. Did they wollop you then
Oh no
They never wollops me
Lor
Don't get off again, Diamond. The horse might have put his foot on
you
No, father
There! that is something done
At last it was. I thought he would have had to stay
there all night, poor fellow! I did
Are you the fairy that herds the bees
I'm not a fairy
How do you know that
It would become you better to ask how you are to know it
You've just told me
Yes. But what's the use of knowing a thing only because you're told
it
Well, how am I to know you are not a fairy? You do look very like one
In the first place, fairies are much bigger than you see me
Oh
I thought they were very little
But they might be tremendously bigger than I am, and yet not very big.
Why, I could be six times the size I am, and not be very huge. Besides,
a fairy can't grow big and little at will, though the nursery-tales do
say so: they don't know better. You stupid Diamond! have you never seen
me before
I am very stupid
but I never saw you so small before, not
even when you were nursing the primrose
Must you see me every size that can be measured before you know me,
Diamond
But how could I think it was you taking care of a great stupid
bumble-bee
The more stupid he was the more need he had to be taken care of. What
with sucking honey and trying to open the door, he was nearly dated; and
when it opened in the morning to let the sun see the tulip's heart, what
would the sun have thought to find such a stupid thing lying there -- with
wings too
But how do you have time to look after bees
I don't look after bees. I had this one to look after. It was hard
work, though
Hard work! Why, you could blow a chimney down, or -- or a boy's cap off
Both are easier than to blow a tulip open. But I scarcely know the
difference between hard and easy. I am always able for what I have to
do. When I see my work, I just rush at it -- and it is done. But I mustn't
chatter. I have got to sink a ship to-night
Sink a ship! What! with men in it
Yes, and women too
How dreadful! I wish you wouldn't talk so
It is rather dreadful. But it is my work. I must do it
I hope you won't ask me to go with you
No, I won't ask you. But you must come for all that
I won't then
Won't you
Please take me. You cannot be cruel
No; I could not be cruel if I would. I can do nothing cruel, although I
often do what looks like cruel to those who do not know what I really am
doing. The people they say I drown, I only carry away to -- to -- to -- well,
the back of the North Wind -- that is what they used to call it long ago,
only I never saw the place
How can you carry them there if you never saw it
I know the way
But how is it you never saw it
Because it is behind me
But you can look round
Not far enough to see my own back. No; I always look before me. In
fact, I grow quite blind and deaf when I try to see my back. I only mind
my work
But how does it be your work
Ah, that I can't tell you. I only know it is, because when I do it I
feel all right, and when I don't I feel all wrong. East Wind says -- only
one does not exactly know how much to believe of what she says, for she
is very naughty sometimes -- she says it is all managed by a baby; but
whether she is good or naughty when she says that, I don't know. I just
stick to my work. It is all one to me to let a bee out of a tulip, or to
sweep the cobwebs from the sky. You would like to go with me to-night
I don't want to see a ship sunk
But suppose I had to take you
Why, then, of course I must go
There's a good Diamond.-- I think I had better be growing a bit. Only
you must go to bed first. I can't take you till you're in bed. That's
the law about the children. So I had better go and do something else
first
Very well, North Wind
What are you going to do first,
if you please
I think I may tell you. Jump up on the top of the wall, there
I can't
Ah! and I can't help you -- you haven't been to bed yet, you see. Come
out to the road with me, just in front of the coach-house, and I will
show you
You can get up on this wall, Diamond
Yes; but my mother has forbidden me
Then don't
But I can see over
Ah! to be sure. I can't
You darling
Don't be impertinent, Master Diamond
If there's one
thing makes me more angry than another, it is the way you humans judge
things by their size. I am quite as respectable now as I shall be six
hours after this, when I take an East Indiaman by the royals, twist her
round, and push her under. You have no right to address me in such a
fashion
But look there
Do you see a boat with one man in it -- a
green and white boat
Yes; quite well
That's a poet
I thought you said it was a bo-at
Stupid pet! Don't you know what a poet is
Why, a thing to sail on the water in
Well, perhaps you're not so far wrong. Some poets do carry people over
the sea. But I have no business to talk so much. The man is a poet
The boat is a boat
Can't you spell
Not very well
So I see. A poet is not a bo-at, as you call it. A poet is a man who is
glad of something, and tries to make other people glad of it too
Ah! now I know. Like the man in the sweety-shop
Not very. But I see it is no use. I wasn't sent to tell you, and so I
can't tell you. I must be off. Only first just look at the man
He's not much of a rower
paddling first with one fin
and then with the other
Now look here
How did you do that
I blew in his face
I don't see how that could
do it
I daresay not. And therefore you will say you
don't believe it could
No, no, dear North Wind. I know you too well not to believe you
Well, I blew in his face, and that woke him up
But what was the good of it
Why! don't you see? Look at him -- how he is pulling. I blew the mist out
of him
How was that
That is just what I cannot tell you
But you did it
Yes. I have to do ten thousand things without being able to tell how
I don't like that
You don't seem very well to-night, Diamond
I am quite well, mother
I think you had better go to bed
Very well, mother
Come up, Diamond
It's all ready. I'm waiting for you
Oh, North Wind
Diamond, dear
be a man. What is fearful to you is not the
least fearful to me
But it can't hurt you
for you're it
Then if I'm it, and have you in my arms, how can it hurt you
Oh yes! I see
But it looks so dreadful, and it
pushes me about so
Yes, it does, my dear. That is what it was sent for
Diamond, dear, this will never do
Oh yes, it will
I am all right now -- quite
comfortable, I assure you, dear North Wind. If you will only let me stay
here, I shall be all right indeed
But you will feel the wind here, Diamond
I don't mind that a bit, so long as I feel your arms through it
Brave boy
No
I don't see that. It's not courage at all, so long
as I feel you there
But hadn't you better get into my hair? Then you would not feel the
wind; you will here
Ah, but, dear North Wind, you don't know how nice it is to feel your
arms about me. It is a thousand times better to have them and the wind
together, than to have only your hair and the back of your neck and no
wind at all
But it is surely more comfortable there
Well, perhaps; but I begin to think there are better things than being
comfortable
Yes, indeed there are. Well, I will keep you in front of me. You will
feel the wind, but not too much. I shall only want one arm to take care
of you; the other will be quite enough to sink the ship
Oh, dear North Wind! how can you talk so
My dear boy, I never talk; I always mean what I say
Then you do mean to sink the ship with the other hand
Yes
It's not like you
How do you know that
Quite easily. Here you are taking care of a poor little boy with one
arm, and there you are sinking a ship with the other. It can't be like
you
Ah! but which is me? I can't be two mes, you know
No. Nobody can be two mes
Well, which me is me
Now I must think. There looks to be two
Yes. That's the very point.-- You can't be knowing the thing you don't
know, can you
No
Which me do you know
The kindest, goodest, best me in the world
Why am I good to you
I don't know
Have you ever done anything for me
No
Then I must be good to you because I choose to be good to you
Yes
Why should I choose
Because -- because -- because you like
Why should I like to be good to you
I don't know, except it be because it's good to be good to me
That's just it; I am good to you because I like to be good
Then why shouldn't you be good to other people as well as to me
That's just what I don't know. Why shouldn't I
I don't know either. Then why shouldn't you
Because I am
There it is again
I don't see that you are. It looks
quite the other thing
Well, but listen to me, Diamond. You know the one me, you say, and that
is good
Yes
Do you know the other me as well
No. I can't. I shouldn't like to
There it is. You don't know the other me. You are sure of one of them
Yes
And you are sure there can't be two mes
Yes
Then the me you don't know must be the same as the me you do
know,-- else there would be two mes
Yes
Then the other me you don't know must be as kind as the me you do
know
Yes
Besides, I tell you that it is so, only it doesn't look like it. That I
confess freely. Have you anything more to object
No, no, dear North Wind; I am quite satisfied
Then I will tell you something you might object. You might say that the
me you know is like the other me, and that I am cruel all through
I know that can't be, because you are so kind
But that kindness might be only a pretence for the sake of being more
cruel afterwards
No, no, dear North Wind; I can't believe that. I don't believe it. I
won't believe it. That would kill me. I love you, and you must love me,
else how did I come to love you? How could you know how to put on such a
beautiful face if you did not love me and the rest? No. You may sink
as many ships as you like, and I won't say another word. I can't say I
shall like to see it, you know
That's quite another thing
Is the storm over, North Wind
No, Diamond. I am only waiting a moment to set you down. You would not
like to see the ship sunk, and I am going to give you a place to stop in
till I come back for you
Oh! thank you
I shall be sorry to leave you, North
Wind, but I would rather not see the ship go down. And I'm afraid the
poor people will cry, and I should hear them. Oh, dear
There are a good many passengers on board; and to tell the truth,
Diamond, I don't care about your hearing the cry you speak of. I am
afraid you would not get it out of your little head again for a long
time
But how can you bear it then, North Wind? For I am sure you are kind. I
shall never doubt that again
I will tell you how I am able to bear it, Diamond: I am always hearing,
through every noise, through all the noise I am making myself even, the
sound of a far-off song. I do not exactly know where it is, or what it
means; and I don't hear much of it, only the odour of its music, as it
were, flitting across the great billows of the ocean outside this air in
which I make such a storm; but what I do hear is quite enough to make
me able to bear the cry from the drowning ship. So it would you if you
could hear it
No, it wouldn't
For they wouldn't hear
the music of the far-away song; and if they did, it wouldn't do them
any good. You see you and I are not going to be drowned, and so we might
enjoy it
But you have never heard the psalm, and you don't know what it is like.
Somehow, I can't say how, it tells me that all is right; that it is
coming to swallow up all cries
But that won't do them any good -- the people, I mean
It must. It must
It wouldn't be the song
it seems to be if it did not swallow up all their fear and pain too, and
set them singing it themselves with the rest. I am sure it will. And do
you know, ever since I knew I had hair, that is, ever since it began
to go out and away, that song has been coming nearer and nearer. Only I
must say it was some thousand years before I heard it
But how can you say it was coming nearer when you did not hear it
Since I began to hear it, I know it is growing louder, therefore I
judge it was coming nearer and nearer until I did hear it first. I'm not
so very old, you know -- a few thousand years only -- and I was quite a baby
when I heard the noise first, but I knew it must come from the voices
of people ever so much older and wiser than I was. I can't sing at all,
except now and then, and I can never tell what my song is going to be; I
only know what it is after I have sung it.-- But this will never do. Will
you stop here
I can't see anywhere to stop
Your hair is all down
like a darkness, and I can't see through it if I knock my eyes into it
ever so much
Look, then
Oh! what's that
A very good place for you to wait in
But we shall
go in, and you shall judge for yourself
What are you trembling for, little Diamond
I am afraid of falling down there
It is so deep
down
Yes, rather
but you were a hundred times higher
a few minutes ago
Ah, yes, but somebody's arm was about me then
What a dear little warm mouth you've got
It is a
pity you should talk nonsense with it. Don't you know I have a hold of
you
Yes; but I'm walking on my own legs, and they might slip. I can't trust
myself so well as your arms
But I have a hold of you, I tell you, foolish child
Yes, but somehow I can't feel comfortable
If you were to fall, and my hold of you were to give way, I should be
down after you in a less moment than a lady's watch can tick, and catch
you long before you had reached the ground
I don't like it though
Oh! oh! oh
Come after me
Why did you leave me, dear North Wind
Because I wanted you to walk alone
But it is so much nicer here
I daresay; but I couldn't hold a little coward to my heart. It would
make me so cold
But I wasn't brave of myself
It was the wind that blew in my face that made me brave.
Wasn't it now, North Wind
Yes: I know that. You had to be taught what courage was. And you
couldn't know what it was without feeling it: therefore it was given
you. But don't you feel as if you would try to be brave yourself next
time
Yes, I do. But trying is not much
Yes, it is -- a very great deal, for it is a beginning. And a beginning
is the greatest thing of all. To try to be brave is to be brave. The
coward who tries to be brave is before the man who is brave because he
is made so, and never had to try
How kind you are, North Wind
I am only just. All kindness is but justice. We owe it
I don't quite understand that
Never mind; you will some day. There is no hurry about understanding it
now
Who blew the wind on me that made me brave
I did
I didn't see you
Therefore you can believe me
Yes, yes; of course. But how was it that such a little breath could be
so strong
That I don't know
But you made it strong
No: I only blew it. I knew it would make you strong, just as it did the
man in the boat, you remember. But how my breath has that power I cannot
tell. It was put into it when I was made. That is all I know. But really
I must be going about my work
Ah! the poor ship! I wish you would stop here, and let the poor ship
go
That I dare not do. Will you stop here till I come back
Yes. You won't be long
Not longer than I can help. Trust me, you shall get home before the
morning
I'm so tired
And how comes he to be lying there, St. Peter
I think I saw him a while ago up in the gallery, under the Nicodemus
window. Perhaps he has fallen down.

"What do you think, St. Matthew
I don't think he could have crept here after falling from such a
height. He must have been killed
What are we to do with him? We can't leave him lying there. And we
could not make him comfortable up here in the window: it's rather
crowded already. What do you say, St. Thomas
Let's go down and look at him
What is the matter with him, St. Luke
There's nothing the matter with him
He's in a sound sleep
I have it
This is one of North Wind's tricks. She
has caught him up and dropped him at our door, like a withered leaf or a
foundling baby. I don't understand that woman's conduct, I must say. As
if we hadn't enough to do with our money, without going taking care
of other people's children! That's not what our forefathers built
cathedrals for
She should consider that a church is not a place for pranks, not to
mention that we live in it
It certainly is disrespectful of her. But she always is disrespectful.
What right has she to bang at our windows as she has been doing the
whole of this night? I daresay there is glass broken somewhere. I know
my blue robe is in a dreadful mess with the rain first and the dust
after. It will cost me shillings to clean it
North Wind knows best what she is about. She has a good
right to blow the cobwebs from your windows, for she was sent to do it.
She sweeps them away from grander places, I can tell you, for I've been
with her at it
He's grand at shaking himself
I wish I could shake
myself like that. But then I can wash myself, and he can't. What fun
it would be to see Old Diamond washing his face with his hoofs and iron
shoes! Wouldn't it be a picture
I wonder how old the tree is
It must take a long
time to get so near the sky as that poor tree was
Yes, indeed
Who are you, my man
Little Diamond
Oh! I have heard of you. How do you come to be up so early
Because the sham Apostles talked such nonsense, they waked me up
You must have been dreaming, my little man
Dear! dear
there has been terrible work here. This
is the north wind's doing. What a pity! I wish we lived at the back of
it, I'm sure
Where is that sir
Away in the Hyperborean regions
I never heard of the place
I daresay not
but if this tree had been
there now, it would not have been blown down, for there is no wind
there
But, please, sir, if it had been there
we should not
have had to be sorry for it
Certainly not
Then we shouldn't have had to be glad for it, either
You're quite right, my boy
I will ask North Wind next
time I see her to take me to that country. I think she did speak about
it once before
I don't think the boy is looking well, husband
Don't you? Well, I don't know. I think he looks pretty bobbish. How do
you feel yourself, Diamond, my boy
Quite well, thank you, father; at least, I think I've got a little
headache
There! I told you
The child's quite well
You see
I've had a letter from my sister at
Sandwich
Sleepy old hole
Don't abuse the place; there's good people in it
Right, old lady
only I don't believe there are
more than two pair of carriage-horses in the whole blessed place
Well, people can get to heaven without carriages -- or coachmen either,
husband. Not that I should like to go without my coachman, you know. But
about the boy
What boy
That boy, there, staring at you with his goggle-eyes
Have I got goggle-eyes, mother
Not too goggle
Not too goggle; only you need not stare so
Well, what about him
I told you I had got a letter
Yes, from your sister; not from Diamond
La, husband! you've got out of bed the wrong leg first this morning, I
do believe
I always get out with both at once
Well, listen then. His aunt wants the boy to go down and see her
And that's why you want to make out that he ain't looking well
No more he is. I think he had better go
Well, I don't care, if you can find the money
I'll manage that
I can do
without your help. I'm enough for myself
Please may I sit down for a minute on this box
What can it mean
It means me
Who are you, please
Well, really, I begin to be ashamed of you
I wonder
how long it will be before you know me; or how often I might take you in
before you got sharp enough to suspect me. You are as bad as a baby that
doesn't know his mother in a new bonnet
Not quite so bad as that, dear North Wind
for I didn't
see you at all, and indeed I don't see you yet, although I recognise
your voice. Do grow a little, please
Not a hair's-breadth
What are you doing here
I am come to see my aunt. But, please, North Wind, why didn't you come
back for me in the church that night
I did. I carried you safe home. All the time you were dreaming about
the glass Apostles, you were lying in my arms
I'm so glad
I thought that must be it, only I wanted
to hear you say so. Did you sink the ship, then
Yes
And drown everybody
Not quite. One boat got away with six or seven men in it
How could the boat swim when the ship couldn't
Of course I had some trouble with it. I had to contrive a bit, and
manage the waves a little. When they're once thoroughly waked up, I have
a good deal of trouble with them sometimes. They're apt to get stupid
with tumbling over each other's heads. That's when they're fairly at it.
However, the boat got to a desert island before noon next day
And what good will come of that
I don't know. I obeyed orders. Good bye
Oh! stay, North Wind, do stay
What is it, my dear child
What a big
voice you've got! and what a noise you do make with it? What is it you
want? I have little to do, but that little must be done
I want you to take me to the country at the back of the north wind
That's not so easy
I almost wish old Herodotus had held his tongue about it. Much he knew
of it
Why do you wish that, North Wind
Because then that clergyman would never have heard of it, and set you
wanting to go. But we shall see. We shall see. You must go home now, my
dear, for you don't seem very well, and I'll see what can be done for
you. Don't wait for me. I've got to break a few of old Goody's toys;
she's thinking too much of her new stock. Two or three will do. There!
go now
If that should be North Wind now
How's your head, dear
Better, auntie, I think
Would you like something to drink
Oh, yes! I should, please
Quick, Diamond
I have found such a chance
But I'm not well
I know that, but you will be better for a little fresh air. You shall
have plenty of that
You want me to go, then
Yes, I do. It won't hurt you
Very well
We must make haste before your aunt comes
I used to dash the waves about here
where cows and
sheep are feeding now; but we shall soon get to them. There they are
You see, Diamond
it is very difficult for me to
get you to the back of the north wind, for that country lies in the very
north itself, and of course I can't blow northwards
Why not
You little silly
Don't you see that if I were to
blow northwards I should be South Wind, and that is as much as to say
that one person could be two persons
But how can you ever get home at all, then
You are quite right -- that is my home, though I never get farther than
the outer door. I sit on the doorstep, and hear the voices inside. I am
nobody there, Diamond
I'm very sorry
Why
That you should be nobody
Oh, I don't mind it. Dear little man! you will be very glad some day
to be nobody yourself. But you can't understand that now, and you had
better not try; for if you do, you will be certain to go fancying some
egregious nonsense, and making yourself miserable about it
Then I won't
There's a good boy. It will all come in good time
But you haven't told me how you get to the doorstep, you know
It is easy enough for me. I have only to consent to be nobody, and
there I am. I draw into myself and there I am on the doorstep. But you
can easily see, or you have less sense than I think, that to drag you,
you heavy thing, along with me, would take centuries, and I could not
give the time to it
Oh, I'm so sorry
What for now, pet
That I'm so heavy for you. I would be lighter if I could, but I don't
know how
You silly darling! Why, I could toss you a hundred miles from me if I
liked. It is only when I am going home that I shall find you heavy
Then you are going home with me
Of course. Did I not come to fetch you just for that
But all this time you must be going southwards
Yes. Of course I am
How can you be taking me northwards, then
A very sensible question. But you shall see. I will get rid of a few of
these clouds -- only they do come up so fast! It's like trying to blow a
brook dry. There! What do you see now
I think I see a little boat, away there, down below
A little boat, indeed! Well! She's a yacht of two hundred tons; and the
captain of it is a friend of mine; for he is a man of good sense, and
can sail his craft well. I've helped him many a time when he little
thought it. I've heard him grumbling at me, when I was doing the very
best I could for him. Why, I've carried him eighty miles a day, again
and again, right north
He must have dodged for that
Of course he must. But don't you see, it was the best I could do? I
couldn't be South Wind. And besides it gave him a share in the business.
It is not good at all -- mind that, Diamond -- to do everything for those
you love, and not give them a share in the doing. It's not kind. It's
making too much of yourself, my child. If I had been South Wind, he
would only have smoked his pipe all day, and made himself stupid
But how could he be a man of sense and grumble at you when you were
doing your best for him
Oh! you must make allowances
or you will never do
justice to anybody.-- You do understand, then, that a captain may sail
north
In spite of a north wind -- yes
Now, I do think you must be stupid, my dear
Suppose
the north wind did not blow where would he be then
Why then the south wind would carry him
So you think that when the north wind stops the south wind blows.
Nonsense. If I didn't blow, the captain couldn't sail his eighty miles
a day. No doubt South Wind would carry him faster, but South Wind is
sitting on her doorstep then, and if I stopped there would be a dead
calm. So you are all wrong to say he can sail north in spite of me; he
sails north by my help, and my help alone. You see that, Diamond
Yes, I do, North Wind. I am stupid, but I don't want to be stupid
Good boy! I am going to blow you north in that little craft, one of the
finest that ever sailed the sea. Here we are, right over it. I shall
be blowing against you; you will be sailing against me; and all will be
just as we want it. The captain won't get on so fast as he would like,
but he will get on, and so shall we. I'm just going to put you on board.
Do you see in front of the tiller -- that thing the man is working, now to
one side, now to the other -- a round thing like the top of a drum
Yes
Below that is where they keep their spare sails, and some stores of
that sort. I am going to blow that cover off. The same moment I will
drop you on deck, and you must tumble in. Don't be afraid, it is of no
depth, and you will fall on sail-cloth. You will find it nice and warm
and dry-only dark; and you will know I am near you by every roll and
pitch of the vessel. Coil yourself up and go to sleep. The yacht shall
be my cradle and you shall be my baby
Thank you, dear North Wind. I am not a bit afraid
That vessel down there will give us a lift now
and
after that I must do the best I can
Come on deck, Diamond
Is the sun rising or setting
Neither or both, which you please. I can hardly tell which myself. If
he is setting now, he will be rising the next moment
What a strange light it is
I have heard that the sun
doesn't go to bed all the summer in these parts. Miss Coleman told me
that. I suppose he feels very sleepy, and that is why the light he sends
out looks so like a dream
That will account for it well enough for all practical purposes
What is the matter with you, dear North Wind
Nothing much. I feel very faint. But you mustn't mind it, for I can
bear it quite well. South Wind always blows me faint. If it were not for
the cool of the thick ice between me and her, I should faint altogether.
Indeed, as it is, I fear I must vanish
I am going, Diamond
Does it hurt you
It's very uncomfortable
but I don't mind it, for I
shall come all right again before long. I thought I should be able to go
with you all the way, but I cannot. You must not be frightened though.
Just go straight on, and you will come all right. You'll find me on the
doorstep
It is North Wind on her doorstep
North Wind
Well, child
Are you ill, dear North Wind
No. I am waiting
What for
Till I'm wanted
You don't care for me any more
Yes I do. Only I can't show it. All my love is down at the bottom of my
heart. But I feel it bubbling there
What do you want me to do next, dear North Wind
What do you want to do yourself
I want to go into the country at your back
Then you must go through me
I don't know what you mean
I mean just what I say. You must walk on as if I were an open door, and
go right through me
But that will hurt you
Not in the least. It will hurt you, though
I don't mind that, if you tell me to do it
Do it
Kilmeny had been she knew not where,
           And Kilmeny had seen what she could not declare;
           Kilmeny had been where the cock never crew,
           Where the rain never fell, and the wind never blew.
           But it seemed as the harp of the sky had rung,
           And the airs of heaven played round her tongue,
           When she spoke of the lovely forms she had seen,
           And a land where sin had never been;
           A land of love and a land of light,
           Withouten sun, or moon, or night;
           Where the river swayed a living stream,
           And the light a pure and cloudless beam:
           The land of vision it would seem,
           And still an everlasting dream
One of the tunes the river
at the back of the north wind sung
Only a little girl belonging to the gardener,
who thought he had lost her, but was quite mistaken, for there she was
safe enough, and was to come back some day, as I came back, if they
would only wait
Did you talk to her, Diamond
No. Nobody talks there. They only look at each other, and understand
everything
Is it cold there
No
Is it hot
No
What is it then
You never think about such things there
What a queer place it must be
It's a very good place
Do you want to go back again
No; I don't think I have left it; I feel it here, somewhere
Did the people there look pleased
Yes -- quite pleased, only a little sad
Then they didn't look glad
They looked as if they were waiting to be gladder some day
Ah, you've been up there too
How very alive you are, child
Come nearer to me
Have you been sitting here ever since I went through you, dear North
Wind
Yes
Ain't you very tired
No; I've often had to sit longer. Do you know how long you have been
Oh! years and years
You have just been seven days
I thought I had been a hundred years
Yes, I daresay
You've been away from here seven
days; but how long you may have been in there is quite another thing.
Behind my back and before my face things are so different! They don't go
at all by the same rule
I'm very glad
Why
Because I've been such a long time there, and such a little while away
from mother. Why, she won't be expecting me home from Sandwich yet
No. But we mustn't talk any longer. I've got my orders now, and we must
be off in a few minutes
Come along, Diamond
it is time we were setting out for Sandwich
Won't you take me in your arms and carry me
Ah! you ungrateful boy
how dare you
make game of me? Yes, I will carry you, but you shall walk a bit for
your impertinence first. Come along
When North Wind has punished me enough for making game of her, she will
come back to me; I know she will, for I can't go much farther without
her
You dear boy! It was only in fun. Here I am
Where's the tiger
But, of course
you were the tiger. I was puzzled and forgot. I saw it such a
long way off before me, and there you were behind me. It's so odd, you
know
It must look very odd to you, Diamond: I see that. But it is no more
odd to me than to break an old pine in two
Well, that's odd enough
So it is! I forgot. Well, none of these things are odder to me than it
is to you to eat bread and butter
Well, that's odd too, when I think of it
I should
just like a slice of bread and butter! I'm afraid to say how long it
is -- how long it seems to me, that is -- since I had anything to eat
Come then
You
shall have some bread and butter very soon. I am glad to find you want
some
like golden boats
What is the matter, mother
Oh, Diamond, my darling! you have been so ill
No, mother dear. I've only been at the back of the north wind
I thought you were dead
Oh! there
we're better
to-day, I see
Oh dear
it's a sad world
Is it
I didn't know
How should you know, child? You've been too well taken care of, I
trust
Oh yes, I have
I'm sorry! I thought you were taken
care of too. I thought my father took care of you. I will ask him about
it. I think he must have forgotten
Dear boy
your father's the best man in the world
So I thought
I was sure of it!-- Well,
doesn't he take very good care of you
Yes, yes, he does
But
who's to take care of him? And how is he to take care of us if he's got
nothing to eat himself
Oh dear
hasn't he got anything to eat? Oh!
I must go home to him
No, no, child. He's not come to that yet. But what's to become of us, I
don't know
Are you very hungry, mother? There's the basket. I thought you put
something to eat in it
O you darling stupid! I didn't say I was hungry
Then I don't understand you at all
Do tell me what's
the matter
There are people in the world who have nothing to eat, Diamond
Then I suppose they don't stop in it any longer. They -- they -- what you
call -- die -- don't they
Yes, they do. How would you like that
I don't know. I never tried. But I suppose they go where they get
something to eat
Like enough they don't want it
That's all right then
Is it though? Poor boy! how little you know about things! Mr. Coleman's
lost all his money, and your father has nothing to do, and we shall have
nothing to eat by and by
Are you sure, mother
Sure of what
Sure that we shall have nothing to eat
No, thank Heaven! I'm not sure of it. I hope not
Then I can't understand it, mother. There's a piece of gingerbread in
the basket, I know
O you little bird! You have no more sense than a sparrow that picks
what it wants, and never thinks of the winter and the frost and, the
snow
Ah -- yes -- I see. But the birds get through the winter, don't they
Some of them fall dead on the ground
They must die some time. They wouldn't like to be birds always. Would
you, mother
What a child it is
Oh! now I remember
Father told me that day I went
to Epping Forest with him, that the rose-bushes, and the may-bushes, and
the holly-bushes were the bird's barns, for there were the hips, and the
haws, and the holly-berries, all ready for the winter
Yes; that's all very true. So you see the birds are provided for. But
there are no such barns for you and me, Diamond
Ain't there
No. We've got to work for our bread
Then let's go and work
It's no use. We've not got anything to do
Then let's wait
Then we shall starve
No. There's the basket. Do you know, mother, I think I shall call that
basket the barn
It's not a very big one. And when it's empty -- where are we then
At auntie's cupboard
But we can't eat auntie's things all up and leave her to starve
No, no. We'll go back to father before that. He'll have found a
cupboard somewhere by that time
How do you know that
I don't know it. But I haven't got even a cupboard, and I've always had
plenty to eat. I've heard you say I had too much, sometimes
But I tell you that's because I've had a cupboard for you, child
And when yours was empty, auntie opened hers
But that can't go on
How do you know? I think there must be a big cupboard somewhere, out of
which the little cupboards are filled, you know, mother
Well, I wish I could find the door of that cupboard
What is that, mother
Only a bit of paper
It flutters more than a bit of paper would, I think
I'll go and see if you like
My eyes are none of the
best
What is it, mother
Some nursery rhymes, I think
I'm too sleepy
Do read some of them to me
Yes, I will
But this is such nonsense
I will try to find a better one
Do read that one
It sounded very nice. I am sure it is a good one
Why don't you go on, mother dear
It's such nonsense
I believe it would go on for
ever
That's just what it did
What did
Why, the river. That's almost the very tune it used to sing
Who made that poem
I don't know
Some silly woman for her children, I
suppose -- and then thought it good enough to print
She must have been at the back of the north wind some time or other,
anyhow
She couldn't have got a hold of it anywhere
else. That's just how it went
home again, home again, home again
Why don't you set up for yourself now -- in the cab line, I mean
I haven't enough for that
You must have saved a goodish bit, I should think. Just come home with
me now and look at a horse I can let you have cheap. I bought him only a
few weeks ago, thinking he'd do for a Hansom, but I was wrong. He's got
bone enough for a waggon, but a waggon ain't a Hansom. He ain't got go
enough for a Hansom. You see parties as takes Hansoms wants to go like
the wind, and he ain't got wind enough, for he ain't so young as he once
was. But for a four-wheeler as takes families and their luggages, he's
the very horse. He'd carry a small house any day. I bought him cheap,
and I'll sell him cheap
Oh, I don't want him
A body must have time
to think over an affair of so much importance. And there's the cab too.
That would come to a deal of money
I could fit you there, I daresay
But come and look
at the animal, anyhow
Since I lost my own old pair, as was Mr. Coleman's
I ain't almost got the
heart to look a horse in the face. It's a thousand pities to part man
and horse
So it is
He ain't a Hansom horse
Well, you're right. He ain't handsome, but he's a good un
Who says he ain't handsome? He's one of the handsomest horses a
gentleman's coachman ever druv
though I says it as shouldn't
Well
all I say is -- There's a animal for you, as
strong as a church; an'll go like a train, leastways a parly
I see you're old friends
It's my own old Diamond. I liked him far the best of the pair, though
the other was good. You ain't got him too, have you
No; nothing in the stable to match him there
I believe you
But you'll be wanting a long price
for him, I know
No, not so much. I bought him cheap, and as I say, he ain't for my
work
This will never do.
I can't give in to this. I've been to the back of the north wind. Things
go right there, and so I must try to get things to go right here. I've
got to fight the miserable things. They shan't make me miserable if I
can help it
What nice bread and butter this is
I'm glad you like it, my dear
I bought the butter
myself at the little shop round the corner
It's very nice, thank you, father. Oh, there's baby waking! I'll take
him
Sit still, Diamond
Go on with your bread and
butter. You're not strong enough to lift him yet
I've been ill long enough, and have given a great deal of trouble; I
must try and be of use now, and help my mother
Why, Diamond, child
you're as good to your
mother as if you were a girl -- nursing the baby, and toasting the bread,
and sweeping up the hearth! I declare a body would think you had been
among the fairies
Won't you come and see the cab, Diamond
Yes, please, father -- if mother can spare me a minute
Bless the child! I don't want him
Diamond, just hold the baby one minute. I have something to say to your
father
Ain't it jolly, father
Was there ever anybody so lucky as
me? Dear old Diamond
Father's as grand as ever anyhow
Oh, father, do let me drive a bit
Don't pull at his mouth
just feel, at it gently
to let him know you're there and attending to him. That's what I call
talking to him through the reins
Yes, father, I understand
Go on Diamond
Diamond! Diamond
Husband
you're never going to trust him
with the reins -- a baby like that
He must learn some day, and he can't begin too soon. I see already he's
a born coachman
And I don't see well how
he could escape it, for my father and my grandfather, that's his
great-grandfather, was all coachmen, I'm told; so it must come natural
to him, any one would think. Besides, you see, old Diamond's as proud of
him as we are our own selves, wife. Don't you see how he's turning round
his ears, with the mouths of them open, for the first word he speaks to
tumble in? He's too well bred to turn his head, you know
Well, but, husband, I can't do without him to-day. Everything's got to
be done, you know. It's my first day here. And there's that baby
Bless you, wife! I never meant to take him away -- only to the bottom of
Endell Street. He can watch his way back
No thank you, father; not to-day
Mother wants me.
Perhaps she'll let me go another day
Very well, my man
Good evening, ma'am
Is the little master in
Yes, to be sure he is -- at your service, I'm sure, Mr. Stonecrop
No, no, ma'am; it's I'm at his service. I'm just a-going out with my
own cab, and if he likes to come with me, he shall drive my old horse
till he's tired
It's getting rather late for him
You
see he's been an invalid
Oh, well
I can just let him drive through
Bloomsbury Square, and then he shall run home again
Very good, sir. And I'm much obliged to you
What's the horse's name
It's not a nice name
You needn't call him by it.
I didn't give it him. He'll go well enough without it. Give the boy a
whip, Jack. I never carries one when I drive old
Mind the gate
Look out
Why, Diamond, it's a bad beginning to run into your own father
But, father, wouldn't it have been a bad ending to run into your own
son
This is very kind of you, I'm sure, Stonecrop
Not a bit. He's a brave fellow, and'll be fit to drive on his own hook
in a week or two. But I think you'd better let him drive you home now,
for his mother don't like his having over much of the night air, and I
promised not to take him farther than the square
Come along then, Diamond
Good-night, and thank you, Mr.
Stonecrop
Well, child
you've not
been long gone
No, mother; here I am. Give me the baby
The baby's asleep
Then give him to me, and I'll lay him down
You must make haste and, grow
It won't do to have a horse's
belly clean and his back dirty, you know
Give me a leg
I'm a stupid old horse, who can't brush his own coat; but there's my
young godson on my back, cleaning me like an angel
Oh dear
I'm so tired
Though, to be sure
some ladies is very hard, and keeps
you to the bare sixpence a mile, when every one knows that ain't enough
to keep a family and a cab upon. To be sure it's the law; but mayhap
they may get more law than they like some day themselves
I couldn't let them behave so to a poor girl -- could I, father
Certainly not, Diamond
Cab, there! cab
Why, Joseph! can it be you
Yes, ma'am; yes, miss
It's a lucky day
which I see you once more upon it
Who would have thought it
It's changed times for
both of us, Joseph, and it's not very often we can have a cab even; but
you see my daughter is still very poorly, and she can't bear the motion
of the omnibuses. Indeed we meant to walk a bit first before we took a
cab, but just at the corner, for as hot as the sun was, a cold wind came
down the street, and I saw that Miss Coleman must not face it. But to
think we should have fallen upon you, of all the cabmen in London! I
didn't know you had got a cab
Well, you see, ma'am, I had a chance of buying the old horse, and I
couldn't resist him. There he is, looking at you, ma'am. Nobody knows
the sense in that head of his
Why, you've got both Diamonds with you
How do you
do, Diamond
He'll be fit to drive himself before long
The old horse is a-teaching of him
Well, he must come and see us, now you've found us out. Where do you
live
And what's your fare, Joseph
No, thank you, ma'am
It was your own old horse as took
you; and me you paid long ago
Poor things
it's worse for them than it is for us.
You see they've been used to such grand things, and for them to come
down to a little poky house like that -- it breaks my heart to think of
it
whether Mrs. Coleman had
bells on her toes
What do you mean, child
She had rings on her fingers, anyhow
Of course she had, as any lady would. What has that to do with it
When we were down at Sandwich
you said you would have
to part with your mother's ring, now we were poor
Bless the child; he forgets nothing
Really,
Diamond, a body would need to mind what they say to you
Why
I only think about it
That's just why
Why is that why
Mrs. Coleman is none so poor as all that yet. No, thank Heaven! she's
not come to that
Is it a great disgrace to be poor
Why is why
Poor daddy! Baby's daddy takes too much beer and gin, and that makes
him somebody else, and not his own self at all. Baby's daddy would never
hit baby's mammy if he didn't take too much beer. He's very fond of
baby's mammy, and works from morning to night to get her breakfast and
dinner and supper, only at night he forgets, and pays the money away for
beer. And they put nasty stuff in beer, I've heard my daddy say, that
drives all the good out, and lets all the bad in. Daddy says when a man
takes a drink, there's a thirsty devil creeps into his inside, because
he knows he will always get enough there. And the devil is always crying
out for more drink, and that makes the man thirsty, and so he drinks
more and more, till he kills himself with it. And then the ugly devil
creeps out of him, and crawls about on his belly, looking for some other
cabman to get into, that he may drink, drink, drink. That's what my
daddy says, baby. And he says, too, the only way to make the devil come
out is to give him plenty of cold water and tea and coffee, and nothing
at all that comes from the public-house; for the devil can't abide that
kind of stuff, and creeps out pretty soon, for fear of being drowned
in it. But your daddy will drink the nasty stuff, poor man! I wish he
wouldn't, for it makes mammy cross with him, and no wonder! and then
when mammy's cross, he's crosser, and there's nobody in the house to
take care of them but baby; and you do take care of them, baby -- don't
you, baby? I know you do. Babies always take care of their fathers and
mothers -- don't they, baby? That's what they come for -- isn't it, baby?
And when daddy stops drinking beer and nasty gin with turpentine in it,
father says, then mammy will be so happy, and look so pretty! and daddy
will be so good to baby! and baby will be as happy as a swallow, which
is the merriest fellow! And Diamond will be so happy too! And when
Diamond's a man, he'll take baby out with him on the box, and teach him
to drive a cab
Wife
I do somehow believe
that wur a angel just gone. Did you see him, wife? He warn't wery big,
and he hadn't got none o' them wingses, you know. It wur one o' them
baby-angels you sees on the gravestones, you know
Nonsense, hubby
but it's just as good. I might say
better, for you can ketch hold of him when you like. That's little
Diamond as everybody knows, and a duck o' diamonds he is! No woman could
wish for a better child than he be
I ha' heerd on him in the stable, but I never see the brat afore. Come,
old girl, let bygones be bygones, and gie us a kiss, and we'll go to
bed
Where do you live, my child
Paradise Row
next door to the Adam and Eve -- down the
area
Whom do you live with
My wicked old grannie
You shouldn't call your grannie wicked
But she is
If you
don't believe me, you can come and take a look at her
Still you shouldn't say so
Shouldn't I? Everybody calls her wicked old grannie -- even them that's
as wicked as her. You should hear her swear. There's nothing like it in
the Row. Indeed, I assure you, sir, there's ne'er a one of them can shut
my grannie up once she begins and gets right a-going. You must put her
in a passion first, you know. It's no good till you do that -- she's so
old now. How she do make them laugh, to be sure
Please, sir
her grannie's very cruel to her sometimes,
and shuts her out in the streets at night, if she happens to be late
Is this your brother
No, sir
How does he know your grandmother, then? He does not look like one of
her sort
Oh no, sir! He's a good boy -- quite
What do you mean by that
The cabbies call him God's baby
He's not right in the
head, you know. A tile loose
Well, my little man, and what can you do
Drive a cab
Good; and what else
Nurse a baby
Well -- and what else
Clean father's boots, and make him a bit of toast for his tea
You're a useful little man
What else can you
do
Not much that I know of
I can't curry a horse, except
somebody puts me on his back. So I don't count that
Can you read
No. But mother can and father can, and they're going to teach me some
day soon
Well, here's a penny for you
Thank you, sir
And when you have learned to read, come to me, and I'll give you
sixpence and a book with fine pictures in it
Please, sir, where am I to come
You're no such silly
There
your father will be able to
read that, and tell you where to go
Yes, sir. Thank you, sir
I've got a father, and mother, and little brother, and you've got
nothing but a wicked old grannie. You may have my penny
Is she as cruel as ever
Much the same. But I gets more coppers now than I used to, and I can
get summats to eat, and take browns enough home besides to keep her from
grumbling. It's a good thing she's so blind, though
Why
Cause if she was as sharp in the eyes as she used to be, she would
find out I never eats her broken wittles, and then she'd know as I must
get something somewheres
Doesn't she watch you, then
O' course she do. Don't she just! But I make believe and drop it in my
lap, and then hitch it into my pocket
What would she do if she found you out
She never give me no more
But you don't want it
Yes, I do want it
What do you do with it, then
Give it to cripple Jim
Who's cripple Jim
A boy in the Row. His mother broke his leg when he wur a kid, so he's
never come to much; but he's a good boy, is Jim, and I love Jim dearly.
I always keeps off a penny for Jim -- leastways as often as I can.-- But
there I must sweep again, for them busses makes no end o' dirt
Diamond! Diamond
Why, it's not many doors from the Mews
Take care of it, my boy, for it may lead to something.
God knows, in these hard times a man wants as many friends as he's ever
likely to get
Haven't you got friends enough, father
Well, I have no right to complain; but the more the better, you know
Just let me count
There's mother, first, and then baby, and then me. Next there's old
Diamond -- and the cab -- no, I won't count the cab, for it never looks at
you, and when Diamond's out of the shafts, it's nobody. Then there's the
man that drinks next door, and his wife, and his baby
They're no friends of mine
Well, they're friends of mine
Much good they'll do you
How do you know they won't
Well, go on
Then there's Jack and Mr. Stonecrop, and, deary me! not to have
mentioned Mr. Coleman and Mrs. Coleman, and Miss Coleman, and Mrs.
Crump. And then there's the clergyman that spoke to me in the garden
that day the tree was blown down
What's his name
I don't know his name
Where does he live
I don't know
How can you count him, then
He did talk to me, and very kindlike too
Why, child, you're just counting everybody you know. That don't make
'em friends
Don't it? I thought it did. Well, but they shall be my friends. I shall
make 'em
How will you do that
They can't help themselves then, if they would. If I choose to be their
friend, you know, they can't prevent me. Then there's that girl at the
crossing
A fine set of friends you do have, to be sure, Diamond
Surely she's a friend anyhow, father. If it hadn't been for her, you
would never have got Mrs. Coleman and Miss Coleman to carry home
Then there's the new gentleman
If he do as he say
And why shouldn't he? I daresay sixpence ain't too much for him to
spare. But I don't quite understand, father: is nobody your friend but
the one that does something for you
No, I won't say that, my boy. You would have to leave out baby then
Oh no, I shouldn't. Baby can laugh in your face, and crow in your ears,
and make you feel so happy. Call you that nothing, father
And there's the best of mine to come yet -- and that's you, daddy -- except
it be mother, you know. You're my friend, daddy, ain't you? And I'm your
friend, ain't I
And God for us all
I would not go back if I could,
               It's all so jolly and funny
This wood is all my own,
               Apples and cherries, roses and honey;
            So here I'll sit, like a king on my throne,
               All so jolly and funny
Lie down at my feet, little snake
Come and sing your song on my finger instead,
               All so jolly and funny
Come along, little bird and snake
Tree, drop me an apple down at my feet
Come to my mouth, sweet kisses
Little brook, you are going wrong.

            "You must follow me, follow me, follow, I say
            Do as I tell you, and come this way
Come all of you, come
Come after me
Come, follow; come, follow,
            With whistle and pipe, and rustle and hollo
Come after me
I want you there
Come here; I want you; I know best
What's to be done with them all, I wonder
What to do with you all I am sure I don't know
You have brought us all hither, Little Boy Blue,
            Pray what do you want us all to do
Go away!  go away
I'm sure I don't want you -- get away -- do
No, no; no, no; no, yes, and no, no
it mustn't be so.

            "We cannot for nothing come here, and away.
            Give us some work, or else we stay
Oh dear! and oh dear
Why do you hustle and jostle and bother?
            Off with you all!  Take me back to my mother
I am going that way as fast as I can
If we stay, we shall all be missed from our posts
I was just going there, when you brought me here
That's where I live
His father's churchwarden
I run through his garden
Two hundred worms -- there I caught 'em
            Last year, and I'm going again next autumn
If that's where you want us to steer for,
            What in earth or in water did you bring us here for
Never you mind
That's what I tell you.  If that you won't do,

            "I'll get up at once, and go home without you.
            I think I will; I begin to doubt you
If you don't get out of my way
I tell you, snake, I will break your head
Isn't it nice, mother
Yes, it's pretty
I think it means something
I'm sure I don't know what
I shouldn't wonder
So you see he was naughty; for even when he lost himself he did not
want to go home. Any of the creatures would have shown him the way if he
had asked it -- all but the snake. He followed the snake, you know, and he
took him farther away. I suppose it was a young one of the same serpent
that tempted Adam and Eve. Father was telling us about it last Sunday,
you remember
Bless the child
Well, what next
I don't know, mother. I'm sure there's a great deal more, but what it
is I can't say. I only know that he killed the snake. I suppose that's
what he had a drumstick for. He couldn't do it with his horn
But surely you're not such a silly as to take it all for true,
Diamond
I think it must be. It looks true. That killing of the snake looks
true. It's what I've got to do so often
When baby cries and won't be happy, and when father and you talk about
your troubles, I mean
In a week or so, I shall be able to go to the tall gentleman and tell
him I can read. And I'll ask him if he can help me to understand the
rhyme
Father, I want to go and look after the girl, She can't be well
All right
Only take care of yourself, Diamond
What do you want there, my small kid? It ain't where you was bred, I
guess
I live in Bloomsbury
That's a long way off
Yes, it's a good distance
but I find my way about
pretty well. Policemen are always kind to me
But what on earth do you want here
It's an ugly place
Is it far off
No. It's next door almost. But it's not safe
Nobody hurts me
I must go with you, I suppose
Oh, no! please not
They might think I was going to
meddle with them, and I ain't, you know
Well, do as you please
He's a sharp little kid, anyhow, for as simple as he looks
Not a wrong turn does he take! But old Sal's a rum un
for such a child to pay a morning visit to. She's worse when she's sober
than when she's half drunk. I've seen her when she'd have torn him in
pieces
What do you know about Nanny
Wait till
old Sal comes home, and you'll catch it, for going prying into her house
when she's out. If you don't give me your jacket directly, I'll go and
fetch her
I can't give you my jacket
It belongs to my father and
mother, you know. It's not mine to give. Is it now? You would not think
it right to give away what wasn't yours -- would you now
Give it away! No, that I wouldn't; I'd keep it
But if the jacket ain't yours, what right have you to keep it?
Here, Cherry, make haste. It'll be one go apiece
You had better have let me come with you, little man
You came just in the right time, thank you
They've
done me no harm
They would have if I hadn't been at hand, though
Yes; but you were at hand, you know, so they couldn't
I want to tell him something
But I can't go and trouble him with such a message as that
He told me to come to him -- that is, when I could read -- and I can
How am I to know that
Why, I've just told you. That's how you know it
Do you think I'm going to take your word for
it
What are you doing on the doorstep
Waiting for Mr. Raymond
He's not at home
Then I'll wait till he comes
Who's this, John
I don't know, sir. An imperent little boy as will sit on the doorstep
he told me you weren't at home, and I sat
down to wait for you
Eh, what
John! John! This won't do. Is it a habit
of yours to turn away my visitors? There'll be some one else to turn
away, I'm afraid, if I find any more of this kind of thing. Come in, my
little man. I suppose you've come to claim your sixpence
No, sir, not that
What! can't you read yet
Yes, I can now, a little. But I'll come for that next time. I came to
tell you about Sal's Nanny
Who's Sal's Nanny
The girl at the crossing you talked to the same day
Oh, yes; I remember. What's the matter? Has she got run over
Ah! I see
you are going to claim your sixpence
now
I wasn't thinking of that so much as of another thing
There's a rhyme in this book I can't quite understand. I want you to
tell me what it means, if you please
I will if I can
You shall read it to me when
we get home, and then I shall see
I'll tell you what I think it means
It means that
people may have their way for a while, if they like, but it will get
them into such troubles they'll wish they hadn't had it
I know, I know
Like the poor cabman next door. He
drinks too much
Just so
But when people want to do right,
things about them will try to help them. Only they must kill the snake,
you know
I was sure the snake had something to do with it
What will you do with it
Take it home to my mother
She has a teapot -- such a
black one!-- with a broken spout, and she keeps all her money in it. It
ain't much; but she saves it up to buy shoes for me. And there's baby
coming on famously, and he'll want shoes soon. And every sixpence is
something -- ain't it, sir
To be sure, my man. I hope you'll always make as good a use of your
money
I hope so, sir
And here's a book for you, full of pictures and stories and poems. I
wrote it myself, chiefly for the children of the hospital where I hope
Nanny is going. I don't mean I printed it, you know. I made it
I know what you mean. I make songs myself. They're awfully silly, but
they please baby, and that's all they're meant for
Couldn't you let me hear one of them now
No, sir, I couldn't. I forget them as soon as I've done with them.
Besides, I couldn't make a line without baby on my knee. We make them
together, you know. They're just as much baby's as mine. It's he that
pulls them out of me
I suspect the child's a genius
and that's
what makes people think him silly
Do you like riddles
I don't know what a riddle is
It's something that means something else, and you've got to find out
what the something else is
Do you know what that means, Diamond
No, indeed, I don't
Then you can read it for yourself, and think over it, and see if you
can find out
And now you had
better go home to your mother. When you've found the riddle, you can
come again
Oh then
he could not have
been a genius, for a genius finds out things without being told
Genius finds out truths, not tricks
Is father worse, mother
No, Diamond
he's a good bit
better
Then what are you crying for, mother
Because my money is almost all gone
O mammy, you make me think of a little poem baby and I learned out of
North Wind's book to-day. Don't you remember how I bothered you about
some of the words
Yes, child
Oh, dear
What shall I do if things don't reform?
            I don't know where there's a single worm.

            "I've had twenty to-day, and the children five each,
               Besides a few flies, and some very fat spiders:
            No one will say I don't do as I preach --
               I'm one of the best of bird-providers;
            But where's the use?  We want a storm --
               I don't know where there's a single worm
There's five in my crop
I know where there's five
The folly of childhood
Has always been my especial bother
I'm the early bird, I think
I hope I shall catch
the worm
Diamond! Diamond
Never fear for him, ma'am
It 'ud be only a devil as would
hurt him, and there ain't so many o' them as some folk 'ud have you
believe. A boy o' Diamond's size as can 'arness a 'oss t'other Diamond's
size, and put him to, right as a trivet -- if he do upset the keb --'ll
fall on his feet, ma'am
But he won't upset the cab, will he, Jack
Not he, ma'am. Leastways he won't go for to do it
I know as much as that myself. What do you mean
I mean he's a little likely to do it as the oldest man in the stable.
How's the gov'nor to-day, ma'am
A good deal better, thank you
Ain't you afraid of the old 'oss running away with you
No, he wouldn't run away with me
He knows I'm
getting the shillings for father. Or if he did he would only run home
Well, you're a plucky one, for all your girl's looks
and I wish ye luck
Thank you, sir
I'll do what I can. I came to the old
place, you see, because I knew you would let me have my turn here
Father's ill at home, and so I came out with the cab. There's no fear
of me. I can drive. Besides, the old horse could go alone
Just as well, I daresay. You're a pair of 'em. But you are a rum 'un
for a cabby -- ain't you now
I don't know as I
ought to let you go
I ain't done nothing
It's not my fault I'm no bigger.
I'm big enough for my age
That's where it is
You ain't fit
How do you know that
Why, how are you to get out of this ruck now, when it begins to move
Just you get up on the box
and I'll show you. There,
that van's a-moving now. Jump up
Well
I don't know as I should be
right to interfere. Good luck to you, my little man
Thank you, sir
Are you the driver of this cab
You're the youngest cabman I ever saw. How am I to know you won't break
all my bones
I would rather break all my own
But if you're afraid,
never mind me; I shall soon get another fare
I'll risk it
Please, sir, can you tell me the meaning of a riddle
You must tell me the riddle first
Oh! that's easy enough
It's a tree
Well, it ain't got no mouth, sure enough; but how then does it eat all
day long
It sucks in its food through the tiniest holes in its leaves
Its breath is its food. And it can't do it except in the
daylight
Thank you, sir, thank you
I'm sorry I couldn't
find it out myself; Mr. Raymond would have been better pleased with me
But you needn't tell him any one told you
That would be cheating
Ain't you a cabby, then
Cabbies don't cheat
Don't they? I am of a different opinion
I'm sure my father don't
What's your fare, young innocent
Well, I think the distance is a good deal over three miles -- that's two
shillings. Only father says sixpence a mile is too little, though we
can't ask for more
You're a deep one. But I think you're wrong. It's over four miles -- not
much, but it is
Then that's half-a-crown
Well, here's three shillings. Will that do
Thank you kindly, sir. I'll tell my father how good you were to
me -- first to tell me my riddle, then to put me right about the distance,
and then to give me sixpence over. It'll help father to get well again,
it will
I hope it may, my man. I shouldn't wonder if you're as good as you
look, after all
What's up here
Do you see this young oyster? He pretends to drive a cab
Yes, I do see him. And I sees you too. You'd better leave him alone. He
ain't no oyster. He's a angel come down on his own business. You be off,
or I'll be nearer you than quite agreeable
Oh! if he's a friend of yours
Yes, he is a friend o' mine. One o' the best I ever had. It's a pity
he ain't a friend o' yourn. You'd be the better for it, but it ain't no
fault of hisn
You go in to your mother, Diamond. I'll put up the old 'oss. I'll take
care on him. He do deserve some small attention, he do
Thank you, Jack
How's father
Better, my child
but uneasy about you, my dear
Didn't you tell him I was the early bird gone out to catch the worm
That was what put it in your head, was it, you monkey
That or something else
Well! of all the children
And here's my worm
Baby, baby! I haven't seen you for a whole year
There's nothing like it, there isn't
It's just what I wish
            To hold my cold plum-porridge
O Moon there you are
Ho! ho
No more in the South
               Shall I burn my mouth,
            For I've found a dish and a spoon
THERE, baby
I'm so happy that I can only sing
nonsense. Oh, father, think if you had been a poor man, and hadn't had a
cab and old Diamond! What should I have done
I don't know indeed what you could have done
We should have all starved, my precious Diamond
Oh no! we shouldn't
I could have taken Nanny's
crossing till she came back; and then the money, instead of going for
Old Sal's gin, would have gone for father's beef-tea. I wonder what
Nanny will do when she gets well again. Somebody else will be sure to
have taken the crossing by that time. I wonder if she will fight for it,
and whether I shall have to help her. I won't bother my head about that.
Time enough yet! Hey diddle! hey diddle! hey diddle diddle! I wonder
whether Mr. Raymond would take me to see Nanny. Hey diddle! hey diddle!
hey diddle diddle! The baby and fiddle! O, mother, I'm such a silly!
But I can't help it. I wish I could think of something else, but there's
nothing will come into my head but hey diddle diddle! the cat and the
fiddle! I wonder what the angels do -- when they're extra happy, you
know -- when they've been driving cabs all day and taking home the money
to their mothers. Do you think they ever sing nonsense, mother
I daresay they've got their own sort of it
else they wouldn't be like other people
Yes, to be sure
They wouldn't be like other people
if they hadn't their nonsense sometimes. But it must be very pretty
nonsense, and not like that silly hey diddle diddle! the cat and the
fiddle! I wish I could get it out of my head. I wonder what the angels'
nonsense is like. Nonsense is a very good thing, ain't it, mother?-- a
little of it now and then; more of it for baby, and not so much for
grown people like cabmen and their mothers? It's like the pepper and
salt that goes in the soup -- that's it -- isn't it, mother? There's baby
fast asleep! Oh, what a nonsense baby it is -- to sleep so much! Shall I
put him down, mother
Diamond, Diamond
Diamond, Diamond
Here's Diamond, down below you. What do you want him to do
Come up; come up. We're so jolly! Diamond! Diamond
How am I to come up
Go round the rose-bush. It's got its foot in it
Now let us have some fun
Now let's go and dig for stars
Here is where we begin our lesson for to-night
Scatter and
dig
This will do for me. Good-bye. I'm off
It's no use
I never saw anything more of one that went that way
His wings can't be much use
That's true
He's lost them by this time. They all
do that go that way. You haven't got any, you see
No
I never did have any
Oh! didn't you
Some people say
that they come again. I
don't know. I've never found the colour I care about myself. I suppose I
shall some day
Will you know it again
Oh, yes. We never forget a star that's been made a door of
I don't see any little girls
little girls
I think I know what you mean. I've never seen any of them, of course;
but I suppose that's the sort you mean. I'm told -- but mind I don't say
it is so, for I don't know -- that when we fall asleep, a troop of angels
very like ourselves, only quite different, goes round to all the stars
we have discovered, and discovers them after us. I suppose with our
shovelling and handling we spoil them a bit; and I daresay the clouds
that come up from below make them smoky and dull sometimes. They
say -- mind, I say they say -- these other angels take them out one by one,
and pass each round as we do, and breathe over it, and rub it with
their white hands, which are softer than ours, because they don't do any
pick-and-spade work, and smile at it, and put it in again: and that is
what keeps them from growing dark
How jolly
I should like to see them at their work
too.-- When do you go to sleep
When we grow sleepy
They do say -- but mind I
say they say -- that it is when those others -- what do you call them? I
don't know if that is their name; I am only guessing that may be the
sort you mean -- when they are on their rounds and come near any troop of
us we fall asleep. They live on the west side of the hill. None of us
have ever been to the top of it yet
Ah
now the girl-angels are
coming, and I, not being an angel, shall not fall asleep like the rest,
and I shall see the girl-angels
Now
I shall know what kind of nonsense the angels sing
when they are merry. They don't drive cabs, I see, but they dig for
stars, and they work hard enough to be merry after it
Now, my little man
get on while you can. Don't lose any
time. This is not a place for you
Won't you jump in, sir
I will take you wherever you like
Thank you, my man; but I have no money; so I can't
Oh! I don't want any money. I shall be much happier if you will get in.
You have saved me all I had. I owe you a lift, sir
Which way are you going
To Charing Cross; but I don't mind where I go
Well, I am very tired. If you will take me to Charing Cross, I shall be
greatly obliged to you. I have walked from Gravesend, and had hardly a
penny left to get through the tunnel
If you didn't mind taking me to Chiswick, I should be able to pay you
when we got there. It's a long way, but you shall have the whole fare
from the Docks -- and something over
I shall be most happy
It's The Wilderness -- Mr. Coleman's place; but I'll direct you when we
come into the neighbourhood
Please, sir, my harness has given away. Would you mind stepping in here
for a few minutes? They're friends of mine. I'll take you where you like
after I've got it mended. I shan't be many minutes, but you can't stand
in this wind
Tell Miss Coleman. It's Miss Coleman he wants to see
He don't look much like a gentleman
He is, though; and I know him, and so does Miss Coleman
Well
Nanny's not here
Oh, yes, she is
I don't see her
I do, though. There she is
That's not Nanny
It is Nanny. I have seen her many times since you have. Illness makes a
great difference
Why, that girl must have been to the back of the north wind
Surely it is
good to be afflicted
Nanny, do you know me
Won't Mr. Raymond tell us a story
Oh, yes, please do! please do
Very well
I will. What sort of a story shall it
be
A true story
A fairy tale
Well
I suppose, as there is a difference, I may
choose. I can't think of any true story just at this moment, so I will
tell you a sort of a fairy one
Oh, jolly
It came into my head this morning as I got out of bed
and if it turns out pretty well, I will write it down, and get
somebody to print it for me, and then you shall read it when you like
Then nobody ever heard it before
No, nobody
Oh
Please your Grace, I'm very deaf: would your Grace mind repeating the
princess's name
With pleasure, my good woman
the infant's name is little Daylight
And little daylight it shall be
and little good shall any of her gifts do her. For I bestow upon
her the gift of sleeping all day long, whether she will or not. Ha, ha!
He, he! Hi, hi
If she sleep all day
she shall, at least, wake
all night
A nice prospect for her mother and me
You spoke before I had done
That's against
the law. It gives me another chance
I beg your pardon
She did. I hadn't done laughing
I had only got to
Hi, hi! and I had to go through Ho, ho! and Hu, hu! So I decree that if
she wakes all night she shall wax and wane with its mistress, the moon.
And what that may mean I hope her royal parents will live to see. Ho,
ho! Hu, hu
Until
a prince comes who shall kiss her
without knowing it
I don't know what that means
Don't be afraid. The meaning will come with the thing itself
Thank you much, good mother
but there is little
chance of that. The sooner I get out of this wood the better
I don't know that
What do you mean
Why, how should I know
I can't tell
Very well
How strangely you talk
Do I
Yes, you do
Very well
At last
It's there you're going, is it
Yes, if it's not far off
It's not more than three miles. But mind what you are about, you know
Why do you say that
If you're after any mischief, she'll make you repent it
The best thing that could happen under the circumstances
What do you mean by that
Why, it stands to reason
that if you wish to do
anything wrong, the best thing for you is to be made to repent of it
I see
Well, I think you may venture. She's a good old
soul
Which way does it lie from here
What do you want
I beg your pardon. I thought -- the lightning
There's nothing the matter
Come back
I like you. You do what you are told. Are
you good
Not so good as I should like to be
Then go and grow better
Come back
Can you tell me what the sun is like
No
But where's the good of asking what you know
But I don't know
Why, everybody knows
That's the very thing: I'm not everybody. I've never seen the sun
Then you can't know what it's like till you do see it
I think you must be a prince
Do I look like one
I can't quite say that
Then why do you think so
Because you both do what you are told and speak the truth.-- Is the sun
so very bright
As bright as the lightning
But it doesn't go out like that, does it
Oh, no. It shines like the moon, rises and sets like the moon, is much
the same shape as the moon, only so bright that you can't look at it for
a moment
But I would look at it
But you couldn't
But I could
Why don't you, then
Because I can't
Why can't you
Because I can't wake. And I never shall wake until
Why, what are you doing there, this time of the night, mother
Getting your supper ready, my son
Oh, I don't want any supper
Ah! you've seen Daylight
I've seen a princess who never saw it
Do you like her
Oh! don't I
More than you would believe, mother
A fairy can believe anything that ever was or ever could be
Then are you a fairy
Yes
Then what do you do for things not to believe
There's plenty of them -- everything that never was nor ever could be
Plenty, I grant you
But do you believe there could
be a princess who never saw the daylight? Do you believe that now
Of all people, fairies must not tell secrets. Besides, she's a
princess
Well, I'll tell you a secret. I'm a prince
I know that
How do you know it
By the curl of the third eyelash on your left eyelid
Which corner do you count from
That's a secret
Another secret? Well, at least, if I am a prince, there can be no harm
in telling me about a princess
It's just the princes I can't tell
There ain't any more of them -- are there
What! you don't think you're the only prince in the world, do you
Oh, dear, no! not at all. But I know there's one too many just at
present, except the princess
Yes, yes, that's it
What's it
Mother, mother
Poor mother
You kissed me when I was an old woman: there! I kiss you when I am a
young princess
Is that the sun coming
Nanny must leave the hospital soon, Diamond
I'm glad of that, sir
Why? Don't you think it's a nice place
Yes, very. But it's better to be well and doing something, you know,
even if it's not quite so comfortable
But they can't keep Nanny so long as they would like. They can't keep
her till she's quite strong. There are always so many sick children they
want to take in and make better. And the question is, What will she do
when they send her out again
That's just what I can't tell, though I've been thinking of it over and
over, sir. Her crossing was taken long ago, and I couldn't bear to see
Nanny fighting for it, especially with such a poor fellow as has taken
it. He's quite lame, sir
She doesn't look much like fighting, now, does she, Diamond
No, sir. She looks too like an angel. Angels don't fight -- do they,
sir
Not to get things for themselves, at least
Besides
I don't quite see that she would have any
better right to the crossing than the boy who has got it. Nobody gave it
to her; she only took it. And now he has taken it
If she were to sweep a crossing -- soon at least -- after the illness she
has had, she would be laid up again the very first wet day
And there's hardly any money to be got except on the wet days
Is there nothing else she could do,
sir
Not without being taught, I'm afraid
Well, couldn't somebody teach her something
Couldn't you teach her, Diamond
I don't know anything myself, sir. I could teach her to dress the
baby; but nobody would give her anything for doing things like that:
they are so easy. There wouldn't be much good in teaching her to drive
a cab, for where would she get the cab to drive? There ain't fathers and
old Diamonds everywhere. At least poor Nanny can't find any of them, I
doubt
Perhaps if she were taught to be nice and clean, and only speak gentle
words
Mother could teach her that
And to dress babies, and feed them, and take care of them
she might get a place as a nurse somewhere, you know. People
do give money for that
Then I'll ask mother
But you'll have to give her her food then; and your father, not being
strong, has enough to do already without that
But here's me
I help him out with it. When he's tired
of driving, up I get. It don't make any difference to old Diamond. I
don't mean he likes me as well as my father -- of course he can't, you
know -- nobody could; but he does his duty all the same. It's got to be
done, you know, sir; and Diamond's a good horse -- isn't he, sir
From your description I should say certainly; but I have not the
pleasure of his acquaintance myself
Don't you think he will go to heaven, sir
That I don't know anything about
I confess I
should be glad to think so
I'm sure he'll get to the back of the north wind, anyhow
Isn't it rather too much for him to go in the cab all day and every
day
So father says, when he feels his ribs of a morning. But then he says
the old horse do eat well, and the moment he's had his supper, down
he goes, and never gets up till he's called; and, for the legs of him,
father says that makes no end of a differ. Some horses, sir! they won't
lie down all night long, but go to sleep on their four pins, like a
haystack, father says. I think it's very stupid of them, and so does old
Diamond. But then I suppose they don't know better, and so they can't
help it. We mustn't be too hard upon them, father says
Your father must be a good man, Diamond
I said your father must be a good man, Diamond
Of course
How could he drive a cab if he wasn't
There are some men who drive cabs who are not very good
Ah, but
he must be, you know, with such a horse as old
Diamond
That does make a difference
But it is quite enough
that he is a good man without our trying to account for it. Now, if you
like, I will give you a proof that I think him a good man. I am going
away on the Continent for a while -- for three months, I believe -- and I
am going to let my house to a gentleman who does not want the use of
my brougham. My horse is nearly as old, I fancy, as your Diamond, but
I don't want to part with him, and I don't want him to be idle; for
nobody, as you say, ought to be idle; but neither do I want him to be
worked very hard. Now, it has come into my head that perhaps your father
would take charge of him, and work him under certain conditions
My father will do what's right
I'm sure of that
Well, so I think. Will you ask him when he comes home to call and have
a little chat with me -- to-day, some time
He must have his dinner first
No, he's got his dinner
with him to-day. It must be after he's had his tea
Of course, of course. Any time will do. I shall be at home all day
Very well, sir. I will tell him. You may be sure he will come. My
father thinks you a very kind gentleman, and I know he is right, for I
know your very own self, sir
I will go to your friend directly, Diamond. It would be a grand thing
to get a little more money. We do want it
It will save your own horse
That is true
but all I can get by my own horse is
only enough to keep us, and if I save him and feed your horse and the
girl -- don't you see, sir
Well, you can go home and think about it, and let me know by the end of
the week. I am in no hurry before then
Not much that way, husband
but there would be
an advantage, and what matter who gets it
I don't see it
Mr. Raymond is a gentleman of
property, and I don't discover any much good in helping him to save a
little more. He won't easily get one to make such a bargain, and I
don't mean he shall get me. It would be a loss rather than a gain -- I do
think -- at least if I took less work out of our own horse
One hour would make a difference to old Diamond. But that's not the
main point. You must think what an advantage it would be to the poor
girl that hasn't a home to go to
She is one of Diamond's friends
I could be kind to her, you know
and teach her
housework, and how to handle a baby; and, besides, she would help
me, and I should be the stronger for it, and able to do an odd bit of
charing now and then, when I got the chance
I won't hear of that
Have the girl by all means.
I'm ashamed I did not think of both sides of the thing at once. I wonder
if the horse is a great eater. To be sure, if I gave Diamond two hours'
additional rest, it would be all the better for the old bones of him,
and there would be four hours extra out of the other horse. That would
give Diamond something to do every day. He could drive old Diamond after
dinner, and I could take the other horse out for six hours after tea,
or in the morning, as I found best. It might pay for the keep of both of
them,-- that is, if I had good luck. I should like to oblige Mr. Raymond,
though he be rather hard, for he has been very kind to our Diamond,
wife. Hasn't he now
He has indeed, Joseph
I've had such a beautiful dream, Diamond! I should like to tell it
you
Oh! do
I am so fond of dreams
She must have been to the back of the north wind
It was a very foolish dream, you know. But somehow it was so pleasant!
What a good thing it is that you believe the dream all the time you are
in it
I will tell you all I know about it
The day before
yesterday, a lady came to see us -- a very beautiful lady, and very
beautifully dressed. I heard the matron say to her that it was very
kind of her to come in blue and gold; and she answered that she knew
we didn't like dull colours. She had such a lovely shawl on, just like
redness dipped in milk, and all worked over with flowers of the same
colour. It didn't shine much, it was silk, but it kept in the shine.
When she came to my bedside, she sat down, just where you are sitting,
Diamond, and laid her hand on the counterpane. I was sitting up, with my
table before me ready for my tea. Her hand looked so pretty in its blue
glove, that I was tempted to stroke it. I thought she wouldn't be angry,
for everybody that comes to the hospital is kind. It's only in the
streets they ain't kind. But she drew her hand away, and I almost cried,
for I thought I had been rude. Instead of that, however, it was only
that she didn't like giving me her glove to stroke, for she drew it
off, and then laid her hand where it was before. I wasn't sure, but I
ventured to put out my ugly hand
Your hand ain't ugly, Nanny
And I stroked it again, and then she stroked mine,-- think of that! And
there was a ring on her finger, and I looked down to see what it was
like. And she drew it off, and put it upon one of my fingers. It was a
red stone, and she told me they called it a ruby
Oh, that is funny
Our new horse is called Ruby. We've
got another horse -- a red one -- such a beauty
I looked at the ruby all the time the lady was talking to me,-- it was
so beautiful! And as she talked I kept seeing deeper and deeper into the
stone. At last she rose to go away, and I began to pull the ring off
my finger; and what do you think she said?--'Wear it all night, if you
like. Only you must take care of it. I can't give it you, for some one
gave it to me; but you may keep it till to-morrow.' Wasn't it kind of
her? I could hardly take my tea, I was so delighted to hear it; and I
do think it was the ring that set me dreaming; for, after I had taken my
tea, I leaned back, half lying and half sitting, and looked at the ring
on my finger. By degrees I began to dream. The ring grew larger and
larger, until at last I found that I was not looking at a red stone, but
at a red sunset, which shone in at the end of a long street near where
Grannie lives. I was dressed in rags as I used to be, and I had great
holes in my shoes, at which the nasty mud came through to my feet. I
didn't use to mind it before, but now I thought it horrid. And there was
the great red sunset, with streaks of green and gold between, standing
looking at me. Why couldn't I live in the sunset instead of in that
dirt? Why was it so far away always? Why did it never come into our
wretched street? It faded away, as the sunsets always do, and at last
went out altogether. Then a cold wind began to blow, and flutter all my
rags about
That was North Wind herself
Eh
I turned my back to it, and wandered away. I did not know where I was
going, only it was warmer to go that way. I don't think it was a north
wind, for I found myself in the west end at last. But it doesn't matter
in a dream which wind it was
I don't know that
I believe North Wind can get into
our dreams -- yes, and blow in them. Sometimes she has blown me out of a
dream altogether
I don't know what you mean, Diamond
Never mind
Two people can't always understand each
other. They'd both be at the back of the north wind directly, and what
would become of the other places without them
You do talk so oddly
I sometimes think they must have
been right about you
What did they say about me
They called you God's baby
How kind of them! But I knew that
Did you know what it meant, though? It meant that you were not right in
the head
I feel all right
Well, as long as you are pleased I am pleased
Thank you, Nanny. Do go on with your story. I think I like dreams even
better than fairy tales. But they must be nice ones, like yours, you
know
Well, I went on, keeping my back to the wind, until I came to a fine
street on the top of a hill. How it happened I don't know, but the front
door of one of the houses was open, and not only the front door, but the
back door as well, so that I could see right through the house -- and
what do you think I saw? A garden place with green grass, and the moon
shining upon it! Think of that! There was no moon in the street, but
through the house there was the moon. I looked and there was nobody
near: I would not do any harm, and the grass was so much nicer than the
mud! But I couldn't think of going on the grass with such dirty shoes: I
kicked them off in the gutter, and ran in on my bare feet, up the steps,
and through the house, and on to the grass; and the moment I came into
the moonlight, I began to feel better
That's why North Wind blew you there
It came of Mr. Raymond's story about Princess Daylight
Well, I lay down upon the grass in the moonlight without
thinking how I was to get out again. Somehow the moon suited me exactly.
There was not a breath of the north wind you talk about; it was quite
gone
You didn't want her any more, just then. She never goes where she's not
wanted
But she blew you into the moonlight, anyhow
Well, we won't dispute about it
you've got a tile loose,
you know
Suppose I have
don't you see it may let in the
moonlight, or the sunlight for that matter
Perhaps yes, perhaps no
And you've got your dreams, too, Nanny
Yes, but I know they're dreams
So do I. But I know besides they are something more as well
Oh! do you
I don't
All right
Perhaps you will some day
Perhaps I won't
I lay a long time, and the moonlight got in at every tear in my
clothes, and made me feel so happy
There, I tell you
What do you tell me
North Wind
It was the moonlight, I tell you
All at once I felt that the moon was not shining so strong. I looked
up, and there was a cloud, all crapey and fluffy, trying to drown the
beautiful creature. But the moon was so round, just like a whole plate,
that the cloud couldn't stick to her. She shook it off, and said there
and shone out clearer and brighter than ever. But up came a thicker
cloud,-- and 'You shan't,' said the moon; and 'I will,' said the
cloud,-- but it couldn't: out shone the moon, quite laughing at its
impudence. I knew her ways, for I've always been used to watch her.
She's the only thing worth looking at in our street at night
Don't call it your street
You're not going back to it.
You're coming to us, you know
That's too good to be true
There are very few things good enough to be true
but
I hope this is. Too good to be true it can't be. Isn't true good? and
isn't good good? And how, then, can anything be too good to be true?
That's like old Sal -- to say that
Don't abuse Grannie, Diamond. She's a horrid old thing, she and her gin
bottle; but she'll repent some day, and then you'll be glad not to have
said anything against her
Why
Because you'll be sorry for her
I am sorry for her now
Very well. That's right. She'll be sorry too. And there'll be an end of
it
All right. You come to us
Where was I
Telling me how the moon served the clouds
Yes. But it wouldn't do, all of it. Up came the clouds and the clouds,
and they came faster and faster, until the moon was covered up. You
couldn't expect her to throw off a hundred of them at once -- could you
Certainly not
So it grew very dark; and a dog began to yelp in the house. I
looked and saw that the door to the garden was shut. Presently it was
opened -- not to let me out, but to let the dog in -- yelping and bounding.
I thought if he caught sight of me, I was in for a biting first, and the
police after. So I jumped up, and ran for a little summer-house in the
corner of the garden. The dog came after me, but I shut the door in his
face. It was well it had a door -- wasn't it
You dreamed of the door because you wanted it
No, I didn't; it came of itself. It was there, in the true dream
There -- I've caught you
I knew you believed in the
dream as much as I do
Oh, well, if you will lay traps for a body
Anyhow, I was
safe inside the summer-house. And what do you think?-- There was the moon
beginning to shine again -- but only through one of the panes -- and that
one was just the colour of the ruby. Wasn't it funny
No, not a bit funny
If you will be contrary
No, no
I only meant that was the very pane I should
have expected her to shine through
Oh, very well
And now
I didn't know what to do, for the dog kept
barking at the door, and I couldn't get out. But the moon was so
beautiful that I couldn't keep from looking at it through the red pane.
And as I looked it got larger and larger till it filled the whole pane
and outgrew it, so that I could see it through the other panes; and
it grew till it filled them too and the whole window, so that the
summer-house was nearly as bright as day.

"The dog stopped barking, and I heard a gentle tapping at the door, like
the wind blowing a little branch against it
Just like her
So I turned from the window and opened the door; and what do you think
I saw
A beautiful lady
No -- the moon itself, as big as a little house, and as round as a ball,
shining like yellow silver. It stood on the grass -- down on the very
grass: I could see nothing else for the brightness of it: And as I
stared and wondered, a door opened in the side of it, near the ground,
and a curious little old man, with a crooked thing over his shoulder,
looked out, and said: 'Come along, Nanny; my lady wants you. We're come
to fetch you
You didn't think I had such a beautiful mistress as that!' said the
queer little man. &bquo;No, indeed!' I answered: &bquo;who would have thought it?'
&bquo;Ah! who indeed? But you see you don't know everything.' The little man
closed the door, and began to pull at a rope which hung behind it with
a weight at the end. After he had pulled a while, he said --&bquo;There, that
will do; we're all right now.' Then he took me by the hand and opened a
little trap in the floor, and led me down two or three steps, and I saw
like a great hole below me. &bquo;Don't be frightened,' said the tittle
man. &bquo;It's not a hole. It's only a window. Put your face down and
look through.' I did as he told me, and there was the garden and the
summer-house, far away, lying at the bottom of the moonlight. &bquo;There!'
said the little man; &bquo;we've brought you off! Do you see the little
dog barking at us down there in the garden?' I told him I couldn't see
anything so far. &bquo;Can you see anything so small and so far off?' I said.
&bquo;Bless you, child!' said the little man; &bquo;I could pick up a needle out
of the grass if I had only a long enough arm. There's one lying by the
door of the summer-house now.' I looked at his eyes. They were very
small, but so bright that I think he saw by the light that went out of
them. Then he took me up, and up again by a little stair in a corner of
the room, and through another trapdoor, and there was one great round
window above us, and I saw the blue sky and the clouds, and such lots of
stars, all so big and shining as hard as ever they could
The little girl-angels had been polishing them
What nonsense you do talk
But my nonsense is just as good as yours, Nanny. When you have done,
I'll tell you my dream. The stars are in it -- not the moon, though. She
was away somewhere. Perhaps she was gone to fetch you then. I don't
think that, though, for my dream was longer ago than yours. She might
have been to fetch some one else, though; for we can't fancy it's only
us that get such fine things done for them. But do tell me what came
next
The little man took me all round the house, and made me look out of
every window. Oh, it was beautiful! There we were, all up in the air, in
such a nice, clean little house! &bquo;Your work will be to keep the windows
bright,' said the little man. &bquo;You won't find it very difficult,
for there ain't much dust up here. Only, the frost settles on them
sometimes, and the drops of rain leave marks on them.' &bquo;I can easily
clean them inside,' I said; &bquo;but how am I to get the frost and rain off
the outside of them?' &bquo;Oh!' he said, &bquo;it's quite easy. There are ladders
all about. You've only got to go out at the door, and climb about. There
are a great many windows you haven't seen yet, and some of them look
into places you don't know anything about. I used to clean them myself,
but I'm getting rather old, you see. Ain't I now?' &bquo;I can't tell,' I
answered. &bquo;You see I never saw you when you were younger.' &bquo;Never saw
the man in the moon?' said he. &bquo;Not very near,' I answered, &bquo;not to tell
how young or how old he looked. I have seen the bundle of sticks on his
back.' For Jim had pointed that out to me. Jim was very fond of looking
at the man in the moon. Poor Jim! I wonder he hasn't been to see me. I'm
afraid he's ill too
I'll try to find out
and let you know
Thank you
You and Jim ought to be friends
But what did the man in the moon say, when you told him you had seen
him with the bundle of sticks on his back
He laughed. But I thought he looked offended too. His little nose
turned up sharper, and he drew the corners of his mouth down from the
tips of his ears into his neck. But he didn't look cross, you know
Didn't he say anything
Oh, yes! He said: &bquo;That's all nonsense. What you saw was my bundle of
dusters. I was going to clean the windows. It takes a good many, you
know. Really, what they do say of their superiors down there!' &bquo;It's
only because they don't know better,' I ventured to say. &bquo;Of course,
of course,' said the little man. &bquo;Nobody ever does know better. Well,
I forgive them, and that sets it all right, I hope.' &bquo;It's very good
of you,' I said. &bquo;No!' said he, &bquo;it's not in the least good of me. I
couldn't be comfortable otherwise.' After this he said nothing for a
while, and I laid myself on the floor of his garret, and stared up and
around at the great blue beautifulness. I had forgotten him almost,
when at last he said: &bquo;Ain't you done yet?' &bquo;Done what?' I asked. &bquo;Done
saying your prayers,' says he. 'I wasn't saying my prayers,' I answered.
&bquo;Oh, yes, you were,' said he, &bquo;though you didn't know it! And now I must
show you something else.'

"He took my hand and led me down the stair again, and through a narrow
passage, and through another, and another, and another. I don't know
how there could be room for so many passages in such a little house. The
heart of it must be ever so much farther from the sides than they are
from each other. How could it have an inside that was so independent of
its outside? There's the point. It was funny -- wasn't it, Diamond
No
All right. I don't see it. I don't see why the inside should
depend on the outside. It ain't so with the crabs. They creep out of
their outsides and make new ones. Mr. Raymond told me so
I don't see what that has got to do with it
Then go on with your story, please
What did you come
to, after going through all those winding passages into the heart of the
moon
I didn't say they were winding passages. I said they were long and
narrow. They didn't wind. They went by corners
That's worth knowing
For who knows how soon he may
have to go there? But the main thing is, what did you come to at last
We came to a small box against the wall of a tiny room. The little man
told me to put my ear against it. I did so, and heard a noise something
like the purring of a cat, only not so loud, and much sweeter. &bquo;What is
it?' I asked. &bquo;Don't you know the sound?' returned the little man. &bquo;No,'
I answered. &bquo;Don't you know the sound of bees?' he said. I had never
heard bees, and could not know the sound of them. &bquo;Those are my lady's
bees,' he went on. I had heard that bees gather honey from the flowers.
&bquo;But where are the flowers for them?' I asked. &bquo;My lady's bees gather
their honey from the sun and the stars,' said the little man. &bquo;Do let
me see them,' I said. &bquo;No. I daren't do that,' he answered. &bquo;I have no
business with them. I don't understand them. Besides, they are so bright
that if one were to fly into your eye, it would blind you altogether.'
&bquo;Then you have seen them?' &bquo;Oh, yes! Once or twice, I think. But I don't
quite know: they are so very bright -- like buttons of lightning. Now
I've showed you all I can to-night, and we'll go back to the room.' I
followed him, and he made me sit down under a lamp that hung from the
roof, and gave me some bread and honey.

"The lady had never moved. She sat with her forehead leaning on her
hand, gazing out of the little window, hung like the rest with white
cloudy curtains. From where I was sitting I looked out of it too, but I
could see nothing. Her face was very beautiful, and very white, and very
still, and her hand was as white as the forehead that leaned on it. I
did not see her whole face -- only the side of it, for she never moved to
turn it full upon me, or even to look at me.

"How long I sat after I had eaten my bread and honey, I don't know. The
little man was busy about the room, pulling a string here, and a string
there, but chiefly the string at the back of the door. I was thinking
with some uneasiness that he would soon be wanting me to go out and
clean the windows, and I didn't fancy the job. At last he came up to me
with a great armful of dusters. &bquo;It's time you set about the windows,'
he said; &bquo;for there's rain coming, and if they're quite clean before,
then the rain can't spoil them.' I got up at once. &bquo;You needn't be
afraid,' he said. &bquo;You won't tumble off. Only you must be careful.
Always hold on with one hand while you rub with the other.' As he spoke,
he opened the door. I started back in a terrible fright, for there was
nothing but blue air to be seen under me, like a great water without a
bottom at all. But what must be must, and to live up here was so much
nicer than down in the mud with holes in my shoes, that I never thought
of not doing as I was told. The little man showed me how and where to
lay hold while I put my foot round the edge of the door on to the first
round of a ladder. &bquo;Once you're up,' he said, &bquo;you'll see how you have
to go well enough.' I did as he told me, and crept out very carefully.
Then the little man handed me the bundle of dusters, saying, &bquo;I always
carry them on my reaping hook, but I don't think you could manage it
properly. You shall have it if you like.' I wouldn't take it, however,
for it looked dangerous.

"I did the best I could with the dusters, and crawled up to the top
of the moon. But what a grand sight it was! The stars were all over my
head, so bright and so near that I could almost have laid hold of them.
The round ball to which I clung went bobbing and floating away through
the dark blue above and below and on every side. It was so beautiful
that all fear left me, and I set to work diligently. I cleaned window
after window. At length I came to a very little one, in at which I
peeped. There was the room with the box of bees in it! I laid my ear to
the window, and heard the musical hum quite distinctly. A great longing
to see them came upon me, and I opened the window and crept in.
The little box had a door like a closet. I opened it -- the tiniest
crack -- when out came the light with such a sting that I closed it again
in terror -- not, however, before three bees had shot out into the room,
where they darted about like flashes of lightning. Terribly frightened,
I tried to get out of the window again, but I could not: there was no
way to the outside of the moon but through the door; and that was in
the room where the lady sat. No sooner had I reached the room, than the
three bees, which had followed me, flew at once to the lady, and settled
upon her hair. Then first I saw her move. She started, put up her hand,
and caught them; then rose and, having held them into the flame of the
lamp one after the other, turned to me. Her face was not so sad now as
stern. It frightened me much. &bquo;Nanny, you have got me into trouble,' she
said. &bquo;You have been letting out my bees, which it is all I can do to
manage. You have forced me to burn them. It is a great loss, and there
will be a storm.' As she spoke, the clouds had gathered all about us. I
could see them come crowding up white about the windows. &bquo;I am sorry to
find,' said the lady, &bquo;that you are not to be trusted. You must go home
again -- you won't do for us.' Then came a great clap of thunder, and the
moon rocked and swayed. All grew dark about me, and I fell on the floor
and lay half-stunned. I could hear everything but could see nothing.
&bquo;Shall I throw her out of the door, my lady?' said the little man.
&bquo;No,' she answered; &bquo;she's not quite bad enough for that. I don't think
there's much harm in her; only she'll never do for us. She would make
dreadful mischief up here. She's only fit for the mud. It's a great
pity. I am sorry for her. Just take that ring off her finger. I am sadly
afraid she has stolen it.' The little man caught hold of my hand, and I
felt him tugging at the ring. I tried to speak what was true about it,
but, after a terrible effort, only gave a groan. Other things began to
come into my head. Somebody else had a hold of me. The little man wasn't
there. I opened my eyes at last, and saw the nurse. I had cried out in
my sleep, and she had come and waked me. But, Diamond, for all it was
only a dream, I cannot help being ashamed of myself yet for opening the
lady's box of bees
You wouldn't do it again -- would you -- if she were to take you back
No. I don't think anything would ever make me do it again. But where's
the good? I shall never have the chance
I don't know that
You silly baby! It was only a dream
I know that, Nanny, dear. But how can you tell you mayn't dream it
again
That's not a bit likely
I don't know that
You're always saying that
I don't like it
Then I won't say it again -- if I don't forget
But it
was such a beautiful dream!-- wasn't it, Nanny? What a pity you opened
that door and let the bees out! You might have had such a long dream,
and such nice talks with the moon-lady. Do try to go again, Nanny. I do
so want to hear more
I can't help thinking that North Wind had something
to do with that dream. It would be tiresome to lie there all day and all
night too -- without dreaming. Perhaps if she hadn't done that, the moon
might have carried her to the back of the north wind -- who knows
Am I awake, or am I asleep
Diamond, come here
Dear North Wind
I want so much to go to you, but I
can't tell where
Come here, Diamond
She wants me to go into the stable
but the
door is locked
Look how fat you are Ruby
You are so plump and
your skin shines so, you ought to be ashamed of yourself
There's no harm in being fat
No,
nor in being sleek. I may as well shine as not
No harm
Is it no harm to go eating up all poor
master's oats, and taking up so much of his time grooming you, when you
only work six hours -- no, not six hours a day, and, as I hear, get along
no faster than a big dray-horse with two tons behind him?-- So they tell
me
Your master's not mine
I must attend to my own master's
interests, and eat all that is given me, and be sleek and fat as I can,
and go no faster than I need
Now really if the rest of the horses weren't all asleep, poor
things -- they work till they're tired -- I do believe they would get up and
kick you out of the stable. You make me ashamed of being a horse. You
dare to say my master ain't your master! That's your gratitude for the
way he feeds you and spares you! Pray where would your carcass be if it
weren't for him
He doesn't do it for my sake. If I were his own horse, he would work me
as hard as he does you
And I'm proud to be so worked. I wouldn't be as fat as you -- not for all
you're worth. You're a disgrace to the stable. Look at the horse next
you. He's something like a horse -- all skin and bone. And his master
ain't over kind to him either. He put a stinging lash on his whip
last week. But that old horse knows he's got the wife and children
to keep -- as well as his drunken master -- and he works like a horse. I
daresay he grudges his master the beer he drinks, but I don't believe he
grudges anything else
Well, I don't grudge yours what he gets by me
Gets
What he gets isn't worth grudging. It comes
to next to nothing -- what with your fat and shine.

"Well, at least you ought to be thankful you're the better for it. You
get a two hours' rest a day out of it
I thank my master for that -- not you, you lazy fellow! You go along like
a buttock of beef upon castors -- you do
Ain't you afraid I'll kick, if you go on like that, Diamond
Kick! You couldn't kick if you tried. You might heave your rump up
half a foot, but for lashing out -- oho! If you did, you'd be down on your
belly before you could get your legs under you again. It's my belief,
once out, they'd stick out for ever. Talk of kicking! Why don't you put
one foot before the other now and then when you're in the cab? The abuse
master gets for your sake is quite shameful. No decent horse would bring
it on him. Depend upon it, Ruby, no cabman likes to be abused any more
than his fare. But his fares, at least when you are between the shafts,
are very much to be excused. Indeed they are
Well, you see, Diamond, I don't want to go lame again
I don't believe you were so very lame after all -- there
Oh, but I was
Then I believe it was all your own fault. I'm not lame. I never was
lame in all my life. You don't take care of your legs. You never lay
them down at night. There you are with your huge carcass crushing down
your poor legs all night long. You don't even care for your own legs -- so
long as you can eat, eat, and sleep, sleep. You a horse indeed
But I tell you I was lame
I'm not denying there was a puffy look about your off-pastern. But my
belief is, it wasn't even grease -- it was fat
I tell you I put my foot on one of those horrid stones they make the
roads with, and it gave my ankle such a twist
Ankle indeed! Why should you ape your betters? Horses ain't got any
ankles: they're only pasterns. And so long as you don't lift your feet
better, but fall asleep between every step, you'll run a good chance
of laming all your ankles as you call them, one after another. It's not
your lively horse that comes to grief in that way. I tell you I believe
it wasn't much, and if it was, it was your own fault. There! I've done.
I'm going to sleep. I'll try to think as well of you as I can. If you
would but step out a bit and run off a little of your fat
I say, Diamond, I can't bear to have an honest old horse like you think
of me like that. I will tell you the truth: it was my own fault that I
fell lame
I told you so
I meant to do it, Diamond
Keep out of my way, you unworthy wretch, or I'll bite you. You a horse!
Why did you do that
Because I wanted to grow fat
You grease-tub! Oh! my teeth and tail! I thought you were a humbug! Why
did you want to get fat? There's no truth to be got out of you but by
cross-questioning. You ain't fit to be a horse
Because once I am fat, my nature is to keep fat for a long time; and I
didn't know when master might come home and want to see me
You conceited, good-for-nothing brute! You're only fit for the
knacker's yard. You wanted to look handsome, did you? Hold your tongue,
or I'll break my halter and be at you -- with your handsome fat
Never mind, Diamond. You're a good horse. You can't hurt me
Can't hurt you! Just let me once try
No, you can't
Why then
Because I'm an angel
What's that
Of course you don't know
Indeed I don't
I know you don't. An ignorant, rude old human horse, like you, couldn't
know it. But there's young Diamond listening to all we're saying; and he
knows well enough there are horses in heaven for angels to ride upon,
as well as other animals, lions and eagles and bulls, in more important
situations. The horses the angels ride, must be angel-horses, else the
angels couldn't ride upon them. Well, I'm one of them
You ain't
Did you ever know a horse tell a lie
Never before. But you've confessed to shamming lame
Nothing of the sort. It was necessary I should grow fat, and necessary
that good Joseph, your master, should grow lean. I could have pretended
to be lame, but that no horse, least of all an angel-horse would do. So
I must be lame, and so I sprained my ankle -- for the angel-horses have
ankles -- they don't talk horse-slang up there -- and it hurt me very much,
I assure you, Diamond, though you mayn't be good enough to be able to
believe it
I'm good enough to believe it, Ruby
You just wait till to-morrow, and you'll see whether I'm speaking the
truth or not.-- I declare the old horse is fast asleep!-- Diamond!-- No I
won't
I'm not quite
comfortable about that child again
Which child, Martha
You've got a choice now
Well, Diamond I mean. I'm afraid he's getting into his queer ways
again. He's been at his old trick of walking in his sleep. I saw him run
up the stair in the middle of the night
Didn't you go after him, wife
Of course I did -- and found him fast asleep in his bed. It's because
he's had so little meat for the last six weeks, I'm afraid
It may be that. I'm very sorry. But if it don't please God to send us
enough, what am I to do, wife
You can't help it, I know, my dear good man
And
after all I don't know. I don't see why he shouldn't get on as well as
the rest of us. There I'm nursing baby all this time, and I get along
pretty well. I'm sure, to hear the little man singing, you wouldn't
think there was much amiss with him
Think of a fat angel, Dulcimer
Think of a red, fat angel, Dulcimer
for Ruby's an angel
of a horse, Dulcimer. He sprained his ankle and got fat on purpose
What purpose, Diamond
Ah! that I can't tell. I suppose to look handsome when his master
comes
What do you think, Dulcimer? It must be for
some good, for Ruby's an angel
I wish I were rid of him, anyhow
for he weighs
heavy on my mind
No wonder, father: he's so fat
But you needn't be
afraid, for everybody says he's in better condition than when you had
him
Yes, but he may be as thin as a tin horse before his owner comes. It
was too bad to leave him on my hands this way
Perhaps he couldn't help it
I daresay he has some
good reason for it
So I should have said
if he had not driven such
a hard bargain with me at first
But we don't know what may come of it yet, husband
Mr. Raymond may give a little to boot, seeing you've had more of the
bargain than you wanted or reckoned upon
I'm afraid not: he's a hard man
You never made that song, Diamond
No, mother. I wish I had. No, I don't. That would be to take it from
somebody else. But it's mine for all that
What makes it yours
I love it so
Does loving a thing make it yours
I think so, mother -- at least more than anything else can. If I didn't
love baby (which couldn't be, you know) she wouldn't be mine a bit. But
I do love baby, and baby is my very own Dulcimer
The baby's mine, Diamond
That makes her the more mine, mother
How do you make that out
Because you're mine, mother
Is that because you love me
Yes, just because. Love makes the only myness
We shall all have to go to the workhouse, wife
It would be better to go to the back of the north wind
So it would
But how are we to get there,
Diamond
We must wait till we're taken
You are not very glad to see me
You don't want to
part with the old horse
Indeed, sir, you are mistaken there. What with anxiety about him, and
bad luck, I've wished I were rid of him a thousand times. It was only to
be for three months, and here it's eight or nine
I'm sorry to hear such a statement
Hasn't he been
of service to you
Not much, not with his lameness
Ah
you've been laming him -- have you? That
accounts for it. I see, I see
It wasn't my fault, and he's all right now. I don't know how it
happened, but
He did it on purpose
He put his foot on a stone just
to twist his ankle
How do you know that, Diamond
I
never said so, for I could not think how it came
I heard it -- in the stable
Let's have a look at him
If you'll step into the yard
I'll bring him out
Why
you've not been using him well
I don't know what you mean by that, sir. I didn't expect to hear that
from you. He's sound in wind and limb -- as sound as a barrel
And as big, you might add. Why, he's as fat as a pig! You don't call
that good usage
You've not worked him enough, I say. That's not making good use of him.
That's not doing as you'd be done by
I shouldn't be sorry if I was served the same, sir
He's too fat, I say
There was a whole month I couldn't work him at all, and he did nothing
but eat his head off. He's an awful eater. I've taken the best part of
six hours a day out of him since, but I'm always afraid of his coming to
grief again, and so I couldn't make the most even of that. I declare to
you, sir, when he's between the shafts, I sit on the box as miserable as
if I'd stolen him. He looks all the time as if he was a bottling up of
complaints to make of me the minute he set eyes on you again. There!
look at him now, squinting round at me with one eye! I declare to you,
on my word, I haven't laid the whip on him more than three times
I'm glad to hear it. He never did want the whip
I didn't say that, sir. If ever a horse wanted the whip, he do. He's
brought me to beggary almost with his snail's pace. I'm very glad you've
come to rid me of him
I don't know that
Suppose I were to ask you to buy
him of me -- cheap
I wouldn't have him in a present, sir. I don't like him. And I wouldn't
drive a horse that I didn't like -- no, not for gold. It can't come to
good where there's no love between 'em
Just bring out your own horse, and let me see what sort of a pair
they'd make
You haven't been using him well
I must say
that the remark had better have been spared, sir. The horse is worth
three of the other now
I don't think so. I think they make a very nice pair. If the one's too
fat, the other's too lean -- so that's all right. And if you won't buy my
Ruby, I must buy your Diamond
Thank you, sir
You don't seem to like the proposal
I don't
I wouldn't part with my old Diamond for his
skin as full of nuggets as it is of bones
Who said anything about parting with him
You did now, sir
No; I didn't. I only spoke of buying him to make a pair with Ruby. We
could pare Ruby and patch Diamond a bit. And for height, they are as
near a match as I care about. Of course you would be the coachman -- if
only you would consent to be reconciled to Ruby
I've bought a small place in Kent
and I must
have a pair to my carriage, for the roads are hilly thereabouts. I don't
want to make a show with a pair of high-steppers. I think these will
just do. Suppose, for a week or two, you set yourself to take Ruby down
and bring Diamond up. If we could only lay a pipe from Ruby's sides into
Diamond's, it would be the work of a moment. But I fear that wouldn't
answer
I beg your pardon, sir
I've been so miserable,
and for so long, that I never thought you was only a chaffing of me
when you said I hadn't used the horses well. I did grumble at you, sir,
many's the time in my trouble; but whenever I said anything, my little
Diamond would look at me with a smile, as much as to say: 'I know him
better than you, father;' and upon my word, I always thought the boy
must be right
Will you sell me old Diamond, then
I will, sir, on one condition -- that if ever you want to part with him
or me, you give me the option of buying him. I could not part with him,
sir. As to who calls him his, that's nothing; for, as Diamond says, it's
only loving a thing that can make it yours -- and I do love old Diamond,
sir, dearly
Well, there's a cheque for twenty pounds, which I wrote to offer you
for him, in case I should find you had done the handsome thing by Ruby.
Will that be enough
It's too much, sir. His body ain't worth it -- shoes and all. It's only
his heart, sir -- that's worth millions -- but his heart'll be mine all the
same -- so it's too much, sir
I don't think so. It won't be, at least, by the time we've got him
fed up again. You take it and welcome. Just go on with your cabbing for
another month, only take it out of Ruby and let Diamond rest; and by
that time I shall be ready for you to go down into the country
Thank you, sir, thank you. Diamond set you down for a friend, sir, the
moment he saw you. I do believe that child of mine knows more than other
people
I think so, too
What is the matter with you, mother dear? Do cry a little. It will do
you good. When father takes ever so small a drop of spirits, he puts
water to it
You silly darling
how could I but laugh at the
notion of that great fat Ruby going side by side with our poor old
Diamond
But why not, mother? With a month's oats, and nothing to do, Diamond'll
be nearer Ruby's size than you will father's. I think it's very good for
different sorts to go together. Now Ruby will have a chance of teaching
Diamond better manners
How dare you say such a thing, Diamond
To compare the two for manners, there's no comparison possible. Our
Diamond's a gentleman
I don't mean to say he isn't, father; for I daresay some gentlemen
judge their neighbours unjustly. That's all I mean. Diamond shouldn't
have thought such bad things of Ruby. He didn't try to make the best of
him
How do you know that, pray
I heard them talking about it one night
Who
Why Diamond and Ruby. Ruby's an angel
There ain't nothing in it but the sun and moon, Diamond
There's trees and flowers
Well, they ain't no count
Ain't they? They're so beautiful, they make you happy to look at them
That's because you're such a silly
Ah! how do you do, Diamond
I am glad to see you
What do you want now, my child
I'm always wanting something, sir
Well, that's quite right, so long as what you want is right. Everybody
is always wanting something; only we don't mention it in the right place
often enough. What is it now
There's a friend of Nanny's, a lame boy, called Jim
I've heard of him
Well
Nanny doesn't care much about going to the country, sir
Well, what has that to do with Jim
You couldn't find a corner for Jim to work in -- could you, sir
I don't know that I couldn't. That is, if you can show good reason for
it
He's a good boy, sir
Well, so much the better for him
I know he can shine boots, sir
So much the better for us
You want your boots shined in the country -- don't you, sir
Yes, to be sure
It wouldn't be nice to walk over the flowers with dirty boots -- would
it, sir
No, indeed
They wouldn't like it -- would they
No, they wouldn't
Then Nanny would be better pleased to go, sir
If the flowers didn't like dirty boots to walk over them, Nanny
wouldn't mind going to the country? Is that it? I don't quite see it
No, sir; I didn't mean that. I meant, if you would take Jim with you to
clean your boots, and do odd jobs, you know, sir, then Nanny would like
it better. She's so fond of Jim
Now you come to the point, Diamond. I see what you mean, exactly. I
will turn it over in my mind. Could you bring Jim to see me
I'll try, sir. But they don't mind me much. They think I'm silly
I think he would come though -- after dark, you know
He does well at shining boots. People's kind to lame boys, you know,
sir. But after dark, there ain't so much doing
A boy like that
ought not to be pushed
Would you be afraid to sleep alone, Diamond
I don't know what you mean, ma'am
I never was afraid
of anything that I can recollect -- not much, at least
There's a little room at the top of the house -- all alone
perhaps you would not mind sleeping there
I can sleep anywhere, and I like best to be high up. Should I be able
to see out
I will show you the place
You would like this room, then, Diamond
It's the grandest room in the house
I shall be near the
stars, and yet not far from the tops of the trees. That's just what I
like
Aha! little squirrel
my nest is built higher than yours
You can be up here with your books as much as you like
I will have a little bell hung at the door, which I can ring
when I want you. Half-way down the stair is the drawing-room
What are you reading
I am reading the story of the Little Lady and the Goblin Prince
I am sorry I don't know the story
Who is it by
Mr. Raymond made it
Is he your uncle
No. He's my master
What do you do for him
Anything he wishes me to do
I am busy for him now. He
gave me this story to read. He wants my opinion upon it
Don't you find it rather hard to make up your mind
Oh dear no! Any story always tells me itself what I'm to think about
it. Mr. Raymond doesn't want me to say whether it is a clever story or
not, but whether I like it, and why I like it. I never can tell what
they call clever from what they call silly, but I always know whether I
like a story or not
And can you always tell why you like it or not
No. Very often I can't at all. Sometimes I can. I always know, but I
can't always tell why. Mr. Raymond writes the stories, and then tries
them on me. Mother does the same when she makes jam. She's made such a
lot of jam since we came here! And she always makes me taste it to see
if it'll do. Mother knows by the face I make whether it will or not
What did the boy and girl want with you, Diamond
They had seen a creature that frightened them
And they came to tell you about it
They couldn't get water out of the well for it. So they wanted me to go
with them
They're both bigger than you
Yes, but they were frightened at it
And weren't you frightened at it
No
Why
Because I'm silly. I'm never frightened at things
And what was it
I think it was a kind of an angel -- a very little one. It had a long
body and great wings, which it drove about it so fast that they grew a
thin cloud all round it. It flew backwards and forwards over the well,
or hung right in the middle, making a mist of its wings, as if its
business was to take care of the water
And what did you do to drive it away
I didn't drive it away. I knew, whatever the creature was, the well
was to get water out of. So I took the jug, dipped it in, and drew the
water
And what did the creature do
Flew about
And it didn't hurt you
No. Why should it? I wasn't doing anything wrong
What did your companions say then
They said --&bquo;Thank you, Diamond. What a dear silly you are
And weren't you angry with them
No! Why should I? I should like if they would play with me a little;
but they always like better to go away together when their work is over.
They never heed me. I don't mind it much, though. The other creatures
are friendly. They don't run away from me. Only they're all so busy with
their own work, they don't mind me much
Do you feel lonely, then
Oh, no! When nobody minds me, I get into my nest, and look up. And then
the sky does mind me, and thinks about me
Where is your nest
I will show you
I am in my nest now
I can't see you
I can't see you either, but I can see the first star peeping out of the
sky. I should like to get up into the sky. Don't you think I shall, some
day
Yes, I do. Tell me what more you see up there
I don't see anything more, except a few leaves, and the big sky over
me. It goes swinging about. The earth is all behind my back. There comes
another star! The wind is like kisses from a big lady. When I get up
here I feel as if I were in North Wind's arms
The silly things, they've got no wings,
            And they've left their trails behind them:

   "They've taken their tails, but they've left their trails,
   And so I shall follow and find them
I made that one
I don't know;
I found it somewhere
I got it at the back of the north wind
Do go on, Diamond. Don't mind me
You're not frightened -- are you, Diamond
No. Why should I be
He ain't got sense to be frightened
Perhaps there's more sense in not being frightened, Nanny
Do you think the lightning can do as it likes
It might kill you
Oh, no, it mightn't
There's a tree struck
There
I told you so. If you had been up there you see
what would have happened, you little silly
No, I don't
Good-night, Diamond
Good-night, sir
What are you always going up there for, Diamond
Sometimes for one thing, sometimes for another, Nanny
You'll break your neck some day
I'm going up to look at the moon to-night
You'll see the moon just as well down here
I don't think so
You'll be no nearer to her up there
Oh, yes! I shall. I must be nearer her, you know. I wish I could dream
as pretty dreams about her as you can, Nanny
You silly! you never have done about that dream. I never dreamed but
that one, and it was nonsense enough, I'm sure
It wasn't nonsense. It was a beautiful dream -- and a funny one too, both
in one
But what's the good of talking about it that way, when you know it was
only a dream? Dreams ain't true
That one was true, Nanny. You know it was. Didn't you come to grief for
doing what you were told not to do? And isn't that true
I can't get any sense into him
Do you really believe, Diamond, that there's a house in
the moon, with a beautiful lady and a crooked old man and dusters in
it
If there isn't, there's something better
Are you there, Diamond
Yes, sir
Isn't it growing too dark for you to get down safely
Oh, no, sir -- if I take time to it. I know my way so well, and never let
go with one hand till I've a good hold with the other
Do be careful
I'm coming
I've got all the moon I want to-night
Thank you, sir
That's the north wind blowing, isn't it,
sir
I can't tell
It feels cool and kind, and I think it may
be. But I couldn't be sure except it were stronger, for a gentle wind
might turn any way amongst the trunks of the trees
I shall know when I get up to my own room
I think I
hear my mistress's bell. Good-night, sir
Somebody wants me
Please, dear North Wind
I am so happy that I'm afraid it's
a dream. How am I to know that it's not a dream
What does it matter
But why should you cry? The dream, if it is a dream, is a pleasant
one -- is it not
That's just why I want it to be true
Have you forgotten what you said to Nanny about her dream
It's not for the dream itself -- I mean, it's not for the pleasure of
it
for I have that, whether it be a dream or not;
it's for you, North Wind; I can't bear to find it a dream, because then
I should lose you. You would be nobody then, and I could not bear that.
You ain't a dream, are you, dear North Wind? Do say No, else I shall
cry, and come awake, and you'll be gone for ever. I daren't dream about
you once again if you ain't anybody
I'm either not a dream, or there's something better that's not a dream,
Diamond
But it's not something better -- it's you I want, North Wind
Do you remember what the song you were singing a week ago says about
Bo-Peep -- how she lost her sheep, but got twice as many lambs
Oh yes, I do, well enough
but I never just quite
liked that rhyme
Why not, child
Because it seems to say one's as good as another, or two new ones are
better than one that's lost. I've been thinking about it a great deal,
and it seems to me that although any one sixpence is as good as any
other sixpence, not twenty lambs would do instead of one sheep whose
face you knew. Somehow, when once you've looked into anybody's eyes,
right deep down into them, I mean, nobody will do for that one any more.
Nobody, ever so beautiful or so good, will make up for that one going
out of sight. So you see, North Wind, I can't help being frightened to
think that perhaps I am only dreaming, and you are nowhere at all. Do
tell me that you are my own, real, beautiful North Wind
Do speak, North Wind
I never speak when I have nothing to say
Then I do think you must be a real North Wind, and no dream
But I'm looking for something to say all the time
But I don't want you to say what's hard to find. If you were to say one
word to comfort me that wasn't true, then I should know you must be a
dream, for a great beautiful lady like you could never tell a lie
But she mightn't know how to say what she had to say, so that a little
boy like you would understand it
Here, let us get
down again, and I will try to tell you what I think. You musn't suppose
I am able to answer all your questions, though. There are a great many
things I don't understand more than you do
I think
that if I were only a dream, you would not have been able to love me
so. You love me when you are not with me, don't you
Indeed I do
I see! I see! How
could I be able to love you as I do if you weren't there at all, you
know? Besides, I couldn't be able to dream anything half so beautiful
all out of my own head; or if I did, I couldn't love a fancy of my own
like that, could I
I think not. You might have loved me in a dream, dreamily, and
forgotten me when you woke, I daresay, but not loved me like a real
being as you love me. Even then, I don't think you could dream anything
that hadn't something real like it somewhere. But you've seen me in many
shapes, Diamond: you remember I was a wolf once -- don't you
Oh yes -- a good wolf that frightened a naughty drunken nurse
Well, suppose I were to turn ugly, would you rather I weren't a dream
then
Yes; for I should know that you were beautiful inside all the same. You
would love me, and I should love you all the same. I shouldn't like you
to look ugly, you know. But I shouldn't believe it a bit
Not if you saw it
No, not if I saw it ever so plain
There's my Diamond! I will tell you all I know about it then. I don't
think I am just what you fancy me to be. I have to shape myself various
ways to various people. But the heart of me is true. People call me
by dreadful names, and think they know all about me. But they don't.
Sometimes they call me Bad Fortune, sometimes Evil Chance, sometimes
Ruin; and they have another name for me which they think the most
dreadful of all
What is that
I won't tell you that name. Do you remember having to go through me to
get into the country at my back
Oh yes, I do. How cold you were, North Wind! and so white, all but your
lovely eyes! My heart grew like a lump of ice, and then I forgot for a
while
You were very near knowing what they call me then. Would you be afraid
of me if you had to go through me again
No. Why should I? Indeed I should be glad enough, if it was only to get
another peep of the country at your back
You've never seen it yet
Haven't I, North Wind? Oh! I'm so sorry! I thought I had. What did I
see then
Only a picture of it. The real country at my real back is ever so much
more beautiful than that. You shall see it one day -- perhaps before very
long
Do they sing songs there
Don't you remember the dream you had about the little boys that dug for
the stars
Yes, that I do. I thought you must have had something to do with that
dream, it was so beautiful
Yes; I gave you that dream
Oh! thank you. Did you give Nanny her dream too -- about the moon and the
bees
Yes. I was the lady that sat at the window of the moon
Oh, thank you. I was almost sure you had something to do with that too.
And did you tell Mr. Raymond the story about the Princess Daylight
I believe I had something to do with it. At all events he thought about
it one night when he couldn't sleep. But I want to ask you whether you
remember the song the boy-angels sang in that dream of yours
No. I couldn't keep it, do what I would, and I did try
That was my fault
How could that be, North Wind
Because I didn't know it properly myself, and so I couldn't teach it to
you. I could only make a rough guess at something like what it would be,
and so I wasn't able to make you dream it hard enough to remember it.
Nor would I have done so if I could, for it was not correct. I made you
dream pictures of it, though. But you will hear the very song itself
when you do get to the back of
My own dear North Wind
And now we've settled all this -- for the time, at least
But I can't feel quite sure yet
You must wait a while for that. Meantime you may be hopeful, and
content not to be quite sure. Come now, I will take you home again, for
it won't do to tire you too much
Oh, no, no. I'm not the least tired
It is better, though
Very well; if you wish it
You are a dear good, boy
I will come for you again
to-morrow night and take you out for a longer time. We shall make a
little journey together, in fact, we shall start earlier, and as the
moon will be later, we shall have a little moonlight all the way
Are you ready, Diamond
Yes
quite ready
I am going to take you along this little brook
I am
not wanted for anything else to-night, so I can give you a treat
What a lot of dreams they must be dreaming
Yes
They can't surely be all lies -- can they
I should think it depends a little on who dreams them
Yes
The people who think lies, and do lies, are
very likely to dream lies. But the people who love what is true will
surely now and then dream true things. But then something depends on
whether the dreams are home-grown, or whether the seed of them is blown
over somebody else's garden-wall. Ah! there's some one awake in this
house
It's a lady
She can't sleep for pain
Couldn't you do something for her
No, I can't. But you could
What could I do
Sing a little song to her
She wouldn't hear me
I will take you in, and then she will hear you
But that would be rude, wouldn't it? You can go where you please, of
course, but I should have no business in her room
You may trust me, Diamond. I shall take as good care of the lady as of
you. The window is open. Come
Didn't the lady hear me
Oh, yes, she heard you
Was she frightened then
Oh, no
Why didn't she look to see who it was
She didn't know you were there
How could she hear me then
She didn't hear you with her ears
What did she hear me with
With her heart
Where did she think the words came from
She thought they came out of the book she was reading. She will search
all through it to-morrow to find them, and won't be able to understand
it at all
Oh, what fun
What will she do
I can tell you what she won't do: she'll never forget the meaning of
them; and she'll never be able to remember the words of them
If she sees them in Mr. Raymond's book, it will puzzle her, won't it
Yes, that it will. She will never be able to understand it
Until she gets to the back of the north wind
Until she gets to the back of the north wind
Oh
I know now where we are. Oh! do let me go into the
old garden, and into mother's room, and Diamond's stall. I wonder if the
hole is at the back of my bed still. I should like to stay there all the
rest of the night. It won't take you long to get home from here, will
it, North Wind
No
you shall stay as long as you like
Oh, how jolly
I thought I liked the place so much
but I
find I don't care about it. I suppose it's only the people in it that
make you like a place, and when they're gone, it's dead, and you don't
care a bit about it. North Wind told me I might stop as long as I liked,
and I've stopped longer already. North Wind
Oh
were you the shooting star
Yes, my child
Did you hear me call you then
Yes
So high up as that
Yes; I heard you quite well
Do take me home
Have you had enough of your old home already
Yes, more than enough. It isn't a home at all now
I thought that would be it
Everything, dreaming and
all, has got a soul in it, or else it's worth nothing, and we don't care
a bit about it. Some of our thoughts are worth nothing, because they've
got no soul in them. The brain puts them into the mind, not the mind
into the brain
But how can you know about that, North Wind? You haven't got a body
If I hadn't you wouldn't know anything about me. No creature can know
another without the help of a body. But I don't care to talk about that.
It is time for you to go home
Could it be all dreaming, do you think, sir
I daren't say, Diamond
But at least there is one thing
you may be sure of, that there is a still better love than that of the
wonderful being you call North Wind. Even if she be a dream, the dream
of such a beautiful creature could not come to you by chance
Yes, I know
I know
Have you seen your friend again
Yes
Did she take you out with her
No. She did not speak to me. I woke all at once, as I generally do when
I am going to see her, and there she was against the door into the big
room, sitting just as I saw her sit on her own doorstep, as white as
snow, and her eyes as blue as the heart of an iceberg. She looked at me,
but never moved or spoke
Weren't you afraid
No. Why should I have been
I only felt a little cold
Did she stay long
I don't know. I fell asleep again. I think I have been rather cold ever
since though
Haven't you heard
I've heard nothing
This morning we found our dear little Diamond lying on the floor of the
big attic-room, just outside his own door -- fast asleep, as we thought.
But when we took him up, we did not think he was asleep. We saw
that
May I go and see him
Yes
You know your way to the top of the tower
</text>
