<text>
I would give something
to know what wind blows these knaves
here. From every petty castle in the Earl's feu the retainers seem
hurrying here. Is he bent, I wonder, on settling once and for all his
quarrels with the Baton of Wortham? or can he be intending to make a
clear sweep of the woods? Ah! here comes my gossip Hubert; he may tell me
the meaning of this gathering
Ah, Master Cuthbert
what brings you so near to the castle?
It is not often that you favour us with your presence
I am happier in the woods, as you well know, and was on my way thither
but now, when I paused at the sight of all these troopers flocking in to
Evesham. What enterprise has Sir Walter on hand now, think you
The earl keeps his own counsel
but methinks a
shrewd guess might be made at the purport of the gathering. It was but
three days since that his foresters were beaten back by the landless
men, whom they caught in the very act of cutting up a fat buck. As thou
knowest, my lord though easy and well-disposed to all, and not fond of
harassing and driving the people as are many of his neighbours, is yet
to the full as fanatical anent his forest privileges as the worst of
them. They tell me that when the news came in of the poor figure that
his foresters cut with broken bows and draggled plumes -- for the varlets
had soused them in a pond of not over savoury water -- he swore a great
oath that he would clear the forest of the bands. It may be, indeed,
that this gathering is for the purpose of falling in force upon that
evil-disposed and most treacherous baron, Sir John of Wortham, who has
already begun to harry some of the outlying lands, and has driven off, I
hear, many heads of cattle. It is a quarrel which will have to be fought
out sooner or later, and the sooner the better, say I. Although I am no
man of war, and love looking after my falcons or giving food to my dogs
far more than exchanging hard blows, yet would I gladly don the buff and
steel coat to aid in levelling the keep of that robber and tyrant, Sir
John of Wortham
Thanks, good Hubert
I must not stand gossiping here.
The news you have told me, as you know, touches me closely, for I would
not that harm should come to the forest men
Let it not out, I beseech thee, Cuthbert, that the news came from me,
for temperate as Sir Walter is at most times, he would, methinks, give
me short shift did he know that the wagging of my tongue might have
given warning through which the outlaws of the Chase should slip through
his fingers
Fear not, Hubert; I can be mum when the occasion needs. Can you tell me
farther, when the bands now gathering are likely to set forth
In brief breathing space
Those who first
arrived I left swilling beer, and devouring pies and other provisions
cooked for them last night, and from what I hear, they will set forth as
soon as the last comer has arrived. Whichever be their quarry, they will
try to fall upon it before the news of their arrival is bruited abroad
I want to speak to you at once, mother
What is it now, my son
Mother
I fear me that Sir Walter is
about to make a great raid upon the outlaws. Armed men have been coming
in all the morning from the castles round, and if it be not against the
Baron de Wortham that these preparations are intended, and methinks it is
not, it must needs be against the landless men
What would you do, Cuthbert
It will not
do for you to be found meddling in these matters. At present you stand
well in the favour of the Earl, who loves you for the sake of his
wife, to whom you are kin, and of your father, who did him good
liegeman's service
But, mother, I have many friends in the wood. There is Cnut, their
chief, your own first cousin, and many others of our friends, all
good men and true, though forced by the cruel Norman laws to refuge
in the woods
What would you do
I would take Ronald my pony and ride to warn them of the danger that
threatens
You had best go on foot, my son. Doubtless men have been set to see that
none from the Saxon homesteads carry the warning to the woods. The
distance is not beyond your reach, for you have often wandered there, and
on foot you can evade the eye of the watchers; but one thing, my son, you
must promise, and that is, that in no case, should the Earl and his bands
meet with the outlaws, will you take part in any fray or struggle
That will I willingly, mother
I have no cause for offence
against the castle or the forest, and my blood and my kin are with both.
I would fain save shedding of blood in a quarrel like this. I hope that
the time may come when Saxon and Norman may fight side by side, and I
maybe there to see
Ah, Cuthbert
what brings you here, lad, so early?
You are not wont to visit us till even, when you can lay your crossbow at
a stag by moonlight
No, no, Cousin Cnut
thou canst not say that I have
ever broken the forest laws, though I have looked on often and often,
whilst you have done so
The abettor is as bad as the thief
and if the foresters
caught us in the act, I wot they would make but little difference whether
it was the shaft of my longbow or the quarrel from thy crossbow which
brought down the quarry. But again, lad, why comest thou here? for I see
by the sweat on your face and by the heaving of your sides that you have
run fast and far
I have, Cnut; I have not once stopped for breathing since I left
Erstwood. I have come to warn you of danger. The earl is preparing
for a raid
He has raided here before, and I trow has carried off no game. The
landless men of the forest can hold their own against a handful of Norman
knights and retainers in their own home
Ay
but this will be no common raid. This morning bands
from all the holds within miles round are riding in, and at least 500
men-at-arms are likely to do chase today
Is it so
If that be so, lad, you
have done us good service indeed. With fair warning we can slip through
the fingers of ten times 500 men, but if they came upon us unawares, and
hemmed us in it would fare but badly with us, though we should, I doubt
not give a good account of them before their battle-axes and maces ended
the strife. Have you any idea by which road they will enter the forest,
or what are their intentions
I know not
all that I gathered was that the earl
intended to sweep the forest, and to put an end to the breaches of the
laws, not to say of the rough treatment that his foresters have met with
at your hands. You had best, methinks, be off before Sir Walter and his
heavily-armed men are here. The forest, large as it is, will scarce hold
you both, and methinks you had best shift your quarters to Langholm Chase
until the storm has passed
To Langholm be it, then
though I love not the place. Sir
John of Wortham is a worse neighbour by far than the earl. Against the
latter we bear no malice, he is a good knight and a fair lord; and could
he free himself of the Norman notions that the birds of the air, and the
beasts of the field, and the fishes of the water, all belong to Normans,
and that we Saxons have no share in them, I should have no quarrel with
him. He grinds not his neighbours, he is content with a fair tithe of the
produce, and as between man and man is a fair judge without favour. The
baron is a fiend incarnate; did he not fear that he would lose by so
doing, he would gladly cut the throats, or burn, or drown, or hang every
Saxon within twenty miles of his hold. He is a disgrace to his order, and
some day when our band gathers a little stronger, we will burn his nest
about his ears
It will be a hard nut to crack
With such
arms as you have in the forest the enterprise would be something akin to
scaling the skies
Ladders and axes will go far, lad, and the Norman men-at-arms have
learned to dread our shafts. But enough of the baron; if we must be his
neighbours for a time, so be it
You have heard, my mates
what Cuthbert tells us. Are you of my opinion, that it is
better to move away till the storm is past, than to fight against heavy
odds, without much chance of either booty or victory
Where are the band
Half a mile or so to the right
I fear we shall be too late to cut them off
they have so
long a start; but at least we will waste no time in gossiping
Here they come
Remember
above all things be careful not to hit the child,
but pierce the horse on which she is riding. The instant he falls, rush
forward. We must trust to surprise to give us the victory
Cuthbert
This is a good day's work indeed for all
it will make
of the earl a firm friend instead of a bitter enemy; and I doubt not that
better days are dawning for Evesham Forest
Have you heard or seen anything
of the
Lady Margaret? She is missing, and foul play has taken place
Here I am, Rudolph
This is not a time
for talking or making promises,
but be assured that henceforth the deer of Evesham Chase are as free to
you and your men as to me. Forest laws or no forest laws, I will no more
lift a hand against men to whom I owe so much. Come when you will to the
castle, my friends, and let us talk over what can be done to erase your
outlawry and restore you to an honest career again
I can
defend my hold for weeks. But it is only by aid
from without that I can finally hope to break the power of this
braggart earl
It will be straightforward work to attack the outwork
but
that once won, I see not how we are to proceed against the castle itself.
The machines that the earl has will scarcely hurl stones strong enough
even to knock the mortar from the walls. Ladders are useless where they
cannot be planted; and if the garrison are as brave as the castle is
strong, methinks that the earl has embarked upon a business that will
keep him here till next spring
Have I not heard, Gurth
that you helped to build the Castle
of Wortham
No, no, young sir
old as I am, I was a child when the
castle was built. My father worked at it, and it cost him, and many
others, his life
And how was that, prithee
He was, with several others, killed by the baron, the grandfather of the
present man, when the work was finished
But why was that, Gurth
We were but Saxon swine
and a few of us more or
less mattered not. We were then serfs of the baron. But my mother fled
with me on the news of my father's death. For years we remained far away,
with some friends in a forest near Oxford. Then she pined for her native
air, and came back and entered the service of the franklin
But why should your mother have taken you away
She always believed, Master Cuthbert, that my father was killed by the
baron, to prevent him giving any news of the secrets of the castle. He
and some others had been kept in the walls for many months, and were
engaged in the making of secret passages
That is just what I came to ask you, Gurth. I have heard something of
this story before, and now that we are attacking Wortham Castle, and the
earl has sworn to level it to the ground, it is of importance if possible
to find out whether any of the secret passages lead beyond the castle,
and if so, where. Almost all the castles have, I have been told, an exit
by which the garrison can at will make sorties or escape; and I thought
that maybe you might have heard enough to give us some clue as to the
existence of such a passage at Wortham
I may be mistaken, but methinks a diligent search in the copse near the
stream might find the mouth of the outlet
What makes you think that this is so, Gurth
I had been with my mother to carry some clothes to my father on the last
occasion on which I saw him. As we neared the castle I saw my father and
three other of the workmen, together with the baron, coming down from the
castle towards the spot. As my mother did not wish to approach while the
baron was at hand, we stood within the trees at the edge of the wood, and
watched what was being done. The baron came with them down to the bushes,
and then they again came out, crossed the river, and one of them cut some
willows, peeled them, and erected the white staves in a line towards the
castle. They walked for a bit on each side, and seemed to be making
calculations. Then they went back into the castle, and I never saw my
father again
Why did you not go in at once according to your intention
Because my mother said that she thought some important work was on
hand, and that maybe the baron would not like that women should know
aught of it, for he was of suspicious and evil mind. More than this I
know not. The castle had already been finished, and most of the masons
discharged. There were, however, a party of serfs kept at work, and also
some masons, and rumour had it that they were engaged in making the
secret passages. Whether it was so or not I cannot say, but I know that
none of that party ever left the castle alive. It was given out that a
bad fever had raged there, but none believed it; and the report went
about, and was I doubt not true, that all had been killed, to preserve
the secret of the passage
Where is Cnut
He is with a party occupied in making ladders
Go to him
and tell him to withdraw quietly and
make his way here. I have an important matter on which I wish to
speak to him
This is indeed important
We will lose no time in searching
the copse you speak of. You and I, together with two of my most trusty
men, with axes to clear away the brush, will do. At present a thing of
this sort had best be kept between as few as may be
What do you think it would be like, Cnut
Like enough to a rabbit-hole, or more likely still there would be no
hole whatever. We must look for moss and greenery, for it is likely that
such would have been planted, so as to conceal the door from any
passer-by, while yet allowing a party from inside to cut their way
through it without difficulty
It looks level enough with the rest
Ay, lad, but we know not what lies behind this thick screen of ivy.
Thrust in that staff
Here it is, if anywhere
Here it is
and the castle is ours. Thanks,
Cuthbert, for your thought and intelligence. It has not been used lately,
that is clear
These creepers have not been moved for
years. Shall we go and tell the earl of our discovery? What think you,
Cuthbert
I think we had better not
We might not succeed in
getting in, as the passage may have fallen farther along; but I will
speak to him and tell him that we have something on hand which may alter
his dispositions for fighting to-morrow
What can I do for you
I want to ask you, sir, not to attack the castle to-morrow until you see
a white flag waved from the keep
But how on earth is a white flag to be raised from the keep
It may be
that I have some friends inside who will be
able to make a diversion in our favour. However sir, it can do no harm
if you will wait till then, and may save many lives. At what hour do you
mean to attack
The bridges and all other preparations to assist us across the moat will
be ready to-night. We will advance then under cover of darkness, and as
soon after dawn as may be attack in earnest
Very well, sir
I trust that within five minutes after
your bugle has sounded, the white flag will make its appearance on the
keep, but it cannot do so until after you have commenced an attack, or at
least a pretence of an attack
It may be
that the door has not been opened as you say for
years, but it is certain
that
it has been well oiled within the last two or three days. No doubt the
baron intended to make his escape this way, should the worst arrive. Now
that we have the door open we had better wait quiet until the dawn
commences. The earl will blow his bugle as a signal for the advance; it
will be another ten minutes before they are fairly engaged, and that will
be enough for us to break open any doors that there may be between this
and the castle, and to force our way inside
We must now be near the castle
In fact, methinks I can
hear confused noises ahead
It is fortunate that all were so well engaged, or they would certainly
have heard the noise of our forcing the door, which would have brought
all of them upon us. As it is, we are in the heart of the keep. We have
now but to make a rush up these winding steps, and methinks we shall find
ourselves on the battlements. They will be so surprised, that no real
resistance can be offered to us. Now let us advance
And what can I do for you, Cuthbert
It is to you that I am indebted: in the first place for the
rescue of my daughter, in the second for the capture of that castle,
which I doubt me much whether we should ever have taken in fair fight had
it not been for your aid
Thanks, Sir Walter
At present I need nothing, but
should the time come when you may go to the wars, I would fain ride
with you as your page, in the hope of some day winning my spurs also in
the field
So shall it be
and right willingly. But who
have we here
This is a notice
that King Richard
has determined to take up the cross, and that he calls upon his nobles
and barons to join him in the effort to free the holy sepulchre from the
infidels. I doubt whether the minds of the people are quite prepared, but
I hear that there has been much preaching by friars and monks in some
parts, and that many are eager to join in the war
Think you that you will go to the war, Sir Walter
I know not as yet; it must much depend upon the king's mood. For
myself, I care not so greatly as some do about this question of the Holy
Land. There has been blood enough shed already to drown it, and we are no
nearer than when the first swarms of pilgrims made their way thither
I have heard much of these Crusades
canst tell me
about them
In truth I know not much, my son; but Father Francis, I doubt not, can
tell you all the particulars anent the affair
Hitherto, my son
the Crusades have, it must be owned,
brought many woes upon Europe. From the early times great swarms
of pilgrims were accustomed to go from all parts of Europe to the
holy shrines.

"When the followers of the evil prophet took possession of the land, they
laid grievous burdens upon the pilgrims, heavily they fined them,
persecuted them in every way, and treated them as if indeed they were but
the scum of the earth under their feet.

"So terrible were the tales that reached Europe that men came to think
that it would be a good deed truly, to wrest the sepulchre of the Lord
from the hands of these heathens. Pope Urban was the first to give
authority and strength to the movement, and at a vast meeting at
Claremont of 30,000 clergy and 4000 barons, it was decided that war must
be made against the infidel. From all parts of France men flocked to
hear Pope Urban preach there; and when he had finished his oration, the
vast multitude, carried away by enthusiasm, swore to win the holy
sepulchre or to die.

"Mighty was the throng that gathered for the First Crusade. Monks threw
aside their gowns and took to the sword and cuirass; even women and
children joined in the throng. What, my son, could be expected from a
great army so formed? Without leaders, without discipline, without
tactics, without means of getting food, they soon became a scourge of the
country through which they passed.

"Passing through Hungary, where they greatly ravaged the fields, they
came to Bulgaria. Here the people, struck with astonishment and dismay at
this great horde of hungry people who arrived among them like locusts,
fell upon them with the sword, and great numbers fell. The first band
that passed into that country perished miserably, and of all that huge
assembly, it may be said that, numbering, at the start, not less than
250,000 persons, only about 100,000 crossed into Asia Minor. The fate of
these was no better than that of those who had perished in Hungary and
Bulgaria. After grievous suffering and loss they at last reached Nicaea.
There they fell into an ambuscade; and out of the whole of the
undisciplined masses who had followed Peter the Hermit, it is doubtful
whether 10,000 ever returned home.

"This first attempt to rescue the holy sepulchre was followed by others
equally wild, misguided, and unfortunate. Some of them indeed began their
evil deeds as soon as they had left their home. The last of these bodies
fell upon the Jews, who are indeed enemies of the Christian faith, but
who have now, at least, nothing to do with the question of the holy
sepulchre. As soon as they entered into Germany the Crusaders put them to
death with horrible torture. Plunder and rapine indeed appeared to be the
object of the crusaders. On this as well as on most other preceding
bands, their misdeeds drew down the vengeance of the people. At an early
period of their march, and as soon as they reached Hungary, the people
fell upon them, and put the greater portion to the sword.

"Thus, in these irregular expeditions no less than 500,000 people are
supposed to have perished. Godfrey de Bouillon was the first who
undertook to lead a Crusade according to the military knowledge of the
day. With him were his brothers Eustace and Baldwin, the Counts of Anault
and St. Paul, and many other nobles and gentlemen, with their retainers,
well armed and under good order; and so firm was the discipline of Duke
Godfrey that they were allowed to pass freely, by the people of the
countries who had opposed the previous bands.

"Through Hungary, Bulgaria, and Thrace he made his way; and though he
met with many difficulties from Alexius, the crafty and treacherous
Emperor of the Greeks, he at last succeeded in crossing into Asia.
There he was joined by many from England, as well as from France and
other countries. Duke Robert, the son of our first William, led a
strong band of Normans to the war, as did the other great princes of
France and Spain.

"The army which crossed the narrow passage of the Hellespont is estimated
at no less than 700,000 fighting men. Of these 100,000 were knights clad
in complete armour, the remainder were men-at-arms and bowmen.

"Nicaea, the place which had been the scene of the massacre of Peter the
Hermit's hosts, was taken after a desperate conflict, lasting for many
weeks, and the crusaders afterwards defeated the Turks in a great battle
near the town of Doryleum. After these successes disputes arose among the
leaders, and Count Baldwin, brother of Duke Godfrey, left the main body
with about 1500 men, and founded a kingdom for himself in Mesopotamia.

"The main body, slowly and painfully, and suffering from disease, famine,
and the heat, made its way south. Antioch, a city of great strength and
importance, was besieged, but it proved so strong that it resisted for
many months, and was at last only taken by treachery.

"After the capture of this place the sufferings of the crusaders so far
from being diminished were redoubled. They themselves during the siege
had bought up all the food that could be brought from the surrounding
country, while the magazines of the town were found, when an entry was
effected, to be entirely deserted. The enemy, aided by a great Persian
host, came down, and those who had been the besiegers were now besieged.
However, when in the last strait the Christian army sallied out, and
inspired with supernatural strength, defeated the Turks and Persians,
with a slaughter of 100,000 men. Another slow movement to the south
brought them into the Holy Land, and pressing forward, they came at last
within sight of Jerusalem itself.

"So fearful had been the losses of the crusaders that of 700,000 who
crossed the Hellespont, not more than 40,000 reached the end of the
pilgrimage. This fragment of an army, which had appeared before a very
strongly fortified town, possessed no means of capturing the place -- none
of the machines of war necessary for the purpose, no provisions or
munitions of any kind. Water was scarce also; and it appeared as if the
remnant of the great army of Godfrey de Bouillon had arrived before
Jerusalem only to perish there.

"Happily just at this time a further band of crusaders from Genoa, who
had reached Jaffa, made their appearance. They were provided with stores,
and had skilled workmen capable of making the machines for the siege. On
July 14th, 1099, the attack was made, and after resistance gallant and
desperate as the assault, the crusaders burst into the city, massacred
the whole of the defenders and inhabitants, calculated at 70,000 in
number, and so became masters of the holy sepulchre.

"The Sultan of Egypt was meanwhile advancing to the assistance of the
Mohammedans of Syria; but Godfrey, with 20,000 of his best men, advanced
to meet the vast host, and scattered them as if they had been sheep.
Godfrey was now chosen King of Jerusalem, and the rest of his army -- save
300 knights and 200 soldiers, who agreed to remain with him -- returned to
their home. The news of the victory led other armies of crusaders to
follow the example of that of Godfrey; but as these were almost as
completely without organization or leadership as those of Peter the
Hermit, they suffered miserably on their way, and few indeed ever
reached the Holy Land. Godfrey died in 1100, and his brother Baldwin
succeeded him.

"The history of the last 100 years has been full of fresh efforts to
crush the Moslem power, but hitherto it cannot be said that fortune has
attended the efforts of the Christians. Had it not been indeed for the
devotion of the Knights of St. John and of the Templars, two great
companies formed of men who devoted their lives to the holding of the
sepulchre against the infidel, our hold of the Holy Land would have
been lost.

"Gradually the Saracens have wrested post after post from our hands.
Edessa was taken in 1144, and the news of this event created an intense
excitement. The holy St. Bernard stirred up all France, and Louis VII.
himself took the vow and headed a noble army. The ways of God are not our
ways, and although the army of Germany joined that of France, but little
results came of this great effort. The Emperor Conrad, with the Germans,
was attacked by the Turk Saladin of Iconium, and was defeated with a loss
of 60,000 men. The King of France, with his army, was also attacked with
fury, and a large portion of his force were slaughtered. Nothing more
came of this great effort, and while the first Crusade seemed to show
that the men-at-arms of Europe were irresistible, the second on the
contrary gave proof that the Turks were equal to the Christian knights.
Gradually the Christian hold of the Holy Land was shaken. In 1187,
although fighting with extraordinary bravery, the small army of Christian
Knights of the Temple and of St. John were annihilated, the King of
Jerusalem was made prisoner, and the Christian power was crushed. Then
Saladin, who commanded the Turks, advanced against Jerusalem, and forced
it to capitulate.

"Such, my boy, is the last sad news which has reached us; and no wonder
that it has stirred the hearts of the monarchs of Europe, and that every
effort will be again made to recapture the holy sepulchre, and to avenge
our brethren who have been murdered by the infidels
But, Father Francis, from your story it would seem that Europe has
already sacrificed an enormous number of lives to take the holy
sepulchre, and that after all the fighting, when she has taken it, it is
only to lose it again
That is so, my son; but we will trust that in future things will be
better managed. The Templars and Hospitallers now number so vast a number
of the best lances in Europe, and are grown to be such great powers, that
we may believe that when we have again wrested the holy sepulchre from
the hands of the infidels they will be able to maintain it against all
assaults. Doubtless the great misfortunes which have fallen upon the
Christian armies have been a punishment from heaven, because they have
not gone to work in the right spirit. It is not enough to take up lance
and shield, and to place a red cross upon the shoulder. Those who desire
to fight the battle of the Lord must cleanse their hearts, and go forth
in the spirit of pilgrims rather than knights. I mean, not that they
should trust wholly to spiritual weapons -- for in truth the infidel is a
foe not to be despised -- but I mean, that they should lay aside all
thoughts of worldly glory, and rivalry one against another
And think you, Father, that such is the spirit with which King Richard
and the other kings and nobles now preparing to go to the Holy Land are
animated
It is not for me, my son, to judge motives, or to speak well or ill the
instruments who have been chosen for this great work. It is of all works
the most praiseworthy, most holy. It is horrible to think that the holy
shrines of Jerusalem should be in the hands of men who believe not in our
Redeemer; and I hold it to be the duty of every man who can bear arms, no
matter what his rank or his station, to don his armour and to go forth to
battle in the cause. Whether success will crown the effort, or whether
God wills it otherwise, it is not for man to discuss; it is enough that
the work is there, and it is our duty to do it
And think you, Father, that it will do good to England
That do I, my son, whether we gain the Holy Land or no. Methinks that it
will do good service to the nation that Saxon and Norman should fight
together under the holy cross. Hitherto the races have stood far too
much apart. They have seen each other's bad qualities rather than good;
but methinks that when the Saxon and the Norman stand side by side on the
soil of the Holy Land, and shout together for England, it must needs bind
them together, and lead them to feel that they are no longer Normans and
Saxons, but Englishmen. I intend to preach on the village green at
Evesham next Sunday morning on this subject, and as I know you are in
communication with the forest men, I would, Cuthbert, that you would
persuade them to come in to hear me. You were wondering what could be
found for these vagrants. They have many of them long since lost the
habits of honest labour. Many of them are still serfs, although most have
been freed by the good earl and the knights his followers. Some of those
who would fain leave the life in the woods, still cling to it because
they think that it would be mean to desert their comrades, who being
serfs are still bound to lurk there; but methinks that this is a great
opportunity for them. They are valiant men, and the fact that they are
fond of drawing an arrow at a buck does not make them one whit the worse
Christians. I will do my best to move their hearts, and if they will but
agree together to take the cross, they would make a goodly band of
footmen to accompany the earl
Is the earl going
I know not for certain
but I think from what I
hear from his chaplain, Father Eustace, that his mind turns in that
direction
Then, Father, if he goes, I will go too
He
promised to take me as his page the first time he went to war
I fear me, Cuthbert, this is far from the spirit in which we a while ago
agreed that men should go to the holy war
Ay, Father Francis, men; but I am a boy
and after all, boys
are fond of adventure for adventure's sake. However, Father
no doubt your eloquence on the green will turn me mightily
to the project, for you must allow that the story you have told me this
morning is not such as to create any very strong yearning in one's mind
to follow the millions of men who have perished in the Holy Land
Go to
thou art a pert varlet. I will do
my best on Sunday to turn you to a better frame of mind
What profited it
if the few knights who remained to defend
the holy sepulchre were heroes? A few heroes cannot withstand an army. If
Christendom after making a mighty effort to capture the holy sepulchre
had not fallen away, the conquest which had been made with so vast an
expenditure of blood would not have been lost. This is a work in which no
mere passing fervour will avail; bravery at first, endurance afterwards,
are needed. Many men must determine not only to assist to wrest the holy
sepulchre from the hands of the infidels, but to give their lives, so
long as they might last, to retaining it. It is scarce to be expected
that men with wives and families will take a view like this, indeed it is
not to be desired. But there are single men, men of no ties, who can
devote their whole lives, as did the Knights of the Orders of the Cross,
to this great object. When their life has come to an end, doubtless
others will take up the banner that their hands can no longer hold. But
for life it is, indeed, that many of humble as well as of princely class
must bind themselves to take and defend to death the holy sepulchre
To the Holy Land
Now go to your homes, my sons
Think of the oath that you
have taken, and of the course that lies open to you when the time comes.
When King Richard is prepared to start, then will you be called upon to
fulfil your vows. It may be that all who have sworn may not be called
upon to go. It needs that the land here should be tilled, it needs that
there should be protectors for the women and children, it needs that this
England of ours should flourish, and we cannot give all her sons, however
willing they might be to take the cross. But the willingness which you
will, I am sure, show to go if needs be, and to redeem your vows, will be
sufficient. Some must go and some must stay; these are matters to be
decided hereafter; for the time let us separate; you will hear when the
hour for action arrives
Certainly, Cuthbert
you shall accompany me; first, on
account of my promise to you; secondly, because from the readiness you
displayed both in the matter of my daughter and of the attack on Wortham,
you will be a notable aid and addition to my party; thirdly, from my
friendship for your father and Dame Editha
If this is the case now
what will it be after we
have joined the French army? Methinks whatever we may do if we reach the
Holy Land, that we have a fair chance of being starved before we sail
I have been
to the royal camp, and from what I hear,
Cuthbert, methinks that there is reason for what you say. King Richard is
the most loyal and gallant of kings, but he is haughty, and hasty in
speech. The Normans, too, have been somewhat accustomed to conquer our
neighbours, and it may well be that the chivalry of France love us not.
However, it must be hoped that this feeling will die away, and that we
shall emulate each other only in our deeds on the battlefield
What a clumsy child
You are a rough and ill-mannered loon
Were
you in any other presence I would chastise you as you deserve
Chastise me
Why, I could put you in my pocket for a little
hop-of-my-thumb as you are
I think
you had better send that brat home and order him
to be whipped
Sir count
your manners are insolent, and were we not
engaged upon a Crusade, it would please me much to give you a lesson on
that score
My lords, my lords
this is
against all law and reason. For shame, to be brawling at my table. I
would not say aught openly, but methinks it is early indeed for the
knights and nobles engaged in a common work to fall to words
Your Majesty
I regret deeply what has
happened. But it seemed, from the time we sat down to the meal, that this
lord sought to pass a quarrel upon me, and I now beseech your Majesty
that you will permit us to settle our differences in the lists
Do you forget
the mission upon which you are assembled
here? Has not every knight and noble in these armies taken a solemn oath
to put aside private quarrels and feuds until the holy sepulchre is
taken? Shall we at this very going off show that the oath is a mere form
of words? Shall we show before the face of Christendom that the knights
of the cross are unable to avoid flying at each other's throats, even
while on their way to wrest the holy sepulchre from the infidel? No,
sirs, you must lay aside your feuds, and must promise me and my good
brother here that you will keep the peace between you until this war is
over. Whose fault it was that the quarrel began I know not. It may be
that my Lord of Brabant was discourteous. It may be that the earl here
was too hot. But whichever it be, it matters not
The quarrel, sire
arose from a dispute between
our pages, who were nigh coming to blows in your Majesty's presence. I
desired the earl to chide the insolence of his varlet, and instead of so
doing he met my remarks with scorn
Pooh, pooh
there are plenty of grounds for quarrel
without two nobles interfering in the squabbles of boys. Let them fight;
it will harm no one. By-the-bye, your Majesty
if the masters may not fight, there is no
reason in the world why the varlets should not. We are sorely dull for
want of amusement. Let us have a list to-morrow, and let the pages fight
it out for the honour of their masters and their nations
It were scarce worth while to have the lists set for two boys to fight
Oh, we need not have regular lists
Leave that
matter in my hands. I warrant you that if the cockerels are well plucked,
they will make us sport. What say you, gentlemen
That is agreed, then
I will have a piece
of ground marked out on the edge of the camp to-morrow morning. It shall
be kept by my men-at-arms, and there shall be a raised place for King
Phillip and myself, who will be the judges of the conflict. Will they
fight on foot or on horse
On foot, on foot
It would be a pity that
knightly exercises should be brought to scorn by any failure on their
part on horseback. On foot at least it will be a fair struggle
What arms shall they use
Oh, swords and battle-axes, of course
Before you go
you must shake hands, and swear
to let the quarrel between you drop, at least until after our return.
If you still wish to shed each other's blood, I shall offer no
hindrance thereto
My dear lad
this is a serious business. The kings have
ordered this little count and myself to put aside our differences till
after the Crusade, in accordance with our oath. But as you have no wise
pledged yourself in the same fashion, and as their Majesties fell
somewhat dull while waiting here, it is determined that the quarrel
between me, and between you and the count's page, shall be settled by a
fight between you in the presence of the kings
Well, sir
I am glad that it should be, seeing the
varlet insulted me without cause, and purposely upset the cup over me
What is he like
Dost think that you are a
fair match
I doubt not that we are fair match enough
As you know,
sir, I have been well trained to arms of all kinds, both by my father and
by the men-at-arms at the castle, and could hold my own against any of
your men with light weapons, and have then no fear that this gawky loon,
twenty years old though he seems to be, will bring disgrace upon me or
discredit upon my nation
If thou thinkest so
the matter can go on. But had it
been otherwise, I would have gone to the king and protested that the
advantage of age was so great that it would be murder to place you in the
list together
There is
at most no greater difference between us than
between a strong man and a weak one, and these, in the ordeal of battle,
have to meet in the lists. Indeed I doubt if the difference is so great,
for if he be a foot taller than I, methinks that round the shoulders I
should have the advantage of him
Send hither my armourer
we must choose a proper suit
for you. I fear that mine would be of little use; but doubtless there are
some smaller suits among my friends
The simpler and lighter the better
I'd rather have a
light coat of mail and a steel cap, than heavy armour and a helmet that
would press me down and a visor through which I could scarcely see. The
lighter the better, for after all if my sword cannot keep my head, sooner
or later the armour would fail to do so too
You must have a plume at least
Will you want a light sword
and battle-axe
No
my arms are pretty well used to those of the
men-at-arms. I could wield my father's sword, and that was a heavy one
My Lord of Evesham
thou shouldst have said that
the difference between the two was too great to allow the combat to be
possible. The Frenchman appears to be big enough to take your page under
his arm and walk off with him
It is not size, sire, but muscle and pluck will win in a combat like
this. Your Majesty need not be afraid that my page will disgrace me. He
is of my blood, though the kinship is not close. He is of mixed Saxon and
Norman strain, and will, believe me, do no discredit to either
Brother Phillip
I will wager my gold
chain against yours on yonder stripling
Methinks that it were robbery to take your wager
The difference between their bulk is disproportionate. However, I
will not baulk your wish. My chain against yours
Do
you yield
Thou art a brave lad and a lusty
and hast borne thee
in the fight as well as many a knight would have done. Wert thou older, I
would myself dub thee knight; and I doubt not that the occasion will yet
come when thou wilt do as good deeds upon the bodies of the Saracens as
thou hast upon that long-shanked opponent of thine. Here is a gold chain;
take it as a proof that the King of England holds that you have sustained
well the honour of his country; and mark me, if at any time you require a
boon, bring or send me that chain, and thou shall have it freely. Sir
Walter
in this lad thou hast a worthy
champion, and I trust me that thou wilt give him every chance of
distinguishing himself. So soon as thou thinkst him fit for the knightly
rank I myself will administer the accolade
Who would have thought
that the lad who but a
short time ago was a child, should now have sustained the honour of the
country? We feel proud of you, Cuthbert; and trust us some day or other
to follow wherever you may lead, and to do some deed which will attain
for you honour and glory, and to show that the men of Evesham are as
doughty as any under King Richard's rule
You must be wary, Cuthbert
Believe
me that you and I have made a foe, who, although he may not have the
power, has certainly the will to injure us to the death. I marked the eye
of Count Jacquelin during the fight, and again when you were led up to
the king. There was hatred and fury in his eye. The page too, I hear, is
his own nephew, and he will be the laughing-stock of the French camp at
having been conquered by one so much younger than himself. It will be
well to keep upon your guard, and not go out at night unattended. Keep
Cnut near you; he is faithful as a watch-dog, and would give his life, I
am sure, for you. I will myself be also upon my guard, for it was after
all my quarrel, and the fury of this fierce knight will vent itself upon
both of us if the opportunity should come. I hear but a poor account of
him among his confreres. They say he is one of those disgraces to the
name of knight who are but a mixture of robber and soldier; that he
harries all the lands in his neighbourhood; and that he has now only
joined the Crusade to avoid the vengeance which the cries of the
oppressed people had invoked from his liege lord. I am told indeed that
the choice was given him to be outlawed, or to join the Crusades with
all the strength he could raise. Naturally he adopted the latter
alternative; but he has the instincts of the robber still, and will do us
an evil turn, if he have the chance
Sanctuary
What mean you
by this outrage? Know ye not that this is the
Monastery of St. John, and that it is sacrilege to lay a hand of violence
even against its postern? Begone
or we'll lodge a complaint
before the king
My son, I grieve to tell you that your request cannot
be complied with. The army moved away yesternoon, and is now some
five-and-twenty miles distant. There is nothing for you but patience, and
when restored you can follow the army, and rejoin your master before he
embarks at Marseilles. But how is it that a lad so young as you can have
incurred the enmity of those who sought your life? For it is clear from
the pertinacity with which they urged their attack that their object was
not plunder, of which indeed they would get but little from you, but to
take your life
After what has happened
you will need have caution
when you leave here. The place where you have taken refuge is known to
them, and should this wild noble persist in his desire for vengeance
against you, he will doubtless leave some of his ruffians to watch the
monastery. We will keep a look-out, and note if any strangers are to be
seen near the gates; if we find that it is so, we shall consider what is
best to be done. We could of course appeal to the mayor for protection
against them, and could even have the strangers ejected from the town or
cast into prison; but it is not likely that we should succeed in
capturing more than the fellow who may be placed on the look-out, and the
danger would be in no wise lessened to yourself. But there is time to
talk over this matter before you leave. It will be another fortnight at
least before you will be able to pursue your journey
Thou mightst, under ordinary circumstances, quit us to-morrow, for thou
art well enough to take part in the ordinary pursuits of a page; but to
journey is a different thing. You may have all sorts of hardships to
endure; you may have even to trust for your life to your speed and
endurance; and it would be madness for you to go until your strength is
fully established. I regret to tell you that we have ascertained beyond a
doubt that the monastery is closely watched. We have sent some of the
acolytes out, dressed in the garbs of monks, and attended by one of our
elder brethren; and in each case, a monk who followed at a distance of
fifty yards was able to perceive that they were watched. The town is full
of rough men, the hangers-on of the army; some, indeed, are followers of
laggard knights, but the greater portion are men who merely pursue the
army with a view to gain by its necessities, to buy plunder from the
soldiers, and to rob, and, if necessary, to murder should there be a hope
of obtaining gold. Among these men your enemies would have little
difficulty in recruiting any number, and no appeal that we could make to
the mayor would protect you from them when you have left the walls. We
must trust to our ingenuity in smuggling you out. After that, it is upon
your own strength and shrewdness that you must rely for an escape from
any snares that may be laid for you. You will see, then, that at least
another three or four days are needed before you can set forth. Your
countrymen are so far away that a matter of a few days will make but
little difference. They will in any case be delayed for a long time at
Marseilles before they embark; and whether you leave now or a month
hence, you would be equally in time to join them before their
embarkation -- that is, supposing that you make your way through the snares
which beset you
No
the method, whatever it is, must be as open as
possible; and though I cannot at this moment hit upon a plan, I will
think it over to-night, and putting my ideas with those of Father Jerome
here, and the sacristan, who has a shrewd head, it will be hard if we
cannot between us contrive some plan to evade the watch of those robber
villains who beset the convent
Good father, I have determined not to endeavour to make off in disguise.
I doubt not that your wit could contrive some means by which I should get
clear of the walls without observation from the scouts of this villain
noble. But once in the country, I should have neither horse nor armour,
and should have hard work indeed to make my way down through France, even
though none of my enemies were on my track. I will therefore, if it
please you, go down boldly to the Mayor, and claim a protection and
escort. If he will but grant me a few men-at-arms for one day's ride from
the town, I can choose my own route, and riding out in mail can then take
my chance of finding my way down to Marseilles
I will go down with you, my son
to the mayor. Two of
my monks shall accompany us; and assuredly no insult will be offered to
you in the street thus accompanied
Pest! young gentleman; you have caused us no small trouble and concern.
We have had ridings to and fro concerning you, and furious messages from
your fiery king. When in the morning a tall, stalwart knave dressed in
green was found, slashed about in various places, lying on the pavement,
the townsmen, not knowing who he was, but finding that he still
breathed, carried him to the English camp, and he was claimed as a
follower of the Earl of Evesham. There was great wrath and anger over
this; and an hour later the earl himself came down and stated that his
page was missing, and that there was reason to believe that he had been
foully murdered, as he had accompanied the man found wounded.
Fortunately the bulk of the armies had marched away at early dawn, and
the earl had only remained behind in consequence of the absence of his
followers. I assured the angry Englishman that I would have a thorough
search made in the town; and although in no way satisfied, he rode off
after his king with all his force, carrying with him the long-limbed
man whom we had picked up. Two days after, a message came back from King
Richard himself, saying that unless this missing page were discovered,
or if, he being killed, his murderers were not brought to justice and
punished, he would assuredly on his return from the Holy Land burn the
town over our ears. Your king is not a man who minces matters. However,
threatened men live long, especially when the person who threatens is
starting for a journey, from which, as like or not, he may never return.
However, I have had diligent search made for you. All the houses of bad
repute have been examined, and their inhabitants questioned. But there
are so many camp-followers and other rabble at present in the town that
a hundred men might disappear without our being able to obtain a clue. I
doubted not indeed that your body had been thrown in the river, and that
we should never hear more of you. I am right glad that you have been
restored; not indeed from any fear of the threats of the king your
master, but because, from what the Earl of Evesham said, you were a lad
likely to come to great fame and honour. The earl left in my charge your
horse, and the armour which he said you wore at a tournament lately, in
case we should hear aught of you
If I could find the varlets, I would hang them over the gates of the
town
But as at the present moment there
are nearly as many rogues as honest men in the place, it would be a
wholesale hanging indeed to ensure getting hold of the right people.
Moreover, it is not probable that another attempt upon his life will be
made inside our walls; and doubtless the main body of this gang are
somewhere without, intending to assault him when he continues his
journey, and they have left but a spy or two here to inform them as to
his movements. I will give you any aid in my power, young sir. The army
is by this time nigh Marseilles, and, sooth to say, I have no body of
men-at-arms whom I could send as your escort for so long a distance. I
have but a small body here, and they are needed, and sorely too, to keep
order within the walls
I thought, sir
that if you could lend me a party of
say four men-at-arms to ride with me for the first day, I could then
trust to myself, especially if you could procure me one honest man to act
as guide and companion. Doubtless they suppose that I should travel by
the main road south; but by going the first day's journey either east or
west, and then striking some southward road, I should get a fair start of
them, throw all their plans out, and perchance reach Marseilles without
interruption
I will
tell the men-at-arms off to-night. They shall be
at the western gate at daybreak with the pass permitting them to ride
through. The guide shall be at the convent door half an hour earlier.
I will send up to-night your armour and horse. Here is a purse which
the Earl of Evesham also left for your use. Is there aught else I can
do for you
Nothing, sir
and if I regain the army in safety, I
shall have pleasure in reporting to King Richard how kindly and
courteously you have treated me
Which is the nearest and best road to Avignon
The right-hand road is the best and shortest
The
other makes a long circuit, and leads through several marshes, which your
honour will find it hard to pass
Your master must have thought me young indeed
to try and
catch me with such a transparent trick as that. I do not suppose that
accursed page has more than ten men with him, and doubtless has placed
five on each road. This fellow was placed here to see which track I would
follow, and has now gone to give the party on the left hand the news that
I have taken this way. Had it not been for him I should have had to run
the gauntlet with four or five of my enemies. As it is, the path will
doubtless be clear
My dear Cuthbert, my dear Cuthbert
Can it be true that
you have escaped? We all gave you up; and although I did my best, yet had
you not survived it I should never have forgiven myself, believing that I
might have somehow done better, and have saved you from the cut-throats
who attacked us
Thanks, thanks, my good Cnut
I have been through a
time of peril, no doubt; but as you see, I am hale and well -- better,
methinks than you are, for you look pale and ill; and I doubt not that
the wound which I received was a mere scratch to that which bore you
down. It sounded indeed like the blow of a smith's hammer upon an anvil
Fortunately, my steel cap saved my head somewhat
and the
head itself is none of the thinnest; but it tried it sorely, I confess.
However, now that you are back I shall, doubt not, soon be as strong as
ever I was. I think that fretting for your absence has kept me back more
than the inflammation from the wound itself -- but there is the Earl at the
door of his tent
My dear Cuthbert
What anxiety have we not suffered. Had
you been my own son, I could not have felt more your loss. We did not
doubt for an instant that you had fallen into the hands of some of the
retainers of that villain Count; and from all we could learn, and from
the absence of any dead body by the side of that of Cnut, I imagined that
you must have been carried off. It was clear that your chance of life, if
you fell into the hands of that evil page, or his equally vile master,
was small indeed. The very day that Cnut was brought in, I visited the
French camp, and accused him of having been the cause of your
disappearance and Cnut's wounds. He affected the greatest astonishment at
the charge. He had not, as he said, been out of the camp for two days. My
accusation was unfounded and malicious, and I should answer this as well
as the previous outrage, when the vow of the Crusaders to keep peace
among themselves was at an end. Of course I had no means of proving what
I said, or I would have gone direct to the king and charged him with the
outrage. As it was I gained nothing by my pains. He has accompanied this
French division to Genoa; but when we meet at Sicily, where the two
armies are to rendezvous, I will bring the matter before the king, as the
fact that his page was certainly concerned in it must be taken as showing
that he was the instigator
It would, my lord earl, be perhaps better
if I
might venture to advise, to leave the matter alone. No doubt the count
would say that he had discharged his page after the tournament, and
that the latter was only carrying out his private feud with me. We
should not be able to disprove the story, and should gain no
satisfaction by the matter
Look, look, Cuthbert! that mountain standing up in the water has caught
fire on the top. Did you ever see such a thing
That is a fearsome sight
It looks as if it was the mouth of purgatory
the more haste the less speed
Methinks
that unless my eyes deceive me, the princess is
likely to be a cause of trouble
In what way
By the way in which our good lord, the king, gazes upon her, methinks
that it were like enough that he broke off his engagement with the
Princess of France, for the sake of the fair eyes of this damsel
That were indeed a misfortune
I tell you
I would rather drive a dagger myself into
her heart, than allow our own princess to be insulted by this hot-headed
island dog
It is sad indeed
that the success of a great expedition like this, which has for its
object the recovery of the holy sepulchre from the infidels, should be
wrecked by the headstrong fancies of one man. It is even, as is told by
the old Grecian poet, as when Helen caused a great war between peoples of
that nation
I know nothing
either of Helen or the Greeks, or
of their poets. They are a shifty race, and I can believe aught that is
bad of them. But touching this princess of Navarre, I agree with our
friend, it would be a righteous deed to poniard her, and so to remove the
cause of dispute between the two kings, and, indeed, the two nations.
This insult laid upon our princess is more than we, as French knights and
gentlemen, can brook; and if the king says the word, there is not a
gentleman in the army but will be ready to turn his sword against the
islanders
It would, my brethren, be wrong and useless to shed blood; but methinks,
that if this apple of discord could be removed, a good work would be
done; not, as our friend the count has suggested, by a stab of the
dagger; that indeed would be worse than useless. But surely there are
scores of religious houses, where this bird might be placed in a cage
without a soul knowing where she was, and where she might pass her life
in prayer that she may be pardoned for having caused grave hazards of the
failure of an enterprise in which all the Christian world is concerned
This is serious indeed
and bodes no little trouble
and danger. It is true that the passion which King Richard has conceived
for Berengaria bids fair to wreck the Crusade, by the anger which it has
excited in the French king and his nobles; but the disappearance of the
princess would no less fatally interfere with it, for the king would be
like a raging lion deprived of his whelps, and would certainly move no
foot eastward until he had exhausted all the means in his power of
tracing his lost lady love. You could not, I suppose, Cuthbert, point out
the tent where this conversation took place
I could not
in the darkness one tent is like
another. I think I should recognize the voices of the speakers did I hear
them again; indeed, one voice I did recognize, it was that of the Count
of Brabant, with whom we had trouble before
That is good
because we have at least an object to
watch. It would never do to tell the king what you have heard. In the
first place, his anger would be so great that it would burst all
bounds, and would cause, likely enough, a battle at once between the
two armies; nor would it have any good effect, for he of Brabant would
of course deny the truth of your assertions, and would declare it was
merely a got-up story to discredit him with the king, and so to wipe
out the old score now standing between us. No, if we are to succeed,
alike in preventing harm happening to the princess, and an open break
between the two monarchs, it must be done by keeping a guard over the
princess, unsuspected by all, and ourselves frustrating any attempt
which may be made
my
sons
The matter is difficult
and I see no way by which a watch
can be kept up by day; but after dark -- I have several men in my band who
can track a deer, and surely could manage to follow the steps of this
baron without being observed. There is little Jack, who is no bigger than
a boy of twelve, although he can shoot, and run, and play with the
quarter-staff, or, if need be, with the bill, against the best man in the
troop. I warrant me that if you show him the tent, he will keep such
sharp watch that no one shall enter or depart without his knowing where
they go to. On a dark night he will be able to slip among the tents, and
to move here and there without being seen. He can creep on his stomach
without moving a leaf, and trust me the eyes of these French men-at-arms
will look in vain for a glimpse of him
You understand, Cnut, all that I want to know is whether the
other conspirators in this matter visit his tent, or whether he
goes to theirs
I understand
That is the first point to be arrived at
It is a case of locking the door after the horse has gone
What is to be done now
I will talk with the earl before I tell you, Cnut. This matter is too
serious for me to take a step without consulting Sir Walter
He had
discharged his page after the encounter with
Cuthbert, and knew nothing further whatever of his movements
A party of some five men
have just issued out from the
monastery. They are bearing a burden -- what, I cannot see. They were
making in the direction of the water. I whistled to Dick, who was
next to me in the lane. He is following them, and I came on to tell
you to prepare
Stretch to your oars
we must make a dash for it now
You had better go in alone
Master Cuthbert. The lady is
less likely to be frightened by your appearance than by us, for she must
wonder indeed what is going on
What means this outrage, young sir? Whoever you be, I warn you that the
King of England will revenge this indignity
Your Highness
you have no further reason for alarm;
the knaves who carried you off from the bishop's palace and conveyed you
to this ship are all either killed or in our power. I am the page of the
Earl of Evesham, a devoted follower of King Richard. Some of the designs
of the bold men came to the ears of my lord, and he ordered me and a band
of his followers to keep good guard over the palace and buildings
adjoining. We were unable to gather our strength in time to prevent your
being taken on board, but we lost no time in putting forth when we found
that your abductors had taken boat, and by good fortune arrived here in
time; a few minutes later, and the knaves would have succeeded in their
object, for the sails were already being hoisted, and the vessel making
way, when we arrived. Your abductors are all either killed or thrown
overboard, and the vessel's head is now turned towards the shore, and I
hope in a few minutes to have the honour of escorting you to the palace
I am indeed indebted to you, young sir
Believe me, the
Princess Berengaria is not ungrateful, and should it be ever in her power
to do aught for your lord, or for yourself, or for those who have
accompanied you to rescue her, believe me that she will do it
May I be so bold as to ask a boon
It is granted at once, whatever it be, if in my power
My boon is, lady
that you will do your best to assuage the
natural anger which the King of England will feel at this bold and most
violent attempt. That he should be told, is of course necessary; but,
lady, much depends upon the telling, and I am sure that at your request
the king would restrain his anger. Were it not for that, I fear that such
quarrels and disputes might arise as would bring the two armies to blows,
and destroy for ever all hope of the successful termination of our joint
enterprise
You are a wise and good youth
Your
request is wise and most thoughtful. I will use any poor influence which
I may possess
to induce King Richard to allow this matter to pass
over. There is no reason why he should take up the case. I am no more
under his protection than under that of the King of France, and it is to
the latter I should appeal, for as I believe the men who abducted me were
his subjects
The leader of them, madam, was a certain Sir de Jacquelin Barras, a
Count of Brabant, with whom my master has had an old feud, and who has
been just killed by the leader of our men-at-arms. The others, who have
had the most active hand in the matter, have also perished; and it would,
I think, be doubtful whether any clue could be obtained to those who were
in league with them. The only man in the party who is alive, was placed
as a sentry at your door, and as he is but a man-at-arms, we may be sure
that he knows nought of the enterprise, but has merely carried out the
orders of his master
I learn, Sir Earl
that it is to you that I am
indebted for the rescue of the princess. She tells me, that suspecting
some plot, you placed a guard around the bishop's palace, with a strong
body on the shore ready to rescue her from the hands of any who might
attempt to take her to sea
It is as you say, sire
but the whole merit of the
affair rests upon my page, the lad whom you may remember as having fought
with and conquered the French page, and of whose conduct you then
approved highly. You may also remember that he escaped by some display of
bravery and shrewdness the further attempts to assassinate him, and your
Majesty was good enough to make a complaint to King Phillip of the
conduct of one of his nobles on that head. It seems that some two months
since, the lad in coming through the French camp at night missed his way,
and accidentally overheard a few words spoken in a voice which he
recognized as that of his enemy. The name of your Majesty being
mentioned, he deemed it his duty to listen, and thus discovered that a
plot was on foot for carrying off the princess. After consultation with
me, we agreed upon the course to be adopted, namely, to place sentries
round the bishop's palace and the buildings adjoining, who should follow
and bring word should she be taken to another place in town, while a band
was placed on the shore in readiness to interfere at once to prevent her
being carried away by sea. He undertook the management of all details,
having with him a trusty squire who commands my Saxon bowmen
For your own part I thank you, my lord
and, believe
me, you shall not find Richard ungrateful. As to your page, he appears
brave and wise beyond his years. Were it not that I think that it would
not be good for him, and might attract some envy upon the part of
others, I would at once make him a knight. He already has my promise
that I will do so on the first occasion when he can show his prowess
upon the infidels. Bring him to me to-morrow, when the princess will be
here with the Queen of Navarre at a banquet. I would fain thank him
before her; and, although I have agreed -- at the princess's earnest
solicitation -- to take no further notice of the matter, and to allow it
to pass as if it had not been, yet I cannot forgive the treachery which
has been used, and, without letting all know exactly what has occurred,
would fain by my reception of your page, let men see that something of
great import has happened, of the nature of which I doubt not that
rumour will give some notion
What is all this bustle about
The sailors are
running up the ladders, and all seems confusion
Methinks
that we are about to have a storm. A few minutes
ago scarce a cloud was to be seen; now that bank over there has risen
half-way up the sky. The sailors are accustomed to these treacherous
seas, and the warnings which we have not noticed have no doubt been clear
enough to them
What think you
of our position? Where
are we, and where will the course upon which we are running take us
I cannot say with certainty
for the wind has
shifted several times. I had hoped to gain the shelter of Rhodes, but a
shift of wind bore us away from there, and I much fear that from the
direction in which we have been running we must be very nigh on the coast
of Africa
Pest
That would indeed be a speedy end to our Crusade.
These Moors are pirates and cut-throats to a man; and even should we
avoid the risk of being dashed to pieces, we should end our lives as
slaves to one of these black infidels
Know you where we are
As far as I can tell
we have been driven up the bay
called the Little Syrtis -- a place full of shoals and shallows, and
abounding with pirates of the worst kind
Think you that the ship has suffered injury
Whether she has done so or not
I fear greatly that
she is fast in the sand, and even the lightening of all her cargo will
scarce get her off; but we must try at least
It is little time that we shall have to try, Master Captain
Methinks those two long ships which are
putting out from that town will have something to say to that
It is too true
Those are the galleys of the Moorish
corsairs. They are thirty or forty oars, draw but little water, and will
be here like the wind
What do you advise
The balistas which you have upon
the poop can make but a poor resistance to boats that can row around us,
and are no doubt furnished with heavy machines. They will quickly
perceive that we are aground and defenceless, and will be able to plump
their bolts into us until they have knocked the good ship to pieces.
However, we will fight to the last. It shall not be said that the Earl of
Evesham was taken by infidel dogs and sold as a slave, without striking a
blow in his defence
Methinks, my lord
if I might venture to give an
opinion, that we might yet trick the infidel
As how, Cuthbert
Speak out; you know that I have great
faith in your sagacity
I think, sir
that did we send all your men below,
leaving only the crew of the vessel on deck, they would take us for a
merchant ship which has been wrecked here, and exercise but little care
how they approach us. The men on deck might make a show of shooting once
or twice with the balistas. The pirates, disdaining such a foe, would row
alongside. Once there, we might fasten one or both to our side with
grapnels, and then, methinks, that English bill and bow will render us
more than a match for Moorish pirates, and one of these craft can
scarcely carry more men than we have. I should propose to take one of
them by force, and drive the pirates overboard; take possession of, if
possible, or beat off, her consort; and then take the most valuable
stores from the ship, and make our way as best we can to the north
Well thought of
You have indeed
imagined a plan which promises well. What think you, captain
I think, my lord
that the plan is an excellent one,
and promises every success. If your men will all go below, holding their
arms in readiness for the signal, mine shall prepare grapnels and ropes,
and the first of these craft which comes alongside they will lash so
securely to the
that I warrant me she gets not away
Rose
Allah
Rose
Rose
Hurrah for England
Rose
Rose
By St. George
you are fated to be a very pink of
knights. You seem as thoughtful as you are brave; and whatever your age
may be, I declare that the next time your name is brought before me I
will call a chapter of knights, and they shall agree that exception shall
be made in your favour, and that you shall at once be admitted to the
honourable post. You will miss your page, Sir Walter; but I am sure you
will not grudge him that
No, no, sire
The lad, as I have told your Majesty, is
a connexion of mine -- distant, it is true, but one of the nearest I
have -- and it will give me the greatest pleasure to see him rising so
rapidly, and on a fair way to distinguish himself highly. I feel already
as proud of him as if he were my own son
Another of our lost sheep
Before I move a step towards the Holy Land
I will avenge
these injuries upon this faithless and insolent king. I swear that I will
make him pay dearly for having laid a hand upon these ladies
One would think
that the infidels
imagine we are a flock of antelopes to be frightened by an outcry. They
would do far better to save their wind for future use. They will want it,
methinks, when we get fairly among them. Who would have thought that a
number of men, heathen and infidel though they be, could have made so
foul an outcry
Every one fights according to his own method, Cnut; and I am not sure
that there is not something to be said for this outcry, for it is really
so wild and fearful that it makes my blood almost curdle in my veins; and
were it not that I know the proved valour of our knights and footmen, I
should feel shaken by this terrible introduction to the fight
I heed it no more
than the outcry of wild fowl, when one
comes upon them suddenly on a lake in winter. It means no more than that;
and I reckon that they are trying to encourage themselves fully as much
as to frighten us. However, we shall soon see. If they can fight as well
as they can scream, they certainly will get no answering shouts from us.
The English bulldog fights silently, and bite as hard as he will, you
will hear little beyond a low growl. Now, my men
methinks the heathen are about to begin in earnest. Keep
steady; do not fire until you are sure that they are within range. Draw
your bows well to your ears, and straightly and steadily let fly. Never
heed the outcry or the rush, keep steady to the last moment. There is
shelter behind you, and fierce as the attack may be, you can find a sure
refuge behind the line of the knights
The king, Sir Walter! the king! He is cut off and surrounded! For
heaven's sake ride to him. See! the royal standard is down
St. George
God help the holy
sepulchre
My lords, as some of you may be aware, I have this day had a narrow
escape from death. Separated from you in the battle, and attended only by
my standard-bearer, I was surrounded by the Saracens. I should doubtless
have cleft my way through the infidel dogs, but a foul peasant stabbed my
charger from below, and the poor brute fell with me. My standard-bearer
was killed, and in another moment my nephew Arthur would have been your
king, had it not been that my good lord here, attended by this brave lad,
appeared. I have seen a good deal of fighting, but never did I see a
braver stand than they made above my body. The Earl of Evesham, as you
all know, is one of my bravest knights, and to him I can simply say,
'Thanks; King Richard does not forget a benefit like this.' But such aid
as I might well look for from so stout a knight as the Earl of Evesham, I
could hardly have expected on the part of a mere boy like this. It is not
the first time that I have been under a debt of gratitude to him; for it
was his watchfulness and bravery which saved Queen Berengaria from being
carried off by the French in Sicily. I deemed him too young then for the
order of knighthood -- although indeed bravery has no age; still for a
private benefit, and that performed against allies, in name at least, I
did not wish so far to fly in the face of usage as to make him a knight.
I promised him then, however, that the first time he distinguished
himself against the infidel he should win his spurs. I think that you
will agree with me, my lords, that he has done so. Not only did he stand
over me, and with great bravery defend Sir Walter from attacks from
behind, but his ready wit saved me, when even his sword and that of Sir
Walter would have failed to do so. Penned down under poor Robin, I was
powerless to move until our young esquire, in an interval of slashing at
his assailants, found time to give a sharp blow together with a shout to
Robin. The poor beast tried to rise, and the movement, short as it was,
enabled me to draw my leg from under him, and then with my mace I was
enabled to make a stand until you arrived at my side. I think, my lords,
that you will agree with me that Cuthbert, the son of Sir William de
Lance, is fit for the honour of knighthood
Welcome
You are English
You
are brave warriors, and I hear that before you were taken you slaughtered
numbers of my people. They did wrong to capture you and bring you here to
be killed. Your cruel king gives no mercy to those who fall into his
hands. You must not expect it here, you who without a pretence of right
invade my country, slaughter my people, and defeat my armies. The murder
of the prisoners of Acre has closed my heart to all mercy. There, your
king put 10,000 prisoners to death in cold blood, a month after the
capture of the place, because the money at which he had placed their
ransom had not arrived. We Arabs do not carry huge masses of gold about
with us; and although I could have had it brought from Egypt, I did not
think that so brave a monarch as Richard of England could have committed
so cruel an action in cold blood. When we are fresh from battle, and our
wounds are warm, and our hearts are full of rage and fury, we kill our
prisoners; but to do so weeks after a battle is contrary to the laws
alike of your religion and of ours. However, it is King Richard who has
sealed your doom, not I. You are knights, and I do not insult you with
the offer of turning from your religion and joining me. Should one of you
wish to save his life on these conditions, I will, however, promise him a
place of position and authority among us
You are but a boy
All the knights who have hitherto fallen
into my hands have been men of strength and power; how is it that I see a
mere youth among their ranks, and wearing the golden spurs of
knighthood
King Richard himself made me a knight
after
having stood across him when his steed had been foully stabbed at the
battle of Azotus, and the whole Moslem host were around him
Ah
were you one of the two who, as I have heard,
defended the king for some time against all assaults? It were hard
indeed to kill so brave a youth. I doubt me not that at present you are
as firmly determined to die a Christian knight as those who have gone
before you? But time may change you. At any rate for the present your
doom is postponed
Your brother, Ben Abin, is Governor of Jerusalem, and the gardens of
the palace are fair. Take this youth to him as a present, and set him to
work in his gardens. His life I have spared, in all else Ben Abin will
be his master
My mistress, the wife of the governor, has sent me to ask your story.
How is it that, although but a youth, you are already a knight? How is it
that you come to be a slave to our people? The sultan himself sent you to
her lord. She would fain hear through me how it has happened. She is the
kindest of ladies, and the sight of your youth has touched her heart
Doubtless
I shall hear again; and it may be that
through the pity of this lady some means of escape may open to me
Young slave
your story has interested us. We have
frequently watched from the windows, and have seen how willingly and
patiently you have worked; and it seems strange indeed that one so young
should have performed such feats of bravery as to win the honour of
knighthood from the hand of that greatest of warriors, Richard of
England. What is it, we would fain learn from your lips, that stirs up
the heart of the Christian world that they should launch their armies
against us, who wish but to be left alone, and who have no grudge against
them? This city is as holy to us as it is to you; and as we live around
it, and all the country for thousands of miles is ours, is it likely that
we should allow it to be wrested from us by strangers from a distance
From what she said
if you could see some
plan of making your escape, she would in no way throw difficulties in
your path; but it must not be known that the harem in any way connived at
your escape, for my lord's wrath would be terrible, and he is not a man
to be trifled with
Only
if I were transported to some country palace
of the governor could I ever hope to make my escape
May Allah protect you
Are you a Christian truly; and if so, whence do you come
This
was made centuries ago, and was intended as a refuge
from the persecutors of that day.  The caves were then almost all
inhabited by hermits, and although many recked not of their lives, and
were quite ready to meet death through the knife of the infidel, others
clung to existence, and preferred to pass many years of penance on earth
for the sake of atoning for their sins before called upon to appear
before their Maker.

"If you are pursued, it will be safer for you to take up your abode here.
I am known to all the inhabitants of this country, who look upon me as
mad, and respect me accordingly. None ever interfere with me, or with the
two or three other hermits, the remains of what was once almost an army,
who now alone survive. I can offer you no hospitality beyond that of a
refuge; but there is water in the river below, fruits and berries in
abundance on the shrubs. What would you have more
It is long indeed since my thoughts have gone back to the day when I was
of the world. I know not whether it would not be a sin to recall them;
but I will think the matter over to-night, and if it appears to me that
you may derive good from my narrative, I will relate it to you
to-morrow
My father was a peer of France, and I was brought up at the court.
Although it may seem strange to you, looking upon this withered frame,
sixty-five years back I was as bold and comely a knight as rode in the
train of the king, for I am now past ninety, and for sixty years I have
resided here. I was a favourite of the king's, and he loaded me with
wealth and honour. He, too, was young, and I joined with him in the mad
carousals and feastings of the court. My father resided for the most part
at one of his castles in the country, and I, an only son, was left much
to myself. I need not tell you that I was as wild and as wicked as all
those around me; that I thought little of God, and feared neither Him nor
man.

"It chanced that one of the nobles -- I need not mention his name -- whose
castle lay in the same province as that of my father, had a lovely
daughter, who, being an only child, would be his heiress. She was
considered one of the best matches in France, and reports of her
exceeding beauty had reached the court. Although my allowance from my
father, and from the estates which the king had give me personally,
should have been more than enough for my utmost wants, gambling and
riotous living swallowed up my revenue faster than it came in, and I was
constantly harassed by debt.

"Talking one night at supper with a number of bold companions, as to the
means we should take for restoring our wasted fortunes, some said in jest
that the best plan would be for one of us to marry the beauty of
Dauphiny. I at once said that I would be the man to do it; the ideas was
a wild one, and a roar of laughter greeted my words. Her father was known
to be a stern and rigid man, and it was certain that he would not consent
to give his daughter to a spendthrift young noble like myself. When the
laughter had subsided I repeated my intention gravely, and offered to
wager large sums with all around the table that I would succeed.

"On the morrow I packed up a few of my belongings, put in my valise the
dress of a wandering troubadour, and taking with me only a trusty
servant, started for Dauphiny. It would be tedious to tell you the means
I resorted to to obtain the affections of the heiress. I had been well
instructed in music and could play on the lute, and knew by heart large
numbers of ballads, and could myself, in case of necessity, string verses
together with tolerable ease. As a troubadour I arrived at the castle
gate, and craved permission to enter to amuse its occupants. Troubadours
then, as now, were in high esteem in the south, and I was at once made a
welcome guest.

"Days passed, and weeks; still I lingered at the castle, my heart being
now as much interested as my pride in the wager which I had undertaken.
Suffice it to say, that my songs, and perhaps my appearance -- for I cannot
be accused of vanity now in saying nature had been bountiful to me -- won
my way to her heart. Troubadours were licensed folk, and even in her
father's presence there was nought unseemly in my singing songs of love.
While he took them as the mere compliments of a troubadour, the lady, I
saw, read them as serious effusions of my heart.

"It was only occasionally that we met alone; but ere long she confessed
that she loved me. Without telling her my real name, I disclosed to her
that I was of her own rank, and that I had entered upon the disguise I
wore in order to win her love. She was romantic, and was flattered by my
devotion. I owned to her that hitherto I had been wild and reckless; and
she told me at once that her father destined her for the son of an old
friend of his, to whom it appeared she had been affianced while still a
baby. She was positive that nothing would move her father. For the man
she was to marry she entertained no kind of affection, and indeed had
never seen him, as she had been brought up in a convent to the age of
fifteen; and just before she had returned thence, he had gone to finish
his education at Padua.

"She trembled when I proposed flight; but I assured her that I was
certain of the protection of the king, and that he would, I was sure,
when the marriage was once celebrated, use his influence with her father
to obtain his forgiveness.

"The preparations for her flight were not long in making. I purchased a
fleet horse in addition to my own, and ordered my servant to bring it to
a point a short distance from the castle gate. I had procured a long rope
with which to lower her down from her lattice to the moat below, which
was at present dry, intending myself to slide after her. The night chosen
was one when I knew that the count was to have guests, and I thought that
they would probably, as is the custom, drink heavily, and that there
would be less fear of any watch being kept.

"The guests arrived just at nightfall. I had feigned illness, and kept my
room. From time to time I heard through the windows of the banqueting
hall bursts of laughter. These gradually ceased; and at last, when all
was still, I, awaiting some time, stole from my room with a rope in my
hand to the apartment occupied by her. A slight tap at the door, as
arranged, was at once answered, and I found her ready cloaked and
prepared for the enterprise. She trembled from head to foot, but I
cheered her to the best of my power, and at last she was in readiness to
be lowered. The window was at a considerable height from the ground; but
the rope was a long one, and I had no fear of its reaching the bottom.
Fastening it round her waist, I began to lower her from the window.

"The night was a windy one, and she swung backwards and forwards as she
went down. By what chance it was I know not,-- for I had examined the
rope and found it secure -- but methinks in swaying backwards and
forwards it may have caught a sharp stone, maybe it was a punishment
from Heaven upon me for robbing a father of his child -- but suddenly I
felt there was no longer a weight on my arms. A fearful shriek rang
through the air, and, looking out, I saw far below a white figure
stretched senseless in the mud!

"For a minute I stood paralyzed. But the cry had aroused others, and,
turning round, I saw a man at the door with a drawn sword. Wild with
grief and despair, and thinking, not of making my escape, or of
concealing my part in what had happened, but rushing without an instant's
delay to the body of her I loved so well, I drew my sword, and like a
madman rushed upon him who barred the door. The combat was brief but
furious, and nerved by the madness of despair I broke down his guard and
ran him through the body. As he fell back, his face came in the full
light of the moon, which streamed through the open door of the passage,
and to my utter horror and bewilderment I saw that I had slain my father.

"What happened after that night I know not. I believe that I made my
escape from the castle and rushed round to the body of her whose life I
had destroyed, and that there finding her dead, I ran wildly across the
country. When I came to my senses months had passed, and I was the inmate
of an asylum for men bereaved of their senses, kept by noble monks. Here
for two years I remained, the world believing that I was dead. None knew
that the troubadour whose love had cost the lady her life, who had slain
the guest of her father, and had then disappeared, was the unhappy son of
that guest. My friends in Paris when they heard of the tragedy of course
associated it with me, but they all kept silent. The monks, to whom I
confessed the whole story, were shocked indeed, but consoled me in my
grief and despair by the assurance that however greatly I had sinned, the
death of the lady had been accidental, and that if I were a parricide it
was at least unintentionally.

"My repentance was deep and sincere; and after a while, under another
name, I joined the army of the crusaders, to expiate my sin by warring
for the holy sepulchre. I fought as men fight who have no wish to live;
but while all around me fell by sword and disease, death kept aloof from
me. When the crusade had failed I determined to turn for ever from the
world, and to devote my life to prayer and penance; and so casting aside
my armour, I made my way here, and took up my abode in a cave in this
valley, where at that time were many thousands of other hermits -- for the
Saracens, while they gained much money from fines and exactions from
pilgrims who came to Jerusalem, and fought stoutly against those who
sought to capture that city, were in the main tolerant, and offered no
hindrance to the community of men whom they looked upon as mad.

"Here, my son, for more than sixty years have I prayed, with much
fasting and penance. I trust now that the end is nearly at hand, and
that my long life of mortification may be deemed to have obliterated the
evil deeds which I did in my youth. Let my fate be a warning to you.
Walk steadily in the right way; indulge not in feasting and evil
companionship; and above all, do not enter upon evil deeds, the end of
which no man can see
I presume, my son, you do not wish to remain here as a hermit, as I have
done? Methinks it were well that we made our arrangements for your return
to the Christian host, who will, I hope, ere long be at the gates of
Jerusalem
I should like nothing better
But ignorant as I am of
the nature of the country, it seems to be nigh impossible to penetrate
through the hosts of the Saracens to reach the camp of King Richard
The matter is difficult and not without danger
As to
the nature of the country, I myself know but little, for my dealings with
the natives have been few and simple. There are, however, several
Christian communities dwelling among the heathen. They are poor, and are
forced to live in little-frequented localities. Their Christianity may be
suspected by their neighbours, but as they do no man harm, and carry on
their worship in secret, they are little interfered with. There is one
community among the hills between this and Jerusalem, and I can give you
instructions for reaching this, together with a token which will secure
you hospitality there, and they will no doubt do their best to forward
you to another station. When you approach the flat country where the
armies are maneuvering you must doubtless trust to yourself; but as far
as the slopes extend, methinks that our friends will be able to pass you
without great difficulty
Halt
My lord, my lord
Thank heaven I am safe with
you again
Am I mad
or dreaming, or is this really Sir Cuthbert
It is I sure enough
although truly I look more
like a Bedouin soldier than a Christian knight
My dear boy
we thought you were dead. But by what
wonderful fortune have you succeeded in escaping
For
although but a short three days' march from here, I have
been as one of the dead, and have heard nothing whatever of what has
taken place
Nothing could have gone worse
We have had nothing
but dissensions and quarrels. First, the king fell out with the
Archduke of Austria
On what ground did this happen
For once
the king our master was wholly in the wrong,
which is not generally the case. We had just taken Ascalon, and were hard
at work fortifying the place. King Richard with his usual zeal, in order
to encourage the army, seized heavy stones and himself bore them into
their place. The Archduke stood near with some of his knights: and it may
be that the haughty Austrian looked somewhat superciliously at our king,
thus labouring.

"'Why do you not make a show of helping?' King Richard said, going up to
him. 'It would encourage the men, and show that the labour upon which we
are engaged can be undertaken by all without derogation.'

"To this the Archduke replied,--

"'I am not the son of a mason!'

"Whereupon Richard, whose blood no doubt had been excited by the air of
the Austrian, struck him with his hand a fierce blow across the face. We
nearly betook ourselves to our swords on both sides; but King Richard
himself could have scattered half the Austrians, and these, knowing that
against his impetuous valour they could do nothing, simply withdrew from
our camp, and sailed the next day for home. Then the king, in order to
conciliate some at least of his allies, conferred the crown of Jerusalem
upon Conrad of Montferat. No sooner had he done this than Conrad was
mysteriously wounded. By whom it was done none knew. Some say that it was
by emissaries of the Old Man of the Mountain. Others affirm that it was
the jealousy of some of the knights of the holy orders. But be that as it
may, he died. Some of the French, ever jealous of the valour of our king,
ascribed it to his orders. This monstrous accusation coming to the ears
of King Richard, he had hot words with the Duke of Burgundy. In this I
blame him not, for it is beyond all reason that a man like the king,
whose faults, such as they are, arise from too much openness, and from
the want of concealment of such dislikes as he may have, should resort to
poison to free himself of a man whom he himself had but a day or two
before appointed King of Jerusalem. However it be, the consequences were
most unfortunate, for the result of the quarrel was that the Duke of
Burgundy and his Frenchmen followed the example of the Austrians, and we
were left alone. Before this we had marched upon Jerusalem. But the
weather had been so bad, and our train was so insufficient to carry the
engines of war, that we had been forced to fall back again. King Richard
again advanced, and with much toil we went as far as the village of
Bethany
Why
I passed through that village, and it is but
three miles from the holy city
That is so
and many of us, ascending the hill in
front, saw Jerusalem. But even then it was certain that we must again
retrace our steps; and when we asked King Richard to come to the crest of
the hill to see the holy city, he refused to do so, saying, 'No; those
who are not worthy of conquering Jerusalem should not look at it!' This
was but a short time since, and we are now retracing our steps to Acre,
and are treating with Saladin for a peace
Then
all our hopes and efforts are thrown away;
all this blood has been shed for nothing; and after the three great
powers of Europe have engaged themselves solemnly in the war, we are
baffled, and have to fall back before the hordes of the infidels
Partly before them
partly as the result of our own
jealousies and passions. Had King Richard been a lesser man than he is,
we might have conquered Jerusalem. But he is so extraordinary a warrior
that his glory throws all others into the shade. He is a good general,
perhaps the best in Europe; and had he done nothing but lead, assuredly
we should have carried out our purpose. See how ably he maneuvered the
army at the fight of Azotus. Never was a more complete defeat than that
which he inflicted there upon the Saracens; and although the fact that
his generalship achieved this, might have caused some jealousy to the
other commanders, this might have died away could he between the battles
have been a general, and nothing more. But alas! he is in addition a
knight-errant -- and such a knight-errant as Europe has never seen before.
Wherever there is danger, Richard will plunge into the midst. There are
brave men in all the three armies; but the strongest and bravest are as
children to King Richard. Alone he can dart into ranks of the infidels,
and cut a lane for himself by the strength of his right arm. More than
this, when danger has threatened he has snatched up his battle-axe and
dashed into the fray without helm or cuirass, performing such prodigies
of valour and strength that it has been to his prowess alone that victory
was to be ascribed. Hence he is the idol of all the soldiers, whatever
their nationality; for he is as ready to rush to the rescue of a French
or Austrian knight when pressed as to that of his own men. But the
devotion which the whole army felt for him was as gall and wormwood to
the haughty Austrian and the indolent Frenchman; and the retirement of
the King of France, which left Richard in supreme command, was in every
way unfortunate
The Saracens, sire
The Saracens are besieging Jaffa,
and the place must be lost unless assistance arrives in a day or two
Ah, my gallant young knight
I am right glad to
see you with me. We shall have more fighting before we have done, and I
know that that suits your mood as well as my own
Your eyes are better than mine
Tell me
what is that flag flying on the top of the town
I fear, sire, that it is the crescent. We have arrived too late
By the holy cross
that shall not be so; for if the
place be taken, we will retake it
St. George! St. George
The glory of this day is marred indeed
if I am to lose you, Sir Walter
I fear that it must even be so, my lord
I am
glad that I have seen this day, for never did I think to witness such
feats as those which your Majesty has performed; and though the crusade
has failed, and the Holy City remains in the hands of the infidel, yet
assuredly no shadow of disgrace has fallen upon the English arms, and,
indeed, great glory has accrued to us. Whatever may be said of the Great
Crusade, it will, at least, be allowed by all men, and for all time, that
had the princes and soldiers of other nations done as your Majesty and
your followers have done, the holy city would have fallen into our hands
within a month of our putting foot upon the soil. Your Majesty, I have a
boon to ask
You have but to name it, Sir Walter, and it is yours
Sir Cuthbert, here
is as a son to me. The relationship
by blood is but slight, but by affection it is as close as though he were
mine own. I have, as your Majesty knows, no male heirs, and my daughter
is but young, and will now be a royal ward. I beseech your Majesty to
bestow her in marriage, when the time comes, upon Sir Cuthbert. They have
known each other as children, and the union will bring happiness,
methinks, to both, as well as strength and protection to her; and
further, if it might be, I would fain that you should bestow upon him my
title and dignity
It shall be so
When your eyes are closed, Sir Walter,
Sir Cuthbert shall be Earl of Evesham, and, when the time comes, the
husband of your daughter
I fear, my lords
that my plight is a bad one. I am surrounded by
enemies, and, alas! I can no longer mount my steed and ride out as at
Jaffa to do battle with them. My brother, John Lackland, is scheming to
take my place upon the throne of England. Philip of France, whose mind is
far better at such matters than at setting armies in the field, is in
league with him. The Emperor Henry has laid claim to the throne of
Sicily. Leopold of Austria has not forgiven me the blow I struck him in
the face at Ascalon, and the friends of Conrad of Montferat are spreading
far and wide the lie that I was the instigator of his murder. Sure never
had a poor king so many enemies, and few have ever had so small a
following as I have now. What think you, my lords? What course would you
advise that I should adopt? If I can reach Saxony, doubtless Otho will
aid me. But hence to Dresden is a long journey indeed. I have neither
credit nor funds to hire a ship to take us by sea. Nor would such a
voyage be a safe one, when so many of my enemies' ships are on the main.
I must needs, I think, go in disguise, for my way lies wholly through the
country of my enemies
Surely
no potentate could for very shame venture to
detain your Majesty on your way from the Holy Land, where you have
wrought such great deeds. Were I in your place, I would at once proclaim
myself, mount my horse, have my banner carried before me, and ride openly
on. You have, too, another claim, namely, that of being shipwrecked, and
even in war-time nations respect those whom the force of God has thrown
upon their shores
I fear me, Sir Cuthbert
that you overrate the
chivalry of our master's enemies. Had we been thrown on the shores of
France, Philip perhaps would hesitate to lay hands upon the king; but
these petty German princelings have no idea of the observances of true
chivalry. They are coarse and brutal in their ways; and though in outward
form following the usages of knighthood, they have never been penetrated
with its spirit. If the friends of Conrad of Montferat lay hands upon
King Richard, I fear that no scruples will prevent them from using their
advantage to the utmost. Even their emperor I would not trust. The course
which you advise would no doubt be in accordance with the spirit of King
Richard; but it would be madness for him to judge other people's spirit
by his own, and it would be rushing into the lion's den to proclaim
himself here. I should recommend, if I might venture to do so, that his
Majesty should assume a false name, and that we should travel in small
parties so as to attract no attention, each making his way to Saxony as
best he may
I fear that you are right, Sir Baldwin, and that there is no chivalry
among these swinish German lords. You shall accompany me. Not, Sir
Cuthbert
that I estimate your fidelity one whit lower
than that of my brave friend; but he is the elder and the more versed in
European travel, and may manage to bring matters through better than you
would do. You will have dangers enough to encounter yourself, more even
than I shall, for your brave follower, Cnut, can speak no language but
his own, and your archers will be hard to pass as any other than what
they are. You must be my messenger to England, should you arrive there
without me. Tell my mother and wife where you left me, and that, if I do
not come home I have fallen into the hands of one or other of my bitter
foes. Bid them bestir themselves to hold England for me against my
brother John, and, if needs be, to move the sovereigns of Europe to free
me from the hands of my enemies. Should a ransom be needed, I think that
my people of England will not grudge their goods for their king
You have done me brave service
and I trust may yet have
occasion to do it again. These are bad times when Richard of England has
nought wherewith to reward his friends. But
that is for you, Cnut, and for your four archers, in
remembrance of King Richard
We had better
delay here
for a few days. If we are taken, the news that some Englishmen have been
captured making their way north from Zara will spread rapidly, and may
cause the enemies of Richard to be on the look-out for him, suspecting
that the ship which bore us may also have carried him; for the news that
he is missing will spread rapidly through Europe, and will set all his
enemies on the alert
You are choosing a stormy time
The winter is now at hand, and storms sweep
across the passes with terrible violence. You had better, at the last
village you come to in the valley, obtain the services of a guide, for
should a snowstorm come on when you are crossing, the path will be lost,
and nothing will remain but a miserable death. By daylight the road is
good. It has been cut with much trouble, and loaded mules can pass over
without difficulty. Poles have been erected at short distances to mark
the way when the snow covers it. But when the snowstorms sweep across the
mountains, it is impossible to see ten paces before you, and if the
traveller leaves the path he is lost
But I suppose
that even in winter travellers
pass over
They do
The road is as open in winter as in summer,
although, of course, the dangers are greater. Still, there is nothing to
prevent vigorous men from crossing over when the storms come on. Now,
too, with the snow already lying in the upper forests, the wolves are
abroad, and should you be attacked by one of those herds, you will find
it hard work to defend your lives. Much has been done to render the road
safe. At the distance of every league stone houses have been erected,
where travellers can find shelter either from the storm or from the
attacks of wolves or bears, for these, too, abound in the forests, and in
summer there is fine hunting among them. You are, as I see, returning
from the Holy Land, and are therefore used to heat rather than cold, so I
should advise you before you leave this city to buy some rough cloaks to
shield you from the cold. You can obtain them for your followers very
cheaply, made of the mountain goat or of sheepskins, and even those of
bearskin well dressed are by no means dear
I like not the look of the weather
I like not this country
We grumbled at the heat of
Palestine, but I had rather march across the sand there than in this
inhospitable frozen region. The woods look as if they might contain
spectres. There is a silence which seems to be unnatural, and my courage,
like the warmth of my body, is methinks oozing out from my fingers
I have no doubt that your courage would come again much quicker than the
warmth, Cnut, if there were any occasion for it. A brisk walk will set
you all right again, and banish these uneasy fancies. To-night we shall
be at the highest point, and to-morrow begin to descend towards Germany
It scarcely needs our guide's face
to tell us that a
storm is at hand, and that our position is a dangerous one. As for me, I
own that I feel better pleased now that the wind is blowing, and the
silence is broken, than at the dead stillness which prevailed this
morning. After all, methinks that a snowstorm cannot be more dreaded than
a sandstorm, and we have faced those before now
You must keep together, lads
I have heard that in these
mountains when sleepiness overpowers the traveller, death is at hand.
Therefore, come what may, we must struggle on
If this be mountaineering, my lord
I trust that never
again may it be my fortune to venture among the hills. How long, I
wonder, do the storms last here? I was grumbling all the way up the hill
at the load of provisions which the guide insisted that each of us should
bring with him. As it was to be but a three days' journey before we
reached a village on the other side, I wondered why he insisted upon our
taking food enough to last us at least for a week. But I understand now,
and thank him for his foresight; for if this storm goes on, we are
assuredly prisoners here for so long as it may continue
What is that
I doubt not that it is wolves.
Thank God that we are safe within this refuge, for here not even the most
ravenous beasts could make their way
Pooh
Wolves are no bigger than dogs. I have
heard my grandfather say that he shot one in the forest, and that it was
no bigger than a hound. We should make short work of them
I know not
I have heard tales of these animals which
show that they must be formidable opponents. They hunt in great packs,
and are so furious that they will attack parties of travellers; many of
these have perished miserably, horses and men, and nothing but their
swords and portions of their saddles have remained to tell where the
battle was fought
Methinks
that we might launch a few arrows through
these loopholes. The roof appears not to be over strong; and should some
of them force an entrance, the whole pack might follow
Good heavens
Some traveller coming after us is
attacked by these horrible beasts. Let us sally out, Cnut. We cannot hear
a Christian torn to pieces by these beasts, without lending him a hand
Keep together
and each lend aid to the other
if he sees him pulled down. Strike lustily for life, and hurry not your
blows, but let each tell
What sound can this be
It
sounds like thunder; but it is regular and unbroken; and, my lord, surely
the earth quakes under our feet
Throw yourselves down against the wall of rock
Arise
the danger, methinks, is past. It was what men
call an avalanche -- a torrent of snow slipping down from the higher peaks.
We have had a narrow escape indeed
I was well nigh exhausted
and it was only my armour which
saved me from being torn to pieces. A score of them had hold of me; but,
fortunately, my mail was of Milan proof, and even the jaws and teeth of
these enormous beasts were unable to pierce it
The refuge is near at hand
It is but a few yards
round yonder point. It is well that we heard your voice. I fear that your
horse has fallen a victim
I am
Baron Ernest of Kornstein. To whom do I owe my life
In spite of my red cross
I am English. My name is Sir
Cuthbert, and I am Earl of Evesham. I am on my return from the Holy Land
with my followers; and as we are passing through countries where many of
the people are hostile to England, we have thought it as well for a time
to drop our nationality. But to you I do not hesitate to tell the truth
You do well
for, truth to say, the people of
these parts bear but little love to your countrymen. You have saved my
life when I was in the sorest danger. I had given myself up for lost, for
even my armour could not have saved me long from these wretches; and my
sword and life are at your disposal. You are young indeed
to have gained the honour of knighthood. You scarce look
eighteen years of age, although, doubtless, you are older
I am scarce seventeen
but I have had the good fortune
to attract the notice of King Richard, and to have received the
knighthood from his sword
None more worthy
for although King Richard
may be fierce and proud, he is the worthiest knight in Christendom, and
resembles the heroes of romance rather than a Christian king
He is my lord and master
and I love him beyond all
men, and would give my life for his. He is the kindest and best of
masters; and although it be true that he brooks no opposition, yet is it
only because his own bravery and eagerness render hateful to him the
indolence and cowardice of others
What are your plans
I would warn you that the town which
you will first arrive at is specially hostile to your people, for the
baron, its master, is a relation of Conrad of Montferat, who is said to
have been killed by order of your king
It is false
King Richard had appointed him King of
Jerusalem; and, though he liked him not, thought him the fittest of those
there to exercise sovereignty. He was the last man who would have had an
enemy assassinated; for so open is he of disposition, that he would have
fought hand to hand with the meanest soldier of his army, had he desired
to kill him
I doubt not that it is so, since you tell me
But the people here have taken that idea into their minds,
and it will be hard to disabuse them. You must therefore keep up your
disguise as a French knight while passing through this neighbourhood.
Another week's journeying, and you will reach the confines of Saxony, and
there you will, as you anticipate, be safe. But I would not answer for
your life were you discovered here to be of English birth. And now tell
me if there is aught that I can do for you. I will myself accompany you
into the town, and will introduce you as a French knight, so that no
suspicion is likely to lie upon you, and will, further, ride with you to
the borders of Saxony. I am well known, and trust that my company will
avert all suspicion from you. You have told me that your purse is
ill-supplied; you must suffer me to replenish it. One knight need not
fear to borrow of another; and I know that when you have returned to your
home, you will bestow the sum which I now give you upon some holy shrine
in my name, and thus settle matters between us
Who art thou, sir
who darest to disturb the
marriage procession of my daughter, and to insult the standard of the
emperor my master
I am Sir Cuthbert, Earl of Evesham, a baron of England
and am travelling homeward from the Holy Land. My garb as a
crusader should protect me from all interruption; and the heedless
conduct of my retainer was amply justified by the insult offered to the
arms of England. There is not one of the knights assembled round you who
would not in like manner have avenged an insult offered to those of
Austria; and I am ready to do battle in the lists with any who choose to
say that the deed was a foul or improper one. In the Holy Land, Austrians
and English fought side by side; and it is strange indeed to me that on
my return, journeying through the country of the emperor, I should find
myself treated as an enemy, and see the arms of King Richard exposed to
insult and derision by the burghers of this city
It is no question
of honourable fight. This is a follower of
the murderer of my good cousin of Montferat, who died under the hands of
assassins set upon him by Richard of England
It is false
I denounce it as a foul lie, and will
maintain it with my life
Your life is already forfeited
both by your past
connexion with Richard of England and as the insulter of the arms of
Austria. You die, and to-morrow at noon your head shall be struck off in
the great square before my castle
Though he had saved the life of every noble in Bavaria
he
should die. I have sworn an oath that every Englishman who fell into my
hands should expiate the murder of my kinsman; and this fellow is,
moreover, guilty of an outrage to the arms of Austria
My lord baron
henceforth I renounce all allegiance to you,
and I will lay the case before the emperor, our common master, and will
cry before him at the outrage which has thus been passed upon a noble
gentleman. He has thrown down the glove, and challenged any of your
knights, and I myself am equally ready to do battle in his cause
Seize those insolent varlets
Thanks, my noble Cnut
and you, my brave fellows. But I
fear you have forfeited your lives. There is no escape. In a minute the
whole force of the place will recover from their confusion, and be down
upon us from both sides
We have prepared for that
Here is a rope hanging down into
the moat
They will
follow
the road towards the south, and scour the country for awhile before it
occurs to their thick German skulls that we have doubled back on our
tracks. Why, what is it, Cnut
It was a dire strait, certainly, Cnut. But if you got me into it, at
least you have extricated me; and never say more about it, for I myself
was near committing the imprudence to which you gave way, and I can well
understand that your English blood boiled at the sight of the outrage to
the flag of England. Now, let us waste no time in talk, but, keeping to
the foot of this mountain, make along as far as we can to the west. We
must cling to the hills for many days' march before we venture again to
try to cross the plains. If possible, we will keep on this way until we
reach the confines of the country of the Swiss, who will assuredly give
us hospitality, and who will care little for any threats of these German
barons, should they hear that we have reached their asylum
We ran for life, Sir Cuthbert, and had not noticed that you had been
drawn into the fray. Had we done so, we would have remained, and sold our
lives with yours; but hoping that you had passed unnoticed in the crowd,
and that you would find some means to rejoin us, we kept upon our way.
After running down three streets, we passed a place where a courtyard
with stables ranged round it was open. There were none about, and we
entered, and, taking refuge in a loft, hid ourselves beneath some
provender. There we remained all night, and then borrowing some apparel
which some of the stablemen had hung up on the walls, we issued into the
town. As we neared the great square we saw some men employed in erecting
a platform in the midst, and a suspicion that all might not be right, and
that you might have fallen into the hands of these German dogs, beset our
minds. After much consultation we determined to see what the affair
meant, and making our way on to the walls, which, indeed, were entirely
deserted, we took refuge in that turret where you saw us. Seeing the
crowd gather, and being still more convinced that some misfortune was
about to occur, I again went back to the stables, where I had noticed a
long rope used by the carters for fastening their loads to the waggons.
With this I returned, for it was clear that if we had to mingle in this
business it would be necessary to have a mode of escape. Of the rest you
are aware. We saw the knights coming out of the castle, with that portly
baron, their lord, at their head. We saw the block and the headsman upon
the platform, and were scarcely surprised when you were led out, a
prisoner, from the gates. We judged that what did happen would ensue.
Seeing that the confusion wrought by a sudden attack from men perched up
aloft as we were, commanding the courtyard, and being each of us able to
hit a silver mark at the distance of 100 yards, would be great indeed, we
judged that you might be able to slip away unobserved, and were sure that
your quick wit would seize any opportunity which might offer. Had you not
been able to join us, we should have remained in the turret and sold our
lives to the last, as, putting aside the question that we could never
return to our homes, having let our dear lord die here, we should not, in
our ignorance of the language and customs of the country, have ever been
able to make our way across it. We knew, however, that before this turret
was carried we could show these Germans how five Englishmen, when brought
to bay, can sell their lives
We care little
what quarrel you may have had
with your neighbours. All who come hither are free to come and go as they
list, and you, as a knight on the return from the Holy Land, have a claim
beyond that of an ordinary traveller
I have no intention, honourable sir, of taking up any prolonged
residence here. I only ask to be furnished with a charger and arms, and
in payment of these I will leave this gold chain, the gift of King
Richard himself, as a gage, and will on my return to my country forward
to you the value of the arms and horse, trusting that you will return the
chain to me
I like not the look of this place
but as we hear that
there is no other within a distance of another ten miles, we must e'en
make the best of it
Methinks
that it were well that one should keep watch at
the door. I like not the look of our host, and we are near the spot where
the bands of the robbers are said to be busy
You talk bravely, young sir
But you have to do with men
versed in fight, and caring but little either for knocks or for arrows.
We have gone through the Crusades, and are therefore held to be absolved
from all sin, even that so great as would be incurred in the cutting of
your knightly throat
But we have gone through the Crusades also
and our
persons are sacred. The sin of slitting our weazands, which you speak of,
would therefore be so great that even the absolution on which you rely
would barely extend to it
We know most of those who have served in the Holy Land
and would fain know with whom
we speak
I am an Englishman, and a follower of King Richard
and
am known as Sir Cuthbert of Evesham. As I was the youngest among the
knights who fought for the holy sepulchre, it may be that my appearance
is known to you
Ah
you are he whom they called the Boy Knight, and
who was often in the thick of the fray, near to Richard himself. How
comes it, Sir Cuthbert, that you are here
The fleet was scattered on its return
and I landed
with my followers, well-nigh penniless, at Zara, and have since made my
way across the Tyrol. I have, then, as you may well suppose, neither
silver nor gold about my person; and assuredly neither Philip of France
nor John of Austria would give a noble for my ransom; and it would be
long, methinks, to wait ere John of England would care to ransom one of
King Richard's followers
You speak frankly and fairly, Sir Knight, and as you have proved
yourself indeed a doughty giver of hard blows, and as I doubt not that
the archers with you can shoot as straight and as fast as the rest of the
Saxon breed, we will e'en let you go on your way, for your position is
but little better than ours, and dog should not rob dog
Thanks, good fellow
We trust that in any case we
might have made a strong defence against you; but it would be hard if
those who have fought together in the Holy Land, should slay each other
in this lonely corner of Lorraine
Are you seeking adventures or employment, Sir Knight? For if so, myself
and comrades here would gladly take service with you; and it may be that
with a clump of spears you might obtain engagement, either under the Duke
of Lorraine or he of Cleves
Thanks for your offer
but at present my face is
turned towards England. King Richard needs all his friends; and there is
so little chance of sack or spoil, even should we have -- which God
forfend -- civil war, that I fear I could ill reward the services which you
offer me
This is strange
for I myself have journeyed but
slowly, and have met with many delays. King Richard should long ere this
have reached Saxony; and I fear much that some foul treatment has
befallen him. On our way, we found how bitter was the feeling among those
related to Conrad of Montferat against him; and the Archduke John is
still smarting from the blow which King Richard struck him at Ascalon.
But surely they would not be so unknightly as to hinder so great a
champion of Christendom as King Richard on his homeward way
The Archduke John is crafty and treacherous
and the
emperor himself would, I think, be not sorry Conrad of Montferat, who
falsely allege that the death of their kinsman was caused by King
Richard. The Archduke John, too, owes him no good-will; and even the
emperor is evilly disposed towards him. The king travelled under an
assumed name; but it might well be that he would be recognized upon the
way. His face was known to all who fought in the East; and his lordly
manner and majestic stature could ill be concealed beneath a merchant's
garb. Still, lady, as I have been so long in making my way across, it may
be that King Richard has been similarly delayed without danger befalling
him, and it could hardly be that so important a man as the King of
England would be detained, or come to any misfortune, without the news
being bruited abroad
Have you seen aught of the king, our master
Nothing
I know no more than yourself. Indeed, I hoped
to have learnt something from you as to the king
I was separated from him at Gortz, and while he was taken a prisoner to
the archduke, I was allowed to pursue my way. I had many difficulties
and dangers, and was some weeks in finding my way back. Nothing was
known of the king when I returned. Indeed, I was the first bearer of any
definite news concerning him since the day when he sailed from Acre.
Three weeks ago, as you may have learnt, the news came that he is now
detained in captivity by the emperor who demanded his delivery by the
Archduke John, into whose hands he first fell. But where he is, no one
exactly knows. The news has created an immense excitement in the
kingdom, and all are resolved to sacrifice any of their treasures which
may be demanded in order to satisfy the ransom which the recreant
emperor has placed upon the king. Shame is it indeed that a Christian
sovereign should hold another in captivity. Still more, when that other
was returning through his dominions as a crusader coming from the Holy
Land, when his person should be safe, even to his deadliest enemy. It
has long been suspected that he was in the hands either of the emperor,
or of the archduke, and throughout Europe the feeling of indignation has
been strong; and I doubt not, now that the truth is known, this feeling
will be stronger than ever
But, now that it is known
I suppose there will be no
delay in ransoming the king
There will be no delay in raising the ransom
But
the kingdom is very impoverished by war, by the exactions of Prince John,
and by those of Langley, who held it for King Richard. He was a loyal
servant of the king, but an exacting and rapacious prelate. However, I
doubt not that the rents of the English nobles will soon be charged with
sums sufficient for the ransom; and if this avail not, not one of them
will grudge their silver flagons and vessels to melt down to make the
total required. But we must not flatter ourselves that he will obtain his
liberty so soon as the money is raised. Prince John has long been
yearning for sovereignty. He has long exercised the real, if not the
nominal, power, and he has been intriguing with the Pope and Phillip of
France for their support for his seizing the crown. He will throw every
obstacle in the way, as, we may be sure, will Phillip of France,
Richard's deadly enemy. And now about yourself, Sir Cuthbert; tell me
what has befallen you since we last met
You have not, I suppose
as yet seen
Prince John
No
I thought it better to come down to ask you to
advise me on the position of affairs before I attempted to see him
You did well
When I arrived, I found that the
proper officials, had, according to King Richard's instructions, drawn up
the patent conferring upon you the lands and title of Earl of Evesham,
before leaving Acre, and had received the king's signature to it. This
was attested by several of the nobles who were with us and who returned
safely to England. Prince John, however, declared that he should not give
any heed to the document; that King Richard's power over this realm had
ceased before he made it; and that he should bestow the earldom upon
whomsoever he chose. As a matter of fact, it has been given to Sir
Rudolph Fleming, a Norman knight and a creature of the prince. The king
has also, I hear, promised to him the hand of the young Lady Margaret,
when she shall become of marriageable age. At present she is placed in a
convent in Worcester. The abbess is, I believe, a friend of the late
earl, and the girl had been with her for some time previously. Indeed she
went there, I think, when her father left England. This lady was ordered
to give up her charge to the guardianship of Sir Rudolph; but she refused
to do so, saying that it would not be convenable for a young lady to be
under the guardianship of a bachelor knight having no lady at the head of
his establishment, and that therefore she should retain her, in spite of
the orders of the Prince. Prince John, I hear, flew into a fury at this;
but he did not dare to provoke the anger of the whole of the clergy by
ordering the convent to be violated. And indeed, not only would the
clergy have been indignant, but many of the great nobles would also have
taken their part, for there can be no doubt that the contention of the
abbess was reasonable; and there is among all the friends of King Richard
a very strong feeling of anger at your having been deprived of the
earldom. This, however, has, so far, not found much vent in words, for as
it was uncertain whether you would ever return to claim your rights, it
was worth no one's while to embroil himself unnecessarily with the prince
upon such a subject. God knows that there are subjects enough of dispute
between John Lackland and the English barons without any fresh ones
arising. The whole kingdom is in a state of disturbance. There have been
several risings against Prince John's authority; but these have been, so
far, suppressed. Now that we know where King Richard is, and hope for his
return ere very long, it is probable that peace will be maintained; but
should treachery prevail, and King Richard's return be prevented, you may
be sure that John will not be permitted to mount the throne without the
determined resistance of a large number of the nobles
But
John is not the successor to the throne. Prince
Arthur of Brittany was named by King Richard from the first as his
successor. He is so by blood and by right, and John can have no pretence
to the throne so long as he lives
That is so
But, unhappily, in England at present
might makes right, and you may be sure that at King Richard's death, be
it when it may, Prince John will make a bold throw for the throne, and,
aided as he will be by the pope and by Phillip of France, methinks that
his chances are better than those of the young prince. A man's power, in
warlike times, is more than a boy's. He can intrigue and promise and
threaten, while a boy must be in the hands of partisans. I fear that
Prince Arthur will have troubled times indeed before he mounts the throne
of England. Should Richard survive until he becomes of age to take the
field himself and head armies, he may succeed, for all speak well of him
as a boy of singular sweetness of disposition, while Prince John is
detested by all save those who flatter and live by him. But enough for
the present of politics, Cuthbert; let us now to table. It is long since
we two feasted together; and, indeed, such meals as we took in the Holy
Land could scarcely have been called feasts. A boar's head and a good
roasted capon are worthy all the strange dishes that we had there. I
always misdoubted the meat, which seemed to me to smack in flavour of the
Saracens, and I never could bring myself to inquire whence that strange
food was obtained. A stoup of English ale, too, is worth all the Cyprus
wines, especially when the Cyprus wines are half full of the sand of the
desert. Pah! it makes my throat dry to think of those horrible meals. So
you have brought Cnut and your four archers safely back with you
Yes
But they were, I can assure you, a heavy
weight on me, in spite of their faithfulness and fidelity. Their
ignorance of the language brought most of my troubles upon me, and Cnut
had something of the nature of a bull in him. There are certain things
which he cannot stomach, and when he seeth them he rageth like a wild
beast, regardless altogether of safety or convenience
Sir
Cuthbert, Earl of Evesham
You are very young yet
not eighteen, I think, and
can afford to wait, at any rate, to see whether King Richard returns.
Should he come back, he will see all these wrongs are righted; and one of
his first cares would assuredly be to cast this usurper out of his stolen
dignities. How old is the Lady Margaret
She is fifteen
She was three years younger than I
I wish she had been younger
At fifteen she is not
by custom fairly marriageable; but men can strain these points when they
choose; and I fear that the news of your coming will hasten both the
prince and Sir Rudolph in their determination to strengthen the claim of
this usurper by marriage with the heiress of Evesham. The Lady Margaret
and her friends can of course claim that she is a royal ward, and that as
such the king alone can dispose of her person and estates. But,
unfortunately, force overrides argument
But surely
they will never venture to take her by
force from the convent
They venture a great many strange things in England now
and Worcester is perilously near to Evesham. With a clump of
twenty spears, Sir Rudolph might break into the convent and carry off the
young lady, and marry her by force; and although the Church might cry
out, crying would be of little avail when the deed was done; and a
handsome present on the part of Sir Rudolph might go far to shut the
mouths of many of the complainants, especially as he will be able to say
that he has the king's sanction for what he did
Methinks
that if such be the case it would be perilous
indeed to wait for King Richard's return. Assuredly Sir Rudolph would not
tarry until she attained the age of seventeen, and it may well be that
two years may yet pass before King Richard comes back. It seems to me the
wiser part will be that I should give Prince John no notice that I am in
England. As you say, such notice would be of no avail in recovering my
lands and title, but it would put the prince upon his guard; and
assuredly he and his minions would press forward their measures to obtain
possession of the person of the Lady Margaret; while, on the other hand,
no harm can come of my maintaining silence
I think that you are right, Sir Cuthbert. It were indeed best that your
enemies should suppose you either dead or in some dungeon in the Tyrol.
What would you then do
I would return to my old home
My lady mother is, I
trust, still alive. But I will not appear at her house, but will take
refuge in the forest there. Cnut, and the archers with him, were all at
one time outlaws living there, and I doubt not that there are many good
men and true still to be found in the woods. Others will assuredly join
when they learn that Cnut is there, and that they are wanted to strike a
blow for my rights. I shall then bide my time. I will keep a strict watch
over the castle and over the convent. As the abbess is a friend and
relative of Lady Margaret's, I may obtain an interview with her, and warn
her of the dangers that await her, and ask if she be willing to fulfil
the promise of her father, and King Richard's will, in accepting me as
her husband when due time shall arrive, and whether she will be willing
that I should take such steps as I may to deliver her from the
persecution of Sir Rudolph. If, as I trust, she assents to this, I will
keep a watch over the convent as well as the castle, and can then either
attack the latter, or carry her off from the former, as the occasion may
appear to warrant. There are plenty of snug cottages round the forest,
where she can remain in concealment in the care of some good farmer's
wife for months, and we shall be close at hand to watch over her. With
the aid of the forest men, Sir Walter took the castle of Sir John of
Wortham; and although Evesham is a far grander pile than that, yet
methinks it could be carried by a sudden assault; and we know more of war
now than we did then. Prince John may deny me the right of being the Earl
of Evesham; but methinks before many months I can, if I choose, become
its master
Be not too hasty in that matter
You might capture
the castle with the aid of your outlaws; but you could scarcely hold it.
The prince has, ere now, with the aid of those faithful to him and his
foreign mercenaries, captured stronger holds than that of Evesham; and if
you turn his favourite out, you would have a swarm of hornets around you
such as the walls of Evesham could not keep out. It would therefore be
worse than useless for you to attempt what would be something like an
act of rebellion against Prince John's authority, and would give him what
now he has no excuse for, a ground for putting a price upon your
head -- and cutting it off if he got the opportunity. You might now present
yourself boldly at court, and although he might refuse to recognize your
title of earl, yet, as a knight and a crusader who has distinguished
himself greatly in the Holy Land, he dare not interfere with your person,
for this would be resented by the whole of the chivalry of England.
Still, I agree with you that your best course is to keep your return a
secret. You will then be unwatched and unnoticed, and your enemies will
take their time in carrying their designs into effect
Your peril is, I fear, as great here as when you were fighting the
infidels in the Holy Land
Sir Rudolph has not been here
long; but he has proved himself a cruel and ruthless master. He has
driven forth many of the old tenants and bestowed their lands upon his
own servants and retainers. The forest laws he carries out to the fullest
severity, and has hung several men who were caught infringing them. He
has laid such heavy burdens on all the tenants that remain that they are
fairly ruined, and if he stay here long he will rule over a desert. Did
he dream of your presence here, he would carry fire and sword through the
forest. It is sad indeed to think that so worthless a knave as this
should be a favourite of the ruler of England. But all men say that he is
so. Thus were you to attack him, even did you conquer and kill him, you
would have the enmity of Prince John to contend with; and he spareth
none, man or woman, who stand in his way. It will be a bad day indeed
for England should our good King Richard not return. I will, as you wish
me, write to my good cousin, the Lady Abbess of St. Anne's, and will ask
that you may have an interview with the Lady Margaret, to hear her wishes
and opinions concerning the future, and will pray her to do all that she
can to aid your suit with the fair young lady, and to keep her at all
events safe from the clutches of the tyrant of Evesham
I am indeed glad to see you, Sir Cuthbert
though I
certainly should not have recognized the lad who used to come here with
my cousin, in the stalwart young knight I see before me. You are indeed
changed and improved. Who would think that my gossip Editha's son would
come to be the Earl of Evesham! The Lady Margaret is eager to see you;
but I think that you exaggerate the dangers of her residence here. I
cannot think that even a minion of Prince John would dare to violate the
sanctity of a convent
I fear, good mother
that when ambition and greed are
in one scale, reverence for the holy church will not weigh much in the
other. Had King Richard been killed upon his way home, or so long as
nothing was heard of him, Sir Rudolph might have been content to allow
matters to remain as they were, until at least Lady Margaret attained an
age which would justify him in demanding that the espousal should be
carried out. But the news which has now positively been ascertained, that
the king is in the hands of the emperor, and the knowledge that sooner or
later his freedom will be obtained, will hasten the friends of the
usurper to make the most of their advantage. He knows that the king would
at once upon his return annul the nomination of Sir Rudolph to the
earldom which had previously been bestowed upon me. But he may well think
that if before that time he can secure in marriage the person of the late
earl's daughter, no small share of the domains may be allotted to him as
her dowry, even if he be obliged to lay by his borrowed honours. You
will, unless I am greatly mistaken, hear from him before long
There is much in what you say, Sir Cuthbert; and indeed a certain
confirmation is given to it by the fact that only yesterday I received a
letter from Sir Rudolph, urging that now the Lady Margaret is past the
age of fifteen, and may therefore be considered marriageable, the will of
the prince should be carried into effect, and that she should for the
present be committed to the charge of the Lady Clara Boulger, who is the
wife of a friend and associate of Sir Rudolph. He says that he should not
wish to press the marriage until she attains the age of sixteen, but that
it were well that his future wife should become accustomed to the outside
world, so as to take her place as Castellan of Evesham with a dignity
befitting the position. I wrote at once to him saying, that in another
year it would, in my poor judgment, be quite time to think about such
worldly matters; that at the present the Lady Margaret was receiving an
education suitable to her rank; that she was happy here; and that unless
constrained by force -- of which, I said, I could not suppose that any
possibility existed -- I should not surrender the Lady Margaret into any
hands whatsoever, unless, indeed, I received the commands of her lawful
guardian, King Richard
You said well, holy mother
But you see the hawks
scent the danger from afar, and are moving uneasily already. Whether they
consider it so pressing that they will dare to profane the convent, I
know not. But I am sure that should they do so, they will not hesitate a
moment at the thought of the anger of the church. Prince John has already
shown that he is ready, if need be, to oppose the authority of the holy
father, and he may well, therefore, despise any local wrath that might be
excited by an action which he can himself disavow, and for which, even at
the worst, he need only inflict some nominal punishment upon his vassal.
Bethink thee, lady, whether it would not be safer to send the Lady
Margaret to the care of some person, where she may be concealed from the
search of Sir Rudolph
I would gladly do so
did I know of such a person or
such a place. But it is difficult indeed for a young lady of rank to be
concealed from such sharp searchers as Sir Rudolph would be certain to
place upon her track. Your proposal that she should take refuge in the
house of some small franklin near the forest, I cannot agree to. In the
first place, it would demean her to be so placed; and in the second, we
could never be sure that the report of her residence there might not
reach the ears of Sir Rudolph. As a last resource, of course such a step
would be justifiable, but not until at least overt outrages have been
attempted. Now I will call Lady Margaret in
This is indeed Sir Cuthbert
your old playfellow, and
the husband destined for you by your father and by the will of the king
I feel, Lady Margaret
a deep sense of my own unworthiness of
the kindness and honour which the dear lord your father bestowed upon me;
and were it not that many dangers threaten, and that it were difficult
under the circumstances to find one more worthy of you, I would gladly
resign you into the hands of such a one were it for your happiness. But
believe me that the recollection of your face has animated me in many of
the scenes of danger in which I have been placed; and although even in
fancy my thoughts scarcely ventured to rise so high, yet I felt as a true
knight might feel for the lady of his love
I always liked you, Sir Cuthbert
better than
any one else next to my father, and gladly submit myself to his will. My
own inclinations indeed, so far as is maidenly, go with his. These are
troubled times
and our holy mother tells me that
you fear some danger is overhanging me
I trust that the danger may not be imminent
But
knowing the unscrupulous nature of the false Earl of Evesham, I fear that
the news that King Richard is found will bestir him to early action. But
you can rely, dear lady, on a careful watch being kept over you night and
day; and should any attempt be made to carry you away, or to put force
upon you, be assured that assistance will be at hand. Even should any
attempt succeed, do not lose heart, for rescue will certainly be
attempted; and I must be dead, and my faithful followers crushed, before
you can become the bride of Sir Rudolph
Have you seen aught to give rise to suspicion
Yes
the place is undoubtedly watched. Just after you had
entered, a man came from that house yonder and went up to the gate, as if
he would fain learn by staring at its iron adornments the nature of him
who had passed in. Then he re-entered his house, and if I mistake not is
still on the watch at that casement. If we stand here for a minute or
two, perchance he may come out to see what delays you in this dark
corner, in which case I may well give him a clout with my axe which will
settle his prying
Better not
We can retire round this corner and so
avoid his observation; and were his body found slain here, suspicion
would be at once excited in the mind of his employer. At present he can
have no ground for any report which may make the knight uneasy, for he
can but know that a gentleman has entered, and remained for two hours at
the convent, and he will in no way connect my visit with the Lady
Margaret
A meddling fool
He will not, methinks, have much to
report to Sir Rudolph this time. Had I thought that he had seen your
face, I would have cleft his skull with no more hesitation than I send
an arrow into the brain of a stag in the forest
It is
in the nature of a cartel or challenge from
our present lord, Sir Rudolf. He says that it having come to his ears
that a Saxon serf, calling himself Sir Cuthbert, Earl of Evesham, is
lurking in the woods and consorting with outlaws and robbers, he
challenges him to appear, saying that he will himself, grievously
although he would demean himself by so doing, yet condescend to meet him
in the lists with sword and battle-axe, and to prove upon his body the
falseness of his averments. Men marvel much
at
this condescension on the earl's part. We have heard indeed that King
Richard, before he sailed for England, did, at the death of the late good
earl, bestow his rank and the domains of Evesham upon Sir Cuthbert, the
son of the Dame Editha. Whether it be true or not, we cannot say; but it
seems strange that such honour should have been bestowed upon one so
young. In birth indeed he might aspire to the rank, since his father, Sir
Walter, was a brave knight, and the mother, Dame Editha, was of good
Saxon blood, and descended from those who held Evesham before the arrival
of the Normans
There is nought that I should like better
than to try my
strength against that of this false traitor. But although I have proved
my arm against the Saracens, I think not that it is yet strong enough to
cope against a man who, whatsoever be his faults, is said to be a valiant
knight. But that would not deter me from attempting the task. It is
craftily done on the part of Sir Rudolph. He reckons that if I appear he
will kill me; that if I do not appear, I shall be branded as a coward,
and my claims brought into disrepute. It may be, too, that it is a mere
ruse to discover if I be in the neighbourhood. Some rumours thereof may
have reached him, and he has taken this course to determine upon their
truth. He has gone too far, and honest men will see in the cartel itself
a sign that he misdoubts him that my claims are just; for were I, as he
says, a Saxon serf, be sure that he would not condescend to meet me in
the lists as he proposes. I trust that the time will come when I may do
so. But, at present, I will submit to his insult rather than imperil the
success of our plans, and, what is of far greater importance, the safety
and happiness of the Lady Margaret, who, did aught befall me, would
assuredly fall into his hands
I, Cnut, a
free Saxon and a leader of bowmen under King Richard in the Holy Land, do
hereby pronounce and declare the statements of Sir Rudolph, miscalled
the Earl of Evesham, to be false and calumnious. The earldom was, as
Rudolph well knows, and as can be proved by many nobles and gentlemen of
repute who were present with King Richard, granted to Sir Cuthbert, King
Richard's true and faithful follower. When the time shall come, Sir
Cuthbert will doubtless be ready to prove his rights. But at present
right has no force in England, and until the coming of our good King
Richard must remain in abeyance. Until then, I support the title of Sir
Cuthbert, and do hereby declare Sir Rudolph a false and perjured knight;
and warn him that if he falls into my hands it will fare but badly with
him, as I know it will fare but badly with me should I come into his
Rash man
I warn you against committing the
sin of sacrilege. Neither the orders of Prince John nor of any other
potentate can over-ride the rights of the holy church; and should you
venture to lay the hand of force upon this convent you will be placed
under the anathema of the church, and its spiritual terrors will be
directed against you
I am prepared to risk that, holy mother
So long as I am obeying the orders of my prince, I care nought
for those of any foreign potentate, be he pope or be he emperor. Three
minutes of the time I gave you have elapsed, and unless within two more
the Lady Margaret appears at the gate I will batter it down; and you may
think yourself lucky if I do not order my men to set light to it and to
smoke you out of your hole
I have heard of this matter before
and am mightily angry
with the people of Worcester, inasmuch as they have dared to interfere to
prevent the carrying out of my commands. The Earl of Evesham has written
to me, that thinking to scare the abbess of St. Anne's into a compliance
with the commands which I had laid upon her, and to secure the delivery
of a contumacious ward of the crown, he had pretended to use force,
having, however, no idea of carrying his threats into effect. When, as he
doubted not, the abbess was on the point of yielding up the ward, the
good knight was suddenly set upon by the rascals of the town, who slew
some of his companions and followers, and did grievously ill-treat the
remainder. This
you now pretend was done by a party
of men of whose presence in the town you had no cognizance. Your good
sense must be small, if you think that I should believe such a tale as
this. It is your rascaldom at Worcester which interfered to prevent my
will being carried out, and I have a goodly mind to order the troop of
Sir Charles Everest, which is now marching towards Evesham, to sack the
town, as a punishment for its rebellion. As, however, I am willing to
believe that you and the better class of burgesses were in ignorance of
the doings of the rougher kind, I will extend mercy towards the city, and
will merely inflict a fine of 3000 golden marks upon it
Cuthbert,
Earl of Evesham
Finding
that the holy walls of this
convent were insufficient to restrain lawless men, and fearing that these
might be tempted to acts of sacrilege, which might bring down upon them
the wrath of the church and the destruction of their souls, I have sent
her away
Whither has she gone
That I decline to say
She is in good
hands; and when King Richard returns, his ward shall be delivered to
him at once
Will you take oath upon the Bible that she is not within these walls
My word is sufficient
But should it
be necessary, I should be ready to swear upon the relics that she is
not here
What is it
Terrible news, Master Cuthbert, terrible news
The
wicked earl came down this morning, with fifty of his men, set fire to
the house, and all its buildings and stacks, and has carried off the
lady, your mother, a prisoner to the castle, on a charge, as he said, of
harbouring traitors
The false traitor shall bitterly regret this outrage
Send at once, Cnut
and call in all the band. We cannot take
the castle; but we will carry fire and sword round its walls. We will cut
off all communication from within or from without. If attacked by large
forces, we will retire upon the wood, returning to our posts without the
walls as soon as the force is withdrawn. These heavily armed men can move
but slowly; while we can run at full speed. There cannot be more than
some twenty horsemen in the castle; and methinks with our arrows and
pikes we can drive these back if they attempt to fall upon us
It is
the note calling for a parley. Do you,
Cnut, go forward, and see what is demanded. It is probably a messenger
from Sir Rudolph
I bear to you, Sir Cuthbert, falsely calling yourself Earl of Evesham, a
message from Sir Rudolph. He bids me tell you that the traitress, Dame
Editha, your mother, is in his hands, and that she has been found guilty
of aiding and abetting you in your war against Prince John, the Regent of
this kingdom. For that offence she has been condemned to die
Sir Rudolph, being unwilling to take the life of a woman, however justly
forfeited by the law, commands me to say, that if you will deliver
yourself up to him by to-morrow at twelve, the Dame Editha shall be
allowed to go free. But that if by the time the dial points to noon you
have not delivered yourself up, he will hang her over the battlements of
the castle
This man
is a herald, and, as such, is protected by
all the laws of chivalry. Whatsoever his message, it is none of his. He
is merely the mouthpiece of him who sent him
Tell the false knight, your master, on my part, that he
is a foul ruffian, perjured to all the vows of knighthood; that this act
of visiting upon a woman the enmity he bears her son, will bring upon him
the execration of all men; and that the offer which he makes me is as
foul and villainous as himself. Nevertheless, knowing his character, and
believing that he is capable of keeping his word, tell him that by
to-morrow at noon I will be there; that the lady, my mother, is to leave
the castle gates as I enter them; and that though by his foul device he
may encompass my death, yet that the curse of every good man will light
upon him, that he will be shunned as the dog he is, and that assuredly
heaven will not suffer that deeds so foul should bring with them the
prize he seeks to gain
Sir Cuthbert
has been in grievous straits before now, and
has gone through them. Sir Rudolph does not know the nature of the man
with whom he has to deal, and we may trick him yet
Think you, Sir Rudolph
that these varlets think of attacking the castle
They might as well think of scaling heaven
Evesham
could resist a month's siege by a force well equipped for the purpose;
and were it not that good men are wanted for the king's service, and
that these villains shoot straight and hard, I would open the gates of
the castle and launch our force against them. We are two to one as
strong as they, and our knights and mounted men-at-arms could alone
scatter that rabble
Sir Rudolph of Eresby, false knight and perjured gentleman
I, Sir Cuthbert of Evesham, do denounce you as
foresworn and dishonoured, and do challenge you to meet me here before
the castle in sight of your men and mine, and decide our quarrel as
heaven may judge with sword and battle-axe
It is too late, varlet. I condescended to challenge you before, and you
refused. You cannot now claim what you then feared to accept. The sun on
the dial approaches noon, and unless you surrender yourself before it
reaches the mark, I will keep my word, and the traitress, your mother,
shall swing from that beam
Cuthbert, I beg -- nay, I order you to retire. If this unknightly lord
venture to carry out his foul threats against me, let him do so.
England will ring with the dastardly deed, and he will never dare show
his face again where Englishmen congregate. Let him do his worst. I am
prepared to die
Sir knight
you know that I am your true comrade and the
faithful servant of Prince John. Yet in faith would I not that my name
should be mixed up in so foul a deed. I repent me that I have for a
moment consented to it. But the shame shall not hang upon the escutcheon
of Hubert of Gloucester that he stood still when such foul means were
tried. I pray you, by our long friendship, and for the sake of your own
honour as a knight, to desist from this endeavour. If this lady be
guilty, as she well may be, of aiding her son in his assaults upon the
soldiers of Prince John, then let her be tried, and doubtless the court
will confiscate her estates. But let her son be told that her life is in
no danger, and that he is free to go, being assured that harm will not
come to her
And if I refuse to consent to allow my enemy, who is now almost within
my hand, to escape
what then
Then
I and my following will at once leave your
walls, and will clear ourselves to the brave young knight yonder of all
hand in this foul business
I refuse
Go, if you will. I am master of
my actions, and of this castle
Stand to arms
They are going to
attempt a sortie
Sir Cuthbert de Lance
in the name of myself and my
two friends here we ask your pardon for having so far taken part in this
foul action. We did so believing only that Sir Rudolph intended the
capture of your lady mother as a threat. Now that we see he was in
earnest, we wash our hands of the business; and could we in any way atone
for our conduct in having joined him, we would gladly do so, consistently
only with our allegiance to the Prince Regent
Thanks for your words, Sir Hubert. I had always heard yourself and the
knights here spoken of as brave and gallant gentlemen, whose sole fault
was that they chose to take part with a rebel prince, rather than with
the King of England. I rejoice that you have cleared your name of so foul
a blot as this would have placed upon it, and I acknowledge that your
conduct now is knightly and courteous. But I can no more parley. The sun
is within a few minutes of twelve, and I must surrender, to meet such
fate as may befall me
Sir Rudolph
the hour is at hand. I call upon you to
deliver, outside the gate, the lady, my mother. Whether she wills it or
not, I call upon you to place her beyond the gate, and I give you my
knightly word that as she leaves it I enter it
Courage, mother
all may yet be well
So, at last
this farce is drawing to an end. You are in my
power, and for the means which I have taken to capture you, I will
account to the prince. You are a traitor to him; you have attacked and
slaughtered many of my friends; you are an outlaw defying the law; and
for each of these offences your head is forfeited
I deny
your right to be my
judge. By my peers only can I be tried. As a knight of England and as
rightful lord of this castle, I demand to be brought before a jury of
my equals
I care nothing for rights or for juries
I have the
royal order for your execution, and that order I shall put into effect,
although all the knights and barons in England objected
False and perjured knight
I may die;
but I would rather a thousand deaths than such a life as yours will be
when this deed is known in England. But I am not yet dead. For myself, I
could pardon you; but for the outrage to my mother
We are men of the forest, and
we are come to carry the Lady Margaret of Evesham off to a secure
hiding-place. The lord of Evesham has discovered her whereabouts, and
will be here shortly, and we would fain remove her before he arrives
From whom have you warrant
I surrender her to
no one, save to the lady abbess of St. Anne's. But if you have a written
warrant from Sir Cuthbert, the rightful lord of Evesham, I will lay the
matter before the Lady Margaret, and will act as it may seem fit to her
We have no time for parleying
Throw open the gate
at once, or we will break it down
Ye be no outlaws
for the outlaws are men who
fear God and respect the church. Were ye what ye say, ye would be
provided with the warrants that I mention. I warn you, therefore, that if
you use force, you will be excommunicated, and placed under the ban of
the church
Where is the Lady Margaret
I will say nothing
nor do I own that she is here
We will soon take means to find out
Unless in five
minutes she is delivered to us, we will burn your place to the ground
If you seek the Lady Margaret of Evesham
I am she.
Do not harm any of the sisters here. I am in your power, and will go with
you at once. But I beseech you add not to your other sins that of
violence against holy women
Farewell, my child
God will deliver you from
the power of these wicked men. Trust in Him, and keep up your courage.
Wickedness will not be permitted to triumph upon the earth; and be
assured that the matter shall be brought to the ears of the pope's
legate, and of Prince John himself
I am happy indeed, Lady Margaret
to
have been able to save you from the power of these villains. Fortunately,
word came to me that the outlaws in the forest were about to carry you
off, and that they would not hesitate even to desecrate the walls of the
convent. Assembling my men-at-arms, I at once rode to your rescue, and am
doubly happy to have saved you, first, as a gentleman, secondly, as being
the man to whom our gracious prince has assigned you as a wife. I am Sir
Rudolph, Earl of Evesham
Whether your story is true, Sir Rudolph
or not, God knows,
and I, a poor weak girl, will not pretend to venture to say. It is
between you and your conscience. If, as you say, you have saved me from
the power of the outlaws, I demand that, as a knight and a gentleman, you
return with me at once to the convent from which I was taken by force
I cannot do that
Fortune has placed you in my
hands, and has enabled me to carry out the commands of the prince.
Therefore, though I would fain yield to your wishes and so earn your
goodwill, which above all things I wish to obtain, yet my duty towards
the prince commands me to utilize the advantage which fate has thrown in
my hands
You must do as you will, Sir Rudolph
I
believe not your tale. You sought before, in person, to carry me off, but
failed, and you have now employed other means to do so. The tale of your
conduct to Dame Editha has reached my ears, and I hold you a foresworn
knight and a dishonoured man, and as such I would rather die than become
your wife, although as yet I am but a child, and have no need to talk of
weddings for years to come
We need not parley here
We shall have plenty
of time when at my castle
Is there no way
by which we might creep
into this den, since we cannot burst into it openly
There is a way from the castle
for my dear lord told
me of it one day when we were riding together in the Holy Land. He said
then that it might be that he should never return, and that it were well
that I should know of the existence of this passage, which few beside the
earl himself knew of. It is approached by a very heavy slab of stone in
the great hall. This is bolted down, and as it stands under the great
table passes unnoticed, and appears part of the ordinary floor. He told
me the method in which, by touching a spring, the bolts were withdrawn
and the stone could be raised. Thence a passage a quarter of a mile long
leads to the little chapel standing in the hollow, and which, being
hidden among the trees, would be unobserved by any party besieging the
castle. This of course was contrived in order that the garrison, or any
messenger thereof, might make an exit in case of siege
But if we could escape
why not enter by this way
The stone is of immense weight and strength
and
could not be loosed from below save with great labour and noise. There
are, moreover, several massive doors in the passage, all of which are
secured by heavy bolts within. It is therefore out of the question that
we could enter the castle by that way. But were we once in, we could
easily carry off the lady through this passage
It would be rare sport
when this armed force comes out
to attack us, if we could turn the tables by slipping in, and taking
their castle
The very thing
It is likely that he will use the
greater portion of his forces, and that he will not keep above fifty or
sixty men, at the outside, in the castle. When they sally out we will at
first oppose a stout resistance to them in the wood, gradually falling
back. Then, at a given signal, all save twenty men shall retire hastily,
and sweeping round, make for the castle. Their absence will not be
noticed, for in this thick wood it is difficult to tell whether twenty
men or two hundred are opposing you among the bushes; and the twenty who
remain must shoot thick and fast to make believe that their numbers are
great, retiring sometimes, and leading the enemy on into the heart of
the wood
But supposing, Sir Cuthbert, that they should have closed the gates and
lifted the drawbridge? We could not gain entrance by storming, even if
only twenty men held the walls, until long after the main body would have
returned
Cnut, you shall
undertake this enterprise. You shall fill a cart high with faggots, and
in it shall conceal a dozen of your best men. You, dressed as a serf,
shall drive the oxen, and when you reach the castle shall say, in answer
to the hail of the sentry, that you are bringing in the tribute of wood
of your master the franklin of Hopeburn. They will then lower the
drawbridge and open the gates; and when you have crossed the bridge and
are under the portcullis, spring out suddenly, cut loose the oxen so
that they will not draw the cart further in, cut the chains of the
drawbridge so that it cannot be drawn off, and hold the gate for a
minute or two until we arrive
The plan is capital
We will do the proud Norman yet.
How he will storm when he finds us masters of his castle. What then will
you do, Sir Cuthbert
We can hold the castle for weeks
and every day is in
our favour. If we find ourselves forced to yield to superior numbers, we
can at last retire through the passage I have spoken of, and must then
scatter and each shift for himself until these bad days be past
From whom do you bring this wood
From the franklin of Hopeburn
It is well
for he is in arrear now, and should have
sent in the firewood two months since. Take it to the wood-house at the
other end of the court
We
could doubtless prolong the siege for some days, Lady Margaret
but the castle is ours; and we wish not, when the time comes
that we shall again be masters of it, that it should be a mere heap of
ruins. Methinks we have done enough. With but small losses on our side,
we have killed great numbers of the enemy, and have held them at bay for
a month. Therefore, I think that tonight it will be well for us to leave
the place
I will
send my good wife to fetch her. Some here know your
presence, and it would be better therefore that she did not arrive for
some days, as her coming will then seem to be unconnected with yourself.
My wife and I will, a week hence, give out that we are going to fetch a
cousin of my wife's to stay here with her; and when we return no
suspicion will be excited that she is other than she seems. Should it be
otherwise, I need not say that Sir Baldwin of B,thune will defend his
castle against any of the minions of Prince John. But I have no fear that
her presence here will be discovered. What think you of doing in the
meantime
I am thinking
of going east. No news has been obtained
of our lord the king save that he is a prisoner in the hands of the
emperor; but where confined, or how, we know not. It is my intent to
travel to the Tyrol, and to trace his steps from the time that he was
captured. Then, when I obtain knowledge of the place where he is kept, I
will return, and consult upon the best steps to be taken. My presence in
England is now useless. Did the barons raise the standard of King Richard
against the prince, I should at once return and join them. But without
land or vassals, I can do nothing here, and shall be indeed like a hunted
hare, for I know that the false earl will move heaven and earth to
capture me
for
if we cannot discover the prison of King Richard, I fear
that it would be hopeless indeed ever to attempt to find that in which a
simple knight is confined
I shall
be of assistance to you. Minstrels are like heralds.
They are of no nationality, and can pass free where a man at arms would
be closely watched and hindered. Moreover, it may be that I might aid you
greatly in discovering the prison of the king. So great is the secrecy
with which this has been surrounded, that I question if any inquiries you
could make would enable you to trace him. My voice, however, can
penetrate into places where we cannot enter. I will take with me my lute,
and as we journey I will sing outside the walls of each prison we come to
one of the songs which I sang in Palestine. King Richard is himself a
singer and knows my songs as well as myself. If I sing a verse of some
song which I wrote there and which, therefore, would be known only to
him, if he hears it he may follow with the next verse, and so enable us
to know of his hiding place
I am a minstrel
and as such doubt not that your
courtesy will be extended to me
Of a surety
the gay science is as much loved and
respected in the greenwood as in the castle; and moreover, the purses of
those who follow it are too light to offer any temptation to us. We would
pray you, however, to accompany us to our leader, who will mightily
rejoice to see you, for he loves music, and will gladly be your host so
long as you will stay with him
I am Sir Adelbert, of Rotherheim
although you see me in so
poor a plight. My castle and lands have been taken by my neighbour, with
whom for generations my family have been at feud. I was in the Holy Land
with the emperor, and on my return found that the baron had taken the
opportunity of my absence, storming my castle and seizing my lands. In
vain I petitioned the emperor to dispossess this traitorous baron of my
lands, which by all the laws of Christendom should have been respected
during my absence. The emperor did indeed send a letter to the baron to
deliver them up to me; but his power here is but nominal, and the baron
contemptuously threw the royal proclamation into the fire, and told the
messenger that what he had taken by the sword he would hold the sword;
and the emperor, having weightier matters on hand than to set troops in
motion to redress the grievances of a simple knight, gave the matter no
further thought. I have therefore been driven to the forest, where I live
as best I may with my followers, most of whom were retainers upon my
estate, and some my comrades in the Holy Land. I make war upon the rich
and powerful, and beyond that do harm to no man. But, methinks
I know your face, gentle sir
It may well be so, Sir Adelbert
for I too was
in the Holy Land. I followed the train of King Richard, and mayhap at
some of the entertainments given by him you have seen my face. My name
is Blondel
I remember now
It was at Acre that I first saw you,
and if I remember rightly you can wield the sword as well as the lute
One cannot always be playing and singing
and in lack of
amusement I was forced to do my best against the infidel, who indeed
would have but little respected my art had I fallen into his hands. The
followers of the prophet hold minstrels but in slight reverence
What is the news of King Richard
I have heard that
he was lost on the voyage homewards
It is not so
He landed safely on the coast, and was
journeying north with a view of joining his sister at the Court of
Saxony, when he was foully seized and imprisoned by the Archduke John
That were gross shame indeed
and black treachery on
the part of Duke John. And where is the noble king imprisoned
That
no man knows. On my journey hither I have gathered
that the emperor claimed him from the hand of the Archduke, and that he
is imprisoned in one of the royal fortresses; but which, I know not. And
indeed, sir knight, since you are well disposed towards him, I may tell
you that the purport of my journey is to discover if I can the place of
his confinement. He was a kind and noble master, and however long my
search may be, I will yet obtain news of him
Methinks I know the face of your attendant as well as your own; though
where I can have seen him I know not. Was he with you in the Holy Land
Yes
the youth was also there; and doubtless you may
have noticed him, for he is indeed of distinguished and of good family
Then let him share our repast
if it seems good to
you. In these woods there is no rank, and I myself have long dropped my
knightly title, and shall not reassume it until I can pay off my score to
the Baron of Rotherheim, and take my place again in my castle
I have it now. This is no attendant, sir minstrel, but that valiant
young knight who so often rode near King Richard in battle. He is, as I
guess, your companion in this quest; is it not so
It is
I am like yourself, a disinherited
knight, and my history resembles yours. Upon my return to England I found
another in possession of the land and titles that belonged to the noble I
followed, and which King Richard bestowed upon me. The Earl of Evesham
was doubtless known to you, and before his death King Richard, at his
request, bestowed upon me as his adopted son -- although but a distant
connexion -- his title and lands and the hand of his daughter. Prince John,
who now rules in England, had however granted these things to one of his
favourites, and he having taken possession of the land and title, though
not, happily, of the lady, closed his door somewhat roughly in my face. I
found means, however, to make my mark upon him; but as our quarrel could
not be fought out to the end, and as the false knight had the aid of
Prince John, I am forced for a while to postpone our settlement, and
meeting my good friend the minstrel, agreed to join him in his enterprise
to discover our lord the king
I am glad
to meet so true and valiant a knight. I have often
wondered at the valour with which you, although so young, bore yourself;
and there were tales afloat of strange adventures which you had undergone
in captivity for a time among the infidels
How far are you
from the estates which were wrongfully wrested from you
But twenty leagues
My castle was on the Rhine,
between Coblentz and Mannheim
Does the baron know that you are so near
Methinks that he does not
but that he deems me to
have gone to the court of the emperor to seek for redress -- which, he
guesses, I shall certainly fail to obtain
How many men have you with you
Fifty men, all good and true
Has it never entered your thoughts to attempt a surprise upon his
castle
At times
thoughts of so doing have occurred to
me; but the castle is strong, and a surprise would be difficult indeed
If the baron is lulled in security at present
and
deems you afar off, the watch is likely to be relaxed, and with a sudden
onslaught you might surely obtain possession. Blondel and myself are not
pressed for time, and the delay of a few days can make but little
difference. If, therefore, you think we could be of assistance to you in
such an attempt, my sword, and I am sure that of my friend, would be at
your disposal
Thanks, generous knight
I am sorely tempted to avail
myself of your offer; but I fear that the enterprise is hopeless. The
aid, however, of your arm and knowledge of war would greatly add to my
chances, and if it pleases you we will ride to-morrow to a point where we
can obtain a sight of the baron's castle. When you see it, you shall
judge yourself how far such an enterprise as you propose is possible
Is your own castle intact
The walls are standing
but a breach has been made in them,
and at present it is wholly deserted
Do you think
that if you succeeded in surprising and
defeating the garrison of the castle that you could then regain your own,
and hold it against your enemy
I think that I could
The baron's domains are but
little larger than my own. Many of my retainers still live upon the
estate, and would; I am sure, gladly join me, if I were to raise my flag.
The baron, too, is hated by his neighbours, and could I inflict a
crushing blow upon him, methinks it would be so long a time before he
could assemble a force, that I might regain my castle and put it in an
attitude of defence before he could take the field against me
If
we could surprise the castle, it might well be that
the baron would fall into your hands, and in that case you might be able
to make your own terms with him. How strong a force is he likely to have
in his castle
Some fifty or sixty men
for with such a force he
could hold the castle against an attack of ten times their number, and he
could in twelve hours call in his retainers, and raise the garrison to
300 or 400 men
That is Rotherheim
and that
is my own
It is indeed a strong place
and difficult to take by
surprise. A watch no doubt is always kept over the entrance, and there we
can hope for no success. The only plan will be to scale the wall by means
of a ladder; but how the ladder is to be got to so great a height, I own
at present passes my comprehension
It might, methinks, be practicable for an archer to approach the
walls, and to shoot an arrow over the angle of the castle so that it
would pass inside the turret there, and fall in the forest beyond. If to
this arrow were attached a light cord, it could be gained by one on the
other side, and a stronger cord hauled over. To this could be attached a
rope ladder, and so this could be raised to the top of the wall. If a
sentinel were anywhere near he might hear the rope pulled across the
battlements; but if as we may hope, a watch is kept only over the
entrance, the operation might be performed without attracting notice
It will need
an archer with a strong arm indeed to
shoot an arrow with a cord attached to it, however light, over the corner
of the castle
Methinks
that I can do that, for as a lad I was used
to the strong bows of my country. The first thing, however, will be to
obtain such a bow; but doubtless one can be purchased in one of the
towns, which, if not so strong as those to which I was accustomed, will
at any rate suffice for us
We must carry out our original plan
and journey
into the Tyrol. In one of the fortresses there he is most likely to be
confined
I come
in the name of the people of England to demand the
restoration of King Richard, most unjustly and unknightly detained a
prisoner in his passage through your dominions
King Richard was my foe
open and secret, and I was
justified in detaining one who is alike my enemy and a scourge to Europe
as a prisoner, when fortune threw him in my hands. I am, however, willing
to put him to a ransom, and will upon the payment of 150,000 marks allow
him to go free
I deny your right to detain him or to put him to ransom
But as you have the power, so my denial is useless. England is
poor, impoverished with war and by the efforts which she made in the
service of our holy religion. Nevertheless, poor as she is, she will
raise the sum you demand. There is not an Englishman who will not furnish
all he can afford for the rescue of our king. But once again, in the
presence of your nobles, I denounce your conduct as base and unkingly
Before, however
I surrender King Richard, he
must be tried by my peers of many and various crimes of which he is
accused. Should he be found guilty of these, no gold can purchase his
release. Should he, however, be acquitted, then as my word is given so
shall it be
Although
I deny your right to try our king, and
believe that he himself will refuse to accept your jurisdiction, yet I
fear not the result if our lord be left in the hands of the nobles of
the empire and not in yours. I can trust their honour and courtesy
Counts and lords of the Empire of Germany, I, Richard, King of England,
do deny your right to try me. I am a king, and can only be tried by my
peers and by the pope, who is the head of Christendom. I might refuse to
plead, refuse to take any part in this assembly, and appeal to the pope,
who alone has power to punish kings. But I will waive my rights. I rely
upon the honour and probity of the barons of Germany. I have done no man
wrong, and would appear as fearlessly before an assembly of peasants as
before a gathering of barons. Such faults as I may have, and none are
without them, are not such as those with which I am charged. I have slain
many men in anger, but none by treachery. When Richard of England
strikes, he strikes in the light of day. He leaves poison and treachery
to his enemies, and I hurl back with indignation and scorn in the teeth
of him who makes them the charges brought against me
I am sure
that not one person here believes this idle
tale. That I did not always agree with the other leaders is true; but I
call upon every one here to say whether, had they listened to me and
followed my advice, the crusade would not have had another ending. Even
after Phillip of France had withdrawn; even after I had been deserted by
John of Austria, I led the troops of the crusaders from every danger and
every difficulty to within sight of the walls of Jerusalem. Had I been
supported with zeal, the holy city would have been ours; but the apathy,
the folly, and the weakness of the leaders brought ruin upon the army.
They thought not of conquering Jerusalem, but of thwarting me; and I
retort upon them the charge of having sacrificed the success of the
crusade. As to the terms of peace, how were they made? I, with some fifty
knights and 1000 followers alone remained in the Holy Land. Who else, I
ask, so circumstanced, could have obtained any terms whatever from
Saladin? It was the weight of my arm alone which saved Jaffa and Acre,
and the line of seacoast, to the Cross. And had I followed the example
set me by him of Austria and the Frenchman, not one foot of the Holy Land
would now remain in Christian hands
Go
and may I forget your injuries as speedily as you will
forget my pardon
</text>
