<text>
JOHN WARWICK, CLARENCE, SOUTH CAROLINA.'


"One of the South Ca'lina bigbugs, I reckon -- probably in cotton, or
turpentine
Good-mawnin', suh
Good-morning
Can you tell me anything about
Judge Straight's office hours
De ole jedge has be'n a little onreg'lar sence de wah, suh; but he
gin'ally gits roun' 'bout ten o'clock er so.  He's be'n kin' er feeble
fer de las' few yeahs.  An' I reckon
I reckon he'll soon be goin' de way er all
de earth. 'Man dat is bawn er 'oman hath but a sho't time ter lib, an'
is full er mis'ry.  He cometh up an' is cut down lack as a flower.'
'De days er his life is three-sco' an' ten'-- an' de ole jedge is libbed
mo' d'n dat, suh, by five yeahs, ter say de leas'
is the penalty that all must pay for the crime of
living
Dat 's a fac', suh, dat 's a fac'; so dey mus'-- so dey mus'.  An' den
all de dead has ter be buried. An' we does ou' sheer of it, suh, we
does ou' sheer. We conduc's de obs'quies er all de bes' w'ite folks er
de town, suh
Tippecanoe and Tyler too
T'anky', honey; de Lawd gwine bless you sho'.  You wuz alluz a good
gal, and de Lawd love eve'ybody w'at he'p de po' ole nigger.  You gwine
ter hab good luck all yo' bawn days
I hope you're a true prophet, Aunt Zilphy
A woman with such a figure
ought to be able to
face the world with the confidence of Phryne confronting her judges
It must be Rena
Who could have dreamed that she would
blossom out like that?  It must surely be Rena
Yes
it's Rena, sure enough
I jes' wonder who dat man is, an' w'at he 's doin' on dis street
Nev' min' 'bout dat man
You 'ten' ter yo' wuk
an' finish dat bairl-stave. You spen's enti'ely too much er yo' time
stretchin' yo' neck atter other people.  An' you need n' 'sturb yo'se'f
'bout dem folks 'cross de street, fer dey ain't yo' kin', an' you're
wastin' yo' time both'in' yo' min' wid 'em, er wid folks w'at comes on
de street on account of 'em.  Look sha'p now, boy, er you'll git dat
stave trim' too much
It's more than likely
that they are in the kitchen.  I
reckon I'd better try the back door
They are there
I suspect I'll have to go to the front door,
after all. No one can see me through the trees
Who's there
A gentleman
Does Mis' Molly Walden live here
Yes
I'm Mis' Walden.  What's yo'r
business
I have a message to you from your son John
You 've got a message from my son, you say
Is he sick, or in trouble
No.  He's well and doing well, and sends his love to you, and hopes
you've not forgotten him
Fergot him?  No, God knows I ain't fergot him!  But come in, sir, an'
tell me somethin' mo' about him
Godey's Lady's Book
Imperious Caesar, dead, and turned to clay,
       Might stop a hole to keep the wind away
When did you last see my son
I've never met your son
Then the message comes through you from somebody else
No, directly from your son
John, my John!  It IS John
Mother -- my dear old mother
I didn't think
that I'd ever see you again
And are you glad to see me,
mother
Am I glad to see you?  It's like the dead comin' to life.  I thought
I'd lost you forever, John, my son, my darlin' boy
I couldn't live without seeing you, mother
You've grown so tall, John, and are such a fine gentleman!  And you
ARE a gentleman now, John, ain't you -- sure enough?  Nobody knows the
old story
Well, mother, I've taken a man's chance in life, and have tried to
make the most of it; and I haven't felt under any obligation to spoil
it by raking up old stories that are best forgotten. There are the dear
old books: have they been read since I went away
No, honey, there's be'n nobody to read 'em, excep' Rena, an' she don't
take to books quite like you did.  But I've kep' 'em dusted clean, an'
kep' the moths an' the bugs out; for I hoped you'd come back some day,
an' knowed you'd like to find 'em all in their places, jus' like you
left 'em
That's mighty nice of you, mother.  You could have done no more if you
had loved them for themselves.  But where is Rena?  I saw her on the
street to-day, but she didn't know me from Adam; nor did I guess it was
she until she opened the gate and came into the yard
I've be'n so glad to see you that I'd fergot about her
Rena, oh, Rena
Yes, mamma
Rena, child, here's yo'r brother John, who's come back to see us.
Tell 'im howdy
You're the little sister I used to read stories to, and whom I
promised to come and see some day.  Do you remember how you cried when
I went away
It seems but yesterday
I've still got the dime you
gave me
You're a very pretty girl
I followed you down Front Street this morning, and
scarcely took my eyes off you all the way; and yet I didn't know you,
and scarcely saw your face. You improve on acquaintance; to-night, I
find you handsomer still
Now, John
you'll spile her,
if you don't min
No, he won't, mamma
for he's flattering me.  He talks
as if I was some rich young lady, who lives on the Hill
instead of a poor
Instead of a poor young girl, who has the hill to climb
What lovely hair!  It has just the wave
that yours lacks, mother
Yes
I've never be'n able to git that wave
out.  But her hair's be'n took good care of, an' there ain't nary gal
in town that's got any finer
Don't worry about the wave, mother.  It's just the fashionable ripple,
and becomes her immensely.  I think my little Albert favors his Aunt
Rena somewhat
Your little Albert
You've got a child
Oh, yes
a very fine baby boy
I suppose
that I have got along at the bar, as
elsewhere, owing to the lack of better men.  Many of the good lawyers
were killed in the war, and most of the remainder were disqualified;
while I had the advantage of being alive, and of never having been in
arms against the government.  People had to have lawyers, and they gave
me their business in preference to the carpet-baggers.  Fortune, you
know, favors the available man
An' I s'pose you're happy, John
Well, mother, happiness is a relative term, and depends, I imagine,
upon how nearly we think we get what we think we want.  I have had my
chance and haven't thrown it away, and I suppose I ought to be happy.
But then, I have lost my wife, whom I loved very dearly, and who loved
me just as much, and I'm troubled about my child
Why
Is there anything the matter with him
No, not exactly.  He's well enough, as babies go, and has a good
enough nurse, as nurses go. But the nurse is ignorant, and not always
careful. A child needs some woman of its own blood to love it and look
after it intelligently
Did your wife leave any kin
No near kin; she was an only child
You'll be gettin' married again
No
I think not
If I had some relation of my own that I could take into the house with
me
the child might be healthier and happier,
and I should be much more at ease about him
Oh, John
don't take her away from me!
Don't take her, John, darlin', for it'd break my heart to lose her
There, there, mamma!  Never mind!  I won't leave you,
mamma -- dear old mamma!  Your Rena'll stay with you always, and never,
never leave you
You love your children, mother
They're all I've got
an' they cos' me all I had.  When
the las' one's gone, I'll want to go too, for I'll be all alone in the
world. Don't take Rena, John; for if you do, I'll never see her again,
an' I can't bear to think of it.  How would you like to lose yo'r one
child
Well, well, mother, we'll say no more about it.  And now tell me all
about yourself, and about the neighbors, and how you got through the
war, and who's dead and who's married -- and everything
Good gracious, Rena
John 's be'n in the house an
hour, and ain't had nothin' to eat yet!  Go in the kitchen an' spread a
clean tablecloth, an' git out that 'tater pone, an' a pitcher o' that
las' kag o' persimmon beer, an' let John take a bite an' a sip
I thought of
your sweet-potato pone at the hotel to-day, when I was at dinner, and
wondered if you'd have some in the house.  There was never any like
yours; and I've forgotten the taste of persimmon beer entirely
Of course, mother
I wouldn't think of taking Rena
away against your wishes.  A mother's claim upon her child is a high
and holy one.  Of course she will have no chance here, where our story
is known.  The war has wrought great changes, has put the bottom rail
on top, and all that -- but it hasn't wiped THAT out. Nothing but death
can remove that stain, if it does not follow us even beyond the grave.
Here she must forever be -- nobody!  With me she might have got out into
the world; with her beauty she might have made a good marriage; and, if
I mistake not, she has sense as well as beauty
Yes
she's got good sense.  She ain't as quick as
you was, an' don't read as many books, but she's keerful an'
painstakin', an' always tries to do what's right.  She's be'n thinkin'
about goin' away somewhere an' tryin' to git a school to teach, er
somethin', sence the Yankees have started 'em everywhere for po' white
folks an' niggers too.  But I don't like fer her to go too fur
With such beauty and brains
she could leave this
town and make a place for herself.  The place is already made. She has
only to step into my carriage -- after perhaps a little preparation -- and
ride up the hill which I have had to climb so painfully.  It would be a
great pleasure to me to see her at the top. But of course it is
impossible -- a mere idle dream. YOUR claim comes first; her duty chains
her here
It would be so lonely without her
an' I
love her so -- my las' one
No doubt -- no doubt
of
course you love her. It's not to be thought of for a moment.  It's a
pity that she couldn't have a chance here -- but how could she!  I had
thought she might marry a gentleman, but I dare say she'll do as well
as the rest of her friends -- as well as Mary B., for instance, who
married -- Homer Pettifoot, did you say?  Or maybe Billy Oxendine might
do for her. As long as she has never known any better, she'll probably
be as well satisfied as though she married a rich man, and lived in a
fine house, and kept a carriage and servants, and moved with the best
in the land
O Lord
what shall I do with out her?  It'll be lonely,
John -- so lonely
You'll have your home, mother
You'll have your friends and relatives, and the
knowledge that your children are happy.  I'll let you hear from us
often, and no doubt you can see Rena now and then.  But you must let
her go, mother,-- it would be a sin against her to refuse
She may go
I'll not stand in her
way -- I've got sins enough to answer for already
She may go
I'll give
her up for her good
The table 's ready, mamma
Rena
how'd you like to go an' pay yo'r brother
John a visit?  I guess I might spare you for a little while
Are you sure you don't care, mamma
Oh, I'll manage to git along somehow or other. You can go an' stay
till you git homesick, an' then John'll let you come back home
Good-morning, Judge Straight
Good-morning, sir
You don't remember me, I imagine
Your face seems familiar
but I
cannot for the moment recall your name.  I shall be glad to have you
refresh my memory
I was John Walden, sir, when you knew me
Your old office-boy
Ah, indeed, so you were
Let me see -- you went away a few years before the war,
wasn't it
Yes, sir, to South Carolina
Yes, yes, I remember now!  I had been thinking it was to the North.
So many things have happened since then, that it taxes an old man's
memory to keep track of them all.  Well, well! and how have you been
getting along
And you married into a good family
Yes, sir
And have children
One
And you are visiting your mother
Not exactly.  I have seen her, but I am stopping at a hotel
H'm!  Are you staying long
I leave to-morrow
It's well enough.  I wouldn't stay too long. The people of a small
town are inquisitive about strangers, and some of them have long
memories. I remember we went over the law, which was in your favor; but
custom is stronger than law -- in these matters custom IS law.  It was a
great pity that your father did not make a will.  Well, my boy, I wish
you continued good luck; I imagined you would make your way
Right and wrong
must be eternal verities,
but our standards for measuring them vary with our latitude and our
epoch.  We make our customs lightly; once made, like our sins, they
grip us in bands of steel; we become the creatures of our creations.
By one standard my old office-boy should never have been born.  Yet he
is a son of Adam, and came into existence in the way ordained by God
from the beginning of the world. In equity he would seem to be entitled
to his chance in life; it might have been wiser, though, for him to
seek it farther afield than South Carolina.  It was too near home, even
though the laws were with him
Good-evenin', Peter
Good-evenin', ma'm
Frank
can I git you to do somethin' fer me
soon in the mo'nin
Yas 'm, I reckon so
W'at is it, Mis' Molly
My daughter 's goin' away on the boat, an' I 'lowed you would n' min'
totin' her kyarpet-bag down to the w'arf, onless you'd ruther haul it
down on yo'r kyart.  It ain't very heavy.  Of co'se I'll pay you fer
yo'r trouble
Thank y', ma'm
Is
she gwine fur
As fur as Wilmin'ton an' beyon'.  She'll be visitin' her brother John,
who lives in -- another State, an' wants her to come an' see him
Yas 'm, I'll come.  I won' need de kyart -- I'll tote de bag.  'Bout
w'at time shill I come over
Well, 'long 'bout seven o'clock or half pas'. She's goin' on the Old
North State, an' it leaves at eight
Ten' ter yo' wuk, boy, 'ten' ter yo' wuk.  You 're wastin' yo'
time -- wastin' yo' time
You ain't gwine ter be gone long, is you, Miss Rena
Oh, no, Frank, I reckon not.  I'm supposed to be just going on a short
visit.  My brother has lost his wife, and wishes me to come and stay
with him awhile, and look after his little boy
I'm feared you'll lack it better dere, Miss Rena
an' den you won't come
back, an' none er yo' frien's won't never see you no mo
You don't think, Frank
that I would leave my
mother and my home and all my friends, and NEVER come back again
Why, no 'ndeed
she'll be so homesick in a month that she'll be willin' to walk
home
You would n' never hafter do dat, Miss Rena
Ef you ever wanter come home, an' can't git back
no other way, jes' let ME know, an' I'll take my mule an' my kyart an'
fetch you back, ef it's from de een' er de worl
Thank you, Frank, I believe you would
You're
a true friend, Frank, and I'll not forget you while I'm gone
Good-by, Frank
I hope you and mamma
will be good friends while I'm gone
Po' chile
I reckon some er
her folks is dead, er her sweetheart 's gone back on her, er e'se she's
had some kin' er bad luck er 'nuther.  W'ite folks has deir troubles
jes' ez well ez black folks, an' sometimes feels 'em mo', 'cause dey
ain't ez use' ter 'em
Did your people lose any niggers
My father owned a hundred
an ancient and fishlike smell
Your son came in to see me the other day
He seems to
have got along
Oh, yes, judge, he's done fine, John has; an' he's took his sister
away with him
Ah
I hope she
may do as well
Thank you, sir
We've
always knowed that you were our friend and wished us well
It is a pity
that men cannot select their
mothers.  My young friend John has builded, whether wisely or not, very
well; but he has come back into the old life and carried away a part of
it, and I fear that this addition will weaken the structure
Ivanhoe
bleachers
It's my first tournament
It is somewhat
different from Ashby-de-la-Zouch
It is the renaissance of chivalry, Mrs. Newberry
and, like any other renaissance, it must adapt itself to new
times and circumstances.  For instance, when we build a Greek portico,
having no Pentelic marble near at hand, we use a pine-tree, one of
nature's columns, which Grecian art at its best could only copy and
idealize.  Our knights are not weighted down with heavy armor, but much
more appropriately attired, for a day like this, in costumes that
recall the picturesqueness, without the discomfort, of the old knightly
harness.  For an iron-headed lance we use a wooden substitute, with
which we transfix rings instead of hearts; while our trusty blades hew
their way through wooden blocks instead of through flesh and blood.  It
is a South Carolina renaissance which has points of advantage over the
tournaments of the olden time
I'm afraid, Mr. Warwick
that you're the least bit
heretical about our chivalry -- or else you're a little too deep for me
The last would be impossible, Mrs. Newberry; and I'm sure our chivalry
has proved its valor on many a hard-fought field.  The spirit of a
thing, after all, is what counts; and what is lacking here?  We have
the lists, the knights, the prancing steeds, the trial of strength and
skill.  If our knights do not run the physical risks of
Ashby-de-la-Zouch, they have all the mental stimulus. Wounded vanity
will take the place of wounded limbs, and there will be broken hopes in
lieu of broken heads.  How many hearts in yonder group of gallant
horsemen beat high with hope!  How many possible Queens of Love and
Beauty are in this group of fair faces that surround us
Yas, suh, yas, suh, it's her
It's Miss Rena,
sho's you bawn.  She looked lack a' angel befo', but now, up dere
'mongs' all dem rich, fine folks, she looks lack a whole flock er
angels.  Dey ain' one er dem ladies w'at could hol' a candle ter her.
I wonder w'at dat man's gwine ter do wid her handkercher?  I s'pose
he's her gent'eman now.  I wonder ef she'd know me er speak ter me ef
she seed me? I reckon she would, spite er her gittin' up so in de
worl'; fer she wuz alluz good ter ev'ybody, an' dat let even ME in
Who is the lady, Tryon
A Miss Warwick
Miss Rowena Warwick,
the lawyer's sister
I didn't know he had a sister
I envy
you your lady.  There are six Rebeccas and eight Rowenas of my own
acquaintance in the grand stand, but she throws them all into the
shade.  She hasn't been here long, surely; I haven't seen her before
She has been away at school; she came only last night
Who is he, John
That, my dear Rowena, is my good friend and client, George Tryon, of
North Carolina.  If he had been a stranger, I should have said that he
took a liberty; but as things stand, we ought to regard it as a
compliment.  The incident is quite in accord with the customs of
chivalry.  If George were but masked and you were veiled, we should
have a romantic situation,-- you the mysterious damsel in distress, he
the unknown champion.  The parallel, my dear, might not be so hard to
draw, even as things are.  But look, it is his turn now; I'll wager
that he makes a good run
I'll take you up on that, Mr. Warwick
It will be your privilege, Sir George
as the
chief reward of your valor, to select from the assembled beauty of
Clarence the lady whom you wish to honor, to whom we will all do homage
as the Queen of Love and Beauty
Oyez! Oyez
Sir George Tryon, the victor in the
tournament, has chosen Miss Rowena Warwick as the Queen of Love and
Beauty, and she will be crowned at the feast to-night and receive the
devoirs of all true knights
I suppose John would have a right to call me out, Miss Warwick
for taking liberties with the property and name of a
lady to whom I had not had an introduction; but I know John so well
that you seemed like an old acquaintance; and when I saw you, and
recalled your name, which your brother had mentioned more than once, I
felt instinctively that you ought to be the queen.  I entered my name
only yesterday, merely to swell the number and make the occasion more
interesting. These fellows have been practicing for a month, and I had
no hope of winning.  I should have been satisfied, indeed, if I hadn't
made myself ridiculous; but when you dropped your handkerchief, I felt
a sudden inspiration; and as soon as I had tied it upon my lance,
victory perched upon my saddle-bow, guided my lance and sword, and
rings and balls went down before me like chaff before the wind.  Oh, it
was a great inspiration, Miss Warwick
We'll forgive you, George
if you'll come home to
luncheon with us
I'm mighty sorry -- awfully sorry
but I have another engagement, which I can scarcely break, even by the
command of royalty.  At what time shall I call for Miss Warwick this
evening?  I believe that privilege is mine, along with the other honors
and rewards of victory,-- unless she is bound to some one else
She is entirely free
Come as early as you like,
and I'll talk to you until she's ready
Well, Rena
you have
arrived.  Your debut into society is a little more spectacular than I
should have wished, but we must rise to the occasion and make the most
of it.  You are winning the first fruits of your opportunity.  You are
the most envied woman in Clarence at this particular moment, and,
unless I am mistaken, will be the most admired at the ball to-night
Now, my dear
the first thing to do is to get
your coronation robe ready.  It simply means a gown with a long train.
You have a lovely white waist.  Get right into my buggy, and we'll go
down town to get the cloth, take it over to Mrs. Marshall's, and have
her run you up a skirt this afternoon
You're doing splendidly, my dear
I trust your Gracious Majesty is pleased with the homage of your
devoted subjects
Very much
Keep up your courage
You are not only queen,
but the belle of the ball.  I am proud of you.  A dozen women here
would give a year off the latter end of life to be in your shoes
to-night
Good-night, fair Queen
and let your loyal subject
kiss your hand in token of his fealty.  May your Majesty never abdicate
her throne, and may she ever count me her humble servant and devoted
knight
And now, sister
now
that the masquerade is over, let us to sleep, and to-morrow take up the
serious business of life.  Your day has been a glorious success
It is a dream
only a dream.  I am Cinderella
before the clock has struck.  Good-night, dear John
Good-night, Rowena
Dat chile sutt'nly do lub Miss Rena, an' dat's a fac', sho 's you
bawn
Miss Warwick -- Rowena
I love you!  Do you -- love me
Well, children
you are late in
getting home from church.  The sermon must have been extremely long
We have been attending an after-meeting
and
have been discussing an old text, 'Little children, love one another,'
and its corollary, 'It is not good for man to live alone.'  John, I am
the happiest man alive.  Your sister has promised to marry me.  I
should like to shake my brother's hand
My dear George -- my dear sister
I am very, very glad.
I wish you every happiness.  My sister is the most fortunate of women
And I am the luckiest of men
I wish you every happiness
I
hope that neither of you may ever regret your choice
Can we not love each other for a while
To be engaged is
a pleasure that comes but once; it would be a pity to cut it too short
It is a pleasure that I would cheerfully dispense with
for the certainty of possession. I want you all to myself, and all the
time.  Things might happen.  If I should die, for instance, before I
married you
Oh, don't suppose such awful things
I should consider
that my life
had been a failure
If I should die
I should die happy in the knowledge
that you had loved me
In three weeks
I shall have finished my business in
Clarence, and there will be but one thing to keep me here.  When shall
it be? I must take you home with me
I will let you know
in a week
from to-day
I'll call your attention to the subject every day in the mean time
I shouldn't like you to forget it
Would he have loved me at all
if he had known
the story of my past? Or, having loved me, could he blame me now for
what I cannot help
The sins
of the fathers shall be visited upon the children
He says that he loves me.  He DOES love me. Would he love me, if he
knew
I think a man might love me for myself
and if he loved me truly, that he would marry me.  If he would not
marry me, then it would be because he didn't love me. I'll tell George
my secret.  If he leaves me, then he does not love me
Well, Rena, dear
what's the matter?  Is
there anything you want -- money, or what?  I should like to have
Aladdin's lamp -- though I'd hardly need it -- that you might have no wish
unsatisfied
Thank you, John.  You give me already more than I need.  It is
something else, John.  George wants me to say when I will marry him.  I
am afraid to marry him, without telling him.  If he should find out
afterwards, he might cast me off, or cease to love me.  If he did not
know it, I should be forever thinking of what he would do if he SHOULD
find it out; or, if I should die without his having learned it, I
should not rest easy in my grave for thinking of what he would have
done if he HAD found it out
How long have these weighty thoughts been troubling your small head
Since he asked me last night to name our wedding day
My dear child
But would he marry me if he knew
My dear sister
why should he know?  We haven't asked
him for his pedigree; we don't care to know it.  If he cares for ours,
he should ask for it, and it would then be time enough to raise the
question.  You love him, I imagine, and wish to make him happy
Yes, oh, yes
I'm afraid he'd be unhappy if he knew, and it would
make me miserable to think him unhappy
Well, then
suppose we should tell him our secret and
put ourselves in his power, and that he should then conclude that he
couldn't marry you?  Do you imagine he would be any happier than he is
now, or than if he should never know
Please, suh
de baby 's be'n oryin'
an' frettin' fer Miss Rena, an' I 'lowed she mought want me ter fetch
'im, ef it wouldn't 'sturb her
Give me the darling
It wants its auntie.  Come to its auntie, bless
its little heart
You wouldn't want to make George unhappy
Very well; would you not be willing, for his sake, to
keep a secret -- your secret and mine, and that of the innocent child in
your arms?  Would you involve all of us in difficulties merely to
secure your own peace of mind?  Doesn't such a course seem just the
least bit selfish?  Think the matter over from that point of view, and
we'll speak of it later in the day.  I shall be with George all the
morning, and I may be able, by a little management, to find out his
views on the subject of birth and family, and all that.  Some men are
very liberal, and love is a great leveler.  I'll sound him, at any
rate
I am anxious, John
to have Rowena name the
happiest day of my life -- our wedding day.  When the trial in Edgecombe
County is finished, I shall have no further business here, and shall be
ready to leave for home. I should like to take my bride with me, and
surprise my mother
Are you sure, George, that your mother will find the surprise
agreeable when you bring home a bride of whom you know so little and
your mother nothing at all
I think you ought to know, George
that my sister and I are not of an old
family, or a rich family, or a distinguished family; that she can bring
you nothing but herself; that we have no connections of which you could
boast, and no relatives to whom we should be glad to introduce you.
You must take us for ourselves alone -- we are new people
My dear John
there is a great deal of
nonsense about families.  If a man is noble and brave and strong, if a
woman is beautiful and good and true, what matters it about his or her
ancestry?  If an old family can give them these things, then it is
valuable; if they possess them without it, then of what use is it,
except as a source of empty pride, which they would be better without?
If all new families were like yours, there would be no advantage in
belonging to an old one.  All I care to know of Rowena's family is that
she is your sister; and you'll pardon me, old fellow, if I add that she
hardly needs even you,-- she carries the stamp of her descent upon her
face and in her heart
It makes me glad to hear you speak in that way
Oh, I mean every word of it
Ancestors, indeed, for
Rowena!  I will tell you a family secret, John, to prove how little I
care for ancestors.  My maternal great-great-grandfather, a hundred and
fifty years ago, was hanged, drawn, and quartered for stealing cattle
across the Scottish border.  How is that for a pedigree?  Behold in me
the lineal descendant of a felon
Well, Rena
I've
sounded George
What did he say
I told him we were people of no family, and that we had no relatives
that we were proud of. He said he loved you for yourself, and would
never ask you about your ancestry
Oh, I am so glad
Never mind, Mimy, leave him with me
Rena, darling
when shall it be?  Surely you won't
ask me to wait a week. Why, that's a lifetime
You say you love me
How much do you love me
I love you all one can love.  True love has no degrees; it is all or
nothing
Would you love me
if I were Albert's
nurse yonder
If you were Albert's nurse
he
would have to find another within a week, for within a week we should
be married
And now, darling
will you not fix the day that shall
make me happy?  I shall be ready to go away in three weeks.  Will you
go with me
Yes
This week will seem like a year
but I'll write every day, and shall expect a
letter as often
The mail goes only twice a week, George
Then I shall have three letters in each mail
John
I dreamed last night
that mother was ill
Dreams, you know, Rena
go by contraries.
Yours undoubtedly signifies that our mother, God bless her simple soul!
is at the present moment enjoying her usual perfect health.  She was
never sick in her life
Rena, my darlin', why did you forsake yo'r pore old mother?  Come back
to me, honey; I'll die ef I don't see you soon
By Jove
why
shouldn't I run up to Patesville while Rena's gone?  I can leave here
at five o'clock, and get there some time to-morrow morning.  I can
transact my business during the day, and get back the day after
to-morrow; for Rena might return ahead of time, just as we did, and I
shall want to be here when she comes; I'd rather wait a year for a
legal opinion on a doubtful old note than to lose one day with my love.
The train goes in twenty minutes.  My bag is already packed.  I'll just
drop a line to George and tell him where I've gone
No, suh
he
ain't be'n here yet, suh
De baby 's be'n cryin' for Miss Rena
an' I
s'pec' he'd like to see you, suh.  Shall I fetch 'im
Yes, bring him to me
He may easily be in Patesville a day or two without meeting her.  She
will spend most of her time at mother's bedside, and he will be
occupied with his own affairs
Will he or will he not
Heads, he sees her; tails, he does
not
On the corner, sir
by the market-house, just
over the drugstore.  The doctor drove past here only half an hour ago.
You'll probably catch him in his office
No, suh
he ain't hyuh now.
He's gone out to see a patient, suh, but he'll be back soon.  Won't you
set down in de private office an' wait fer 'im, suh
Yes
I'll wait
C. S. A
U. S. A
Is Dr. Green in?  No?  Ask him, when he comes back, please, to call at
our house as soon as he can
Was there some one here
Yas, suh
a young cullud 'oman wuz in jes' now,
axin' fer de doctuh
My dear boy
I'm delighted to meet you -- or any one of the old
blood. Your mother and I were sweethearts, long ago, when we both wore
pinafores, and went to see our grandfather at Christmas; and I met her
more than once, and paid her more than one compliment, after she had
grown to be a fine young woman. You're like her! too, but not quite so
handsome -- you've more of what I suppose to be the Tryon favor, though I
never met your father.  So one of old Duncan McSwayne's notes went so
far as that? Well, well, I don't know where you won't find them.  One
of them turned up here the other day from New York.

"The man you want to see
is old
Judge Straight.  He's getting somewhat stiff in the joints, but he
knows more law, and more about the McSwayne estate, than any other two
lawyers in town.  If anybody can collect your claim, Judge Straight
can.  I'll send my boy Dave over to his office.  Dave
run over to Judge Straight's office and see if he's
there.

"There was a freshet here a few weeks ago
and they had to open the flood-gates and let
the water out of the mill pond, for if the dam had broken, as it did
twenty years ago, it would have washed the pillars from under the
judge's office and let it down in the creek, and
Jedge Straight ain't in de office jes' now, suh
Did you ask when he'd be back
No, suh, you didn't tell me ter, suh
Well, now, go back and inquire
The niggers
are getting mighty trifling
since they've been freed. Before the war, that boy would have been
around there and back before you could say Jack Robinson; now, the lazy
rascal takes his time just like a white man
Jedge
Straight's dere now, suh
He's done come in
I'll take you right around and introduce you
I don't know whether
the judge ever met your mother or not, but he knows a gentleman when he
sees one, and will be glad to meet you and look after your affair.  See
to the patients, Dave, and say I'll be back shortly, and don't forget
any messages left for me.  Look sharp, now!  You know your failing
No
I never
met his mother; I was a generation ahead of her.  I was at school with
her father, however, fifty years ago -- fifty years ago! No doubt that
seems to you a long time, young gentleman
It is a long time, sir
I must live more than twice
as long as I have in order to cover it
A long time, and a troubled time
I could wish
that I might see this unhappy land at peace with itself before I die.
Things are in a sad tangle; I can't see the way out.  But the worst
enemy has been slain, in spite of us.  We are well rid of slavery
But the negro we still have with us
for here
comes my man Dave.  What is it, Dave
Doctuh Green
I fuhgot ter tell you, suh, dat dat young
'oman wuz at de office agin jes' befo' you come in, an' said fer you to
go right down an' see her mammy ez soon ez you could
Ah, yes, and you've just remembered it!  I'm afraid you're entirely
too forgetful for a doctor's office.  You forgot about old Mrs.
Latimer, the other day, and when I got there she had almost choked to
death.  Now get back to the office, and remember, the next time you
forget anything, I'll hire another boy; remember that!  That boy's
head
reminds me
of nothing so much as a dried gourd, with a handful of cowpeas rattling
around it, in lieu of gray matter.  An old woman out in Redbank got a
fishbone in her throat, the other day, and nearly choked to death
before I got there.  A white woman, sir, came very near losing her life
because of a lazy, trifling negro
I should think you would discharge him, sir
What would be the use
All negroes are alike,
except that now and then there's a pretty woman along the border-line.
Take this patient of mine, for instance,-- I'll call on her after
dinner, her case is not serious,-- thirty years ago she would have made
any man turn his head to look at her.  You know who I mean, don't you,
judge
Yes.  I think so
I've transacted a little
business for her now and then
I don't know whether you've seen the daughter or not -- I'm sure you
haven't for the past year or so, for she's been away.  But she's in
town now, and, by Jove, the girl is really beautiful. And I'm a judge
of beauty.  Do you remember my wife thirty years ago, judge
She was a very handsome woman, Ed
If
I had been twenty years younger, I should have cut you out
You mean you would have tried.  But as I was saying, this girl is a
beauty; I reckon we might guess where she got some of it, eh, Judge?
Human nature is human nature, but it's a d -- d shame that a man should
beget a child like that and leave it to live the life open for a negro.
If she had been born white, the young fellows would be tumbling over
one another to get her.  Her mother would have to look after her pretty
closely as things are, if she stayed here; but she disappeared
mysteriously a year or two ago, and has been at the North, I'm told,
passing for white. She'll probably marry a Yankee; he won't know any
better, and it will serve him right -- she's only too white for them.
She has a very striking figure, something on the Greek order, stately
and slow-moving.  She has the manners of a lady, too -- a beautiful
woman, if she is a nigger
I quite agree with you, Ed
that the
mother had better look closely after the daughter
Ah, no, judge
my
admiration for beauty is purely abstract.  Twenty-five years ago, when
I was younger
When you were young
When you and I were younger
twenty-five years ago, I could not have answered for
myself.  But I would advise the girl to stay at the North, if she can.
She's certainly out of place around here
You'll find everything there, sir,-- the note, the contract, and some
correspondence that will give you the hang of the thing.  Will you be
able to look over them to-day?  I should like
to go back to-morrow
What
insult our town by staying
only one day?  It won't be long enough to get acquainted with our young
ladies.  Patesville girls are famous for their beauty.  But perhaps
there's a loadstone in South Carolina to draw you back?  Ah, you change
color! To my mind there's nothing finer than the ingenuous blush of
youth.  But we'll spare you if you'll answer one question -- is it
serious
I'm to be married in two weeks, sir
Good boy
You ought to have married a Patesville girl, but
you people down towards the eastern counties seldom come this way, and
we are evidently too late to catch you
I'll look your papers over this morning
and when I
come from dinner will stop at the court house and examine the records
and see whether there's anything we can get hold of.  If you'll drop in
around three or four o'clock, I may be able to give you an opinion
Now, George
we'll go back to the office for a
spell, and then I'll take you home with me to luncheon
Oh, you must come!  Mrs. Green would never forgive me if I didn't
bring you.  Strangers are rare birds in our society, and when they come
we make them welcome.  Our enemies may overturn our institutions, and
try to put the bottom rail on top, but they cannot destroy our Southern
hospitality. There are so many carpet-baggers and other social vermin
creeping into the South, with the Yankees trying to force the niggers
on us, that it's a genuine pleasure to get acquainted with another real
Southern gentleman, whom one can invite into one's house without fear
of contamination, and before whom one can express his feelings freely
and be sure of perfect sympathy
It is the Walden woman's daughter, as sure as fate!  Her name is Rena.
Her brother goes by the name of Warwick.  She has come to visit her
sick mother.  My young client, Green's relation, is her lover -- is
engaged to marry her -- is in town, and is likely to meet her
Well, here we are again, as the clown in the circus remarks
Ten years ago, in a moment of sentimental weakness and of
quixotic loyalty to the memory of an old friend,-- who, by the way, had
not cared enough for his own children to take them away from the South,
as he might have done, or to provide for them handsomely, as he perhaps
meant to do,-- I violated the traditions of my class and stepped from
the beaten path to help the misbegotten son of my old friend out of the
slough of despond, in which he had learned, in some strange way, that
he was floundering.  Ten years later, the ghost of my good deed returns
to haunt me, and makes me doubt whether I have wrought more evil than
good.  I wonder
if he will find her out
If he found her out, would he by any possibility marry her
It is not likely
If he made the discovery
here, the facts would probably leak out in the town.  It is something
that a man might do in secret, but only a hero or a fool would do
openly
It may be the unwisest thing I ever did
and may result in more harm
than good; but I was always from childhood in sympathy with the under
dog.  There is certainly as much reason in my helping the girl as the
boy, for being a woman, she is less able to help herself
Mrs.
Molly Walden
Here, Billy
take this to Mis'
Molly Walden.  Do you know where she lives -- down on Front Street, in
the house behind the cedars
Yas, suh, I knows de place
Make haste, now.  When you come back and tell me what she says, I'll
give you ten cents.  On second thoughts, I shall be gone to lunch, so
here's your money
Laws-a-massy
what is it
It's a lettuh, ma'm
Who's it fur
It's fuh you, ma'm
An' who's it from
F'm ole Jedge Straight, ma'm.  He tole me ter fetch it ter you.  Is
you got a roasted 'tater you could gimme, ma'm
Shorely, chile.  I'll have Aunt Zilphy fetch you a piece of 'tater
pone, if you'll hol' on a minute
I wonder
what old Judge Straight can be writin' to me about.  Oh,
boy
Yas 'm
Can you read writin
No 'm
All right.  Never mind
I
reckon it's somethin' mo' 'bout the taxes
or maybe
somebody wants to buy one er my lots.  Rena'll be back terreckly, an'
she kin read it an' find out. I'm glad my child'en have be'n to school.
They never could have got where they are now if they hadn't
Now 's de time, boy, fer you ter be lookin' roun' fer some nice gal er
yo' own color, w'at'll 'preciate you, an' won't be 'shamed er you.
You're wastin' time, boy, wastin' time, shootin' at a mark outer yo'
range
I would n' want ter skeer her
er make her feel bad, an'
dat's w'at I'd mos' lackly do ef she seed me.  She'll be better off wid
me out'n de road.  She'll marry dat rich w'ite gent'eman,-- he won't
never know de diffe'nce,-- an' be a w'ite lady, ez she would 'a' be'n,
ef some ole witch had n' changed her in her cradle.  But maybe some
time she'll 'member de little nigger w'at use' ter nuss her w'en she
woz a chile, an' fished her out'n de ole canal, an' would 'a' died fer
her ef it would 'a' done any good
Ef dat man sees her in dis town
dere'll be
trouble.  She don't know HE'S here, an' I'll bet he don't know SHE'S
here
If she's found out
she'll come back to her
mother, and you can see her every day
Is Miss Rena here
No, Frank; she went up town 'bout an hour ago to see the doctor an'
git me some camphor gum
I wonder what in the worl 's the matter with Frank
Ef he hadn't be'n in such a hurry, I'd 'a' axed him
to read Judge Straight's letter.  But Rena'll be home soon
Yas
she wuz here a little w'ile ago, an' said she wuz
gwine downstairs ter de drugsto'.  I would n' be s'prise' ef you'd fin'
her dere now
The Hill
Is he well off, Ed
Lots of land, and plenty of money, if he is ever able to collect it.
He has inherited two estates
He's a good-looking fellow
Is he married
There you go again
To a woman with marriageable daughters all roads
lead to matrimony, the centre of a woman's universe.  All men must be
sized up by their matrimonial availability.  No, he isn't married
That's nice
I think we ought to ask him
to stay with us while he is in town, don't you
He's not married
but the next best
thing -- he's engaged
Come to think of it
I'm afraid we wouldn't have the
room to spare, and the girls would hardly have time to entertain him.
But we'll have him up several times.  I like his looks.  I wish you had
sent me word he was coming; I'd have had a better luncheon
Make him a salad
and get out a bottle of the
best claret.  Thank God, the Yankees didn't get into my wine cellar!
The young man must be treated with genuine Southern hospitality,-- even
if he were a Mormon and married ten times over
Indeed, he would not, Ed,-- the idea!  I'm ashamed of you.  Hurry back
to the parlor and talk to him.  The girls may want to primp a little
before luncheon; we don't have a young man every day
Beauty unadorned
is adorned the most.  My
profession qualifies me to speak upon the subject.  They are the two
handsomest young women in Patesville, and the daughters of the most
beautiful
Don't you dare to say the word
I shall never grow old while I am living with a big boy
like you.  But I must go and make the salad
lost cause
I was offered a thousand acres, the other day, at twenty-five cents an
acre
The owner is so land-poor that he can't
pay the taxes.  They have taken our negroes and our liberties.  It may
be better for our grandchildren that the negroes are free, but it's
confoundedly hard on us to take them without paying for them.  They may
exalt our slaves over us temporarily, but they have not broken our
spirit, and cannot take away our superiority of blood and breeding.  In
time we shall regain control.  The negro is an inferior creature; God
has marked him with the badge of servitude, and has adjusted his
intellect to a servile condition.  We will not long submit to his
domination.  I give you a toast, sir:  The Anglo-Saxon race: may it
remain forever, as now, the head and front of creation, never yielding
its rights, and ready always to die, if need be, in defense of its
liberties
With all my heart, sir
with
all my heart, sir, if the ladies will permit me
We will join you
And now, my dear George
to change one good
subject for another, tell us who is the favored lady
A Miss Rowena Warwick, sir
A good, strong old English name
The heroine of 'Ivanhoe
Warwick the Kingmaker
Is she tall and fair, and
dignified and stately
She is tall, dark rather than fair, and full of tender grace and sweet
humility
She should have been named Rebecca instead of Rowena
Tell us something about her people
Her brother is the most prominent lawyer of Clarence.  They live in a
fine old family mansion, and are among the best people of the town
Quite right, my boy
None but the best are good
enough for the best. You must bring her to Patesville some day.  But
bless my life
I must be going.
Will you stay with the ladies awhile, or go back down town with me
I think I had better go with you, sir.  I shall have to see Judge
Straight
Very well.  But you must come back to supper, and we'll have a few
friends in to meet you. You must see some of the best people
There's a man here, doctor, who's been taken suddenly ill.  Can you
come in a minute
I suppose I'll have to.  Will you wait for me here, George, or will
you drive down to the office?  I can walk the rest of the way
I think I'll wait here, doctor
I'll step up to my
room a moment.  I'll be back by the time you're ready
Anything wanted, Dave
Dat young 'oman's be'n heah ag'in, suh, an' wants ter see you bad.
She's in de drugstore dere now, suh.  Bless Gawd
I 'membered dat.  Dis yer recommemb'ance er mine is gwine
ter git me inter trouble ef I don' look out, an' dat's a fac', sho
Just keep your seat, George
until I have
spoken to the young woman, and then we'll go across to Straight's.  Or,
if you'll drive along a little farther, you can see the girl through
the window.  She's worth the trouble, if you like a pretty face
Is the doctor in
No, suh
he's gone ter see de young cullud gal w'at
fainted w'en de doctah was wid you yistiddy
Can you tell me who lives there
A callud 'oman, suh
Mis' Molly
Walden an' her daughter Rena
old issue free
negroes
Sir, I want to be a lawyer
God bless me
It is a singular desire, from a
singular source, and expressed in a singular way.  Who the devil are
you, sir, that wish so strange a thing as to become a
lawyer -- everybody's servant
And everybody's master, sir
That is a matter of opinion, and open to argument
though there may be a grain of truth in what you say. But what is your
name, Mr. Would-be-lawyer
John Walden, sir
John Walden?-- Walden
What Walden can that be?  Do
you belong in town
Yes, sir
Humph!  I can't imagine who you are.  It's plain that you are a lad of
good blood, and yet I don't know whose son you can be.  What is your
father's name
It is a wise son
that knows his own father.  He is a bright lad, and will have
this question put to him more than once.  I'll see how he will answer
it
My father's dead
I'm Mis' Molly
Walden's son
God bless my soul
and you want to be a lawyer
Yes, sir.  Why not
He wants to be a lawyer, and he asks me why not
Archie, I'm coming in to have you draw my will.  There are some
children for whom I would like to make ample provision.  I can't give
them anything else, but money will make them free of the world
Why, indeed, should he not be a lawyer, or anything else that a man
might be, if it be in him
Sit down
You want to be a lawyer
You
are aware, of course, that you are a negro
I am white
and I am free, as all my people were before me
You are black
and you are not
free.  You cannot travel without your papers; you cannot secure
accommodations at an inn; you could not vote, if you were of age; you
cannot be out after nine o'clock without a permit.  If a white man
struck you, you could not return the blow, and you could not testify
against him in a court of justice. You are black, my lad, and you are
not free.  Did you ever hear of the Dred Scott decision, delivered by
the great, wise, and learned Judge Taney
No, sir
It is too long to read
but it says in substance, as
quoted by this author, that negroes are beings 'of an inferior order,
and altogether unfit to associate with the white race, either in social
or political relations; in fact, so inferior that they have no rights
which the white man is bound to respect, and that the negro may justly
and lawfully be reduced to slavery for his benefit.'  That is the law
of this nation, and that is the reason why you cannot be a lawyer
It may all be true
but it don't apply to me.  It
says 'the negro.'  A negro is black; I am white, and not black
Black as ink, my lad
One
touch of nature makes the whole world kin,' says the poet.  Somewhere,
sometime, you had a black ancestor.  One drop of black blood makes the
whole man black
Why shouldn't it be the other way, if the white blood is so much
superior
Because it is more convenient as it is -- and more profitable
It is not right
God bless me
he is invading the field
of ethics!  He will be questioning the righteousness of slavery next!
I'm afraid you wouldn't make a good lawyer, in any event.  Lawyers go
by the laws -- they abide by the accomplished fact; to them, whatever is,
is right. The laws do not permit men of color to practice law, and
public sentiment would not allow one of them to study it
I had thought
that I might pass for white.  There are
white people darker than I am
Ah, well, that is another matter; but
That is another matter
Here you have started as
black, and must remain so. But if you wish to move away, and sink your
past into oblivion, the case might be different.  Let us see what the
law is; you might not need it if you went far enough, but it is well
enough to be within it -- liberty is sweeter when founded securely on the
law
The
color line is drawn in North Carolina at four generations removed from
the negro; there have been judicial decisions to that effect.  I
imagine that would cover your case.  But let us see what South Carolina
may say about it
I think the law
is even more liberal there.  Ah, this is the place:--

"'The term mulatto
is not invariably applicable to every
admixture of African blood with the European, nor is one having all the
features of a white to be ranked with the degraded class designated by
the laws of this State as persons of color, because of some remote
taint of the negro race.  Juries would probably be justified in holding
a person to be white in whom the admixture of African blood did not
exceed one eighth.  And even where color or feature are doubtful, it is
a question for the jury to decide by reputation, by reception into
society, and by their exercise of the privileges of the white man, as
well as by admixture of blood
Then I need not be black
No
you need not be black, away from Patesville.
You have the somewhat unusual privilege, it seems, of choosing between
two races, and if you are a lad of spirit, as I think you are, it will
not take you long to make your choice.  As you have all the features of
a white man, you would, at least in South Carolina, have simply to
assume the place and exercise the privileges of a white man.  You
might, of course, do the same thing anywhere, as long as no one knew
your origin.  But the matter has been adjudicated there in several
cases, and on the whole I think South Carolina is the place for you.
They're more liberal there, perhaps because they have many more blacks
than whites, and would like to lessen the disproportion
From this time on
I am white
Softly, softly, my Caucasian fellow citizen
You are white in the abstract, before
the law.  You may cherish the fact in secret, but I would not advise
you to proclaim it openly just yet.  You must wait until you go
away -- to South Carolina
And can I learn to be a lawyer, sir
It seems to me that you ought to be reasonably content for one day
with what you have learned already.  You cannot be a lawyer until you
are white, in position as well as in theory, nor until you are
twenty-one years old.  I need an office boy.  If you are willing to
come into my office, sweep it, keep my books dusted, and stay here when
I am out, I do not care.  To the rest of the town you will be my
servant, and still a negro.  If you choose to read my books when no one
is about and be white in your own private opinion, I have no objection.
When you have made up your mind to go away, perhaps what you have read
may help you.  But mum 's the word! If I hear a whisper of this from
any other source, out you go, neck and crop!  I am willing to help you
make a man of yourself, but it can only be done under the rose
Nev' min', sis
Be a good little gal, an' some
o' these days I'll come back to see you and bring you somethin' fine
He's gone over on the other side
Oh, it was cruel, cruel
I shall never get over it
I know it, my dear
I know it, and I'm
to blame for it.  If I had never taken you away from here, you would
have escaped this painful experience.  But do not despair; all is not
lost.  Tryon will not marry you, as I hoped he might, while I feared
the contrary; but he is a gentleman, and will be silent. Come back and
try again
No, John.  I couldn't go through it a second time.  I managed very
well before, when I thought our secret was unknown; but now I could
never be sure.  It would be borne on every wind, for aught I knew, and
every rustling leaf might whisper it.  The law, you said, made us
white; but not the law, nor even love, can conquer prejudice.  HE spoke
of my beauty, my grace, my sweetness!  I looked into his eyes and
believed him.  And yet he left me without a word!  What would I do in
Clarence now?  I came away engaged to be married, with even the day
set; I should go back forsaken and discredited; even the servants would
pity me
Little Albert is pining for you
We could make
some explanation that would spare your feelings
Ah, do not tempt me, John!  I love the child, and am grieved to leave
him.  I'm grateful, too, John, for what you have done for me.  I am not
sorry that I tried it.  It opened my eyes, and I would rather die of
knowledge than live in ignorance. But I could not go through it again,
John; I am not strong enough.  I could do you no good; I have made you
trouble enough already.  Get a mother for Albert -- Mrs. Newberry would
marry you, secret and all, and would be good to the child. Forget me,
John, and take care of yourself.  Your friend has found you out through
me -- he may have told a dozen people.  You think he will be silent;-- I
thought he loved me, and he left me without a word, and with a look
that told me how he hated and despised me.  I would not have believed
it -- even of a white man
You do him an injustice
He did not get off unscathed.  He sent you a message
He
did not love me
or he would
not have cast me off -- he would not have looked at me so.  The law would
have let him marry me.  I seemed as white as he did.  He might have
gone anywhere with me, and no one would have stared at us curiously; no
one need have known.  The world is wide -- there must be some place where
a man could live happily with the woman he loved
Yes, Rena, there is; and the world is wide enough for you to get along
without Tryon
For a day or two
I hoped he might come back.  But his
expression in that awful moment grew upon me, haunted me day and night,
until I shuddered at the thought that I might ever see him again.  He
looked at me as though I were not even a human being.  I do not love
him any longer, John; I would not marry him if I were white, or he were
as I am.  He did not love me -- or he would have acted differently.  He
might have loved me and have left me -- he could not have loved me and
have looked at me so
If you won't come back with me, Rena, I'll send you to some school at
the North, where you can acquire a liberal education, and prepare
yourself for some career of usefulness.  You may marry a better man
than even Tryon
No
I shall never marry any man, and I'll not
leave mother again.  God is against it; I'll stay with my own people
God has nothing to do with it
God is too often a
convenient stalking-horse for human selfishness.  If there is anything
to be done, so unjust, so despicable, so wicked that human reason
revolts at it, there is always some smug hypocrite to exclaim, 'It is
the will of God
God made us all
and for some good purpose,
though we may not always see it.  He made some people white, and
strong, and masterful, and -- heartless.  He made others black and
homely, and poor and weak
And a lot of others 'poor white' and shiftless
He made us, too
and He
must have had a reason for it.  Perhaps He meant us to bring the others
together in his own good time.  A man may make a new place for
himself -- a woman is born and bound to hers.  God must have meant me to
stay here, or He would not have sent me back.  I shall accept things as
they are.  Why should I seek the society of people whose
friendship -- and love -- one little word can turn to scorn?  I was right,
John; I ought to have told him.  Suppose he had married me and then had
found it out
Listen, Rena
we'll go to the North
or West -- I'll go with you -- far away from the South and the Southern
people, and start life over again.  It will be easier for you, it will
not be hard for me -- I am young, and have means.  There are no strong
ties to bind me to the South.  I would have a larger outlook elsewhere
And what about our mother
I left her once
and it brought pain and sorrow to all
three of us.  She is not strong, and I will not leave her here to die
alone. This shall be my home while she lives, and if I leave it again,
it shall be for only a short time, to go where I can write to her
freely, and hear from her often.  Don't worry about me, John,-- I shall
do very well
Well, then
we'll say no more
about it for the present.  I'll write to you later.  I was afraid that
you might not care to go back just now, and so I brought your trunk
along with me
Lawd, no, Mis' Molly; I did n' hafter go out'n my way ter git dat
trunk.  I had a load er sperrit-bairls ter haul ter de still, an' de
depot wuz right on my way back.  It'd be robbin' you ter take pay fer a
little thing lack dat
My son John's here
an' he wants to see you.  Come
into the settin'-room. We don't want folks to know he's in town; but
you know all our secrets, an' we can trust you like one er the family
I'm glad to see you again, Frank
You've grown up since I saw you last,
but it seems you are still our good friend
Our very good friend
Yas, suh
an' you is growed some, too.  I seed
you, you know, down dere where you live; but I did n' let on, fer you
an' Mis' Rena wuz w'ite as anybody; an' eve'ybody said you wuz good ter
cullud folks, an' he'ped 'em in deir lawsuits an' one way er 'nuther,
an' I wuz jes' plum' glad ter see you gettin' 'long so fine, dat I wuz,
certain sho', an' no mistake about it
Thank you, Frank, and I want you to understand how much I appreciate
How much we all appreciate
Yes, how much we all appreciate, and how grateful we all are for your
kindness to mother for so many years.  I know from her and from my
sister how good you've been to them
Lawd, suh
you're makin' a mountain
out'n a molehill.  I ain't done nuthin' ter speak of -- not half ez much
ez I would 'a' done.  I wuz glad ter do w'at little I could, fer
frien'ship's sake
We value your friendship, Frank, and we'll not forget it
No, Frank
we will never forget it, and you shall always
be our good friend
Well, well
ef I did n' mos' know whar dis mule,
an' dis kyart, an' dis harness come from, I'd 'low dere 'd be'n
witcheraf' er cunjin' wukkin' here.  But, oh my, dat is a fine mule!-- I
mos' wush I could keep 'im
Mis' Molly
I ain't done nuthin'
ter deserve dat mule.  W'at little I done fer you wa'n't done fer pay.
I'd ruther not keep dem things
Fer goodness' sake, Frank
what are you talkin' about
You knows w'at I'm talkin' about, Mis' Molly; you knows well ernuff
I'm talkin' about dat fine mule an' kyart an' harness over dere in my
stable
How should I know anything about 'em
Now, Mis' Molly!  You folks is jes' tryin' ter fool me, an' make me
take somethin' fer nuthin'. I lef' my ole mule an' kyart an' harness in
de stable las' night, an' dis mawnin' dey 're gone, an' new ones in
deir place.  Co'se you knows whar dey come from
Well, now, Frank, sence you mention it, I did see a witch flyin' roun'
here las' night on a broom-stick, an' it 'peared ter me she lit on yo'r
barn, an' I s'pose she turned yo'r old things into new ones. I wouldn't
bother my mind about it if I was you, for she may turn 'em back any
night, you know; an' you might as well have the use of 'em in the mean
while
Dat's all foolishness, Mis' Molly, an' I'm gwine ter fetch dat mule
right over here an' tell yo' son ter gimme my ole one back
My son's gone
an' I don't know nothin' about yo'r old
mule.  And what would I do with a mule, anyhow?  I ain't got no barn to
put him in
I suspect you don't care much for us after all, Frank
You meet with
a piece of good luck, and you're afraid of it, lest it might have come
from us
Now, Miss Rena, you oughtn't ter say dat
I'll keep de mule an' de kyart an' de
harness -- fac', I'll have ter keep 'em, 'cause I ain't got no others.
But dey 're gwine ter be yo'n ez much ez mine.  W'enever you wants
anything hauled, er wants yo' lot ploughed, er anything -- dat's yo'
mule, an' I'm yo' man an' yo' mammy's
Now dat
is somethin' lack rale w'ite folks
to him that hath shall be given
What is the matter, George, dear
Tell your mother, George.  Who else could comfort
you so well as she
Oh, it's nothing, mother,-- nothing at all
It's only your fond imagination, you best
of mothers
I heared you say, Cousin Molly
that Rena was talkin' 'bout teachin' school.  I've got a good chance
fer her, ef she keers ter take it.  My cousin Jeff Wain 'rived in town
this mo'nin', f'm 'way down in Sampson County, ter git a teacher fer
the nigger school in his deestric'. I s'pose he mought 'a' got one f'm
'roun' Newbern, er Goldsboro, er some er them places eas', but he
'lowed he'd like to visit some er his kin an' ole frien's, an' so kill
two birds with one stone
I seed a strange mulatter man, with a bay hoss an' a new buggy,
drivin' by here this mo'nin' early, from down to'ds the river
I wonder if that wuz him
Did he have on a linen duster
Yas, an' 'peared to be a very well sot up man
bout thirty-five years old, I should reckon
That wuz him
He's got a fine hoss an' buggy, an'
a gol' watch an' chain, an' a big plantation, an' lots er hosses an'
mules an' cows an' hawgs.  He raise' fifty bales er cotton las' year,
an' he's be'n ter the legislatur
My gracious
poor
Is he married
No,-- single.  You mought 'low it was quare that he should n' be
married at his age; but he was crossed in love oncet
an' has stayed single ever sence.  That wuz
ten years ago, but as some husban's is long-lived, an' there ain' no
mo' chance fer 'im now than there wuz then, I reckon some nice gal
mought stan' a good show er ketchin' 'im, ef she'd play her kyards
right
You'd better fetch him roun' to see me, Ma'y B
an' let's
see what he looks like. I'm pertic'lar 'bout my gal.  She says she
ain't goin' to marry nobody; but of co'se we know that's all
foolishness
I'll fetch him roun' this evenin' 'bout three o'clock
I mus' hurry back now an' keep him comp'ny.  Tell
Rena ter put on her bes' bib an' tucker; for Mr. Wain is pertic'lar
too, an' I've already be'n braggin' 'bout her looks
You're flatt'rin' me, Mr. Wain
But you want to meet my daughter befo' you commence th'owin'
bokays.  Excuse my leavin' you -- I'll go an' fetch her
Mr. Wain, 'low me to
int'oduce you to my daughter Rena.  Rena, this is Ma'y B.'s cousin on
her pappy's side, who's come up from Sampson to git a school-teacher
Does -- does you mean ter say, Mis' Walden, dat -- dat dis young lady is
yo' own daughter
Why not, Mr. Wain
Do you mean ter 'low that she wuz changed in her cradle, er is she too
good-lookin' to be my daughter
My deah Mis' Walden! it 'ud be wastin' wo'ds fer me ter say dat dey
ain' no young lady too good-lookin' ter be yo' daughter; but you're
lookin' so young yo'sef dat I'd ruther take her fer yo' sister
Yas
they ain't many years
between us.  I wuz ruther young myself when she wuz bo'n
An', mo'over
it takes me a minute er so ter git my
min' use' ter thinkin' er Mis' Rena as a cullud young lady.  I mought
'a' seed her a hund'ed times, an' I'd 'a' never dreamt but w'at she wuz
a w'ite young lady, f'm one er de bes' families
Yas, Mr. Wain
all three er my
child'en wuz white, an' one of 'em has be'n on the other side fer many
long years.  Rena has be'n to school, an' has traveled, an' has had
chances -- better chances than anybody roun' here knows
She's jes' de lady I'm lookin' fer, ter teach ou' school
Wid her schoolin' an' my riccommen', she kin git
a fus'-class ce'tifikit an' draw fo'ty dollars a month; an' a lady er
her color kin keep a lot er little niggers straighter 'n a darker lady
could.  We jus' got ter have her ter teach ou' school -- ef we kin git
her
Do you think I'm competent to teach the school
Oh, dere 's no doubt about it, Miss Rena
you kin teach de school
all right, an' could ef you didn't know half ez much.  You won't have
no trouble managin' de child'en, nuther.  Ef any of 'em gits onruly,
jes' call on me fer he'p, an' I'll make 'em walk Spanish.  I'm chuhman
er de school committee, an' I'll lam de hide off'n any scholar dat don'
behave.  You kin trus' me fer dat, sho' ez I'm a-settin' here
Then
I'll undertake it, and do my best.  I'm sure you'll
not be too exacting
Yo' bes', Miss Rena,'ll be de bes' dey is. Don' you worry ner fret.
Dem niggers won't have no other teacher after dey've once laid eyes on
you:  I'll guarantee dat.  Dere won't be no trouble, not a bit
Well, Cousin Molly
how
does the plan strike you
Ef Rena's satisfied, I am
But you'd better say
nothin' about ketchin' a beau, or any such foolishness, er else she'd
be just as likely not to go nigh Sampson County
Befo' Cousin Jeff goes back
I'd like ter give 'im
a party, but my house is too small.  I wuz wonderin
ef I could n' borry yo' house
Shorely, Ma'y B. I'm int'rested in Mr. Wain on Rena's account, an'
it's as little as I kin do to let you use my house an' help you git
things ready
She ought to have been born white
I
would to God that I had never found her out
society
Ladies an' gent'emens, take yo' pa'dners fer a Fuhginny reel
I don't feel like dancing, mamma -- I shall never
dance again
Well, now, Rena
of co'se you're too dignified,
sence you've be'n 'sociatin' with white folks, to be hoppin' roun' an'
kickin' up like Ma'y B. an' these other yaller gals; but of co'se, too,
you can't slight the comp'ny entirely, even ef it ain't jest exac'ly
our party,-- you'll have to pay 'em some little attention, 'specially
Mr. Wain, sence you're goin' down yonder with 'im
I wuz a member er de fus' legislatur' after de wah
When I went up f'm Sampson in de fall, I had to pass th'ough
Smithfiel', I got in town in de afternoon, an' put up at de bes' hotel.
De lan'lo'd did n' have no s'picion but what I wuz a white man, an' he
gimme a room, an' I had supper an' breakfas', an' went on ter Rolly
nex' mornin'.  W'en de session wuz over, I come along back, an' w'en I
got ter Smithfiel', I driv' up ter de same hotel.  I noticed, as soon
as I got dere, dat de place had run down consid'able -- dere wuz weeds
growin' in de yard, de winders wuz dirty, an' ev'ything roun' dere
looked kinder lonesome an' shif'less.  De lan'lo'd met me at de do'; he
looked mighty down in de mouth, an' sezee:--

"'Look a-here, w'at made you come an' stop at my place widout tellin'
me you wuz a black man? Befo' you come th'ough dis town I had a
fus'-class business.  But w'en folks found out dat a nigger had put up
here, business drapped right off, an' I've had ter shet up my hotel.
You oughter be 'shamed er yo'se'f fer ruinin' a po' man w'at had n'
never done no harm ter you.  You've done a mean, low-lived thing, an' a
jes' God'll punish you fer it.'

"De po' man acshully bust inter tears
an' I felt so sorry fer 'im -- he wuz a po' white man
tryin' ter git up in de worl'-- dat I hauled out my purse an' gin 'im
ten dollars, an' he 'peared monst'ous glad ter git it
How good-hearted!  How kin
It done credit to
yo' feelin's
Don't b'lieve a word er dem lies
He could n' pass fer white, 'less'n it wuz a mighty
dark night
Thank y', Mis' Molly
I'll prob'ly come over
You're a big fool, boy
ter be stickin' roun' dem yaller niggers
'cross de street, an' slobb'rin' an' slav'rin' over 'em, an' hangin'
roun' deir back do' wuss 'n ef dey wuz w'ite folks. I'd see 'em dead
fus'
Is that you, Frank
Yas 'm, it's me, Miss Rena.  Yo' mammy said I could come over an' see
you-all dance.  You ain' be'n out on de flo' at all, ter-night
No, Frank, I don't care for dancing.  I shall not dance to-night
But you must have some supper, Frank
I'll bring it
myself
No, Miss Rena, I don' keer fer nothin'-- I did n' come over ter
eat -- r'al'y I didn't
Nonsense, Frank, there's plenty of it.  I have no appetite, and you
shall have my portion
Rena
Mr. Wain wants ter know if you won't dance just one dance with
him
Yas, Rena
jes' one dance.  I don't think you're treatin' my comp'ny jes'
right, Cousin Rena
You're goin' down there with 'im
an' it 'd be
just as well to be on friendly terms with 'im
Sho'ly, Miss Rena, you're gwine
ter honah me wid one dance?  I'd go 'way f'm dis pa'ty sad at hea't ef
I had n' stood up oncet wid de young lady er de house
Swing yo' pa'dners; doan be shy,
       Look yo' lady in de eye!
       Th'ow yo' ahm aroun' huh wais';
       Take yo' time -- dey ain' no has'e
Oh, mother
I'm afraid to leave you.  I left you once, and it turned out so
miserably
It'll turn out better this time, honey
Good-by, child.  Take care of yo'self an' yo'r money, and
write to yo'r mammy
Good-by ter Patesville!  Good-by, folkses all
Good-by, mother!  Good-by, all
Oh, what a lovely place
That is yours, isn't it
No; we ain't got to my house yet
Dat house b'longs
ter de riches' people roun' here.  Dat house is over in de nex' county.
We're right close to de line now
De main road
goes on to Clinton, 'bout five miles
er mo' away.  Dis one we're turnin' inter now will take us to my place,
which is 'bout three miles fu'ther on.  We'll git dere now in an hour
er so
Yas, Miss Rena
de Lawd give her, an' de Lawd tuck her
away.  Blessed be de name er de Lawd
You have the satisfaction
of receiving the only
first-grade certificate issued to-day. You might teach a higher grade
of pupils than you will find at Sandy Run, but let us hope that you may
in time raise them to your own level
Which I doubt very much
What a pity that such a woman should be a nigger!  If she
were anything to me, though, I should hate to trust her anywhere near
that saddle-colored scoundrel.  He's a thoroughly bad lot, and will
bear watching
He is comparing me with some other girl
I seem to
stand the test very well. I wonder who the other is, and what was the
trouble
George
I'm sending Blanche over to Major McLeod's to do an
errand for me.  Would you mind driving her over?  The road may be rough
after the storm last night, and Blanche has an idea that no one drives
so well as you
Why, yes, mother, I'll be glad to drive Blanche over.  I want to see
the major myself
A tree has fallen squarely across the road
We shall
have to turn back a little way and go around
Blanche
Yes, George
Blanche, dear, I
Miss Jane, she loves sugar an' tea,
       Miss Jane, she loves candy.
       Miss Jane, she can whirl all around
       An' kiss her love quite handy.

             "De oak grows tall,
               De pine grows slim,
               So rise you up, my true love,
               An' let me come in
What a funny little darkey
Hoddy, Mars Geo'ge
Hello, Plato
what are you doing here
Gwine ter school, Mars Geo'ge
larnin' ter read an'
write, suh, lack de w'ite folks
Wat you callin' dat w'ite man marster fur
You don' b'long ter him no
mo'; you're free, an' ain' got sense ernuff ter know it
What a pretty girl
There
you are too late.  She has retired into
her castle. Oh, Plato
Yas, missis
Is your teacher white
No, ma'm, she ain't w'ite; she's black.  She looks lack she's w'ite,
but she's black
How do you do
I live
in the neighborhood and am interested in the colored people -- a good
many of them once belonged to me.  I heard something of your school,
and thought I should like to make your acquaintance
It is very kind of you, indeed
Yes
I am not one of those who sit back and
blame their former slaves because they were freed.  They are free
now,-- it is all decided and settled,-- and they ought to be taught
enough to enable them to make good use of their freedom.  But really,
my dear,-- you mustn't feel offended if I make a mistake,-- I am going to
ask you something very personal
The school may take the morning recess now
Are you really colored
Yes, ma'am, I am colored
Well, it's a shame.  No one would ever think it.  If you chose to
conceal it, no one would ever be the wiser.  What is your name, child,
and where were you brought up?  You must have a romantic history
I shall attend it
I'm sure you are
doing a good work, and it's very noble of you to undertake it when you
might have a very different future.  If I can serve you at any time,
don't hesitate to call upon me.  I live in the big white house just
before you turn out of the Clinton road to come this way.  I'm only a
widow, but my son George lives with me and has some influence in the
neighborhood.  He drove by here yesterday with the lady he is going to
marry.  It was she who told me about you
And where are you staying, my dear
I'm boarding at Mrs. Wain's
Mrs. Wain's
Yes, they live in the old Campbell place
Oh, yes -- Aunt Nancy.  She's a good enough woman, but we don't think
much of her son Jeff. He married my Amanda after the war -- she used to
belong to me, and ought to have known better. He abused her most
shamefully, and had to be threatened with the law.  She left him a year
or so ago and went away; I haven't seen her lately. Well, good-by,
child; I'm coming to your exhibition.  If you ever pass my house, come
in and see me
Who was the lady, Plato
Dat 'uz my ole mist'iss, ma'm
ole Mis'
'Liza
Mis' 'Liza who
Mis' 'Liza Tryon.  I use' ter b'long ter her. Dat 'uz her son, my
young Mars Geo'ge, w'at driv pas' hyuh yistiddy wid 'is sweetheart
Dese child'en
oughter be monst'ous glad ter have de chance er settin' under
yo' instruction, Miss Rena.  I'm sho' eve'body in dis neighbo'hood
'preciates de priv'lege er havin' you in ou' mids'
My son Jeff
is de bes' man you ever seed.
His fus' wife had de easies' time an' de happies' time er ary woman in
dis settlement.  He's grieve' fer her a long time, but I reckon he's
gittin' over it, an' de nex' 'oman w'at marries him'll git a box er
pyo' gol', ef I does say it as is his own mammy
Wait a minute, Jenny.  I'm going your way, and you can walk along with
me
I declare ter goodness
ef I ain't dropped my
pocket-knife!  I thought I felt somethin' slip th'ough dat hole in my
pocket jes' by the big pine stump in the schoolhouse ya'd. Jinny,
chile, run back an' hunt fer my knife, an' I'll give yer five cents ef
yer find it.  Me an' Miss Rena'll walk on slow 'tel you ketches us
Hello, Plato
do you want a lift
Hoddy, Mars Geo'ge.  Kin I ride wid you
Jump up
Does she go to church or anywhere else with Jeff Wain, Plato
No, suh, she don' go nowhar wid nobody excep'n' ole Elder Johnson er
Mis' Johnson, an' de child'en.  She use' ter stop at Mis' Wain's, but
she's stayin' wid Elder Johnson now.  She alluz makes some er de
child'en go home wid er f'm school
sometimes one an' sometimes anudder.
I's be'n home wid 'er twice, ann it'll be my tu'n ag'in befo' long
Plato
do
you think you could keep a secret
Yas, Mars Geo'ge, ef you says I shill
Do you see this fifty-cent piece
Yas, Mars Geo'ge
I am going to give this to you, Plato
Me, Mars Geo'ge
Yes, Plato.  I'm going to write a letter while I'm in town, and want
you to take it.  Meet me here in half an hour, and I'll give you the
letter. Meantime, keep your mouth shut
Yas, Mars Geo'ge
Give that letter
to your teacher; don't say a word about
it to a living soul; bring me an answer, and give it into my own hand,
and you shall have another half dollar
Miss Rena
ain't it 'bout time I wuz
gwine home wid you ag'in
You may go with me to-morrow, Plato
Well, Plato, what news
I's gwine ter see her home ter-morrer, Mars Geo'ge
To-morrow
how very fortunate!  I wanted you to go to
town to-morrow to take an important message for me.  I'm sorry,
Plato -- you might have earned another dollar
Can't I go ter town fer you atter I've seed her home, Mars Geo'ge
N-o, I'm afraid it would be too late
Den I'll haf ter ax 'er ter lemme go nex' day
No, Plato
I shouldn't want to
deprive you of so great a pleasure
I think, Plato, that I see an easier way out of the difficulty.  Your
teacher, I imagine, merely wants some one to see her safely home.
Don't you think, if you should go part of the way, that I might take
your place for the rest, while you did my errand
Why, sho'ly, Mars Geo'ge, you could take keer er her better 'n I
could -- better 'n anybody could -- co'se you could
Very well, Plato.  I think we can arrange it so that you can kill the
two rabbits at one shot. Suppose that we go over the road that she will
take to go home
Now, Plato
this would be a good spot for
you to leave the teacher and for me to take your place.  This path
leads to the main road, and will take you to town very quickly.  I
shouldn't say anything to the teacher about it at all; but when you and
she get here, drop behind and run along this path until you meet
me,-- I'll be waiting a few yards down the road,-- and then run to town
as fast as your legs will carry you.  As soon as you are gone, I'll
come out and tell the teacher that I've sent you away on an errand, and
will myself take your place.  You shall have a dollar, and I'll ask her
to let you go home with her the next day.  But you mustn't say a word
about it, Plato, or you won't get the dollar, and I'll not ask the
teacher to let you go home with her again
All right, Mars Geo'ge, I ain't gwine ter say no mo' d'n ef de cat had
my tongue
Plato
I think we'll go round the other way to-night,
if you don't mind
I's feared you mought git snake-bit gwine roun' dat way, Miss Rena.
My brer Jim kill't a water-moccasin down dere yistiddy 'bout ten feet
long
Plato
Plato
Well, Plato
why are you absent from the classic shades of
the academy to-day
Hoddy, Mars Geo'ge.  W'at wuz dat you say
Why are you not at school to-day
Ain' got no teacher, Mars Geo'ge.  Teacher's gone
Gone
Gone where?
What do you mean
Teacher got los' in de swamp, night befo' las', 'cause Plato wa'n't
dere ter show her de way out'n de woods.  Elder Johnson foun' 'er wid
dawgs and tawches, an' fotch her home an' put her ter bed. No school
yistiddy.  She wuz out'n her haid las' night, an' dis mawnin' she wuz
gone
Gone where
Dey don' nobody know whar, suh
Good-morning
I'm Mr. Tryon.  I have
come to inquire about the sick teacher
Why, suh
she got los' in de woods
night befo' las', an' she wuz out'n her min' most er de time yistiddy.
Las' night she must 'a' got out er bed an' run away w'en eve'ybody wuz
soun' asleep, fer dis mawnin' she wuz gone, an' none er us knows whar
she is
Has any search been made for her
Yas, suh, my husban' an' de child'en has been huntin' roun' all de
mawnin', an' he's gone ter borry a hoss now ter go fu'ther.  But Lawd
knows dey ain' no tellin' whar she'd go, 'less'n she got her min' back
sence she lef
Yas, Frank
it'll be her own fault ef she don't
become a lady of proputty, fer Mr. Wain is rich, an' owns a big
plantation, an' hires a lot of hands, and is a big man in the county.
He's crazy to git her, an' it all lays in her own han's
Oh, Jeff Wain
yas, I knows
'im, an' don' know no good of 'im.  One er dese yer biggity, braggin'
niggers -- talks lack he own de whole county, an' ain't wuth no mo' d'n I
is -- jes' a big bladder wid a handful er shot rattlin' roun' in it.  Had
a wife, when I wuz dere, an' beat her an' 'bused her so she had ter run
away
I wonder who dat is
It soun's mighty quare, ter say
de leas'
It must
'a' be'n a rabbit er somethin' scamp'in' th'ough de woods.  G'long
dere, Caesar
Dat ain't no rabbit
Dere's somethin' wrong
dere.  Stan' here, Caesar, till I look inter dis matter
Good Lawd
it's a woman -- a w'ite woman
Mamma, oh, mamma
Miss Rena!  Rena! don't you know me
Yes, I know you, Jeff Wain.
Go away from me!  Go away
You're a wicked man
Don't touch me!  I hate you and
despise you
Damn him
I'll have his heart's blood fer dis, ter de
las' drop
George
dear George, do you love me?  How much do you love
me?  Ah, you don't love me
I'm black; you don't love me;
you despise me
Oh, my honey, my darlin
Frank loves you better 'n all
de worl
Go ter sleep, honey
go ter sleep, an'
Frank'll take you home ter yo' mammy
Hello
who've you got there
A sick woman, suh
Why, she's white, as I'm a sinner
Look a-here, nigger, what are you doin' with this white
woman
She's not w'ite, boss,-- she's a bright mulatter
Yas, mighty bright
Where are
you goin' with her
I'm takin' her ter Patesville, ter her mammy
I don't b'lieve she's black at all
This nigger has a bad eye,-- he's up ter some sort of
devilment.  What ails the girl
Pears ter be some kind of a fever
I don't know whether it's ketchin' er no -- she's be'n
out er her head most er de time
I reckon it's all right
Rena wants to see you, Frank
Frank
my good friend -- my best friend -- you loved me
best of them all
I'd 'a' died, fer you,
Miss Rena
Who's dead
A young cullud 'oman, sah
Mis' Molly Walden's daughter Rena
</text>
