<text>
Nine fifty
Only ten minutes more
Nine fifty-five
Five minutes more
Nine fifty-nine
It's all right
Our
figures accepted -- resolution adopted -- settlement to-morrow. We
are
I suspect
that I must
have fainted -- like a woman -- perfectly ridiculous
Perfectly natural
You have scarcely slept for
two weeks -- between the business and Phil -- and you've reached the end
of your string. But it's all over now, except the shouting, and you
can sleep a week if you like. You'd better go right up home. I'll send
for a cab, and call Dr Moffatt, and ask him to be at the hotel by the
time you reach it. I'll take care of things here to-day, and after a
good sleep you'll find yourself all right again
Very well, Kirby
I feel as weak as water, but
I'm all here. It might have been much worse. You'll call up Mrs.
Jerviss, of course, and let her know about the sale
It's all right, Mrs. Jerviss
Our terms accepted, and payment to be made, in cash and bonds, as
soon as the papers are executed, when you will be twice as rich as you
are to-day
Thank you, Mr. Kirby! And I suppose I shall never have another happy
moment until I know what to do with it. Money is a great trial. I
often envy the poor
If the world only knew
it would
cease to worry about the pains of poverty, and weep for the woes of
wealth
Indeed it would
Is Mr. French there? I wish to thank him, too
No, he has just gone home
At this hour
and at such a time? What can be the
matter? Is Phil worse
No, I think not. Mr. French himself had a bad turn, for a few
minutes, after we learned the news
It was nothing -- serious
Oh, no, not at all, merely overwork, and lack of sleep, and the
suspense -- and the reaction. He recovered almost immediately, and one
of the clerks went home with him
Has Dr Moffatt been notified
Yes, I called him up at once; he'll be at the Mercedes by the time
the patient arrives
A fine woman
I could envy French his chances, though
he doesn't seem to see them -- that is, if I were capable of envy toward
so fine a fellow and so good a friend. It's curious how clearsighted a
man can be in some directions, and how blind in others
My dear fellow
you've been
burning the candle at both ends, which, at your age won't do at all.
No, indeed! No, indeed! You've always worked too hard, and you've been
worrying too much about the boy, who'll do very well now, with care.
You've got to take a rest -- it's all you need. You confess to no bad
habits, and show the signs of none; and you have a fine constitution.
I'm going to order you and Phil away for three months, to some mild
climate, where you'll be free from business cares and where the boy
can grow strong without having to fight a raw Eastern spring. You
might try the Riviera, but I'm afraid the sea would be too much for
Phil just yet; or southern California -- but the trip is tiresome. The
South is nearer at hand. There's Palm Beach, or Jekyll Island, or
Thomasville, Asheville, or Aiken -- somewhere down in the pine country.
It will be just the thing for the boy's lungs, and just the place for
you to rest. Start within a week, if you can get away. In fact, you've
_got_ to get away
How is Mr. French, Judson
He's much better, Mrs. Jerviss, thank you, ma'am
I'm very glad to hear it; and how is Phil
Quite bright, ma'am, you'd hardly know that he'd been sick. He's
gaining strength rapidly; he sleeps a great deal; he's asleep now,
ma'am. But, won't you step into the library? There's a fire in the
grate, and I'll let Mr. French know you are here
How do you do
It was mighty good of
you to come to see me
And I'm awfully glad to find you better
I might have
telephoned, but I wanted to see for myself. I felt a part of the blame
to be mine, for it is partly for me, you know, that you have been
overworking
It was all in the game
and we have won. But sit down and
stay awhile. I know you'll pardon my smoking jacket. We are partners,
you know, and I claim an invalid's privilege as well
Doctor Moffatt has ordered Phil and me away, for three months
Three months
But you'll be
back
before the vacation
season opens
Oh, certainly; we shall not leave the country
Where are you going
The doctor has prescribed the pine woods. I shall visit my old home,
where I was born. We shall leave in a day or two
You must dine with me to-morrow
and tell me about
your old home. I haven't had an opportunity to thank you for making me
rich, and I want your advice about what to do with the money; and I'm
tiring you now when you ought to be resting
Do not hurry
It is almost a pleasure to be weak and
helpless, since it gives me the privilege of a visit from you
You're taking Judson with you to look after the boy
No
Judson is in love, and does not wish to
leave New York. He will take a vacation until we return. Phil and I
can get along very well alone
I'm looking for something to interest us
There's a mining proposition in Utah, and a trolley
railroad in Oklahoma. When things are settled up here, I'll take a run
out, and look the ground over, and write to you
My dear fellow
don't hurry. Why should I make any
more money? I have all I shall ever need, and as much as will be good
for Phil. If you find a good thing, I can help you finance it; and
Mrs. Jerviss will welcome a good investment. But I shall take a long
rest, and then travel for a year or two, and after that settle down
and take life comfortably
That's the way you feel now
but wait until you are rested, and you'll yearn for the
fray; the first million only whets the appetite for more
All aboard
To buy popcorn on
the train
Good-bye
and good luck. You'll hear from me soon. We're
partners still, you and I and Mrs. Jerviss
He'll be back in six weeks
I know him well; he can't live without his club and his
counting room. It is hard to teach an old dog new tricks
And I'm sure he'll not stay away longer than three months
for I have invited him to my house party
A privilege
for which many a man would come
from the other end of the world
mansion
I dreamt that I dwe-elt in ma-arble halls
    With vassals and serfs at my si-i-ide
Is this the place, papa
Yes, Phil, but it is farther on, in the older part
Howdy do, uncle
Will you tell me whose graves
these are that you are caring for
Yas, suh
dis hyuh lot, suh, b'longs ter de fambly
dat I useter b'long ter -- de ol' French fambly, suh, de fines' fambly
in Beaver County
Why, papa
he means
Hush, Phil! Go on, uncle
Yas, suh, de fines' fambly in Cla'endon, suh. Dis hyuh headstone
hyuh, suh, an' de little stone at de foot, rep'esents de grave er ol'
Gin'al French, w'at fit in de Revolution' Wah, suh; and dis hyuh one
nex' to it is de grave er my ol' marster, Majah French, w'at fit in
de Mexican Wah, and died endyoin' de wah wid de Yankees, suh
Papa
that's my
Shut up, Phil! Well, uncle, did this interesting old family die out,
or is it represented in the present generation
Lawd, no, suh, de fambly did n' die out --'deed dey did n' die out!
dey ain't de kind er fambly ter die out! But it's mos' as bad,
suh -- dey's moved away. Young Mars Henry went ter de Norf, and dey say
he's got rich; but he ain't be'n back no mo', suh, an' I don' know
whether he's ever comin' er no
You must have been very fond of them to take such good care of their
graves
Well, suh, I b'longed ter de fambly, an' I ain' got no chick ner
chile er my own, livin', an' dese hyuh dead folks 'pears mo' closer
ter me dan anybody e'se. De cullud folks don' was'e much time wid a
ole man w'at ain' got nothin', an' dese hyuh new w'ite folks wa't is
come up sence de wah, ain' got no use fer niggers, now dat dey don'
b'long ter nobody no mo'; so w'en I ain' got nothin' e'se ter do, I
comes roun' hyuh, whar I knows ev'ybody and ev'ybody knows me, an'
trims de rose bushes an' pulls up de weeds and keeps de grass down
jes' lak I s'pose Mars Henry'd 'a' had it done ef he'd 'a' lived hyuh
in de ole home, stidder 'way off yandah in de Norf, whar he so busy
makin' money dat he done fergot all 'bout his own folks
What is your name
Peter, suh -- Peter French. Most er de niggers change' dey names after
de wah, but I kept de ole fambly name I wuz raise' by. It wuz good
'nuff fer me, suh; dey ain' none better
Oh, papa
he
must be some kin to us; he has the same name, and belongs to the same
family, and you know you called him 'Uncle
Look a hyuh, suh
is it?-- it can't be!-- but
dere's de eyes, an' de nose, an' de shape er de head -- why, it _must_
be my young Mars Henry
Yes
and you are my boy
Peter; who took care of me when I was no bigger than Phil here
family pride
Those were good times, Peter, when we were young
good times! I have seen none happier
Yas, suh! yas, suh! 'Deed dem wuz good ole times! Sho' dey wuz, suh,
sho' dey wuz! 'Member dem co'n-stalk fiddles we use' ter make, an' dem
elderberry-wood whistles
Yes, Peter, and the robins we used to shoot and the rabbits we used
to trap
An' dem watermillions, suh -- um-m-m, um-m-m-m
_Y-e-s_
Yas, suh, yas, suh, dem watermillions
I
kin tas'e 'em now! Dey wuz de be's watermillions dat evuh growed,
suh -- dey doan raise none lack 'em dese days no mo'. An' den dem
chinquapin bushes down by de swamp! 'Member dem chinquapin bushes,
whar we killt dat water moccasin dat day? He wuz 'bout ten foot
long
Yes, Peter, he was a whopper! Then there were the bullace vines, in
the woods beyond the tanyard
Sho' 'nuff, suh! an' de minnows we use' ter ketch in de creek, an'
dem perch in de mill pon
Yas, suh, yas, suh
an' 'member dat time you an'
young Mars Jim Wilson went huntin' and fishin' up de country
tergether, an' got ti'ed er waitin' on yo'se'ves an' writ back fer me
ter come up ter wait on yer and cook fer yer, an' ole Marster say he
did n' dare ter let me go 'way off yander wid two keerliss boys lak
you-all, wid guns an' boats fer fear I mought git shot, er drownded
It looked, Peter, as though he valued you more than me! more than his
own son
Yas, suh, yas, suh! sho' he did, sho' he did! old Marse Philip wuz a
monstus keerful man, an' _I_ wuz winth somethin', suh, dem times; I
wuz wuth five hundred dollahs any day in de yeah. But nobody would n'
give five hundred cents fer me now, suh. Dey'd want pay fer takin' me,
mos' lakly. Dey ain' none too much room fer a young nigger no mo', let
'lone a' ol' one
And what have you been doing all these years, Peter
So w'en I got my laig kyo'ed up
I come back hyuh whar I wuz bo'n, suh, and whar my w'ite folks
use' ter live, an' whar my frien's use' ter be. But my w'ite folks wuz
all in de graveya'd, an' most er my frien's wuz dead er moved away,
an' I fin's it kinder lonesome, suh. I goes out an' picks cotton in de
fall, an' I does arrants an' little jobs roun' de house fer folks w'at
'll hire me; an' w'en I ain' got nothin' ter eat I kin gor oun' ter de
ole house an' wo'k in de gyahden er chop some wood, an' git a meal er
vittles f'om ole Mis' Nichols, who's be'n mighty good ter me, suh.
She's de barbuh's wife, suh, w'at bought ouah ole house. Dey got mo'
dan any yuther colored folks roun' hyuh, but dey he'ps de po', suh,
dey he'ps de po
Which speaks well for them, Peter. I'm glad that all the virtue has
not yet gone out of the old house
I trust my boy hasn't annoyed you
Not at all, sir
On the contrary, he has interested me very much, and in
nothing more than in telling me his name. If this and my memory do not
deceive me, _you_ are Henry French
Yes, and you are -- you are Laura Treadwell! How glad I am to meet you!
I was coming to call this afternoon
I'm glad to see you again. We have always remembered you, and knew
that you had grown rich and great, and feared that you had forgotten
the old town -- and your old friends
Not very rich, nor very great, Laura -- Miss Treadwell
Let it be Laura
And neither have I forgotten the old home nor the old friends -- since
I am here and knew you the moment I looked at you and heard your
voice
And what a dear little boy
He is named Philip -- after his grandfather, I reckon
After his grandfather. We have been visiting his grave, and those of
all the Frenches; and I found them haunted -- by an old retainer, who
had come hither, he said, to be with his friends
Old Peter! I see him, now and then, keeping the lot in order. There
are few like him left, and there were never any too many. But how have
you been these many years, and where is your wife? Did you bring her
with you
I buried her
a little over a year ago. She
left me little Phil
He must be like her
and yet he resembles you
He has her eyes and hair
He is a good little boy
and a lad of taste. See how he took to you at first sight! I can
always trust Phil's instincts. He is a born gentleman
He came of a race of gentlemen
I'm glad it is not to
die out. There are none too many left -- in Clarendon. You are going to
like me, aren't you, Phil
I like you already
You are a very nice
lady. What shall I call you
Call her Miss Laura, Phil -- it is the Southern fashion -- a happy union
of familiarity and respect. Already they come back to me, Laura -- one
breathes them with the air -- the gentle Southern customs. With all the
faults of the old system, Laura -- it carried the seeds of decay within
itself and was doomed to perish -- a few of us, at least, had a good
time. An aristocracy is quite endurable, for the aristocrat, and
slavery tolerable, for the masters -- and the Peters. When we were
young, before the rude hand of war had shattered our illusions, we
were very happy, Laura
Yes, we were very happy
And how is your mother
She is living yet, I
trust
Yes, but ailing, as she has been for fifteen years -- ever since my
father died. It was his grave I came to visit
You had ever a loving heart, Laura
given to duty
and self-sacrifice. Are you still living in the old place
The old place, only it is older, and shows it -- like the rest of us
_Sacred to the Memory of
    Joshua Fetters and Elizabeth Fetters, his Wife._

    "'_Life's work well done,
    Life's race well run,
    Life's crown well won,
    Then comes rest
A beautiful sentiment, if somewhat trite
but an
atrocious monument
Do you think so
Most people think the monument
fine, but smile at the sentiment
In matters of taste
the majority are always
wrong. But why smile at the sentiment? Is it, for some reason,
inappropriate to this particular case? Fetters -- Fetters -- the name
seems familiar. Who was Fetters, Laura
He was the speculator
who bought and sold negroes, and
kept dogs to chase runaways; old Mr. Fetters -- you must remember old
Josh Fetters? When I was a child, my coloured mammy used him for a
bogeyman for me, as for her own children
Look out, honey,' she'd say, 'ef you ain' good, ole Mr. Fettuhs 'll
ketch you
The memorial was erected, as you see from the rest of the
inscription, 'by his beloved and affectionate son.' That either loved
the other no one suspected, for Bill was harshly treated, and ran away
from home at fifteen. He came back after the war, with money, which he
lent out at high rates of interest; everything he touched turned to
gold; he has grown rich, and is a great man in the State. He was a
large contributor to the soldiers' monument
But did not choose the design; let us be thankful for that. It might
have been like his father's. Bill Fetters rich and great
who would have dreamed it? I kicked him once, all the way down Main
Street from the schoolhouse to the bank -- and dodged his angry mother
for a whole month afterward
No one
would venture to cross him now. Too
many owe him money
He went to school at the academy
and the rest of the boys looked down on him and
made his life miserable. Well, Laura, in Fetters you see one thing
that resulted from the war -- the poor white boy was given a chance to
grow; and if the product is not as yet altogether admirable, taste and
culture may come with another generation
It is to be hoped they may
and character as well.
Mr. Fetters has a son who has gone from college to college, and will
graduate from Harvard this summer. They say he is very wild and spends
ten thousand dollars a year. I do not see how it can be possible
I have been
at a college football game, where the gate
receipts were fifty thousand dollars, and half a million was said to
have changed hands in bets on the result. It is easy to waste money
It is a sin
that some should be made poor, that others
may have it to waste
Could your mother see me
if I
went by the house
She would be glad to see you. Mother lives in the past, and you would
come to her as part of it. She often speaks of you. It is only a short
distance. You have not forgotten the way
Mother
this is Henry French -- Colonel
French -- who has come back from the North to visit his old home and the
graves of his ancestors. I found him in the cemetery; and this is his
dear little boy, Philip -- named after his grandfather
Henry
I am glad to see
you. You must excuse my not rising -- I can't walk without help. You are
like your father, and even more like your grandfather, and your little
boy takes after the family
This
is my niece Graciella -- my brother Tom's child. Tom is
dead, you know, these eight years and more, and so is Graciella's
mother, and she has lived with us
I'm sure
we're awfully glad to see anybody from the North
Are you
familiar with New York
I left there only day before yesterday
And this
this is
Mr. Ben Dudley
The son of Malcolm Dudley, of Mink Run, I suppose? I'm glad to meet
you
His nephew, sir
My uncle never married
Oh, indeed? I did not know; but he is alive, I trust, and well
Alive, sir, but very much broken. He has not been himself for years
You find things sadly changed, Henry
They
have never been the same since the surrender. Our people are poor now,
right poor, most of them, though we ourselves were fortunate enough to
have something left
We have enough left for supper, mother
to which we are going to ask Colonel French to stay
I suppose that in New York every one has dinner at six, and supper
after the theatre or the concert
The fortunate few
who can afford a seat at the opera, and to pay for and digest
two meals, all in the same evening
And now, colonel
I'm going to see about the
supper. Mother will talk to you while I am gone
I must be going
Won't you stay to supper, Ben
No, Miss Laura; I'd like to, but uncle wasn't well to-day and I must
stop by the drug store and get some medicine for him. Dr Price gave
me a prescription on my way in. Good-bye, sir
Will you be in town long
I really haven't decided. A day or two, perhaps a week. I am not
bound, at present, by any business ties -- am foot-loose, as we used to
say when I was young. I shall follow my inclinations
Then I hope, sir, that you'll feel inclined to pay us a long visit
and that I shall see you many times
Say, Graciella
won't you give me an answer
I'm thinking about it, Ben. If you could take me away from this dead
old town, with its lazy white people and its trifling niggers, to a
place where there's music and art, and life and society -- where there's
something going on all the time, I'd _like_ to marry you. But if I did
so now, you'd take me out to your rickety old house, with your daffy
old uncle and his dumb old housekeeper, and I should lose my own mind
in a week or ten days. When you can promise to take me to New York,
I'll promise to marry you, Ben. I want to travel, and to see things,
to visit the art galleries and libraries, to hear Patti, and to look
at the millionaires promenading on Fifth Avenue -- and I'll marry the
man who'll take me there
Uncle Malcolm can't live forever, Graciella -- though I wouldn't wish
his span shortened by a single day -- and I'll get the plantation. And
then, you know
we may -- we may find the
money
No, Ben, you'll never find
the money. There isn't any; it's all imagination -- moonshine. The war
unsettled your uncle's brain, and he dreamed the money
It's as true as I'm standing here, Graciella
that there's money -- gold -- somewhere about the house. Uncle
couldn't imagine paper and ink, and I've seen the letter from my
uncle's uncle Ralph -- I'll get it and bring it to you. Some day the
money will turn up, and then may be I'll be able to take you away.
Meantime some one must look after uncle and the place; there's no one
else but me to do it. Things must grow better some time -- they always
do, you know
They couldn't be much worse
Oh, they'll be better -- they're bound to be! They'll just have to be.
And you'll wait for me, won't you, Graciella
Oh, I suppose I'll have to. You're around here so much that every one
else is scared away, and there isn't much choice at the best; all the
young men worth having are gone away already. But you know my
ultimatum -- I must get to New York. If you are ready before any one
else speaks, you may take me there
You're hard on a poor devil, Graciella. I don't believe you care a
bit for me, or you wouldn't talk like that. Don't you suppose I have
any feelings, even if I ain't much account? Ain't I worth as much as a
trip up North
Why should I waste my time with you, if I didn't care for you
Here's a rose, in token of
my love
It's full of thorns, like your love
Faithful are the wounds of a friend
See
Psalms, xxvii: 6
Take care of my cotton press, Graciella; I'll come in to-morrow
evening and work on it some more. I'll bring some cotton along to try
it with
You'll probably find some excuse -- you always do
Don't you want me to come
I
can stay away, if you don't
Oh, you come so often that I -- I suppose I'd miss you, if you didn't!
One must have some company, and half a loaf is better than no bread
I love him better than anything on earth
but it would
never do to tell him so. He'd get so conceited that I couldn't manage
him any longer, and so lazy that he'd never exert himself. I must get
away from this town before I'm old and gray -- I'll be seventeen next
week, and an old maid in next to no time -- and Ben must take me away.
But I must be his inspiration; he'd never do it by himself. I'll go
now and talk to that dear old Colonel French about the North; I can
learn a great deal from him. And he doesn't look so old either
To see you is a breath from the past, Henry
You are a fine, strong man now, but I can see you as you were, the
day you went away to the war, in your new gray uniform, on your fine
gray horse, at the head of your company. You were going to take Peter
with you, but he had got his feet poisoned with poison ivy, and
couldn't walk, and your father gave you another boy, and Peter cried
like a baby at being left behind. I can remember how proud you were,
and how proud your father was, when he gave you his sword -- your
grandfather's sword, and told you never to draw it or sheath it,
except in honour; and how, when you were gone, the old gentleman shut
himself up for two whole days and would speak to no one. He was glad
and sorry -- glad to send you to fight for your country, and sorry to
see you go -- for you were his only boy
Times have changed since then, Henry. We have lost a great deal,
although we still have enough -- yes, we have plenty to live upon, and
to hold up our heads among the best
That is quite evident
and I am glad to see that you have fared so
well. My father lost everything
We were more fortunate
We were obliged to let
Belleview go when Major Treadwell died -- there were debts to be paid,
and we were robbed as well -- but we have several rentable properties in
town, and an estate in the country which brings us in an income. But
things are not quite what they used to be
The night air is not damp
and it is pleasanter for her
here than in the house. She won't mind the music; she is accustomed to
it
coon song
It is delightful here, Laura. I seem to have renewed my youth. I
yield myself a willing victim to the charm of the old place, the old
ways, the old friends
You see our best side, Henry. Night has a kindly hand, that covers
our defects, and the starlight throws a glamour over everything. You
see us through a haze of tender memories. When you have been here a
week, the town will seem dull, and narrow, and sluggish. You will find
us ignorant and backward, worshipping our old idols, and setting up no
new ones; our young men leaving us, and none coming in to take their
place. Had you, and men like you, remained with us, we might have
hoped for better things
And perhaps not, Laura. Environment controls the making of men. Some
rise above it, the majority do not. We might have followed in the
well-worn rut. But let us not spoil this delightful evening by
speaking of anything sad or gloomy. This is your daily life; to me it
is like a scene from a play, over which one sighs to see the curtain
fall -- all enchantment, all light, all happiness
Miss Laura
Kin you come hyuh a
minute
What is it, Catherine
Kin I speak just a word to you, ma'am? It's somethin'
partic'lar -- mighty partic'lar, ma'am
Excuse me a minute, Henry
I am sorry, Catherine, but it is simply impossible. I would if I
could, but I cannot
You have said nothing of yourself, Laura
Tell me something of your own
life -- it could only be a cheerful theme, for you have means and
leisure, and a perfect environment. Tell me of your occupations, your
hopes, your aspirations
There is little enough to tell, Henry
but that little shall be the truth. You will find it out, if
you stay long in town, and I would rather you learned it from our lips
than from others less friendly. My mother is -- my mother -- a dear, sweet
woman to whom I have devoted my life! But we are not well off, Henry.
Our parlour carpet has been down for twenty-five years; surely you
must have recognised the pattern! The house has not been painted for
the same length of time; it is of heart pine, and we train the flowers
and vines to cover it as much as may be, and there are many others
like it, so it is not conspicuous. Our rentable property is three
ramshackle cabins on the alley at the rear of the lot, for which we
get four dollars a month each, when we can collect it. Our country
estate is a few acres of poor land, which we rent on shares, and from
which we get a few bushels of corn, an occasional load of firewood,
and a few barrels of potatoes. As for my own life, I husband our small
resources; I keep the house, and wait on mother, as I have done since
she became helpless, ten years ago. I look after Graciella. I teach in
the Sunday School, and I give to those less fortunate such help as the
poor can give the poor
How did you come to lose Belleview
I had understood Major Treadwell to be one of the few people
around here who weathered the storm of war and emerged financially
sound
He did; and he remained so -- until he met Mr. Fetters, who had made
money out of the war while all the rest were losing. Father despised
the slavetrader's son, but admired his ability to get along. Fetters
made his acquaintance, flattered him, told him glowing stories of
wealth to be made by speculating in cotton and turpentine. Father was
not a business man, but he listened. Fetters lent him money, and
father lent Fetters money, and they had transactions back and forth,
and jointly. Father lost and gained and we had no inkling that he had
suffered greatly, until, at his sudden death, Fetters foreclosed a
mortgage he held upon Belleview. Mother has always believed there was
something wrong about the transaction, and that father was not
indebted to Fetters in any such sum as Fetters claimed. But we could
find no papers and we had no proof, and Fetters took the plantation
for his debt. He changed its name to Sycamore; he wanted a post-office
there, and there were too many Belleviews
Does he own it still
Yes, and runs it -- with convict labour! The thought makes me shudder!
We were rich when he was poor; we are poor and he is rich. But we
trust in God, who has never deserted the widow and the fatherless. By
His mercy we have lived and, as mother says, held up our heads, not
in pride or haughtiness, but in self-respect, for we cannot forget
what we were
Nor what you are, Laura, for you are wonderful
You
should have married and had children. The South needs such mothers as
you would have made. Unless the men of Clarendon have lost their
discernment, unless chivalry has vanished and the fire died out of the
Southern blood, it has not been for lack of opportunity that your name
remains unchanged
Ah, Henry, that would be telling! But to marry me, one must have
married the family, for I could not have left them -- they have had only
me. I have not been unhappy. I do not know that I would have had my
life different
It is not late
If my memory is true, you too played the
piano when you -- when I was young
It is the same piano, Henry, and, like our life here, somewhat thin
and weak of tone. But if you think it would give you pleasure, I will
play -- as well as I know how
Scenes that are brightest,
      May charm awhile,
    Hearts which are lightest
      And eyes that smile.
    Yet o'er them above us,
      Though nature beam,
    With none to love us,
      How sad they seem
Laura
I must have been nodding for a minute. I hope Colonel French did not
observe it -- it would scarcely seem polite. He hasn't gone yet
No, mother, he is in the parlour
I must be going
I had
almost forgotten Phil, and it is long past his bedtime
Wake up, Phil
It's time to be going. Tell the
ladies good night
Why, Colonel French
you are not going already? I made
the others leave early so that I might talk to you
My dear young lady
I have already risen to go,
and if I stayed longer I might wear out my welcome, and Phil would
surely go to sleep again. But I will come another time -- I shall stay
in town several days
Yes, _do_ come, if you _must_ go
I want to hear more about the North, and about New York society
and -- oh, everything! Good night, Philip. _Good_ night, Colonel
French
Beware of the steps, Henry
the bottom stone is
loose
He's a lovely man, isn't he, Aunt Laura
He is a gentleman
Of the old school
And Philip is a sweet child
A chip of the old block
I remember
Yes, mother, you can tell me when I've shut up the house
Put out the lamps, Graciella -- there's not
much oil -- and when you go to bed hang up your gown carefully, for it
takes me nearly half an hour to iron it
And you are right good to do it! Good night, dear Aunt Laura! Good
night, grandma
W'at's de use er my wo'kin' so hahd?
      I got a' 'oman in de white man's yahd.
    W'en she cook chicken, she save me a wing;
      W'en dey 'low I'm wo'kin', I ain' doin' a thing
Keep over to the right
that's the niggers' side
But, Mistah Haines
is I got to stay here
all night? I ain' done nuthin
No, that's the trouble; you ain't done nuthin' fer a month, but loaf
aroun'. You ain't got no visible means of suppo't, so you're took up
for vagrancy
But I does wo'k we'n I kin git any wo'k ter do
An' ef I kin jus' git wo'd ter de right w'ite folks,
I'll be outer here in half a' hour; dey'll go my bail
They can't go yo' bail to-night, fer the squire's gone home. I'll
bring you some bread and meat, an' some whiskey if you want it, and
you'll be tried to-morrow mornin
You niggers are always kickin
I never see people so hard to satisfy. You ain' got no home, an' here
I've give' you a place to sleep, an' you're kickin'. You doan know
from one day to another where you'll git yo' meals, an' I offer you
bread and meat and whiskey -- an' you're kickin'! You say you can't git
nothin' to do, an' yit with the prospect of a reg'lar job befo' you
to-morrer -- you're kickin'! I never see the beat of it in all my bo'n
days
Has Mr. Turner been in here
Howdy, Haines
How's things? How many have you got
this time
I've got three rounded up, Mr. Turner, an' I'll take up another befo'
night. That'll make fo'-- fifty dollars fer me, an' the res' fer the
squire
That's good
Have a glass of liquor. How much do
you s'pose the Squire'll fine Bud
Well
I reckon about twenty-five dollars
You can make it fifty just as easy
Niggers are all
just a passell o' black fools. Bud would 'a' b'en out now, if it
hadn't be'n for me. I bought him fer six months. I kept close watch of
him for the first five, and then along to'ds the middle er the las'
month I let on I'd got keerliss, an' he run away. Course I put the
dawgs on 'im, an' followed 'im here, where his woman is, an' got you
after 'im, and now he's good for six months more
The woman is a likely gal an' a good cook
_She'd_ be
wuth a good 'eal to you out at the stockade
That's a shore fact
an' I need another good
woman to help aroun'. If we'd 'a' thought about it, an' give' her a
chance to hide Bud and feed him befo' you took 'im up, we could 'a'
filed a charge ag'inst her for harborin' 'im
Well, I kin do it nex' time, fer he'll run away ag'in -- they always
do. Bud's got a vile temper
Yes, but he's a good field-hand, and I'll keep his temper down. Have
somethin' mo
I've got to go back now and feed the pris'ners
an' I'll stir Bud up so he'll raise
h -- ll, an' to-morrow morning I'll make another charge against him
that'll fetch his fine up to fifty and costs
Which will give 'im to me till the cotton crop is picked, and several
months more to work on the Jackson Swamp ditch if Fetters gits the
contract. You stand by us here, Haines, an' help me git all the han's
I can out o' this county, and I'll give you a job at Sycamo' when yo'r
time's up here as constable. Go on and feed the niggers, an' stir up
Bud, and I'll be on hand in the mornin' when court opens
Here, Peter
take what you want of this, and give some
to them other fellows, and if there's anything left after you've got
what you want, throw it to that sulky black hound over yonder in the
corner
I might send you to the penitentiary for this
but I'll send you to h -- ll instead. You'll be sold back to
Mr. Fetters for a year or two tomorrow, and in three months I'll be
down at Sycamore as an overseer, and then I'll learn you to strike a
white man, you
Now, gentlemen, here's Lot Number Three, a likely young nigger who
answers to the name of Sam Brown. Not much to look at, but will make a
good field hand, if looked after right and kept away from liquor; used
to workin', when in the chain gang, where he's been, off and on, since
he was ten years old. Amount of fine an' costs thirty-seven dollars
an' a half. A musical nigger, too, who plays the banjo, an' sings jus'
like a -- like a blackbird. What am I bid for this prime lot
One year
Nine months
Six months
Are you all through, gentlemen? Six months' labour for thirty-seven
fifty is mighty cheap, and you know the law allows you to keep the
labourer up to the mark. Are you all done? Sold to Mr. Turner, for Mr.
Fetters, for six months
The case of the State against Bud Johnson is next in order. Bring in
the prisoner
Bud Johnson
you are charged with escaping from
the service into which you were sold to pay the fine and costs on a
charge of vagrancy. What do you plead -- guilty or not guilty
I'll enter a plea of not guilty. The record of this court shows that
you were convicted of vagrancy on December 26th, and sold to Mr.
Fetters for four months to pay your fine and costs. The four months
won't be up for a week. Mr. Turner may be sworn
Have you anything to say
What's de use er my sayin' anything
It won't
make no diff'ence. I didn' do nothin', in de fus' place, ter be fine'
fer, an' run away 'cause dey did n' have no right ter keep me dere
Guilty. Twenty-five dollars an' costs. You are also charged with
resisting the officer who made the arrest. Guilty or not guilty? Since
you don't speak, I'll enter a plea of not guilty. Mr. Haines may be
sworn
You may consider yo'self lucky
that Mr.
Haines didn't prefer a mo' serious charge against you. Many a nigger
has gone to the gallows for less. And now, gentlemen, I want to clean
this case up right here. How much time is offered for the fine and
costs of the prisoner, Bud Johnson, amounting to seventy-five dollars
fine and thirty-three dollars and fifty-fo' cents costs? You've heard
the evidence an' you see the nigger. Ef there ain't much competition
for his services and the time is a long one, he'll have his own
stubbornness an' deviltry to thank for it. He's strong and healthy and
able to do good work for any one that can manage him
Well, Bud
I reckon we'll hafter try it ag'in. I have
never yet allowed a nigger to git the better o' me, an', moreover, I
never will. I'll bid eighteen months, Squire; an' that's all he's
worth, with his keep
Lock 'im up till I'm ready to go, Bill
an' just leave the irons on him. I'll fetch 'em back next
time I come to town
Now, Mr. Haines, bring in the next lot
Gentlemen, I now call yo'r attention to Lot Number Fo', left over
from befo' the wah; not much for looks, but respectful and obedient,
and accustomed, for some time past, to eat very little. Can be made
useful in many ways -- can feed the chickens, take care of the children,
or would make a good skeercrow. What I am bid, gentlemen, for ol'
Peter French? The amount due the co't is twenty-fo' dollahs and a
half
You'd 'a' made a good auctioneer, Squire
Thank you, Mr. Pearsall. How much am I offered for this bargain
He'd be dear at any price
It's a great risk
Ten yeahs
You're takin' big chances, Mr. Bennet
He'll die in
five, and you'll have to bury him
I withdraw the bid
Two yeahs
May I ask the meaning of this proceeding
Well, suh
I don't know who you are, or what
right you have to interfere, but this is the sale of a vagrant nigger,
with no visible means of suppo't. Perhaps, since you're interested,
you'd like to bid on 'im. Are you from the No'th, likely
Yes
I thought, suh, that you looked like a No'the'n man. That bein' so,
doubtless you'd like somethin' on the Uncle Tom order. Old Peter's
fine is twenty dollars, and the costs fo' dollars and a half. The
prisoner's time is sold to whoever pays his fine and allows him the
shortest time to work it out. When his time's up, he goes free
And what has old Peter done to deserve a fine of twenty dollars -- more
money than he perhaps has ever had at any one time
Deed, it is, Mars Henry, 'deed it is
Peter has not been able
to show this co't
that he has reg'lar employment, or means of suppo't, and he was
therefore tried and convicted yesterday evenin' of vagrancy, under our
State law. The fine is intended to discourage laziness and to promote
industry. Do you want to bid, suh? I'm offered two yeahs, gentlemen,
for old Peter French? Does anybody wish to make it less
I'll pay the fine
let him go
I beg yo' pahdon, suh, but that wouldn't fulfil the requi'ments of
the law. He'd be subject to arrest again immediately. Somebody must
take the responsibility for his keep
I'll look after him
In order to keep the docket straight
I should
want to note yo' bid. How long shall I say
Say what you like
You don't care to bid, Mr. Turner
Not by a damn sight
I buy
niggers to work, not to bury
I withdraw my bid in favour of the gentleman
Thank you
Remember, suh
that you are
responsible for his keep as well as entitled to his labour, for the
period of your bid. How long shall I make it
As long as you please
Sold
for life, to -- what
name, suh
French -- Henry French
One of the old Frenches
come back on a
visit
Yes
old 'ristocrats roun' here. Well, they ought to
take keer of their old niggers. They got all the good out of 'em when
they were young. But they're not runnin' things now
An illustration
of what we've got to contend with. Six niggers
can't get one horse up without twice as many white men to tell them
how. That's why the South is behind the No'th. The niggers, in one way
or another, take up most of our time and energy. You folks up there
have half your work done before we get our'n started
Now, boys
give a
hand here
nigger domination
If I can secure the suppo't of Mr. Fetters in the primaries
my nomination is assured, and a nomination is of co'se
equivalent to an election. But I see there are some other gentlemen
that would like to talk to you, and I won't take any mo' of yo' time
at present
Mr. Blake
have you had the pleasure of meeting
Colonel French
No, suh
I shall be glad to have the honour of
an introduction at your hands
Colonel French, Mr. Blake -- Mr. Blake, Colonel French. You gentlemen
will probably like to talk to one another, because you both belong to
the same party, I reckon. Mr. Blake is a new man roun' heah -- come down
from the mountains not mo' than ten yeahs ago, an' fetched his
politics with him; but since he was born that way we don't entertain
any malice against him. Mo'over, he's not a 'Black and Tan
Republican,' but a 'Lily White
Yes, sir
I believe in
white supremacy, and the elimination of the nigger vote. If the
National Republican Party would only ignore the coloured politicians,
and give all the offices to white men, we'll soon build up a strong
white Republican party. If I had the post-office here at Clarendon,
with the encouragement it would give, and the aid of my clerks and
subo'dinates, I could double the white Republican vote in this county
in six months
I hope to see mo' of you, sir
and I take pleasure in
introducing the Honourable Henry Clay Appleton, editor of our local
newspaper, the _Anglo-Saxon_. He and I may not agree on free silver
and the tariff, but we are entirely in harmony on the subject
indicated by the title of his newspaper. Mr. Appleton not only
furnishes all the news that's fit to read, but he represents this
county in the Legislature, along with Mr. Fetters, and he will no
doubt be the next candidate for Congress from this district. He can
tell you all that's worth knowin' about Clarendon
That was a fine, chivalrous deed of yours this morning, sir
at Squire Reddick's office. It was just what might have been
expected from a Southern gentleman; for we claim you, colonel, in
spite of your long absence
Yes
I don't know what I rescued old Peter
from. It looked pretty dark for him there for a little while. I
shouldn't have envied his fate had he been bought in by the tall
fellow who represented your colleague in the Legislature. The law
seems harsh
Well
I suppose it might seem harsh, in
comparison with your milder penal systems up North. But you must
consider the circumstances, and make allowances for us. We have so
many idle, ignorant Negroes that something must be done to make them
work, or else they'll steal, and to keep them in their place, or they
would run over us. The law has been in operation only a year or two,
and is already having its effect. I'll be glad to introduce a bill for
its repeal, as soon as it is no longer needed.

"You must bear in mind, too, colonel, that niggers don't look at
imprisonment and enforced labour in the same way white people do -- they
are not conscious of any disgrace attending stripes or the ball and
chain. The State is poor; our white children are suffering for lack of
education, and yet we have to spend a large amount of money on the
Negro schools. These convict labour contracts are a source of
considerable revenue to the State; they make up, in fact, for most of
the outlay for Negro education -- which I approve of, though I'm frank
to say that so far I don't see much good that's come from it. This
convict labour is humanely treated; Mr. Fetters has the contract for
several counties, and anybody who knows Mr. Fetters knows that there's
no kinder-hearted man in the South
What'll you do with him, Colonel
An ole
nigger like Peter couldn't live in the col' No'th. You'll have to buy
a place down here to keep 'im. They wouldn' let you own a nigger at
the No'th
sometimey
You're Colonel French, ain't you, suh
Yes
Yes, suh; I had heard you wuz in town, an' I wuz hopin' you would
come in to get shaved. An' w'en I heard 'bout yo' noble conduc' this
mawnin' at Squire Reddick's I wanted you to come in all de mo', suh.
Ole Uncle Peter has had a lot er bad luck in his day, but he has fell
on his feet dis time, suh, sho's you bawn. I'm right glad to see you,
suh. I feels closer to you, suh, than I does to mos' white folks,
because you know, colonel, I'm livin' in the same house you wuz bawn
in
Oh, you are the Nichols, are you, who bought our old place
Yes, suh, William Nichols, at yo' service, suh. I've own' de ole
house fer twenty yeahs or mo' now, suh, an' we've b'en mighty
comfo'table in it, suh. They is a spaciousness, an' a air of elegant
sufficiency about the environs and the equipments of the ed'fice, suh,
that does credit to the tas'e of the old aristocracy an' of you-all's
family, an' teches me in a sof' spot. For I loves the aristocracy; an'
I've often tol' my ol' lady, 'Liza,' says I, 'ef I'd be'n bawn white I
sho' would 'a' be'n a 'ristocrat. I feels it in my bones
Will you have oil on yo' hair, suh, or bay rum
Nichols
I should like to buy back the old
house. What do you want for it
Why, colonel
I hadn' r'ally thought 'bout sellin' it. You
see, suh, I've had it now for twenty years, and it suits me, an' my
child'en has growed up in it -- an' it kind of has associations, suh
I should advise you to speak up, Nichols
I had
no notion of buying the place when I came in, and I may not be of the
same mind to-morrow. Name your own price, but now's your time
I think, suh
that fo' thousand dollars
would be 'bout right
I'll take it
Here's fifty dollars to bind the bargain. I'll write a receipt for
you to sign
Have the deed drawn up as soon as you like
and when it is done I'll give you a draft for the
money
Yes, suh; thank you, suh, thank you, colonel
Papa
I want to buy this dog. His name is Rover; he can
shake hands, and I like him very much. This little boy wants ten cents
for him, and I did not have the money. I asked him to wait until you
came. May I buy him
Certainly, Phil. Here, boy
My dear Laura
I have been in Clarendon two days; and I have already bought
a dog, a house and a man
I don't understand
I suppose it is the law
but it seems hardly
right. I had thought we were well rid of slavery. White men do not
work any too much. Old Peter was not idle. He did odd jobs, when he
could get them; he was polite and respectful; and it was an outrage to
treat him so. I am glad you -- hired him
Yes -- hired him. Moreover, Laura. I have bought a house
A house! Then you are going to stay! I am so glad! we shall all be so
glad. What house
The old place. I went into the barber shop. The barber complimented
me on the family taste in architecture, and grew sentimental about
_his_ associations with the house. This awoke _my_ associations, and
the collocation jarred -- I was selfish enough to want a monopoly of the
associations. I bought the house from him before I left the shop
But what will you do with it
You could
never _live_ in it again -- after a coloured family
There were Negroes in the house in the old days
and surely a good old house, gone farther astray than
ours, might still be redeemed to noble ends. I shall renovate it and
live in it while I am here, and at such times as I may return; or if I
should tire of it, I can give it to the town for a school, or for a
hospital -- there is none here. I should like to preserve, so far as I
may, the old associations -- _my_ associations. The house might not fall
again into hands as good as those of Nichols, and I should like to
know that it was devoted to some use that would keep the old name
alive in the community
I think, Henry
that if your visit is long enough,
you will do more for the town than if you had remained here all your
life. For you have lived in a wider world, and acquired a broader
view; and you have learned new things without losing your love for the
old
Now, Peter
I'm going to prove my confidence in you, and
test your devotion to the family, by giving you charge of Phil. You
may come and get him in the morning after breakfast -- you can get your
meals in the hotel kitchen -- and take him to walk in the streets or the
cemetery; but you must be very careful, for he is all I have in the
world. In other words, Peter, you are to take as good care of Phil as
you did of me when I was a little boy
I'll look aftuh 'im, Mars Henry, lak he wuz a lump er pyo' gol'. Me
an' him will git along fine, won't we, little Mars Phil
Yes, indeed
I like you, Uncle Peter, and I'll
be glad to go with you
Would you like a drive
Wouldn't I
Wait till I tell the folks
Colonel French
are you going to give a house warming
Why
I hadn't thought of it. Ought I to give a house
warming
You surely ought. Everybody will want to see your house while it is
new and bright. You certainly ought to have a house warming
Very well
I make it a rule to shirk no plain
duty. If I _ought_ to have a house warming, I _will_ have it. And you
shall be my social mentor. What sort of a party shall it be
Why not make it
just such a party as your
father would have had. You have the old house, and the old furniture.
Give an old-time party
Henry
the house would not be complete without your
father's desk. It was my father's too, but yours is the prior claim.
Take it as a gift from me
You are selfish, Henry
You have brought
a new interest into our lives, and into the town, and you will not let
us make you any return
But I am taking from you something you need
and for
which you paid. When Major Treadwell bought it, it was merely
second-hand furniture, sold under the hammer. Now it has the value of
an antique -- it is a fine piece and could be sold in New York for a
large sum
You must take it for nothing, or not at all
It is highway robbery
A bright idea
By all means let it be an old-time
party -- say such a party as my father would have given, or my
grandfather. And shall we invite the old people
Well
don't have them so old that
they can't talk or hear, and must be fed with a spoon. If there were
too many old, or not enough young people, I shouldn't enjoy myself
I suppose I seem awfully old to you
Oh, I don't know
When you first came I thought you _were_ rather old -- you see,
you are older than Aunt Laura; but you seem to have grown
younger -- it's curious, but it's true -- and now I hardly think of you as
old at all
Very well
you shall select the guests
At an old-time party
the guests
should wear old-time clothes. In grandmother's time the ladies wore
long flowing sleeves
And hoopskirts
And their hair down over their ears
Or in ringlets
Yes, it is all in grandmother's bound volume of _The Ladies' Book_
I was reading it only last week
My mother took it
Then you must have read 'Letters from a Pastry Cook,' by N.P. Willis
when they came out
No
I missed that. I -- I wasn't able
to read then
Why, of course not
you weren't even born when they
came out! But they're fine; I'll lend you our copy. You must ask all
the girls to dress as their mothers and grandmothers used to dress.
Make the requirement elastic, because some of them may not have just
the things for one particular period. I'm all right. We have a cedar
chest in the attic, full of old things. Won't I look funny in a hoop
skirt
You'll look charming in anything
An old-time party
should have old-time
amusements. We must have a fiddler, a black fiddler, to play
quadrilles and the Virginia Reel
I don't know where you'll find one
I'll ask Peter
He ought to know
Lawd, Mars Henry
fiddlers is mighty sca'ce dese days,
but I reckon ole 'Poleon Campbell kin make you shake yo' feet yit, ef
Ole Man Rheumatiz ain' ketched holt er 'im too tight
And I will play a minuet on your new piano
and
teach the girls beforehand how to dance it. There should be cards for
those who do not dance
Yo' boss is a godsen' ter dis town
he sho'
is. De w'ite folks says de young niggers is triflin' 'cause dey don'
larn how to do nothin'. But what is dere fer 'em to do? I kin 'member
when dis town was full er black an' yaller carpenters an' 'j'iners,
blacksmiths, wagon makers, shoemakers, tinners, saddlers an' cab'net
makers. Now all de fu'nicher, de shoes, de wagons, de buggies, de
tinware, de hoss shoes, de nails to fasten 'em on wid -- yas, an' fo' de
Lawd! even de clothes dat folks wears on dere backs, is made at de
Norf, an' dere ain' nothin' lef' fer de ole niggers ter do, let 'lone
de young ones. Yo' boss is de right kin'; I hopes he'll stay 'roun'
here till you an' me dies
I hopes wid you
I sho' does! Yas indeed I
does
Fishers' Hornpipe
Soldiers' Joy
Chicken in the Bread-tray
Campbells are Coming
Graciella
our party is a great success. It was your idea. When it is all over,
I want to make you a present in token of my gratitude. You shall
select it yourself; it shall be whatever you say
Oh, there's no doubt about it
He came down here to
find a wife. He tried a Yankee wife, and didn't like the breed; and
when he was ready for number two, he came back South
He showed good taste
That depends
upon whom he chooses. He can probably
have his pick
No doubt
I wonder which is it
I suppose it's Laura; he
spends a great deal of time there, and she's devoted to his little
boy, or pretends to be
Don't fool yourself
Don't fool yourself,
my dear. A man of his age doesn't marry a woman of Laura Treadwell's.
Believe me, it's the little one
But she has a beau. There's that tall nephew of old Mr. Dudley's.
He's been hanging around her for a year or two. He looks very handsome
to-night
Ah, well, she'll dispose of him fast enough when the time comes. He's
only a poor stick, the last of a good stock run to seed. Why, she's
been pointedly setting her cap at the colonel all the evening. He's
perfectly infatuated; he has danced with her three times to once with
Laura
It's sad to see a man make a fool of himself
Children are very forward nowadays
There's no fool like an old fool, my dear
These fair
women are always selfish and calculating; and she's a bold piece. My
husband says Colonel French is worth at least a million. A young wife,
who understands her business, could get anything from him that money
can buy
What a pity, my dear
what a pity that you were older than your
husband! Well, it will be fortunate for the child if she marries an
old man, for beauty of her type fades early
Camptown
Races
Gwine ter run all night,
    Gwine ter run all day,
    I'll bet my money on de bobtail nag,
    Oh, who's gwine ter bet on de bay
Come on, Graciella, let's get into the Virginia reel; it's the last
one
You're not sayin' much to-night
You're not sayin' much to-night
Yes
it was a lovely party
Graciella
will you marry me
Still harping on the same old string
I'm tired now, Ben, too tired to talk foolishness
Very well, I'll save it for next time. Good night, sweetheart
Good night, Ben
Good night, sweetheart
Some day, Colonel
you might
get a few pointers by running over to Carthage and looking through the
Excelsior Mills. They get more work there for less money than anywhere
else in the South. Last year they declared a forty per cent. dividend.
I know the superintendent, and will give you a letter of introduction,
whenever you like
Are you looking for some one
Why, yes, madam
I was
looking for the proprietor -- or the clerk
Why
that's the proprietor sitting there in
the office. I'm going in to speak to him, and you can get his
attention at the same time
I want a clean towel, Mr. Dickson
Huh
A clean towel, if you please
Oh, yes
that's Lee Dickson all over. That hotel
used to be kep' by his mother. She was a widow woman, an' ever since
she died, a couple of months ago, Lee's been playin' the big man,
spendin' the old lady's money, and enjoyin' himself. Did you see that
hoss'n'-buggy hitched in front of the ho-tel
Yes
Well, that's Lee's buggy. He hires it from us. We send it up every
mornin' at nine o'clock, when Lee gits up. When he's had his breakfas'
he comes out an' gits in the buggy, an' drives to the barber-shop nex'
door, gits out, goes in an' gits shaved, comes out, climbs in the
buggy, an' drives back to the ho-tel. Then he talks to the cook, comes
out an' gits in the buggy, an' drives half-way 'long that side of the
square, about two hund'ed feet, to the grocery sto', and orders half a
pound of coffee or a pound of lard, or whatever the ho-tel needs for
the day, then comes out, climbs in the buggy and drives back. When the
mail comes in, if he's expectin' any mail, he drives 'cross the square
to the post-office, an' then drives back to the ho-tel. There's other
lazy men roun' here, but Lee Dickson takes the cake. However, it's
money in our pocket, as long as it keeps up
I shouldn't think it would keep up long
How
can such a hotel prosper
It don't
but it's the best in town
I don't see how there could be a worse
There couldn't -- it's reached bed rock
Lord, yes
I can tell
you all you want to know about that mill. Talk about nigger
slavery -- the niggers never were worked like white women and children
are in them mills. They work 'em from twelve to sixteen hours a day
for from fifteen to fifty cents. Them triflin' old pinelanders out
there jus' lay aroun' and raise children for the mills, and then set
down and chaw tobacco an' live on their children's wages. It's a sin
an' a shame, an' there ought to be a law ag'inst it
An' it ain't surprisin
Shut up in jail all
day, an' half the night, never breathin' the pyo' air, or baskin' in
God's bright sunshine; with no books to read an' no chance to learn,
who can blame the po'r things if they have a little joy in the only
way they know
Who owns the mill
It belongs to a company
but Old Bill Fetters owns a
majority of the stock -- durn, him
You are not one of Fetters's admirers then
Not by a durn sight
When I look
at them white gals, that ought to be rosy-cheeked an' bright-eyed an'
plump an' hearty an' happy, an' them po' little child'en that never
get a chance to go fishin' or swimmin' or to learn anything, I allow I
wouldn' mind if the durned old mill would catch fire an' burn down.
They work children there from six years old up, an' half of 'em die of
consumption before they're grown. It's a durned outrage, an' if I ever
go to the Legislatur', for which I mean to run, I'll try to have it
stopped
I hope you will be elected
What time does the
train go back to Clarendon
Four o'clock, if she's on time -- but it may be five
Do you suppose I can get dinner at the hotel
Oh, yes! I sent word up that I 'lowed you might be back, so they'll
be expectin' you
The men
who are responsible for that
sort of thing, are enemies of mankind. I've been in business for
twenty years, but I have never sought to make money by trading on the
souls and bodies of women and children. I saw the little darkies
running about the streets down there at Carthage; they were poor and
ragged and dirty, but they were out in the air and the sunshine; they
have a chance to get their growth; to go to school and learn
something. The white children are worked worse than slaves, and are
growing up dulled and stunted, physically and mentally. Our folks down
here are mighty short-sighted, judge. We'll wake them up. We'll build
a model cotton mill, and run it with decent hours and decent wages,
and treat the operatives like human beings with bodies to nourish,
minds to develop; and souls to save. Fetters and his crowd will have
to come up to our standard, or else we'll take their hands away
Jane Eyre
Will you go for a walk with me
I'm sorry, Ben
but I have an engagement to go driving
with Colonel French
I suppose the colonel's here every night, as well as every day
and that you talk to him all the time
No, Ben, he isn't here every night, nor every day. His old darky,
Peter, brings Phil over every day; but when the colonel comes he talks
to grandmother and Aunt Laura, as well as to me
I suppose you admire Colonel French immensely
Oh, I like him reasonably well
His conversation is improving. He has lived in the
metropolis, and has seen so much of the world that he can scarcely
speak without saying something interesting. It's a liberal education
to converse with people who have had opportunities. It helps to
prepare my mind for life at the North
You set a great deal of store by the North, Graciella. Anybody would
allow, to listen to you, that you didn't love your own country
I love the South, Ben, as I loved Aunt Lou, my old black mammy. I've
laid in her arms many a day, and I 'most cried my eyes out when she
died. But that didn't mean that I never wanted to see any one else.
Nor am I going to live in the South a minute longer than I can help,
because it's too slow. And New York isn't all -- I want to travel and
see the world. The South is away behind
And at home
at home I should want
several houses -- a town house, a country place, a seaside cottage. When
we were tired of one we could go to another, or live in hotels -- in the
winter in Florida, at Atlantic City in the spring, at Newport in the
summer. They say Long Branch has gone out entirely
Gone out to sea
No, Ben
It's
still there, but has gone out of fashion
Oh, excuse me! I'm not posted on these fashionable things
Graciella
I have brought my uncle Malcolm's letter along,
to convince you that uncle is not as crazy as he seems, and that
there's some foundation for the hope that I may yet be able to give
you all you want. I don't want to relinquish the hope, and I want you
to share it with me
Malcolm Dudley, Esq., Mink Run
By hand of Viney
It was a voice from the grave
for my great-uncle Ralph
was dead when the letter reached Uncle Malcolm. I'll read it
aloud -- the writing is sometimes hard to make out, and I know it by
heart:

     _My Dear Malcolm:

     I have in my hands fifty thousand dollars of government money,
     in gold, which I am leaving here at the house for a few days.
     Since you are not at home, and I cannot wait, I have confided
     in our girl Viney, whom I can trust. She will tell you, when
     she gives you this, where I have put the money -- I do not write
     it, lest the letter should fall into the wrong hands; there are
     many to whom it would be a great temptation. I shall return in
     a few days, and relieve you of the responsibility. Should
     anything happen to me, write to the Secretary of State at
     Richmond for instructions what to do with the money. In great
     haste_,

                                   _Your affectionate uncle,_
                                         RALPH DUDLEY
It sounds like a letter in a novel
There
must have been something
There must _be_ something, Graciella, for Uncle Ralph was killed the
next day, and never came back for the money. But Uncle Malcolm,
because he don't know where to look, can't find it; and old Aunt
Viney, because she can't talk, can't tell him where it is
Why has she never shown him
There is some mystery
which she seems unable to explain
without speech. And then, she is queer -- as queer, in her own way, as
uncle is in his. Now, if you'd only marry me, Graciella, and go out
there to live, with your uncommonly fine mind, _you'd_ find it -- you
couldn't help but find it. It would just come at your call, like my
dog when I whistle to him
Thank you, Ben
I am not clever enough for that. It is
a dream. Your great-uncle Ralph had ridden too long and too far in the
sun, and imagined the treasure, which has driven your Uncle Malcolm
crazy, and his housekeeper dumb, and has benumbed you so that you sit
around waiting, waiting, when you ought to be working, working! No,
Ben, I like you ever so much, but you will never take me to New York
with your Uncle Ralph's money, nor will you ever earn enough to take
me with your own. You must excuse me now, for here comes my cavalier.
Don't hurry away; Aunt Laura will be out in a minute. You can stay and
work on your model; I'll not be here to interrupt you. Good evening,
Colonel French! Did you bring me a _Herald_? I want to look at the
advertisements
Yes, my dear young lady, there is Wednesday's -- it is only two days
old. How are you, Mr. Dudley
Tol'able, sir, thank you
By the way
I wish to have an interview with your
uncle, about the old mill site. He seems to have been a stockholder in
the company, and we should like his signature, if he is in condition
to give it. If not, it may be necessary to appoint you his guardian,
with power to act in his place
He's all right, sir, in the morning, if you come early enough
You can tell what is best to do after
you've seen him
Thank you
I'll have my man drive me out
to-morrow about ten, say; if you'll be at home? You ought to be there,
you know
Very well, sir, I'll be there all day, and shall expect you
You are the cynosure of all eyes
I suppose I'm an
object of envy to every young fellow in town
I am not interested in
the young men of Clarendon
they are not worth
the trouble
Not even -- Ben
Oh
Mr. Dudley is really a
cousin, and only a friend. He comes to see the family
I'm right sorry, Colonel
I should like to help you put
the thing through, but I simply can't afford it. Other clients, whose
business I have transacted for years, and to whom I am under heavy
obligations, have intimated that they would consider any further
activity of mine in your interest unfriendly to theirs
I suppose
your clients wish to secure the mill
site for themselves. Nothing imparts so much value to a thing as the
notion that somebody else wants it. Of course, I can't ask you to act
for me further, and if you'll make out your bill, I'll hand you a
check
I hope
there'll be no ill-feeling about our
separation
Oh, no
not at all. Business is
business, and a man's own interests are his first concern
I'm glad you feel that way
Some men, you know
might have kept on, and worked against
you, while accepting your retainer; there are such skunks at the bar
There are black sheep in every fold
It would be unprofessional, I suppose, to name your
client, so I'll not ask you
graft
Work
is best for happiness, but in this climate
idleness has its compensations. What, in the end, do we get for all
our labour
Fifty cents a day, an' fin' yo'se'f, suh
Dat's w'at dey pays roun' hyuh
mansion
Viney
I am tired of this nonsense. I insist upon
knowing, immediately, where my uncle left the money
Show me at once, you hussy
or you'll
have reason to regret it. I'll have you whipped
Yes, Viney, good Viney
I know it was wrong,
and I've always regretted it, always, from the very moment. But you
shouldn't bear malice. Servants, the Bible says, should obey their
masters, and you should bless them that curse you, and do good to them
that despitefully use you. But I was good to you before, Viney, and I
was kind to you afterwards, and I know you've forgiven me, good Viney,
noble-hearted Viney, and you're going to tell me, aren't you
Try again, Viney
that's a good girl. Your old master
thinks a great deal of you, Viney. He is your best friend
What's the matter with them, Peter? Do you know
Dey's bofe plumb 'stracted, suh -- clean out'n dey min's -- dey be'n dat
way fer yeahs an' yeahs an' yeahs
That's Mr. Dudley, I suppose
Yas, suh, dat's ole Mars Ma'com Dudley, de uncle er young Mistah Ben
Dudley w'at hangs 'roun Miss Grac'ella so much
And who is the woman
She's a bright mulattah 'oman, suh, w'at use' ter b'long ter de
family befo' de wah, an' has kep' house fer ole Mars' Ma'com ever
sense. He 'lows dat she knows whar old Mars' Rafe Dudley, _his_ uncle,
hid a million dollahs endyoin' de wah, an' huh tongue's paralyse' so
she can't tell 'im -- an' he's be'n tryin' ter fin' out fer de las'
twenty-five years. I wo'ked out hyuh one summer on plantation, an' I
seen 'em gwine on like dat many 'n' many a time. Dey don' nobody roun'
hyuh pay no 'tention to 'em no mo', ev'ybody's so use' ter seein'
'em
Won't you 'light and come in
I am glad, sir
to make your
acquaintance. I have been working in the garden -- the flower-garden -- for
the sake of the exercise. We have negroes enough, though they are very
trifling nowadays, but the exercise is good for my health. I have
trouble, at times, with my rheumatism, and with my -- my memory
Ben tells me you have a business matter to present to me
I trust, sir
that you will not ascribe it to any
discourtesy that I have not called to see you. I knew your father and
your grandfather. But the cares of my estate absorb me so completely
that I never leave home. I shall send my regards to you now and then
by my nephew. I expect, in a very short time, when certain matters
are adjusted, to be able to give up, to a great extent, my arduous
cares, and lead a life of greater leisure, which will enable me to
travel and cultivate a wider acquaintance. When that time comes, sir,
I shall hope to see more of you
I reckon, suh
dat w'en he fin' dat million
dollahs, Mistah Ben'll marry Miss Grac'ella an' take huh ter New
Yo'k
Perhaps -- and perhaps not
Old Malcolm will start on a long journey before he finds
the -- million dollars. The watched pot never boils. Buried treasure is
never found by those who seek it, but always accidentally, if at all
Uncle Peter
Papa
there's room
enough here for all of us, isn't there -- you, and me and Uncle Peter
Yes, Phil
there's room for several generations of
Frenches yet to sleep with their fathers
Here
next
to grandfather, will be your place, and here next to that, will be
mine, and here, next to me will be -- but no
that ought to be saved for my little boy when he grows
up and dies, that is, when I grow up and have a little boy and he
grows up and grows old and dies and leaves a little boy and -- but where
will Uncle Peter be
Nem mine me, honey
dey can put me somewhar e'se.
Hit doan' mattuh 'bout me
No, Uncle Peter, you must be here with the rest of us. For you know,
Uncle Peter, I'm so used to you now, that I should want you to be near
me then
Put me down hyuh at de foot er
de lot, little Mars' Phil, unner dis ellum tree
Oh, papa
Uncle
Peter and I have arranged everything. You know Uncle Peter is to stay
with me as long as I live, and when he dies, he is to be buried here
at the foot of the lot, under the elm tree, where he'll be near me all
the time, and near the folks that he knows and that know him
All right, Phil. You see to it; you'll live longer
But, papa, if I should die first, and then Uncle Peter, and you last
of all, you'll put Uncle Peter near me, won't you, papa
Why, bless your little heart, Phil, of course your daddy will do
whatever you want, if he's here to do it. But you'll live, Phil,
please God, until I am old and bent and white-haired, and you are a
grown man, with a beard, and a little boy of your own
Yas, suh
an' till ole Peter's bones is
long sence crumble' inter dus'. None er de Frenches' ain' never died
till dey was done growed up
There, Philip dear, never mind
we'll have Ben
mend it for you when he comes, next time, and then you can play with
it again
I reckon we'll haf ter move, honey
We ain't
gwine ter have no luck fishin' 'g'ins' no ole black cat
But cats don't fish, Uncle Peter, do they
Law', chile, you'll never know w'at dem critters _kin_ do, 'tel you's
watched 'em long ez I has! Keep yo' eye on dat one now
Jes' look at dat ole devil
playin' wid dat fish jes'
lack it wuz a mouse! She'll be comin' down heah terreckly tellin' us
ter go 'way fum her fishin' groun's
Why, Uncle Peter
cats can't talk
Can't dey? Hoo said dey couldn'? Ain't Miss Grac'ella an' me be'n
tellin' you right along 'bout Bre'r Rabbit and Bre'r Fox an de yuther
creturs talkin' an' gwine on jes' lak folks
Yes, Uncle Peter, but those were just stories; they didn't really
talk, did they
Law', honey
you is de sma'tes' little white boy I ever knowed, but you is got a
monst'us heap ter l'arn yit, chile. Nobody ain' done tol' you 'bout de
Black Cat an' de Ha'nted House, is dey
No, Uncle Peter -- you tell me
I didn' knowed but Miss Grac'ella mought a tole you -- she knows mos'
all de tales
No, she hasn't. You tell me about it, Uncle Peter
Well
does you 'member dat coal-black man dat drives de
lumber wagon
Yes, he goes by our house every day, on the way to the sawmill
Well, it all happen' 'long er him. He 'uz gwine long de street one
day, w'en he heared two gent'emen -- one of 'em was ole Mars' Tom
Sellers an' I fuhgot de yuther -- but dey 'uz talkin' 'bout dat ole
ha'nted house down by de creek, 'bout a mile from hyuh, on de yuther
side er town, whar we went fishin' las' week. Does you 'member de
place
Yes, I remember the house
Well, as dis yer Jeff -- dat's de lumber-wagon driver's name -- as dis
yer Jeff come up ter dese yer two gentlemen, one of 'em was sayin,
'I'll bet five dollahs dey ain' narry a man in his town would stay in
dat ha'nted house all night.' Dis yer Jeff, he up 'n sez, sezee,
'Scuse me, suh, but ef you'll 'low me ter speak, suh, I knows a man
wat'll stay in dat ole ha'nted house all night
What is a ha'nted house, Uncle Peter
W'y. Law,' chile, a ha'nted house is a house whar dey's ha'nts
And what are ha'nts, Uncle Peter
Ha'nts, honey, is sperrits er dead folks, dat comes back an' hangs
roun' whar dey use' ter lib
Do all spirits come back, Uncle Peter
No, chile, bress de Lawd, no. Only de bad ones, w'at has be'n so
wicked dey can't rest in dey graves. Folks lack yo' gran'daddy and yo'
gran'mammy -- an' all de Frenches -- dey don' none er _dem_ come back, fer
dey wuz all good people an' is all gone ter hebben. But I'm fergittin'
de tale.

"'Well, hoo's de man -- hoo's de man?' ax Mistah Sellers, w'en Jeff tol'
'im dey wuz somebody wat 'ud stay in de ole ha'nted house all night.

"'I'm de man,' sez Jeff. 'I ain't skeered er no ha'nt dat evuh walked,
an' I sleeps in graveya'ds by pref'ence; fac', I jes nach'ly lacks ter
talk ter ha'nts. You pay me de five dollahs, an' I'll 'gree ter stay
in de ole house f'm nine er clock 'tel daybreak.'

"Dey talk' ter Jeff a w'ile, an' dey made a bahgin wid 'im; dey give
'im one dollah down, an' promus' 'im fo' mo' in de mawnin' ef he
stayed 'tel den.

"So w'en he got de dollah he went uptown an' spent it, an' 'long 'bout
nine er clock he tuk a lamp, an' went down ter de ole house, an' went
inside an' shet de do'.

"Dey wuz a rickety ole table settin' in de middle er de flo'. He sot
de lamp on de table. Den he look 'roun' de room, in all de cawners an'
up de chimbly, ter see dat dey wan't nobody ner nuthin' hid in de
room. Den he tried all de winders an' fastened de do', so dey couldn'
nobody ner nuthin' git in. Den he fotch a' ole rickety chair f'm one
cawner, and set it by de table, and sot down. He wuz settin' dere,
noddin' his head, studyin' 'bout dem other fo' dollahs, an' w'at he
wuz gwine buy wid 'em, w'en bimeby he kinder dozed off, an' befo' he
knowed it he wuz settin' dere fast asleep
W'en he woke up, 'long 'bout 'leven erclock, de lamp had bu'n' down
kinder low. He heared a little noise behind him an' look 'roun', an'
dere settin' in de middle er de flo' wuz a big black tomcat, wid his
tail quirled up over his back, lookin' up at Jeff wid bofe his two big
yaller eyes.

"Jeff rub' 'is eyes, ter see ef he wuz 'wake, an w'iles he sot dere
wond'rin' whar de hole wuz dat dat ole cat come in at, fus' thing he
knowed, de ole cat wuz settin' right up 'side of 'im, on de table, wid
his tail quirled up roun' de lamp chimbly.

"Jeff look' at de black cat, an' de black cat look' at Jeff. Den de
black cat open his mouf an' showed 'is teef, an' sezee ----

"'Good evenin'!'

"'Good evenin' suh,' 'spon' Jeff, trimblin' in de knees, an' kind'er
edgin' 'way fum de table.

"'Dey ain' nobody hyuh but you an' me, is dey?' sez de black cat,
winkin' one eye.

"'No, suh,' sez Jeff, as he made fer de do', _'an' quick ez I kin git
out er hyuh, dey ain' gwine ter be nobody hyuh but you
Is that all, Uncle Peter
Huh
Is that all
No, dey's mo' er de tale, but dat's ernuff ter prove dat black cats
kin do mo' dan little w'ite boys 'low dey kin
Did Jeff go away
Did he go 'way! Why, chile, he jes' flew away! Befo' he got ter de
do', howsomevuh, he 'membered he had locked it, so he didn' stop ter
try ter open it, but went straight out'n a winder, quicker'n
lightnin', an' kyared de sash 'long wid 'im. An' he'd be'n in sech
pow'ful has'e dat he knock' de lamp over an' lack ter sot de house
afire. He nevuh got de yuther fo' dollahs of co'se, 'ca'se he didn't
stay in de ole ha'nted house all night, but he 'lowed he'd sho'ly
'arned de one dollah he'd had a'ready
Why didn't he want to talk to the black cat, Uncle Peter
Why didn' he wan' ter talk ter de black cat? Whoever heared er sich a
queshtun! He didn' wan' ter talk wid no black cat, 'ca'se he wuz
skeered. Black cats brings 'nuff bad luck w'en dey doan' talk, let
'lone w'en dey does
I should like
to talk to a black cat. I
think it would be great fun
Keep away f'm 'em, chile, keep away f'm 'em. Dey is some things too
deep fer little boys ter projec' wid, an' black cats is one of 'em
Uncle Peter
there
couldn't be any ha'nts at all in the graveyard where my grandfather is
buried, could there? Graciella read a lot of the tombstones to me one
day, and they all said that all the people were good, and were resting
in peace, and had gone to heaven. Tombstones always tell the truth,
don't they, Uncle Peter
Happen so, honey, happen so! De French tombstones does; an' as ter de
res', I ain' gwine to 'spute 'em, nohow, fer ef I did, de folks under
'em mought come back an' ha'nt me, jes' fer spite
I'm told that Fetters says he'll get the mill anyway
and make more money buying it under foreclosure than by building a
new one. He's ready to lend on it now
Oh, damn Fetters
The mill will be
running on full time when Fetters has been put out of business. We've
won our first fight, and I've never really seen the fellow yet
Well, colonel
I don't know. I'd s'posed you were goin' to
impo't yo' bricks from Philadelphia
No, Mr. Barnes
I want to spend the money
here in Clarendon. There seems to be plenty of unemployed labour
Yes, there does, till you want somethin' done; then there ain't so
much. I s'pose I might find half a dozen niggers round here that know
how to make brick; and there's several more that have moved away that
I can get back if I send for them. If you r'al'y think you want yo'r
brick made here, I'll try to get them out for you. They'll cost you,
though, as much, if not more than, you'd have to pay for machine-made
bricks from the No'th
Well, I'm shore I don't see why
They'll not
be as smooth or as uniform in colour
They'll be Clarendon brick
and I want this
to be a Clarendon enterprise, from the ground up
Well
if you must have home-made brick, I
suppose I'll have to make 'em. I'll see what I can do
I don't like that there time limit
but I
reckon I can make them brick as fast as you can get anybody roun' here
to lay 'em
Well, colonel
I
s'pose you're goin' to hire white folks to do the work over there
Why
I hadn't thought about the colour of the
workmen. There'll be plenty, I guess, for all who apply, so long as it
lasts
You'll have trouble if you hire niggers
You'll
find that they won't work when you want 'em to. They're not reliable,
they have no sense of responsibility. As soon as they get a dollar
they'll lay off to spend it, and leave yo' work at the mos' critical
point
Well, now, major
I haven't noticed any
unnatural activity among the white men of the town. The Negroes have
to live, or seem to think they have, and I'll give 'em a chance to
turn an honest penny. By the way, major, I need a superintendent to
look after the work. It don't require an expert, but merely a good
man -- gentleman preferred -- whom I can trust to see that my ideas are
carried out. Perhaps you can recommend such a person
I'd be glad to take the position myself, colonel
but I
r'aly won't have the time. The campaign will be hummin' in a month or
so, an' my political duties will occupy all my leisure. But I'll bear
the matter in mind, an' see if I can think of any suitable person
poor whites
Laura
will you go with me
to-morrow to visit the academy? I wish to see with your eyes as well
as with mine what it needs and what can be done with it. It shall be
our secret until we are ready to surprise the town
Bill Fetters, Sneak
Laura
I should like to visit the
coloured school. Will you come with me
Why, certainly, I will go. Why not? It is a place where a good work
is carried on
No, Laura
you need not go. On second
thought, I should prefer to go alone
What is your total enrolment
Well, sir
we have seventy-five or eighty on the
roll, but it threatened rain this morning, and as a great many of them
haven't got good shoes, they stayed at home for fear of getting their
feet wet
What your people need
is to learn not only how to read and
write and think, but to do these things to some definite end. We live
in an age of specialists. To make yourselves valuable members of
society, you must learn to do well some particular thing, by which
you may reasonably expect to earn a comfortable living in your own
home, among your neighbours, and save something for old age and the
education of your children. Get together. Take advice from some of
your own capable leaders in other places. Find out what you can do for
yourselves, and I will give you three dollars for every one you can
gather, for an industrial school or some similar institution. Take
your time, and when you're ready to report, come and see me, or write
to me, if I am not here
And now, Laura
when we have improved the schools
and educated the people, we must give them something to occupy their
minds. We must have a library, a public library
That will be splendid
A public library
housed in a beautiful
building, in a conspicuous place, and decorated in an artistic
manner -- a shrine of intellect and taste, at which all the people, rich
and poor, black and white, may worship
But, Henry
do you mean that
coloured people should use the library
Why not
Do they not need it most? Perhaps not many of
them might wish to use it; but to those who do, should we deny the
opportunity? Consider their teachers -- if the blind lead the blind,
shall they not both fall into the ditch
Yes, Henry, that is the truth; but I am afraid the white people
wouldn't wish to handle the same books
Very well, then we will give the coloured folks a library of their
own, at some place convenient for their use. We need not strain our
ideal by going too fast. Where shall I build the library
The vacant lot
between the post-office and the bank
The very place
It belonged to our family once, and I
shall be acquiring some more ancestral property. The cows will need to
find a new pasture
Your zeal for humanity does you infinite credit, Colonel French
but I fear your time and money and effort
will be wasted. The Negroes are hopelessly degraded. They have
degenerated rapidly since the war
How do you know, doctor? You came here from the North long after the
war. What is your standard of comparison
I voice the unanimous opinion of those who have known them at both
periods
_I_ don't agree with you; and I lived here before the war. There is
certainly one smart Negro in town. Nichols, the coloured barber, owns
five houses, and overreached me in a bargain. Before the war he was a
chattel. And Taylor, the teacher, seems to be a very sensible fellow
Yes
Taylor is a very
intelligent Negro. Nichols and he have learned how to live and prosper
among the white people
They are exceptions
who only prove the rule.
No, Colonel French, for a long time _I_ hoped that there was a future
for these poor, helpless blacks. But of late I have become profoundly
convinced that there is no place in this nation for the Negro, except
under the sod. We will not assimilate him, we cannot deport him
And therefore, O man of God, must we exterminate him
It is God's will. We need not stain our hands with innocent blood. If
we but sit passive, and leave their fate to time, they will die away
in discouragement and despair. Already disease is sapping their
vitals. Like other weak races, they will vanish from the pathway of
the strong, and there is no place for them to flee. When they go
hence, it is to go forever. It is the law of life, which God has given
to the earth. To coddle them, to delude them with false hopes of an
unnatural equality which not all the power of the Government has been
able to maintain, is only to increase their unhappiness. To a doomed
race, ignorance is euthanasia, and knowledge is but pain and sorrow.
It is His will that the fittest should survive, and that those shall
inherit the earth who are best prepared to utilise its forces and
gather its fruits
My dear doctor, what you say may all be true, but, with all due
respect, I don't believe a word of it. I am rather inclined to think
that these people have a future; that there is a place for them here;
that they have made fair progress under discouraging circumstances;
that they will not disappear from our midst for many generations, if
ever; and that in the meantime, as we make or mar them, we shall make
or mar our civilisation. No society can be greater or wiser or better
than the average of all its elements. Our ancestors brought these
people here, and lived in luxury, some of them -- or went into
bankruptcy, more of them -- on their labour. After three hundred years
of toil they might be fairly said to have earned their liberty. At any
rate, they are here. They constitute the bulk of our labouring class.
To teach them is to make their labour more effective and therefore
more profitable; to increase their needs is to increase our profits in
supplying them. I'll take my chances on the Golden Rule. I am no lover
of the Negro, _as_ Negro -- I do not know but I should rather see him
elsewhere. I think our land would have been far happier had none but
white men ever set foot upon it after the red men were driven back.
But they are here, through no fault of theirs, as we are. They were
born here. We have given them our language -- which they speak more or
less corruptly; our religion -- which they practise certainly no better
than we; and our blood -- which our laws make a badge of disgrace.
Perhaps we could not do them strict justice, without a great sacrifice
upon our own part. But they are men, and they should have their
chance -- at least _some_ chance
I shall pray for your success
With God all
things are possible, if He will them. But I can only anticipate your
failure
The colonel is growing so popular, with his ready money and his
cheerful optimism
that we'll have to run him for Congress, as soon as he is reconverted
to the faith of his fathers
You see
it's a social matter down here,
rather than a political one. With this ignorant black flood sweeping
up against us, the race question assumes an importance which
overshadows the tariff and the currency and everything else. For
instance, I had fully made up my mind to vote the other ticket in the
last election. I didn't like our candidate nor our platform. There was
a clean-cut issue between sound money and financial repudiation, and
_I_ was tired of the domination of populists and demagogues. All my
better instincts led me toward a change of attitude, and I boldly
proclaimed the fact. I declared my political and intellectual
independence, at the cost of many friends; even my own son-in-law
scarcely spoke to me for a month. When I went to the polls, old Sam
Brown, the triflingest nigger in town, whom I had seen sentenced to
jail more than once for stealing -- old Sam Brown was next to me in the
line.

"'Well, Gin'l,' he said, 'I'm glad you is got on de right side at
las', an' is gwine to vote _our_ ticket
This was too much! I could stand the other party in the abstract, but
not in the concrete. I voted the ticket of my neighbours and my
friends. We had to preserve our institutions, if our finances went to
smash. Call it prejudice -- call it what you like -- it's human nature,
and you'll come to it, colonel, you'll come to it -- and then we'll send
you to Congress
I might not care to go
You could not resist, sir, the unanimous demand of a determined
constituency. Upon the rare occasions when, in this State, the office
has had a chance to seek the man, it has never sought in vain
Henry
Philip does not seem quite well to-day.
There are dark circles under his eyes, and he has been coughing a
little
I broke one of my buggy wheels going out home this morning
and had just sent it to the shop when your
messenger came. I would have ridden your horse back, and let the man
walk in, but Mr. Dudley fortunately came along and gave me a lift
What he needs, colonel, at his age, is a woman's care. But for that
matter none of us ever get too old to need that
I'll have Tom hitch up and take you home
unless you'll stay to dinner
No, thank you
I'm much obliged, but I told my
wife I'd be back to dinner. I'll just sit here and wait for young
Dudley, who's going to call for me in an hour. There's a fine mind,
colonel, that's never had a proper opportunity for development. If
he'd had half the chance that your boy will, he would make his mark.
Did you ever see his uncle Malcolm
Is the old man sane
His mind is warped, undoubtedly
but I'll leave it
to you whether it was the result of an insane delusion or not -- if you
care to hear his story -- or perhaps you've heard it
No, I have not
but I should like to hear
it
Viney
You have not
I have, sir, and well! The she-devil bit my hand to the bone, and
would have stabbed me if I hadn't got the knife away from her. You'd
better have the niggers look after her; she's shamming a fit
The woman has had a stroke
brought on by brutal treatment. By G -- d, Dudley, I
wouldn't have thought this of you! I own Negroes, but I treat them
like human beings. And such a woman! I'm ashamed of my own race, I
swear I am! If we are whipped in this war and the slaves are freed, as
Lincoln threatens, it will be God's judgment
It was a mistake
and I shall discharge the overseer
who did it
You had better shoot him
He has no soul -- and
what is worse, no discrimination
I'm sorry, Viney, mighty sorry, I assure you. Martin went further
than I intended, and I have discharged him for his brutality. You'll
be sorry, Viney, to learn that your old Master Ralph is dead; he was
killed by an accident within ten miles of here. His body will be
brought home to-day and buried to-morrow
I found the letter he left with you
and must
take charge of the money immediately. Can you tell me where it is
You will tell me where it is
To be sure
you cannot speak -- not yet
Is it in the house
In the barn
In the yard? the garden? the spring house? the quarters
You saw my uncle
And he had the money, in gold
He left it here
Do you know where he hid it
You mean that you must regain your speech before you can explain
I dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls,
    With vassals and serfs at my s-i-i-de
I called at the house a while ago, and you were all out. I was just
going back. I'll walk along with you
It is a delightful evening
Yes
you must wonder what I was
doing there
I suppose
that you were looking for a servant, or on some
mission of kindness and good will
No, Henry
why should I deceive you? I did not go to find
a servant, but to serve. I have told you we were poor, but not how
poor. I can tell you what I could not say to others, for you have
lived away from here, and I know how differently from most of us you
look at things. I went to the barber's house to give the barber's
daughter music lessons -- for money
You taught her to sing --

    _'I dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls
Yes, but you must not judge my work too soon
It is
not finished yet
You shall let me know when it is done
and I will walk by
and hear the finished product. Your pupil has improved wonderfully. I
heard her singing the song the day I came back -- the first time I
walked by the old house. She sings it much better now. You are a good
teacher, as well as a good woman
The girl used to come to the house
Her mother belonged
to us before the war, and we have been such friends as white and black
can be. And she wanted to learn to play, and offered to pay me well
for lessons, and I gave them to her. We never speak about the money at
the house; mother knows it, but feigns that I do it out of mere
kindness, and tells me that I am spoiling the coloured people. Our
friends are not supposed to know it, and if any of them do, they are
kind and never speak of it. Since you have been coming to the house,
it has not been convenient to teach her there, and I have been going
to her home in the evening
My dear Laura
I have driven you
away from your own home, and all unwittingly. I applaud your
enterprise and your public spirit. It is a long way from the banjo to
the piano -- it marks the progress of a family and foreshadows the
evolution of a race. And what higher work than to elevate humanity
Graciella
are you going to marry me? Yes or no. I'll
not be played with any longer. You must marry me for myself, or not at
all. Yes or no
Then no, Mr. Dudley
I will not marry you. I will never marry you,
not if I should die an old maid
Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies.
The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her. She will do him
good and not evil all the days of her life. Strength and honour are
her clothing, and she shall rejoice in time to come.'

"Laura
the proverb maker was a prophet as well. In these
words, written four thousand years ago, he has described you, line for
line
You have been good to Phil
and I should like
him to be always near you and have your care. And you have been kind
to me, and made me welcome and at home in what might otherwise have
seemed, after so long an absence, a strange land. You bring back to me
the best of my youth, and in you I find the inspiration for good
deeds. Be my wife, dear Laura, and a mother to my boy, and we will try
to make you happy
Oh, Henry
I am not worthy to be
your wife. I know nothing of the world where you have lived, nor
whether I would fit into it
You are worthy of any place
and if one please you
more than another, I shall make your wishes mine
But, Henry, how could I leave my mother? And Graciella needs my
care
You need not leave your mother -- she shall be mine as well as yours.
Graciella is a dear, bright child; she has in her the making of a
noble woman; she should be sent away to a good school, and I will see
to it. No, dear Laura, there are no difficulties, no giants in the
pathway that will not fly or fall when we confront them
Henry
you have made me very happy; so happy that I wish to
keep my happiness all to myself -- for a little while. Will you let me
keep our engagement secret until I -- am accustomed to it? It may be
silly or childish, but it seems like a happy dream, and I wish to
assure myself of its reality before I tell it to anyone else
To me
it is the
realisation of an ideal. Since we met that day in the cemetery you
have seemed to me the embodiment of all that is best of my memories of
the old South; and your gentleness, your kindness, your tender grace,
your self-sacrifice and devotion to duty, mark you a queen among
women, and my heart shall be your throne. As to the announcement, have
it as you will -- it is the lady's privilege
You are very good
This hour repays me for
all I have ever tried to do for others
What's the matter
Aren't you satisfied with the wages
Yes, we've got no fault to find with the wages
Well
We won't work under George Brown. We don't mind working _with_
niggers, but we won't work _under_ a nigger
I'm sorry, gentlemen, but I must hire my own men. Here is your
money
We'll go right along and pay no attention to him. There were only two
white men in the gang, and they have never worked under the Negro;
they quit as soon as I promoted him. I have hired many men in my time
and have made it an unvarying rule to manage my own business in my own
way. If anybody says anything to you about it, you tell them just
that. These people have got to learn that we live in an industrial
age, and success demands of an employer that he utilise the most
available labour. After Green was discharged, George Brown was the
best mason left. He gets more work out of the men than Green did -- even
in the old slave times Negroes made the best of overseers; they knew
their own people better than white men could and got more out of them.
When the mill is completed it will give employment to five hundred
white women and fifty white men. But every dog must have his day, so
give the Negro his
So long
so long as one Negro votes in the State, so long are
we face to face with the nightmare of Negro domination. For example,
suppose a difference of opinion among white men so radical as to
divide their vote equally, the ballot of one Negro would determine the
issue. Can such a possibility be contemplated without a shudder? Our
duty to ourselves, to our children, and their unborn descendants, and
to our great and favoured race, impels us to protest, by word, by
vote, by arms if need be, against the enforced equality of an inferior
race. Equality anywhere, means ultimately, equality everywhere.
Equality at the polls means social equality; social equality means
intermarriage and corruption of blood, and degeneration and decay.
What gentleman here would want his daughter to marry a blubber-lipped,
cocoanut-headed, kidney-footed, etc., etc., nigger
Ransom
stay on the box. Here, you, open this
carriage door
You boy there, by the curb, open this door, will you, or hold the
horses, so my coachman can
Are you speaking to me
Oh, I beg pardon
I took
you for a nigger
That little Treadwell girl is a peach
I could tote a
bunch of beauty like that around the ballroom all night
I want you to un'erstan
that no gen'l'man would
mensh'n a lady's name in a place like this, or shpeak dissuspeckerly
'bout a lady 'n any place; an' I want you to unerstan' fu'thermo' that
you're no gen'l'man, an' that I'm goin' t' lick you, by G -- d
The hell you are
Who is the mucker, anyway
He's a chap by the name of Dudley
lives at Mink
Run, between here and Sycamore, you know
one of them
the son of
our distinguished fellow citizen and colleague in the legislature, the
Honourable William Fetters
Oh, Henry
what is this dreadful story about
Ben Dudley? They say he was drinking at the hotel, and became
intoxicated, and that when Barclay Fetters and Tom McRae went into the
hotel, he said something insulting about Graciella, and when they
rebuked him for his freedom he attacked them violently, and that when
finally subdued he was put to bed unconscious and disgracefully
intoxicated. Graciella is very angry, and we all feel ashamed enough
to sink into the ground. What can be the matter with Ben? He hasn't
been around lately, and he has quarrelled with Graciella. I never
would have expected anything like this from Ben
It came from his great-uncle Ralph
Ralph was
very wild when he was young, but settled down into a very polished
gentleman. I danced with him once when he was drunk, and I never knew
it -- it was my first ball, and I was intoxicated myself, with
excitement. Mother was scandalised, but father laughed and said boys
would be boys. But poor Ben hasn't had his uncle's chances, and while
he has always behaved well here, he could hardly be expected to carry
his liquor like a gentleman of the old school
My dear ladies
we have heard only one side of
the story. I guess there's no doubt Ben was intoxicated, but we know
he isn't a drinking man, and one drink -- or even one drunk -- doesn't
make a drunkard, nor one fight a rowdy. Barclay Fetters and Tom McRae
are not immaculate, and perhaps Ben can exonerate himself
I certainly hope so
I am sorry for Ben,
but I could not permit a drunken rowdy to come to the house, or let my
niece be seen upon the street with him
It would only be fair
to give him a chance to
explain, when he comes in again. I rather like Ben. He has some fine
mechanical ideas, and the making of a man in him, unless I am
mistaken. I have been hoping to find a place for him in the new cotton
mill, when it is ready to run
Miss Laura, O Miss Laura
Kin I speak to you
a minute. It's mighty pertickler, Miss Laura, fo' God it is
Laura
bring Catharine in. I saw that you were
troubled once before when you were compelled to refuse her something.
Henceforth your burdens shall be mine. Come in, Catharine
and tell us what's the matter. What's your trouble? What's it all
about
Miss Laura
an' Colonel French, my husban' Bud is done
gone and got inter mo' trouble. He's run away f'm Mistah Fettuhs, w'at
he wuz sol' back to in de spring, an' he's done be'n fine' fifty
dollahs mo', an' he's gwine ter be sol' back ter Mistah Fettuhs in de
mawnin', fer ter finish out de ole fine and wo'k out de new one. I's
be'n ter see 'im in de gyard house, an' he say Mistah Haines, w'at
use' ter be de constable and is a gyard fer Mistah Fettuhs now, beat
an' 'bused him so he couldn' stan' it; an' 'ceptin' I could pay all
dem fines, he'll be tuck back dere; an'he say ef dey evah beats him
ag'in, dey'll eithuh haf ter kill him, er he'll kill some er dem. An'
Bud is a rash man, Miss Laura, an' I'm feared dat he'll do w'at he
say, an' ef dey kills him er he kills any er dem, it'll be all de same
ter me -- I'll never see 'm no mo' in dis worl'. Ef I could borry de
money, Miss Laura -- Mars' Colonel -- I'd wuk my fingers ter de bone 'tel
I paid back de las' cent. Er ef you'd buy Bud, suh, lack you did Unc'
Peter, he would n' mind wukkin' fer you, suh, fer Bud is a good wukker
we'n folks treats him right; an' he had n' never had no trouble nowhar
befo' he come hyuh, suh
How did he come to be arrested the first time
He didn't live hyuh, suh; I used ter live hyuh, an' I ma'ied him
down ter Madison, where I wuz wukkin'. We fell out one day, an' I got
mad and lef' 'im -- it wuz all my fault an' I be'n payin' fer it evuh
since -- an' I come back home an' went ter wuk hyuh, an' he come aftuh
me, an de fus' day he come, befo' I knowed he wuz hyuh, dis yer Mistah
Haines tuck 'im up, an' lock 'im up in de gyard house, like a hog in
de poun', an' he didn' know nobody, an' dey didn' give 'im no chanst
ter see nobody, an' dey tuck 'im roun' ter Squi' Reddick nex' mawnin',
an' fined 'im an' sol' 'im ter dis yer Mistuh Fettuhs fer ter wo'k out
de fine; an' I be'n wantin' all dis time ter hyuh fum 'im, an' I'd
done be'n an' gone back ter Madison to look fer 'im, an' foun' he wuz
gone. An' God knows I didn' know what had become er 'im, 'tel he run
away de yuther time an' dey tuck 'im an' sent 'im back again. An' he
hadn' done nothin' de fus' time, suh, but de Lawd know w'at he won' do
ef dey sen's 'im back any mo
Laura
I will attend to this; it is a matter about which
you should not be troubled. Don't be alarmed, Catharine. Just be a
good girl and help Miss Laura all you can, and I'll look after your
husband, and pay his fine and let him work it out as a free man
Thank'y, suh, thank'y, Mars' Colonel, an' Miss Laura! An' de Lawd is
gwine bless you, suh, you an' my sweet young lady, fuh bein' good to
po' folks w'at can't do nuthin' to he'p deyse'ves out er trouble
Why, good mornin', Colonel French
I kind of
expected you a while ago; the clerk said you might be around. But you
didn' come, so I supposed you'd changed yo' mind
The clerk said that you would be here at nine
it is only just nine
Did he? Well, now, that's too bad! I do generally git around about
nine, but I was earlier this mornin' and as everybody was here, we
started in a little sooner than usual. You wanted to see me about Bud
Johnson
Yes, I wish to pay his fine and give him work
Well, that's too bad; but you weren't here, and Mr. Turner was, and
he bought his time again for Mr. Fetters. I'm sorry, you know, but
first come, first served
Well, Colonel French
I
bought this nigger's time for Mr. Fetters, an' unless I'm might'ly
mistaken in Mr. Fetters, no amount of money can get the nigger until
he's served his time out. He's defied our rules and defied the law,
and defied me, and assaulted one of the guards; and he ought to be
made an example of. We want to keep 'im; he's a bad nigger, an' we've
got to handle a lot of 'em, an' we need 'im for an example -- he keeps
us in trainin
Have you any power in the matter
Me? No, not _me_! I couldn't let the nigger go for his weight in
gol'-- an' wouldn' if I could. I bought 'im in for Mr. Fetters, an'
he's the only man that's got any say about 'im
Very well
I'll see Fetters
I don't know whether you will or not
Fetters
has got this county where he wants it, an' I'll bet dollars to bird
shot he ain't goin' to let no coon-flavoured No'the'n interloper come
down here an' mix up with his arrangements, even if he did hail from
this town way back yonder. This here nigger problem is a South'en
problem, and outsiders might's well keep their han's off. Me and
Haines an' Fetters is the kind o' men to settle it
It's the first thing I've undertaken yet for your sake, Laura, and
I've got to report failure, so far
It's only the first step
That's all. I'll drive out to Fetters's place to-morrow, and arrange
the matter. By starting before day, I can make it and transact my
business, and get back by night, without hurting the horses
po' white man
Dis yer, suh
is Mistah
Fetters's plantation. You ain' gwine off nowhere, and leave me alone
whils' you are hyuh, is you, suh
No
I'll keep my eye on you. Nobody'll trouble
you while you're with me
Good morning
Mornin', suh
Will you tell me where I can find Mr. Fetters
No, suh, unless he's at the house. He may have went away this
mornin', but I haven't heard of it. But you drive along the road to
the house, an' somebody'll tell you
Sam
who is that white man
Dat's Mistah Haines, suh -- use' ter be de constable at Cla'endon, suh.
I wouldn' lak to be in no gang under him, suh, sho' I wouldn', no,
suh
Is Mr. Fetters at home
I -- _I_ don' know, suh -- I -- I'll ax Mars' Turner. _He's_ hyuh
I wish to see Mr. Fetters
Well, you can't see him
Why not
Because he ain't here. He left for the capital this mornin', to be
gone a week. You'll be havin' a fine drive, down here and back
When will Mr. Fetters return
I'm shore I don't know. He don't tell me his secrets. But I'll tell
_you_, Colonel French, that if you're after that nigger, you're
wastin' your time. He's in Haines's gang, and Haines loves him so well
that Mr. Fetters has to keep Bud in order to keep Haines. There's no
accountin' for these vi'lent affections, but they're human natur', and
they have to be 'umoured
I'll talk to your _master_
He'll talk to my _master_, like as if I was a nigger! It'll be a long
time before he talks to Fetters, if that's who he means -- if I can
prevent it. Not that it would make any difference, but I'll just keep
him on the anxious seat
Howdy do
Hope you've been well
Quite well
how are you
Oh, just tol'able. Tendin' co't
No, I came down here to see a man that's attending court -- your friend
Fetters. I suppose he'll be in to dinner
Oh, yes, but he ain't come in yet. I reckon you find the ho-tel a
little different from the time you were here befo
This is a better dinner than I got
and I
haven't seen the landlord anywhere, nor his buggy
No, he ain't here no more. Sad loss to Carthage! You see Bark
Fetters -- that's Bill's boy that's come home from the No'th from
college -- Bark Fetters come down here one day, an' went in the ho-tel,
an' when Lee Dickson commenced to put on his big airs, Bark cussed 'im
out, and Lee, who didn't know Bark from Adam, cussed 'im back, an'
then Bark hauled off an' hit 'im. They had it hot an' heavy for a
while. Lee had more strength, but Bark had more science, an' laid Lee
out col'. Then Bark went home an' tol' the ole man, who had a mortgage
on the ho-tel, an' he sol' Lee up. I hear he's barberin' or somethin'
er that sort up to Atlanta, an' the hotel's run by another man.
There's Fetters comin' in now
I am Mr. French
and you, I believe, are Mr. Fetters
Yes, sir, that's my name
I've been trying to see you for some time, about a matter
but never seemed able to catch up with you before
Yes, I heard you were at my house, but I was asleep upstairs, and
didn't know you'd be'n there till you'd gone
Your man told me you had gone to the capital for two weeks
My man? Oh, you mean Turner! Well, I reckon you must have riled
Turner somehow, and he thought he'd have a joke on you
I don't quite see the joke
But that's ancient history. Can we sit down over here in
the shade and talk by ourselves for a moment
Well, Mr. Fetters, what say you
Colonel French
I reckon you can't have the nigger
Is it a matter of money
Name your figure. I
don't care about the money. I want the man for a personal reason
So do I
and money's no object to me.
I've more now than I know what to do with
Mr. Fetters
I wish to get this man released to please a
lady
Sorry to disoblige a lady
but I'll have to keep
the nigger. I run a big place, and I'm obliged to maintain discipline.
This nigger has been fractious and contrary, and I've sworn that he
shall work out his time. I have never let any nigger get the best of
me -- or white man either
I'll give you five hundred dollars for your contract
You couldn't get him for five thousand
Very well, sir
this is not the end of this.
I will see, sir, if a man can be held in slavery in this State, for a
debt he is willing and ready to pay. You'll hear more of this before
I'm through with it
Another thing, Colonel French
I wonder if you recollect an incident that
occurred years ago, when we went to the academy in Clarendon
If you refer
to the time I chased
you down Main Street, yes -- I recalled it the first time I heard of
you when I came back to Clarendon -- and I remember why I did it. It is
a good omen
That's as it may be
I didn't have to
recall it; I've never forgotten it. Now you want something from me,
and you can't have it
We shall see
I bested you then, and I'll best
you now
We shall see
But, Colonel
it's pretty hard on the nigger. They'll
kill him before his time's up. If you'll give me a free hand, I'll get
him anyway
How
Perhaps it's just as well you shouldn't know. But I have friends at
Sycamore
You wouldn't break the law
Fetters is breaking the law
He's holding Johnson
for debt -- and whether that is lawful or not, he certainly has no right
to kill him
You're right
Get Johnson away, I don't care
how. The end justifies the means -- that's an argument that goes down
here. Get him away, and send him a long way off, and he can write for
his wife to join him. His escape need not interfere with our other
plans. We have plenty of other cases against Fetters
He's not out of danger
and won't be for several
days. I haven't found several of those shot, and until they're located
I can't tell what will happen. Your son has a good constitution, but
it has been abused somewhat and is not in the best condition to throw
off an injury
Do the best you can for him, Doc
and I'll make it
worth your while. And as for the double-damned scoundrel that shot him
in the dark, I'll rake this county with a fine-toothed comb till he's
found. If Bark dies, the murderer shall hang as high as Haman, if it
costs me a million dollars, or, if Bark gets well, he shall have the
limit of the law. No man in this State shall injure me or mine and go
unpunished
I don't want any favours from Colonel French
I
prefer to stay in jail rather than to be released on his bond
Aunt Laura
I
know why Ben will not accept bail from Colonel French, and why he will
not tell his side of the quarrel between himself and Mr. Fetters. He
was foolish enough to imagine that Colonel French was coming to the
house to see me, and that I preferred the colonel to him. And, Aunt
Laura, I have a confession to make; I have done something for which I
want to beg your pardon. I listened that night, and overheard the
colonel ask you to be his wife. Please, dear Aunt Laura, forgive me,
and let me write and tell Ben -- just Ben, in confidence. No one else
need know it
The defense will offer no testimony
I was in a bad way, sir
and hardly knew what I was doing.
But I know I didn't shoot Bark Fetters, and never thought of such a
thing
I'm sure you didn't, my boy
and we'll prove
it before we quit. There are some ladies who believe the same thing,
and would like to hear you say it
Thank you, sir
I should like to tell them, but I
shouldn't want to enter their house until I am cleared of this charge.
I think too much of them to expose them to any remarks about
harbouring a man out on bail for a penitentiary offense. I'll write to
them, sir, and thank them for their trust and friendship, and you can
tell them for me, if you will, that I'll come to see them when not
only I, but everybody else, can say that I am fit to go
Your feelings do you credit
and
however much they would like to see you, I'm sure the ladies will
appreciate your delicacy. As your friend and theirs, you must permit
me to serve you further, whenever the opportunity offers, until this
affair is finished
Are we alone, sir
Yes, entirely so
And can any one hear us
No. What have you got to tell me
Colonel French
I'm in a hard situation, and I
want you to promise that you'll never let on to any body that I told
you what I'm going to say
All right, Mr. Taylor, if it is a proper promise to make. You can
trust my discretion
Yes, sir, I'm sure I can. We coloured folks, sir, are often accused
of trying to shield criminals of our own race, or of not helping the
officers of the law to catch them. Maybe we does, suh
maybe we does
sometimes, but not without reason
What reason
Well, sir, fer the reason that we ain't always shore that a coloured
man will get a fair trial, or any trial at all, or that he'll get a
just sentence after he's been tried. We have no hand in makin' the
laws, or in enforcin' 'em; we are not summoned on jury; and yet we're
asked to do the work of constables and sheriffs who are paid for
arrestin' criminals, an' for protectin' 'em from mobs, which they
don't do
I have no doubt every word you say is true, Mr. Taylor, and such a
state of things is unjust, and will some day be different, if I can
help to make it so. But, nevertheless, all good citizens, whatever
their colour, ought to help to preserve peace and good order
Yes, sir, so they ought; and I want to do just that; I want to
co-operate, and a whole heap of us want to co-operate with the good
white people to keep down crime and lawlessness. I know there's good
white people who want to see justice done -- but they ain't always
strong enough to run things; an' if any one of us coloured folks tells
on another one, he's liable to lose all his frien's. But I believe,
sir, that I can trust you to save me harmless, and to see that nothin'
mo' than justice is done to the coloured man
Yes, Taylor, you can trust me to do all that I can, and I think I
have considerable influence. Now, what's on your mind? Do you know who
shot Haines and Mr. Fetters
Well, sir, you're a mighty good guesser. It ain't so much Mr. Fetters
an' Mr. Haines I'm thinkin' about, for that place down the country is
a hell on earth, an' they're the devils that runs it. But there's a
friend of yo'rs in trouble, for something he didn' do, an' I wouldn'
stan' for an innocent man bein' sent to the penitentiary -- though many
a po' Negro has been. Yes, sir, I know that Mr. Ben Dudley didn' shoot
them two white men
So do I
Who did
It was Bud Johnson, the man you tried to get away from Mr.
Fetters -- yo'r coachman tol' us about it, sir, an' we know how good a
friend of ours you are, from what you've promised us about the school.
An' I wanted you to know, sir. You are our friend, and have showed
confidence in us, and I wanted to prove to you that we are not
ungrateful, an' that we want to be good citizens
I had heard
that Johnson had escaped and left
the county
So he had, sir, but he came back. They had 'bused him down at that
place till he swore he'd kill every one that had anything to do with
him. It was Mr. Turner he shot at the first time and he hit young Mr.
Fetters by accident. He stole a gun from ole Mr. Dudley's place at
Mink Run, shot Mr. Fetters with it, and has kept it ever since, and
shot Mr. Haines with it. I suppose they'd 'a' ketched him before, if
it hadn't be'n for suspectin' young Mr. Dudley
Where is Johnson now
He's hidin' in an old log cabin down by the swamp back of Mink Run.
He sleeps in the daytime, and goes out at night to get food and watch
for white men from Mr. Fetters's place
Does his wife know where he is
No, sir; he ain't never let her know
By the way, Taylor
how do _you_ know all this
Well, sir
there's
mighty little goin' on roun' here that I _don't_ find out, sooner or
later
Taylor
you
have rendered a public service, have proved yourself a good citizen,
and have relieved Mr. Dudley of serious embarrassment. I will see that
steps are taken to apprehend Johnson, and will keep your participation
in the matter secret, since you think it would hurt your influence
with your people. And I promise you faithfully that every effort shall
be made to see that Johnson has a fair trial and no more than a just
punishment
Thank you, sir, thank you, sir
If there were more white men like you, the coloured
folks would have no more trouble
It's quite ingenious
Explain the principle
It would never be of any use, sir
for
everybody has the other kind. But it's another way, and I think a
better
It is clever
Give these
to Miss Laura, and tell her I found them in
the old desk
Henry
I have made
a discovery. I don't quite know what it means, or whether it amounts
to anything, but in one of the envelopes you sent me just now there
was a paper signed by Mr. Fetters. I do not know how it could have
been left in the desk; we had searched it, years ago, in every nook
and cranny, and found nothing
It was enclosed in this
Mother thinks
that they are the papers
we were looking for, that prove that Fetters was in father's debt
It has made me happy, Henry
it has made me very
happy to think that I may not come to you empty-handed
Dear woman
you shall not. If the note is not good, it
shall be made good
Laura
I am no lawyer, but Caxton shall look at
these to-day, and I shall be very much mistaken if they do not bring
you a considerable sum of money. Say nothing about them, however,
until Caxton reports. He will be here to see me to-day and by
to-morrow you shall have his opinion
Caxton
I wish to pay this note and let it seem to have
come from Fetters
Why should you pay it
I mean
why shouldn't Fetters pay it
Because it is outlawed
and we could hardly expect him
to pay for anything he didn't have to pay. The statute of limitations
runs against it after fifteen years -- and it's older than that, much
older than that
That is the law in New York
but here the statute doesn't
begin to run for twenty years. The twenty years for which this note
was given expires to-day
Then it is good
It is good
provided there is no defence to it except
the statute, and provided I can file a petition on it in the county
clerk's office by four o'clock, the time at which the office closes.
It is now twenty minutes of four
Can you make it
I'll try
Estate of Treadwell _vs._ Fetters
Now, Mr. Munroe
if you'll enter that on the docket,
now, as of to-day, I'll be obliged to you. I'd rather have the
transaction all finished up while I wait. Your fee needn't wait the
termination of the suit. I'll pay it now and take a receipt for it
That's an old-timer
It'll make the old man cuss
Yes
Do me a favour, and don't say anything about it
for a day or two. I don't think the suit will ever come to trial
Peter
I wish you'd go upstairs, and look in my room, and
bring me a couple of light-coloured cigars from the box on my
bureau -- the mild ones, you know, Peter
Yas, suh, I knows, suh, de mil' ones, dem wid de gol' ban's 'roun'
'em. Now you stay right hyuh, chile, till Peter come back
I think you're missed in a certain quarter, old fellow. I know a lady
who would be more than delighted to see you. I am invited to her house
to dinner, ostensibly to talk about our scheme, in reality to talk
about you.

"But this is all by the way. The business is the thing. Take my
proposition under advisement. We all made money together before; we
can make it again. My option has ten days to run. Wire me before it is
up what reply to make. I know what you'll say, but I want your 'ipse
dixit
Mars Henry
w'at's gone wid de chile
Phil
I suppose he went round the house
Mars Phil! O Mars Phil
I hyuhs de train comin'; I 'spec's he's gone up ter de railroad
track
I'll
run up dere an' fetch 'im back
Yes, do, Peter
He's probably all right, but
you'd better see about him
Keep 'way f'm dat railroad track, honey
It's as dange'ous as a gun, and a gun is dange'ous
widout lock, stock, er bairl: I knowed a man oncet w'at beat 'is wife
ter def wid a ramrod, an' wuz hung fer it in a' ole fiel' down by de
ha'nted house. Dat gun couldn't hol' powder ner shot, but was
dange'ous 'nuff ter kill two folks. So you jes' better keep 'way f'm
dat railroad track, chile
Kitty, Kitty
Papa
am I going to die
No, no, Phil
You are going to get well
in a few days, I hope
Is Miss Laura here
Yes, Phil, she's in the next room, and will be here in a moment
Papa, was Uncle Peter hurt
Yes, Phil
Where is he, papa? Was he hurt badly
He is lying in another room, Phil, but he is not in any pain
Papa
if I should die, and if Uncle Peter
should die, you'll remember your promise and bury him near me, won't
you, dear
Yes, Phil
but you are not going to die
They died together; together they shall lie here, and they shall be
buried together
I hope, sir
there will be no objection. It's
not customary -- there's a coloured graveyard -- you might put up a nice
tombstone there -- and you've been away from here a long time, sir
If any one objects
send him to me. The lot is
mine, and I shall do with it as I like. My great-great-grandfather
gave the cemetery to the town. Old Peter's skin was black, but his
heart was white as any man's! And when a man reaches the grave, he is
not far from God, who is no respecter of persons, and in whose
presence, on the judgment day, many a white man shall be black, and
many a black man white
Gentlemen
Colonel French has ordered this Negro to be
buried in Oak Cemetery. We all appreciate the colonel's worth, and
what he is doing for the town. But he has lived at the North for many
years, and has got somewhat out of our way of thinking. We do not want
to buy the prosperity of this town at the price of our principles. The
attitude of the white people on the Negro question is fixed and
determined for all time, and nothing can ever alter it. To bury this
Negro in Oak Cemetery is against our principles
The mayor's statement of the rule is quite correct
and not open to question.
But all rules have their exceptions. It was against the law, for some
years before the war, to manumit a slave; but an exception to that
salutary rule was made in case a Negro should render some great
service to the State or the community. You will recall that when, in a
sister State, a Negro climbed the steep roof of St. Michael's church
and at the risk of his own life saved that historic structure, the
pride of Charleston, from destruction by fire, the muncipality granted
him his freedom
And we all remember
we
all remember, at least I'm sure General Thornton does, old Sally, who
used to belong to the McRae family, and was a member of the
Presbyterian Church, and who, because of her age and infirmities -- she
was hard of hearing and too old to climb the stairs to the
gallery -- was given a seat in front of the pulpit, on the main floor
That was all very well
when the
Negroes belonged to you, and never questioned your authority. But
times are different now. They think themselves as good as we are. We
had them pretty well in hand until Colonel French came around, with
his schools, and his high wages, and now they are getting so fat and
sassy that there'll soon be no living with them. The last election did
something, but we'll have to do something more, and that soon, to keep
them in their places. There's one in jail now, alive, who has shot and
disfigured and nearly killed two good white men, and such an example
of social equality as burying one in a white graveyard will demoralise
them still further. We must preserve the purity and prestige of our
race, and we can only do it by keeping the Negroes down
After all
the purity of our race is not apt
to suffer very seriously from the social equality of a graveyard
And old Peter will be pretty effectually kept down, wherever he is
buried
It seems a pity to disturb him in his grief
It's only a couple of squares
Let's call in a
body and pay our respects. We can bring up the matter incidentally,
while there
Colonel French has never been at my house
and I shouldn't
care to seem to intrude
Come on, mayor
these fine distinctions are not becoming in the presence of death.
The colonel will be glad to see you
That's no good
It was outlawed
yesterday. I suppose you allowed I'd forgotten it. On the contrary,
I've a memorandum of it in my pocketbook, and I struck it off the list
last night. I always pay my lawful debts, when they're properly
demanded. If this note had been presented yesterday, I'd have paid it.
To-day it's too late. It ain't a lawful debt
Do you really mean to say, Mr. Fetters, that you have deliberately
robbed those poor women of this money all these years, and are not
ashamed of it, not even when you're found out, and that you are going
to take refuge behind the statute
Now, see here, Mr. Caxton
you want to be careful about the language you use. I might
sue you for slander. You're a young man, that hopes to have a future
and live in this county, where I expect to live and have law business
done long after some of your present clients have moved away. I didn't
owe the estate of John Treadwell one cent -- you ought to be lawyer
enough to know that. He owed me money, and paid me with a note. I
collected the note. I owed him money and paid it with a note. Whoever
heard of anybody's paying a note that wasn't presented
It's a poor argument, Mr. Fetters. You would have let those ladies
starve to death before you would have come forward and paid that
debt
They've never asked me for charity, so I wasn't called on to offer
it. And you know now, don't you, that if I'd paid the amount of that
note, and then it had turned up afterward in somebody else's hands,
I'd have had to pay it over again; now wouldn't I
Yes
I suppose you would
I'm sorry for the women
and I've stood ready to pay
that note all these years, and it ain't my fault that it hasn't been
presented. Now it's outlawed, and you couldn't expect a man to just
give away that much money. It ain't a lawful debt, and the law's good
enough for me
You're awfully sorry for the ladies, aren't you
I surely am; I'm honestly sorry for them
And you'd pay the note if you had to, wouldn't you
I surely would. As I say, I always pay my legal debts
All right
then you'll pay this. I filed
suit against you yesterday, which takes the case out of the statute
Well
I've nothing more to say till
I consult my lawyer. But I want to tell you one thing. You are ruining
a fine career by standing in with this Colonel French. I hear his son
was killed to-day. You can tell him I say it's a judgment on him; for
I hold him responsible for my son's condition. He came down here and
tried to demoralise the labour market. He put false notions in the
niggers' heads. Then he got to meddling with my business, trying to
get away a nigger whose time I had bought. He insulted my agent
Turner, and came all the way down to Sycamore and tried to bully me
into letting the nigger loose, and of course I wouldn't be bullied.
Afterwards, when I offered to let the nigger go, the colonel wouldn't
have it so. I shall always believe he bribed one of my men to get the
nigger off, and then turned him loose to run amuck among the white
people and shoot my boy and my overseer. It was a low-down
performance, and unworthy of a gentleman. No really white man would
treat another white man so. You can tell him I say it's a judgment
that's fallen on him to-day, and that it's not the last one, and that
he'll be sorrier yet that he didn't stay where he was, with his
nigger-lovin' notions, instead of comin' back down here to make
trouble for people that have grown up with the State and made it what
it is
Colonel French is an enemy of his race
He hires niggers when white men are idle; and
pays them more than white men who work are earning. And now he is
burying them with white people
Yo' uncle is monst'ous low, sir
You bettah go in an'
see 'im quick, er you'll be too late. Dey ain' nobody wid 'im but ole
Aun' Viney
You had me whipped
Do you remember that? You had me
whipped -- whipped -- whipped -- by a poor white dog I had despised and
spurned! You had said that you loved me, and you had promised to free
me -- and you had me whipped! But I have had my revenge
Your uncle came with the money and left it, and went away. Only he
and I knew where it was. But I never told you! I could have spoken at
any time for twenty-five years, but I never told you! I have
waited -- I have waited for this moment! I have gone into the woods and
fields and talked to myself by the hour, that I might not forget how
to talk -- and I have waited my turn, and it is here and now
He came
and left the gold -- two heavy bags of it, and a
letter for you. An hour later _he came back and took it all away_,
except the letter! The money was here one hour, but in that hour you
had me whipped, and for that you have spent twenty-five years in
looking for nothing -- something that was not here! I have had my
revenge! For twenty-five years I have watched you look for -- nothing;
have seen you waste your time, your property, your life, your
mind -- for nothing! For ah, Mars' Ma'colm, you had me whipped -- _by
another man_
Yes, Viney
you have had your revenge! But I was
sorry, Viney, for what I did, and you were not. And I forgive you,
Viney; but you are unforgiving -- even in the presence of death
They are both dead
I knew their story; my father told
it to me many years ago
I'm not surprised
My father attended her when she
had the stroke, and after. He always maintained that Viney could
speak -- if she had wished to speak
Have you heard the news, sir
No, Mrs. Hughes, what is it
They lynched the Negro who was in jail for shooting young Mr. Fetters
and the other man
They've done it
So I understand. When did it happen
About one o'clock last night. A crowd came in from Sycamore -- not all
at once, but by twos and threes, and got together in Clay Johnson's
saloon, with Ben Green, your discharged foreman, and a lot of other
riffraff, and went to the sheriff, and took the keys, and took Johnson
and carried him out to where the shooting was, and
Spare me the details. He is dead
Yes
Can we do anything to punish _this_ crime
We can try
It is too bad. I am sorry, but it is done. Let it rest. No good can
ever come of stirring it up further
Here lies one who loved his fellow men
and tried to make them happy
Come downstairs and look on de piazza, Colonel
Come quick, suh
Henry
I am shocked and sorry, I cannot tell you how
much! Nor do I know what else to say, except that the best people do
not -- cannot -- could not -- approve of it
The best people, Laura
are an
abstraction. When any deviltry is on foot they are never there to
prevent it -- they vanish into thin air at its approach. When it is
done, they excuse it; and they make no effort to punish it. So it is
not too much to say that what they permit they justify, and they
cannot shirk the responsibility. To mar the living -- it is the history
of life -- but to make war upon the dead!-- I am going away, Laura, never
to return. My dream of usefulness is over. To-night I take away my
dead and shake the dust of Clarendon from my feet forever. Will you
come with me
Henry
I have been
expecting this -- since I heard. But I cannot go; my duty calls me here.
My mother could not be happy anywhere else, nor would I fit into any
other life. And here, too, I am useful -- and may still be useful -- and
should be missed. I know your feelings, and would not try to keep you.
But, oh, Henry, if all of those who love justice and practise humanity
should go away, what would become of us
I leave to-night
and it is your right to go with me,
or to come to me
No, Henry, nor am I sure that you would wish me to. It was for the
old town's sake that you loved me. I was a part of your dream -- a part
of the old and happy past, upon which you hoped to build, as upon the
foundations of the old mill, a broader and a fairer structure. Do you
remember what you told me, that night -- that happy night -- that you
loved me because in me you found the embodiment of an ideal? Well,
Henry, that is why I did not wish to make our engagement known, for I
knew, I felt, the difficulty of your task, and I foresaw that you
might be disappointed, and I feared that if your ideal should be
wrecked, you might find me a burden. I loved you, Henry -- I seem to
have always loved you, but I would not burden you
No, no, Laura -- not so! not so
And you wanted me for Phil's sake, whom we both loved; and now that
your dream is over, and Phil is gone, I should only remind you of
where you lost him, and of your disappointment, and of -- this other
thing, and I could not be sure that you loved me or wanted me
Surely you cannot doubt it, Laura
You remembered me from my youth
and it was the image in your memory that you loved. And now,
when you go away, the old town will shrink and fade from your memory
and your heart and you will have none but harsh thoughts of it; nor
can I blame you greatly, for you have grown far away from us, and we
shall need many years to overtake you. Nor do you need me, Henry -- I am
too old to learn new ways, and elsewhere than here I should be a
hindrance to you rather than a help. But in the larger life to which
you go, think of me now and then as one who loves you still, and who
will try, in her poor way, with such patience as she has, to carry on
the work which you have begun, and which you -- Oh, Henry
Yes
which I have abandoned. Yes, Laura, abandoned,
fully and forever
Laura
I swear that I should
be glad to have you with me. Come away! The place is not fit for you
to live in
No, Henry! it cannot be! I could not go! My duty holds me here! God
would not forgive me if I abandoned it. Go your way; live your life.
Marry some other woman, if you must, who will make you happy. But I
shall keep, Henry -- nothing can ever take away from me -- the memory of
one happy summer
No, no, Laura, it need not be so! I shall write you. You'll think
better of it. But I go to-night -- not one hour longer than I must, will
I remain in this town. I must bid your mother and Graciella good-bye
I cannot stop to say more than good-bye, dear Mrs. Treadwell. I have
spent a few happy months in my old home, and now I am going away.
Laura will tell you the rest
It was a shame
Peter was a good old nigger, and it
wouldn't have done anybody any harm to leave him there. I'd rather be
buried beside old Peter than near any of the poor white trash that dug
him up -- so there! I'm so sorry you're going away; but I hope,
sometime
to see you in New York! Don't forget
I'll send you my address
Well, then
there is absolutely nothing
left
Not a thing
except my horse and my clothes,
and a few odds and ends which belong to me. Fetters will have the
land -- there's not enough to pay the mortgages against it, and I'm in
debt for the funeral expenses
And what are you going to do
Gracious knows -- I wish I did! I came over to consult the family. I
have no trade, no profession, no land and no money. I can get a job at
braking on the railroad -- or may be at clerking in a store. I'd have
asked the colonel for something in the mill -- but that chance is gone
Gone
I see my fate! I shall marry you,
because I can't help loving you, and couldn't live without you; and I
shall never get to New York, but be, all my life, a poor man's wife -- a
poor white man's wife
No, Graciella, we might be poor, but not poor-white! Our blood will
still be of the best
It will be all the same. Blood without money may count for one
generation, but it won't hold out for two
I have been to the post-office
Here is a letter
for you, Ben, addressed in my care. It has the New York postmark
Thank you, Miss Laura
Glory
glory hallelujah! Listen
My dear Ben_:

     _I was very much impressed with the model of a cotton gin and
     press which I saw you exhibit one day at Mrs. Treadwells'. You
     have a fine genius for mechanics, and the model embodies, I
     think, a clever idea, which is worth working up. If your
     uncle's death has left you free to dispose of your time, I
     should like to have you come on to New York with the model, and
     we will take steps to have the invention patented at once, and
     form a company for its manufacture. As an evidence of good
     faith, I enclose my draft for five hundred dollars, which can
     be properly accounted for in our future arrangements
O Ben
O Graciella
Now you
can go to New York as soon as you like
Excuse me, suh
I've been wondering ever since we left New
York, if you wa'n't Colonel French
Yes, I'm Mr. French -- Colonel French, if you want it so
I 'lowed it must be you, suh, though you've changed the cut of your
beard, and are looking a little older, suh. I don't suppose you
remember me
I've seen you somewhere
Where was it
I'm Henry Taylor, suh, that used to teach school at Clarendon. I
reckon you remember me now
Yes
I remember you now, Taylor, to my
sorrow. I didn't keep my word about Johnson, did I
Oh, yes, suh
I never doubted but what you'd
keep your word. But you see, suh, they were too many for you. There
ain't no one man can stop them folks down there when they once get
started
And what are you doing here, Taylor
Well, suh, the fact is that after you went away, it got out somehow
that I had told on Bud Johnson. I don't know how they learned it, and
of course I knew you didn't tell it; but somebody must have seen me
going to your house, or else some of my enemies guessed it -- and
happened to guess right -- and after that the coloured folks wouldn't
send their children to me, and I lost my job, and wasn't able to get
another anywhere in the State. The folks said I was an enemy of my
race, and, what was more important to me, I found that my race was an
enemy to me. So I got out, suh, and I came No'th, hoping to find
somethin' better. This is the best job I've struck yet, but I'm hoping
that sometime or other I'll find something worth while
And what became of the industrial school project
I've stood ready to keep my promise, and more, but I never heard from
you
Well, suh, after you went away the enthusiasm kind of died out, and
some of the white folks throwed cold water on it, and it fell through,
suh
Thank you, suh
but I'd rather not take it. I'm a
porter now, but I wa'n't always one, and hope I won't always be one.
And during all the time I taught school in Clarendon, you was the only
white man that ever treated me quite like a man -- and our folks just
like people -- and if you won't think I'm presuming, I'd rather not take
the money
</text>
