<text>
Red Head
Red Head
Spell _first_
Spell _second_
Spell _third_
T-h-i-r-d, third
Why don't you
give us something hard
Spell _fourth_
Red Head
F-o-r-t-h
No snapping of fingers, no snapping of fingers
Second chance
Red
Head
F-u
Red Head
r-t-h
F-o-u-r-t-h,
f-o-u-r-t-h
Third and last
chance
F
o-u-r-t-h
Red Head
Shiny Face
Shiny
Eyes
Shiny Teeth
Shiny
niggers
_Nigger, nigger, never die,
  Black face and shiny eye_
Don't you
ever use that word again
and don't you ever bother the
colored children at school. You ought to be ashamed of yourself
I wish all of the white scholars to stand for a moment
You
sit down for the present, and rise with the others
Ma'm
You sit down now, and rise with the others
Oh, you're
a nigger too
We knew he was
colored
Come along, don't tease him
Le' me carry your books
Say, you know my big red
agate? I can't shoot with it any more. I'm going to bring it to school
for you tomorrow
What a pretty
boy you have
Mother, mother, tell me, am I a nigger
Tell me, mother,
am I a nigger
No, my darling, you are not a nigger
You are as good as anybody; if anyone calls you a nigger, don't
notice them
Well, mother, am I white? Are you white
No, I am not white, but you -- your father is one
of the greatest men in the country -- the best blood of the South is in
you
Who is my father? Where is
he
I'll tell you about him some day
I want to know now
No, not now
Shiny
infant prodigy
one-two-three
Red
I couldn't correct your exercises because I found
nothing in your book but a rhapsody on somebody's brown eyes
little
sweetheart
little beau
This is
your father
Father, father
Well, boy, aren't you glad to see me
Yes, sir
Twelve, sir
Mother, is he going to stay
with us now
I've got to go back to
New York this afternoon, but I'm coming to see you again
Are you going
Yes, sir,
I've got to go to practice for a concert
I don't think she'll be with us very long
where the brook and river
meet
Discovery
Colonial
Revolutionary
Constitutional
down river
old folks
Shiny
Toussaint L'Ouverture
Toussaint
L'Ouverture
Shiny
Come to your mother at once
Red
Sonata
Pathetique
Oh, dat's all right den
Oh, dat's all right den
You kin sleep in dat cot in de
corner der. Fifty cents, please
You needn't collect from him now, he's got a trunk
You see this room is fixed up to
accommodate four men at a time. Well, by keeping a sort of table of
trips, in and out, of the men, and working them like checkers, he can
accommodate fifteen or sixteen in each week and generally avoid having
an empty bed. You happen to catch a bed that would have been empty
for a couple of nights
I sleep in that other cot tonight; tomorrow night I go
out
Lawd a mussy
G'wan, man
Bless ma soul
Look heah,
chile
Wat's de mattah wid you an' yo' fr'en' Sam
Ma fr'en'? He ma fr'en'? Man! I'd go to
his funeral jes' de same as I'd go to a minstrel show
It wouldn't pay; all
the respectable colored people eat at home, and the few who travel
generally have friends in the towns to which they go, who entertain
them
Of course, you could go in any place in the city;
they wouldn't know you from white
Hello! You're going
out
Yes
Oh
I guess I've had
enough sleep; wait a minute, I'll go with you
I know a woman across town who
takes a few boarders; I think we can go over there and get a good
breakfast
honey
That
won't last you very long here, and you will hardly be able to find
anything to do in Atlanta. I'll tell you what you do, go down to
Jacksonville and you won't have any trouble to get a job in one of the
big hotels there, or in St. Augustine
Oh, that's all right. You express your trunk
on through, and I'll take you down in my closet
_carambas_
green
ramify
reader
Negro
question
race question
I'll go to hell for the first white man that
bothers me
You
see that young man? We grew up together; we have played, hunted, and
fished together; we have even eaten and slept together; and now since
I have come back home, he barely speaks to me
putting on airs
spiting the white folks
Cullud Sassiety
see the
sights
Nigger, dat cue ain't no
hoe-handle
fellow
Shoot the two
Shoot the four
Fate me! Fate me
I've got you fated
Twenty-five cents he don't
turn
craps
Gimme the bones
Shoot the dollar
Come, dice
Little Phoebe
Little Joe
Way down yonder in the cornfield
nerve
Shoot the dollar
Shoot the two
Shoot the four
Shoot the
eight
Shoot
the sixteen
Shoot the sixteen
Fate me
I fate you
Who is he
Shoot it all
fated
Shoot it all
Shoot it all
fated
Club
done anything
turns
do something
Club
wine
twin gray stars
Club
Club
Club
Club
Club
Come this way, if you please,
sir
Judge
Damn it
Wedding March
back to ragtime
Well, I have
given them something they've never had before
That will do
bad man
What on earth are you doing strolling in
this part of the town
But of course you
don't want to be mixed up in such an affair
I
decided last night that I'd go to Europe tomorrow. I think I'll take
you along instead of Walter
Oh, until
I get tired of it
Three hundred necessary words
How
What did
you say
What does the word ---- mean
I understand all you say
except
Please repeat
What do you call
How do you
say
sister
Here, here in your very midst, is
a tragedy, a real tragedy
Did they really burn a man
alive in the United States
Well, only one
Thank you
Thank you very kindly,
sir
Thank ye, sir
Get up! Get up
Here I am a man, no
longer a boy, and what am I doing but wasting my time and abusing my
talent? What use am I making of my gifts? What future have I before me
following my present course
Well, get ready for a long trip; we are going
to Egypt, and then to Japan
I don't
think I want to go
What
you want to go back to
your dear Paris? You still think that the only spot on earth? Wait
until you see Cairo and Tokyo, you may change your mind
No
it is not because I want to go back to Paris. I want to go
back to the United States
My
boy, you are by blood, by appearance, by education, and by tastes a
white man. Now, why do you want to throw your life away amidst the
poverty and ignorance, in the hopeless struggle, of the black people
of the United States? Then look at the terrible handicap you are
placing on yourself by going home and working as a Negro composer;
you can never be able to get the hearing for your work which it might
deserve. I doubt that even a white musician of recognized ability
could succeed there by working on the theory that American music
should be based on Negro themes. Music is a universal art; anybody's
music belongs to everybody; you can't limit it to race or country.
Now, if you want to become a composer, why not stay right here in
Europe? I will put you under the best teachers on the Continent. Then
if you want to write music on Negro themes, why, go ahead and do it
This idea you have of making a Negro out
of yourself is nothing more than a sentiment; and you do not realize
the fearful import of what you intend to do. What kind of a Negro
would you make now, especially in the South? If you had remained
there, or perhaps even in your club in New York, you might have
succeeded very well; but now you would be miserable. I can imagine no
more dissatisfied human being than an educated, cultured, and refined
colored man in the United States. I have given more study to the race
question in the United States than you may suppose, and I sympathize
with the Negroes there; but what's the use? I can't right their
wrongs, and neither can you; they must do that themselves. They are
unfortunate in having wrongs to right, and you would be foolish to
take their wrongs unnecessarily on your shoulders. Perhaps some day,
through study and observation, you will come to see that evil is
a force, and, like the physical and chemical forces, we cannot
annihilate it; we may only change its form. We light upon one evil and
hit it with all the might of our civilization, but only succeed in
scattering it into a dozen other forms. We hit slavery through a great
civil war. Did we destroy it? No, we only changed it into hatred
between sections of the country: in the South, into political
corruption and chicanery, the degradation of the blacks through
peonage, unjust laws, unfair and cruel treatment; and the degradation
of the whites by their resorting to these practices, the paralyzation
of the public conscience, and the ever over-hanging dread of what the
future may bring. Modern civilization hit ignorance of the masses
through the means of popular education. What has it done but turn
ignorance into anarchy, socialism, strikes, hatred between poor and
rich, and universal discontent? In like manner, modern philanthropy
hit at suffering and disease through asylums and hospitals; it
prolongs the sufferers' lives, it is true, but is, at the same time,
sending down strains of insanity and weakness into future generations.
My philosophy of life is this: make yourself as happy as possible, and
try to make those happy whose lives come in touch with yours; but to
attempt to right the wrongs and ease the sufferings of the world in
general is a waste of effort. You had just as well try to bail the
Atlantic by pouring the water into the Pacific
You don't mind my telling you something unpleasant, do
you
I think my curiosity overcomes any objections I might
have
Well
have you noticed that the man who sat at your
right in the saloon during the first meal has not sat there since
Well
he asked the steward to remove him; and not only that, he attempted
to persuade a number of the passengers to protest against your
presence in the dining-saloon
Do you
know, I don't object to anyone's having prejudices so long as those
prejudices don't interfere with my personal liberty. Now, the man you
are speaking of had a perfect right to change his seat if I in any way
interfered with his appetite or his digestion. I should have no reason
to complain if he removed to the farthest corner of the saloon, or
even if he got off the ship; but when his prejudice attempts to move
_me_ one foot, one inch, out of the place where I am comfortably
located, then I object
In spite of all that is written, said,
and done, this great, big, incontrovertible fact stands out -- the Negro
is progressing, and that disproves all the arguments in the world
that he is incapable of progress. I was born in slavery, and at
emancipation was set adrift a ragged, penniless bit of humanity. I
have seen the Negro in every grade, and I know what I am talking
about. Our detractors point to the increase of crime as evidence
against us; certainly we have progressed in crime as in other things;
what less could be expected? And yet, in this respect, we are far from
the point which has been reached by the more highly civilized white
race. As we continue to progress, crime among us will gradually lose
much of its brutal, vulgar, I might say healthy, aspect, and become
more delicate, refined, and subtle. Then it will be less shocking and
noticeable, although more dangerous to society
But, above
all, when I am discouraged and disheartened, I have this to fall back
on: if there is a principle of right in the world, which finally
prevails, and I believe that there is; if there is a merciful but
justice-loving God in heaven, and I believe that there is, we shall
win; for we have right on our side, while those who oppose us can
defend themselves by nothing in the moral law, nor even by anything in
the enlightened thought of the present age
Have a
white skin, and all things else may be added unto you
Light-colored man wanted
It's no disgrace to be black,
but it's often very inconvenient
You see those
lazy, loafing, good-for-nothing darkies; they're not worth digging
graves for; yet they are the ones who create impressions of the race
for the casual observer. It's because they are always in evidence on
the street corners, while the rest of us are hard at work, and
you know a dozen loafing darkies make a bigger crowd and a worse
impression in this country than fifty white men of the same class. But
they ought not to represent the race. We are the race, and the race
ought to be judged by us, not by them. Every race and every nation
should be judged by the best it has been able to produce, not by the
worst
Jubilee
Singers
theories
Can you imagine
what would have been the condition of things eventually if
there had been no war, and the South had been allowed to follow its
course? Instead of one great, prosperous country with nothing before
it but the conquests of peace, a score of petty republics, as in
Central and South America, wasting their energies in war with each
other or in revolutions
Well
anything -- no country at all -- is better
than having niggers over you. But anyhow, the war was fought and the
niggers were freed; for it's no use beating around the bush, the
niggers, and not the Union, was the cause of it; and now do you
believe that all the niggers on earth are worth the good white blood
that was spilt? You freed the nigger and you gave him the ballot, but
you couldn't make a citizen out of him. He don't know what he's voting
for, and we buy 'em like so many hogs. You're giving 'em education,
but that only makes slick rascals out of 'em
Don't fancy for a moment
that you have any
monopoly in buying ignorant votes. The same thing is done on a larger
scale in New York and Boston, and in Chicago and San Francisco; and
they are not black votes either. As to education's making the Negro
worse, you might just as well tell me that religion does the same
thing. And, by the way, how many educated colored men do you know
personally
But
do you mean to claim, ballot or
no ballot, education or no education, that niggers are the equals of
white men
That's not the question
but if the Negro is so
distinctly inferior, it is a strange thing to me that it takes such
tremendous effort on the part of the white man to make him realize it,
and to keep him in the same place into which inferior men naturally
fall. However, let us grant for sake of argument that the Negro is
inferior in every respect to the white man; that fact only increases
our moral responsibility in regard to our actions toward him.
Inequalities of numbers, wealth, and power, even of intelligence and
morals, should make no difference in the essential rights of men
If he's inferior and weaker, and is shoved to the wall, that's his
own look-out
That's the law of nature; and he's
bound to go to the wall; for no race in the world has ever been able
to stand competition with the Anglo-Saxon. The Anglo-Saxon race has
always been and always will be the masters of the world, and the
niggers in the South ain't going to change all the records of
history
My friend
if you have studied
history, will you tell me, as confidentially between white men, what
the Anglo-Saxon has ever done
Can you name a single one of the great
fundamental and original intellectual achievements which have
raised man in the scale of civilization that may be credited to the
Anglo-Saxon? The art of letters, of poetry, of music, of sculpture, of
painting, of the drama, of architecture; the science of mathematics,
of astronomy, of philosophy, of logic, of physics, of chemistry, the
use of the metals, and the principles of mechanics, were all invented
or discovered by darker and what we now call inferior races and
nations. We have carried many of these to their highest point of
perfection, but the foundation was laid by others. Do you know the
only original contribution to civilization we can claim is what we
have done in steam and electricity and in making implements of war
more deadly? And there we worked largely on principles which we did
not discover. Why, we didn't even originate the religion we use. We
are a great race, the greatest in the world today, but we ought to
remember that we are standing on a pile of past races, and enjoy our
position with a little less show of arrogance. We are simply having
our turn at the game, and we were a long time getting to it. After
all, racial supremacy is merely a matter of dates in history. The man
here who belongs to what is, all in all, the greatest race the world
ever produced, is almost ashamed to own it. If the Anglo-Saxon is
the source of everything good and great in the human race from
the beginning, why wasn't the German forest the birthplace of
civilization, rather than the valley of the Nile
All that may be true, but it hasn't got much to
do with us and the niggers here in the South. We've got 'em here,
and we've got 'em to live with, and it's a question of white man or
nigger, no middle ground. You want us to treat niggers as equals. Do
you want to see 'em sitting around in our parlors? Do you want to see
a mulatto South? To bring it right home to you, would you let your
daughter marry a nigger
No, I wouldn't consent to my daughter's marrying a nigger, but that
doesn't prevent my treating a black man fairly. And I don't see what
fair treatment has to do with niggers sitting around in your parlors;
they can't come there unless they're invited. Out of all the white men
I know, only a hundred or so have the privilege of sitting around in
my parlor. As to the mulatto South, if you Southerners have one boast
that is stronger than another, it is your women; you put them on a
pinnacle of purity and virtue and bow down in a chivalric worship
before them; yet you talk and act as though, should you treat the
Negro fairly and take the anti-inter-marriage laws off your statute
books, these same women would rush into the arms of black lovers and
husbands. It's a wonder to me that they don't rise up and resent the
insult
Colonel
you might argue from now until hell
freezes over, and you might convince me that you're right, but you'll
never convince me that I'm wrong. All you say sounds very good, but
it's got nothing to do with facts. You can say what men ought to be,
but they ain't that; so there you are. Down here in the South we're up
against facts, and we're meeting 'em like facts. We don't believe the
nigger is or ever will be the equal of the white man, and we ain't
going to treat him as an equal; I'll be damned if we will. Have a
drink
white civilization
How happy I am to see
you
Singing Johnson
Halt
Halt
the tears
wiped from their eyes, were clad in robes of spotless white, with
crowns of gold upon their heads and harps within their hands
Amen! Hallelujah
mourners' bench
It is hard to
kick against the pricks
Young man, your arm's too short to box with God
Singing Johnson
big meetings
Steal away to Jesus
Go down, Moses
Go down, Moses
Nobody knows de trouble I see, Nobody knows but Jesus
rebel yell
Burn him
Southern opinion
fixed by the Creator at the foundation of the
world
money
Henry Mud
I am a colored man.
Do I not disprove the theory that one drop of Negro blood renders a
man unfit
I think his playing of Chopin is
exquisite
You haven't
met him? Allow me
Old man, when you have a
moment I wish you to meet Miss
Shiny
Pardon me; but isn't this
Shiny
Shiny
I love
you, I love you, I love you
Yes, I
love you; but there is something more, too, that I must tell you
Lucky at cards, unlucky in love
I love you, I
love you, I love you
</text>
