<text>
Cum er long hunny an' let yer mammy fix yer 'spectabul, so yer ken go
to skule. Yer mammy is 'tarmined ter gib yer all de book larning dar
is ter be had eben ef she has ter lib on bred an' herrin's, an' die en
de a'ms house
Another black nigger brat for me to teach
fessor
Sallie Ann ain't yer got wax in yer mouf
Yes sar
Den take dis stick and prop yer mouf opun fur half hour. Dat'll teach
yer a lesson
Billy Smith, yer didn't know yer lessun
Yer may
stan' on one leg de ballunce ob de ebenning
Henry Jones, yer sassed a white boy ter day. Pull off yer jacket.
I'll gib yer a lessun dat yer'll not furgit soon. Neber buck up to yer
s'periors
John Jones, yer black, nappy head rascal, I'll crack yer skull if yer
doan keep quiut
Cum year, yer black, cross-eyed little wench, yer. I'll teach yer to
go to sleep in here
cold sweats
What is your name
Hannah Lizabeth Piedmont
Well, Hannah, what is your brat's name
His name am Belton Piedmont, arter his grandaddy
Well, Hannah, I am very pleased to receive your brat. He shall not
want for attention
What is your name
Fairfax Belgrave
May I be of any service to you, madam
I desire to
have my son enter your school and I trust that you may see your way
clear to admit him
Most assuredly madam, most assuredly
Pull it out! pull it out! pull it out
Bernard Belgrave, age 9 years
Belton Piedmont, age 8 years
blue back spelling book
passige of
scripter
It air harder fur a camel to git through de eye of a cambric needle
den fur a rich man to enter de kingdom of heben
warm up bye and bye
warmer
Gib me Jesus
Oh I am gwine
home
Glory! Glory! Glory
meant business
James,
dees haf gone
He's tuck anudder
I knowed I wuzunt
goin' to git naren dem biscuits
Amanda Ann you git mine
fur me
Let me gib yer my advis, sistah Hannah. De greatest t'ing in de wul
is edification. Ef our race ken git dat we ken git ebery t'ing else.
Dat is de key. Git de key an' yer ken go in de house to go whare you
please. As fur his beatin' de brat, yer musn't kick agin dat. He'll
beat de brat to make him larn, and won't dat be a blessed t'ing? See
dis scar on side my head? Old marse Sampson knocked me down wid a
single-tree tryin' to make me stop larning, and God is so fixed it dat
white folks is knocking es down ef we don't larn. Ef yer take Belton
out of school yer'll be fighting 'genst de providence of God
What an infamous
scoundrel
There
certainly is brain power in that head
niggers
pet aversion
BELTON PIEDMONT.
  BERNARD BELGRAVE
The
Contribution of the Anglo-Saxon to the Cause of Human Liberty
Robert Emmett
That black nigger has beat the yellow one all to pieces
this time, but we don't like to see nigger blood triumph over any
Anglo-Saxon blood. Ain't there any loop-hole where we can give it to
Bernard, anyhow
Well, yes
on the ground of good
behavior
There you hit it
So we all decide
We award
the prize to Bernard
Belgrave
No! no! no
Ladies and Gentlemen, this is the proudest moment of my life
Murder! Murder! Murder
Help! Help! Help! I am drowning.
Take me out, it is cold
Wife,
it has come at last. May the good Lord cease not to watch over our
beloved but erring land
Wife, it has come at last. May
the good Lord cease not to watch over our beloved land
Know ye not that ye are
parents and children? Parents, recognize your children. Children, be
proud of the parents from whom you spring
Mr. Piedmont, this will carry you through college. I have
only one favor to ask of you. In all your dealings with my people
recognize the fact that there are two widely separated classes of us,
and that there is a good side to the character of the worst class.
Always seek for and appeal to that side of their nature
Uncle Tom's Cabin
Ha! ha
newcomer
Wrong here
The fire of patriotism here
mansion
Equality or
Death
I have in my hands a paper from the
students of this institution concerning a matter with which they have
nothing to do. This is my answer. The classes will please retire
Equality or Death
Victory
John Brown's Body lies mouldering in
the grave, and we go marching on
The Kingdom of God is within us
Young men, we shall soon push you forth into the midst of a turbulent
world, to play such a part as the voice of God may assign you. You
go forth, amid the shouts and huzzahs of cheering friends, and the
anxious prayers of the faithful of God. The part that you play, the
character of your return journey, triumphant or inglorious, will
depend largely upon how well you have learned the lesson of this text.
Remember that the kingdom of God is within you. Do not go forth into
the world to demand favors of the world, but go forth to give unto the
world. Be strong in your own hearts.

"The world is like unto a wounded animal that has run a long way and
now lies stretched upon the ground, the blood oozing forth from gaping
wounds and pains darting through its entire frame. The huntsman, who
comes along to secure and drink the feverish milk of this animal that
is all but a rotting carcass, seriously endangers his own well being.
So, young men, do not look upon this dying, decaying world to feed
and support you. You must feed and support it. Carry fresh, warm,
invigorating blood in your veins to inject into the veins of the
world. This is far safer and nobler than sticking the lance into the
swollen veins of the world, to draw forth its putrid blood for your
own use. I not only exhort you but I warn you. You may go to this
dying animal as a surgeon, and proceed to cut off the sound portions
for your own use. You may deceive the world for awhile, but it will,
ere long, discover whether you are a vandal or a surgeon; and if it
finds you to be the former, when you are closest to its bosom, it will
squeeze you tightly and tear your face to shreds.

"I wish now to apply these thoughts to your immediate circumstances.

"You shall be called upon to play a part in the adjusting of positions
between the negro and Anglo-Saxon races of the South. The present
status of affairs cannot possibly remain. The Anglo-Saxon race must
surrender some of its outposts, and the negro will occupy these. To
bring about this evacuation on the part of the Anglo-Saxon, and the
forward march of the negro, will be your task. This is a grave and
delicate task, fraught with much good or evil, weal or woe. Let us
urge you to undertake it in the spirit to benefit the world, and not
merely to advance your own glory.

"The passions of men will soon be running high, and by feeding these
passions with the food for which they clamor you may attain the
designation of a hero. But, with all the energy of my soul, I exhort
you to not play with fire, merely for the sake of the glare that it
may cast upon you. Use no crisis for self-aggrandizement. Be so full
of your own soul's wealth that these temptations may not appeal to
you. When your vessel is ploughing the roughest seas and encountering
the fiercest gales, consult as your chart the welfare of the ship and
crew, though you may temporarily lose fame as a captain.

"Young men, you are highly favored of God. A glorious destiny awaits
your people. The gates of the beautiful land of the future are flung
wide. Your people stand before these gates peering eagerly within.
They are ready to march. They are waiting for their commanders and
the command to move forward. You are the commanders who must give the
command. I urge, I exhort, I beseech you, my dear boys, to think not
of yourselves. Let your kingdom be within. Lead them as they ought to
be led, taking no thought to your own glory.

"If you heed my voice you shall become true patriots. If you disregard
it, you will become time-serving demagogues, playing upon the passions
of the people for the sake of short-lived notoriety. Such men would
corral all the tigers in the forest and organize them into marauding
regiments simply for the honor of being in the lead. Be ye none of
these, my boys. May your Alma Mater never feel called upon to cry to
God in anguish to paralyze the hand that she herself has trained.

"Be not a burrowing parasite, feasting off of the world's raw blood.
Let the world draw life from you. Use not the misfortunes of your
people as stones of a monument erected to your name. If you do, the
iron fist of time will knock it over on your grave to crumble your
decaying bones to further dust.

"Always serve the world as the voice of good conscience, instructed by
a righteous God, may direct. Do this and thou shalt live; live in the
sweetened memory of your countrymen; live in the heart of your Alma
Mater; live when the earth is floating dust, when the stars are dead,
when the sun is a charred and blackened ruin; live on the bosom of
your Savior, by the throne of his God, in the eternal Heavens
That fellow regards scents and noises just as though he was a
buzzard, hatched in a cleft of the roaring Niagara Falls
Ladies and gentlemen, these socks are from Mississippi. I am
from Virginia
Lord forgive them for they know not what they do
Driver what is your fee
For you and the young
lady and the trunks, two dollars, sir
What is the price for the young lady
and the trunks
One dollar and fifty cents
You can call any hackman you choose
and you won't find one who will do it for a cent less
Friend, here is one dollar and a quarter. It is all I have. Trust me
for the balance until tomorrow
Oh! no
I must have my money to-day. I have to
report to-night and my money must go in. Just fork over the balance,
please
Well
I have given you all the money that I have. And you
have got to trust me for the balance. You can't take us back
May be that girl has some money. I'll see her
Ah, no, now, don't resort to any such foolishness. Can't you
trust a fellow
I don't do business that way. If I had known that
you did not have the money I would not have brought you. I am going to
the young lady
You shall do no
such thing
Dear Bernie:

    "Follow this man and trust him as you would your loving
    mother.

      "Fairfax Belgrave
I am your mother's lawful husband, and you are my legitimate child
I am Senator ------ from the state of ------, chairman of ------
committee
Be seated, Bernard, I have much to say to you. I have a long story to
tell. I have been married twice. My first wife's brother was Governor
of ------ and lived and died a bachelor. He was, however, the father
of a child, whose mother was a servant connected with his father's
household. The child was given to my wife to rear, and she accepted
the charge. The child bloomed into a perfect beauty, possessed a
charming voice, could perform with extraordinary skill on the piano,
and seemed to have inherited the mind of her father, whose praises
have been sung in all the land.

"When this child was seventeen years of age my wife died. This girl
remained in our house. I was yet a young man. Now that my wife was
gone, attending to this girl fell entirely into my hands. I undertook
her education. As her mind unfolded, so many beauteous qualities
appeared that she excited my warm admiration.

"By chance, I discovered that the girl loved me; not as a father, but
as she would a lover. She does not know to this day that I made the
discovery when I did. As for myself, I had for some time been madly in
love with her. When I discovered, that my affections were returned,
I made proposals, at that time regarded as honorable enough by the
majority of white men of the South.

"It seemed as though my proposition did not take her by surprise. She
gently, but most firmly rejected my proposal. She told me that the
proposal was of a nature to occasion deep and lasting repugnance, but
that in my case she blamed circumstances and conditions more than she
did me. The quiet, loving manner in which she resented insult and left
no tinge of doubt as to her virtue, if possible, intensified my love.
A few days later she came to me and said: 'Let us go to Canada and get
married secretly. I will return South with you. No one shall ever
know what we have done, and for the sake of your political and social
future I will let the people apply whatever name they wish to our
relationship.'

"I gladly embraced the proposal, knowing that she would keep faith
even unto death; although I realized how keenly her pure soul felt at
being regarded as living with me dishonorably. Yet, love and interest
bade her bow her head and receive the public mark of shame.

"Heroic soul! That is the marriage certificate which I showed you. You
were born. When you were four years old your mother told me that she
must leave, as she could not bear to see her child grow up esteeming
her an adulteress.

"The war broke out, and I entered the army, and your mother took you
to Europe, where she lived until the war was over, when she returned
to Winchester, Virginia. Her father was a man of wealth, and you own
two millions of dollars through your mother. At my death you shall
have eight millions more.

"So much for the past. Let me tell you of my plans and hopes for your
future. This infernal race prejudice has been the curse of my life.
Think of my pure-hearted, noble-minded wife, branded as a harlot, and
you, my own son, stigmatized as a bastard, because it would be suicide
for me to let the world know that you both are mine, though you both
are the direct descendants of a governor, and a long line of heroes
whose names are ornaments to our nation's history.

"I want you to break down this prejudice. It is the wish of your
mother and your father. You must move in the front, but all that money
and quiet influence can do shall be done by me for your advancement.
I paid Mr. Tiberius Gracchus Leonard two thousand dollars a year to
teach you at Winchester. His is a master mind. One rash deed robbed
the world of seeing a colossal intellect in high station. I shall tell
you his history presently.

"I desire you to go to Norfolk County, Virginia, and hang up your
sign as an attorney at law. I wish you to run for congress from that
district. Leonard is down there. As you will find out, he will be of
inestimable service to you.

"Now let me give you his history. Leonard was the most brilliant
student that ever entered ------ University in the state of ------.
Just prior to the time when he would have finished his education at
school, the war broke out and he enlisted in the Confederate Army, and
was made a colonel of a regiment. I was also a colonel, and when our
ranks became depleted the two regiments were thrown into one. Though
he was the ranking officer, our commander, as gallant and intrepid an
officer as ever trod a battle field, was put in command. This deeply
humilitated Leonard and he swore to be avenged.

"One evening, when night had just lowered her black wings over the
earth, we were engaging the enemy. Our commander was in advance of
his men. Suddenly the commander fell, wounded. At first it was thought
that the enemy bad shot him, but investigation showed that the ball
had entered his back. It was presumed, then, that some of his own men
had mistook him for an enemy and had shot him through mistake. Leonard
had performed the nefarious deed knowingly. By some skillful detective
work, I secured incontestible evidence of his guilt. I went to him
with my proof and informed him of my intentions to lay it before a
superior officer. His answer was: 'If you do, I will let the whole
world know about your nigger wife.' I fell back as if stunned. Terror
seized me. If he knew of my marriage might not others know it? Might
not it be already generally known? These were the thoughts that
coursed through my brain. However, with an effort I suppressed my
alarm. Seeing that each possessed a secret that meant death and
disgrace to the other (for I shall certainly kill myself if I am ever
exposed) I entered into an agreement with him.

"On the condition that he would prepare a statement confessing his
guilt and detailing the circumstances of the crime and put this paper
in my hand, I would show him my marriage certificate; and after that,
each was to regard the other's secret as inviolate.

"We thus held each other securely tied. His conscience, however,
disturbed him beyond measure; and every evening, just after dusk, he
fancied that he saw the form of his departed commander. It made him
cowardly in battle and he at last deserted.

"He informed me as to how my secret came into his possession. Soon
after he committed his crime he felt sure that I was in possession
of his secret, and he thought to steal into my tent and murder me. He
stole in there one night to perpetrate the crime. I was talking in my
sleep. In my slumber I told the story of my secret marriage in such
circumstantial detail that it impressed him as being true. Feeling
that he could hold me with that, he spared my life, determined to
wound me deeper than death if I struck at him.

"You see that he is a cowardly villain; but we sometimes have to use
such.

"Now, my son, go forth; labor hard and climb high. Scale the high wall
of prejudice. Make it possible, dear boy, for me to own you ere I pass
out of life. Let your mother have the veil of slander torn from her
pure form ere she closes her eyes on earth forever
Pray, who is that girl that met you at the door? I
really did not know that a dark woman could look so beautiful
You are not the only one that thinks that she is surpassingly
beautiful
Her picture is the only Negro's picture
that is allowed to hang in the show glasses of the white photographers
down town. White and colored pay homage to her beauty
Well
that man who denies that girl's beauty should
be sent to the asylum for the cure of a perverted and abnormal taste
I see you are rather enthusiastic. Is it wise to admire mortgaged
property
What's that
Is any body in my way
In your way
Pray what do you mean? I don't
understand you
Come
I am on pins. Is she married or about to be
Well, not exactly that, but she has told me that she cares a good bit
for me
The would-be
catcher is caught. I thought Viola Martin would duck him if anybody
could. Tell me about these smile-proof bachelors. When once they are
struck, they fall all to pieces at once
You have made a catch, Vie. Hold him
He'll hold himself
Theory is theory and practice is practice, eh, Vie? Well, we
would hardly blame you in this case
I shall ask for no mercy. Theory and
practice are one with me in this case
Bah, bah, girl, two weeks will change that tune. And I, for one,
won't blame you
own sweet will
Belgrave,
Belgrave, Belgrave
Miss Nermal, allow me to present to you our newly
arrived associate in the work, Mr. Belton Piedmont
Mr. Piedmont, we are glad to
have a man of your acknowledged talents in our midst and we anticipate
much of you
Thank you
I trust that you will find our association agreeable
Oh assuredly, Miss Nermal. I am already more
than satisfied that I shall expect much joy and pleasure from my
association with you -- I -- I -- I mean the teachers
very nice
just
grand
In the well
I am in the well
How many feet
Three feet
Whom will you have to take you out
I am in the well
How many
feet
ONLY one
Whom will you have to take you
out
Miss Antoinette Nermal
The person who
put me in here will have to take me out
I am in the well
I am too
I shall always be in the well
So
shall I
attack Southern Institutions
Get out of this coach. We don't allow niggers
in first-class coaches. Get out at once
Show me your authority to order me out, sir
We are our own authority, as you will soon find out if you don't get
out of here
I propose
to stay right in this coach as long
Get up from there, you
nigger. It would cost me a hundred dollars for you to be seen sitting
there
Do you mean to say that I must
stand up here and eat
No, I don't mean any such thing. You must go out of here to eat
Then
I shall politely leave your food on your
hands if I cannot be allowed to eat in here
I guess you won't
I have cut this ham off for you
and you have got to take it
This
high-toned nigger bought a meal of me and because I would not let him
sit down and eat like white people he refused to pay me
Pay that man what you owe
him
I owe him nothing. He refuses to accommodate me, and
I therefore owe him nothing
Come along with me, sir. Consider yourself under arrest
I'll be durned if that ain't the
finest lookin' darkey I ever put my eye on. If I could get his body to
dissect, I'd give one of the finest kegs of whiskey in my cellar
Zakeland
you are right. He is a fine looking chap, and he looks
a little tony. If we 'nigger rulers' are ever called in to attend to
him we will not burn him nor shoot him to pieces. We will kill him
kinder decent and let you have him to dissect. I shall not fail to
call for that whiskey to treat the boys
Mr. Piedmont, I learn that you are advising our
young men to vote. I am sure you don't know in what danger you stand.
I have come to give you the political history of this section of
Louisiana. The colored people of this region far outnumber the white
people, and years ago had absolute control of everything. The whites
of course did not tamely submit, but armed themselves to overthrow us.
We armed ourselves, and every night patrolled this road all night long
looking for the whites to come and attack us. My oldest brother is
a very cowardly and sycophantic man. The white people made a spy and
traitor out of him. When the people found out that there was treachery
in our ranks it demoralized them, and our organization went to pieces.

"We had not the authority nor disposition to kill a traitor, and
consequently we had no effective remedy against a betrayal. When the
news of our demoralized condition reached the whites it gave them
fresh courage, and they have dominated us ever since. They carry on
the elections. We stay in our fields all day long on election day
and scarcely know what is going on. Not long since a white man came
through here and distributed republican ballots. The white people
captured him and cut his body into four pieces and threw it in the
Ouachita River. Since then you can't get any man to venture here to
distribute ballots.

"Just before the last presidential campaign, two brothers, Samuel and
John Bowser, colored, happened to go down to New Orleans. Things are
not so bad down there as they are up here in Northern Louisiana. These
two brothers each secured a republican party ballot, and on election
day somewhat boastfully cast them into the ballot box. There is, as
you have perhaps heard, a society here known as 'Nigger Rulers.' The
postmaster of this place is president of the society, and the teacher
of the white public school is the captain of the army thereof.

"They sent word to the Bowser brothers that they would soon be there
to whip them. The brothers prepared to meet them. They cut a hole
in the front side of the house, through which they could poke a gun.
Night came on, and true to their word the 'Nigger Rulers' came. Samuel
Bowser fired when they were near the house and one man fell dead.
All of the rest fled to the cover of the neighboring woods. Soon they
cautiously returned and bore away their dead comrade. They made no
further attack that night.

"The brothers hid out in the woods. Hearing of this and fearing that
the men would make their escape the whites gathered in force and
hemmed in the entire settlement on all sides. For three days the men
hid in the woods, unable to escape because of the guard kept by the
whites. The third night a great rain came up and the whites sought the
shelter of their homes.

"The brothers thus had a chance to escape. John escaped into Arkansas,
but Samuel, poor fool, went only forty miles, remaining in Louisiana.
The mob forced one of our number, who escorted him on horseback, to
inform them of the road that Samuel took. In this way they traced and
found him. They tied him on a horse and brought him back here with
them. They kept him in the woods three days, torturing him. On the
third day we heard the loud report of a gun which we supposed ended
his life. None of us know where he lies buried. You can judge from
this why we neglect voting
I've got him at
last. Careful as he has been I've got him
Nigger Rulers
Well, we will have to fix that nigger,
Piedmont. He is getting too high
What's that he has been doing now? I have looked upon him as being an
uncommonly good nigger. I have kept a good eye on him but haven't even
had to hint at him
Well, he has shown his true nature at last. He had the gall to enter
a white church in Monroe this morning and actually took a seat down
stairs with the white folks; he did not even look at the gallery where
he belonged
Is that so
I should say he did, and that's not all. A white girl who sat by him
and could not read very well, failed to find the hymn at once. That
nigger actually had the impudence to take her book and find the place
for her
The infernal scoundrel. By golly, he shall hang
Naturally the congregation was infuriated
and soon hustled the impudent scoundrel out. If services had not been
going on, and if it had not been Sunday, there is no telling what
would have happened. As it was they turned him loose. I came here
to tell you, as he is our 'Nigger' living here at Cadeville, and the
'Nigger Rulers' of Cadeville will be disrespected if they let such
presumptuous niggers go about to disturb religious services
You are right about that, and we must soon put him out of the way.
To-night will be his last night on earth
Do you remember our bargain that we made about that nigger when he
came about here
No
Well, I do. I have been all along itching for a chance to carry it
out. You were to give me the nigger's body for dissecting purposes, in
return for which I was to give you a keg of my best whiskey
Ha, ha, ha
I do remember it now
Well, I'll certainly stick up to my part of the program if you will
stick to yours
You can bet on me
I have a suggestion to
make about the taking off of the nigger. Don't have any burning or
riddling with bullets. Just hang him and fire one shot in the back of
his head. I want him whole in the interest of society. That whiskey
will be the finest that you will ever have and I want a good bargain
for it
I'll follow your instructions to the letter
I'll just tell the boys that he, being a kind of decent
nigger, we will give him a decent hanging. Meantime, Doctor, I must
get out. To-day is Sunday and we must do our work to-morrow night. I
must get a meeting of the boys to-night
Wait
let us
see if he is dead
The nigger is dead or else he would show some sign of life. But I
will try pricking his palm
You may
go now
he is certainly
dead
It is now
10 o'clock. Those doctors from Monroe will be here by twelve. I can
have everything exactly ready by that time
DOCTORS:

  "I have stepped out for a short while.
  Don't touch the nigger until I come.

    "Zackland
Viola, I feel
to-night that all my honors are empty. They feel to me like a load
crushing me down rather than a pedestal raising me up. I am not happy.
I long for the solitude of those trees. That decaying old house calls
eloquently unto something within me. How I would like to enter there
and lay me down to sleep, free from the cares and divested of the
gewgaws of the world
Ah, Mr. Belgrave, something terrible is gnawing at your heart for one
so young, so brilliant, so prosperous as you are to talk thus. Make a
confidante of me and let me help to remove the load, if I can
I have gone forth into life to win certain
honors and snatch from fame a wreath, and now that I have succeeded,
I behold this evening, as never before, that it is not worthy of the
purpose for which I designed it. My work is all in vain
Mr. Belgrave, you must not talk so sadly
Viola, I love you. I have nothing to offer you
worthy of you. I can find nothing worthy, attain nothing worthy. I
love you to desperation. Will you give yourself to a wretch like me?
Say no! don't throw away your beauty, your love on so common a piece
of clay
kiss me, Bernard
Bernard, you know that I love you. It was I
that asked you to kiss me. Always remember that. But as much as I love
you I shall never be your wife. Never, never
Oh God!
Is all my labor in vain, my honors common dirt, my future one dreary
waste? Shall I lose that which has been an ever shining, never setting
sun to me? Viola! If you love me you shall be my wife
A power higher than
either you or I has decreed it otherwise
Who is he? Tell me who he is that dare separate us and I swear I will
kill him
Would you kill
God
Viola Martin, you are
making a fool of me. Tell me plainly why we cannot be man and wife, if
you love me as you say you do
Bernard, call here to-morrow at 10 o'clock and I will tell you all.
If you can then remove my objections all will be well
Mamma, I shall be busy writing
all day in my room. Let no one disturb me
What did it mean
Come unto Me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give
you rest
MY DEAR, DEAR, HEART-BROKEN MAMA:--

    "I am in the hands of God. Whatever He does is just, is right,
    is the only thing to be done. Knowing this, do not grieve
    after me. Take poor Bernard for your son and love him as you
    did me. I make that as my sole dying request of you. One long
    sweet clinging kiss ere I drop into the ocean of death to be
    lost in its tossing waves.

      "Viola
BELOVED PAPA:--

    "Your little daughter is gone. Her heart, though torn,
    bleeding, dead, gave, as it were, an after throb of pain as it
    thought of you. In life you never denied me a request. I have
    one to make from my grave, knowing that you will not deny me.
    Love Bernard as your son; draw him to you, so that, when in
    your old age you go tottering to your tomb in quest of me, you
    may have a son to bear you up. Take my lifeless body on your
    knee and kiss me as you did of old. It will help me to rest
    sweetly in my grave.

      "Your little Vie
DEAR BERNARD:--

    "Viola has loved and left you. Unto you, above all others, I
    owe a full explanation of the deed which I have committed; and
    I shall therefore lay bare my heart to you. My father was a
    colonel in the Civil War and when I was very young he would
    make my little heart thrill with patriotic fervor as he told
    me of the deeds of daring of the gallant Negro soldiers. As
    a result, when nothing but a tiny girl, I determined to be a
    heroine and find some outlet for my patriotic feeling. This
    became a consuming passion. In 18 -- just two years prior to
    my meeting you, a book entitled, 'White Supremacy and
    Negro Subordination,' by the merest accident came into my
    possession. That book made a revelation to me of a most
    startling nature.

    "While I lived I could not tell you what I am about to tell
    you. Death has brought me the privilege. That book proved to
    me that the intermingling of the races in sexual relationship
    was sapping the vitality of the Negro race and, in fact, was
    slowly but surely exterminating the race. It demonstrated that
    the fourth generation of the children born of intermarrying
    mulattoes were invariably sterile or woefully lacking in vital
    force. It asserted that only in the most rare instances were
    children born of this fourth generation and in no case did
    such children reach maturity. This is a startling revelation.
    While this intermingling was impairing the vital force of our
    race and exterminating it, it was having no such effect on the
    white race for the following reason. Every half-breed, or for
    that, every person having a tinge of Negro blood, the white
    people cast off. We receive the cast off with open arms and he
    comes to us with his devitalizing power. Thus, the white man
    was slowly exterminating us and our total extinction was but
    a short period of time distant. I looked out upon our strong,
    tender hearted, manly race being swept from the face of the
    earth by immorality, and the very marrow in my bones seemed
    chilled at the thought thereof. I determined to spend my life
    fighting the evil. My first step was to solemnly pledge God
    to never marry a mulatto man. My next resolve was to part in
    every honorable way all courting couples of mulatto people
    that I could. My other and greatest task was to persuade the
    evil women of my race to cease their criminal conduct with
    white men and I went about pleading with them upon my knees to
    desist. I pointed out that such a course was wrong before God
    and was rapidly destroying the Negro race. I told them of my
    resolve to never marry a mulatto man. Many had faith in me
    and I was the means of redeeming numbers of these erring ones.
    When you came, I loved you. I struggled hard against that
    love. God, alone, knows how I battled against it. I prayed Him
    to take it from me, as it was eating my heart away. Sometimes
    I would appear indifferent to you with the hope of driving you
    away, but then my love would come surging with all the more
    violence and sweep me from my feet. At last, you seemed to
    draw away from me and I was happy. I felt free to you. But you
    at last proposed to me when I thought all such notions were
    dead. At once I foresaw my tragic end. My heart shed bloody
    tears, weeping over my own sad end, weeping for my beloved
    parents, weeping for my noble Bernard who was so true, so
    noble, so great in all things.

    "Bernard, how happy would I have been, how deliriously happy,
    could I but have stood beside you at the altar and sworn
    fidelity to you. Ours would have been an ideal home. But it
    was not to be. I had to choose between you and my race. Your
    noble heart, in its sober moments will sanction my choice,
    I would not have died if I could have lived without proving
    false to my race. Had I lived, my love and your agony, which I
    cannot bear, would have made me prove false to every vow.

    "Dear Bernard, I have a favor to ask of you. Secure the
    book of which I spoke to you. Study the question of the
    intermingling of the races. If miscegenation is in reality
    destroying us, dedicate your soul to the work of separating
    the white and colored races. Do not let them intermingle.
    Erect moral barriers to separate them. If you fail in this,
    make the separation physical; lead our people forth from this
    accursed land. Do this and I shall not have died in vain.
    Visit my grave now and then to drop thereon a flower and a
    flag, but no tears. If in the shadowy beyond, whose mists
    I feel gathering about me, there is a place where kindred
    spirits meet, you and I shall surely meet again. Though I
    could not in life, I will in death sign myself,

    "Your loving wife,

      "Viola Belgrave
By the eternal
heavens these abominable horrors shall cease. The races, whose union
has been fraught with every curse known to earth and hell, must
separate. Viola demands it and Bernard obeys
HON. BERNARD BELGRAVE, M.C.,

    "Come to Waco at once. If you fail to come you will make the
    mistake of your life. Come.

  "BELTON PIEDMONT
Yes, I'll go
anywhere, for anything
Thomas Jefferson College
I have been so fortunate as to unearth a foul conspiracy
that is being hatched by our people. I have decided to expose them and
see every one of them hung
Pray tell me, Belton, what is the motive that prompts you to be so
zealous in the work of ferreting out conspirators among your people to
be hanged by the whites
It is this
you know as it is, the Negro has a hard
time in this country. If we begin to develop traitors and conspirators
we shall fare even worse. It is necessary, therefore, that we kill
these vipers that come, lest we all be slain as vipers
That may be true, but I don't like to see you in that kind of
business
Don't talk that way
for I counted upon your aid. I
desire to secure you as prosecuting attorney in the case. When we thus
expose the traitors, we shall earn the gratitude of the government
and our race will be treated with more consideration in the future. We
will add another page to the glorious record of our people's devotion
by thus spurning these traitors
Belton, I tell you frankly that my share in that kind of business
will be infinitessimally small. But go on. Let me know the whole
story, that I may know better what to think and do
Well, it is this
you know that there is one serious
flaw in the Constitution of the United States, which has already
caused a world of trouble, and there is evidently a great deal more to
come. You know that a ship's boilers, engines, rigging, and so forth
may be in perfect condition, but a serious leak in her bottom
will sink the proudest vessel afloat. This flaw or defect in the
Constitution of the United States is the relation of the General
Government to the individual state. The vague, unsettled state of
the relationship furnished the pretext for the Civil War. The General
Government says to the citizen: 'I am your sovereign. You are my
citizen and not the citizen of only one state. If I call on you
to defend my sovereignty, you must do so even if you have to fight
against your own state. But while I am your supreme earthly sovereign
I am powerless to protect you against crimes, injustices, outrages
against you. Your state may disfranchise you with or without law,
may mob you; but my hands are so tied that I can't help you at all,
although I shall force you to defend my sovereignty with your lives.
If you are beset by Klu Klux, White Cappers, Bulldozers, Lynchers, do
not turn your dying eyes on me for I am unable to help you.' Such is
what the Federal Government has to say to the Negro. The Negro must
therefore fight to keep afloat a flag that can afford him no more
protection than could a helpless baby. The weakness of the General
Government in this particular was revealed with startling clearness
in connection with the murder of those Italians in New Orleans, a few
years ago. This government had promised Italy to afford protection to
the property and lives of her citizens sojourning in our midst. But
when these men were murdered the General Government could not even
bring the murderers to trial for their crime. Its treaty had been
broken by a handfull of its own citizens and it was powerless to
punish them. It had to confess its impotence to the world, and paid
Italy a specified sum of money. The Negro finds himself an unprotected
foreigner in his own home. Whatever outrages may be perpetrated upon
him by the people of the state in which he lives, he cannot expect
any character of redress from the General Government. So in order to
supply this needed protection, this conspiracy of which I have spoken
has been formed to attempt to unite all Negroes in a body to do that
which the whimpering government childishly but truthfully says it
cannot do.

"These men are determined to secure protection for their lives and
the full enjoyment of all rights and privileges due American citizens.
They take a solemn oath, offering their very blood for the cause. I
see that this will lead, eventually, to a clash of arms, and I wish
to expose the conspiracy before it is too late. Cooperate with me and
glory and honor shall attend us all of our days. Now, Bernard, tell me
candidly what you think of the whole matter. May I not rely on you
Well, let me tell you just exactly what I think and just what I shall
do
I think, sir, that you are the most infernal
scoundrel that I ever saw, and those whom you call conspirators are a
set of sublime patriots; and further
if you betray those men, I will kill you
Then I shall die, and my only regret will be that I shall die at the
hands of such an abominable wretch as you are
If I live I shall surely proclaim your infamy to our
people and slay you besides. The curse of our doomed race is just such
white folks' niggers as you are. Shoot, shoot, shoot, you whelps
Bernard, those were blank cartridges. I desired
to give you another chance. If you consent to leave me unmolested to
ferret out those conspirators I will take your word as your bond and
spare your life. Will you accept your life at such a low price
Come here and let me give you my answer
Let me
whisper something in your ear
Take that,
you knave
One ---- Two ---- Three
Was this death? Was he dead or
alive
Where was he? What did that assemblage mean? What did his strange
experiences mean
Behold the Chiefs of the conspirators whom you would not
betray. Behold me, whom they have called the arch conspirator. You
have nobly stood the test. Come, your reward awaits you. You are
worthy of it and I assure you it is worthy of you
Come with me.
I will explain it all to you
Hail to the Chief
Bernard, I am now about to put the keeping of the
property, the liberty, and the very lives of over seven million five
hundred thousand people into your hands
Realize
that I am carefully weighing each remark
I make and am fully conscious of how much my statement involves
May revengeful lightning transfix me with her fiercest bolts;
may hell's most fiery pillars roll in fury around me; may I be
despised of man and forgotten of my God, if I ever knowingly, in
the slightest way, do aught to betray this solemn, this most sacred
trust
I must begin. Another government, complete in
every detail, exercising the sovereign right of life and death over
its subjects, has been organized and maintained within the United
States for many years. This government has a population of seven
million two hundred and fifty thousand
Do you mean all that you say, Belton
I shall in a short time submit to you positive proofs of my
assertion. You shall find that I have not overstated anything
But, Belton, how in the world can such a thing be when I, who am
thoroughly conversant with every movement of any consequence, have not
even dreamed of such a thing
All of that shall be made perfectly clear to you in the course of the
narrative which I shall now relate
You will remember, Bernard, that there lived, in the
early days of the American Republic, a negro scientist who won an
international reputation by his skill and erudition. In our school
days, we spoke of him often. Because of his learning and consequent
usefulness, this negro enjoyed the association of the moving spirits
of the revolutionary period. By the publication of a book of science
which outranked any other book of the day that treated of the same
subject, this negro became a very wealthy man. Of course the book is
now obsolete, science having made such great strides since his day.
This wealthy negro secretly gathered other free negroes together and
organized a society that had a two-fold object. The first object
was to endeavor to secure for the free negroes all the rights and
privileges of men, according to the teachings of Thomas Jefferson.
Its other object was to secure the freedom of the enslaved negroes
the world over. All work was done by this organization with the sole
stipulation that it should be used for the furtherance of the two
above named objects of the society, and for those objects alone.

"During slavery this organization confined its membership principally
to free negroes, as those who were yet in physical bondage were
supposed to have aspirations for nothing higher than being released
from chains, and were, therefore, not prepared to eagerly aspire to
the enjoyment of the highest privileges of freedom. When the War of
Secession was over and all negroes were free, the society began to
cautiously spread its membership among the emancipated. They conducted
a campaign of education, which in every case preceded an attempt at
securing members. This campaign of education had for its object the
instruction of the negro as to what real freedom was. He was taught
that being released from chains was but the lowest form of liberty,
and that he was no more than a common cur if he was satisfied with
simply that. That much was all, they taught, that a dog howled for.
They made use of Jefferson's writings, educating the negro to feel
that he was not in the full enjoyment of his rights until he was on
terms of equality with any other human being that was alive or had
ever lived. This society used its influence secretly to have appointed
over Southern schools of all kinds for negroes such teachers as would
take especial pains to teach the negro to aspire for equality with all
other races of men.

"They were instructed to pay especial attention to the history of the
United States during the revolutionary period. Thus, the campaign of
education moved forward. The negroes gained political ascendancy in
many Southern states, but were soon hurled from power, by force in
some quarters, and by fraud in others. The negroes turned their eyes
to the federal government for redress and a guarantee of their
rights. The federal government said: 'Take care of yourselves, we are
powerless to help you.' The 'Civil Rights Bill,' was declared null and
void, by the Supreme Court. An 'honest election bill' was defeated
in Congress by James G. Blaine and others. Separate coach laws
were declared by the Supreme Court to be constitutional. State
Constitutions were revised and so amended as to nullify the amendment
of the Federal Constitution, giving the negro the right to vote.
More than sixty thousand defenseless negroes were unlawfully slain.
Governors would announce publicly that they favored lynching. The
Federal Government would get elected to power by condemning these
outrages, and when there, would confess its utter helplessness. One
President plainly declared, what was already well known, 'that
the only thing that they could do, would be to create a healthy
sentiment.' This secret organization of which we have been speaking
decided that some means must be found to do what the General
Government could not do, because of a defect in the Constitution. They
decided to organize a General Government that would protect the negro
in his rights. This course of action decided upon, the question was as
to how this could be done the most quickly and successfully. You well
know that the negro has been a marvelous success since the war, as a
builder of secret societies.

"One member of this patriotic secret society, of which we have been
speaking, conceived the idea of making use of all of these secret
orders already formed by negroes. The idea met with instant approval.
A house was found already to hand. These secret orders were all
approached and asked to add one more degree and let this added degree
be the same in every negro society. This proposition was accepted, and
the Government formed at once. Each order remained, save in this last
degree where all were one. This last degree was nothing more nor less
than a compact government exercising all the functions of a nation.
The grand purpose of the government was so apparent, and so needful of
attention, that men rushed into this last degree pledging their lives
to the New Government.

"All differences between the race were to be settled by this
Government, as it had a well organized judiciary. Negroes, members
of this Government, were to be no longer seen fighting negroes before
prejudiced white courts. An army was organized and every able-bodied
citizen enlisted. After the adjournment of the lodge sessions, army
drills were always executed. A Congress was duly elected, one member
for every fifty thousand citizens. Branch legislatures were formed
in each state. Except in a few, but important particulars, the
constitution was modeled after that of the United States.

"There is only one branch to our Congress, the members of which are
elected by a majority vote, for an indefinite length of time, and may
be recalled at any time by a majority vote.

"This Congress passes laws relating to the general welfare of our
people, and whenever a bill is introduced in the Congress of the
United States affecting our race it is also introduced and debated
here.

"Every race question submitted to the United States judiciary, is also
submitted to our own. A record of our decisions is kept side by side
with the decisions of the United States.

"The money which the scientist left was wisely invested, and at the
conclusion of the civil war amounted to many millions. Good land at
the South was offered after the war for twenty-five cents an acre.
These millions were expended in the purchase of such lands, and
our treasury is now good for $500,000,000. Our citizens own about
$350,000,000. And all of this is pledged to our government in case it
is needed.

"We have at our disposal, therefore, $850,000,000. This money can he
used by the Government in any way that it sees fit, so long as it is
used to secure the recognition of the rights of our people. They are
determined to be free and will give their lives, as freely as they
have given their property.

"This place is known as Jefferson College, but it is in reality the
Capitol of our Government, and those whom you have just left are the
Congressmen
But, Belton
how does it happen that I have been
excluded from all this
That is explained in this way. The relation of your mother to the
Anglo-Saxon race has not been clearly understood, and you and she have
been under surveillance for many years.

"It was not until recently deemed advisable to let you in, your
loyalty to the race never having fully been tested. I have been a
member for years. While I was at Stowe University, though a young man,
I was chairman of the bureau of education and had charge of the work
of educating the race upon the doctrine of human liberty.

"While I was at Cadeville, La., that was my work. Though not
attracting public attention, I was sowing seed broadcast. After my
famous case I was elected to Congress here and soon thereafter chosen
speaker, which position I now hold.

"I shall now come to matters that concern you. Our constitution
expressly stipulates that the first President of our Government should
be a man whom the people unanimously desired. Each Congressman had
to be instructed to vote for the same man, else there would be no
election. This was done because it was felt that the responsibility
of the first President would be so great, and have such a formative
influence that he should be the selection of the best judgment of the
entire nation.

"In the second place, this would ensure his having a united nation at
his back. Again, this forcing the people to be unanimous would have
a tendency to heal dissensions within their ranks. In other words, we
needed a George Washington.

"Various men have been put forward for this honor and vigorous
campaigns have been waged in their behalf. But these all failed of
the necessary unanimous vote. At last, one young man arose, who was
brilliant and sound, genial and true, great and good. On every tongue
was his name and in every heart his image. Unsolicited by him, unknown
to him, the nation by its unanimous voice has chosen him the President
of our beloved Government. This day he has unflinchingly met the test
that our Congress decreed and has come out of the furnace, purer than
gold. He feared death no more than the caress of his mother, when he
felt that that death was to be suffered in behalf of his oppressed
people. I have the great honor, on this the proudest occasion of my
life, to announce that I am commissioned to inform you that the name
of our President is Bernard Belgrave. You, sir, are President of the
Imperium In Imperio, the name of our Government, and to you we devote
our property, our lives, our all, promising to follow your banner into
every post of danger until it is planted on freedom's hill. You are
given three months in which to verify all of my claims, and give us
answer as to whether you will serve us
Two terrible and discordant sounds have burst forth upon the
erstwhile quiet air and now fill your bosom with turbulent emotions.
One is the blast of the bugle, fierce and loud, calling us to arms
against a foreign nation to avenge the death of American seamen and
to carry the cup of liberty to a people perishing for its healing
draught. The other is the crackling of a burning house in the night's
dead hours, the piteous cries of pain and terror from the lips of
wounded babes; the despairing, heart-rending, maddening shrieks of the
wife and mother; the harrowing groans of the dying husband and father,
and the gladsome shout of the fiendish mob of white American citizens,
who have wrought the havoc just described, a deed sufficiently
horrible to make Satan blush and hell hastily hide her face in shame.

"I deem this, my fellow countrymen, as an appropriate time for us to
consider what shall be our attitude, immediate and future, to this
Anglo-Saxon race, which calls upon us to defend the fatherland and at
the same moment treats us in a manner to make us execrate it. Let
us, then, this day decide what shall be the relations that shall
henceforth exist between us and the Anglo-Saxon race of the United
States of America.

"Seven million eyes are riveted upon you, hoping that you will be
brave and wise enough to take such action as will fully atone for
all the horrors of the past and secure for us every right due to
all honorable, loyal, law-abiding citizens of the United States.
Pleadingly they look to you to extract the arrow of shame which hangs
quivering in every bosom, shame at continued humiliation, unavenged.

"In order to arrive at a proper conclusion as to what the duty of
the hour is, it would be well to review our treatment received at the
hands of the Anglo-Saxon race and note the position that we are now
sternly commanded by them to accept.

"When this is done, to my mind, the path of duty will be as plain
before our eyes as the path of the sun across the heavens. I shall,
therefore, proceed to review our treatment and analyze our present
condition, in so far as it is traceable to the treatment which we now
receive from the Anglo-Saxon.

"When in 1619 our forefathers landed on the American shore, the music
of welcome with which they were greeted, was the clanking of iron
chains ready to fetter them; the crack of the whip to be used to plow
furrows in their backs; and the yelp of the blood-hound who was to
bury his fangs deep into their flesh, in case they sought for liberty.
Such was the music with which the Anglo-Saxon came down to the shore
to extend a hearty welcome to the forlorn children of night, brought
from a benighted heathen land to a community of _Christians!_

"The negro was seized and forced to labor hard that the Anglo-Saxon
might enjoy rest and ease. While he sat in his cushioned chair, in
his luxurious home, and dreamed of the blessedness of freedom, the
enforced labor of slaves felled the forest trees, cleared away the
rubbish, planted the seed and garnered the ripened grain, receiving
therefor no manner of pay, no token of gratitude, no word of coldest
thanks.

"That same hammer and anvil that forged the steel sword of the
Anglo-Saxon, with which he fought for freedom from England's yoke,
also forged the chain that the Anglo-Saxon used to bind the negro more
securely in the thralldom of slavery. For two hundred and forty-four
years the Anglo-Saxon imposed upon the hapless, helpless negro, the
bondage of abject slavery, robbed him of the just recompense of his
unceasing toil, treated him with the utmost cruelty, kept his mind
shrouded in the dense fog of ignorance, denied his poor sinful soul
access to the healing word of God, and, while the world rolled on to
joy and light, the negro was driven cowering and trembling, back, back
into the darkest corners of night's deepest gloom. And when, at
last, the negro was allowed to come forth and gaze with the eyes of a
freeman on the glories of the sky, even this holy act, the freeing of
the negro, was a matter of compulsion and has but little, if anything,
in it demanding gratitude, except such gratitude as is due to be given
unto God. For the Emancipation Proclamation, as we all know, came not
so much as a message of love for the slave as a message of love for
the Union; its primary object was to save the Union, its incident,
to liberate the slave. Such was the act which brought to a close two
hundred and forty-four years of barbarous maltreatment and inhuman
oppression! After all these years of unremitting toil, the negro was
pushed out into the world without one morsel of food, one cent of
money, one foot of land. Naked and unarmed he was pushed forward into
a dark cavern and told to beard the lion in his den. In childlike
simplicity he undertook the task. Soon the air was filled with his
agonizing cries; for the claws and teeth of the lion were ripping open
every vein and crushing every bone. In this hour of dire distress the
negro lifted up his voice in loud, long piteous wails calling upon
those for help at whose instance and partially for whose sake he had
dared to encounter the deadly foe. These whilom friends rushed with a
loud shout to the cavern's mouth. But when they saw the fierce eyes of
the lion gleaming in the dark and heard his fearful growl, this loud
shout suddenly died away into a feeble, cowardly whimper, and these
boastful creatures at the crackling of a dry twig turned and scampered
away like so many jack-rabbits.

"Having thus briefly reviewed our past treatment at the hand of the
Anglo-Saxon, we now proceed to consider the treatment which we receive
at his hands to-day.


"THE INDUSTRIAL SITUATION.

"During the long period of slavery the Negro race was not allowed to
use the mind as a weapon in the great 'battle for bread.'

"The Anglo-Saxon said to the negro, in most haughty tones: 'In this
great 'battle for bread,' you must supply the brute force while I will
supply the brain. If you attempt to use your brain I will kill you;
and before I will stoop so low as to use my own physical power to earn
my daily bread I will kill myself.'

"This edict of the Anglo-Saxon race, issued in the days of slavery, is
yet in force in a slightly modified form.

"He yet flees from physical exertion as though it were the leprosy
itself, and yet, violently pushes the negro into that from which he
has so precipitately fled, crying in a loud voice, 'unclean, unclean.'

"If forced by circumstances to resort to manual labor, he chooses the
higher forms of this, where skill is the main factor. But he will not
labor even here with the negro, but drives him out and bars the door.

"He will contribute the public funds to educate the negro and then
exert every possible influence to keep the negro from earning a
livelihood by means of that education.

"It is true, that in the goodness of his heart he will allow the negro
community to have a negro preacher, teacher, doctor, pharmacist and
jackleg lawyer, but further than this he will not go. Practically all
of the other higher forms of labor are hermetically sealed so far as
the negro is concerned.

"Thus, like Tantalus of old, we are placed in streams of water up to
our necks, but when we stoop down to drink thereof the waters recede;
luscious fruit, tempting to the eye and pleasing to the taste,
is placed above our heads, only to be wafted away by the winds of
prejudice, when, like Tantalus we reach up to grasp and eat.


"OUR CIVIL RIGHTS.

"An Italian, a Frenchman, a German, a Russian, a Chinaman and a Swede
come, let us suppose, on a visit to our country.

"As they draw near our public parks they look up and see placards
forbidding somebody to enter these places. They pause to read the
signs to see who it is that is forbidden to enter.

"Unable to understand our language, they see a negro child returning
from school and they call the child to read and interpret the placard.
It reads thus: 'Negroes and dogs not allowed in here.'

"The little negro child, whose father's sweaty, unrequited toil
cleared the spot whereon the park now stands, loiters outside of
the wicker gate in company with the dogs of the foreigners and gazes
wistfully through the cracks at the children of these strangers
sporting on the lawn.

"This is but a fair sample of the treatment which our race receives
everywhere in the South.

"If we enter a place where a sign tells us that the public is served,
we do not know whether we are to be waited upon or driven out like
dogs.

"And the most shameful and hopeless feature connected with the
question of our civil rights is that the Supreme Court has lent its
official sanction to all such acts of discrimination. The highest
court in the land is the chief bulwark of caste prejudice in
democratic America.


"EDUCATION.

"The race that thinks of us and treats us as we have just indicated
has absolute charge of the education of our children.

"They pay our teachers poorer salaries than they do their own; they
give us fewer and inferior school buildings and they make us crawl in
the dust before the very eyes of our children in order to secure the
slightest concessions.

"They attempt to muzzle the mouths of negro teachers, and he who
proclaims too loudly the doctrine of equality as taught by Thomas
Jefferson, will soon be in search of other employment.

"Thus, they attempt to cripple our guides so that we may go forward at
a feeble pace.

"Our children, early in life, learn of our maltreatment, and having
confidence in the unused strength of their parents, urge us to right
our wrongs.

"We listen to their fiery words and gaze in fondness on their little
clinched fists. We then bow our heads in shame and lay bare to them
the chains that yet hold our ankles, though the world has pronounced
us free.

"In school, they are taught to bow down and worship at the shrine of
the men who died for the sake of liberty, and day by day they grow to
disrespect us, their parents who have made no blow for freedom. But it
will not always be thus!


"COURTS OF JUSTICE.

"Colored men are excluded from the jury box; colored lawyers are
discriminated against at the bar; and negroes, with the highest legal
attainments, are not allowed to even dream of mounting the seat of a
judge.

"Before a court that has been lifted into power by the very hands
of prejudice, justice need not be expected. The creature will,
presumably, serve its creator; this much the creator demands.

"We shall mention just one fact that plainly illustrates the character
of the justice to be found in our courts.

"If a negro murders an Anglo-Saxon, however justifiably, let him
tremble for his life if he is to be tried in our courts. On the other
hand, if an Anglo-Saxon murders a negro in cold blood, without the
slightest provocation, he will, if left to the pleasure of our courts,
die of old age and go down to his grave in perfect peace.

"A court that will thus carelessly dabble and play in puddles of human
blood needs no further comment at my hands.


"MOB LAW.

"The courts of the land are the facile instruments of the Anglo-Saxon
race. They register its will as faithfully as the thermometer does the
slightest caprice of the weather. And yet, the poor boon of a trial in
even such courts as these is denied the negro, even when his character
is being painted with hell's black ink and charges that threaten his
life are being laid at his door. He is allowed no chance to clear his
name; no opportunity to bid a friend good bye; no time to formulate a
prayer to God.

"About this way of dealing with criminals there are three horrible
features: First, innocent men are often slain and forced to sleep
eternally in dishonored graves. Secondly, when men who are innocent
are thus slain the real culprits are left behind to repeat their
deeds and thus continue to bring reproach upon the race to which
they belong. Thirdly, illegal execution always begets sympathy in
the hearts of our people for a criminal, however dastardly may be his
crime. Thus the execution loses all of its moral force as a deterrent.
That wrath, that eloquence, which would all be used in abuse of the
criminal is divided between him and his lynchers. Thus the crime for
which the man suffers, is not dwelt upon with that unanimity to make
it sufficiently odious, and, as a consequence, lynching increases
crime. And, too, under the operation of the lynch-law the criminal
knows that any old tramp is just as liable as himself to be seized and
hanged.

"This accursed practice, instead of decreasing, grows in extent year
by year. Since the close of the civil war no less than sixty thousand
of our comrades, innocent of all crime, have been hurried to their
graves by angry mobs, and to-day their widows and orphans and their
own departed spirits cry out to you to avenge their wrongs.

"Woe unto that race, whom the tears of the widows, the cries of
starving orphans, the groans of the innocent dying, and the gaping
wounds of those unjustly slain, accuse before a righteous God!


"POLITICS.

"'Governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers
from the consent of the governed!'

"These words were penned by the man whom the South has taught us to
revere as the greatest and noblest American statesman, whether those
who are now alive or those who are dead. We speak of Thomas Jefferson.
They have taught us that he was too wise to err and that his sayings
are truth incarnate. They are ready to anathematize any man in their
own ranks who will decry the self-evident truths which he uttered.

"The Bible which the white people gave us, teaches us that we are men.
The Declaration of Independence, which we behold them wearing over
their hearts, tells us that all men are created equal. If, as the
Bible says, we are men; if, as Jefferson says, all men are equal;
if, as he further states, governments derive all just powers from the
consent of the governed, then it follows that the American government
is in duty bound to seek to know our will as respects the laws and the
men who are to govern us.

"But instead of seeking to know our will, they employ every device
that human ingenuity can contrive to prevent us from expressing our
opinion. The monarchial trait seems not to have left their blood. They
have apparently chosen our race as an empire, and each Anglo-Saxon
regards himself as a petty king, and some gang or community of negroes
as his subjects.

"Thus our voice is not heard in the General Government. Our kings,
the Anglo-Saxons, speak for us, their slaves. In some states we are
deprived of our right to vote by frauds, in others by violence, and
in yet others by statutory enactment. But in all cases it is most
effectually done.

"Burdens may be put upon our shoulders that are weighing us down,
but we have no means of protesting. Men who administer the laws may
discriminate against us to an outrageous degree, but we have no power
to remove or to punish them.

"Like lean, hungry dogs, we must crouch beneath our master's table
and snap eagerly at the crumbs that fall. If in our scramble for these
crumbs we make too much noise, we are violently kicked and driven
out of doors, where, in the sleet and snow, we must whimper and whine
until late the next morning when the cook opens the door and we can
then crouch down in the corner of the kitchen.

"Oh! my Comrades, we cannot longer endure our shame and misery!

"We can no longer lay supinely down upon our backs and let oppression
dig his iron heel in our upturned pleading face until, perchance, the
pity of a bystander may meekly request him to desist.

"Fellow Countrymen, we must be free. The sun that bathes our land in
light yet rises and sets upon a race of slaves.

"The question remaining before us, then, is, How we are to obtain this
freedom? In olden times, revolutions were effected by the sword and
spear. In modern times the ballot has been used for that purpose. But
the ballot has been snatched from our hands. The modern implement of
revolutions has been denied us. I need not say more. Your minds will
lead you to the only gate left open.

"But this much I will say: let not so light, so common, so universal a
thing as that which we call death be allowed to frighten you from the
path that leads to true liberty and absolute equality. Let that which
under any circumstances must come to one and all be no terror to you.

"To the martyr, who perishes in freedom's cause, death comes with a
beauteous smile and with most tender touch. But to the man whose blood
is nothing but sour swill; who prefers to stay like fattening swine
until pronounced fit for the butcher's knife; to such, death comes
with a most horrifying visage, and seizing the victim with cold and
clammy hands hurries with his disgusting load to some far away dumping
ground.

"How glad am I that I can glance over this audience and see written
upon your faces utter disdain of death.

"In concluding let me say, I congratulate you that after years of
suffering and disunion our faces are now _all_ turned toward the
golden shores of liberty's lovely land.

"Some tell us that a sea is in our way, so deep that we cannot cross.
Let us answer back in joyful tones as our vessels push out from the
shore, that our clotted blood, shed in the middle of the sea, will
float to the other side, even if we do not reach there ourselves.

"Others tell us that towering, snow-capped mountains enclose the
land. To this we answer, if we die on the mountain-side, we shall be
shrouded in sheets of whitest snow, and all generations of men yet
to come upon the earth will have to gaze upward in order to see our
whitened forms.

"Let us then, at all hazards, strike a blow for freedom. If it calls
for a Thermopylae, be free. If it calls for a Valley Forge, be free.
If contending for our rights, given unto us by God, causes us to be
slain, let us perish on the field of battle, singing as we pass out
of the world, 'Sweet Freedom's song,' though every word of this
soul-inspiring hymn must come forth wrapped in our hearts' warm blood.

"Gentlemen of the Imperium in Imperio, I await your pleasure
Fellow citizens, our condition is indeed past enduring and we must
find a remedy. I have spent the major portion of my life in close
study of this subject, searching for a solution. My impression is that
the negro will never leave this country. The day for the wholesale
exodus of nations is past. We must, then, remain here. As long as we
remain here as a separate and distinct race we shall continue to
be oppressed. We must lose our identity. I, therefore, urge that we
abandon the idea of becoming anything noteworthy as a separate and
distinct race and send the word forth that we amalgamate
I am for war
War! war! war
WHEREAS, the history of our treatment by the Anglo-Saxon race is but
the history of oppression, and whereas, our patient endurance of evil
has not served to decrease this cruelty, but seems rather to increase
it; and whereas, the ballot box, the means of peaceful revolution is
denied us, therefore;

"_Be it Resolved_: That the hour for wreaking vengeance for our
multiplied wrongs has come.

"_Resolved_ secondly: That we at once proceed to war for the purpose
of accomplishing the end just named, and for the further purpose of
obtaining all our rights due us as men.

"_Resolved_ thirdly: That no soldier of the Imperium leave the field
of battle until the ends for which this war was inaugurated are fully
achieved
Are you ready to vote
Ready
Not ready
I call upon you all to bear me
witness that I have ever in word and deed been zealous in the work of
building up this Imperium, whose holy mission it is to grapple with
our enemy and wrest from him our stolen rights, given to us by nature
and nature's God. If there be one of you that knowest aught against
my patriotism, I challenge him to declare it now; and if there be
anything to even cast a suspicion upon me, I shall gladly court a
traitor's ignoble doom
By your silence
I judge that my patriotism is
above suspicion; and this question being settled, I shall feel free
to speak all that is within me on the subject now before me. I have a
word to say in defence of the south
No! No! No! No
On her
soil I was born; on her bosom I was reared; into her arms I hope
to fall in death; and I shall not from fear of losing popular favor
desist from pointing out the natural sources from which her sins
arise, so that when judgment is pronounced justice will not hesitate
to stamp it with her righteous seal
Remember your scars
Yes, I am scarred
I have been in the hands of
an angry mob; I have dangled from a tree at the end of a rope; I have
felt the murderous pistol drive cold lead into my flesh; I have been
accounted dead and placed upon the dissecting table; I have felt the
sharp surgical knife ripping my flesh apart when I was supposed to be
dead; all of these hardships and more besides I have received at the
hands of the South; but she has not and cannot drive truth from my
bosom, and the truth shall I declare this day
There are many things in the message
of our most worthy President that demand attention. It was indeed an
awful sin for the Anglo-Saxon to enslave the negro. But in judging a
people we must judge them according to the age in which they lived,
and the influence that surrounded them.

"If David were on earth alive to-day and the ruler of an enlightened
kingdom, he would be impeached forthwith, fined for adultery,
imprisoned for bigamy, and hanged for murder. Yet while not measuring
up to the standard of morality of to-day, he was the man after God's
own heart in his day and generation.

"If Abraham were here to-day he would be expelled from any church
that had any regard for decency; and yet, he was the father of the
faithful, for he walked according to the little light that struggled
through the clouds and reached him.

"When slavery was introduced into America, it was the universal
practice of mankind to enslave. Knowing how quick we all are to heed
the universal voice of mankind, we should be lenient toward others who
are thus tempted and fall.

"It has appeared strange to some that the Americans could fight for
their own freedom from England and yet not think of those whom they
then held in slavery. It should be remembered that the two kinds of
slavery were by no means identical. The Americans fought for a theory
and abstract principle. The negro did not even discern the points at
issue; and the Anglo-Saxon naturally did not concern himself at that
time with any one so gross as not to know anything of a principle for
which he, (the Anglo-Saxon) was ready to offer up his life.

"Our President alluded to the fact that the negro was unpaid for all
his years of toil. It is true that he was not paid in coin, but he
received that from the Anglo-Saxons which far outweighs in value
all the gold coin on earth. He received instruction in the arts of
civilization, a knowledge of the English language, and a conception of
the one true God and his Christ.

"While all of the other races of men were behind the ball of progress
rolling it up the steep hill of time, the negro was asleep in the
jungles of Africa. Newton dug for the law of gravitation; Herschel
swept the starry sky in search of other worlds; Columbus stood upon
the prow of the ship and braved the waves of the ocean and the fiercer
ridicule of men; Martin Luther, single handed and alone, fought the
Pope, the religious guide of the world; and all of this was done while
the negro slept. After others had toiled so hard to give the bright
light of civilization to the world, it was hardly to be expected that
a race that slept while others worked could step up and at once enjoy
all the fruits of others' toil.

"Allow me to note this great fact; that by enslavement in America the
negro has come into possession of the great English language. He is
thus made heir to all the richest thoughts of earth. Had he retained
his mother tongue, it would perhaps have been centuries untold before
the masterpieces of earth were given him. As it is we can now enjoy
the companionship of Shakespeare, Bacon, Milton, Bunyan, together with
the favorite sons of other nations adopted into the English language,
such as Dante, Hugo, Goethe, Dumas and hosts of others. Nor must
we ever forget that it was the Anglo-Saxon who snatched from
our idolatrous grasp the deaf images to which we prayed, and the
Anglo-Saxon who pointed us to the Lamb of God that takes away the sins
of the world.

"So, beloved fellow citizens, when we calmly survey the evil and the
good that came to us through American slavery, it is my opinion that
we find more good for which to thank God than we find evil for which
to curse man.

"Our President truly says that Abraham Lincoln was in such a position
that he was forced to set the negro free. But let us remember that it
was Abraham Lincoln and those who labored with him that created this
position, from which he could turn neither to the right nor to the
left.

"If, in his patriotic soul, we see love for the flag of his country
overshadowing every other love, let us not ignorantly deny that other
loves were there, deep, strong, and incapable of eradication; and let
us be grateful for that.


"THE LABOR QUESTION.

"Prejudice, pride, self-interest, prompt the whites to oppose our
leaving in too large numbers the lower forms of labor for the higher;
and they resort to any extreme to carry out their purpose. But this
opposition is not an unmixed evil. The prejudice and pride that prompt
them to exclude the Negro from the higher forms of labor, also exclude
themselves from the lower forms, thus leaving the Negro in undisputed
possession of a whole kingdom of labor.

"Furthermore, by denying us clerical positions, and other higher types
of labor we shall be forced into enterprises of our own to furnish
labor for our own talent. Let us accept the lesson so plainly taught
and provide enterprises to supply our own needs and employ our own
talents.

"If there is any one thing, more than another, that will push the
Negro forth to build enterprises of his own, it will be this refusal
of the whites to employ the higher order of labor that the race from
time to time produces. This refusal will prove a blessing if we accept
the lesson that it teaches. And, too, in considering this subject let
us not feel that we are the only people who have a labor problem on
hand to be solved. The Anglo-Saxon race is divided into two hostile
camps -- labor and capital. These two forces are gradually drawing
together for a tremendous conflict, a momentous battle. The riots
at Homestead, at Chicago, at Lattimer are but skirmishes between the
picket lines, informing us that a general conflict is imminent. Let us
thank God that we are not in the struggle. Let us thank Him that our
labor problem is no worse than it is.


"OUR CIVIL RIGHTS.

"For our civil rights we are struggling and we must secure them. But
if they had all come to us when they first belonged to us, we must
frankly admit that we would have been unprepared for them.

"Our grotesque dress, our broken language, our ignorant curiosity,
and, on the part of many our boorish manners, would have been
nauseating in the extreme to men and women accustomed to refined
association. Of course these failings are passing away: but the
polished among you have often been made ashamed at the uncouth antics
of some ignorant Negroes, courting the attention of the whites in
their presence. Let us see to it, then, that we as a people, not a
small minority of us, are prepared to use and not abuse the privileges
that must come to us.

"Let us reduce the question of our rejection to a question pure and
simple of the color of our skins, and by the help of that God who gave
us that color we shall win.

"On the question of education much might be said in blame of the
South, but far more may be said in her praise.

"The evils of which our president spoke are grave and must be righted,
but let us not fail to see the bright side.

"The Anglo-Saxon child virtually pays for the education of the Negro
child. You might hold that he might do more. It is equally true that
he might do less. When we contrast the Anglo-Saxon, opening his purse
and pouring out his money for the education of the Negro, with the
Anglo-Saxon plaiting a scourge to flog the Negro aspiring to learn,
the progress is marvelous indeed.

"And, let us not complain too bitterly of the school maintained by the
Southerner, for it was there that we learned what true freedom was. It
was in school that our hearts grew warm as we read of Washington, of
Jefferson, of Henry, apostles of human liberty. It was the school of
the Southerner that has builded the Imperium which now lifts its hand
in power and might to strike a last grand blow for liberty.


"COURTS OF JUSTICE.

"As for the courts of justice, I have not one word to say in
palliation of the way in which they pander to the prejudices of the
people. If the courts be corrupt; if the arbitrator between man and
man be unjust; if the wretched victim of persecution is to be stabbed
to death in the house of refuge; then, indeed, has mortal man sunk to
the lowest level. Though every other branch of organized society may
reek with filth and slime, let the ermine on the shoulders of the
goddess of justice ever be clean and spotless.

"But remember this, that the Court of last resort has set the example
which the lower courts have followed. The Supreme Court of the United
States, it seems, may be relied upon to sustain any law born of
prejudice against the Negro, and to demolish any law constructed in
his interest. Witness the Dred Scott decision, and, in keeping with
this, the decision on the Civil Rights Bill and Separate Coach Law.

"If this court, commonly accepted as being constituted with our
friends, sets such a terrible example of injustice, it is not
surprising that its filthy waters corrupt the various streams of
justice in all their ramifications.

"MOB LAW.

"Of all the curses that have befallen the South, this is the greatest.
It cannot be too vehemently declaimed against. But let us look
well and see if we, as a people, do not bear some share of the
responsibility for the prevalence of this curse.

"Our race has furnished some brutes lower than the beasts of the
field, who have stirred the passions of the Anglo-Saxon as nothing in
all of human history has before stirred them. The shibboleth of the
Anglo-Saxon race is the courage of man and the virtue of woman: and
when, by violence, a member of a despised race assails a defenseless
woman; robs her of her virtue, her crown of glory; and sends her back
to society broken and crushed in spirit, longing, sighing, praying for
the oblivion of the grave, it is not to be wondered at that hell is
scoured by the Southern white man in search of plans to vent his rage.
The lesson for him to learn is that passion is ever a blind guide and
the more violent the more blind. Let him not cease to resent with
all the intensity of his proud soul the accursed crime; but let this
resentment pursue such a channel as will ensure the execution of the
guilty and the escape of the innocent. As for us, let us cease to
furnish the inhuman brutes whose deeds suggest inhuman punishments.

"But, I am aware that in a large majority of cases where lynchings
occur, outrages upon women are not even mentioned. This fact but
serves as an argument against all lynchings; for when lawlessness
breaks forth, no man can set a limit where it will stop. It also warns
us as a race to furnish no crime that provokes lynching; for when
lynching once gets started, guilty and innocent alike will suffer, and
crimes both great and small will be punished alike.

"In regard to the lynching of our Comrade Cook, I have this to
say. Every feature connected with that crime but emphasizes its
heinousness. Cook was a quiet, unassuming, gentlemanly being, enjoying
the respect of all in a remarkable degree. Having wronged no one he
was unconscious of having enemies. His wife and loving little ones had
retired to rest and were enjoying the deep sleep of the innocent. A
band of whites crept to his house under the cover of darkness, and
thought to roast all alive. In endeavoring to make their escape the
family was pursued by a shower of bullets and Cook fell to the ground,
a corpse, leaving his loved ones behind, pursued by a fiendish mob.
And the color of Cook's skin was the only crime laid at his door.

"If ye who speculate and doubt as to the existence of a hell but peer
into the hearts of those vile creatures who slew poor Cook, you will
draw back in terror; for hell, black hell is there. To give birth to
a deed of such infamy, their hearts must be hells in miniature. But
there is one redeeming feature about this crime. Unlike others,
it found no defense anywhere. The condemnation of the crime was
universal. And the entire South cried out in bitter tones against the
demons who had at last succeeded in putting the crown of infamy of all
the ages upon her brow.


"POLITICS.

"The South has defrauded us out of the ballot and she must restore
it. But in judging her crime let us take an impartial view of its
occasion. The ballot is supposed to be an expression of opinion. It
is a means employed to record men's ideas. It is not designed as a
vehicle of prejudice or gratitude, but of thought, opinion. When the
Negro was first given the ballot he used it to convey expression of
love and gratitude to the North, while it bore to the South a message
of hate and revenge. No Negro, on pain of being ostracised or probably
murdered, was allowed to exercise the ballot in any other way than
that just mentioned. They voted in a mass, according to the dictates
of love and hate.

"The ballot was never designed for such a purpose. The white man
snatched the ballot from the Negro. His only crime was, in not
snatching it from him also, for he was voting on the same principle.
Neither race was thinking. They were both simply feeling, and ballots
are not meant to convey feelings.

"But happily that day has passed and both races are thinking and are
better prepared to vote. But the white man is still holding on to
the stolen ballot box and he must surrender it. If we can secure
possession of that right again, we shall use it to correct the many
grievous wrongs under which we suffer. That is the one point on which
all of our efforts are focused. Here is the storm center. Let us carry
this point and our flag will soon have all of our rights inscribed
thereon. The struggle is on, and my beloved Congress, let me urge one
thing upon you. Leave out revenge as one of the things at which to
aim.

"In His Holy Word our most high God has said: 'Vengeance is mine.'
Great as is this Imperium, let it not mount God's throne and attempt
by violence to rob Him of his prerogatives. In this battle, we want
Him on our side and let us war as becometh men who fear and reverence
Him. Hitherto, we have seen vengeance terrible in his hands.

"While we, the oppressed, stayed upon the plantation in peace, our
oppressors were upon the field of battle engaged in mortal combat; and
it was the blood of our oppressor, not our own, that was paid as the
price of our freedom. And that same God is alive to-day; and let us
trust Him for vengeance, and if we pray let our prayer be for mercy on
those who have wronged us, for direful shall be their woes.

"And now, I have a substitute proposition. Fellow Comrades, I am not
for internecine war. O! Eternal God, lend unto these, my Comrades, the
departed spirit of Dante, faithful artist of the horrors of hell, for
we feel that he alone can paint the shudder-making, soul-sickening
scenes that follow in the wake of fast moving internecine war.

"Now, hear my solution of the race problem. The Anglo-Saxon does not
yet know that we have caught the fire of liberty. He does not yet
know that we have learned what a glorious thing it is to die for a
principle, and especially when that principle is liberty. He does not
yet know how the genius of his institutions has taken hold of our very
souls. In the days of our enslavement we did not seem to him to be
much disturbed about physical freedom. During the whole period of our
enslavement we made only two slight insurrections.

"When at last the war came to set us free we stayed in the field and
fed the men who were reddening the soil with their blood in a deadly
struggle to keep us in bondage forever. We remained at home and
defended the helpless wives and children of men, who if they had been
at home would have counted it no crime to have ignored all our
family ties and scattered husbands and wives, mothers and children as
ruthlessly as the autumn winds do the falling leaves.

"The Anglo-Saxon has seen the eyes of the Negro following the American
eagle in its glorious flight. The eagle has alighted on some mountain
top and the poor Negro has been seen climbing up the rugged mountain
side, eager to caress the eagle. When he has attempted to do this, the
eagle has clawed at his eyes and dug his beak into his heart and has
flown away in disdain; and yet, so majestic was its flight that the
Negro, with tears in his eyes, and blood dripping from his heart has
smiled and shouted: 'God save the eagle.'

"These things have caused us to be misunderstood. We know that
our patient submission in slavery was due to our consciousness of
weakness; we know that our silence and inaction during the civil war
was due to a belief that God was speaking for us and fighting our
battle; we know that our devotion to the flag will not survive one
moment after our hope is dead; but we must not be content with knowing
these things ourselves. We must change the conception which the
Anglo-Saxon has formed of our character. We should let him know that
patience has a limit; that strength brings confidence; that faith
in God will demand the exercise of our own right arm; that hope and
despair are each equipped with swords, the latter more dreadful than
the former. Before we make a forward move, let us pull the veil from
before the eyes of the Anglo-Saxon that he may see the New Negro
standing before him humbly, but firmly demanding every right granted
him by his maker and wrested from him by man.

"If, however, the revelation of our character and the full
knowledge of our determined attitude does not procure our rights, my
proposition, which I am about to submit, will still offer a solution.


"RESOLUTIONS.

"1. Be it _Resolved_: That we no longer conceal from the Anglo-Saxon
the fact that the Imperium exists, so that he may see that the love of
liberty in our bosoms is strong enough to draw us together into this
compact government. He will also see that each individual Negro does
not stand by himself, but is a link in a great chain that must not be
broken with impunity.

"2. _Resolved_: That we earnestly strive to convince the Anglo-Saxon
that we are now thoroughly wedded to the doctrine of Patrick Henry:
'Give me liberty or give me death,' Let us teach the Anglo-Saxon that
we have arrived at the stage of development as a people, where we
prefer to die in honor rather than live in disgrace.

"3. _Resolved_: That we spend four years in endeavors to impress the
Anglo-Saxon that he has a New Negro on his hands and must surrender
what belongs to him. In case we fail by these means to secure our
rights and privileges we shall all, at once, abandon our several homes
in the various other states and emigrate in a body to the State of
Texas, broad in domain, rich in soil and salubrious in climate. Having
an unquestioned majority of votes we shall secure possession of the
State government.

"4. _Resolved_: That when once lawfully in control of that great state
we shall, every man, die in his shoes before we shall allow vicious
frauds or unlawful force to pursue us there and rob us of our
acknowledged right.

"5. _Resolved_: That we sojourn in the state of Texas, working out
our destiny as a separate and distinct race in the United States of
America.

"Such is the proposition which I present. It is primarily pacific: yet
it is firm and unyielding. It courts a peaceable adjustment, yet it
does not shirk war, if war is forced.

"But in concluding, let me emphasize that my aim, my hope, my labors,
my fervent prayer to God is for a peaceable adjustment of all our
differences upon the high plane of the equality of man. Our beloved
President, in his message to this Congress, made a serious mistake
when he stated that there were only two weapons to be used in
accomplishing revolutions. He named the sword (and spear) and ballot.
There is a weapon mightier than either of these. I speak of the pen.
If denied the use of the ballot let us devote our attention to that
mightier weapon, the pen.

"Other races which have obtained their freedom erect monuments over
bloody spots where they slew their fellow men. May God favor us to
obtain our freedom without having to dot our land with these relics of
barbaric ages.

"The Negro is the latest comer upon the scene of modern civilization.
It would be the crowning glory of even this marvelous age; it would
be the grandest contribution ever made to the cause of human
civilization; it would be a worthy theme for the songs of the Holy
Angels, if every Negro, away from the land of his nativity, can by
means of the pen, force an acknowledgment of equality from the proud
lips of the fierce, all conquering Anglo-Saxon, thus eclipsing the
record of all other races of men, who without exception have had to
wade through blood to achieve their freedom.

"Amid all the dense gloom that surrounds us, this transcendent thought
now and then finds its way to my heart and warms it like a glorious
Sun. Center your minds, beloved Congress, on this sublime hope, and
God may grant it to you. But be prepared, if he deems us unfit for so
great a boon, to buckle on our swords and go forth to win our freedom
with the sword just as has been done by all other nations of men.

"My speech is made, my proposition is before you. I have done my duty.
Your destiny is in your own hands
Come over to the mansion to-night. I wish much to see
you. Come about nine P.M
Belton
that was a masterly speech you made to-day.
If orations are measured according to difficulties surmounted and
results achieved, yours ought to rank as a masterpiece. Aside from
that, it was a daring deed. Few men would have attempted to rush in
and quell that storm as you did. They would have been afraid of
being torn to shreds, so to speak, and all to no purpose. Let me
congratulate you
Bernard, that speech
and its result ended my life's work. I have known long since that a
crisis between the two races would come some day and I lived with the
hope of being used by God to turn the current the right way. This I
have done, and my work is over
Ah, no, Belton; greater achievements, by far, you shall accomplish.
The fact is, I have called you over here to-night to acquaint you with
a scheme that means eternal glory and honor to us both
When I fully reveal my plan to you, you will change your mind
Well, Bernard, let us hear it
When you closed your speech to-day, a bright light shot athwart my
brain and revealed to me something glorious. I came home determined to
work it out in detail. This I have done, and now I hand this plan to
you to ascertain your views and secure your cooperation
What is your opinion of the matter, Belton
It is treason
Are you in favor of it
No. I am not and never shall be. I am no traitor and never shall be
one. Our Imperium was organized to secure our rights within the United
States and we will make any sacrifice that can be named to attain that
end. Our efforts have been to wash the flag free of all blots, not to
rend it; to burnish every star in the cluster, but to pluck none out.

"Candidly, Bernard, I love the Union and I love the South. Soaked as
Old Glory is with my people's tears and stained as it is with their
warm blood, I could die as my forefathers did, fighting for its honor
and asking no greater boon than Old Glory for my shroud and native
soil for my grave. This may appear strange, but love of country is one
of the deepest passions in the human bosom, and men in all ages have
been known to give their lives for the land in which they had known
nothing save cruelty and oppression. I shall never give up my fight
for freedom, but I shall never prove false to the flag. I may fight
to keep her from floating over cesspools of corruption by removing the
cesspool; but I shall never fight to restrict the territory in which
she is to float. These are my unalterable opinions
Well, Belton, we have at last arrived at a point of
separation in our lives. I know the Anglo-Saxon race. He will never
admit you to equality with him. I am fully determined on my course of
action and will persevere
Being no longer able to follow where the
Imperium leads, I hereby tender my resignation as a member
Belton! there is your white child! Look
at him! Look at him
O, God, what crime is this with which my soul is
stained
Unworthy, unworthy
Papa, why don't you kiss Mama
Belton Piedmont,
your last hour has come. Have you anything to say
Tell posterity
that I loved the race to which I belonged and the
flag that floated over me; and, being unable to see these objects of
my love engage in mortal combat, I went to my God, and now look down
upon both from my home in the skies to bless them with my spirit
Float on proud
flag, while yet you may. Rejoice, oh! ye Anglo-Saxons, yet a little
while. Make my father ashamed to own me, his lawful son; call me a
bastard child; look upon my pure mother as a harlot; laugh at Viola
in the grave of a self-murderer; exhume Belton's body if you like and
tear your flag from around him to keep him from polluting it! Yes,
stuff your vile stomachs full of all these horrors. You shall be
richer food for the buzzards to whom I have solemnly vowed to give
your flesh
</text>
