<text>
Good mornin', Bob; how's butter dis mornin
Fresh; just as fresh, as fresh can be
Oh, glory
Did you see de fish in de market dis mornin'? Oh, but dey war splendid,
jis' as fresh, as fresh kin be
That's the ticket
I'll see you later
Good mornin', boys
How's
eggs dis mornin
Fust rate, fust rate
Bob's got it down fine
I thought so; mighty long faces at de pos'-office dis mornin'; but I'd
better move 'long
Splendid news in the papers. Secesh routed. Yankees whipped 'em out of
their boots. Papers full of it. I tell you the eggs and the butter's
mighty fresh this morning
Oh, sho, chile
I can't read de newspapers, but ole
Missus' face is newspaper nuff for me. I looks at her ebery mornin' wen
she comes inter dis kitchen. Ef her face is long an' she walks kine o'
droopy den I thinks things is gwine wrong for dem. But ef she comes out
yere looking mighty pleased, an' larffin all ober her face, an' steppin'
so frisky, den I knows de Secesh is gittin' de bes' ob de Yankees.
Robby, honey, does you really b'lieve for good and righty dat dem
Yankees is got horns
Of course not
Well, I yered so
Well, you heard a mighty big whopper
Anyhow, Bobby, things goes mighty contrary in dis house. Ole Miss is in
de parlor prayin' for de Secesh to gain de day, and we's prayin' in de
cabins and kitchens for de Yankees to get de bes' ob it. But wasn't Miss
Nancy glad wen dem Yankees run'd away at Bull's Run. It was nuffin but
Bull's Run an' run away Yankees. How she did larff and skip 'bout de
house. An' den me thinks to myself you'd better not holler till you gits
out ob de woods. I specs 'fore dem Yankees gits froo you'll be larffin
tother side ob your mouf. While you was gone to market ole Miss com'd
out yere, her face looking as long as my arm, tellin' us all 'bout de
war and saying dem Yankees whipped our folks all to pieces. And she was
'fraid dey'd all be down yere soon. I thought they couldn't come too
soon for we. But I didn't tell her so
No, I don't expect you did
No, I didn't; ef you buys me for a fool you loses your money shore. She
said when dey com'd down yere she wanted all de men to hide, for dey'd
kill all de men, but dey wouldn't tech de women
It's no such thing. She's put it all wrong. Why them Yankees are our
best friends
Dat's jis' what I thinks. Ole Miss was jis' tryin to skeer a body. An'
when she war done she jis' set down and sniffled an' cried, an' I war so
glad I didn't know what to do. But I had to hole in. An' I made out I
war orful sorry. An' Jinny said, 'O Miss Nancy, I hope dey won't come
yere.' An' she said, 'I'se jis' 'fraid dey will come down yere and
gobble up eberything dey can lay dere hands on.' An' she jis' looked as
ef her heart war mos' broke, an' den she went inter de house. An' when
she war gone, we jis' broke loose. Jake turned somersets, and said he
warnt 'fraid ob dem Yankees; he know'd which side his brad was buttered
on. Dat Jake is a cuter. When he goes down ter git de letters he cuts up
all kines ob shines and capers. An' to look at him skylarking dere while
de folks is waitin' for dere letters, an' talkin' bout de war, yer
wouldn't think dat boy had a thimbleful of sense. But Jake's listenin'
all de time wid his eyes and his mouf wide open, an' ketchin' eberything
he kin, an' a heap ob news he gits dat way. As to Jinny, she jis'
capered and danced all ober de flore. An' I jis' had to put my han' ober
her mouf to keep ole Miss from yereing her. Oh, but we did hab a good
time. Boy, yer oughter been yere
And, Aunt Linda, what did you do
Oh, honey, I war jis' ready to crack my sides larffin, jis' to see what
a long face Jinny puts on wen ole Miss is talkin', an' den to see dat
face wen missus' back is turned, why it's good as a circus. It's nuff to
make a horse larff
Why, Aunt Linda, you never saw a circus
No, but I'se hearn tell ob dem, and I thinks dey mus' be mighty funny.
An' I know it's orful funny to see how straight Jinny's face looks wen
she's almos' ready to bust, while ole Miss is frettin' and fumin' 'bout
dem Yankees an' de war. But, somehow, Robby, I ralely b'lieves dat we
cullud folks is mixed up in dis fight. I seed it all in a vision. An'
soon as dey fired on dat fort, Uncle Dan'el says to me: 'Linda, we's
gwine to git our freedom.' An' I says: 'Wat makes you think so?' An' he
says: 'Dey've fired on Fort Sumter, an' de Norf is boun' to whip
I hope so
I think that we have a heap of friends up
there
Well, I'm jis' gwine to keep on prayin' an' b'lievin
Bobby
I thinks we ort ter hab a
prayer-meetin' putty soon
I am in for that. Where will you have it
Lem me see. Las' Sunday we had it in Gibson's woods; Sunday 'fore las',
in de old cypress swamp; an' nex' Sunday we'el hab one in McCullough's
woods. Las' Sunday we had a good time. I war jis' chock full an' runnin'
ober. Aunt Milly's daughter's bin monin all summer, an' she's jis' come
throo. We had a powerful time. Eberythin' on dat groun' was jis' alive.
I tell yer, dere was a shout in de camp
Well, you had better look out, and not shout too much, and pray and
sing too loud, because, 'fore you know, the patrollers will be on your
track and break up your meetin' in a mighty big hurry, before you can
say 'Jack Robinson
Oh, we looks out for dat. We's got a nice big pot, dat got cracked las'
winter, but it will hole a lot o' water, an' we puts it whar we can tell
it eberything. We has our own good times. An' I want you to come Sunday
night an' tell all 'bout the good eggs, fish, and butter. Mark my words,
Bobby, we's all gwine to git free. I seed it all in a vision, as plain
as de nose on yer face
Well, I hope your vision will come out all right, and that the eggs
will keep and the butter be fresh till we have our next meetin
Now, Bob, you sen' word to Uncle Dan'el, Tom Anderson, an' de rest ob
dem, to come to McCullough's woods nex' Sunday night. I want to hab a
sin-killin' an' debil-dribin' time. But, boy, you'd better git out er
yere. Ole Miss'll be down on yer like a scratch cat
Howdy
Thanks and praise; I'se all right. How is you, chile
Oh, I'm all right
What's de news
I hear
that they are done sending the runaways back to
their masters
Is dat so
How did you yere it
I read it in the papers. And Tom told me he heard them talking about it
last night, at his house. How did you hear it, Tom? Come, tell us all
about it
Now, boys, I'll tell you all 'bout it. But you's got to be mighty mum
'bout it. It won't do to let de cat outer de bag
Dat's so! But tell us wat you yered. We ain't gwine to say nuffin to
nobody
Well
las' night ole Marster had company. Two big
ginerals, and dey was hoppin' mad. One ob dem looked like a turkey
gobbler, his face war so red. An' he sed one ob dem Yankee ginerals, I
thinks dey called him Beas' Butler, sed dat de slaves dat runned away
war some big name -- I don't know what he called it. But it meant dat all
ob we who com'd to de Yankees should be free
Contraband of war
What does it mean? Is it somethin' good for us
I think
it is
the best kind of good. It means if two armies are fighting and the
horses of one run away, the other has a right to take them. And it is
just the same if a slave runs away from the Secesh to the Union lines.
He is called a contraband, just the same as if he were an ox or a horse.
They wouldn't send the horses back, and they won't send us back
Is dat so
Well, chillen, what do you mean to do
Go, jis' as soon as we kin git to de army
What else did the generals say? And how did you come to hear them,
Tom
Well, yer see, Marster's too ole and feeble to go to de war, but his
heart's in it. An' it makes him feel good all ober when dem big ginerals
comes an' tells him all 'bout it. Well, I war laying out on de porch
fas' asleep an' snorin' drefful hard. Oh, I war so soun' asleep dat wen
Marster wanted some ice-water he had to shake me drefful hard to wake me
up. An' all de time I war wide 'wake as he war
What did they say
One ob dem said, dem Yankees war talkin' of puttin' guns in our han's
and settin' us all free. An' de oder said, 'Oh, sho! ef dey puts guns in
dere hands dey'll soon be in our'n; and ef dey sets em free dey wouldn't
know how to take keer ob demselves
Only let 'em try it
an' dey'll soon
see who'll git de bes' ob de guns; an' as to taking keer ob ourselves, I
specs we kin take keer ob ourselves as well as take keer ob dem
Yes
who plants de cotton and raises all de crops
They eat the meat and give us the bones,
      Eat the cherries and give us the stones,'

"And I'm getting tired of the whole business
But, Bob
you've got a good owner. You don't hab
to run away from bad times and wuss a comin
It isn't so good, but it might be better. I ain't got nothing 'gainst
my ole Miss, except she sold my mother from me. And a boy ain't nothin'
without his mother. I forgive her, but I never forget her, and never
expect to. But if she were the best woman on earth I would rather have
my freedom than belong to her. Well, boys, here's a chance for us just
as soon as the Union army gets in sight. What will you do
I'se a goin
jis' as soon as dem Linkum soldiers
gits in sight
An' I'se a gwine wid you, Tom
I specs my ole
Marster'll feel right smart lonesome when I'se gone, but I don't keer
'bout stayin' for company's sake
My ole Marster's room's a heap better'n his company
an' I'se a goner too. Dis yer freedom's too good to be lef'
behind, wen you's got a chance to git it. I won't stop to bid ole Marse
good bye
What do you think
won't you go
with us
No, chillen, I don't blame you for gwine; but I'se gwine to stay.
Slavery's done got all de marrow out ob dese poor ole bones. Ef freedom
comes it won't do me much good; we ole one's will die out, but it will
set you youngsters all up
But, Uncle Daniel, you're not too old to want your freedom
I knows dat. I lubs de bery name of freedom. I'se been praying and
hoping for it dese many years. An' ef I warn't boun', I would go wid you
ter-morrer. I won't put a straw in your way. You boys go, and my prayers
will go wid you. I can't go, it's no use. I'se gwine to stay on de ole
place till Marse Robert comes back, or is brought back
But, Uncle Daniel
what's the use of praying for a
thing if, when it comes, you won't take it? As much as you have been
praying and talking about freedom, I thought that when the chance came
you would have been one of the first to take it. Now, do tell us why you
won't go with us. Ain't you willing
Why, Robbie, my whole heart is wid you. But when Marse Robert went to
de war, he called me into his room and said to me, 'Uncle Dan'el, I'se
gwine to de war, an' I want you to look arter my wife an' chillen, an'
see dat eberything goes right on de place'. An' I promised him I'd do it,
an' I mus' be as good as my word. 'Cept de overseer, dere isn't a white
man on de plantation, an' I hear he has to report ter-morrer or be
treated as a deserter. An' der's nobody here to look arter Miss Mary an'
de chillen, but myself, an' to see dat eberything goes right. I promised
Marse Robert I would do it, an' I mus' be as good as my word
Well, what should you keer
Who looked arter you
when you war sole from your farder and mudder, an' neber seed dem any
more, and wouldn't know dem to-day ef you met dem in your dish
Well, dats neither yere nor dere. Marse Robert couldn't help what his
father did. He war an orful mean man. But he's dead now, and gone to see
'bout it. But his wife war the nicest, sweetest lady dat eber I did see.
She war no more like him dan chalk's like cheese. She used to visit de
cabins, an' listen to de pore women when de overseer used to cruelize
dem so bad, an' drive dem to work late and early. An' she used to sen'
dem nice things when they war sick, and hab der cabins whitewashed an'
lookin' like new pins, an' look arter dere chillen. Sometimes she'd try
to git ole Marse to take dere part when de oberseer got too mean. But
she might as well a sung hymns to a dead horse. All her putty talk war
like porin water on a goose's back. He'd jis' bluff her off, an' tell
her she didn't run dat plantation, and not for her to bring him any
nigger news. I never thought ole Marster war good to her. I often
ketched her crying, an' she'd say she had de headache, but I thought it
war de heartache. 'Fore ole Marster died, she got so thin an' peaked I
war 'fraid she war gwine to die; but she seed him out. He war killed by
a tree fallin' on him, an' ef eber de debil got his own he got him. I
seed him in a vision arter he war gone. He war hangin' up in a pit,
sayin' 'foreOh! oh!' wid no close on. He war allers blusterin', cussin', and
swearin' at somebody. Marse Robert ain't a bit like him. He takes right
arter his mother. Bad as ole Marster war, I think she jis' lob'd de
groun' he walked on. Well, women's mighty curious kind of folks anyhow.
I sometimes thinks de wuss you treats dem de better dey likes you
Well
what's yer gwine to do? Is yer
gwine wid us, ef yer gits a chance
Now, jes' you hole on till I gits a chance to tell yer why I'se gwine
to stay
Well, Uncle Daniel, let's hear it
I was jes' gwine to tell yer when Tom put me out. Ole Marster died when
Marse Robert war two years ole, and his pore mother when he war four.
When he died, Miss Anna used to keep me 'bout her jes' like I war her
shadder. I used to nuss Marse Robert jes' de same as ef I were his own
fadder. I used to fix his milk, rock him to sleep, ride him on my back,
an' nothin' pleased him better'n fer Uncle Dan'el to ride him
piggy-back
Well, Uncle Daniel
what has that got to do with your
going with us and getting your freedom
Now, jes' wait a bit, and don't frustrate my mine. I seed day arter day
Miss Anna war gettin' weaker and thinner, an' she looked so sweet and
talked so putty, I thinks to myself, 'foreyou ain't long for dis worl'.' And
she said to me one day, 'Uncle Dan'el, when I'se gone, I want you to be
good to your Marster Robert.' An' she looked so pale and weak I war
almost ready to cry. I couldn't help it. She hed allers bin mighty good
to me. An' I beliebs in praisin' de bridge dat carries me ober. She
said, 'Uncle Dan'el, I wish you war free. Ef I had my way you shouldn't
serve any one when I'm gone; but Mr. Thurston had eberything in his
power when he made his will. I war tied hand and foot, and I couldn't
help it.' In a little while she war gone -- jis' faded away like a flower.
I belieb ef dere's a saint in glory, Miss Anna's dere
Oh, I don't take much stock in white folks' religion
The way
dat some of dese folks cut their cards
yere, I think dey'll be as sceece in hebben as hen's teeth. I think wen
some of dem preachers brings de Bible 'round an' tells us 'bout mindin
our marsters and not stealin' dere tings, dat dey preach to please de
white folks, an' dey frows coleness ober de meetin
An' I
neber did belieb in dem Bible preachers. I
yered one ob dem sayin' wen he war dyin', it war all dark wid him. An'
de way he treated his house-girl, pore thing, I don't wonder dat it war
dark wid him
O, I guess
that the Bible is all right, but some of
these church folks don't get the right hang of it
May be dat's so
But I allers wanted to learn how to
read. I once had a book, and tried to make out what war in it, but ebery
time my mistus caught me wid a book in my hand, she used to whip my
fingers. An' I couldn't see ef it war good for white folks, why it
warn't good for cullud folks
Well
I belieb in de good ole-time religion. But
arter dese white folks is done fussin' and beatin' de cullud folks, I
don't want 'em to come talking religion to me. We used to hab on our
place a real Guinea man, an' once he made ole Marse mad, an' he had him
whipped. Old Marse war trying to break him in, but dat fellow war spunk
to de backbone, an' when he 'gin talkin' to him 'bout savin' his soul
an' gittin' to hebbin, he tole him ef he went to hebbin an' foun' he war
dare, he wouldn't go in. He wouldn't stay wid any such rascal as he
war
What became of him
Oh, he died. But he had some quare notions 'bout religion. He thought
dat when he died he would go back to his ole country. He allers kep' his
ole Guinea name
What was it
Potobombra. Do you know what he wanted Marster to do 'fore he died
No
He wanted him to gib him his free papers
Did he do it
Ob course he did. As de poor fellow war dying an' he couldn't sell him
in de oder world, he jis' wrote him de papers to yumor him. He didn't
want to go back to Africa a slave. He thought if he did, his people
would look down on him, an' he wanted to go back a free man. He war
orful weak when Marster brought him de free papers. He jis' ris up in de
bed, clutched dem in his han's, smiled, an' gasped out, 'I'se free at
las'; an' fell back on de pillar, an' he war gone. Oh, but he war
spunky. De oberseers, arter dey foun' out who he war, gin'rally gabe him
a wide birth. I specs his father war some ole Guinea king
Well, chillen
we's kept up dis meeting long
enough. We'd better go home, and not all go one way, cause de patrollers
might git us all inter trouble, an' we must try to slip home by hook or
crook
An' when we meet again, Uncle Daniel can finish his story, an' be ready
to go with us
I wish
he would go wid us, de wuss kind
Well, Uncle Daniel, we want to hear your story, and see if you have
made up your mind to go with us
No, chillen, I've no objection to finishin' my story, but I ain't made
up my mind to leave the place till Marse Robert gits back
You were telling us about Marse Robert's mother. How did you get along
after she died
Arter she war gone, ole Marster's folks come to look arter things. But
eberything war lef' to Marse Robert, an' he wouldn't do widout me. Dat
chile war allers at my heels. I couldn't stir widout him, an' when he
missed me, he'd fret an' cry so I had ter stay wid him; an' wen he went
to school, I had ter carry him in de mornin' and bring him home in de
ebenin'. An' I learned him to hunt squirrels, an' rabbits, an' ketch
fish, an' set traps for birds. I beliebs he lob'd me better dan any ob
his kin'. An' he showed me how to read
Well
ef he lob'd you so much, why didn't he set you free
Marse Robert tole me, ef he died fust he war gwine ter leave me
free -- dat I should neber sarve any one else
Oh, sho
promises, like pie crusts, is made to be broken. I
don't trust none ob dem. I'se been yere dese fifteen years, an' I'se
neber foun' any troof in dem. An' I'se gwine wid dem North men soon's I
gits a chance. An' ef you knowed what's good fer you, you'd go, too
No, Tom; I can't go. When Marster Robert went to de front, he called me
to him an' said: 'Uncle Daniel,' an' he was drefful pale when he said
it, 'I are gwine to de war, an' I want yer to take keer of my wife an'
chillen, jis' like yer used to take keer of me wen yer called me your
little boy.' Well, dat jis' got to me, an' I couldn't help cryin', to
save my life
I specs
your tear bags must lie mighty close to your eyes.
I wouldn't cry ef dem Yankees would make ebery one ob dem go to de
front, an' stay dere foreber. Dey'd only be gittin' back what dey's been
a doin' to us
Marster Robert war nebber bad to me. An' I beliebs in stannin' by dem
dat stans by you. Arter Miss Anna died, I had great 'sponsibilities on
my shoulders; but I war orful lonesome, an' thought I'd like to git a
wife. But dere warn't a gal on de plantation, an' nowhere's roun', dat
filled de bill. So I jis' waited, an' 'tended to Marse Robert till he
war ole 'nough to go to college. Wen he went, he allers 'membered me in
de letters he used to write his grandma. Wen he war gone, I war
lonesomer dan eber. But, one day, I jis' seed de gal dat took de rag off
de bush. Gundover had jis' brought her from de up-country. She war putty
as a picture
She had putty hair, putty eyes, putty mouth.
She war putty all over; an' she know'd how to put on style
O, Daniel
how you do talk
Why, it's true. I 'member when you war de puttiest gal in dese diggins;
when nobody could top your cotton
I don't
Well, I do. Now, let me go on wid my story. De fust time I seed her, I
sez to myself, 'Dat's de gal for me, an' I means to hab her ef I kin git
her.' So I scraped 'quaintance wid her, and axed her ef she would hab me
ef our marsters would let us. I warn't 'fraid 'bout Marse Robert, but I
warn't quite shore 'bout Gundover. So when Marse Robert com'd home, I
axed him, an' he larf'd an' said, 'All right,' an' dat he would speak to
ole Gundover 'bout it. He didn't relish it bery much, but he didn't
like to 'fuse Marse Robert. He wouldn't sell her, for she tended his
dairy, an' war mighty handy 'bout de house. He said, I mought marry her
an' come to see her wheneber Marse Robert would gib me a pass. I wanted
him to sell her, but he wouldn't hear to it, so I had to put up wid what
I could git. Marse Robert war mighty good to me, but ole Gundover's wife
war de meanest woman dat I eber did see. She used to go out on de
plantation an' boss things like a man. Arter I war married, I had a
baby. It war de dearest, cutest little thing you eber did see; but, pore
thing, it got sick and died. It died 'bout three o'clock; and in de
mornin', Katie, habbin her cows to milk, lef her dead baby in de cabin.
When she com'd back from milkin' her thirty cows, an' went to look for
her pore little baby, some one had been to her cabin an' took'd de pore
chile away an' put it in de groun'. Pore Katie, she didn't eben hab a
chance to kiss her baby 'fore it war buried. Ole Gundover's wife has
been dead thirty years, an' she didn't die a day too soon. An' my little
baby has gone to glory, an' is wingin' wid the angels an' a lookin' out
for us. One ob de las' things ole Gundover's wife did 'fore she died war
to order a woman whipped 'cause she com'd to de field a little late when
her husband war sick, an' she had stopped to tend him. Dat mornin' she
war taken sick wid de fever, an' in a few days she war gone out like de
snuff ob a candle. She lef' several sons, an' I specs she would almos'
turn ober in her grave ef she know'd she had ten culled granchillen
somewhar down in de lower kentry
Isn't it funny
how these white folks look down on
colored people, an' then mix up with them
Marster war away when Miss 'Liza treated my Katie so mean, an' when I
tole him 'bout it, he war tearin' mad, an' went ober an' saw ole
Gundover, an' foun' out he war hard up for money, an' he bought Katie
and brought her home to lib wid me, and we's been a libin in clover eber
sence. Marster Robert has been mighty good to me. He stood by me in my
troubles, an' now his trouble's come, I'm a gwine to stan' by him. I
used to think Gundover's wife war jealous ob my Katie. She war so much
puttier. Gundover's wife couldn't tech my Katie wid a ten foot pole
But, Aunt Katie, you have had your trials
don't you feel bitter towards these
people who are fighting to keep you in slavery
The Lord says, we must
forgive
Well
we can't count
on yer to go wid us
Boys
I'se
mighty glad you hab a chance for your freedom; but, ez I tole yer, I
promised Marse Robert I would stay, an' I mus' be as good as my word.
Don't you youngsters stay for an ole stager like me. I'm ole an' mos'
worn out. Freedom wouldn't do much for me, but I want you all to be as
free as the birds; so, you chillen, take your freedom when you kin get
it
But, Uncle Dan'el, you won't say nothin' 'bout our going, will you
Look yere, boys, de boy dat
axed dat question war a new comer on dis plantation, but some ob you's
bin here all ob your lives; did you eber know ob Uncle Dan'el gittin'
any ob you inter trouble
No, no
but many's de time you've held
off de blows wen de oberseer got too mean, an' cruelized us too much,
wen Marse Robert war away. An' wen he got back, you made him settle de
oberseer's hash
Well, boys
I'se
de same Uncle Dan'el I eber war. Ef any ob you wants to go, I habben't a
word to say agin it. I specs dem Yankees be all right, but I knows Marse
Robert, an' I don't know dem, an' I ain't a gwine ter throw away dirty
water 'til I gits clean
Well, Uncle Ben
you
will go with us, for sure, won't you
Yes
cause de trader's done took your wife,
an' got her for his'n now
Boys, there's not one of you loves freedom more than I do,
but
But what
Do you think white folks is your bes' friends
I'll think so when I lose my senses
Well, now, I don't belieb you're 'fraid, not de way I yeard you talkin'
to de oberseer wen he war threatnin' to hit your mudder. He saw you
meant business, an' he let her alone. But, what's to hinder you from
gwine wid us
My mother
That is the only thing
that keeps me from going. If it had not been for her, I would have gone
long ago. She's all I've got, an' I'm all she's got
I used to love Mirandy
as I love my life. I thought the sun rose and set in her. I never saw a
handsomer woman than she was. But she fooled me all over the face and
eyes, and took up with that hell-hound of a trader, Lukens; an' he gave
her a chance to live easy, to wear fine clothes, an' be waited on like a
lady. I thought at first I would go crazy, but my poor mammy did all she
could to comfort me. She would tell me there were as good fish in the
sea as were ever caught out of it. Many a time I've laid my poor head on
her lap, when it seemed as if my brain was on fire and my heart was
almost ready to burst. But in course of time I got over the worst of
it; an' Mirandy is the first an' last woman that ever fooled me. But
that dear old mammy of mine, I mean to stick by her as long as there is
a piece of her. I can't go over to the army an' leave her behind, for if
I did, an' anything should happen, I would never forgive myself
But couldn't you take her with you
the soldiers said we
could bring our women
It isn't that. The Union army is several miles from here, an' my poor
mammy is so skeery that, if I were trying to get her away and any of
them Secesh would overtake us, an' begin to question us, she would get
skeered almost to death, an' break down an' begin to cry, an' then the
fat would be in the fire. So, while I love freedom more than a child
loves its mother's milk, I've made up my mind to stay on the plantation.
I wish, from the bottom of my heart, I could go. But I can't take her
along with me, an' I don't want to be free and leave her behind in
slavery. I was only five years old when my master and, as I believe,
father, sold us both here to this lower country, an' we've been here
ever since. It's no use talking, I won't leave her to be run over by
everybody
Anything new, Tom
Yes
What is it? Come in
Well, I'se done bin seen dem Yankees, an' dere ain't a bit of troof in
dem stories I'se bin yerin 'bout 'em
Where did you see 'em
Down in de woods whar Marster tole us to hide. Yesterday ole Marse sent
for me to come in de settin'-room. An' what do you think? Instead ob
makin' me stan' wid my hat in my han' while he went froo a whole
rigamarole, he axed me to sit down, an' he tole me he 'spected de
Yankees would want us to go inter de army, an' dey would put us in front
whar we'd all git killed; an' I tole him I didn't want to go, I didn't
want to git all momached up. An' den he said we'd better go down in de
woods an' hide. Massa Tom and Frank said we'd better go as quick as eber
we could. Dey said dem Yankees would put us in dere wagons and make us
haul like we war mules. Marse Tom ain't libin' at de great house jis'
now. He's keepin' bachellar's hall
Didn't he go to the battle
No; he foun' a pore white man who war hard up for money, an' he got him
to go
But, Tom, you didn't believe these stories about the Yankees. Tom and
Frank can lie as fast as horses can trot. They wanted to scare you, and
keep you from going to the Union army
I knows dat now, but I didn't 'spect so den
Well, when did you see the soldiers? Where are they? And what did they
say to you
Dey's right down in Gundover's woods. An' de Gineral's got his
headquarters almos' next door to our house
That near? Oh, you don't say so
Yes, I do. An', oh, golly, ain't I so glad! I jis' stole yere to told
you all 'bout it. Yesterday mornin' I war splittin' some wood to git my
breakfas', an' I met one ob dem Yankee sogers. Well, I war so skeered,
my heart flew right up in my mouf, but I made my manners to him and
said, 'Good mornin', Massa.' He said, 'Good mornin'; but don't call me
'massa.'' Dat war de fust white man I eber seed dat didn't want ter be
called 'massa,' eben ef he war as pore as Job's turkey. Den I begin to
feel right sheepish, an' he axed me ef my marster war at home, an' ef he
war a Reb. I tole him he hadn't gone to de war, but he war Secesh all
froo, inside and outside. He war too ole to go to de war, but dat he war
all de time gruntin' an' groanin', an' I 'spected he'd grunt hisself to
death
What did he say
He said he specs he'll grunt worser dan dat fore dey get froo wid him.
Den he axed me ef I would hab some breakfas,' an' I said, 'No, t'ank
you, sir.' 'An' I war jis' as hungry as a dorg, but I war 'feared to
eat. I war 'feared he war gwine to pizen me
Poison you! don't you know the Yankees are our best friends
Well, ef dat's so, I'se mighty glad, cause de woods is full ob dem
Now, Tom, I thought you had cut your eye-teeth long enough not to let
them Anderson boys fool you. Tom, you must not think because a white man
says a thing, it must be so, and that a colored man's word is no account
'longside of his. Tom, if ever we get our freedom, we've got to learn to
trust each other and stick together if we would be a people. Somebody
else can read the papers as well as Marse Tom and Frank. My ole Miss
knows I can read the papers, an' she never tries to scare me with big
whoppers 'bout the Yankees. She knows she can't catch ole birds with
chaff, so she is just as sweet as a peach to her Bobby. But as soon as I
get a chance I will play her a trick the devil never did
What's that
I'll leave her. I ain't forgot how she sold my mother from me. Many a
night I have cried myself to sleep, thinking about her, and when I get
free I mean to hunt her up
Well, I ain't tole you all. De gemman said he war 'cruiting for de
army; dat Massa Linkum hab set us all free, an' dat he wanted some more
sogers to put down dem Secesh; dat we should all hab our freedom, our
wages, an' some kind ob money. I couldn't call it like he did
Bounty money
Yes, dat's jis' what he called it, bounty money. An' I said dat I war
in for dat, teeth and toe-nails
If you rise I shall put you
down with an iron hand
Well, boys
how many of you are ready to join the army and fight
for your freedom
All ob us
The soldiers
are camped right at the edge of the
town. The General has his headquarters in the heart of the town, and one
of the officers told me yesterday that the President had set us all
free, and that as many as wanted to join the army could come along to
the camp. So I thought, boys, that I would come and tell you. Now, you
can take your bag and baggage, and get out of here as soon as you
choose
We'll be ready by daylight
It won't take me long to pack
up
I specs ole
Marse'll be real lonesome when I'm gone. An' won't he be hoppin' mad
when he finds I'm a goner? I specs he'll hate it like pizen
O, well
the best of friends must part. Don't let it
grieve you
I'se gwine to take my wife an' chillen
I'se got nobody but myself
but dere's a mighty putty
young gal dere at Marse Tom's. I wish I could git her away. Dey tells me
dey's been sellin' her all ober de kentry; but dat she's a reg'lar
spitfire; dey can't lead nor dribe her
Do you think she would go with us
I think she's jis' dying to go. Dey say dey can't do nuffin wid her.
Marse Tom's got his match dis time, and I'se glad ob it. I jis' glories
in her spunk
How did she come there
Oh, Marse bought her ob de trader to keep house for him. But ef you
seed dem putty white han's ob hern you'd never tink she kept her own
house, let 'lone anybody else's
Do you think you can get her away
I don't know; 'cause Marse Tom keeps her mighty close. My! but she's
putty. Beautiful long hair comes way down her back; putty blue eyes, an'
jis' ez white ez anybody's in dis place. I'd jis' wish you could see her
yoresef. I heerd Marse Tom talkin' 'bout her las' night to his brudder;
tellin' him she war mighty airish, but he meant to break her in
Graceless scamp, he ought to have his neck
stretched
Get her, if you possibly can, but you must be mighty mum about it
Trus' me for dat
was mad
enough to bite his head off
What do you think of Miss Iola
I jis' think dat she's splendid. Las' week I had to take some of our
pore boys to de hospital, an' she war dere, lookin' sweet an' putty ez
an angel, a nussin' dem pore boys, an' ez good to one ez de oder. It
looks to me ez ef dey ralely lob'd her shadder. She sits by 'em so
patient, an' writes 'em sech nice letters to der frens, an' yit she
looks so heart-broke an' pitiful, it jis' gits to me, an' makes me mos'
ready to cry. I'm so glad dat Marse Tom had to gib her up. He war too
mean to eat good victuals
He ought
to be made to live on herrings' heads and cold
potatoes. It makes my blood boil just to think that he was going to have
that lovely looking young girl whipped for his devilment. He ought to be
ashamed to hold up his head among respectable people
I tell you, Bob, de debil will neber git his own till he gits him. When
I seed how he war treating her I neber rested till I got her away. He
buyed her, he said, for his housekeeper; as many gals as dere war on de
plantation, why didn't he git one ob dem to keep house, an' not dat nice
lookin' young lady? Her han's look ez ef she neber did a day's work in
her life. One day when he com'd down to breakfas,' he chucked her under
de chin, an' tried to put his arm roun' her waist. But she jis' frew it
off like a chunk ob fire. She looked like a snake had bit her. Her eyes
fairly spit fire. Her face got red ez blood, an' den she turned so pale
I thought she war gwine to faint, but she didn't, an' I yered her say,
'I'll die fust.' I war mad 'nough to stan' on my head. I could hab
tore'd him all to pieces wen he said he'd hab her whipped
Did he do it
I don't know. But he's mean 'nough to do enythin'. Why, dey say she
war sole seben times in six weeks, 'cause she's so putty, but dat she
war game to de las'
Well, Tom
getting that girl away was one of the best
things you ever did in your life
I think so, too. Not dat I specs enytin' ob it. I don't spose she would
think ob an ugly chap like me; but it does me good to know dat Marse Tom
ain't got her
Johnson
what is the use of your saying you're a colored
man, when you are as white as I am, and as brave a man as there is among
us. Why not quit this company, and take your place in the army just the
same as a white man? I know your chances for promotion would be better
Captain, you may doubt my word, but to-day I would rather be a
lieutenant in my company than a captain in yours
I don't understand you
Well, Captain, when a man's been colored all his life it comes a little
hard for him to get white all at once. Were I to try it, I would feel
like a cat in a strange garret. Captain, I think my place is where I am
most needed. You do not need me in your ranks, and my company does.
They are excellent fighters, but they need a leader. To silence a
battery, to capture a flag, to take a fortification, they will rush into
the jaws of death
Yes, I have often wondered at their bravery
Captain, these battles put them on their mettle. They have been so long
taught that they are nothing and nobody, that they seem glad to prove
they are something and somebody
But, Johnson, you do not look like them, you do not talk like them. It
is a burning shame to have held such a man as you in slavery
I don't think it was any worse to have held me in slavery than the
blackest man in the South
You are right, Johnson. The color of a man's skin has nothing to do
with the possession of his rights
Now, there is Tom Anderson
he is just as black as black
can be. He has been bought and sold like a beast, and yet there is not a
braver man in all the company. I know him well. He is a noble-hearted
fellow. True as steel. I love him like a brother. And I believe Tom
would risk his life for me any day. He don't know anything about his
father or mother. He was sold from them before he could remember. He can
read a little. He used to take lessons from a white gardener in
Virginia. He would go between the hours of 9 P.M. and 4 A.M. He got a
book of his own, tore it up, greased the pages, and hid them in his hat.
Then if his master had ever knocked his hat off he would have thought
them greasy papers, and not that Tom was carrying his library on his
head. I had another friend who lived near us. When he was nineteen
years old he did not know how many letters there were in the ABC's. One
night, when his work was done, his boss came into his cabin and saw him
with a book in his hand. He threatened to give him five hundred lashes
if he caught him again with a book, and said he hadn't work enough to
do. He was getting out logs, and his task was ten logs a day. His
employer threatened to increase it to twelve. He said it just harassed
him; it set him on fire. He thought there must be something good in that
book if the white man didn't want him to learn. One day he had an errand
in the kitchen, and he heard one of the colored girls going over the
ABC's. Here was the key to the forbidden knowledge. She had heard the
white children saying them, and picked them up by heart, but did not
know them by sight. He was not content with that, but sold his cap for a
book and wore a cloth on his head instead. He got the sounds of the
letters by heart, then cut off the bark of a tree, carved the letters on
the smooth inside, and learned them. He wanted to learn how to write. He
had charge of a warehouse where he had a chance to see the size and form
of letters. He made the beach of the river his copybook, and thus he
learned to write. Tom never got very far with his learning, but I used
to get the papers and tell him all I knew about the war
How did you get the papers
I used to have very good privileges for a slave. All of our owners were
not alike. Some of them were quite clever, and others were worse than
git out. I used to get the morning papers to sell to the boarders and
others, and when I got them I would contrive to hide a paper, and let
some of the fellow-servants know how things were going on. And our
owners thought we cared nothing about what was going on
How was that? I thought you were not allowed to hold meetings unless a
white man were present
That was so. But we contrived to hold secret meetings in spite of their
caution. We knew whom we could trust. My ole Miss wasn't mean like some
of them. She never wanted the patrollers around prowling in our cabins,
and poking their noses into our business. Her husband was an awful
drunkard. He ran through every cent he could lay his hands on, and she
was forced to do something to keep the wolf from the door, so she set up
a boarding-house. But she didn't take in Tom, Dick, and Harry. Nobody
but the big bugs stopped with her. She taught me to read and write, and
to cast up accounts. It was so handy for her to have some one who could
figure up her accounts, and read or write a note, if she were from home
and wanted the like done. She once told her cousin how I could write and
figure up. And what do you think her cousin said
Pleased,' I suppose, 'to hear it
Not a bit of it. She said, if I belonged to her, she would cut off my
thumbs; her husband said, 'Oh, then he couldn't pick cotton.' As to my
poor thumbs, it did not seem to be taken into account what it would cost
me to lose them. My ole Miss used to have a lot of books. She would let
me read any one of them except a novel. She wanted to take care of my
soul, but she wasn't taking care of her own
Wasn't she religious
She went for it. I suppose she was as good as most of them. She said
her prayers and went to church, but I don't know that that made her any
better. I never did take much stock in white folks' religion
Why, Robert, I'm afraid you are something of an infidel
No, Captain, I believe in the real, genuine religion. I ain't got much
myself, but I respect them that have. We had on our place a dear, old
saint, named Aunt Kizzy. She was a happy soul. She had seen hard times,
but was what I call a living epistle. I've heard her tell how her only
child had been sold from her, when the man who bought herself did not
want to buy her child. Poor little fellow! he was only two years old. I
asked her one day how she felt when her child was taken away. 'I felt,'
she said, 'as if I was going to my grave. But I knew if I couldn't get
justice here, I could get it in another world
That was faith
a
patient waiting for death to redress the wrongs of life
Many a time
have I heard her humming to herself in
the kitchen and saying, 'I has my trials, ups and downs, but it won't
allers be so. I specs one day to wing and wing wid de angels,
Hallelujah! Den I specs to hear a voice sayin', 'Poor ole Kizzy, she's
done de bes' she kin. Go down, Gabriel, an' tote her in.' Den I specs to
put on my golden slippers, my long white robe, an' my starry crown, an'
walk dem golden streets, Hallelujah!' I've known that dear, old soul to
travel going on two miles, after her work was done, to have some one
read to her. Her favorite chapter began with, 'Let not your heart be
troubled, ye believe in God, believe also in Me
I have been deeply impressed
with the child-like
faith of some of these people. I do not mean to say that they are
consistent Christians, but I do think that this faith has in a measure
underlain the life of the race. It has been a golden thread woven amid
the sombre tissues of their lives. A ray of light shimmering amid the
gloom of their condition. And what would they have been without it
I don't know. But I know what she was with it. And I believe if there
are any saints in glory, Aunt Kizzy is one of them
She is dead, then
Yes, went all right, singing and rejoicing until the last,
'Troubles over, troubles over, and den my troubles will be over. We'll
walk de golden streets all 'roun' in de New Jerusalem.' Now, Captain,
that's the kind of religion that I want. Not that kind which could ride
to church on Sundays, and talk so solemn with the minister about heaven
and good things, then come home and light down on the servants like a
thousand of bricks. I have no use for it. I don't believe in it. I never
did and I never will. If any man wants to save my soul he ain't got to
beat my body. That ain't the kind of religion I'm looking for. I ain't
got a bit of use for it. Now, Captain, ain't I right
Well, yes, Robert, I think you are more than half right. You ought to
know my dear, old mother who lives in Maine. We have had colored company
at our house, and I never saw her show the least difference between her
colored and white guests. She is a Quaker preacher, and don't believe
in war, but when the rest of the young men went to the front, I wanted
to go also. So I thought it all over, and there seemed to be no way out
of slavery except through the war. I had been taught to hate war and
detest slavery. Now the time had come when I could not help the war, but
I could strike a blow for freedom. So I told my mother I was going to
the front, that I expected to be killed, but I went to free the slave.
It went hard with her. But I thought that I ought to come, and I believe
my mother's prayers are following me
Captain
I am glad that I have heard your story.
I think that some of these Northern soldiers do two things -- hate slavery
and hate niggers
I am afraid that is so with some of them. They would rather be whipped
by Rebels than conquer with negroes. Oh, I heard a soldier
say, when the colored men were being enlisted, that he
would break his sword and resign. But he didn't do either. After Colonel
Shaw led his charge at Fort Wagner, and died in the conflict, he got
bravely over his prejudices. The conduct of the colored troops there and
elsewhere has done much to turn public opinion in their favor. I suppose
any white soldier would rather have his black substitute receive the
bullets than himself
Where is Tom
I have not seen him for several
hours
He's gone down the sound with some of the soldiers
They wanted Tom to row them
I am afraid those boys will get into trouble, and the Rebs will pick
them off
O, I hope not
I hope not, too; but those boys are too venturesome
Tom knows the lay of the land better than any of us
He
is the most wide-awake and gamiest man I know. I reckon when the war is
over Tom will be a preacher. Did you ever hear him pray
No; is he good at that
First-rate
It would do you good to hear him. He
don't allow any cursing and swearing when he's around. And what he says
is law and gospel with the boys. But he's so good-natured; and they
can't get mad at him
Yes, Robert, there is not a man in our regiment I would sooner trust
than Tom. Last night, when he brought in that wounded scout, he couldn't
have been more tender if he had been a woman. How gratefully the poor
fellow looked in Tom's face as he laid him down so carefully and
staunched the blood which had been spurting out of him. Tom seemed to
know it was an artery which had been cut, and he did just the right
thing to stop the bleeding. He knew there wasn't a moment to be lost. He
wasn't going to wait for the doctor. I have often heard that colored
people are ungrateful, but I don't think Tom's worst enemy would say
that about him
Captain
what
had we to be grateful for? For ages of poverty, ignorance, and slavery?
I think if anybody should be grateful, it is the people who have
enslaved us and lived off our labor for generations. Captain, I used to
know a poor old woman who couldn't bear to hear any one play on the
piano
Is that so? Why, I always heard that colored people were a musical
race
So we are; but that poor woman's daughter was sold, and her mistress
took the money to buy a piano. Her mother could never bear to hear a
sound from it
Poor woman
I suppose it
seemed as if the wail of her daughter was blending with the tones of the
instrument. I think, Robert, there is a great deal more in the colored
people than we give them credit for. Did you know Captain Sellers
The officer who escaped from prison and got back to our lines
Yes. Well, he had quite an experience in trying to escape. He came to
an aged couple, who hid him in their cabin and shared their humble food
with him. They gave him some corn-bread, bacon, and coffee which he
thought was made of scorched bran. But he said that he never ate a meal
that he relished more than the one he took with them. Just before he
went they knelt down and prayed with him. It seemed as if his very hair
stood on his head, their prayer was so solemn. As he was going away the
man took some shingles and nailed them on his shoes to throw the
bloodhounds off his track. I don't think he will ever cease to feel
kindly towards colored people. I do wonder what has become of the boys?
What can keep them so long
O, this is dreadful! How did it happen
Captain
we were all in the boat when it struck against a mud
bank, and there was not strength enough among us to shove her back into
the water. Just then the Rebels opened fire upon us. For awhile we lay
down in the boat, but still they kept firing. Tom took in the whole
situation, and said: 'Someone must die to get us out of this. I
mought's well be him as any. You are soldiers and can fight. If they
kill me, it is nuthin'.' So Tom leaped out to shove the boat into the
water. Just then the Rebel bullets began to rain around him. He received
seven or eight of them, and I'm afraid there is no hope for him
O, Tom, I wish you hadn't gone. O, Tom! Tom
Well
put him in one of the best wards. Give him
into Miss Leroy's care. If good nursing can win him back to life, he
shall not want for any care or pains that she can bestow. Send
immediately for Dr  Gresham
Miss Iola, I ain't long fer
dis! I'se 'most home
Oh, no
I hope that you will soon get over this trouble,
and live many long and happy days
No, Miss Iola, it's all ober wid me. I'se gwine to glory; gwine to
glory; gwine to ring dem charmin' bells. Tell all de boys to meet me in
heben; dat dey mus' 'list in de hebenly war
O, Mr. Tom
do not talk of leaving me. You are
the best friend I have had since I was torn from my mother. I should be
so lonely without you
Dere's a frien' dat sticks closer dan a brudder. He will be wid yer in
de sixt' trial, an' in de sebbent' he'll not fo'sake yer
Yes
I know that. He is all our dependence. But I
can't help grieving when I see you suffering so. But, dear friend, be
quiet, and try to go to sleep
I'll do enythin' fer yer, Miss Iola
There is no hope, but do what you
can to alleviate his sufferings
Is there anything I can do for you
Yes
let me hole yore han', an' sing
'Ober Jordan inter glory' an' 'We'll anchor bye and bye
Good-bye, Robert
meet me in de kingdom
Angels,
bright angels, all's well, all's well
What do you think, Doctor
has he fainted
No
poor fellow! he is dead
Colonel
I am perfectly mystified by Miss Leroy
What is the matter with her
Is she not faithful
to her duties and obedient to your directions
Faithful is not the word to express her tireless energy and devotion to
her work
She must have been a born nurse to
put such enthusiasm into her work
Why, Doctor, what is the matter with you? You talk like a lover
Oh! come now, Colonel, can't a man praise a woman without being in love
with her
Of course he can
but I know where such
admiration is apt to lead. I've been there myself. But, Doctor, had you
not better defer your love-making till you're out of the woods
I assure you, Colonel, I am not thinking of love or courtship. That is
the business of the drawing-room, and not of the camp. But she did
mystify me last night
How so
When Tom was dying
I saw that beautiful and
refined young lady bend over and kiss him. When she found that he was
dead, she just cried as if her heart was breaking. Well, that was a new
thing to me. I can eat with colored people, walk, talk, and fight with
them, but kissing them is something I don't hanker after
And yet you saw Miss Leroy do it
Yes; and that puzzles me. She is one of the most refined and lady-like
women I ever saw. I hear she is a refugee, but she does not look like
the other refugees who have come to our camp. Her accent is slightly
Southern, but her manner is Northern. She is self-respecting without
being supercilious; quiet, without being dull. Her voice is low and
sweet, yet at times there are tones of such passionate tenderness in it
that you would think some great sorrow has darkened and overshadowed her
life. Without being the least gloomy, her face at times is pervaded by
an air of inexpressible sadness. I sometimes watch her when she is not
aware that I am looking at her, and it seems as if a whole volume was
depicted on her countenance. When she smiles, there is a longing in her
eyes which is never satisfied. I cannot understand how a Southern lady,
whose education and manners stamp her as a woman of fine culture and
good breeding, could consent to occupy the position she so faithfully
holds. It is a mystery I cannot solve. Can you
I think I can
Will you tell me
Yes, on one condition
What is it
Everlasting silence
I promise
The secret between us shall be as deep as
the sea
She has not requested secrecy, but at present, for her sake, I do not
wish the secret revealed. Miss Leroy was a slave
Oh, no
it can't be so! A
woman as white as she a slave
Yes, it is so
In these States the child
follows the condition of its mother. This beautiful and accomplished
girl was held by one of the worst Rebels in town. Tom told me of it and
I issued orders for her release
Well, well! Is that so
Wonders will never cease. Why, I was just beginning to think
seriously of her
What's to hinder your continuing to think
What you tell me changes the whole complexion of affairs
If that be so I am glad I told you before you got head over heels in
love
Yes
This hospital life is telling on you. Your strength is failing, and
although you possess a wonderful amount of physical endurance, you must
not forget that saints have bodies and dwell in tabernacles of clay,
just the same as we common mortals
Compliments aside
what are you driving at,
Doctor
I mean
that you are running down, and if you do not quit
and take some rest you will be our patient instead of our nurse. You'd
better take a furlough, go North, and return after the first frost
Doctor, if that is your only remedy
I am afraid that I
am destined to die at my post. I have no special friends in the North,
and no home but this in the South. I am homeless and alone
Miss Leroy, you need not be all alone. Let me claim the privilege
of making your life bright and happy. Iola, I have loved you ever since
I have seen your devotion to our poor, sick boys. How faithfully you, a
young and gracious girl, have stood at your post and performed your
duties. And now I ask, will you not permit me to clasp hands with you
for life? I do not ask for a hasty reply. Give yourself time to think
over what I have proposed
Alfred
I am going to be married
Well,
that's the latest thing out! Who is the fortunate lady who has bound you
with her silken fetters? Is it one of those beautiful Creole girls who
were visiting Augustine's plantation last winter? I watched you during
our visit there and thought that you could not be proof against their
attractions. Which is your choice? It would puzzle me to judge between
the two. They had splendid eyes, dark, luminous, and languishing; lovely
complexions and magnificent hair. Both were delightful in their manners,
refined and cultured, with an air of vivacity mingled with their repose
of manner which was perfectly charming. As the law only allows us one,
which is your choice? Miss Annette has more force than her sister, and
if I could afford the luxury of a wife she would be my choice
Ah, Alf
I see that you are a practical business man. In
marrying you want a wife to assist you as an efficient plantation
mistress. One who would tolerate no waste in the kitchen and no disorder
in the parlor
Exactly so
I am too poor to marry a mere parlor
ornament. You can afford to do it; I cannot
Nonsense, if I were as poor as a church mouse I would marry the woman I
love
Very fine sentiments
and were I as rich as you I
would indulge in them also. You know, when my father died I had great
expectations. We had always lived in good style, and I never thought for
a moment he was not a rich man, but when his estate was settled I found
it was greatly involved, and I was forced to face an uncertain future,
with scarcely a dollar to call my own. Land, negroes, cattle, and horses
all went under the hammer. The only thing I retained was the education I
received at the North; that was my father's best investment, and all my
stock in trade. With that only as an outfit, it would be madness for me
to think of marrying one of those lovely girls. They remind me of
beautiful canary birds, charming and pretty, but not fitted for the wear
and tear of plantation life. Well, which is your choice
Neither
Then, is it that magnificent looking widow from New Orleans, whom we
met before you had that terrible spell of sickness and to whom you
appeared so devoted
Not at all. I have not heard from her since that summer. She was
fascinating and handsome, but fearfully high strung
Were you afraid of her
No; but I valued my happiness too much to trust it in her hands
Sour grapes
No! but I think that slavery and the lack of outside interests are
beginning to tell on the lives of our women. They lean too much on their
slaves, have too much irresponsible power in their hands, are narrowed
and compressed by the routine of plantation life and the lack of
intellectual stimulus
Yes, Eugene, when I see what other women are doing in the fields of
literature and art, I cannot help thinking an amount of brain power has
been held in check among us. Yet I cannot abide those Northern women,
with their suffrage views and abolition cant. They just shock me
But your mother was a Northern woman
Yes; but she got bravely over her Northern ideas. As I remember her,
she was just as much a Southerner as if she had been to the manor born.
She came here as a school-teacher, but soon after she came she married
my father. He was easy and indulgent with his servants, and held them
with a very loose rein. But my mother was firm and energetic. She made
the niggers move around. No shirking nor dawdling with her. When my
father died, she took matters in hand, but she only outlived him a few
months. If she had lived I believe that she would have retrieved our
fortune. I know that she had more executive ability than my father. He
was very squeamish about selling his servants, but she would have put
every one of them in her pocket before permitting them to eat her out of
house and home. But whom _are_ you going to marry
A young lady who graduates from a Northern seminary next week
I think you are very selfish
You might have invited
a fellow to go with you to be your best man
The wedding is to be strictly private. The lady whom I am to marry has
negro blood in her veins
The devil she has
Are you in earnest? Surely
you must be jesting
I am certainly in earnest
I mean every word I
say
Oh, it can't be possible! Are you mad
Never was saner in my life
What under heaven could have possessed you to do such a foolish thing?
Where did she come from
Right here, on this plantation. But I have educated and manumitted her,
and I intend marrying her
Why, Eugene, it is impossible that you can have an idea of marrying one
of your slaves. Why, man, she is your property, to have and to hold to
all intents and purposes. Are you not satisfied with the power and
possession the law gives you
No. Although the law makes her helpless in my hands, to me her
defenselessness is her best defense
Eugene, we have known each other all of our lives, and, although I have
always regarded you as eccentric, I never saw you so completely off your
balance before. The idea of you, with your proud family name, your vast
wealth in land and negroes, intending to marry one of them, is a mystery
I cannot solve. Do explain to me why you are going to take this
extremely strange and foolish step
You never saw Marie
No; and I don't want to
She is very beautiful. In the North no one would suspect that she has
one drop of negro blood in her veins, but here, where I am known, to
marry her is to lose caste. I could live with her, and not incur much if
any social opprobrium. Society would wink at the transgression, even if
after she had become the mother of my children I should cast her off and
send her and them to the auction block
Men
would merely shrug their shoulders; women
would say you had been sowing your wild oats. Your money, like charity,
would cover a multitude of faults
But if I make her my lawful wife and recognize her children as my
legitimate heirs, I subject myself to social ostracism and a senseless
persecution. We Americans boast of freedom, and yet here is a woman whom
I love as I never loved any other human being, but both law and public
opinion debar me from following the inclination of my heart. She is
beautiful, faithful, and pure, and yet all that society will tolerate is
what I would scorn to do
But has not society the right to guard the purity of its blood by the
rigid exclusion of an alien race
Excluding it! How
By debarring it from social intercourse
Perhaps it has
but should not society have a
greater ban for those who, by consorting with an alien race, rob their
offspring of a right to their names and to an inheritance in their
property, and who fix their social status among an enslaved and outcast
race? Don't eye me so curiously; I am not losing my senses
I think you have done that already
Don't you know
that if she is as fair as a lily, beautiful as a houri, and chaste as
ice, that still she is a negro
Oh, come now; she isn't much of a negro
It doesn't matter, however. One drop of negro blood in her veins curses
all the rest
I know it
but I have weighed the consequences,
and am prepared to take them
Well, Eugene, your course is _so_ singular! I do wish that you would
tell me why you take this unprecedented step
Well, Alfred, as we are kinsmen and life-long friends, I will not
resent your asking my reason for doing that which seems to you the
climax of absurdity, and if you will have the patience to listen I will
tell you
Proceed, I am all attention
My father died
as you know, when I was too young to
know his loss or feel his care and, being an only child, I was petted
and spoiled. I grew up to be wayward, self-indulgent, proud, and
imperious. I went from home and made many friends both at college and in
foreign lands. I was well supplied with money and, never having been
forced to earn it, was ignorant of its value and careless of its use. My
lavish expenditures and liberal benefactions attracted to me a number
of parasites, and men older than myself led me into the paths of vice,
and taught me how to gather the flowers of sin which blossom around the
borders of hell. In a word, I left my home unwarned and unarmed against
the seductions of vice. I returned an initiated devotee to debasing
pleasures. Years of my life were passed in foreign lands; years in which
my soul slumbered and seemed pervaded with a moral paralysis; years, the
memory of which fills my soul with sorrow and shame. I went to the
capitals of the old world to see life, but in seeing life I became
acquainted with death, the death of true manliness and self-respect. You
look astonished; but I tell you, Alf, there is many a poor clod-hopper,
on whom are the dust and grime of unremitting toil, who feels more
self-respect and true manliness than many of us with our family
prestige, social position, and proud ancestral halls. After I had lived
abroad for years, I returned a broken-down young man, prematurely old,
my constitution a perfect wreck. A life of folly and dissipation was
telling fearfully upon me. My friends shrank from me in dismay. I was
sick nigh unto death, and had it not been for Marie's care I am certain
that I should have died. She followed me down to the borders of the
grave, and won me back to life and health. I was slow in recovering and,
during the time, I had ample space for reflection, and the past unrolled
itself before me. I resolved, over the wreck and ruin of my past life,
to build a better and brighter future. Marie had a voice of remarkable
sweetness, although it lacked culture. Often when I was nervous and
restless I would have her sing some of those weird and plaintive
melodies which she had learned from the plantation negroes. Sometimes I
encouraged her to talk, and I was surprised at the native vigor of her
intellect. By degrees I became acquainted with her history. She was all
alone in the world. She had no recollection of her father, but
remembered being torn from her mother while clinging to her dress. The
trader who bought her mother did not wish to buy her. She remembered
having a brother, with whom she used to play, but she had been separated
from him also, and since then had lost all trace of them. After she was
sold from her mother she became the property of an excellent old lady,
who seems to have been very careful to imbue her mind with good
principles; a woman who loved purity, not only for her own daughters,
but also for the defenseless girls in her home. I believe it was the
lady's intention to have freed Marie at her death, but she died
suddenly, and, the estate being involved, she was sold with it and fell
into the hands of my agent. I became deeply interested in her when I
heard her story, and began to pity her
And I suppose love sprang from pity
I not only pitied her, but I learned to respect her. I had met with
beautiful women in the halls of wealth and fashion, both at home and
abroad, but there was something in her different from all my experience
of womanhood
I should think so
but I should like to
know what it was
It was something such as I have seen in old cathedrals, lighting up the
beauty of a saintly face. A light which the poet tells was never seen on
land or sea. I thought of this beautiful and defenseless girl adrift in
the power of a reckless man, who, with all the advantages of wealth and
education, had trailed his manhood in the dust, and she, with simple,
childlike faith in the Unseen, seemed to be so good and pure that she
commanded my respect and won my heart. In her presence every base and
unholy passion died, subdued by the supremacy of her virtue
Why, Eugene, what has come over you? Talking of the virtue of these
quadroon girls! You have lived so long in the North and abroad, that you
seem to have lost the cue of our Southern life. Don't you know that
these beautiful girls have been the curse of our homes? You have no idea
of the hearts which are wrung by their presence
But, Alfred, suppose it is so. Are they to blame for it? What can any
woman do when she is placed in the hands of an irresponsible master;
when she knows that resistance is vain? Yes, Alfred, I agree with you,
these women are the bane of our Southern civilization; but they are the
victims and we are the criminals
I think from the airs that some of them put on when they get a chance,
that they are very willing victims
So much the worse for our institution. If it is cruel to debase a
hapless victim, it is an increase of cruelty to make her contented with
her degradation. Let me tell you, Alf, you cannot wrong or degrade a
woman without wronging or degrading yourself
What is the matter with you, Eugene? Are you thinking of taking
priest's orders
No, Alf
you may
defend the system as much as you please, but you cannot deny that the
circumstances it creates, and the temptations it affords, are sapping
our strength and undermining our character
That may be true
but you had
better be careful how you air your Northern notions in public
Why so
Because public opinion is too sensitive to tolerate any such
discussions
And is not that a proof that we are at fault with respect to our
institutions
I don't know. I only know we are living in the midst of a magazine of
powder, and it is not safe to enter it with a lighted candle
Let me proceed with my story
During the long
months in which I was convalescing, I was left almost entirely to the
companionship of Marie. In my library I found a Bible, which I began to
read from curiosity, but my curiosity deepened into interest when I saw
the rapt expression on Marie's face. I saw in it a loving response to
sentiments to which I was a stranger. In the meantime my conscience was
awakened, and I scorned to take advantage of her defenselessness. I felt
that I owed my life to her faithful care, and I resolved to take her
North, manumit, educate, and marry her. I sent her to a Northern
academy, but as soon as some of the pupils found that she was colored,
objections were raised, and the principal was compelled to dismiss her.
During my search for a school I heard of one where three girls of mixed
blood were pursuing their studies, every one of whom would have been
ignominiously dismissed had their connection with the negro race been
known. But I determined to run no risks. I found a school where her
connection with the negro race would be no bar to her advancement. She
graduates next week, and I intend to marry her before I return home. She
was faithful when others were faithless, stood by me when others
deserted me to die in loneliness and neglect, and now I am about to
reward her care with all the love and devotion it is in my power to
bestow. That is why I am about to marry my faithful and devoted nurse,
who snatched me from the jaws of death. Now that I have told you my
story, what say you
Madness and folly inconceivable
What to you is madness and folly is perfect sanity with me. After all,
Alf, is there not an amount of unreason in our prejudices
That may be true; but I wasn't reasoned into it, and I do not expect to
be reasoned out of it
Will you accompany me North
No; except to put you in an insane asylum. You are the greatest crank
out
No, thank you; I'm all right. I expect to start North to-morrow. You
had better come and go
I would rather follow you to your grave
Good morning
how is my
ward this morning
She is well, and has been expecting you. I am glad you came in time for
the commencement. She stands among the foremost in her class
I am glad to hear it. Will you send her this
Good morning, Marie
You are looking very handsome this
morning
Do you think so
I am glad you are
not disappointed; that you do not feel your money has been spent in
vain
Oh, no, what I have spent on your education has been the best
investment I ever made
I hope
you may always find it so. But Mas
Hush
you are
free. I don't want the dialect of slavery to linger on your lips. You
must not call me that name again
Why not
Because I have a nearer and dearer one by which I wish to be called
This
is the hand that plucked me from the grave, and I am going to retain it
as mine; mine to guard with my care until death us do part
Until death us
do part
American
Civilization, its Lights and Shadows
Oh, how glad I am
that these children are
free. I could never understand how a cultured white man could have his
own children enslaved. I can understand how savages, fighting with each
other, could doom their vanquished foes to slavery, but it has always
been a puzzle to me how a civilized man could drag his own children,
bone of his bone, flesh of his flesh, down to the position of social
outcasts, abject slaves, and political pariahs
But, Marie
all men do not treat their illegitimate
children in the manner you describe. The last time I was in New Orleans
I met Henri Augustine at the depot, with two beautiful young girls. At
first I thought that they were his own children, they resembled him so
closely. But afterwards I noticed that they addressed him as 'Mister.'
Before we parted he told me that his wife had taken such a dislike to
their mother that she could not bear to see them on the place. At last,
weary of her dissatisfaction, he had promised to bring them to New
Orleans and sell them. Instead, he was going to Ohio to give them their
freedom, and make provision for their future
What a wrong
Who was wronged
Every one in the whole transaction
Your friend
wronged himself by sinning against his own soul. He wronged his wife by
arousing her hatred and jealousy through his unfaithfulness. He wronged
those children by giving them the _status_ of slaves and outcasts. He
wronged their mother by imposing upon her the burdens and cares of
maternity without the rights and privileges of a wife. He made her crown
of motherhood a circlet of shame. Under other circumstances she might
have been an honored wife and happy mother. And I do think such men
wrong their own legitimate children by transmitting to them a weakened
moral fibre
Oh, Marie, you have such an uncomfortable way of putting things. You
make me feel that we have done those things which we ought not to have
done, and have left undone those things which we ought to have done
If it annoys you
I will stop talking
Oh, no, go on
I know a number of men who have sent such children North,
and manumitted, educated, and left them valuable legacies. We are all
liable to err, and, having done wrong, all we can do is to make
reparation
My dear husband, this is a wrong where reparation is impossible.
Neither wealth nor education can repair the wrong of a dishonored birth.
There are a number of slaves in this section who are servants to their
own brothers and sisters; whose fathers have robbed them not simply of
liberty but of the right of being well born. Do you think these things
will last forever
I suppose not. There are some prophets of evil who tell us that the
Union is going to dissolve. But I know it would puzzle their brains to
tell where the crack will begin. I reckon we'll continue to jog along as
usual. 'Cotton fights, and cotton conquers for American slavery
Marie
slavery is
a sword that cuts both ways. If it wrongs the negro, it also curses the
white man. But we are in it, and what can we do
Get out of it as quickly as possible
That is easier said than done. I would willingly free every slave on my
plantation if I could do so without expatriating them. Some of them have
wives and children on other plantations, and to free them is to separate
them from their kith and kin. To let them remain here as a free people
is out of the question. My hands are tied by law and custom
Who tied them
A public opinion, whose meshes I cannot break. If the negro is the
thrall of his master, we are just as much the thralls of public
opinion
Why do you not battle against public opinion, if you think it is
wrong
Because I have neither the courage of a martyr, nor the faith of a
saint; and so I drift along, trying to make the condition of our slaves
as comfortable as I possibly can. I believe there are slaves on this
plantation whom the most flattering offers of freedom would not entice
away
I do not think
that some of you planters understand your
own slaves. Lying is said to be the vice of slaves. The more intelligent
of them have so learned to veil their feelings that you do not see the
undercurrent of discontent beneath their apparent good humor and
jollity. The more discontented they are, the more I respect them. To me
a contented slave is an abject creature. I hope that I shall see the
day when there will not be a slave in the land. I hate the whole thing
from the bottom of my heart
Marie, your Northern education has unfitted you for Southern life. You
are free, yourself, and so are our children. Why not let well enough
alone
Because I love liberty, not only for myself but for every human being.
Think how dear these children are to me; and then for the thought to be
forever haunting me, that if you were dead they could be turned out of
doors and divided among your relatives. I sometimes lie awake at night
thinking of how there might be a screw loose somewhere, and, after all,
the children and I might be reduced to slavery
Marie, what in the world is the matter with you? Have you had a
presentiment of my death, or, as Uncle Jack says, 'hab you seed it in a
vision
No, but I have had such sad forebodings that they almost set me wild.
One night I dreamt that you were dead; that the lawyers entered the
house, seized our property, and remanded us to slavery. I never can be
satisfied in the South with such a possibility hanging over my head
Marie, dear, you are growing nervous. Your imagination is too active.
You are left too much alone on this plantation. I hope that for your own
and the children's sake I will be enabled to arrange our affairs so as
to find a home for you where you will not be doomed to the social
isolation and ostracism that surround you here
I don't mind the isolation for myself, but the children. You have
enjoined silence on me with respect to their connection with the negro
race, but I do not think we can conceal it from them very long. It will
not be long before Iola will notice the offishness of girls of her own
age, and the scornful glances which, even now, I think, are leveled at
her. Yesterday Harry came crying to me, and told me that one of the
neighbor's boys had called him 'nigger
Oh, Marie, do not meet trouble half way. I have manumitted you, and the
children will follow your condition. I have made you all legatees of my
will. Except my cousin, Alfred Lorraine, I have only distant relatives,
whom I scarcely know and who hardly know me
Your cousin Lorraine? Are you sure our interests would be safe in his
hands
I think so; I don't think Alfred would do anything dishonorable
He might not with his equals. But how many men would be bound by a
sense of honor where the rights of a colored woman are in question? Your
cousin was bitterly opposed to our marriage, and I would not trust any
important interests in his hands. I do hope that in providing for our
future you will make assurance doubly sure
I certainly will, and all that human foresight can do shall be done for
you and our children
Oh
I think it would almost make me turn over in my grave to know
that every grace and charm which this child possesses would only be so
much added to her value as an article of merchandise
Now, Marie
stop tormenting yourself with useless
fears. Although, with all her faults, I still love the South, I will
make arrangements either to live North or go to France. There life will
be brighter for us all. Now, Marie, seat yourself at the piano and
sing:--

    'Sing me the songs that to me were so dear,
            Long, long ago.
     Sing me the songs I delighted to hear,
            Long, long ago
I see no other way of finishing the education
of these children than by sending them to some Northern school
I have come
to the same conclusion. We had better take
Iola and Harry North and make arrangements for them to spend several
years in being educated. Riches take wings to themselves and fly away,
but a good education is an investment on which the law can place no
attachment. As there is a possibility of their origin being discovered,
I will find a teacher to whom I can confide our story, and upon whom I
can enjoin secrecy. I want them well fitted for any emergency in life.
When I discover for what they have the most aptitude I will give them
especial training in that direction
I am so afraid that you will regret our marriage when you fully realize
the complications it brings
No, no
it is not that I regret our marriage,
or feel the least disdain for our children on account of the blood in
their veins; but I do not wish them to grow up under the contracting
influence of this race prejudice. I do not wish them to feel that they
have been born under a proscription from which no valor can redeem them,
nor that any social advancement or individual development can wipe off
the ban which clings to them. No, Marie, let them go North, learn all
they can, aspire all they may. The painful knowledge will come all too
soon. Do not forestall it. I want them simply to grow up as other
children; not being patronized by friends nor disdained by foes
My dear husband, you may be perfectly right, but are you not preparing
our children for a fearful awakening? Are you not acting on the plan,
'After me the deluge
Not at all, Marie. I want our children to grow up without having their
self-respect crushed in the bud. You know that the North is not free
from racial prejudice
I know it
and I think one of the great mistakes
of our civilization is that which makes color, and not character, a
social test
I think so, too
The strongest men and women of a
down-trodden race may bare their bosoms to an adverse fate and develop
courage in the midst of opposition, but we have no right to subject our
children to such crucial tests before their characters are formed. For
years, when I lived abroad, I had an opportunity to see and hear of men
of African descent who had distinguished themselves and obtained a
recognition in European circles, which they never could have gained in
this country. I now recall the name of Ira Aldridge, a colored man from
New York City, who was covered with princely honors as a successful
tragedian. Alexander Dumas was not forced to conceal his origin to
succeed as a novelist. When I was in St. Petersburg I was shown the
works of Alexander Sergevitch, a Russian poet, who was spoken of as the
Byron of Russian literature, and reckoned one of the finest poets that
Russia has produced in this century. He was also a prominent figure in
fashionable society, and yet he was of African lineage. One of his
paternal ancestors was a negro who had been ennobled by Peter the
Great. I can't help contrasting the recognition which these men had
received with the treatment which has been given to Frederick Douglass
and other intelligent colored men in this country. With me the wonder is
not that they have achieved so little, but that they have accomplished
so much. No, Marie, we will have our children educated without being
subjected to the depressing influences of caste feeling. Perhaps by the
time their education is finished I will be ready to wind up my affairs
and take them abroad, where merit and ability will give them entrance
into the best circles of art, literature, and science
I would like
to have our children spend their
vacations at home. Those summer resorts are pleasant, yet, after all,
there is no place like home. But
our
children would now notice their social isolation and inquire the cause
Man is a social
being; I've known it to my sorrow
Yes,
Marie, let them stay North. We seem to be entering on a period fraught
with great danger. I cannot help thinking and fearing that we are on the
eve of a civil war
A civil war
A civil
war about what
Why, Marie, the thing looks to me so wild and foolish I hardly know how
to explain. But some of our leading men have come to the conclusion that
North and South had better separate, and instead of having one to have
two independent governments. The spirit of secession is rampant in the
land. I do not know what the result will be, and I fear it will bode no
good to the country. Between the fire-eating Southerners and the
meddling Abolitionists we are about to be plunged into a great deal of
trouble. I fear there are breakers ahead. The South is dissatisfied with
the state of public opinion in the North. We are realizing that we are
two peoples in the midst of one nation. William H. Seward has
proclaimed that the conflict between freedom and slavery is
irrepressible, and that the country cannot remain half free and half
slave
How will _you_ go
My heart is with the Union. I don't believe in secession. There has
been no cause sufficient to justify a rupture. The North has met us time
and again in the spirit of concession and compromise. When we wanted the
continuance of the African slave trade the North conceded that we should
have twenty years of slave-trading for the benefit of our plantations.
When we wanted more territory she conceded to our desires and gave us
land enough to carve out four States, and there yet remains enough for
four more. When we wanted power to recapture our slaves when they fled
North for refuge, Daniel Webster told Northerners to conquer their
prejudices, and they gave us the whole Northern States as a hunting
ground for our slaves. The Presidential chair has been filled the
greater number of years by Southerners, and the majority of offices has
been shared by our men. We wanted representation in Congress on a basis
which would include our slaves, and the North, whose suffrage represents
only men, gave us a three-fifths representation for our slaves, whom we
count as property. I think the step will be suicidal. There are
extremists in both sections, but I hope, between them both, wise
counsels and measures will prevail
There is something about your
cousin that fills me with nameless dread. I always feel when he enters
the room as if some one were walking over my grave. I do wish he would
stay at home
I wish so, too, since he disturbs you. But, Marie, you are growing
nervous. How cold your hands are. Don't you feel well
Oh, yes; I am only a little faint. I wish he would never come. But, as
he does, I must make the best of it
Yes, Marie, treat him well for my sake. He is the only relative I have
who ever darkens our doors
I have no faith in his friendship for either myself or my children. I
feel that while he makes himself agreeable to you he hates me from the
bottom of his heart, and would do anything to get me out of the way. Oh,
I am _so_ glad I am your lawful wife, and that you married me before you
brought me back to this State! I believe that if you were gone he
wouldn't have the least scruple against trying to prove our marriage
invalid and remanding us to slavery
Marie, I do
not think so. Your life is too lonely here. Write your orders to New
Orleans, get what you need for the journey, and let us spend the summer
somewhere in the North
Tom
has just brought the mail, and here is a letter
from Iola
What is the matter
Nothing much; only a tempest in a teapot. The presence of a colored
girl in Mr. Galen's school has caused a breeze of excitement. You know
Mr. Galen is quite an Abolitionist, and, being true to his principles,
he could not consistently refuse when a colored woman applied for her
daughter's admission. Of course, when he took her he was compelled to
treat her as any other pupil. In so doing he has given mortal offense to
the mother of two Southern boys. She has threatened to take them away if
the colored girl remains
What will he do about it
Oh, it is a bitter pill, but I think he will have to swallow it. He is
between two fires. He cannot dismiss her from the school and be true to
his Abolition principles; yet if he retains her he will lose his
Southern customers, and I know he cannot afford to do that
What does Iola say
He has found another boarding place for her, but she is to remain in
the school. He had to throw that sop to the whale
Does she take sides against the girl
No, I don't think she does. She says she feels sorry for her, and that
she would hate to be colored. 'It is so hard to be looked down on for
what one can't help
Poor child! I wish we could leave the country. I never would consent to
her marrying any one without first revealing to him her connection with
the negro race. This is a subject on which I am not willing to run any
risks
My dear Marie, when you shall have read Iola's letter you will see it
is more than a figment of my imagination that has made me so loth to
have our children know the paralyzing power of caste
Let us return home
It is useless
It is nearly two days since we left
home. The fever is spreading south of us with fearful rapidity. To
return home is to walk into the jaws of death. It was my intention to
have stopped at Vicksburg, but now I will go on as soon as I can make
the connections
I have
left you well provided for. Kiss the children for me and bid them
good-bye
I wonder
whose comin' to de house when de folks
is done gone
Whar's Marse Eugene
Dead
dead!
_ died_ of yellow fever
Where is he
He is buried in H ----. I could not bring him home
My pore baby
I'se drefful sorry. My
heart's most broke into two
Come, honey, lie down an' lem'me git yer a cup ob tea
Oh, no; I don't want anything
Oh, honey
yer musn't gib up. Yer knows whar to put
yer trus'. Yer can't lean on de arm of flesh in dis tryin' time
I have come to take possession of these premises
By what authority
By what authority
By the authority of the law
which has decided
that Leroy's legal heirs are his white blood relations, and that your
marriage is null and void
But
I have our marriage certificate. I was Leroy's
lawful wife
Your marriage certificate is not worth the paper it is written on
Oh, you must be jesting, cruelly jesting. It can't be so
Yes; it is so. Judge Starkins has decided that your manumission is
unlawful; your marriage a bad precedent, and inimical to the welfare of
society; and that you and your children are remanded to slavery
Slavery can't be wrong
for my father is a
slave-holder, and my mother is as good to our servants as she can be. My
father often tells her that she spoils them, and lets them run over her.
I never saw my father strike one of them. I love my mammy as much as I
do my own mother, and I believe she loves us just as if we were her own
children. When we are sick I am sure that she could not do anything more
for us than she does
But, Iola
after all, they are
not free. Would you be satisfied to have the most beautiful home, the
costliest jewels, or the most elegant wardrobe if you were a slave
Oh, the cases are not parallel. Our slaves do not want their freedom.
They would not take it if we gave it to them
That is not the case with them all. My father has seen men who have
encountered almost incredible hardships to get their freedom. Iola, did
you ever attend an anti-slavery meeting
No; I don't think these Abolitionists have any right to meddle in our
affairs. I believe they are prejudiced against us, and want to get our
property. I read about them in the papers when I was at home. I don't
want to hear my part of the country run down. My father says the slaves
would be very well contented if no one put wrong notions in their
heads
I don't know
but I do not think that
that slave mother who took her four children, crossed the Ohio River on
the ice, killed one of the children and attempted the lives of the other
two, was a contented slave. And that other one, who, running away and
finding herself pursued, threw herself over the Long Bridge into the
Potomac, was evidently not satisfied. I do not think the numbers who are
coming North on the Underground Railroad can be very contented. It is
not natural for people to run away from happiness, and if they are so
happy and contented, why did Congress pass the Fugitive Slave Bill
Well, I don't think
any of our slaves would run away.
I know mamma don't like slavery very much. I have often heard her say
that she hoped the time would come when there would not be a slave in
the land. My father does not think as she does. He thinks slavery is not
wrong if you treat them well and don't sell them from their families. I
intend, after I have graduated, to persuade pa to buy a house in New
Orleans, and spend the winter there. You know this will be my first
season out, and I hope that you will come and spend the winter with me.
We will have such gay times, and you will so fall in love with our sunny
South that you will never want to come back to shiver amid the snows and
cold of the North. I think one winter in the South would cure you of
your Abolitionism
Have you seen her yet
Yes; just caught a glimpse of her this morning as she was going down
the street
She is a most beautiful creature
She has the
proud poise of Leroy, the most splendid eyes I ever saw in a woman's
head, lovely complexion, and a glorious wealth of hair. She would bring
$2000 any day in a New Orleans market
I always feel sorry
when I see one of those Creole
girls brought to the auction block. I have known fathers who were deeply
devoted to their daughters, but who through some reverse of fortune were
forced to part with them, and I always think the blow has been equally
terrible on both sides. I had a friend who had two beautiful daughters
whom he had educated in the North. They were cultured, and really belles
in society. They were entirely ignorant of their lineage, but when their
father died it was discovered that their mother had been a slave. It was
a fearful blow. They would have faced poverty, but the knowledge of
their tainted blood was more than they could bear
What became of them
They both died, poor girls. I believe they were as much killed by the
blow as if they had been shot. To tell you the truth, Bastine, I feel
sorry for this girl. I don't believe she has the least idea of her negro
blood
No, Leroy has been careful to conceal it from her
Is that so
Then he has made a great mistake
I can't help that
business is business
How can you get her away
You will have to be very
cautious, because if these pesky Abolitionists get an inkling of what
you're doing they will balk your game double quick. And when you come to
look at it, isn't it a shame to attempt to reduce that girl to slavery?
She is just as white as we are, as good as any girl in the land, and
better educated than thousands of white girls. A girl with her apparent
refinement and magnificent beauty, were it not for the cross in her
blood, I would be proud to introduce to our set. She would be the
sensation of the season. I believe to-day it would be easier for me to
go to the slums and take a young girl from there, and have her
introduced as my wife, than to have society condone the offense if I
married that lovely girl. There is not a social circle in the South that
would not take it as a gross insult to have her introduced into it
Well
my plan is settled. Leroy has never allowed her
to spend her vacations at home. I understand she is now very anxious to
get home, and, as Lorraine's attorney, I have come on his account to
take her home
How will you do it
I shall tell her her father is dangerously ill, and desires her to come
as quickly as possible
And what then
Have her inventoried with the rest of the property
Don't she know that her father is dead
I think not
She is not in mourning, but appeared very
light-hearted this morning, laughing and talking with two other girls. I
was struck with her great beauty, and asked a gentleman who she was. He
said, 'Miss Leroy, of Mississippi.' I think Lorraine has managed the
affair so as to keep her in perfect ignorance of her father's death. I
don't like the job, but I never let sentiment interfere with my work
How do you think she will take to her situation
O, I guess
she will sulk and take it pretty hard at
first; but if she is managed right she will soon get over it. Give her
plenty of jewelry, fine clothes, and an easy time
All this business must be conducted with the utmost secrecy and speed.
Her mother could not have written to her, for she has been suffering
with brain fever and nervous prostration since Leroy's death. Lorraine
knows her market value too well, and is too shrewd to let so much
property pass out of his hands without making an effort to retain it
Has she any brothers or sisters
Yes, a brother
but he is at another school, and I
have no orders from Lorraine in reference to him. If I can get the girl
I am willing to let well enough alone. I dread the interview with the
principal more than anything else. I am afraid he will hem and haw, and
have his doubts. Perhaps, when he sees my letters and hears my story, I
can pull the wool over his eyes
But, Louis, this is a pitiful piece of business. I should hate to be
engaged in it
I don't like the job, but I have undertaken
it, and must go through with it
I see no '_must_' about it. Were I in your place I would wash my hands
of the whole business
I can't afford it
Oh, I hope that he will be alive and growing better
How dare you do such a thing! Don't you know if my father were here he
would crush you to the earth
Not so fast, my lovely tigress
your father knew what
he was doing when he placed you in my charge
My father made a great mistake, if he thought he had put me in charge
of a gentleman
I am your guardian for the present
I am to see you
safe home, and then my commission ends
I wish it were ended now
she is a real spitfire, but
beautiful even in her wrath
Oh, papa's dead
Oh, my pore baby
ain't you hearn tell 'bout it? Yore
par's dead, an' your mar's bin drefful sick. She's better now
Oh, Iola
is this you? I am
so sorry you came
Much as
I love you
and much as I longed to
see you, I am sorry you came
Why, mother
I received your telegram last
Wednesday, and I took the earliest train I could get
My dear child, I never sent you a telegram. It was a trick to bring you
down South and reduce you to slavery
Iola, I must tell you what your father always enjoined me
to be silent about. I did not think it was the wisest thing, but I
yielded to his desires. I have negro blood in my veins. I was your
father's slave before I married him. His relatives have set aside his
will. The courts have declared our marriage null and void and my
manumission illegal, and we are all to be remanded to slavery
Oh, mother, it can't be so! you must be
dreaming
No, my child; it is a terrible reality
I used to say that slavery is right. I didn't know what I was talking
about
Mother, who is at the bottom of
this downright robbery
Alfred Lorraine; I have always dreaded that man, and what I feared has
come to pass. Your father had faith in him; I never had
But, mother, could we not contest his claim. You have your marriage
certificate and papa's will
Yes, my dear child, but Judge Starkins has decided that we have no
standing in the court, and no testimony according to law
Oh, mother, what can I do
Nothing, my child, unless you can escape to the North
And leave you
Yes
Mother, I will never desert you in your hour of trial. But can nothing
be done? Had father no friends who would assist us
None that I know of. I do not think he had an acquaintance who approved
of our marriage. The neighboring planters have stood so aloof from me
that I do not know where to turn for either help or sympathy. I believe
it was Lorraine who sent the telegram. I wrote to you as soon as I could
after your father's death, but fainted just as I finished directing the
letter. I do not think he knows where your brother is, and, if possible,
he must not know. If you can by any means, _do_ send a letter to Harry
and warn him not to attempt to come home. I don't know how you will
succeed, for Lorraine has us all under surveillance. But it is according
to law
What law, mother
The law of the strong against the weak
Oh, mother, it seems like a dreadful dream, a fearful nightmare! But I
cannot shake it off. Where is Gracie
The dear child has been running down ever since her papa's death. She
clung to me night and day while I had the brain fever, and could not be
persuaded to leave me. She hardly ate anything for more than a week. She
has been dangerously ill for several days, and the doctor says she
cannot live. The fever has exhausted all her rallying power, and yet,
dear as she is to me, I would rather consign her to the deepest grave
than see her forced to be a slave
So would I. I wish I could die myself
Oh, Iola, do not talk so. Strive to be a Christian, to have faith in
the darkest hour. Were it not for my hope of heaven I couldn't stand all
this trouble
Mother, are these people Christians who made these laws which are
robbing us of our inheritance and reducing us to slavery? If this is
Christianity I hate and despise it. Would the most cruel heathen do
worse
My dear child, I have not learned my Christianity from them. I have
learned it at the foot of the cross, and from this book
Some of the most beautiful
lessons of faith and trust I have ever learned were from among our lowly
people in their humble cabins
Mamma
I thought
that I heard Iola's voice. Has she come
Yes, darling; do you want to see her
Oh, yes
I am so glad you
have come. Dear Iola, stand by mother. You and Harry are all she has. It
is not hard to die. You and mother and Harry must meet me in heaven
It is beautiful, so
beautiful
No, Doctor; that can never be. I am very grateful to you for your
kindness. I value your friendship, but neither gratitude nor friendship
is love, and I have nothing more than those to give
Not at present
but may I not hope your friendship
will ripen into love
Doctor, I could not promise. I do not think that I should. There are
barriers between us that I cannot pass. Were you to know them I think
you would say the same
Yes
I do like him; but I can never marry him.
To the man I marry my heart must be as open as the flowers to the sun. I
could not accept his hand and hide from him the secret of my birth; and
I could not consent to choose the happiest lot on earth without first
finding my poor heart-stricken and desolate mother. Perhaps some day I
may have the courage to tell him my sad story, and then make my heart
the sepulchre in which to bury all the love which might have gladdened
and brightened my whole life
Iola
you are wronging
yourself. You are sinking beneath burdens too heavy for you to bear. It
seems to me that besides the constant drain upon your sympathies there
is some great sorrow preying upon your life; some burden that ought to
be shared
Doctor, you are right
Iola, my heart is longing to lift those burdens from your life. Love,
like faith, laughs at impossibilities. I can conceive of no barrier too
high for my love to surmount. Consent to be mine, as nothing else on
earth is mine
Doctor, you know not what you ask
Instead of coming
into this hospital a self-sacrificing woman, laying her every gift and
advantage upon the altar of her country, I came as a rescued slave, glad
to find a refuge from a fate more cruel than death; a fate from which I
was rescued by the intervention of my dear dead friend, Thomas Anderson.
I was born on a lonely plantation on the Mississippi River, where the
white population was very sparse. We had no neighbors who ever visited
us; no young white girls with whom I ever played in my childhood; but,
never having enjoyed such companionship, I was unconscious of any sense
of privation. Our parents spared no pains to make the lives of their
children (we were three) as bright and pleasant as they could. Our home
was so happy. We had a large number of servants, who were devoted to us.
I never had the faintest suspicion that there was any wrongfulness in
slavery, and I never dreamed of the dreadful fate which broke in a storm
of fearful anguish over our devoted heads. Papa used to take us to New
Orleans to see the Mardi Gras, and while there we visited the theatres
and other places of amusement and interest. At home we had books,
papers, and magazines to beguile our time. Perfectly ignorant of my
racial connection, I was sent to a Northern academy, and soon made many
friends among my fellow-students. Companionship with girls of my own age
was a new experience, which I thoroughly enjoyed. I spent several years
in New England, and was busily preparing for my commencement exercises
when my father was snatched away -- died of yellow fever on his way North
to witness my graduation. Through a stratagem, I was brought hurriedly
from the North, and found that my father was dead; that his nearest
kinsman had taken possession of our property; that my mother's marriage
had been declared illegal, because of an imperceptible infusion of negro
blood in her veins; and that she and her children had been remanded to
slavery. I was torn from my mother, sold as a slave, and subjected to
cruel indignities, from which I was rescued and a place given to me in
this hospital. Doctor, I did not choose my lot in life, but I have no
other alternative than to accept it. The intense horror and agony I felt
when I was first told the story are over. Thoughts and purposes have
come to me in the shadow I should never have learned in the sunshine. I
am constantly rousing myself up to suffer and be strong. I intend, when
this conflict is over, to cast my lot with the freed people as a helper,
teacher, and friend. I have passed through a fiery ordeal, but this
ministry of suffering will not be in vain. I feel that my mind has
matured beyond my years. I am a wonder to myself. It seems as if years
had been compressed into a few short months. In telling you this, do you
not, can you not, see that there is an insurmountable barrier between
us
No, I do not
I love you for your own sake. And
with this the disadvantages of birth have nothing to do
You say so now, and I believe that you are perfectly sincere. Today
your friendship springs from compassion, but, when that subsides, might
you not look on me as an inferior
Iola, you do not understand me. You think too meanly of me. You must
not judge me by the worst of my race. Surely our country has produced a
higher type of manhood than the men by whom you were tried and tempted
Tried, but not tempted
I was never tempted. I was sold from State to State as an article
of merchandise. I had outrages heaped on me which might well crimson the
cheek of honest womanhood with shame, but I never fell into the clutches
of an owner for whom I did not feel the utmost loathing and intensest
horror. I have heard men talk glibly of the degradation of the negro,
but there is a vast difference between abasement of condition and
degradation of character. I was abased, but the men who trampled on me
were the degraded ones
But, Iola, you must not blame all for what a few have done
A few have done? Did not the whole nation consent to our abasement
No, Miss Iola, we did not all consent to it. Slavery drew a line of
cleavage in this country. Although we were under one government we were
farther apart in our sentiments than if we had been divided by lofty
mountains and separated by wide seas. And had not Northern sentiment
been brought to bear against the institution, slavery would have been
intact until to-day
But, Doctor, the negro is under a social ban both North and South. Our
enemies have the ear of the world, and they can depict us just as they
please
That is true; but the negro has no other alternative than to make
friends of his calamities. Other men have plead his cause, but out of
the race must come its own defenders. With them the pen must be
mightier than the sword. It is the weapon of civilization, and they must
use it in their own defense. We cannot tell what is in them until they
express themselves
Yes, and I think there is a large amount of latent and undeveloped
ability in the race, which they will learn to use for their own benefit.
This my hospital experience has taught me
But
they must learn to struggle, labor, and
achieve. By facts, not theories, they will be judged in the future. The
Anglo-Saxon race is proud, domineering, aggressive, and impatient of a
rival, and, as I think, has more capacity for dragging down a weaker
race than uplifting it. They have been a conquering and achieving
people, marvelous in their triumphs of mind over matter. They have
manifested the traits of character which are developed by success and
victory
And yet
I believe the time will come when the
civilization of the negro will assume a better phase than you
Anglo-Saxons possess. You will prove unworthy of your high vantage
ground if you only use your superior ability to victimize feebler races
and minister to a selfish greed of gold and a love of domination
But, Iola
what has all this
to do with our marriage? Your complexion is as fair as mine. What is to
hinder you from sharing my Northern home, from having my mother to be
your mother
Dr Gresham
should the story of my life be
revealed to your family, would they be willing to ignore all the
traditions of my blood, forget all the terrible humiliations through
which I have passed? I have too much self-respect to enter your home
under a veil of concealment. I have lived in New England. I love the
sunshine of her homes and the freedom of her institutions. But New
England is not free from racial prejudice, and I would never enter a
family where I would be an unwelcome member
Iola, dear, you have nothing to fear in that direction
Doctor
suppose we
should marry, and little children in after years should nestle in our
arms, and one of them show unmistakable signs of color, would you be
satisfied
Ah, I see
that you are puzzled. You had not taken into
account what might result from such a marriage. I will relieve you from
all embarrassment by simply saying I cannot be your wife. When the war
is over I intend to search the country for my mother. Doctor, were you
to give me a palace-like home, with velvet carpets to hush my tread, and
magnificence to surround my way, I should miss her voice amid all other
tones, her presence amid every scene. Oh, you do not know how hungry my
heart is for my mother! Were I to marry you I would carry an aching
heart into your home and dim its brightness. I have resolved never to
marry until I have found my mother. The hope of finding her has colored
all my life since I regained my freedom. It has helped sustain me in the
hour of fearful trial. When I see her I want to have the proud
consciousness that I bring her back a heart just as loving, faithful,
and devoted as the last hour we parted
And is this your final answer
It is. I have pledged my life to that resolve, and I believe time and
patience will reward me
Iola, stand by mamma
No, no
I was right to refuse Dr Gresham. How
dare I dream of happiness when my poor mamma's heart may be slowly
breaking? I should be ashamed to live and ashamed to die were I to
choose a happy lot for myself and leave poor mamma to struggle alone. I
will never be satisfied till I get tidings of her. And when I have found
her I will do all I can to cheer and brighten the remnant of her life
Mr. Bascom, here is a case that baffles my skill. I saw that boy pass
by my window not more than half an hour ago, full of animation, and now
he lies hovering between life and death. I have great apprehension for
his reason. Can you throw any light on the subject
I am not asking you as a matter of idle curiosity, but as a physician.
I must have all the light I can get in making my diagnosis of the case
Can it be possible! I never suspected such a thing. It must be a
cruel, senseless hoax
Doctor
I have been a life-long Abolitionist and
have often read of the cruelties and crimes of American slavery, but
never before did I realize the low moral tone of the social life under
which such shameless cruelties could be practiced on a defenseless widow
and her orphaned children. Let me read the letter again. Just look at
it, all tear-blotted and written with a trembling hand:--


    'DEAR BROTHER:-- I have dreadful news for you and I hardly know how
    to tell it. Papa and Gracie are both dead. He died of yellow fever.
    Mamma is almost distracted. Papa's cousin has taken possession of
    our property, and instead of heirs we are chattels. Mamma has
    explained the whole situation to me. She was papa's slave before she
    married. He loved her, manumitted, educated, and married her. When
    he died Mr. Lorraine entered suit for his property and Judge
    Starkins has decided in his favor. The decree of the court has made
    their marriage invalid, robbed us of our inheritance, and remanded
    us all to slavery. Mamma is too wretched to attempt to write
    herself, but told me to entreat you not to attempt to come home. You
    can do us no good, and that mean, cruel Lorraine may do you much
    harm. Don't attempt, I beseech you, to come home. Show this letter
    to Mr. Bascom and let him advise you what to do. But don't, for our
    sake, attempt to come home.

    'Your heart-broken sister,

    'IOLA LEROY
This
is a very awkward affair. The boy is too ill
to be removed. It is doubtful if the nerves which have trembled with
such fearful excitement will ever recover their normal condition. It is
simply a work of mercy to watch over him with the tenderest care
Doctor
I seem
to have had a dreadful dream, and to have dreamt that my father was
dead, and my mother and sister were in terrible trouble, but I could not
help them. Doctor, was it a dream, or was it a reality? It could not
have been a dream, for when I fell asleep the grass was green and the
birds were singing, but now the winds are howling and the frost is on
the ground. Doctor, tell me how it is? How long have I been here
My dear boy, you have been very ill,
and everything depends on your keeping quiet, very quiet
But, Mr. Bascom
I do not understand this. It says my
mother and father were legally married. How could her marriage be set
aside and her children robbed of their inheritance? This is not a
heathen country. I hardly think barbarians would have done any worse;
yet this is called a Christian country
Christian in name
When your father left you
in my care, knowing that I was an Abolitionist, he confided his secret
to me. He said that life was full of vicissitudes, and he wished you to
have a good education. He wanted you and your sister to be prepared for
any emergency. He did not wish you to know that you had negro blood in
your veins. He knew that the spirit of caste pervaded the nation, North
and South, and he was very anxious to have his children freed from its
depressing influences. He did not intend to stay South after you had
finished your education
But
I cannot understand. If my mother was lawfully
married, how could they deprive her of her marital rights
When Lorraine
knew your father was dead, all
he had to do was to find a flaw in her manumission, and, of course, the
marriage became illegal. She could not then inherit property nor
maintain her freedom; and her children followed her condition
I see things in a new light. Now I remember that none of the planters'
wives ever visited my mother; and we never went to church except when my
father took us to the Cathedral in New Orleans. My father was a
Catholic, but I don't think mamma is
Now, Harry
life is before you. If you wish to
stay North, I will interest friends in your behalf, and try to get you a
situation. Going South is out of the question. It is probable that by
this time your mother and sister are removed from their home. You are
powerless to fight against the law that enslaved them. Should you fall
into the clutches of Lorraine, he might give you a great deal of
trouble. You would be pressed into the Confederate service to help them
throw up barricades, dig trenches, and add to the strength of those who
enslaved your mother and sister
Never! never
I would rather die than do it! I should
despise myself forever if I did
Numbers of our young men
have gone to the war which
is now raging between North and South. You have been sick for several
months, and much has taken place of which you are unaware. Would you
like to enlist
I certainly would; not so much for the sake of fighting for the
Government, as with the hope of finding my mother and sister, and
avenging their wrongs. I should like to meet Lorraine on the
battle-field
What kind of a regiment would you prefer, white or colored
I
do not think that you should be assigned to a colored regiment because
of the blood in your veins, but you will have, in such a regiment,
better facilities for finding your mother and sister
You are right, Mr. Bascom. To find my mother and sister I call no task
too heavy, no sacrifice too great
Why do you wish that
Because I am a colored man
I do not understand you
Surely you are a white
man, and, as such, I will enlist you in a white regiment
No
I am a colored man, and unless I can be
assigned to a colored regiment I am not willing to enter the army
Well
you are the d ---- d'st fool I ever saw -- a man
as white as you are turning his back upon his chances of promotion! But
you can take your choice
Good morning, gentlemen
Good morning
I am glad you have come. I
was just about to send for you. How is your company getting on
First rate, sir
In good health
Excellent. They are all in good health and spirits. Our boys are used
to hardship and exposure, and the hope of getting their freedom puts new
snap into them
I am glad of it
They make good fighters and
very useful allies. Last night we received very valuable intelligence
from some fugitives who had escaped through the Rebel lines. I do not
think many of the Northern people realize the service they have been to
us in bringing information and helping our boys when escaping from Rebel
prisons. I never knew a full-blooded negro to betray us. A month ago,
when we were encamped near the Rebel lines, a colored woman managed
admirably to keep us posted as to the intended movements of the enemy.
She was engaged in laundry work, and by means of hanging her sheets in
different ways gave us the right signals
I hope
that the time will come when some
faithful historian will chronicle all the deeds of daring and-service
these people have performed during this struggle, and give them due
credit therefor
Our great mistake
was our long delay in
granting them their freedom, and even what we have done is only partial.
The border States still retain their slaves. We ought to have made a
clean sweep of the whole affair. Slavery is a serpent which we nourished
in its weakness, and now it is stinging us in its strength
I think so, too
But in making his proclamation
of freedom, perhaps Mr. Lincoln went as far as he thought public opinion
would let him
It is remarkable
how these Secesh hold out.
It surprises me to see how poor white men, who, like the negroes, are
victims of slavery, rally around the Stripes and Bars. These men, I
believe, have been looked down on by the aristocratic slaveholders, and
despised by the well-fed and comfortable slaves, yet they follow their
leaders into the very jaws of death; face hunger, cold, disease, and
danger; and all for what? What, under heaven, are they fighting for?
Now, the negro, ignorant as he is, has learned to regard our flag as a
banner of freedom, and to look forward to his deliverance as a
consequence of the overthrow of the Rebellion
I think
that these ignorant white men have been
awfully deceived. They have had presented to their imaginations utterly
false ideas of the results of Secession, and have been taught that its
success would bring them advantages which they had never enjoyed in the
Union
And I think
that the women and ministers have
largely fed and fanned the fires of this Rebellion, and have helped to
create a public opinion which has swept numbers of benighted men into
the conflict. Well might one of their own men say, 'This is a rich man's
war and a poor man's fight.' They were led into it through their
ignorance, and held in it by their fears
I think
that if the public school had been
common through the South this war would never have occurred. Now things
have reached such a pass that able-bodied men must report at
headquarters, or be treated as deserters. Their leaders are desperate
men, of whom it has been said: 'They have robbed the cradle and the
grave
They are fighting against fearful odds
and
their defeat is only a question of time
As soon
as they fired on Fort Sumter, Uncle Daniel, a
dear old father who had been praying and hoping for freedom, said to me:
'Dey's fired on Fort Sumter, an' mark my words, Bob, de Norf's boun'
ter whip
Had we freed the slaves at the outset
we
wouldn't have given the Rebels so much opportunity to strengthen
themselves by means of slave labor in raising their crops, throwing up
their entrenchments, and building their fortifications. Slavery was a
deadly cancer eating into the life of the nation; but, somehow, it had
cast such a glamour over us that we have acted somewhat as if our
national safety were better preserved by sparing the cancer than by
cutting it out
Political and racial questions have sadly complicated this matter
The North is not wholly made up of anti-slavery
people. At the beginning of this war we were not permeated with justice,
and so were not ripe for victory. The battle of Bull Run inaugurated the
war by a failure. Instead of glory we gathered shame, and defeat in
place of victory
We have been slow
to see our danger and to do
our duty. Our delay has cost us thousands of lives and millions of
dollars. Yet it may be it is all for the best. Our national wound was
too deep to be lightly healed. When the President issued his
Emancipation Proclamation my heart overflowed with joy, and I said:
'This is the first bright rift in the war cloud
And did you really think that they would accept the terms of freedom
and lay down their arms
I hardly thought they would
I did not think
that their leaders would permit it. I believe the rank and file of their
army are largely composed of a mass of ignorance, led, manipulated, and
moulded by educated and ambitious wickedness. In attempting to overthrow
the Union, a despotism and reign of terror were created which
encompassed them as fetters of iron, and they will not accept the
conditions until they have reached the last extremity. I hardly think
they are yet willing to confess that such extremity has been reached
Captain
I have
lived all my life where I have had a chance to hear the 'Secesh' talk,
and when they left their papers around I used to read everything I could
lay my hands on. It seemed to me that the big white men not only ruled
over the poor whites and made laws for them, but over the whole nation
That was so
The North was strong but
forbearing. It was busy in trade and commerce, and permitted them to
make the Northern States hunting-grounds for their slaves. When we sent
back Simms and Burns from beneath the shadow of Bunker Hill Monument and
Faneuil Hall, they mistook us; looked upon us as a lot of
money-grabbers, who would be willing to purchase peace at any price. I
do not believe when they fired on the 'Star of the West' that they had
the least apprehension of the fearful results which were to follow their
madness and folly
Well, Captain
if the free North would submit to be
called on to help them catch their slaves, what could be expected of us,
who all our lives had known no other condition than that of slavery? How
much braver would you have been, if your first recollections had been
those of seeing your mother maltreated, your father cruelly beaten, or
your fellow-servants brutally murdered? I wonder why they never enslaved
the Indians
You are mistaken, Robert, if you think the Indians were never enslaved.
I have read that the Spaniards who visited the coasts of America
kidnapped thousands of Indians, whom they sent to Europe and the West
Indies as slaves. Columbus himself, we are informed, captured five
hundred natives, and sent them to Spain. The Indian had the lesser power
of endurance, and Las Cassas suggested the enslavement of the negro,
because he seemed to possess greater breadth of physical organization
and stronger power of endurance. Slavery was an old world's crime which,
I have heard, the Indians never practiced among themselves. Perhaps it
would have been harder to reduce them to slavery and hold them in
bondage when they had a vast continent before them, where they could
hide in the vastnesses of its mountains or the seclusion of its forests,
than it was for white men to visit the coasts of Africa and, with their
superior knowledge, obtain cargoes of slaves, bring them across the
ocean, hem them in on the plantations, and surround them with a pall of
dense ignorance
I remember
in reading a history I once came across at
our house, that when the Africans first came to this country they did
not all speak one language. Some had only met as mutual enemies. They
were not all one color, their complexions ranging from tawny yellow to
deep black
Yes
and in dealing with the negro we wanted his
labor; in dealing with the Indian we wanted his lands. For one we had
weapons of war; for the other we had real and invisible chains, the
coercion of force, and the terror of the unseen world
That's exactly so, Captain! When I was a boy I used to hear the old
folks tell what would happen to bad people in another world; about the
devil pouring hot lead down people's throats and stirring them up with a
pitch-fork; and I used to get so scared that I would be afraid to go to
bed at night. I don't suppose the Indians ever heard of such things,
or, if they had, I never heard of them being willing to give away all
their lands on earth, and quietly wait for a home in heaven
But, surely, Robert, you do not think religion has degraded the negro
Oh, I wouldn't say that. But a man is in a tight fix when he takes his
part, like Nat Turner or Denmark Veasy, and is made to fear that he will
be hanged in this world and be burned in the next. And, since I come to
think of it, we colored folks used to get mightily mixed up about our
religion. Mr. Gundover had on his plantation a real smart man. He was
religious, but he would steal
Oh, Robert
how could he be religious and steal
He didn't think
it was any harm to steal from his
master. I guess he thought it was right to get from his master all he
could. He would have thought it wrong to steal from his fellow-servants.
He thought that downright mean, but I wouldn't have insured the lives of
Gundover's pigs and chickens, if Uncle Jack got them in a tight place.
One day there was a minister stopping with Mr. Gundover. As a matter of
course, in speaking of his servants, he gave Jack's sins an airing. He
would much rather confess Jack's sins than his own. Now Gundover wanted
to do two things, save his pigs and poultry, and save Jack's soul. He
told the minister that Jack was a liar and a thief, and gave the
minister a chance to talk with Uncle Jack about the state of his soul.
Uncle Jack listened very quietly, and when taxed with stealing his
master's wheat he was ready with an answer. 'Now Massa Parker,' said
Jack, 'lem'me tell yer jis' how it war 'bout dat wheat. Wen ole Jack
com'd down yere, dis place war all growed up in woods. He go ter work,
clared up de groun' an' plowed, an' planted, an' riz a crap, an' den wen
it war all done, he hadn't a dollar to buy his ole woman a gown; an' he
jis' took a bag ob wheat
What did Mr. Parker say
I don't know, though I reckon he didn't think it was a bad steal after
all, but I don't suppose he told Jack so. When he came to the next
point, about Jack's lying, I suppose he thought he had a clear case; but
Jack was equal to the occasion
How did he clear up that charge
Finely. I think if he had been educated he would have made a first-rate
lawyer. He said, 'Marse Parker, dere's old Joe. His wife don't lib on
dis plantation. Old Joe go ober ter see her, but he stayed too long, an'
didn't git back in time fer his work. Massa's oberseer kotched him an'
cut him all up. When de oberseer went inter de house, pore old Joe war
all tired an' beat up, an' so he lay down by de fence corner and go ter
sleep. Bimeby Massa oberseer com'd an' axed, 'all bin a workin' libely?'
I say 'Yes, Massa.'' Then said Mr. Parker, 'You were lying, Joe had been
sleeping, not working.' 'I know's dat, but ef I tole on Joe, Massa
oberseer cut him all up again, and Massa Jesus says, 'Blessed am de
Peacemaker.'' I heard
that Mr. Parker said to
Gundover, 'You seem to me like a man standing in a stream where the
blood of Jesus can reach you, but you are standing between it and your
slaves. How will you answer that in the Day of Judgment
What did Gundover say
He turned pale, and said, 'For God's sake don't speak of the Day of
Judgment in connection with slavery
Here are orders for an
engagement at Five Forks to-morrow. Oh, this wasting of life and
scattering of treasure might have been saved had we only been wiser. But
the time is passing. Look after your company, and see that everything is
in readiness as soon as possible
And lives of men and souls of States
       Were thrown like chaff beyond the gates
Drooping souls no longer grieve,
           Heaven is propitious;
     If on Christ you do believe,
          You will find Him precious
That
was my mother's
hymn. I have not heard it for years. Where did you learn it
In my home, in Mississippi, from my own dear mother
Do you know where she learned it
When she was a little girl she heard her mother sing it. Years after, a
Methodist preacher came to our house, sang this hymn, and left the book
behind him. My father was a Catholic, but my mother never went to any
church. I did not understand it then, but I do now. We used to sing
together, and read the Bible when we were alone
Do you remember where she came from, and who was her mother
My dear friend, you must be quiet. The fever has left you, but I will
not answer for the consequences if you get excited
Have you any friends to whom you would like to send a
letter
I
haven't, to my knowledge, a single relation in the world. When I was
about ten years old my mother and sister were sold from me. It is more
than twenty years since I have heard from them. But that hymn which you
were singing reminded me so much of my mother! She used to sing it when
I was a child. Please sing it again
Oh, I _do_ wonder if he can be my mother's brother, from whom she has
been separated so many years
Miss Iola, you remind me so much of my mother and sister that I cannot
help wondering if you are the daughter of my long-lost sister
Do you think
if you saw the likeness of your sister you
would recognize her
I am afraid not. But there is one thing I can remember about her: she
used to have a mole on her cheek, which mother used to tell her was her
beauty spot
Look at this
I have only a faint remembrance of my
sister's features; but I never could recognize in that beautiful woman
the dear little sister with whom I used to play. Oh, the cruelty of
slavery! How it wrenched and tore us apart! Where is _your_ mother now
Oh, I cannot tell
I left her in Mississippi. My
father was a wealthy Creole planter, who fell in love with my mother.
She was his slave, but he educated her in the North, freed, and married
her. My father was very careful to have the fact of our negro blood
concealed from us. I had not the slightest suspicion of it. When he was
dead the secret was revealed. His white relations set aside my father's
will, had his marriage declared invalid, and my mother and her children
were remanded to slavery
Now, that freedom has come, I intend to search for my mother
until I find her
I do not wonder
that we had this war. The nation had
sinned enough to suffer
Yes
if national sins bring down national judgments, then
the nation is only reaping what it sowed
What are your plans for the future, or have you any
I intend offering myself as a teacher in one of the schools which are
being opened in different parts of the country
As soon
as I am able I will begin my search for my dear mother. I will advertise
for her in the papers, hunt for her in the churches, and use all the
means in my power to get some tidings of her and my brother Harry. What
a cruel thing it was to separate us
Good morning
How are
you both? You have mended rapidly
but then it was
only a flesh wound. Your general health being good, and your blood in
excellent condition, it was not hard for you to rally
Where have you been, Doctor? I have a faint recollection of having seen
you on the morning I was brought in from the field, but not since
I have been on a furlough. I was running down through exhaustion and
overwork, and I was compelled to go home for a few weeks' rest. But now,
as they are about to close the hospital, I shall be permanently
relieved. I am glad that this cruel strife is over. It seemed as if I
had lived through ages during these last few years. In the early part of
the war I lost my arm by a stray shot, and my armless sleeve is one of
the mementos of battle I shall carry with me through life. Miss Leroy
would you permit me to ask
you, as I would have someone ask my sister under the same circumstances,
if you have matured any plans for the future, or if I can be of the
least service to you? If so, I would be pleased to render you any
service in my power
My purpose
is to hunt for my mother, and to find her
if she is alive. I am willing to go anywhere and do anything to find
her. But I will need a standpoint from whence I can send out lines of
inquiry. It must take time, in the disordered state of affairs, even to
get a clue by which I may discover her whereabouts
How would you like to teach
Schools are being
opened all around us. Numbers of excellent and superior women are coming
from the North to engage as teachers of the freed people. Would you be
willing to take a school among these people? I think it will be uphill
work. I believe it will take generations to get over the duncery of
slavery. Some of these poor fellows who came into our camp did not know
their right hands from their left, nor their ages, nor even the days of
the month. It took me some time, in a number of cases, to understand
their language. It saddened my heart to see such ignorance. One day I
asked one a question, and he answered, 'I no shum
What did he mean
That he did not see it
Of course, this does not
apply to all of them. Some of them are wide-awake and sharp as steel
traps. I think some of that class may be used in helping others
I should be very glad to have an opportunity to teach
I
used to be a great favorite among the colored children on my father's
plantation
book larnin
They've got money
But how did they get it
They took it from us
Oh, do not be discouraged,
       For Jesus is your friend
I am not despondent of the future of my people; there is too much
elasticity in their spirits, too much hope in their hearts, to be
crushed out by unreasoning malice
I am so glad to meet you
I am on my way to C ---- in search
of my mother. I want to see the person who sold her last, and, if
possible, get some clew to the direction in which she went
And I
am in search of _my_ mother. I am convinced that
when we find those for whom we are searching they will prove to be very
nearly related. Mamma said, before we were parted, that her brother had
a red spot on his temple. If I could see that spot I should rest assured
that my mother is your sister
Then
I can give you that assurance
I am satisfied
Oh, I am so glad that I can, without the least
hesitation, accept your services to join with me in the further search.
What are your plans
To stop for awhile in C
and gather all the
information possible from those who sold and bought my mother. I intend
to leave no stone un-turned in searching for her
Oh, I _do_ hope that you will succeed. I expect to stop over there a
few days, and I shall be so glad if, before I leave, I hear your search
has been crowned with success, or, a least, that you have been put on
the right track. Although I was born and raised in the midst of
slavery, I had not the least idea of its barbarous selfishness till I
was forced to pass through it. But we lived so much alone I had no
opportunity to study it, except on our own plantation. My father and
mother were very kind to their slaves. But it was slavery, all the same,
and I hate it, root and branch
We stop here
I am going to see Mrs. Johnson, and hunt
up some of my old acquaintances. Where do you stop
I don't know
I expect that friends will be here to
meet us. Bishop B ----, permit me to introduce you to Mr. Robert Johnson,
whom I have every reason to believe is my mother's brother. Like myself,
he is engaged in hunting up his lost relatives
And I
am very much pleased to know that we are not
without favorable clues
Bishop
Mr. Johnson wishes to know where I am to stop. He
is going on an exploring expedition, and wishes to let me know the
result
We stop at Mrs. Allston's, 313 New Street
If I can
be of any use to you, I am at your service
Thank you
aunties and
uncles
Mr. or
Mrs
Miss
Nancy
Well, Robby
I once thought that you would have been the
last one to leave me. You know I never ill-treated you, and I gave you
everything you needed. People said that I was spoiling you. I thought
you were as happy as the days were long. When I heard of other people's
servants leaving them I used to say to myself, 'I can trust my Bobby; he
will stick to me to the last.' But I fooled myself that time. Soon as
the Yankee soldiers got in sight you left me without saying a word. That
morning I came down into the kitchen and asked Linda, 'Where's Robert?
Why hasn't he set the table?' She said she hadn't seen you since the
night before. I thought maybe you were sick, and I went to see, but you
were not in your room. I couldn't believe at first that you were gone.
Wasn't I always good to you
Oh, Miss Nancy
you were good, but freedom was
better
Yes
I suppose I would have done the same. But,
Robby, it did go hard with me at first. However, I soon found out that
my neighbors had been going through the same thing. But its all over
now. Let by-gones be by-gones. What are you doing now, and where are
you living
I am living in the city of P ----. I have opened a hardware store there.
But just now I am in search of my mother and sister
I hope that you may find them
How long
do you think it has been since they left
here
Let me see; it must have been nearly thirty years. You got my letter
Yes, ma'am; thank you
There have been great changes since you left here
Gundover died, and a number of colored men have banded together, bought
his plantation, and divided it among themselves. And I hear they have a
very nice settlement out there. I hope, since the Government has set
them free, that they will succeed
How is yer, ole boy
Everything is lobly
Shore as I'se born,
dat's Robert! Look yere, honey, whar did yer come from? I'll gib my head
fer a choppin' block ef dat ain't Miss Nancy's Bob. Ain't yer our Bobby?
Shore yer is
Of course I am
It isn't anybody else. How did you
know me
How did I know yer? By dem mischeebous eyes, ob course. I'd a knowed
yer if I had seed yer in Europe
In Europe, Aunt Linda? Where's that
I don't know. I specs its some big city, somewhar. But yer looks jis'
splendid. Yer looks good 'nuff ter kiss
Oh, Aunt Linda, don't say that. You make me blush
Oh you go 'long wid yer. I specs yer's got a nice little wife up dar
whar yer comes from, dat kisses yer ebery day, an' Sunday, too
Is that the way your old man does you
Oh, no, not a bit. He isn't one ob de kissin' kine. But sit down
Won't yer hab a glass ob milk? Boy, I'se
a libin' in clover. Neber 'spected ter see sich good times in all my
born days
Well, Aunt Linda
how goes the battle? How
have you been getting on since freedom
Oh, fust rate, fust rate! Wen freedom com'd I jist lit out ob Miss
Johnson's kitchen soon as I could. I wanted ter re'lize I war free, an'
I couldn't, tell I got out er de sight and soun' ob ole Miss. When de
war war ober an' de sogers war still stopping' yere, I made pies an'
cakes, sole em to de sogers, an' jist made money han' ober fist. An' I
kep' on a workin' an' a savin' till my ole man got back from de war wid
his wages and his bounty money. I felt right set up an' mighty big wen
we counted all dat money. We had neber seen so much money in our lives
befo', let alone hab it fer ourselbs. An' I sez, 'John, you take dis
money an' git a nice place wid it.' An' he sez, 'Dere's no use tryin',
kase dey don't want ter sell us any lan'.' Ole Gundover said, 'fore he
died, dat he would let de lan' grow up in trees 'fore he'd sell it to
us. An' dere war Mr. Brayton; he buyed some lan' and sole it to some
cullud folks, an' his ole frien's got so mad wid him dat dey wouldn't
speak ter him, an' he war borned down yere. I tole ole Miss Anderson's
daughter dat we wanted ter git some homes ob our ownselbs. She sez, 'Den
you won't want ter work for us?' Jis' de same as ef we could eat an'
drink our houses. I tell yer, Robby, dese white folks don't know
eberything
That's a fact, Aunt Linda
Den I sez ter John, 'wen one door shuts anoder opens.' An' shore
'nough, ole Gundover died, an' his place war all in debt, an' had to be
sole. Some Jews bought it, but dey didn't want to farm it, so dey gib us
a chance to buy it. Dem Jews hez been right helpful to cullud people wen
dey hab lan' to sell. I reckon dey don't keer who buys it so long as dey
gits de money. Well, John didn't gib in at fust; didn't want to let on
his wife knowed more dan he did, an' dat he war ruled ober by a woman.
Yer know he is an' ole Firginian, an' some ob dem ole Firginians do so
lub to rule a woman. But I kep' naggin at him, till I specs he got tired
of my tongue, an' he went and buyed dis piece ob lan'. Dis house war on
it, an' war all gwine to wrack. It used to belong to John's ole marster.
His wife died right in dis house, an' arter dat her husband went right
to de dorgs; an' now he's in de pore-house. My! but ain't dem tables
turned. When we knowed it war our own, warn't my ole man proud! I seed
it in him, but he wouldn't let on. Ain't you men powerful 'ceitful
Oh, Aunt Linda, don't put me in with the rest
I don't know 'bout dat. Put you all in de bag for 'ceitfulness, an' I
don't know which would git out fust
Well, Aunt Linda, I suppose by this time you know how to read and
write
No, chile, sence freedom's com'd I'se bin scratchin' too hard to get a
libin' to put my head down to de book
But, Aunt Linda, it would be such company when your husband is away, to
take a book. Do you never get lonesome
Chile, I ain't got no time ter get lonesome. Ef you had eber so many
chickens to feed, an' pigs squealin' fer somethin' ter eat, an' yore
ducks an' geese squakin' 'roun' yer, yer wouldn't hab time ter git
lonesome
But, Aunt Linda, you might be sick for months, and think what a comfort
it would be if you could read your Bible
Oh, I could hab prayin' and singin'. Dese people is mighty good 'bout
prayin' by de sick. Why, Robby, I think it would gib me de hysterics ef
I war to try to git book larnin' froo my pore ole head. How long is yer
gwine to stay? An' whar is yer stoppin
I got here to-day
but I expect to stay several days
Well, I wants yer to meet my ole man, an' talk 'bout ole times.
Couldn't yer come an' stop wid me, or isn't my house sniptious 'nuff
Yes, thank you; but there is a young lady in town whom I think is my
niece, my sister's daughter, and I want to be with her all I can
Your niece! Whar did you git any niece from
Don't you remember
that my mother had a little
daughter, when Mrs. Johnson sold her? Well, I believe this young lady is
that daughter's child
Laws a marcy
yer don't tell me so! Whar did
yer ketch up wid her
I met her first
at the hospital here, when our poor Tom
was dying; and when I was wounded at Five Forks she attended me in the
field hospital there. She was just as good as gold
Well, did I eber! You jis' fotch dat chile to see me, ef she ain't too
fine. I'se pore, but I'se clean, an' I ain't forgot how ter git up good
dinners. Now, I wants ter hab a good talk 'bout our feller-sarvants
Yes, and I
want to hear all about Uncle Daniel, and
Jennie, and Uncle Ben Tunnel
Well, I'se got lots an' gobs ter tell yer. I'se kep' track ob dem all.
Aunt Katie died an' went ter hebben in a blaze ob glory. Uncle Dan'el
stayed on de place till Marse Robert com'd back. When de war war ober he
war smashed all ter pieces. I did pity him from de bottom ob my heart.
When he went ter de war he looked so brave an' han'some; an' wen he
com'd back he looked orful. 'Fore he went he gib Uncle Dan'el a bag full
ob money ter take kere ob. 'An wen he com'd back Uncle Dan'el gibed him
ebery cent ob it. It warn't ebery white pusson he could hab trusted wid
it. 'Cause yer know, Bobby, money's a mighty temptin' thing. Dey tells
me dat Marster Robert los' a heap ob property by de war; but Marse
Robert war always mighty good ter Uncle Dan'el and Aunt Katie. He war
wid her wen she war dyin' an' she got holt his han' an' made him promise
dat he would meet her in glory. I neber seed anybody so happy in my
life. She singed an' prayed ter de last. I tell you dis ole time
religion is good 'nuff fer me. Mr. Robert didn't stay yere long arter
her, but I beliebs he went all right. But 'fore he went he looked out
fer Uncle Dan'el. Did you see dat nice little cabin down dere wid de
green shutters an' nice little garden in front? Well, 'fore Marse Robert
died he gib Uncle Dan'el dat place, an' Miss Mary and de chillen looks
arter him yet; an' he libs jis' as snug as a bug in a rug. I'se gwine
ter axe him ter take supper wid you. He'll be powerful glad ter see
you
Do you ever go to see old Miss
Oh, yes; I goes ebery now and den. But she's jis' fell froo. Ole
Johnson jis' drunk hisself to death. He war de biggest guzzler I eber
seed in my life. Why, dat man he drunk up ebery thing he could lay his
han's on. Sometimes he would go 'roun' tryin' to borrer money from pore
cullud folks. 'Twas rale drefful de way dat pore feller did frow hisself
away. But drink did it all. I tell you, Bobby, dat drink's a drefful
thing wen it gits de upper han' ob you. You'd better steer clar ob it
That's so
I know'd Miss Nancy's fadder and mudder. Dey war mighty rich. Some ob
de real big bugs. Marse Jim used to know dem, an' come ober ter de
plantation, an' eat an' drink wen he got ready, an' stay as long as he
choose. Ole Cousins used to have wine at dere table ebery day, an' Marse
Jim war mighty fon' ob dat wine, an' sometimes he would drink till he
got quite boozy. Ole Cousins liked him bery well, till he foun' out he
wanted his darter, an' den he didn't want him fer rags nor patches. But
Miss Nancy war mighty headstrong, an' allers liked to hab her own way;
an' dis time she got it. But didn't she step her foot inter it? Ole
Johnson war mighty han'some, but when dat war said all war said. She
run'd off an' got married, but wen she got down she war too spunkey to
axe her pa for anything. Wen you war wid her, yer know she only took big
bugs. But wen de war com'd 'roun' it tore her all ter pieces, an' now
she's as pore as Job's turkey. I feel's right sorry fer her. Well,
Robby, things is turned 'roun' mighty quare. Ole Mistus war up den, an'
I war down; now, she's down, an' I'se up. But I pities her, 'cause she
warn't so bad arter all. De wuss thing she eber did war ta sell your
mudder, an' she wouldn't hab done dat but she snatched de whip out ob
her han' an gib her a lickin'. Now I belieb in my heart she war 'fraid
ob your mudder arter dat. But we women had ter keep 'em from whippin'
us, er dey'd all de time been libin' on our bones. She had no man ter
whip us 'cept dat ole drunken husband ob hern, an' he war allers too
drunk ter whip hisself. He jis' wandered off, an' I reckon he died in
somebody's pore-house. He warn't no 'count nohow you fix it. Weneber I
goes to town I carries her some garden sass, er a little milk an'
butter. An' she's mighty glad ter git it. I ain't got nothin' agin her.
She neber struck me a lick in her life, an' I belieb in praising de
bridge dat carries me ober. Dem Yankees set me free, an' I thinks a
powerful heap ob dem. But it does rile me ter see dese mean white men
comin' down yere an' settin' up dere grog-shops, tryin' to fedder dere
nests sellin' licker to pore culled people. Deys de bery kine ob men dat
used ter keep dorgs to ketch de runaways. I'd be chokin' fer a drink
'fore I'd eber spen' a cent wid dem, a spreadin' dere traps to git de
black folks' money. You jis' go down town 'fore sun up to-morrer
mornin' an' you see ef dey don't hab dem bars open to sell dere drams to
dem hard workin' culled people 'fore dey goes ter work. I thinks some
niggers is mighty big fools
Oh, Aunt Linda, don't run down your race. Leave that for the white
people
I ain't runnin' down my people. But a fool's a fool, wether he's white
or black. An' I think de nigger who will spen' his hard-earned money in
dese yere new grog-shops is de biggest kine ob a fool, an' I sticks ter
dat. You know we didn't hab all dese low places in slave times. An' what
is dey fer, but to get the people's money. An' its a shame how dey do
sling de licker 'bout 'lection times
But don't the temperance people want the colored people to vote the
temperance ticket
Yes, but some ob de culled people gits mighty skittish ef dey tries to
git em to vote dare ticket 'lection time, an' keeps dem at a proper
distance wen de 'lection's ober. Some ob dem say dere's a trick behine
it, an' don't want to tech it. Dese white folks could do a heap wid de
culled folks ef dey'd only treat em right
When our people say there is a trick behind it
I only
wish they could see the trick before it -- the trick of worse than wasting
their money, and of keeping themselves and families poorer and more
ignorant than there is any need for them to be
Well, Bobby, I beliebs we might be a people ef it warn't for dat
mizzable drink. An' Robby, I jis' tells yer what I wants; I wants some
libe man to come down yere an' splain things ter dese people. I don't
mean a politic man, but a man who'll larn dese people how to bring up
dere chillen, to keep our gals straight, an' our boys from runnin' in de
saloons an' gamblin' dens
Don't your preachers do that
Well, some ob dem does, an' some ob dem doesn't. An' wen dey preaches,
I want dem to practice wat dey preach. Some ob dem says dey's called,
but I jis' thinks laziness called some ob dem. An' I thinks since
freedom come deres some mighty pore sticks set up for preachers. Now
dere's John Anderson, Tom's brudder; you 'member Tom
Yes; as brave a fellow and as honest as ever stepped in shoe leather
Well, his brudder war mighty diffrent. He war down in de lower kentry
wen de war war ober. He war mighty smart, an' had a good head-piece, an'
a orful glib tongue. He set up store an' sole whisky, an' made a lot ob
money. Den he wanted ter go to de legislatur. Now what should he do but
make out he'd got 'ligion, an' war called to preach. He had no more
'ligion dan my ole dorg. But he had money an' built a meetin' house,
whar he could hole meeting, an' hab funerals; an' you know cullud folks
is mighty great on funerals. Well dat jis' tuck wid de people, an' he
got 'lected to de legislatur. Den he got a fine house, an' his ole wife
warn't good 'nuff for him. Den dere war a young school-teacher, an' he
begun cuttin' his eyes at her. But she war as deep in de mud as he war
in de mire, an' he jis' gib up his ole wife and married her, a fusty
thing. He war a mean ole hypocrit, an' I wouldn't sen' fer him to bury
my cat. Robby, I'se down on dese kine ob preachers like a thousand
bricks
Well, Aunt Linda, all the preachers are not like him
No; I knows dat; not by a jug full. We's got some mighty good men down
yere, an' we's glad when dey comes, an' orful sorry when dey goes 'way.
De las preacher we had war a mighty good man. He didn't like too much
hollerin
Perhaps
he thought it were best for only one to speak
at a time
I specs so. His wife war de nicest and sweetest lady dat eber I did
see. None ob yer airish, stuck up folks, like a tarrapin carryin'
eberything on its back. She used ter hab meetins fer de mudders, an'
larn us how to raise our chillen, an' talk so putty to de chillen. I
sartinly did lub dat woman
Where is she now
De Conference moved dem 'bout thirty miles from yere. Deys gwine to hab
a big meetin' ober dere next Sunday. Don't you 'member dem meetins we
used to hab in de woods? We don't hab to hide like we did den. But it
don't seem as ef de people had de same good 'ligion we had den. 'Pears
like folks is took up wid makin' money an' politics
Well, Aunt Linda, don't you wish those good old days would come back
No, chile; neber! neber! Wat fer you take me? I'd ruther lib in a
corn-crib. Freedom needn't keep me outer heben; an' ef I'se sich a fool
as ter lose my 'ligion cause I'se free, I oughtn' ter git dere
But, Aunt Linda, if old Miss were able to take care of you, wouldn't
you just as leave be back again
Don't yer want yer freedom? Well I wants ter pat my free foot.
Halleluyah! But, Robby, I wants yer ter go ter dat big meetin' de wuss
kine
How will I get there
Oh, dat's all right. My ole man's got two ob de nicest mules you eber
set yer eyes on. It'll jis' do yer good ter look at dem. I 'spect you'll
see some ob yer ole frens dere. Dere's a nice settlemen' of cullud folks
ober dere, an' I wants yer to come an' bring dat young lady. I wants dem
folks to see wat nice folks I kin bring to de meetin'. I hope's yer
didn't lose all your 'ligion in de army
Oh, I hope not
Oh, chile, yer mus' be shore 'bout dat. I don't want yer to ride hope's
hoss down to torment. Now be shore an' come to-morrer an' bring dat
young lady, an' take supper wid me. I'se all on nettles to see dat
chile
Ole Mistus can't set sich a table as dat. She
ought'er be yere to see it. Specs 'twould make her mouf water. Well, I
mus' let by-gones be by-gones. But dis yere freedom's mighty good
Do you know dis gemmen
Well, I can't say's I do. My eyes is gittin dim, an I disremembers
him
Now jis' you look right good at him. Don't yer 'member him
He do look like somebody I used ter know, but I can't make him
out ter save my life. I don't know whar to place him. Who is de gemmen,
ennyhow
Why, Uncle Dan'el
dis is Robby; Miss Nancy's
bad, mischeebous Robby, dat war allers playin' tricks on me
Well, shore's I'se born, ef dis ain't our ole Bobby
Why, chile, whar did yer come from? Thought you
war dead an' buried long 'go
Why, Uncle Daniel, did you send anybody to kill me
Oh, no'n 'deed, chile! but I yeard dat you war killed in de battle, an'
I never 'spected ter see you agin
Well, here I am
large as life, and just as natural.
And this young lady, Uncle Daniel, I believe is my niece
Do you remember my mother
Oh, yes
Well, I firmly believe
that this is the daughter
of the little girl whom Miss Nancy sold away with my mother
Well, I'se rale glad ter see her. She puts me mighty much in mine ob
dem days wen we war all young togedder; wen Miss Nancy sed, 'Harriet war
too high fer her.' It jis' seems like yisterday wen I yeard Miss Nancy
say, 'No house could flourish whar dere war two mistresses.' Well, Mr.
Robert
Oh, no, no, Uncle Daniel
don't say that! Call me
Robby or Bob, just as you used to
Well, Bobby, I'se glad klar from de bottom of my heart ter see yer
Even if you wouldn't go with us when we left
Oh, Bobby, dem war mighty tryin' times. You boys didn't know it, but
Marster Robert hab giben me a bag ob money ter take keer ob, an' I
promised him I'd do it an' I had ter be ez good ez my word
Oh, Uncle Daniel, why didn't you tell us boys all about it? We could
have helped you take care of it
Now, wouldn't dat hab bin smart ter let on ter you chaps, an' hab you
huntin' fer it from Dan ter Barsheba? I specs some ob you would bin a
rootin' fer it yit
Well, Uncle Daniel, we were young then; I can't tell what we would have
done if we had found it. But we are older now
Yes, yer older, but I wouldn't put it pas' yer eben now, ef yer foun'
out whar it war
Yes
they say 'caution is the parent of
safety
Money's a mighty tempting thing
But, Robby, dere's nothin' like a klar conscience; a klar conscience,
Robby
Salters, let me
interdoos you ter my fren', Mr. Robert Johnson, an' his niece, Miss
Leroy
Why, is it possible
that you are Aunt Linda's husband
Dat's what de parson sed
I thought
that your name was John Andrews. It was
such when you were in my company
All de use I'se got fer dat name is ter git my money wid it; an' wen
dat's done, all's done. Got 'nuff ob my ole Marster in slave times,
widout wearin' his name in freedom. Wen I got done wid him, I got done
wid his name. Wen I 'listed, I war John Andrews; and wen I gits my
pension, I'se John Andrews; but now Salters is my name, an' I likes it
better
But how came you to be Aunt Linda's husband? Did you get married since
the war
Lindy an' me war married long 'fore de war. But my ole Marster sole me
away from her an' our little gal, an' den sole her chile ter somebody
else. Arter freedom, I hunted up our little gal, an' foun' her. She war
a big woman den. Den I com'd right back ter dis place an' foun' Lindy.
She hedn't married agin, nuther hed I; so we jis' let de parson marry us
out er de book; an' we war mighty glad ter git togedder agin, an' feel
hitched togedder fer life
Well, Uncle Daniel
you and Uncle Ben wouldn't go with us, but you came out all right at
last
Yes, indeed
Ben got inter a stream of luck. Arter
freedom com'd, de people had a heap of fath in Ben; an' wen dey wanted
some one to go ter Congress dey jist voted for Ben ter go. An' he went,
too. An' wen Salters went to Washin'ton to git his pension, who should
he see dere wid dem big men but our Ben, lookin' jist as big as any ob
dem
An' it did my ole eyes good jist ter see it
if I
couldn't go dere myself, I war mighty glad to see some one ob my people
dat could. I felt like de boy who, wen somebody said he war gwine to
slap off his face, said, 'Yer kin slap off my face, but I'se got a big
brudder, an' you can't slap off his face.' I went to see him 'fore I lef,
and he war jist de same as he war wen we war boys togedder. He hadn't
got de big head a bit
I reckon Mirandy war mighty sorry she didn't stay wid him. I know I
should be
Uncle Daniel
are you still preaching
Yes, chile, I'se still firing off de Gospel gun
I hear some of the Northern folks are down here teaching theology, that
is, teaching young men how to preach. Why don't you study theology
Look a yere, boy, I'se been a preachin' dese thirty years, an' you come
yere a tellin' me 'bout studying yore ologies. I larn'd my 'ology at de
foot ob de cross. You bin dar
Dear Uncle Daniel
the moral aspect of the nation would be
changed if it would learn at the same cross to subordinate the spirit of
caste to the spirit of Christ
Does yer 'member Miss Nancy's Harriet
dat she sole
away kase she wouldn't let her whip her? Well, we think dis is Harriet's
gran'chile. She war sole away from her mar, an' now she's a lookin' fer
her
Well, I hopes she may fine her
I war sole 'way from
my mammy wen I war eighteen mont's ole, an' I wouldn't know her now from
a bunch ob turnips
I
am on my way South seeking for my mother, and I shall
not give up until I find her
Come
we mustn't stan' yer talkin', or de grub'll
git cole. Come, frens, sit down, an' eat some ob my pore supper
Robby, seein' yer an' hearin' yer talk, almos' puts new springs inter
me. I feel 'mos' like I war gittin' younger
Well, Captin
I neber 'spected ter see you agin. Do you
know de las' time I seed yer? Well, you war on a stretcher, an' four ob
us war carryin' you ter de hospital. War you much hurt?

"No
it was only a flesh wound; and this young lady
nursed me so carefully that I soon got over it
Is dat de way you foun' her
Yes, Andrews
Salters, ef you please
Well, Salters
our freedom was a costly thing. Did
you know that Captain Sybil was killed in one of the last battles of the
war? These young chaps, who are taking it so easy, don't know the
hardships through which we older ones passed. But all the battles are
not fought, nor all the victories won. The colored man has escaped from
one slavery, and I don't want him to fall into another. I want the young
folks to keep their brains clear, and their right arms strong, to fight
the battles of life manfully, and take their places alongside of every
other people in this country. And I cannot see what is to hinder them if
they get a chance
I don't nuther
I don't see dat dey drinks any more dan
anybody else, nor dat dere is any meanness or debilment dat a black man
kin do dat a white man can't keep step wid him
Yes
but while a white man is stealing a thousand
dollars, a black man is getting into trouble taking a few chickens
All that may be true
but there are some things a white
man can do that we cannot afford to do
I beliebs eberybody, Norf and Souf, is lookin' at us; an' some ob dem
ain't got no good blood fer us, nohow you fix it
I specs cullud folks mus' hab done somethin
O, nonsense
I don't think they are any worse than the
white people. I don't believe, if we had the power, we would do any
more lynching, burning, and murdering than they do
Dat's so
it's ralely orful how our folks hab been
murdered sence de war. But I don't think dese young folks is goin' ter
take things as we's allers done
We war cowed down from the beginnin
but dese
young folks ain't comin' up dat way
No
fer one night arter some ob our pore people had
been killed, an' some ob our women had run'd away 'bout seventeen miles,
my gran'son, looking me squar in de face, said: 'Ain't you got five
fingers? Can't you pull a trigger as well as a white man?' I tell yer,
Cap, dat jis' got to me, an' I made up my mine dat my boy should neber
call me a coward
It is not to be expected
that these young people are
going to put up with things as we did, when we weren't permitted to hold
a meeting by ourselves, or to own a club or learn to read
I tried
to git a little out'er de book wen I war in de
army. On Sundays I sometimes takes a book an' tries to make out de
words, but my eyes is gittin' dim an' de letters all run togedder, an' I
gits sleepy, an' ef yer wants to put me to sleep jis' put a book in my
han'. But wen it comes to gittin' out a stan' ob cotton, an' plantin'
corn, I'se dere all de time. But dat gran'son ob mine is smart as a
steel trap. I specs he'll be a preacher
Yes
his fadder war killed by the Secesh, one night,
comin' home from a politic meetin', an' his pore mudder died a few
weeks arter, an' we mean to make a man ob him
He's got to larn to work fust
an' den ef he's right
smart I'se gwine ter sen' him ter college. An' ef he can't get a libin'
one way, he kin de oder
Yes
I hope he will turn out an excellent young man, for
the greatest need of the race is noble, earnest men, and true women
Job
tell Jake ter hitch up de
mules, an' you stay dere an' help him. We's all gwine ter de big
meetin'. Yore grandma hab set her heart on goin', an' it'll be de same
as a spell ob sickness ef she don't hab a chance to show her bes' bib
an' tucker. That ole gal's as proud as a peacock
Now, John Salters
ain't you 'shamed ob
yourself? Allers tryin' to poke fun at yer pore wife. Never mine; wait
till I'se gone, an' you'll miss me
Ef I war single
I could git a putty young gal, but it
wouldn't be so easy wid you
Why not
Cause young men don't want ole hens, an' ole men want young pullets
Robby, honey
when you gits a wife, don't treat her
like dat man treats me
Oh, his head's level
at least it was in the army
Dat's jis' de way; you see dat, Miss Iola? One man takin' up for de
oder. But I'll be eben wid you bof. I must go now an' git ready
Jis' look at dem
Ain't dey beauties? I bought 'em out ob my
bounty-money. Arter de war war ober I had a little money, an' I war
gwine ter rent a plantation on sheers an' git out a good stan' ob
cotton. Cotton war bringin' orful high prices den, but Lindy said to me,
'Now, John, you'se got a lot ob money, an' you'd better salt it down.
I'd ruther lib on a little piece ob lan' ob my own dan a big piece ob
somebody else's. Well, I says to Lindy, I dun know nuthin' 'bout buyin'
lan', an' I'se 'fraid arter I'se done buyed it an' put all de marrer ob
dese bones in it, dat somebody's far-off cousin will come an' say de
title ain't good, an' I'll lose it all
You're right thar, John
White man's so unsartain,
black man's nebber safe
But somehow
Lindy warn't satisfied wid rentin',
so I buyed a piece ob lan', an' I'se glad now I'se got it. Lindy's got a
lot ob gumption; knows most as much as a man. She ain't got dat long
head fer nuffin. She's got lots ob sense, but I don't like to tell her
so
Why not
Do you think it would make her feel too happy
Well, it don't do ter tell you women how much we thinks ob you. It sets
you up too much. Ole Gundover's overseer war my marster, an' he used ter
lib in dis bery house. I'se fixed it up sence I'se got it. Now I'se
better off dan he is, 'cause he tuck to drink, an' all his frens is
gone, an' he's in de pore-house
Now, Lindy, ain't you ready yet? Do hurry up
Yes, I'se ready, but things wouldn't go right ef you didn't hurry me
Well, put your chicken fixins an' cake right in yere. Captin, you'll
ride wid me, an' de young lady an' my ole woman'll take de back seat.
Uncle Dan'el, dere's room for you ef you'll go
No, I thank you. It's time fer ole folks to go to bed. Good night! An',
Bobby, I hopes to see you agin
Does yer know dis place, Robby
I should think I did
It is the place where we held
our last prayer-meeting
An' dere's dat ole broken pot we used, ter tell 'bout de war. But
warn't ole Miss hoppin' wen she foun' out you war goin' to de war! I
thought she'd go almos' wile. Now, own up, Robby, didn't you feel kine
ob mean to go off widout eben biddin' her good bye? An' I ralely think
ole Miss war fon' ob yer. Now, own up, honey, didn't yer feel a little
down in de mouf wen yer lef' her
Not much
I only thought she was getting paid back
for selling my mother
Dat's so, Robby! yore mudder war a likely gal, wid long black hair, an'
kine ob ginger-bread color. An' you neber hearn tell ob her sence dey
sole her to Georgia
Never
but I would give everything I have on earth to
see her once more. I _do_ hope, if she is living, that I may meet her
before I die
You's right, boy, cause she lub'd you as she lub'd her own life. Many a
time hes she set in my ole cabin an' cried 'bout yer wen you war fas'
asleep. It's all ober now, but I'se gwine to hole up fer dem Yankees dat
gib me my freedom, an' sent dem nice ladies from de Norf to gib us some
sense. Some ob dese folks calls em nigger teachers, an' won't hab nuffin
to do wid 'em, but I jis' thinks dey's splendid. But dere's some
triflin' niggers down yere who'll sell der votes for almost nuffin. Does
you 'member Jake Williams an' Gundover's Tom? Well dem two niggers is de
las' ob pea-time. Dey's mighty small pertaters an' few in a hill
Oh, Aunt Linda
don't call them niggers. They are our
own people
Dey ain't my kine ob people. I jis' calls em niggers, an' niggers I
means; an' de bigges' kine ob niggers. An' if my John war sich a nigger
I'd whip him an' leave him
An' what would I be a doin
Standing still and taking it, I suppose
Yes, an' I'd ketch myself stan'in' still an' takin' it
Well, you oughter, ef you's mean enough to wote dat ticket ter put me
back inter slavery
Robby
you 'member Miss Nancy's Jinnie
Of course I do
She married Mr. Gundover's Dick. Well, dere warn't much git up an' go
'bout him. So, wen 'lection time com'd, de man he war workin' fer tole
him ef he woted de radical ticket he'd turn him off. Well, Jinnie war so
'fraid he'd do it, dat she jis' follered him fer days
Poor fellow
How did he come out
He certainly was between two fires
Oh, Jinnie gained de day. She jis' got her back up, and said, 'Now ef
yer wote dat ticket ter put me back inter slavery, you take yore rags
an' go.' An' Dick jis' woted de radical ticket. Jake Williams went on de
Secesh side, woted whar he thought he'd git his taters, but he got
fooled es slick es greese
How was that
Some ob dem folks, dat I 'spects buyed his wote, sent him some flour
an' sugar. So one night his wife hab company ter tea. Dey made a big
spread, an' put a lot ob sugar on de table fer supper, an' Tom jis' went
fer dat sugar. He put a lot in his tea. But somehow it didn't tase
right, an' wen dey come ter fine out what war de matter, dey hab sent
him a barrel ob san' wid some sugar on top, an' wen de sugar war all
gone de san' war dare. Wen I yeard it, I jis' split my sides a larfin.
It war too good to keep; an' wen it got roun', Jake war as mad as a
March hare. But it sarved him right
Well, Aunt Linda, you musn't be too hard on Uncle Jake; you know he's
getting old
Well he ain't too ole ter do right. He ain't no older dan Uncle Dan'el.
An' I yered dey offered him $500 ef he'd go on dere side. An' Uncle
Dan'el wouldn't tech it. An' dere's Uncle Job's wife; why didn't she go
dat way? She war down on Job's meanness
What did she do
Wen 'lection time 'rived, he com'd home bringing some flour an' meat;
an' he says ter Aunt Polly, 'Ole woman, I got dis fer de wote.' She jis'
picked up dat meat an' flour an' sent it sailin' outer doors, an' den
com'd back an' gib him a good tongue-lashin'. 'Oder people,' she said,
'a wotin' ter lib good, an' you a sellin' yore wote! Ain't you got 'nuff
ob ole Marster, an' ole Marster bin cuttin' you up? It shan't stay
yere.' An' so she wouldn't let de things stay in de house
What did Uncle Job do
He jis' stood dere an' cried
And didn't you feel sorry for him
Not a bit! he hedn't no business ter be so shabby
But, Aunt Linda
if it were shabby for an ignorant
colored man to sell his vote, wasn't it shabbier for an intelligent
white man to buy it
You see
all the shabbiness is not on our side
I knows dat
but I can't help it. I wants my people
to wote right, an' to think somethin' ob demselves
Well, Aunt Linda, they say in every flock of sheep there will be one
that's scabby
Dat's so! But I ain't got no use fer scabby sheep
Lindy
we's most dar! Don't you yere dat singin'? Dey's
begun a'ready
Neber mine
sometimes de las' ob de wine is de
bes'
I rise, bredren an' sisters, to say I'm on my solemn march to glory
Amen
Glory
I'se had my trials an' temptations, my ups an' downs; but I feels I'll
soon be in one ob de many mansions. If it hadn't been for dat hope I
'spects I would have broken down long ago. I'se bin through de deep
waters, but dey didn't overflow me; I'se bin in de fire, but de smell ob
it isn't on my garments. Bredren an' sisters, it war a drefful time when
I war tored away from my pore little chillen
Dat's so
When my little girl
took hole ob my dress an'
begged me ter let her go wid me, an' I couldn't do it, it mos' broke my
heart. I had a little boy, an' wen my mistus sole me she kep' him. She
carried on a boardin' house. Many's the time I hab stole out at night
an' seen dat chile an' sleep'd wid him in my arms tell mos' day. Bimeby
de people I libed wid got hard up fer money, an' dey sole me one way an'
my pore little gal de oder; an' I neber laid my eyes on my pore chillen
sence den. But, honeys, let de wind blow high or low, I 'spects to
outwedder de storm an' anchor by'm bye in bright glory. But I'se bin a
prayin' fer one thing, an' I beliebs I'll git it; an' dat is dat I may
see my chillen 'fore I die. Pray fer me dat I may hole out an' hole on,
an' neber make a shipwrack ob faith, an' at las' fine my way from earth
to glory
Since then, brethren and sisters, I have had my
crosses and trials, but I try to look at the mercies. Just think what it
was then and what it is now! How many of us, since freedom has come,
have been looking up our scattered relatives. I have just been over to
visit my old mistress, Nancy Johnson, and to see if I could get some
clue to my long-lost mother, who was sold from me nearly thirty years
ago
When
I heard that dear old mother tell her experience it
seemed as if some one had risen from the dead. She made me think of my
own dear mother, who used to steal out at night to see me, fold me in
her arms, and then steal back again to her work. After she was sold
away I never saw her face again by daylight. I have been looking for her
ever since the war, and I think at last I have got on the right track.
If Mrs. Johnson, who kept the boarding-house in C ----, is the one who
sold that dear old mother from her son, then she is the one I am looking
for, and I am the son she has been praying for
Oh, Robby! Robby! is dis
you? Is dat my pore, dear boy I'se been prayin' 'bout all dese years?
Oh, glory! glory
Is dis yore wife
Oh, no
but I believe she is your grandchild, the
daughter of the little girl who was sold away from you so long ago. She
is on her way to the farther South in search of her mother
Is she? Dear chile! I hope she'll fine her! She puts me in mine ob my
pore little Marie. Well, I'se got one chile, an' I means to keep on
prayin' tell I fine my daughter. I'm _so_ happy! I feel's like a new
woman
My dear mother
now that I have found you, I mean to
hold you fast just as long as you live. Ever since the war I have been
trying to find out if you were living, but all efforts failed. At last,
I thought I would come and hunt you myself and, now that I have found
you, I am going to take you home to live with me, and to be as happy as
the days are long. I am living in the North, and doing a good business
there. I want you to see joy according to all the days wherein you have
seen sorrow. I do hope this young lady will find _her_ ma and that, when
found, she will prove to be your daughter
Yes, pore, dear chile! I specs her mudder's heart's mighty hungry fer
her. I does hope she's my gran'chile
Now, Harriet
you mus' jis' thank me fer finin' yore chile, 'cause I got him to come
to dat big meetin' wid me
Oh, Lindy
I'se glad from de bottom ob my heart ter see
you's all. I com'd out dere ter git a blessin', an' I'se got a double
po'tion. De frens I war libin' wid war mighty good ter me. Dey lib'd wid
me in de lower kentry, an' arter de war war ober I stopped wid 'em and
helped take keer ob de chillen; an' when dey com'd up yere dey brought
me wid 'em. I'se com'd a way I didn't know, but I'se mighty glad I'se
com'd
Does you know dis place
No'n 'deed I don't. It's all new ter me
Well, dis is whar I libs. Ain't you mighty tired? I feels a little
stiffish. Dese bones is gittin' ole
Dat's so! But I'se mighty glad I'se lib'd to see my boy 'fore I crossed
ober de riber. An' now I feel like ole Simeon
But, mother
if you are ready to go, I am not willing to
let you. I want you to stay ever so long where I can see you
Here
is some wine I made myself
from dat grape-vine out dere. Don't it look nice and clar? Jist taste
it. It's fus'rate
No, thank you
I'm a temperance man, and never take
anything which has alcohol in it
Oh, dis ain't got a bit ob alcohol in it. I made it myself
But, Aunt Linda, you didn't make the law which ferments grape-juice and
makes it alcohol
But, Robby, ef alcohol's so bad, w'at made de Lord put it here
Aunt Lindy
I heard a lady say that there were two things
the Lord didn't make. One is sin, and the other alcohol
Why, Aunt Linda
there are numbers of things the Lord
has made that I wouldn't touch with a pair of tongs
What are they
Rattlesnakes, scorpions, and moccasins
Oh, sho
Aunt Linda
the Bible says that the wine at last will bite
like a serpent and sting like an adder
And, Aunt Linda
as I wouldn't wind a serpent around my
throat, I don't want to put something inside of it which will bite like
a serpent and sting as an adder
I reckon Robby's right
You young folks knows a heap more dan we
ole folks
Well
you all is temp'rence to de
backbone. But what could I do wid my wine ef we didn't drink it
Let it turn to vinegar, and sign the temperance pledge
I don't keer 'bout it myself, but I don't 'spect John would be willin'
ter let it go, 'cause he likes it a heap
Then you must give it up for his sake and Job's
They
may learn to like it too well
You know, Aunt Linda
people don't get to be drunkards all
at once. And you wouldn't like to feel, if Job should learn to drink,
that you helped form his appetite
Dat' so! I beliebs I'll let dis turn to winegar, an' not make any
more
That's right, Aunt Linda. I hope you'll hold to it
Miss Iola, I hope that such
happiness is in store for you. My dear child, still continue to pray and
trust. I am old-fashioned enough to believe in prayer. I knew an old
lady living in Illinois, who was a slave. Her son got a chance to come
North and beg money to buy his mother. The mother was badly treated, and
made up her mind to run away. But before she started she thought she
would kneel down to pray. And something, she said, reasoned within her,
and whispered, 'Stand still and see what I am going to do for you.' So
real was it to her that she unpacked her bundle and desisted from her
flight. Strange as it may appear to you, her son returned, bringing
with him money enough to purchase her freedom, and she was redeemed from
bondage. Had she persisted in running away she might have been lost in
the woods and have died, exhausted by starvation. But she believed, she
trusted, and was delivered. Her son took her North, where she could find
a resting place for the soles of her feet
What
hab become
ob Miss Nancy's husband? Is he still a libin
Oh, he drunk hisself to death
He used ter be mighty handsome
Yes, but drink war his ruination
An' how's Miss Nancy
Oh, she's com'd down migh'ly. She's pore as a church mouse. I thought
'twould com'd home ter her wen she sole yer 'way from yore chillen.
Dere's nuffin goes ober de debil's back dat don't come under his belly.
Do yo 'member Miss Nancy's fardder
Ob course I does
Well
he war a nice ole gemmen. Wen he died, I said
de las' gemmen's dead, an' dere's noboddy ter step in his shoes
Pore Miss Nancy
I ain't nothin' agin her.
But I wouldn't swap places wid her, 'cause I'se got my son; an' I
beliebs he'll do a good part by me
Mother
I've brought an old
friend to see you. Do you remember Uncle Daniel
Well, Har'yet! is dis you? I neber 'spected to see you in
dese lower grouns! How does yer do? an' whar hab you bin all dis time
O, I'se been tossin' roun' 'bout; but it's all com'd right at las'.
I'se lib'd to see my boy 'fore I died
My wife an' boys is in glory
But I 'spects to see
'em 'fore long. 'Cause I'se tryin' to dig deep, build sure, an' make my
way from earth ter glory
Dat's de right kine ob talk, Dan'el. We ole folks ain't got long ter
stay yere
We'll hab a word ob prayer
The house is engaged
We do not rent to colored people
Oh, my son, my son
Mamma; oh, mamma! have I found you at last
My dear son
I am
deeply sorry that you are wounded, but I am glad that the fortunes of
war have brought us together. Poor Iola! I _do_ wonder what has become
of her? Just as soon as this war is over I want you to search the
country all over. Poor child! How my heart has ached for her
Mamma
there is to be a
Methodist Conference in this State in the city of S ----, about one
hundred and fifty miles from here. I intend to go and renew my search
for Iola
Poor child
I
wonder if she is living
I think so
I don't
feel that Iola is dead. I believe we will find her before long
It seems to me my heart would burst with joy to see my dear child just
once more. I am glad that you are going. When will you leave
To-morrow morning
Well, my son, go, and my prayers will go with you
I have an interesting duty to perform. I wish to introduce a young lady
to the conference, who was the daughter of a Mississippi planter. She is
now in search of her mother and brother, from whom she was sold a few
months before the war. Her father married her mother in Ohio, where he
had taken her to be educated. After his death they were robbed of their
inheritance and enslaved by a distant relative named Lorraine. Miss Iola
Leroy is the young lady's name. If any one can give the least
information respecting the objects of her search it will be thankfully
received
I can
I am her brother, and I
came here to look for her
O, Harry
dear child
My dear child, you are so changed I do not think I would have known you
if I had met you in the street
And I
can hardly realize that you are our own Iola, whom
I recognized as sister a half dozen years ago
Am I so changed
Why, Iola
you used to be the most harum-scarum girl I
ever knew, laughing, dancing, and singing from morning until night
Yes, I remember
It all comes back to me like a dream. Oh,
mamma! I have passed through a fiery ordeal of suffering since then. But
it is useless
to brood over the past. Let us be happy in the present. Let me tell you
something which will please you. Do you remember telling me about your
mother and brother
Yes
Well
I think I have
found them
Can it be possible
It is more than
thirty years since we parted. I fear you are mistaken
No, mamma; I have drawn my conclusions from good circumstantial
evidence. After I was taken from you, I passed through a fearful siege
of suffering, which would only harrow up your soul to hear. I often
shudder at the remembrance. The last man in whose clutches I found
myself was mean, brutal, and cruel. I was in his power when the Union
army came into C ----, where I was living. A number of colored men
stampeded to the Union ranks, with a gentleman as a leader, whom I think
is your brother. A friend of his reported my case to the commander of
the post, who instantly gave orders for my release. A place was given me
as nurse in the hospital. I attended that friend in his last illness.
Poor fellow! he was the best friend I had in all the time I have been
tossing about. The gentleman whom I think is your brother appeared to be
very anxious about his friend's recovery, and was deeply affected by his
death. In one of the last terrible battles of the war, that of Five
Forks, he was wounded and put into the hospital ward where I was an
attendant. For awhile he was delirious, and in his delirium he would
sometimes think that I was his mother and at other times his sister. I
humored his fancies, would often sing to him when he was restless, and
my voice almost invariably soothed him to sleep. One day I sang to him
that old hymn we used to sing on the plantation:--

    "Drooping souls no longer grieve,
          Heaven is propitious;
     If on Christ you do believe,
          You will find Him precious
I remember
After I had finished the hymn
he looked earnestly
and inquiringly into my face, and asked, 'Where did you learn that hymn?
I have heard my mother sing it when I was a boy, but I have never heard
it since.' I think, mamma, the words, 'I was lost but now I'm found;
glory! glory! glory!' had imprinted themselves on his memory, and that
his mind was assuming a higher state of intellectuality. He asked me to
sing it again, which I did, until he fell asleep. Then I noticed a
marked resemblance between him and Harry, and I thought, 'Suppose he
should prove to be your long-lost brother?' During his convalescence we
found that we had a common ground of sympathy. We were anxious to be
reunited to our severed relations. We had both been separated from our
mothers. He told me of his little sister, with whom he used to play. She
had a mole on her cheek which he called her beauty spot. He had the red
spot on his forehead which you told me of
Iola, dear
I have a
new pleasure in store for you
What is it, brother mine
There is a young lady living in this city to whom I wish to introduce
you. She is one of the most remarkable women I have ever met
Do tell me all about her
Is she young and handsome,
brilliant and witty?

"She
is more than handsome, she is lovely; more than
witty, she is wise; more than brilliant, she is excellent
Well, Harry
if you keep on that way I
shall begin to fear that I shall soon be supplanted by a new daughter
Oh, no, mamma
I did not
mean that
Well, Harry
go on with your description; I am
becoming interested. Tax your powers of description to give me her
likeness
Well, in the first place
I suppose she is about
twenty-five years old
Oh, the idea
of a gentleman talking of a lady's
age. That is a tabooed subject
Why, Iola, that adds to the interest of my picture. It is her
combination of earnestness and youthfulness which enhances her in my
estimation
Pardon the interruption
I am anxious to hear more about
her
Well, she is of medium height, somewhat slender, and well formed, with
dark, expressive eyes, full of thought and feeling. Neither hair nor
complexion show the least hint of blood admixture
I am glad of it
Every person of unmixed blood who
succeeds in any department of literature, art, or science is a living
argument for the capability which is in the race
Yes
for it is not the white blood which is on trial
before the world. Well, I will bring her around this evening
I
am very glad to have met you. Young women like you always fill my heart
with hope for the future of our race. In you I see reflected some of the
blessed possibilities which lie within us
Thank you
I want to be classed among those of whom
it is said, 'She has done what she could
There is one thing
that your mother may
remember her by. It was a little handkerchief on which were a number of
cats' heads. She gave one to each of us
I remember it well
she must, indeed, be my mother. Now,
all that is needed to complete my happiness is her presence, and my
brother's. And I intend, if I live long enough, to see them both
Marie
how would you like to leave the South
I should like to go North, but I hate to leave Harry. He's a splendid
young fellow, although I say it myself. He is so fearless and outspoken
that I am constantly anxious about him, especially at election time
We were talking of you, my son
What were you saying? Nothing of the absent but good
I was telling your uncle, who wants me to come North, that I would go,
but I am afraid that you will get into trouble and be murdered, as many
others have been
Oh, well, mother, I shall not die till my time comes. And if I die
helping the poor and needy, I shall die at my post. Could a man choose a
better place to die
Were you aware of the virulence of caste prejudice and the disabilities
which surround the colored people when you cast your lot with them
Not fully
but after I found out that I was colored, I
consulted the principal of the school, where I was studying, in
reference to the future. He said that if I stayed in the North, he had
friends whom he believed would give me any situation I could fill, and I
could simply take my place in the rank of workers, the same as any other
man. Then he told me of the army, and I made up my mind to enter it,
actuated by a desire to find my mother and sister; and at any rate I
wanted to avenge their wrongs. I do not feel so now. Since I have seen
the fearful ravages of war, I have learned to pity and forgive. The
principal said he thought I would be more apt to find my family if I
joined a colored regiment in the West than if I joined one of the Maine
companies. I confess at first I felt a shrinking from taking the step,
but love for my mother overcame all repugnance on my part. Now that I
have linked my fortunes to the race I intend to do all I can for its
elevation
You are right, Harry. I think it would be treason, not only to the
race, but to humanity, to have you ignoring your kindred and
masquerading as a white man
I think so, too
But, sister, I am anxious for you all to come North. If Harry feels
that the place of danger is the post of duty, let him stay, and he can
spend his vacations with us. I think both you and Iola need rest and
change. Mother longs to see you before she dies. She feels that we have
been the children of many prayers and tears, and I want to make her last
days as happy as possible. The South has not been a paradise to you all
the time, and I should think you would be willing to leave it
Yes, that is so. Iola needs rest and change, and she would be such a
comfort to mother. I suppose, for her sake, I will consent to have her
go back with you, at least for awhile
Uncle Robert
I
have a theory that every woman ought to know how to earn her own living.
I believe that a great amount of sin and misery springs from the
weakness and inefficiency of women
Perhaps that's so, but what are you going to do about it
I am going to join the great rank of bread-winners. Mr. Waterman has
advertised for a number of saleswomen, and I intend to make
application
When he advertises for help he means white women
He said nothing about color
I don't suppose he did. He doesn't expect any colored girl to apply
Well, I think I could fill the place. At least I should like to try.
And I do not think when I apply that I am in duty bound to tell him my
great-grandmother was a negro
Well, child, there is no necessity for you to go out to work. You are
perfectly welcome here, and I hope that you feel so
Oh, I certainly do. But still I would rather earn my own living
Grandma
Don't say anything about it to the girls. They might not be willing to
work with you
Where do you go to church
I go
to Rev. River's church, corner of Eighth and L
Streets
Oh, no; you must be mistaken. There is no church there except a colored
one
That is where I go
Why do you go there
Because I liked it when I came here, and joined it
A member of a colored church? What under heaven possessed you to do
such a thing
Because I wished to be with my own people
Well, uncle
I feel out of heart. It seems as if the
prejudice pursues us through every avenue of life, and assigns us the
lowest places
That is so
And yet I am determined
to win for myself a place in the
fields of labor. I have heard of a place in New England, and I mean to
try for it, even if I only stay a few months
Well, if you _will_ go, say nothing about your color
Uncle Robert, I see no necessity for proclaiming that fact on the
house-top. Yet I am resolved that nothing shall tempt me to deny it. The
best blood in my veins is African blood, and I am not ashamed of it
Hurrah for you
I must be honest with you; I am a colored woman
I must see the board of managers about
it
If ye have respect to persons ye commit sin
Can it be possible dat dis is my little Marie
Well
love is
a very good thing, but Marie has had a long journey and needs something
that will stick by the ribs. How about dinner, mother
It's all ready
Uncle Robert
I am tired of being idle
What's the matter now
You are surely not going East
again, and leave your mother
Oh, I hope not
I have been so long without
you
No, mamma, I am not going East. I can get suitable employment here in
the city of P
But, Iola
you have tried, and been defeated. Why
subject yourself to the same experience again
Uncle Robert, I think that every woman should have some skill or art
which would insure her at least a comfortable support. I believe there
would be less unhappy marriages if labor were more honored among women
Well, Iola
what is your skill
Nursing. I was very young when I went into the hospital, but I
succeeded so well that the doctor said I must have been a born nurse.
Now, I see by the papers, that a gentleman who has an invalid daughter
wants some one who can be a nurse and companion for her, and I mean to
apply for the situation. I do not think, if I do my part well in that
position, that the blood in my veins will be any bar to my success
How did you succeed
Admirably! 'Everything is lovely and the goose hangs high.' I gave my
employes to understand that they could leave if they did not wish to
work with Miss Leroy. Not one of them left, or showed any disposition
to rebel
I am very glad
I am ashamed of the way she has been
treated in our city, when seeking to do her share in the world's work. I
am glad that you were brave enough to face this cruel prejudice, and
give her a situation
Well, my dear, do not make me a hero for a single act. I am grateful
for the care Miss Leroy gave our Daisy. Money can buy services, but it
cannot purchase tender, loving sympathy. I was also determined to let my
employes know that I, not they, commanded my business. So, do not crown
me a hero until I have won a niche in the temple of fame. In dealing
with Southern prejudice against the negro, we Northerners could do it
with better grace if we divested ourselves of our own. We irritate the
South by our criticisms, and, while I confess that there is much that is
reprehensible in their treatment of colored people, yet if our Northern
civilization is higher than theirs we should 'criticise by creation.' We
should stamp ourselves on the South, and not let the South stamp itself
on us. When we have learned to treat men according to the complexion of
their souls, and not the color of their skins, we will have given our
best contribution towards the solution of the negro problem
I feel, my dear
that what you have done is a right
step in the right direction, and I hope that other merchants will do the
same. We have numbers of business men, rich enough to afford themselves
the luxury of a good conscience
Good-morning, Miss Leroy
Why, Dr Gresham, is this you
It has been several years since we met. How have
you been all this time, and where
I have been sick, and am just now recovering from malaria and nervous
prostration. I am attending a medical convention in this city, and hope
that I shall have the pleasure of seeing you again
I should be pleased to have you
call
It would give me great pleasure. Where shall I call
My home is 1006 South Street, but I am only at home in the evenings
Thou art too lovely and precious a gem
      To be bound to their burdens and sullied by them
To see you again
is a great and unexpected
pleasure
You had not forgotten me, then
Forget you! I would just as soon forget my own existence. I do not
think that time will ever efface the impressions of those days in which
we met so often. When last we met you were intending to search for your
mother. Have you been successful
More than successful
I
have found my mother, brother, grandmother, and uncle, and, except my
brother, we are all living together, and we are so happy. Excuse me a
few minutes
These
are the
once-severed branches of our family; and this gentleman you have seen
before
Your face looks
familiar, but I saw so many faces at the hospital that I cannot just now
recall your name
Doctor
I was one of your last patients, and I
was with Tom Anderson when he died
Oh, yes
it all comes back to me. You were
wounded at the battle of Five Forks, were you not
Yes
I saw you when you were recovering. You told me that you thought you
had a clue to your lost relatives, from whom you had been so long
separated. How have you succeeded
Admirably! I have been fortunate in finding my mother, my sister, and
her children
Ah, indeed! I am delighted to hear it. Where are they
They are right here. This is my mother
and this
is my sister, and Miss Leroy is
my niece
Is it possible? I am very glad to hear it. It has been said that every
cloud has its silver lining, and the silver lining of our war cloud is
the redemption of a race and the reunion of severed hearts. War is a
dreadful thing; but worse than the war was the slavery which preceded
it
Slavery
was a fearful cancer eating into the nation's
heart, sapping its vitality, and undermining its life
And war
was the dreadful surgery by which the
disease was eradicated. The cancer has been removed, but for years to
come I fear that we will have to deal with the effects of the disease.
But I believe that we have vitality enough to outgrow those effects
I think, Doctor
that there is but one remedy by which our
nation can recover from the evil entailed upon her by slavery
What is that
A fuller comprehension of the claims of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and
their application to our national life
Yes
while politicians are stumbling on the barren
mountains of fretful controversy and asking what shall we do with the
negro? I hold that Jesus answered that question nearly two thousand
years ago when he said, 'Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you,
do ye even so to them
Yes
the application of that rule in dealing with
the negro would solve the whole problem
Slavery
is dead, but the spirit which animated it
still lives; and I think that a reckless disregard for human life is
more the outgrowth of slavery than any actual hatred of the negro
The problem of the nation
is not what men
will do with the negro, but what will they do with the reckless, lawless
white men who murder, lynch and burn their fellow-citizens. To me these
lynchings and burnings are perfectly alarming. Both races have reacted
on each other -- men fettered the slave and cramped their own souls;
denied him knowledge, and darkened their spiritual insight; subdued him
to the pliancy of submission, and in their turn became the thralls of
public opinion. The negro came here from the heathenism of Africa; but
the young colonies could not take into their early civilization a stream
of barbaric blood without being affected by its influence and the negro,
poor and despised as he is, has laid his hands on our Southern
civilization and helped mould its character
Yes
the colored nurse could not nestle her master's
child in her arms, hold up his baby footsteps on their floors, and walk
with him through the impressible and formative period of his young life
without leaving upon him the impress of her hand
I am glad
for the whole nation's sake, that slavery
has been destroyed
And our work
is to build over the desolations of
the past a better and brighter future. The great distinction between
savagery and civilization is the creation and maintenance of law.
A people cannot habitually trample on law and justice without
retrograding toward barbarism. But I am hopeful that time will bring us
changes for the better; that, as we get farther away from the war, we
will outgrow the animosities and prejudices engendered by slavery. The
short-sightedness of our fathers linked the negro's destiny to ours. We
are feeling the friction of the ligatures which bind us together, but I
hope that the time will speedily come when the best members of both
races will unite for the maintenance of law and order and the progress
and prosperity of the country, and that the intelligence and virtue of
the South will be strong to grapple effectually with its ignorance and
vice
I hope that time will speedily come
My son is in the
South, and I am always anxious for his safety. He is not only a teacher,
but a leading young man in the community where he lives
Yes
and when I see the splendid work he is doing in the
South, I am glad that, instead of trying to pass for a white man, he has
cast his lot with us
But
he would possess advantages as a white man
which he could not if he were known to be colored
Doctor
he has greater advantages as a colored
man
I do not understand you
Doctor
I do not think life's highest advantages are
those that we can see with our eyes or grasp with our hands. To whom
to-day is the world most indebted -- to its millionaires or to its
martyrs
Taking it from the ideal standpoint
I should say
its martyrs
To be
the leader of a race to higher planes of
thought and action, to teach men clearer views of life and duty, and to
inspire their souls with loftier aims, is a far greater privilege than
it is to open the gates of material prosperity and fill every home with
sensuous enjoyment
And I
would
rather -- ten thousand times rather -- see Harry the friend and helper of
the poor and ignorant than the companion of men who, under the cover of
night, mask their faces and ride the country on lawless raids
Dr Gresham
we ought to be the leading nation of the
earth, whose influence and example should give light to the world
Not simply
a nation building up a great material
prosperity, founding magnificent cities, grasping the commerce of the
world, or excelling in literature, art, and science, but a nation
wearing sobriety as a crown and righteousness as the girdle of her
loins
This meeting has been
a very unexpected pleasure. I have spent a delightful evening. I only
regret that I had not others to share it with me. A doctor from the
South, a regular Bourbon, is stopping at the hotel. I wish he could have
been here to-night. Come down to the Concordia, Mr. Johnson, to-morrow
night. If you know any colored man who is a strong champion of equal
rights, bring him along. Good-night. I shall look for you
Dr Gresham has
invited me to come to his hotel to-morrow night, and to bring some
wide-awake colored man with me. There is a Southerner whom he wishes me
to meet. I suppose he wants to discuss the negro problem, as they call
it. He wants some one who can do justice to the subject. I wonder whom I
can take with me
I will tell you who, I think, will be a capital one to take with you,
and I believe he would go
Who
Rev. Carmicle, your pastor
He is just the one
courteous in his manner and very
scholarly in his attainments. He is a man whom if everybody hated him no
one could despise him
Permit me, now
to introduce you to my friend, Dr.
Latimer, who is attending our convention. He expects to go South and
labor among the colored people. Don't you think that there is a large
field of usefulness before him
Yes
if he will let politics alone
And why let politics alone
Because
we Southerners will never submit to
negro supremacy. We will never abandon our Caucasian civilization to an
inferior race
Have you any reason
to dread that a race
which has behind it the heathenism of Africa and the slavery of America,
with its inheritance of ignorance and poverty, will be able, in less
than one generation, to domineer over a race which has behind it ages of
dominion, freedom, education, and Christianity
I am not afraid of the negro as he stands alone, but what I dread is
that in some closely-contested election ambitious men will use him to
hold the balance of power and make him an element of danger. He is
ignorant, poor, and clannish, and they may impact him as their policy
would direct
Any more
than the leaders of the Rebellion did the
ignorant, poor whites during our late conflict
Ignorance, poverty, and clannishness
are more
social than racial conditions, which may be outgrown
And I think
that we are outgrowing them as fast
as any other people would have done under the same conditions
The negro
always has been and always will be an
element of discord in our country
What, then, is your remedy
I would eliminate him from the politics of the country
As disfranchisement is a punishment for crime, is it just to punish a
man before he transgresses the law
If
the negro is ignorant, poor, and clannish, let
us remember that in part of our land it was once a crime to teach him to
read. If he is poor, for ages he was forced to bend to unrequited toil.
If he is clannish, society has segregated him to himself
And even
has given him a negro pew in your churches
and a negro seat at your communion table
Wisely, or unwisely
the Government has put the
ballot in his hands. It is better to teach him to use that ballot aright
than to intimidate him by violence or vitiate his vote by fraud
To-day
the negro is not plotting in beer-saloons
against the peace and order of society. His fingers are not dripping
with dynamite, neither is he spitting upon your flag, nor flaunting the
red banner of anarchy in your face
Power
naturally gravitates into the strongest
hands. The class who have the best brain and most wealth can strike with
the heaviest hand. I have too much faith in the inherent power of the
white race to dread the competition of any other people under heaven
I think you Northerners fail to do us justice
The
men into whose hands you put the ballot were our slaves, and we would
rather die than submit to them. Look at the carpet-bag governments the
wicked policy of the Government inflicted upon us. It was only done to
humiliate us
Oh, no
We had no
other alternative than putting the ballot in their hands
I will not deny
that we have made woeful
mistakes, but with our antecedents it would have been miraculous if we
had never committed any mistakes or made any blunders
They were allies in war
and I am sorry that
we have not done more to protect them in peace
Protect them in peace
What protection does
the colored man receive from the hands of the Government? I know of no
civilized country outside of America where men are still burned for real
or supposed crimes
Johnson
it is impossible to have
a policeman at the back of each colored man's chair, and a squad of
soldiers at each crossroad, to detect with certainty, and punish with
celerity, each invasion of his rights. We tried provisional governments
and found them a failure. It seemed like leaving our former allies to be
mocked with the name of freedom and tortured with the essence of
slavery. The ballot is our weapon of defense, and we gave it to them for
theirs
And there
is where you signally
failed. We are numerically stronger in Congress to-day than when we went
out. You made the law, but the administration of it is in our hands, and
we are a unit
But, Doctor
you cannot willfully deprive the
negro of a single right as a citizen without sending demoralization
through your own ranks
I think
that we are right in suppressing the
negro's vote. This is a white man's government, and a white man's
country. We own nineteen-twentieths of the land, and have about the same
ratio of intelligence. I am a white man, and, right or wrong, I go with
my race
But, Doctor
there are rights more sacred than
the rights of property and superior intelligence
What are they
The rights of life and liberty
That is true
and your Southern civilization will
be inferior until you shall have placed protection to those rights at
its base, not in theory but in fact
But, Dr Gresham, we have to live with these people, and the North is
constantly irritating us by its criticisms
The world
is fast becoming a vast whispering
gallery, and lips once sealed can now state their own grievances and
appeal to the conscience of the nation, and, as long as a sense of
justice and mercy retains a hold upon the heart of our nation, you
cannot practice violence and injustice without rousing a spirit of
remonstrance. And if it were not so I would be ashamed of my country and
of my race
You speak
as if we had wronged the negro by
enslaving him and being unwilling to share citizenship with him. I think
that slavery has been of incalculable value to the negro. It has lifted
him out of barbarism and fetich worship, given him a language of
civilization, and introduced him to the world's best religion. Think
what he was in Africa and what he is in America
The negro
is not the only branch of
the human race which has been low down in the scale of civilization and
freedom, and which has outgrown the measure of his chains. Slavery,
polygamy, and human sacrifices have been practiced among Europeans in
by-gone days; and when Tyndall tells us that out of savages unable to
count to the number of their fingers and speaking only a language of
nouns and verbs, arise at length our Newtons and Shakspeares, I do not
see that the negro could not have learned our language and received our
religion without the intervention of ages of slavery
If
Mohammedanism, with its imperfect creed, is
successful in gathering large numbers of negroes beneath the Crescent,
could not a legitimate commerce and the teachings of a pure Christianity
have done as much to plant the standard of the Cross over the ramparts
of sin and idolatry in Africa? Surely we cannot concede that the light
of the Crescent is greater than the glory of the Cross, that there is
less constraining power in the Christ of Calvary than in the Prophet of
Arabia? I do not think that I underrate the difficulties in your way
when I say that you young men are holding in your hands golden
opportunities which it would be madness and folly to throw away. It is
your grand opportunity to help build up a new South, not on the shifting
sands of policy and expediency, but on the broad basis of equal justice
and universal freedom. Do this and you will be blessed, and will make
your life a blessing
Very pleasantly
I was quite interested in that parson.
Where was he educated
In Oxford, I believe. I was pleased to hear him say that he had no
white blood in his veins
I should think not
from his looks. But one
swallow does not make a summer. It is the exceptions which prove the
rule
Don't you think
that we have been too hasty in
our judgment of the negro? He has come handicapped into life, and is now
on trial before the world. But it is not fair to subject him to the same
tests that you would a white man. I believe that there are possibilities
of growth in the race which we have never comprehended
The negro
is perfectly comprehensible to me. The
only way to get along with him is to let him know his place, and make
him keep it
I think
every man's place is the one he is best
fitted for
Why
should any place be assigned to the negro
more than to the French, Irish, or German
Oh
they are all Caucasians
Well
is all excellence summed up in that branch of
the human race
I think
that we belong to the highest
race on earth and the negro to the lowest
And yet
you have consorted with them till you have
bleached their faces to the whiteness of your own. Your children nestle
in their bosoms; they are around you as body servants, and yet if one of
them should attempt to associate with you your bitterest scorn and
indignation would be visited upon them
I think
that feeling grows out of our Anglo-Saxon
regard for the marriage relation. These white negroes are of
illegitimate origin, and we would scorn to share our social life with
them. Their blood is tainted
Who tainted it
You give absolution to
the fathers, and visit the misfortunes of the mothers upon the
children
But, Doctor, what kind of society would we have if we put down the bars
and admitted everybody to social equality
This idea of social equality
is only a bugbear
which frightens well-meaning people from dealing justly with the negro.
I know of no place on earth where there is perfect social equality, and
I doubt if there is such a thing in heaven. The sinner who repents on
his death-bed cannot be the equal of St. Paul or the Beloved Disciple
Doctor
I sometimes think that the final solution
of this question will be the absorption of the negro into our race
Never! never
It would be a death
blow to American civilization
Why, Doctor
you Southerners began this absorption
before the war. I understand that in one decade the mixed bloods rose
from one-ninth to one-eighth of the population, and that as early as
1663 a law was passed in Maryland to prevent English women from
intermarrying with slaves; and, even now, your laws against
miscegenation presuppose that you apprehend danger from that source
Doctor, it is no use talking
There
are niggers who are as white as I am, but the taint of blood is there
and we always exclude it
How do you know it is there
Oh, there are tricks of blood which always betray them. My eyes are
more practiced than yours. I can always tell them. Now, that Johnson is
as white as any man; but I knew he was a nigger the moment I saw him. I
saw it in his eye
I think
that our war was the great mistake of the
nineteenth century. It has left us very serious complications. We cannot
amalgamate with the negroes. We cannot expatriate them. Now, what are we
to do with them
Deal justly with them
and let them alone. Try to
create a moral sentiment in the nation, which will consider a wrong done
to the weakest of them as a wrong done to the whole community. Whenever
you find ministers too righteous to be faithless, cowardly, and time
serving; women too Christly to be scornful; and public men too noble to
be tricky and too honest to pander to the prejudices of the people,
stand by them and give them your moral support
Doctor
with your views you ought to be a preacher
striving to usher in the millennium
It can't come too soon
Miss Leroy, I am glad the great object of your life is accomplished,
and that you have found all your relatives. Years have passed since we
parted, years in which I have vainly tried to get a trace of you and
have been baffled, but I have found you at last
I would it were so that I should never lose you
again! Iola, will you not grant me the privilege of holding this hand as
mine all through the future of our lives? Your search for your mother is
ended. She is well cared for. Are you not free at last to share with me
my Northern home, free to be mine as nothing else on earth is mine
Iola, I learned to love you in the hospital. I have tried
to forget you, but it has been all in vain. Your image is just as deeply
engraven on my heart as it was the day we parted
Doctor
I feel now as I felt then, that there is an insurmountable barrier
between us
What is it, Iola
It is the public opinion which assigns me a place with the colored
people
But what right has public opinion to interfere with our marriage
relations? Why should we yield to its behests
Because it is stronger than we are, and we cannot run counter to it
without suffering its penalties
And what are they, Iola? Shadows that you merely dread
No! no! the penalties of social ostracism North and South, except here
and there some grand and noble exceptions. I do not think that you fully
realize how much prejudice against colored people permeates society,
lowers the tone of our religion, and reacts upon the life of the nation.
After freedom came, mamma was living in the city of A ----, and wanted to
unite with a Christian church there. She made application for
membership. She passed her examination as a candidate, and was received
as a church member. When she was about to make her first communion, she
unintentionally took her seat at the head of the column. The elder who
was administering the communion gave her the bread in the order in which
she sat, but before he gave her the wine some one touched him on the
shoulder and whispered a word in his ear. He then passed mamma by, gave
the cup to others, and then returned to her. From that rite connected
with the holiest memories of earth, my poor mother returned humiliated
and depressed
What a shame
I have seen
the same spirit manifested in the North.
Mamma once attempted to do missionary work in this city. One day she
found an outcast colored girl, whom she wished to rescue. She took her
to an asylum for fallen women and made an application for her, but was
refused. Colored girls were not received there. Soon after mamma found
among the colored people an outcast white girl. Mamma's sympathies,
unfettered by class distinction, were aroused in her behalf, and, in
company with two white ladies, she went with the girl to that same
refuge. For her the door was freely opened and admittance readily
granted. It was as if two women were sinking in the quicksands, and on
the solid land stood other women with life-lines in their hands, seeing
the deadly sands slowly creeping up around the hapless victims. To one
they readily threw the lines of deliverance, but for the other there was
not one strand of salvation. Sometime since, to the same asylum, came a
poor fallen girl who had escaped from the clutches of a wicked woman.
For her the door would have been opened, had not the vile woman from
whom she was escaping followed her to that place of refuge and revealed
the fact that she belonged to the colored race. That fact was enough to
close the door upon her, and to send her back to sin and to suffer, and
perhaps to die as a wretched outcast. And yet in this city where a
number of charities are advertised, I do not think there is one of them
which, in appealing to the public, talks more religion than the managers
of this asylum. This prejudice against the colored race environs our
lives and mocks our aspirations
Iola, I see no use in your persisting that you are colored when your
eyes are as blue and complexion as white as mine
Doctor, were I your wife, are there not people who would caress me as
a white woman who would shrink from me in scorn if they knew I had one
drop of negro blood in my veins? When mistaken for a white woman, I
should hear things alleged against the race at which my blood would
boil. No, Doctor, I am not willing to live under a shadow of concealment
which I thoroughly hate as if the blood in my veins were an undetected
crime of my soul
Iola, dear, surely you paint the picture too darkly
Doctor, I have painted it with my heart's blood. It is easier to
outgrow the dishonor of crime than the disabilities of color. You have
created in this country an aristocracy of color wide enough to include
the South with its treason and Utah with its abominations, but too
narrow to include the best and bravest colored man who bared his breast
to the bullets of the enemy during your fratricidal strife. Is not the
most arrant Rebel to-day more acceptable to you than the most faithful
colored man
No! no
You are wrong. I belong to
the Grand Army of the Republic. We have no separate State Posts for the
colored people, and, were such a thing proposed, the majority of our
members, I believe, would be against it. In Congress colored men have
the same seats as white men, and the color line is slowly fading out in
our public institutions
But how is it in the Church
The Church is naturally conservative. It preserves old truths, even if
it is somewhat slow in embracing new ideas. It has its social as well as
its spiritual side. Society is woman's realm. The majority of church
members are women, who are said to be the aristocratic element of our
country. I fear that one of the last strongholds of this racial
prejudice will be found beneath the shadow of some of our churches. I
think, on account of this social question, that large bodies of
Christian temperance women and other reformers, in trying to reach the
colored people even for their own good, will be quicker to form
separate associations than our National Grand Army, whose ranks are open
to black and white, liberals and conservatives, saints and agnostics.
But, Iola, we have drifted far away from the question. No one has a
right to interfere with our marriage if we do not infringe on the rights
of others
Doctor
I feel that our paths must diverge. My
life-work is planned. I intend spending my future among the colored
people of the South
My dear friend
I am afraid that you are
destined to sad disappointment. When the novelty wears off you will be
disillusioned, and, I fear, when the time comes that you can no longer
serve them they will forget your services and remember only your
failings
But, Doctor, they need me; and I am sure when I taught among them they
were very grateful for my services
I think
these people are more thankful than grateful
I do not think so; and if I did it would not hinder me from doing all
in my power to help them. I do not expect all the finest traits of
character to spring from the hot-beds of slavery and caste. What matters
it if they do forget the singer, so they don't forget the song? No,
Doctor, I don't think that I could best serve my race by forsaking them
and marrying you
Iola
if you love your race, as you call
it, work for it, live for it, suffer for it, and, if need be, die for
it; but don't marry for it. Your education has unfitted you for social
life among them
It was
through their unrequited toil that I was
educated, while they were compelled to live in ignorance. I am indebted
to them for the power I have to serve them. I wish other Southern women
felt as I do. I think they could do so much to help the colored people
at their doors if they would look at their opportunities in the light of
the face of Jesus Christ. Nor am I wholly unselfish in allying myself
with the colored people. All the rest of my family have done so. My dear
grandmother is one of the excellent of the earth, and we all love her
too much to ignore our relationship with her. I did not choose my lot in
life, and the simplest thing I can do is to accept the situation and do
the best I can
And is this your settled purpose
It is, Doctor
I see no other. I
must serve the race which needs me most
Perhaps you are right
but I cannot help feeling sad that
our paths, which met so pleasantly, should diverge so painfully. And
yet, not only the freedmen, but the whole country, need such helpful,
self-sacrificing teachers as you will prove; and if earnest prayers and
holy wishes can brighten your path, your lines will fall in the
pleasantest places
How
did you like Dr Latimer's paper
Very much, indeed. It was excellent. He is a very talented young man.
He sits next to me at lunch and I have conversed with him several times.
He is very genial and attractive, only he seems to be rather cranky on
the negro question. I hope if he comes South that he will not make the
mistake of mixing up with the negroes. It would be throwing away his
influence and ruining his prospects. He seems to be well versed in
science and literature and would make a very delightful accession to our
social life
I think
that he is an honor to our profession.
He is one of the finest specimens of our young manhood
I was delighted with your paper; it was full of
thought and suggestion
Thank you
it was my aim to make it so
And you succeeded admirably
I could not help
thinking how much we owe to heredity and environment
Yes
Continental Europe yearly sends to our shores
subjects to be developed into citizens. Emancipation has given us
millions of new citizens, and to them our influence and example should
be a blessing and not a curse
Well
I intend to go South, and help those who so
much need helpers from their own ranks
I hope
that if you go South you will only
sustain business relations with the negroes, and not commit the folly of
equalizing yourself with them
Why not
Because in equalizing yourself with them you drag us down; and our
social customs must be kept intact
You have been associating with me at the convention for several days; I
do not see that the contact has dragged you down, has it
You! What has that got to do with associating with niggers
The blood of that race is coursing through my veins. I am one of them
You
Yes
He belongs to that negro race both by blood and choice.
His father's mother made overtures to receive him as her grandson and
heir, but he has nobly refused to forsake his mother's people and has
cast his lot with them
And I
would have despised myself if I had done
otherwise
Well, well
I was never so deceived before.
Good morning
the missing link of
matrimony
Mamma is not well
I spoke to her about sending
for a doctor, but she objected and I did not insist
I will ask Dr Latimer, whom I met at the Concordia, to step in. He is
a splendid young fellow. I wish we had thousands like him
I am so uneasy about Harry
He is so fearless and
outspoken. I do wish the attention of the whole nation could be turned
to the cruel barbarisms which are a national disgrace. I think the term
'bloody shirt' is one of the most heartless phrases ever invented to
divert attention from cruel wrongs and dreadful outrages
Harry wrote me only last week that a young friend of his had
lost his situation because he refused to have his pupils strew flowers
on the streets through which Jefferson Davis was to pass
I think
that the Israelites had just
as much right to scatter flowers over the bodies of the Egyptians, when
the waves threw back their corpses on the shores of the Red Sea, as
these children had to strew the path of Jefferson Davis with flowers. We
want our boys to grow up manly citizens, and not cringing sycophants.
When do you expect your son, Mrs. Leroy
Some time next week
And his presence will do you more good than all the medicine in my
chest
I hope, Doctor
that we will not lose sight of you,
now that your professional visit is ended; for I believe your visit was
the result of a conspiracy between Iola and her uncle
Ah, Mrs. Leroy, I see you have
found us all out
Oh, Doctor
there is a
young lady coming here to visit me next week. Her name is Miss Lucille
Delany, and she is my ideal woman. She is grand, brave, intellectual,
and religious
Is that so? She would make some man an excellent wife
Now isn't that perfectly manlike
Mamma, what
do you think of that? Did any of you gentlemen ever see a young woman of
much ability that you did not look upon as a flotsam all adrift until
some man had appropriated her
I think, Miss Leroy, that the world's work, if shared, is better done
than when it is performed alone. Don't you think your life-work will be
better done if some one shares it with you
That would depend on the person who shared it
Here
is something which will please you
Miss
Delany and Harry will be here on Wednesday; and this one is an
invitation which also adds to my enjoyment
What is it
an invitation to a hop or a german
No; but something which I value far more. We are all invited to Mr.
Stillman's to a _conversazione_
What is the object
His object is to gather some of the thinkers and leaders of the race to
consult on subjects of vital interest to our welfare. He has invited Dr.
Latimer, Professor Gradnor, of North Carolina, Mr. Forest, of New York,
Hon. Dugdale, Revs. Carmicle, Cantnor, Tunster, Professor Langhorne, of
Georgia, and a few ladies, Mrs. Watson, Miss Brown, and others
I am glad that it is neither a hop nor a german
but
something for which I have been longing
Why, Iola
don't you believe in young people having a
good time
Oh, yes
I believe in young people having
amusements and recreations; but the times are too serious for us to
attempt to make our lives a long holiday
Well, Iola
this is the first holiday we have had
in two hundred and fifty years, and you shouldn't be too exacting
Yes
human beings naturally crave enjoyment, and if
not furnished with good amusements they are apt to gravitate to low
pleasures
Some one
has said that the Indian belongs to an old
race and looks gloomily back to the past, and that the negro belongs to
a young race and looks hopefully towards the future
If that be so
our race-life corresponds more to the
follies of youth than the faults of maturer years
Good evening, Dr Latimer
This is my friend, Miss Delany, from
Georgia. Were she not present I would say she is one of the grandest
women in America
I am very much pleased to meet you
I
have heard Miss Leroy speak of you. We were expecting you
This is my brother, about whom mamma was so anxious
Had you a pleasant journey
Not especially
Southern roads are not always
very pleasant to travel. When Mr. Leroy entered the cars at A ----, where
he was known, had he taken his seat among the white people he would have
been remanded to the colored
But after awhile
as Miss Delany and myself were sitting
together, laughing and chatting, a colored man entered the car, and,
mistaking me for a white man, asked the conductor to have me removed,
and I had to insist that I was colored in order to be permitted to
remain. It would be ludicrous, if it were not vexatious, to be too white
to be black, and too black to be white
Caste plays such fantastic tricks in this country
I tell Mr. Leroy
that when he returns he must put
a label on himself, saying, 'I am a colored man,' to prevent annoyance
Negro Emigration
I do not believe self-exilement is the true remedy for the wrongs of
the negro. Where should he go if he left this country
Go to Africa
I
believe that Africa is to be redeemed to civilization, and that the
negro is to be gathered into the family of nations and recognized as a
man and a brother
Go to Africa
Does the
United States own one foot of African soil? And have we not been
investing our blood in the country for ages
I am in favor of missionary efforts
for the redemption of Africa, but I see no reason for
expatriating ourselves because some persons do not admire the color of
our skins
I do not believe
in emptying on the shores of
Africa a horde of ignorant, poverty-stricken people, as missionaries of
civilization or Christianity. And while I am in favor of missionary
efforts, there is need here for the best heart and brain to work in
unison for justice and righteousness
America
is the best field for human development.
God has not heaped up our mountains with such grandeur, flooded our
rivers with such majesty, crowned our valleys with such fertility,
enriched our mines with such wealth, that they should only minister to
grasping greed and sensuous enjoyment
Climate, soil, and physical environments
have much to do with shaping national characteristics. If in Africa,
under a tropical sun, the negro has lagged behind other races in the
march of civilization, at least for once in his history he has, in this
country, the privilege of using climatic advantages and developing under
new conditions
Yes
and I do not wish our people to become
restless and unsettled before they have tried one generation of
freedom
I am always glad
when I hear of people who are ill treated in
one section of the country emigrating to another. Men who are deaf to
the claims of mercy, and oblivious to the demands of justice, can feel
when money is slipping from their pockets
The negro
does not present to my mind the picture
of an effete and exhausted people, destined to die out before a stronger
race. Gilbert Haven once saw a statue which suggested this thought, 'I
am black, but comely; the sun has looked down upon me, but I will teach
you who despise me to feel that I am your superior.' The men who are
acquiring property and building up homes in the South show us what
energy and determination may do even in that part of the country. I
believe such men can do more to conquer prejudice than if they spent all
their lives in shouting for their rights and ignoring their duties. No!
as there are millions of us in this country, I think it best to settle
down and work out our own salvation here
How many of us to-day
would be teaching
in the South, if every field of labor in the North was as accessible to
us as to the whites? It has been estimated that a million young white
men have left the South since the war, and, had our chances been equal
to theirs, would we have been any more willing to stay in the South with
those who need us than they? But this prejudice, by impacting us
together, gives us a common cause and brings our intellect in contact
with the less favored of our race
I do not believe
that the Southern white people
themselves desire any wholesale exodus of the colored from their labor
fields. It would be suicidal to attempt their expatriation
History
tells that Spain was once the
place where barbarian Europe came to light her lamp. Seven hundred years
before there was a public lamp in London you might have gone through the
streets of Cordova amid ten miles of lighted lamps, and stood there on
solidly paved land, when hundreds of years afterwards, in Paris, on a
rainy day you would have sunk to your ankles in the mud. But she who
bore the name of the 'Terror of Nations,' and the 'Queen of the Ocean,'
was not strong enough to dash herself against God's law of retribution
and escape unscathed. She inaugurated a crusade of horror against a
million of her best laborers and artisans. Vainly she expected the
blessing of God to crown her work of violence. Instead of seeing the
fruition of her hopes in the increased prosperity of her land,
depression and paralysis settled on her trade and business. A fearful
blow was struck at her agriculture; decay settled on her manufactories;
money became too scarce to pay the necessary expenses of the king's
exchequer; and that once mighty empire became a fallen kingdom, pierced
by her crimes and dragged down by her transgressions
We did not
place the bounds of our habitation. And I
believe we are to be fixtures in this country. But beyond the shadows I
see the coruscation of a brighter day; and we can help usher it in, not
by answering hate with hate, or giving scorn for scorn, but by striving
to be more generous, noble, and just. It seems as if all creation
travels to respond to the song of the Herald angels, 'Peace on earth,
good-will toward men
Patriotism
Law
is the
pivot on which the whole universe turns; and obedience to law is the
gauge by which a nation's strength or weakness is tried. We have had two
evils by which our obedience to law has been tested -- slavery and the
liquor traffic. How have we dealt with them both? We have been weighed
in the balance and found wanting. Millions of slaves and serfs have been
liberated during this century, but not even in semi-barbaric Russia,
heathen Japan, or Catholic Spain has slavery been abolished through such
a fearful conflict as it was in the United States. The liquor traffic
still sends its floods of ruin and shame to the habitations of men, and
no political party has been found with enough moral power and numerical
strength to stay the tide of death
I think
that what our country needs is truth
more than flattery. I do not think that our moral life keeps pace with
our mental development and material progress. I know of no civilized
country on the globe, Catholic, Protestant, or Mohammedan, where life is
less secure than it is in the South. Nearly eighteen hundred years ago
the life of a Roman citizen in Palestine was in danger from mob
violence. That pagan government threw around him a wall of living clay,
consisting of four hundred and seventy men, when more than forty Jews
had bound themselves with an oath that they would neither eat nor drink
until they had taken the life of the Apostle Paul. Does not true
patriotism demand that citizenship should be as much protected in
Christian America as it was in heathen Rome
I would have our people
more interested in
politics. Instead of forgetting the past, I would have them hold in
everlasting remembrance our great deliverance. Hitherto we have never
had a country with tender, precious memories to fill our eyes with
tears, or glad reminiscences to thrill our hearts with pride and joy. We
have been aliens and outcasts in the land of our birth. But I want my
pupils to do all in their power to make this country worthy of their
deepest devotion and loftiest patriotism. I want them to feel that its
glory is their glory, its dishonor their shame
Our esteemed friend, Mrs. Watson
Rallying
Cry
Let us have it now
and I move that Miss Delany be
chosen to lend to the poem the charm of her voice
I second the motion
Why hast thou forsaken me
Education of Mothers
I agree
with the paper. The
great need of the race is enlightened mothers
And enlightened fathers, too
If there is
anything I chafe to see it is a strong, hearty man shirking his burdens,
putting them on the shoulders of his wife, and taking life easy for
himself
I always pity such mothers
I think
that such men ought to be drummed out of town
And I would
like to help do it
I do not think
that we can begin too early to
teach our boys to be manly and self-respecting, and our girls to be
useful and self-reliant
You know
There is a field of Christian endeavor which lies between the
school-house and the pulpit, which needs the hand of a woman more in
private than in public
Yes, I have often felt the need of such work in my own parish. We need
a union of women with the warmest hearts and clearest brains to help in
the moral education of the race
Yes
if we would have the prisons empty we must make the
homes more attractive
In civilized society
there must be restraint
either within or without. If parents fail to teach restraint within,
society has her check-reins without in the form of chain-gangs, prisons,
and the gallows
Moral Progress of the Race
The moral progress of the race was not all he could
desire, yet he could not help feeling that, compared with other races,
the outlook was not hopeless. I am so sorry to see, however, that in
some States there is an undue proportion of colored people in prisons
I think
that this is
owing to a partial administration of law in meting out punishment to
colored offenders. I know red-handed murderers who walk in this Republic
unwhipped of justice, and I have seen a colored woman sentenced to
prison for weeks for stealing twenty-five cents. I knew a colored girl
who was executed for murder when only a child in years. And it was
through the intervention of a friend of mine, one of the bravest young
men of the South, that a boy of fifteen was saved from the gallows
When I look
at the slow growth of modern
civilization -- the ages which have been consumed in reaching our present
altitude, and see how we have outgrown slavery, feudalism, and religious
persecutions, I cannot despair of the future of the race
Just now
we have the fearful grinding and friction
which comes in the course of an adjustment of the new machinery of
freedom in the old ruts of slavery. But I am optimistic enough to
believe that there will yet be a far higher and better Christian
civilization than our country has ever known
And in that civilization I believe the negro is to be an important
factor
I believe it also
and this thought has
been a blessed inspiration to my life. When I come in contact with
Christless prejudices, I feel that my life is too much a part of the
Divine plan, and invested with too much intrinsic worth, for me to be
the least humiliated by indignities that beggarly souls can inflict. I
feel more pitiful than resentful to those who do not know how much they
miss by living mean, ignoble lives
My heart
is full of hope for the future. Pain and
suffering are the crucibles out of which come gold more fine than the
pavements of heaven, and gems more precious than the foundations of the
Holy City
If
pain and suffering are factors in human
development, surely we have not been counted too worthless to suffer
And is there
a path which we have trodden in this
country, unless it be the path of sin, into which Jesus Christ has not
put His feet and left it luminous with the light of His steps? Has the
negro been poor and homeless? The birds of the air had nests and the
foxes had holes, but the Son of man had not where to lay His head. Has
our name been a synonym for contempt? 'He shall be called a Nazarene.'
Have we been despised and trodden under foot? Christ was despised and
rejected of men. Have we been ignorant and unlearned? It was said of
Jesus Christ, 'How knoweth this man letters, never having learned?' Have
we been beaten and bruised in the prison-house of bondage? 'They took
Jesus and scourged Him.' Have we been slaughtered, our bones scattered
at the graves' mouth? He was spit upon by the mob, smitten and mocked by
the rabble, and died as died Rome's meanest criminal slave. To-day that
cross of shame is a throne of power. Those robes of scorn have changed
to habiliments of light, and that crown of mockery to a diadem of glory.
And never, while the agony of Gethsemane and the sufferings of Calvary
have their hold upon my heart, will I recognize any religion as His
which despises the least of His brethren
She is
angelic
She is
strangely beautiful! Do you know her
Yes; I have met her several times. I accompanied her here to-night. The
tones of her voice are like benedictions of peace; her words a call to
higher service and nobler life
Oh, Doctor
I am delighted to see you. We
were about to adjourn, but we will postpone action to hear from you
Thank you
I have not the cue to the meeting,
and will listen while I take breath
Pardon me
I should have been more thoughtful
than to press so welcome a guest into service before I had given him
time for rest and refreshment; but if the courtesy failed on my lips it
did not fail in my heart. I wanted our young folks to see one of our
thinkers who had won distinction before the war
My dear friend
some of these young
folks will look on me as a back number. You know the cry has already
gone forth, 'Young men to the front
But we need old men for counsel
Of course
we older men would rather retire
gracefully than be relegated or hustled to a back seat. But I am pleased
to see doors open to you which were closed to us, and opportunities
which were denied us embraced by you
How
do you feel in reference to our people's
condition in the South
Very hopeful, although at times I cannot help feeling anxious about
their future. I was delighted with my visits to various institutions of
learning, and surprised at the desire manifested among the young people
to obtain an education. Where toil-worn mothers bent beneath their heavy
burdens their more favored daughters are enjoying the privileges of
education. Young people are making recitations in Greek and Latin where
it was once a crime to teach their parents to read. I also became
acquainted with colored professors and presidents of colleges. Saw young
ladies who had graduated as doctors. Comfortable homes have succeeded
old cabins of slavery. Vast crops have been raised by free labor. I read
with interest and pleasure a number of papers edited by colored men. I
saw it estimated that two millions of our people had learned to read,
and I feel deeply grateful to the people who have supplied us with
teachers who have stood their ground so nobly among our people
But
you expressed fears about the future of our
race. From whence do your fears arise
From the unfortunate conditions which slavery has entailed upon that
section of our country. I dread the results of that racial feeling which
ever and anon breaks out into restlessness and crime. Also, I am
concerned about the lack of home training for those for whom the
discipline of the plantation has been exchanged for the penalties of
prisons and chain-gangs. I am sorry to see numbers of our young men
growing away from the influence of the church and drifting into prisons.
I also fear that in some sections, as colored men increase in wealth and
intelligence, there will be an increase of race rivalry and jealousy. It
is said that savages, by putting their ears to the ground, can hear a
far-off tread. So, to-day, I fear that there are savage elements in our
civilization which hear the advancing tread of the negro and would
retard his coming. It is the incarnation of these elements that I dread.
It is their elimination I do so earnestly desire. Whether it be outgrown
or not is our unsolved problem. Time alone will tell whether or not the
virus of slavery and injustice has too fully permeated our Southern
civilization for a complete recovery. Nations, honey-combed by vice,
have fallen beneath the weight of their iniquities. Justice is always
uncompromising in its claims and inexorable in its demands. The laws of
the universe are never repealed to accommodate our follies
Surely
the negro has a higher mission than that
of aimlessly drifting through life and patiently waiting for death
We may not
have the same dash, courage, and
aggressiveness of other races, accustomed to struggle, achievement, and
dominion, but surely the world needs something better than the results
of arrogance, aggressiveness, and indomitable power. For the evils of
society there are no solvents as potent as love and justice, and our
greatest need is not more wealth and learning, but a religion replete
with life and glowing with love. Let this be the impelling force in the
race and it cannot fail to rise in the scale of character and
condition
And
instead of narrowing our sympathies to mere
racial questions, let us broaden them to humanity's wider issues
Let us
pass it along the lines, that to be
willfully ignorant is to be shamefully criminal. Let us teach our people
not to love pleasure or to fear death, but to learn the true value of
life, and to do their part to eliminate the paganism of caste from our
holy religion and the lawlessness of savagery from our civilization
How did you enjoy the evening, Marie
I was interested and deeply pleased
I
was thinking of the wonderful changes that
have come to us since the war. When I sat in those well-lighted,
beautifully-furnished rooms, I was thinking of the meetings we used to
have in by-gone days. How we used to go by stealth into lonely woods and
gloomy swamps, to tell of our hopes and fears, sorrows and trials. I
hope that we will have many more of these gatherings. Let us have the
next one here
I am sure
I would gladly welcome such a conference at
any time. I think such meetings would be so helpful to our young
people
Doctor
I
wish I could do something more for our people than I am doing. I taught
in the South till failing health compelled me to change my employment.
But, now that I am well and strong, I would like to do something of
lasting service for the race
Why not
write a good, strong book which would be
helpful to them? I think there is an amount of dormant talent among us,
and a large field from which to gather materials for such a book
I would do it, willingly, if I could; but one needs both leisure and
money to make a successful book. There is material among us for the
broadest comedies and the deepest tragedies, but, besides money and
leisure, it needs patience, perseverance, courage, and the hand of an
artist to weave it into the literature of the country
Miss Leroy, you have a large and rich experience; you possess a vivid
imagination and glowing fancy. Write, out of the fullness of your heart,
a book to inspire men and women with a deeper sense of justice and
humanity
Doctor
I would do it if I could, not for the money it
might bring, but for the good it might do. But who believes any good can
come out of the black Nazareth
Miss Leroy, out of the race must come its own thinkers and writers.
Authors belonging to the white race have written good racial books, for
which I am deeply grateful, but it seems to be almost impossible for a
white man to put himself completely in our place. No man can feel the
iron which enters another man's soul
Well, Doctor, when I write a book I shall take you for the hero of my
story
Why, what have I done
that
you should impale me on your pen
You have done nobly
in refusing your grandmother's
offer
I only did my duty
But
when others are trying to slip out from the race and
pass into the white basis, I cannot help admiring one who acts as if he
felt that the weaker the race is the closer he would cling to it
My mother
faithful and true, belongs to that
race. Where else should I be? But I know a young lady who could have
cast her lot with the favored race, yet chose to take her place with the
freed people, as their teacher, friend, and adviser. This young lady was
alone in the world. She had been fearfully wronged, and to her stricken
heart came a brilliant offer of love, home, and social position. But she
bound her heart to the mast of duty, closed her ears to the syren song,
and could not be lured from her purpose
Do you know her
Yes, I know her and admire her; and she ought to be made the subject
of a soul-inspiring story. Do you know of whom I speak
How should I, Doctor? I am sure you have not made me your confidante
Are you all alone
Where are the rest of the folks
Mamma and grandma have gone to bed
Harry and Lucille
are at the concert. They are passionately fond of music, and find
facilities here that they do not have in the South. They wouldn't go to
hear a seraph where they must take a negro seat. I was too tired to go.
Besides, 'two's company and three's a crowd
I reckon you struck the nail on the head that time
But you have not been alone all the time. Just as I reached
the corner I saw Dr Latimer leaving the door. I see he still continues
his visits. Who is his patient now
Oh, Uncle Robert
he is out with
Harry and Lucille part of the time, and drops in now and then to see us
all
Well
I suppose the case is now an affair of the heart.
But I cannot blame him for it
How do you like him
I must have within me
a
large amount of hero worship. The characters of the Old Testament I most
admire are Moses and Nehemiah. They were willing to put aside their own
advantages for their race and country. Dr Latimer comes up to my ideal
of a high, heroic manhood
I think
he would be delighted to
hear your opinion of him
I tell him
that he belongs to the days of chivalry.
But he smiles and says, 'he only belongs to the days of hard-pan
service
Some one
was saying to-day that he stood in his own
light when he refused his grandmother's offer to receive him as her
son
I think
it was the grandest hour of his life when he made
that decision. I have admired him ever since I heard his story
But, Iola, think of the advantages he set aside. It was no sacrifice
for me to remain colored, with my lack of education and race sympathies,
but Dr Latimer had doors open to him as a white man which are forever
closed to a colored man. To be born white in this country is to be born
to an inheritance of privileges, to hold in your hands the keys that
open before you the doors of every occupation, advantage, opportunity,
and achievement
I know that, uncle
but even these advantages are too
dearly bought if they mean loss of honor, true manliness, and self
respect. He could not have retained these had he ignored his mother and
lived under a veil of concealment, constantly haunted by a dread of
detection. The gain would not have been worth the cost. It were better
that he should walk the ruggedest paths of life a true man than tread
the softest carpets a moral cripple
I am afraid
that we are destined to lose the light of our home
Oh, uncle, how you talk! I never dreamed of what you are thinking
And how
do you know what I am thinking about
My dear uncle, I'm not blind
Neither am I
I expect to go South
Ah, indeed
Where do you expect to pitch your tent
In the city of C ----, North Carolina
Oh, I wish
that you were going to Georgia, where you
could take care of that high-spirited brother of mine
I suppose if he were to hear you he would laugh, and say that he could
take care of himself. But I know a better plan than that
What is it
That you will commit yourself, instead of your brother, to my care
Oh, dear
What would mamma say
That she would willingly resign you, I hope
And what would grandma and Uncle Robert say
That they would cheerfully acquiesce. Now, what would I say if they all
consent
I don't know
Well
I would say:--

    "Could deeds my love discover,
          Could valor gain thy charms,
     To prove myself thy lover
          I'd face a world in arms
And prove a good soldier
when there is no
battle to fight
Iola, I am in earnest
In the work to
which I am devoted every burden will be lighter, every path smoother, if
brightened and blessed with your companionship
I must have time to think
Miss Iola, I think that you brood too much over the condition of our
people
Perhaps I do
but they never burn a man in the South
that they do not kindle a fire around my soul
I am afraid
that you will grow morbid and
nervous. Most of our people take life easily -- why shouldn't you
Because
I can see breakers ahead which they do not
Oh, give yourself no uneasiness. They will catch the fret and fever of
the nineteenth century soon enough. I have heard several of our
ministers say that it is chiefly men of disreputable characters who are
made the subjects of violence and lynch-law
Suppose it is so
If these men believe in
eternal punishment they ought to feel a greater concern for the wretched
sinner who is hurried out of time with all his sins upon his head, than
for the godly man who passes through violence to endless rest
That is true; and I am not counseling you to be selfish; but, Miss
Iola, had you not better look out for yourself
Thank you, Doctor, I am feeling quite well
I know it, but your devotion to study and work is too intense
I am preparing to teach, and must spend my leisure time in study. Mr.
Cloten is an excellent employer, and treats his employes as if they had
hearts as well as hands. But to be an expert accountant is not the best
use to which I can put my life
As a teacher you will need strong health and calm nerves. You had
better let me prescribe for you. You need
change of air, change of scene, and change of
name
Well, Doctor
that is the newest nostrum out.
Had you not better apply for a patent
Oh
you know you must
have unlimited faith in your physician
So you wish me to try the faith cure
Yes, faith in me
Oh, here we are at home
This has been a glorious
evening, Doctor. I am indebted to you for a great pleasure. I am
extremely grateful
You are perfectly welcome
The pleasure has been
mutual, I assure you
Will you not come in
Iola
I am not an adept in courtly phrases. I am a plain
man, who believes in love and truth. In asking you to share my lot, I am
not inviting you to a life of ease and luxury, for year after year I may
have to struggle to keep the wolf from the door, but your presence would
make my home one of the brightest spots on earth, and one of the fairest
types of heaven. Am I presumptuous in hoping that your love will become
the crowning joy of my life
Frank, I love you
Iola, Dr Latimer has called to see you
Has he
Come,
Lucille, let us go into the parlor
Oh, no
He didn't ask for you. When we went to the concert we
were told three's a crowd. And I say one good turn deserves another
Oh, Harry, you are so full of nonsense. Let Lucille go
Indeed I will not. I want to have a good time as well as you
Oh, you're the most nonsensical man I know
You're looking very bright and happy
My ride in the park was so refreshing! I enjoyed it so much! The day
was so lovely, the air delicious, the birds sang so sweetly, and the
sunset was so magnificent
I am glad of it. Why, Iola, your home is so happy your heart should be
as light as a school-girl's
Doctor
I must be prematurely old. I have scarcely known
what it is to be light-hearted since my father's death
I know it, darling
You have been tried in the fire, but are you not
better for the crucial test
Doctor
as we rode along yesterday, mingling with the
sunshine of the present came the shadows of the past. I was thinking of
the bright, joyous days of my girlhood, when I defended slavery, and of
how the cup that I would have pressed to the lips of others was forced
to my own. Yet, in looking over the mournful past, I would not change
the Iola of then for the Iola of now
Yes
Darkness shows us worlds of light
        We never saw by day
Oh, Doctor, you cannot conceive what it must have been to be hurled
from a home of love and light into the dark abyss of slavery; to be
compelled to take your place among a people you have learned to look
upon as inferiors and social outcasts; to be in the power of men whose
presence would fill you with horror and loathing, and to know that there
is no earthly power to protect you from the highest insults which brutal
cowardice could shower upon you. I am so glad that no other woman of my
race will suffer as I have done
Darling
you must forget the sad past. You are like a
tender lamb snatched from the jaws of a hungry wolf, but who still needs
protecting, loving care. But it must have been terrible
It was indeed! For awhile I was like one dazed. I tried to pray, but
the heavens seemed brass over my head. I was wild with agony, and had I
not been placed under conditions which roused all the resistance of my
soul, I would have lost my reason
Was it not a mistake to have kept you ignorant of your colored blood
It was the great mistake of my father's life, but dear papa knew
something of the cruel, crushing power of caste; and he tried to shield
us from it
Yes, yes
in trying to shield you
from pain he plunged you into deeper suffering
I never blame him, because I know he did it for the best. Had he lived
he would have taken us to France, where I should have had a life of
careless ease and pleasure. But now my life has a much grander
significance than it would have had under such conditions. Fearful as
the awakening was, it was better than to have slept through life
Best for you and best for me
There are souls that
never awaken; but if they miss the deepest pain they also lose the
highest joy
dat sweet young lady who had sich
putty manners war comin' to lib wid dem
How'dy, honey! I'se so glad you's come. I
seed it in a vision dat somebody fair war comin' to help us. An' wen I
yered it war you, I larffed and jist rolled ober, and larffed and jist
gib up
But, Aunt Linda, I am not very fair
Well, chile, you's fair to me. How's all yore folks in de up kentry
All well. I expect them down soon to live here
What, Har'yet, and Robby, an' yer ma? Oh, dat is too good. I allers
said Robby had san' in his craw, and war born for good luck. He war a
mighty nice boy. Har'yet's in clover now. Well, ebery dorg has its day,
and de cat has Sunday. I allers tole Har'yet ter keep a stiff upper lip;
dat it war a long road dat had no turn
I ain't goin' to let her do nuffin till she gits seasoned. She looks as
sweet as a peach. I allers wanted some nice lady to come down yere and
larn our gals some sense. I can't read myself, but I likes ter yere dem
dat can
Well, Aunt Linda, I am going to teach in the Sunday-school, help in the
church, hold mothers' meetings to help these boys and girls to grow up
to be good men and women. Won't you get a pair of spectacles and learn
to read
Oh, yer can't git dat book froo my head, no way you fix it. I knows
nuff to git to hebben, and dat's all I wants to know
This thing is getting very monotonous
Oh, I enjoy it
These stately pines look so
grand and solemn, they remind me of a procession of hooded monks
What in the world are you talking about, Lucille
About those pine-trees
Pshaw, I wasn't thinking about them. I'm thinking about Iola and
Frank
What about them
Why, when I was in P ----, Dr Latimer used to be first-rate company,
but now it is nothing but what Iola wants, and what Iola says, and what
Iola likes. I don't believe that there is a subject I could name to him,
from spinning a top to circumnavigating the globe, that he wouldn't
somehow contrive to bring Iola in. And I don't believe you could talk
ten minutes to Iola on any subject, from dressing a doll to the latest
discovery in science, that she wouldn't manage to lug in Frank
Oh, you absurd creature
this is their honeymoon,
and they are deeply in love with each other. Wait till you get in love
with some one
I am in love now
With whom
With you
Oh, Harry
Don't be so
nonsensical! Don't you think the bride looked lovely, with that dress of
spotless white and with those orange blossoms in her hair
Yes, she did; that's a fact
But, Lucille, I think
there is a great deal of misplaced sentiment at weddings
How so
Oh, here are a couple just married, and who are as happy as happy can
be; and people will crowd around them wishing much joy; but who thinks
of wishing joy to the forlorn old bachelors and restless old maids
Well, Harry, if you want people to wish you much happiness, why don't
you do as the doctor has done, get yourself a wife
I will
when you say so
Oh, Harry, don't be so absurd
Indeed there isn't a bit of absurdity about what I say. I am in
earnest
I think it was Charles Lamb
who once said that
school-teachers are uncomfortable people, and, Harry, I would not like
to make you uncomfortable by marrying you
You will make me uncomfortable by not marrying me
But
your mother may not prefer me for a daughter.
You know, Harry, complexional prejudices are not confined to white
people
My mother
is too noble to
indulge in such sentiments
And Iola, would she be satisfied
Why, it would add to her satisfaction. She is not one who can't be
white and won't be black
Well, then
I will take the question of your comfort
into consideration
Good
Doctor
The world is his country, and mankind his countrymen
Only waiting till the angels
      Open wide the mystic gate
</text>
