<text>
Stay here beside her, major. I shall not he needed for an hour yet.
Meanwhile I'll go downstairs and snatch a bit of sleep, or talk to old
Jane
How did this happen, Jane
You ought to have taken better care of your
mistress
Now look a-hyuh, Doctuh Price
you don' wanter come talkin' none er yo' foolishness 'bout my
not takin' keer er Mis' 'Livy. _She_ never would 'a' said sech a thing!
Seven er eight mont's ago, w'en she sent fer me, I says ter her, says
I:--

"'Lawd, Lawd, honey! You don' tell me dat after all dese long w'ary
years er waitin' de good Lawd is done heared yo' prayer an' is gwine ter
sen' you de chile you be'n wantin' so long an' so bad? Bless his holy
name! Will I come an' nuss yo' baby? Why, honey, I nussed you, an'
nussed yo' mammy thoo her las' sickness, an' laid her out w'en she died.
I wouldn' _let_ nobody e'se nuss yo' baby; an' mo'over, I'm gwine ter
come an' nuss you too. You're young side er me, Mis' 'Livy, but you're
ove'ly ole ter be havin' yo' fus' baby, an' you'll need somebody roun',
honey, w'at knows all 'bout de fam'ly, an' deir ways an' deir
weaknesses, an' I don' know who dat'd be ef it wa'n't me.'

"'Deed, Mammy Jane,' says she, 'dere ain' nobody e'se I'd have but you.
You kin come ez soon ez you wanter an' stay ez long ez you mineter.'

"An hyuh I is, an' hyuh I'm gwine ter stay. Fer Mis' 'Livy is my ole
mist'ess's daughter, an' my ole mist'ess wuz good ter me, an' dey ain'
none er her folks gwine ter suffer ef ole Jane kin he'p it
Your loyalty does you credit, Jane
but you
haven't told me yet what happened to Mrs. Carteret to-day. Did the horse
run away, or did she see something that frightened her
No, suh, de hoss didn' git skeered at nothin', but Mis' 'Livy did see
somethin', er somebody; an' it wa'n't no fault er mine ner her'n
neither,-- it goes fu'ther back, suh, fu'ther dan dis day er dis year.
Does you 'member de time w'en my ole mist'ess, Mis' 'Livy upstairs's
mammy, died? No? Well, you wuz prob'ly 'way ter school den, studyin' ter
be a doctuh. But I'll tell you all erbout it.

"Wen my ole mist'ess, Mis' 'Liz'beth Merkell,-- an' a good mist'ess she
wuz,-- tuck sick fer de las' time, her sister Polly -- ole Mis' Polly
Ochiltree w'at is now -- come ter de house ter he'p nuss her. Mis' 'Livy
upstairs yander wuz erbout six years ole den, de sweetes' little angel
you ever laid eyes on; an' on her dyin' bed Mis' 'Liz'beth ax' Mis'
Polly fer ter stay hyuh an' take keer er her chile, an' Mis' Polly she
promise'. She wuz a widder fer de secon' time, an' didn' have no
child'en, an' could jes' as well come as not.

"But dere wuz trouble after de fune'al, an' it happen' right hyuh in dis
lib'ary. Mars Sam wuz settin' by de table, w'en Mis' Polly come
downstairs, slow an' solemn, an' stood dere in de middle er de flo', all
in black, till Mars Sam sot a cheer fer her.

"'Well, Samuel,' says she, 'now dat we've done all we can fer po'
'Liz'beth, it only 'mains fer us ter consider Olivia's future.'

"Mars Sam nodded his head, but didn' say nothin'.

"'I don' need ter tell you,' says she, 'dat I am willin' ter carry out
de wishes er my dead sister, an' sac'ifice my own comfo't, an' make
myse'f yo' housekeeper an' yo' child's nuss, fer my dear sister's sake.
It wuz her dyin' wish, an' on it I will ac', ef it is also yo'n.'

"Mars Sam didn' want Mis' Polly ter come, suh; fur he didn' like Mis'
Polly. He wuz skeered er Miss Polly
I don't wonder
if she was anything like she is
now
Wuss, suh, fer she wuz younger, an' stronger. She always would have her
say, no matter 'bout what, an' her own way, no matter who 'posed her.
She had already be'n in de house fer a week, an' Mars Sam knowed ef she
once come ter stay, she'd be de mist'ess of eve'ybody in it an' him
too. But w'at could he do but say yas?

"'Den it is unde'stood, is it,' says Mis' Polly, w'en he had spoke, 'dat
I am ter take cha'ge er de house?'

"'All right, Polly,' says Mars Sam, wid a deep sigh.

"Mis' Polly 'lowed he wuz sighin' fer my po' dead mist'ess, fer she didn'
have no idee er his feelin's to'ds her,-- she alluz did 'low dat all
de gent'emen wuz in love wid 'er.

"'You won' fin' much ter do,' Mars Sam went on, 'fer Julia is a good
housekeeper, an' kin ten' ter mos' eve'ything, under yo' d'rections.'

"Mis' Polly stiffen' up like a ramrod. 'It mus' be unde'stood, Samuel,'
says she, 'dat w'en I 'sumes cha'ge er yo' house, dere ain' gwine ter be
no 'vided 'sponsibility; an' as fer dis Julia, me an' her couldn' git
'long tergether nohow. Ef I stays, Julia goes.'

"Wen Mars Sam heared dat, he felt better, an' 'mence' ter pick up his
courage. Mis' Polly had showed her han' too plain. My mist'ess hadn'
got col' yit, an' Mis' Polly, who'd be'n a widder fer two years dis
las' time, wuz already fig'rin' on takin' her place fer good, an' she
did n' want no other woman roun' de house dat Mars Sam might take a'
intrus' in.

"'My dear Polly,' says Mars Sam, quite determine', 'I couldn' possibly
sen' Julia 'way. Fac' is, I couldn' git 'long widout Julia. She'd be'n
runnin' dis house like clockwo'k befo' you come, an' I likes her ways.
My dear, dead 'Liz'beth sot a heap er sto' by Julia, an' I'm gwine ter
keep her here fer 'Liz'beth's sake.'

"Mis' Polly's eyes flash' fire.

"'Ah,' says she,' I see -- I see! You perfers her housekeepin' ter mine,
indeed! Dat is a fine way ter talk ter a lady! An' a heap er rispec' you
is got fer de mem'ry er my po' dead sister!'

"Mars Sam knowed w'at she 'lowed she seed wa'n't so; but he didn' let
on, fer it only made him de safer. He wuz willin' fer her ter 'magine w'at
she please', jes' so long ez she kep' out er his house an' let him
alone.

"'No, Polly,' says he, gittin' bolder ez she got madder, 'dere ain' no
use talkin'. Nothin' in de worl' would make me part wid Julia.'

"Mis' Polly she r'ared an' she pitch', but Mars Sam helt on like grim
death. Mis' Polly wouldn' give in neither, an' so she fin'lly went
away. Dey made some kind er 'rangement afterwa'ds, an' Miss Polly tuck
Mis' 'Livy ter her own house. Mars Sam paid her bo'd an' 'lowed Mis'
Polly somethin' fer takin' keer er her
And Julia stayed
Julia stayed, suh, an' a couple er years later her chile wuz bawn,
right here in dis house
But you said
that Mrs. Ochiltree was in error
about Julia
Yas, suh, so she wuz, w'en my ole mist'ess died. But dis wuz two years
after,-- an' w'at has ter be has ter be. Julia had a easy time; she had a
black gal ter wait on her, a buggy to ride in, an' eve'ything she
wanted. Eve'ybody s'posed Mars Sam would give her a house an' lot, er
leave her somethin' in his will. But he died suddenly, and didn' leave
no will, an' Mis' Polly got herse'f 'pinted gyardeen ter young Mis'
'Livy, an' driv Julia an' her young un out er de house, an' lived here
in dis house wid Mis' 'Livy till Mis' 'Livy ma'ied Majah Carteret
And what became of Julia
Well
eve'ybody s'posed, after w'at had happen', dat
Julia'd keep on livin' easy, fer she wuz young an' good-lookin'. But
she didn'. She tried ter make a livin' sewin', but Mis' Polly wouldn'
let de bes' w'ite folks hire her. Den she tuck up washin', but didn' do
no better at dat; an' bimeby she got so discourage' dat she ma'ied a
shif'less yaller man, an' died er consumption soon after,-- an' wuz
'bout ez well off, fer dis man couldn' hardly feed her nohow
And the child
One er de No'the'n w'ite lady teachers at de mission school tuck a
likin' ter little Janet, an' put her thoo school, an' den sent her off
ter de No'th fer ter study ter be a school teacher. W'en she come back,
'stead er teachin' she ma'ied ole Adam Miller's son
The rich stevedore's son, Dr Miller
Yas, suh, dat's de man,-- you knows 'im. Dis yer boy wuz jes' gwine
'way fer ter study ter be a doctuh, an' he ma'ied dis Janet, an' tuck
her 'way wid 'im. Dey went off ter Europe, er Irope, er Orope, er
somewhere er 'nother, 'way off yander, an' come back here las' year an'
sta'ted dis yer horspital an' school fer ter train de black gals fer
nusses
He's a very good doctor, Jane, and is doing a useful work. Your
chapter of family history is quite interesting,-- I knew part of it
before, in a general way; but you haven't yet told me what brought on
Mrs. Carteret's trouble
I'm jes' comin' ter dat dis minute, suh,-- w'at I be'n tellin' you is
all a part of it. Dis yer Janet, w'at's Mis' 'Livy's half-sister, is ez
much like her ez ef dey wuz twins. Folks sometimes takes 'em fer one
ernudder,-- I s'pose it tickles Janet mos' ter death, but it do make Mis'
'Livy rippin'. An' den 'way back yander jes' after de wah, w'en de ole
Carteret mansion had ter be sol', Adam Miller bought it, an' dis yer
Janet an' her husban' is be'n livin' in it ever sence ole Adam died,
'bout a year ago; an' dat makes de majah mad, 'ca'se he don' wanter see
cullud folks livin' in de ole fam'ly mansion w'at he wuz bawn in. An'
mo'over, an' dat's de wust of all, w'iles Mis' 'Livy ain' had no
child'en befo', dis yer sister er her'n is got a fine-lookin' little
yaller boy, w'at favors de fam'ly so dat ef Mis' 'Livy'd see de chile
anywhere, it'd mos' break her heart fer ter think 'bout her not havin'
no child'en herse'f. So ter-day, w'en Mis' 'Livy wuz out ridin' an' met
dis yer Janet wid her boy, an' w'en Mis' 'Livy got ter studyin' 'bout
her own chances, an' how she mought not come thoo safe, she jes' had a
fit er hysterics right dere in de buggy. She wuz mos' home, an' William
got her here, an' you knows de res'
You had better come along up now, Jane
Bless its 'ittle hea't
Bless its 'ittle hea't! it's de ve'y spit an' image er its
pappy
Be that as it may
and I'll not dispute
it, the child is a very fine boy,-- a very fine boy, indeed! Take care of
it, major
for your wife can never
bear another
Dodie
I'm all right now, Sandy
You may come back for me at nine
o'clock
Perhaps you'd better not send your man away, Mr. Delamere
You might need him before nine o'clock. One
never knows what may happen after one has had the second stroke. And
moreover, our butler has fallen down the back steps -- negroes are so
careless!-- and sprained his ankle so that he can't stand. I'd like to
have Sandy stay and wait on the table in Peter's place, if you don't
mind
I thank you, Mrs. Ochiltree, for your solicitude
but my health is very
good just at present, and I do not anticipate any catastrophe which will
require my servant's presence before I am ready to go home. But I have
no doubt, madam
that
Sandy will be pleased to serve you, if you desire it, to the best of his
poor knowledge
I shill be honored, ma'am
only I'm 'feared I ain't rightly dressed fer ter wait on
table. I wuz only goin' ter pra'r-meetin', an' so I didn' put on my
bes' clo's. Ef Mis' Ochiltree ain' gwine ter need me fer de nex' fifteen
minutes, I kin ride back home in de ca'ige an' dress myse'f suitable fer
de occasion, suh
If you think you'll wait on the table any better
you may go along and change your clothes; but hurry back,
for it is seven now, and dinner will soon be served
Am I in time for dinner, Sandy
Yas, Mistuh Tom, you're in plenty er time. Dinner won't be ready till
_I_ git back, which won' be fer fifteen minutes er so yit
Olivia is dressing for dinner
Mrs. Ochiltree is
in the kitchen, struggling with the servants. Clara -- Ah, here she comes
now
You are the last one, Tom
Mr. Ellis has been
here half an hour
The rector is not here
You see I am not
the last
The rector
was called out of town at six o'clock this
evening, to visit a dying man, and so cannot be here. You are the last,
Tom, and Mr. Ellis was the first
They make a handsome couple
I remember well when her
mother, in her youth an ideally beautiful woman, of an excellent family,
married Daniel Pemberton, who was not of so good a family, but had made
money. The major, who was only a very young man then, disapproved of the
match; he considered that his mother, although a widow and nearly forty,
was marrying beneath her. But he has been a good brother to Clara, and a
careful guardian of her estate. Ah, young gentleman, you cannot
appreciate, except in imagination, what it means, to one standing on the
brink of eternity, to feel sure that he will live on in his children and
his children's children
Yes, sir
Miss Clara is a beautiful young
lady
And Tom is a good boy -- a fine boy
I am
very well pleased with Tom, and shall be entirely happy when I see them
married
What a beautiful table
The decorations are mine
I cut the flowers and
arranged them all myself
Which accounts for the admirable effect
The beauty of the flowers
is reflected upon all around them. It is a handsome
company
I don't perceive any effect that it has upon you or me
And
as for the young people, 'Handsome is as handsome does.' If Tom here,
for instance, were as good as he looks
You flatter me, Aunt Polly
If you are as good as you look
some one has been slandering you
Thanks, Aunt Polly! Now you don't flatter me
There is Mr. Ellis
who is not half so
good-looking, but is steady as a clock, I dare say
Now, Aunt Polly
let the gentlemen alone
She doesn't mean half what she says
and only talks that way to people whom she likes
Mrs. Ochiltree has a characteristic way of disguising her feelings
Sandy
pass that tray
standing upon the side table, so that we may all see the presents
I saw that in your cedar chest, Aunt Polly
when I was a
little girl, and you used to pull the chest out from under your bed to
get me a dime
You kept the rattle in the right-hand corner of the chest
in the box with the red silk purse, from which you took the gold piece
you gave me every Christmas
Aunt Polly's chest is like the widow's cruse
which was never empty
Or Fortunatus's purse, which was always full
It will last me while I live
but there'll not be a great deal left. It won't take much to support
an old woman for twenty years
Is it quite prudent, Mrs. Ochiltree
to mention, in the presence of the servants, that you keep money
in the house
I beg your pardon, major
The only servant in hearing of the conversation has been my
own; and Sandy is as honest as any man in Wellington
You mean, sir
as honest as any negro
in Wellington
I make no exceptions, major
I would trust Sandy with my life,-- he saved it once at the
risk of his own
No doubt
the negro is capable of a certain doglike
fidelity,-- I make the comparison in a kindly sense,-- a certain personal
devotion which is admirable in itself, and fits him eminently for a
servile career. I should imagine, however, that one could more safely
trust his life with a negro than his portable property
Very clever, major! I read your paper, and know that your feeling is
hostile toward the negro, but
For my part
I think they have done very
well, considering what they started from, and their limited
opportunities. There was Adam Miller, for instance, who left a
comfortable estate. His son George carries on the business, and the
younger boy, William, is a good doctor and stands well with his
profession. His hospital is a good thing, and if my estate were clear, I
should like to do something for it
You are mistaken, sir, in imagining me hostile to the negro
On the contrary, I am friendly to his best interests. I give
him employment; I pay taxes for schools to educate him, and for
court-houses and jails to keep him in order. I merely object to being
governed by an inferior and servile race
I do not believe, major
that Olivia relishes the topic. I
merely wish to say that Sandy is an exception to any rule which you may
formulate in derogation of the negro. Sandy is a gentleman in ebony
Well, Mr. Delamere
no doubt Sandy
is an exceptionally good negro,-- he might well be, for he has had the
benefit of your example all his life,-- and we know that he is a faithful
servant. But nevertheless, if I were Mrs. Ochiltree, I should put my
money in the bank. Not all negroes are as honest as Sandy, and an
elderly lady might not prove a match for a burly black burglar
Thank you, major
I'm not yet
too old to take care of myself. That cedar chest has been my bank for
forty years, and I shall not change my habits at my age
I've proved a match for two husbands, and am not afraid of any man
that walks the earth, black or white, by day or night. I have a
revolver, and know how to use it. Whoever attempts to rob me will do so
at his peril
quality
Gin'l Belmont an' Cap'n McBane would like ter see you, suh
Show them in, Jerry
How do you do, Captain McBane
Jerry
bring a couple of
chairs for these gentlemen
And now that you have a son, major
you'll be all the more
interested in doing something to make this town fit to live in, which is
what we came up to talk about. Things are in an awful condition! A negro
justice of the peace has opened an office on Market Street, and only
yesterday summoned a white man to appear before him. Negro lawyers get
most of the business in the criminal court. Last evening a group of
young white ladies, going quietly along the street arm-in-arm, were
forced off the sidewalk by a crowd of negro girls. Coming down the
street just now, I saw a spectacle of social equality and negro
domination that made my blood boil with indignation,-- a white and a
black convict, chained together, crossing the city in charge of a negro
officer! We cannot stand that sort of thing, Carteret,-- it is the last
straw! Something must be done, and that quickly
I don' like dat Cap'n McBane
Dey says he got dat eye knock' out tryin' ter whip a cullud 'oman, when
he wuz a boy, an' dat he ain' never had no use fer niggers
sence,--'cep'n' fer what he could make outen 'em wid his convic' labor
contrac's. His daddy wuz a' overseer befo' 'im, an' it come nachul fer
him ter be a nigger-driver. I don' want dat one eye er his'n restin' on
me no longer 'n I kin he'p, an' I don' know how I'm gwine ter like dis
job ef he's gwine ter be comin' roun' here. He ain' nothin' but po'
w'ite trash nohow; but Lawd! Lawd! look at de money he's got,-- livin'
at de hotel, wearin' di'mon's, an' colloguin' wid de bes' quality er dis
town! 'Pears ter me de bottom rail is gittin' mighty close ter de top.
Well, I s'pose it all comes f'm bein' w'ite. I wush ter Gawd I wuz
w'ite
negro
the damned niggers
niggro
vote
franchise
eliminate
constitution
Jerry
wait on Captain McBane
Yas, suh
Take that half a dollar, boy
an' go 'cross the
street to Mr. Sykes's, and tell him to send me three whiskies. Bring
back the change, and make has'e
Gentlemen
I propose a
toast: 'No nigger domination
Amen
Major
_I_ should like to
use Jerry for a moment, if you will permit me
Jerry
go over to Mr.
Brown's,-- I get my liquor there,-- and tell them to send me three glasses
of my special mixture. And, Jerry,-- you may keep the change
Thank y', gin'l, thank y', marster
Dat's a gent'eman, a rale ole-time gent'eman
But dere's somethin' gwine on in dere,-- dere
sho' is! 'No nigger damnation!' Dat soun's all right,-- I'm sho' dere
ain' no nigger I knows w'at wants damnation, do' dere's lots of 'em w'at
deserves it; but ef dat one-eyed Cap'n McBane got anything ter do wid
it, w'atever it is, it don' mean no good fer de niggers,-- damnation'd
be better fer 'em dan dat Cap'n McBane! He looks at a nigger lack he
could jes' eat 'im alive
This mixture, gentlemen
was originally compounded by no less a person than
the great John C. Calhoun himself, who confided the recipe to my father
over the convivial board. In this nectar of the gods, gentlemen, I drink
with you to 'White Supremacy
White Supremacy everywhere
Now and forever
He looks jes' lack he wuz walkin' in his sleep
Dere's somethin' up, sho 's you bawn! 'No nigger damnation!'
Anybody'd 'low dey wuz all gwine ter heaven; but I knows better! W'en a
passel er w'ite folks gits ter talkin' 'bout de niggers lack dem in
yander, it's mo' lackly dey're gwine ter ketch somethin' e'se dan
heaven! I got ter keep my eyes open an' keep up wid w'at's happenin'. Ef
dere's gwine ter be anudder flood 'roun' here, I wants ter git in de
ark wid de w'ite folks,-- I may haf ter be anudder Ham, an' sta't de
cullud race all over ag'in
You really mean that about Dodie, do you, Mammy Jane
Does I mean it
Now, Mis' 'Livy, what is I ever
uttered er said er spoke er done dat would make you s'pose I could tell
you a lie 'bout yo' own chile
No, Mammy Jane, I'm sure you wouldn't
Deed, ma'am, I'm tellin' you de Lawd's truf. I don' haf ter tell no
lies ner strain no p'ints 'bout my ole mist'ess's gran'chile. Dis yer
boy is de ve'y spit an' image er yo' brother, young Mars Alick, w'at
died w'en he wuz 'bout eight mont's ole, w'iles I wuz laid off havin' a
baby er my own, an' couldn' be roun' ter look after 'im. An' dis chile
is a rale quality chile, he is,-- I never seed a baby wid sech fine hair
fer his age, ner sech blue eyes, ner sech a grip, ner sech a heft. W'y,
dat chile mus' weigh 'bout twenty-fo' poun's, an' he not but six mont's
ole. Does dat gal w'at does de nussin' w'iles I'm gone ten' ter dis
chile right, Mis' 'Livy
She does fairly well, Mammy Jane, but I could hardly expect her to love
the baby as you do. There's no one like you, Mammy Jane
Deed dere ain't, honey; you is talkin' de gospel truf now! None er
dese yer young folks ain' got de trainin' my ole mist'ess give me. Dese
yer new-fangle' schools don' l'arn 'em nothin' ter compare wid it. I'm
jes' gwine ter give dat gal a piece er my min', befo' I go, so she'll
ten' ter dis chile right
Look a-here, gal
I wants you ter understan'
dat you got ter take good keer er dis chile; fer I nussed his mammy
dere, an' his gran'mammy befo' 'im, an' you is got a priv'lege dat mos'
lackly you don' 'preciate. I wants you to 'member, in yo' incomin's an'
outgoin's, dat I got my eye on you, an' am gwine ter see dat you does
yo' wo'k right
Do you need me for anything, ma'am
Well, I nevuh
ef dat ain' de beatinis' pe'fo'mance I ever seed er heared of! Dese yer
young niggers ain' got de manners dey wuz bawned wid! I don' know w'at
dey're comin' to, w'en dey ain' got no mo' rispec' fer ole age -- I don'
know -- I don' know
Now what are you croaking about, Jane
Well, Jane
the old times have vanished, the old ties have been
ruptured. The old relations of dependence and loyal obedience on the
part of the colored people, the responsibility of protection and
kindness upon that of the whites, have passed away forever. The young
negroes are too self-assertive. Education is spoiling them, Jane; they
have been badly taught. They are not content with their station in life.
Some time they will overstep the mark. The white people are patient, but
there is a limit to their endurance
Dat's w'at I tells dese young niggers
w'en I hears 'em gwine on wid
deir foolishniss; but dey don' min' me. Dey 'lows dey knows mo' d'n I
does, 'ca'se dey be'n l'arnt ter look in a book. But, pshuh! my ole
mist'ess showed me mo' d'n dem niggers 'll l'arn in a thousan' years! I
's fetch' my gran'son' Jerry up ter be 'umble, an' keep in 'is place.
An' I tells dese other niggers dat ef dey'd do de same, an' not crowd
de w'ite folks, dey'd git ernuff ter eat, an' live out deir days in
peace an' comfo't. But dey don' min' me -- dey don' min' me
If all the colored people were like you and Jerry, Jane
there would never be any trouble. You have friends upon
whom, in time of need, you can rely implicitly for protection and
succor. You served your mistress faithfully before the war; you remained
by her when the other negroes were running hither and thither like sheep
without a shepherd; and you have transferred your allegiance to my wife
and her child. We think a great deal of you, Jane
Yes, indeed, Mammy Jane
you shall never want so long as we have
anything. We would share our last crust with you
Thank y', Mis' 'Livy
I knows who
my frien's is, an' I ain' gwine ter let nothin' worry me. But fer de
Lawd's sake, Mars Philip, gimme dat chile, an' lemme pat 'im on de back,
er he'll choke hisse'f ter death
Oh, my child
what can be the matter with him, Mammy Jane
Fer de Lawd's sake, ma'am, I don' know, 'less he's swallered
somethin'; an' he ain' had nothin' in his han's but de rattle Mis' Polly
give 'im
He has swallowed the little piece off the end of the handle
and it has lodged in his throat.
Telephone Dr Price to come immediately, Philip, before my baby chokes
to death! Oh, my baby, my precious baby
It's a curious accident
So far as I can discover, the piece of ivory has been drawn into the
trachea, or windpipe, and has lodged in the mouth of the right bronchus.
I'll try to get it out without an operation, but I can't guarantee the
result
I do not see
how an operation can be avoided
Will it be dangerous
It will be necessary to cut into his throat from the outside. All such
operations are more or less dangerous, especially on small children. If
this were some other child, I might undertake the operation unassisted;
but I know how you value this one, major, and I should prefer to share
the responsibility with a specialist
Is there one in town
No, but we can get one from out of town
Send for the best one in the country
who can be got
here in time. Spare no expense, Dr Price. We value this child above any
earthly thing
The best is the safest
I will send for Dr Burns,
of Philadelphia, the best surgeon in that line in America. If he can
start at once, he can reach here in sixteen or eighteen hours, and the
case can wait even longer, if inflammation does not set in
How do you do, Dr Burns
Why, it's Miller
William Miller -- Dr Miller, of course. Sit down, Miller, and tell me
all about yourself,-- what you're doing, where you've been, and where
you're going. I'm delighted to meet you, and to see you looking so
well -- and so prosperous
I deserve no credit for either, sir
for I inherited both health and prosperity. It is a
fortunate chance that permits me to meet you
How much I can accomplish I do not know
but I'll do
what I can. There are eight or nine million of us, and it will take a
great deal of learning of all kinds to leaven that lump
It is a great problem, Miller, the future of your race
a tremendously interesting problem. It is a serial story which
we are all reading, and which grows in vital interest with each
successive installment. It is not only your problem, but ours. Your race
must come up or drag ours down
We shall come up
slowly and painfully, perhaps, but
we shall win our way. If our race had made as much progress everywhere
as they have made in Wellington, the problem would be well on the way
toward solution
Wellington
That's where I'm going. A Dr Price,
of Wellington, has sent for me to perform an operation on a child's
throat. Do you know Dr Price
Quite well
he is a friend of mine
So much the better. I shall want you to assist me. I read in the
Medical Gazette, the other day, an account of a very interesting
operation of yours. I felt proud to number you among my pupils. It was a
remarkable case -- a rare case. I must certainly have you with me in this
one
I shall be delighted, sir
if it is agreeable to all
concerned
All passengers
will please transfer to the day coaches
ahead. The sleeper has a hot box, and must be switched off here
Let's sit here, Miller
It's on the shady
side
This man is with you
Certainly
Don't
you see that he is
Excuse me, sir
but did I
understand you to say that this man was your servant
No, indeed
The gentleman is not my
servant, nor anybody's servant, but is my friend. But, by the way, since
we are on the subject, may I ask what affair it is of yours
It's very much my affair
I'm sorry to part _friends_, but the
law of Virginia does not permit colored passengers to ride in the white
cars. You'll have to go forward to the next coach
I have paid my fare on the sleeping-car, where the separate-car law
does not apply
I can't help that. You can doubtless get your money back from the
sleeping-car company. But this is a day coach, and is distinctly marked
'White,' as you must have seen before you sat down here. The sign is put
there for that purpose
White
You shall not stir a step, Miller
This is an outrage upon a citizen of a free country. You shall stay
right here
I'm sorry to discommode you
but there's no
use kicking. It's the law of Virginia, and I am bound by it as well as
you. I have already come near losing my place because of not enforcing
it, and I can take no more such chances, since I have a family to
support
And my friend has his rights to maintain
There is a vital principle at stake in the matter
Really, sir
there's no use talking -- he absolutely cannot ride in
this car
How can you prevent it
The law gives me the right to remove him by force. I can call on the
train crew to assist me, or on the other passengers. If I should choose
to put him off the train entirely, in the middle of a swamp, he would
have no redress -- the law so provides. If I did not wish to use force, I
could simply switch this car off at the next siding, transfer the white
passengers to another, and leave you and your friend in possession until
you were arrested and fined or imprisoned
What he says is absolutely true, doctor
It is the law, and we are powerless to resist it. If we made any
trouble, it would merely delay your journey and imperil a life at the
other end. I'll go into the other car
You shall not go alone
A
place that is too good for you is not good enough for me. I will sit
wherever you do
I'm sorry again
I dislike to interfere, but white passengers are not
permitted to ride in the colored car
This is an outrage
a d ---- d outrage! You are
curtailing the rights, not only of colored people, but of white men as
well. I shall sit where I please
I warn you, sir
that the
law will be enforced. The beauty of the system lies in its strict
impartiality -- it applies to both races alike
And is equally infamous in both cases
I shall
immediately take steps
Never mind, doctor
it's only for a
little while. I'll reach my destination just as surely in the other car,
and we can't help it, anyway. I'll see you again at Wellington
Porter
is this a smoking car for white men
No, suh
but they comes in here sometimes, when
they ain' no cullud ladies on the kyar
Well, I have paid first-class fare, and I object to that man's smoking
in here. You tell him to go out
I'll tell the conductor, suh
I
'd jus' as soon talk ter the devil as ter that man
Captain
this car is plainly marked 'Colored.' I have
paid first-class fare, and I object to riding in a smoking car
All right
I'll speak to
him
Captain McBane
it's against the law for you to ride in the
nigger car
Who are you talkin' to
I'll ride where I damn
please
Yes, sir, but the colored passenger objects. I'm afraid I'll have to
ask you to go into the smoking-car
The hell you say
I'll leave this car when I get
good and ready, and that won't be till I've finished this cigar. See
White people
do not object to the negro as a servant. As the
traditional negro,-- the servant,-- he is welcomed; as an equal, he is
repudiated
for they shall inherit the earth.' If this be true, the
negro may yet come into his estate, for meekness seems to be set apart
as his portion
Fo de Lawd
ef I hadn' had a cha'm' life, I'd 'a'
never got here on dat ticket, an' dat's a fac'-- it sho' am! I kind er
'lowed I wuz gone a dozen times, ez it wuz. But I got my job ter do in
dis worl', an' I knows I ain' gwine ter die 'tel I've 'complished it. I
jes' want one mo' look at dat man, an' den I'll haf ter git somethin'
ter eat; fer two raw turnips in twelve hours is slim pickin's fer a man
er my size
My carriage is in waiting
I should have liked to
have you at my own house, but my wife is out of town. We have a good
hotel, however, and you will doubtless find it more convenient
You are very kind, Dr Price. Miller, won't you come up and dine with
me
Thank you, no
I am expected at home. My wife and child
are waiting for me in the buggy yonder by the platform
Oh, very well; of course you must go; but don't forget our appointment.
Let's see, Dr Price, I can eat and get ready in half an hour -- that will
make it
I have asked several of the local physicians to be present at eight
o'clock
The case can safely wait until then
Very well, Miller, be on hand at eight. I shall expect you without
fail. Where shall he come, Dr Price
To the residence of Major Philip Carteret, on Vine Street
I have invited Dr Miller to be present and assist in the operation
He was a favorite
pupil of mine, and is a credit to the profession. I presume you saw his
article in the Medical Gazette
Yes, and I assisted him in the case
It was a
colored lad, one of his patients, and he called me in to help him. He is
a capable man, and very much liked by the white physicians
We came at four o'clock
but the train was late two hours, they said. We came back at six, and
have been waiting ever since
Yes, papa
and I am very hungry
O Will
you must be very careful. Think of the child's poor mother!
Think of our own dear child, and what it would mean to lose him
By the way, Dr Burns
I'm very friendly to Dr Miller, and
should personally like to have him with us to-night. But -- I ought to
have told you this before, but I couldn't very well do so, on such
short notice, in Miller's presence -- we are a conservative people, and
our local customs are not very flexible. We jog along in much the same
old way our fathers did. I'm not at all sure that Major Carteret or the
other gentlemen would consent to the presence of a negro doctor
I think you misjudge your own people
they are
broader than you think. We have our prejudices against the negro at the
North, but we do not let them stand in the way of anything that _we_
want. At any rate, it is too late now, and I will accept the
responsibility. If the question is raised, I will attend to it. When I
am performing an operation I must be _aut Caesar, aut nullus_
The case is ready
Are the gentlemen all present
I believe so
I don't see Dr Miller
I asked him to come at eight. There are ten minutes yet
May I ask to whom you refer
Dr Miller, of your city. He was one of my favorite pupils. He is also
a graduate of the Vienna hospitals, and a surgeon of unusual skill. I
have asked him to assist in the operation
The person to whom you refer is a negro, I believe
He is a colored man, certainly
though one would
never think of his color after knowing him well
I do not know, sir
what the customs of Philadelphia or Vienna may be; but in the South we
do not call negro doctors to attend white patients. I could not permit a
negro to enter my house upon such an errand
I am here, sir
to perform a certain
operation. Since I assume the responsibility, the case must be under my
entire control. Otherwise I cannot operate
Gentlemen
I beg of you both -- this is
a matter for calm discussion, and any asperity is to be deplored. The
life at stake here should not be imperiled by any consideration of minor
importance
Your humanity does you credit, sir
But other
matters, too, are important. I have invited this gentleman here. My
professional honor is involved, and I merely invoke my rights to
maintain it. It is a matter of principle, which ought not to give way to
a mere prejudice
That also states the case for Major Carteret
He has certain principles,-- call them prejudices, if you
like,-- certain inflexible rules of conduct by which he regulates his
life. One of these, which he shares with us all in some degree, forbids
the recognition of the negro as a social equal
I do not know what Miller's social value may be
or whether you gain or lose by your attitude toward him. I
have invited him here in a strictly professional capacity, with which
his color is not at all concerned
Dr Burns does not quite appreciate Major Carteret's point of view
This is not with him an unimportant matter, or a mere
question of prejudice, or even of personal taste. It is a sacred
principle, lying at the very root of our social order, involving the
purity and prestige of our race. You Northern gentlemen do not quite
appreciate our situation; if you lived here a year or two you would act
as we do. Of course
if there were no
alternative -- if Dr Burns were willing to put Dr Miller's presence on
the ground of imperative necessity
I do nothing of the kind, sir
I
have not come all the way from Philadelphia to undertake an operation
which I cannot perform without the aid of some particular physician. I
merely stand upon my professional rights
Dr Burns
I beg your pardon for my heat, and throw myself upon your
magnanimity, as between white men
I am a gentleman, sir, before I am a white man
The terms should be synonymous
As between white men, and gentlemen, I say to you, frankly,
that there are vital, personal reasons, apart from Dr Miller's color,
why his presence in this house would be distasteful. With this
statement, sir, I throw myself upon your mercy. My child's life is worth
more to me than any earthly thing, and I must be governed by your
decision
May I speak with you privately a moment, doctor
I shall nevertheless feel humiliated when I meet Miller again
but of course if there is a personal question involved, that
alters the situation. Had it been merely a matter of color, I should
have maintained my position. As things stand, I wash my hands of the
whole affair, so far as Miller is concerned, like Pontius Pilate -- yes,
indeed, sir, I feel very much like that individual
I'll explain the matter to Miller
and
make it all right with him. We Southern people understand the negroes
better than you do, sir. Why should we not? They have been constantly
under our interested observation for several hundred years. You feel
this vastly more than Miller will. He knows the feeling of the white
people, and is accustomed to it. He wishes to live and do business here,
and is quite too shrewd to antagonize his neighbors or come where he is
not wanted. He is in fact too much of a gentleman to do so
I shall leave the explanation to you entirely
I'm sorry, Miller
but we were here
ahead of time, and the case took a turn which would admit of no delay,
so the gentlemen went in. Dr Burns is with the patient now, and asked
me to explain why we did not wait for you
I'm sorry too
I hope that all is well
All is well, so far. Step round to my office in the morning, Miller, or
come in when you're passing, and I'll tell you the details
Oh, doctuh
Dat's all a lie, doctuh
bout de operation bein'
already pe'fo'med. Dey-all had jes' gone in de minute befo' you
come -- Doctuh Price hadn' even got out 'n de room. Dey be'n quollin'
'bout you fer de las' ha'f hour. Majah Ca'te'et say he wouldn' have
you, an' de No'then doctuh say he wouldn't do nothin' widout you, an'
Doctuh Price he j'ined in on bofe sides, an' dey had it hot an' heavy,
nip an' tuck, till bimeby Majah Ca'te'et up an' say it wa'n't altogether
yo' color he objected to, an' wid dat de No'then doctuh give in. He's
a fine man, suh, but dey wuz too much fer 'im
Thank you, Sam, I'm much obliged
One
likes to know the truth
How is the baby
Dr Price says he is doing well
What is the matter, Will, and why are you back so soon
There's a change in his breathing
The whistling noise is less pronounced, and he breathes easier. The
obstruction seems to have shifted
Big
Three
Morning Chronicle
It seems
as though we
had undertaken more than we can carry through. It is clear that we must
reckon on opposition, both at home and abroad. If we are to hope for
success, we must extend the lines of our campaign. The North, as well as
our own people, must be convinced that we have right upon our side. We
are conscious of the purity of our motives, but we should avoid even the
appearance of evil
I don't see the use
of so much beating about the
bush. We may as well be honest about this thing. We are going to put the
niggers down because we want to, and think we can; so why waste our time
in mere pretense? I'm no hypocrite myself,-- if I want a thing I take it,
provided I'm strong enough
My dear captain
your
frankness does you credit,--'an honest man's the noblest work of
God,'-- but we cannot carry on politics in these degenerate times without
a certain amount of diplomacy. In the good old days when your father was
alive, and perhaps nowadays in the discipline of convicts, direct and
simple methods might be safely resorted to; but this is a modern age,
and in dealing with so fundamental a right as the suffrage we must
profess a decent regard for the opinions of even that misguided portion
of mankind which may not agree with us. This is the age of crowds, and
we must have the crowd with us
You see, captain
we need white immigration -- we need Northern
capital. 'A good name is better than great riches,' and we must prove
our cause a righteous one
We must be armed at all points
and prepared for
defense as well as for attack,-- we must make our campaign a national
one
For instance
you, Carteret, represent the
Associated Press. Through your hands passes all the news of the state.
What more powerful medium for the propagation of an idea? The man who
would govern a nation by writing its songs was a blethering idiot beside
the fellow who can edit its news dispatches. The negroes are playing
into our hands,-- every crime that one of them commits is reported by us.
With the latitude they have had in this state they are growing more
impudent and self-assertive every day. A yellow demagogue in New York
made a speech only a few days ago, in which he deliberately, and in cold
blood, advised negroes to defend themselves to the death when attacked
by white people! I remember well the time when it was death for a negro
to strike a white man
It's death now, if he strikes the right one
The local negro paper is quite outspoken, too
if not impudent. We must keep track of that; it may furnish us some
good campaign material
Yes
we must see to that. I threw a copy into the
waste-basket this morning, without looking at it. Here it is now
It's an elegant specimen of journalism, isn't it
Listen to this 'ad':--

"'Kinky, curly hair made straight by one application of our specific.
Our face bleach will turn the skin of a black or brown person four or
five shades lighter, and of a mulatto perfectly white. When you get the
color you wish, stop using the preparation.'

"Just look at those heads!--'Before using' and 'After using.' We'd
better hurry, or there'll be no negroes to disfranchise! If they don't
stop till they get the color they desire, and the stuff works according
to contract, they'll all be white. Ah! what have we here? This looks as
though it might be serious
Infamous -- infamous
The paper should be suppressed immediately
The impudent nigger ought to be horsewhipped and run out of town
Gentlemen
I believe we can find a more effective use
for this article, which, by the way, will not bear too close
analysis,-- there's some truth in it, at least there's an argument
That is not the point
No
that ain't at all the point.
Truth or not, no damn nigger has any right to say it
This article
violates an unwritten law of the South.
If we are to tolerate this race of weaklings among us, until they are
eliminated by the stress of competition, it must be upon terms which we
lay down. One of our conditions is violated by this article, in which
our wisdom is assailed, and our women made the subject of offensive
comment. We must make known our disapproval
I say lynch the nigger, break up the press, and burn down the newspaper
office
Gentlemen
would you mind suspending the
discussion for a moment, while I mind Jerry across the street? I think I
can then suggest a better plan
Jerry
step across to Brown's and tell him to send
me three Calhoun cocktails. Wait for them,-- here's the money
Yas, suh
And make has'e, charcoal
for we're gettin' damn dry
Jerry, now, is a very good negro. He's not one of your new negroes,
who think themselves as good as white men, and want to run the
government. Jerry knows his place,-- he is respectful, humble, obedient,
and content with the face and place assigned to him by nature
Yes, he's one of the best of 'em
He'll call any man
'master' for a quarter, or 'God' for half a dollar; for a dollar he'll
grovel at your feet, and for a cast-off coat you can buy an option on
his immortal soul,-- if he has one! I've handled niggers for ten years,
and I know 'em from the ground up. They're all alike,-- they're a scrub
race, an affliction to the country, and the quicker we're rid of 'em
all the better
The negro
is all right in his place and
very useful to the community. We lived on his labor for quite a long
time, and lived very well. Nevertheless we are better off without
slavery, for we can get more out of the free negro, and with less
responsibility. I really do not see how we could get along without the
negroes. If they were all like Jerry, we'd have no trouble with them
O Lawd
I never troubles trouble till trouble troubles
me; but w'en I got dem drinks befo', Gin'l Belmont gimme half a dollar
an' tol' me ter keep de change. Dis time he didn' say nothin' 'bout de
change. I s'pose he jes' fergot erbout it, but w'at is a po' nigger
gwine ter do w'en he has ter conten' wid w'ite folks's fergitfulniss? I
don' see no way but ter do some fergittin' myse'f. I'll jes' stan'
outside de do' here till dey gits so wrop' up in deir talk dat dey won'
'member nothin' e'se, an' den at de right minute I'll ban' de glasses
'roun, an' moa' lackly de gin'l 'll fergit all 'bout de change
Now, gentlemen
here's my plan. That
editorial in the negro newspaper is good campaign matter, but we should
reserve it until it will be most effective. Suppose we just stick it in
a pigeon-hole, and let the editor,-- what's his name
The nigger's name is Barber
I'd like to have him
under me for a month or two; he'd write no more editorials
Let Barber have all the rope he wants
and
he'll be sure to hang himself. In the mean time we will continue to work
up public opinion,-- we can use this letter privately for that
purpose,-- and when the state campaign opens we'll print the editorial,
with suitable comment, scatter it broadcast throughout the state, fire
the Southern heart, organize the white people on the color line, have a
little demonstration with red shirts and shotguns, scare the negroes
into fits, win the state for white supremacy, and teach our colored
fellow citizens that we are tired of negro domination and have put an
end to it forever. The Afro-American Banner will doubtless die about the
same time
And so will the editor
I'll see to
that. But I wonder where that nigger is with them cocktails? I'm so
thirsty I could swallow blue blazes
Here's yo' drinks, gin'l
If the
illustrious statesman
whose name this mixture bears, had
done nothing more than invent it, his fame would still deserve to go
thundering down the endless ages
It ain't bad liquor
O Lawd
he's gwine ter ax me fer de change. Yas, suh,
yas, suh; comin', gin'l, comin', suh
You may keep the change, Jerry
Yas, suh, gin'l; thank
y', suh; much obleedzed, suh. I wuz jus' gwine ter fetch it in, suh,
w'en I had put de tray down. Thank y', suh, truly, suh
Dat wuz a close shave
I 'lowed dem twenty cents wuz gone
dat time,-- an' whar I wuz gwine ter git de money ter take my gal ter de
chu'ch festibal ter-night, de Lawd only knows!--'less'n I borried it
offn Mr. Ellis, an' I owes him sixty cents a'ready. But I wonduh w'at
dem w'ite folks in dere is up ter? Dere's one thing sho',-- dey're
gwine ter git after de niggers some way er 'nuther, an' w'en dey does,
whar is Jerry gwine ter be? Dat's de mos' impo'tantes' question. I'm
gwine ter look at dat newspaper dey be'n talkin' 'bout, an' 'less'n my
min' changes might'ly, I'm gwine ter keep my mouf shet an' stan' in wid
de Angry-Saxon race,-- ez dey calls deyse'ves nowadays,-- an' keep on de
right side er my bread an' meat. Wat nigger ever give me twenty cents in
all my bawn days
By the way, major
is Miss Clara's marriage definitely settled upon
Well, general, not exactly; but it's the understanding that they will
marry when they are old enough
I was merely thinking
that if I were you I'd
speak to Tom about cards and liquor. He gives more time to both than a
young man can afford. I'm speaking in his interest and in Miss
Clara's,-- we of the old families ought to stand together
Thank you, general, for the hint. I'll act upon it
Thank you, major
I realize
that I may have been a little careless, more from thoughtlessness than
anything else; but my heart is all right, sir, and I am glad that my
conduct has been brought to your attention, for what you have said
enables me to see it in a different light. I will be more careful of my
company hereafter; for I love Clara, and mean to try to be worthy of
her. Do you know whether she will be at home this evening
I have heard nothing to the contrary
Call
her up by telephone and ask -- or come up and see. You're always welcome,
my boy
That's the damned sneak who's been giving me away
I'll
get even with him yet for this
Mr. Ellis
come here.
I want to speak to you
People are saying
that Tom Delamere is drinking
hard, and has to be carried home intoxicated, two or three times a week,
by old Mr. Delamere's man Sandy. Is there any truth in the story
My dear Mrs. Ochiltree, I am not Tom Delamere's keeper. Sandy could
tell you better than I
You are dodging my question, Mr. Ellis. Sandy wouldn't tell me the
truth, and I know that you wouldn't lie,-- you don't look like a liar.
They say Tom is gambling scandalously. What do you know about that
You must excuse me, Mrs. Ochiltree. A great deal of what we hear is
mere idle gossip, and the truth is often grossly exaggerated. I'm a
member of the same club with Delamere, and gentlemen who belong to the
same club are not in the habit of talking about one another. As long as
a man retains his club membership, he's presumed to be a gentleman. I
wouldn't say anything against Delamere if I could
You don't need to
You are a very open young man, Mr. Ellis, and I
can read you like a book. You are much smarter than you look, but you
can't fool me. Good-morning
You hold a baby very naturally, Clara
I
suppose you are in training. But you ought to talk to Tom. I have just
learned from Mr. Ellis that Tom is carried home drunk two or three times
a week, and that he is gambling in the most reckless manner imaginable
Why, Aunt Polly! did Mr. Ellis say that
I got it from Dinah
who heard it from her husband, who
learned it from a waiter at the club. And
Pshaw
mere servants' gossip
No, it isn't, Olivia. I met Mr. Ellis on the street, and asked him
point blank, and he didn't deny it. He's a member of the club, and
ought to know
Well, Aunt Polly, it can't be true. Tom is here every other night, and
how could he carry on so without showing the signs of it? and where
would he get the money? You know he has only a moderate allowance
He may win it at cards,-- it's better to be born lucky than rich
Then he has expectations, and can get credit.
There's no doubt that Tom is going on shamefully
Clara
you are my guardian angel. I do not know, of course,
who has told you this pack of lies,-- for I can see that you have heard
more than you have told me,-- but I think I could guess the man they came
from. I am not perfect, Clara, though I have done nothing of which a
gentleman should be ashamed. There is one sure way to stop the tongue of
calumny. My home life is not ideal,-- grandfather is an old, weak man,
and the house needs the refining and softening influence of a lady's
presence. I do not love club life; its ideals are not elevating. With
you by my side, dearest, I should be preserved from every influence
except the purest and the best. Don't you think, dearest, that the major
might be induced to shorten our weary term of waiting
Oh, Tom
I shall be young enough at
eighteen; and you are barely twenty-one
How have I offended you, Miss Clara
Offended me
Why, Mr. Ellis! What could have put such a notion into your
head? Oh dear, I think I hear Dodie,-- I know you'll excuse me, Mr.
Ellis, won't you? Sister Olivia will be back in a moment; and we're
expecting Aunt Polly this afternoon,-- if you'll stay awhile she'll be
glad to talk to you! You can tell her all the interesting news about
your friends
Look a-hyuh, honey
you better be keerful wid dat
chile, an' don' drap 'im on de flo'. You might let him fall on his head
an' break his neck. My, my! but you two does make a pretty pictur'!
You'll be wantin' ole Jane ter come an' nuss yo' child'en some er dese
days
Sister Olivia
come and look at Dodie
Uhhuh
it's huh sister Janet! She ma'ied a
doctuh, an' all dat, an' she lives in a big house, an' she's be'n roun'
de worl' an de Lawd knows where e'se: but Mis' 'Livy don' like de sight
er her, an' never will, ez long ez de sun rises an' sets. Dey ce't'nly
does favor one anudder,-- anybody mought 'low dey wuz twins, ef dey didn'
know better. Well, well! Fo'ty yeahs ago who'd 'a' ever expected ter
see a nigger gal ridin' in her own buggy? My, my! but I don' know,-- I
don' know! It don' look right, an' it ain' gwine ter las'!-- you can't
make me b'lieve
Look, look, mamma! The baby,-- the baby
Oh, Clara, Clara, how could you
you might have killed my child
Well, Josh
how did
you get this? Been fighting again
No, suh, I don' s'pose you could ha'dly call it a fight. One er dem
dagoes off'n a Souf American boat gimme some er his jaw, an' I give 'im
a back answer, an' here I is wid a broken arm. He got holt er a
belayin'-pin befo' I could hit 'im
What became of the other man
Lemme see
ef I kin 'member w'at _did_ become
er him! Oh, yes, I 'member now! Dey tuck him ter de Marine Horspittle
in de amberlance, 'cause his leg wuz broke, an' I reckon somethin' must
'a' accident'ly hit 'im in de jaw, fer he wuz scatt'rin' teeth all de
way 'long de street. I didn' wan' ter kill de man, fer he might have
somebody dependin' on 'im, an' I knows how dat'd be ter dem. But no man
kin call me a damn' low-down nigger and keep on enjoyin' good health
right along
It was considerate of you to spare his life
but
you'll hit the wrong man some day. These are bad times for bad negroes.
You'll get into a quarrel with a white man, and at the end of it there'll
be a lynching, or a funeral. You'd better be peaceable and endure a
little injustice, rather than run the risk of a sudden and violent
death
I expec's ter die a vi'lent death in a quarrel wid a w'ite man
an' fu'thermo', he's gwine ter
die at the same time, er a little befo'. I be'n takin' my own time 'bout
killin' 'im; I ain' be'n crowdin' de man, but I'll be ready after a
w'ile, an' den he kin look out
And I suppose you're merely keeping in practice on these other fellows
who come your way. When I get your arm dressed, you'd better leave town
till that fellow's boat sails; it may save you the expense of a trial
and three months in the chain-gang. But this talk about killing a man is
all nonsense. What has any man in this town done to you, that you should
thirst for his blood
No, suh, it ain' nonsense,-- it's straight, solem' fac'. I'm gwine ter
kill dat man as sho' as I'm settin' in dis cheer; an' dey ain' nobody
kin say I ain' got a right ter kill 'im. Does you 'member de Ku-Klux
Yes, but I was a child at the time, and recollect very little about
them. It is a page of history which most people are glad to forget
Yas, suh; I was a chile, too, but I wuz right in it, an' so I 'members
mo' erbout it 'n you does. My mammy an' daddy lived 'bout ten miles f'm
here, up de river. One night a crowd er w'ite men come ter ou' house an'
tuck my daddy out an' shot 'im ter death, an' skeered my mammy so she
ain' be'n herse'f f'm dat day ter dis. I wa'n't mo' 'n ten years ole at
de time, an' w'en my mammy seed de w'ite men comin', she tol' me ter
run. I hid in de bushes an' seen de whole thing, an' it wuz branded on
my mem'ry, suh, like a red-hot iron bran's de skin. De w'ite folks had
masks on, but one of 'em fell off,-- he wuz de boss, he wuz de head man,
an' tol' de res' w'at ter do,-- an' I seen his face. It wuz a easy face
ter 'member; an' I swo' den, 'way down deep in my hea't, little ez I
wuz, dat some day er 'nother I'd kill dat man. I ain't never had no
doubt erbout it; it's jus' w'at I'm livin' fer, an' I know I ain' gwine
ter die till I've done it. Some lives fer one thing an' some fer
another, but dat's my job. I ain' be'n in no has'e, fer I'm not ole
yit, an' dat man is in good health. I'd like ter see a little er de
worl' befo' I takes chances on leavin' it sudden; an', mo'over,
somebody's got ter take keer er de ole 'oman. But her time'll come some
er dese days, an den _his_ time'll be come -- an' prob'ly mine. But I
ain' keerin' 'bout myse'f: w'en I git thoo wid him, it won' make no
diff'ence 'bout me
Silly Milly
You had better put away these murderous fancies, Josh
The Bible says that we should 'forgive our enemies, bless
them that curse us, and do good to them that despitefully use us
Yas, suh, I've l'arnt all dat in Sunday-school, an' I've heared de
preachers say it time an' time ag'in. But it 'pears ter me dat dis
fergitfulniss an' fergivniss is mighty one-sided. De w'ite folks don'
fergive nothin' de niggers does. Dey got up de Ku-Klux, dey said, on
'count er de kyarpit-baggers. Dey be'n talkin' 'bout de kyarpit-baggers
ever sence, an' dey 'pears ter fergot all 'bout de Ku-Klux. But I ain'
fergot. De niggers is be'n train' ter fergiveniss; an' fer fear dey
might fergit how ter fergive, de w'ite folks gives 'em somethin' new
ev'y now an' den, ter practice on. A w'ite man kin do w'at he wants ter
a nigger, but de minute de nigger gits back at 'im, up goes de nigger,
an' don' come down tell somebody cuts 'im down. If a nigger gits a'
office, er de race 'pears ter be prosperin' too much, de w'ite folks up
an' kills a few, so dat de res' kin keep on fergivin' an' bein' thankful
dat dey're lef alive. Don' talk ter me 'bout dese w'ite folks,-- I knows
'em, I does! Ef a nigger wants ter git down on his marrow-bones, an' eat
dirt, an' call 'em 'marster,' _he's_ a good nigger, dere's room fer
_him_. But I ain' no w'ite folks' nigger, I ain'. I don' call no man
'marster.' I don' wan' nothin' but w'at I wo'k fer, but I wants all er
dat. I never moles's no w'ite man, 'less 'n he moles's me fus'. But w'en
de ole 'oman dies, doctuh, an' I gits a good chance at dat w'ite
man,-- dere ain' no use talkin', suh!-- dere's gwine ter be a mix-up, an'
a fune'al, er two fune'als -- er may be mo', ef anybody is keerliss enough
to git in de way
Josh
you
're feverish, and don't know what you're talking about. I shouldn't
let my mind dwell on such things, and you must keep quiet until this arm
is well, or you may never be able to hit any one with it again
Vengeance is mine, I will repay
Have you heard the latest, Mr. Delamere
No, Billy; what is it
There's to be a big cakewalk upstairs to-night. The No'the'n gentlemen
an' ladies who are down here to see about the new cotton fact'ry want to
study the nigger some more, and the boss has got up a cakewalk for 'em,
'mongst the waiters and chambermaids, with a little outside talent
Is it to be public
Oh, no, not generally, but friends of the house won't be barred out.
The clerk 'll fix it for you. Ransom, the head waiter, will be floor
manager
Cheer up, Sandy, cheer up
Go into my room and get yourself a good drink of liquor. The
devil's church has a bigger congregation than theirs, and we have the
consolation of knowing that when we die, we'll meet all our friends on
the other side. Brace up, Sandy, and be a man, or, if you can't be a
man, be as near a man as you can
Tie the horse, William
and then go in and wake
Aunt Polly, and tell her I want her to come and drive with me
Colonel Ochiltree
was shot at the battle of Culpepper
Court House, and left me a widow for the second time. But I would not
have married any man on earth after him
Mis' Ochiltree
oh, Mis'
Ochiltree
If I had found a man,-- a real man,-- I might have married again. I did
not care for weaklings. I could have married John Delamere if I had
wanted him. But pshaw! I could have wound him round
Go round to the kitchen, William
and tell Aunt Dinah to come and wake her up
Wake up dere, Mis' Polly
Mis' 'Livy wants you ter go drivin' wid 'er
Dinah
why do you take so long to come when I call?
Bring me my bonnet and shawl. Don't you see my niece waiting for me at
the gate
Hyuh dey is, hyuh dey is
How's the baby to-day, Olivia, and why didn't you bring him
He has a cold to-day, and is a little hoarse
so I thought it best not to bring him out. Drive out the Weldon road,
William, and back by Pine Street
Hugh Poindexter
has been building a new house, in place of the
old family mansion burned during the war
It isn't Mr. Poindexter's house, Aunt Polly. That is the new colored
hospital built by the colored doctor
The new colored hospital, indeed, and the colored doctor! Before the
war the negroes were all healthy, and when they got sick we took care of
them ourselves! Hugh Poindexter has sold the graves of his ancestors to
a negro,-- I should have starved first
He had his grandfather's grave opened, and there was nothing to remove,
except a few bits of heart-pine from the coffin. All the rest had
crumbled into dust
And he sold the dust to a negro! The world is upside down
He had the tombstone transferred to the white cemetery, Aunt Polly, and
he has moved away
Esau sold his birthright for a mess of pottage. When I die, if you
outlive me, Olivia, which is not likely, I shall leave my house and
land to this child! He is a Carteret,-- he would never sell them to a
negro. I can't trust Tom Delamere, I'm afraid
Turn to the right, William
and come back past the other side of the hospital
Who is that woman, Olivia
Who is that woman, Olivia
I have not the honor of her acquaintance
Drive faster, William
I want to know who that woman is
William
who is that woman
Dat's Mis' Miller, ma'am
Doctuh Miller's wife
What was her mother's name
Her mother's name wuz Julia Brown. She's be'n dead dese twenty years
er mo'. Why, you knowed Julia, Mis' Polly!-- she used ter b'long ter yo'
own father befo' de wah; an' after de wah she kep' house fer
Look to your horses, William
It's that hussy's child
When your father died, I turned the mother and
the child out into the street. The mother died and went to -- the place
provided for such as she. If I hadn't been just in time, Olivia, they
would have turned you out. I saved the property for you and your son!
You can thank me for it all
Hush, Aunt Polly, for goodness' sake! William will hear you. Tell me
about it when you get home
There's Mr. Delamere's Sandy
I wonder how his master is? Sandy, oh, Sandy
How is Mr. Delamere, Sandy
He ain't ez peart ez he has be'n, ma'am
but he's
doin' tol'able well. De doctuh say he's good fer a dozen years yit, ef
he'll jes' take good keer of hisse'f an' keep f'm gittin' excited; fer
sence dat secon' stroke, excitement is dange'ous fer 'im
I'm sure you take the best care of him
You can't do anything for him, Sandy
All the doctors in
creation couldn't keep him alive another year. I shall outlive him by
twenty years, though we are not far from the same age
Lawd, ma'am
whoever would 'a' s'picion' dat you an' Mars John wuz
nigh de same age? I'd 'a' 'lowed you wuz ten years younger 'n him, easy,
ef you wuz a day
Give my compliments to the poor old gentleman
Bring him to see me
some day when he is able to walk
Yas'm, I will
He's gwine out ter Belleview nex'
week, fer ter stay a mont' er so, but I'll fetch him 'roun' w'en he
comes back. I'll tell 'im dat you ladies 'quired fer 'im
Lawd, Lawd
I never
seed nothin' lack de way dat ole lady do keep up her temper! Wid one
foot in de grave, an' de other hov'rin' on de edge, she talks 'bout my
ole marster lack he wuz in his secon' chil'hood. But I'm jes' willin'
ter bet dat he'll outlas' her! She ain't half de woman she wuz dat
night I waited on de table at de christenin' pa'ty, w'en she 'lowed she
wuzn' feared er no man livin
William
you may tie the horse and help us out. I shall be here a little
while
Now, Aunt Polly
I want to know what you meant by what you said about my father
and Julia, and this -- this child of hers
Why do you want to know
You've got the
land, the houses, and the money. You've nothing to complain of. Enjoy
yourself, and be thankful
I'm thankful to God
for all his good gifts,-- and
He has blessed me abundantly,-- but why should I be thankful to _you_ for
the property my father left me
Why should you be thankful to me
You'd better ask why _shouldn't_ you be
thankful to me. What have I not done for you
Yes, Aunt Polly, I know you've done a great deal. You reared me in
your own house when I had been cast out of my father's; you have been a
second mother to me, and I am very grateful,-- you can never say that I
have not shown my gratitude. But if you have done anything else for me,
I wish to know it. Why should I thank you for my inheritance
Why should you thank me? Well, because I drove that woman and her brat
away
But she had no right to stay, Aunt Polly, after father died. Of course
she had no moral right before, but it was his house, and he could keep
her there if he chose. But after his death she surely had no right
Perhaps not so surely as you think,-- if she had not been a negro. Had
she been white, there might have been a difference. When I told her to
go, she said
What did she say, Aunt Polly
I'll tell you the whole story
and then you'll know what
I did for you and yours
Your father
while living with that woman, left home one
morning the picture of health. Five minutes later he tottered into the
house groaning with pain, stricken unto death by the hand of a just God,
as a punishment for his sins
I was at once informed of what had happened, for I had means of knowing
all that took place in the household. Old Jane -- she was younger
then -- had come with you to my house; but her daughter remained, and
through her I learned all that went on.

"I hastened immediately to the house, entered without knocking, and
approached Mr. Merkell's bedroom, which was on the lower floor and
opened into the hall. The door was ajar, and as I stood there for a
moment I heard your father's voice.

"'Listen, Julia,' he was saying. 'I shall not live until the doctor
comes. But I wish you to know, dear Julia!'-- he called her 'dear
Julia!'--'before I die, that I have kept my promise. You did me one
great service, Julia,-- you saved me from Polly Ochiltree!' Yes, Olivia,
that is what he said! 'You have served me faithfully and well, and I owe
you a great deal, which I have tried to pay.'

"'Oh, Mr. Merkell, dear Mr. Merkell,' cried the hypocritical hussy,
falling to her knees by his bedside, and shedding her crocodile tears,
'you owe me nothing. You have done more for me than I could ever repay.
You will not die and leave me,-- no, no, it cannot be!'

"'Yes, I am going to die,-- I am dying now, Julia. But listen,-- compose
yourself and listen, for this is a more important matter. Take the keys
from under my pillow, open the desk in the next room, look in the second
drawer on the right, and you will find an envelope containing three
papers: one of them is yours, one is the paper I promised to make, and
the third is a letter which I wrote last night. As soon as the breath
has left my body, deliver the envelope to the address indorsed upon it.
Do not delay one moment, or you may live to regret it. Say nothing until
you have delivered the package, and then be guided by the advice which
you receive,-- it will come from a friend of mine who will not see you
wronged.'

"I slipped away from the door without making my presence known and
entered, by a door from the hall, the room adjoining the one where Mr.
Merkell lay. A moment later there was a loud scream. Returning quickly
to the hall, I entered Mr. Merkell's room as though just arrived.

"'How is Mr. Merkell?' I demanded, as I crossed the threshold.

"'He is dead,' sobbed the woman, without lifting her head,-- she had
fallen on her knees by the bedside. She had good cause to weep, for my
time had come.

"'Get up,' I said. 'You have no right here. You pollute Mr. Merkell's
dead body by your touch. Leave the house immediately,-- your day is
over!'

"'I will not!' she cried, rising to her feet and facing me with
brazen-faced impudence. 'I have a right to stay,-- he has given me the
right!'

"'Ha, ha!' I laughed. 'Mr. Merkell is dead, and I am mistress here
henceforth. Go, and go at once,-- do you hear?'

"'I hear, but I shall not heed. I can prove my rights! I shall not
leave!'

"'Very well,' I replied, 'we shall see. The law will decide.'

"I left the room, but did not leave the house. On the contrary, I
concealed myself where I could see what took place in the room adjoining
the death-chamber.

"She entered the room a moment later, with her child on one arm and the
keys in the other hand. Placing the child on the floor, she put the key
in the lock, and seemed surprised to find the desk already unfastened.
She opened the desk, picked up a roll of money and a ladies' watch,
which first caught her eye, and was reaching toward the drawer upon the
right, when I interrupted her:--

"'Well, thief, are you trying to strip the house before you leave it?'

"She gave an involuntary cry, clasped one hand to her bosom and with the
other caught up her child, and stood like a wild beast at bay.

"'I am not a thief,' she panted. 'The things are mine!'

"'You lie,' I replied. 'You have no right to them,-- no more right than
you have to remain in this house!'

"'I have a right,' she persisted, 'and I can prove it!'

"She turned toward the desk, seized the drawer, and drew it open. Never
shall I forget her look,-- never shall I forget that moment; it was the
happiest of my life. The drawer was empty!

"Pale as death she turned and faced me.

"'The papers!' she shrieked, 'the papers! _You_ have stolen them!'

"'Papers?' I laughed, 'what papers? Do you take me for a thief, like
yourself?'

"'There were papers here,' she cried, 'only a minute since. They are
mine,-- give them back to me!'

"'Listen, woman,' I said sternly, 'you are lying -- or dreaming. My
brother-in-law's papers are doubtless in his safe at his office, where
they ought to be. As for the rest,-- you are a thief.'

"'I am not,' she screamed; 'I am his wife. He married me, and the papers
that were in the desk will prove it.'

"'Listen,' I exclaimed, when she had finished,--'listen carefully, and
take heed to what I say. You are a liar. You have no proofs,-- there
never were any proofs of what you say, because it never happened,-- it is
absurd upon the face of it. Not one person in Wellington would believe
it. Why should he marry you? He did not need to! You are merely
lying,-- you are not even self-deceived. If he had really married you,
you would have made it known long ago. That you did not is proof that
your story is false.'

"She was hit so hard that she trembled and sank into a chair. But I had
no mercy -- she had saved your father from _me_ --'dear Julia,' indeed!

"'Stand up,' I ordered. 'Do not dare to sit down in my presence. I have
you on the hip, my lady, and will teach you your place.'

"She struggled to her feet, and stood supporting herself with one hand
on the chair. I could have killed her, Olivia! She had been my father's
slave; if it had been before the war, I would have had her whipped to
death.

"'You are a thief,' I said, 'and of that there _are_ proofs. I have
caught you in the act. The watch in your bosom is my own, the money
belongs to Mr. Merkell's estate, which belongs to my niece, his daughter
Olivia. I saw you steal them. My word is worth yours a hundred times
over, for I am a lady, and you are -- what? And now hear me: if ever you
breathe to a living soul one word of this preposterous story, I will
charge you with the theft, and have you sent to the penitentiary. Your
child will be taken from you, and you shall never see it again. I will
give you now just ten minutes to take your brat and your rags out of
this house forever. But before you go, put down your plunder there upon
the desk!'

"She laid down the money and the watch, and a few minutes later left the
house with the child in her arms.

"And now, Olivia, you know how I saved your estate, and why you should
be grateful to me
What became of the papers, Aunt Polly
Ha, ha
did I not tell
you that she found no papers
I've asked Ellis to drive out with us
We'll go by the
office and pick him up
poor-white
The negroes around this town are becoming absolutely insufferable
They are sadly in need of a lesson in manners
The negroes are a sullen race
They
will learn their lesson in a rude school, and perhaps much sooner than
they dream. By the way
what was the
arrangement with Tom? Was he to come out this evening
He came out early in the afternoon
to go a-fishing.
He is to join us at the hotel
I wonder where Tom is
I guess he hasn't come in yet from fishing
I wish he
would come. It's lonesome here. Mr. Ellis, would you mind looking about
the hotel and seeing if there's any one here that we know
Yes, sir
he was here at luncheon, and
then went out fishing in a boat with several other gentlemen. I think
they came back about three o'clock. I'll find out for you
Front
see if young Mr. Delamere's upstairs. Look in
255 or 256, and let me know at once
Yas, suh
he's in 256, suh. De
do' was open, an' I seed 'im from de hall, suh
I wish you'd go up and tell him
that -- What are you
grinning about
Nothin', suh, nothin' at all, suh
What shall I tell Mr. Delamere, suh
Tell him
no, I'll
tell him myself
There seems to be no one here yet
We came a little
early for the evening crowd. The clerk says Tom Delamere was here to
luncheon, but he hasn't seen him for several hours
He's not a very gallant cavalier
He
ought to have been waiting for us
Sister Olivia
let's go up to the parlor. I can
play the piano anyway, if there's no one to talk to
I find it very comfortable here, Clara
Mr. Ellis will go with you. You'll probably find some one in the
parlor, or they'll come when you begin to play
Wouldn't you rather take a stroll on the beach, Miss Clara
No, I'm going to the parlor. _You_ needn't come, Mr. Ellis, if you'd
rather go down to the beach. I can quite as well go alone
I'd rather go with you
Won't you wait for me just a moment, Miss Clara, while I step into the
office? I'll be with you in an instant
Oh, certainly
Sit right where you are
and don't move a hair. What is the lady in the hall doing
She's got her back tu'ned this way, suh. I 'spec' she's lookin' at the
picture on the opposite wall, suh
All right
I'm going up to the parlor with the lady. You go up ahead of us, and
keep in front of us along the hall. Don't dare to look back. I shall
keep on talking to the lady, so that you can tell by my voice where we
are. When you get to room 256, go in and shut the door behind you:
pretend that you were called,-- ask the gentlemen what they want,-- tell
any kind of a lie you like,-- but keep the door shut until you're sure
we've got by. Do you hear
Yes, suh
What is the matter there
Some one dropped a glass, I presume
Oh dear
I don't see why
we came out here to-night. Let's go back downstairs
They're roasting oysters
I wish you'd bring me
some, Mr. Ellis
That was very considerate of you, Tom
but
you ought to have let us know. We have been worrying about you very
much. Clara has found the evening dreadfully dull
Indeed, no, sister Olivia
I've been
having a lovely time. Mr. Ellis and I have been up in the parlor; I
played the piano; and we've been eating oysters and having a most
delightful time. Won't you take me down there to the beach, Mr. Ellis? I
want to see the fires. Come on
Can't I go
No, indeed, you mustn't stir a foot! You must not overtax yourself so
soon; it might do you serious injury. Stay here with sister Olivia
Mr. Ellis, did you know Tom was in the hotel
I wonder
if that is the Ocean Belle
And was he really sick
She's later than usual this trip
She was due about five o'clock
Here comes the general now. Let me see. There are five of us. The
general has offered me a seat in his buggy, and Tom can go with
you-all
Give me the lines
Your nerves are unsteady and the
road is not well lighted
Good-night, Mr. Ellis
Thank you for a very pleasant evening. Come up and see us soon
Just one thousand
dollars even
I'll give you your revenge another time
Luck is against you to-night, and I'm unwilling to take advantage of a
clever young fellow like you. Meantime
don't worry about these bits of paper.
Such small matters shouldn't cut any figure between friends; but if you
are around the hotel to-morrow, I should like to speak to you upon
another subject
Very well, captain
Well, now, Captain McBane
I've
never put any one up yet, and it's not regarded as good form for so
young a member as myself to propose candidates. I'd much rather you'd
ask some older man
Oh, well
just as you say, only I thought you had cut
your eye teeth
Suppose, captain
we leave the matter open for a few
days. This is a thing that can't be rushed. I'll feel the pulse of my
friends and yours, and when we get the lay of the land, the affair can
be accomplished much more easily
Well, that's better
if you'll
do that
To be sure I will
We'll let these notes stand for the time being, Tom
Mr. Delamere
Delamere
Hello, Sandy
what are you doing with those gorgeous
garments
I'm a-dustin' of 'em, Mistuh Tom, dat's w'at I'm a-doin'. Dere's
somethin' wrong 'bout dese clo's er mine -- I don' never seem ter be able
ter keep 'em clean no mo'. Ef I b'lieved in dem ole-timey sayin's, I'd
'low dere wuz a witch come here eve'y night an' tuk 'em out an' wo' 'em,
er tuk me out an' rid me in 'em. Dere wuz somethin' wrong 'bout dat
cakewalk business, too, dat I ain' never unde'stood an' don' know how
ter 'count fer, 'less dere wuz some kin' er dev'lishness goin' on dat
don' show on de su'face
Sandy
have you any money in the house
Yas, suh, I got de money Mars John give me ter git dem things ter take
out ter Belleview in de mawnin
I mean money of your own
I got a qua'ter ter buy terbacker wid
Is that all? Haven't you some saved up
Well, yas, Mistuh Tom
dere's
a few dollahs put away in my bureau drawer fer a rainy day,-- not
much, suh
I'm a little short this afternoon, Sandy, and need some money right
away. Grandfather isn't here, so I can't get any from him. Let me take
what you have for a day or two, Sandy, and I'll return it with good
interest
Now, Mistuh Tom
I don' min' lettin' you take
my money, but I hopes you ain' gwine ter use it fer none er dem
rakehelly gwines-on er yo'n,-- gamblin' an' bettin' an' so fo'th. Yo'
grandaddy 'll fin' out 'bout you yit, ef you don' min' yo' P's an' Q's.
I does my bes' ter keep yo' misdoin's f'm 'im, an' sense I b'en tu'ned
out er de chu'ch -- thoo no fault er my own, God knows!-- I've tol' lies
'nuff 'bout you ter sink a ship. But it ain't right, Mistuh Tom, it
ain't right! an' I only does it fer de sake er de fam'ly honuh, dat Mars
John sets so much sto' by, an' ter save his feelin's; fer de doctuh says
he mus'n' git ixcited 'bout nothin', er it mought bring on another
stroke
That's right, Sandy
but the family honor is
as safe in my hands as in grandfather's own, and I'm going to use the
money for an excellent purpose, in fact to relieve a case of genuine
distress; and I'll hand it back to you in a day or two,-- perhaps
to-morrow. Fetch me the money, Sandy,-- that's a good darky
All right, Mistuh Tom, you shill have de money; but I wants ter tell
you, suh, dat in all de yeahs I has wo'ked fer yo' gran'daddy, he has
never called me a 'darky' ter my face, suh. Co'se I knows dere's w'ite
folks an' black folks,-- but dere's manners, suh, dere's manners, an'
gent'emen oughter be de ones ter use 'em, suh, ef dey ain't ter be
fergot enti'ely
There, there, Sandy
I beg your
pardon! I've been associating with some Northern white folks at the
hotel, and picked up the word from them. You're a high-toned colored
gentleman, Sandy,-- the finest one on the footstool
You count dat, Mistuh Tom, so I'll know how much I'm lettin' you have
This isn't worth anything
It's Confederate money
So it is, suh. It ain't wuth nothin' now; but it has be'n money, an'
who kin tell but what it mought be money agin? De rest er dem bills is
greenbacks,-- dey'll pass all right, I reckon
You won't say anything to grandfather about this, will you, Sandy
No, suh, co'se I won't! Does I ever tell 'im 'bout yo' gwines-on? Ef I
did
I wouldn' have time ter do nothin' e'se ha'dly. I don' know whether
I'll ever see dat money agin er no, do' I 'magine de ole gent'eman
wouldn' lemme lose it ef he knowed. But I ain' gwine ter tell him,
whether I git my money back er no, fer he is jes' so wrop' up in dat boy
dat I b'lieve it'd jes' break his hea't ter fin' out how he's be'n
gwine on. Doctuh Price has tol' me not ter let de ole gent'eman git
ixcited, er e'se dere's no tellin' w'at mought happen. He's be'n good
ter me, he has, an' I'm gwine ter take keer er him,-- dat's w'at I is,
ez long ez I has de chance
Gus
Will you take a hand in a game, Gus
Don't care if I do
Let's sit over here
Ef dat's me gwine 'long in front
den who is dis behin' here? Dere ain' but one er me, an' my ha'nt wouldn'
leave my body 'tel I wuz dead. Ef dat's me in front, den I mus' be my
own ha'nt; an' whichever one of us is de ha'nt, de yuther must be dead
an' don' know it. I don' know what ter make er no sech gwines-on, I
don't. Maybe it ain' me after all, but it certainly do look lack me
Who's there
It's me, suh; Sandy
Just a moment, Sandy
What do you want, Sandy
Mistuh Tom
ef I wuz in yo' place, an' you wuz
in my place, an' we wuz bofe in de same place, whar would I be
I give it up, Sandy
That's too deep for me
Scuse me, Mistuh Tom, but is you heared er seed anybody er anything
come in de house fer de las' ten minutes
Why, no, Sandy, I haven't heard any one. I came from the club an hour
ago. I had forgotten my key, and Sally got up and let me in, and then
went back to bed. I've been sitting here reading ever since. I should
have heard any one who came in
Mistuh Tom
would you 'low dat I'd be'n
drinkin' too much
No, Sandy, I should say you were sober enough, though of course you
may have had a few drinks. Perhaps you'd like another? I've got
something good here
No, suh, Mistuh Tom, no, suh! No mo' liquor fer me, suh, never! When
liquor kin make a man see his own ha'nt, it's 'bout time fer dat man
ter quit drinkin', it sho' is! Good-night, Mistuh Tom
By the way, Sandy
I can pay you back that
money you were good enough to lend me this afternoon. I think I'll
sleep better if I have the debt off my mind, and I shouldn't wonder if
you would. You don't mind having it in gold, do you
No, indeed, suh
I ain' seen no gol' fer so long dat
de sight er it'd be good fer my eyes
And here's another, Sandy
as interest
for the use of it
Thank y', Mistuh Tom. I didn't spec' no in-trus', but I don' never
'fuse gol' w'en I kin git it
And here
is a little old silk purse that I've had since I was a boy. I'll put
the gold in it, Sandy; it will hold it very nicely
Thank y', Mistuh Tom. You're a gentleman, suh, an' wo'thy er de fam'ly
name. Good-night, suh, an' I hope yo' dreams 'll be pleasanter 'n' mine.
Ef it wa'n't fer dis gol' kinder takin' my min' off'n dat ha'nt, I don'
s'pose I'd be able to do much sleepin' ter-night. Good-night, suh
Good-night, Sandy
What is it, Dinah
O my Lawd, Mis' 'Livy, my Lawd, my Lawd! My legs is trim'lin' so dat I
can't ha'dly hol' my han's stiddy 'nough ter say w'at I got ter say! O
Lawd have mussy on us po' sinners! W'atever is gwine ter happen in dis
worl' er sin an' sorrer
What in the world is the matter, Dinah
Has
anything happened to Aunt Polly
Somebody done broke in de house las' night, Mis' 'Livy, an' kill' Mis'
Polly, an' lef' her layin' dead on de flo', in her own blood, wid her
cedar chis' broke' open, an' eve'thing scattered roun' de flo'! O my
Lawd, my Lawd, my Lawd, my Lawd
Well, gentlemen
what are we going to do
with the scoundrel when we catch him
They've got the murderer
Who is he
A nigger by the name of Sandy Campbell, a servant of old Mr. Delamere
How did they catch him
Our Jerry saw him last night, going toward Mrs. Ochiltree's house, and
a white man saw him coming away, half an hour later
Has he confessed
No, but he might as well. When the posse went to arrest him, they found
him cleaning the clothes he had worn last night, and discovered in his
room a part of the plunder. He denies it strenuously, but it seems a
clear case
There can be no doubt
I saw the negro last night, at twelve o'clock, going into
Mr. Delamere's yard, with a bundle in his hand
He is the last negro I should have suspected
Mr.
Delamere had implicit confidence in him
All niggers are alike
The only way to
keep them from stealing is not to give them the chance. A nigger will
steal a cent off a dead man's eye. He has assaulted and murdered a white
woman,-- an example should be made of him
He'll swing for it
He should burn for it
I say, burn the nigger
This
is something more than an ordinary crime, to be
dealt with by the ordinary processes of law. It is a murderous and fatal
assault upon a woman of our race,-- upon our race in the person of its
womanhood, its crown and flower. If such crimes are not punished with
swift and terrible directness, the whole white womanhood of the South is
in danger
Burn the nigger
Neither is this a mere sporadic crime
It is
symptomatic; it is the logical and inevitable result of the conditions
which have prevailed in this town for the past year. It is the last
straw
Burn the nigger
We seem to have the right nigger,
but whether we have or not, burn _a_ nigger. It is an assault upon the
white race, in the person of old Mrs. Ochiltree, committed by the black
race, in the person of some nigger. It would justify the white people in
burning _any_ nigger. The example would be all the more powerful if we
got the wrong one. It would serve notice on the niggers that we shall
hold the whole race responsible for the misdeeds of each individual
In ancient Rome
when a master was killed by a
slave, all his slaves were put to the sword
We couldn't afford that before the war
but the niggers
don't belong to anybody now, and there's nothing to prevent our doing as
we please with them. A dead nigger is no loss to any white man. I say,
burn the nigger
I do not believe
I do not believe that we need trouble ourselves
personally about his punishment. I should judge, from the commotion in
the street, that the public will take the matter into its own hands. I,
for one, would prefer that any violence, however justifiable, should
take place without my active intervention
It won't take place without mine, if I know it
Hold on a minute, captain
There's more at stake
in this matter than the life of a black scoundrel. Wellington is in the
hands of negroes and scalawags. What better time to rescue it
It's a trifle premature
I should have preferred
to have this take place, if it was to happen, say three months hence, on
the eve of the election,-- but discussion always provokes thirst with me;
I wonder if I could get Jerry to bring us some drinks
Jerry
the white people are very much
pleased with the assistance you have given them in apprehending this
scoundrel Campbell. You have rendered a great public service, Jerry, and
we wish you to know that it is appreciated
Thank y', gin'l, thank y', suh! I alluz tries ter do my duty, suh, an'
stan' by dem dat stan's by me. Dat low-down nigger oughter be lynch',
suh, don't you think, er e'se bu'nt? Dere ain' nothin' too bad ter
happen ter 'im
No doubt he will be punished as he deserves, Jerry
and we will see that you are suitably rewarded. Go across the
street and get me three Calhoun cocktails. I seem to have nothing less
than a two-dollar bill, but you may keep the change, Jerry,-- all the
change
Jerry is about the only negro I have seen since nine o'clock
If this were election day, where
would the negro vote be
In hiding, where most of the negro population is to-day
It's a pity, if old Mrs. Ochiltree had to go this way, that it
couldn't have been deferred a month or six weeks
But
if this negro is lynched, as he well
deserves to be, it will not be without its effect. We still have in
reserve for the election a weapon which this affair will only render
more effective. What became of the piece in the negro paper
I have it here
I was just about to use it as the
text for an editorial
Save it awhile longer
This crime itself will
give you text enough for a four-volume work
Nothing but a matter of life and death would make me get up just now
This is a matter of life and death
Old Mrs. Polly
Ochiltree was robbed and murdered last night, and Sandy Campbell has
been arrested for the crime,-- and they are going to lynch him
Tell Watson to come right up
We can talk while I'm dressing
Doctuh
de w'ite folks is talkin' 'bout lynchin' Sandy
Campbell fer killin' ole Mis' Ochiltree. He never done it, an' dey oughtn'
ter be 'lowed ter lynch 'im
They ought not to lynch him, even if he committed the crime
but still less if he didn't. What do you know about it
I know he was wid me, suh, las' night, at de time when dey say ole Mis'
Ochiltree wuz killed. We wuz down ter Sam Taylor's place, havin' a
little game of kyards an' a little liquor. Den we lef dere an' went up
ez fur ez de corner er Main an' Vine Streets, where we pa'ted, an' Sandy
went 'long to'ds home. Mo'over, dey say he had on check' britches an' a
blue coat. When Sandy wuz wid me he had on gray clo's, an' when we
sep'rated he wa'n't in no shape ter be changin' his clo's, let 'lone
robbin' er killin' anybody
Your testimony ought to prove an alibi for him
Dere ain' gwine ter be no chance ter prove nothin', 'less'n we kin do
it mighty quick! Dey say dey're gwine ter lynch 'im ter-night,-- some on
'em is talkin' 'bout burnin' 'im. My idee is ter hunt up de niggers an'
git 'em ter stan' tergether an' gyard de jail
Why shouldn't we go to the principal white people of the town and tell
them Josh's story, and appeal to them to stop this thing until Campbell
can have a hearing
It wouldn't do any good
their blood is
up. It seems that some colored man attacked Mrs. Ochiltree,-- and he was
a murderous villain, whoever he may be. To quote Josh would destroy the
effect of his story,-- we know he never harmed any one but himself
An' a few keerliss people w'at got in my way
He has been in court several times for fighting,-- and that's against
him. To have been at Sam Taylor's place is against Sandy, too, rather
than in his favor. No, Josh, the white people would believe that you
were trying to shield Sandy, and you would probably be arrested as an
accomplice
But look a-here, Mr. Watson,-- Dr Miller, is we-all jes' got ter set
down here, widout openin' ou' mouths, an' let dese w'ite folks hang er
bu'n a man w'at we _know_ ain' guilty? Dat ain't no law, ner jestice,
ner nothin'! Ef you-all won't he'p, I'll do somethin' myse'f! Dere's
two niggers ter one white man in dis town, an' I'm sho' I kin fin' fifty
of 'em w'at 'll fight, ef dey kin fin' anybody ter lead 'em
Now hold on, Josh
what is to be gained by fighting?
Suppose you got your crowd together and surrounded the jail,-- what
then
There'd be a clash
and instead of one dead negro
there'd be fifty. The white people are claiming now that Campbell didn't
stop with robbery and murder. A special edition of the Morning
Chronicle, just out, suggests a further purpose, and has all the old
shopworn cant about race purity and supremacy and imperative necessity,
which always comes to the front whenever it is sought to justify some
outrage on the colored folks. The blood of the whites is up, I tell
you
Is there anything to that suggestion
It doesn't matter whether there is or not
Merely
to suggest it proves it.

"Nothing was said about this feature until the paper came out,-- and even
its statement is vague and indefinite,-- but now the claim is in every
mouth. I met only black looks as I came down the street. White men with
whom I have long been on friendly terms passed me without a word. A
negro has been arrested on suspicion,-- the entire race is condemned on
general principles
The whole thing is profoundly discouraging
Try as
we may to build up the race in the essentials of good citizenship and
win the good opinion of the best people, some black scoundrel comes
along, and by a single criminal act, committed in the twinkling of an
eye, neutralizes the effect of a whole year's work
It's mighty easy neut'alize', er whatever you call it
De w'ite folks don' want too good an opinion er de
niggers,-- ef dey had a good opinion of 'em, dey wouldn' have no excuse
f er 'busin' an' hangin' an' burnin' 'em. But ef dey can't keep from
doin' it, let 'em git de right man! Dis way er pickin' up de fus' nigger
dey comes across, an' stringin' 'im up rega'dliss, ought ter be stop',
an' stop' right now
Yes, that's the worst of lynch law
but we are wasting
valuable time,-- it's hardly worth while for us to discuss a subject we
are all agreed upon. One of our race, accused of certain acts, is about
to be put to death without judge or jury, ostensibly because he committed
a crime,-- really because he is a negro, for if he were white he would not
be lynched. It is thus made a race issue, on the one side as well as on
the other. What can we do to protect him
We kin fight, ef we haf ter
Well, now, let us see. Suppose the colored people armed themselves?
Messages would at once be sent to every town and county in the
neighborhood. White men from all over the state, armed to the teeth,
would at the slightest word pour into town on every railroad train, and
extras would be run for their benefit
They're already coming in
We might go to the sheriff
and demand that he
telegraph the governor to call out the militia
I spoke to the sheriff an hour ago
He has a white
face and a whiter liver. He does not dare call out the militia to
protect a negro charged with such a brutal crime;-- and if he did, the
militia are white men, and who can say that their efforts would not be
directed to keeping the negroes out of the way, in order that the white
devils might do their worst? The whole machinery of the state is in the
hands of white men, elected partly by our votes. When the color line is
drawn, if they choose to stand together with the rest of their race
against us, or to remain passive and let the others work their will, we
are helpless,-- our cause is hopeless
We might call on the general government
Surely the
President would intervene
Such a demand would be of no avail
The government
can only intervene under certain conditions, of which it must be
informed through designated channels. It never sees anything that is not
officially called to its attention. The whole negro population of the
South might be slaughtered before the necessary red tape could be spun
out to inform the President that a state of anarchy prevailed. There's
no hope there
Den w'at we gwine ter do
jes' set here
an' let 'em hang Sandy, er bu'n 'im
God knows
The outlook is dark, but we should at
least try to do something. There must be some white men in the town who
would stand for law and order,-- there's no possible chance for Sandy to
escape hanging by due process of law, if he is guilty. We might at least
try half a dozen gentlemen
We'd better leave Josh here
He's too truculent. If he
went on the street he'd make trouble, and if he accompanied us he'd do
more harm than good. Wait for us here, Josh, until we 've seen what we
can do. We'll be back in half an hour
It's no use
I called at the mayor's office
and found it locked. He is doubtless afraid on his own account, and
would not dream of asserting his authority. I then looked up Judge
Everton, who has always seemed to be fair. My reception was cold. He
admitted that lynching was, as a rule, unjustifiable, but maintained
that there were exceptions to all rules,-- that laws were made, after
all, to express the will of the people in regard to the ordinary
administration of justice, but that in an emergency the sovereign people
might assert itself and take the law into its own hands,-- the creature
was not greater than the creator. He laughed at my suggestion that Sandy
was innocent. 'If he is innocent,' he said, 'then produce the real
criminal. You negroes are standing in your own light when you try to
protect such dastardly scoundrels as this Campbell, who is an enemy of
society and not fit to live. I shall not move in the matter. If a negro
wants the protection of the law, let him obey the law.' A wise judge,-- a
second Daniel come to judgment! If this were the law, there would be no
need of judges or juries
I called on Dr Price
my good friend Dr Price, who
would rather lie than hurt my feelings. 'Miller,' he declared, 'this is
no affair of mine, or yours. I have too much respect for myself and my
profession to interfere in such a matter, and you will accomplish
nothing, and only lessen your own influence, by having anything to say.'
'But the man may be innocent,' I replied; 'there is every reason to
believe that he is.' He shook his head pityingly. 'You are
self-deceived, Miller; your prejudice has warped your judgment. The
proof is overwhelming that he robbed this old lady, laid violent hands
upon her, and left her dead. If he did no more, he has violated the
written and unwritten law of the Southern States. I could not save him
if I would, Miller, and frankly, I would not if I could. If he is
innocent, his people can console themselves with the reflection that
Mrs. Ochiltree was also innocent, and balance one crime against the
other, the white against the black. Of course I shall take no part in
whatever may be done,-- but it is not my affair, nor yours. Take my
advice, Miller, and keep out of it.'

"That is the situation
Their friendship for
us, a slender stream at the best, dries up entirely when it strikes
their prejudices. There is seemingly not one white man in Wellington who
will speak a word for law, order, decency, or humanity. Those who do not
participate will stand idly by and see an untried man deliberately and
brutally murdered. Race prejudice is the devil unchained
Well, den, suh
where does we stan' now? W'at is we gwine
ter do? I wouldn' min' fightin', fer my time ain't come yit,-- I feels
dat in my bones. W'at we gwine ter do, dat's w'at I wanter know
What does old Mr. Delamere have to say about the matter
Why haven't we thought of him before? Has he been seen
No
and for a good reason,-- he is not in
town. I came by the house just now, and learned that he went out to his
country place yesterday afternoon, to remain a week. Sandy was to have
followed him out there this morning,-- it's a pity he didn't go
yesterday. The old gentleman has probably heard nothing about the
matter
How about young Delamere
He went away early this morning, down the river, to fish. He'll
probably not hear of it before night, and he's only a boy anyway, and
could very likely do nothing
Belleview is ten miles away
It is now eleven o'clock. I can
drive out there in an hour and a half at the farthest. I'll go and see
Mr. Delamere,-- he can do more than any living man, if he is able to do
anything at all. There's never been a lynching here, and one good white
man, if he choose, may stem the flood long enough to give justice a
chance. Keep track of the white people while I'm gone, Watson; and you,
Josh, learn what the colored folks are saying, and do nothing rash until
I return. In the meantime, do all that you can to find out who did
commit this most atrocious murder
Well, William
I didn't expect to see you out here. You'll excuse my not
rising,-- I'm none too firm on my legs. Did you see anything of my man
Sandy back there on the road? He ought to have been here by nine
o'clock, and it's now one. Sandy is punctuality itself, and I don't know
how to account for his delay
He will not be here to-day, sir
I have come to you
on his account
Preposterous
Sandy is absolutely incapable of such a
crime as robbery, to say nothing of murder; and as for the rest, that is
absurd upon the face of it! And so the poor old woman is dead! Well,
well, well! she could not have lived much longer anyway; but Sandy did
not kill her,-- it's simply impossible! Why, _I_ raised that boy! He was
born on my place. I'd as soon believe such a thing of my own grandson
as of Sandy! No negro raised by a Delamere would ever commit such a
crime. I really believe, William, that Sandy has the family honor of the
Delameres quite as much at heart as I have. Just tell them I say Sandy
is innocent, and it will be all right
I'm afraid, sir
that you don't quite appreciate the
situation. _I_ believe Sandy innocent; _you_ believe him innocent; but
there are suspicious circumstances which do not explain themselves, and
the white people of the city believe him guilty, and are going to lynch
him before he has a chance to clear himself
Why doesn't he explain the suspicious circumstances
Sandy is truthful and can be believed. I would take Sandy's
word as quickly as another man's oath
He has no chance to explain
The case is prejudged. A
crime has been committed. Sandy is charged with it. He is black, and
therefore he is guilty. No colored lawyer would be allowed in the jail,
if one should dare to go there. No white lawyer will intervene. He'll
be lynched to-night, without judge, jury, or preacher, unless we can
stave the thing off for a day or two
Have you seen my grandson
Is he not looking
after Sandy
No, sir. It seems he went down the river this morning to fish, before
the murder was discovered; no one knows just where he has gone, or at
what hour he will return
Well, then
I shall have to go myself. No faithful servant of mine shall be
hanged for a crime he didn't commit, so long as I have a voice to
speak or a dollar to spend. There'll be no trouble after I get there,
William. The people are naturally wrought up at such a crime. A fine old
woman,-- she had some detestable traits, and I was always afraid she
wanted to marry me, but she was of an excellent family and had many good
points,-- an old woman of one of the best families, struck down by the
hand of a murderer! You must remember, William, that blood is thicker
than water, and that the provocation is extreme, and that a few hotheads
might easily lose sight of the great principles involved and seek
immediate vengeance, without too much discrimination. But they are good
people, William, and when I have spoken, and they have an opportunity
for the sober second thought, they will do nothing rashly, but will wait
for the operation of the law, which will, of course, clear Sandy
I'm sure I hope so
Shall I try to drive you back,
sir, or will you order your own carriage
My horses are fresher, William, and I'll have them brought around. You
can take the reins, if you will,-- I'm rather old to drive,-- and my man
will come behind with your buggy
I think, William
that I had first better talk with Sandy. He may be able to explain away
the things that seem to connect him with this atrocious affair; and that
will put me in a better position to talk to other people about it
Mr. Wemyss
I wish to see my servant, Sandy
Campbell, who is said to be in your custody
Well, Sandy
Oh, Mars John! Is you fell from hebben ter he'p me out er here? I
prayed de Lawd ter sen' you, an' He answered my prayer, an' here you is,
Mars John,-- here you is! Oh, Mars John, git me out er dis place
Tut, tut, Sandy
of course I'll get you out.
That's what I've come for. How in the world did such a mistake ever
happen? You would no more commit such a crime than I would
No, suh, 'deed I wouldn', an' you know I wouldn'! I wouldn' want ter
bring no disgrace on de fam'ly dat raise' me, ner ter make no trouble
fer you, suh; but here I is, suh, lock' up in jail, an' folks talkin'
'bout hangin' me fer somethin' dat never entered my min', suh. I swea'
ter God I never thought er sech a thing
Of course you didn't, Sandy
and
now the next thing, and the simplest thing, is to get you out of this.
I'll speak to the officers, and at the preliminary hearing to-morrow I'll
tell them all about you, and they will let you go. You won't mind
spending one night in jail for your sins
No, suh, ef I wuz sho' I'd be 'lowed ter spen' it here. But dey say dey
're gwine ter lynch me ternight,-- I kin hear 'em talkin' f'm de winders
er de cell, suh
Well, _I_ say, Sandy, that they shall do no such thing! Lynch a man
brought up by a Delamere, for a crime of which he is innocent?
Preposterous! I'll speak to the authorities and see that you are
properly protected until this mystery is unraveled. If Tom had been
here, he would have had you out before now, Sandy. My grandson is a
genuine Delamere, is he not, Sandy
Yas, suh, yas, suh
An' I s'pose ef he hadn' gone
fishin' so soon dis mawnin', he'd 'a' be'n lookin' after me, suh
It has been my love for him and your care of me, Sandy
that have kept me alive so long; but now explain
to me everything concerning this distressing matter, and I shall then be
able to state your case to better advantage
Well, suh
I mought's well tell de whole tale an' not
hol' nothin' back. I wuz kind er lonesome las' night, an' sence I be'n
tu'ned outen de chu'ch on account er dat cakewalk I didn' go ter, so
he'p me God! I didn' feel like gwine ter prayer-meetin', so I went
roun' ter see Solomon Williams, an' he wa'n't home, an' den I walk' down
street an' met Josh Green, an' he ax' me inter Sam Taylor's place, an' I
sot roun' dere wid Josh till 'bout 'leven o'clock, w'en I sta'ted back
home. I went straight ter de house, suh, an' went ter bed an' ter sleep
widout sayin' a wo'd ter a single soul excep' Mistuh Tom, who wuz
settin' up readin' a book w'en I come in. I wish I may drap dead in my
tracks, suh, ef dat ain't de God's truf, suh, eve'y wo'd of it
I believe every word of it, Sandy; now tell me about the clothes that
you are said to have been found cleaning, and the suspicious articles
that were found in your room
Dat's w'at beats me, Mars John
Wen I lef home las' night after supper, my clo's wuz all
put erway in de closet in my room, folded up on de she'f ter keep de
moths out. Dey wuz my good clo's,-- de blue coat dat you wo' ter de
weddin' fo'ty years ago, an' dem dere plaid pants I gun Mistuh Cohen fo'
dollars fer three years ago; an' w'en I looked in my closet dis mawnin',
suh, befo' I got ready ter sta't fer Belleview, dere wuz my clo's layin'
on de flo', all muddy an' crumple' up, des lack somebody had wo' 'em in
a fight! Somebody e'se had wo' my clo's,-- er e'se dere'd be'n some
witchcraf, er some sort er devilment gwine on dat I can't make out, suh,
ter save my soul
There was no witchcraft, Sandy, but that there was some deviltry might
well be. Now, what other negro, who might have been mistaken for you,
could have taken your clothes? Surely no one about the house
No, suh, no, suh. It couldn't 'a' be'n Jeff, fer he wuz at Belleview
wid you; an' it couldn't 'a' be'n Billy, fer he wuz too little ter wear
my clo's; an' it couldn't 'a' be'n Sally, fer she's a 'oman. It's a
myst'ry ter me, suh
Have you no enemies? Is there any one in Wellington whom you imagine
would like to do you an injury
Not a livin' soul dat I knows of, suh. I've be'n tu'ned out'n de
chu'ch, but I don' know who my enemy is dere, er ef it wuz all a
mistake, like dis yer jailin' is; but de Debbil is in dis somewhar, Mars
John,-- an' I got my reasons fer sayin' so
What do you mean, Sandy
There's some mystery here, Sandy
Have you told me all, now, upon your honor? I am trying to save your
life, Sandy, and I must be able to trust your word implicitly. You must
tell me every circumstance; a very little and seemingly unimportant bit
of evidence may sometimes determine the issue of a great lawsuit. There
is one thing especially, Sandy: where did you get the gold which was
found in your trunk
Why, Mars John, I kin 'splain dat part easy. Dat wuz money I had lent
out, an' I got back f'm -- But no, suh, I promise' not ter tell
Circumstances absolve you from your promise, Sandy. Your life is of
more value to you than any other thing. If you will explain where you
got the gold, and the silk purse that contained it, which is said to be
Mrs. Ochiltree's, you will be back home before night
Well, Sandy
go on. You got the gold
from
Mars John
you don' b'lieve dat I done dis thing
Certainly not, Sandy, else why should I be here
An' nothin' wouldn' make you b'lieve it, suh
No, Sandy,-- I could not believe it of you. I've known you too long and
too well
An' you wouldn' b'lieve it, not even ef I wouldn' say one wo'd mo'
about it
No, Sandy, I believe you no more capable of this crime than I would
be,-- or my grandson, Tom. I wish Tom were here, that he might help me
overcome your stubbornness; but you'll not be so foolish, so absurdly
foolish, Sandy, as to keep silent and risk your life merely to shield
some one else, when by speaking you might clear up this mystery and be
restored at once to liberty. Just tell me where you got the gold
Come, now, Sandy, that's a good
fellow
Mars John
w'en my daddy, 'way back yander befo'
de wah, wuz about ter be sol' away f'm his wife an' child'en, you
bought him an' dem, an' kep' us all on yo' place tergether, didn't you,
suh
Yes, Sandy, and he was a faithful servant, and proved worthy of all I
did for him
And w'en he had wo'ked fer you ten years, suh, you sot 'im free
Yes, Sandy, he had earned his freedom
An' w'en de wah broke out, an' my folks wuz scattered, an' I didn'
have nothin' ter do ner nowhar ter go, you kep' me on yo' place, and
tuck me ter wait on you, suh, didn't you
Yes, Sandy, and you have been a good servant and a good friend; but
tell me now about this gold, and I'll go and get you out of this, right
away, for I need you, Sandy, and you'll not be of any use to me shut up
here
Jes' hol' on a minute befo' you go, Mars John; fer ef dem people
outside should git holt er me befo' you _does_ git me out er here, I may
never see you no mo', suh, in dis worl'. W'en Mars Billy McLean shot me
by mistake, w'ile we wuz out huntin' dat day, who wuz it boun' up my
woun's an' kep' me from bleedin' ter def, an' kyar'ed me two miles on
his own shoulders ter a doctuh
Yes, Sandy, and when black Sally ran away with your young mistress and
Tom, when Tom was a baby, who stopped the runaway, and saved their lives
at the risk of his own
Dat wa'n't nothin', suh; anybody could 'a' done dat, w'at wuz strong
ernuff an' swif' ernuff. You is be'n good ter me, suh, all dese years,
an' I've tried ter do my duty by you, suh, an' by Mistuh Tom, who wuz
yo' own gran'son, an' de las' one er de fam'ly
Yes, you have, Sandy, and when I am gone, which will not be very long,
Tom will take care of you, and see that you never want. But we are
wasting valuable time, Sandy, in these old reminiscences. Let us get back
to the present. Tell me about the gold, now, so that I may at once look
after your safety. It may not even be necessary for you to remain here
all night
Jes' one wo'd mo', Mars John, befo' you go! I know you're gwine ter do
de bes' you kin fer me, an' I'm sorry I can't he'p you no mo' wid it;
but ef dere should be any accident, er ef you _can't_ git me out er
here, don' bother yo' min' 'bout it no mo', suh, an' don' git yo'se'f
ixcited, fer you know de doctuh says, suh, dat you can't stan'
ixcitement; but jes' leave me in de han's er de Lawd, suh,-- _He'll_ look
after me, here er hereafter. I know I've fell f'm grace mo' d'n once,
but I've done made my peace wid Him in dis here jail-house, suh, an' I
ain't 'feared ter die -- ef I haf ter. I ain' got no wife ner child'n ter
mo'n fer me, an' I'll die knowin' dat I've done my duty ter dem dat
hi'ed me, an' trusted me, an' had claims on me. Fer I wuz raise' by a
Delamere, suh, an' all de ole Delameres wuz gent'emen, an' deir
principles spread ter de niggers 'round 'em, suh; an' ef I has ter die
fer somethin' I didn' do,-- I kin die, suh, like a gent'eman! But ez fer
dat gol', suh, I ain' gwine ter say one wo'd mo' 'bout it ter nobody in
dis worl
Take good care of your prisoner, sheriff
He will not be long in your custody, and I shall
see that you are held strictly accountable for his safety
I'll do what I can, sir
If the prisoner is
taken from me, it will be because the force that comes for him is too
strong for resistance
There should be no force too strong for an honest man in your position
to resist,-- whether successfully or not is beyond the question. The
officer who is intimidated by threats, or by his own fears, is recreant
to his duty, and no better than the mob which threatens him. But you
will have no such test, Mr. Wemyss! I shall see to it myself that there
is no violence
Carteret
what is all this talk about
lynching my man for murder and robbery and criminal assault? It's
perfectly absurd! The man was raised by me; he has lived in my house
forty years. He has been honest, faithful, and trustworthy. He would no
more be capable of this crime than you would, or my grandson Tom. Sandy
has too much respect for the family to do anything that would reflect
disgrace upon it
My dear Mr. Delamere
how
could a negro possibly reflect discredit upon a white family? I should
really like to know
How, sir? A white family raised him. Like all the negroes, he has been
clay in the hands of the white people. They are what we have made them,
or permitted them to become
We are not God, Mr. Delamere! We do not claim to have created
these -- masterpieces
No; but we thought to overrule God's laws, and we enslaved these people
for our greed, and sought to escape the manstealer's curse by laying to
our souls the flattering unction that we were making of barbarous
negroes civilized and Christian men. If we did not, if instead of making
them Christians we have made some of them brutes, we have only ourselves
to blame, and if these prey upon society, it is our just punishment! But
my negroes, Carteret, were well raised and well behaved. This man is
innocent of this offense, I solemnly affirm, and I want your aid to
secure his safety until a fair trial can be had
On your bare word, sir
Time was, sir, when the word of a Delamere was held as good as his
bond, and those who questioned it were forced to maintain their
skepticism upon the field of honor. Time was, sir, when the law was
enforced in this state in a manner to command the respect of the world!
Our lawyers, our judges, our courts, were a credit to humanity and
civilization. I fear I have outlasted my epoch,-- I have lived to hear of
white men, the most favored of races, the heirs of civilization, the
conservators of liberty, howling like red Indians around a human being
slowly roasting at the stake
My dear sir
you should undeceive yourself.
This man is no longer your property. The negroes are no longer under our
control, and with their emancipation ceased our responsibility. Their
insolence and disregard for law have reached a point where they must be
sternly rebuked
The law
furnishes a sufficient penalty for
any crime, however heinous, and our code is by no means lenient. To my
old-fashioned notions, death would seem an adequate punishment for any
crime, and torture has been abolished in civilized countries for a
hundred years. It would be better to let a crime go entirely unpunished,
than to use it as a pretext for turning the whole white population into
a mob of primitive savages, dancing in hellish glee around the mangled
body of a man who has never been tried for a crime. All this, however,
is apart from my errand, which is to secure your assistance in heading
off this mob until Sandy can have a fair hearing and an opportunity to
prove his innocence
How can I do that, Mr. Delamere
You are editor of the Morning Chronicle. The Chronicle is the leading
newspaper of the city. This morning's issue practically suggested the
mob; the same means will stop it. I will pay the expense of an extra
edition, calling off the mob, on the ground that newly discovered
evidence has shown the prisoner's innocence
But where is the evidence
My evidence, sir! I say the
negro was morally incapable of the crime. A man of forty-five does not
change his nature over-night. He is no more capable of a disgraceful
deed than my grandson would be
I am sorry, Mr. Delamere
that you should permit yourself to
be so exercised about a worthless scoundrel who has forfeited his right
to live. The proof against him is overwhelming. As to his capability of
crime, we will apply your own test. You have been kept in the dark too
long, Mr. Delamere,-- indeed, we all have,-- about others as well as this
negro. Listen, sir: last night, at the Clarendon Club, Tom Delamere was
caught cheating outrageously at cards. He had been suspected for some
time; a trap was laid for him, and be fell into it. Out of regard for
you and for my family, he has been permitted to resign quietly, with the
understanding that he first pay off his debts, which are considerable
Can this be true
Is it -- entirely
authentic
True as gospel; true as it is that Mrs. Ochiltree has been murdered,
and that this negro killed her. Ellis was at the club a few minutes
after the affair happened, and learned the facts from one of the
participants. Tom made no attempt at denial. We have kept the matter out
of the other papers, and I would have spared your feelings,-- I surely
would not wish to wound them,-- but the temptation proved too strong for
me, and it seemed the only way to convince you: it was your own test. If
a gentleman of a distinguished name and an honorable ancestry, with all
the restraining forces of social position surrounding him, to hold him
in check, can stoop to dishonor, what is the improbability of an
illiterate negro's being at least capable of crime
Enough, sir
You have proved enough. My
grandson may be a scoundrel,-- I can see, in the light of this
revelation, how he might be; and he seems not to have denied it. I
maintain, nevertheless, that my man Sandy is innocent of the charge
against him. He has denied it, and it has not been proved. Carteret, I
owe that negro my life; he, and his father before him, have served me
and mine faithfully and well. I cannot see him killed like a dog,
without judge or jury,-- no, not even if he were guilty, which I do not
believe
Mr. Delamere
there is but one way to gain time. You
say the negro is innocent. Appearances are against him. The only way to
clear him is to produce the real criminal, or prove an alibi. If you, or
some other white man of equal standing, could swear that the negro was
in your presence last night at any hour when this crime could have taken
place, it might be barely possible to prevent the lynching for the
present; and when he is tried, which will probably be not later than
next week, he will have every opportunity to defend himself, with you
to see that he gets no less than justice. I think it can be managed,
though there is still a doubt. I will do my best, for your sake, Mr.
Delamere,-- solely for your sake, be it understood, and not for that of
the negro, in whom you are entirely deceived
I shall not examine your motives, Carteret
if you
can bring about what I desire
Whatever is done
must be done quickly. It is now
four o'clock; no one can answer for what may happen after seven. If he
can prove an alibi, there may yet be time to save him. White men might
lynch a negro on suspicion; they would not kill a man who was proven, by
the word of white men, to be entirely innocent
I do not know
After
what you have told me, it is no longer safe to assume what white men
will or will not do;-- what I have learned here has shaken my faith in
humanity. I am going away, but shall return in a short time. Shall I
find you here
I will await your return
Mr. Ellis
this
is monstrous
It is indeed, sir
I mean to stop it if I
can. The negro did not kill Mrs. Ochiltree
Mr. Ellis
do you know who killed her
Mr. Delamere
I think I do,-- and I am very sorry
And who was it, Mr. Ellis
I do not wish to say at present
unless it becomes absolutely necessary, to save the negro's life.
Accusations are dangerous,-- as this case proves,-- unless the proof, be
certain
Mr. Ellis, you are a gentleman whom it is an honor to know. If you have
time, I wish you would go with me to my house,-- I can hardly trust
myself alone,-- and thence to the Chronicle office. This thing shall be
stopped, and you will help me stop it
I reckon he must 'a' be'n dead ti'ed, suh, fer I went back ter his room
fifteen er twenty minutes after he come in fer ter fin' out w'at he
wanted fer breakfus'; an' I knock' two or three times, rale ha'd, an'
Mistuh Tom didn' wake up no mo' d'n de dead. He sho'ly had a good
sleep, er he'd never 'a' got up so ea'ly
Thank you, Sally
that will do
Will you be home ter suppah, suh
Yes
Oh, it is you, Mr. Delamere
Carteret
I must speak to you immediately,
and alone
Excuse me a moment, gentlemen
I'll be back in a moment -- don't go away
Carteret
this murder must not take
place
Mr. Delamere
I think you are
deceived. There is but one sure way to stop this execution. If your
servant is innocent, you must produce the real criminal. If the negro,
with such overwhelming proofs against him, is not guilty, who is
I will tell you who is
The murderer is
the murderer is Tom Delamere, my own grandson
Impossible, sir
That could not be! The man was seen leaving the house, and he was
black
All cats are gray in the dark, Carteret; and, moreover, nothing is
easier than for a white man to black his face. God alone knows how many
crimes have been done in this guise! Tom Delamere, to get the money to
pay his gambling debts, committed this foul murder, and then tried to
fasten it upon as honest and faithful a soul as ever trod the earth
What foundation is there, sir
for this astounding charge
The case seems clear
And
now, what shall we do about it
I want you to print a handbill
and circulate it
through the town, stating that Sandy Campbell is innocent and Tom
Delamere guilty of this crime. If this is not done, I will go myself and
declare it to all who will listen, and I will publicly disown the
villain who is no more grandson of mine. There is no deeper sink of
iniquity into which he could fall
revolution
Mr. Delamere
I am shocked and humiliated. The negro
must be saved, of course, but -- consider the family honor
Tom is no longer a member of my family. I disown him. He has covered
the family name -- my name, sir -- with infamy. We have no longer a family
honor. I wish never to hear his name spoken again
It's a
mere formality, sir
accompanied by a mental
reservation. We know the facts; but this must be done to justify us, in
the eyes of the mob, in calling them off before they accomplish their
purpose
Carteret
I would not perjure myself to prolong my
own miserable existence another day, but God will forgive a sin
committed to save another's life. Upon your head be it, Carteret, and
not on mine
Gentlemen
the people of
Wellington were on the point of wreaking vengeance upon a negro who was
supposed to have been guilty of a terrible crime. The white men of this
city, impelled by the highest and holiest sentiments, were about to take
steps to defend their hearthstones and maintain the purity and
ascendency of their race. Your purpose sprung from hearts wounded in
their tenderest susceptibilities
Rah, 'rah
But this same sense of justice
which would lead you to visit swift and terrible punishment upon the
guilty, would not permit you to slay an innocent man. Even a negro, as
long as he behaves himself and keeps in his place, is entitled to the
protection of the law. We may be stern and unbending in the punishment
of crime, as befits our masterful race, but we hold the scales of
justice with even and impartial hand
Rah f' 'mpa'tial ban
We have discovered, beyond a doubt, that the negro Sandy Campbell, now
in custody, did not commit this robbery and murder, but that it was
perpetrated by some unknown man, who has fled from the city. Our
venerable and distinguished fellow townsman, Mr. Delamere, in whose
employment this Campbell has been for many years, will vouch for his
character, and states, furthermore, that Campbell was with him all last
night, covering any hour at which this crime could have been committed
If Mr. Delamere will swear to that
the
negro should not be lynched
Let Mr. Delamere swear, if he wants to save the nigger
Certainly
Mr. Delamere can have no possible
objection to taking the oath. Is there a notary public present, or a
justice of the peace
I am a justice of the peace
Very well, Mr. Smith
With
your permission, I will formulate the oath, and Mr. Delamere may repeat
it after me, if he will. I solemnly swear
I solemnly swear
So help me God
So help me God
That the negro Sandy Campbell, now in jail on the charge of murder,
robbery, and assault, was in my presence last night between the hours of
eight and two o'clock
I wish to add
that it is not
our intention to interfere, by anything which may be done at this
meeting, with the orderly process of the law, or to advise the
prisoner's immediate release. The prisoner will remain in custody, Mr.
Delamere, Major Carteret, and I guaranteeing that he will be proved
entirely innocent at the preliminary hearing to-morrow morning
Belmont
I wish to make my will. I should have
drawn it with my own hand; but you know my motives, and can testify to
my soundness of mind and memory
There, Belmont
that load is off my mind. Now, if you will
call in some witnesses,-- most of my people can write,-- I shall feel
entirely at ease
I wish to leave that with you for safe keeping,
Belmont
Lock it
up in your safe until I die, which will not be very long, since I have
no further desire to live
White Supremacy
higher law
grandfather clause
reforms
Something must be done
and that damn quick. Too
many white people are saying that it will be better to wait until the
amendment goes into effect. That would mean to leave the niggers in
charge of this town for two years after the state has declared for white
supremacy! I'm opposed to leaving it in their hands one hour,-- them's
my sentiments
What became of that editorial in the nigger paper
It lost some of its point back there, when we came near
lynching that nigger; but now that that has blown over, why wouldn't it
be a good thing to bring into play at the present juncture? Let's read
it over again
The time is ripe
In a month we can have the
niggers so scared that they won't dare stick their heads out of doors on
'lection day
I wonder
if we couldn't have Jerry fetch us some liquor
What, in h -- ll is the matter with you, Jerry? Your black face is
splotched with brown and yellow patches, and your hair shines as though
you had fallen head-foremost into a firkin of butter. What's the matter
with you
Nothin', suh, nothin
It's -- it's jes' somethin' I
be'n puttin' on my hair, suh, ter improve de quality, suh
Jerry
you have been playing with edged tools, and your days are numbered. You
have been reading the Afro-American Banner
Jerry
when I hired you to work for the
Chronicle, you were black. The word 'negro' means 'black.' The best
negro is a black negro, of the pure type, as it came from the hand of
God. If you wish to get along well with the white people, the blacker
you are the better,-- white people do not like negroes who want to be
white. A man should be content to remain as God made him and where God
placed him. So no more of this nonsense. Are you going to vote at the
next election
What would you 'vise me ter do, suh
I do not advise you. You ought to have sense enough to see where your
own interests lie. I put it to you whether you cannot trust yourself
more safely in the hands of white gentlemen, who are your true friends,
than in the hands of ignorant and purchasable negroes and unscrupulous
white scoundrels
Dere's no doubt about it, suh
I ain' gwine ter
have nothin' ter do wid de 'lection, suh! Ef I don' vote, I kin keep my
job, can't I, suh
You will retain your place, Jerry
so long as you
perform your duties to my satisfaction and behave yourself properly
The world of fools hath such a store,
  That he who would not see an ass,
Must stay at home and shut his door
  And break his looking-glass
We are now ready
for the final act of
this drama. We must decide promptly, or events may run away from us
What do you suggest
Down in the American tropics
they have a way
of doing things. I was in Nicaragua, ten years ago, when Paterno's
revolution drove out Igorroto's government. It was as easy as falling
off a log. Paterno had the arms and the best men. Igorroto was not
looking for trouble, and the guns were at his breast before he knew it.
We have the guns. The negroes are not expecting trouble, and are easy
to manage compared with the fiery mixture that flourishes in the
tropics
I should not advocate murder
We are animated by
high and holy principles. We wish to right a wrong, to remedy an abuse,
to save our state from anarchy and our race from humiliation. I don't
object to frightening the negroes, but I am opposed to unnecessary
bloodshed
I'm not quite so particular
They need to be
taught a lesson, and a nigger more or less wouldn't be missed. There's
too many of 'em now
Of course
if we should decide upon a certain
mode of procedure, and the negroes should resist, a different reasoning
might apply; but I will have no premeditated murder
In Central and South America
none
are hurt except those who get in the way
There'll be no niggers hurt
unless they
strain themselves running. One white man can chase a hundred of 'em.
I've managed five hundred at a time. I'll pay for burying all the
niggers that are killed
And now
while we are cleansing the Augean
stables, we may as well remove the cause as the effect. There are
several negroes too many in this town, which will be much the better
without them. There's that yellow lawyer, Watson. He's altogether too
mouthy, and has too much business. Every nigger that gets into trouble
sends for Watson, and white lawyers, with families to support and social
positions to keep up, are deprived of their legitimate source of
income
There's that damn nigger real estate agent
Billy
Kitchen used to get most of the nigger business, but this darky has
almost driven him to the poorhouse. A white business man is entitled to
a living in his own profession and his own home. That nigger don't
belong here nohow. He came from the North a year or two ago, and is hand
in glove with Barber, the nigger editor, which is enough of itself to
damn him. _He'll_ have to go
How about the collector of the port
We'd better not touch him. It would bring the government down upon us,
which we want to avoid. We don't need to worry about the nigger
preachers either. They want to stay here, where the loaves and the
fishes are. We can make 'em write letters to the newspapers justifying
our course, as a condition of their remaining
What about Billings
Is that skunk to be allowed to stay in town
No
every white Republican office-holder ought
to be made to go. This town is only big enough for Democrats, and
negroes who can be taught to keep their place
What about the colored doctor
with the hospital, and
the diamond ring, and the carriage, and the other fallals
I shouldn't interfere with Miller
He's a very good sort of a negro, doesn't meddle with politics, nor
tread on any one else's toes. His father was a good citizen, which
counts in his favor. He's spending money in the community too, and
contributes to its prosperity
That sort of nigger, though, sets a bad example
They make it all the harder to keep the rest of 'em down
I would not consent
to Miller's being disturbed
Come in
Mistuh Ellis wants ter speak ter you a minute, suh
Jerry
you lump of ebony, the sight of you reminds
me! If your master doesn't want you for a minute, step across to Mr.
Brown's and tell him to send me three cocktails
Yas, suh
And tell him, Jerry, to charge them. I'm short of change to-day
Yas, suh; yas, suh
Dere ain' no change fer Jerry dis
time, sho': I'll jes' make dat _fo_' cocktails, an' de gin'l won't
never know de diffe'nce. I ain' gwine 'cross de road fer nothin', not ef
I knows it
Phil
Aunt Polly said some
strange things to me one day before she died,-- I don't know whether she
was quite in her right mind or not; but suppose that my father had left
a will by which it was provided that half his property should go to that
woman and her child
It would never have gone by such a will
Your Aunt Polly was in her dotage, and merely dreaming. Your father
would never have been such a fool; but even if he had, no such will
could have stood the test of the courts. It would clearly have been due
to the improper influence of a designing woman
So that legally, as well as morally
the will
would have been of no effect
Not the slightest. A jury would soon have broken down the legal claim.
As for any moral obligation, there would have been nothing moral about
the affair. The only possible consideration for such a gift was an
immoral one. I don't wish to speak harshly of your father, my dear,
but his conduct was gravely reprehensible. The woman herself had no
right or claim whatever; she would have been whipped and expelled from
the town, if justice -- blind, bleeding justice, then prostrate at the
feet of slaves and aliens -- could have had her way
But the child
The child was in the same category. Who was she, to have inherited the
estate of your ancestors, of which, a few years before, she would
herself have formed a part? The child of shame, it was hers to pay the
penalty. But the discussion is all in the air, Olivia. Your father never
did and never would have left such a will
All the rest and residue of my estate I devise and bequeath to my
daughter Olivia Merkell, the child of my beloved first wife
first
The Last Will and Testament of Samuel Merkell
John Delamere, Esq., as Executor of my Last
Will and Testament
To be delivered only after my death, with seal unbroken
Phil
Aunt Polly told me that once, long before my father
died, when she went to remonstrate with him for keeping that Woman in
the house, he threatened to marry Julia if Aunt Polly ever said another
word to him about the matter. Suppose he _had_ married her, and had then
left a will,-- would the marriage have made any difference, so far as the
will was concerned
Your Aunt Polly
was a remarkable
woman, with a wonderful imagination, which seems to have grown more
vivid as her memory and judgment weakened. Why should your father marry
his negro housemaid? Mr. Merkell was never rated as a fool,-- he had one
of the clearest heads in Wellington. I saw him only a day or two before
he died, and I could swear before any court in Christendom that he was
of sound mind and memory to the last. These notions of your aunt were
mere delusions. Your father was never capable of such a folly
Of course I am only supposing a case
Imagining such
a case, just for the argument, would the marriage have been legal
That would depend. If he had married her during the military
occupation, or over in South Carolina, the marriage would have been
legally valid, though morally and socially outrageous
And if he had died afterwards, leaving a will
The will would have controlled the disposition of his estate, in all
probability
Suppose he had left no will
You are getting the matter down pretty fine, my dear! The woman would
have taken one third of the real estate for life, and could have lived
in the homestead until she died. She would also have had half the other
property,-- the money and goods and furniture, everything except the
land,-- and the negro child would have shared with you the balance of the
estate. That, I believe, is according to the law of descent and
distribution
pocket
By the way, Olivia
if you have any business down town to-day,
transact it this forenoon. Under no circumstances must you or Clara or
the baby leave the house after midday
Why, what's the matter, Phil
Nothing to alarm you, except that there may be a little political
demonstration which may render the streets unsafe. You are not to say
anything about it where the servants might hear
Will there be any danger for you, Phil
Not the slightest, Olivia dear. No one will be harmed; but it is best
for ladies and children to stay indoors
What on earth can be the matter
Is dat you, Doctuh Miller
Yes. Who are you, and what's the trouble
What's de trouble, suh? Why, all hell's broke loose in town yonduh. De
w'ite folks is riz 'gins' de niggers, an' say dey're gwine ter kill
eve'y nigger dey kin lay han's on
Fer God's sake, doctuh, don' go no closeter ter dat town
er you'll be killt sho'. Come on wid us, suh, an' tek keer
er yo'se'f. We're gwine ter hide in de swamps till dis thing is over
God, man
my wife and
child are in the town
What's the matter, Watson
Matter
Everything's the matter! The white
people are up in arms. They have disarmed the colored people, killing
half a dozen in the process, and wounding as many more. They have forced
the mayor and aldermen to resign, have formed a provisional city
government _a la Francaise_, and have ordered me and half a dozen other
fellows to leave town in forty-eight hours, under pain of sudden death.
As they seem to mean it, I shall not stay so long. Fortunately, my wife
and children are away. I knew you were out here, however, and I thought
I'd come out and wait for you, so that we might talk the matter over. I
don't imagine they mean you any harm, personally, because you tread on
nobody's toes; but you're too valuable a man for the race to lose, so I
thought I'd give you warning. I shall want to sell you my property,
too, at a bargain. For I'm worth too much to my family to dream of ever
attempting to live here again
Have you seen anything of my wife and child
No; I didn't go to the house. I inquired at the drugstore and found
out where you had gone. You needn't fear for them,-- it is not a war on
women and children
War of any kind is always hardest on the women and children
I must hurry on and see that mine are safe
They'll not carry the war so far into Africa as that
but I never saw anything like it. Yesterday I had a hundred
white friends in the town, or thought I had,-- men who spoke pleasantly
to me on the street, and sometimes gave me their hands to shake. Not one
of them said to me today: 'Watson, stay at home this afternoon.' I might
have been killed, like any one of half a dozen others who have bit the
dust, for any word that one of my 'friends' had said to warn me. When
the race cry is started in this neck of the woods, friendship, religion,
humanity, reason, all shrivel up like dry leaves in a raging furnace
I think I'll leave you here, Miller
and make my way home by a roundabout path, as I should
like to get there unmolested. Home!-- a beautiful word that, isn't it,
for an exiled wanderer? It might not be well, either, for us to be seen
together. If you put the hood of your buggy down, and sit well back in
the shadow, you may be able to reach home without interruption; but
avoid the main streets. I'll see you again this evening, if we're both
alive, and I can reach you; for my time is short. A committee are to
call in the morning to escort me to the train. I am to be dismissed from
the community with public honors
Dr Miller
Mr. Watson,-- we're lookin' fer a leader. De
w'ite folks are killin' de niggers, an' we ain' gwine ter stan' up an'
be shot down like dogs. We're gwine ter defen' ou' lives, an' we ain'
gwine ter run away f'm no place where we 've got a right ter be; an' woe
be ter de w'ite man w'at lays ban's on us! Dere's two niggers in dis
town ter eve'y w'ite man, an' ef we 've got ter be killt, we'll take
some w'ite folks 'long wid us, ez sho' ez dere's a God in heaven,-- ez I
s'pose dere is, dough He mus' be 'sleep, er busy somewhar e'se ter-day.
Will you-all come an' lead us
Gentlemen
what is the use? The negroes will not back
you up. They haven't the arms, nor the moral courage, nor the
leadership
We'll git de arms, an' we'll git de courage, ef you'll come an' lead
us! We wants leaders,-- dat's w'y we come ter you
What's the use
The odds are too heavy.
I've been ordered out of town; if I stayed, I'd be shot on sight,
unless I had a body-guard around me
We'll be yo' body-guard
And when my body-guard was shot, what then? I have a wife and children.
It is my duty to live for them. If I died, I should get no glory and no
reward, and my family would be reduced to beggary,-- to which they'll
soon be near enough as it is. This affair will blow over in a day or
two. The white people will be ashamed of themselves to-morrow, and
apprehensive of the consequences for some time to come. Keep quiet,
boys, and trust in God. You won't gain anything by resistance
Listen, men
We would only be throwing our lives away.
Suppose we made a determined stand and won a temporary victory. By
morning every train, every boat, every road leading into Wellington,
would be crowded with white men,-- as they probably will be any
way,-- with arms in their hands, curses on their lips, and vengeance in
their hearts. In the minds of those who make and administer the laws, we
have no standing in the court of conscience. They would kill us in the
fight, or they would hang us afterwards,-- one way or another, we should
be doomed. I should like to lead you; I should like to arm every colored
man in this town, and have them stand firmly in line, not for attack,
but for defense; but if I attempted it, and they should stand by me,
which is questionable,-- for I have met them fleeing from the town,-- my
life would pay the forfeit. Alive, I may be of some use to you, and you
are welcome to my life in that way,-- I am giving it freely. Dead, I
should be a mere lump of carrion. Who remembers even the names of those
who have been done to death in the Southern States for the past twenty
years
I 'members de name er one of 'em
an' I 'members de name
er de man dat killt 'im, an' I s'pec' his time is mighty nigh come
My advice is not heroic, but I think it is wise. In this riot we are
placed as we should be in a war: we have no territory, no base of
supplies, no organization, no outside sympathy,-- we stand in the
position of a race, in a case like this, without money and without
friends. Our time will come,-- the time when we can command respect for
our rights; but it is not yet in sight. Give it up, boys, and wait. Good
may come of this, after all
I reckon that's all so, doctuh
an', de way you put
it, I don' blame you ner Mr. Watson; but all dem reasons ain' got no
weight wid me. I'm gwine in dat town, an' ef any w'ite man 'sturbs me,
dere'll be trouble,-- dere'll be double trouble,-- I feels it in my
bones
Remember your old mother, Josh
Yas, sub, I'll 'member her; dat's all I kin do now. I don' need ter
wait fer her no mo', fer she died dis mo'nin'. I'd lack ter see her
buried, suh, but I may not have de chance. Ef I gits killt, will you do
me a favor
Yes, Josh; what is it
Ef I should git laid out in dis commotion dat's gwine on, will you
collec' my wages f'm yo' brother, and see dat de ole 'oman is put away
right
Yes, of course
Wid a nice coffin, an' a nice fune'al, an' a head-bo'd an' a
foot-bo'd
Yes
All right, suh! Ef I don' live ter do it, I'll know it'll be 'tended
ter right. Now we're gwine out ter de cotton compress, an' git a lot er
colored men tergether, an' ef de w'ite folks 'sturbs me, I shouldn't be
s'prise' ef dere'd be a mix-up;-- an' ef dere is, me an _one_ w'ite man
'll stan' befo' de jedgment th'one er God dis day; an' it won't be me
w'at'll be 'feared er de jedgment. Come along, boys! Dese gentlemen may
have somethin' ter live fer; but ez fer my pa't, I'd ruther be a dead
nigger any day dan a live dog
Janet, Janet
where are you? It is only
I,-- Will
Is dat you, Doctuh Miller
Yes. Who are you, and where are my wife and child
Are you _sho'_ dat's you, doctuh
Yes, Sally; where are
An' not some w'ite man come ter bu'n down de house an' kill all de
niggers
No, Sally, it's me all right. Where is my wife? Where is my child
Dey went over ter see Mis' Butler 'long 'bout two o'clock, befo' dis
fuss broke out, suh. Oh, Lawdy, Lawdy, suh! Is all de cullud folks be'n
killt 'cep'n' me an' you, suh? Fer de Lawd's sake, suh, you won' let 'em
kill me, will you, suh? I'll wuk fer you fer nuthin', suh, all my bawn
days, ef you'll save my life, suh
Calm yourself, Sally. You'll be safe enough if you stay right here, I
'we no doubt. They'll not harm women,-- of that I'm sure enough,
although I haven't yet got the bearings of this deplorable affair. Stay
here and look after the house. I must find my wife and child
Come down, you damn fool
Don't you
see we're in earnest? Do you want to get killed
Why should I come down
Because we've ordered you to
come down! This is the white people's day, and when they order, a nigger
must obey. We're going to search you for weapons
Search away. You'll find nothing but a case of surgeon's tools, which
I'm more than likely to need before this day is over, from all
indications
No matter; we'll make sure of it! That's what we're here for. Come
down, if you don't want to be pulled down
Where are you going
I am looking for my wife and child
Well, run along, and keep them out of the streets when you find them;
and keep your hands out of this affair, if you wish to live in this
town, which from now on will be a white man's town, as you niggers will
be pretty firmly convinced before night
Sorry to have had to trouble you, doctuh, but them's the o'ders. It
ain't men like you that we're after, but the vicious and criminal class
of niggers
Dr Miller
it is dangerous for you on the
streets. Why tempt the danger
I am looking for my wife and child
They are somewhere in this town,-- I don't know where,-- and I must find
them
I'll go with you, Dr Miller
if you'll permit me. In my
company you will not be disturbed
Thank you, Mr. Ellis
This is the place where I was
going. I am -- under a great obligation to you
Not at all, Dr Miller. I need not tell you how much I regret this
deplorable affair
Mrs. Butler! It is I, Dr Miller. Is my wife here
Is it really you, Dr Miller
Yes, Mrs. Butler. I am looking for my wife and child,-- are they here
No, sir; she became alarmed about you, soon after the shooting
commenced, and I could not keep her. She left for home half an hour ago.
It is coming on dusk, and she and the child are so near white that she
did not expect to be molested
Which way did she go
She meant to go by the main street. She thought it would be less
dangerous than the back streets. I tried to get her to stay here, but
she was frantic about you, and nothing I could say would keep her. Is
the riot almost over, Dr Miller? Do you think they will murder us all,
and burn down our houses
God knows
But I must find her, if I
lose my own life in the attempt
Hello, doctuh
does you wan' ter jine us
I'm looking for my wife and child, Josh. They're somewhere in this
den of murderers. Have any of you seen them
You men are running a great risk
You are rushing on to
certain death
Well, suh, maybe we is; but we're gwine ter die fightin'. Dey say de
w'ite folks is gwine ter bu'n all de cullud schools an' chu'ches, an'
kill all de niggers dey kin ketch. Dey're gwine ter bu'n yo' new
hospittle, ef somebody don' stop 'em
Josh -- men -- you are throwing your lives away. It is a fever; it will
wear off to-morrow, or to-night. They'll not burn the schoolhouses, nor
the hospital -- they are not such fools, for they benefit the community;
and they'll only kill the colored people who resist them. Every one of
you with a gun or a pistol carries his death warrant in his own hand.
I'd rather see the hospital burn than have one of you lose his life.
Resistance only makes the matter worse,-- the odds against you are too
long
Things can't be any wuss, doctuh
A gun is mo' dange'ous ter de man in front of it dan ter de man behin'
it. Dey're gwine ter kill us anyhow; an' we're tired,-- we read de
newspapers,-- an' we're tired er bein' shot down like dogs, widout jedge
er jury. We'd ruther die fightin' dan be stuck like pigs in a pen
God help you
As for me, I must find my wife and child
Good-by, doctuh
Member 'bout
de ole 'oman, ef you lives thoo dis. Don' fergit de headbo'd an' de
footbo'd, an' a silver plate on de coffin, ef dere's money ernuff
Comin', missis, comin
demonstration
revolution
Kill the niggers
Kill the niggers! Kill the damned niggers
I reckon we better go inside de hospittle, boys
Den
we'll be behind brick walls, an' dem other fellows 'll be outside, an' ef
dere's any fightin', we'll have de bes' show. We ain' gwine ter do no
shootin' till we're pestered, an' dey'll be less likely ter pester us
ef dey can't git at us widout runnin' some resk. Come along in! Be men!
De gov'ner er de President is gwine ter sen' soldiers ter stop dese
gwines-on, an' meantime we kin keep dem white devils f'm bu'nin' down
our hospittles an' chu'ch-houses. Wen dey comes an' fin's out dat we
jes' means ter pertect ou' prope'ty, dey'll go 'long 'bout deir own
business. Er, ef dey wants a scrap, dey kin have it! Come erlong, boys
Come along, Jerry, we need you! Here's another man, boys. Come on now,
and fight fer yo' race
I don' wan' ter fight
De w'ite
folks ain' gwine ter pester me; dey're my frien's. Tu'n me loose,-- tu'n
me loose, er we all gwine ter git killed
Shet up
ef you can't stan' up like a man, keep still, and
don't interfere wid men w'at will fight
You niggers
you
niggers are courtin' death, an' you won't have to court her but a minute
er two mo' befo' she'll have you. If you surrender and give up your
arms, you'll be dealt with leniently,-- you may get off with the
chain-gang or the penitentiary. If you resist, you'll be shot like
dogs
Dat's no news, Mr. White Man
We're use' ter bein' treated like dogs by men like you. If you
w'ite people will go 'long an' ten' ter yo' own business an' let us
alone, we'll ten' ter ou'n. You've got guns, an' we've got jest as
much right ter carry 'em as you have. Lay down yo'n, an' we'll lay down
ou'n,-- we didn' take 'em up fust; but we ain' gwine ter let you bu'n
down ou' chu'ches an' school'ouses, er dis hospittle, an' we ain' comin'
out er dis house, where we ain' disturbin' nobody, fer you ter shoot us
down er sen' us ter jail. You hear me
All right
You've had fair warning. Your blood be
on your
Vengeance! vengeance
Kill the niggers
This must be stopped, Ellis
They are burning houses
and killing women and children. Old Jane, good old Mammy Jane, who
nursed my wife at her bosom, and has waited on her and my child within
a few weeks, was killed only a few rods from my house, to which she was
evidently fleeing for protection. It must have been by accident,-- I
cannot believe that any white man in town would be dastard enough to
commit such a deed intentionally! I would have defended her with my own
life! We must try to stop this thing
Easier said than done
It is in the fever stage, and
must burn itself out. We shall be lucky if it does not burn the town
out. Suppose the negroes should also take a hand at the burning? We have
advised the people to put the negroes down, and they are doing the job
thoroughly
My God
I meant to keep them in
their places,-- I did not intend wholesale murder and arson
Gentlemen
Kill the niggers
Gentlemen, I implore you
Gentlemen
this is murder, it is madness; it is a
disgrace to our city, to our state, to our civilization
That's right
It _is_ a disgrace, and we'll not put up with it a moment
longer. Burn 'em out! Hurrah for Major Carteret, the champion of 'white
supremacy'! Three cheers for the Morning Chronicle and 'no nigger
domination
Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah
Majah Carteret -- _O_ majah! It's me, suh, Jerry, suh! I didn' go in
dere myse'f, suh -- I wuz drag' in dere! I wouldn' do nothin' 'g'inst de
w'ite folks, suh,-- no, 'ndeed, I wouldn', suh
Let us leave this inferno, Ellis
We can do nothing. The negroes have themselves to
blame,-- they tempted us beyond endurance. I counseled firmness, and firm
measures were taken, and our purpose was accomplished. I am not
responsible for these subsequent horrors,-- I wash my hands of them. Let
us go
Boys
men!-- fer nobody but men would do w'at you
have done,-- the day has gone 'g'inst us. We kin see ou' finish; but fer
my part, I ain' gwine ter leave dis worl' widout takin' a w'ite man
'long wid me, an' I sees my man right out yonder waitin',-- I be'n
waitin' fer him twenty years, but he won' have ter wait fer me mo' 'n
'bout twenty seconds. Eve'y one er you pick yo' man! We'll open de do',
an' we'll give some w'ite men a chance ter be sorry dey ever started
dis fuss
Vengeance is mine
Where is Olivia
She is upstairs, with Dodie and Mrs. Albright's hospital nurse. Dodie
has the croup. Virgie ran away after the riot broke out. Sister Olivia
had sent for Mammy Jane, but she did not come. Mrs. Albright let her
white nurse come over
I'll go up at once
Wait for me,
Ellis,-- I'll be down in a few minutes
Oh, Mr. Ellis
can nothing be done to stop this terrible affair
I wish I could do something
It has gone too far, already, and the end, I fear, is not yet;
but it cannot grow much worse
Dodie is ill
At three o'clock, when the trouble began, I
was over at Mrs. Albright's,-- I had left Virgie with the baby. When I
came back, she and all the other servants had gone. They had heard that
the white people were going to kill all the negroes, and fled to seek
safety. I found Dodie lying in a draught, before an open window, gasping
for breath. I ran back to Mrs. Albright's,-- I had found her much better
to-day,-- and she let her nurse come over. The nurse says that Dodie is
threatened with membranous croup
Have you sent for Dr Price
There was no one to send,-- the servants were gone, and the nurse was
afraid to venture out into the street. I telephoned for Dr Price, and
found that he was out of town; that he had gone up the river this
morning to attend a patient, and would not be back until to-morrow. Mrs.
Price thought that he had anticipated some kind of trouble in the town
to-day, and had preferred to be where he could not be called upon to
assume any responsibility
I suppose you tried Dr Ashe
I could not get him, nor any one else, after that first call. The
telephone service is disorganized on account of the riot. We need
medicine and ice. The drugstores are all closed on account of the riot,
and for the same reason we couldn't get any ice
Is it serious
Dangerous
You came none too
soon. If a doctor isn't got at once, the child will die,-- and it must
be a good doctor
Whom can I call
You know them all, I suppose. Dr Price,
our family physician, is out of town
Dr Ashe has charge of his cases when he is away
If you can't find him, try Dr Hooper. The child is growing worse every
minute. On your way back you'd better get some ice, if possible
Don't wait for me, Ellis
I shall be needed here for a
while. I'll get to the office as soon as possible. Make up the paper,
and leave another stick out for me to the last minute, but fill it up in
case I'm not on hand by twelve. We must get the paper out early in the
morning
Good evening, Mrs. Ashe. Is the doctor at home
No, Major Carteret. He was called to attend Mrs. Wells, who was taken
suddenly ill, as a result of the trouble this afternoon. He will be
there all night, no doubt
My child is very ill, and I must find some one
Try Dr Yates. His house is only four doors away
Is Dr Yates in
Yes, sir
Can I see him
You might see him, sir, but that would be all. His horse was frightened
by the shooting on the streets, and ran away and threw the doctor, and
broke his right arm. I have just set it; he will not be able to attend
any patients for several weeks. He is old and nervous, and the shock was
great
Are you not a physician
Yes, I am Dr Evans, Dr Yates's assistant. I'm really little more
than a student, but I'll do what I can
My only child is sick with the croup, and requires immediate
attention
I ought to be able to handle a case of the croup
at least in the first stages. I'll go with you, and stay by the child,
and if the case is beyond me, I may keep it in check until another
physician comes
We pass right by Dr Thompson's
If you haven't
spoken to him, it might be well to call him for consultation, in case
the child should be very bad
Go on ahead
and I'll get him
De doctuh, suh
has gone
ter ampitate de ahm er a gent'eman who got one er his bones smashed wid
a pistol bullet in de -- fightin' dis atternoon, suh. He's jes' gone, suh,
an' lef' wo'd dat he'd be gone a' hour er mo', suh
How is he, doctor
He is very low
Nothing short of
tracheotomy -- an operation to open the windpipe -- will relieve him.
Without it, in half or three quarters of an hour he will be unable to
breathe. It is a delicate operation, a mistake in which would be as
fatal as the disease. I have neither the knowledge nor the experience to
attempt it, and your child's life is too valuable for a student to
practice upon. Neither have I the instruments here
What shall we do
We have called all the best
doctors, and none are available
There is but one other doctor in town who has performed the operation,
so far as I know
and that is Dr Miller. If you can get
him, he can save your child's life
I'll go for him myself
I can do nothing here alone, for a little
while, and I may be able to bring the doctor back with me. He likes a
difficult operation
Dr Miller is at home, sir
He says
that he was called to your house once before, by a third person who
claimed authority to act, and that he was refused admittance. He
declares that he will not consider such a call unless it come from you
personally
That is true, quite true
His position is a just
one. I will go at once. Will -- will -- my child live until I can get Miller
here
He can live for half an hour without an operation. Beyond that I could
give you little hope
Dr Miller, I believe
Yes, sir
I am Major Carteret. My child is seriously ill, and you are the only
available doctor who can perform the necessary operation
Ah! You have tried all the others,-- and then you come to me
Yes, I do not deny it
But I _have_
come to you, as a physician, to engage your professional services for my
child,-- my only child. I have confidence in your skill, or I should not
have come to you. I request -- nay, I implore you to lose no more time,
but come with me at once! My child's life is hanging by a thread, and
you can save it
Ah
as a father whose only child's life is in
danger, you implore me, of all men in the world, to come and save it
There, Major Carteret
there lies a specimen of your handiwork! There lies _my_ only
child, laid low by a stray bullet in this riot which you and your paper
have fomented; struck down as much by your hand as though you had held
the weapon with which his life was taken
My God
Is the child dead
There he lies
an innocent child,-- there he lies
dead, his little life snuffed out like a candle, because you and a
handful of your friends thought you must override the laws and run this
town at any cost!-- and there kneels his mother, overcome by grief. We
are alone in the house. It is not safe to leave her unattended. My duty
calls me here, by the side of my dead child and my suffering wife! I
cannot go with you. There is a just God in heaven!-- as you have sown, so
may you reap
How is he now
No better
steadily growing worse. He can go on
probably for twenty minutes longer without an operation
Where is the doctor
You should have brought him right upstairs. There's not a
minute to spare! Phil, Phil, our child will die
Open, for God's sake, open
Dr Miller
Dr Miller, you will come
and save my child? You know what it is to lose a child! I am so sorry
about your little boy! You will come to mine
Your sorrow comes too late, madam
My child is dead.
I charged your husband with his murder, and he could not deny it. Why
should I save your husband's child
Ah, Dr Miller
it is _my_
child, and I have never injured you. It is my child, Dr Miller, my only
child. I brought it into the world at the risk of my own life! I have
nursed it, I have watched over it, I have prayed for it,-- and it now
lies dying! Oh, Dr Miller, dear Dr Miller, if you have a heart, come
and save my child
Madam
my heart
is broken. My people lie dead upon the streets, at the hands of yours.
The work of my life is in ashes,-- and, yonder, stretched out in death,
lies my own child! God! woman, you ask too much of human nature! Love,
duty, sorrow, _justice_, call me here. I cannot go
Then you are a murderer
His blood be on your head, and a mother's curse beside
O God
pardon my
husband's sins, and my own, and move this man's hard heart, by the blood
of thy Son, who died to save us all
Rise, madam
I will listen to you on one condition. My child lies dead in the
adjoining room, his mother by his side. Go in there, and make your
request of her. I will abide by her decision
_You_ have come here
_you_, to gloat over your husband's work. All my life
you have hated and scorned and despised me. Your presence here insults
me and my dead. What are you doing here
Mrs. Miller
my
child, my only child, is dying, and your husband alone can save his
life. Ah, let me have my child
It is my
only one -- my sweet child -- my ewe lamb
This was _my_ only child
and yours is no
better to die than mine
You are young
and may yet have many
children,-- this is my only hope! If you have a human heart, tell your
husband to come with me. He leaves it to you; he will do as you
command
Ah
I have a human heart, and therefore I will not let
him go. _My_ child is dead -- O God, my child, my child
Listen
You will not let my baby die? You are my sister;-- the
child is your own near kin
My child was nearer
He was my son, and I have seen him
die. I have been your sister for twenty-five years, and you have only
now, for the first time, called me so
Listen -- sister
Listen, sister
I have a confession to make. You are my
lawful sister. My father was married to your mother. You are entitled to
his name, and to half his estate
And you have robbed me all these years, and now tell me that as a
reason why I should forgive the murder of my child
No, no
I have known of it
only a few weeks,-- since my Aunt Polly's death. I had not meant to rob
you,-- I had meant to make restitution. Sister! for our father's sake,
who did you no wrong, give me my child's life
Listen
I have but one word for
you,-- one last word,-- and then I hope never to see your face again! My
mother died of want, and I was brought up by the hand of charity. Now,
when I have married a man who can supply my needs, you offer me back the
money which you and your friends have robbed me of! You imagined that
the shame of being a negro swallowed up every other ignominy,-- and in
your eyes I am a negro, though I am your sister, and you are white, and
people have taken me for you on the streets,-- and you, therefore, left
me nameless all my life! Now, when an honest man has given me a name of
which I can be proud, you offer me the one of which you robbed me, and
of which I can make no use. For twenty-five years I, poor, despicable
fool, would have kissed your feet for a word, a nod, a smile. Now, when
this tardy recognition comes, for which I have waited so long, it is
tainted with fraud and crime and blood, and I must pay for it with my
child's life
And I must forfeit that of mine, it seems, for withholding it so long
It is but just
Stay -- do not go yet
I have not done. I throw you back your
father's name, your father's wealth, your sisterly recognition. I want
none of them,-- they are bought too dear! ah, God, they are bought too
dear! But that you may know that a woman may be foully wronged, and yet
may have a heart to feel, even for one who has injured her, you may have
your child's life, if my husband can save it! Will
go with her
God will bless you for a noble woman
You do
not mean all the cruel things you have said,-- ah, no! I will see you
again, and make you take them back; I cannot thank you now! Oh, doctor,
let us go! I pray God we may not be too late
Is the child still alive
Yes, thank God
but nearly gone
Come on up, Dr Miller
There's time enough, but none to spare
</text>
