<text>
There is no
telling when Berry will be following my example and be taking a wife
unto himself
It 's de p'opah
thing fu' a man what waits on quality to have quality mannahs an' to
waih quality clothes
T ain't no use to be a-humo'in' dat boy too much, Be'y
hit
sho' do mek' him biggety, an' a biggety po' niggah is a 'bomination
befo' de face of de Lawd; but I know 't  ain't no use a-talkin' to you,
fu' you plum boun' up in dat Joe
Five years does seem a long while
but if a man
accomplishes anything, after all, it seems only a short time to look
back upon
All time is short to look back upon. It is the looking forward to it
that counts. It does n't, though, with a man, I suppose. He's doing
something all the while
Yes, a man is always doing something, even if only waiting; but
waiting is such unheroic business
That is the part that usually falls to a woman's lot. I have no doubt
that some dark-eyed mademoiselle is waiting for you now
Oh, Miss Claire, you will
not dare to talk with such little awe to our friend when he comes back
with his ribbons and his medals. Why, we shall all have to bow to you,
Frank
You 're wronging me, Esterton
No foreign decoration
could ever be to me as much as the flower of approval from the fair
women of my own State
Hear
Trust artists and poets to pay pretty compliments, and this wily friend
of mine pays his at my expense
A good bit of generalship, that, Frank
Esterton opened the breach and you at once galloped in. That 's the
highest art of war
What is it, Francis
I have just discovered a considerable loss
If it is no worse than loss, I am glad; but what is it
Every cent of money that I had to secure my letter of credit is gone
from my bureau
What? When did it disappear
I went to my bureau to-night for something and found the money gone;
then I remembered that when I opened it two days ago I must have left
the key in the lock, as I found it to-night
It 's a bad business, but don't let 's talk of it now. Come, let 's go
back to our guests. Don't look so cut up about it, Frank, old man. It is
n't as bad as it might be, and you must n't show a gloomy face
to-night
When Leslie is in bed, come into the
library. I will wait for you there
Poor, foolish Frank
as if the loss could matter
to him
Come, brace up now, Frank, and tell me about it
I don't know what you 'll think of me, Maurice
I have never
before been guilty of such criminal carelessness
Don't stop to accuse yourself. Our only hope in this matter lies in
prompt action. Where was the money
In the oak cabinet and lying in the bureau drawer. Such a thing as a
theft seemed so foreign to this place that I was never very particular
about the box. But I did not know until I went to it to-night that the
last time I had opened it I had forgotten to take the key out. It all
flashed over me in a second when I saw it shining there. Even then I did
n't suspect anything. You don't know how I felt to open that cabinet and
find all my money gone. It 's awful
Don't worry. How much was there in all
Nine hundred and eighty-six dollars, most of which, I am ashamed to
say, I had accepted from you
You have no right to talk that way, Frank; you know I do not begrudge a
cent you want. I have never felt that my father did quite right in
leaving me the bulk of the fortune; but we won't discuss that now. What
I want you to understand, though, is that the money is yours as well as
mine, and you are always welcome to it
No, Maurice
I can accept no
more from you. I have already used up all my own money and too much of
yours in this hopeless fight. I don't suppose I was ever cut out for an
artist, or I 'd have done something really notable in this time, and
would not be a burden upon those who care for me. No, I 'll give up
going to Paris and find some work to do
Frank, Frank, be silent. This is nonsense, Give up your art? You shall
not do it. You shall go to Paris as usual. Leslie and I have perfect
faith in you. You shall not give up on account of this misfortune. What
are the few paltry dollars to me or to you
Nothing, nothing, I know. It is n't the money, it 's the principle of
the thing
Principle be hanged! You go back to Paris to-morrow, just as you had
planned. I do not ask it, I command it
Pardon me, Frank, for using those words and at such a time. You know
how near my heart your success lies, and to hear you talk of giving it
all up makes me forget myself. Forgive me, but you 'll go back, won't
you
You are too good, Maurice
and I will go
back, and I 'll try to redeem myself
There is no redeeming of yourself to do, my dear boy; all you have to
do is to mature yourself. We 'll have a detective down and see what we
can do in this matter
I do so hate such things
and, anyway, what 's the use? They 'll never find out where the
stuff went to
Oh, you need not be troubled in this matter. I know that such things
must jar on your delicate nature. But I am a plain hard-headed business
man, and I can attend to it without distaste
But I hate to shove everything unpleasant off on you, It 's what I 've
been doing all my life
Never mind that. Now tell me, who was the last person you remember in
your room
Oh, Esterton was up there awhile before dinner. But he was not alone
two minutes
Why, he would be out of the question anyway. Who else
Hamilton was up yesterday
Alone
Yes, for a while. His boy, Joe, shaved me, and Jack was up for a while
brushing my clothes
Then it lies between Jack and Joe
Neither one was left alone, though
Then only Hamilton and Esterton have been alone for any time in your
room since you left the key in your cabinet
Those are the only ones of whom I know anything. What others went in
during the day, of course, I know nothing about. It could n't have been
either Esterton or Hamilton
Not Esterton, no
And Hamilton is beyond suspicion
No servant is beyond suspicion
I would trust Hamilton anywhere
and with
anything
That 's noble of you, Frank, and I would have done the same, but we
must remember that we are not in the old days now. The negroes are
becoming less faithful and less contented, and more 's the pity, and a
deal more ambitious, although I have never had any unfaithfulness on the
part of Hamilton to complain of before
Then do not condemn him now
I shall not condemn any one until I have proof positive of his guilt or
such clear circumstantial evidence that my reason is satisfied
I do not believe that you will ever have that against old Hamilton
This spirit of trust does you credit, Frank, and I very much hope that
you may be right. But as soon as a negro like Hamilton learns the value
of money and begins to earn it, at the same time he begins to covet some
easy and rapid way of securing it. The old negro knew nothing of the
value of money. When he stole, he stole hams and bacon and chickens.
These were his immediate necessities and the things he valued. The
present laughs at this tendency without knowing the cause. The present
negro resents the laugh, and he has learned to value other things than
those which satisfy his belly
But pardon me for boring you. I know you want to go to bed. Go and
leave everything to me
I am sorry to disturb you again, Frank, but may we come in
Who is with you
The detective
I did not know he was to come to-night
The chief thought it better
All right in a moment
When you opened this cabinet, your money was gone
Yes
Were any of your papers touched
No
How about your jewels
I have but few and they were elsewhere
Do you ever leave this window open
It is almost always so
Is this porch on the front of the house
No, on the side
What else is out that way
My butler's cottage
is on that side and a little way back
Uh huh! and your butler is, I believe, the Hamilton whom the young
gentleman mentioned some time ago
Yes
I think I have a clue
I will be here again to-morrow
morning
But I shall be gone
You will hardly be needed, anyway
Come, come, Frank, you must take a drink now and go to bed
I am completely unnerved
I know it, and I am no less shocked than you. But we 've got to face it
like men
Who would have thought it
Not I. I had hoped against hope up until the last that it would turn
out to be a mistake
Nothing angers me so much as being deceived by the man I have helped
and trusted. I should feel the sting of all this much less if the thief
had come from the outside, broken in, and robbed me, but this, after all
these years, is too low
Don't be hard on a man, Maurice; one never knows what prompts him to a
deed. And this evidence is all circumstantial
It is plain enough for me. You are entirely too kind-hearted, Frank.
But I see that this thing has worn you out. You must not stand here
talking. Go to bed, for you must be fresh for to-morrow morning's
journey to New York
Poor fellow
he is so delicately constructed that he cannot
stand such shocks as these
To think of that black
hound's treachery! I 'll give him all that the law sets down for him
You, Joe
git up f'om daih an' come right
hyeah. You got to he'p me befo' you go to any shop dis mo'nin'. You,
Kitty, stir yo' stumps, miss. I know yo' ma 's a-dressin' now. Ef she
ain't, I bet I 'll be aftah huh in a minute, too. You all layin' 'roun',
snoozin' w'en you all des' pint'ly know dis is de mo'nin' Mistah Frank
go 'way f'om hyeah
house
I do declaih
you all 's as bad as dem white people
was las' night. De way dey waded into dat food was a caution
I reckon dat 's what dey come fu'. I was n't payin' so much 'tention to
what dey eat as to de way dem women was dressed. Why, Mis' Jedge Hill
was des' mo'n go'geous
Oh, yes, ma, an' Miss Lessing was n't no ways behin' her
Well, I got to be goin
There 'll be early
breakfas' at de 'house' dis mo'nin', so 's Mistah Frank kin ketch de
fus' train
Good-bye, Berry
How could you do it, Frank
Hush, Maurice
I think it was very noble of
him
Oh, I felt sorry for the poor fellow
Promise me
you won't be too hard on him, Maurice. Give him a little scare and let
him go. He 's possibly buried the money, anyhow
I shall deal with him as he deserves
Whether I fail or succeed, you will always think well of me, Maurice
and if I don't come up to your expectations,
well -- forgive me -- that 's all
You will always come up to my expectations,
Frank
Won't he, Leslie
He will always be our Frank, our good, generous-hearted, noble boy. God
bless him
He seems to be sad at going
Poor fellow, the affair of last night has broken him up considerably,
but I 'll make Berry pay for every pang of anxiety that my brother has
suffered
Don't be revengeful, Maurice; you know what brother Frank asked of
you
He is gone and will never know what happens, so I may be as revengeful
as I wish
Well
I have some more information that may or may not be of importance
Out with it; maybe I can tell
First, let me ask if you had any reason to believe that your butler had
any resources of his own, say to the amount of three or four hundred
dollars
Certainly not. I pay him thirty dollars a month, and his wife fifteen
dollars, and with keeping up his lodges and the way he dresses that
girl, he can't save very much
You know that he has money in the bank
No
Well, he has. Over eight hundred dollars
What? Berry? It must be the pickings of years
And yesterday it was increased by five hundred more
The scoundrel
How was your brother's money, in bills
It was in large bills and gold, with some silver
Berry's money was almost all in bills of a small denomination and
silver
A poor trick; it could easily have been changed
Not such a sum without exciting comment
He may have gone to several places
But he had only a day to do it in
Then some one must have been his accomplice
That remains to be proven
Nothing remains to be proven. Why, it 's as clear as day that the money
he has is the result of a long series of peculations, and that this last
is the result of his first large theft
That must be made clear to the law
It shall be
I should advise, though, no open proceedings against this servant until
further evidence to establish his guilt is found
If the evidence satisfies me, it must be sufficient to satisfy any
ordinary jury. I demand his immediate arrest
As you will, sir. Will you have him called here and question him, or
will you let me question him at once
Yes
You 're just the man we want
Shall I question him
or will you
I will. Berry, you deposited five hundred dollars at the bank
yesterday
Well, suh, Mistah Oakley
ef you ain't de
beatenes' man to fin' out things I evah seen
You had better let me talk to Berry, Mr. Oakley
Berry
you admit having deposited five hundred
dollars in the bank yesterday
Sut'ny. Dey ain't no reason why I should n't admit it, 'ceptin'
erroun' ermong dese jealous niggahs
Uh huh! well, now, where did you get this money
Why, I wo'ked fu' it, o' co'se, whaih you s'pose I got it? 'T ain't
drappin' off trees, I reckon, not roun' dis pa't of de country
You worked for it? You must have done a pretty big job to have got so
much money all in a lump
But I did n't git it in a lump. Why, man, I 've been savin' dat money
fu mo'n fo' yeahs
More than four years? Why did n't you put it in the bank as you got
it
Why, mos'ly it was too small, an' so I des' kep' it in a ol' sock. I
tol' Fannie dat some day ef de bank did n't bus' wid all de res' I had,
I 'd put it in too. She was allus sayin' it was too much to have layin'
'roun' de house. But I des' tol' huh dat no robber was n't goin' to
bothah de po' niggah down in de ya'd wid de rich white man up at de
house. But fin'lly I listened to huh an' sposited it yistiddy
You 're a liar! you 're a liar, you black thief
You have learned your lesson well, but you can't cheat me.
I know where that money came from
Calm yourself, Mr. Oakley, calm yourself
I will not calm myself. Take him away. He shall not stand here and lie
to me
You say you know whaih dat money come f'om? Whaih
You stole it, you thief, from my brother Frank's room
Stole it! My Gawd, Mistah Oakley, you believed a thing lak dat aftah
all de yeahs I been wid you
You 've been stealing all along
Why, what shell I do
I tell you, Mistah
Oakley, ask Fannie. She 'll know how long I been a-savin' dis money
I 'll ask no one
I think it would be better to call his wife, Oakley
Well, call her, but let this matter be done with soon
Well posted
Arrest that man
Send the woman away
I won't go
I 'll stay right hyeah by my
husband. You sha'n't  drive me away f'om him
You b'lieve dat I stole f'om dis house
aftah all de yeahs I 've been in it, aftah de caih I took of yo' money
an' yo' valybles, aftah de way I 've put you to bed f'om many a dinnah,
an' you woke up to fin' all yo' money safe? Now, can you b'lieve dis
Yes, I believe it, you thief, yes. Take him away
Den, damn you! damn you! ef
dat 's all dese yeahs counted fu', I wish I had a-stoled it
Take that damned hound away, or, by God! I 'll do him violence
No, no
you must n't, you must n't. Oh, my Gawd! he
ain 't  no thief. I 'll go to Mis' Oakley. She nevah will believe it
Tell 'em, oh, tell 'em, Miss Leslie, dat you don't believe it. Don't
let 'em 'rest Berry
Why, Fannie, I can't do anything. It all seems perfectly plain, and Mr.
Oakley knows better than any of us, you know
O Gawd!
O Gawd! he 's gone fu' sho
Nevah
min', Fannie
nevah min'. Hit 's boun' to come out all
right
Gone! gone
Take her out
I did
n't think it of him
I don't
believe it of him
The Tribe of Benjamin
Tell me, tell me
you need n't tell me dat a bird kin fly
so high dat he don' have to come down some time. An' w'en he do light,
honey, my Lawd, how he flop
Mistah Rich Niggah
He wanted to dress his wife an'
chillen lak white folks, did he? Well, he foun' out, he foun' out. By de
time de jedge git thoo wid him he won't be hol'in' his haid so high
Wy, dat gal o' his'n
w'y, she
would n' speak to my gal, Minty, when she met huh on de street. I reckon
she come down off'n huh high hoss now
I knowed it, I knowed it
W'enevah you see niggahs gittin' so high
dat dey own folks ain' good enough fu' 'em, look out
W'y, la, Aunt Chloe I knowed it too. Dem people got so owdacious proud
dat dey would n't walk up to de collection table no mo' at chu'ch, but
allus set an' waited twell de basket was passed erroun
Hit 's de livin' trufe, an' I 's been seein' it all 'long. I ain't said
nuffin', but I knowed what 'uz gwine to happen. Ol' Chloe ain't lived
all dese yeahs fu' nuffin', an' ef she got de gif' o' secon' sight, 't 
ain't fu' huh to say
I tell you
I tell you, I pity that darky more than I
blame him. Now, here 's my theory
It 's just like this: The North thought they were doing a great thing
when they come down here and freed all the slaves. They thought they
were doing a great thing, and I 'm not saying a word against them. I
give them the credit for having the courage of their convictions. But I
maintain that they were all wrong, now, in turning these people loose
upon the country the way they did, without knowledge of what the first
principle of liberty was. The natural result is that these people are
irresponsible. They are unacquainted with the ways of our higher
civilisation, and it 'll take them a long time to learn. You know Rome
was n't built in a day. I know Berry, and I 've known him for a long
while, and a politer, likelier darky than him you would have to go far
to find. And I have n't the least doubt in the world that he took that
money absolutely without a thought of wrong, sir, absolutely. He saw it.
He took it, and to his mental process, that was the end of it. To him
there was no injury inflicted on any one, there was no crime committed.
His elemental reasoning was simply this: This man has more money than I
have; here is some of his surplus,-- I 'll just take it. Why, gentlemen,
I maintain that that man took that money with the same innocence of
purpose with which one of our servants a few years ago would have
appropriated a stray ham
I disagree with you entirely, Mr. Talbot
Make mine the same, Jerry, only add a
little syrup.-- I disagree with you. It 's simply total depravity, that
's all. All niggers are alike, and there 's no use trying to do anything
with them. Look at that man, Dodson, of mine. I had one of the finest
young hounds in the State. You know that white pup of mine, Mr. Talbot,
that I bought from Hiram Gaskins? Mighty fine breed. Well, I was
spendin' all my time and patience trainin' that dog in the daytime. At
night I put him in that nigger's care to feed and bed. Well, do you
know, I came home the other night and found that black rascal gone? I
went out to see if the dog was properly bedded, and by Jove, the dog was
gone too. Then I got suspicious. When a nigger and a dog go out together
at night, one draws certain conclusions. I thought I had heard bayin'
way out towards the edge of the town. So I stayed outside and watched.
In about an hour here came Dodson with a possum hung over his shoulder
and my dog trottin' at his heels. He 'd been possum huntin' with my
hound -- with the finest hound in the State, sir. Now, I appeal to you
all, gentlemen, if that ain't total depravity, what is total depravity
Not total depravity, Beachfield, I maintain, but the very
irresponsibility of which I have spoken. Why, gentlemen, I foresee the
day when these people themselves shall come to us Southerners of their
own accord and ask to be re-enslaved until such time as they shall be
fit for freedom
Well, do you think there 's any doubt of the darky's guilt
Any doubt
Any doubt
Any doubt
Why, there can be no doubt. Why,
Colonel, what are you thinking of? Tell us who has got the money if he
has n't? Tell us where on earth the nigger got the money he 's been
putting in the bank? Doubt? Why, there is n't the least doubt about it
Certainly, certainly
but I thought, of course, he
might have saved it. There are several of those people, you know, who do
a little business and have bank accounts
Yes, but they are in some sort of business. This man makes only thirty
dollars a month. Don't you see
I did n't tech his money, Fannie, you know I did n't. I wo'ked fu'
every cent of dat money, an' I saved it myself. Oh, I 'll nevah be able
to git a job ag'in. Me in de lock-up -- me, aftah all dese yeahs
Oh, Mis' Oakley
ef he did steal de money, we 've got
enough saved to mek it good. Let him go! let him go
Then you admit that he did steal
Oh, I did n't say dat; I did n't mean dat
That will do, Fannie. I understand perfectly. You should have confessed
that long ago
But I ain't confessin'! I ain't! He did n't
You may go
It 's
five dollars' fine every time a nigger faints
You must go
You can't stay here any longer. I want none of
your breed about me
I 'll go an' see what I kin do, anyway, Kit. 'T ain't much use, I
reckon, trying to get into a bahbah shop where they shave white folks,
because all the white folks are down on us. I 'll try one of the
coloured shops
naps
Oh, no, suh
I don't think we got anything fu'
you to do; you 're a white man's bahbah. We don't shave nothin' but
niggahs hyeah, an' we shave 'em in de light o' day an' on de groun'
flo
W'y, I hyeah you say dat you could n't git a paih of sheahs thoo a
niggah's naps. You ain't been practisin' lately, has you
Oh, yes, you 're done with burr-heads, are you? But burr-heads are good
enough fu' you now
I think
that I hyeahed you say you was n't
fond o' grape pickin'. Well, Josy, my son, I would n't begin it now,
'specially as anothah kin' o' pickin' seems to run in yo' fambly
Nevah min',
boy, nevah min', you 's bo'n, but you ain't daid
run the bells
Well, I guess we can take you on
What 's your name
Joe
Well, Joe, you go over there and sit where you see those fellows in
uniform, and wait until I call the head bellman
I did n't know
I did n't know that you were Berry
Hamilton's boy. Now, I 've got nothing against you myself. I don't hold
you responsible for what your father did, but I don't believe our boys
would work with you. I can't take you on
There goes Joe
Hamilton, whose father went to the penitentiary the other day
Did you get a job
No
no one wants me now
No one wants you? Why, Joe -- they -- they don't think hard of us, do
they
I don't know what they think of ma and you, but they think hard of me,
all right
Oh, don't you worry; it 'll be all right when it blows over
Yes, when it all blows over; but when 'll that be
Oh, after a while, when we can show 'em we 're all right
Oh, where are
we going to live, ma
Gawd knows, child, Gawd knows
Why, why
Oh, you 're
tired to death
that 's what 's the matter with you. Never
mind about the house now. I 've got some tea made for you, and you just
take a cup
I 'll go out to-morrow and do some looking around for a house while you
stay at home an' rest, ma
Oh, no, not you, Kitty
You 'd just as well tell Kitty now,
ma, for she 's got to come across it anyhow
What you know about it? Whaih you been to
I 've been out huntin' work. I 've been to Jones's bahbah shop an' to
the Continental Hotel
I don't think I 'll try any more
Were they mean to you too, ma
Mean? Oh Kitty! Kitty! you don't know what it was like. It nigh killed
me. Thaih was plenty of houses an' owned by people I 've knowed fu'
yeahs, but not one of 'em wanted to rent to me. Some of 'em made excuses
'bout one thing er t' other, but de res' come right straight out an'
said dat we 'd give a neighbourhood a bad name ef we moved into it. I
've almos' tramped my laigs off. I 've tried every decent place I could
think of, but nobody wants us
Why, we ain't done anything
Even if they don't know any
better than to believe that pa was guilty, they know we ain't done
anything
I 'd like to cut the heart out of a few of 'em
It ain't goin' to do no good to look at it that a-way, Joe
I know hit 's ha'd, but we got to do de bes' we kin
What are we goin' to do
They won't let us
work. They won't let us live anywhaih. Do they want us to live on the
levee an' steal, like some of 'em do
What are we goin' to do
I 'd go out ef I
thought I could find anythin' to work at
Don't you go anywhaih, child. It 'ud only be worse. De niggah men dat
ust to be bowin' an' scrapin' to me an' tekin' off dey hats to me
laughed in my face. I met Minty -- an' she slurred me right in de street.
Dey 'd do worse fu' you
House
Well, we got to go
But where are we goin
There 's no place
to go to. We have n't got a house. Where 'll we go
Out o' town someplace as fur away from this damned hole as we kin
git
Joe, Joe
you 're mekin' it
wuss. You 're mekin' it ha'dah fu' me to baih when you talk dat a-way.
What you mean? Whaih you think Gawd is
We 'll git de secon'-han' dealah to tek ouah things to-morrer, an' then
we 'll go away some place, up No'th maybe
Let 's go to New York
New Yo'k
It 's a mighty long ways off fu' me to be sta'tin' at dis time o'
life
We want to go a long ways off
I wonder what pa would think of it if he was here
I guess he 'd think we was doin' the best we could
Well, den, Joe
you set down an' write a
lettah to yo' pa, an' tell him what we goin' to do, an'
to-morrer -- to-morrer -- we 'll sta't
Well, they 're gone
I wonder where they 're
going to live
Oh, some of their people will take them in
big yellow woman
Yes
I think I could arrange to take you. I could let you
have two rooms, and you could use my kitchen until you decided whether
you wanted to take a flat or not. I has the whole house myself, and I
keeps roomers. But latah on I could fix things so 's you could have the
whole third floor ef you wanted to. Most o' my gent'men 's railroad
gent'men, they is. I guess it must 'a' been Mr. Thomas that sent you up
here
He was a little bright man down at de deepo
Yes, that 's him. That 's Mr. Thomas. He 's always lookin' out to send
some one here, because he 's been here three years hisself an' he kin
recommend my house
I tell you, Miss Kitty
they ain't no use talkin', N' Yawk 'll give you a shakin'
up 'at you won't soon forget. It 's the only town on the face of the
earth. You kin bet your life they ain't no flies on N' Yawk. We git the
best shows here, we git the best concerts -- say, now, what 's the use o'
my callin' it all out?-- we simply git the best of everything
Great place
D'jever see the statue o' Liberty? Great thing, the statue o' Liberty.
I 'll take you 'round some day. An' Cooney Island -- oh, my, now that 's
the place; and talk about fun! That 's the place for me
La, Thomas
how you do run on! Why, the strangers
'll think they 'll be talked to death before they have time to breathe
Oh, I guess the folks understan' me. I 'm one o' them kin' o' men 'at
believe in whooping things up right from the beginning. I 'm never
strange with anybody. I 'm a N' Yawker, I tell you, from the word go. I
say, Mis' Jones, let 's have some beer, an' we 'll have some music purty
soon. There 's a fellah in the house 'at plays 'Rag-time' out o' sight
Mr. Thomas is a case, sho
but he likes you all, an' I 'm
mighty glad of it, fu' he 's mighty curious about the house when he
don't like the roomers
fresh
Thought I 'd bring home something to chew. I always like to eat
something with my beer
No, thanks
What, don't you drink beer? Oh, come now, you 'll get out o' that
Kitty don't drink no beer
I drinks it sometimes, but she don't. I reckon maybe de chillen better
go to bed
Oh, let 'em stay
a little beer ain't goin'
to hurt 'em. Why, sakes, I know my father gave me beer from the time I
could drink it, and I knows I ain't none the worse fu' it
They 'll git out o' that, all right, if they live in N' Yawk
You neither
Oh, I drink it
Joe
you must ricollect you ain't at home. What 'ud
yo' pa think
Yes, that 's it, Miss Kitty, sing us something
an' after while we 'll have that fellah down that plays
'Rag-time.' He 's out o' sight, I tell you
I say, that 's singin' now, I tell you
You ought to have
some o' the new songs. D' jever hear 'Baby, you got to leave'? I tell
you, that 's a hot one. I 'll bring you some of 'em. Why, you could git
a job on the stage easy with that voice o' yourn. I got a frien' in one
o' the comp'nies an' I 'll speak to him about you
You ought to git Mr. Thomas to take you to the th'atre some night. He
goes lots
Why, yes, what 's the matter with to-morrer night? There 's a good coon
show in town. Out o' sight. Let 's all go
I ain't nevah been to nothin' lak dat, an' I don't know
Aw, come, I 'll git the tickets an' we 'll all go. Great singin', you
know. What d' you say
We 'd all like to go
Ma, we' ll go if you ain't too tired
Tired? Pshaw, you 'll furgit all about your tiredness when Smithkins
gits on the stage. Y' ought to hear him sing, 'I bin huntin' fu' wo'k'!
You 'd die laughing
Say
that little girl 's a peach,
you bet; a little green, I guess, but she 'll ripen in the sun
I wonder who that little light
girl is that Thomas is with to-night? He 's a hot one for you
Are you enjoying yourself
Oh, yes
this is grand. How I 'd like to be an actress
and be up there
Maybe you will some day
Oh, no, I 'm not smart enough
We 'll see
I know a thing or two
best people
in town
Not going out for a minute or two
No, I don't think I 'll go out to-night. You can have my share
Well, you 're doing a great
piece of work, Miss Hamilton, whenever you can keep old Bill from goin'
out an' lushin' between acts. Say, you got a good thing; push it along
You 'll see a lot o' the show people
No, I reckon we 'd bettah go home
De
chillen ain't ust to stayin' up all hours o' nights, an' I ain't anxious
fu' 'em to git ust to it
de chillen
Mebbe Miss Kitty 'ud like to go an' have a
little lunch
Oh, no, thank you
I 've had a nice time and I don't
care for a thing to eat
Good-night; thank you
Say, that was out o' sight
Think so
I 'd like to get out with you some time to see the town
All right, we 'll go some time. So long
So long
I say
I 've got a friend with me to-night. He 's got some
dough on him. He 's fresh and young and easy
Whew
Yes, he 's a good thing, but push it along kin' o' light at first; he
might get skittish
Thomas, let me fall on your bosom and weep
This is what I 've been looking for for a month. My hat was getting
decidedly shabby. Do you think he would stand for a touch on the first
night of our acquaintance
Don't you dare? Do you want to frighten him off? Make him believe that
you 've got coin to burn and that it 's an honour to be with you
But, you know, he may expect a glimpse of the gold
A smart man don't need to show nothin'. All he 's got to do is to act
Oh, I 'll act; we 'll all act
Be slow to take a drink from him
Thomas, my boy, you 're an angel. I recognise that more and more every
day, but bid me do anything else but that. That I refuse: it 's against
nature
Trust old Sadness to do his part
Nothin' doin' so early
let 's go an' have a drink
No, no, this is on me
Pshaw, your money 's counterfeit
This is on me, I say. Jack, what 'll you have yourself
Happy to know you, Mr.
Williams
Better known as Sadness
A
distant relative of mine once had a great grief. I have never recovered
from it
I don't know as I ought to
Oh, come on
don't be stiff with a
stranger. Make him feel at home
Mr. Hamilton will believe me when I say that I have no intention of
being stiff, but duty is duty. I 've got to go down town to pay a bill,
and if I get too much aboard, it would n't be safe walking around with
money on me
Aw, shut up, Sadness
My friend Mr. Hamilton 'll feel
hurt if you don't drink with him
I cert'n'y will
Aw, shut up, Sadness
Be respectable
I won't
Being respectable is very nice as a diversion, but it 's
tedious if done steadily
Shearing
another lamb
Well, with that gang it will be well done
Just sit down here, Mr. Hamilton
and you can see everybody
that comes in. We have lots of nice people here on smoker nights,
especially after the shows are out and the girls come in
My
dear boy, I have but two friends in the world, and you are both of
them
Maudie
Aw, there 's Skaggsy an' Maudie -- Maudie 's his girl, y' know, an' he 's
a reporter on the N' Yawk _Universe_. Fine fellow, Skaggsy
Come over here, Skaggsy
I want you to know my friend, Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Skaggs
Why, how d' ye do, Hamilton? I 'm glad to meet you. Now, look a here;
don't you let old Thomas here string you about me bein' any old 'Mr!'
Skaggs. I 'm Skaggsy to all of my friends. I hope to count you among
'em
Not a bit of it
not a bit of it. When I meet my
friends I always reserve to myself the right of ordering the first
drink. Waiter, this is on me. What 'll you have, gentlemen
I tell you, Hamilton, there ain't an ounce of prejudice in my body. Do
you believe it
You see, a lot o' fellows say to me, 'What do you want to
go down to that nigger club for?' That 's what they call it,--'nigger
club.' But I say to 'em, 'Gentlemen, at that nigger club, as you choose
to call it, I get more inspiration than I could get at any of the
greater clubs in New York.' I 've often been invited to join some of the
swell clubs here, but I never do it. By Jove! I 'd rather come down here
and fellowship right in with you fellows. I like coloured people,
anyway. It 's natural. You see, my father had a big plantation and owned
lots of slaves,-- no offence, of course, but it was the custom of that
time,-- and I 've played with little darkies ever since I could
remember
Now look at Maudie
would you believe it that she was of
a fine, rich family, and that the coloured girl she 's dancing with now
used to be her servant? She 's just like me about that. Absolutely no
prejudice
Everybody knows Maudie, and
that coloured girl is Mamie Lacey, and never worked for anybody in her
life. Skaggsy 's a good fellah, all right, but he 's the biggest liar in
N' Yawk
The free
concert would now begin, and he hoped that all present, ladies included,
would act like gentlemen, and not forget the waiter. Mr. Meriweather
will now favour us with the latest coon song, entitled 'Come back to yo'
Baby, Honey
Answer
Oh,
it 's Hattie Sterling. Want to meet her
Come on
Oh, she did n't ask for me
Who 's your young friend
A fellah from the South
Bring him over here
skey
Now, old man, you 've been
awfully nice, but when you get your little drink, you run away like a
good little boy. You 're superfluous
Well, I like that
Well, good-night
Guess you can find your way home, Mr.
Hamilton
Goo'-night
I be a' ri'. Goo'-night
Make it another 'skey
Look here
I guess you 'll have to be
moving. There 's a young lady been inquiring for you to-day, and I won't
stand for that
What 're you givin' me
It 's a straight tip, that 's what
Who is it
It 's a girl named Minty Brown from your home
Minty Brown
Oh, you need n't pretend you don't know her
She says you were great friends down South, so I 've invited her to
supper. She wants to see you
To supper
Well, I 'd like to see old Minty
It 's been many a long day
since I 've seen her
Well, well, Joe Hamilton
if I ain't right-down glad
to see you! How are you
I 'm middlin', Minty. How 's yourself
An' jes' look at the boy! Ef he ain't got the impidence to be waihin' a
mustache too. You must 'a' been lettin' the cats lick yo' upper lip. Did
n't expect to see me in New York, did you
No, indeed. What you doin' here
Oh, I got a gent'man friend what 's a porter, an' his run 's been
changed so that he comes hyeah, an' he told me, if I wanted to come he
'd bring me thoo fur a visit, so, you see, hyeah I am. I allus was
mighty anxious to see this hyeah town. But tell me, how 's Kit an' yo'
ma
They 're both right well
Whaih do you live? I 'm comin' roun' to see 'em
Oh, that 's all right. Let
by-gones be by-gones. You know I ain't the kin' o' person that holds a
grudge ag'in anybody
That 's right, Minty, that 's right
But don't you see what she can do for us, ma? She knows people that I
know, and she can ruin me with them
I ain't never bowed my haid to Minty Brown an' I ain't a-goin' to do
it now
Oh, ma
you don't want to get talked about up here, do
you
We 'd jes' as well be talked about fu' somep'n we did n't do as fu'
somep'n we did do, an' it would n' be long befo' we 'd come to dat if we
made frien's wid dat Brown gal. I ain't a-goin' to do it. I 'm ashamed
o' you, Kitty, fu' wantin' me to
You 'll see what 'll happen
you 'll see
Well
it can't be no wuss den what 's
already happened
You 'll see, you 'll see
Tell huh
dat dey ain't no one hyeah wants to see
huh
No, no
Heish
I 'm goin' to boss you a little while yit
Why, I don't understan' you, Mis' Hamilton
She 's
a nice-lookin' lady, an' she said she knowed you at home
All you got to do is to tell dat ooman jes' what I say
Oh, nevah min', lady, I ain't anxious to see 'em. I jest called out o'
pity, but I reckon dey 'shamed to see me 'cause de ol' man 's in
penitentiary an' dey was run out o' town
Mis' Hamilton
I 've had a talk with the lady downstairs,
an' she 's tol' me everything. I 'd be glad if you 'd let me have my
rooms as soon as possible
So you goin' to put me out on de wo'd of a stranger
I 'm kin' o' sorry, but everybody in the house heard what Mis' Brown
said, an' it 'll soon be all over town, an' that 'ud ruin the reputation
of my house
I reckon all dat kin be 'splained
Yes, but I don't know that anybody kin 'splain your daughter allus
being with Mr. Thomas, who ain't even divo'ced from his wife
You daih to say dat, Mis' Jones, you dat fust interduced my gal to dat
man and got huh to go out wid him? I reckon you 'd bettah go now
There, there!
see what you 've done with your damned foolishness
Don't you cuss hyeah befo' me; I
ain't nevah brung you up to it, an' I won't stan' it. Go to dem whaih
you larned it, an whaih de wo'ds soun' sweet
Don't you daih to cuss ag'in or befo' Gawd
dey 'll be somep'n fu' one o' dis fambly to be rottin' in jail fu
I ain't goin' to cuss
I 'm goin' out o' your way
Oh, go on
go on. It 's been a long time sence you been my
son. You on yo' way to hell, an' you is been fu' lo dese many days
Dey ain't nothin' lef' but you now, Kit
My Gawd, not you,
Kit
getting together
Mr. Hamilton says 'Make it two, Jack
Well, what 's the matter, old man? You 're
looking glum
I feel glum
The divine Hattie has n't been cutting any capers, has she? The dear
old girl has n't been getting hysterical at her age? Let us hope not
Come, come now, Hamilton, if you 're sore because I invited myself to
take a drink with you, I 'll withdraw the order. I know the heroic thing
to say is that I 'll pay for the drinks myself, but I can't screw my
courage up to the point of doing so unnatural a thing
Oh, I know you fellows now well
enough to know how many drinks to pay for. It ain't that
Well, then, out with it. What is it? Have n't been up to anything, have
you
For a fellow who has had for a full year the
advantage of the education of the New York clubs, you are strangely
young. Let me see, you are nineteen or twenty now -- yes. Well, that
perhaps accounts for it. It 's a pity you were n't born older. It 's a
pity most men are n't. They would n't have to take so much time and lose
so many good things learning. Now, Mr. Hamilton, let me tell you, and
you will pardon me for it, that you are a fool. Your case is n't half as
bad as that of nine-tenths of the fellows that hang around here. Now,
for instance, my father was hung
Oh, yes, but it was done with a very good rope and by the best citizens
of Texas, so it seems that I really ought to be very grateful to them
for the distinction they conferred upon my family, but I am not. I am
ungratefully sad. A man must be very high or very low to take the
sensible view of life that keeps him from being sad. I must confess that
I have aspired to the depths without ever being fully able to reach
them.

"Now look around a bit. See that little girl over there? That 's Viola.
Two years ago she wrenched up an iron stool from the floor of a
lunch-room, and killed another woman with it. She 's nineteen,-- just
about your age, by the way. Well, she had friends with a certain amount
of pull. She got out of it, and no one thinks the worse of Viola. You
see, Hamilton, in this life we are all suffering from fever, and no one
edges away from the other because he finds him a little warm. It 's
dangerous when you 're not used to it; but once you go through the
parching process, you become inoculated against further contagion. Now,
there 's Barney over there, as decent a fellow as I know; but he has
been indicted twice for pocket-picking. A half-dozen fellows whom you
meet here every night have killed their man. Others have done worse
things for which you respect them less. Poor Wallace, who is just coming
in, and who looks like a jaunty ragpicker, came here about six months
ago with about two thousand dollars, the proceeds from the sale of a
house his father had left him. He 'll sleep in one of the club chairs
to-night, and not from choice. He spent his two thousand learning. But,
after all, it was a good investment. It was like buying an annuity. He
begins to know already how to live on others as they have lived on him.
The plucked bird's beak is sharpened for other's feathers. From now on
Wallace will live, eat, drink, and sleep at the expense of others, and
will forget to mourn his lost money. He will go on this way until,
broken and useless, the poor-house or the potter's field gets him. Oh,
it 's a fine, rich life, my lad. I know you 'll like it. I said you
would the first time I saw you. It has plenty of stir in it, and a man
never gets lonesome. Only the rich are lonesome. It 's only the
independent who depend upon others
in it
Thanks, Sadness
you 've helped me lots
You lie
I have n't; I was only fool enough to try
Poor old fellow
drunk again. Must have had
something before he came in
Why, Minty
you ain't mad at me, are
you
Go on away f'om hyeah
I don't want none o'
thievin' Berry Hamilton's fambly to speak to me
Why, you were all right this evening
Yes, but jest out o' pity, an' you was nice 'cause you was afraid I 'd
tell on you. Go on now
Go on now
Let 's go somewhere and get some supper
I 'm as hungry as
I can be. What are you looking so cut up about
Oh, I ain't feelin' so very good
I hope you ain't lettin' that long-tongued Brown woman bother your
head, are you
Do you know all about it
Why, of course I do. You might know she 'd come to me first with her
story
And you still keep on speaking to me
Now look here, Joe, if you 've been drinking, I 'll forgive you; if you
ain't, you go on and leave me. Say, what do you take me for? Do you
think I 'd throw down a friend because somebody else talked about him?
Well, you don't know Hat Sterling. When Minty told me that story, she
was back in my dressing-room, and I sent her out o' there a-flying, and
with a tongue-lashing that she won't forget for a month o' Sundays
I reckon that was the reason she jumped on me so hard at the club
So she jumped on you hard, did she? The cat
Oh, she did n't say a thing to me
Well, Joe, it 's just like this. I ain't an angel, you know that, but I
do try to be square, and whenever I find a friend of mine down on his
luck, in his pocket-book or his feelings, why, I give him my flipper.
Why, old chap, I believe I like you better for the stiff upper lip you
've been keeping under all this
Why, Hattie
you
're -- you 're
Oh, I 'm just plain Hat Sterling, who won't throw down her friends. Now
come on and get something to eat. If that thing is at the club, we 'll
go there and show her just how much her talk amounted to. She thinks she
's the whole game, but I can spot her and then show her that she ain't
one, two, three
Now look here
you can't have any supper because you have
n't reached the stage of magnificent hunger to make a meal palatable to
you. You 've got so used to being nearly starved that a meal don't taste
good to you under any other circumstances. You 're in on the drinks,
though. Your thirst is always available.-- Jack
make it three.-- Lean over here, I want to
talk to you. See that woman over there by the wall? No, not that
one,-- the big light woman with Griggs. Well, she 's come here with a
story trying to throw Joe down, and I want you to help me do her
Oh, that 's the one that upset our young friend, is it
That 's her. So you know about it, do you
Yes, and I 'll help do her. She must n't touch one of the fraternity,
you know
everything was going
fat
Say, boys, you 've heard that story about Joe, have n't you
Well, that 's the one that told it; she 's come here to try to throw
him and me down. Is she going to do it
Well, I guess not
Thank you, fellows
You see, Joe
we 've took a flat since we moved from
Mis' Jones', and we had to furnish it. We 've got one lodger, a
race-horse man, an' he 's mighty nice to ma an' me, but that ain't
enough. Now we 've got to do something
You 've told me once or twice that your sister could sing. Bring her
down here to me, and if she can do anything, I 'll get her a place on
the stage
De las' hope, de las' hope
It 's a shame that Joe has n't brought you around before. We 've been
good friends for quite some time
He told me you an' him was right good friends
So you think you want to go on the stage, do you
Yes, 'm, I thought it might be right nice for me if I could
Joe, go out and get some beer for us, and then I 'll hear your sister
sing
Why, child, you 've got a good voice. And, Joe, you 've been keeping
her shut up all this time. You ought to be ashamed of yourself
up stage
I tell you, now
your voice is too good for the chorus.
Gi' me a cigarette, Joe. Have one, Kitty?-- I 'm goin' to call you Kitty.
It 's nice and homelike, and then we 've got to be great chums, you
know
Tut, tut, Kitty, child, don't do it if you ain't used to it. You 'll
learn soon enough
Now, what I was going to say
is that you 'll have to begin in the chorus any
way and work your way up. It would n't take long for you, with your
looks and voice, to put one of the 'up and ups' out o' the business.
Only hope it won't be me. I 've had people I 've helped try to do it
often enough
Oh, I would n't want to push anybody out
Oh, never mind, you 'll soon get bravely over that feeling, and even if
you did n't it would n't matter much. The thing has to happen. Somebody
's got to go down. We don't last long in this life: it soon wears us
out, and when we 're worn out and sung out, danced out and played out,
the manager has no further use for us; so he reduces us to the ranks or
kicks us out entirely
Get out, Hat
you 're good for a dozen years yet
Don't you let what I say scare you, though, Kitty. You 've got a good
chance, and maybe you 'll have more sense than I 've got, and at least
save money -- while you 're in it. But let 's get off that. It makes me
sick. All you 've got to do is to come to the opera-house to-morrow and
I 'll introduce you to the manager. He 's a fool, but I think we can
make him do something for you
Oh, thank you, I 'll be around to-morrow, sure
Better come about ten o'clock. There 's a rehearsal to-morrow, and you
'll find him there. Of course, he 'll be pretty rough, he always is at
rehearsals, but he 'll take to you if he thinks there 's anything in you
and he can get it out
I 'll see you later, Kit
I ain't goin' just yet. Say
you 're a hot one. What do you want to
give her all that con for? She 'll never get in
Joe
don't you get awful tired of being a jackass?
Sometimes I want to kiss you, and sometimes I feel as if I had to kick
you. I 'll compromise with you now by letting you bring me some more
beer. This got all stale while your sister was here. I saw she did n't
like it, and so I would n't drink any more for fear she 'd try to keep
up with me
Kit is a good deal of a jay yet
Oh, yes, this world is full of jays. Lots of 'em have seen enough to
make 'em wise, but they 're still jays, and don't know it. That 's the
worst of it. They go around thinking they 're it, when they ain't even
in the game. Go on and get the beer
Oh, ma, ma, Miss Hattie
thinks I 'll do to go on the stage. Ain't it grand
I do' know as it 'll be so gran'. F'om what I see of dem stage people
dey don't seem to 'mount to much. De way dem gals shows demse'ves is
right down bad to me. Is you goin' to dress lak dem we seen dat night
I guess I 'll have to
Well, ef you have to, I 'd ruther see you daid any day. Oh, Kit, my
little gal, don't do it, don't do it. Don't you go down lak yo' brothah
Joe. Joe 's gone
Why, ma, you don't understand. Joe 's somebody now. You ought to 've
heard how Miss Hattie talked about him. She said he 's been her friend
for a long while
Her frien', yes, an' his own inimy. You need n' pattern aftah dat gal,
Kit. She ruint Joe, an' she 's aftah you now
But nowadays everybody thinks stage people respectable up here
Maybe I 'm ol'-fashioned, but I can't believe in any ooman's ladyship
when she shows herse'f lak dem gals does. Oh, Kit, don't do it. Ain't
you seen enough? Don't you know enough already to stay away f'om dese
hyeah people? Dey don't want nothin' but to pull you down an' den laugh
at you w'en you 's dragged in de dust
You must n't feel that away, ma. I 'm doin' it to help you
I do' want no sich help. I 'd ruther starve
Kit
dey 's somep'n I ain't nevah tol' you dat I
'm goin' to tell you now. Mistah Gibson ust to come to Mis' Jones's lots
to see me befo' we moved hyeah, an' he 's been talkin' 'bout a good
many things to me
He say dat I ain't noways ma'ied to
my po' husban', dat a pen'tentiary sentence is de same as a divo'ce, an'
if Be'y should live to git out, we 'd have to ma'y ag'in. I would n't
min' dat, Kit, but he say dat at Be'y's age dey ain't much chanst of his
livin' to git out, an' hyeah I 'll live all dis time alone, an' den have
no one to tek keer o' me w'en I git ol'. He wants me to ma'y him, Kit.
Kit, I love yo' fathah; he 's my only one. But Joe, he 's gone, an' ef
yo go, befo' Gawd I 'll tell Tawm Gibson yes
Why, it 'll be splendid. He 's such a nice man, an'
race-horse men 'most always have money. Why don't you marry him, ma?
Then I 'd feel that you was safe an' settled, an' that you would n't be
lonesome when the show was out of town
You want me to ma'y him an' desert yo' po' pa
I guess what he says is right, ma. I don't reckon we 'll ever see pa
again an' you got to do something. You got to live for yourself now
All right
I 'll
do it; I 'll ma'y him. I might as well go de way both my chillen 's
gone. Po' Be'y, po' Be'y. Ef you evah do come out, Gawd he'p you to baih
what you 'll fin
Poor ma
an' poor pa. But I know, an' I know it 's for the best
Martin's Blackbirds
I 'm glad you came early, Kitty
for maybe you can get
a chance to talk with Martin before he begins rehearsal and gets all
worked up. He 'll be a little less like a bear then. But even if you
don't see him before then, wait, and don't get scared if he tries to
bluff you. His bark is a good deal worse than his bite
Mornin', Mr. Smith, mornin', Mrs. Jones. Ha, ladies and gentlemen, all
here
Who 's that
Well, don't snap her head off. It 's a girl friend of mine that wants a
place
Humph. Let her wait. I ain't got no time to hear any one now. Get
yourselves in line, you all who are on to that first chorus, while I 'm
getting into my sweat-shirt
Now, now
the left foot on that beat. Bah, bah, stop!
You walk like a lot of tin soldiers. Are your joints rusty? Do you want
oil? Look here, Taylor, if I did n't know you, I 'd take you for a
truck. Pick up your feet, open your mouths, and move, move, move! Oh
And to think that I 've got to
do something with these things in two weeks -- two weeks
Now, at it
again, at it again! Hold that note, hold it! Now whirl, and on the left
foot. Stop that music, stop it! Miss Coster, you 'll learn that step in
about a thousand years, and I 've got nine hundred and ninety-nine years
and fifty weeks less time than that to spare. Come here and try that
step with me. Don't be afraid to move. Step like a chicken on a hot
griddle
Oh, quit, quit, and go rest yourselves, you ancient pieces of
hickory, and let me forget you for a minute before I go crazy. Where 's
that new girl now
What can you do
I can sing
Well, if that 's the voice you 're going to sing in, there won't be
many that 'll know whether it 's good or bad. Well, let 's hear
something. Do you know any of these
Try this. Here, Tom, play it for her
Haw, haw, haw
haw, haw, haw! The little one was
scared, see? She was scared, d' you understand? But did you see the grit
she went at it with? Just took the bit in her teeth and got away. Haw,
haw, haw! Now, that 's what I like. If all you girls had that spirit, we
could do something in two weeks. Try another one, girl
Good
You watch these girls close and see what they do, and to-morrow be
prepared to go into line and move as well as sing
Who 'd 'a' thought
that the kid had that much nerve? Well,
if they don't want to find out things, what do they come to N' Yawk for?
It ain't nobody's old Sunday-school picnic. Guess I got out easy,
anyhow
Say
if you come this way for me again, it 's all over,
see? Your little sister 's a comer, and I 've got to hustle to keep up
with her
Frank is getting down to work
He is past
the first buoyant enthusiasm of youth. Ah, Leslie, when a man begins to
be serious, then he begins to be something
I wonder, Maurice, if Claire Lessing will wait for him
Brother ought to know
that Berry is being properly punished
By no means
You know that it would only hurt
him. He shall never know if I have to tell him
You are right, Maurice, you are always right. We must shield Frank from
the pain it would cause him. Poor fellow! he is so sensitive
A letter from Frank
and an important one, I 'll
wager
My fancies go on and conquer the world for my brother
He will follow their flight one day and do it himself
No, I will not do it; I will wait until Leslie comes. She will be
as glad to hear the good news as I am
Surely
this new picture cannot be greater than that, though
it shall hang where kings can see it and this only graces the library of
my poor house. It has the feeling of a woman's soul with the strength
of a man's heart. When Frank and Claire marry, I shall give it back to
them. It is too great a treasure for a clod like me. Heigho, why will
women be so long a-shopping
Ah, Lady Leslie, I 've a mind to open it to punish you for staying so
long
I 've
been waiting so long for you
Dear Brother
What is it
Maurice! Maurice
DEAR BROTHER
I know you will grieve at
     receiving this, and I wish that I might bear your grief for you,
     but I cannot, though I have as heavy a burden as this can bring to
     you. Mine would have been lighter to-day, perhaps, had you been
     more straightforward with me. I am not blaming you, however, for I
     know that my hypocrisy made you believe me possessed of a really
     soft heart, and you thought to spare me. Until yesterday, when in a
     letter from Esterton he casually mentioned the matter, I did not
     know that Berry was in prison, else this letter would have been
     written sooner. I have been wanting to write it for so long, and
     yet have been too great a coward to do so.

     "I know that you will be disappointed in me, and just what that
     disappointment will cost you I know; but you must hear the truth. I
     shall never see your face again, or I should not dare to tell it
     even now. You will remember that I begged you to be easy on your
     servant. You thought it was only my kindness of heart. It was not;
     I had a deeper reason. I knew where the money had gone and dared
     not tell. Berry is as innocent as yourself -- and I -- well, it is a
     story, and let me tell it to you.

     "You have had so much confidence in me, and I hate to tell you that
     it was all misplaced. I have no doubt that I should not be doing it
     now but that I have drunken absinthe enough to give me the
     emotional point of view, which I shall regret to-morrow. I do not
     mean that I am drunk. I can think clearly and write clearly, but my
     emotions are extremely active.

     "Do you remember Claire's saying at the table that night of the
     farewell dinner that some dark-eyed mademoiselle was waiting for
     me? She did not know how truly she spoke, though I fancy she saw
     how I flushed when she said it: for I was already in love -- madly
     so.

     "I need not describe her. I need say nothing about her, for I know
     that nothing I say can ever persuade you to forgive her for taking
     me from you. This has gone on since I first came here, and I dared
     not tell you, for I saw whither your eyes had turned. I loved this
     girl, and she both inspired and hindered my work. Perhaps I would
     have been successful had I not met her, perhaps not.

     "I love her too well to marry her and make of our devotion a stale,
     prosy thing of duty and compulsion. When a man does not marry a
     woman, he must keep her better than he would a wife. It costs. All
     that you gave me went to make her happy.

     "Then, when I was about leaving you, the catastrophe came. I wanted
     much to carry back to her. I gambled to make more. I would surprise
     her. Luck was against me. Night after night I lost. Then, just
     before the dinner, I woke from my frenzy to find all that I had was
     gone. I would have asked you for more, and you would have given it;
     but that strange, ridiculous something which we misname Southern
     honour, that honour which strains at a gnat and swallows a camel,
     withheld me, and I preferred to do worse. So I lied to you. The
     money from my cabinet was not stolen save by myself. I am a liar
     and a thief, but your eyes shall never tell me so.

     "Tell the truth and have Berry released. I can stand it. Write me
     but one letter to tell me of this. Do not plead with me, do not
     forgive me, do not seek to find me, for from this time I shall be
     as one who has perished from the earth; I shall be no more.

                                             "Your brother,
                                                            FRANK
The letter
Yes, dear, I have it; I have it
Give it to me
Did -- did -- you read it
Yes, I did not know
Oh, my God, I did not intend that you should see it. I wanted the
secret for my own. I wanted to carry it to my grave with me. Oh, Frank,
Frank, Frank
Never mind, Maurice. It is as if you alone knew it
It is not, I say, it is not
Oh, my God
my brother, my brother
Sh, dearie, think -- it 's -- it 's -- Frank
That 's it, that 's it -- that 's what I can't forget. It 's
Frank,-- Frank, my brother
Leslie, no one must ever know what is in this letter
No one shall, Maurice; come, let us burn it
Burn it? No, no
It must not be
burned. What! burn my brother's secret? No, no, I must carry it with
me,-- carry it with me to the grave
But, Maurice
I must carry it with me
It 's a strange case
there 's something more than the
nervous shock that makes him clutch his chest like that, and yet I have
never noticed signs of heart trouble in Oakley. Oh, well, business worry
will produce anything in anybody
Ah, Leslie, you and I will keep the secret. No one shall ever know
Yes, dear, but -- but -- what of Berry
What of Berry
What is Berry to
Frank? What is that nigger to my brother? What are his sufferings to the
honour of my family and name
Never mind, Maurice, never mind, you are right
It must never be known, I say, if Berry has to rot in jail
Well, you 're a beauty
You
ought to be put under a glass case and placed on exhibition
You 're the thing I 've given up all my chances for -- you, a miserable,
drunken jay, without a jay's decency. No one had ever looked at you
until I picked you up and you 've been strutting around ever since,
showing off because I was kind to you, and now this is the way you pay
me back. Drunk half the time and half drunk the rest. Well, you know
what I told you the last time you got 'loaded'? I mean it too. You 're
not the only star in sight, see
You 'll have to find another baby
now
Do'-- Ha'ie, do
Get up
get up and get out o' here. You sha'n't  lay around
my house
Now, go, you
drunken dog, and never put your foot inside this house again
Pu' me out, wi' you? Pu' me
out, damn you! Well, I ki' you. See 'f I don't
I tell you, Sadness
dancing is the poetry of
motion
Yes
and dancing in rag-time is the dialect
poetry
Drunk again
Really, it 's a waste of time for Joe to
sober up. Hullo there
take a
seat
Been lushin' a bit, eh
Gi' me some'n' drink
Oh, a hair of the dog. Some men shave their dogs clean, and then have
hydrophobia. Here, Jack
Ha'ie 's throwed me down
Lucky dog! You might have known it would have happened sooner or later.
Better sooner than never
I 'm goin' to kill her
I would n't if I were you. Take old Sadness's advice and thank your
stars that you 're rid of her
I 'm goin' to kill her
Say, d' ever tell y'
'bout the ol' man? He never stole that money. Know he di' n
By Jove
did you hear that? Bet the chap stole it
himself and 's letting the old man suffer for it. Great story, ain't it?
Come, come, wake up here. Three more, Jack. What about your father
Father? Who's father. Oh, do' bother me. What
Here, here, tell us about your father and the money. If he did n't
steal it, who did
Who did? Tha' 's it, who did? Ol' man di' n' steal it, know he di' n
Oh, let him alone, Skaggsy, he don't know what he 's saying
Yes, he does, a drunken man tells the truth
In some cases
Oh, let me alone, man. I 've been trying for years to get a big
sensation for my paper, and if this story is one, I 'm a made man
She throwed me
down
Well
you see drunken men tell the truth, and you
don't seem to get much guilt out of our young friend. You 're
disappointed, are n't you
I confess I am disappointed, but I 've got an idea, just the same
Oh, you have? Well, don't handle it carelessly; it might go off
Who is it
It 's me
What do you want? Did n't I tell you never to come here again? Get out
or I 'll have you taken out
You put me out to-night
Yes, and I 'm going to do it again. You 're drunk
You put me out to-night
like a dog
Joe, Joe
what 's the matter? Oh, don't look at me
like that
You put me out -- you -- you, and you made me what I am
You made me what I am, and then you sent me away.
You let me come back, and now you put me out
I saw him
and it 'll take more
whiskey than Jack can give me in a year to wash the memory of him out of
me. Why, man, it shocked me all through. It 's a pity they did n't send
him to the chair. It could n't have done him much harm and would have
been a real mercy
Poor devil
Here is another example of the pernicious
influence of the city on untrained negroes. Oh, is there no way to keep
these people from rushing away from the small villages and country
districts of the South up to the cities, where they cannot battle with
the terrible force of a strange and unusual environment? Is there no way
to prove to them that woollen-shirted, brown-jeaned simplicity is
infinitely better than broad-clothed degradation
touched
now his sister was up in the world,
she had got the big head
wanted to
use her for a 'soft thing
It would be a big thing for the paper
if it only panned
out; but it is such a rattle-brained, harum-scarum thing. No one under
the sun would have thought of it but you, Skaggs
Oh, it 's bound to pan out. I see the thing as clear as day. There 's
no getting around it
Yes, it looks plausible, but so does all fiction. You 're taking a
chance. You 're losing time. If it fails
But if it succeeds
Well, go and bring back a story. If you don't, look out. It 's against
my better judgment anyway. Remember I told you that
If a man wants to go into
business, business for a gentleman, suh, Gad, there 's no finer or
better paying business in the world than breeding blooded dogs -- that is,
if you get a man of experience to go in with you
Dogs, dogs
Beachfield 's always talking
about dogs. I remember the night we were all discussing that Hamilton
nigger's arrest, Beachfield said it was a sign of total depravity
because his man hunted 'possums with his hound
What was it about some nigger's arrest, sir
Oh, it was n't anything much. Only an old and trusted servant robbed
his master, and my theory
But you will remember, Mr. Talbot
that I proved your
theory to be wrong and cited a conclusive instance
Yes, a 'possum-hunting dog
I am really anxious to hear about the robbery, though. It seems such an
unusual thing for a negro to steal a great amount
Just so, and that was part of my theory. Now
It 's an old story and a long one, Mr. Skaggs, and one of merely local
repute
I don't think it could possibly
interest you, who are familiar with the records of the really great
crimes that take place in a city such as New York
Those things do interest me very much, though. I am something of a
psychologist, and I often find the smallest and most
insignificant-appearing details pregnant with suggestion. Won't you let
me hear the story, Colonel
Why, yes, though there 's little in it save that I am one of the few
men who have come to believe that the negro, Berry Hamilton, is not the
guilty party
Nonsense! nonsense
of course Berry was guilty, but, as
I said before, I don't blame him. The negroes
Total depravity
Now look at my dog
If you will retire with me to the further table I will give you
whatever of the facts I can call to mind
Now, in the first place, Mr. Skaggs
I am lawyer enough to see for myself how weak the evidence was upon
which the negro was convicted, and later events have done much to
confirm me in the opinion that he was innocent
Later events
Yes
Four years ago a great change took place in Maurice Oakley. It
happened in the space of a day, and no one knows the cause of it. From a
social, companionable man, he became a recluse, shunning visitors and
dreading society. From an open-hearted, unsuspicious neighbour, he
became secretive and distrustful of his own friends. From an active
business man, he has become a retired brooder. He sees no one if he can
help it. He writes no letters and receives none, not even from his
brother, it is said. And all of this came about in the space of
twenty-four hours
But what was the beginning of it
No one knows, save that one day he had some sort of nervous attack. By
the time the doctor was called he was better, but he kept clutching his
hand over his heart. Naturally, the physician wanted to examine him
there, but the very suggestion of it seemed to throw him into a frenzy;
and his wife too begged the doctor, an old friend of the family, to
desist. Maurice Oakley had been as sound as a dollar, and no one of the
family had had any tendency to heart affection
It is strange
Strange it is, but I have my theory
His actions are like those of a man guarding a secret
Sh! His negro laundress says that there is an inside pocket in his
undershirts
An inside pocket
Yes
And for what
We can only speculate
but, as I have said, I have my
theory. Oakley was a just man, and in punishing his old servant for the
supposed robbery it is plain that he acted from principle. But he is
also a proud man and would hate to confess that he had been in the
wrong. So I believed that the cause of his first shock was the finding
of the money that he supposed gone. Unwilling to admit this error, he
lets the misapprehension go on, and it is the money which he carries in
his secret pocket, with a morbid fear of its discovery, that has made
him dismiss his servants, leave his business, and refuse to see his
friends
A very natural conclusion, Colonel, and I must say that I believe you.
It is strange that others have not seen as you have seen and brought the
matter to light
Well, you see, Mr. Skaggs, none are so dull as the people who think
they think. I can safely say that there is not another man in this town
who has lighted upon the real solution of this matter, though it has
been openly talked of for so long. But as for bringing it to light, no
one would think of doing that. It would be sure to hurt Oakley's
feelings, and he is of one of our best families
Ah, yes, perfectly right
Good-night,
Colonel. If I were a criminal, I should be afraid of that analytical
mind of yours
The old fool
I 've got it! I 've got it! Maurice Oakley must see me,
and then what
brace old Oakley
I want to see Mr. Oakley
You cannot see him. Mr. Oakley is not well and does not see visitors
But I must see him, madam; I am here upon business of importance
You can tell me just as well as him. I am his wife and transact all of
his business
I can tell no one but the master of the house himself
You cannot see him. It is against his orders
Very well
it is his loss, not
mine. I have tried to do my duty and failed. Simply tell him that I came
from Paris
Paris
Leslie, why
do you keep the gentleman at the door? Let him come in at once
You 're from Paris, sir, from Paris
Come in, come in
It is there the secret is hidden
and whatever it
is, I must have it. But how -- how? I can't knock the man down and rob him
in his own house
You -- you -- perhaps have a message from my brother -- my brother who is in
Paris. I have not heard from him for some time
Now or
never
Yes, I have a message from your
brother
You have? you have?
Give it to me. After four years he sends me a message! Give it to me
Your brother bade me to say to you that you have a terrible secret,
that you bear it in your breast -- there -- there. I am his messenger. He
bids you to give it to me
No, no
no, no! I have no secret
Give it to me, as your brother commands
No, no, no! It is not his secret; it is mine. I must carry it here
always, do you hear? I must carry it till I die. Go away! Go away
What is the matter
My message has somewhat upset your husband
But his breast is open. Your hand has been in his bosom. You have taken
something from him. Give it to me, or I shall call for help
You dare not call for help
or the world will know
Oh, give it to me, give it to
me. We 've never done you any harm
But you 've harmed some one else; that is enough
Thank God! thank God! I was right, and the _Universe_ shall have a
sensation. The brother is the thief, and Berry Hamilton is an innocent
man. Hurrah! Now, who is it that has come on a wild-goose chase? Who is
it that ought to handle his idea carefully? Heigho, Saunders my man, the
drinks 'll be on you, and old Skaggsy will have done some good in the
world
Huh
This is good stuff
Here 's a chance for the _Universe_ to look into
the methods of Southern court proceedings. Here 's a chance for a
spread
Look you what we have done, and behold how great we are, the friend of
the people
A Burning Shame!

          A Poor and Innocent Negro made to Suffer

                   for a Rich Man's Crime!

               Great Expose by the 'Universe'!

            A 'Universe' Reporter To the Rescue!

            The Whole Thing to Be Aired that the

                   People may Know
To think, suh
to think of that man's being a reporter, suh, a common,
ordinary reporter, and that I sat and talked to him as if he were a
gentleman
You 're not to be blamed, Colonel
You 've
done no more than any other gentleman would have done. The trouble is
that the average Northerner has no sense of honour, suh, no sense of
honour. If this particular man had had, he would have kept still, and
everything would have gone on smooth and quiet. Instead of that, a
distinguished family is brought to shame, and for what? To give a nigger
a few more years of freedom when, likely as not, he don't want it; and
Berry Hamilton's life in prison has proved nearer the ideal reached by
slavery than anything he has found since emancipation. Why, suhs, I
fancy I see him leaving his prison with tears of regret in his eyes
This is a very happy occasion, Mr. Hamilton
You know you are to go New York with me
To New Yawk? What fu
You want to see your wife, of course
I ain't hyeahed f'om my people fu' a long time. I did n't know what had
become of 'em. How 's Kit an' Joe
They 're all right
Fannie
don't you know me
Yes, yes, Be'y, I knows you. Come in
Why, is you 'shamed o' me
Shamed? No! Oh, Be'y
What 's de mattah, Fannie? Ain't you glad to see me
Yes, yes, but you don't know nothin', do you? Dey lef' me to tell you
Lef' you to tell me? What 's de mattah? Is Joe or Kit daid? Tell me
No, not daid. Kit dances on de stage fu' a livin', an', Be'y, she ain't
de gal she ust to be. Joe -- Joe -- Joe -- he 's in pen'tentiary fu' killin' a
ooman
My Gawd! my Gawd! my little gal! my
boy
Dat ain't all
I
ain't yo' wife no mo'. I 's ma'ied ag'in. Oh Be'y, Be'y, don't look at
me lak dat. I could n't he'p it. Kit an' Joe lef' me, an' dey said de
pen'tentiary divo'ced you an' me, an' dat you 'd nevah come out nohow.
Don't look at me lak dat, Be'y
You ain't my wife no mo'? Hit 's a lie, a damn lie! You is my wife. I
's a innocent man. No pen'tentiay kin tek you erway f'om me. Hit 's
enough what dey 've done to my chillen
Dey sha'n't do no mo', by Gawd! dey sha'n't, I say
Oh, don't, Be'y, don't, you hu't me. I could n't he'p it
Don't cry, Be'y
I done wrong, but I loves you yit
Well, what am I goin' to do
I do' know, Be'y, 'ceptin' dat you 'll have to leave me
I won't! I 'll never leave you again
But, Be'y, you mus'. You 'll only mek it ha'der on me, an' Gibson 'll
beat me ag'in
Ag'in
Yes
Why cain't you come on off wid me, Fannie? You was mine fus'
I could n't. He would fin' me anywhaih I went to
Let him fin' you. You 'll be wid me, an' we 'll settle it, him an'
me
I want to, but oh, I can't, I can't
Please go now, Be'y,
befo' he gits home. He 's mad anyhow, 'cause you 're out
An' so I got to
go an' leave you to him
Yes, you mus'; I 'm his'n now
My wife gone, Kit a nobody, an' Joe,
little Joe, a murderer, an' then I -- I -- ust to pray to Gawd an' call him
'Ouah Fathah
Don't, Be'y, don't say dat. Maybe we don't un'erstan
No, we don't un'erstan
We
don't un'erstan
Oh, my Gawd
It ain't you
No, it 's him. He was killed in a fight at the race-track. Some o' his
frinds are settin' up. Come in
Thank God! thank God! this man's
blood is not on my hands
</text>
