<text>
Overshadowed
The chains that bound the body * * were as tender
     chords of mercy compared with the shackles that gyved
     his mind
Maury
big house
happy
Swing low, sweet chariot,
    Cum fur ter carry me home;
    Swing low, sweet chariot,
    Cum fur to carry me home
Hush
Did they say the
chariot had come
Morlene, you and Catherine will come into the library as soon as your
breakfast duties are over
Dar, now! I shuah knows dar is trubble brewin' 'round 'bout heah. Las'
night I drempt 'bout snakes an' didn't git to kill 'um. All dis mornin' my
right eye hez been jumpin' fit to kill, an' now I dun broke dis plate. W'en
hez Aunt Catherine broke er plate afo' dis? Shuah's yer bawn, chile, dar is
trubble brewin' in dis 'neck ub de woods
I wondah whut debbilmint our young marster's got in his he'd ter
sen' fur us
Both of you are aware of the fact that I am now the proprietor of this
place. I have one more task which I wish to perform as plain Lemuel Dalton.
I will be rid of that task to-day, I think. To-morrow I intend assuming
charge here. I shall have no Negroes whatever about me, and the two of you
will please prepare to leave when I take charge to-morrow
You will go from the place well provided for. I find, according to my
uncle's memorandum, that there are six hundred and forty-eight dollars to
your credit, money which was due you, but not called for by you. I notice
that you have been accustomed to give largely to objects of charity, else
this sum to your credit would be the larger. You will find the amount in
this package
Morlene, I find a note in my uncle's memorandum which states that you are
entitled to be cared for by the Dalton estate so long as you live. I know
not what is the ground of your claim, nor do I care to know. I shall see to
it that you do not suffer. Understand, however, that you will always apply
to my lawyers for aid and not to me. With this one thousand dollars which I
now hand to you, our personal dealings come to a close
Marse Lemuel, will yer 'mit me ter
say er word
Marse Lemuel, I wuz bawned on dis place. I wuz brung up hear ez a chile,
and all de fun an' frolics I ebber hed wuz right heah. Marse an' missus
'lowed me an' my ole man ter marry heah. It was in front ub dis very house
whar us, my ole man an' me, jumpt ober de brum stick es a marrige cerimony.
Since I hez been an 'oman ebry baby bawn in dis hous' hez cum in ter dese
arms fust. Yer own daddy Erasmus wuz one ob um, an' a lackly littul fellah
he wuz, too. Dese hans you see heah hez shrouded de Dalton dead since I ken
ricermimber. Durin' war times, w'en udder darkies wuz brakin' dey necks ter
go ter de Yankees, I staid right by missus an' I'se been in dis house ebber
since.

"Nachally, Marse Lemuel, I lubs dis spot. I jes' doan' know nuthin' else. I
hed hoped to die heah an' be bur'i'd at de feet ub missus, for she promis'
me wid her dyin' bref ter let me wait fur de trump ub Gabrul by her side.
Now, Marse Lemuel, doan' dribe me erway. I'll wuck an' not charge nary
cent. I wants to stay whar I ken plant flowers on de grave ub Maury an' de
rest. Gib me er cot an' let me sleep in de ole barn lof' whar I played ez
er gal; but doan' dribe me erway
That is all unnecessary, Catherine. My mind is made up. I do not
mean to be unkind, but I simply shall not have Negroes about me
Whut I did fur our folkses
wuz fur lub. You shan't spile my lub by payin' me fur whut I hez dun
Sir
it takes no prophet to
foretell that terrible sorrows await you! He who ignores human emotions,
will find many in this world more than a match for him at his own game! As
for the money which you gave me, I shall not touch one penny of it. Really,
I do not care to have my life linked by means of the smallest thread to a
man who shall come forth from the 'mills of the gods' ground as you will
be. You have not my anger, sir, but my most profound pity
Now, I like that plucky spirit manifested by the girl. Give me, every
time, the haughty sufferer, too proud to crouch beneath the lash even when
its sting is keenest. I want none of your whining suppliants. A plague on
these Negroes who meet injury with woe-begone expressions. That sort of
thing tends to make the Anglo-Saxon chicken-hearted in dealing with them.
The more a Negro whines and supplicates the worse I hate him. But I tell
you I like the spirit of that girl
But other tasks await me
Murray's Pond
See,
this is not so bad a world after all, else we could not be here
Good place to fish, ain't it
Good place to fish, ain't it
I like sugar,
    I like hash,
    I'd rather be a nigger
    Than poor white trash
Look behind you! Yonder comes old Lemuel Dalton
I suppose you know that I am owner of this place. I have come to lay down
my law to you. You are the leading sport on the place. Regardless of the
condition of crops you quit to go to picnics, shows, dances, camp meetings,
funerals, and on every excursion that comes along. Your example is
demoralizing to the whole farm. I assume charge of this place to-morrow,
and I want you to understand that you cannot go to the picnic scheduled for
that day
Don't that beat you? Some poor white trash that gets places by the death
of their uncles don't know that Grant whipped Lee and Jeff Davis was hung
to a sour apple tree
You apologize for what
that girl has said
She has spoken my sentiments
Is that your game
That comes of insulting poor white trash
We have heard of the difficulty between you and one of the darkeys on your
place. We have come to learn from you the particulars about it, to find out
just what action must be taken by us. We are not seeking to interfere with
your affairs, but darkeys must be made to feel always that whatever any one
of them does to one white man is considered as done to all white men; we
shall be pleased, therefore, to receive any information that you may see
fit to give
Permit me, sir, to voice the sentiments of my
fellows. We did not come here to sit in judgment on your action. We came
here under the inspiration of the Anglo-Saxon motto, which is summed up in
these words, 'My country, may she be always right. But, right or wrong, my
country.' We came here, sir, to take up your cause; but your account shows
that you have struck us a blow in the face -- square in the face
You will, of course, explain your remarks
Certainly, certainly, sir. In the midst of circumstances such as exist in
the South, the greatest force that makes for peace is the cultivation in
the white man of a sense of superiority and in the darkey a sense of
inferiority. Engender in the darkey a sense of his inferiority and it will
paralyze his aggressiveness and do more to keep him down than a standing
army. What we practice in the South is racial hypnotism. We erect signs
everywhere, notifying the darkey of his inferiority. To be effective this
work must be co-operated in by practically the whole body of white men.
That's why we object to any white man's attempt to disabuse the Negro's
mind of this sense of inferiority. You, sir, have acted in a manner to
cause us to lose the aid of this sense of inferiority in dealing with our
darkeys. You have made our task of controlling them the harder. You have
thus done us harm and the darkeys harm
You have not yet shown how my actions transgress your mode of procedure
Why, sir, you fought the darkey on terms of equality. You fought him man
to man. You should have sat on your horse and scolded him. If he had spoken
insultingly, you should have used your horsewhip on him. If he had proven
dangerous, it was your duty to have shot him without further ado. A
fisticuff between a white man and a darkey savors too much of equality, a
feeling that must be kept out of the Negro at all hazards
Permit me to add a word
I simply wish to reinforce what 'Squire Mullen has said by a historical
incident. On a certain occasion when the Scythians were returning from a
war in which they had been engaged, they received news that the servants
whom they had left behind had mutinied and taken possession of the city and
the households of their former masters. The Scythians were preparing to
attack the slaves with a full accoutrement of arms when one of their number
protested. He told his fellows that the best way to conquer the slaves was
to discard arms and go with whips simply. He held that arms would suggest
equality, while whips would be a reminder to the slaves as to what they
were. The experiment succeeded and the Scythians effected a re-enslavement
without any bloodshed. So, I agree with 'Squire Mullen that it is a great
help to superiors to keep alive in inferiors a well developed sense of
their inferiority. It certainly helps to keep them in subjection. The
Scythian whips, which had as an aid the feeling of inferiority, were more
successful than arms would have been, carrying along with them the idea of
equality.

"A profound thinker of our day sets forth this idea in these words:

"'There are the respective mental traits produced by daily exercise of
power and by daily submission to power. The ideas, and sentiments, and
modes of behavior, perpetually repeated, generate on the one side an
inherited fitness for command, and on the other side an inherited fitness
for obedience; with the result that, in course of time, there arises on
both sides the belief that the established relations of classes are the
natural ones
Gentlemen
if you will but go a little deeper into the subject
you will see that my action was in accordance with and not contrary to the
philosophy which you enunciate
When I was a lad, that Negro insulted and then beat me. No doubt he
carried with him for years the thought that he was physically my superior.
I was determined to wrest from him this conception. Had I proceeded
against him on terms which he regarded as unfair, he would not have
inwardly restored to me the palm which he wrested from me years ago. But,
proceeding against him on terms of equality as I did, he is forced to
acknowledge in his innermost consciousness that I am physically his
superior. I, for one, think that we white men make a mistake in not seeking
by physical culture to maintain even our physical superiority. I am in
favor of the doctrine of Anglo-Saxon superiority in all realms, even the
physical
We understand you better now, sir. We are proud of you, sir. Lads, hear
what he says. In developing brain don't forget brawn. The darkey now has
brawn. His strong physique and reproductive powers, show that he is in the
world to stay to the end of time. If, in the years to come, he adds mental
to physical endowment, we may be in the lurch unless we take care of the
physical side of our development. Give me your hand again, sir
arrogant assumption of equality
impudence towards their superiors
Ernuf is ernuf
An' a nigger ain't er dog. 'Twuz ernuf ter
shoot de nigger. We didun't do nuffin' 'bout dat, kase de niggers wuz
some'ut ter blame. But dey ez carrin' de thing too fur. Ernuf is ernuf
I do not know how much interest a knowledge
of the fact may be to you, yet, I inform you that I have just shot down
that impudent Negro, Harry Dalton
Go! Go! Aunt Catherine, from this accursed place. I will come to the city
soon. It may be that Harry is not killed. If I can save his life I can ward
off that much of the terrible debt that this man is piling up against
himself
Too
beautiful for a fellow like me
I have changed my mind, Miss
Dalton
By Jove
Why did I not think of that myself? The girl is as
beautiful as a sylph. She can save him, I am sure. That boy's relapse can
be explained on no other hypothesis. See what you can do with the girl. It
is the only hope left
Morlene, are you in love with any one
No, my dear. Why do you ask
I have a request to make of you, which I can the more freely do since you
say that you are not in love
What possible relation does my not being in love bear to any request that
you might make
The doctor has told me that the only hope of saving Harry's life lies in
your consenting to marry him. He is dying of love for you
Harry looks at you so sad-like. A word from you,
Morlene, will save him
Beulah
I
fear that there is something in what you say. I now recall that his decline
in health began about the time when I refused to consider a proposal of
marriage which he made. But Beulah, I do not _love_ Harry. I think well of
him, but I do not love him
You could learn to love him
No, I am quite sure, Beulah, that I could never love a man on Harry's
order. Something within tells me that somewhere in the world there is an
ideal man that awaits my coming. He shall awaken all the slumbering fires
of my soul and my life shall entwine itself about his. Beulah, I believe
all this with my whole heart
Morlene, you and I are poor country girls and can talk plainly to each
other. You have been reading books up at the Dalton house which set forth
the deeds of mighty men. Out of all that you have gleaned from books you
have constructed your ideal man whom you feel awaits you in the world.
Morlene, we country girls have only a limited education and know but little
of the requirements of the higher walks of life. The man whom your
imagination has selected will be so much your superior in point of culture
that he will not notice you
Morlene, your own judgment must teach you that your ideal is impossible of
attainment. Put over against this impracticable ideal my honest,
industrious, wounded brother, who is being destroyed by his love for you.
Do not, Morlene, allow poor Harry to die because of a vague hope
Even the squirrel has come to plead for Harry, Morlene
Beulah
you hardly know
what you ask. This love which God has planted in a woman's bosom is the
source of the highest joy that she knows during her stay on earth. You are
asking me to surrender the most precious gift of my Creator, my one chance
of supreme happiness
All right, Morlene. Poor Harry will be dead to-morrow, and I shall soon
die of grief. You know how my dear father loves us. Our deaths will break
his heart. When we are dead, Morlene, remember that the surrender of an
idle hope on your part would have saved us all
Beulah, Beulah, it is hard to do as you ask. How hard, the future alone
can tell. I consent to sacrifice myself. I don't understand this world,
anyway! Why am I placed in such a trying situation? I will marry Harry
Harry
I have come to tell you that I am going to be your
wife, a true wife -- one that will do all that is in her power for your
comfort and welfare
dram
But now they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly: wherefore God
is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a
city
Boys, what say you?
Down with the cause of all our troubles! What shall we do with Beulah
Dalton
Kill her! Kill her! Kill her
Miss Beulah
Burn her up
You are a coward. The gal ain't no rat. Give her a chance, fool
Who calls me a fool
I will kill the
scoundrel
Good evening, sir
Good evenin
May I be allowed to address this gathering
Whar is you frum
I have just come from the white people's rendezvous
Thought so. Bettah go back dar, I 'specks
Men
I have something to say that concerns you all. Uncle Stephen is
interested in this whole affair in too personal a manner for you men to
commit your interests blindly to him. In times like these you need a man
who is in such a frame of mind that he can weigh everything. Now, you all
know that Uncle Stephen has had enough to unbalance anybody, and, I tell
you, men, unbalanced minds are not safe guides in such times as these
I is cummander in chief, heah, sur, and you mus' leave dis groun' at once,
sur
In former times when other people's oxen were gored, Uncle Stephen was not
driven away when he came to see you. Uncle Stephen is a good man, but I
don't think he is that much better than the rest of you. If _your_ matters
could be talked of, it seems to be that _his_ might be talked of, too
Uncle Stephen is in a mighty heap of trouble, an' ain't 'zactly at
hisself. Go er head, teacher, we'll hear you
Gentlemens, the man whut you done sent up yonder will turn them people,
an' I reckin it's best. Dare aint no use'n er whole lots er folks dyin' fur
me one. Now I wants to make a fair propursition ter you
My house is burned, my boy is shot, my gal is killed, an' me all broke up
at dis age. Gentlemens, justis' comes in som'ers. Uv course nairy one man
uv you could stan er show befo' me, fair fist an' skull fight. Pick out any
two men an' sen um to me an' I'll lick um. Gentlemens, on dat plan I'll
take the whole regurment uv you. Now, gentlemens, I ax yer in de name uv
justis, consider my propursition. Ef you think that ain't fair, I'll take
any three uv yer fair fist and skull
Ah! Gentlemens, you kill er pore gal when her daddy wuz erway, but you
won't fight him, I see. Gentlemens, dare uster be bettah blood dan dat. I
was in de war wid my marster, an' he showd good blood to de Yankees. Is it
all gone, dat three uv you won't fight ur 'nigger,' ez you call him
Boys, dey don't fight fair. Dey don't fight fair, boys.
Beulah! Beulah! your daddy can't do nuthin'. He would if he could. Boys,
dey won't fight fair
the deceased came to her death
at the hands of a party or parties to the jury unknown
I do not yet know that my boy is _that_ guilty. Let me stroke those Saxon
curls and kiss his cheek once more before I find out whether or not he is
guilty
Alfred, news reaches me that you applied the torch to Uncle
Stephen's house while his daughter was in there, and that you struck the
blow that killed her. I have come to know of you, my son, as to whether you
did or did not do these things
Father
I would give the world to be able to truthfully say
that the statements are false; but I cannot. The statements are true, too
true
Alfred! Alfred! Alfred
Can you sleep on such a night
Is
the family honor that low also? Can we thus bear open disgrace? Alfred!
Alfred! There is a pistol at the head of your bed
black mammy
Kinsmen, I hold in my hand the record book
of the Mullens. I shall on this occasion read to you a terse statement of
the most notable achievements of the Mullens from the time of William of
Normandy until the present
Kinsmen, it would appear that I must now
record the deed of one who claims to be my offspring and a partaker of the
blood of our illustrious family. If so be, then the record must read that
Alfred Mullen, on a _Christmas_ morn, murdered a Negro _girl_ in the
absence of all _male_ protection. The murder was _unprovoked_, and
committed by Alfred Mullen while he had the protection of a gang of his
fellows.

"Kinsmen, I have summoned you here to know if this deed must go on record.
If you decide that it shall not go on record, you know what that means
It means that you must abandon the name of
Mullen upon pain of being killed; that you must never lay claim to kinship
with us; that you must go forth with the mark of Cain upon your brow
Mourn not for Cain
Now that is what I call beauty
Alas, O God, there he is!
Why did you let him come
Avaunt, ye idle dreams of youth; I am a woman now, a man's lawfully wedded
wife! Come not here to haunt me with visions of what might have been
Poor Harry, your
place in my heart is the safer, now that my dreams of other days have been
met in concrete form and gloriously vanquished
This is a matter worthy of investigation
Never
has Dorlan Warthell, the serious, allowed physical
beauty to so charm him. But is it mere physical beauty that has so suddenly
thrown itself across the pathway of my mind so that it will not move on?
Has nothing met me more than that lovely form, the head of a queen, angel
face, eyes that thrill? I may be mistaken, but methinks that nature has
given that choice dressing to a choice spirit. At any rate I hope to meet
her again
I notice that our street has some new denizens since the time of
my sojourn here a few years ago
Yes
There are Mr. Crutchfield, Mr. Yearby and Mr.
Dalton. These gentlemen have all come to this street since you were with us
last
Who lives in that beautiful cottage painted white, with that wonderful
assortment of prettily arranged flowers in the front yard
Mr. and Mrs. Dalton live there
Have Mr. and Mrs. Dalton any children -- a daughter
No; they are childless
I saw a young woman up there as I passed this evening; I suppose she is
visiting them
I see the point -- a young woman
Perhaps so. If you could describe her I might be able to
tell who she is
Who in the world can describe
that beautiful woman
Oh, that was Mrs. Dalton -- Mrs. Harry Dalton -- undoubtedly the most
beautiful Negro girl in the country
John Brown's body lies moulding in the clay;
    John Brown's body lies moulding in the clay;
    John Brown's body lies moulding in the clay,
    As we go marching on.
    Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
    Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
    Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
    As we go marching on
Hallelujah
Spare me! Oh, spare me! I cannot, I cannot hear those strains
and perform the tasks before me. And yet I must! I must! I must
How goes it, Dorl, old boy
I am doing well, I hope, Congressman Bloodworth. Accept a seat in my
humble quarters
Well, Dorlan, I have come for my answer
Mr. Bloodworth, when we were last together I gave you to understand very
fully what to expect of me. Nothing has transpired since to cause me to
change and I am sure that I shall adhere to the course which I have chosen,
unto the end
Dorlan, have you a memory
Then bear me witness, sir
From the year 1619 until January 1, 1863, the Negro race was
subjected to slavery in the United States. The superior numbers, greater
intelligence and determined spirit of the enslavers prevented the enslaved
from cherishing any hope of setting themselves free. The great task of
redemption which the Negroes saw no way of accomplishing for themselves,
the Republican party accomplished for them at a cost of much treasure and
of hundreds of thousands of precious lives. This party enacted such laws as
made a recurrence of slavery absolutely impossible. It clothed the freedman
with the rights of a citizen. It extended to him the strong arm of the
Federal Government in the protection of those rights. The claim that these
facts establish over the allegiance of every Negro, I leave to the judgment
of any sane mind. So much for the relationship which by implication should
exist between _you_ and the political party named.

"I now advert to my own peculiar claims upon you. Your early years you
spent in school and received great mental development. You found employment
as a stable boy in the home of an eminent statesman. During your leisure
hours you perused his library and became thoroughly imbued with the spirit
of the statesman. Owing to your residence in the South, there was no outlet
for your powers, as the South was not permitting men with black faces to
aid in running the government. By accident we met, you and I. I discovered
that you had great talent. I was lacking in native ability. I decided that,
as you had the necessary brains and I the white face, we might form a
combination. You planned, I executed; you acquired information, I exhibited
it. By your secret aid I went to Congress. Through you I arose from the
ranks to a commanding place in the public eye. For the past few years my
speeches in and out of Congress have been regarded as so full of merit that
they have been used as highly acceptable campaign documents. These speeches
were composed by you. In return for your furnishing me brain I have paid
you every cent of money which I have received as compensation for public
service. Making use of my white face you have been able to allow full play
to your intellect, which delights in grappling with great questions.

"Dorlan Warthell, I come to you to-night with this carefully prepared
statement, that I may secure your final answer. Will you or will you not,
continue working through me and for the Republican party
Congressman Bloodworth, I am thoroughly convinced that the
Republican party is in error in the chief tenet of its present day creed.
My devotion to truth is far greater than my devotion to party. And, Mr.
Bloodworth, it was truth that set my people free. The Republican party
became the willing instrument of truth to effect that result. Now that the
result has been achieved, I must not confound the power with its
instrument. I worship at the shrine of truth, not at that of its temporary
agents. My spirit is free to choose its own allegiance, for no human
instrumentality has freed my spirit; its freedom came from God
Sir
You deny my and the Republican
party's authority over you, in spite of what we have done for you
I assert that no event in the history of the world has yet happened that
makes it my duty to follow error
You shall die the death of a dog
Do not be angry with me for my intrusion
My soul is the
seat of a long continued storm these days, and your music was so
refreshing
You speak of a storm
When you speak thus you arouse my
interest, for to my mind a storm is the most sublime occurrence in nature.
To see the winds aroused; to hear their mad rushing; to behold them as with
the multiplied strength of giants they grasp and overturn the strongest
works of man's hands -- to see this, inspires one with awe and reverence for
the great force that pervades this universe, and impels us, whether we so
will or not, to conform to its ripening purposes.

"If there is a storm in your bosom, matters exterior to yourself have
produced it. As an admirer of storms I beg you to lay bare to me such
portions of the journeyings of the winds as a stranger may be permitted to
view
Do you believe in strangers
I hold that no human beings
are, at bottom, strangers to each other. With Emerson I hold that 'there is
one mind common to all individual men. Every man is an inlet to the same
and to all the same. Who hath access to this universal mind is a party to
all that is or can be done, for this is the only and sovereign agent.'

"Those souls are quickest to recognize this fact which are best equipped to
reveal themselves and to comprehend the revelations of other souls. We know
some souls at a glance as thoroughly as one soul ever knows another
Starting out with the assumption that you shall find nothing strange in me
when you fully understand me, I am ready to show you the pathway of the
storm
Thank you
A presidential election is fast approaching. I have heretofore labored
with the Republican party. In this campaign I part company with them
My dear sir
Are you a
Democrat
Oh, no
In the
South, Democracy's chief tenets are white man's supremacy and exclusiveness
in governmental affairs. Not having a white skin, self-preservation would
prevent me from entering the folds of that party
I am glad to know that the
seeming hopelessness of our plight in the South has not caused you to seek
to influence us to surrender to this dictum of Southern Democracy. Proceed,
if you please
I am thoroughly displeased with the policy of the Republican party toward
the inhabitants of the Philippine Islands, and in spite of the endearing
relations of the past, I am moved to part company with the party on this
issue
Oh, I am an enthusiastic expansionist, Mr
Warthell is my name
Mr. Warthell
I have a
dream. I dream that wars and revolutions shall one day cease. The
classification of mankind into groups called nations, affords a feeling of
estrangement which destroys or modifies the thought of universal
brotherhood, and gives rise to the needless bickerings which result in
wars. I delight in any movement that sweeps away these pseudo-national
boundaries. The more separate nations that are congealed under one head,
the less is the area where conflicts are probable. When the tendency to
consolidate finally merges all governments into one, wars shall cease. Our
territorial expansion is but the march of destiny toward the ultimate goal
of all things. I am delighted to see our nation thus move forward, because
we have such an elastic form of government, so responsive to the needs and
sentiments of the people that bloody revolutions become unnecessary
wherever our flag floats. Just think how much our expansion makes for
universal peace by erasing the thought of separateness existing between
peoples, and giving to the federated powers such an ideal form of
government.

"When our flag floats over the whole of the Western Hemisphere there will
be nobody over here to fight us; we shall not fight among ourselves and we
shall dare the European and Asiatic powers to go to war
You are indeed an expansionist
Yes, yes
Some are expansionists for the sake of finding outlets for the
ever-increasing excess of our production. They hold that we are producing
far more than what we can consume, and must have outside buyers to avoid a
terrible congestion at home. Others are expansionists on the ground that
outlying possessions are a strategetical necessity in the time of war. Our
statesmen are expansionists, some of them, because our nation's becoming a
world power gives a broader scope for their intellects. Some are
expansionists because they desire to see weaker people have the benefits of
a higher civilization. While I admit the possible weight of these various
contentions, my interest in expansion is broadly humanitarian. England was
at one time a seething mass of warring tribes. The expansion of a central
power over the entire islands brought order out of chaos. Let the process
extend to the entire earth as fast as honorable opportunity presents
itself, and may the stars and stripes lead in the new evangel of universal
peace
Beautiful, beautiful dream. But it is my fear that enthusiasm over
expansion may cause us to lose sight of fundamental tenets of our political
faith. This leads me to state the point of difference between myself and
the Republican party
The Republican party has not informed the world as to
what will be the ultimate status of the Filipino. In the final adjustment
of things, whatever _that_ may be, will the Filipino be able to say that he
stands upon the same plane, politically and otherwise, with all other free
and equal human beings. I labored earnestly to have the Republican party to
declare that no violence would be done to our national conception that
every man is inherently the political equal of every other man. The party
has promised that full physical, civil and religious liberty shall be
guaranteed. On the question of political liberty there is silence. Because
of this silence I leave it
In what manner, Mr. Warthell, do you hope to affect the result in the
pending campaign
The Negroes, you know, are vitally affected by the issues in this
campaign. With England imposing its will upon India, with the Southern
whites imposing their will on the Negroes, only one great branch of the
white race exists which is not imposing its will upon a feebler race. I
allude to the white people of the North.

"Should our nation impose its will upon the Filipinos, by the force of arms
and without the underlying purpose of ultimately granting to them full
political liberty, the weaker peoples the world over will lose their only
remaining advocate in the white race, namely the people of the North.

"I hope to be able to show the Negroes that they, of all citizens in this
country, cannot afford to permit either silence as to, or the abandonment
of, the doctrine of the inherent equality of all men. The Negroes of the
pivotal states, when, united, can easily decide the election in whatever
direction they choose. It is my purpose to attempt to weld together the
Negroes in the hope of defeating any man that will not unequivocally and
openly declare in favor of the ultimate political equality of the
Filipinos
Are you not leaning on a broken reed, Mr. Warthell
Have the Negroes acquired sufficient self-confidence to
feel justified in pitting their judgment against that of the Republican
party? Can the recent beneficiary be so soon transformed into a dictator?
More important still, can you uproot those tender memories which flourish
in the sentimental bosom of the Negro, associating, indissolubly his
freedom with the Republican party
Mr. Warthell, in attempting to
disillusion the Negroes with regard to the Republican party you shall march
against one of the strongest attachments in all of human history. I have
known deaths to result from assailing attachments far less deep-seated than
that. May a special providence preserve you
Be seated
Mr. Warthell
I have read your document the third time and I now desire to ask
you two questions. The character of your answers to them will determine
whether I shall propound to you a third
Was it your desire and expectation that this article
should be published
Most assuredly
Again
are you well acquainted with the moods of your
people
It is my impression that few men have studied them more earnestly than I
have
I see that I must ask my third question. Thinking that your article would
be published, knowing your people, have you exercised foresight enough to
have your life insured? If you have not, fail not to do so to-night; for a
straw in a whirlwind will account itself blessed in comparison with your
lot after this article appears to-morrow morning
I am content to abide by the consequences of my act
Your blood be upon your own head
In the great crisis of the sixties, the Republican party appeared before
the sepulchre of the buried manhood of the Negro race, called it forth from
the tomb and divested it of the habiliments of the grave. This portentous
achievement shook the earth. The pillars of the Republic tottered but were
caught within the titantic grasp of the Republican party, which thereupon
made the foundations and superstructure more secure than ever before. As
long as the ocean mirrors in her bosom the face of the king of day, just so
long shall the hearts of the Negroes cherish the memories of the noble army
of men who wrought so nobly for humanity.

"To further the ends so righteously sought a party name was adopted and
party machinery created by them. When their tasks were done and they had,
for the most part, been gathered to their fathers, other leaders arose and
began to operate under this same name and with this same machinery. The
charge has often been made that we bestow upon these instruments of our
salvation the same devotion that we yielded to the creators and original
wielders of the instruments. It is said that we blindly follow the party
name regardless of those wielding it and the use to which it is put. The
charge may be illustrated by the following comparison:

"A noble man does a cripple a kindness. The man dies and a thrifty neighbor
comes into possession of the shoes, clothes and hat that he wore at the
time of helping the cripple. The neighbor puts on the leavings of the dead
man, appears before the cripple and demands his allegiance because of the
clothes worn. The cripple yields the devotion asked for, giving evidence
that he was ready to consider the dead man and the clothes as one and
inseparable. We are charged with acting like unto this cripple, in the
matter of rendering devotion to the party name and machinery, the clothes
left behind by the men who did the actual work of liberating us.

"In the past we have had no suitable opportunity to clear by an overt act
our skirts of the charge which has been exceedingly damaging to our
reputation for intelligence; for the policies of the party have been mainly
good. But unforeseen circumstances have brought us face to face with the
golden opportunity of proving that the picture is overdrawn, that we have
not riveted political chains upon ourselves, to take the place of the
actual chains torn from us at so fearful a cost. While adding to our own
good name we can also do the cause of humanity untold good.

"The Spanish-American war has brought us into contact with many million
Filipinos. We must decide what are to be our relations with them. Shall we
or shall we not deal with them on the principle that they are and shall
ever be regarded as our equals, is the burning question with the American
people. The party with which we have hitherto affiliated, claims to be so
busily engaged with our present duties on the Islands that they must
postpone consideration as to the final status of the people thereof. The
Negroes can favor only one solution of the problem, the recognition of the
fact that all men are created equal. They should favor no postponement of a
decision, having themselves suffered from a postponement that lasted from
midnight of July 4th, 1776, until January 1st, 1863, the time that elapsed
between the promulgation of the declaration that all men are created equal,
and the application of that declaration to the American slave.

"In view of the silence of the Republican party upon the question of the
ultimate status of the Filipinos, it has been decided to organize a party
that will spurn silence, that will insist that 'Old Glory' shall continue
to float over human beings that can look each other in the face and shout
'We are all equals; no man among us is, in any sense, less free than
another.'

"All American citizens willing to consecrate their political efforts to the
attainment of this end are invited to elect delegates to be present at
Sinclair Hall on the fifteenth of the incoming month. The Negroes having
been the chief sufferers from the non-recognition of the principles for
which our new party will stand, are expected to take the lead in the new
organization.

"Yours for humanity,

"DORLAN WARTHELL
A Negro has been found to display political independence and moral courage
of a high order. He has placed himself in a position where the unthinking
will liken him unto the serpent that buried its fangs in the bosom that
warmed it. None the less, his act is one of marked heroism. While not
endorsing his third party scheme (our party is good enough) we endorse the
spirit of initiative and independence that prompts it. We would that this
spirit of rebellion against party slavery characterized all the voters of
the Southland.

"It is an open secret that the great body of the people of both races in
the South are prone to regard elections as nothing more nor less than a
perennial struggle for supremacy between the two races. This one issue has
been allowed to dwarf all other considerations. Indeed, the South is deaf
to all appeals, however urgent, to give consideration to the grave
questions arising from time to time affecting the welfare of us all and
determining our destiny. Such a condition of isolation from the centers of
thought activity is deplorable in the extreme.

"Think of it: by birth a man comes into possession of a full set of
political opinions. He is born into a condition of intellectual serfdom;
the mind dares not to wander by a hair's breadth from the narrow estate of
thought on which it is born. He who elects to devote his attention to the
questions of State must reduce his mentality to the level of the parrot and
feel that his life's work will consist in learning to repeat glibly and
without alteration whatever party managers may promulgate. What a crime
against the human mind whose native air is freedom, to secure which
bonfires have been lighted with the thrones of kings!

"What the South needs is a new emancipation. Her giant minds must be
allowed to enter the arena of intellectual conflict unfettered, if they are
to bring back to the South her departed glory. The Negroes can help to
bring about this emancipation. When they cease to vote _en masse_; when
they cease going to the polls as a mark of gratitude to the invaders of the
South who now sleep their last sleep and would discountenance, if they
could, the perpetuation of race hatred over past issues; when the sentiment
within the Negro race is sufficiently liberal to allow each Negro his
manhood right to record with his vote his own best judgment; when, we say,
these desirable conditions obtain among the Negroes, we whites will have an
opportunity to escape the scourge with which the party magnates herd us
together even as gratitude has herded the Negroes.

"With joy we hail the advent of Dorlan Warthell in his new role. May he
succeed in inaugurating an era of independent thought among the Negroes.
Let us all hope that we are now beholding a streak of dawn, instead of the
trail of a falling star, whose soon fading light will leave our skies but
the darker. Let us hope that the hour is upon us when the sober torch of
reason and not the withering flames of passion, may guide all of our
voters, white and colored, to the polls
Hezzy, dear, what on earth troubles you
My ancestors, confound them
He is going crazy
How do your ancestors
trouble you, Hezzy
They have handed down to me no brains
There, I thought it was brain trouble
Oh, dear, you have brains
So has a rabbit. Let me alone, now
_Hon. Hezekiah T. Bloodworth_:

     "Your services are badly needed in the pivotal States.
     Campaign a flat failure without your lucid speeches.
     Delay no longer. Report at headquarters at once. The
     aftermath
The aftermath
Do you wish to send a return message
Tell the Speakers' Bureau and the pivotal States to go to the habitation
of the accursed
Confound it; I will not be ruined thus
Cook, feed me on fish at
every meal. Get the very best fish. Here are some good ones. Begin at
supper time. Fish is good for brain food, they say, and I need brains
Friends
of late my mind (meaning Dorlan
Warthell) has been a little erratic. It will not serve me as it once did. I
have called you here to ask you to tell me whether much of its vigor has
departed. If there is too great a gap between my past efforts and my
present one, I shall retire from public life. Remember, gentlemen, how much
depends on your decision, and be frank with me
Mr. Bloodworth, for Heaven's sake, do not take the stump in this campaign.
You will be the butt of ridicule of the entire nation
Gentlemen
take me to my room. I am ill. I knew that a breakdown was due to a man who
has worked as hard for his country as I have. Take me to my room,
gentlemen
May I have a private interview with you
Certainly, certainly
I have come to see you on an important matter
But
before I begin I have one question to ask you
Are you a Republican
You insult me, sir, to come into
my house to ask me if I am a Republican. I was born a Republican and will
die one
Don't talk so loud
Well, you must not insult me, sir. My color ought to tell you what I am
Yes, yes
There was a time when all
colored men were true blue Republicans, but that day is past. A man right
here in your ward has gone astray
Don't you compare me with that infernal scoundrel, Dorlan Warthell. He
claims to be an educated man, and has deserted the Republican party. I
could tear his liver out and show it to him, that I could
I have come to talk to you about him
If you have got any good to say of him, it's no use for you to begin. But
if you can tell of any way to get rid of the scoundrel, I am with you
Let me tell you my history
I am a Southern man.
Before the war my father was rich, but would never own a slave, though he
lived right in the South.

"When the war broke out, we turned our back on the South and joined the
Union Army. That is, my two brothers did. I stayed at home to care for my
aged parents.

"When the war was over, the Negroes needed leaders. I decided to lead them.
This made all of the Southern white people mad at me, and they called me a
scalawag. But I led them just the same, and held office so that the Negroes
could say that a Republican was in office. I wanted to go higher. I found a
colored boy who was poor but brainy. I gave him all the money I made from
politics in return for his help to me. He worked along with me until he had
gotten thousands of dollars. Then he left me. He left me just when the
Republican party needed him most
Yes, Harry
he deserted the party of Lincoln, the
party that made his people free, the party that made it possible for you
all to be what you are. He deserted me, his true and tried friend. He
deserted his own race. Dorlan Warthell is that man
I am a Christian
I am a deacon of a church. But I swear by
high heaven that no such scoundrel shall be allowed to live! I shall kill
him
Nobly spoken! Nobly spoken
I am proud that I -- that is, that my brothers shed their blood to
give freedom to such noble men as you. I am not afraid for the future of
your race while such men as you are living
May I ever prove worthy of your kind words
I have no doubt of that. The man who takes Dorlan Warthell out of the way
will do enough good to make up for any shortcomings that he might have. I
have a well arranged plan for his murder and was only looking for a man
worthy of the role of principal actor. Lo, I have found him
Harry, I have come across a very good campaign book and
would like to act as agent for it during the next few days. Do you object
Of course, not
Please explain yourself
Certainly
Let me cite you to a Bible incident
When Peter, in preaching to the Jews, set forth that God had raised Jesus
Christ from the dead, and had bestowed upon Him greater power and glory
than He had before possessed, the assertion proved to be a befitting
climax to a sermon which resulted in the conversion of some three thousand
persons. Paul, in closing a sermon to the Greeks at Athens, alluded to this
same resurrection of the dead. Instead of proving to be the effective
climax that it was when Peter was preaching to the Jews, it operated as the
weakest point in the discourse, for we are told that at that point, 'some
mocked,' and the assemblage postponed the hearing. Paul in summing up the
difference between the Jew and the Greek habit of thought, remarked that
the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom. You note that
the very thing that appealed most strongly to the mind of the Jew -- the
miraculous raising of the Jesus -- was the most repellant to the Greek, who,
in his search for wisdom, demanded to know the how of every assertion.

"Returning to the Anglo-Saxon and the Negro -- I think I can name a number of
differences in their mental attitudes:

"1. The Negro's talent is largely acquisitive; that of the Anglo-Saxon,
inquisitive.

"2. The Negro is of a restful temperament; the Anglo-Saxon is characterized
by a 'restless discontented, striving, burning energy.' As a result the
Negro is painfully conservative, while the Anglo-Saxon is daringly
progressive.

"3. The Negro deals with the immediate; the Anglo-Saxon has a keen eye for
the remote.

"4. The Negro is prone to accept statements that lay claim to being
postulates; the Anglo-Saxon is skeptical, examining into the foundation of
things.

"5. The Negro is impulsive, and is led to act largely by an immediately
exciting stimulus, causing the net results of his labors to appear as a
series of fits and jerks; the Anglo-Saxon is deliberate, cautious without
stagnation, wary and persistent, and his history reveals an unbroken
tendency in a given direction.

"6. Hitherto the preponderating tendency of the Negro has been toward
disintegration, showing the lack of a proper measure of fellow-feeling; the
tendency of the Anglo-Saxon is toward racial integration.

"7. The Negro proceeds by analogies; the Anglo-Saxon by logic.

"8. The Anglo-Saxon is fond of serious discussion and you reach him best
through the sublime; the Negro is inordinately fond of joking and you get
closest to him through the ludicrous. I do not pretend to say that these
are hard and fast lines, separating the Anglo-Saxon and Negro minds into
distinct classes, but they indicate a general unlikeness in many
particulars.

"Now, we Democrats know how to reach Anglo-Saxon minds and the process is
congenial to our general habit of thought. When we address Negroes, we
really have to readjust our faculties of approach. Public speakers find
that various sections of the same country present this difference, even
when all of the people are of the same race. How much greater must be the
chasm between two such widely diverging races
Two other reasons may be given why we prefer to be rid of the Negro
The mass of Negroes are poor, some of them very poor, and we
have men among us who would not scruple at perpetually bribing these poor
by little acts of kindness. A poverty stricken, oppressed, helpless people
are comparatively easy prey for the well to do element of an opposite race.
In national politics the Negro's devotion to the Republican party exempts
him from the chicanery of designing whites who would debauch the suffrage.
We do not desire the ignorant Negro vote in municipal affairs for the same
reason that the nations of Europe oppose the dismemberment of Turkey. The
struggle for possession would be too fierce and demoralizing among the
parties desiring the furtherance of their interests. The other reason for
not wanting the Negro vote is that the respective traditions of the two
races are so essentially different.

"You see they (the Negroes) revere Lincoln, Sumner, Whittier, Lovejoy,
Harriet Beecher Stowe, Frederick Douglass, Grant, John Brown, etc. We have
no peculiar fondness for these characters. Jefferson Davis, R. E. Lee,
Stonewall Jackson, Pickett, Albert Sidney Johnson, etc., are the objects of
our love and enthusiasm. You see, it is quite natural that people having
such widely differing sentiments should in a measure live apart
machine
Warthell movement
nigger rule
How much is there in it
But Warthell, it turns out, is ahead of his day. Conditions in the
South are such that good men of both races are better off out of politics
Sir
there is a plan on foot to assassinate Dorlan Warthell, a
highly respected Negro of this city
Yes, I hope they will kill the scoundrel. I believe in every
man being true to his race. I call a Negro who will work against the
Republicans lower than the dogs. I call a Southern white man who will work
against the Democrats as even lower still. Yes, I hope they will kill the
scoundrel. Let every man stay with his own race, by gosh
Ah! justice, justice, whither
art thou fled? Red-handed murder now sits in thy temple and occupies thy
throne! How long wilst thou withhold thy presence from this beautiful, but
blighted Southland
MR. DORLAN WARTHELL:

     "DEAR SIR -- I have come into possession of information
     that renders an interview with you imperative. For
     reasons that are entirely satisfactory to my
     conscience, I desire that the interview be private. I
     assure you that nothing but the most _desperate_
     circumstances could influence me to take this step.
     Upon the peril of your life meet me at the end of the
     Broad Street car line promptly at eight o'clock.

                          "THE ARDENT EXPANSIONIST
Mr. Warthell
my first task is to impart to you certain
information. There exists a conspiracy, the object of which is to effect
your murder at the mass meeting which you are to hold
Nothing that happens in the South any longer excites surprise in me
I have further to say, that the state of the public mind
toward you is such as is calculated to encourage rather than to destroy
criminal intentions directed against you. Enlightened or unenlightened, the
forces in favor of the existing order of things regard you as a disturbing
factor in the body politic. Your position is peculiarly dangerous in that
the weaker minds will grow to regard your murder as a civic duty
No one can gainsay the elements of danger in the situation
The police, I fear, will not furnish you the protection that you need
Perhaps not
Mr. Warthell
the cool manner in which you receive the
information which I give, indicates that you are not as regardful of your
life as might be the case
My life has no charms for me, _per se_. I am wedded to
certain purposes for which I have learned to live. I will gladly yield my
life for their furtherance at any time that result can be achieved. If the
ends for which I strive are found to be unattainable, life has no further
interest for me
Mr. Warthell, the world needs your services
It may be that the world has a greater need for my death. I am enough of a
fatalist to believe that whatever the world needs it gets. Note how
opportune have been the great births and deaths of history
Mr. Warthell, I have not come here to theorize on the comparative value of
life and death. I have come to save your life. Have you any relatives
living
None
Oh, that there was a mother or a sister to make the plea that I must
make
Wait
Mr. Warthell, is there not somewhere in the world a noble
girl whose heart you have won and who has accepted you as the companion by
whose side she is to journey through life
My life has not been altogether without love
But it was a boyish love. The little girl
fell asleep in her twelfth summer. Were she alive to-night there might be
something to chain me to life. As it is my personal life is barren of
inducements and I am free to offer myself upon the altar for the good of my
country
Mr.
Warthell, I beg of you, spare your life. Spare me the horror of knowing
that you were foully murdered. You have no mother, no sister, no lover. I
am only a stranger to you. Argument fails me and I can only plead
It is best that I die
If I lived I
could not escape falling in love with this divine being
Sweet is your voice and earnest your
pleadings. Think it not ungallant in me to say that the stern voice of duty
engrosses my ear and I obey its summons. If I die at my post of duty you
will be one to revere my memory
Answer one question for me, Mr. Warthell. Is
there anything connected with your life that causes you to think that death
would be a personal gain to you as well as a gain to your country? I do not
ask out of curiosity, you must know. It behooves me to know all the factors
to be reckoned with in my attempt to save your life
No personal considerations would induce me to _seek_ to destroy my life.
Let that information suffice
Yes
Remember, I say, you shall not die
Mr. Warthell, do not die here. As a
friend, a sincere friend, I plead with you to live for all our sakes
Here is a lantern
Keep close to me
Gentlemen, vacate the aisle to the extreme right. Whoever obstructs that
pathway to the door, does so at the peril of his life. I have given fair
warning and hold you accountable for whatever results from your failure to
obey
My duty is here
Good-bye. I must go. I am wounded
Harry Dalton
You are to all intents and purposes a villainous
murderer. I know of your nefarious plottings and I witnessed your cowardly
attempt to assassinate Mr. Warthell, a man, the latchet of whose shoes the
possessor of a heart like yours is unworthy to unloose. But your intended
victim shall not die, unless an evil genius presides over the affairs of
men. I have only waited here to tell you how I loathe your crime and that I
exhausted every known means to thwart you. Now I leave you
Stand back from that door, Harry
The poor soul
must be suffering greatly
Leddy, please,
miss, is dis de Linktum horsepittul
Yes, aunty, this is the Lincoln Hospital
Thankee! Thankee Jesus! Thankee! Heah at las'! De ole' ship dun foun' er
harbur. Got er place ter cross ober Jordun
Chile, does yer know anyt'ing 'bout Jesus? Oh! he promis' me dis,
an' he's kep' his word
Come with me
Leddy, ken you fin' a pair ub specks fitten' fur
one ob my age
I will try, aunty
Leddy, please sing dat chune ergin
Laws 'a mussy! Ef it ain't Lenie
Aunt Catherine
Lenie
Dear Aunt Catherine, do tell me
all about yourself since the day I left you to wait on -- on -- Harry. I
searched R ---- from one end to the other, time and again, looking for you.
And here you are in Chicago! Tell me how you have fared
Chile
seein' you, Lenie, hez driv' erway all my
trubbuls. 'Pears ter me, I dun got young ergin an' am down Souf at de ole
home
W'en I retched de city arter leavin' de ole homestid, I 'gun ter hunt fur
wuck. I got er place ter cook fur er white fambly. De leddy dat hi'ed me
wuzunt rich. She wus jes a good liver. Her husban's bizness fell off an'
she had ter hire jes' one 'oman ter cook, an' wash, an' i'ne, an' scrub de
floors, an' keep house. I wuz de fus' ter try it, but I kudden' hole out,
chile. I jes' kudden'. Er sprightly gal tuck my place. Den I hed er hard
time, Lenie. Yer Aunt Catharine hed ter beg frum door ter door. I slep' on
bar' floors in shackly houses, dat wuz empty kase folks wouldn't rent 'um.
I went to de dumps an' scratched in de trash piles fur charcoals and scraps
ter burn ter keep me warm. I begged money ernuf ter cum ter Churcargo, an'
heah I is. Dey tole me dat Linktum wuz frum dis State an' I wuz in hopes ub
doin' bettah up heah. But, Lenie, 'pears ter me dat de po darky aint got
much ub er show enywhurs. I hez found it hard Norf an' Souf
Well, henceforth, I shall take charge of you, and walk through life by
your side, my dear Aunt Catherine
Ain't the doctah tole yer yit
Told me what, my dear
Why, chile, I aint heah fur long. De doctahs sez I kaint git well. De
gospil train dun blowed. It is rollin' into de depot. Capting Jesus is de
cunducter. I hez my ticket ready
De Gospil train am comin',
      I heah it jes' at han',
    I heah de car wheels movin',
      Er rumblin' through de lan'
    Git on bo'd, little chillun,
    Git on bo'd, little chillun,
    Git on bo'd, little chillun,
      Dare's room fur many mo
Yes, Lenie, I'll soon be on bo'd
De Yankees was
mighty anxious to set us poor darkeys free, but it ain't done me no good.
Fack ub de mattah, Lenie, freedum mebbe good fur you young uns who wuzunt
use ter de ole times. Fur your sakes I is glad its come. But I'se hed a
hard time. Enyhow, it is mos' ober now. Marse Maury is ded, an' Missus is
ded, an' a upstart is on de ole place, an' hez been driftin' 'bout frum
pillar ter pos'
Do yer see dis tin box
Lenie
as yer value yer own soul, do wid dis tin box lack I'm gwine ter
tell yer
W'en
yer wuz er gal, Lenie, did yer ebber heah dat our fust juty on jedgment day
would be to git up frum whar eber we wuz burrit and hunt fur de diff'runt
pieces ub our finger nails dat we hed cut off all through life
Yes, Aunt Catherine
Wal, dis box hez got all my finger nails dat I cut off since I wuz er gal.
Bury dis box at de foot ub Maury and Missus, Lenie. W'en jedgment day comes
I want ter git up wid dem. Ef my nails is burrit by dem, I'll have ter go
dare whar dey is. See? Yer know white folks ginilly ain't got heart-felt
'ligun like cullud folks. But Marse and Missus shuah got shuah 'nuf 'ligun.
I wants ter git up wid 'um an' stan' by 'um in jedgment, ter speak up fur
um, ef eny body wants ter go ergin' um jes' kase dey is white. See? Ef dey
doan b'long in hebun, den nobody doan
But, Aunt Catherine
when you do pass away, which I
hope will not be soon, let me bury your _whole body_ where you tell me to
put this tin box. Lemuel Dalton surely would not refuse to allow the
fulfillment of the solemn promise made to you by Uncle Maurice and his
wife
Chile, I hed ter sell dis ole body ter de doctah ter git mony ter lib on
while heah
Oh, Aunt Catherine
Ha, ha, ha
That aint so bad, Lenie
I sole my soul ter Jesus long ergo, an' w'en he takes it, dese doctahs kin
do whut dey choose wid my pore ole body
Bettah be laughin' fur joy, chile, fur er few more risin's an' settin's ub
de sun an' I'll be in glory
Warthell Movement
Sure sign that I did right to attack that scoundrel Warthell, if it has
made this old Democratic paper mad. Ha, ha, ha! Morlene thought I was doing
wrong. I wasn't though, anybody can see, for what would this old
Democratic paper be kicking about if what I did wasn't against it
We'll hear a different tune when the Northern Republican papers begin to
discuss our attempt to get rid of these Negro traitors who are plotting to
undo all that the North has done for us. I take my medicine from the North;
let the South go where it please. See? Any Negro that will stand up for the
South against the North is an infernal, ungrateful, good for nothing
rascal, and _ought_ to be killed. Tell him I said so
Now we
shall hear the thing talked about right
A Crime Against Freedom
A Crime Against
Freedom
Yes, yes; only it ought to be 'An Unpardonable Crime,' for that
is what it was
The United States of America is a government ruled by the duly ascertained
will of a majority of its citizens. Each qualified citizen has the right of
casting one vote in support of whatever side of an issue that pleases him.
Each citizen has the further right to use all legitimate means in his power
to induce other citizens to cast their votes as he casts his.

"The right of advocacy is, if possible, more sacred than the right to vote,
for the votes of fellow citizens go well nigh the whole length in shaping a
man's environments. Since the votes of others are the majority influence in
determining a man's environments, it is manifestly unjust to deny him the
opportunity of influencing these votes. He who strikes at freedom of speech
strikes at the corner-stone of our republic, and, to our view, commits the
greatest crime that a citizen can commit against a government.

"It is well known that we are in full accord with the Republican party's
policy with reference to the Philippine Islands. While we are firmly of
the opinion that the party is right, we nevertheless strenuously insist
that those who hold contrary views be accorded the right to advocate those
views.

"Dorlan Warthell, a Negro in the South, has seen fit to publicly disapprove
of a portion of the party's policy, whereupon a Negro Republican zealot has
sought to take his life. The Republican party repudiates such vile methods
and the man who resorts to them.

"Mr. Warthell has as much right to express his views, whatever they may be,
as the President of the nation. The fact that he is a member of a race that
obtained its freedom through the instrumentality of the Republican party
does not alter the matter in the least. The Republican party has no
political slaves and desires none. It seeks to commend itself to the hearts
and consciences of men, and spurns every semblance of coercion.

"The miscreant who sought to kill Mr. Warthell, because that individual
dared to be a man, is unworthy of life. If the arms of justice are too
short to reach him, it is hardly to be hoped that he will have the good
sense to bring his own unprofitable existence to a close
I can surprise them yet. They say 'It is hardly to be hoped that he will
have the good sense to bring his own unprofitable existence to a close.'
Aha! we shall see
Thank God
the way appears
Get out of the way, you fool
Those horses will kill you
Horror! Horror! Horror everywhere
But why am I fleeing?
It is abroad in the whole expanse of earth. If Harry _was_ to die, tell me,
tell me, why he could not have awaited to carry my forgiveness with him
Abide with me! Fast falls the eventide;
    The darkness deepens -- Lord, with me abide!
    When other helpers fail, and comforts flee,
    Help of the helpless,-- O abide with me
Father, Harry's body lies up yonder, and, behold, the place is
lighted. May we not hope that his spirit, in spite of his weaknesses, has
gone _upward_, and may we not also hope that there the spirit, too, has
light, more light than came to it in this darkened world
Come in
Here's your paper, Mister. Good
news for _you_
How do you know that it contains news pleasing to me
Cause you are a colored man
Even the children feel that they know the politics of every Negro by
glancing at his skin. Too bad! I suppose the boy means to say the
Republicans have won
What
Has a reaction against that
idealism which has hitherto been its chief glory really set in in the
Anglo-Saxon race? Has commercialism really throttled altruism? Has the era
of the recognition of the inherent rights of men come to a close? Has our
government lent its sanction to the code of international morals that
accords the strong the right to rule the weak, brushing aside by the force
of arms every claim of the weak? Alas! Alas
eternal vigilance is the price of liberty
Mr. Warthell, I am so very glad to see you alive and well. How often have
I subjected my actions to the closest scrutiny, disposed to accuse myself
of not doing all that might have been done to prevent that dastardly
assault upon you
Excuse me for not desiring to give attention to myself, in view of the
fact that I am but now made aware by your mourning that some dear one has
passed away
You have not heard, then
I have
lost my husband. He was killed in the act of stopping some runaway horses
more than a year ago
Excuse me for a few moments, Mrs. Dalton
Gee-whillikens
And that divine woman is free! Thought, I
wish you would sink into my consciousness at once
I have a little problem of desired
expansion on my own hands, and I fear the government will have to wag along
without me the best way it can for a while
Now those Negroes are moulding sentiment against the entire race
Be the requirement just or
unjust the polished Negro is told to return and bring his people with him,
before coming into possession of that to which his attainments would seem
to entitle him. It is my opinion that there must be developed within the
race a stronger altruistic tie before it can push forward at a proper gait.
The classes must love the masses, in spite of the bad name the race is
given by the indolent, the sloven and the criminal element
Ah! the squalor and misery of my poor
voiceless race! What we see here is but a bird's-eye view. The heart grows
sick when it contemplates the plight of the Negroes of the cities
Hold! here am I
Here
My name is Ulbah Kumi. I hail from Africa. I am one of an army of
commissioners sent out by our kingdom into all parts of the world where
Negroes have been held in modern times as slaves. We are hunting for the
descendants of a lost prince. This prince was the oldest son of our
reigning king, and was taken captive in a battle fought with a rival
kingdom. He was sold into slavery. The royal family had a motto and a
family mark. You recognized the motto on the banner; you have the royal
mark. You also look to be a prince. Tell me your family history and I will
make to you further disclosures
Now! Now
That formula is no
doubt a key that will unfold the hiding place of treasures that will make
you the richest man in the world. Here is an inventory of what is to be
found in that hiding place
This is incredulous
How could
Africans, unlearned in the values of civilized nations, know how to store
away these things
Easily explained
A white explorer spent years in our kingdom
collecting these things. We deemed them worthless, gave them to him readily
and called him fool. He took sick in our country and saw that he was going
to die. He called your great grandfather, our king, to his bedside, told
him that civilization would make its way into Africa one day, and urged him
at all hazards to preserve and secrete the treasures that he had collected.
Our king was led to believe that these treasures would make him one of the
greatest rulers of earth, and he obeyed the dying man's injunction. The
white man left this inventory and a document giving the location of his
European home, the names and family history of his kin, asking that our
king remember them in the day of his affluence.

"Our king gave the formula that leads to the hiding place to your
grandfather, your grandfather told it to your father, your father has, I
see, no doubt, told it to you.

"As a further proof that I speak the truth I hand you now a few specimen
stones that were reserved to prevent this affair from being classed as a
myth
How these things would grace Morlene
When am I expected to go to Africa
You may not have to come at all, and yet serve our purpose
How so
We Africans are engaged in a sociological investigation
of many questions. We are seeking to know definitely what part the climate,
the surface, the flora and the fauna have played in keeping us in
civilization's back yard. Huxley thinks that our woolly hair and black
skins came to us only after our race took up its abode in Africa. He holds
that it was nature's contribution to render us immune from the yellow fever
germs so abundant in swampy regions.

"He thinks that those of our race who did not take on a dark hue and woolly
texture of hair were the less adapted to life in the tropics and eventually
died out, leaving those that were better adjusted to survive.

"He thinks that these beneficial modifications were preserved and
transmitted with increasing strength from generation to generation until
our hue and our hair or the physical attributes for which they stand
rendered us immune from yellow fever. I may add that Livingstone says of
us, 'Heat alone does not produce blackness of skin, but heat with moisture
seems to insure the deepest hue.'

"Now, nature, in thus protecting us against yellow fever, by changing our
color from the original, whatever it was, has painted upon us a sign that
causes some races to think that there is a greater difference between us
and them than there really is. So much for our color and the ills that it
has entailed
I am truly glad that you are not inoculated with that utterly nonsensical
view to be met with in this country, which represents that the Negro's
color is the result of a curse pronounced by Noah upon his recovery from a
drunken stupor. Please proceed
Mr. Herbert Spencer holds that our comparative
lack of energy is due to heat and _moisture_. He states that 'the earliest
recorded civilization grew up in a hot and dry region -- Egypt; and in hot
and dry regions also arose the Babylonian, Assyrian and Phoenician
civilizations.' He points out that all 'the conquering races of the world
have hailed from within or from the borders of the hot and dry region
marked on the rain map 'rainless districts,' and extending across North
Africa, Arabia, Persia, and on through Thibet into Mongolia.'

"He, therefore, would ascribe our backwardness principally to a woful lack
of energy, a condition brought on by our hot and moist climate.

"When our investigation of these questions is complete
we will know just what has brought us where we are and can determine
whether artificial appliances sufficient to counteract existing influences
can be discovered and instituted.

"Mr. Benjamin Kidd seems to think that the tropics can never develop the
highest type of civilization. In the event that the government of the
tropics is to be conducted from the temperate zones, we tropical people
will desire Negroes to remain in the temperate zones, to advocate such
policies and form such alliances as shall be for our highest good.

"So, it may turn out to be the best for you, our king, to remain here, for
our welfare, owing to our peculiar environments, depends, just now, as
much upon what others think of us as upon what we ourselves may do. The
question of your going to Africa is not, therefore, a pressing one, yet
That leaves me somewhat free to deal with a question that _is_ pressing,
and pressing hard
Don't declare yourself on this the very first occasion. Those gate talks
and business visits are not supposed to have been acts of courtship,
remember
Will you please leave me
Morlene
I really believe that my heart will burst if I do
not let out its secret. Morlene, I love you. But you know that and you know
how well. You have read this and more, too, in my countenance. Will you be
my wife
Come
Tell me, dear girl, that you will be my wife. May I, poor worm of the
dust, be allowed to call you my own
I do not know, Mr. Warthell, I do not know. It
Do not know
My God! she does
not know
Wait but a second, and all will be plain
Wait a second
A second in moments like
these seems akin to an eternity. But I wait
Now, Mr. Warthell, be fair to yourself
You
remarked that I must have read some things in your countenance. Remember
your soul has an eyesight, and you have done some reading, too
I will explain to you what it is that I do not know, Mr. Warthell. I do
not know how long it will be before conditions in the South will warrant
women of my way of thinking in becoming wives of men of your mould
If
consideration of this matter is to be postponed
until my environments enable me to prove myself worthy of you, my doom is
certain. For the most benign influences of earth have not produced the man
that could claim your hand on the ground of merit
Mr. Warthell, you misapprehend. A second thought would have told you not
to place a construction on my remarks that causes them to savor of egotism
on my part. It is far from me to suggest that anything is needed to make
you worthy of any woman. To the contrary, your esteem is a tribute than
which there is nothing higher, so I feel. Now, hear me calmly
Not until I have purged myself of contempt
I hold that egotism is inordinate self-esteem, esteem carried beyond what
is deserved. Under this definition, show me, please, how you could manifest
egotism. It is absolutely unthinkable from my point of view
Mr. Warthell, to my mind it is the function of the wife to
idealize the aims of a husband, to quicken the energies that would flag, to
be at once the incentive and perennial inspiration of his noble
achievements, to point him to the stars and steady his hand as he carves
his name upon the skies. In the South the Negro wife is robbed of this holy
task. We are being taught in certain high quarters that self-repression is
the Negro's chiefest virtue. Our bodies are free -- they no longer wear the
chains, but our spirits are yet in fetters. I have firmly resolved, Mr.
Warthell, to accept no place by a husband's side until I can say to his
spirit, 'Go forth to fill the earth with goodness and glory
Mr. Warthell, in you may slumber the genius of a Pericles, but a wife in
the South dare not urge upon you to become a town constable or a justice of
the peace. Talk about slavery! Ah! the chains that fetter the body are but
as ropes of down when compared to those that fetter the mind, the spirit of
man. And think ye I would enter your home simply to inspire that great soul
of yours to restlessness and fruitless tuggings at its chains! In the day
when a Negro has a man's chance in the race of life, I will let my heart
say to you, Mr. Warthell, all that it wishes to say
Morlene, I confess I am a slave. My neighbors, my white fellow citizens,
have formed a pen, have drawn a zigzag line about me and told me that I
must not step across on pain of death. Having a mind as other men, such
arbitrary restrictions are galling. I am then a slave, limited not by my
capacity to feel and do, but by the color of my skin. You do not wish to
marry a slave; refuse him for his own good. All of that is clear to me, and
I chide you not. Come! There are lands where a man's color places no
restrictions on his aspirations for what is high and useful. Let us flee
thither
No, no, no, Mr. Warthell! Let us not flee. At least, not yet. Our dignity
as a people demands that the manhood rights of the race be recognized on
every foot of soil on which the sun sees fit to cast his rays
Now, Morlene
you as good as tell me that you will never be
my wife. Pray, tell me, why am I so rudely tossed about upon the bosom of
life's heaving ocean
I have not said that I would not be your wife, Dorlan. I am trying every
day I live to devise a solution for our Southern problem
She called me Dorlan, she called me Dorlan
Morlene! Morlene
Suppose I,
Dorlan Warthell, solve this problem; suppose I unfetter the mind of the
Negro and allow it full scope for operation; suppose I offer to you a
thoroughly substantial hope of racial regeneration, will you
If
I do these things
will you be my wife
Mr. Warthell, if you can open the way for me to really be your wife, there
is nothing in my heart that bids me shrink from the love you offer
I am to weld two heterogeneous elements into a homogeneous
entity. I am to make a successful blend of two races that differ so widely
as do the whites and the Negroes. Each race has manifested its racial
instincts, and has shown us all, that wise planning must take account of
these. The problem is inherently a difficult one and of a highly complex
nature. But with an incentive such as I have, surely it can be solved.
Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln said the problem was incapable of
solution, that the two races could not live together on terms of equality.
They were great and wise, but not infallible. With Morlene as a prize, I
shall prove them wrong
I go from you consecrating my whole
power to the task before me. Fortunate it is, indeed, for the South that
she has at least one man so surrounded that he cannot be happy himself
until he makes this wilderness of woe blossom as a rose. Farewell
I will
have no business at her home now until this problem is solved. Suppose I do
not solve it
I may never, never see that
face again. Think of it
Morlene
I have come to ask a boon of you. I can labor so
much better with a full assurance of your love. From your eyes, from your
words, I say humbly, I have come to feel that you have honored me with that
love. But the testimony is incomplete. Will you grant unto me the one
remaining assurance? Will you seal our most holy compact with a kiss
Please do not require
that
Why, young man the whole
matter rests with you
a good looking woman
a fine looking woman
a likely gal
I am going to my lodge meeting now; I may not return until very late
Raise a row among yourselves
Good luck
there is my breakfast
But how is the waiting, struggling, hoping Dorlan concerned in all of
this
Confound the people who first brought the
Negroes to this country
Lemuel, my dear, what on earth are you allowing to trouble you
I may tell you when you return from your morning ride
You naughty lad
When did you ever hear of a woman consenting to wait a moment to obtain a
secret? Tell me _now_ on pain of being doomed to bear this burden, my
humble self, in your arms for ever
The very penalty that you affix as a menace is an inducement for me to
disobey. I resist the temptation, however, and tell you the subject of my
thoughts. I was thinking of the Negroes
Lemuel, will you people of the South ever be rid of this
eternal nightmare
Lady
Lady
don't be afraid. I am not going to harm you
There, I have thrown it
away
Lady
I have caught hold of your horse to keep you from going away
from me frightened, for the white people will kill me on a mere suspicion
of wrong intention on my part. I am harmless. I used to live out here
I got into trouble in the city and am running away. That's how I am out
here so early
Oh, he is a criminal
Plague on it
I am in a pretty fix. I'll swear I wish those
'cops' had me safe in prison. I have swapped the witch for the devil
Well, lady, I'll let you go and take my
chances
I must go back to find out whether the woman is
dead
Some one may have heard the shot and may be hurrying
here
What, oh, what have I done to be in such a fix
What must I do next
I haven't yet murdered anybody and I shall not let this
woman die if I can help it
Eulalie! Eulalie! Oh! Eulalie
Speak to me, beloved
Lemuel
Thank God! Oh! Thank God, she lives
Oh -- hic -- yes -- hic -- I've got -- hic-hic-hic you -- hic.
I'll -- hic -- kill -- hic -- hic -- you -- hic
My name is Lemuel Dalton. I
perceive that you glean from my countenance that fate has hurled its
harpoon into my soul
My wife
the most beautiful, the most
angelic, the most beloved woman of earth, has been needlessly slain
Circumstances killed my wife, sir. Circumstances -- cold, cruel,
circumstances
It was on this wise
She met a Negro who was fleeing from justice. She had heard so
much of late of the crimes of Negroes against white women that she was
terribly frightened by the mere fact of seeing this Negro. The Negro was
frightened over the consequences likely to ensue as a result of her fright.
He sought to reassure her. She mistrusted him the more. To keep her from
reaching me in time to institute a successful pursuit, the Negro killed the
horse that she was riding. The horse in falling caught my wife partially
under his huge frame. She was fatally injured
She died
On her dying
bed she begged me to not prosecute the Negro on the charge of murder. In
her last moments she said to me, 'Lemuel, good bye. Save other homes from a
like fate. Dispel this atmosphere of suspicion in which I have been stifled
unto my death.' I have obeyed her request with regard to the Negro. A
careful investigation demonstrated that he had told my wife and me the
truth in every detail. He is now in prison serving his sentence for the
offenses committed prior to his chance meeting with my wife
Do you realize, sir, that the social fabric of which you
are a part, furnished the viper that has stung me in a vital spot? Where,
sir, are your churches, your school rooms, all of your influences that are
supposed to produce worthy beings
Oh, no! I am not at all
unbalanced. To show you that I am not I shall answer my own question. You
Negroes need more from us Southern whites than a feeling of indifference,
or a spirit of 'make it if you can.' I have come to learn at so sad a cost
that the safety and happiness of my race is inexorably bound up with the
virtue and well-being of your race
Morlene Dalton sent me to you. I went to her because she told me
years ago that I would come to this. I am here to-night to offer my help to
your race, and to ask what you all desire of me
But, hold! before you speak, let me tell you that about me which is
subject to no compromise
I am an
exclusive; I want no mixture of blood, thought or activities with the Negro
race. I want this white race to keep on manifesting its true inwardness to
the world. I wish our whole civilization to be permeated with our own
peculiar fragrance and that only. Whatever I can do for your people without
jeopardy to this conception I stand ready to do. True, this means that I
desire you to be an alien in our midst. But my present position is an
improvement on my former, in that I am now willing to do all that can be
done to make this alien, happy, prosperous and virtuous; but an alien ever,
remember. Will you kindly point out to a white man standing on this
platform what _he_ may consistently do for the Negro
I am grieved, profoundly grieved that your wife, who may be the prototype
of hundreds, has been drawn into the awful vortex of this race trouble
Tut, tut, you persist in thinking I am crazy
I came to discuss the race question with
you, but I am in no mood for that
You colored folks believe in God. I
don't
That is, I didn't. But the morning Eulalie, my
wife, was brought home wounded, I called God's name for the first time
since my early childhood
Eulalie was a Christian
Tell me the truth. Do you, do you
Do you think
that
I shall meet -- Eulalie again
To-night I have been confronted with an epitome of the situation
of the Negro in this country
One white man comes who is angry
because I will not be his tool. Then follows the exclusive, who feels that
my touch is contaminating. Truly the Negro is between the upper and the
nether millstones.

"Ah, Morlene what a task you have assigned unto this pilot, called by you
to guide the bark of the Negro over this perilous sea. As I take my post,
happy am I, that in my love of humanity I find my chart; in my love for my
race I have a compass; and in my love for you I have a lighthouse on the
shore.

"Shine on, sweet soul, that I may pilot this vessel through the breakers,
above whose hidden heads the waves are ever chanting the solemn song of
death
Please do not read the enclosed letter
until you have read and passed upon the plan
Columbia is saved. Let all mankind
henceforth honor the name of Dorlan, the hero of humanity
DEAR MORLENE:

     "As best I could, heaven knows, I have wrestled with
     the problem assigned to me by you, the queen of my
     heart. Some one has said that the most _sublime_
     incident in all of human history was Martin Luther's
     standing alone before the Diet of Worms. Side by side
     with that statement let all men now write that my
     situation is the most excruciatingly _painful_ one that
     a human being has ever been called upon to endure. When
     I first met you, circumstances forced me to stifle the
     love that was ready to burst into a flame.
     Subsequently, fate decreed that you should be free, and
     my heart ran riot.

     "But fate was determined that one so beautiful and so
     worthy as yourself should not be won until the wooer
     appeared in some degree worthy of the lady whose hand
     was desired.

     "Now, dear Morlene, tell me by what process, human or
     divine, I could be made in any measure worthy of you?
     If this plan is supposed to achieve that result, is
     supposed to mark me as worthy of your hand, it has
     failure written on its face. This conclusion would seem
     to be beyond the realm of debate. And yet my reason
     tells me that the plan must of necessity succeed; that,
     being based upon incontrovertible laws there is no way
     for it to fail.

     "Now, Morlene, my darling, with my powers of intuition
     telling me that I must fail of winning your hand and
     with my reason telling me I have successfully performed
     the task assigned me, what must I do? Hope and Fear
     have come to terms in my bosom, and one occupies the
     throne one minute and the other the next. They
     alternate thus by day and by night. In my dreams I am
     sometimes as happy as the angels are reputed to
     be -- happier than they, I should say. But the joy is
     short-lived, and in my dreams I find myself tumbling
     over precipices and wading through miry swamps.

     "I could not stay in R ----, and in quietness await your
     verdict. I have had to travel, to lessen, if possible,
     the strain of anxiety upon my mind. So, when you find
     yourself reading this letter, I shall be hundreds of
     miles away at Galveston, Texas, on the beach of the
     great Gulf. I am here awaiting your verdict. If it is
     favorable, I shall return to you forthwith. If
     unfavorable, I am at a port where ships are daily
     leaving for all parts of the world. Enough for that.

     "Finally, dear one, if the scheme which I submitted to
     you affords the necessary assurance that the problem
     will be solved, telegraph to me the one word,
     'Unfettered.' If it does not afford such assurance, let
     your message be 'Fettered still.'

                 "Am I yours,

                   _Forever or Never_?

                        "DORLAN WARTHELL
Dear, dear boy! how much he must have suffered,
if he loves me thus
Suppose my delay has begotten in Dorlan the recklessness of despair
Come with us. We are
like you. We are restless. Come with us
Not yet. Perhaps some day
Much love hath made thee mad, my boy. Give the dear girl a chance, will
you
Gentlemen, it pains me to state that our aeronaut is confined to his bed
and will be unable to-night to make his customary balloon ascension and
descent in the parachute. That part of our evening's entertainment must
therefore be omitted, unless some one of you will volunteer to act in his
stead
Two birds with one stone
The boys have taught this
audience how to laugh. I can show them an act of bravery. One bird!

"There must be a great force somewhere directing the affairs of the
universe. His plannings puzzle me. Men have accidentally gone from balloons
to solve the great mystery of all things. Bird number two! Morlene
evidently does not care
Gentlemen, the phases of Negro character are as varied as those of
other men. There is in us the sense of the humorous and the possibilities
of the tragic. We can partake of life to satiety, we can die of grief.
These boys have made you laugh. Allow me to awaken in you higher emotions.
I will make the ascension and descent and thus prevent the marring of our
evening's entertainment
Think
how long it took this
universe to evolve unto its present state. Think of the seemingly slow
process of world formation now going on in the Nebulae scattered through
those realms yonder
And here I am impatient because that dear girl on whose heart the woes of
the world now rest has not hastened in deciding that I had harnessed the
forces that will solve one of the most difficult problems that ever
perplexed mankind
Wait for your change, Mister. We don't get
but ten cents extra
Keep the dollar, lad
Unfettered
The solution of the Negro Problem involves the honor
     or dishonor, the glory or shame, the happiness or
     misery of the entire American people
I had rather see my people render back this question
     rightly solved than to see them gather all the spoils
     over which faction has contended since Cataline
     conspired and Caesar fought
What Plato has thought he may think; what a saint has felt he may
feel; what at any time has befallen any man, he can understand
that all nations of men
made of one blood to dwell on all the face of the earth
It has come to be a maxim of science that in the
causes still at work, are to be identified the causes which, similarly at
work during past times, have produced the state of things now existing
The emotional nature prompting the general mode of
conduct is derived from ancestors -- is a product of all ancestral
activities. * * * The governing sentiment is, in short, mainly the
accumulated and organized sentiment of the past
Had I
been in 1815 the choice of the English as I was of the French, I might have
lost the battle of Waterloo without losing a vote in the legislature or a
soldier from my ranks
Who are the fittest: those who are continually
at war with each other, or those who support one another
Those communities (of
animals) which included the greatest number of the most sympathetic members
would flourish best
To create units in indefinite quantities and
scatter them over the world is not even to take one single step in
progress. Before any higher evolution can take place these units must by
some means be brought into relation so as not only to act together, but to
react upon each other. According to well known biological laws, it is only
in combinations, whether of atoms, cells, animals, or human beings that
individual units can make any progress, and to create such combinations is
in every case the first condition of development. Hence the first
commandment of Evolution everywhere is, 'Thou shalt mass, segregate,
combine, grow large
neither material
prosperity, nor happiness, nor physical vigor, nor higher intelligence
those are higher in which broad social instincts and the habit of
co-operation exist
It is
expedient for us, that one man should die for the people
Its foundation is laid in pure domestic life, in commercial integrity, in
a high standard of moral worth and of public spirit, in simple habits, in
courage, uprightness, and a certain soundness and moderation of judgment
which springs quite as much from character as from intellect. If you would
form a wise judgment of the future of a nation, observe carefully whether
these qualities are increasing or decaying. Observe especially what
qualities count for most in public life. Is character becoming of greater
or less importance? Are the men who obtain the highest posts in the nation,
men of whom in private life and irrespective of party, competent judges
speak with genuine respect? Are they of sincere convictions, consistent
lives, indisputable integrity? * * * It is by observing this moral current
that you can best cast the horoscope of a nation
THERE IS NO PLACE LIKE HOME
the first great schoolroom of
the human race is the home
It is the mature
opinion of every one who has thought upon the history of the world, that
the thing of highest importance for all times and to all nations is Family
Life
rainy day
there is not that direct connection between social development and
high intellectual development which has hitherto been almost universally
assumed to exist
that the wide interval between the peoples who have
attained the highest social development and the lowest, is not mainly the
result of a difference in intellectual, but a difference in ethical
development
would, in fact, appear to be growing
more and more religious, the winning sections being those in which,
_caeteris paribus_, this type of character is most fully developed
the evolution which is slowly proceeding in
society is not primarily intellectual, but religious in character
the same author, the same end and the same spirit
OF MAKING MANY BOOKS THERE IS NO END
YE HAVE THE POOR WITH YOU ALWAYS
THE FIELD IS THE WORLD
In turning over the files of the American press, we read of Washington as
an embezzler; of Jefferson as an atheist, an anarchist and a libertine; of
Adams as a tyrant; and of Jackson as a bully, a border ruffian and an
assassin. Van Buren was accused of stealing gold spoons from the White
House. The stock epithet applied to President Lincoln was the 'Illinois
baboon.' President Johnson was habitually described as a 'drunken boor.'
What was said by the newspapers of our later Presidents, from General Grant
to Mr. Cleveland, is fresh in the memory of every person of mature age. How
utterly insincere is all this hideous abuse may be seen in the fact that it
is hushed into silence as soon as the object of it passes out of the
political arena into private life. No breath of it ever lingers in the
allusions that are thereafter made to him by even the bitterest of his late
opponents
Cultivate peace and harmony with all. Nothing is more essential than that
permanent, inveterate antipathies against particular nations and passionate
attachments for others should be excluded, and that in place of them just
and amicable feelings toward all should be cultivated. The nation which
indulges toward another an habitual hatred or an habitual fondness is in
some degree a slave. It is a slave to its animosity or its affection,
either of which is sufficient to lead it astray from its duty and its
interest
play
the game of politics
The Washington Post
So far as we are concerned -- and we believe that the best
element of the South in every State will sustain our proposition -- we hold
that, as between the ignorant of the two races, the Negroes are preferable.
They are conservative; they are good citizens; they take no stock in
social schisms and vagaries; they do not consort with anarchists; they
cannot be made the tools and agents of incendiaries. * * * Their influence
in government would be infinitely more wholesome than the influence of the
white sansculotte, the riffraff, the idlers, the rowdies, and the outlaws
the control exercised by public sentiment over
conduct at large
It requires only to
contemplate the social code which regulates life, down even to the color of
an evening necktie, and to note how those who dare not break this code have
no hesitation in smuggling, to see that an unwritten law enforced by
opinion, is more peremptory than a written law not so enforced. And still
more on observing that men disregard the just claims of creditors, who for
goods given cannot get the money, while they are anxious to discharge
so-called debts of honor to those who have rendered neither goods nor
services, we are shown that the control of prevailing sentiment, unenforced
by law and religion, may be more potent than law and religion together,
when they are backed by sentiment less strongly manifested. Looking at the
total activities of men, we are obliged to admit, that they are still, as
they were at the outset, guided by the aggregate feeling, past and
present
It is only needful to look around us to see that the
greatest restrainers of the anti-social tendencies of men is fear, not of
the law, but of the opinions of their fellows. The conventions of honor
bind men who break legal, moral and religious bonds; and while people
endure the extremity of pain rather than part with life, shame drives the
weakest to suicide
Thou shalt
not follow a multitude to do evil
Let him be unto thee as an heathen man and a publican
In like
manner the effect produced on the minds of the British people by
descriptions of the wrongs and sufferings of oppressed nationalities, has
been one of the most powerful influences affecting the foreign policy of
England throughout the nineteenth century; and any close student of our
politics during this period would have to note that this influence, so far
as the will of the people found expression through the government in power,
has been a far more potent factor in shaping that policy than any clear
conception of those far reaching political motives so often attributed to
the British nation by other countries
</text>
