<text>
replied Mr. Campbell, sitting down again
said Mrs. Campbell, taking the hand of
her husband
replied Mrs. Campbell, in a cheering tone
said Alfred, after a
while, to a man in a boat
repeated Captain Lumley to
the first lieutenant
said Percival, whose eyes were fixed on the water
said Emma to him after the conversation had been ended
said Captain Lumley after the first salutations
were over
observed the
Surveyor-General, after a time
replied Martin, who then made under Mr. Campbell's name,
a figure like &lsqb;Illustration of a panther&rsqb; saying
said Alfred,
first breaking the silence
said Captain Sinclair, who had been in conversation with Mary
Percival, and who now addressed Mr. Campbell
said Captain Sinclair, pointing with his hand
said Martin Super, as soon as he had come up to the party on the
knoll, for the _bateaux_ had now arrived
replied the hunter in a deep voice
said Emma in a low tone to
her sister
observed Emma, after a pause of a few seconds, during
which they watched the receding form of the hunter
said the old hunter, after a pause
continued Malachi, putting his hand on John's head
replied Martin, who had entered
said Henry in a low voice
said old Malachi, pulling from out of his
vest a small parcel, wrapped up in thin bark, and handing it to her
said Mr. Campbell, the next
morning before they quitted their sleeping-room
said Emma, after a pause
replied Emma, laughing,
and rising from her seat
said Alfred, going to her
said she, rallying her spirits
said Mrs. Campbell, with surprise
said John, going up to his mother and cousins
said Alfred, as he reached the door
observed Captain Sinclair to Mary
continued he, looking toward the Strawberry
exclaimed Emma, as she stopped at the
bridge and looked on the wide blue lake
but here Emma stopped; she was going to
say how much she wished that she was going also, but her uncle and aunt
were present, and, recollecting that it might pain them and induce them
to think that she was discontented, she added
continued Mr. Campbell to Captain Sinclair
said Alfred, after Mr. Campbell had finished speaking
said Alfred, kissing his cousin
said Mary, as soon as he was out of hearing
said Mr. Campbell, looking round for him, and perceiving that
he was not in the room
said Henry to Alfred, as he cast his eyes over the
buildings, the stacks of corn and hay, and the prairie stocked with
cattle
observed Malachi, as he
watched him departing
replied Martin, and continued holding up his hand
continued Malachi, as he passed by a mound of snow
said he to Mr. Campbell
said Alfred the next morning, as they were all busily
employed getting the seed into the new cleared land
said
Emma, as they walked home
said Martin, who had joined them
after describing the country they passed through,
the paragraph ended with
said the Strawberry, pointing to the
former footmarks
said Malachi, after a close examination
continued Malachi, turning to Captain Sinclair and Alfred
said
Martin, as the Strawberry handed some of the pork to John
said Malachi to Captain Sinclair
said Malachi, who was standing over the body of
the Indian chief
replied Emma,
extending her hand to him
said Mr. Campbell, when their first
emotions were over
said Mrs. Campbell, whose arms still
encircled the neck of Percival
said Mr. Campbell, shaking him by the hand
</text>
