<text>
How do you make out that
The moon is past the full, and she rises at nine
Never you mind about the moon. Don't you trouble yourself about her. You let the moon alone, and I'll let you alone
No offence I hope
No offence as YET
Well
I thought you gave an order
A highwayman
Do you suppose highwaymen don't dress handsomer than that
It's a better business than you think for, Tom, and highwaymen don't need or use to be shabby, take my word for it
What house is that which stands a mile or so from here
Public-house
Public-house, father
where's the public-house within a mile or so of the Maypole? He means the great house -- the Warren -- naturally and of course. The old red brick house, sir, that stands in its own grounds
Aye
And that fifteen or twenty years ago stood in a park five times as broad, which with other and richer property has bit by bit changed hands and dwindled away -- more's the pity
Maybe
But my question related to the owner. What it has been I don't care to know, and what it is I can see for myself
The owner's name is Haredale, Mr Geoffrey Haredale, and
and a worthy gentleman too -- hem
I turned out of my way coming here, and took the footpath that crosses the grounds. Who was the young lady that I saw entering a carriage? His daughter
Why, how should I know, honest man
I didn't see the young lady, you know. Whew! There's the wind again -- AND rain -- well it IS a night
You're used to it
Pretty well
About the young lady -- has Mr Haredale a daughter
No, no
he's a single gentleman -- he's -- be quiet, can't you, man? Don't you see this talk is not relished yonder
Single men have had daughters before now. Perhaps she may be his daughter, though he is not married
What do you mean
You'll come in for it presently, I know you will
I mean no harm
and have said none that I know of. I ask a few questions -- as any stranger may, and not unnaturally -- about the inmates of a remarkable house in a neighbourhood which is new to me, and you are as aghast and disturbed as if I were talking treason against King George. Perhaps you can tell me why, sir, for (as I say) I am a stranger, and this is Greek to me
Such a thing as love is
He has set off to walk to London,-- all the way to London. His nag gone lame in riding out here this blessed afternoon, and comfortably littered down in our stable at this minute; and he giving up a good hot supper and our best bed, because Miss Haredale has gone to a masquerade up in town, and he has set his heart upon seeing her! I don't think I could persuade myself to do that, beautiful as she is,-- but then I'm not in love (at least I don't think I am) and that's the whole difference
He is in love then
Rather
He'll never be more in love, and may very easily be less
Silence, sir
What a chap you are, Joe
Such a inconsiderate lad
Putting himself forward and wringing the very nose off his own father's face
What HAVE I done
Silence, sir
what do you mean by talking, when you see people that are more than two or three times your age, sitting still and silent and not dreaming of saying a word
Why that's the proper time for me to talk, isn't it
The proper time, sir
the proper time's no time
Ah to be sure
The proper time's no time, sir
when I was your age I never talked, I never wanted to talk. I listened and improved myself that's what I did
And you'd find your father rather a tough customer in argeyment, Joe, if anybody was to try and tackle him
For the matter o' that, Phil
For the matter o' that, Phil, argeyment is a gift of Natur. If Natur has gifted a man with powers of argeyment, a man has a right to make the best of 'em, and has not a right to stand on false delicacy, and deny that he is so gifted; for that is a turning of his back on Natur, a flouting of her, a slighting of her precious caskets, and a proving of one's self to be a swine that isn't worth her scattering pearls before
You hear what your father says, Joe? You wouldn't much like to tackle him in argeyment, I'm thinking, sir
IF
IF, sir, Natur has fixed upon me the gift of argeyment, why should I not own to it, and rather glory in the same? Yes, sir, I AM a tough customer that way. You are right, sir. My toughness has been proved, sir, in this room many and many a time, as I think you know; and if you don't know
so much the better, for I an't proud and am not going to tell you
It's all very fine talking
But if you mean to tell me that I'm never to open my lips
Silence, sir
No, you never are. When your opinion's wanted, you give it. When you're spoke to, you speak. When your opinion's not wanted and you're not spoke to, don't you give an opinion and don't you speak. The world's undergone a nice alteration since my time, certainly. My belief is that there an't any boys left -- that there isn't such a thing as a boy -- that there's nothing now between a male baby and a man -- and that all the boys went out with his blessed Majesty King George the Second
That's a very true observation, always excepting the young princes
If it's godly and righteous for boys, being of the ages of boys, to behave themselves like boys, then the young princes must be boys and cannot be otherwise
Did you ever hear tell of mermaids, sir
Certainly I have
Very good
According to the constitution of mermaids, so much of a mermaid as is not a woman must be a fish. According to the constitution of young princes, so much of a young prince (if anything) as is not actually an angel, must be godly and righteous. Therefore if it's becoming and godly and righteous in the young princes (as it is at their ages) that they should be boys, they are and must be boys, and cannot by possibility be anything else
If you had asked your questions of a grown-up person -- of me or any of these gentlemen -- you'd have had some satisfaction, and wouldn't have wasted breath. Miss Haredale is Mr Geoffrey Haredale's niece
Is her father alive
No
he is not alive, and he is not dead
Not dead
Not dead in a common sort of way
let no man contradict me, for I won't believe him
What do you mean
More than you think for, friend
Perhaps there's more meaning in them words than you suspect
Perhaps there is
but what the devil do you speak in such mysteries for? You tell me, first, that a man is not alive, nor yet dead -- then, that he's not dead in a common sort of way -- then, that you mean a great deal more than I think for. To tell you the truth, you may do that easily; for so far as I can make out, you mean nothing. What DO you mean, I ask again
That
is a Maypole story, and has been any time these four-and-twenty years. That story is Solomon Daisy's story. It belongs to the house; and nobody but Solomon Daisy has ever told it under this roof, or ever shall -- that's more
It was Mr Reuben Haredale, Mr Geoffrey's elder brother
Cobb
what day of the month is this
The nineteenth
Of March
the nineteenth of March; that's very strange
It was Mr Reuben Haredale, Mr Geoffrey's elder brother, that twenty-two years ago was the owner of the Warren, which, as Joe has said -- not that you remember it, Joe, for a boy like you can't do that, but because you have often heard me say so -- was then a much larger and better place, and a much more valuable property than it is now. His lady was lately dead, and he was left with one child -- the Miss Haredale you have been inquiring about -- who was then scarcely a year old
Mr Haredale
left this place when his lady died, feeling it lonely like, and went up to London, where he stopped some months; but finding that place as lonely as this -- as I suppose and have always heard say -- he suddenly came back again with his little girl to the Warren, bringing with him besides, that day, only two women servants, and his steward, and a gardener
It WAS a dreary thing, especially as the grave-digger was laid up in his bed, from long working in a damp soil and sitting down to take his dinner on cold tombstones, and I was consequently under obligation to go alone, for it was too late to hope to get any other companion. However, I wasn't unprepared for it; as the old gentleman had often made it a request that the bell should be tolled as soon as possible after the breath was out of his body, and he had been expected to go for some days. I put as good a face upon it as I could, and muffling myself up (for it was mortal cold), started out with a lighted lantern in one hand and the key of the church in the other
A strange story
Stranger still if it comes about as you predict. Is that all
Is that all
Is that all
yes, that's all, sir. And enough too, I think
I think so too. My horse, young man! He is but a hack hired from a roadside posting house, but he must carry me to London to- night
To-night
To-night
What do you stare at? This tavern would seem to be a house of call for all the gaping idlers of the neighbourhood
It is not a very bold thing to wonder at your going on to-night. Surely you have been asked such a harmless question in an inn before, and in better weather than this. I thought you mightn't know the way, as you seem strange to this part
The way
Yes. DO you know it
I'll -- humph!-- I'll find it
Landlord, take the reckoning here
He's pretty much of my opinion
I'll wager that your stopping here to-night would please him better than it would please me
He and I are of different opinions, as we have been more than once on our way here
So I was thinking before you came out, for he has felt your spurs, poor beast
You'll know me again, I see
The man's worth knowing, master, who travels a road he don't know, mounted on a jaded horse, and leaves good quarters to do it on such a night as this
You have sharp eyes and a sharp tongue, I find
Both I hope by nature, but the last grows rusty sometimes for want of using
Use the first less too, and keep their sharpness for your sweethearts, boy
Yoho
What's that? Who goes there
A friend
A friend
Who calls himself a friend and rides like that, abusing Heaven's gifts in the shape of horseflesh, and endangering, not only his own neck (which might be no great matter) but the necks of other people
You have a lantern there, I see
lend it me for a moment. You have wounded my horse, I think, with your shaft or wheel
Wounded him
if I haven't killed him, it's no fault of yours. What do you mean by galloping along the king's highway like that, eh
Give me the light
and don't ask idle questions of a man who is in no mood for talking
If you had said you were in no mood for talking before, I should perhaps have been in no mood for lighting
Hows'ever as it's the poor horse that's damaged and not you, one of you is welcome to the light at all events -- but it's not the crusty one
He is not hurt
You have found that out at last, have you
My eyes have seen more light than yours, but I wouldn't change with you
What do you mean
Mean! I could have told you he wasn't hurt, five minutes ago. Give me the light, friend; ride forward at a gentler pace; and good night
Did you never see a locksmith before, that you start as if you had come upon a ghost
or is this
I am not what you take me for, Gabriel Varden
Then what and who are you
You know my name, it seems. Let me know yours
I have not gained the information from any confidence of yours, but from the inscription on your cart which tells it to all the town
You have better eyes for that than you had for your horse, then
who are you? Let me see your face
Let me see your face, I say
Stand off
No masquerading tricks
and tales at the club to-morrow, how Gabriel Varden was frightened by a surly voice and a dark night. Stand -- let me see your face
Humph
I don't know you
Don't desire to
I don't
to be plain with you, friend, you don't carry in your countenance a letter of recommendation
It's not my wish
My humour is to be avoided
Well
I think you'll have your humour
I will, at any cost
In proof of it, lay this to heart -- that you were never in such peril of your life as you have been within these few moments; when you are within five minutes of breathing your last, you will not be nearer death than you have been to-night
Aye
Aye! and a violent death
From whose hand
From mine
What in the name of wonder can this fellow be! a madman? a highwayman? a cut-throat? If he had not scoured off so fast, we'd have seen who was in most danger, he or I. I never nearer death than I have been to-night! I hope I may be no nearer to it for a score of years to come -- if so, I'll be content to be no farther from it. My stars!-- a pretty brag this to a stout man -- pooh, pooh
The Maypole -- two miles to the Maypole. I came the other road from the Warren after a long day's work at locks and bells, on purpose that I should not come by the Maypole and break my promise to Martha by looking in -- there's resolution! It would be dangerous to go on to London without a light; and it's four miles, and a good half mile besides, to the Halfway-House; and between this and that is the very place where one needs a light most. Two miles to the Maypole! I told Martha I wouldn't; I said I wouldn't, and I didn't -- there's resolution
The merciful man, Joe
is merciful to his beast. I'll get out for a little while
I wish he may be an honest man, that's all
I wish he may be an honest man
So we all do, I suppose, don't we
I don't
No
No. He struck me with his whip, the coward, when he was mounted and I afoot, and I should be better pleased that he turned out what I think him
And what may that be, Joe
No good, Mr Varden. You may shake your head, father, but I say no good, and will say no good, and I would say no good a hundred times over, if that would bring him back to have the drubbing he deserves
Hold your tongue, sir
I won't, father. It's all along of you that he ventured to do what he did. Seeing me treated like a child, and put down like a fool, HE plucks up a heart and has a fling at a fellow that he thinks -- and may well think too -- hasn't a grain of spirit. But he's mistaken, as I'll show him, and as I'll show all of you before long
Does the boy know what he's a saying of
Father
I know what I say and mean, well -- better than you do when you hear me. I can bear with you, but I cannot bear the contempt that your treating me in the way you do, brings upon me from others every day. Look at other young men of my age. Have they no liberty, no will, no right to speak? Are they obliged to sit mumchance, and to be ordered about till they are the laughing-stock of young and old? I am a bye-word all over Chigwell, and I say -- and it's fairer my saying so now, than waiting till you are dead, and I have got your money -- I say, that before long I shall be driven to break such bounds, and that when I do, it won't be me that you'll have to blame, but your own self, and no other
You have always been a very good friend to me, Mr Varden
I take it very kind of you to say all this, but the time's nearly come when the Maypole and I must part company
Roving stones gather no moss, Joe
Nor milestones much
I'm little better than one here, and see as much of the world
Then, what would you do, Joe
What could you be? Where could you go, you see
I must trust to chance, Mr Varden
A bad thing to trust to, Joe. I don't like it. I always tell my girl when we talk about a husband for her, never to trust to chance, but to make sure beforehand that she has a good man and true, and then chance will neither make her nor break her. What are you fidgeting about there, Joe? Nothing gone in the harness, I hope
No no
Miss Dolly quite well
Hearty, thankye. She looks pretty enough to be well, and good too
She's always both, sir
So she is, thank God
I hope
that you won't tell this story against me -- this of my having been beat like the boy they'd make of me -- at all events, till I have met this man again and settled the account. It'll be a better story then
Why who should I tell it to
They know it here, and I'm not likely to come across anybody else who would care about it
That's true enough
I quite forgot that. Yes, that's true
Good night
Now think better of what we have just been speaking of; and don't be rash, there's a good fellow! I have an interest in you, and wouldn't have you cast yourself away. Good night
good night
What's here to do
How's this -- what -- Barnaby
You know me, Barnaby
There's blood upon him
It makes me sick
How came it there
Steel, steel, steel
Is he robbed
Yes
Oh
The robber made off that way, did he? Well, well, never mind that just now. Hold your torch this way -- a little farther off -- so. Now stand quiet, while I try to see what harm is done
Barnaby
this man is not dead, but he has a wound in his side, and is in a fainting-fit
I know him, I know him
Know him
Hush
He went out to-day a wooing. I wouldn't for a light guinea that he should never go a wooing again, for, if he did, some eyes would grow dim that are now as bright as -- see, when I talk of eyes, the stars come out! Whose eyes are they? If they are angels' eyes, why do they look down here and see good men hurt, and only wink and sparkle all the night
Now Heaven help this silly fellow
can he know this gentleman? His mother's house is not far off; I had better see if she can tell me who he is. Barnaby, my man, help me to put him in the chaise, and we'll ride home together
I can't touch him
It's in his nature, I know
it's cruel to ask him, but I must have help. Barnaby -- good Barnaby -- dear Barnaby -- if you know this gentleman, for the sake of his life and everybody's life that loves him, help me to raise him and lay him down
Cover him then, wrap him close -- don't let me see it -- smell it -- hear the word. Don't speak the word -- don't
No, no, I'll not. There, you see he's covered now. Gently. Well done, well done
Hush
Mother is still asleep
Still, my dear
You talk as if she had been asleep all night, instead of little more than half an hour. But I'm very thankful. Sleep's a blessing -- no doubt about it
How cruel of you to keep us up so late this morning, and never tell us where you were, or send us word
Ah Dolly, Dolly
how cruel of you to run upstairs to bed! Come down to breakfast, madcap, and come down lightly, or you'll wake your mother. She must be tired, I am sure -- I am
Listening again, Simon
That's bad. What in the name of wonder does he expect the girl to say, that I always catch him listening when SHE speaks, and never at any other time! A bad habit, Sim, a sneaking, underhanded way. Ah! you may hammer, but you won't beat that out of me, if you work at it till your time's up
There's enough of that just now
You needn't make any more of that confounded clatter. Breakfast's ready
Sir
I shall attend you immediately
I suppose
Prentice's Warbler, or the Prentice's Guide to the Gallows, or some such improving textbook. Now he's going to beautify himself -- here's a precious locksmith
eyeing her over
Father
what is this I hear about last night
All true, my dear; true as the Gospel, Doll
Young Mr Chester robbed, and lying wounded in the road, when you came up
Ay -- Mr Edward. And beside him, Barnaby, calling for help with all his might. It was well it happened as it did; for the road's a lonely one, the hour was late, and, the night being cold, and poor Barnaby even less sensible than usual from surprise and fright, the young gentleman might have met his death in a very short time
I dread to think of it
How did you know him
Know him
I didn't know him -- how could I? I had never seen him, often as I had heard and spoken of him. I took him to Mrs Rudge's; and she no sooner saw him than the truth came out
Miss Emma, father -- If this news should reach her, enlarged upon as it is sure to be, she will go distracted
Why, lookye there again, how a man suffers for being good- natured
Miss Emma was with her uncle at the masquerade at Carlisle House, where she had gone, as the people at the Warren told me, sorely against her will. What does your blockhead father when he and Mrs Rudge have laid their heads together, but goes there when he ought to be abed, makes interest with his friend the doorkeeper, slips him on a mask and domino, and mixes with the masquers
And like himself to do so
Like himself
Very like himself -- so your mother said. However, he mingled with the crowd, and prettily worried and badgered he was, I warrant you, with people squeaking, "Don't you know me?" and "I've found you out," and all that kind of nonsense in his ears. He might have wandered on till now, but in a little room there was a young lady who had taken off her mask, on account of the place being very warm, and was sitting there alone
And that was she
And that was she
and I no sooner whispered to her what the matter was -- as softly, Doll, and with nearly as much art as you could have used yourself -- than she gives a kind of scream and faints away
What did you do -- what happened next
Why, the masks came flocking round, with a general noise and hubbub, and I thought myself in luck to get clear off, that's all
What happened when I reached home you may guess, if you didn't hear it. Ah! Well, it's a poor heart that never rejoices.-- Put Toby this way, my dear
Why, what the devil's the matter with the lad
Is he choking
Who
Who? Why, you
What do you mean by making those horrible faces over your breakfast
Faces are matters of taste, sir
Sim
Don't be a fool, for I'd rather see you in your senses. These young fellows
are always committing some folly or another. There was a quarrel between Joe Willet and old John last night though I can't say Joe was much in fault either. He'll be missing one of these mornings, and will have gone away upon some wild-goose errand, seeking his fortune.-- Why, what's the matter, Doll? YOU are making faces now. The girls are as bad as the boys every bit
It's the tea
so very hot
Is that all
Put some more milk in it.-- Yes, I am sorry for Joe, because he is a likely young fellow, and gains upon one every time one sees him. But he'll start off, you'll find. Indeed he told me as much himself
Indeed
In-deed
Is the tea tickling your throat still, my dear
Joe
I eyed her over, while he talked about the fellow
and that was of course the reason of her being confused. Joe
Joe
I'll do nothing to-day
but grind. I'll grind up all the tools. Grinding will suit my present humour well. Joe
Something will come of this
Something will come of this. I hope it mayn't be human gore
A trying night for a man like me to walk in
I'd rather be in old John's chimney-corner, faith
Who's there
God save you, neighbour
And you
Your kind heart has brought you here again. Nothing will keep you at home, I know of old, if there are friends to serve or comfort, out of doors
Tut, tut
You women are such talkers. What of the patient, neighbour
He is sleeping now. He was very restless towards daylight, and for some hours tossed and tumbled sadly. But the fever has left him, and the doctor says he will soon mend. He must not be removed until to-morrow
He has had visitors to-day -- humph
Yes. Old Mr Chester has been here ever since we sent for him, and had not been gone many minutes when you knocked
No ladies
A letter
Come. That's better than nothing
Who was the bearer
Barnaby, of course
Barnaby's a jewel
and comes and goes with ease where we who think ourselves much wiser would make but a poor hand of it. He is not out wandering, again, I hope
Thank Heaven he is in his bed; having been up all night, as you know, and on his feet all day. He was quite tired out. Ah, neighbour, if I could but see him oftener so -- if I could but tame down that terrible restlessness
In good time
in good time -- don't be down-hearted. To my mind he grows wiser every day
cute man yet
Take care, when we are growing old and foolish, Barnaby doesn't put us to the blush, that's all. But our other friend
sharpest and cunningest of all the sharp and cunning ones -- where's he
In Barnaby's room
Ah! He's a knowing blade
I should be sorry to talk secrets before him. Oh! He's a deep customer. I've no doubt he can read, and write, and cast accounts if he chooses. What was that? Him tapping at the door
No
It was in the street, I think. Hark! Yes. There again! 'Tis some one knocking softly at the shutter. Who can it be
Some thief or ruffian maybe
Give me the light
No, no
Such visitors have never come to this poor dwelling. Do you stay here. You're within call, at the worst. I would rather go myself -- alone
Why
Because -- I don't know why -- because the wish is so strong upon me
There again -- do not detain me, I beg of you
Make haste
My God
The other way -- the other way
He went the other way. Turn -- turn
The other way! I see him now
yonder -- there -- there is his shadow passing by that light. What -- who is this? Let me go
Come back, come back
Do not touch him on your life. I charge you, come back. He carries other lives besides his own. Come back
What does this mean
No matter what it means, don't ask, don't speak, don't think about it. He is not to be followed, checked, or stopped. Come back
You are ill
Let me call some neighbour in
Not for the world
It is enough that you have been by, to see this
Nay, more than enough -- or less
Be it so
As you like. Ask me no questions, I entreat you
Neighbour
Is this fair, or reasonable, or just to yourself? Is it like you, who have known me so long and sought my advice in all matters -- like you, who from a girl have had a strong mind and a staunch heart
I have need of them
I am growing old, both in years and care. Perhaps that, and too much trial, have made them weaker than they used to be. Do not speak to me
How can I see what I have seen, and hold my peace
Who was that man, and why has his coming made this change in you
I take the licence of an old acquaintance, Mary
who has ever had a warm regard for you, and maybe has tried to prove it when he could. Who is this ill-favoured man, and what has he to do with you? Who is this ghost, that is only seen in the black nights and bad weather? How does he know, and why does he haunt, this house, whispering through chinks and crevices, as if there was that between him and you, which neither durst so much as speak aloud of? Who is he
You do well to say he haunts this house
His shadow has been upon it and me, in light and darkness, at noonday and midnight. And now, at last, he has come in the body
But he wouldn't have gone in the body
if you had left my arms and legs at liberty. What riddle is this
It is one
that must remain for ever as it is. I dare not say more than that
Dare not
Do not press me
I am sick and faint, and every faculty of life seems dead within me.-- No!-- Do not touch me, either
Let me go my way alone
and let the hands of no honest man touch mine to-night
This is a secret, which, of necessity, I trust to you. You are a true man. As you have ever been good and kind to me,-- keep it. If any noise was heard above, make some excuse -- say anything but what you really saw, and never let a word or look between us, recall this circumstance. I trust to you. Mind, I trust to you. How much I trust, you never can conceive
Why did I let her say it was a secret, and she trusted it to me
I have no more readiness than old John himself. Why didn't I say firmly, "You have no right to such secrets, and I demand of you to tell me what this means," instead of standing gaping at her, like an old moon- calf as I am! But there's my weakness. I can be obstinate enough with men if need be, but women may twist me round their fingers at their pleasure
And yet
it MAY be nothing. Any drunken brawler trying to make his way into the house, would have alarmed a quiet soul like her. But then
how came it to be that man; how comes he to have this influence over her; how came she to favour his getting away from me; and, more than all, how came she not to say it was a sudden fright, and nothing more? It's a sad thing to have, in one minute, reason to mistrust a person I have known so long, and an old sweetheart into the bargain; but what else can I do, with all this upon my mind!-- Is that Barnaby outside there
Ay
Sure enough it's Barnaby -- how did you guess
By your shadow
Oho
He's a merry fellow, that shadow, and keeps close to me, though I AM silly. We have such pranks, such walks, such runs, such gambols on the grass! Sometimes he'll be half as tall as a church steeple, and sometimes no bigger than a dwarf. Now, he goes on before, and now behind, and anon he'll be stealing on, on this side, or on that, stopping whenever I stop, and thinking I can't see him, though I have my eye on him sharp enough. Oh! he's a merry fellow. Tell me -- is he silly too? I think he is
Why
Because be never tires of mocking me, but does it all day long.-- Why don't you come
Where
Upstairs. He wants you. Stay -- where's HIS shadow? Come. You're a wise man; tell me that
Beside him, Barnaby; beside him, I suppose
No
Guess again
Gone out a walking, maybe
He has changed shadows with a woman
Her shadow's always with him, and his with her. That's sport I think, eh
Barnaby
come hither, lad
I know what you want to say. I know
But I'm cunning, I'm silent. I only say so much to you -- are you ready
Softly -- gently
I thought you had been asleep
So I HAVE been asleep
There have been great faces coming and going -- close to my face, and then a mile away -- low places to creep through, whether I would or no -- high churches to fall down from -- strange creatures crowded up together neck and heels, to sit upon the bed -- that's sleep, eh
Dreams, Barnaby, dreams
Dreams
Those are not dreams
What are
if they are not
I dreamed
I dreamed just now that something -- it was in the shape of a man -- followed me -- came softly after me -- wouldn't let me be -- but was always hiding and crouching, like a cat in dark corners, waiting till I should pass; when it crept out and came softly after me.-- Did you ever see me run
Many a time, you know
You never saw me run as I did in this dream. Still it came creeping on to worry me. Nearer, nearer, nearer -- I ran faster -- leaped -- sprung out of bed, and to the window -- and there, in the street below -- but he is waiting for us. Are you coming
What in the street below, Barnaby
Say no more, sir, say no more
I hope I would have done at least as much for any man in such a strait, and most of all for you, sir. A certain young lady
has done us many a kind turn, and we naturally feel -- I hope I give you no offence in saying this, sir
It's no great matter
a mere uneasiness arising at least as much from being cooped up here, as from the slight wound I have, or from the loss of blood. Be seated, Mr Varden
If I may make so bold, Mr Edward, as to lean upon your chair
I'll stand here for the convenience of speaking low. Barnaby is not in his quietest humour to-night, and at such times talking never does him good
Pray, tell me, sir
exactly what happened last night. I have my reason for inquiring. You left the Maypole, alone
And walked homeward alone, until I had nearly reached the place where you found me, when I heard the gallop of a horse
Behind you
Indeed, yes -- behind me. It was a single rider, who soon overtook me, and checking his horse, inquired the way to London
You were on the alert, sir, knowing how many highwaymen there are, scouring the roads in all directions
I was, but I had only a stick, having imprudently left my pistols in their holster-case with the landlord's son. I directed him as he desired. Before the words had passed my lips, he rode upon me furiously, as if bent on trampling me down beneath his horse's hoofs. In starting aside, I slipped and fell. You found me with this stab and an ugly bruise or two, and without my purse -- in which he found little enough for his pains. And now, Mr Varden
saving the extent of my gratitude to you, you know as much as I
Except
except in respect of the robber himself. What like was he, sir? Speak low, if you please. Barnaby means no harm, but I have watched him oftener than you, and I know, little as you would think it, that he's listening now
The night was so dark
the attack so sudden, and he so wrapped and muffled up, that I can hardly say. It seems that
Don't mention his name, sir
I know HE saw him. I want to know what YOU saw
All I remember is
that as he checked his horse his hat was blown off. He caught it, and replaced it on his head, which I observed was bound with a dark handkerchief. A stranger entered the Maypole while I was there, whom I had not seen -- for I had sat apart for reasons of my own -- and when I rose to leave the room and glanced round, he was in the shadow of the chimney and hidden from my sight. But, if he and the robber were two different persons, their voices were strangely and most remarkably alike; for directly the man addressed me in the road, I recognised his speech again
It is as I feared. The very man was here to-night
What dark history is this
Halloa
Halloa, halloa, halloa! Bow wow wow. What's the matter here! Hal-loa
Look at him
Was there ever such a knowing imp as that! Oh he's a dreadful fellow
Halloa, halloa, halloa! What's the matter here! Keep up your spirits. Never say die. Bow wow wow. I'm a devil, I'm a devil, I'm a devil. Hurrah
I more than half believe he speaks the truth. Upon my word I do
Do you see how he looks at me, as if he knew what I was saying
I'm a devil, I'm a devil, I'm a devil
Strange companions, sir
The bird has all the wit
Strange indeed
Is he old
A mere boy, sir
A hundred and twenty, or thereabouts. Call him down, Barnaby, my man
Call him
But who can make him come! He calls me, and makes me go where he will. He goes on before, and I follow. He's the master, and I'm the man. Is that the truth, Grip
You needn't let these fellows into our secrets. We understand each other. It's all right
I make HIM come
Him, who never goes to sleep, or so much as winks!-- Why, any time of night, you may see his eyes in my dark room, shining like two sparks. And every night, and all night too, he's broad awake, talking to himself, thinking what he shall do to-morrow, where we shall go, and what he shall steal, and hide, and bury. I make HIM come! Ha ha ha
By the bye
what noise was that below? I heard your voice in the midst of it, and should have inquired before, but our other conversation drove it from my memory. What was it
Some mad or drunken fellow, sir
He mistook the house, and tried to force an entrance
Good night
I have told a lie to-night, for your sake, Mary, and for the sake of bygone times and old acquaintance, when I would scorn to do so for my own. I hope I may have done no harm, or led to none. I can't help the suspicions you have forced upon me, and I am loth, I tell you plainly, to leave Mr Edward here. Take care he comes to no hurt. I doubt the safety of this roof, and am glad he leaves it so soon. Now, let me go
In league with that ill-looking figure that might have fallen from a gibbet -- he listening and hiding here -- Barnaby first upon the spot last night -- can she who has always borne so fair a name be guilty of such crimes in secret
Heaven forgive me if I am wrong, and send me just thoughts; but she is poor, the temptation may be great, and we daily hear of things as strange.-- Ay, bark away, my friend. If there's any wickedness going on, that raven's in it, I'll be sworn
Who's there
Me, girl, me
We were just getting on our nightcaps to sit up,-- me and mistress. Oh, she has been SO bad
Master's come home, mim
You was wrong, mim, and I was right. I thought he wouldn't keep us up so late, two nights running, mim. Master's always considerate so far. I'm so glad, mim, on your account. I'm a little
a little sleepy myself; I'll own it now, mim, though I said I wasn't when you asked me. It ain't of no consequence, mim, of course
You had better
you had better get to bed at once then
Thanking you kindly, sir
I couldn't take my rest in peace, nor fix my thoughts upon my prayers, otherways than that I knew mistress was comfortable in her bed this night; by rights she ought to have been there, hours ago
You're talkative, mistress
Taking the hint, sir
and thanking you for it most kindly, I will make bold to say, that if I give offence by having consideration for my mistress, I do not ask your pardon, but am content to get myself into trouble and to be in suffering
Yes, mim, I will
How do you find yourself now, my dear
You're very anxious to know, an't you
You, that have not been near me all day, and wouldn't have been if I was dying
My dear Martha
My dear Martha
how can you say such things, when you know you don't mean them? If you were dying! Why, if there was anything serious the matter with you, Martha, shouldn't I be in constant attendance upon you
Yes
yes, you would. I don't doubt it, Varden. Certainly you would. That's as much as to tell me that you would be hovering round me like a vulture, waiting till the breath was out of my body, that you might go and marry somebody else
I can't help it. It's wrung from me by the dreadful brutality of that monster master
But you'll break my heart one of these days
and then we shall both be happy. My only desire is to see Dolly comfortably settled, and when she is, you may settle ME as soon as you like
Ah
Has Dolly gone to bed
Your master speaks to you
No, my dear, I spoke to you
Did you hear me, Miggs
YOU are beginning to despise me now, are you? But this is example
If I am ever
in spirits, if I am ever cheerful, if I am ever more than usually disposed to be talkative and comfortable, this is the way I am treated
Such spirits as you was in too, mim, but half an hour ago
I never see such company
Because
because I never interfere or interrupt; because I never question where anybody comes or goes; because my whole mind and soul is bent on saving where I can save, and labouring in this house;-- therefore, they try me as they do
Martha
what is it you complain of? I really came home with every wish and desire to be happy. I did, indeed
What do I complain of
Is it a chilling thing to have one's husband sulking and falling asleep directly he comes home -- to have him freezing all one's warm-heartedness, and throwing cold water over the fireside? Is it natural, when I know he went out upon a matter in which I am as much interested as anybody can be, that I should wish to know all that has happened, or that he should tell me without my begging and praying him to do it? Is that natural, or is it not
I am very sorry, Martha
I was really afraid you were not disposed to talk pleasantly; I'll tell you everything; I shall only be too glad, my dear
No, Varden
Now, who would think
that that woman could ever be pleasant and agreeable? And yet she can be. Well, well, all of us have our faults. I'll not be hard upon hers. We have been man and wife too long for that
I wish
I wish somebody would marry Miggs. But that's impossible! I wonder whether there's any madman alive, who would marry Miggs
What the devil business has he to stop up so late
Here's half the night gone already. There's only one good that has ever come to me, out of this cursed old rusty mechanical trade, and that's this piece of ironmongery, upon my soul
Is that the captain
Yes
who should it be
It's so late, we gave you up
You're late, sir
Lead on
and make remarks when I require you. Forward
Forward
Welcome, noble captain
What news to-night
Nothing particular
how come you to be so late
No matter
Is the room prepared
It is
The comrade -- is he here
Yes. And a sprinkling of the others -- you hear 'em
Playing skittles
Light-hearted revellers
Even Stagg hath been asleep
Sound, captain, sound
what does my noble captain drink -- is it brandy, rum, usquebaugh? Is it soaked gunpowder, or blazing oil? Give it a name, heart of oak, and we'd get it for you, if it was wine from a bishop's cellar, or melted gold from King George's mint
See
that it's something strong, and comes quick; and so long as you take care of that, you may bring it from the devil's cellar, if you like
Boldly said, noble captain
Prentices' Glory. Ha, ha! From the devil's cellar! A brave joke! The captain joketh. Ha, ha, ha
I'll tell you what, my fine feller
if you make that row, you'll find that the captain's very far from joking, and so I tell you
He's got his eyes on me
I feel 'em though I can't see 'em. Take 'em off, noble captain. Remove 'em, for they pierce like gimlets
I obey you, captain
prentices, and love to all fair damsels. Drink, brave general, and warm your gallant heart
That I had but eyes
to behold my captain's symmetrical proportions! That I had but eyes, to look upon these twin invaders of domestic peace
Get out
Go along, will you, Stagg
When I touch my own afterwards
I hate 'em. Comparatively speaking, they've no more shape than wooden legs, beside these models of my noble captain's
Yours
No, I should think not. Don't talk about those precious old toothpicks in the same breath with mine; that's rather too much. Here. Take the glass. Benjamin. Lead on. To business
Prentice
who waits without
Prentice Knights, and a free participation in their rights, privileges, and immunities. Thereupon Mr Tappertit flourished the bone again, and giving the other skull a prodigious rap on the nose, exclaimed 'Admit him
Ha
Proceed
Mark Gilbert. Age, nineteen. Bound to Thomas Curzon, hosier, Golden Fleece, Aldgate. Loves Curzon's daughter. Cannot say that Curzon's daughter loves him. Should think it probable. Curzon pulled his ears last Tuesday week
How
For looking at his daughter, please you
Write Curzon down, Denounced
Put a black cross against the name of Curzon
So please you
prentice idle dog, and stops his beer unless he works to his liking. He gives Dutch cheese, too, eating Cheshire, sir, himself; and Sundays out, are only once a month
This
is a flagrant case. Put two black crosses to the name of Curzon
If the society
if the society would burn his house down -- for he's not insured -- or beat him as he comes home from his club at night, or help me to carry off his daughter, and marry her at the Fleet, whether she gave consent or no
Which means
Prentice, do you love the Constitution
I do
The Church, the State, and everything established -- but the masters
I do
My noble captain neither games, nor sings, nor dances
Drink, gallant general
If I had been born a corsair or a pirate, a brigand, genteel highwayman or patriot -- and they're the same thing
I should have been all right. But to drag out a ignoble existence unbeknown to mankind in general -- patience! I will be famous yet. A voice within me keeps on whispering Greatness. I shall burst out one of these days, and when I do, what power can keep me down? I feel my soul getting into my head at the idea. More drink there
The novice
where is he
Here, noble captain
One stands beside me who I feel is a stranger
Have you
Have you the impression of your street-door key in wax
Good
This is easily made. Come hither, friend
And so
I do
Honour bright. No chaff, you know
Have you
have you a -- a rival
Not as I know on
If you had now --' said Mr Tappertit
It is enough
we understand each other. We are observed. I thank you
Good night, noble captain
Farewell, brave general. Bye, bye, illustrious commander. Good luck go with you for a -- conceited, bragging, empty-headed, duck-legged idiot
Oh! what a Providence it is, as I am bolted in
Thieves
Murder
Here's mysteries
Oh, gracious, here's mysteries
Gracious
Goodness gracious
Goodness gracious me
Why I wish I may only have a walking funeral, and never be buried decent with a mourning-coach and feathers, if the boy hasn't been and made a key for his own self
Oh the little villain
There
now let's see whether you won't be glad to take some notice of me, mister. He, he, he! You'll have eyes for somebody besides Miss Dolly now, I think. A fat-faced puss she is, as ever I come across
scraggy
I don't go to bed this night
till you come home, my lad. I wouldn't
no, not for five-and-forty pound
Hush
Tell me one thing
Is it thieves
No -- no -- no
Then
it's fire. Where is it, sir? It's near this room, I know. I've a good conscience, sir, and would much rather die than go down a ladder. All I wish is, respecting my love to my married sister, Golden Lion Court, number twenty-sivin, second bell-handle on the right-hand door- post
Miggs
don't you know me? Sim, you know -- Sim
Oh! what about him
Is he in any danger? Is he in the midst of flames and blazes! Oh gracious, gracious
Why I'm here, an't I
Don't you see me? What a fool you are, Miggs
There
Why -- so it -- Goodness, what is the meaning of -- If you please, mim, here's
No, no
Don't!-- I've been out without leave, and something or another's the matter with the lock. Come down, and undo the shop window, that I may get in that way
I dursn't do it, Simmun
I dursn't do it, indeed. You know as well as anybody, how particular I am. And to come down in the dead of night, when the house is wrapped in slumbers and weiled in obscurity
But Miggs
My darling Miggs
That I love so much, and never can help thinking of
do -- for my sake, do
Oh Simmun
this is worse than all. I know if I come down, you'll go, and
And what, my precious
And try
to kiss me, or some such dreadfulness; I know you will
I swear I won't
Upon my soul I won't. It's getting broad day, and the watchman's waking up. Angelic Miggs! If you'll only come and let me in, I promise you faithfully and truly I won't
prentice in, she faintly articulated the words 'Simmun is safe
I knew I should quench her
Of course I was certain it would come to this, but there was nothing else to be done -- if I hadn't eyed her over, she wouldn't have come down. Here. Keep up a minute, Miggs. What a slippery figure she is! There's no holding her, comfortably. Do keep up a minute, Miggs, will you
He may be as cool as he likes
but I'm in his confidence and he can't help himself, nor couldn't if he was twenty Simmunses
A quaint place this
Are you the landlord
At your service, sir
You can give my horse good stabling, can you, and me an early dinner (I am not particular what, so that it be cleanly served), and a decent room of which there seems to be no lack in this great mansion
You can have, sir
anything you please
It's well I am easily satisfied
or that might prove a hardy pledge, my friend
Halloa there! Hugh
I ask your pardon, sir, for keeping you standing in the porch; but my son has gone to town on business, and the boy being, as I may say, of a kind of use to me, I'm rather put out when he's away. Hugh!-- a dreadful idle vagrant fellow, sir, half a gipsy, as I think -- always sleeping in the sun in summer, and in the straw in winter time, sir -- Hugh! Dear Lord, to keep a gentleman a waiting here through him!-- Hugh! I wish that chap was dead, I do indeed
Possibly he is
I should think if he were living, he would have heard you by this time
In his fits of laziness, he sleeps so desperate hard
that if you were to fire off cannon-balls into his ears, it wouldn't wake him, sir
Pillory the fellow, here he is at last
Did you hear me a calling, villain
Brisk enough when he is awake
Brisk enough, sir
He melts, I think. He goes like a drop of froth. You look at him, and there he is. You look at him again, and -- there he isn't
Sir
There's a house not far from here
which you call the Warren, I believe
I want this note
conveyed there without loss of time, and an answer brought back here. Have you a messenger at hand
Let me see him
Why the truth is
that the person who'd go quickest, is a sort of natural, as one may say, sir; and though quick of foot, and as much to be trusted as the post itself, he's not good at talking, being touched and flighty, sir
You don't
you don't mean -- what's the fellow's name -- you don't mean Barnaby
Yes, I do
How comes he to be here
I saw him in London last night
He's, for ever, here one hour, and there the next
Sometimes he walks, and sometimes runs. He's known along the road by everybody, and sometimes comes here in a cart or chaise, and sometimes riding double. He comes and goes, through wind, rain, snow, and hail, and on the darkest nights. Nothing hurts HIM
He goes often to the Warren, does he not
I seem to remember his mother telling me something to that effect yesterday. But I was not attending to the good woman much
You're right, sir
he does. His father, sir, was murdered in that house
So I have heard
A very disagreeable circumstance for the family
Very
All the circumstances after a murder
must be dreadfully unpleasant -- so much bustle and disturbance -- no repose -- a constant dwelling upon one subject -- and the running in and out, and up and down stairs, intolerable. I wouldn't have such a thing happen to anybody I was nearly interested in, on any account. 'Twould be enough to wear one's life out.-- You were going to say, friend
Only that Mrs Rudge lives on a little pension from the family, and that Barnaby's as free of the house as any cat or dog about it
Shall he do your errand, sir
Oh yes
Oh certainly. Let him do it by all means. Please to bring him here that I may charge him to be quick. If he objects to come you may tell him it's Mr Chester. He will remember my name, I dare say
Come hither, lad
You know Mr Geoffrey Haredale
You hear him
He knows him, sir
as well as you or I do
I haven't the pleasure of much acquaintance with the gentleman
YOU may have. Limit the comparison to yourself, my friend
Give that
into Mr Haredale's own hands. Wait for an answer, and bring it back to me here. If you should find that Mr Haredale is engaged just now, tell him -- can he remember a message, landlord
When he chooses, sir
He won't forget this one
How are you sure of that
Tell him then, Barnaby, should he be engaged
that I shall be glad to wait his convenience here, and to see him (if he will call) at any time this evening.-- At the worst I can have a bed here, Willet, I suppose
I should believe you could, sir
Speed
Speed! If you want to see hurry and mystery, come here. Here
Look down there
do you mark how they whisper in each other's ears; then dance and leap, to make believe they are in sport? Do you see how they stop for a moment, when they think there is no one looking, and mutter among themselves again; and then how they roll and gambol, delighted with the mischief they've been plotting? Look at 'em now. See how they whirl and plunge. And now they stop again, and whisper, cautiously together -- little thinking, mind, how often I have lain upon the grass and watched them. I say what is it that they plot and hatch? Do you know
They are only clothes
such as we wear; hanging on those lines to dry, and fluttering in the wind
Clothes
Ha ha! Why, how much better to be silly, than as wise as you! You don't see shadowy people there, like those that live in sleep -- not you. Nor eyes in the knotted panes of glass, nor swift ghosts when it blows hard, nor do you hear voices in the air, nor see men stalking in the sky -- not you! I lead a merrier life than you, with all your cleverness. You're the dull men. We're the bright ones. Ha! ha! I'll not change with you, clever as you are,-- not I
A strange creature, upon my word
He wants imagination
that's what he wants. I've tried to instil it into him, many and many's the time; but
he an't made for it; that's the fact
Barnaby's late
He is rather so
He will not be much longer, I dare say
As your roads bear no very good character, if I may judge from my son's mishap, though
and as I have no fancy to be knocked on the head -- which is not only disconcerting at the moment, but places one, besides, in a ridiculous position with respect to the people who chance to pick one up -- I shall stop here to-night. I think you said you had a bed to spare
Such a bed, sir
ay, such a bed as few, even of the gentry's houses, own. A fixter here, sir. I've heard say that bedstead is nigh two hundred years of age. Your noble son -- a fine young gentleman -- slept in it last, sir, half a year ago
Upon my life, a recommendation
See that it be well aired, Mr Willet, and let a blazing fire be lighted there at once. This house is something damp and chilly
He'll have his foot in the stirrup in an hour's time
He has been riding hard all day -- has just come home -- but will be in the saddle again as soon as he has eat and drank, to meet his loving friend
Was that his message
All but the last words
He meant those. I saw that, in his face
This for your pains
For Grip, and me, and Hugh, to share among us
Grip one, me two, Hugh three; the dog, the goat, the cats -- well, we shall spend it pretty soon, I warn you. Stay.-- Look. Do you wise men see nothing there, now
Now, where do they go to, when they spring so fast up there
eh? Why do they tread so closely on each other's heels, and why are they always in a hurry -- which is what you blame me for, when I only take pattern by these busy folk about me? More of 'em! catching to each other's skirts; and as fast as they go, others come! What a merry dance it is! I would that Grip and I could frisk like that
What has he in that basket at his back
In this
In this! What is there here? Tell him
A devil, a devil, a devil
Here's money
money for a treat, Grip
Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah
keep up your spirits. Never say die. Bow, wow, wow
He's waiting here, I suppose
to take Mr Haredale's horse
That's it, sir
He's not often in the house, you know. He's more at his ease among horses than men. I look upon him as a animal himself
we can't expect everybody to be like us
That chap, sir
though he's got all his faculties about him -- bottled up and corked down, if I may say so, somewheres or another
Very good
A very good expression, Johnny. You'll be a tackling somebody presently. You're in twig to-night, I see
Take care
that I don't tackle you, sir, which I shall certainly endeavour to do, if you interrupt me when I'm making observations.-- That chap, I was a saying, though he has all his faculties about him, somewheres or another, bottled up and corked down, has no more imagination than Barnaby has. And why hasn't he
Do you observe what a philosophical mind our friend has
Why hasn't he
Because they was never drawed out of him when he was a boy. That's why. What would any of us have been, if our fathers hadn't drawed our faculties out of us? What would my boy Joe have been, if I hadn't drawed his faculties out of him?-- Do you mind what I'm a saying of, gentlemen
Ah! we mind you
Go on improving of us, Johnny
Consequently, then
that chap, whose mother was hung when he was a little boy, along with six others, for passing bad notes -- and it's a blessed thing to think how many people are hung in batches every six weeks for that, and such like offences, as showing how wide awake our government is -- that chap that was then turned loose, and had to mind cows, and frighten birds away, and what not, for a few pence to live on, and so got on by degrees to mind horses, and to sleep in course of time in lofts and litter, instead of under haystacks and hedges, till at last he come to be hostler at the Maypole for his board and lodging and a annual trifle -- that chap that can't read nor write, and has never had much to do with anything but animals, and has never lived in any way but like the animals he has lived among, IS a animal. And
is to be treated accordingly
Willet
when Mr Chester come this morning, did he order the large room
He signified, sir
that he wanted a large apartment. Yes. Certainly
Why then, I'll tell you what
He and Mr Haredale are going to fight a duel in it
Well
I don't know -- I am sure -- I remember that when I went up last, he HAD put the lights upon the mantel-shelf
It's as plain
as the nose on Parkes's face
they'll fight in that room. You know by the newspapers what a common thing it is for gentlemen to fight in coffee-houses without seconds. One of 'em will be wounded or perhaps killed in this house
That was a challenge that Barnaby took then, eh
Inclosing a slip of paper with the measure of his sword upon it, I'll bet a guinea
We know what sort of gentleman Mr Haredale is. You have told us what Barnaby said about his looks, when he came back. Depend upon it, I'm right. Now, mind
Would it be swords or pistols, now
Heaven knows. Perhaps both
The gentlemen wear swords, and may easily have pistols in their pockets -- most likely have, indeed. If they fire at each other without effect, then they'll draw, and go to work in earnest
And then
then we shall have one of those stains upon the floor that never come out. If Mr Haredale wins, depend upon it, it'll be a deep one; or if he loses, it will perhaps be deeper still, for he'll never give in unless he's beaten down. We know him better, eh
Better indeed
As to its ever being got out again
I tell you it never will, or can be. Why, do you know that it has been tried, at a certain house we are acquainted with
The Warren
No, sure
Yes, sure -- yes. It's only known by very few. It has been whispered about though, for all that. They planed the board away, but there it was. They went deep, but it went deeper. They put new boards down, but there was one great spot that came through still, and showed itself in the old place. And -- harkye -- draw nearer -- Mr Geoffrey made that room his study, and sits there, always, with his foot (as I have heard) upon it; and he believes, through thinking of it long and very much, that it will never fade until he finds the man who did the deed
The very man
Hugh! Hugh
You have a stranger here, Willet, who sent to me
Where is he
In the great room upstairs, sir
Show the way. Your staircase is dark, I know. Gentlemen, good night
Stop
I can announce myself. Don't wait
Haredale
I am very glad to see you
Let us dispense with compliments. They are misplaced between us
and say plainly what we have to say. You have asked me to meet you. I am here. Why do we stand face to face again
Still the same frank and sturdy character, I see
Good or bad, sir, I am
the man I used to be. I have lost no old likings or dislikings; my memory has not failed me by a hair's-breadth. You ask me to give you a meeting. I say, I am here
Our meeting, Haredale
is one of conference and peace, I hope
I have come here
at your desire, holding myself bound to meet you, when and where you would. I have not come to bandy pleasant speeches, or hollow professions. You are a smooth man of the world, sir, and at such play have me at a disadvantage. The very last man on this earth with whom I would enter the lists to combat with gentle compliments and masked faces, is Mr Chester, I do assure you. I am not his match at such weapons, and have reason to believe that few men are
You do me a great deal of honour Haredale
and I thank you. I will be frank with you
I beg your pardon -- will be what
Frank -- open -- perfectly candid
Hab
But don't let me interrupt you
So resolved am I to hold this course
that I have determined not to quarrel with you, and not to be betrayed into a warm expression or a hasty word
There again
you have me at a great advantage. Your self-command
Is not to be disturbed, when it will serve my purpose, you would say
Granted. I allow it. And I have a purpose to serve now. So have you. I am sure our object is the same. Let us attain it like sensible men, who have ceased to be boys some time.-- Do you drink
With my friends
At least
you will be seated
I will stand
on this dismantled, beggared hearth, and not pollute it, fallen as it is, with mockeries. Go on
You are wrong, Haredale
You are really very wrong. The world is a lively place enough, in which we must accommodate ourselves to circumstances, sail with the stream as glibly as we can, be content to take froth for substance, the surface for the depth, the counterfeit for the real coin. I wonder no philosopher has ever established that our globe itself is hollow. It should be, if Nature is consistent in her works
YOU think it is, perhaps
I should say
there could be no doubt about it. Well; we, in trifling with this jingling toy, have had the ill-luck to jostle and fall out. We are not what the world calls friends; but we are as good and true and loving friends for all that, as nine out of every ten of those on whom it bestows the title. You have a niece, and I a son -- a fine lad, Haredale, but foolish. They fall in love with each other, and form what this same world calls an attachment; meaning a something fanciful and false like the rest, which, if it took its own free time, would break like any other bubble. But it may not have its own free time -- will not, if they are left alone -- and the question is, shall we two, because society calls us enemies, stand aloof, and let them rush into each other's arms, when, by approaching each other sensibly, as we do now, we can prevent it, and part them
I love my niece
It may sound strangely in your ears; but I love her
Strangely, my good fellow
Not at all. I like Ned too -- or, as you say, love him -- that's the word among such near relations. I'm very fond of Ned. He's an amazingly good fellow, and a handsome fellow -- foolish and weak as yet; that's all. But the thing is, Haredale -- for I'll be very frank, as I told you I would at first -- independently of any dislike that you and I might have to being related to each other, and independently of the religious differences between us -- and damn it, that's important -- I couldn't afford a match of this description. Ned and I couldn't do it. It's impossible
Curb your tongue, in God's name, if this conversation is to last
I have said I love my niece. Do you think that, loving her, I would have her fling her heart away on any man who had your blood in his veins
You see
the advantage of being so frank and open. Just what I was about to add, upon my honour! I am amazingly attached to Ned -- quite doat upon him, indeed -- and even if we could afford to throw ourselves away, that very objection would be quite insuperable.-- I wish you'd take some wine
Mark me
If any man believes -- presumes to think -- that I, in word or deed, or in the wildest dream, ever entertained remotely the idea of Emma Haredale's favouring the suit of any one who was akin to you -- in any way -- I care not what -- he lies. He lies, and does me grievous wrong, in the mere thought
Haredale
it's extremely manly, and really very generous in you, to meet me in this unreserved and handsome way. Upon my word, those are exactly my sentiments, only expressed with much more force and power than I could use -- you know my sluggish nature, and will forgive me, I am sure
While I would restrain her from all correspondence with your son, and sever their intercourse here, though it should cause her death
I would do it kindly and tenderly if I can. I have a trust to discharge, which my nature is not formed to understand, and, for this reason, the bare fact of there being any love between them comes upon me to-night, almost for the first time
I am more delighted than I can possibly tell you
to find my own impression so confirmed. You see the advantage of our having met. We understand each other. We quite agree. We have a most complete and thorough explanation, and we know what course to take.-- Why don't you taste your tenant's wine? It's really very good
Pray who
have aided Emma, or your son? Who are their go-betweens, and agents -- do you know
All the good people hereabouts -- the neighbourhood in general, I think
The messenger I sent to you to-day, foremost among them all
The idiot? Barnaby
You are surprised? I am glad of that, for I was rather so myself. Yes. I wrung that from his mother -- a very decent sort of woman -- from whom, indeed, I chiefly learnt how serious the matter had become, and so determined to ride out here to-day, and hold a parley with you on this neutral ground.-- You're stouter than you used to be, Haredale, but you look extremely well
Our business, I presume, is nearly at an end
Trust me, Mr Chester, my niece shall change from this time. I will appeal
to her woman's heart, her dignity, her pride, her duty
I shall do the same by Ned
If there is anything real in this world, it is those amazingly fine feelings and those natural obligations which must subsist between father and son. I shall put it to him on every ground of moral and religious feeling. I shall represent to him that we cannot possibly afford it -- that I have always looked forward to his marrying well, for a genteel provision for myself in the autumn of life -- that there are a great many clamorous dogs to pay, whose claims are perfectly just and right, and who must be paid out of his wife's fortune. In short, that the very highest and most honourable feelings of our nature, with every consideration of filial duty and affection, and all that sort of thing, imperatively demand that he should run away with an heiress
And break her heart as speedily as possible
There Ned will act exactly as he pleases
that's entirely his affair. I wouldn't for the world interfere with my son, Haredale, beyond a certain point. The relationship between father and son, you know, is positively quite a holy kind of bond.-- WON'T you let me persuade you to take one glass of wine? Well! as you please, as you please
Chester
you have the head and heart of an evil spirit in all matters of deception
Your health
But I have interrupted you
If now
we should find it difficult to separate these young people, and break off their intercourse -- if, for instance, you find it difficult on your side, what course do you intend to take
Nothing plainer, my good fellow, nothing easier
I shall then exert those powers on which you flatter me so highly -- though, upon my word, I don't deserve your compliments to their full extent -- and resort to a few little trivial subterfuges for rousing jealousy and resentment. You see
In short, justifying the means by the end, we are, as a last resource for tearing them asunder, to resort to treachery and -- and lying
Oh dear no. Fie, fie
Not lying. Only a little management, a little diplomacy, a little -- intriguing, that's the word
I wish
that this could have been foreseen or prevented. But as it has gone so far, and it is necessary for us to act, it is of no use shrinking or regretting. Well! I shall second your endeavours to the utmost of my power. There is one topic in the whole wide range of human thoughts on which we both agree. We shall act in concert, but apart. There will be no need, I hope, for us to meet again
Are you going
Let me light you down the stairs
Pray keep your seat
Pah! A very coarse animal, indeed
A rough brute. Quite a human badger
And now, Willet
if the room's well aired, I'll try the merits of that famous bed
The room, sir
the room's as warm as any toast in a tankard. Barnaby, take you that other candle, and go on before. Hugh! Follow up, sir, with the easy-chair
Good night, my friends
Good night! Barnaby, my good fellow, you say some prayers before you go to bed, I hope
He has some nonsense that he calls his prayers, sir
I'm afraid there an't much good in em
And Hugh
Not I
I know
they're well enough. He sings 'em sometimes in the straw. I listen
He's quite a animal, sir
You'll excuse him, I'm sure. If he has any soul at all, sir, it must be such a very small one, that it don't signify what he does or doesn't in that way. Good night, sir
God bless you
There's a bit of horseflesh, Hugh
There's a comely creature! There's high mettle! There's bone
Mind you take good care of her, sir
Don't you ride hard
I should be puzzled to do that, I think, father
None of your impudence, sir, if you please
What would you ride, sir? A wild ass or zebra would be too tame for you, wouldn't he, eh sir? You'd like to ride a roaring lion, wouldn't you, sir, eh sir? Hold your tongue, sir
And what does the boy mean
by cocking his hat, to such an extent! Are you going to kill the wintner, sir
No
I'm not. Now your mind's at ease, father
With a milintary air, too
with a swaggering, fire-eating, biling-water drinking sort of way with him! And what do you mean by pulling up the crocuses and snowdrops, eh sir
It's only a little nosegay
There's no harm in that, I hope
You're a boy of business, you are, sir
to go supposing that wintners care for nosegays
I don't suppose anything of the kind
Let them keep their red noses for bottles and tankards. These are going to Mr Varden's house
And do you suppose HE minds such things as crocuses
I don't know, and to say the truth, I don't care
Come, father, give me the money, and in the name of patience let me go
There it is, sir
and take care of it; and mind you don't make too much haste back, but give the mare a long rest.-- Do you mind
Ay, I mind
She'll need it, Heaven knows
And don't you score up too much at the Black Lion
Mind that too
Then why don't you let me have some money of my own
why don't you, father? What do you send me into London for, giving me only the right to call for my dinner at the Black Lion, which you're to pay for next time you go, as if I was not to be trusted with a few shillings? Why do you use me like this? It's not right of you. You can't expect me to be quiet under it
Let him have money
What does he call money -- guineas? Hasn't he got money? Over and above the tolls, hasn't he one and sixpence
One and sixpence
Yes, sir
one and sixpence. When I was your age, I had never seen so much money, in a heap. A shilling of it is in case of accidents -- the mare casting a shoe, or the like of that. The other sixpence is to spend in the diversions of London; and the diversion I recommend is going to the top of the Monument, and sitting there. There's no temptation there, sir -- no drink -- no young women -- no bad characters of any sort -- nothing but imagination. That's the way I enjoyed myself when I was your age, sir
Stay there, old girl
and let us see whether there's any little commission for me to-day
No errand for me to-day
Joe Willet, or his ghost
Which is it? Joe in the flesh, eh? That's hearty. And how are all the Chigwell company, Joe
Much as usual, sir -- they and I agree as well as ever
Well, well
We must be patient, Joe, and bear with old folks' foibles. How's the mare, Joe? Does she do the four miles an hour as easily as ever? Ha, ha, ha! Does she, Joe? Eh!-- What have we there, Joe -- a nosegay
A very poor one, sir -- I thought Miss Dolly
No, no
not Dolly. Give 'em to her mother, Joe. A great deal better give 'em to her mother. Would you mind giving 'em to Mrs Varden, Joe
Oh no, sir
I shall be very glad, I'm sure
That's right
It don't matter who has 'em, Joe
Not a bit, sir
Come in
I have just been called to tea. She's in the parlour
She
Which of 'em I wonder -- Mrs or Miss
Martha, my dear, here's young Mr Willet
I'm afraid I couldn't bear the room another minute
if they remained here. WOULD you excuse my putting them out of window
I feel it quite a relief to get rid of them, I assure you
I'm better already
You're sad people at Chigwell, Mr Joseph
I hope not, ma'am
You're the cruellest and most inconsiderate people in the world
I wonder old Mr Willet, having been a married man himself, doesn't know better than to conduct himself as he does. His doing it for profit is no excuse. I would rather pay the money twenty times over, and have Varden come home like a respectable and sober tradesman. If there is one character
that offends and disgusts me more than another, it is a sot
Come, Martha, my dear
let us have tea, and don't let us talk about sots. There are none here, and Joe don't want to hear about them, I dare say
I dare say he does not
and I dare say you do not, Varden. It's a very unpleasant subiect, I have no doubt, though I won't say it's personal
whatever I may be forced to think
You never will know, Varden, and nobody at young Mr Willet's age -- you'll excuse me, sir -- can be expected to know, what a woman suffers when she is waiting at home under such circumstances. If you don't believe me, as I know you don't, here's Miggs, who is only too often a witness of it -- ask her
If you hadn't the sweetness of an angel in you, mim, I don't think you could abear it, I raly don't
Miggs
you're profane
Begging your pardon, mim
such was not my intentions, and such I hope is not my character, though I am but a servant
Answering me, Miggs, and providing yourself
is one and the same thing. How dare you speak of angels in connection with your sinful fellow-beings -- mere
mere worms and grovellers as we are
I did not intend, mim, if you please, to give offence
and I did not expect it would be took as such. I hope I know my own unworthiness, and that I hate and despise myself and all my fellow-creatures as every practicable Christian should
You'll have the goodness, if you please
to step upstairs and see if Dolly has finished dressing, and to tell her that the chair that was ordered for her will be here in a minute, and that if she keeps it waiting, I shall send it away that instant.-- I'm sorry to see that you don't take your tea, Varden, and that you don't take yours, Mr Joseph; though of course it would be foolish of me to expect that anything that can be had at home, and in the company of females, would please YOU
I need have a cheerful disposition, I am sure
to preserve any spirits at all; and how I do it I can scarcely tell
Ah, mim
begging your pardon for the interruption, there an't a many like you
Take away, Miggs
take away, pray. I know I'm a restraint here, and as I wish everybody to enjoy themselves as they best can, I feel I had better go
No, no, Martha
Stop here. I'm sure we shall be very sorry to lose you, eh Joe
Certainly
Thank you, Varden, my dear
but I know your wishes better. Tobacco and beer, or spirits, have much greater attractions than any I can boast of, and therefore I shall go and sit upstairs and look out of window, my love. Good night, Mr Joseph. I'm very glad to have seen you, and I only wish I could have provided something more suitable to your taste. Remember me very kindly if you please to old Mr Willet, and tell him that whenever he comes here I have a crow to pluck with him. Good night
I thought it was you, sir
A fair evening, sir. Glad to see you out of doors again
What gay doings have been going on to-day, Joe? Is she as pretty as ever? Nay, don't blush, man
If I coloured at all, Mr Edward
which I didn't know I did, it was to think I should have been such a fool as ever to have any hope of her. She's as far out of my reach as -- as Heaven is
Well, Joe, I hope that's not altogether beyond it
Eh
Ah
It's all very fine talking, sir. Proverbs are easily made in cold blood. But it can't be helped. Are you bound for our house, sir
Yes. As I am not quite strong yet, I shall stay there to-night, and ride home coolly in the morning
If you're in no particular hurry
and will bear with the pace of this poor jade, I shall be glad to ride on with you to the Warren, sir, and hold your horse when you dismount. It'll save you having to walk from the Maypole, there and back again. I can spare the time well, sir, for I am too soon
And so am I
though I was unconsciously riding fast just now, in compliment I suppose to the pace of my thoughts, which were travelling post. We will keep together, Joe, willingly, and be as good company as may be. And cheer up, cheer up, think of the locksmith's daughter with a stout heart, and you shall win her yet
The Maypole lights are brilliant to-night
Brilliant indeed, sir
Lights in the large room, and a fire glimmering in the best bedchamber? Why, what company can this be for, I wonder
Some benighted horseman wending towards London, and deterred from going on to-night by the marvellous tales of my friend the highwayman, I suppose
He must be a horseman of good quality to have such accommodations. Your bed too, sir
No matter, Joe. Any other room will do for me. But come -- there's nine striking. We may push on
This is well done of you, sir, to corrupt my servants, and enter my house unbidden and in secret, like a thief
Leave it, sir, and return no more
Miss Haredale's presence
and your relationship to her, give you a licence which, if you are a brave man, you will not abuse. You have compelled me to this course, and the fault is yours -- not mine
It is neither generous, nor honourable, nor the act of a true man, sir
to tamper with the affections of a weak, trusting girl, while you shrink, in your unworthiness, from her guardian and protector, and dare not meet the light of day. More than this I will not say to you, save that I forbid you this house, and require you to be gone
It is neither generous, nor honourable, nor the act of a true man to play the spy
Your words imply dishonour, and I reject them with the scorn they merit
You will find
your trusty go-between in waiting at the gate by which you entered. I have played no spy's part, sir. I chanced to see you pass the gate, and followed. You might have heard me knocking for admission, had you been less swift of foot, or lingered in the garden. Please to withdraw. Your presence here is offensive to me and distressful to my niece
Mr Haredale
your arm encircles her on whom I have set my every hope and thought, and to purchase one minute's happiness for whom I would gladly lay down my life; this house is the casket that holds the precious jewel of my existence. Your niece has plighted her faith to me, and I have plighted mine to her. What have I done that you should hold me in this light esteem, and give me these discourteous words
You have done that, sir
High words, sir
Words of purpose and meaning, as you will find
Lay them to heart
Lay you then, these
Your cold and sullen temper, which chills every breast about you, which turns affection into fear, and changes duty into dread, has forced us on this secret course, repugnant to our nature and our wish, and far more foreign, sir, to us than you. I am not a false, a hollow, or a heartless man; the character is yours, who poorly venture on these injurious terms, against the truth, and under the shelter whereof I reminded you just now. You shall not cancel the bond between us. I will not abandon this pursuit. I rely upon your niece's truth and honour, and set your influence at nought. I leave her with a confidence in her pure faith, which you will never weaken, and with no concern but that I do not leave her in some gentler care
He's comfortable in bed -- the best bed. A thorough gentleman; the smilingest, affablest gentleman I ever had to do with
Who, Willet
Your worthy father, sir
Your honourable, venerable father
What does he mean
What DO you mean
Don't you see Mr Edward doesn't understand, father
Why, didn't you know of it, sir
How very singular! Bless you, he's been here ever since noon to-day, and Mr Haredale has been having a long talk with him, and hasn't been gone an hour
My father, Willet
Yes, sir, he told me so -- a handsome, slim, upright gentleman, in green-and-gold. In your old room up yonder, sir. No doubt you can go in, sir
He hasn't put out his candles yet, I see
Who enters here leaves noise behind
Ned is amazingly patient
immensely patient! He was sitting yonder when I began to dress, and has scarcely changed his posture since. A most eccentric dog
Really, as if he had heard me
Dear Ned
Are you at leisure for a little conversation, sir
Surely, Ned. I am always at leisure. You know my constitution.-- Have you breakfasted
Three hours ago
What a very early dog
The truth is
that I slept but ill last night, and was glad to rise. The cause of my uneasiness cannot but be known to you, sir; and it is upon that I wish to speak
My dear boy
confide in me, I beg. But you know my constitution -- don't be prosy, Ned
I will be plain, and brief
Don't say you will, my good fellow
or you certainly will not. You are going to tell me
Plainly this, then
that I know where you were last night -- from being on the spot, indeed -- and whom you saw, and what your purpose was
You don't say so
I am delighted to hear it. It saves us the worry, and terrible wear and tear of a long explanation, and is a great relief for both. At the very house! Why didn't you come up? I should have been charmed to see you
I knew that what I had to say would be better said after a night's reflection, when both of us were cool
I was cool enough last night. That detestable Maypole! By some infernal contrivance of the builder, it holds the wind, and keeps it fresh. You remember the sharp east wind that blew so hard five weeks ago? I give you my honour it was rampant in that old house last night, though out of doors there was a dead calm. But you were saying
I was about to say, Heaven knows how seriously and earnestly, that you have made me wretched, sir. Will you hear me gravely for a moment
My dear Ned
I will hear you with the patience of an anchorite. Oblige me with the milk
I saw Miss Haredale last night
her uncle, in her presence, immediately after your interview, and, as of course I know, in consequence of it, forbade me the house, and, with circumstances of indignity which are of your creation I am sure, commanded me to leave it on the instant
For his manner of doing so, I give you my honour, Ned, I am not accountable
That you must excuse. He is a mere boor, a log, a brute, with no address in life.-- Positively a fly in the jug. The first I have seen this year
Father
we must not trifle in this matter. We must not deceive each other, or ourselves. Let me pursue the manly open part I wish to take, and do not repel me by this unkind indifference
Whether I am indifferent or no
I leave you, my dear boy, to judge. A ride of twenty-five or thirty miles, through miry roads -- a Maypole dinner -- a tete-a-tete with Haredale, which, vanity apart, was quite a Valentine and Orson business -- a Maypole bed -- a Maypole landlord, and a Maypole retinue of idiots and centaurs;-- whether the voluntary endurance of these things looks like indifference, dear Ned, or like the excessive anxiety, and devotion, and all that sort of thing, of a parent, you shall determine for yourself
I wish you to consider, sir
in what a cruel situation I am placed. Loving Miss Haredale as I do
My dear fellow
you do nothing of the kind. You don't know anything about it. There's no such thing, I assure you. Now, do take my word for it. You have good sense, Ned,-- great good sense. I wonder you should be guilty of such amazing absurdities. You really surprise me
I repeat
that I love her. You have interposed to part us, and have, to the extent I have just now told you of, succeeded. May I induce you, sir, in time, to think more favourably of our attachment, or is it your intention and your fixed design to hold us asunder if you can
My dear Ned
that is my purpose most undoubtedly
The time that has elapsed
since I began to know her worth, has flown in such a dream that until now I have hardly once paused to reflect upon my true position. What is it? From my childhood I have been accustomed to luxury and idleness, and have been bred as though my fortune were large, and my expectations almost without a limit. The idea of wealth has been familiarised to me from my cradle. I have been taught to look upon those means, by which men raise themselves to riches and distinction, as being beyond my heeding, and beneath my care. I have been, as the phrase is, liberally educated, and am fit for nothing. I find myself at last wholly dependent upon you, with no resource but in your favour. In this momentous question of my life we do not, and it would seem we never can, agree. I have shrunk instinctively alike from those to whom you have urged me to pay court, and from the motives of interest and gain which have rendered them in your eyes visible objects for my suit. If there never has been thus much plain-speaking between us before, sir, the fault has not been mine, indeed. If I seem to speak too plainly now, it is, believe me father, in the hope that there may be a franker spirit, a worthier reliance, and a kinder confidence between us in time to come
My good fellow
you quite affect me. Go on, my dear Edward, I beg. But remember your promise. There is great earnestness, vast candour, a manifest sincerity in all you say, but I fear I observe the faintest indications of a tendency to prose
I am very sorry, sir
I am very sorry, too, Ned, but you know that I cannot fix my mind for any long period upon one subject. If you'll come to the point at once, I'll imagine all that ought to go before, and conclude it said. Oblige me with the milk again. Listening, invariably makes me feverish
What I would say then, tends to this
I cannot bear this absolute dependence, sir, even upon you. Time has been lost and opportunity thrown away, but I am yet a young man, and may retrieve it. Will you give me the means of devoting such abilities and energies as I possess, to some worthy pursuit? Will you let me try to make for myself an honourable path in life? For any term you please to name -- say for five years if you will -- I will pledge myself to move no further in the matter of our difference without your fall concurrence. During that period, I will endeavour earnestly and patiently, if ever man did, to open some prospect for myself, and free you from the burden you fear I should become if I married one whose worth and beauty are her chief endowments. Will you do this, sir? At the expiration of the term we agree upon, let us discuss this subject again. Till then, unless it is revived by you, let it never be renewed between us
My dear Ned
I believe you know how very much I dislike what are called family affairs, which are only fit for plebeian Christmas days, and have no manner of business with people of our condition. But as you are proceeding upon a mistake, Ned -- altogether upon a mistake -- I will conquer my repugnance to entering on such matters, and give you a perfectly plain and candid answer, if you will do me the favour to shut the door
You have to thank me, Ned, for being of good family; for your mother, charming person as she was, and almost broken-hearted, and so forth, as she left me, when she was prematurely compelled to become immortal -- had nothing to boast of in that respect
Her father was at least an eminent lawyer, sir
Quite right, Ned; perfectly so. He stood high at the bar, had a great name and great wealth, but having risen from nothing -- I have always closed my eyes to the circumstance and steadily resisted its contemplation, but I fear his father dealt in pork, and that his business did once involve cow-heel and sausages -- he wished to marry his daughter into a good family. He had his heart's desire, Ned. I was a younger son's younger son, and I married her. We each had our object, and gained it. She stepped at once into the politest and best circles, and I stepped into a fortune which I assure you was very necessary to my comfort -- quite indispensable. Now, my good fellow, that fortune is among the things that have been. It is gone, Ned, and has been gone -- how old are you? I always forget
Seven-and-twenty, sir
Are you indeed
So much! Then I should say, Ned, that as nearly as I remember, its skirts vanished from human knowledge, about eighteen or nineteen years ago. It was about that time when I came to live in these chambers (once your grandfather's, and bequeathed by that extremely respectable person to me), and commenced to live upon an inconsiderable annuity and my past reputation
You are jesting with me, sir
Not in the slightest degree, I assure you
These family topics are so extremely dry, that I am sorry to say they don't admit of any such relief. It is for that reason, and because they have an appearance of business, that I dislike them so very much. Well! You know the rest. A son, Ned, unless he is old enough to be a companion -- that is to say, unless he is some two or three and twenty -- is not the kind of thing to have about one. He is a restraint upon his father, his father is a restraint upon him, and they make each other mutually uncomfortable. Therefore, until within the last four years or so -- I have a poor memory for dates, and if I mistake, you will correct me in your own mind -- you pursued your studies at a distance, and picked up a great variety of accomplishments. Occasionally we passed a week or two together here, and disconcerted each other as only such near relations can. At last you came home. I candidly tell you, my dear boy, that if you had been awkward and overgrown, I should have exported you to some distant part of the world
I wish with all my soul you had, sir
No you don't, Ned
you are mistaken, I assure you. I found you a handsome, prepossessing, elegant fellow, and I threw you into the society I can still command. Having done that, my dear fellow, I consider that I have provided for you in life, and rely upon your doing something to provide for me in return
I do not understand your meaning, sir
My meaning, Ned, is obvious -- I observe another fly in the cream- jug, but have the goodness not to take it out as you did the first, for their walk when their legs are milky, is extremely ungraceful and disagreeable -- my meaning is, that you must do as I did; that you must marry well and make the most of yourself
A mere fortune-hunter
What in the devil's name, Ned, would you be
All men are fortune-hunters, are they not? The law, the church, the court, the camp -- see how they are all crowded with fortune- hunters, jostling each other in the pursuit. The stock-exchange, the pulpit, the counting-house, the royal drawing-room, the senate,-- what but fortune-hunters are they filled with? A fortune- hunter! Yes. You ARE one; and you would be nothing else, my dear Ned, if you were the greatest courtier, lawyer, legislator, prelate, or merchant, in existence. If you are squeamish and moral, Ned, console yourself with the reflection that at the very worst your fortune-hunting can make but one person miserable or unhappy. How many people do you suppose these other kinds of huntsmen crush in following their sport -- hundreds at a step? Or thousands
I am quite charmed
that we have had this conversation, Ned, unpromising as it was. It establishes a confidence between us which is quite delightful, and was certainly necessary, though how you can ever have mistaken our positions and designs, I confess I cannot understand. I conceived, until I found your fancy for this girl, that all these points were tacitly agreed upon between us
I knew you were embarrassed, sir
but I had no idea we were the beggared wretches you describe. How could I suppose it, bred as I have been; witnessing the life you have always led; and the appearance you have always made
My dear child
for you really talk so like a child that I must call you one -- you were bred upon a careful principle; the very manner of your education, I assure you, maintained my credit surprisingly. As to the life I lead, I must lead it, Ned. I must have these little refinements about me. I have always been used to them, and I cannot exist without them. They must surround me, you observe, and therefore they are here. With regard to our circumstances, Ned, you may set your mind at rest upon that score. They are desperate. Your own appearance is by no means despicable, and our joint pocket-money alone devours our income. That's the truth
Why have I never known this before? Why have you encouraged me, sir, to an expenditure and mode of life to which we have no right or title
My good fellow
if you made no appearance, how could you possibly succeed in the pursuit for which I destined you? As to our mode of life, every man has a right to live in the best way he can; and to make himself as comfortable as he can, or he is an unnatural scoundrel. Our debts, I grant, are very great, and therefore it the more behoves you, as a young man of principle and honour, to pay them off as speedily as possible
The villain's part
that I have unconsciously played! I to win the heart of Emma Haredale! I would, for her sake, I had died first
I am glad you see, Ned
how perfectly self- evident it is, that nothing can be done in that quarter. But apart from this, and the necessity of your speedily bestowing yourself on another (as you know you could to-morrow, if you chose), I wish you'd look upon it pleasantly. In a religious point of view alone, how could you ever think of uniting yourself to a Catholic, unless she was amazingly rich? You ought to be so very Protestant, coming of such a Protestant family as you do. Let us be moral, Ned, or we are nothing. Even if one could set that objection aside, which is impossible, we come to another which is quite conclusive. The very idea of marrying a girl whose father was killed, like meat! Good God, Ned, how disagreeable! Consider the impossibility of having any respect for your father-in-law under such unpleasant circumstances -- think of his having been "viewed" by jurors, and "sat upon" by coroners, and of his very doubtful position in the family ever afterwards. It seems to me such an indelicate sort of thing that I really think the girl ought to have been put to death by the state to prevent its happening. But I tease you perhaps. You would rather be alone? My dear Ned, most willingly. God bless you. I shall be going out presently, but we shall meet to-night, or if not to-night, certainly to-morrow. Take care of yourself in the mean time, for both our sakes. You are a person of great consequence to me, Ned -- of vast consequence indeed. God bless you
By your leave there
A black night, master
It is a black night
Blacker than last, though that was pitchy too. Didn't I pass you near the turnpike in the Oxford Road
It's like you may. I don't know
Come, come, master
be more companionable and communicative. Be more the gentleman in this good company. There are tales among us that you have sold yourself to the devil, and I know not what
We all have, have we not
If we were fewer in number, perhaps he would give better wages
It goes rather hard with you, indeed
What of that? Be merry, master. A stave of a roaring song now
Sing you, if you desire to hear one
and don't touch me if you're a prudent man; I carry arms which go off easily -- they have done so, before now -- and make it dangerous for strangers who don't know the trick of them, to lay hands upon me
Do you threaten
Yes
I am what you all are, and live as you all do
I am in hiding here like the rest, and if we were surprised would perhaps do my part with the best of ye. If it's my humour to be left to myself, let me have it. Otherwise
there'll be mischief done in this place, though there ARE odds of a score against me
I have been looking for you many nights. Is the house empty? Answer me. Is any one inside
Make me a sign
Is this your house
It is. Why, in the name of Heaven, do you darken it
Give me meat and drink
or I dare do more than that. The very marrow in my bones is cold, with wet and hunger. I must have warmth and food, and I will have them here
You were the robber on the Chigwell road
I was
And nearly a murderer then
You thrust your sword at HIM
You hear this man! you hear and saw
Beware
Do not so much as touch me with a finger, or you are lost; body and soul, you are lost
Hear me
I, that in the form of a man live the life of a hunted beast; that in the body am a spirit, a ghost upon the earth, a thing from which all creatures shrink, save those curst beings of another world, who will not leave me;-- I am, in my desperation of this night, past all fear but that of the hell in which I exist from day to day. Give the alarm, cry out, refuse to shelter me. I will not hurt you. But I will not be taken alive; and so surely as you threaten me above your breath, I fall a dead man on this floor. The blood with which I sprinkle it, be on you and yours, in the name of the Evil Spirit that tempts men to their ruin
Remove this man from me, good Heaven
In thy grace and mercy, give him one minute's penitence, and strike him dead
It has no such purpose
It is deaf. Give me to eat and drink, lest I do that it cannot help my doing, and will not do for you
Will you leave me, if I do thus much? Will you leave me and return no more
I will promise nothing
nothing but this -- I will execute my threat if you betray me
I am an outcast, to whom a roof above his head is often an uncommon luxury, and the food a beggar would reject is delicate fare. You live here at your ease. Do you live alone
I do not
Who dwells here besides
One -- it is no matter who. You had best begone, or he may find you here. Why do you linger
For warmth
For warmth. You are rich, perhaps
Very
Very rich. No doubt I am very rich
At least you are not penniless. You have some money. You were making purchases to-night
I have a little left. It is but a few shillings
Give me your purse. You had it in your hand at the door. Give it to me
Take what there is, take all, take more if more were there, but go before it is too late. I have heard a wayward step without, I know full well. It will return directly. Begone
What do you mean
Do not stop to ask. I will not answer. Much as I dread to touch you, I would drag you to the door if I possessed the strength, rather than you should lose an instant. Miserable wretch! fly from this place
If there are spies without, I am safer here
I will remain here, and will not fly till the danger is past
It is too late
Hark to that foot upon the ground. Do you tremble to hear it! It is my son, my idiot son
Let him come in
I fear him less than the dark, houseless night. He knocks again. Let him come in
The dread of this hour
has been upon me all my life, and I will not. Evil will fall upon him, if you stand eye to eye. My blighted boy! Oh! all good angels who know the truth -- hear a poor mother's prayer, and spare my boy from knowledge of this man
He rattles at the shutters
He calls you. That voice and cry! It was he who grappled with me in the road. Was it he
Why, who can keep out Grip and me
Are you there, mother? How long you keep us from the fire and light
We have been afield, mother -- leaping ditches, scrambling through hedges, running down steep banks, up and away, and hurrying on. The wind has been blowing, and the rushes and young plants bowing and bending to it, lest it should do them harm, the cowards -- and Grip -- ha ha ha!-- brave Grip, who cares for nothing, and when the wind rolls him over in the dust, turns manfully to bite it -- Grip, bold Grip, has quarrelled with every little bowing twig -- thinking, he told me, that it mocked him -- and has worried it like a bulldog. Ha ha ha
He takes such care of me besides
Such care, mother! He watches all the time I sleep, and when I shut my eyes and make-believe to slumber, he practises new learning softly; but he keeps his eye on me the while, and if he sees me laugh, though never so little, stops directly. He won't surprise me till he's perfect
Those are certainly some of my characteristics, and I glory in them
How pale you are to-night
We have been cruel, Grip, and made her anxious
He flaps his wings
as if there were strangers here, but Grip is wiser than to fancy that. Jump then
Mother
I'll tell you where we have been to-day, and what we have been doing,-- shall I
You mustn't tell
for it's a secret, mind, and only known to me, and Grip, and Hugh. We had the dog with us, but he's not like Grip, clever as he is, and doesn't guess it yet, I'll wager.-- Why do you look behind me so
Did I
I didn't know I did. Come nearer me
You are frightened
Mother -- you don't see
See what
There's -- there's none of this about, is there
I am afraid there is, somewhere. You make my hair stand on end, and my flesh creep. Why do you look like that? Is it in the room as I have seen it in my dreams, dashing the ceiling and the walls with red? Tell me. Is it
Is it gone
There has been nothing here
Nothing indeed, dear Barnaby. Look! You see there are but you and me
But let us see
Were we talking? Was it you and me? Where have we been
Nowhere but here
Aye, but Hugh, and I
that's it. Maypole Hugh, and I, you know, and Grip -- we have been lying in the forest, and among the trees by the road side, with a dark lantern after night came on, and the dog in a noose ready to slip him when the man came by
What man
The robber; him that the stars winked at. We have waited for him after dark these many nights, and we shall have him. I'd know him in a thousand. Mother, see here! This is the man. Look
Ha ha ha! We shall have him
You shall see him, mother, bound hand and foot, and brought to London at a saddle- girth; and you shall hear of him at Tyburn Tree if we have luck. So Hugh says. You're pale again, and trembling. And why DO you look behind me so
It is nothing
I am not quite well. Go you to bed, dear, and leave me here
To bed
I don't like bed. I like to lie before the fire, watching the prospects in the burning coals -- the rivers, hills, and dells, in the deep, red sunset, and the wild faces. I am hungry too, and Grip has eaten nothing since broad noon. Let us to supper. Grip! To supper, lad
That's all
More
More
Mother
is to-day my birthday
To-day
Don't you recollect it was but a week or so ago, and that summer, autumn, and winter have to pass before it comes again
I remember that it has been so till now
But I think to-day must be my birthday too, for all that
I'll tell you why
I'm a devil
No, no
But you said something in a prayer; and when you rose and walked about, you looked (as you have done ever since, mother, towards night on my birthday) just as you do now. I have found that out, you see, though I am silly. So I say you're wrong; and this must be my birthday -- my birthday, Grip
Never say die
Polly put the ket
Polly put the ket
Polly put the ket
tle on
tle on. Hurrah! Polly put the ket-tle on, we'll all have tea; Polly put the ket-tle on, we'll all have tea. Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah! I'm a devil, I'm a devil, I'm a ket-tle on, Keep up your spirits, Never say die, Bow, wow, wow, I'm a devil, I'm a ket-tle, I'm a -- Polly put the ket-tle on, we'll all have tea
Stay
You teach your son well
I have taught him nothing that you heard to-night. Depart instantly, or I will rouse him
You are free to do so. Shall I rouse him
You dare not do that
I dare do anything, I have told you. He knows me well, it seems. At least I will know him
Would you kill him in his sleep
Woman
I would see him nearer, and I will. If you want one of us to kill the other, wake him
Observe
In him, of whose existence I was ignorant until to-night, I have you in my power. Be careful how you use me. Be careful how you use me. I am destitute and starving, and a wanderer upon the earth. I may take a sure and slow revenge
There is some dreadful meaning in your words. I do not fathom it
There is a meaning in them, and I see you fathom it to its very depth. You have anticipated it for years; you have told me as much. I leave you to digest it. Do not forget my warning
Oh Thou
who hast taught me such deep love for this one remnant of the promise of a happy life, out of whose affliction, even, perhaps the comfort springs that he is ever a relying, loving child to me -- never growing old or cold at heart, but needing my care and duty in his manly strength as in his cradle-time -- help him, in his darkened walk through this sad world, or he is doomed, and my poor heart is broken
Good night, noble captain
Farewell, commander. Good luck, illustrious general
Commend me, captain, to the stricken Miggs
My captain flies at higher game than Miggses. Ha, ha, ha! My captain is an eagle, both as respects his eye and soaring wings. My captain breaketh hearts as other bachelors break eggs at breakfast
What a fool you are, Stagg
His precious limbs
Shall a Miggs aspire to these proportions! No, no, my captain. We will inveigle ladies fair, and wed them in our secret cavern. We will unite ourselves with blooming beauties, captain
I'll tell you what, my buck
I'll trouble you not to take liberties, and not to broach certain questions unless certain questions are broached to you. Speak when you're spoke to on particular subjects, and not otherways. Hold the torch up till I've got to the end of the court, and then kennel yourself, do you hear
I hear you, noble captain
Obey then
Gentlemen, lead on
Who's there
A man
A friend
A stranger
Strangers are not my friends. What do you do there
I saw your company come out, and waited here till they were gone. I want a lodging
A lodging at this time
Do you know the day is breaking
I know it
to my cost. I have been traversing this iron-hearted town all night
You had better traverse it again
till you find some lodgings suitable to your taste. I don't let any
Stay
I'll beat this light about that hangdog face of yours (for hangdog it is, if it answers to your voice), and rouse the neighbourhood besides, if you detain me
Let me go. Do you hear
Do YOU hear
I beg nothing of you. I will pay for the shelter you give me. Death! Is it much to ask of such as you! I have come from the country, and desire to rest where there are none to question me. I am faint, exhausted, worn out, almost dead. Let me lie down, like a dog, before your fire. I ask no more than that. If you would be rid of me, I will depart to-morrow
If a gentleman has been unfortunate on the road
and can pay for his accommodation
I will pay you with all I have. I am just now past the want of food, God knows, and wish but to purchase shelter. What companion have you below
None
Then fasten your grate there, and show me the way. Quick
May I see where that door leads to, and what is beyond
You will not mind that
I will show you myself. Follow me, or go before. Take your choice
I'm sure you'll excuse me, sir
Varden is so very thoughtless, and needs so much reminding -- Sim, bring a chair here
And you can go, Sim
I am sure if there's anything we can do,-- Varden, or I, or Dolly either,-- to serve you, sir, at any time, you have only to say it, and it shall be done
I am much obliged to you, I am sure
You encourage me to say that I have come here now, to beg your good offices
It occurred to me that probably your fair daughter might be going to the Warren, either to-day or to-morrow
and if so, and you will allow her to take charge of this letter, ma'am, you will oblige me more than I can tell you. The truth is, that while I am very anxious it should reach its destination, I have particular reasons for not trusting it to any other conveyance; so that without your help, I am wholly at a loss
She was not going that way, sir, either to-day, or to-morrow, nor indeed all next week
but we shall be very glad to put ourselves out of the way on your account, and if you wish it, you may depend upon its going to-day. You might suppose
from Varden's sitting there so glum and silent, that he objected to this arrangement; but you must not mind that, sir, if you please. It's his way at home. Out of doors, he can be cheerful and talkative enough
My dear Martha
Oh yes, I dare say
Very dear! We all know that
No, but my good soul
you are quite mistaken. You are indeed. I was delighted to find you so kind and ready. I waited, my dear, anxiously, I assure you, to hear what you would say
You waited anxiously
Yes! Thank you, Varden. You waited, as you always do, that I might bear the blame, if any came of it. But I am used to it
and that's my comfort
I give you my word, Martha
Let me give you MY word, my dear
that such discussions as these between married people, are much better left alone. Therefore, if you please, Varden, we'll drop the subject. I have no wish to pursue it. I could. I might say a great deal. But I would rather not. Pray don't say any more
I don't want to say any more
Well then, don't
Nor did I begin it, Martha
I must say that
You did not begin it, Varden
You did not begin it, Varden! But you shall not say I was out of temper. No, you did not begin it, oh dear no, not you, my dear
Well, well
That's settled then
Oh yes
quite. If you like to say Dolly began it, my dear, I shall not contradict you. I know my duty. I need know it, I am sure. I am often obliged to bear it in mind, when my inclination perhaps would be for the moment to forget it. Thank you, Varden
If you desire to see the first and foremost among female martyrs, here she is, on view
Martha
I hear you, Varden
I am sorry, my dear, you have such an objection to the Maypole and old John, for otherways as it's a very fine morning, and Saturday's not a busy day with us, we might have all three gone to Chigwell in the chaise, and had quite a happy day of it
What is the matter now, Martha
Oh! don't speak to me
But, Martha
wouldn't have believed what? Tell me what's wrong now. Do tell me. Upon my soul I don't know. Do you know, child? Damme
nobody does know, I verily believe, but Miggs
Miggs
is attached to me, and that is sufficient to draw down hatred upon her in this house. She is a comfort to me, whatever she may be to others
She's no comfort to me
She's the misery of my life. She's all the plagues of Egypt in one
She's considered so, I have no doubt
I was prepared for that; it's natural; it's of a piece with the rest. When you taunt me as you do to my face, how can I wonder that you taunt her behind her back
If it's only for the sake of peace and quietness, father
Oh, Doll, Doll
If you ever have a husband of your own
Well, WHEN you have
never faint, my darling. More domestic unhappiness has come of easy fainting, Doll, than from all the greater passions put together. Remember that, my dear, if you would be really happy, which you never can be, if your husband isn't. And a word in your ear, my precious. Never have a Miggs about you
Here's master, mim
Oh, what a happiness it is when man and wife come round again! Oh gracious, to think that him and her should ever have a word together
I can't help it
I couldn't, if I was to be drownded in 'em. She has such a forgiving spirit! She'll forget all that has passed, and go along with you, sir -- Oh, if it was to the world's end, she'd go along with you
Oh no, you're not, mim, indeed you're not
I repeal to master; master knows you're not, mim. The hair, and motion of the shay, will do you good, mim, and you must not give way, you must not raly. She must keep up, mustn't she, sir, for all out sakes? I was a telling her that, just now. She must remember us, even if she forgets herself. Master will persuade you, mim, I'm sure. There's Miss Dolly's a-going you know, and master, and you, and all so happy and so comfortable. Oh
I never see such a blessed one as she is for the forgiveness of her spirit, I never, never, never did. Not more did master neither; no, nor no one -- never
I have kept my word, I have begun, the business is going to the devil, and you're the cause of it
Yoho
A bit of fish
and some lamb chops (breaded, with plenty of ketchup), and a good salad, and a roast spring chicken, with a dish of sausages and mashed potatoes, or something of that sort
I have heard about it, miss
and it's very sad indeed, but when things are at the worst they are sure to mend
But are you sure they are at the worst
Why, I don't see how they can very well be more unpromising than they are; I really don't
And I bring something to begin with
Not from Edward
I am sure that's what I should do if it was me
To make one's sweetheart miserable is well enough and quite right, but to be made miserable one's self is a little too much
Come here, girl
I want to speak to you
If you please, sir, I'm in a hurry
and -- you have frightened me by coming so suddenly upon me, sir -- I would rather go, sir, if you'll be so good as to let me
Immediately
Yes, sir, just this minute.-- Father's waiting for me, sir, if you'll please to have the goodness
said Mr Haredale. 'Answer me a question. What did you bring here to-day
Bring here, sir
You will tell me the truth, I am sure. Yes
Well then, sir. It was a letter
From Mr Edward Chester, of course. And you are the bearer of the answer
You alarm yourself without cause
Why are you so foolish? Surely you can answer me. You know that I have but to put the question to Emma and learn the truth directly. Have you the answer with you
Yes, sir
Yes, sir, I have. You may kill me if you please, sir, but I won't give it up. I'm very sorry,-- but I won't. There, sir
I commend your firmness and your plain-speaking
Rest assured that I have as little desire to take your letter as your life. You are a very discreet messenger and a good girl
I have some design
of providing a companion for my niece; for her life is a very lonely one. Would you like the office? You are the oldest friend she has, and the best entitled to it
I don't know, sir
I can't say. I don't know what they might wish at home. I couldn't give an opinion, sir
If your friends had no objection, would you have any
Come. There's a plain question; and easy to answer
None at all that I know of sir
I should be very glad to be near Miss Emma of course, and always am
That's well
That is all I had to say. You are anxious to go. Don't let me detain you
Was it you
how glad I am to see you! and how could you terrify me so
Did you come to meet me
I thought it likely they would send
Nobody sent me
I came of my own accord
Why do you spend so much breath in avoiding me
I wish to get back as quickly as I can, and you walk too near me, answered Dolly
Too near
Why too near? You're always proud to ME, mistress
I am proud to no one. You mistake me
Fall back, if you please, or go on
Nay, mistress
I'll walk with you
Ha ha ha! Well done, mistress! Strike again. You shall beat my face, and tear my hair, and pluck my beard up by the roots, and welcome, for the sake of your bright eyes. Strike again, mistress. Do. Ha ha ha! I like it
Let me go
Let me go this moment
You had as good be kinder to me, Sweetlips
You had, indeed. Come. Tell me now. Why are you always so proud? I don't quarrel with you for it. I love you when you're proud. Ha ha ha! You can't hide your beauty from a poor fellow; that's a comfort
Hugh
good Hugh; if you will leave me I will give you anything -- everything I have -- and never tell one word of this to any living creature
You had best not
Harkye, little dove, you had best not. All about here know me, and what I dare do if I have a mind. If ever you are going to tell, stop when the words are on your lips, and think of the mischief you'll bring, if you do, upon some innocent heads that you wouldn't wish to hurt a hair of. Bring trouble on me, and I'll bring trouble and something more on them in return. I care no more for them than for so many dogs; not so much -- why should I? I'd sooner kill a man than a dog any day. I've never been sorry for a man's death in all my life, and I have for a dog's
Softly, darling -- gently -- would you fly from rough Hugh, that loves you as well as any drawing-room gallant
I would
I will. Help
A fine for crying out
Ha ha ha! A fine, pretty one, from your lips. I pay myself! Ha ha ha
Help! help! help
Thank Heaven
Joe, dear Joe, this way. Help
Tell HIM: and see what follows
What is the matter? are you hurt? what was it? who was it? where is he? what was he like
What was it that frightened you
Stop when the words are on your lips
The letter
What letter
That I was carrying -- I had it in my hand. My bracelet too
I have lost them both
Do you mean just now
Either I dropped them then, or they were taken from me
They are gone, both gone. What an unhappy girl I am
He's lying asleep before the kitchen fire, sir
What do you want him for
I want him to come with me to look after this bracelet and letter
Halloa there! Hugh
Here, sleepy-head
Carry this, and bring the dog, and that small cudgel of yours. And woe betide the fellow if we come upon him
What fellow
What fellow
a fellow you ought to know of and be more alive about. It's well for the like of you, lazy giant that you are, to be snoring your time away in chimney-corners, when honest men's daughters can't cross even our quiet meadows at nightfall without being set upon by footpads, and frightened out of their precious lives
They never rob me
I have got nothing to lose. But I'd as lief knock them at head as any other men. How many are there
Only one
And what was he like, mistress
About my height
Not -- not so tall
His dress
like -- like any of ours now? I know all the people hereabouts, and maybe could give a guess at the man, if I had anything to guide me
You wouldn't know him if you saw him then, belike
I should not
I don't wish to see him. I can't bear to think of him. I can't talk about him any more. Don't go to look for these things, Mr Joe, pray don't. I entreat you not to go with that man
Not to go with me
I'm too rough for them all. They're all afraid of me. Why, bless you mistress, I've the tenderest heart alive. I love all the ladies, ma'am
before meat
a friend
This man again
Hugh
What errand are you upon
I come to ride back with you
My father
Will he never think me man enough to take care of myself
Aye
The roads are not safe just now, he says, and you'd better have a companion
Ride on then
I'm not going to turn yet
Good night -- if I must say it
Good night
Take care of that man, and pray don't trust him
Here they are, Simmun! Here they are
Bring a chair, Simmun. Now, an't you the better for it, mim? Don't you feel more yourself than you would have done if you'd have stopped at home? Oh, gracious! how cold you are! Goodness me, sir, she's a perfect heap of ice
I can't help it, my good girl. You had better take her in to the fire
Master sounds unfeeling, mim
but such is not his intentions, I'm sure. After what he has seen of you this day, I never will believe but that he has a deal more affection in his heart than to speak unkind. Come in and sit yourself down by the fire; there's a good dear -- do
Martha, my dear
if you'll look to Dolly yourself or let somebody else do it, perhaps it will be only kind and reasonable. She has been frightened, you know, and is not at all well to-night
Oh Simmun
such goings on to-day! Oh, gracious me, Simmun
I never heard the like, nor nobody else
The idea of interfering with HER. What people can see in her to make it worth their while to do so, that's the joke -- he he he
her
Why, that Dolly
But, oh upon my word and honour, young Joseph Willet is a brave one; and he do deserve her, that he do
Woman
beware
My stars, Simmun
You frighten me to death! What's the matter
There are strings
in the human heart that had better not be wibrated. That's what's the matter
Oh, very well -- if you're in a huff
Huff or no huff
What do you mean, Jezebel? What were you going to say? Answer me
Very good
His days are numbered
Oh, Simmun
I tell you
his days are numbered. Leave me. Get along with you
Upon my honour
upon my honour, the most masterly composition, the most delicate thoughts, the finest code of morality, and the most gentlemanly sentiments in the universe! Ah Ned, Ned, if you would but form your mind by such precepts, we should have but one common feeling on every subject that could possibly arise between us
My Lord Chesterfield
if I could but have profited by your genius soon enough to have formed my son on the model you have left to all wise fathers, both he and I would have been rich men. Shakespeare was undoubtedly very fine in his way; Milton good, though prosy; Lord Bacon deep, and decidedly knowing; but the writer who should be his country's pride, is my Lord Chesterfield
I thought I was tolerably accomplished as a man of the world
I flattered myself that I was pretty well versed in all those little arts and graces which distinguish men of the world from boors and peasants, and separate their character from those intensely vulgar sentiments which are called the national character. Apart from any natural prepossession in my own favour, I believed I was. Still, in every page of this enlightened writer, I find some captivating hypocrisy which has never occurred to me before, or some superlative piece of selfishness to which I was utterly a stranger. I should quite blush for myself before this stupendous creature, if remembering his precepts, one might blush at anything. An amazing man! a nobleman indeed! any King or Queen may make a Lord, but only the Devil himself -- and the Graces -- can make a Chesterfield
For
this is honesty, this is truth. All mankind are like us, but they have not the candour to avow it
A late hour for an importunate creditor
Much after their accustomed time. The usual pretence I suppose. No doubt a heavy payment to make up tomorrow. Poor fellow, he loses time, and time is money as the good proverb says -- I never found it out though. Well. What now? You know I am not at home
A man, sir
has brought home the riding- whip you lost the other day. I told him you were out, but he said he was to wait while I brought it in, and wouldn't go till I did
He was quite right
and you're a blockhead, possessing no judgment or discretion whatever. Tell him to come in, and see that he rubs his shoes for exactly five minutes first
If time were money
I would compound with my creditors, and give them -- let me see -- how much a day? There's my nap after dinner -- an hour -- they're extremely welcome to that, and to make the most of it. In the morning, between my breakfast and the paper, I could spare them another hour; in the evening before dinner say another. Three hours a day. They might pay themselves in calls, with interest, in twelve months. I think I shall propose it to them. Ah, my centaur, are you there
Here I am
and trouble enough I've had to get here. What do you ask me to come for, and keep me out when I DO come
My good fellow
I am delighted to see you, and to have, in your being here, the very best proof that you are not kept out. How are you
I'm well enough
You look a perfect marvel of health. Sit down
I'd rather stand
Please yourself my good fellow
Please yourself by all means
Are you going to speak to me, master
My worthy creature
you are a little ruffled and out of humour. I'll wait till you're quite yourself again. I am in no hurry
ARE you going to speak to me, master, or am I to go away
Speak you
speak you, good fellow. I have spoken, have I not? I am waiting for you
Why, look'ee, sir
am I the man that you privately left your whip with before you rode away from the Maypole, and told to bring it back whenever he might want to see you on a certain subject
No doubt the same, or you have a twin brother
which is not probable, I should say
Then I have come, sir
and I have brought it back, and something else along with it. A letter, sir, it is, that I took from the person who had charge of it
Did you obtain this by force, my good fellow
Not quite
Partly
Who was the messenger from whom you took it
A woman. One Varden's daughter
Oh indeed
What else did you take from her
What else
Yes
What else
Well a kiss
And what else
Nothing
I think
I think there was something else. I have heard a trifle of jewellery spoken of -- a mere trifle -- a thing of such little value, indeed, that you may have forgotten it. Do you remember anything of the kind -- such as a bracelet now, for instance
You took that for yourself my excellent friend
and may keep it. I am neither a thief nor a receiver. Don't show it to me. You had better hide it again, and lose no time. Don't let me see where you put it either
You're not a receiver
What do you call THAT, master
I call that quite another thing
I shall prove it presently, as you will see. You are thirsty, I suppose
Step to that closet and bring me a bottle you will see there, and a glass
How many can you bear
As many as you like to give me. Pour on. Fill high. A bumper with a bead in the middle! Give me enough of this
and I'll do murder if you ask me
As I don't mean to ask you, and you might possibly do it without being invited if you went on much further
I always am when I can get it
I always am. Why not? Ha ha ha! What's so good to me as this? What ever has been? What else has kept away the cold on bitter nights, and driven hunger off in starving times? What else has given me the strength and courage of a man, when men would have left me to die, a puny child? I should never have had a man's heart but for this. I should have died in a ditch. Where's he who when I was a weak and sickly wretch, with trembling legs and fading sight, bade me cheer up, as this did? I never knew him; not I. I drink to the drink, master. Ha ha ha
You are an exceedingly cheerful young man
Quite a boon companion
Do you see this hand, master
and this arm
It was once mere skin and bone, and would have been dust in some poor churchyard by this time, but for the drink
You may cover it
it's sufficiently real in your sleeve
I should never have been spirited up to take a kiss from the proud little beauty, master, but for the drink
Ha ha ha! It was a good one. As sweet as honeysuckle, I warrant you. I thank the drink for it. I'll drink to the drink again, master. Fill me one more. Come. One more
You are such a promising fellow
that I must caution you against having too many impulses from the drink, and getting hung before your time. What's your age
I don't know
At any rate
you are young enough to escape what I may call a natural death for some years to come. How can you trust yourself in my hands on so short an acquaintance, with a halter round your neck? What a confiding nature yours must be
Robbery on the king's highway, my young friend, is a very dangerous and ticklish occupation. It is pleasant, I have no doubt, while it lasts; but like many other pleasures in this transitory world, it seldom lasts long. And really if in the ingenuousness of youth, you open your heart so readily on the subject, I am afraid your career will be an extremely short one
How's this
What do you talk of master? Who was it set me on
Who
I didn't hear you. Who was it
Who was it? I am curious to know
Some rustic beauty perhaps? But be cautious, my good friend. They are not always to be trusted. Do take my advice now, and be careful of yourself
Very neatly worded upon my life! Quite a woman's letter, full of what people call tenderness, and disinterestedness, and heart, and all that sort of thing
You see this
It was directed to my son
and you did quite right to bring it here. I opened it on my own responsibility, and you see what I have done with it. Take this, for your trouble
If you should happen to find anything else of this sort, or to pick up any kind of information you may think I would like to have, bring it here, will you, my good fellow
fail to do so at your peril
And don't
don't be at all downcast or uneasy respecting that little rashness we have been speaking of. Your neck is as safe in my hands, my good fellow, as though a baby's fingers clasped it, I assure you.-- Take another glass. You are quieter now
Don't you -- ha, ha!-- don't you drink to the drink any more
To you, sir
I drink to you
Thank you. God bless you. By the bye, what is your name, my good soul? You are called Hugh, I know, of course -- your other name
I have no other name
A very strange fellow! Do you mean that you never knew one, or that you don't choose to tell it? Which
I'd tell it if I could
I can't. I have been always called Hugh; nothing more. I never knew, nor saw, nor thought about a father; and I was a boy of six -- that's not very old -- when they hung my mother up at Tyburn for a couple of thousand men to stare at. They might have let her live. She was poor enough
How very sad
I have no doubt she was an exceedingly fine woman
You see that dog of mine
Faithful, I dare say
and immensely clever? Virtuous and gifted animals, whether man or beast, always are so very hideous
Such a dog as that, and one of the same breed, was the only living thing except me that howled that day
Out of the two thousand odd -- there was a larger crowd for its being a woman -- the dog and I alone had any pity. If he'd have been a man, he'd have been glad to be quit of her, for she had been forced to keep him lean and half-starved; but being a dog, and not having a man's sense, he was sorry
It was dull of the brute, certainly
and very like a brute
Good night; he returned. 'Remember; you're safe with me -- quite safe. So long as you deserve it, my good fellow, as I hope you always will, you have a friend in me, on whose silence you may rely. Now do be careful of yourself, pray do, and consider what jeopardy you might have stood in. Good night! bless you
And yet
I do not like their having hanged his mother. The fellow has a fine eye, and I am sure she was handsome. But very probably she was coarse -- red- nosed perhaps, and had clumsy feet. Aye, it was all for the best, no doubt
Foh
The very atmosphere that centaur has breathed, seems tainted with the cart and ladder. Here, Peak. Bring some scent and sprinkle the floor; and take away the chair he sat upon, and air it; and dash a little of that mixture upon me. I am stifled
A friend. Desiring of a conference. Immediate. Private. Burn it when you've read it
Where in the name of the Gunpowder Plot did you pick up this
With a cloak and dagger
Let him come in
Sir
I thank you for this condescension, and am glad to see you. Pardon the menial office in which I am engaged, sir, and extend your sympathies to one, who, humble as his appearance is, has inn'ard workings far above his station
You have heard, sir
of G. Varden Locksmith and bell-hanger and repairs neatly executed in town and country, Clerkenwell, London
What then
prentice, sir
What THEN
Ahem
Would you permit me to shut the door, sir, and will you further, sir, give me your honour bright, that what passes between us is in the strictest confidence
In the first place, sir
as I have not a card about me (for the envy of masters debases us below that level) allow me to offer the best substitute that circumstances will admit of. If you will take that in your own hand, sir, and cast your eye on the right-hand corner
you will meet with my credentials
Thank you
Four. Simon Tappertit. One." Is that the
Without the numbers, sir, that is my name
prentice. 'They are merely intended as directions to the washerwoman, and have no connection with myself or family. YOUR name, sir
is Chester, I suppose? You needn't pull it off, sir, thank you. I observe E. C. from here. We will take the rest for granted
Pray, Mr Tappertit
has that complicated piece of ironmongery which you have done me the favour to bring with you, any immediate connection with the business we are to discuss
It has not, sir
Perhaps, as that is the case
and as it has a stronger flavour of oil than I usually refresh my bedroom with, you will oblige me so far as to put it outside the door
By all means, sir
You'll excuse my mentioning it, I hope
Don't apologise, sir, I beg. And now, if you please, to business
From what passes in our house
I am aware, sir, that your son keeps company with a young lady against your inclinations. Sir, your son has not used me well
Mr Tappertit
you grieve me beyond description
Thank you, sir
I'm glad to hear you say so. He's very proud, sir, is your son; very haughty
I am afraid he IS haughty
Do you know I was really afraid of that before; and you confirm me
To recount the menial offices I've had to do for your son, sir
the chairs I've had to hand him, the coaches I've had to call for him, the numerous degrading duties, wholly unconnected with my indenters, that I've had to do for him, would fill a family Bible. Besides which, sir, he is but a young man himself and I do not consider "thank'ee Sim," a proper form of address on those occasions
Mr Tappertit, your wisdom is beyond your years. Pray go on
I thank you for your good opinion, sir
and will endeavour so to do. Now sir, on this account (and perhaps for another reason or two which I needn't go into) I am on your side. And what I tell you is this -- that as long as our people go backwards and forwards, to and fro, up and down, to that there jolly old Maypole, lettering, and messaging, and fetching and carrying, you couldn't help your son keeping company with that young lady by deputy,-- not if he was minded night and day by all the Horse Guards, and every man of 'em in the very fullest uniform
Now, sir, I am a coming to the point. You will inquire of me, "how is this to he prevented?" I'll tell you how. If an honest, civil, smiling gentleman like you
Mr Tappertit -- really
No, no, I'm serious
I am, upon my soul. If an honest, civil, smiling gentleman like you, was to talk but ten minutes to our old woman -- that's Mrs Varden -- and flatter her up a bit, you'd gain her over for ever. Then there's this point got -- that her daughter Dolly
wouldn't be allowed to be a go-between from that time forward; and till that point's got, there's nothing ever will prevent her. Mind that
Mr Tappertit, your knowledge of human nature
Wait a minute
Now I come to THE point. Sir, there is a villain at that Maypole, a monster in human shape, a vagabond of the deepest dye, that unless you get rid of and have kidnapped and carried off at the very least -- nothing less will do -- will marry your son to that young woman, as certainly and as surely as if he was the Archbishop of Canterbury himself. He will, sir, for the hatred and malice that he bears to you; let alone the pleasure of doing a bad action, which to him is its own reward. If you knew how this chap, this Joseph Willet -- that's his name -- comes backwards and forwards to our house, libelling, and denouncing, and threatening you, and how I shudder when I hear him, you'd hate him worse than I do,-- worse than I do, sir
if sich a thing is possible
A little private vengeance in this, Mr Tappertit
Private vengeance, sir, or public sentiment, or both combined -- destroy him
Miggs says so too. Miggs and me both say so. We can't bear the plotting and undermining that takes place. Our souls recoil from it. Barnaby Rudge and Mrs Rudge are in it likewise; but the villain, Joseph Willet, is the ringleader. Their plottings and schemes are known to me and Miggs. If you want information of 'em, apply to us. Put Joseph Willet down, sir. Destroy him. Crush him. And be happy
That fellow
is good practice. I HAVE some command of my features, beyond all doubt. He fully confirms what I suspected, though; and blunt tools are sometimes found of use, where sharper instruments would fail. I fear I may be obliged to make great havoc among these worthy people. A troublesome necessity! I quite feel for them
At length you have mustered heart to visit the old place
I am glad you have
For the first time, and the last, sir
The first for many years, but not the last
The very last
You mean
that having made this effort, you are resolved not to persevere and are determined to relapse? This is unworthy of you. I have often told you, you should return here. You would be happier here than elsewhere, I know. As to Barnaby, it's quite his home
And Grip's
Polly put the ket-tle on, we'll all have tea
Hear me, Mary
Your life has been an example of patience and fortitude, except in this one particular which has often given me great pain. It is enough to know that you were cruelly involved in the calamity which deprived me of an only brother, and Emma of her father, without being obliged to suppose (as I sometimes am) that you associate us with the author of our joint misfortunes
Associate you with him, sir
Indeed
I think you do. I almost believe that because your husband was bound by so many ties to our relation, and died in his service and defence, you have come in some sort to connect us with his murder
Alas
You little know my heart, sir. You little know the truth
It is natural you should do so; it is very probable you may, without being conscious of it
We are a fallen house. Money, dispensed with the most lavish hand, would be a poor recompense for sufferings like yours; and thinly scattered by hands so pinched and tied as ours, it becomes a miserable mockery. I feel it so, God knows
Why should I wonder if she does
You do me wrong, dear sir, indeed
and yet when you come to hear what I desire your leave to say
I shall find my doubts confirmed
Well
And have you come all this way at last, solely to speak to me
Yes
A curse
upon the wretched state of us proud beggars, from whom the poor and rich are equally at a distance; the one being forced to treat us with a show of cold respect; the other condescending to us in their every deed and word, and keeping more aloof, the nearer they approach us.-- Why, if it were pain to you (as it must have been) to break for this slight purpose the chain of habit forged through two-and-twenty years, could you not let me know your wish, and beg me to come to you
There was not time, sir
I took my resolution but last night, and taking it, felt that I must not lose a day -- a day! an hour -- in having speech with you
It is the return to this place after so long an absence
Pray ring, dear uncle -- or stay -- Barnaby will run himself and ask for wine
Not for the world
It would have another taste -- I could not touch it. I want but a minute's rest. Nothing but that
I scarcely know
how to begin. You will think my mind disordered
The whole tenor of your quiet and reproachless life since you were last here
shall bear witness for you. Why do you fear to awaken such a suspicion? You do not speak to strangers. You have not to claim our interest or consideration for the first time. Be more yourself. Take heart. Any advice or assistance that I can give you, you know is yours of right, and freely yours
What if I came, sir
I who have but one other friend on earth, to reject your aid from this moment, and to say that henceforth I launch myself upon the world, alone and unassisted, to sink or swim as Heaven may decree
You would have, if you came to me for such a purpose
some reason to assign for conduct so extraordinary, which -- if one may entertain the possibility of anything so wild and strange -- would have its weight, of course
That, sir
is the misery of my distress. I can give no reason whatever. My own bare word is all that I can offer. It is my duty, my imperative and bounden duty. If I did not discharge it, I should be a base and guilty wretch. Having said that, my lips are sealed, and I can say no more
Heaven is my witness, as my own heart is -- and yours, dear young lady, will speak for me, I know -- that I have lived, since that time we all have bitter reason to remember, in unchanging devotion, and gratitude to this family. Heaven is my witness that go where I may, I shall preserve those feelings unimpaired. And it is my witness, too, that they alone impel me to the course I must take, and from which nothing now shall turn me, as I hope for mercy
These are strange riddles
In this world, sir
they may, perhaps, never be explained. In another, the Truth will be discovered in its own good time. And may that time
be far distant
Let me be sure
that I understand you, for I am doubtful of my own senses. Do you mean that you are resolved voluntarily to deprive yourself of those means of support you have received from us so long -- that you are determined to resign the annuity we settled on you twenty years ago -- to leave house, and home, and goods, and begin life anew -- and this, for some secret reason or monstrous fancy which is incapable of explanation, which only now exists, and has been dormant all this time? In the name of God, under what delusion are you labouring
As I am deeply thankful
for the kindness of those, alive and dead, who have owned this house; and as I would not have its roof fall down and crush me, or its very walls drip blood, my name being spoken in their hearing; I never will again subsist upon their bounty, or let it help me to subsistence. You do not know
to what uses it may be applied; into what hands it may pass. I do, and I renounce it
Surely
its uses rest with you
They did. They rest with me no longer. It may be -- it IS -- devoted to purposes that mock the dead in their graves. It never can prosper with me. It will bring some other heavy judgement on the head of my dear son, whose innocence will suffer for his mother's guilt
What words are these
Among what associates have you fallen? Into what guilt have you ever been betrayed
I'm a devil, I'm a devil, I'm a devil
We know nothing about coaches here, sir
we don't book for 'em; we'd rather not; they're more trouble than they're worth, with their noise and rattle. If you like to wait for 'em you can; but we don't know anything about 'em; they may call and they may not -- there's a carrier -- he was looked upon as quite good enough for us, when I was a boy
And you're not surprised to hear this, Varden
Well! You and she have always been the best friends, and you should understand her if anybody does
I ask your pardon, sir
I didn't say I understood her. I wouldn't have the presumption to say that of any woman. It's not so easily done. But I am not so much surprised, sir, as you expected me to be, certainly
May I ask why not, my good friend
I have seen, sir
I have seen in connection with her, something that has filled me with distrust and uneasiness. She has made bad friends, how, or when, I don't know; but that her house is a refuge for one robber and cut-throat at least, I am certain. There, sir! Now it's out
Varden
My own eyes, sir, are my witnesses, and for her sake I would be willingly half-blind, if I could but have the pleasure of mistrusting 'em. I have kept the secret till now, and it will go no further than yourself, I know; but I tell you that with my own eyes -- broad awake -- I saw, in the passage of her house one evening after dark, the highwayman who robbed and wounded Mr Edward Chester, and on the same night threatened me
And you made no effort to detain him
Sir
she herself prevented me -- held me, with all her strength, and hung about me until he had got clear off
I forbore
from repeating one word of this to anybody, as it could do her no good and might do her great harm. I thought and hoped, to say the truth, that she would come to me, and talk to me about it, and tell me how it was; but though I have purposely put myself in her way more than once or twice, she has never touched upon the subject -- except by a look. And indeed
there was a good deal in the look, more than could have been put into a great many words. It said among other matters "Don't ask me anything" so imploringly, that I didn't ask her anything. You'll think me an old fool, I know, sir. If it's any relief to call me one, pray do
I am greatly disturbed by what you tell me
What meaning do you attach to it
She cannot have married again
Not without our knowledge surely, sir
She may have done so, in the fear that it would lead, if known, to some objection or estrangement. Suppose she married incautiously -- it is not improbable, for her existence has been a lonely and monotonous one for many years -- and the man turned out a ruffian, she would be anxious to screen him, and yet would revolt from his crimes. This might be. It bears strongly on the whole drift of her discourse yesterday, and would quite explain her conduct. Do you suppose Barnaby is privy to these circumstances
Quite impossible to say, sir
and next to impossible to find out from him. If what you suppose is really the case, I tremble for the lad -- a notable person, sir, to put to bad uses
It is not possible, Varden
that we have been blinded and deceived by this woman from the beginning? It is not possible that this connection was formed in her husband's lifetime, and led to his and my brother's
Good God, sir
don't entertain such dark thoughts for a moment. Five-and-twenty years ago, where was there a girl like her? A gay, handsome, laughing, bright-eyed damsel! Think what she was, sir. It makes my heart ache now, even now, though I'm an old man, with a woman for a daughter, to think what she was and what she is. We all change, but that's with Time; Time does his work honestly, and I don't mind him. A fig for Time, sir. Use him well, and he's a hearty fellow, and scorns to have you at a disadvantage. But care and suffering (and those have changed her) are devils, sir -- secret, stealthy, undermining devils -- who tread down the brightest flowers in Eden, and do more havoc in a month than Time does in a year. Picture to yourself for one minute what Mary was before they went to work with her fresh heart and face -- do her that justice -- and say whether such a thing is possible
You're a good fellow, Varden
and are quite right. I have brooded on that subject so long, that every breath of suspicion carries me back to it. You are quite right
It isn't, sir
it isn't because I courted her before Rudge, and failed, that I say she was too good for him. She would have been as much too good for me. But she WAS too good for him; he wasn't free and frank enough for her. I don't reproach his memory with it, poor fellow; I only want to put her before you as she really was. For myself, I'll keep her old picture in my mind; and thinking of that, and what has altered her, I'll stand her friend, and try to win her back to peace. And damme, sir
with your pardon for the word, I'd do the same if she had married fifty highwaymen in a twelvemonth; and think it in the Protestant Manual too, though Martha said it wasn't, tooth and nail, till doomsday
Well said
Haredale, my dear fellow, I am extremely glad to see you. How very much you have improved in your appearance since our last meeting! I never saw you looking better. HOW do you do
The door will be opened immediately
There is nobody but a very dilapidated female to perform such offices. You will excuse her infirmities? If she were in a more elevated station of society, she would be gouty. Being but a hewer of wood and drawer of water, she is rheumatic. My dear Haredale, these are natural class distinctions, depend upon it
Not opened yet
Dear me! I hope the aged soul has not caught her foot in some unlucky cobweb by the way. She is there at last! Come in, I beg
Pray, sir
where is the person whom I came here to see
My dear friend
I have not the least idea
Your trifling is ill-timed
and its subject ill-chosen. Reserve it for those who are your friends, and do not expend it on me. I lay no claim to the distinction, and have the self-denial to reject it
My dear, good sir
you are heated with walking. Sit down, I beg. Our friend is
Is but a plain honest man
and quite unworthy of your notice
Gabriel Varden by name, sir
A worthy English yeoman
A most worthy yeoman, of whom I have frequently heard my son Ned -- darling fellow -- speak, and have often wished to see. Varden, my good friend, I am glad to know you. You wonder now
to see me here. Now, I am sure you do
The mystery is solved in a moment
in a moment. Will you step aside with me one instant. You remember our little compact in reference to Ned, and your dear niece, Haredale? You remember the list of assistants in their innocent intrigue? You remember these two people being among them? My dear fellow, congratulate yourself, and me. I have bought them off
You have done what
Bought them off
I have found it necessary to take some active steps towards setting this boy and girl attachment quite at rest, and have begun by removing these two agents. You are surprised? Who CAN withstand the influence of a little money! They wanted it, and have been bought off. We have nothing more to fear from them. They are gone
Gone
Where
My dear fellow -- and you must permit me to say again, that you never looked so young; so positively boyish as you do to-night -- the Lord knows where; I believe Columbus himself wouldn't find them. Between you and me they have their hidden reasons, but upon that point I have pledged myself to secrecy. She appointed to see you here to-night, I know, but found it inconvenient, and couldn't wait. Here is the key of the door. I am afraid you'll find it inconveniently large; but as the tenement is yours, your good- nature will excuse that, Haredale, I am certain
No
Our roads diverge -- widely, as you know. For the present, I shall remain here
You will be hipped, Haredale; you will be miserable, melancholy, utterly wretched
It's a place of the very last description for a man of your temper. I know it will make you very miserable
Let it
and thrive upon the thought. Good night
Yours, sir, would be too much honour for the like of me
I wish you to remain here a little while, Varden
I have a word or two to say to you
I will not intrude upon your conference another moment
May it be satisfactory to you both! God bless you
A deplorably constituted creature, that rugged person
he is an atrocity that carries its own punishment along with it -- a bear that gnaws himself. And here is one of the inestimable advantages of having a perfect command over one's inclinations. I have been tempted in these two short interviews, to draw upon that fellow, fifty times. Five men in six would have yielded to the impulse. By suppressing mine, I wound him deeper and more keenly than if I were the best swordsman in all Europe, and he the worst. You are the wise man's very last resource
we can but appeal to you when all else is said and done. To come to you before, and thereby spare our adversaries so much, is a barbarian mode of warfare, quite unworthy of any man with the remotest pretensions to delicacy of feeling, or refinement
Which is as easy as cursing
and more becoming to the face.-- To Clerkenwell, my good creatures, if you please
Industry
is the soul of business, and the keystone of prosperity. Mr Tappertit, I shall expect you to invite me to dinner when you are Lord Mayor of London
Sir
I scorn the Lord Mayor and everything that belongs to him. We must have another state of society, sir, before you catch me being Lord Mayor. How de do, sir
The better, Mr Tappertit, for looking into your ingenuous face once more. I hope you are well
I am as well, sir
as any man can be under the aggrawations to which I am exposed. My life's a burden to me. If it wasn't for wengeance, I'd play at pitch and toss with it on the losing hazard
Is Mrs Varden at home
Sir
she is. Did you wish to see her
Then come this way, sir
Follow me, sir.-- Would you permit me to whisper in your ear, one half a second
By all means
The name is Joseph Willet. Hush! I say no more
Mr Chester
And not Mr Ed'dard, mind
it's his father
But do not let his father
do not let his father be any check or restraint on your domestic occupations, Miss Varden
Oh! Now! There! An't I always a-saying it
If he an't been and took Missis for her own daughter. Well, she DO look like it, that she do. Only think of that, mim
Is it possible
that this is Mrs Varden! I am amazed. That is not your daughter, Mrs Varden? No, no. Your sister
My daughter, indeed, sir
Ah, Mrs Varden
Ah, ma'am -- humanity is indeed a happy lot, when we can repeat ourselves in others, and still be young as they. You must allow me to salute you -- the custom of the country, my dear madam -- your daughter too
My friend Gabriel (whose acquaintance I only made this very evening) should be a happy man, Mrs Varden
Ah
Ah
Is that the case
Dear me
Master has no intentions, sir
but to be as grateful as his natur will let him, for everythink he owns which it is in his powers to appreciate. But we never, sir
we never know the full value of SOME wines and fig-trees till we lose 'em. So much the worse, sir, for them as has the slighting of 'em on their consciences when they're gone to be in full blow elsewhere
My favourite book, dear madam. How often, how very often in his early life -- before he can remember
have I deduced little easy moral lessons from its pages, for my dear son Ned! You know Ned
You're a mother, Mrs Varden
and you know what I, as a father, feel, when he is praised. He gives me some uneasiness -- much uneasiness -- he's of a roving nature, ma'am -- from flower to flower -- from sweet to sweet -- but his is the butterfly time of life, and we must not be hard upon such trifling
The only thing I object to in this little trait of Ned's, is
and the mention of his name reminds me, by the way, that I am about to beg the favour of a minute's talk with you alone -- the only thing I object to in it, is, that it DOES partake of insincerity. Now, however I may attempt to disguise the fact from myself in my affection for Ned, still I always revert to this -- that if we are not sincere, we are nothing. Nothing upon earth. Let us be sincere, my dear madam
and Protestant
and Protestant above all things. Let us be sincere and Protestant, strictly moral, strictly just (though always with a leaning towards mercy), strictly honest, and strictly true, and we gain -- it is a slight point, certainly, but still it is something tangible; we throw up a groundwork and foundation, so to speak, of goodness, on which we may afterwards erect some worthy superstructure
I am not proud, I am what you hear, but I consider myself no better than other people; let us change the subject, pray
Dear madam
be seated
You guess my object
You divine my purpose? I am an affectionate parent, my dear Mrs Varden
That I am sure you are, sir
Thank you
Heavy moral responsibilities rest with parents, Mrs Varden
I may confide in you
without reserve. I love my son, ma'am, dearly; and loving him as I do, I would save him from working certain misery. You know of his attachment to Miss Haredale. You have abetted him in it, and very kind of you it was to do so. I am deeply obliged to you -- most deeply obliged to you -- for your interest in his behalf; but my dear ma'am, it is a mistaken one, I do assure you
Sorry, my dear ma'am
Never be sorry for what is so very amiable, so very good in intention, so perfectly like yourself. But there are grave and weighty reasons, pressing family considerations, and apart even from these, points of religious difference, which interpose themselves, and render their union impossible; utterly im-possible. I should have mentioned these circumstances to your husband; but he has -- you will excuse my saying this so freely -- he has NOT your quickness of apprehension or depth of moral sense. What an extremely airy house this is, and how beautifully kept! For one like myself -- a widower so long -- these tokens of female care and superintendence have inexpressible charms
My son Ned
has had, I am told, your lovely daughter's aid, and your open-hearted husband's
Much more than mine, sir
a great deal more. I have often had my doubts. It's a
A bad example
It is. No doubt it is. Your daughter is at that age when to set before her an encouragement for young persons to rebel against their parents on this most important point, is particularly injudicious. You are quite right. I ought to have thought of that myself, but it escaped me, I confess -- so far superior are your sex to ours, dear madam, in point of penetration and sagacity
My dear ma'am
you embolden me to be plain with you. My son and I are at variance on this point. The young lady and her natural guardian differ upon it, also. And the closing point is, that my son is bound by his duty to me, by his honour, by every solemn tie and obligation, to marry some one else
Engaged to marry another lady
My dear madam, brought up, educated, and trained, expressly for that purpose. Expressly for that purpose.-- Miss Haredale, I am told, is a very charming creature
I am her foster-mother, and should know -- the best young lady in the world
I have not the smallest doubt of it. I am sure she is. And you, who have stood in that tender relation towards her, are bound to consult her happiness. Now, can I -- as I have said to Haredale, who quite agrees -- can I possibly stand by, and suffer her to throw herself away (although she IS of a Catholic family), upon a young fellow who, as yet, has no heart at all? It is no imputation upon him to say he has not, because young men who have plunged deeply into the frivolities and conventionalities of society, very seldom have. Their hearts never grow, my dear ma'am, till after thirty. I don't believe, no, I do NOT believe, that I had any heart myself when I was Ned's age
Oh sir
I think you must have had. It's impossible that you, who have so much now, can ever have been without any
I hope
I have a little; I hope, a very little -- Heaven knows! But to return to Ned; I have no doubt you thought, and therefore interfered benevolently in his behalf, that I objected to Miss Haredale. How very natural! My dear madam, I object to him -- to him -- emphatically to Ned himself
He has, if he honourably fulfils this solemn obligation of which I have told you -- and he must be honourable, dear Mrs Varden, or he is no son of mine -- a fortune within his reach. He is of most expensive, ruinously expensive habits; and if, in a moment of caprice and wilfulness, he were to marry this young lady, and so deprive himself of the means of gratifying the tastes to which he has been so long accustomed, he would -- my dear madam, he would break the gentle creature's heart. Mrs Varden, my good lady, my dear soul, I put it to you -- is such a sacrifice to be endured? Is the female heart a thing to be trifled with in this way? Ask your own, my dear madam. Ask your own, I beseech you
Truly
this gentleman is a saint. But
if you take Miss Emma's lover away, sir, what becomes of the poor thing's heart then
The very point
to which I wished to lead you. A marriage with my son, whom I should be compelled to disown, would be followed by years of misery; they would be separated, my dear madam, in a twelvemonth. To break off this attachment, which is more fancied than real, as you and I know very well, will cost the dear girl but a few tears, and she is happy again. Take the case of your own daughter, the young lady downstairs, who is your breathing image
there is a young man (I am sorry to say, a dissolute fellow, of very indifferent character) of whom I have heard Ned speak -- Bullet was it -- Pullet -- Mullet
There is a young man of the name of Joseph Willet, sir
That's he
Suppose this Joseph Willet now, were to aspire to the affections of your charming daughter, and were to engage them
It would be like his impudence
to dare to think of such a thing
My dear madam, that's the whole case. I know it would be like his impudence. It is like Ned's impudence to do as he has done; but you would not on that account, or because of a few tears from your beautiful daughter, refrain from checking their inclinations in their birth. I meant to have reasoned thus with your husband when I saw him at Mrs Rudge's this evening
My husband
would be a great deal better at home than going to Mrs Rudge's so often. I don't know what he does there. I don't see what occasion he has to busy himself in her affairs at all, sir
If I don't appear to express my concurrence in those last sentiments of yours
quite so strongly as you might desire, it is because his being there, my dear madam, and not proving conversational, led me hither, and procured me the happiness of this interview with one, in whom the whole management, conduct, and prosperity of her family are centred, I perceive
Oh, mim
Oh gracious me, mim, there's a gentleman! Was there ever such an angel to talk as he is -- and such a sweet-looking man! So upright and noble, that he seems to despise the very ground he walks on; and yet so mild and condescending, that he seems to say "but I will take notice on it too." And to think of his taking you for Miss Dolly, and Miss Dolly for your sister -- Oh, my goodness me, if I was master wouldn't I be jealous of him
For my part
I half believe Mr Chester is something like Miggs in that respect. For all his politeness and pleasant speaking, I am pretty sure he was making game of us, more than once
If you venture to say such a thing again, and to speak ill of people behind their backs in my presence, miss
I shall insist upon your taking a candle and going to bed directly. How dare you, Dolly? I'm astonished at you. The rudeness of your whole behaviour this evening has been disgraceful. Did anybody ever hear
of a daughter telling her own mother she has been made game of
I thought
that you were a part of my dream. It was a curious one. I hope it may never come true, master
What makes you shiver
The -- the cold, I suppose
I hardly know where I am yet
Do you know me
Ay, I know you
I was dreaming of you -- we're not where I thought we were. That's a comfort
Come here
You have been drinking again, my fine fellow
As I'm alive, master, I've walked the twelve long miles, and waited here I don't know how long, and had no drink between my lips since dinner-time at noon
And can you do nothing better, my pleasant friend, than fall asleep, and shake the very building with your snores
Can't you dream in your straw at home, dull dog as you are, that you need come here to do it?-- Reach me those slippers, and tread softly
And harkee, my dear young gentleman
the next time you dream, don't let it be of me, but of some dog or horse with whom you are better acquainted. Fill the glass once -- you'll find it and the bottle in the same place -- and empty it to keep yourself awake
Now
what do you want with me
There was news to-day
Your son was at our house -- came down on horseback. He tried to see the young woman, but couldn't get sight of her. He left some letter or some message which our Joe had charge of, but he and the old one quarrelled about it when your son had gone, and the old one wouldn't let it be delivered. He says (that's the old one does) that none of his people shall interfere and get him into trouble. He's a landlord, he says, and lives on everybody's custom
He's a jewel
and the better for being a dull one.-- Well
Varden's daughter -- that's the girl I kissed
and stole the bracelet from upon the king's highway
Yes; what of her
She wrote a note at our house to the young woman, saying she lost the letter I brought to you, and you burnt. Our Joe was to carry it, but the old one kept him at home all next day, on purpose that he shouldn't. Next morning he gave it to me to take; and here it is
You didn't deliver it then, my good friend
I supposed you'd want to have it
Burn one, burn all, I thought
My devil-may-care acquaintance
really if you do not draw some nicer distinctions, your career will be cut short with most surprising suddenness. Don't you know that the letter you brought to me, was directed to my son who resides in this very place? And can you descry no difference between his letters and those addressed to other people
If you don't want it
give it me back, and I'll deliver it. I don't know how to please you, master
I shall deliver it
myself. Does the young lady walk out, on fine mornings
Mostly -- about noon is her usual time
Alone
Yes, alone
Where
In the grounds before the house.-- Them that the footpath crosses
If the weather should be fine, I may throw myself in her way to- morrow, perhaps
Mr Hugh, if I should ride up to the Maypole door, you will do me the favour only to have seen me once. You must suppress your gratitude, and endeavour to forget my forbearance in the matter of the bracelet. It is natural it should break out, and it does you honour; but when other folks are by, you must, for your own sake and safety, be as like your usual self as though you owed me no obligation whatever, and had never stood within these walls. You comprehend me
My good fellow, you have my promise, my word, my sealed bond (for a verbal pledge with me is quite as good), that I will always protect you so long as you deserve it. Now, do set your mind at rest. Keep it at ease, I beg of you. When a man puts himself in my power so thoroughly as you have done, I really feel as though he had a kind of claim upon me. I am more disposed to mercy and forbearance under such circumstances than I can tell you, Hugh. Do look upon me as your protector, and rest assured, I entreat you, that on the subject of that indiscretion, you may preserve, as long as you and I are friends, the lightest heart that ever beat within a human breast. Fill that glass once more to cheer you on your road homewards -- I am really quite ashamed to think how far you have to go -- and then God bless you for the night
They think
that I am sleeping soundly in the stable. Ha ha ha! The stable door is shut, but the steed's gone, master
You are a most convivial fellow
and I love your humour of all things. Good night! Take the greatest possible care of yourself, for my sake
Well
Oh, you're here, are you, sir
Take this here valuable animal into the stable, and have more than particular care of him if you want to keep your place. A mortal lazy fellow, sir; he needs a deal of looking after
But you have a son
Why don't you make HIM useful
Why, the truth is, sir
that my son -- what, you're a-listening are you, villain
Who's listening
A treat, indeed, to hear YOU speak! Would you have me take him in till he's cool
Walk him up and down further off then, sir
and when you see me and a noble gentleman entertaining ourselves with talk, keep your distance. If you don't know your distance, sir
we'll find a way to teach you, pretty soon
You keep strange servants, John
Strange enough to look at, sir, certainly
but out of doors; for horses, dogs, and the likes of that; there an't a better man in England than is that Maypole Hugh yonder. He an't fit for indoors
I do that; but if that chap had only a little imagination, sir
He's an active fellow now, I dare swear
Active, sir
that chap! Hallo there! You, sir! Bring that horse here, and go and hang my wig on the weathercock, to show this gentleman whether you're one of the lively sort or not
There, sir
you won't see that at many houses, besides the Maypole, where there's good accommodation for man and beast -- nor that neither, though that with him is nothing
That with him is nothing
he'll get out of a'most any winder in the house. There never was such a chap for flinging himself about and never hurting his bones. It's my opinion, sir, that it's pretty nearly allowing to his not having any imagination; and that if imagination could be (which it can't) knocked into him, he'd never be able to do it any more. But we was a-talking, sir, about my son
True, Willet, true
My good friend, what about him
Sir
I know my duty. We want no love-making here, sir, unbeknown to parents. I respect a certain young gentleman, taking him in the light of a young gentleman; I respect a certain young lady, taking her in the light of a young lady; but of the two as a couple, I have no knowledge, sir, none whatever. My son, sir, is upon his patrole
I thought I saw him looking through the corner window but this moment
No doubt you did, sir
He is upon his patrole of honour, sir, not to leave the premises. Me and some friends of mine that use the Maypole of an evening, sir, considered what was best to be done with him, to prevent his doing anything unpleasant in opposing your desires; and we've put him on his patrole. And what's more, sir, he won't be off his patrole for a pretty long time to come, I can tell you that
I beg pardon -- do I address Miss Haredale
Yes
Something told me
that it could be no other. Miss Haredale, I bear a name which is not unknown to you -- which it is a pride, and yet a pain to me to know, sounds pleasantly in your ears. I am a man advanced in life, as you see. I am the father of him whom you honour and distinguish above all other men. May I for weighty reasons which fill me with distress, beg but a minute's conversation with you here
A little more apart -- among these trees. It is an old man's hand, Miss Haredale; an honest one, believe me
You alarm me, sir
You are not the bearer of any ill news, I hope
Of none that you anticipate
Edward is well -- quite well. It is of him I wish to speak, certainly; but I have no misfortune to communicate
I am sensible that I speak to you at a disadvantage, dear Miss Haredale. Believe me that I am not so forgetful of the feelings of my younger days as not to know that you are little disposed to view me with favour. You have heard me described as cold-hearted, calculating, selfish
I have never, sir
I have never heard you spoken of in harsh or disrespectful terms. You do a great wrong to Edward's nature if you believe him capable of any mean or base proceeding
Pardon me, my sweet young lady, but your uncle
Nor is it my uncle's nature either
It is not his nature to stab in the dark, nor is it mine to love such deeds
And it is
it is this frank, ingenuous, noble nature, Ned, that you can wound so lightly. Shame -- shame upon you, boy
I never until now
believed, that the frivolous actions of a young man could move me like these of my own son. I never knew till now, the worth of a woman's heart, which boys so lightly win, and lightly fling away. Trust me, dear young lady, that I never until now did know your worth; and though an abhorrence of deceit and falsehood has impelled me to seek you out, and would have done so had you been the poorest and least gifted of your sex, I should have lacked the fortitude to sustain this interview could I have pictured you to my imagination as you really are
I throw off
the restraint which natural affection would impose on some men, and reject all bonds but those of truth and duty. Miss Haredale, you are deceived; you are deceived by your unworthy lover, and my unworthy son
I have ever opposed his professions of love for you; you will do me the justice, dear Miss Haredale, to remember that. Your uncle and myself were enemies in early life, and if I had sought retaliation, I might have found it here. But as we grow older, we grow wiser -- bitter, I would fain hope -- and from the first, I have opposed him in this attempt. I foresaw the end, and would have spared you, if I could
Speak plainly, sir
You deceive me, or are deceived yourself. I do not believe you -- I cannot -- I should not
First
for there may be in your mind some latent angry feeling to which I would not appeal, pray take this letter. It reached my hands by chance, and by mistake, and should have accounted to you (as I am told) for my son's not answering some other note of yours. God forbid, Miss Haredale
that there should be in your gentle breast one causeless ground of quarrel with him. You should know, and you will see, that he was in no fault here
I would
I would, dear girl, it were my task to banish, not increase, those tokens of your grief. My son, my erring son,-- I will not call him deliberately criminal in this, for men so young, who have been inconstant twice or thrice before, act without reflection, almost without a knowledge of the wrong they do,-- will break his plighted faith to you; has broken it even now. Shall I stop here, and having given you this warning, leave it to be fulfilled; or shall I go on
You will go on, sir
and speak more plainly yet, in justice both to him and me
My dear girl
whom I would call my daughter, but the Fates forbid, Edward seeks to break with you upon a false and most unwarrantable pretence. I have it on his own showing; in his own hand. Forgive me, if I have had a watch upon his conduct; I am his father; I had a regard for your peace and his honour, and no better resource was left me. There lies on his desk at this present moment, ready for transmission to you, a letter, in which he tells you that our poverty -- our poverty; his and mine, Miss Haredale -- forbids him to pursue his claim upon your hand; in which he offers, voluntarily proposes, to free you from your pledge; and talks magnanimously (men do so, very commonly, in such cases) of being in time more worthy of your regard -- and so forth. A letter, to be plain, in which he not only jilts you -- pardon the word; I would summon to your aid your pride and dignity -- not only jilts you, I fear, in favour of the object whose slighting treatment first inspired his brief passion for yourself and gave it birth in wounded vanity, but affects to make a merit and a virtue of the act
If what you say be true, he takes much needless trouble, sir, to compass his design. He's very tender of my peace of mind. I quite thank him
The truth of what I tell you, dear young lady
you will test by the receipt or non-receipt of the letter of which I speak. Haredale, my dear fellow, I am delighted to see you, although we meet under singular circumstances, and upon a melancholy occasion. I hope you are very well
What does this mean? Explain it
Why are you here, and why with her
My dear friend
you told me not very long ago, at that delightful old tavern of which you are the esteemed proprietor (and a most charming establishment it is for persons of rural pursuits and in robust health, who are not liable to take cold), that I had the head and heart of an evil spirit in all matters of deception. I thought at the time; I really did think; you flattered me. But now I begin to wonder at your discernment, and vanity apart, do honestly believe you spoke the truth. Did you ever counterfeit extreme ingenuousness and honest indignation? My dear fellow, you have no conception, if you never did, how faint the effort makes one
You may evade an explanation, I know
But I must have it. I can wait
Not at all. Not at all, my good fellow. You shall not wait a moment
The simplest thing in the world. It lies in a nutshell. Ned has written her a letter -- a boyish, honest, sentimental composition, which remains as yet in his desk, because he hasn't had the heart to send it. I have taken a liberty, for which my parental affection and anxiety are a sufficient excuse, and possessed myself of the contents. I have described them to your niece (a most enchanting person, Haredale; quite an angelic creature), with a little colouring and description adapted to our purpose. It's done. You may be quite easy. It's all over. Deprived of their adherents and mediators; her pride and jealousy roused to the utmost; with nobody to undeceive her, and you to confirm me; you will find that their intercourse will close with her answer. If she receives Ned's letter by to-morrow noon, you may date their parting from to-morrow night. No thanks, I beg; you owe me none. I have acted for myself; and if I have forwarded our compact with all the ardour even you could have desired, I have done so selfishly, indeed
I curse the compact, as you call it, with my whole heart and soul
It was made in an evil hour. I have bound myself to a lie; I have leagued myself with you; and though I did so with a righteous motive, and though it cost me such an effort as haply few men know, I hate and despise myself for the deed
You are very warm
I AM warm. I am maddened by your coldness. 'Death, Chester, if your blood ran warmer in your veins, and there were no restraints upon me, such as those that hold and drag me back -- well; it is done; you tell me so, and on such a point I may believe you. When I am most remorseful for this treachery, I will think of you and your marriage, and try to justify myself in such remembrances, for having torn asunder Emma and your son, at any cost. Our bond is cancelled now, and we may part
My scapegoat and my drudge at school
my friend of later days, who could not keep his mistress when he had won her, and threw me in her way to carry off the prize; I triumph in the present and the past. Bark on, ill- favoured, ill-conditioned cur; fortune has ever been with me -- I like to hear you
It MAY come to that one day, but not yet
Not yet, Haredale. Life is pleasant enough to me; dull and full of heaviness to you. No. To cross swords with such a man -- to indulge his humour unless upon extremity -- would be weak indeed
None of that, sir
none of that, sir. No breaking of patroles. How dare you come out of the door, sir, without leave? You're trying to get away, sir, are you, and to make a traitor of yourself again? What do you mean, sir
Let me go, father
This is too bad. Who wants to get away
Who wants to get away
Why you do, sir, you do. You're the boy, sir
that wants to sneak into houses, and stir up differences between noble gentlemen and their sons, are you, eh? Hold your tongue, sir
But for her
but for Dolly, who I couldn't bear should think me the rascal they would make me out to be if I ran away, this house and I should part to-night
We'll see, gentlemen
who's the master of this house, and who isn't. We'll see whether boys are to govern men, or men are to govern boys
And quite right too
quite right, Johnny. Very good, Johnny. Well said, Mr Willet. Brayvo, sir
When I want encouragement from you, sir, I'll ask you for it. You let me alone, sir. I can get on without you, I hope. Don't you tackle me, sir, if you please
Don't take it ill, Johnny; I didn't mean any harm
Very good, sir
Never mind, sir. I can stand pretty firm of myself, sir, I believe, without being shored up by you
I'd recommend you, in return
not to talk to me
Hold your tongue, sir
I won't, father
these things are hard enough to bear from you; from anybody else I never will endure them any more. Therefore I say, Mr Cobb, don't talk to me
Why, who are you
that you're not to be talked to, eh, Joe
I have done it now
I knew it would come at last. The Maypole and I must part company. I'm a roving vagabond -- she hates me for evermore -- it's all over
God bless you
What noisy fellow is that in the next room
A recruiting serjeant
And I wish
he was anywhere else but here. The party make noise enough, but don't call for much. There's great cry there, Mr Willet, but very little wool. Your father wouldn't like 'em, I know
Is he recruiting for a -- for a fine regiment
I believe he is
It's much the same thing, whatever regiment he's recruiting for. I'm told there an't a deal of difference between a fine man and another one, when they're shot through and through
They're not all shot
No
not all. Those that are -- supposing it's done easy -- are the best off in my opinion
Ah
but you don't care for glory
For what
Glory
No
I don't. You're right in that, Mr Willet. When Glory comes here, and calls for anything to drink and changes a guinea to pay for it, I'll give it him for nothing. It's my belief, sir, that the Glory's arms wouldn't do a very strong business
Supposing you should be killed, sir
Well, sir, supposing you should be
what then? Your country loves you, sir; his Majesty King George the Third loves you; your memory is honoured, revered, respected; everybody's fond of you, and grateful to you; your name's wrote down at full length in a book in the War Office. Damme, gentlemen, we must all die some time, or another, eh
I say nothing, boys
For lads of spirit
this is the time. I don't want to inveigle you. The king's not come to that, I hope. Brisk young blood is what we want; not milk and water. We won't take five men out of six. We want top- sawyers, we do. I'm not a-going to tell tales out of school, but, damme, if every gentleman's son that carries arms in our corps, through being under a cloud and having little differences with his relations, was counted up
You're a gentleman, by G
You're a gentleman in disguise. So am I. Let's swear a friendship
You want to serve
You shall. You were made for it. You're one of us by nature. What'll you take to drink
Nothing just now
I haven't quite made up my mind
A mettlesome fellow like you, and not made up his mind
Here -- let me give the bell a pull, and you'll make up your mind in half a minute, I know
You're right so far
for if you pull the bell here, where I'm known, there'll be an end of my soldiering inclinations in no time. Look in my face. You see me, do you
I do
and a finer young fellow or one better qualified to serve his king and country, I never set my --' he used an adjective in this place
Thank you
I didn't ask you for want of a compliment, but thank you all the same. Do I look like a sneaking fellow or a liar
You can trust me then, and credit what I say. I believe I shall enlist in your regiment to-night. The reason I don't do so now is, because I don't want until to-night, to do what I can't recall. Where shall I find you, this evening
And if I do come -- which it's a million to one, I shall -- when will you take me out of London
replied the serjeant. 'You'll go abroad -- a country where it's all sunshine and plunder -- the finest climate in the world
To go abroad
is the very thing I want. You may expect me
You're the kind of lad for us
You're the boy to push your fortune. I don't say it because I bear you any envy, or would take away from the credit of the rise you'll make, but if I had been bred and taught like you, I'd have been a colonel by this time
Tush, man
I'm not so young as that. Needs must when the devil drives; and the devil that drives me is an empty pocket and an unhappy home. For the present, good-bye
For king and country
For bread and meat
If it hadn't been for that
I should never have walked into poor Tom Cobb. She's twenty times handsomer than ever. She might marry a Lord
I have come
to say good-bye -- to say good-bye for I don't know how many years; perhaps for ever. I am going abroad
Indeed
I couldn't go
without coming to see you. I hadn't the heart to
Is this all you say
Don't go
Don't leave us
Why do you go
Why do you leave us
Good-bye
good- bye
Come
Dolly, dear Dolly, don't let us part like this. I love you dearly, with all my heart and soul; with as much truth and earnestness as ever man loved woman in this world, I do believe. I am a poor fellow, as you know -- poorer now than ever, for I have fled from home, not being able to bear it any longer, and must fight my own way without help. You are beautiful, admired, are loved by everybody, are well off and happy; and may you ever be so! Heaven forbid I should ever make you otherwise; but give me a word of comfort. Say something kind to me. I have no right to expect it of you, I know, but I ask it because I love you, and shall treasure the slightest word from you all through my life. Dolly, dearest, have you nothing to say to me
I have said good-bye
twice. Take your arm away directly, Mr Joseph, or I'll call Miggs
I'll not reproach you
it's my fault, no doubt. I have thought sometimes that you didn't quite despise me, but I was a fool to think so. Every one must, who has seen the life I have led -- you most of all. God bless you
Have my ears deceived me
If they're a dream
let sculptures have such wisions, and chisel 'em out when they wake. This is reality. Sleep has no such limbs as them. Tremble, Willet, and despair. She's mine! She's mine
My dear Edward
do not extend your drowsy influence to the decanter. Suffer THAT to circulate, let your spirits be never so stagnant
You do wrong not to fill your glass
Wine in moderation -- not in excess, for that makes men ugly -- has a thousand pleasant influences. It brightens the eye, improves the voice, imparts a new vivacity to one's thoughts and conversation: you should try it, Ned
Ah father
if
My good fellow
for Heaven's sake don't call me by that obsolete and ancient name. Have some regard for delicacy. Am I grey, or wrinkled, do I go on crutches, have I lost my teeth, that you adopt such a mode of address? Good God, how very coarse
I was about to speak to you from my heart, sir
in the confidence which should subsist between us; and you check me in the outset
Now DO, Ned, DO not
talk in that monstrous manner. About to speak from your heart. Don't you know that the heart is an ingenious part of our formation -- the centre of the blood-vessels and all that sort of thing -- which has no more to do with what you say or think, than your knees have? How can you be so very vulgar and absurd? These anatomical allusions should be left to gentlemen of the medical profession. They are really not agreeable in society. You quite surprise me, Ned
Well! there are no such things to wound, or heal, or have regard for. I know your creed, sir, and will say no more
There again
you are wrong. I distinctly say there are such things. We know there are. The hearts of animals -- of bullocks, sheep, and so forth -- are cooked and devoured, as I am told, by the lower classes, with a vast deal of relish. Men are sometimes stabbed to the heart, shot to the heart; but as to speaking from the heart, or to the heart, or being warm- hearted, or cold-hearted, or broken-hearted, or being all heart, or having no heart -- pah! these things are nonsense, Ned
No doubt, sir
No doubt
There's Haredale's niece, your late flame
No doubt in your mind she was all heart once. Now she has none at all. Yet she is the same person, Ned, exactly
She is a changed person, sir
and changed by vile means, I believe
You have had a cool dismissal, have you
Poor Ned! I told you last night what would happen.-- May I ask you for the nutcrackers
She has been tampered with, and most treacherously deceived
I never will believe that the knowledge of my real position, given her by myself, has worked this change. I know she is beset and tortured. But though our contract is at an end, and broken past all redemption; though I charge upon her want of firmness and want of truth, both to herself and me; I do not now, and never will believe, that any sordid motive, or her own unbiassed will, has led her to this course -- never
You make me blush
for the folly of your nature, in which -- but we never know ourselves -- I devoutly hope there is no reflection of my own. With regard to the young lady herself, she has done what is very natural and proper, my dear fellow; what you yourself proposed, as I learn from Haredale; and what I predicted -- with no great exercise of sagacity -- she would do. She supposed you to be rich, or at least quite rich enough; and found you poor. Marriage is a civil contract; people marry to better their worldly condition and improve appearances; it is an affair of house and furniture, of liveries, servants, equipage, and so forth. The lady being poor and you poor also, there is an end of the matter. You cannot enter upon these considerations, and have no manner of business with the ceremony. I drink her health in this glass, and respect and honour her for her extreme good sense. It is a lesson to you. Fill yours, Ned
It is a lesson
by which I hope I may never profit, and if years and experience impress it on
Don't say on the heart
On men whom the world and its hypocrisy have spoiled
Heaven keep me from its knowledge
Come, sir
we have had enough of this. Remember, if you please, your interest, your duty, your moral obligations, your filial affections, and all that sort of thing, which it is so very delightful and charming to reflect upon; or you will repent it
I shall never repent the preservation of my self-respect, sir
Forgive me if I say that I will not sacrifice it at your bidding, and that I will not pursue the track which you would have me take, and to which the secret share you have had in this late separation tends
It is
and it is sad when a son, proffering him his love and duty in their best and truest sense, finds himself repelled at every turn, and forced to disobey. Dear father
I have reflected many times on what occurred between us when we first discussed this subject. Let there be a confidence between us; not in terms, but truth. Hear what I have to say
As I anticipate what it is, and cannot fail to do so, Edward
I decline. I couldn't possibly. I am sure it would put me out of temper, which is a state of mind I can't endure. If you intend to mar my plans for your establishment in life, and the preservation of that gentility and becoming pride, which our family have so long sustained -- if, in short, you are resolved to take your own course, you must take it, and my curse with it. I am very sorry, but there's really no alternative
The curse may pass your lips
but it will be but empty breath. I do not believe that any man on earth has greater power to call one down upon his fellow -- least of all, upon his own child -- than he has to make one drop of rain or flake of snow fall from the clouds above us at his impious bidding. Beware, sir, what you do
You are so very irreligious, so exceedingly undutiful, so horribly profane
that I positively must interrupt you here. It is quite impossible we can continue to go on, upon such terms as these. If you will do me the favour to ring the bell, the servant will show you to the door. Return to this roof no more, I beg you. Go, sir, since you have no moral sense remaining; and go to the Devil, at my express desire. Good day
Peak -- if that gentleman who has just gone out
I beg your pardon, sir, Mr Edward
Were there more than one, dolt, that you ask the question?-- If that gentleman should send here for his wardrobe, let him have it, do you hear? If he should call himself at any time, I'm not at home. You'll tell him so, and shut the door
Hark
You have expressed yourself extremely well, sir, in relation to that sentiment, and I quite agree with you
Johnny's dropped off
Fast as a top
He sleeps uncommon hard
Not a bit on it;' and directed his eyes towards a handbill pasted over the chimney-piece, which was decorated at the top with a woodcut representing a youth of tender years running away very fast, with a bundle over his shoulder at the end of a stick, and -- to carry out the idea -- a finger-post and a milestone beside him. Mr Cobb likewise turned his eyes in the same direction, and surveyed the placard as if that were the first time he had ever beheld it. Now, this was a document which Mr Willet had himself indited on the disappearance of his son Joseph, acquainting the nobility and gentry and the public in general with the circumstances of his having left his home; describing his dress and appearance; and offering a reward of five pounds to any person or persons who would pack him up and return him safely to the Maypole at Chigwell, or lodge him in any of his Majesty's jails until such time as his father should come and claim him. In this advertisement Mr Willet had obstinately persisted, despite the advice and entreaties of his friends, in describing his son as a 'young boy
If he don't come in five minutes
I shall have supper without him
He an't blown away, I suppose
It's enough to carry a man of his figure off his legs, and easy too. Do you hear it? It blows great guns, indeed. There'll be many a crash in the Forest to-night, I reckon, and many a broken branch upon the ground to-morrow
It won't break anything in the Maypole, I take it, sir
Let it try. I give it leave -- what's that
The wind
It's howling like a Christian, and has been all night long
Did you ever, sir
hear the wind say "Maypole
Why, what man ever did
Nor "ahoy," perhaps
No. Nor that neither
Very good, sir
then if that was the wind just now, and you'll wait a little time without speaking, you'll hear it say both words very plain
If that's any comfort to anybody, they're welcome to it. If it an't, I'm sorry for 'em. If either of you two gentlemen likes to go out and see what's the matter, you can. I'm not curious, myself
Tell us what's the matter, sir
or I'll kill you. Tell us what's the matter, sir, or in another second I'll have your head under the biler. How dare you look like that? Is anybody a- following of you? What do you mean? Say something, or I'll be the death of you, I will
Oh, Johnny
Oh, Parkes. Oh, Tommy Cobb. Why did I leave this house to-night! On the nineteenth of March -- of all nights in the year, on the nineteenth of March
God forgive me
When I left here to-night
I little thought what day of the month it was. I have never gone alone into the church after dark on this day, for seven-and-twenty years. I have heard it said that as we keep our birthdays when we are alive, so the ghosts of dead people, who are not easy in their graves, keep the day they died upon.-- How the wind roars
I might have known
what night it was, by the foul weather. There's no such night in the whole year round as this is, always. I never sleep quietly in my bed on the nineteenth of March
Go on
Nor I neither
Have I ever said that we are always brought back to this subject in some strange way, when the nineteenth of this month comes round? Do you suppose it was by accident, I forgot to wind up the church- clock? I never forgot it at any other time, though it's such a clumsy thing that it has to be wound up every day. Why should it escape my memory on this day of all others? 'I made as much haste down there as I could when I went from here, but I had to go home first for the keys; and the wind and rain being dead against me all the way, it was pretty well as much as I could do at times to keep my legs. I got there at last, opened the church-door, and went in. I had not met a soul all the way, and you may judge whether it was dull or not. Neither of you would bear me company. If you could have known what was to come, you'd have been in the right. 

'The wind was so strong, that it was as much as I could do to shut the church-door by putting my whole weight against it; and even as it was, it burst wide open twice, with such strength that any of you would have sworn, if you had been leaning against it, as I was, that somebody was pushing on the other side. However, I got the key turned, went into the belfry, and wound up the clock -- which was very near run down, and would have stood stock-still in half an hour. 

'As I took up my lantern again to leave the church, it came upon me all at once that this was the nineteenth of March. It came upon me with a kind of shock, as if a hand had struck the thought upon my forehead; at the very same moment, I heard a voice outside the tower -- rising from among the graves
Never tell me that it was my fancy, or that it was any other sound which I mistook for that I tell you of. I heard the wind whistle through the arches of the church. I heard the steeple strain and creak. I heard the rain as it came driving against the walls. I felt the bells shake. I saw the ropes sway to and fro. And I heard that voice
What did it say
I don't know what; I don't know that it spoke. It gave a kind of cry, as any one of us might do, if something dreadful followed us in a dream, and came upon us unawares; and then it died off: seeming to pass quite round the church
I don't see much in that
Perhaps not
but that's not all
What more do you mean to say, sir, is to come
What are you a-going to tell us of next
What I saw
Saw
When I opened the church-door to come out
when I opened the church-door to come out, which I did suddenly, for I wanted to get it shut again before another gust of wind came up, there crossed me -- so close, that by stretching out my finger I could have touched it -- something in the likeness of a man. It was bare-headed to the storm. It turned its face without stopping, and fixed its eyes on mine. It was a ghost -- a spirit
Whose
Who
Who was it
Gentlemen
you needn't ask. The likeness of a murdered man. This is the nineteenth of March
If you'll take my advice
we had better, one and all, keep this a secret. Such tales would not be liked at the Warren. Let us keep it to ourselves for the present time at all events, or we may get into trouble, and Solomon may lose his place. Whether it was really as he says, or whether it wasn't, is no matter. Right or wrong, nobody would believe him. As to the probabilities, I don't myself think
that a ghost as had been a man of sense in his lifetime, would be out a-walking in such weather -- I only know that I wouldn't, if I was one
He's my landlord
What! Haven't you sleep enough, growler, that you're not to be knocked up for once
No
Not half enough
I don't know how you CAN sleep, with the wind a bellowsing and roaring about you, making the tiles fly like a pack of cards
but no matter for that. Wrap yourself up in something or another, and come here, for you must go as far as the Warren with me. And look sharp about it
You don't take a man out of doors at near midnight in such weather, without putting some heart into him, do you, master
Yes I do, sir
I put the heart (as you call it) into him when he has brought me safe home again, and his standing steady on his legs an't of so much consequence. So hold that light up, if you please, and go on a step or two before, to show the way
The old room
Mr Reuben's own apartment, God be with us! I wonder his brother likes to sit there, so late at night -- on this night too
Why, where else should he sit
It's snug enough, an't it
Snug
You have a comfortable idea of snugness, you have, sir. Do you know what was done in that room, you ruffian
Why, what is it the worse for that
Does it keep out the rain, and snow, and wind, the less for that? Is it less warm or dry, because a man was killed there? Ha, ha, ha! Never believe it, master. One man's no such matter as that comes to
Begging pardon, sir
I knew you sat up late, and made bold to come round, having a word to say to you
Willet -- is it not
Of the Maypole -- at your service, sir
You are a late visitor, Willet. What is the matter
Nothing to speak of, sir
an idle tale, I thought you ought to know of; nothing more
Let your man go forward with the lantern, and give me your hand. The stairs are crooked and narrow. Gently with your light, friend. You swing it like a censer
Come in
Not you, friend
Willet, why do you bring that fellow here
Why, sir
he's a good guard, you see
Don't be too sure of that
I doubt it. He has an evil eye
There's no imagination in his eye
certainly
There is no good there, be assured
Wait in that little room, friend, and close the door between us
You did quite right
to bid them keep this story secret. It is a foolish fancy on the part of this weak-brained man, bred in his fears and superstition. But Miss Haredale, though she would know it to be so, would be disturbed by it if it reached her ears; it is too nearly connected with a subject very painful to us all, to be heard with indifference. You were most prudent, and have laid me under a great obligation. I thank you very much
Stay
Will this man drink
He'll have something when he gets home. He's better without it, now, sir
Nay. Half the distance is done
What a hard master you are! I shall go home the better for one glassful, halfway. Come
What do you mean by splashing your drink about a gentleman's house, sir
I'm drinking a toast
a toast to this house and its master
Pray, is this the London road
If you follow it right, it is
Nay, brother
you're but a churlish Englishman, if Englishman you be -- which I should much doubt but for your tongue. Your companion, I am sure, will answer me more civilly. How say you, friend
I say it IS the London road, sir
And I wish
that you was in any other road, you vagabond. Are you tired of your life, sir, that you go a-trying to provoke three great neck-or-nothing chaps, that could keep on running over us, back'ards and for'ards, till we was dead, and then take our bodies up behind 'em, and drown us ten miles off
How far is it to London
Why, from here, sir
it's thirteen very easy mile
Thirteen miles! That's a long distance
Pray
are there any inns hereabouts
inns
There are no inns
but there's a Inn -- one Inn -- the Maypole Inn. That's a Inn indeed. You won't see the like of that Inn often
You keep it, perhaps
I do, sir
And how far is the Maypole from here
About a mile
And have you one excellent bed, landlord? Hem! A bed that you can recommend -- a bed that you are sure is well aired -- a bed that has been slept in by some perfectly respectable and unexceptionable person
We don't take in no tagrag and bobtail at our house, sir
And as to the bed itself
Say, as to three beds
for we shall want three if we stay, though my friend only speaks of one
No, no, my lord; you are too good, you are too kind; but your life is of far too much importance to the nation in these portentous times, to be placed upon a level with one so useless and so poor as mine. A great cause, my lord, a mighty cause, depends on you. You are its leader and its champion, its advanced guard and its van. It is the cause of our altars and our homes, our country and our faith. Let ME sleep on a chair -- the carpet -- anywhere. No one will repine if I take cold or fever. Let John Grueby pass the night beneath the open sky -- no one will repine for HIM. But forty thousand men of this our island in the wave (exclusive of women and children) rivet their eyes and thoughts on Lord George Gordon; and every day, from the rising up of the sun to the going down of the same, pray for his health and vigour. My lord
it is a glorious cause, and must not be forgotten. My lord, it is a mighty cause, and must not be endangered. My lord, it is a holy cause, and must not be deserted
It IS a holy cause
Amen
John Grueby
his lordship said Amen
I heard my lord, sir
And do not YOU say Amen, likewise
You surprise me, Grueby
At a crisis like the present, when Queen Elizabeth, that maiden monarch, weeps within her tomb, and Bloody Mary, with a brow of gloom and shadow, stalks triumphant
Oh, sir
What say you, Gashford? Shall we tarry at this house he speaks of, or press forward? You shall decide
I would submit, my lord, then
that your health and spirits -- so important, under Providence, to our great cause, our pure and truthful cause
require refreshment and repose
Go on before, landlord, and show the way
we will follow at a footpace
If you'll give me leave, my lord
I'll change my proper place, and ride before you. The looks of the landlord's friend are not over honest, and it may be as well to be cautious with him
John Grueby is quite right
My lord, a life so precious as yours must not be put in peril. Go forward, John, by all means. If you have any reason to suspect the fellow, blow his brains out
If I led you wrong now
you'd -- ha ha ha!-- you'd shoot me through the head, I suppose
Did you ever try a fall with a man when you were young, master
Can you make any play at single-stick
Like this
Whoop
Or that
Yes, I played a little once. You wear your hair too long; I should have cracked your crown if it had been a little shorter
Well done
For my lord
this room, my lord, isn't at all the sort of place for your lordship, and I have to beg your lordship's pardon for keeping you here, my lord, one minute
So ends, my lord
the blessed work of a most blessed day
And of a blessed yesterday
Ah
a blessed yesterday indeed! The Protestants of Suffolk are godly men and true. Though others of our countrymen have lost their way in darkness, even as we, my lord, did lose our road to-night, theirs is the light and glory
Did I move them, Gashford
Move them, my lord! Move them! They cried to be led on against the Papists, they vowed a dreadful vengeance on their heads, they roared like men possessed
But not by devils
By devils! my lord! By angels
Yes -- oh surely -- by angels, no doubt
Of course by angels -- eh Gashford
You do not doubt it, my lord
No -- No
No. Why should I? I suppose it would be decidedly irreligious to doubt it -- wouldn't it, Gashford? Though there certainly were
some plaguy ill-looking characters among them
When you warmed
when you warmed into that noble outbreak; when you told them that you were never of the lukewarm or the timid tribe, and bade them take heed that they were prepared to follow one who would lead them on, though to the very death; when you spoke of a hundred and twenty thousand men across the Scottish border who would take their own redress at any time, if it were not conceded; when you cried "Perish the Pope and all his base adherents; the penal laws against them shall never be repealed while Englishmen have hearts and hands"-- and waved your own and touched your sword; and when they cried "No Popery!" and you cried "No; not even if we wade in blood," and they threw up their hats and cried "Hurrah! not even if we wade in blood; No Popery! Lord George! Down with the Papists -- Vengeance on their heads:" when this was said and done, and a word from you, my lord, could raise or still the tumult -- ah! then I felt what greatness was indeed, and thought, When was there ever power like this of Lord George Gordon's
It's a great power. You're right. It is a great power
But -- dear Gashford -- did I really say all that
And how much more
Ah! how much more
And I told them what you say, about the one hundred and forty thousand men in Scotland, did I
That was bold
Our cause is boldness. Truth is always bold
Certainly. So is religion. She's bold, Gashford
The true religion is, my lord
And that's ours
There can be no doubt of ours being the true one. You feel as certain of that as I do, Gashford, don't you
Does my lord ask ME
ME
who, stricken by the magic of his eloquence in Scotland but a year ago, abjured the errors of the Romish church, and clung to him as one whose timely hand had plucked me from a pit
True. No -- No. I -- I didn't mean it
It's a proud thing to lead the people, Gashford
By force of reason too
Ay, to be sure. They may cough and jeer, and groan in Parliament, and call me fool and madman, but which of them can raise this human sea and make it swell and roar at pleasure? Not one
Not one
Which of them can say for his honesty, what I can say for mine; which of them has refused a minister's bribe of one thousand pounds a year, to resign his seat in favour of another? Not one
Not one
And as we are honest, true, and in a sacred cause, Gashford
Called
by Heaven
I am
Chosen by the people
Yes
Faithful to both
To the block
Gashford -- YOU moved them yesterday too. Oh yes! You did
I shone with a reflected light, my lord
I did my best
You did well
and are a great and worthy instrument. If you will ring for John Grueby to carry the portmanteau into my room, and will wait here while I undress, we will dispose of business as usual, if you're not too tired
Too tired, my lord!-- But this is his consideration! Christian from head to foot
Now, Mr Gashford sir
my lord's abed
Oh. Very good, John
Thank you, John. Nobody need sit up. I know my room
I hope you're not a-going to trouble your head to-night, or my lord's head neither, with anything more about Bloody Mary
I wish the blessed old creetur had never been born
I said you might go to bed, John
You didn't hear me, I think
Between Bloody Marys, and blue cockades, and glorious Queen Besses, and no Poperys, and Protestant associations, and making of speeches
'em: and Protestants are very fond of spoons, I find, and silver-plate in general, whenever area-gates is left open accidentally. I wish that was the worst of it, and that no more harm might be to come; but if you don't stop these ugly customers in time, Mr Gashford (and I know you; you're the man that blows the fire), you'll find 'em grow a little bit too strong for you. One of these evenings, when the weather gets warmer and Protestants are thirsty, they'll be pulling London down,-- and I never heard that Bloody Mary went as far as THAT
Hush
He seems to be asleep. Pray Heaven he is! Too much watching, too much care, too much thought -- ah! Lord preserve him for a martyr! He is a saint, if ever saint drew breath on this bad earth
The saviour of his country and his country's religion, the friend of his poor countrymen, the enemy of the proud and harsh; beloved of the rejected and oppressed, adored by forty thousand bold and loyal English hearts -- what happy slumbers his should be
Why, Gashford
My -- my lord
I have disturbed you
I have not been sleeping
Not sleeping
What can I say for having in your presence given utterance to thoughts -- but they were sincere -- they were sincere
and why should I regret your having heard them
Gashford
Do not regret it. You love me well, I know -- too well. I don't deserve such homage
How do our numbers stand since last enrolling-night
Are we really forty thousand strong, or do we still speak in round numbers when we take the Association at that amount
Our total now exceeds that number by a score and three
The funds
Not VERY improving; but there is some manna in the wilderness, my lord. Hem! On Friday night the widows' mites dropped in. "Forty scavengers, three and fourpence. An aged pew-opener of St Martin's parish, sixpence. A bell-ringer of the established church, sixpence. A Protestant infant, newly born, one halfpenny. The United Link Boys, three shillings -- one bad. The anti-popish prisoners in Newgate, five and fourpence. A friend in Bedlam, half-a-crown. Dennis the hangman, one shilling
That Dennis
is an earnest man. I marked him in the crowd in Welbeck Street, last Friday
A good man
a staunch, sincere, and truly zealous man
He should be encouraged
Make a note of Dennis. I'll talk with him
The Friends of Reason, half-a-guinea. The Friends of Liberty, half-a-guinea. The Friends of Peace, half-a-guinea. The Friends of Charity, half-a-guinea. The Friends of Mercy, half-a-guinea. The Associated Rememberers of Bloody Mary, half-a-guinea. The United Bulldogs, half-a-guinea
The United Bulldogs
are a new society, are they not
prentices among them, as well as workmen
What is their president's name
President
Mr Simon Tappertit
I remember him. The little man, who sometimes brings an elderly sister to our meetings, and sometimes another female too, who is conscientious, I have no doubt, but not well-favoured
The very same, my lord
Tappertit is an earnest man
Eh, Gashford
One of the foremost among them all, my lord. He snuffs the battle from afar, like the war-horse. He throws his hat up in the street as if he were inspired, and makes most stirring speeches from the shoulders of his friends
Make a note of Tappertit
We may advance him to a place of trust
That
is all -- except Mrs Varden's box (fourteenth time of opening), seven shillings and sixpence in silver and copper, and half-a-guinea in gold; and Miggs (being the saving of a quarter's wages), one-and- threepence
Miggs
Is that a man
The name is entered on the list as a woman
I think she is the tall spare female of whom you spoke just now, my lord, as not being well-favoured, who sometimes comes to hear the speeches -- along with Tappertit and Mrs Varden
Mrs Varden is the elderly lady then, is she
She is a zealous sister
Her collection goes on prosperously, and is pursued with fervour. Has her husband joined
A malignant
Unworthy such a wife. He remains in outer darkness and steadily refuses
The consequences be upon his own head!-- Gashford
My lord
You don't think
these people will desert me, when the hour arrives? I have spoken boldly for them, ventured much, suppressed nothing. They'll not fall off, will they
No fear of that, my lord
Be sure there is no fear of that
Nor
of their -- but they CAN sustain no harm from leaguing for this purpose. Right is on our side, though Might may be against us. You feel as sure of that as I -- honestly, you do
You do not doubt
Doubt. No. Who says I doubt? If I doubted, should I cast away relatives, friends, everything, for this unhappy country's sake; this unhappy country
forsaken of God and man, delivered over to a dangerous confederacy of Popish powers; the prey of corruption, idolatry, and despotism! Who says I doubt? Am I called, and chosen, and faithful? Tell me. Am I, or am I not
To God, the country, and yourself
I am. I will be. I say again, I will be: to the block. Who says as much! Do you? Does any man alive
To every Protestant into whose hands this shall come
Men and Brethren. Whoever shall find this letter, will take it as a warning to join, without delay, the friends of Lord George Gordon. There are great events at hand; and the times are dangerous and troubled. Read this carefully, keep it clean, and drop it somewhere else. For King and Country. Union
More seed, more seed
When will the harvest come
My lord
my lord
Yes -- who's that? What is it
The clock has struck nine
You have slept well? I hope you have slept well? If my prayers are heard, you are refreshed indeed
To say the truth, I have slept so soundly
that I don't remember quite -- what place is this
My lord
Oh
Yes. You're not a Jew then
A Jew
I dreamed that we were Jews, Gashford. You and I -- both of us -- Jews with long beards
Heaven forbid, my lord! We might as well be Papists
I suppose we might
Eh? You really think so, Gashford
Surely I do
Humph
Yes, that seems reasonable
I hope my lord
Hope
Why do you say, you hope? There's no harm in thinking of such things
Not in dreams
In dreams! No, nor waking either
Called, and chosen, and faithful
The holy cause goes bravely on, my lord. I was not idle, even last night. I dropped two of the handbills before I went to bed, and both are gone this morning. Nobody in the house has mentioned the circumstance of finding them, though I have been downstairs full half-an-hour. One or two recruits will be their first fruit, I predict; and who shall say how many more, with Heaven's blessing on your inspired exertions
It was a famous device in the beginning
an excellent device, and did good service in Scotland. It was quite worthy of you. You remind me not to be a sluggard, Gashford, when the vineyard is menaced with destruction, and may be trodden down by Papist feet. Let the horses be saddled in half-an-hour. We must be up and doing
Dreamed he was a Jew
He may come to that before he dies. It's like enough. Well! After a time, and provided I lost nothing by it, I don't see why that religion shouldn't suit me as well as any other. There are rich men among the Jews; shaving is very troublesome;-- yes, it would suit me well enough. For the present, though, we must be Christian to the core. Our prophetic motto will suit all creeds in their turn, that's a comfort
Hurrah Geordie! No Popery
Gentlemen, No Popery
Hurrah, my lord
The Church in Danger
Gentlemen, No Popery. Good day. God bless you
A speech! a speech
Let him come in
Here! come in
You're a Protestant, an't you
I should think so
You've the looks of it
I'd have known you for one, anywhere
Ah! Dennis
Sit down
I see my lord down yonder --' cried the man, with a jerk of his thumb towards the quarter that he spoke of, 'and he says to me, says my lord, "If you've nothing to do, Dennis, go up to my house and talk with Muster Gashford." Of course I'd nothing to do, you know. These an't my working hours. Ha ha! I was a-taking the air when I see my lord, that's what I was doing. I takes the air by night, as the howls does, Muster Gashford
when you go out in state, you know
Ha ha
un at that, but he's a fool to you. Ah to be sure,-- when I go out in state
And have your carriage
and your chaplain, eh? and all the rest of it
You'll be the death of me
you will. But what's in the wind now, Muster Gashford
Eh? Are we to be under orders to pull down one of them Popish chapels -- or what
Hush
Hush! God bless me, Dennis! We associate, you know, for strictly peaceable and lawful purposes
I know, bless you
I entered a' purpose, didn't I
No doubt
Muster Gashford agin' all England hollow
Lord George and I were talking of you last night
He says you are a very earnest fellow
So I am
And that you truly hate the Papists
So I do
Lookye here, Muster Gashford
Ob-serve. I'm a constitutional officer that works for my living, and does my work creditable. Do I, or do I not
Unquestionably
Very good. Stop a minute. My work, is sound, Protestant, constitutional, English work. Is it, or is it not
No man alive can doubt it
Nor dead neither. Parliament says this here -- says Parliament, "If any man, woman, or child, does anything which goes again a certain number of our acts"-- how many hanging laws may there be at this present time, Muster Gashford? Fifty
I don't exactly know how many
a great number though
Well, say fifty. Parliament says, "If any man, woman, or child, does anything again any one of them fifty acts, that man, woman, or child, shall be worked off by Dennis." George the Third steps in when they number very strong at the end of a sessions, and says, "These are too many for Dennis. I'll have half for myself and Dennis shall have half for himself;" and sometimes he throws me in one over that I don't expect, as he did three year ago, when I got Mary Jones, a young woman of nineteen who come up to Tyburn with a infant at her breast, and was worked off for taking a piece of cloth off the counter of a shop in Ludgate Hill, and putting it down again when the shopman see her; and who had never done any harm before, and only tried to do that, in consequence of her husband having been pressed three weeks previous, and she being left to beg, with two young children -- as was proved upon the trial. Ha ha!-- Well! That being the law and the practice of England, is the glory of England, an't it, Muster Gashford
Certainly
And in times to come
if our grandsons should think of their grandfathers' times, and find these things altered, they'll say, "Those were days indeed, and we've been going down hill ever since." Won't they, Muster Gashford
I have no doubt they will
Well then, look here
If these Papists gets into power, and begins to boil and roast instead of hang, what becomes of my work! If they touch my work that's a part of so many laws, what becomes of the laws in general, what becomes of the religion, what becomes of the country!-- Did you ever go to church, Muster Gashford
Ever
of course
Well
I've been once -- twice, counting the time I was christened -- and when I heard the Parliament prayed for, and thought how many new hanging laws they made every sessions, I considered that I was prayed for. Now mind, Muster Gashford
I mustn't have my Protestant work touched, nor this here Protestant state of things altered in no degree, if I can help it; I mustn't have no Papists interfering with me, unless they come to be worked off in course of law; I mustn't have no biling, no roasting, no frying -- nothing but hanging. My lord may well call me an earnest fellow. In support of the great Protestant principle of having plenty of that, I'll
burn, fight, kill -- do anything you bid me, so that it's bold and devilish -- though the end of it was, that I got hung myself.-- There, Muster Gashford
No Popery! I'm a religious man, by G
You are indeed an earnest fellow, Dennis -- a most valuable fellow -- the staunchest man I know of in our ranks. But you must calm yourself; you must be peaceful, lawful, mild as any lamb. I am sure you will be though
Ay, ay, we shall see, Muster Gashford, we shall see. You won't have to complain of me
I am sure I shall not
We shall have, we think, about next month, or May, when this Papist relief bill comes before the house, to convene our whole body for the first time. My lord has thoughts of our walking in procession through the streets -- just as an innocent display of strength -- and accompanying our petition down to the door of the House of Commons
The sooner the better
We shall have to draw up in divisions, our numbers being so large; and, I believe I may venture to say
though I have no direct instructions to that effect -- that Lord George has thought of you as an excellent leader for one of these parties. I have no doubt you would be an admirable one
Try me
You would be cool, I know
obedient to orders, and perfectly temperate. You would lead your party into no danger, I am certain
I'd lead them, Muster Gashford
Oh
here's another Protestant
Some other room, John
I am engaged just now
Ay, ay, I recollect. It's quite right, John, you needn't wait. Don't go, Dennis
Your servant, master
Yours, friend
What brings YOU here? We left nothing behind us, I hope
Nothing but that, master. It fell into good hands, you see
What is this
Where did you get it from, my good fellow; what does it mean? I don't understand this at all
No. He don't know anything at all about it. I know he don't. I'll take my oath he don't
It tells the man that finds it, to come here, don't it
I'm no scholar, myself, but I showed it to a friend, and he said it did
It certainly does
really this is the most remarkable circumstance I have ever known. How did you come by this piece of paper, my good friend
Muster Gashford
agin' all Newgate
Here
never mind the bill, or what it says, or what it don't say. You don't know anything about it, master,-- no more do I,-- no more does he
None of us know what it means, or where it comes from: there's an end of that. Now I want to make one against the Catholics, I'm a No-Popery man, and ready to be sworn in. That's what I've come here for
Put him down on the roll, Muster Gashford
That's the way to go to work -- right to the end at once, and no palaver
What's the use of shooting wide of the mark, eh, old boy
My sentiments all over
This is the sort of chap for my division, Muster Gashford. Down with him, sir. Put him on the roll. I'd stand godfather to him, if he was to be christened in a bonfire, made of the ruins of the Bank of England
No Popery, brother
No Property, brother
Popery, Popery
It's all the same
It's all right. Down with him, Muster Gashford. Down with everybody, down with everything! Hurrah for the Protestant religion! That's the time of day, Muster Gashford
Don't split upon a constitutional officer's profession, Muster Gashford. There are popular prejudices, you know, and he mightn't like it. Wait till he comes to be more intimate with me. He's a fine-built chap, an't he
A powerful fellow indeed
Did you ever, Muster Gashford
did you ever -- and here he drew still closer to his ear, and fenced his mouth with both his open bands --'see such a throat as his? Do but cast your eye upon it. There's a neck for stretching, Muster Gashford
Are you walking, brother
Ay
Where you will
That's social
Which way shall we take? Shall we go and have a look at doors that we shall make a pretty good clattering at, before long -- eh, brother
I'm prepared for anything
Gentlemen
Well met. My lord does me and you the honour to send his compliments per self
You've seen my lord too, have you
I see him this afternoon
My duty called me to the Lobby when our shop shut up; and I saw him there, sir
How do YOU do
Lively, master, lively
Here's a new brother, regularly put down in black and white by Muster Gashford; a credit to the cause; one of the stick-at-nothing sort; one arter my own heart. D'ye see him? Has he got the looks of a man that'll do, do you think
Looks or no looks
I'm the man you want. I hate the Papists, every one of 'em. They hate me and I hate them. They do me all the harm they can, and I'll do them all the harm I can. Hurrah
Was there ever
was there ever such a game boy! Why, I mean to say, brothers, that if Muster Gashford had gone a hundred mile and got together fifty men of the common run, they wouldn't have been worth this one
I say
haven't I seen you before
It's like you may
I don't know; shouldn't wonder
No, but it's very easily settled
Look at me. Did you ever see ME before? You wouldn't be likely to forget it, you know, if you ever did. Look at me. Don't be afraid; I won't do you any harm. Take a good look -- steady now
Come
Do you know me, feller
Not I
Ha ha ha! Not I! But I should like to
And yet I'd have wagered a seven-shilling piece," said Mr Tappertit, folding his arms, and confronting him with his legs wide apart and firmly planted on the ground, 'that you once were hostler at the Maypole
And so you were, too
When did MY eyes ever deceive -- unless it was a young woman! Don't you know me now
Why it an't
An't it
Are you sure of that? You remember G. Varden, don't you
You remember coming down there, before I was out of my time, to ask after a vagabond that had bolted off, and left his disconsolate father a prey to the bitterest emotions, and all the rest of it -- don't you
Of course I do
And I saw you there
Saw me there
Yes, I should think you did see me there. The place would be troubled to go on without me. Don't you remember my thinking you liked the vagabond, and on that account going to quarrel with you; and then finding you detested him worse than poison, going to drink with you? Don't you remember that
To be sure
Well! and are you in the same mind now
Yes
You speak like a man
and I'll shake hands with you
I find
that brother What's-his-name and I are old acquaintance.-- You never heard anything more of that rascal, I suppose, eh
Not a syllable
I never want to. I don't believe I ever shall. He's dead long ago, I hope
It's to be hoped, for the sake of mankind in general and the happiness of society, that he is
Is your other hand at all cleaner? Much the same. Well, I'll owe you another shake. We'll suppose it done, if you've no objection
Make anything you like of me
Put me on any duty you please. I'm your man. I'll do it. Here's my captain -- here's my leader. Ha ha ha! Let him give me the word of command, and I'll fight the whole Parliament House single-handed, or set a lighted torch to the King's Throne itself
Another stave
What a queer fellow you are
You're so precious sly and close. Why don't you ever tell what trade you're of
Answer the captain instantly
why don't you ever tell what trade you're of
I'm of as gen-teel a calling, brother, as any man in England -- as light a business as any gentleman could desire
prenticed to it
No. Natural genius
said Mr Dennis, shaking it in the air, 'and remember the helegant bits of work it has turned off, I feel quite molloncholy to think it should ever grow old and feeble. But sich is life
You're a kind of artist, I suppose -- eh
Yes
yes -- I may call myself a artist -- a fancy workman -- art improves natur
And what do you call this
That's my portrait atop
d'ye think it's like
Why -- it's a little too handsome
Who did it? You
I
I wish I had the talent. That was carved by a friend of mine, as is now no more. The very day afore he died, he cut that with his pocket- knife from memory! "I'll die game," says my friend, "and my last moments shall be dewoted to making Dennis's picter." That's it
That was a queer fancy, wasn't it
It WAS a queer fancy
but he was a queer subject altogether -- a kind of gipsy -- one of the finest, stand-up men, you ever see. Ah! He told me some things that would startle you a bit, did that friend of mine, on the morning when he died
You were with him at the time, were you
Yes
I was there. Oh! yes certainly, I was there. He wouldn't have gone off half as comfortable without me. I had been with three or four of his family under the same circumstances. They were all fine fellows
They must have been fond of you
I don't know that they was exactly fond of me
but they all had me near 'em when they departed. I come in for their wardrobes too. This very handkecher that you see round my neck, belonged to him that I've been speaking of -- him as did that likeness
These smalls
these very smalls -- they belonged to a friend of mine that's left off sich incumbrances for ever: this coat too -- I've often walked behind this coat, in the street, and wondered whether it would ever come to me: this pair of shoes have danced a hornpipe for another man, afore my eyes, full half-a-dozen times at least: and as to my hat
Lord! I've seen this hat go up Holborn on the box of a hackney-coach -- ah, many and many a day
You don't mean to say their old wearers are ALL dead, I hope
Every one of 'em
Every man Jack
That's a strange sort of man
I don't know what to make of him. Why can't he have his smalls made to order, or wear live clothes at any rate
He's a lucky man, captain
I should like to have such friends as his
I hope he don't get 'em to make their wills, and then knock 'em on the head
But come. The United B
I quite forgot
I have somebody to see to-night -- I must turn back directly. The drinking and singing put it out of my head. It's well I remembered it
Good night, captain
I am yours to the death, remember
Farewell
Be bold and vigilant
No Popery, captain
England in blood first
That man will prove a credit to my corps
And let me see. In an altered state of society -- which must ensue if we break out and are victorious -- when the locksmith's child is mine, Miggs must be got rid of somehow, or she'll poison the tea-kettle one evening when I'm out. He might marry Miggs, if he was drunk enough. It shall be done. I'll make a note of it
Halloa
We don't sell beer here
what else do you want
To come in
Where to go
Paper Buildings
Whose chambers
Sir John Chester's
YOU wanting Sir John, at this time of night
Ay
I! What of that
Why, I must go with you and see that you do, for I don't believe it
Come along then
Do you think he wants me now
I ask your pardon, Sir John
Here's a young man says he wants to speak to you. It's late for strangers. I thought it best to see that all was right
Aha
It's you, messenger, is it? Go in. Quite right, friend. I commend your prudence highly. Thank you. God bless you. Good night
I thought when you left me this evening, my esteemed acquaintance
that you intended to return with all despatch
So I did, master
And so you have
Is that what you would say
And how have you been employing yourself in the meanwhile
Where have you been? what harm have you been doing
No harm at all, master
I have only done as you ordered
As I WHAT
Well then
as you advised, or said I ought, or said I might, or said that you would do, if you was me. Don't be so hard upon me, master
When you say I ordered you, my good fellow, you imply that I directed you to do something for me -- something I wanted done -- something for my own ends and purposes -- you see? Now I am sure I needn't enlarge upon the extreme absurdity of such an idea, however unintentional; so please --' and here he turned his eyes upon him -- 'to be more guarded. Will you
I meant to give you no offence
I don't know what to say. You catch me up so very short
You will be caught up much shorter, my good friend -- infinitely shorter -- one of these days, depend upon it
By-the-bye, instead of wondering why you have been so long, my wonder should be why you came at all. Why did you
You know, master
that I couldn't read the bill I found, and that supposing it to be something particular from the way it was wrapped up, I brought it here
And could you ask no one else to read it, Bruin
No one that I could trust with secrets, master. Since Barnaby Rudge was lost sight of for good and all -- and that's five years ago -- I haven't talked with any one but you
You have done me honour, I am sure
I have come to and fro, master, all through that time, when there was anything to tell, because I knew that you'd be angry with me if I stayed away
and because I wished to please you if I could, and not to have you go against me. There. That's the true reason why I came to-night. You know that, master, I am sure
You are a specious fellow
and carry two faces under your hood, as well as the best. Didn't you give me in this room, this evening, any other reason; no dislike of anybody who has slighted you lately, on all occasions, abused you, treated you with rudeness; acted towards you, more as if you were a mongrel dog than a man like himself
To be sure I did
and I say it all over now, again. I'd do anything to have some revenge on him -- anything. And when you told me that he and all the Catholics would suffer from those who joined together under that handbill, I said I'd make one of 'em, if their master was the devil himself. I AM one of 'em. See whether I am as good as my word and turn out to be among the foremost, or no. I mayn't have much head, master, but I've head enough to remember those that use me ill. You shall see, and so shall he, and so shall hundreds more, how my spirit backs me when the time comes. My bark is nothing to my bite. Some that I know had better have a wild lion among 'em than me, when I am fairly loose -- they had
You are in a blustering mood, my friend
Not I, master
I don't say half I mean. I can't. I haven't got the gift. There are talkers enough among us; I'll be one of the doers
Oh! you have joined those fellows then
Yes. I went up to the house you told me of; and got put down upon the muster. There was another man there, named Dennis
Dennis, eh
Ay, ay! a pleasant fellow, I believe
A roaring dog, master -- one after my own heart -- hot upon the matter too -- red hot
So I have heard
You don't happen to know his trade, do you
He wouldn't say
He keeps it secret
Ha ha
A strange fancy -- a weakness with some persons -- you'll know it one day, I dare swear
We're intimate already
Quite natural! And have been drinking together, eh
Did you say what place you went to in company, when you left Lord George's
There -- get you gone
You have made a pretty evening's work. I told you not to do this. You may get into trouble. You'll have an opportunity of revenging yourself on your proud friend Haredale, though, and for that, you'd hazard anything, I suppose
I would
but what do I risk! What do I stand a chance of losing, master? Friends, home? A fig for 'em all; I have none; they are nothing to me. Give me a good scuffle; let me pay off old scores in a bold riot where there are men to stand by me; and then use me as you like -- it don't matter much to me what the end is
What have you done with that paper
I have it here, master
Drop it again as you go along; it's as well not to keep such things about you
This happens fortunately
and promises well. Let me see. My relative and I, who are the most Protestant fellows in the world, give our worst wishes to the Roman Catholic cause; and to Saville, who introduces their bill, I have a personal objection besides; but as each of us has himself for the first article in his creed, we cannot commit ourselves by joining with a very extravagant madman, such as this Gordon most undoubtedly is. Now really, to foment his disturbances in secret, through the medium of such a very apt instrument as my savage friend here, may further our real ends; and to express at all becoming seasons, in moderate and polite terms, a disapprobation of his proceedings, though we agree with him in principle, will certainly be to gain a character for honesty and uprightness of purpose, which cannot fail to do us infinite service, and to raise us into some importance. Good! So much for public grounds. As to private considerations, I confess that if these vagabonds WOULD make some riotous demonstration (which does not appear impossible), and WOULD inflict some little chastisement on Haredale as a not inactive man among his sect, it would be extremely agreeable to my feelings, and would amuse me beyond measure. Good again! Perhaps better
I fear, I DO fear exceedingly, that my friend is following fast in the footsteps of his mother. His intimacy with Mr Dennis is very ominous. But I have no doubt he must have come to that end any way. If I lend him a helping hand, the only difference is, that he may, upon the whole, possibly drink a few gallons, or puncheons, or hogsheads, less in this life than he otherwise would. It's no business of mine. It's a matter of very small importance
I don't care; nothing puts me out; I am resolved to he happy
Time was, now, I remember, when I was like to run mad with the desire to wear a coat of that colour. If any one (except my father) had called me a fool for my pains, how I should have fired and fumed! But what a fool I must have been, sure-ly
Ah
A fool indeed. A man at your time of life, Varden, should know better now
Why, what a ridiculous woman you are, Martha
Certainly
Of course I am. I know that, Varden. Thank you
I mean
Yes
I know what you mean. You speak quite plain enough to be understood, Varden. It's very kind of you to adapt yourself to my capacity, I am sure
Tut, tut, Martha
don't take offence at nothing. I mean, how strange it is of you to run down volunteering, when it's done to defend you and all the other women, and our own fireside and everybody else's, in case of need
It's unchristian
Unchristian
Why, what the devil
I was going to say, what on earth do you call it unchristian for? Which would be most unchristian, Martha -- to sit quietly down and let our houses be sacked by a foreign army, or to turn out like men and drive 'em off? Shouldn't I be a nice sort of a Christian, if I crept into a corner of my own chimney and looked on while a parcel of whiskered savages bore off Dolly -- or you
or you
In such a state of things as that, indeed
As that
Well, that would be the state of things directly. Even Miggs would go. Some black tambourine- player, with a great turban on, would be bearing HER off, and, unless the tambourine-player was proof against kicking and scratching, it's my belief he'd have the worst of it. Ha ha ha! I'd forgive the tambourine-player. I wouldn't have him interfered with on any account, poor fellow
Here she is at last
And how well you look, Doll, and how late you are, my darling
How glad I always am to be at home again
And how glad we always are, Doll
to have you at home. Give me a kiss
I don't like your being at the Warren
I can't bear to have you out of my sight. And what is the news over yonder, Doll
What news there is, I think you know already
I am sure you do though
Ay
What's that
Come, come
you know very well. I want you to tell me why Mr Haredale -- oh, how gruff he is again, to be sure!-- has been away from home for some days past, and why he is travelling about (we know he IS travelling, because of his letters) without telling his own niece why or wherefore
Miss Emma doesn't want to know, I'll swear
I don't know that
but I do, at any rate. Do tell me. Why is he so secret, and what is this ghost story, which nobody is to tell Miss Emma, and which seems to be mixed up with his going away? Now I see you know by your colouring so
What the story means, or is, or has to do with it, I know no more than you, my dear
except that it's some foolish fear of little Solomon's -- which has, indeed, no meaning in it, I suppose. As to Mr Haredale's journey, he goes, as I believe
Yes
As I believe
on business, Doll. What it may be, is quite another matter. Read Blue Beard, and don't be too curious, pet; it's no business of yours or mine, depend upon that; and here's dinner, which is much more to the purpose
Great Britain drenched in gore
Protestant Association
Oh, mim
don't relude to that. I had no intentions, mim, that nobody should know. Such sacrifices as I can make, are quite a widder's mite. It's all I have
but it's made up to me in other ways; it's well made up
You needn't cry, Miggs
you needn't be ashamed of it, though your poor mistress IS on the same side
Can you bear this, Varden
Why, not very well, my dear
but I try to keep my temper
Don't let there be words on my account, mim
It's much the best that we should part. I wouldn't stay -- oh, gracious me!-- and make dissensions, not for a annual gold mine, and found in tea and sugar
What are you crying for, girl
What's the matter with you? What are you talking about hatred for? I don't hate you; I don't hate anybody. Dry your eyes and make yourself agreeable, in Heaven's name, and let us all be happy while we can
like Christians
What a handy jade it is
but never marry a soldier, Doll, my dear
I never wear this dress
but I think of poor Joe Willet. I loved Joe; he was always a favourite of mine. Poor Joe!-- Dear heart, my girl, don't tie me in so tight
Poor Joe
I always wish he had come to me. I might have made it up between them, if he had. Ah! old John made a great mistake in his way of acting by that lad -- a great mistake.-- Have you nearly tied that sash, my dear
Never mind young Willet, Varden
you might find some one more deserving to talk about, I think
Nay, Martha
don't let us bear too hard upon him. If the lad is dead indeed, we'll deal kindly by his memory
A runaway and a vagabond
A runaway, my dear, but not a vagabond
He behaved himself well, did Joe -- always -- and was a handsome, manly fellow. Don't call him a vagabond, Martha
He tried hard to gain your good opinion, Martha, I can tell you
Ah! that he did. It seems but yesterday that he followed me out to the Maypole door one night, and begged me not to say how like a boy they used him -- say here, at home, he meant, though at the time, I recollect, I didn't understand. "And how's Miss Dolly, sir?" says Joe
Ah! Poor Joe
Well, I declare
Oh! Goodness gracious me
What's the matter now
Why, if here an't Miss Dolly
a-giving way to floods of tears. Oh mim! oh sir. Raly it's give me such a turn
that you might knock me down with a feather
Is Dolly ill? Have I done anything? Is it my fault
Your fault
There -- you had better make haste out
What have I done
It was agreed that Mr Edward's name was never to be mentioned, and I have not spoken of him, have I
I am not much of a dab at my exercise
but I shall get into fewer scrapes at that work than at this. Every man came into the world for something; my department seems to be to make every woman cry without meaning it. It's rather hard
The sight of you is good for sore eyes, sir
I wish you had walked in though, rather than waited here
There is nobody at home, I find
besides, I desired to be as private as I could
Humph
Gone with Simon Tappertit to that precious Branch, no doubt
Varden
you will be amazed to hear what errand I am on; it will seem a very strange one
I have no doubt it's a reasonable one, sir, and has a meaning in it
or it would not be yours at all. Have you just come back to town, sir
But half an hour ago
Bringing no news of Barnaby, or his mother
Ah! you needn't shake your head, sir. It was a wild- goose chase. I feared that, from the first. You exhausted all reasonable means of discovery when they went away. To begin again after so long a time has passed is hopeless, sir -- quite hopeless
Why, where are they
Where can they be? Above ground
God knows
many that I knew above it five years ago, have their beds under the grass now. And the world is a wide place. It's a hopeless attempt, sir, believe me. We must leave the discovery of this mystery, like all others, to time, and accident, and Heaven's pleasure
Varden, my good fellow
I have a deeper meaning in my present anxiety to find them out, than you can fathom. It is not a mere whim; it is not the casual revival of my old wishes and desires; but an earnest, solemn purpose. My thoughts and dreams all tend to it, and fix it in my mind. I have no rest by day or night; I have no peace or quiet; I am haunted
Do not ask me
to explain myself. If I were to do so, you would think me the victim of some hideous fancy. It is enough that this is so, and that I cannot -- no, I can not -- lie quietly in my bed, without doing what will seem to you incomprehensible
Since when, sir
has this uneasy feeling been upon you
Since the night of the storm. In short, since the last nineteenth of March
You will think, I know, I labour under some delusion. Perhaps I do. But it is not a morbid one; it is a wholesome action of the mind, reasoning on actual occurrences. You know the furniture remains in Mrs Rudge's house, and that it has been shut up, by my orders, since she went away, save once a-week or so, when an old neighbour visits it to scare away the rats. I am on my way there now
For what purpose
To pass the night there
and not to-night alone, but many nights. This is a secret which I trust to you in case of any unexpected emergency. You will not come, unless in case of strong necessity, to me; from dusk to broad day I shall be there. Emma, your daughter, and the rest, suppose me out of London, as I have been until within this hour. Do not undeceive them. This is the errand I am bound upon. I know I may confide it to you, and I rely upon your questioning me no more at this time
If you desire to see me safely lodged
you can
Will you walk through the house
Speak low
Yes
But this is a dull place, sir
may no one share your watch
Haredale! Gad bless me, this is strange indeed
It is
yes -- a
My dear friend
why such great speed? One minute, Haredale, for the sake of old acquaintance
I am in haste
Neither of us has sought this meeting. Let it be a brief one. Good night
Fie, fie
how very churlish! We were speaking of you. Your name was on my lips -- perhaps you heard me mention it? No? I am sorry for that. I am really sorry.-- You know our friend here, Haredale? This is really a most remarkable meeting
Mr Gashford
It is as I have heard then. You have left the darkness for the light, sir, and hate those whose opinions you formerly held, with all the bitterness of a renegade. You are an honour, sir, to any cause. I wish the one you espouse at present, much joy of the acquisition it has made
Now, really, this is a most remarkable meeting
Mr Haredale
Yes, sir
You were saying
No, but let us really
let us really, for a moment, contemplate the very remarkable character of this meeting. Haredale, my dear friend, pardon me if I think you are not sufficiently impressed with its singularity. Here we stand, by no previous appointment or arrangement, three old schoolfellows, in Westminster Hall; three old boarders in a remarkably dull and shady seminary at Saint Omer's, where you, being Catholics and of necessity educated out of England, were brought up; and where I, being a promising young Protestant at that time, was sent to learn the French tongue from a native of Paris
Add to the singularity, Sir John
that some of you Protestants of promise are at this moment leagued in yonder building, to prevent our having the surpassing and unheard-of privilege of teaching our children to read and write -- here -- in this land, where thousands of us enter your service every year, and to preserve the freedom of which, we die in bloody battles abroad, in heaps: and that others of you, to the number of some thousands as I learn, are led on to look on all men of my creed as wolves and beasts of prey, by this man Gashford. Add to it besides the bare fact that this man lives in society, walks the streets in broad day -- I was about to say, holds up his head, but that he does not -- and it will be strange, and very strange, I grant you
Oh! you are hard upon our friend
You are really very hard upon our friend
Let him go on, Sir John
Let him go on. I can make allowances, Sir John. I am honoured with your good opinion, and I can dispense with Mr Haredale's. Mr Haredale is a sufferer from the penal laws, and I can't expect his favour
You have so much of my favour, sir
that I am glad to see you in such good company. You are the essence of your great Association, in yourselves
Now, there you mistake
There -- which is a most remarkable circumstance for a man of your punctuality and exactness, Haredale -- you fall into error. I don't belong to the body; I have an immense respect for its members, but I don't belong to it; although I am, it is certainly true, the conscientious opponent of your being relieved. I feel it my duty to be so; it is a most unfortunate necessity; and cost me a bitter struggle.-- Will you try this box? If you don't object to a trifling infusion of a very chaste scent, you'll find its flavour exquisite
I ask your pardon, Sir John
for having ranked you among the humble instruments who are obvious and in all men's sight. I should have done more justice to your genius. Men of your capacity plot in secrecy and safety, and leave exposed posts to the duller wits
Don't apologise, for the world
old friends like you and I, may be allowed some freedoms, or the deuce is in it
Don't distress yourself, good sir
I'll take my leave, and put you at your ease
Silence
Mr Haredale, Lord George
A Catholic gentleman unfortunately -- most unhappily a Catholic -- but an esteemed acquaintance of mine, and once of Mr Gashford's. My dear Haredale, this is Lord George Gordon
I should have known that, had I been ignorant of his lordship's person
I hope there is but one gentleman in England who, addressing an ignorant and excited throng, would speak of a large body of his fellow-subjects in such injurious language as I heard this moment. For shame, my lord, for shame
I cannot talk to you, sir
we have nothing in common
We have much in common -- many things -- all that the Almighty gave us
and common charity, not to say common sense and common decency, should teach you to refrain from these proceedings. If every one of those men had arms in their hands at this moment, as they have them in their heads, I would not leave this place without telling you that you disgrace your station
I don't hear you, sir
I can't hear you. It is indifferent to me what you say. Don't retort, Gashford
I can hold no communion with the worshippers of idols
HE retort
Look you here, my lord. Do you know this man
This man
who in his boyhood was a thief, and has been from that time to this, a servile, false, and truckling knave: this man, who has crawled and crept through life, wounding the hands he licked, and biting those he fawned upon: this sycophant, who never knew what honour, truth, or courage meant; who robbed his benefactor's daughter of her virtue, and married her to break her heart, and did it, with stripes and cruelty: this creature, who has whined at kitchen windows for the broken food, and begged for halfpence at our chapel doors: this apostle of the faith, whose tender conscience cannot bear the altars where his vicious life was publicly denounced -- Do you know this man
Oh, really -- you are very, very hard upon our friend
Let Mr Haredale go on
I don't mind him, Sir John; it's quite as indifferent to me what he says, as it is to my lord. If he reviles my lord, as you have heard, Sir John, how can I hope to escape
Is it not enough, my lord
that I, as good a gentleman as you, must hold my property, such as it is, by a trick at which the state connives because of these hard laws; and that we may not teach our youth in schools the common principles of right and wrong; but must we be denounced and ridden by such men as this! Here is a man to head your No-Popery cry! For shame. For shame
Oh dear me! no
I have nothing to say, sir, in reply, and no desire to hear anything more. I beg you won't obtrude your conversation, or these personal attacks, upon me. I shall not be deterred from doing my duty to my country and my countrymen, by any such attempts, whether they proceed from emissaries of the Pope or not, I assure you. Come, Gashford
Down with the Papists
Stone him;' another, 'Duck him
No Popery
Who did that? Show me the man who hit me
Who did that
Show me the man who did it. Dog, was it you? It was your deed, if not your hand -- I know you
My lord -- Sir John
draw, one of you -- you are responsible for this outrage, and I look to you. Draw, if you are gentlemen
My dear friend, my good Haredale, you are blinded with passion -- it's very natural, extremely natural -- but you don't know friends from foes
I know them all, sir, I can distinguish well --' he retorted, almost mad with rage. 'Sir John, Lord George -- do you hear me? Are you cowards
Never mind, sir
never mind asking that. For God's sake, get away. What CAN you do against this number? And there are as many more in the next street, who'll be round dfrectly
you'd be giddy from that cut, in the first heat of a scuffle. Now do retire, sir, or take my word for it you'll be worse used than you would be if every man in the crowd was a woman, and that woman Bloody Mary. Come, sir, make haste -- as quick as you can
Why, who'd have thought of this here honour! Walk in, Muster Gashford -- walk in, sir
What's in the wind now, Muster Gashford
Any orders from head-quarters? Are we going to begin? What is it, Muster Gashford
Oh, nothing, nothing
We have broken the ice, though. We had a little spurt to-day -- eh, Dennis
A very little one
Not half enough for me
Nor me neither
Give us something to do with life in it -- with life in it, master. Ha, ha
Why, you wouldn't
have anything to do, with -- with death in it
I don't know that
I'm open to orders. I don't care; not I
Nor I
Brave fellows
By the bye
who threw that stone to-day
A mystery indeed
It was well done
I should like to know that man
Would you
Would you like to know that man, Muster Gashford
I should indeed
Why then, Lord love you
there he sits. That's the man. My stars and halters, Muster Gashford
what a interesting blade he is! He wants as much holding in as a thorough-bred bulldog. If it hadn't been for me to-day, he'd have had that 'ere Roman down, and made a riot of it, in another minute
And why not
Where's the good of putting things off? Strike while the iron's hot; that's what I say
Ah
but suppose the iron an't hot, brother! You must get people's blood up afore you strike, and have 'em in the humour. There wasn't quite enough to provoke 'em to- day, I tell you. If you'd had your way, you'd have spoilt the fun to come, and ruined us
Dennis is quite right
He is perfectly correct. Dennis has great knowledge of the world
I ought to have, Muster Gashford, seeing what a many people I've helped out of it, eh
Dennis's policy was mine, as you may have observed. You saw, for instance, how I fell when I was set upon. I made no resistance. I did nothing to provoke an outbreak. Oh dear no
No, by the Lord Harry
un to play with, is that 'ere Papist, and that's the fact
We are very pleasant here; so very pleasant, Dennis, that but for my lord's particular desire that I should sup with him, and the time being very near at hand, I should he inclined to stay, until it would be hardly safe to go homeward. I come upon a little business -- yes, I do -- as you supposed. It's very flattering to you; being this. If we ever should be obliged -- and we can't tell, you know -- this is a very uncertain world
I believe you, Muster Gashford
The uncertainties as I've seen in reference to this here state of existence, the unexpected contingencies as have come about!-- Oh my eye
I say
we can't tell what may come to pass; and if we should be obliged, against our wills, to have recourse to violence, my lord (who has suffered terribly to-day, as far as words can go) consigns to you two -- bearing in mind my recommendation of you both, as good staunch men, beyond all doubt and suspicion -- the pleasant task of punishing this Haredale. You may do as you please with him, or his, provided that you show no mercy, and no quarter, and leave no two beams of his house standing where the builder placed them. You may sack it, burn it, do with it as you like, but it must come down; it must be razed to the ground; and he, and all belonging to him, left as shelterless as new-born infants whom their mothers have exposed. Do you understand me
Understand you, master
You speak plain now. Why, this is hearty
I knew you would like it
I thought you would. Good night! Don't rise, Dennis: I would rather find my way alone. I may have to make other visits here, and it's pleasant to come and go without disturbing you. I can find my way perfectly well. Good night
This looks a little more like business
Ay, indeed
this suits me
I've heerd it said of Muster Gashford
that he'd a surprising memory and wonderful firmness -- that he never forgot, and never forgave.-- Let's drink his health
A brave evening, mother! If we had, chinking in our pockets, but a few specks of that gold which is piled up yonder in the sky, we should be rich for life
We are better as we are
Let us be contented, and we do not want and need not care to have it, though it lay shining at our feet
Ay
What would you do
What! A world of things. We'd dress finely -- you and I, I mean; not Grip -- keep horses, dogs, wear bright colours and feathers, do no more work, live delicately and at our ease. Oh, we'd find uses for it, mother, and uses that would do us good. I would I knew where gold was buried. How hard I'd work to dig it up
You do not know
what men have done to win it, and how they have found, too late, that it glitters brightest at a distance, and turns quite dim and dull when handled
Ay, ay; so you say; so you think
For all that, mother, I should like to try
Do you not see
how red it is? Nothing bears so many stains of blood, as gold. Avoid it. None have such cause to hate its name as we have. Do not so much as think of it, dear love. It has brought such misery and suffering on your head and mine as few have known, and God grant few may have to undergo. I would rather we were dead and laid down in our graves, than you should ever come to love it
A blessing on those voices
I feel the beauty of the night more keenly, when I hear them. They are like eyes to me. Will they speak again, and cheer the heart of a poor traveller
Have you no guide
None but that
and sometimes a milder one at night, but she is idle now
Have you travelled far
A weary way and long
A weary, weary, way. I struck my stick just now upon the bucket of your well -- be pleased to let me have a draught of water, lady
Why do you call me lady
I am as poor as you
Your speech is soft and gentle, and I judge by that
The coarsest stuffs and finest silks, are -- apart from the sense of touch -- alike to me. I cannot judge you by your dress
Come round this way
Put your hand in mine. You're blind and always in the dark, eh? Are you frightened in the dark? Do you see great crowds of faces, now? Do they grin and chatter
Alas
I see nothing. Waking or sleeping, nothing
How have you found your way so far
Use and necessity are good teachers, as I have heard -- the best of any
May neither you nor your son ever learn under them. They are rough masters
You have wandered from the road, too
Maybe, maybe
that's likely. Handposts and milestones are dumb, indeed, to me. Thank you the more for this rest, and this refreshing drink
Might I make bold to ask
that one who has the gift of sight, would lay this out for me in bread to keep me on my way? Heaven's blessing on the young feet that will bestir themselves in aid of one so helpless as a sightless man
There are various degrees and kinds of blindness, widow. There is the connubial blindness, ma'am, which perhaps you may have observed in the course of your own experience, and which is a kind of wilful and self-bandaging blindness. There is the blindness of party, ma'am, and public men, which is the blindness of a mad bull in the midst of a regiment of soldiers clothed in red. There is the blind confidence of youth, which is the blindness of young kittens, whose eyes have not yet opened on the world; and there is that physical blindness, ma'am, of which I am, contrairy to my own desire, a most illustrious example. Added to these, ma'am, is that blindness of the intellect, of which we have a specimen in your interesting son, and which, having sometimes glimmerings and dawnings of the light, is scarcely to be trusted as a total darkness. Therefore, ma'am, I have taken the liberty to get him out of the way for a short time, while you and I confer together, and this precaution arising out of the delicacy of my sentiments towards yourself, you will excuse me, ma'am, I know
I am a citizen of the world, ma'am
and if I seem to conduct myself with freedom, it is therefore. You wonder who I am, ma'am, and what has brought me here. Such experience of human nature as I have, leads me to that conclusion, without the aid of eyes by which to read the movements of your soul as depicted in your feminine features. I will satisfy your curiosity immediately, ma'am; immediately
Madam, my name is Stagg. A friend of mine who has desired the honour of meeting with you any time these five years past, has commissioned me to call upon you. I should be glad to whisper that gentleman's name in your ear.-- Zounds, ma'am, are you deaf? Do you hear me say that I should be glad to whisper my friend's name in your ear
You need not repeat it
I see too well from whom you come
But as a man of honour, ma'am
whose credentials must not be disputed, I take leave to say that I WILL mention that gentleman's name. Ay, ay
but not aloud. With your leave, ma'am, I desire the favour of a whisper
You are slow in conversation, widow
We shall have to talk before your son
What would you have me do
What do you want
We are poor, widow, we are poor
Poor
And what am I
Comparisons are odious
I don't know, I don't care. I say that we are poor. My friend's circumstances are indifferent, and so are mine. We must have our rights, widow, or we must be bought off. But you know that, as well as I, so where is the use of talking
Is he near here
He is. Close at hand
Then I am lost
Not lost, widow
only found. Shall I call him
Not for the world
Very good
As you please, widow. His presence is not necessary that I know of. But both he and I must live; to live, we must eat and drink; to eat and drink, we must have money:-- I say no more
Do you know how pinched and destitute I am
I do not think you do, or can. If you had eyes, and could look around you on this poor place, you would have pity on me. Oh! let your heart be softened by your own affliction, friend, and have some sympathy with mine
Beside the question, ma'am, beside the question. I have the softest heart in the world, but I can't live upon it. Many a gentleman lives well upon a soft head, who would find a heart of the same quality a very great drawback. Listen to me. This is a matter of business, with which sympathies and sentiments have nothing to do. As a mutual friend, I wish to arrange it in a satisfactory manner, if possible; and thus the case stands.-- If you are very poor now, it's your own choice. You have friends who, in case of need, are always ready to help you. My friend is in a more destitute and desolate situation than most men, and, you and he being linked together in a common cause, he naturally looks to you to assist him. He has boarded and lodged with me a long time (for as I said just now, I am very soft-hearted), and I quite approve of his entertaining this opinion. You have always had a roof over your head; he has always been an outcast. You have your son to comfort and assist you; he has nobody at all. The advantages must not be all one side. You are in the same boat, and we must divide the ballast a little more equally
The only way of doing this, is by making up a little purse now and then for my friend; and that's what I advise. He bears you no malice that I know of, ma'am: so little, that although you have treated him harshly more than once, and driven him, I may say, out of doors, he has that regard for you that I believe even if you disappointed him now, he would consent to take charge of your son, and to make a man of him
He is a likely lad
for many purposes, and not ill-disposed to try his fortune in a little change and bustle, if I may judge from what I heard of his talk with you to-night.-- Come. In a word, my friend has pressing necessity for twenty pounds. You, who can give up an annuity, can get that sum for him. It's a pity you should be troubled. You seem very comfortable here, and it's worth that much to remain so. Twenty pounds, widow, is a moderate demand. You know where to apply for it; a post will bring it you.-- Twenty pounds
Don't say anything hastily; you might be sorry for it. Think of it a little while. Twenty pounds -- of other people's money -- how easy! Turn it over in your mind. I'm in no hurry. Night's coming on, and if I don't sleep here, I shall not go far. Twenty pounds! Consider of it, ma'am, for twenty minutes; give each pound a minute; that's a fair allowance. I'll enjoy the air the while, which is very mild and pleasant in these parts
For I carry some comfort, you see
Taste that. Is it good
Drink some more
don't be afraid of it. You don't taste anything like that, often, eh
Often
Never
Too poor
Ay. That's bad. Your mother, poor soul, would be happier if she was richer, Barnaby
Why, so I tell her -- the very thing I told her just before you came to-night, when all that gold was in the sky
Tell me. Is there any way of being rich, that I could find out
Any way! A hundred ways
Ay, ay
Do you say so? What are they?-- Nay, mother, it's for your sake I ask; not mine;-- for yours, indeed. What are they
Why, they are not to be found out by stay-at-homes, my good friend
By stay-at-homes
But I am not one. Now, there you mistake. I am often out before the sun, and travel home when he has gone to rest. I am away in the woods before the day has reached the shady places, and am often there when the bright moon is peeping through the boughs, and looking down upon the other moon that lives in the water. As I walk along, I try to find, among the grass and moss, some of that small money for which she works so hard and used to shed so many tears. As I lie asleep in the shade, I dream of it -- dream of digging it up in heaps; and spying it out, hidden under bushes; and seeing it sparkle, as the dew-drops do, among the leaves. But I never find it. Tell me where it is. I'd go there, if the journey were a whole year long, because I know she would be happier when I came home and brought some with me. Speak again. I'll listen to you if you talk all night
It's in the world, bold Barnaby, the merry world; not in solitary places like those you pass your time in, but in crowds, and where there's noise and rattle
Good! good
Yes! I love that. Grip loves it too. It suits us both. That's brave
The kind of places
that a young fellow likes, and in which a good son may do more for his mother, and himself to boot, in a month, than he could here in all his life -- that is, if he had a friend, you know, and some one to advise with
You hear this, mother
Never tell me we shouldn't heed it, if it lay shining at out feet. Why do we heed it so much now? Why do you toil from morning until night
Surely
surely. Have you no answer, widow? Is your mind
not made up yet
Let me speak with you
apart
Lay your hand upon my sleeve
and lead me where you will. Courage, bold Barnaby. We'll talk more of this: I've a fancy for you. Wait there till I come back. Now, widow
You are a fit agent
and well represent the man who sent you here
I'll tell him that you said so
He has a regard for you, and will respect me the more (if possible) for your praise. We must have our rights, widow
Rights! Do you know
that a word from me
Why do you stop
Do I know that a word from you would place my friend in the last position of the dance of life? Yes, I do. What of that? It will never be spoken, widow
You are sure of that
Quite -- so sure, that I don't come here to discuss the question. I say we must have our rights, or we must be bought off. Keep to that point, or let me return to my young friend, for I have an interest in the lad, and desire to put him in the way of making his fortune. Bah! you needn't speak
I know what you would say: you have hinted at it once already. Have I no feeling for you, because I am blind? No, I have not. Why do you expect me, being in darkness, to be better than men who have their sight -- why should you? Is the hand of Heaven more manifest in my having no eyes, than in your having two? It's the cant of you folks to be horrified if a blind man robs, or lies, or steals; oh yes, it's far worse in him, who can barely live on the few halfpence that are thrown to him in streets, than in you, who can see, and work, and are not dependent on the mercies of the world. A curse on you! You who have five senses may be wicked at your pleasure; we who have four, and want the most important, are to live and be moral on our affliction. The true charity and justice of rich to poor, all the world over
Well
That should lead to something. The point, widow
First answer me one question
You say he is close at hand. Has he left London
Being close at hand, widow, it would seem he has
I mean, for good? You know that
Yes, for good. The truth is, widow, that his making a longer stay there might have had disagreeable consequences. He has come away for that reason
Listen
Count
Six
Any more
They are the savings
of five years. Six guineas
These have been scraped together and laid by, lest sickness or death should separate my son and me. They have been purchased at the price of much hunger, hard labour, and want of rest. If you CAN take them -- do -- on condition that you leave this place upon the instant, and enter no more into that room, where he sits now, expecting your return
Six guineas
though of the fullest weight that were ever coined, fall very far short of twenty pounds, widow
For such a sum, as you know, I must write to a distant part of the country. To do that, and receive an answer, I must have time
Two days
More
Four days
A week. Return on this day week, at the same hour, but not to the house. Wait at the corner of the lane
Of course
I shall find you there
Where else can I take refuge? Is it not enough that you have made a beggar of me, and that I have sacrificed my whole store, so hardly earned, to preserve this home
Humph
Set me with my face towards the point you speak of, and in the middle of the road. Is this the spot
It is
On this day week at sunset. And think of him within doors.-- For the present, good night
Mother
What is the matter? Where is the blind man
He is gone
Gone
I must have more talk with him. Which way did he take
I don't know
You must not go out to-night. There are ghosts and dreams abroad
Ay
It is not safe to stir. We must leave this place to-morrow
This place! This cottage -- and the little garden, mother
Yes! To-morrow morning at sunrise. We must travel to London; lose ourselves in that wide place -- there would be some trace of us in any other town -- then travel on again, and find some new abode
Oh mother, mother, how mournful he will be when he scratches at the door, and finds it always shut
Who hast thou got here
who are these? Eh? art a beggar, woman
Vagrants
vagrants and vagabonds. Thee wish to be made acquainted with the cage, dost thee -- the cage, the stocks, and the whipping-post? Where dost come from
Don't he too sure of that
we don't allow vagrants to roam about this place. I know what thouwant's t --- stray linen drying on hedges, and stray poultry, eh? What hast got in that basket, lazy hound
Grip, Grip, Grip -- Grip the clever, Grip the wicked, Grip the knowing -- Grip, Grip, Grip
I'm a devil I'm a devil I'm a devil, Never say die Hurrah Bow wow wow, Polly put the kettle on we'll all have tea
Take the vermin out, scoundrel
and let me see him
Bring him along
cook
An idiot, eh
And how long hast thou been an idiot
She knows
I -- always, I believe
From his birth
I don't believe it
not a bit of it. It's an excuse not to work. There's nothing like flogging to cure that disorder. I'd make a difference in him in ten minutes, I'll be bound
Heaven has made none in more than twice ten years, sir
Then why don't you shut him up? we pay enough for county institutions, damn 'em. But thou'd rather drag him about to excite charity -- of course. Ay, I know thee
a country gentleman of the true school
a fine old country gentleman
a sporting gentleman
a thorough-bred Englishman
a genuine John Bull;' but they all agreed in one respect, and that was, that it was a pity there were not more like him, and that because there were not, the country was going to rack and ruin every day. He was in the commission of the peace, and could write his name almost legibly; but his greatest qualifications were, that he was more severe with poachers, was a better shot, a harder rider, had better horses, kept better dogs, could eat more solid food, drink more strong wine, go to bed every night more drunk and get up every morning more sober, than any man in the county. In knowledge of horseflesh he was almost equal to a farrier, in stable learning he surpassed his own head groom, and in gluttony not a pig on his estate was a match for him. He had no seat in Parliament himself, but he was extremely patriotic, and usually drove his voters up to the poll with his own hands. He was warmly attached to church and state, and never appointed to the living in his gift any but a three-bottle man and a first-rate fox-hunter. He mistrusted the honesty of all poor people who could read and write, and had a secret jealousy of his own wife (a young lady whom he had married for what his friends called 'the good old English reason
Here! Thou'st no delight in following the hounds as an Englishwoman should have
See to this here. That'll please thee perhaps
He's an idiot, the woman says
I don't believe it
Are you his mother
What's the use of asking HER
She'll tell thee so, of course. Most likely he's hired, at so much a day. There. Get on. Make him do something
His price
what dost want for him? How much
He's not to be sold
Mother, come away
Thou seest how much of an idiot he is, book-learner
He can make a bargain. What dost want for him, old woman
He is my son's constant companion
He is not to be sold, sir, indeed
Not to be sold
Not to be sold
Indeed no
We have never thought of parting with him, sir, I do assure you
Eh? What
We can hardly expect them to sell the bird, against their own desire
If they prefer to keep him
Prefer to keep him
These people, who go tramping about the country a-pilfering and vagabondising on all hands, prefer to keep a bird, when a landed proprietor and a justice asks his price! That old woman's been to school. I know she has. Don't tell me no
I say, yes
No harm
No. No harm. No harm, ye old rebel, not a bit of harm. If my clerk was here, I'd set ye in the stocks, I would, or lay ye in jail for prowling up and down, on the look-out for petty larcenies, ye limb of a gipsy. Here, Simon, put these pilferers out, shove 'em into the road, out with 'em! Ye don't want to sell the bird, ye that come here to beg, don't ye? If they an't out in double-quick, set the dogs upon 'em
Mother
we're going to London first, you said. Shall we see that blind man there
Heaven forbid
He's a wise man
I wish that we may meet with him again. What was it that he said of crowds? That gold was to be found where people crowded, and not among the trees and in such quiet places? He spoke as if he loved it; London is a crowded place; I think we shall meet him there
But why do you desire to see him, love
Because
he talked to me about gold, which is a rare thing, and say what you will, a thing you would like to have, I know. And because he came and went away so strangely -- just as white-headed old men come sometimes to my bed's foot in the night, and say what I can't remember when the bright day returns. He told me he'd come back. I wonder why he broke his word
But you never thought of being rich or gay, before, dear Barnaby. You have always been contented
Ay ay -- oh yes
Why, where have you come from
that you haven't heard of Lord George Gordon's great association? This is the day that he presents the petition against the Catholics, God bless him
What have all these men to do with that
What have they to do with it
Why, how you talk! Don't you know his lordship has declared he won't present it to the house at all, unless it is attended to the door by forty thousand good and true men at least? There's a crowd for you
A crowd indeed
Do you hear that, mother
And they're mustering yonder, as I am told
nigh upon a hundred thousand strong. Ah! Let Lord George alone. He knows his power. There'll be a good many faces inside them three windows over there
that'll turn pale when good Lord George gets up this afternoon, and with reason too! Ay, ay. Let his lordship alone. Let him alone. HE knows
Mother
that's a brave crowd he talks of. Come
Not to join it
Yes, yes
Why not? Come
You don't know
what mischief they may do, where they may lead you, what their meaning is. Dear Barnaby, for my sake
For your sake
Well! It IS for your sake, mother. You remember what the blind man said, about the gold. Here's a brave crowd! Come! Or wait till I come back -- yes, yes, wait here
Young man
Who's that
Do you wear this ornament
In Heaven's name, no. Pray do not give it him
Speak for yourself, woman
Leave the young man to his choice; he's old enough to make it, and to snap your apron-strings. He knows, without your telling, whether he wears the sign of a loyal Englishman or not
Yes! yes, yes, I do
Make haste to St George's Fields
Why are you sitting here
Why have you not gone with the rest
I am going, sir
I shall be there directly
Say "my lord," young man, when his lordship does you the honour of speaking to you
If you don't know Lord George Gordon when you see him, it's high time you should
Nay, Gashford
You might have known it, friend
it was perfectly understood. How came you to be so ill informed
He cannot tell you, sir
It's of no use to ask him. We are but this morning come from a long distance in the country, and know nothing of these matters
The cause has taken a deep root, and has spread its branches far and wide
This is a pleasant hearing. I thank Heaven for it
Amen
You do not understand me, my lord
Pardon me, but you cruelly mistake my meaning. We know nothing of these matters. We have no desire or right to join in what you are about to do. This is my son, my poor afflicted son, dearer to me than my own life. In mercy's name, my lord, go your way alone, and do not tempt him into danger
My good woman
how can you!-- Dear me!-- What do you mean by tempting, and by danger? Do you think his lordship is a roaring lion, going about and seeking whom he may devour? God bless me
No, no, my lord, forgive me
but there are reasons why you should hear my earnest, mother's prayer, and leave my son with me. Oh do! He is not in his right senses, he is not, indeed
It is a bad sign of the wickedness of these times
that those who cling to the truth and support the right cause, are set down as mad. Have you the heart to say this of your own son, unnatural mother
I am astonished at you
This is a very sad picture of female depravity
He has surely no appearance
of being deranged? And even if he had, we must not construe any trifling peculiarity into madness. Which of
would be safe, if that were made the law
Not one
in that case, the greater the zeal, the truth, and talent; the more direct the call from above; the clearer would be the madness. With regard to this young man, my lord
he is as sensible and self-possessed as any one I ever saw
And you desire to make one of this great body
and intended to make one, did you
Yes -- yes
To be sure I did! I told her so myself
I see
I thought so. Follow me and this gentleman, and you shall have your wish
Gashford
I arn called indeed, now. I feel and know it. I am the leader of a host. If they summoned me at this moment with one voice to lead them on to death, I'd do it -- Yes, and fall first myself
It is a proud sight
It is a noble day for England, and for the great cause throughout the world. Such homage, my lord, as I, an humble but devoted man, can render
What are you doing
Do not unfit me, dear Gashford, for the solemn duty of this glorious day --' the tears stood in the eyes of the poor gentleman as he said the words.--'Let us go among them; we have to find a place in some division for this new recruit -- give me your hand
How now
Barnaby Rudge! Why, where have you been hiding for these hundred years
What! Hugh
Hugh
ay, Hugh -- Maypole Hugh! You remember my dog? He's alive now, and will know you, I warrant. What, you wear the colour, do you? Well done! Ha ha ha
You know this young man, I see
Know him, my lord! as well as I know my own right hand. My captain knows him. We all know him
Will you take him into your division
It hasn't in it a better, nor a nimbler, nor a more active man, than Barnaby Rudge
Show me the man who says it has! Fall in, Barnaby. He shall march, my lord, between me and Dennis; and he shall carry
the gayest silken streamer in this valiant army
In the name of God, no
Barnaby -- my lord -- see -- he'll come back -- Barnaby -- Barnaby
Women in the field
Holloa! My captain there
What's the matter here
Do you call this order
Nothing like it, captain
It's against all orders. Ladies are carrying off our gallant soldiers from their duty. The word of command, captain! They're filing off the ground. Quick
Close
Form! March
What do you think of this
They have all turned out to see our flags and streamers? Eh, Barnaby? Why, Barnaby's the greatest man of all the pack! His flag's the largest of the lot, the brightest too. There's nothing in the show, like Barnaby. All eyes are turned on him. Ha ha ha
Don't make that din, brother
I hope he don't think there's nothing to be done, but carrying that there piece of blue rag, like a boy at a breaking up. You're ready for action I hope, eh? You, I mean
What are you staring at? Why don't you speak
He don't understand your way
Here, I'll explain it to him. Barnaby old boy, attend to me
I'll attend
but I wish I could see her somewhere
See who
You an't in love I hope, brother? That an't the sort of thing for us, you know. We mustn't have no love here
She would be proud indeed to see me now, eh Hugh
Wouldn't it make her glad to see me at the head of this large show? She'd cry for joy, I know she would. Where CAN she be? She never sees me at my best, and what do I care to be gay and fine if SHE'S not by
Why, what palaver's this
We an't got no sentimental members among us, I hope
Don't be uneasy, brother
he's only talking of his mother
Of his what
His mother
And have I combined myself with this here section, and turned out on this here memorable day, to hear men talk about their mothers
The notion of a man's sweetheart's bad enough, but a man's mother
Barnaby's right
and I say it. Lookee, bold lad. If she's not here to see, it's because I've provided for her, and sent half-a-dozen gentlemen, every one of 'em with a blue flag (but not half as fine as yours), to take her, in state, to a grand house all hung round with gold and silver banners, and everything else you please, where she'll wait till you come, and want for nothing
Ay
have you indeed? That's a good hearing. That's fine! Kind Hugh
But nothing to what will come, bless you
No, indeed
Nothing at all
Money, cocked hats and feathers, red coats and gold lace; all the fine things there are, ever were, or will be; will belong to us if we are true to that noble gentleman -- the best man in the world -- carry our flags for a few days, and keep 'em safe. That's all we've got to do
Is that all
I warrant you I keep this one safe, then. You have put it in good hands. You know me, Hugh. Nobody shall wrest this flag away
Well said
Ha ha! Nobly said! That's the old stout Barnaby, that I have climbed and leaped with, many and many a day -- I knew I was not mistaken in Barnaby.-- Don't you see, man
that the lad's a natural, and can be got to do anything, if you take him the right way? Letting alone the fun he is, he's worth a dozen men, in earnest, as you'd find if you tried a fall with him. Leave him to me. You shall soon see whether he's of use or not
Order
News! News from my lord
Gentlemen
We must succeed and will
I am afraid
that we have little reason, gentlemen, to hope for any redress from the proceedings of Parliament. But we must redress our own grievances, we must meet again, we must put our trust in Providence, and it will bless our endeavours
You may tell these people, if you please, my lord, that I am General Conway of whom they have heard; and that I oppose this petition, and all their proceedings, and yours. I am a soldier, you may tell them, and I will protect the freedom of this place with my sword. You see, my lord, that the members of this House are all in arms to-day; you know that the entrance to it is a narrow one; you cannot be ignorant that there are men within these walls who are determined to defend that pass to the last, and before whom many lives must fall if your adherents persevere. Have a care what you do
And my Lord George
I desire them to hear this, from me -- Colonel Gordon -- your near relation. If a man among this crowd, whose uproar strikes us deaf, crosses the threshold of the House of Commons, I swear to run my sword that moment -- not into his, but into your body
What now
Why go back? Where can you do better than here, boys! One good rush against these doors and one below at the same time, will do the business. Rush on, then! As to the door below, let those stand back who are afraid. Let those who are not afraid, try who shall be the first to pass it. Here goes! Look out down there
Which
it does me good to think of. There was a opportunity! But it led to nothing. For my part, I don't know what would. There's no spirit among the people in these here times. Bring something to eat and drink here. I'm disgusted with humanity
On what account
Don't you consider this a good beginning, mister
Give me security that it an't a ending
When that soldier went down, we might have made London ours; but no;-- we stand, and gape, and look on -- the justice (I wish he had had a bullet in each eye, as he would have had, if we'd gone to work my way) says, "My lads, if you'll give me your word to disperse, I'll order off the military," our people sets up a hurrah, throws up the game with the winning cards in their hands, and skulks away like a pack of tame curs as they are. Ah
it makes me blush for my feller creeturs. I wish I had been born a ox, I do
You'd have been quite as agreeable a character if you had been, I think
Don't be too sure of that
if I was a horned animal at the present moment, with the smallest grain of sense, I'd toss every man in this company, excepting them two
for his manner of conducting himself this day
Oh! you ARE here then
Dear me
Why, where should we be, Muster Gashford
Oh nowhere, nowhere
The streets are filled with blue cockades. I rather thought you might have been among them. I am glad you are not
You have orders for us, master, then
Oh dear, no. Not I. No orders, my good fellow. What orders should I have? You are not in my service
Muster Gashford
we belong to the cause, don't we
The cause
There is no cause. The cause is lost
Lost
Oh yes. You have heard, I suppose? The petition is rejected by a hundred and ninety-two, to six. It's quite final. We might have spared ourselves some trouble. That, and my lord's vexation, are the only circumstances I regret. I am quite satisfied in all other respects
Because
because to sit still and wear it, or to fall asleep and wear it, is a mockery. That's all, friend
What would you have us do, master
Nothing
nothing. When my lord was reproached and threatened for standing by you, I, as a prudent man, would have had you do nothing. When the soldiers were trampling you under their horses' feet, I would have had you do nothing. When one of them was struck down by a daring hand, and I saw confusion and dismay in all their faces, I would have had you do nothing -- just what you did, in short. This is the young man who had so little prudence and so much boldness. Ah! I am sorry for him
Sorry, master
Sorry, Muster Gashford
In case there should be a proclamation out to-morrow, offering five hundred pounds, or some such trifle, for his apprehension; and in case it should include another man who dropped into the lobby from the stairs above
still, do nothing
Fire and fury, master
What have we done, that you should talk to us like this
Nothing
If you are cast into prison; if the young man --' here he looked hard at Barnaby's attentive face
Come on
Dennis -- Barnaby -- come on
Where? To do what
Anywhere! Anything
Stand aside, master, or the window will serve our turn as well. Let us out
Ha ha ha! You are of such -- of such an impetuous nature
you are such an excitable creature -- but you'll drink with me before you go
Oh, yes -- certainly
No malice, brother. Drink with Muster Gashford
Some liquor here! Be quick, or he'll not stop, even for that. He is a man of such desperate ardour
Once roused, he is a fellow of such fierce determination
I hear
I hear -- but I cannot say whether it be true or false -- that the men who are loitering in the streets to- night are half disposed to pull down a Romish chapel or two, and that they only want leaders. I even heard mention of those in Duke Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields, and in Warwick Street, Golden Square; but common report, you know -- You are not going
To do nothing, rnaster, eh
No jails and halter for Barnaby and me. They must be frightened out of that. Leaders are wanted, are they? Now boys
A most impetuous fellow
Ha ha! A courageous, boisterous, most vehement fellow! A man who
Is that all
Well! I think this looks a little more like business
Miggs, my good girl, go to bed -- do go to bed. You're really worse than the dripping of a hundred water-butts outside the window, or the scratching of as many mice behind the wainscot. I can't bear it. Do go to bed, Miggs. To oblige me -- do
You haven't got nothing to untie, sir
and therefore your requests does not surprise me. But missis has -- and while you sit up, mim
I couldn't, no, not if twenty times the quantity of cold water was aperiently running down my back at this moment, go to bed with a quiet spirit
I've never once closed 'em since I looked at you last, and I'll take my oath of it
Ally Looyer, mim! there's Simmuns's knock
Who's there
Me
Simon
how comes it that you return home at this time of night, and in this condition? Give me an assurance that you have not been among the rioters, and I am satisfied
Sir
I wonder at YOUR assurance in making such demands
You have been drinking
As a general principle, and in the most offensive sense of the words, sir
I consider you a liar. In that last observation you have unintentionally -- unintentionally, sir,-- struck upon the truth
Martha
I trust it may turn out that this poor lad is not the victim of the knaves and fools we have so often had words about, and who have done so much harm to-day. If he has been at Warwick Street or Duke Street to-night
He has been at neither, sir
he has been at neither
I am glad of it, with all my heart
for if he had been, and it could be proved against him, Martha, your Great Association would have been to him the cart that draws men to the gallows and leaves them hanging in the air. It would, as sure as we're alive
He was not at Duke Street, or at Warwick Street, G. Varden
but he WAS at Westminster. Perhaps, sir, he kicked a county member, perhaps, sir, he tapped a lord -- you may stare, sir, I repeat it -- blood flowed from noses, and perhaps he tapped a lord. Who knows? This
this was a bishop's. Beware, G. Varden
Now, I would rather
have paid five hundred pounds, than had this come to pass. You idiot, do you know what peril you stand in
I know it, sir
and it is my glory. I was there, everybody saw me there. I was conspicuous, and prominent. I will abide the consequences
said Varden, turning hurriedly to his wife, and he washes himself clean and changes his dress, he may get to the Tower Stairs, and away by the Gravesend tide-boat, before any search is made for him. From there he can easily get on to Canterbury, where your cousin will give him work till this storm has blown over. I am not sure that I do right in screening him from the punishment he deserves, but he has lived in this house, man and boy, for a dozen years, and I should be sorry if for this one day's work he made a miserable end. Lock the front-door, Miggs, and show no light towards the street when you go upstairs. Quick, Simon! Get to bed
And do you suppose, sir
and do you suppose, sir, that I am base and mean enough to accept your servile proposition?-- Miscreant
Whatever you please, Sim, but get to bed. Every minute is of consequence. The light here, Miggs
Yes yes, oh do! Go to bed directly
You spoke of Miggs, sir -- Miggs may be smothered
Oh Simmun
Oh mim! Oh sir! Oh goodness gracious, what a turn he has give me
This family may ALL be smothered, sir
excepting Mrs V. I have come here, sir, for her sake, this night. Mrs Varden, take this piece of paper. It's a protection, ma'am. You may need it
What's this
Something that'll do you good service, young feller
as you'll find. Keep that safe, and where you can lay your hand upon it in an instant. And chalk "No Popery" on your door to-morrow night, and for a week to come -- that's all
This is a genuine document
I know, for I have seen the hand before. What threat does it imply? What devil is abroad
A fiery devil
a flaming, furious devil. Don't you put yourself in its way, or you're done for, my buck. Be warned in time, G. Varden. Farewell
I tell you
that my mind is made up. My bleeding country calls me and I go! Miggs, if you don't get out of the way, I'll pinch you
Release me
Let me go! I have made arrangements for you in an altered state of society, and mean to provide for you comfortably in life -- there! Will that satisfy you
Oh Simmun
Oh my blessed Simmun! Oh mim! what are my feelings at this conflicting moment
I leave
a box of things upstairs. Do what you like with 'em. I don't want 'em. I'm never coming back here, any more. Provide yourself, sir, with a journeyman; I'm my country's journeyman; henceforward that's MY line of business
Be what you like in two hours' time, but now go up to bed
Do you hear me? Go to bed
I hear you, and defy you, Varden
This night, sir, I have been in the country, planning an expedition which shall fill your bell-hanging soul with wonder and dismay. The plot demands my utmost energy. Let me pass
I'll knock you down if you come near the door
You had better go to bed
Go thy ways, Sim, go thy ways
I have done my best for thee, poor lad, and would have saved thee, but the rope is round thy neck, I fear
Yes, yes
of course -- I know that. I don't mean to reproach you, my dear. But recollect from this time that all good things perverted to evil purposes, are worse than those which are naturally bad. A thoroughly wicked woman, is wicked indeed. When religion goes wrong, she is very wrong, for the same reason. Let us say no more about it, my dear
That
is easily disposed of, and I would to Heaven that everything growing out of the same society could be settled as easily
It happens very fortunately, Varden
that in case any more disturbances should happen -- which I hope not; I sincerely hope not
I hope so too, my dear
That in case any should occur, we have the piece of paper which that poor misguided young man brought
Ay, to be sure
Where is that piece of paper
Not use it
Use it
So early
Ay
so early. Come when they may, they shall not find us skulking and hiding, as if we feared to take our portion of the light of day, and left it all to them. So pleasant dreams to you, my dear, and cheerful sleep
I hope
that Muster Gashford allows some rest? Perhaps he'd have us at work again already, eh
It's not his way to let matters drop, you may be sure of that
I'm in no humour to stir yet, though. I'm as stiff as a dead body, and as full of ugly scratches as if I had been fighting all day yesterday with wild cats
You've so much enthusiasm, that's it
you're such a devil of a fellow. You hurt yourself a hundred times more than you need, because you will be foremost in everything, and will do more than the rest
For the matter of that
there's one yonder as good as me. What did I tell you about him? Did I say he was worth a dozen, when you doubted him
Ay, ay, you knew him, brother, you knew him. But who'd suppose to look at that chap now, that he could be the man he is! Isn't it a thousand cruel pities, brother, that instead of taking his nat'ral rest and qualifying himself for further exertions in this here honourable cause, he should be playing at soldiers like a boy? And his cleanliness too
Ah
He's a rare fellow is Barnaby, and can do more, with less rest, or meat, or drink, than any of us. As to his soldiering, I put him on duty there
Then there was a object in it, and a proper good one too, I'll be sworn
What was it, brother
Why, you see
that our noble captain yonder, came in yesterday morning rather the worse for liquor, and was -- like you and me -- ditto last night
And our noble captain
our noble captain and I, have planned for to-morrow a roaring expedition, with good profit in it
Again the Papists
Ay, against the Papists -- against one of 'em at least, that some of us, and I for one, owe a good heavy grudge to
Not Muster Gashford's friend that he spoke to us about in my house, eh
The same man
That's your sort
that's the kind of game. Let's have revenges and injuries, and all that, and we shall get on twice as fast. Now you talk, indeed
Ha ha ha! The captain
has thoughts of carrying off a woman in the bustle, and -- ha ha ha!-- and so have I
Why, the people we mean to visit, were friends of his, once upon a time, and I know that much of him to feel pretty sure that if he thought we were going to do them any harm, he'd be no friend to our side, but would lend a ready hand to the other. So I've persuaded him (for I know him of old) that Lord George has picked him out to guard this place to-morrow while we're away, and that it's a great honour -- and so he's on duty now, and as proud of it as if he was a general. Ha ha! What do you say to me for a careful man as well as a devil of a one
But about the expedition itself
About that
you shall hear all particulars from me and the great captain conjointly and both together -- for see, he's waking up. Rouse yourself, lion-heart. Ha ha! Put a good face upon it, and drink again. Another hair of the dog that bit you, captain! Call for drink! There's enough of gold and silver cups and candlesticks buried underneath my bed
to pay for it, if it was a score of casks full. Drink, captain
Is this better, master
No
It is not
What would you have
Fevers are never at their height at once. They must get on by degrees
I would have you
I would have you put some meaning into your work. Fools! Can you make no better bonfires than of rags and scraps? Can you burn nothing whole
A little patience, master
Wait but a few hours, and you shall see. Look for a redness in the sky, to-morrow night
Dennis
Dennis
How do you do, Dennis
I hope you have suffered no inconvenience from your late exertions, Dennis
I always will say of you, Muster Gashford
that that 'ere quiet way of yours might almost wake a dead man. It is
so awful sly
So distinct, eh Dennis
Distinct
I seem to hear it, Muster Gashford, in my wery bones
I am very glad your sense of hearing is so sharp, and that I succeed in making myself so intelligible
Where is your friend
I can't say where he is, Muster Gashford, I expected him back afore now. I hope it isn't time that we was busy, Muster Gashford
Nay
who should know that as well as you? How can I tell you, Dennis? You are perfect master of your own actions, you know, and accountable to nobody -- except sometimes to the law, eh
Hush
Ah! Do hush about that, Muster Gashford
pop'lar prejudices -- you always forget -- well, Barnaby, my lad, what's the matter
I hear him coming
Hark! Do you mark that? That's his foot! Bless you, I know his step, and his dog's too. Tramp, tramp, pit-pat, on they come together, and, ha ha ha!-- and here they are
Here he is, and safe too! I am glad to see him back again, old Hugh
I'm a Turk if he don't give me a warmer welcome always than any man of sense
How are you, boy
Hearty
Ha ha ha! And merrry too, Hugh! And ready to do anything for the good cause, and the right, and to help the kind, mild, pale-faced gentleman -- the lord they used so ill -- eh, Hugh
Ay
Good day, master
And good day to you
And many good days -- whole years of them, I hope. You are heated
So would you have been, master
if you'd been running here as fast as I have
You know the news, then? Yes, I supposed you would have heard it
News! what news
You don't
Dear me! Come; then I AM the first to make you acquainted with your distinguished position, after all. Do you see the King's Arms a-top
Well
What's that to me
Much. A great deal
Read it
I told you, the first time I saw you, that I couldn't read
What in the Devil's name's inside of it
It is a proclamation from the King in Council
dated to-day, and offering a reward of five hundred pounds -- five hundred pounds is a great deal of money, and a large temptation to some people -- to any one who will discover the person or persons most active in demolishing those chapels on Saturday night
Is that all
I knew of that
Truly I might have known you did
Your friend, I might have guessed -- indeed I did guess -- was sure to tell you
My friend
What friend
Tut tut -- do you suppose I don't know where you have been
How dull you think me! Shall I say his name
No
You have also heard from him, no doubt
that the rioters who have been taken (poor fellows) are committed for trial, and that some very active witnesses have had the temerity to appear against them. Among others --' and here he clenched his teeth, as if he would suppress by force some violent words that rose upon his tongue; and spoke very slowly. 'Among others, a gentleman who saw the work going on in Warwick Street; a Catholic gentleman; one Haredale
Duty, duty, bold Barnaby
Mount guard without loss of time, for we are off upon our expedition. Up, Dennis, and get ready! Take care that no one turns the straw upon my bed, brave Barnaby; we know what's underneath it -- eh? Now, master, quick! What you have to say, say speedily, for the little captain and a cluster of 'em are in the fields, and only waiting for us. Sharp's the word, and strike's the action. Quick
You might have spoiled our plans, master
YOU, too, of all men
Who would have supposed that HE would be so quick
He's as quick sometimes -- I don't mean with his hands, for that you know, but with his head -- as you or any man
Dennis, it's time we were going; they're waiting for us; I came to tell you. Reach me my stick and belt. Here! Lend a hand, master. Fling this over my shoulder, and buckle it behind, will you
Brisk as ever
A man need be brisk to-day; there's brisk work a-foot
There is, is there
Is there! You know there is! Who knows better than you, master, that the first great step to be taken is to make examples of these witnesses, and frighten all men from appearing against us or any of our body, any more
There's one we know of
who is at least as well informed upon that subject as you or I
If we mean the same gentleman, as I suppose we do
I tell you this -- he's as good and quick information about everything as --' here he paused and looked round, as if to make sure that the person in question was not within hearing, 'as Old Nick himself. Have you done that, master? How slow you are
It's quite fast now
I say -- you didn't find that your friend disapproved of to-day's little expedition? Ha ha ha! It is fortunate it jumps so well with the witness policy; for, once planned, it must have been carried out. And now you are going, eh
Now we are going, master
Any parting words
Oh dear, no
None
You're sure
Quite sure, eh, Muster Gashford
Do not, my good friends -- I am sure you will not -- forget our talk one night -- in your house, Dennis -- about this person. No mercy, no quarter, no two beams of his house to be left standing where the builder placed them! Fire, the saying goes, is a good servant, but a bad master. Makes it HIS master; he deserves no better. But I am sure you will be firm, I am sure you will be very resolute, I am sure you will remember that he thirsts for your lives, and those of all your brave companions. If you ever acted like staunch fellows, you will do so to-day. Won't you, Dennis -- won't you, Hugh
Nothing but gloom in that direction, still
Dog! where is the redness in the sky, you promised me
Do you think, sir
do you think, sir, that I'm a born fool
No, no, Johnny
We all know better than that. You're no fool, Johnny. No, no
No, no, Johnny, not you
Then what do you mean by coming here, and telling me that this evening you're a-going to walk up to London together -- you three -- you -- and have the evidence of your own senses? An't
an't the evidence of MY senses enough for you
But we haven't got it, Johnny
You haven't got it, sir
You haven't got it, sir? You HAVE got it, sir. Don't I tell you that His blessed Majesty King George the Third would no more stand a rioting and rollicking in his streets, than he'd stand being crowed over by his own Parliament
Yes, Johnny, but that's your sense -- not your senses
How do you know? 'retorted John with great dignity. 'You're a contradicting pretty free, you are, sir. How do YOU know which it is? I'm not aware I ever told you, sir
that he hoped he had tackled him enough
Do you suppose if all this was true, that Mr Haredale would be constantly away from home, as he is
Do you think he wouldn't be afraid to leave his house with them two young women in it, and only a couple of men, or so
Ay, but then you know
his house is a goodish way out of London, and they do say that the rioters won't go more than two miles, or three at the farthest, off the stones. Besides, you know, some of the Catholic gentlefolks have actually sent trinkets and suchlike down here for safety -- at least, so the story goes
The story goes
Yes, sir. The story goes that you saw a ghost last March. But nobody believes it
Well
believed or disbelieved, it's true; and true or not, if we mean to go to London, we must be going at once. So shake hands, Johnny, and good night
I shall shake hands
with no man as goes to London on such nonsensical errands
Halloa
Where is he? Give him to me. Don't hurt him. How now, old Jack! Ha ha ha
These lads are thirsty and must drink
Bustle, Jack, bustle. Show us the best -- the very best -- the over-proof that you keep for your own drinking, Jack
Who's to pay
He says "Who's to pay
Pay! Why, nobody
Look'ee here, Jack
We are going to tie you, hand and foot, but otherwise you won't be hurt. D'ye hear
You won't be hurt I tell you, Jack -- do you hear me
He's so dead scared, he's woolgathering, I think. Give him a drop of something to drink here. Hand over, one of you
He's out of his senses for the time, it's my belief
Where's that Dennis
Come! Be alive here
Make haste
Move, man, can't you
Are we to wait here, till the cry has gone for ten miles round, and our work's interrupted
It's all very fine talking, brother
but unless
unless we do it over the door, it can't be done at all in this here room
What can't
What can't
Why, the old man can't
Why, you weren't going to hang him
No, brother
What else
There
That's what I call pretty and workmanlike. He's quite a picter now. But, brother, just a word with you -- now that he's ready trussed, as one may say, wouldn't it be better for all parties if we was to work him off? It would read uncommon well in the newspapers, it would indeed. The public would think a great deal more on us
Forward
To the Warren
A witness's house, my lads
Are you alone in this house
How long have you been sitting thus
Which way have the party gone
You would do well to speak
you may keep a whole skin, though you have nothing else left that can be hurt. Which way have the party gone
That
You lie
I came that way. You would betray me
Where are your servants
Locked up
Well for them if they remain quiet, and well for you if you do the like
Now show me the way the party went
Here
We have done all we can; the fire is burning itself out; and even the corners where it hasn't spread, are nothing but heaps of ruins. Disperse, my lads, while the coast's clear; get back by different ways; and meet as usual
No Popery
Good Heaven, what's that! Another fire
My mind misgives me
or I know from what far building those flames come. Don't stand aghast, my good fellow. Open the gate
Sir
I know you now, sir; be advised by me; do not go on. I saw them pass, and know what kind of men they are. You will be murdered
So be it
But sir -- sir
if you do go on, wear the blue riband. Here, sir
it's necessity, not choice, that makes me wear it; it's love of life and home, sir. Wear it for this one night, sir; only for this one night
Do
Mr Haredale -- worthy sir -- good gentleman -- pray be persuaded
Who's that
Did I hear Daisy's voice
You did, sir
Do be persuaded, sir. This gentleman says very true. Your life may hang upon it
Are you
afraid to come with me
I, sir?-- N-n-no
Put that riband in your hat. If we meet the rioters, swear that I took you prisoner for wearing it. I will tell them so with my own lips; for as I hope for mercy when I die, I will take no quarter from them, nor shall they have quarter from me, if we come hand to hand to-night. Up here -- behind me -- quick! Clasp me tight round the body, and fear nothing
It is my house
Down -- for one moment -- for but one moment
Willet -- Willet -- where are my niece and servants -- Willet
Johnny, Johnny
Oh dear old Johnny, here's a change! That the Maypole bar should come to this, and we should live to see it! The old Warren too, Johnny -- Mr Haredale -- oh, Johnny, what a piteous sight this is
You know us, don't you, Johnny
Daisy, you know -- Chigwell Church -- bell- ringer -- little desk on Sundays -- eh, Johnny
Let us sing to the praise and glory of
Yes, to be sure
that's it -- that's me, Johnny. You're all right now, an't you? Say you're all right, Johnny
All right
All right? Ah
They haven't been misusing you with sticks, or pokers, or any other blunt instruments -- have they, Johnny
They didn't beat you, did they
If they'd only had the goodness to murder me, I'd have thanked 'em kindly
No, no, no, don't say that, Johnny
It's very, very bad, but not quite so bad as that. No, no
Look'ee here, sir
Look'ee here, sir! The very Maypole -- the old dumb Maypole -- stares in at the winder, as if it said, "John Willet, John Willet, let's go and pitch ourselves in the nighest pool of water as is deep enough to hold us; for our day is over
Don't, Johnny, don't
Please don't, Johnny
Your loss is great, and your misfortune a heavy one
and this is not a time to comfort you. If it were, I am in no condition to do so. Before I leave you, tell me one thing, and try to tell me plainly, I implore you. Have you seen, or heard of Emma
No
Nor any one but these bloodhounds
No
They rode away, I trust in Heaven, before these dreadful scenes began
A knife, Daisy
You didn't
either of you gentlemen -- see a -- a coffin anywheres, did you
Willet
Good gracious
Because
a dead man called a little time ago, on his way yonder. I could have told you what name was on the plate, if he had brought his coffin with him, and left it behind. If he didn't, it don't signify
Is there any one in hiding here, who knows my voice! There is nothing to fear now. If any of my people are near, I entreat them to answer
The ghost! The ghost
Villain
Dead and buried, as all men supposed through your infernal arts, but reserved by Heaven for this -- at last -- at last I have you. You, whose hands are red with my brother's blood, and that of his faithful servant, shed to conceal your own atrocious guilt -- You, Rudge, double murderer and monster, I arrest you in the name of God, who has delivered you into my hands. No. Though you had the strength of twenty men
Am I silly now, mother -- am I silly now
I'm a devil, I'm a Polly, I'm a kettle, I'm a Protestant, No Popery
Well said, Grip
Well said, old boy
Never say die, bow wow wow, keep up your spirits, Grip Grip Grip, Holloa! We'll all have tea, I'm a Protestant kettle, No Popery
Gordon for ever, Grip
Say that again
Good day
Well
All quiet, sir, all safe
The rest are away -- they went by that path -- that one. A grand party
Ay
And you
Oh! They left me here to watch -- to mount guard -- to keep everything secure till they come back. I'll do it, sir, for your sake. You're a good gentleman; a kind gentleman -- ay, you are. There are many against you, but we'll be a match for them, never fear
What's that
Why, don't you know
Not know what HE is! A bird, to be sure. My bird -- my friend -- Grip
A devil, a kettle, a Grip, a Polly, a Protestant, no Popery
Though, indeed
you had good reason to ask me what he is, for sometimes it puzzles me -- and I am used to him -- to think he's only a bird. He's my brother, Grip is -- always with me -- always talking -- always merry -- eh, Grip
Come hither, John
Have you ever seen this young man before
Twice, my lord
I saw him in the crowd last night and Saturday
Did -- did it seem to you that his manner was at all wild or strange
Mad
And why do you think him mad, sir
Don't use that word too freely. Why do you think him mad
My lord
look at his dress, look at his eyes, look at his restless way, hear him cry "No Popery!" Mad, my lord
So because one man dresses unlike another
and happens to differ from other men in his carriage and manner, and to advocate a great cause which the corrupt and irreligious desert, he is to be accounted mad, is he
Stark, staring, raving, roaring mad, my lord
Do you say this to my face
To any man, my lord, who asks me
Mr Gashford, I find, was right
I thought him prejudiced, though I ought to have known a man like him better than to have supposed it possible
I shall never have Mr Gashford's good word, my lord
and I don't covet it
You are an ill-conditioned, most ungrateful fellow
a spy, for anything I know. Mr Gashford is perfectly correct, as I might have felt convinced he was. I have done wrong to retain you in my service. It is a tacit insult to him as my choice and confidential friend to do so, remembering the cause you sided with, on the day he was maligned at Westminster. You will leave me to-night -- nay, as soon as we reach home. The sooner the better
If it comes to that, I say so too, my lord. Let Mr Gashford have his will. As to my being a spy, my lord, you know me better than to believe it, I am sure. I don't know much about causes. My cause is the cause of one man against two hundred; and I hope it always will be
You have said quite enough
I desire to hear no more
If you'll let me have another word, my lord
I'd give this silly fellow a caution not to stay here by himself. The proclamation is in a good many hands already, and it's well known that he was concerned in the business it relates to. He had better get to a place of safety if he can, poor creature
You hear what this man says
He thinks you may be afraid to remain upon your post, and are kept here perhaps against your will. What do you say
I think, young man
that the soldiers may turn out and take you; and that if they do, you will certainly be hung by the neck till you're dead -- dead -- dead. And I think you had better go from here, as fast as you can. That's what I think
He's a coward, Grip, a coward
Let them come! Gordon for ever! Let them come
Ay
let them! Let us see who will venture to attack a power like ours; the solemn league of a whole people. THIS a madman! You have said well, very well. I am proud to be the leader of such men as you
Why is he brought here then, if he has to be taken away again so soon
Why where would you have him go! Damme, he's not as safe anywhere as among the king's troops, is he? What WOULD you do with him? Would you hand him over to a pack of cowardly civilians, that shake in their shoes till they wear the soles out, with trembling at the threats of the ragamuffins he belongs to
That's true enough
True enough!-- I'll tell you what. I wish, Tom Green, that I was a commissioned instead of a non-commissioned officer, and that I had the command of two companies -- only two companies -- of my own regiment. Call me out to stop these riots -- give me the needful authority, and half-a-dozen rounds of ball cartridge
Ay
That's all very well, but they won't give the needful authority. If the magistrate won't give the word, what's the officer to do
With all my heart
Where's the use of a magistrate
What's a magistrate in this case, but an impertinent, unnecessary, unconstitutional sort of interference? Here's a proclamation. Here's a man referred to in that proclamation. Here's proof against him, and a witness on the spot. Damme! Take him out and shoot him, sir. Who wants a magistrate
When does he go before Sir John Fielding
returned the other. 'Mark what follows. The magistrate commits him to Newgate. Our people take him to Newgate. The rioters pelt our people. Our people retire before the rioters. Stones are thrown, insults are offered, not a shot's fired. Why? Because of the magistrates. Damn the magistrates
Well, well
let the fault be where it may, it makes a man sorrowful to come back to old England, and see her in this condition
I suppose the pigs will join 'em next
now that the birds have set 'em the example
The birds
Ah -- birds
that's English, an't it
I don't know what you mean
Go to the guard-house, and see. You'll find a bird there, that's got their cry as pat as any of 'em, and bawls "No Popery," like a man -- or like a devil, as he says he is. I shouldn't wonder. The devil's loose in London somewhere. Damme if I wouldn't twist his neck round, on the chance, if I had MY way
It's mine
my pet, my friend Grip. Ha ha ha! Don't hurt him, he has done no harm. I taught him; it's my fault. Let me have him, if you please. He's the only friend I have left now. He'll not dance, or talk, or whistle for you, I know; but he will for me, because he knows me and loves me -- though you wouldn't think it -- very well. You wouldn't hurt a bird, I'm sure. You're a brave soldier, sir, and wouldn't harm a woman or a child -- no, no, nor a poor bird, I'm certain
You talk boldly to a caged man
If I was on the other side of the door and there were none to part us, you'd change your note -- ay, you may toss your head -- you would! Kill the bird -- do. Kill anything you can, and so revenge yourself on those who with their bare hands untied could do as much to you
Good bye, Grip -- good bye, dear old Grip
Well
is all right
Right enough
They're dispersing now -- had begun before I came away
And is the coast clear
Clear enough before our men, I take it
There are not many who, knowing of their work over yonder, will want to meddle with 'em to-night.-- Who's got some drink here
Have you got anything to eat, any of you? I'm as ravenous as a hungry wolf. Which of you was in the larder -- come
I was, brother
There's a matter of cold venison pasty somewhere or another here, if that'll do
Do
Bring it out! Quick! Show a light here, and gather round! Let me sup in state, my lads! Ha ha ha
I should recommend you to swallow a little fire every day, about an hour afore dinner, brother
It seems to agree with you, and to stimulate your appetite
Keep order, there, will you
Why, isn't a man allowed to regale himself, noble captain
to regale himself a little bit after such work as mine? What a hard captain! What a strict captain! What a tyrannical captain! Ha ha ha
I wish one of you fellers would hold a bottle to his mouth to keep him quiet
unless you want the military to be down upon us
And what if they are down upon us
Who cares? Who's afraid? Let 'em come, I say, let 'em come. The more, the merrier. Give me bold Barnaby at my side, and we two will settle the military, without troubling any of you. Barnaby's the man for the military. Barnaby's health
Now then
I'm ready. There are brave birds inside this cage, eh? Delicate birds,-- tender, loving, little doves. I caged 'em -- I caged 'em -- one more peep
Ha ha ha! and did you scratch, and pinch, and struggle, pretty mistress
you, so bright-eyed, and cherry-lipped, and daintily made? But I love you better for it, mistress. Ay, I do. You should stab me and welcome, so that it pleased you, and you had to cure me afterwards. I love to see you proud and scornful. It makes you handsomer than ever; and who so handsome as you at any time, my pretty one
Come
There's enough of that. Come down
I come here to keep you quiet
and that's the means I shall take. So don't be quiet, pretty mistresses -- make a noise -- do -- and I shall like it all the better
Lift this one out
She's fainted
So much the better
She's quiet. I always like 'em to faint, unless they're very tender and composed
Can you take her by yourself
I don't know till I try. I ought to be able to; I've lifted up a good many in my time
Up then! She's no small weight, brother; none of these here fine gals are. Up again! Now we have her
Look ye, pretty bird
Remember what I told you -- a kiss for every cry. Scream, if you love me, darling. Scream once, mistress. Pretty mistress, only once, if you love me
I tell you what it is, young women
I an't much of a lady's man myself, nor am I a party in the present business further than lending a willing hand to my friends: but if I see much more of this here sort of thing, I shall become a principal instead of a accessory. I tell you candid
Why have you brought us here
Are we to be murdered
Murdered
Why, my dear, who'd murder sich chickabiddies as you? If you was to ask me, now, whether you was brought here to be married, there might be something in it
No, no
there'll be no murdering, my pets. Nothing of that sort. Quite the contrairy
You are an older man than your companion, sir
Have you no pity for us? Do you not consider that we are women
I do indeed, my dear
It would be very hard not to, with two such specimens afore my eyes. Ha ha! Oh yes , I consider that. We all consider that, miss
There'll be no murdering, my dear. Not a bit on it. I tell you what though, brother
it's worthy of notice, as a proof of the amazing equalness and dignity of our law, that it don't make no distinction between men and women. I've heerd the judge say, sometimes, to a highwayman or housebreaker as had tied the ladies neck and heels -- you'll excuse me making mention of it, my darlings -- and put 'em in a cellar, that he showed no consideration to women. Now, I say that there judge didn't know his business, brother; and that if I had been that there highwayman or housebreaker, I should have made answer: "What are you a talking of, my lord? I showed the women as much consideration as the law does, and what more would you have me do?" If you was to count up in the newspapers the number of females as have been worked off in this here city alone, in the last ten year
you'd be surprised at the total -- quite amazed, you would. There's a dignified and equal thing; a beautiful thing! But we've no security for its lasting. Now that they've begun to favour these here Papists, I shouldn't wonder if they went and altered even THAT, one of these days. Upon my soul, I shouldn't
I knew it, I was sure of it
My dear father's at the door. Thank God, thank God! Bless you, Sim. Heaven bless you for this
Miss Haredale
I hope you're as comfortable as circumstances will permit of. Dolly Varden, my darling -- my own, my lovely one -- I hope YOU'RE pretty comfortable likewise
You meet in me, Miss V
prentice, not a workman, not a slave, not the wictim of your father's tyrannical behaviour, but the leader of a great people, the captain of a noble band, in which these gentlemen are, as I may say, corporals and serjeants. You behold in me, not a private individual, but a public character; not a mender of locks, but a healer of the wounds of his unhappy country. Dolly V., sweet Dolly V., for how many years have I looked forward to this present meeting! For how many years has it been my intention to exalt and ennoble you! I redeem it. Behold in me, your husband. Yes, beautiful Dolly -- charmer -- enslaver -- S. Tappertit is all your own
She's in an excited state to-night
and don't know when she's well off. Let her be by herself till to-morrow, and that'll bring her down a little. Carry her into the next house
They shall remain here together till to-morrow
till to-morrow. Come away
Ay
Come away, captain. Ha ha ha
What are you laughing at
Nothing, captain, nothing
You'll take notice, ladies, that this place is well watched on every side, and that the least noise is certain to be attended with unpleasant consequences. You'll hear -- both of you -- more of our intentions to-morrow. In the mean time, don't show yourselves at the window, or appeal to any of the people you may see pass it; for if you do, it'll be known directly that you come from a Catholic house, and all the exertions our men can make, may not be able to save your lives
I say
that's a dainty pair. Muster Gashford's one is as handsome as the other, eh
Hush
Don't you mention names. It's a bad habit
I wouldn't like to be HIM, then (as you don't like names), when he breaks it out to her; that's all
She's one of them fine, black-eyed, proud gals, as I wouldn't trust at such times with a knife too near 'em. I've seen some of that sort, afore now. I recollect one that was worked off, many year ago -- and there was a gentleman in that case too -- that says to me, with her lip a trembling, but her hand as steady as ever I see one: "Dennis, I'm near my end, but if I had a dagger in these fingers, and he was within my reach, I'd strike him dead afore me;"-- ah, she did -- and she'd have done it too
How should I know, brother
SHE never said; not she
Hugh
You have done well to-day. You shall be rewarded. So have you, Dennis.-- There's no young woman YOU want to carry off, is there
N -- no
None in partickler, I think
Very good
then we'll find some other way of making it up to you. As to you, old boy
you shall have Miggs (her that I promised you, you know) within three days. Mind. I pass my word for it
Stop! and why
The soldiers have taken possession of The Boot, I hear
Who knows anything about it
We left a man on guard there to-day
who is not here. You know who it is -- Barnaby, who brought the soldier down, at Westminster. Has any man seen or heard of him
He is but one man
let him come in
Ay, ay
Let him come in. Let him come in
Here he is
I am Hugh. What do you want with me
I have a message for you
You know one Barnaby
What of him? Did he send the message
Yes. He's taken. He's in one of the strong cells in Newgate. He defended himself as well as he could, but was overpowered by numbers. That's his message
When did you see him
On his way to prison, where he was taken by a party of soldiers. They took a by-road, and not the one we expected. I was one of the few who tried to rescue him, and he called to me, and told me to tell Hugh where he was. We made a good struggle, though it failed. Look here
I know you by sight
for I was in the crowd on Friday, and on Saturday, and yesterday, but I didn't know your name. You're a bold fellow, I know. So is he. He fought like a lion tonight, but it was of no use. I did my best, considering that I want this limb
Who'll follow me to Newgate
Not that jail alone
but every jail in London. They shall have no place to put their prisoners in. We'll burn them all down; make bonfires of them every one! Here
Let all who're men here, join with us. Shake hands upon it. Barnaby out of jail, and not a jail left standing! Who joins
My good sir
pray let me get an answer. This is the sixth time I have been here. I was here five times yesterday. My house is threatened with destruction. It is to be burned down to- night, and was to have been last night, but they had other business on their hands. Pray let me get an answer
My good sir
my house is burned to the ground. But heaven forbid that yours should be. Get your answer. Be brief, in mercy to me
Now, you hear this, my lord
Here is a gentleman here, whose house was actually burnt down last night
Dear me, dear me
I am very sorry for it, but what am I to do? I can't build it up again. The chief magistrate of the city can't go and be a rebuilding of people's houses, my good sir. Stuff and nonsense
But the chief magistrate of the city can prevent people's houses from having any need to be rebuilt, if the chief magistrate's a man, and not a dummy -- can't he, my lord
You are disrespectable, sir
leastways, disrespectful I mean
Disrespectful, my lord
I was respectful five times yesterday. I can't be respectful for ever. Men can't stand on being respectful when their houses are going to be burnt over their heads, with them in 'em. What am I to do, my lord? AM I to have any protection
I told you yesterday, sir
that you might have an alderman in your house, if you could get one to come
What the devil's the good of an alderman
To awe the crowd, sir
Oh Lord ha' mercy
to think of sending an alderman to awe a crowd! Why, my lord, if they were even so many babies, fed on mother's milk, what do you think they'd care for an alderman! Will YOU come
I
Certainly not
Then what
what am I to do? Am I a citizen of England? Am I to have the benefit of the laws? Am I to have any return for the King's taxes
I don't know, I am sure
what a pity it is you're a Catholic! Why couldn't you be a Protestant, and then you wouldn't have got yourself into such a mess? I'm sure I don't know what's to be done.-- There are great people at the bottom of these riots.-- Oh dear me, what a thing it is to be a public character!-- You must look in again in the course of the day.-- Would a javelin- man do?-- Or there's Philips the constable,-- HE'S disengaged,-- he's not very old for a man at his time of life, except in his legs, and if you put him up at a window he'd look quite young by candle- light, and might frighten 'em very much.-- Oh dear!-- well!-- we'll see about it
Stop
My Lord Mayor, I beg you not to go away. I have a man here, who committed a murder eight- and-twenty years ago. Half-a-dozen words from me, on oath, will justify you in committing him to prison for re-examination. I only seek, just now, to have him consigned to a place of safety. The least delay may involve his being rescued by the rioters
Oh dear me
God bless my soul -- and body -- oh Lor!-- well I!-- there are great people at the bottom of these riots, you know.-- You really mustn't
My lord
the murdered gentleman was my brother; I succeeded to his inheritance; there were not wanting slanderous tongues at that time, to whisper that the guilt of this most foul and cruel deed was mine -- mine, who loved him, as he knows, in Heaven, dearly. The time has come, after all these years of gloom and misery, for avenging him, and bringing to light a crime so artful and so devilish that it has no parallel. Every second's delay on your part loosens this man's bloody hands again, and leads to his escape. My lord, I charge you hear me, and despatch this matter on the instant
Oh dear me
these an't business hours, you know -- I wonder at you -- how ungentlemanly it is of you -- you mustn't -- you really mustn't.-- And I suppose you are a Catholic too
I am
I wish you wouldn't come here; they'll be setting the Mansion House afire next, and we shall have you to thank for it. You must lock your prisoner up, sir -- give him to a watchman -- and -- call again at a proper time. Then we'll see about it
That's the way he puts me off
I can get no redress and no help. What are you going to do, sir
To try elsewhere
I feel for you, I assure you -- and well I may, for we are in a common cause
I may not have a house to offer you to-night; let me tender it while I can. On second thoughts though
I'll not give you a card, for if it was found upon you, it might get you into trouble. Langdale -- that's my name -- vintner and distiller -- Holborn Hill -- you're heartily welcome, if you'll come
This is bad, Rudge. This is bad
How were you taken
And where? You never told me more than half your secret. No matter; I know it now. How was it, and where, eh
At Chigwell
At Chigwell! How came you there
Because I went there to avoid the man I stumbled on
Because I was chased and driven there, by him and Fate. Because I was urged to go there, by something stronger than my own will. When I found him watching in the house she used to live in, night after night, I knew I never could escape him -- never! and when I heard the Bell
You were saying
that when you heard the Bell
Let it be, will you
It hangs there yet
I went to Chigwell, in search of the mob. I have been so hunted and beset by this man, that I knew my only hope of safety lay in joining them. They had gone on before; I followed them when it left off
When what left off
The Bell. They had quitted the place. I hoped that some of them might be still lingering among the ruins, and was searching for them when I heard --' he drew a long breath, and wiped his forehead with his sleeve
Saying what
No matter what. I don't know. I was then at the foot of the turret, where I did the
Ay
I understand
I climbed the stair, or so much of it as was left; meaning to hide till he had gone. But he heard me; and followed almost as soon as I set foot upon the ashes
You might have hidden in the wall, and thrown him down, or stabbed him
Might I? Between that man and me, was one who led him on -- I saw it, though he did not -- and raised above his head a bloody hand. It was in the room above that HE and I stood glaring at each other on the night of the murder, and before he fell he raised his hand like that, and fixed his eyes on me. I knew the chase would end there
You have a strong fancy
Strengthen yours with blood, and see what it will come to
Eight-and-twenty years! Eight-and-twenty years! He has never changed in all that time, never grown older, nor altered in the least degree. He has been before me in the dark night, and the broad sunny day; in the twilight, the moonlight, the sunlight, the light of fire, and lamp, and candle; and in the deepest gloom. Always the same! In company, in solitude, on land, on shipboard; sometimes leaving me alone for months, and sometimes always with me. I have seen him, at sea, come gliding in the dead of night along the bright reflection of the moon in the calm water; and I have seen him, on quays and market-places, with his hand uplifted, towering, the centre of a busy crowd, unconscious of the terrible form that had its silent stand among them. Fancy! Are you real? Am I? Are these iron fetters, riveted on me by the smith's hammer, or are they fancies I can shatter at a blow
Fancy! Do I fancy that I killed him? Do I fancy that as I left the chamber where he lay, I saw the face of a man peeping from a dark door, who plainly showed me by his fearful looks that he suspected what I had done? Do I remember that I spoke fairly to him -- that I drew nearer -- nearer yet -- with the hot knife in my sleeve? Do I fancy how HE died? Did he stagger back into the angle of the wall into which I had hemmed him, and, bleeding inwardly, stand, not fail, a corpse before me? Did I see him, for an instant, as I see you now, erect and on his feet -- but dead
It was then I thought, for the first time, of fastening the murder upon him. It was then I dressed him in my clothes, and dragged him down the back-stairs to the piece of water. Do I remember listening to the bubbles that came rising up when I had rolled him in? Do I remember wiping the water from my face, and because the body splashed it there, in its descent, feeling as if it MUST be blood? 'Did I go home when I had done? And oh, my God! how long it took to do! Did I stand before my wife, and tell her? Did I see her fall upon the ground; and, when I stooped to raise her, did she thrust me back with a force that cast me off as if I had been a child, staining the hand with which she clasped my wrist? Is THAT fancy? 

'Did she go down upon her knees, and call on Heaven to witness that she and her unborn child renounced me from that hour; and did she, in words so solemn that they turned me cold -- me, fresh from the horrors my own hands had made -- warn me to fly while there was time; for though she would be silent, being my wretched wife, she would not shelter me? Did I go forth that night, abjured of God and man, and anchored deep in hell, to wander at my cable's length about the earth, and surely be drawn down at last
Why did you return? said the blind man. 'Why is blood red? I could no more help it, than I could live without breath. I struggled against the impulse, but I was drawn back, through every difficult and adverse circumstance, as by a mighty engine. Nothing could stop me. The day and hour were none of my choice. Sleeping and waking, I had been among the old haunts for years -- had visited my own grave. Why did I come back? Because this jail was gaping for me, and he stood beckoning at the door
You were not known
I was a man who had been twenty-two years dead. No. I was not known
You should have kept your secret better
MY secret? MINE? It was a secret, any breath of air could whisper at its will. The stars had it in their twinkling, the water in its flowing, the leaves in their rustling, the seasons in their return. It lurked in strangers' faces, and their voices. Everything had lips on which it always trembled.-- MY secret
It was revealed by your own act at any rate
The act was not mine. I did it, but it was not mine. I was forced at times to wander round, and round, and round that spot. If you had chained me up when the fit was on me, I should have broken away, and gone there. As truly as the loadstone draws iron towards it, so he, lying at the bottom of his grave, could draw me near him when he would. Was that fancy? Did I like to go there, or did I strive and wrestle with the power that forced me
I suppose then
that you are penitent and resigned; that you desire to make peace with everybody (in particular, with your wife who has brought you to this); and that you ask no greater favour than to be carried to Tyburn as soon as possible? That being the case, I had better take my leave. I am not good enough to be company for you
Have I not told you
that I have striven and wrestled with the power that brought me here? Has my whole life, for eight-and-twenty years, been one perpetual struggle and resistance, and do you think I want to lie down and die? Do all men shrink from death -- I most of all
That's better said. That's better spoken, Rudge -- but I'll not call you that again -- than anything you have said yet
Lookye,-- I never killed a man myself, for I have never been placed in a position that made it worth my while. Farther, I am not an advocate for killing men, and I don't think I should recommend it or like it -- for it's very hazardous -- under any circumstances. But as you had the misfortune to get into this trouble before I made your acquaintance, and as you have been my companion, and have been of use to me for a long time now, I overlook that part of the matter, and am only anxious that you shouldn't die unnecessarily. Now, I do not consider that, at present, it is at all necessary
What else is left me
To eat my way through these walls with my teeth
Something easier than that
Promise me that you will talk no more of these fancies of yours -- idle, foolish things, quite beneath a man -- and I'll tell you what I mean
Tell me
Your worthy lady with the tender conscience; your scrupulous, virtuous, punctilious, but not blindly affectionate wife
What of her
Is now in London
A curse upon her, be she where she may
That's natural enough. If she had taken her annuity as usual, you would not have been here, and we should have been better off. But that's apart from the business. She's in London. Scared, as I suppose, and have no doubt, by my representation when I waited upon her, that you were close at hand (which I, of course, urged only as an inducement to compliance, knowing that she was not pining to see you), she left that place, and travelled up to London
How do you know
From my friend the noble captain -- the illustrious general -- the bladder, Mr Tappertit. I learnt from him the last time I saw him, which was yesterday, that your son who is called Barnaby -- not after his father, I suppose
Death! does that matter now
You are impatient
it's a good sign, and looks like life -- that your son Barnaby had been lured away from her by one of his companions who knew him of old, at Chigwell; and that he is now among the rioters
And what is that to me? If father and son be hanged together, what comfort shall I find in that
Stay -- stay, my friend
you travel fast to journeys' ends. Suppose I track my lady out, and say thus much: "You want your son, ma'am -- good. I, knowing those who tempt him to remain among them, can restore him to you, ma'am -- good. You must pay a price, ma'am, for his restoration -- good again. The price is small, and easy to be paid -- dear ma'am, that's best of all
What mockery is this
Very likely, she may reply in those words. "No mockery at all," I answer: "Madam, a person said to be your husband (identity is difficult of proof after the lapse of many years) is in prison, his life in peril -- the charge against him, murder. Now, ma'am, your husband has been dead a long, long time. The gentleman never can be confounded with him, if you will have the goodness to say a few words, on oath, as to when he died, and how; and that this person (who I am told resembles him in some degree) is no more he than I am. Such testimony will set the question quite at rest. Pledge yourself to me to give it, ma' am, and I will undertake to keep your son (a fine lad) out of harm's way until you have done this trifling service, when he shall he delivered up to you, safe and sound. On the other hand, if you decline to do so, I fear he will be betrayed, and handed over to the law, which will assuredly sentence him to suffer death. It is, in fact, a choice between his life and death. If you refuse, he swings. If you comply, the timber is not grown, nor the hemp sown, that shall do him any harm
There is a gleam of hope in this
A gleam
a noon-blaze; a full and glorious daylight. Hush! I hear the tread of distant feet. Rely on me
When shall I hear more
As soon as I do. I should hope, to-morrow. They are coming to say that our time for talk is over. I hear the jingling of the keys. Not another word of this just now, or they may overhear us
So soon
But it can't be helped. Cheer up, friend. This mistake will soon be set at rest, and then you are a man again! If this charitable gentleman will lead a blind man (who has nothing in return but prayers) to the prison-porch, and set him with his face towards the west, he will do a worthy deed. Thank you, good sir. I thank you very kindly
Ah! I know! You are the robber
I am your father
No, they would be damned if they did
This House is a True Protestant
Beat at the door
We want one of his craft to-night. Beat it in, if no one answers
Set fire to the house
What now, you villains
Where is my daughter
Ask no questions of us, old man
but come down, and bring the tools of your trade. We want you
Want me
Ay, and if some that I could name possessed the hearts of mice, ye should have had me long ago. Mark me, my lad -- and you about him do the same. There are a score among ye whom I see now and know, who are dead men from this hour. Begone! and rob an undertaker's while you can! You'll want some coffins before long
Will you come down
Will you give me my daughter, ruffian
I know nothing of her
Burn the door
Stop
Let an old man do that. You can spare him better
Let the man who does it, take heed to his prayers
I warn him
Is Simmun below
Oh! dear gentlemen, let me hear Simmuns's answer from his own lips. Speak to me, Simmun. Speak to me
Oh good gentlemen
Oh my own precious, precious Simmun
Hold your nonsense, will you
and come down and open the door.-- G. Varden, drop that gun, or it will be worse for you
Don't mind his gun
Simmun and gentlemen, I poured a mug of table-beer right down the barrel
It wouldn't go off, not if you was to load it up to the muzzle
Simmun and gentlemen, I'm locked up in the front attic, through the little door on the right hand when you think you've got to the very top of the stairs -- and up the flight of corner steps, being careful not to knock your heads against the rafters, and not to tread on one side in case you should fall into the two-pair bedroom through the lath and plasture, which do not bear, but the contrairy. Simmun and gentlemen, I've been locked up here for safety, but my endeavours has always been, and always will be, to be on the right side -- the blessed side and to prenounce the Pope of Babylon, and all her inward and her outward workings, which is Pagin. My sentiments is of little consequences, I know
for my positions is but a servant, and as sich, of humilities, still I gives expressions to my feelings, and places my reliances on them which entertains my own opinions
You have robbed me of my daughter
who is far dearer to me than my life; and you may take my life, if you will. I bless God that I have been enabled to keep my wife free of this scene; and that He has made me a man who will not ask mercy at such hands as yours
And a wery game old gentleman you are
and you express yourself like a man. What's the odds, brother, whether it's a lamp-post to-night, or a feather- bed ten year to come, eh
For my part
I honour your principles. They're mine exactly. In such sentiments as them
I'm ready to meet you or any man halfway.-- Have you got a bit of cord anywheres handy? Don't put yourself out of the way, if you haven't. A handkecher will do
Don't be a fool, master
but do as you're bid. You'll soon hear what you're wanted for. Do it
I'll do nothing at your request, or that of any scoundrel here
If you want any service from me, you may spare yourselves the pains of telling me what it is. I tell you, beforehand, I'll do nothing for you
He has a grey head. He is an old man: Don't hurt him
Pay no respect to my grey hair, young man
I don't ask it. My heart is green enough to scorn and despise every man among you, band of robbers that you are
So, tell him what we want
and quickly. And open your ears, master, if you would ever use them after to-night
Lookye, Varden
we're bound for Newgate
I know you are
You never said a truer word than that
To burn it down, I mean
and force the gates, and set the prisoners at liberty. You helped to make the lock of the great door
I did
You owe me no thanks for that -- as you'll find before long
Maybe
but you must show us how to force it
Must I
Yes; for you know, and I don't. You must come along with us, and pick it with your own hands
When I do
my hands shall drop off at the wrists, and you shall wear them, Simon Tappertit, on your shoulders for epaulettes
We'll see that
You fill a basket with the tools he'll want, while I bring him downstairs. Open the doors below, some of you. And light the great captain, others! Is there no business afoot, my lads, that you can do nothing but stand and grumble
My Simmuns's life is not a wictim
Oh bother
Here. Catch hold of her, somebody. Lock her up again; she never ought to have been let out
My Simmun
My for ever, ever blessed Simmun
Hold up, will you
I'll let you fall if you don't. What are you sliding your feet off the ground for
My angel Simmuns
he promised
Promised! Well, and I'll keep my promise
I mean to provide for you, don't I? Stand up
Where am I to go? What is to become of me after my actions of this night
What resting-places now remains but in the silent tombses
I wish you was in the silent tombses, I do
and boxed up tight, in a good strong one. Here
Take her off, will you. You understand where
Are you
Mr Akerman, the head jailer here
Of course he is, brother
Yes
I am
You have got some friends of ours in your custody, master
I have a good many people in my custody
Deliver up our friends
and you may keep the rest
It's my duty to keep them all. I shall do my duty
If you don't throw the doors open, we shall break 'em down
for we will have the rioters out
All I can do, good people
is to exhort you to disperse; and to remind you that the consequences of any disturbance in this place, will be very severe, and bitterly repented by most of you, when it is too late
Mr Akerman
Mr Akerman
I will hear no more from any of you
But I am not one of them
I am an honest man, Mr Akerman; a respectable tradesman -- Gabriel Varden, the locksmith. You know me
You among the crowd
Brought here by force -- brought here to pick the lock of the great door for them
Bear witness for me, Mr Akerman, that I refuse to do it; and that I will not do it, come what may of my refusal. If any violence is done to me, please to remember this
Is there no way (if helping you
None, Mr Akerman. You'll do your duty, and I'll do mine. Once again, you robbers and cut-throats
I refuse. Ah! Howl till you're hoarse. I refuse
Stay -- stay
Mr Varden, I know you for a worthy man, and one who would do no unlawful act except upon compulsion
Upon compulsion, sir
upon compulsion, sir, I'll do nothing
Where is that man
who spoke to me just now
Here
Do you know what the guilt of murder is, and that by keeping that honest tradesman at your side you endanger his life
We know it very well
for what else did we bring him here? Let's have our friends, master, and you shall have your friend. Is that fair, lads
You see how it is, sir
Keep 'em out, in King George's name. Remember what I have said. Good night
No
I will not
I will not
You cowardly dog
Give me my daughter. Give me my daughter
Kill him
Is this all the return you make me, you ungrateful monster
Give me my daughter
Give me my daughter
Leave him to us
Leave him to us. Why do you waste your whole strength on such as he, when a couple of men can finish him in as many minutes! You lose time. Remember the prisoners! remember Barnaby
Dennis, you're a rum dog; you're a queer fellow; you're capital company, Dennis, and quite a character
Hold your noise there, will you
Aid! For what
To save us
Oh, certainly
And so you're to be worked off, are you, brothers
Unless we are released to-night
we are dead men
I tell you what it is
I'm afraid, my friend, that you're not in that 'ere state of mind that's suitable to your condition, then; you're not a-going to be released: don't think it -- Will you leave off that 'ere indecent row? I wonder you an't ashamed of yourselves, I do
You've had law
laws have been made a' purpose for you; a wery handsome prison's been made a' purpose for you; a parson's kept a purpose for you; a constitootional officer's appointed a' purpose for you; carts is maintained a' purpose for you -- and yet you're not contented!-- WILL you hold that noise, you sir in the furthest
So well as I can make out
there's not a man among you. I begin to think I'm on the opposite side, and among the ladies; though for the matter of that, I've seen a many ladies face it out, in a manner that did honour to the sex.-- You in number two, don't grind them teeth of yours. Worse manners
I never see in this place afore. I'm ashamed of you. You're a disgrace to the Bailey
Now look'ee here, you four. I'm come here to take care of you, and see that you an't burnt, instead of the other thing. It's no use your making any noise, for you won't be found out by them as has broken in, and you'll only be hoarse when you come to the speeches,-- which is a pity. What I say in respect to the speeches always is, "Give it mouth." That's my maxim. Give it mouth. I've heerd
I've heerd a eloquence on them boards -- you know what boards I mean -- and have heerd a degree of mouth given to them speeches, that they was as clear as a bell, and as good as a play. There's a pattern! And always, when a thing of this natur's to come off, what I stand up for, is, a proper frame of mind. Let's have a proper frame of mind, and we can go through with it, creditable -- pleasant -- sociable. Whatever you do (and I address myself in particular, to you in the furthest), never snivel. I'd sooner by half, though I lose by it, see a man tear his clothes a' purpose to spile 'em before they come to me, than find him snivelling. It's ten to one a better frame of mind, every way
Halloa
Dennis before us! Well done, old boy. Be quick, and open here, for we shall be suffocated in the smoke, going out
Go out at once, then
What do you want here
Want
The four men
Four devils
Don't you know they're left for death on Thursday? Don't you respect the law -- the constitootion -- nothing? Let the four men be
Is this a time for joking
Do you hear 'em? Pull away these bars that have got fixed between the door and the ground; and let us in
Brother
can't you leave these here four men to me, if I've the whim! You do what you like, and have what you like of everything for your share,-- give me my share. I want these four men left alone, I tell you
Pull the bars down, or stand out of the way
You can turn the crowd if you like, you know that well enough, brother
What! You WILL come in, will you
Yes
You won't let these men alone, and leave 'em to me? You've no respect for nothing -- haven't you
You WILL come in, will you, brother
I tell you, yes. What the devil ails you? Where are you going
No matter where I'm going
Remember where you're coming. That's all
this one was doomed to die
Nay, nay
Be more yourself, my good sir. We attract attention here. Come away. What can you do among so many men
The gentleman's always for doing something
I like him for that. I do like him for that
What does this mean
How came we together
On the skirts of the crowd
but come with us. Pray come with us. You seem to know my friend here
Surely
He'll tell you then
that I am a man to be trusted. He's my servant. He was lately (as you know, I have no doubt) in Lord George Gordon's service; but he left it, and brought, in pure goodwill to me and others, who are marked by the rioters, such intelligence as he had picked up, of their designs
On one condition, please, sir
The condition will be observed, of course
It's a point of honour. But come with us, sir; pray come with us
All's over now
Fifty thousand pounds will be scattered in a minute. We must save ourselves. We can do no more, and shall have reason to be thankful if we do as much
Leave me here
and in Heaven's name, my good friend, save yourself! Come on
This roof is high, and if we close, we will die together
Madness
sheer madness. Hear reason, sir. My good sir, hear reason. I could never make myself heard by knocking at a window now; and even if I could, no one would be bold enough to connive at my escape. Through the cellars, there's a kind of passage into the back street by which we roll casks in and out. We shall have time to get down there before they can force an entry. Do not delay an instant, but come with me -- for both our sakes -- for mine -- my dear good sir
Here they are
Give me your hand
Don't fear to shake it; it's a friendly one and a hearty one, though it has no fellow. Why, how well you look and how bluff you are! And you -- God bless you, sir. Take heart, take heart. We'll find them. Be of good cheer; we have not been idle
Times are changed, Mr Haredale, and times have come when we ought to know friends from enemies, and make no confusion of names. Let me tell you that but for this gentleman, you would most likely have been dead by this time, or badly wounded at the best
What do you say
I say
first, that it was a bold thing to be in the crowd at all disguised as one of them; though I won't say much about that, on second thoughts, for that's my case too. Secondly, that it was a brave and glorious action -- that's what I call it -- to strike that fellow off his horse before their eyes
What fellow! Whose eyes
What fellow, sir
a fellow who has no goodwill to you, and who has the daring and devilry in him of twenty fellows. I know him of old. Once in the house, HE would have found you, here or anywhere. The rest owe you no particular grudge, and, unless they see you, will only think of drinking themselves dead. But we lose time. Are you ready
Quite
Put out the torch, Joe, and go on. And be silent, there's a good fellow
Silent or not silent
it was a brave and glorious action;-- no man can alter that
Barnaby -- you! Whose hand was that, that struck me down
Not mine
Whose!-- I say, whose
What are you doing? Where is he? Show me
You are hurt
Come away with me
Where's -- where's Dennis
Where has he been all day? What did he mean by leaving me as he did, in the jail, last night? Tell me, you -- d'ye hear
Let me go. Do not lay hands upon me. You have told her; and you and she together have betrayed me
You have seen your mother
No
Not for a long time -- longer than I can tell. A whole year, I think. Is she here
What man is that
Hugh -- Hugh. Only Hugh. You know him. HE will not harm you. Why, you're afraid of Hugh! Ha ha ha! Afraid of gruff, old, noisy Hugh
What man is he, I ask you
Why, how stern you are! You make me fear you, though you are my father. Why do you speak to me so
I want
I want an answer, and you give me only jeers and questions. Who have you brought with you to this hiding-place, poor fool; and where is the blind man
I don't know where. His house was close shut. I waited, but no person came; that was no fault of mine. This is Hugh -- brave Hugh, who broke into that ugly jail, and set us free. Aha! You like him now, do you? You like him now
Why does he lie upon the ground
He has had a fall, and has been drinking. The fields and trees go round, and round, and round with him, and the ground heaves under his feet. You know him? You remember? See
I recollect the man
Why did you bring him here
Because he would have been killed if I had left him over yonder. They were firing guns and shedding blood. Does the sight of blood turn you sick, father? I see it does, by your face. That's like me -- What are you looking at
At nothing
At nothing
Shall I bring him in, father
Ah
Is it only you
Who should it be
I almost thought
it was the blind man. I must have some talk with him, father
And so must I, for without seeing him, I don't know where to fly or what to do, and lingering here, is death. You must go to him again, and bring him here
Must I
that's brave, father. That's what I want to do
But you must bring only him, and none other. And though you wait at his door a whole day and night, still you must wait, and not come back without him
Don't you fear that
He shall come, he shall come
Trim off these gewgaws
and over your own dress wear my cloak. Take heed how you go, and they will be too busy in the streets to notice you. Of your coming back you need take no account, for he'll manage that, safely
To be sure
To be sure he will! A wise man, father, and one who can teach us to be rich. Oh! I know him, I know him
Why did you send HIM
Don't you know it was the way to have him lost, as soon as found
Would you have had me come myself
Humph! Perhaps not. I was before the jail on Tuesday night, but missed you in the crowd. I was out last night, too. There was good work last night -- gay work -- profitable work
Have you
Seen your good lady? Yes
Do you mean to tell me more, or not
I'll tell you all
Excuse me -- but I love to see you so impatient. There's energy in it
Does she consent to say the word that may save me
No
No. Thus it is. She has been at death's door since she lost her darling -- has been insensible, and I know not what. I tracked her to a hospital, and presented myself (with your leave) at her bedside. Our talk was not a long one, for she was weak, and there being people near I was not quite easy. But I told her all that you and I agreed upon, and pointed out the young gentleman's position, in strong terms. She tried to soften me, but that, of course (as I told her), was lost time. She cried and moaned, you may be sure; all women do. Then, of a sudden, she found her voice and strength, and said that Heaven would help her and her innocent son; and that to Heaven she appealed against us -- which she did; in really very pretty language, I assure you. I advised her, as a friend, not to count too much on assistance from any such distant quarter -- recommended her to think of it -- told her where I lived -- said I knew she would send to me before noon, next day -- and left her, either in a faint or shamming
You won't, won't you
Well! Then the gallant gentleman who's lodging with you, will. Hallo, bully
Death
Will you tell me what I am to do
Do! Nothing easier. Make a moonlight flitting in two hours' time with the young gentleman (he's quite ready to go; I have been giving him good advice as we came along), and get as far from London as you can. Let me know where you are, and leave the rest to me. She MUST come round; she can't hold out long; and as to the chances of your being retaken in the meanwhile, why it wasn't one man who got out of Newgate, but three hundred. Think of that, for your comfort
We must support life. How
How
By eating and drinking. And how get meat and drink, but by paying for it! Money
Is money the word? Why, the streets have been running money. Devil send that the sport's not over yet, for these are jolly times; golden, rare, roaring, scrambling times. Hallo, bully! Hallo! Hallo! Drink, bully, drink. Where are ye there! Hallo
Put it about
The kennels run with wine and gold. Guineas and strong water flow from the very pumps. About with it, don't spare it
No offence, no offence
No offence, brother. Barnaby here too, eh? How are you, Barnaby? And two other gentlemen! Your humble servant, gentlemen. No offence to YOU either, I hope. Eh, brothers
You're very snug here
Not snug enough to prevent your finding us, it seems
Why I'll tell you what, brother
when you don't want me to know which way you're riding, you must wear another sort of bells on your horse. Ah! I know the sound of them you wore last night, and have got quick ears for 'em; that's the truth. Well, but how are you, brother
How am I
Where were you yesterday? Where did you go when you left me in the jail? Why did you leave me? And what did you mean by rolling your eyes and shaking your fist at me, eh
I shake my fist!-- at you, brother
Your stick, then; it's all one
Lord love you, brother, I meant nothing. You don't understand me by half. I shouldn't wonder now
but you thought, because I wanted them chaps left in the prison, that I was a going to desert the banners
Well
it might have hurt you, if you had come in its way once or twice last night. Put it down
Might have hurt me
Might have hurt me! and me exerting myself all the time to the wery best advantage. Here's a world! And you're not a-going to ask me to take a sup out of that 'ere bottle, eh
What's the matter, Barnaby
Hush
What do I see glittering behind the hedge
What
Not SOLDIERS, surely
There
it's them two young ones, gentlemen, that the proclamation puts a price on. This other's an escaped felon.-- I'm sorry for it, brother
but you've brought it on yourself; you forced me to do it; you wouldn't respect the soundest constitootional principles, you know; you went and wiolated the wery framework of society. I had sooner have given away a trifle in charity than done this, I would upon my soul.-- If you'll keep fast hold on 'em, gentlemen, I think I can make a shift to tie 'em better than you can
Look here! Look here
Here's a pretty sight
Stand out of the way
Serjeant! see what he had about him
Now then, if you're going
Don't talk to me
Here's a pretty sight
It's not one that you care for much, I should think
Why, who
should care for it, if I don't
Oh! I didn't know you was so tender-hearted
That's all
Tender-hearted
Tender-hearted! Look at this man. Do you call THIS constitootional? Do you see him shot through and through instead of being worked off like a Briton? Damme, if I know which party to side with. You're as bad as the other. What's to become of the country if the military power's to go a superseding the ciwilians in this way? Where's this poor feller-creetur's rights as a citizen, that he didn't have ME in his last moments! I was here. I was willing. I was ready. These are nice times, brother, to have the dead crying out against us in this way, and sleep comfortably in our beds arterwards; wery nice
What will become of me
Have mercy, good gentlemen, on my sex's weaknesses
Miss, miss
come here -- I won't hurt you. Come here, my lamb, will you
Oh I'm his lamb! He says I'm his lamb! Oh gracious, why wasn't I born old and ugly! Why was I ever made to be the youngest of six, and all of 'em dead and in their blessed graves, excepting one married sister, which is settled in Golden Lion Court, number twenty-sivin, second bell- handle on the
Don't I say I an't a-going to hurt you
Why miss, what's the matter
I don't know what mayn't be the matter
Anything may be the matter
But nothing is, I tell you
First stop that noise and come and sit down here, will you, chuckey
Sit down
Lovey, my dear
When was your young man here last, eh
MY young man, good gentleman
Ah! Simmuns, you know -- him
Mine indeed
MINE, good gentleman
Ah
I was afraid of that. I saw as much myself. It's her fault. She WILL entice 'em
I wouldn't
I wouldn't lay myself out as she does; I wouldn't be as bold as her; I wouldn't seem to say to all male creeturs "Come and kiss me
for any earthly crowns as might be offered. Worlds
should not reduce me. No. Not if I was Wenis
Well, but you ARE Wenus, you know
No, I am not, good gentleman
No, I am not, good gentleman. Don't charge me with it
When was Simmuns here, I say
Not since yesterday morning; and then only for a few minutes. Not all day, the day before
You know he meant all along to carry off that one
And to hand you over to somebody else
pursued Dennis, who observed this: 'somebody else was fond of her too, you see; and even if he wasn't, somebody else is took for a rioter, and it's all over with him
Now I want
to clear this house, and to see you righted. What if I was to get her off, out of the way, eh
Lookee here, my sugar-stick
if your view's the same as mine, and you'll only be quiet and slip away at the right time, I can have the house clear to-morrow, and be out of this trouble.-- Stop though! there's the other
Which other, sir
Why, the tallest one, yonder
Ally Looyer
Is it possible
that you who have seen these men committing the outrages you have told us of, and who have fallen into their hands, like us, can exult in their cruelties
Personal considerations, miss
sinks into nothing, afore a noble cause. Ally Looyer! Ally Looyer! Ally Looyer, good gentlemen
If the time has come -- Heaven knows it may come at any moment -- when they are bent on prosecuting the designs, whatever they may be, with which they have brought us here, can you still encourage, and take part with them
I thank my goodness-gracious-blessed-stars I can, miss
Ally Looyer, good gentlemen
WHICH, was you pleased to observe, Miss Varden
Ho, gracious me
Ho, gracious me! Yes, to be sure I will. Ho yes! I am a abject slave, and a toiling, moiling, constant-working, always-being- found-fault-with, never-giving-satisfactions, nor-having-no- time-to-clean-oneself, potter's wessel -- an't I, miss! Ho yes! My situations is lowly, and my capacities is limited, and my duties is to humble myself afore the base degenerating daughters of their blessed mothers as is -- fit to keep companies with holy saints but is born to persecutions from wicked relations -- and to demean myself before them as is no better than Infidels -- an't it, miss! Ho yes! My only becoming occupations is to help young flaunting pagins to brush and comb and titiwate theirselves into whitening and suppulchres, and leave the young men to think that there an't a bit of padding in it nor no pinching ins nor fillings out nor pomatums nor deceits nor earthly wanities -- an't it, miss! Yes, to be sure it is -- ho yes
For what other purpose am I here
With what object have I made my way to this place, through difficulty and danger, but to preserve you
You have news of my uncle, sir
And of my father and mother
Yes
Good news
They are alive and unhurt
Yes, and unhurt
And close at hand
I did not say close at hand
they are at no great distance. YOUR friends, sweet one
are within a few hours' journey. You will be restored to them, I hope, to-night
My uncle, sir
Your uncle, dear Miss Haredale, happily -- I say happily, because he has succeeded where many of our creed have failed, and is safe -- has crossed the sea, and is out of Britain
I thank God for it
You say well. You have reason to be thankful: greater reason than it is possible for you, who have seen but one night of these cruel outrages, to imagine
Does he desire
that I should follow him
Do you ask if he desires it
IF he desires it! But you do not know the danger of remaining in England, the difficulty of escape, or the price hundreds would pay to secure the means, when you make that inquiry. Pardon me. I had forgotten that you could not, being prisoner here
I gather, sir
from what you hint at, but fear to tell me, that I have witnessed but the beginning, and the least, of the violence to which we are exposed, and that it has not yet slackened in its fury
You may venture, sir, to speak plain
and to tell me the worst. We have undergone some preparation for it
It is told in three words
The people have risen, to a man, against us; the streets are filled with soldiers, who support them and do their bidding. We have no protection but from above, and no safety but in flight; and that is a poor resource; for we are watched on every hand, and detained here, both by force and fraud. Miss Haredale, I cannot bear -- believe me, that I cannot bear -- by speaking of myself, or what I have done, or am prepared to do, to seem to vaunt my services before you. But, having powerful Protestant connections, and having my whole wealth embarked with theirs in shipping and commerce, I happily possessed the means of saving your uncle. I have the means of saving you; and in redemption of my sacred promise, made to him, I am here; pledged not to leave you until I have placed you in his arms. The treachery or penitence of one of the men about you, led to the discovery of your place of confinement; and that I have forced my way here, sword in hand, you see
You bring
some note or token from my uncle
No, he doesn't
now I am sure he doesn't. Don't go with him for the world
Hush, pretty fool -- be silent
No, Miss Haredale, I have no letter, nor any token of any kind; for while I sympathise with you, and such as you, on whom misfortune so heavy and so undeserved has fallen, I value my life. I carry, therefore, no writing which, found upon me, would lead to its certain loss. I never thought of bringing any other token, nor did Mr Haredale think of entrusting me with one -- possibly because he had good experience of my faith and honesty, and owed his life to me
Time presses
and danger surrounds us. If I have exposed myself to it, in vain, let it be so; but if you and he should ever meet again, do me justice. If you decide to remain (as I think you do), remember, Miss Haredale, that I left you with a solemn caution, and acquitting myself of all the consequences to which you expose yourself
Stay, sir
cannot we go together
The task of conveying one female in safety through such scenes as we must encounter, to say nothing of attracting the attention of those who crowd the streets
is enough. I have said that she will be restored to her friends to-night. If you accept the service I tender, Miss Haredale, she shall be instantly placed in safe conduct, and that promise redeemed. Do you decide to remain? People of all ranks and creeds are flying from the town, which is sacked from end to end. Let me be of use in some quarter. Do you stay, or go
Dolly
my dear girl, this is our last hope. If we part now, it is only that we may meet again in happiness and honour. I will trust to this gentleman
No no-no
Pray, pray, do not
You hear
that to-night -- only to-night -- within a few hours -- think of that!-- you will be among those who would die of grief to lose you, and who are now plunged in the deepest misery for your sake. Pray for me, dear girl, as I will for you; and never forget the many quiet hours we have passed together. Say one "God bless you!" Say that at parting
We have time for no more of this
Now! Quick, outside there! are you ready
Ay
Quite ready! Stand back here, for your lives
See here
See here! where would any of us have been without these two? Oh, Mr Edward, Mr Edward -- oh, Joe, Joe, how light, and yet how full, you have made my old heart to- night
It was Mr Edward that knocked him down, sir
I longed to do it, but I gave it up to him. Come, you brave and honest gentleman! Get your senses together, for you haven't long to lie here
I have access to all my lord's papers, Mr Haredale
Pah
Get up, man; you're waited for, outside. Get up, do you hear
And now, gentlemen
the sooner we get back to the Black Lion, the better, perhaps
We are all safe now, Dolly
We shall not be separated any more. Cheer up, my love, cheer up
Mayhap
she's hungry. That's what it is, depend upon it -- I am, myself
tackle
It's been took off
By George
he's got it
Yes, sir
That's where it is. It's been took off
Tell him where it was done
At the defence of the Savannah, father
At the defence of the Salwanners
In America, where the war is
In America, where the war is
It was took off in the defence of the Salwanners in America where the war is
My son's arm -- was took off -- at the defence of the -- Salwanners -- in America -- where the war
Good night
Good night
I am sorry you take on so much, for what is past and gone
Don't. I can't bear to see you do it. Think of it no longer. You are safe and happy now
You must have suffered very much within these few days -- and yet you're not changed, unless it's for the better. They said you were, but I don't see it. You were -- you were always very beautiful
but you are more beautiful than ever, now. You are indeed. There can be no harm in my saying so, for you must know it. You are told so very often, I am sure
I shall bless your name
as long as I live. I shall never hear it spoken without feeling as if my heart would burst. I shall remember it in my prayers, every night and morning till I die
Will you
Will you indeed? It makes me -- well, it makes me very glad and proud to hear you say so
Your voice
brings up old times so pleasantly, that, for the moment, I feel as if that night -- there can be no harm in talking of that night now -- had come back, and nothing had happened in the mean time. I feel as if I hadn't suffered any hardships, but had knocked down poor Tom Cobb only yesterday, and had come to see you with my bundle on my shoulder before running away.-- You remember
Well
it was to be otherwise, and was. I have been abroad, fighting all the summer and frozen up all the winter, ever since. I have come back as poor in purse as I went, and crippled for life besides. But, Dolly, I would rather have lost this other arm -- ay, I would rather have lost my head -- than have come back to find you dead, or anything but what I always pictured you to myself, and what I always hoped and wished to find you. Thank God for all
I did hope once
that I might come back a rich man, and marry you. But I was a boy then, and have long known better than that. I am a poor, maimed, discharged soldier, and must be content to rub through life as I can. I can't say, even now, that I shall be glad to see you married, Dolly; but I AM glad -- yes, I am, and glad to think I can say so -- to know that you are admired and courted, and can pick and choose for a happy life. It's a comfort to me to know that you'll talk to your husband about me; and I hope the time will come when I may be able to like him, and to shake hands with him, and to come and see you as a poor friend who knew you when you were a girl. God bless you
the satisfaction they sought
Mother
how long,-- how many days and nights,-- shall I be kept here
Not many, dear. I hope not many
You hope! Ay, but your hoping will not undo these chains. I hope, but they don't mind that. Grip hopes, but who cares for Grip
Nobody
Who cares for Grip, except you and me
He never speaks in this place; he never says a word in jail; he sits and mopes all day in his dark corner, dozing sometimes, and sometimes looking at the light that creeps in through the bars, and shines in his bright eye as if a spark from those great fires had fallen into the room and was burning yet. But who cares for Grip
And by the way
if they kill me -- they may: I heard it said they would -- what will become of Grip when I am dead
Never say die
Will they take HIS life as well as mine
I wish they would. If you and I and he could die together, there would be none to feel sorry, or to grieve for us. But do what they will, I don't fear them, mother
They will not harm you
They never will harm you, when they know all. I am sure they never will
Oh! Don't be too sure of that
They have marked me from the first. I heard them say so to each other when they brought me to this place last night; and I believe them. Don't you cry for me. They said that I was bold, and so I am, and so I will be. You may think that I am silly, but I can die as well as another.-- I have done no harm, have I
None before Heaven
Why then
let them do their worst. You told me once -- you -- when I asked you what death meant, that it was nothing to be feared, if we did no harm -- Aha! mother, you thought I had forgotten that
You will come to-morrow
Mother
when I spoke to you just now about my father you cried "Hush!" and turned away your head. Why did you do so? Tell me why, in a word. You thought HE was dead. You are not sorry that he is alive and has come back to us. Where is he? Here
Do not ask any one where he is, or speak about him
Why not
Because he is a stern man, and talks roughly? Well! I don't like him, or want to be with him by myself; but why not speak about him
Because I am sorry that he is alive; sorry that he has come back; and sorry that he and you have ever met. Because, dear Barnaby, the endeavour of my life has been to keep you two asunder
Father and son asunder! Why
He has
he has shed blood. The time has come when you must know it. He has shed the blood of one who loved him well, and trusted him, and never did him wrong in word or deed
But
although we shun him, he is your father, dearest, and I am his wretched wife. They seek his life, and he will lose it. It must not be by our means; nay, if we could win him back to penitence, we should be bound to love him yet. Do not seem to know him, except as one who fled with you from the jail, and if they question you about him, do not answer them. God be with you through the night, dear boy! God be with you
Am I to live or die? Do you murder too, or spare
My son -- our son
is in this prison
What is that to me
I know it. He can no more aid me than I can aid him. If you are come to talk of him, begone
Am I to live or die? Do you repent
Oh!-- do YOU
Will you, while time remains? Do not believe that I could save you, if I dared
Say if you would
Say if you would
Listen to me for one moment
for but a moment. I am but newly risen from a sick-bed, from which I never hoped to rise again. The best among us think, at such a time, of good intentions half-performed and duties left undone. If I have ever, since that fatal night, omitted to pray for your repentance before death -- if I omitted, even then, anything which might tend to urge it on you when the horror of your crime was fresh -- if, in our later meeting, I yielded to the dread that was upon me, and forgot to fall upon my knees and solemnly adjure you, in the name of him you sent to his account with Heaven, to prepare for the retribution which must come, and which is stealing on you now -- I humbly before you, and in the agony of supplication in which you see me, beseech that you will let me make atonement
What is the meaning of your canting words
Speak so that I may understand you
I will
I desire to. Bear with me for a moment more. The hand of Him who set His curse on murder, is heavy on us now. You cannot doubt it. Our son, our innocent boy, on whom His anger fell before his birth, is in this place in peril of his life -- brought here by your guilt; yes, by that alone, as Heaven sees and knows, for he has been led astray in the darkness of his intellect, and that is the terrible consequence of your crime
If you come, woman-like, to load me with reproaches
I do not. I have a different purpose. You must hear it. If not to-night, to-morrow; if not to-morrow, at another time. You MUST hear it. Husband, escape is hopeless -- impossible
You tell me so, do you
You
Yes
But why
To make me easy in this jail. To make the time 'twixt this and death, pass pleasantly. For my good -- yes, for my good, of course
Not to load you with reproaches
not to aggravate the tortures and miseries of your condition, not to give you one hard word, but to restore you to peace and hope. Husband, dear husband, if you will but confess this dreadful crime; if you will but implore forgiveness of Heaven and of those whom you have wronged on earth; if you will dismiss these vain uneasy thoughts, which never can be realised, and will rely on Penitence and on the Truth, I promise you, in the great name of the Creator, whose image you have defaced, that He will comfort and console you. And for myself
I swear before Him, as He knows my heart and reads it now, that from that hour I will love and cherish you as I did of old, and watch you night and day in the short interval that will remain to us, and soothe you with my truest love and duty, and pray with you, that one threatening judgment may be arrested, and that our boy may be spared to bless God, in his poor way, in the free air and light
Begone
Leave me! You plot, do you! You plot to get speech with me, and let them know I am the man they say I am. A curse on you and on your boy
On him the curse has already fallen
Let it fall heavier. Let it fall on one and all. I hate you both. The worst has come to me. The only comfort that I seek or I can have, will be the knowledge that it comes to you. Now go
I say go -- I say it for the last time. The gallows has me in its grasp, and it is a black phantom that may urge me on to something more. Begone! I curse the hour that I was born, the man I slew, and all the living world
that such was his temerity, he thought death would have been his portion
If you are sure it's me you want
I am ready to accompany you
Brother
am I going to be along with anybody
If you'd have left more walls standing, you'd have been alone
As it is, we're cramped for room, and you'll have company
Well
I don't object to company, brother. I rather like company. I was formed for society, I was
That's rather a pity, an't it
No
I'm not aware that it is. Why should it be a pity, brother
Oh! I don't know
I thought that was what you meant. Being formed for society, and being cut off in your flower, you know
I say
what are you talking of? Don't. Who's a-going to be cut off in their flowers
Oh, nobody particular. I thought you was, perhaps
This is my quarters, is it
This is the shop, sir
Halloa
You're nervous
Nervous
Well I may be. Shut the door
I will, when you're in
But I can't go in there
I can't be shut up with that man. Do you want me to be throttled, brother
Keep off, brother, keep off
Don't do me a mischief. I'm a prisoner like you. I haven't the free use of my limbs. I'm quite an old man. Don't hurt me
I'll get up certainly, brother
I'll comply with any request of yours, I'm sure. There -- I'm up now. What can I do for you? Only say the word, and I'll do it
What can you do for me
What have you done for me
The best. The best that could be done
If it wasn't for the comfort it is to me, to see you here
I'd have crushed your head against it; I would
I did the best that could be done, brother
I did indeed. I was forced with two bayonets and I don't know how many bullets on each side of me, to point you out. If you hadn't been taken, you'd have been shot; and what a sight that would have been -- a fine young man like you
Will it be a better sight now
A deal better
First, there's all the chances of the law, and they're five hundred strong. We may get off scot-free. Unlikelier things than that have come to pass. Even if we shouldn't, and the chances fail, we can but be worked off once: and when it's well done, it's so neat, so skilful, so captiwating, if that don't seem too strong a word, that you'd hardly believe it could be brought to sich perfection. Kill one's fellow-creeturs off, with muskets!-- Pah
The fact is, brother
that you got into bad company. The man that was with you was looked after more than you, and it was him I wanted. As to me, what have I got by it? Here we are, in one and the same plight
Lookee, rascal
I'm not altogether such a shallow blade but I know you expected to get something by it, or you wouldn't have done it. But it's done, and you're here, and it will soon be all over with you and me; and I'd as soon die as live, or live as die. Why should I trouble myself to have revenge on you? To eat, and drink, and go to sleep, as long as I stay here, is all I care for. If there was but a little more sun to bask in, than can find its way into this cursed place, I'd lie in it all day, and not trouble myself to sit or stand up once. That's all the care I have for myself. Why should I care for YOU
Well said, brother; nothing could be better said
We'll eat and drink of the best, and sleep our best, and make the best of it every way. Anything can be got for money. Let's spend it merrily
Ay
Where is it
Why, they took mine from me at the lodge
but mine's a peculiar case
Is it? They took mine too
Why then, I tell you what, brother
You must look up your friends
My friends
Where are my friends
Your relations then
Ha ha ha
He talks of friends to me -- talks of relations to a man whose mother died the death in store for her son, and left him, a hungry brat, without a face he knew in all the world! He talks of this to me
Brother
you don't mean to say
I mean to say
that they hung her up at Tyburn. What was good enough for her, is good enough for me. Let them do the like by me as soon as they please -- the sooner the better. Say no more to me. I'm going to sleep
But I want to speak to you; I want to hear more about that
If you're a wise man
you'll hold your tongue. I tell you I'm going to sleep
And my friend the centaur, goes the way of his mamma! I am not surprised. And his mysterious friend Mr Dennis, likewise! I am not surprised. And my old postman, the exceedingly free-and-easy young madman of Chigwell! I am quite rejoiced. It's the very best thing that could possibly happen to him
I am obliged to you, Peak
It is a remarkable circumstance
that my friend the madman should have been within an ace of escaping, on his trial; and it was a good stroke of chance (or, as the world would say, a providential occurrence) that the brother of my Lord Mayor should have been in court, with other country justices, into whose very dense heads curiosity had penetrated. For though the brother of my Lord Mayor was decidedly wrong; and established his near relationship to that amusing person beyond all doubt, in stating that my friend was sane, and had, to his knowledge, wandered about the country with a vagabond parent, avowing revolutionary and rebellious sentiments; I am not the less obliged to him for volunteering that evidence. These insane creatures make such very odd and embarrassing remarks, that they really ought to be hanged for the comfort of society
They will be a singular party
a very curious party. The hangman himself; the centaur; and the madman. The centaur would make a very handsome preparation in Surgeons' Hall, and would benefit science extremely. I hope they have taken care to bespeak him.-- Peak, I am not at home, of course, to anybody but the hairdresser
Now, it is of no use, Peak
I am not at home. I cannot possibly hear you. I told you I was not at home, and my word is sacred. Will you never do as you are desired
Let him in
My good fellow
how come you to intrude yourself in this extraordinary manner upon the privacy of a gentleman? How can you be so wholly destitute of self-respect as to be guilty of such remarkable ill-breeding
My business, Sir John, is not of a common kind, I do assure you
If I have taken any uncommon course to get admission to you, I hope I shall be pardoned on that account
Well! we shall see; we shall see
I am sure we have met before
but really I forget your name
My name is Gabriel Varden, sir
Varden, of course, Varden
Dear me, how very defective my memory becomes! Varden to be sure -- Mr Varden the locksmith. You have a charming wife, Mr Varden, and a most beautiful daughter. They are well
I rejoice to hear it
Commend me to them when you return, and say that I wished I were fortunate enough to convey, myself, the salute which I entrust you to deliver. And what
can I do for you? You may command me freely
I thank you, Sir John
but I have come to ask no favour of you, though I come on business.-- Private
and very pressing business
I cannot say you are the more welcome for being independent, and having nothing to ask of me
for I should have been happy to render you a service; still, you are welcome on any terms. Oblige me with some more chocolate, Peak, and don't wait
Sir John
I am a working-man, and have been so, all my life. If I don't prepare you enough for what I have to tell; if I come to the point too abruptly; and give you a shock, which a gentleman could have spared you, or at all events lessened very much; I hope you will give me credit for meaning well. I wish to be careful and considerate, and I trust that in a straightforward person like me, you'll take the will for the deed
Mr Varden
I beg you'll take a chair. Chocolate, perhaps, you don't relish? Well! it IS an acquired taste, no doubt
Sir John
Sir John
I am just now come from Newgate
Good Gad
from Newgate, Mr Varden! How could you be so very imprudent as to come from Newgate! Newgate, where there are jail-fevers, and ragged people, and bare-footed men and women, and a thousand horrors! Peak, bring the camphor, quick! Heaven and earth, Mr Varden, my dear, good soul, how COULD you come from Newgate
You will forgive me, Mr Varden, I am sure, for being at first a little sensitive both on your account and my own. I confess I was startled, notwithstanding your delicate exordium. Might I ask you to do me the favour not to approach any nearer?-- You have really come from Newgate
In-deed! And now, Mr Varden, all exaggeration and embellishment apart
what kind of place IS Newgate
A strange place, Sir John
of a sad and doleful kind. A strange place, where many strange things are heard and seen; but few more strange than that I come to tell you of. The case is urgent. I am sent here
Not -- no, no -- not from the jail
Yes, Sir John; from the jail
And my good, credulous, open-hearted friend
by whom
By a man called Dennis -- for many years the hangman, and to-morrow morning the hanged
And what does the gentleman require of me? My memory may be at fault again, but I don't recollect that I ever had the pleasure of an introduction to him, or that I ever numbered him among my personal friends, I do assure you, Mr Varden
Sir John
I will tell you, as nearly as I can, in the words he used to me, what he desires that you should know, and what you ought to know without a moment's loss of time
This is an amusing fellow! I'll hear him out
You may have seen in the newspapers, sir
that I was a witness against this man upon his trial some days since; and that it was not his fault I was alive, and able to speak to what I knew
MAY have seen
My dear Mr Varden, you are quite a public character, and live in all men's thoughts most deservedly. Nothing can exceed the interest with which I read your testimony, and remembered that I had the pleasure of a slight acquaintance with you.--- I hope we shall have your portrait published
This morning, sir
early this morning, a message was brought to me from Newgate, at this man's request, desiring that I would go and see him, for he had something particular to communicate. I needn't tell you that he is no friend of mine, and that I had never seen him, until the rioters beset my house
I knew, however, from the general report
that the order for his execution to-morrow, went down to the prison last night; and looking upon him as a dying man, I complied with his request
You are quite a Christian, Mr Varden
and in that amiable capacity, you increase my desire that you should take a chair
He said
prentice of mine was one of them), he had kept his own counsel, up to the time of his being taken and put in jail
Very discreet of Mr Dennis
but -- except for your admirable and lucid manner of telling it, which is perfect -- not very interesting to me
When
when he was taken to the jail, he found that his fellow-prisoner, in the same room, was a young man, Hugh by name, a leader in the riots, who had been betrayed and given up by himself. From something which fell from this unhappy creature in the course of the angry words they had at meeting, he discovered that his mother had suffered the death to which they both are now condemned.-- The time is very short, Sir John
They have been in prison now, a month. One conversation led to many more; and the hangman soon found, from a comparison of time, and place, and dates, that he had executed the sentence of the law upon this woman, himself. She had been tempted by want -- as so many people are -- into the easy crime of passing forged notes. She was young and handsome; and the traders who employ men, women, and children in this traffic, looked upon her as one who was well adapted for their business, and who would probably go on without suspicion for a long time. But they were mistaken; for she was stopped in the commission of her very first offence, and died for it. She was of gipsy blood, Sir John
She was of gipsy blood, Sir John
and had a high, free spirit. This, and her good looks, and her lofty manner, interested some gentlemen who were easily moved by dark eyes; and efforts were made to save her. They might have been successful, if she would have given them any clue to her history. But she never would, or did. There was reason to suspect that she would make an attempt upon her life. A watch was set upon her night and day; and from that time she never spoke again
Until she had but a minute to live. Then she broke silence, and said, in a low firm voice which no one heard but this executioner, for all other living creatures had retired and left her to her fate, "If I had a dagger within these fingers and he was within my reach, I would strike him dead before me, even now!" The man asked "Who?" She said, "The father of her boy
It was the first word she had ever spoken, from which it could be understood that she had any relative on earth. "Was the child alive?" he asked. "Yes." He asked her where it was, its name, and whether she had any wish respecting it. She had but one, she said. It was that the boy might live and grow, in utter ignorance of his father, so that no arts might teach him to be gentle and forgiving. When he became a man, she trusted to the God of their tribe to bring the father and the son together, and revenge her through her child. He asked her other questions, but she spoke no more. Indeed, he says, she scarcely said this much, to him, but stood with her face turned upwards to the sky, and never looked towards him once
Nature
You were observing, Mr Varden
That she never
that she never looked towards him once, Sir John; and so she died, and he forgot her. But, some years afterwards, a man was sentenced to die the same death, who was a gipsy too; a sunburnt, swarthy fellow, almost a wild man; and while he lay in prison, under sentence, he, who had seen the hangman more than once while he was free, cut an image of him on his stick, by way of braving death, and showing those who attended on him, how little he cared or thought about it. He gave this stick into his hands at Tyburn, and told him then, that the woman I have spoken of had left her own people to join a fine gentleman, and that, being deserted by him, and cast off by her old friends, she had sworn within her own proud breast, that whatever her misery might be, she would ask no help of any human being. He told him that she had kept her word to the last; and that, meeting even him in the streets -- he had been fond of her once, it seems -- she had slipped from him by a trick, and he never saw her again, until, being in one of the frequent crowds at Tyburn, with some of his rough companions, he had been driven almost mad by seeing, in the criminal under another name, whose death he had come to witness, herself. Standing in the same place in which she had stood, he told the hangman this, and told him, too, her real name, which only her own people and the gentleman for whose sake she had left them, knew. That name he will tell again, Sir John, to none but you
To none but me
but me!-- My dear Mr Varden, how very preposterous, to select me for his confidence! With you at his elbow, too, who are so perfectly trustworthy
Sir John, Sir John
at twelve tomorrow, these men die. Hear the few words I have to add, and do not hope to deceive me; for though I am a plain man of humble station, and you are a gentleman of rank and learning, the truth raises me to your level, and I KNOW that you anticipate the disclosure with which I am about to end, and that you believe this doomed man, Hugh, to be your son
Nay
the wild gentleman, who died so suddenly, scarcely went as far as that, I think
He did not
for she had bound him by some pledge, known only to these people, and which the worst among them respect, not to tell your name: but, in a fantastic pattern on the stick, he had carved some letters, and when the hangman asked it, he bade him, especially if he should ever meet with her son in after life, remember that place well
What place
Chester
Sir John
this is all that has been told to me; but since these two men have been left for death, they have conferred together closely. See them, and hear what they can add. See this Dennis, and learn from him what he has not trusted to me. If you, who hold the clue to all, want corroboration (which you do not), the means are easy
And to what
my dear, good-natured, estimable Mr Varden -- with whom I cannot be angry if I would -- to what does all this tend
I take you for a man, Sir John, and I suppose it tends to some pleading of natural affection in your breast
I suppose to the straining of every nerve, and the exertion of all the influence you have, or can make, in behalf of your miserable son, and the man who has disclosed his existence to you. At the worst, I suppose to your seeing your son, and awakening him to a sense of his crime and danger. He has no such sense now. Think what his life must have been, when he said in my hearing, that if I moved you to anything, it would be to hastening his death, and ensuring his silence, if you had it in your power
And have you, my good Mr Varden
have you really lived to your present age, and remained so very simple and credulous, as to approach a gentleman of established character with such credentials as these, from desperate men in their last extremity, catching at any straw? Oh dear! Oh fie, fie
On any other subject, Mr Varden, I shall be delighted -- I shall be charmed -- to converse with you, but I owe it to my own character not to pursue this topic for another moment
Think better of it, sir, when I am gone
I thank you very much
for your guileless advice; and I only wish, my good soul, although your simplicity is quite captivating, that you had a little more worldly wisdom. I never so much regretted the arrival of my hairdresser as I do at this moment. God bless you! Good morning! You'll not forget my message to the ladies, Mr Varden? Peak, show Mr Varden to the door
So she kept her word
and was constant to her threat! I would I had never seen that dark face of hers,-- I might have read these consequences in it, from the first. This affair would make a noise abroad, if it rested on better evidence; but, as it is, and by not joining the scattered links of the chain, I can afford to slight it.-- Extremely distressing to be the parent of such an uncouth creature! Still, I gave him very good advice. I told him he would certainly be hanged. I could have done no more if I had known of our relationship; and there are a great many fathers who have never done as much for THEIR natural children.-- The hairdresser may come in, Peak
For these two men
I can do no more. Heaven have mercy on them!-- Alas! I say I can do no more for them, but whom can I help? Mary Rudge will have a home, and a firm friend when she most wants one; but Barnaby -- poor Barnaby -- willing Barnaby -- what aid can I render him? There are many, many men of sense, God forgive me
I could better afford to lose than Barnaby. We have always been good friends, but I never knew, till now, how much I loved the lad
They call me silly, mother. They shall see to-morrow
No reprieve, no reprieve! Nobody comes near us. There's only the night left now
whined the miserable creature, with an imploring gesture towards Barnaby, 'or I shall go mad
Better be mad than sane, here
GO mad
But tell me what you think. Somebody tell me what he thinks
isn't there a chance for me,-- isn't there a good chance for me? Isn't it likely they may be doing this to frighten me? Don't you think it is? Oh
won't anybody give me comfort
You ought to be the best, instead of the worst
Ha, ha, ha! See the hangman, when it comes home to him
You don't know what it is
I do. That I should come to be worked off! I! I! That I should come
And why not
How often, before I knew your trade, did I hear you talking of this as if it was a treat
I an't unconsistent
I'd talk so again, if I was hangman. Some other man has got my old opinions at this minute. That makes it worse. Somebody's longing to work me off. I know by myself that somebody must be
He'll soon have his longing
Think of that, and be quiet
Fetch me the book I left within -- upon your bed
Kiss me first
Don't you think
he's so desperate
it's time to turn in, boys
Not yet
not yet. Not for an hour yet
I say,-- your watch goes different from what it used to
Once upon a time it was always too fast. It's got the other fault now
My friend
my dear friend -- you always were my dear friend -- there's some mistake. Some letter has been mislaid, or some messenger has been stopped upon the way. He may have fallen dead. I saw a man once, fall down dead in the street, myself, and he had papers in his pocket. Send to inquire. Let somebody go to inquire. They never will hang me. They never can.-- Yes, they will
They'll hang me by a trick, and keep the pardon back. It's a plot against me. I shall lose my life
See the hangman when it comes home to him
Ha ha ha! Courage, bold Barnaby, what care we? Your hand! They do well to put us out of the world, for if we got loose a second time, we wouldn't let them off so easy, eh? Another shake! A man can die but once. If you wake in the night, sing that out lustily, and fall asleep again. Ha ha ha
Hats off
Poor fellows
D'ye hear
They expect us! I heard them gathering when I woke in the night, and turned over on t'other side and fell asleep again. We shall see how they welcome the hangman, now that it comes home to him. Ha, ha, ha
And why, master
Can I do better than bear it easily? YOU bear it easily enough. Oh! never tell me
for all your sad look and your solemn air, you think little enough of it! They say you're the best maker of lobster salads in London. Ha, ha! I've heard that, you see, before now. Is it a good one, this morning -- is your hand in? How does the breakfast look? I hope there's enough, and to spare, for all this hungry company that'll sit down to it, when the sight's over
I fear
that you are incorrigible
You're right. I am
Be no hypocrite, master! You make a merry-making of this, every month; let me be merry, too. If you want a frightened fellow there's one that'll suit you. Try your hand upon him
What cheer, Barnaby? Don't be downcast, lad. Leave that to HIM
Bless you
I'm not frightened, Hugh. I'm quite happy. I wouldn't desire to live now, if they'd let me. Look at me! Am I afraid to die? Will they see ME tremble
I wouldn't say much to him, master, if I was you. He may spoil your appetite for breakfast, though you ARE used to it
Gentlemen, good gentlemen
Governor, dear governor -- honourable sheriffs -- worthy gentlemen -- have mercy upon a wretched man that has served His Majesty, and the Law, and Parliament, for so many years, and don't -- don't let me die -- because of a mistake
Dennis
you know what the course is, and that the order came with the rest. You know that we could do nothing, even if we would
All I ask, sir,-- all I want and beg, is time, to make it sure
The King and Government can't know it's me; I'm sure they can't know it's me; or they never would bring me to this dreadful slaughterhouse. They know my name, but they don't know it's the same man. Stop my execution -- for charity's sake stop my execution, gentlemen -- till they can be told that I've been hangman here, nigh thirty year. Will no one go and tell them
will no charitable person go and tell them
Mr Akerman
since it may possibly produce in this unhappy man a better frame of mind, even at this last minute, let me assure him that he was well known to have been the hangman, when his sentence was considered
But perhaps they think on that account that the punishment's not so great
whereas it's worse, it's worse a hundred times, to me than any man. Let them know that, sir. Let them know that. They've made it worse to me by giving me so much to do. Stop my execution till they know that
Wait! Wait. Only a moment -- only one moment more! Give me a last chance of reprieve. One of us three is to go to Bloomsbury Square. Let me be the one. It may come in that time; it's sure to come. In the Lord's name let me be sent to Bloomsbury Square. Don't hang me here. It's murder
To say
Not I. I'm ready.-- Yes
I have a word to say, too. Come hither, lad
I'll say this
that if I had ten lives to lose, and the loss of each would give me ten times the agony of the hardest death, I'd lay them all down -- ay, I would, though you gentlemen may not believe it -- to save this one. This one
that will be lost through me
Not through you
Don't say that. You were not to blame. You have always been very good to me.-- Hugh, we shall know what makes the stars shine, NOW
I took him from her in a reckless mood, and didn't think what harm would come of it
I ask her pardon; and his.-- Look here
You see this lad
Yes
That gentleman yonder --' pointing to the clergyman
If this was not faith, and strong belief
where are they! What else should teach me -- me, born as I was born, and reared as I have been reared -- to hope for any mercy in this hardened, cruel, unrelenting place! Upon these human shambles, I, who never raised this hand in prayer till now, call down the wrath of God! On that black tree, of which I am the ripened fruit, I do invoke the curse of all its victims, past, and present, and to come. On the head of that man, who, in his conscience, owns me for his son, I leave the wish that he may never sicken on his bed of down, but die a violent death as I do now, and have the night-wind for his only mourner. To this I say, Amen, amen
There is nothing more
There is nothing more
Move forward
Unless
If any man deserved it of me half as well, I'd think of HIM
come upon the county
coming on the parish
Why, father
you're in spirits to-day
It's nothing partickler
It's nothing at all partickler, Joseph. Tell me something about the Salwanners
What shall I tell you, father
That I have come back, poorer than a church mouse? You know that. That I have come back, maimed and crippled? You know that
It was took off
at the defence of the Salwanners, in America, where the war is
Quite right
the very subject I came to speak to you about. A man with one arm, father, is not of much use in the busy world
tackle
At all events
he can't pick and choose his means of earning a livelihood, as another man may. He can't say "I will turn my hand to this," or "I won't turn my hand to that," but must take what he can do, and be thankful it's no worse.-- What did you say
defence of the Salwanners
Nothing
Dolly
Dolly
Ay, call me that; call me that always
never speak coldly to me, never be distant, never again reprove me for the follies I have long repented, or I shall die, Joe
I reprove you
Yes -- for every kind and honest word you uttered, went to my heart. For you, who have borne so much from me -- for you, who owe your sufferings and pain to my caprice -- for you to be so kind -- so noble to me, Joe
If you had reminded me by a word -- only by one short word
how little I deserved that you should treat me with so much forbearance; if you had exulted only for one moment in your triumph, I could have borne it better
Triumph
I am a pretty figure for that
Yes, triumph
for it is one. I am glad to think and know it is. I wouldn't be less humbled, dear -- I wouldn't be without the recollection of that last time we spoke together in this place -- no, not if I could recall the past, and make our parting, yesterday
Dear Joe
I always loved you -- in my own heart I always did, although I was so vain and giddy. I hoped you would come back that night. I made quite sure you would. I prayed for it on my knees. Through all these long, long years, I have never once forgotten you, or left off hoping that this happy time might come
And now, at last
if you were sick, and shattered in your every limb; if you were ailing, weak, and sorrowful; if, instead of being what you are, you were in everybody's eyes but mine the wreck and ruin of a man; I would be your wife, dear love, with greater pride and joy, than if you were the stateliest lord in England
What have I done
what have I done to meet with this reward
You have taught me
to know myself, and your worth; to be something better than I was; to be more deserving of your true and manly nature. In years to come, dear Joe, you shall find that you have done so; for I will be, not only now, when we are young and full of hope, but when we have grown old and weary, your patient, gentle, never-tiring wife. I will never know a wish or care beyond our home and you, and I will always study how to please you with my best affection and my most devoted love. I will: indeed I will
They know of this, at home
For your sake, I would leave even them; but they know it, and are glad of it, and are as proud of you as I am, and as full of gratitude.-- You'll not come and see me as a poor friend who knew me when I was a girl, will you, dear Joe
Salwanners
Father
You know who this is
Say a word, father, if it's only "how d'ye do
Certainly, Joseph
Oh yes! Why not
To be sure
Why not
Ah
Why not
Certainly, Joseph. Oh yes! Why not
Varden brought the mother here last evening, he told me
She is above-stairs now -- in the room over here
Her grief, they say, is past all telling. I needn't add -- for that you know beforehand, sir -- that the care, humanity, and sympathy of these good people have no bounds
I am sure of that. Heaven repay them for it, and for much more! Varden is out
He returned with your messenger, who arrived almost at the moment of his coming home himself. He was out the whole night -- but that of course you know. He was with you the greater part of it
He was. Without him, I should have lacked my right hand. He is an older man than I; but nothing can conquer him
The cheeriest, stoutest-hearted fellow in the world
He has a right to be. He has a right to he. A better creature never lived. He reaps what he has sown -- no more
It is not all men
who have the happiness to do that
More than you imagine
We note the harvest more than the seed-time. You do so in me
Tut, tut
'twas not very difficult to read a thought so natural. But you are mistaken nevertheless. I have had my share of sorrows -- more than the common lot, perhaps, but I have borne them ill. I have broken where I should have bent; and have mused and brooded, when my spirit should have mixed with all God's great creation. The men who learn endurance, are they who call the whole world, brother. I have turned FROM the world, and I pay the penalty
It is too late to evade it now. I sometimes think, that if I had to live my life once more, I might amend this fault -- not so much, I discover when I search my mind, for the love of what is right, as for my own sake. But even when I make these better resolutions, I instinctively recoil from the idea of suffering again what I have undergone; and in this circumstance I find the unwelcome assurance that I should still be the same man, though I could cancel the past, and begin anew, with its experience to guide me
Nay, you make too sure of that
You think so
and I am glad you do. I know myself better, and therefore distrust myself more. Let us leave this subject for another -- not so far removed from it as it might, at first sight, seem to be. Sir, you still love my niece, and she is still attached to you
I have that assurance from her own lips
and you know -- I am sure you know -- that I would not exchange it for any blessing life could yield me
You are frank, honourable, and disinterested
you have forced the conviction that you are so, even on my once- jaundiced mind, and I believe you. Wait here till I come back
On that first and only time
when we three stood together under her father's roof, I told you to quit it, and charged you never to return
It is the only circumstance arising out of our love
that I have forgotten
You own a name
I had deep reason to remember. I was moved and goaded by recollections of personal wrong and injury, I know, but, even now I cannot charge myself with having, then, or ever, lost sight of a heartfelt desire for her true happiness; or with having acted -- however much I was mistaken -- with any other impulse than the one pure, single, earnest wish to be to her, as far as in my inferior nature lay, the father she had lost
Dear uncle
I have known no parent but you. I have loved the memory of others, but I have loved you all my life. Never was father kinder to his child than you have been to me, without the interval of one harsh hour, since I can first remember
You speak too fondly
and yet I cannot wish you were less partial; for I have a pleasure in hearing those words, and shall have in calling them to mind when we are far asunder, which nothing else could give me. Bear with me for a moment longer, Edward, for she and I have been together many years; and although I believe that in resigning her to you I put the seal upon her future happiness, I find it needs an effort
I have done you wrong, sir, and I ask your forgiveness -- in no common phrase, or show of sorrow; but with earnestness and sincerity. In the same spirit, I acknowledge to you both that the time has been when I connived at treachery and falsehood -- which if I did not perpetrate myself, I still permitted -- to rend you two asunder
You judge yourself too harshly
Let these things rest
They rise in judgment against me when I look back, and not now for the first time
I cannot part from you without your full forgiveness; for busy life and I have little left in common now, and I have regrets enough to carry into solitude, without addition to the stock
You bear a blessing from us both
Never mingle thoughts of me -- of me who owe you so much love and duty -- with anything but undying affection and gratitude for the past, and bright hopes for the future
The future
is a bright word for you, and its image should be wreathed with cheerful hopes. Mine is of another kind, but it will be one of peace, and free, I trust, from care or passion. When you quit England I shall leave it too. There are cloisters abroad; and now that the two great objects of my life are set at rest, I know no better home. You droop at that, forgetting that I am growing old, and that my course is nearly run. Well, we will speak of it again -- not once or twice, but many times; and you shall give me cheerful counsel, Emma
And you will take it
I'll listen to it
and it will have its weight, be certain. What have I left to say? You have, of late, been much together. It is better and more fitting that the circumstances attendant on the past, which wrought your separation, and sowed between you suspicion and distrust, should not be entered on by me
Much, much better
I avow my share in them
though I held it, at the time, in detestation. Let no man turn aside, ever so slightly, from the broad path of honour, on the plausible pretence that he is justified by the goodness of his end. All good ends can he worked out by good means. Those that cannot, are bad; and may be counted so at once, and left alone
In goods and fortune you are now nearly equal. I have been her faithful steward, and to that remnant of a richer property which my brother left her, I desire to add, in token of my love, a poor pittance, scarcely worth the mention, for which I have no longer any need. I am glad you go abroad. Let our ill-fated house remain the ruin it is. When you return, after a few thriving years, you will command a better, and a more fortunate one. We are friends
You are neither slow nor cold in your response
and when I look upon you now, and know you, I feel that I would choose you for her husband. Her father had a generous nature, and you would have pleased him well. I give her to you in his name, and with his blessing. If the world and I part in this act, we part on happier terms than we have lived for many a day
This must be stopped -- quieted
We should have foreseen this, and provided against it. I will go out to them at once
She knows it all, dear sir!-- she knows it all! We broke it out to her by degrees, and she is quite prepared
Such is the blessed end, sir
of the best day's work we ever did. The rogues! it's been hard fighting to get away from 'em. I almost thought, once or twice, they'd have been too much for us with their kindness
I needn't say
that, except among ourselves, I didn't want to make a triumph of it. But, directly we got into the street we were known, and this hubbub began. Of the two
and after experience of both, I think I'd rather be taken out of my house by a crowd of enemies, than escorted home by a mob of friends
You never saw him, living
Often, years ago; not knowing him for my brother
Never since
Never. Yesterday, he steadily refused to see me. It was urged upon him, many times, at my desire
Still he refused? That was hardened and unnatural
Do you think so
I infer that you do not
You are right. We hear the world wonder, every day, at monsters of ingratitude. Did it never occur to you that it often looks for monsters of affection, as though they were things of course
that young Willet is certainly looking after our Dolly, and I must look after HIM
Is anybody going to open that door
Or shall I come
Well
what is it? eh Joe? what are you laughing at
Nothing, sir. It's coming in
Who's coming in? what's coming in
Damme, if it an't Miggs come back
The old story
She was born to be a damper, this young woman! nothing can prevent it
Ho master, ho mim
can I constrain my feelings in these here once agin united moments! Ho Mr Warsen, here's blessedness among relations, sir! Here's forgivenesses of injuries, here's amicablenesses
To think
that Mr Joe, and dear Miss Dolly, has raly come together after all as has been said and done contrairy! To see them two a-settin' along with him and her, so pleasant and in all respects so affable and mild; and me not knowing of it, and not being in the ways to make no preparations for their teas. Ho what a cutting thing it is, and yet what sweet sensations is awoke within me
And did my missis think -- ho goodness, did she think -- as her own Miggs, which supported her under so many trials, and understood her natur' when them as intended well but acted rough, went so deep into her feelings -- did she think as her own Miggs would ever leave her? Did she think as Miggs, though she was but a servant, and knowed that servitudes was no inheritances, would forgit that she was the humble instruments as always made it comfortable between them two when they fell out, and always told master of the meekness and forgiveness of her blessed dispositions! Did she think as Miggs had no attachments! Did she think that wages was her only object
My dear
Do you desire this
I desire it
I am astonished -- I am amazed -- at her audacity. Let her leave the house this moment
Ho, good gracious
You hear what your mistress says, my love
You had better go, I think. Stay; take this with you, for the sake of old service
Ho, good gracious
I think you said that once before, my dear
Times is changed, is they, mim
you can spare me now, can you? You can keep 'em down without me? You're not in wants of any one to scold, or throw the blame upon, no longer, an't you, mim? I'm glad to find you've grown so independent. I wish you joy, I'm sure
I'm quite delighted, I'm sure, to find sich independency, feeling sorry though, at the same time, mim, that you should have been forced into submissions when you couldn't help yourself -- he he he! It must be great vexations, 'specially considering how ill you always spoke of Mr Joe -- to have him for a son-in-law at last; and I wonder Miss Dolly can put up with him, either, after being off and on for so many years with a coachmaker. But I HAVE heerd say, that the coachmaker thought twice about it -- he he he!-- and that he told a young man as was a frind of his, that he hoped he knowed better than to be drawed into that; though she and all the family DID pull uncommon strong
I HAVE heerd say, mim, that the illnesses of some ladies was all pretensions, and that they could faint away, stone dead, whenever they had the inclinations so to do. Of course I never see sich cases with my own eyes -- ho no! He he he! Nor master neither -- ho no! He he he! I HAVE heerd the neighbours make remark as some one as they was acquainted with, was a poor good-natur'd mean-spirited creetur, as went out fishing for a wife one day, and caught a Tartar. Of course I never to my knowledge see the poor person himself. Nor did you neither, mim -- ho no. I wonder who it can be -- don't you, mim? No doubt you do, mim. Ho yes. He he he
I'm glad Miss Dolly can laugh
I like to see folks a-laughing -- so do you, mim, don't you? You was always glad to see people in spirits, wasn't you, mim? And you always did your best to keep 'em cheerful, didn't you, mim? Though there an't such a great deal to laugh at now either; is there, mim? It an't so much of a catch, after looking out so sharp ever since she was a little chit, and costing such a deal in dress and show, to get a poor, common soldier, with one arm, is it, mim? He he! I wouldn't have a husband with one arm, anyways. I would have two arms. I would have two arms, if it was me, though instead of hands they'd only got hooks at the end, like our dustman
It's a thing to laugh at, Martha, not to care for
What does it matter? You had seen your fault before. Come! Bring up Toby again, my dear; Dolly shall sing us a song; and we'll be all the merrier for this interruption
Why have you brought it to me
We thought you were a stranger, sir
and that you might believe our roads to be better than they are; but perhaps you know them well, and carry fire-arms
The old house will brighten up now
and there will be a merry fireside beneath its ivied roof. It is some comfort to know that everything will not be blighted hereabouts. I shall be glad to have one picture of life and cheerfulness to turn to, in my mind
Why have you called to me
To remark
what an odd chance it is, that we should meet here
It IS a strange chance
Strange? The most remarkable and singular thing in the world. I never ride in the evening; I have not done so for years. The whim seized me, quite unaccountably, in the middle of last night.-- How very picturesque this is
You praise your own work very freely
I fear this animal is going mad
I say you praise your own work very freely
Work
Mine!-- I beg your pardon, I really beg your pardon
Why, you see
those walls. You see those tottering gables. You see on every side where fire and smoke have raged. You see the destruction that has been wanton here. Do you not
My good friend
of course I do. I see everything you speak of, when you stand aside, and do not interpose yourself between the view and me. I am very sorry for you. If I had not had the pleasure to meet you here, I think I should have written to tell you so. But you don't bear it as well as I had expected -- excuse me -- no, you don't indeed
For you are a philosopher, you know -- one of that stern and rigid school who are far above the weaknesses of mankind in general. You are removed, a long way, from the frailties of the crowd. You contemplate them from a height, and rail at them with a most impressive bitterness. I have heard you
And shall again
Thank you
Shall we walk as we talk? The damp falls rather heavily. Well,-- as you please. But I grieve to say that I can spare you only a very few moments
I would
you had spared me none. I would, with all my soul, you had been in Paradise (if such a monstrous lie could be enacted), rather than here to-night
Nay
really -- you do yourself injustice. You are a rough companion, but I would not go so far to avoid you
Listen to me
Listen to me
While you rail
While I deliver your infamy. You urged and stimulated to do your work a fit agent, but one who in his nature -- in the very essence of his being -- is a traitor, and who has been false to you (despite the sympathy you two should have together) as he has been to all others. With hints, and looks, and crafty words, which told again are nothing, you set on Gashford to this work -- this work before us now. With these same hints, and looks, and crafty words, which told again are nothing, you urged him on to gratify the deadly hate he owes me -- I have earned it, I thank Heaven -- by the abduction and dishonour of my niece. You did. I see denial in your looks
and denial is a lie
You will take notice, sir -- if you can discriminate sufficiently -- that I have taken the trouble to deny nothing. Your discernment is hardly fine enough for the perusal of faces, not of a kind as coarse as your speech; nor has it ever been, that I remember; or, in one face that I could name, you would have read indifference, not to say disgust, somewhat sooner than you did. I speak of a long time ago,-- but you understand me
Disguise it as you will, you mean denial. Denial explicit or reserved, expressed or left to be inferred, is still a lie. You say you don't deny. Do you admit
You yourself
publicly proclaimed the character of the gentleman in question (I think it was in Westminster Hall) in terms which relieve me from the necessity of making any further allusion to him. You may have been warranted; you may not have been; I can't say. Assuming the gentleman to be what you described, and to have made to you or any other person any statements that may have happened to suggest themselves to him, for the sake of his own security, or for the sake of money, or for his own amusement, or for any other consideration,-- I have nothing to say of him, except that his extremely degrading situation appears to me to be shared with his employers. You are so very plain yourself, that you will excuse a little freedom in me, I am sure
Attend to me again, Sir John but once
in your every look, and word, and gesture, you tell me this was not your act. I tell you that it was, and that you tampered with the man I speak of, and with your wretched son (whom God forgive!) to do this deed. You talk of degradation and character. You told me once that you had purchased the absence of the poor idiot and his mother, when (as I have discovered since, and then suspected) you had gone to tempt them, and had found them flown. To you I traced the insinuation that I alone reaped any harvest from my brother's death; and all the foul attacks and whispered calumnies that followed in its train. In every action of my life, from that first hope which you converted into grief and desolation, you have stood, like an adverse fate, between me and peace. In all, you have ever been the same cold-blooded, hollow, false, unworthy villain. For the second time, and for the last, I cast these charges in your teeth, and spurn you from me as I would a faithless dog
Not to-night! not to-night
In God's name, not tonight
Not to-night
Be warned in time
You told me -- it must have been in a sort of inspiration --' said Sir John, quite deliberately, though now he dropped his mask, and showed his hatred in his face, 'that this was the last time. Be assured it is! Did you believe our last meeting was forgotten? Did you believe that your every word and look was not to be accounted for, and was not well remembered? Do you believe that I have waited your time, or you mine? What kind of man is he who entered, with all his sickening cant of honesty and truth, into a bond with me to prevent a marriage he affected to dislike, and when I had redeemed my part to the spirit and the letter, skulked from his, and brought the match about in his own time, to rid himself of a burden he had grown tired of, and cast a spurious lustre on his house
I have acted
with honour and in good faith. I do so now. Do not force me to renew this duel to-night
You said my "wretched" son, I think
Poor fool! The dupe of such a shallow knave -- trapped into marriage by such an uncle and by such a niece -- he well deserves your pity. But he is no longer a son of mine: you are welcome to the prize your craft has made, sir
Once more
although you tear me from my better angel, I implore you not to come within the reach of my sword to-night. Oh! why were you here at all! Why have we met! To-morrow would have cast us far apart for ever
That being the case
it is very fortunate we have met to-night. Haredale, I have always despised you, as you know, but I have given you credit for a species of brute courage. For the honour of my judgment, which I had thought a good one, I am sorry to find you a coward
I'm a-going, Joseph
to the
I'm a devil, I'm a devil, I'm a devil
</text>
