<text>
meandering' about the world. It was in vain to represent to her that some conveniences, tea perhaps included, resulted from this objectionable practice. She always returned, with greater emphasis and with an instinctive knowledge of the strength of her objection, 'Let us have no meandering
Mrs. David Copperfield, I think
Yes
Miss Trotwood
You have heard of her, I dare say
Now you see her
Oh tut, tut, tut
Don't do that! Come, come
Take off your cap, child
and let me see you
Why, bless my heart
You are a very Baby
In the name of Heaven
why Rookery
Do you mean the house, ma'am
Why Rookery
Cookery would have been more to the purpose, if you had had any practical ideas of life, either of you
The name was Mr. Copperfield's choice
When he bought the house, he liked to think that there were rooks about it
Where are the birds
The
The rooks - what has become of them
There have not been any since we have lived here
We thought - Mr. Copperfield thought - it was quite a large rookery; but the nests were very old ones, and the birds have deserted them a long while
David Copperfield all over
David Copperfield from head to foot! Calls a house a rookery when there's not a rook near it, and takes the birds on trust, because he sees the nests
Mr. Copperfield
is dead, and if you dare to speak unkindly of him to me
Well
and when do you expect
I am all in a tremble
I don't know what's the matter. I shall die, I am sure
No, no, no
Have some tea
Oh dear me, dear me, do you think it will do me any good
Of course it will
It's nothing but fancy. What do you call your girl
I don't know that it will be a girl, yet, ma'am
Bless the Baby
I don't mean that. I mean your servant-girl
Peggotty
Peggotty
Do you mean to say, child, that any human being has gone into a Christian church, and got herself named Peggotty
It's her surname
Mr. Copperfield called her by it, because her Christian name was the same as mine
Here! Peggotty
Tea. Your mistress is a little unwell. Don't dawdle
You were speaking about its being a girl
I have no doubt it will be a girl. I have a presentiment that it must be a girl. Now child, from the moment of the birth of this girl
Perhaps boy
I tell you I have a presentiment that it must be a girl
Don't contradict. From the moment of this girl's birth, child, I intend to be her friend. I intend to be her godmother, and I beg you'll call her Betsey Trotwood Copperfield. There must be no mistakes in life with THIS Betsey Trotwood. There must be no trifling with HER affections, poor dear. She must be well brought up, and well guarded from reposing any foolish confidences where they are not deserved. I must make that MY care
And was David good to you, child
Were you comfortable together
We were very happy
Mr. Copperfield was only too good to me
What, he spoilt you, I suppose
For being quite alone and dependent on myself in this rough world again, yes, I fear he did indeed
Well! Don't cry
You were not equally matched, child - if any two people can be equally matched - and so I asked the question. You were an orphan, weren't you
Yes
And a governess
I was nursery-governess in a family where Mr. Copperfield came to visit. Mr. Copperfield was very kind to me, and took a great deal of notice of me, and paid me a good deal of attention, and at last proposed to me. And I accepted him. And so we were married
Ha! Poor Baby
Do you know anything
I beg your pardon, ma'am
About keeping house, for instance
Not much, I fear
Not so much as I could wish. But Mr. Copperfield was teaching me
Much he knew about it himself
Well, well
Well, well
Don't cry any more
And I am sure we never had a word of difference respecting it, except when Mr. Copperfield objected to my threes and fives being too much like each other, or to my putting curly tails to my sevens and nines
You'll make yourself ill
and you know that will not be good either for you or for my god-daughter. Come! You mustn't do it
Ha
David had bought an annuity for himself with his money, I know
What did he do for you
Mr. Copperfield
was so considerate and good as to secure the reversion of a part of it to me
How much
A hundred and five pounds a year
He might have done worse
Some local irritation, ma'am
What
Some local irritation, ma'am
Nonsense
Well
Well, ma'am
we are- we are progressing slowly, ma'am
Ba -- a -- ah
Well
Well, ma'am
we are - we are progressing slowly, ma'am
Ya -- a -- ah
Well, ma'am, I am happy to congratulate you
What upon
Mercy on the man, what's he doing
Can't he speak
Be calm, my dear ma'am
There is no longer any occasion for uneasiness, ma'am. Be calm
Well, ma'am
I am happy to congratulate you. All is now over, ma'am, and well over
How is she
Well, ma'am, she will soon be quite comfortable, I hope
Quite as comfortable as we can expect a young mother to be, under these melancholy domestic circumstances. There cannot be any objection to your seeing her presently, ma'am. It may do her good
And SHE. How is SHE
The baby
How is she
Ma'am
I apprehended you had known. It's a boy
Is the sun-dial glad, I wonder, that it can tell the time again
Peggotty
were you ever married
Lord, Master Davy
What's put marriage in your head
But WERE you ever married, Peggotty
You are a very handsome woman, an't you
Me handsome, Davy
Lawk, no, my dear! But what put marriage in your head
I don't know! - You mustn't marry more than one person at a time, may you, Peggotty
Certainly not
But if you marry a person, and the person dies, why then you may marry another person, mayn't you, Peggotty
YOU MAY
if you choose, my dear. That's a matter of opinion
But what is your opinion, Peggotty
My opinion is
that I never was married myself, Master Davy, and that I don't expect to be. That's all I know about the subject
You an't cross, I suppose, Peggotty, are you
Now let me hear some more about the Crorkindills
for I an't heard half enough
What does that mean
Oh, Davy
Dear boy
I cannot wonder at his devotion
Let us say "good night", my fine boy
Good night
Come! Let us be the best friends in the world
Shake hands
Why, that's the Wrong hand, Davy
Hope you have had a pleasant evening, ma'am
Much obliged to you, Peggotty
I have had a VERY pleasant evening
A stranger or so makes an agreeable change
A very agreeable change, indeed
Not such a one as this, Mr. Copperfield wouldn't have liked
That I say, and that I swear
Good Heavens
you'll drive me mad! Was ever any poor girl so ill-used by her servants as I am! Why do I do myself the injustice of calling myself a girl? Have I never been married, Peggotty
God knows you have, ma'am
Then, how can you dare
you know I don't mean how can you dare, Peggotty, but how can you have the heart - to make me so uncomfortable and say such bitter things to me, when you are well aware that I haven't, out of this place, a single friend to turn to
The more's the reason
for saying that it won't do. No! That it won't do. No! No price could make it do. No
How can you be so aggravating
as to talk in such an unjust manner! How can you go on as if it was all settled and arranged, Peggotty, when I tell you over and over again, you cruel thing, that beyond the commonest civilities nothing has passed! You talk of admiration. What am I to do? If people are so silly as to indulge the sentiment, is it my fault? What am I to do, I ask you? Would you wish me to shave my head and black my face, or disfigure myself with a burn, or a scald, or something of that sort? I dare say you would, Peggotty. I dare say you'd quite enjoy it
And my dear boy
my own little Davy! Is it to be hinted to me that I am wanting in affection for my precious treasure, the dearest little fellow that ever was
Nobody never went and hinted no such a thing
You did, Peggotty
You know you did. What else was it possible to infer from what you said, you unkind creature, when you know as well as I do, that on his account only last quarter I wouldn't buy myself a new parasol, though that old green one is frayed the whole way up, and the fringe is perfectly mangy? You know it is, Peggotty. You can't deny it
Am I a naughty mama to you, Davy? Am I a nasty, cruel, selfish, bad mama? Say I am, my child; say "yes", dear boy, and Peggotty will love you; and Peggotty's love is a great deal better than mine, Davy. I don't love you at all, do I
Halloa, Murdstone! We thought you were dead
Not yet
And who's this shaver
That's Davy
Davy who
Jones
Copperfield
What! Bewitching Mrs. Copperfield's encumbrance
The pretty little widow
Quinion
take care, if you please. Somebody's sharp
Who is
Only Brooks of Sheffield
And what is the opinion of Brooks of Sheffield, in reference to the projected business
Why, I don't know that Brooks understands much about it at present
but he is not generally favourable, I believe
Confusion to Brooks of Sheffield
What was it they said, Davy? Tell me again. I can't believe it
Bewitching
It was never bewitching
It never could have been bewitching, Davy. Now I know it wasn't
Yes, it was. "Bewitching Mrs. Copperfield
And, "pretty
No, no, it was never pretty. Not pretty
Yes it was. "Pretty little widow
What foolish, impudent creatures
What ridiculous men! An't they? Davy dear
Well, Ma
Don't tell Peggotty; she might be angry with them. I am dreadfully angry with them myself; but I would rather Peggotty didn't know
Master Davy, how should you like to go along with me and spend a fortnight at my brother's at Yarmouth? Wouldn't that be a treat
Is your brother an agreeable man, Peggotty
Oh, what an agreeable man he is
Then there's the sea; and the boats and ships; and the fishermen; and the beach; and Am to play with
Why then I'll as good as bet a guinea
that she'll let us go. I'll ask her, if you like, as soon as ever she comes home. There now
But what's she to do while we're away
She can't live by herself
I say! Peggotty! She can't live by herself, you know
Oh, bless you
Don't you know? She's going to stay for a fortnight with Mrs. Grayper. Mrs. Grayper's going to have a lot of company
Here's my Am
growed out of knowledge
Yon's our house, Mas'r Davy
That's not it
That ship-looking thing
That's it, Mas'r Davy
Glad to see you, sir
You'll find us rough, sir, but you'll find us ready
How's your Ma, sir
Did you leave her pretty jolly
I'm much obleeged to her, I'm sure
Well, sir, if you can make out here, fur a fortnut, 'long wi' her
and Ham, and little Em'ly, we shall be proud of your company
Mr. Peggotty
Sir
Did you give your son the name of Ham, because you lived in a sort of ark
No, sir. I never giv him no name
Who gave him that name, then
Why, sir, his father giv it him
I thought you were his father
My brother Joe was his father
Dead, Mr. Peggotty
Drowndead
Little Em'ly
She is your daughter, isn't she, Mr. Peggotty
No, sir. My brother-in-law, Tom, was her father
Dead, Mr. Peggotty
Drowndead
Haven't you ANY children, Mr. Peggotty
No, master
I'm a bacheldore
A bachelor
Why, who's that, Mr. Peggotty
That's Missis Gummidge
Gummidge, Mr. Peggotty
You're quite a sailor, I suppose
No
I'm afraid of the sea
Afraid
I an't
Ah! but it's cruel
I have seen it very cruel to some of our men. I have seen it tear a boat as big as our house, all to pieces
I hope it wasn't the boat that
That father was drownded in
No. Not that one, I never see that boat
Nor him
Not to remember
Besides
your father was a gentleman and your mother is a lady; and my father was a fisherman and my mother was a fisherman's daughter, and my uncle Dan is a fisherman
Dan is Mr. Peggotty, is he
Uncle Dan - yonder
Yes. I mean him. He must be very good, I should think
Good
If I was ever to be a lady, I'd give him a sky-blue coat with diamond buttons, nankeen trousers, a red velvet waistcoat, a cocked hat, a large gold watch, a silver pipe, and a box of money
You would like to be a lady
I should like it very much. We would all be gentlefolks together, then. Me, and uncle, and Ham, and Mrs. Gummidge. We wouldn't mind then, when there comes stormy weather. - Not for our own sakes, I mean. We would for the poor fishermen's, to be sure, and we'd help 'em with money when they come to any hurt
Don't you think you are afraid of the sea, now
No
You don't seem to be either, though you say you are
I'm not afraid in this way
But I wake when it blows, and tremble to think of Uncle Dan and Ham and believe I hear 'em crying out for help. That's why I should like so much to be a lady. But I'm not afraid in this way. Not a bit. Look here
Like two young mavishes
Lor! wasn't it beautiful
were Mrs. Gummidge's words, when that unpleasant occurrence took place, 'and everythink goes contrary with me
Oh, it'll soon leave off
and besides, you know, it's not more disagreeable to you than to us
I feel it more
It is certainly very cold
Everybody must feel it so
I feel it more than other people
Well, Mates
and how are you
What's amiss
Cheer up, old Mawther
What's amiss, dame
Nothing
You've come from The Willing Mind, Dan'l
Why yes, I've took a short spell at The Willing Mind tonight
I'm sorry I should drive you there
Drive! I don't want no driving
I only go too ready
Very ready
Yes, yes, very ready. I am sorry it should be along of me that you're so ready
Along o' you! It an't along o' you
Don't ye believe a bit on it
Yes, yes, it is
I an't what I could wish myself to be
I am far from it. I know what I am. My troubles has made me contrary. I feel my troubles, and they make me contrary. I wish I didn't feel 'em, but I do. I wish I could be hardened to 'em, but I an't. I make the house uncomfortable. I don't wonder at it. I've made your sister so all day, and Master Davy
No, you haven't, Mrs. Gummidge
It's far from right that I should do it
un
un
Why, Peggotty
isn't she come home
Yes, yes, Master Davy
She's come home. Wait a bit, Master Davy, and I'll - I'll tell you something
Peggotty
What's the matter
Nothing's the matter, bless you, Master Davy dear
Something's the matter, I'm sure. Where's mama
Where's mama, Master Davy
Yes. Why hasn't she come out to the gate, and what have we come in here for? Oh, Peggotty
Bless the precious boy
What is it? Speak, my pet
Not dead, too! Oh, she's not dead, Peggotty
You see, dear, I should have told you before now
bring my mind to it
Go on, Peggotty
Master Davy
What do you think? You have got a Pa
A new one
A new one
Come and see him
I don't want to see him
And your mama
Now, Clara my dear
Recollect! control yourself, always control yourself! Davy boy, how do you do
Here he is
Davy
What's the matter
Nothing
Davy
Davy, my child
This is your doing, Peggotty, you cruel thing
I have no doubt at all about it. How can you reconcile it to your conscience, I wonder, to prejudice my own boy against me, or against anybody who is dear to me? What do you mean by it, Peggotty
Lord forgive you, Mrs. Copperfield, and for what you have said this minute, may you never be truly sorry
It's enough to distract me
In my honeymoon, too, when my most inveterate enemy might relent, one would think, and not envy me a little peace of mind and happiness. Davy, you naughty boy! Peggotty, you savage creature! Oh, dear me
what a troublesome world this is, when one has the most right to expect it to be as agreeable as possible
What's this? Clara, my love, have you forgotten? - Firmness, my dear
I am very sorry, Edward
I meant to be very good, but I am so uncomfortable
Indeed
That's a bad hearing, so soon, Clara
I say it's very hard I should be made so now
and it is - very hard - isn't it
Go you below, my love
David and I will come down, together. My friend
do you know your mistress's name
She has been my mistress a long time, sir
I ought to know it
That's true
But I thought I heard you, as I came upstairs, address her by a name that is not hers. She has taken mine, you know. Will you remember that
David
if I have an obstinate horse or dog to deal with, what do you think I do
I don't know
I beat him
I make him wince, and smart. I say to myself, "I'll conquer that fellow"; and if it were to cost him all the blood he had, I should do it. What is that upon your face
Dirt
You have a good deal of intelligence for a little fellow
and you understood me very well, I see. Wash that face, sir, and come down with me
Clara, my dear
you will not be made uncomfortable any more, I hope. We shall soon improve our youthful humours
Is that your boy, sister-in-law
Generally speaking
I don't like boys. How d'ye do, boy
Wants manner
Now, Clara, my dear, I am come here, you know, to relieve you of all the trouble I can. You're much too pretty and thoughtless' - my mother blushed but laughed, and seemed not to dislike this character - 'to have any duties imposed upon you that can be undertaken by me. If you'll be so good as give me your keys, my dear, I'll attend to all this sort of thing in future
Clara
Clara! I wonder at you
Oh, it's very well to say you wonder, Edward
and it's very well for you to talk about firmness, but you wouldn't like it yourself
It's very hard
that in my own house
My own house
Clara
OUR own house, I mean
I hope you must know what I mean, Edward - it's very hard that in YOUR own house I may not have a word to say about domestic matters. I am sure I managed very well before we were married. There's evidence
ask Peggotty if I didn't do very well when I wasn't interfered with
Edward
let there be an end of this. I go tomorrow
Jane Murdstone
be silent! How dare you to insinuate that you don't know my character better than your words imply
I am sure
I don't want anybody to go. I should be very miserable and unhappy if anybody was to go. I don't ask much. I am not unreasonable. I only want to be consulted sometimes. I am very much obliged to anybody who assists me, and I only want to be consulted as a mere form, sometimes. I thought you were pleased, once, with my being a little inexperienced and girlish, Edward - I am sure you said so - but you seem to hate me for it now, you are so severe
Edward
let there be an end of this. I go tomorrow
Jane Murdstone
Will you be silent? How dare you
Clara
you surprise me! You astound me! Yes, I had a satisfaction in the thought of marrying an inexperienced and artless person, and forming her character, and infusing into it some amount of that firmness and decision of which it stood in need. But when Jane Murdstone is kind enough to come to my assistance in this endeavour, and to assume, for my sake, a condition something like a housekeeper's, and when she meets with a base return
Oh, pray, pray, Edward
don't accuse me of being ungrateful. I am sure I am not ungrateful. No one ever said I was before. I have many faults, but not that. Oh, don't, my dear
When Jane Murdstone meets, I say
with a base return, that feeling of mine is chilled and altered
Don't, my love, say that
Oh, don't, Edward! I can't bear to hear it. Whatever I am, I am affectionate. I know I am affectionate. I wouldn't say it, if I wasn't sure that I am. Ask Peggotty. I am sure she'll tell you I'm affectionate
There is no extent of mere weakness, Clara
that can have the least weight with me. You lose breath
Pray let us be friends
I couldn't live under coldness or unkindness. I am so sorry. I have a great many defects, I know, and it's very good of you, Edward, with your strength of mind, to endeavour to correct them for me. Jane, I don't object to anything. I should be quite broken-hearted if you thought of leaving
Jane Murdstone
any harsh words between us are, I hope, uncommon. It is not my fault that so unusual an occurrence has taken place tonight. I was betrayed into it by another. Nor is it your fault. You were betrayed into it by another. Let us both try to forget it. And as this
is not a fit scene for the boy - David, go to bed
Oh, Davy, Davy
Now, Clara
be firm with the boy. Don't say, "Oh, Davy, Davy!" That's childish. He knows his lesson, or he does not know it
He does NOT know it
I am really afraid he does not
Then, you see, Clara
you should just give him the book back, and make him know it
Yes, certainly
that is what I intend to do, my dear Jane. Now, Davy, try once more, and don't be stupid
Clara
I tell you, Clara
I have been often flogged myself
To be sure; of course
Certainly, my dear Jane
But - but do you think it did Edward good
Do you think it did Edward harm, Clara
That's the point
Certainly, my dear Jane
Now, David
you must be far more careful today than usual
Clara
I am not quite well, my dear Jane, I think
Why, Jane, we can hardly expect Clara to bear, with perfect firmness, the worry and torment that David has occasioned her today. That would be stoical. Clara is greatly strengthened and improved, but we can hardly expect so much from her. David, you and I will go upstairs, boy
Clara! are you a perfect fool
Mr. Murdstone! Sir
Don't! Pray don't beat me! I have tried to learn, sir, but I can't learn while you and Miss Murdstone are by. I can't indeed
Can't you, indeed, David
We'll try that
Is that you, Peggotty
Is that you, Peggotty dear
Yes, my own precious Davy
Be as soft as a mouse, or the Cat'll hear us
How's mama, dear Peggotty? Is she very angry with me
No. Not very
What is going to be done with me, Peggotty dear? Do you know
School. Near London
When, Peggotty
Tomorrow
Is that the reason why Miss Murdstone took the clothes out of my drawers
Yes
Box
Shan't I see mama
Yes
Morning
Davy, dear. If I ain't been azackly as intimate with you. Lately, as I used to be. It ain't because I don't love you. Just as well and more, my pretty poppet. It's because I thought it better for you. And for someone else besides. Davy, my darling, are you listening? Can you hear
Ye-ye-ye-yes, Peggotty
My own
What I want to say, is. That you must never forget me. For I'll never forget you. And I'll take as much care of your mama, Davy. As ever I took of you. And I won't leave her. The day may come when she'll be glad to lay her poor head. On her stupid, cross old Peggotty's arm again. And I'll write to you, my dear. Though I ain't no scholar. And I'll - I'll
Thank you, dear Peggotty
Oh, thank you! Thank you! Will you promise me one thing, Peggotty? Will you write and tell Mr. Peggotty and little Em'ly, and Mrs. Gummidge and Ham, that I am not so bad as they might suppose, and that I sent 'em all my love - especially to little Em'ly? Will you, if you please, Peggotty
Oh, Davy
That you could hurt anyone I love! Try to be better, pray to be better! I forgive you; but I am so grieved, Davy, that you should have such bad passions in your heart
Master Copperfield's box there
Clara
Ready, my dear Jane
Good-bye, Davy. You are going for your own good. Good-bye, my child. You will come home in the holidays, and be a better boy
Clara
Certainly, my dear Jane
I forgive you, my dear boy. God bless you
Clara
Then come up
For Davy. With my love
All the way where
There
Where's there
Near London
Why that horse
would be deader than pork afore he got over half the ground
Are you only going to Yarmouth then
That's about it
And there I shall take you to the stage-cutch, and the stage-cutch that'll take you to - wherever it is
Did SHE make 'em, now
Peggotty, do you mean, sir
Ah
Her
Yes. She makes all our pastry, and does all our cooking
Do she though
No sweethearts, I b'lieve
Sweetmeats did you say, Mr. Barkis
Hearts
Sweet hearts; no person walks with her
With Peggotty
Ah
Her
Oh, no. She never had a sweetheart
Didn't she, though
So she makes
all the apple parsties, and doos all the cooking, do she
Well. I'll tell you what
P'raps you might be writin' to her
I shall certainly write to her
Ah
That Barkis is willing
Is that all the message
Ye-es
But you will be at Blunderstone again tomorrow, Mr. Barkis
I readily undertook its transmission. While I was waiting for the coach in the hotel at Yarmouth that very afternoon, I procured a sheet of paper and an inkstand, and wrote a note to Peggotty, which ran thus: 'My dear Peggotty. I have come here safe. Barkis is willing. My love to mama. Yours affectionately. P.S. He says he particularly wants you to know - BARKIS IS WILLING
Is that the little gentleman from Blunderstone
Yes, ma'am
What name
Copperfield, ma'am
That won't do
Nobody's dinner is paid for here, in that name
Is it Murdstone, ma'am
If you're Master Murdstone
why do you go and give another name, first
William! show the coffee-room
Now, six-foot! come on
There's half a pint of ale for you. Will you have it now
Yes
My eye
It seems a good deal, don't it
It does seem a good deal
There was a gentleman here, yesterday
a stout gentleman, by the name of Topsawyer - perhaps you know him
No
I don't think
In breeches and gaiters, broad-brimmed hat, grey coat, speckled choker
No
I haven't the pleasure
He came in here
ordered a glass of this ale - WOULD order it - I told him not - drank it, and fell dead. It was too old for him. It oughtn't to be drawn; that's the fact
Why you see
our people don't like things being ordered and left. It offends 'em. But I'll drink it, if you like. I'm used to it, and use is everything. I don't think it'll hurt me, if I throw my head back, and take it off quick. Shall I
What have we got here
Not chops
Chops
Lord bless my soul
I didn't know they were chops. Why, a chop's the very thing to take off the bad effects of that beer! Ain't it lucky
How's the pie
It's a pudding
Pudding
Why, bless me, so it is! What
You don't mean to say it's a batter-pudding
Yes, it is indeed
Why, a batter-pudding
un, and let's see who'll get most
Near London
Oh! my eye
I am sorry for that
Why
Oh, Lord
that's the school where they broke the boy's ribs - two ribs - a little boy he was. I should say he was - let me see - how old are you, about
That's just his age
He was eight years and six months old when they broke his first rib; eight years and eight months old when they broke his second, and did for him
With whopping
There's a sheet of letter-paper
Did you ever buy a sheet of letter-paper
It's dear
on account of the duty. Threepence. That's the way we're taxed in this country. There's nothing else, except the waiter. Never mind the ink. I lose by that
What should you - what should I - how much ought I to - what would it be right to pay the waiter, if you please
If I hadn't a family, and that family hadn't the cowpock
I wouldn't take a sixpence. If I didn't support a aged pairint, and a lovely sister
Take care of that child, George, or he'll burst
Oh! If you please
Come, don't YOU fidget. YOUR bones are young enough, I'm sure
Is there anybody here for a yoongster booked in the name of Murdstone, from Bloonderstone, Sooffolk, to be left till called for
Try Copperfield, if you please, sir
Is there anybody here for a yoongster, booked in the name of Murdstone, from Bloonderstone, Sooffolk, but owning to the name of Copperfield, to be left till called for
Come! IS there anybody
You're the new boy
Yes, sir
I'm one of the masters at Salem House
If you please, sir
is it far
It's down by Blackheath
Is that far, sir
It's a good step
We shall go by the stage-coach. It's about six miles
My Charley
Can you cook this young gentleman's breakfast for him, if you please
Can I
Yes can I, sure
How's Mrs. Fibbitson today
Ah, she's poorly
It's one of her bad days. If the fire was to go out, through any accident, I verily believe she'd go out too, and never come to life again
Have you got your flute with you
Yes
Have a blow at it
Do
Ay, ay! yes
The new boy
Hallo
Here! The cobbler's been
since you've been out, Mr. Mell, and he says he can't mend 'em any more. He says there ain't a bit of the original boot left, and he wonders you expect it
TAKE CARE OF HIM. HE BITES
I beg your pardon, sir
if you please, I'm looking for the dog
Dog
What dog
Isn't it a dog, sir
Isn't what a dog
That's to be taken care of, sir; that bites
No, Copperfield
that's not a dog. That's a boy. My instructions are, Copperfield, to put this placard on your back. I am sorry to make such a beginning with you, but I must do it
Hallo, you sir! You Copperfield! Show that badge conspicuous, or I'll report you
Take care of him. He bites
Take care of him. He bites
So
This is the young gentleman whose teeth are to be filed! Turn him round
Now
What's the report of this boy
There's nothing against him yet
There has been no opportunity
Come here, sir
Come here
I have the happiness of knowing your father-in-law
and a worthy man he is, and a man of a strong character. He knows me, and I know him. Do YOU know me? Hey
Not yet, sir
Not yet? Hey
But you will soon. Hey
You will soon. Hey
I'll tell you what I am
I'm a Tartar
A Tartar
When I say I'll do a thing, I do it
and when I say I will have a thing done, I will have it done
Will have a thing done, I will have it done
I am a determined character
when it rises against me, is not my flesh and blood. I discard it. Has that fellow' - to the man with the wooden leg
No
No
He knows better. He knows me. Let him keep away. I say let him keep away
for he knows me. Now you have begun to know me too, my young friend, and you may go. Take him away
If you please, sir
Hah! What's this
If you please, sir
if I might be allowed (I am very sorry indeed, sir, for what I did) to take this writing off, before the boys come back
Traddles
The same
Look here! Here's a game
Lie down, sir
What money have you got, Copperfield
You had better give it to me to take care of
At least, you can if you like. You needn't if you don't like
Do you want to spend anything now
No thank you
You can, if you like, you know
Say the word
No, thank you, sir
Perhaps you'd like to spend a couple of shillings or so, in a bottle of currant wine by and by, up in the bedroom
You belong to my bedroom, I find
Very good
You'll be glad to spend another shilling or so, in almond cakes, I dare say
And another shilling or so in biscuits, and another in fruit, eh
I say, young Copperfield, you're going it
Well
We must make it stretch as far as we can; that's all. I'll do the best in my power for you. I can go out when I like, and I'll smuggle the prog in
There you are, young Copperfield, and a royal spread you've got
Exchange or Barter' - a name selected from the arithmetic book as expressing this arrangement. I heard that the table beer was a robbery of parents, and the pudding an imposition. I heard that Miss Creakle was regarded by the school in general as being in love with Steerforth; and I am sure, as I sat in the dark, thinking of his nice voice, and his fine face, and his easy manner, and his curling hair, I thought it very likely. I heard that Mr. Mell was not a bad sort of fellow, but hadn't a sixpence to bless himself with; and that there was no doubt that old Mrs. Mell, his mother, was as poor as job. I thought of my breakfast then, and what had sounded like 'My Charley
Good night, young Copperfield
I'll take care of you
You're very kind
I am very much obliged to you
You haven't got a sister, have you
No
That's a pity
If you had had one, I should think she would have been a pretty, timid, little, bright-eyed sort of girl. I should have liked to know her. Good night, young Copperfield
Good night, sir
Silence
Now, boys, this is a new half. Take care what you're about, in this new half. Come fresh up to the lessons, I advise you, for I come fresh up to the punishment. I won't flinch. It will be of no use your rubbing yourselves; you won't rub the marks out that I shall give you. Now get to work, every boy
And do you recollect them
Oh yes
Then I tell you what, young Copperfield
you shall tell 'em to me. I can't get to sleep very early at night, and I generally wake rather early in the morning. We'll go over 'em one after another. We'll make some regular Arabian Nights of it
Now, I'll tell you what, young Copperfield
the wine shall be kept to wet your whistle when you are story-telling
Silence
What does this mean! It's impossible to bear it. It's maddening. How can you do it to me, boys
Silence, Mr. Steerforth
Silence yourself
Whom are you talking to
Sit down
Sit down yourself
and mind your business
If you think, Steerforth
that I am not acquainted with the power you can establish over any mind here' - he laid his hand, without considering what he did (as I supposed), upon my head - 'or that I have not observed you, within a few minutes, urging your juniors on to every sort of outrage against me, you are mistaken
I don't give myself the trouble of thinking at all about you
so I'm not mistaken, as it happens
And when you make use of your position of favouritism here, sir
to insult a gentleman
A what? - where is he
Shame, J. Steerforth! Too bad
To insult one who is not fortunate in life, sir, and who never gave you the least offence, and the many reasons for not insulting whom you are old enough and wise enough to understand
you commit a mean and base action. You can sit down or stand up as you please, sir. Copperfield, go on
Young Copperfield
stop a bit. I tell you what, Mr. Mell, once for all. When you take the liberty of calling me mean or base, or anything of that sort, you are an impudent beggar. You are always a beggar, you know; but when you do that, you are an impudent beggar
Mr. Mell
you have not forgotten yourself, I hope
No, sir, no
No, sir. No. I have remembered myself, I - no, Mr. Creakle, I have not forgotten myself, I - I have remembered myself, sir. I - I - could wish you had remembered me a little sooner, Mr. Creakle. It - it - would have been more kind, sir, more just, sir. It would have saved me something, sir
Now, sir, as he don't condescend to tell me, what is this
What did he mean by talking about favourites, then
Favourites
Who talked about favourites
He did
And pray, what did you mean by that, sir
I meant, Mr. Creakle
as I said; that no pupil had a right to avail himself of his position of favouritism to degrade me
To degrade YOU
whether, when you talk about favourites, you showed proper respect to me? To me, sir
the principal of this establishment, and your employer
It was not judicious, sir, I am willing to admit
I should not have done so, if I had been cool
Then he said I was mean, and then he said I was base, and then I called him a beggar. If I had been cool, perhaps I shouldn't have called him a beggar. But I did, and I am ready to take the consequences of it
I am surprised, Steerforth - although your candour does you honour
does you honour, certainly - I am surprised, Steerforth, I must say, that you should attach such an epithet to any person employed and paid in Salem House, sir
That's not an answer, sir
to my remark. I expect more than that from you, Steerforth
Let him deny it
Deny that he is a beggar, Steerforth
Why, where does he go a-begging
If he is not a beggar himself, his near relation's one
It's all the same
Since you expect me, Mr. Creakle, to justify myself
and to say what I mean, - what I have to say is, that his mother lives on charity in an alms-house
Yes, I thought so
Now, you hear what this gentleman says, Mr. Mell. Have the goodness, if you please, to set him right before the assembled school
He is right, sir, without correction
what he has said is true
Be so good then as declare publicly, will you
whether it ever came to my knowledge until this moment
I believe not directly
Why, you know not
Don't you, man
I apprehend you never supposed my worldly circumstances to be very good
You know what my position is, and always has been, here
I apprehend, if you come to that
that you've been in a wrong position altogether, and mistook this for a charity school. Mr. Mell, we'll part, if you please. The sooner the better
There is no time
like the present
Sir, to you
I take my leave of you, Mr. Creakle, and all of you
James Steerforth, the best wish I can leave you is that you may come to be ashamed of what you have done today. At present I would prefer to see you anything rather than a friend, to me, or to anyone in whom I feel an interest
Who has ill-used him, you girl
Why, you have
What have I done
What have you done
Hurt his feelings, and lost him his situation
His feelings
His feelings will soon get the better of it, I'll be bound. His feelings are not like yours, Miss Traddles. As to his situation - which was a precious one, wasn't it? - do you suppose I am not going to write home, and take care that he gets some money? Polly
Visitors for Copperfield
Why, how you have growed
Am I grown
Ain't he growed
Do you know how mama is, Mr. Peggotty
And how my dear, dear, old Peggotty is
Oncommon
And little Em'ly, and Mrs. Gummidge
On - common
You see
knowing as you was partial to a little relish with your wittles when you was along with us, we took the liberty. The old Mawther biled 'em, she did. Mrs. Gummidge biled 'em. Yes
Mrs. Gummidge, I do assure you, she biled 'em
She's getting to be a woman, that's wot she's getting to be
Ask HIM
Her pretty face
Her learning
Her writing
Why it's as black as jet! And so large it is, you might see it anywheres
I didn't know you were here, young Copperfield
Don't go, Steerforth, if you please. These are two Yarmouth boatmen - very kind, good people - who are relations of my nurse, and have come from Gravesend to see me
Aye, aye
I am glad to see them. How are you both
You must let them know at home, if you please, Mr. Peggotty
when that letter is sent, that Mr. Steerforth is very kind to me, and that I don't know what I should ever do here without him
Nonsense
You mustn't tell them anything of the sort
And if Mr. Steerforth ever comes into Norfolk or Suffolk, Mr. Peggotty
while I am there, you may depend upon it I shall bring him to Yarmouth, if he will let me, to see your house. You never saw such a good house, Steerforth. It's made out of a boat
Made out of a boat, is it
It's the right sort of a house for such a thorough-built boatman
So 'tis, sir, so 'tis, sir
Well, sir
I thankee, sir, I thankee! I do my endeavours in my line of life, sir
The best of men can do no more, Mr. Peggotty
I'll pound it, it's wot you do yourself, sir
and wot you do well - right well! I thankee, sir. I'm obleeged to you, sir, for your welcoming manner of me. I'm rough, sir, but I'm ready - least ways, I hope I'm ready, you unnerstand. My house ain't much for to see, sir, but it's hearty at your service if ever you should come along with Mas'r Davy to see it. I'm a reg'lar Dodman, I am
but I wish you both well, and I wish you happy
You look very well, Mr. Barkis
I gave your message, Mr. Barkis
I wrote to Peggotty
Ah
Wasn't it right, Mr. Barkis
Why, no
Not the message
The message was right enough, perhaps
but it come to an end there
Came to an end, Mr. Barkis
Nothing come of it
No answer
There was an answer expected, was there, Mr. Barkis
it's as much as to say, that man's a-waitin' for a answer
Well, Mr. Barkis
Well
that man's been a-waitin' for a answer ever since
Have you told her so, Mr. Barkis
No - no
I ain't got no call to go and tell her so. I never said six words to her myself, I ain't a-goin' to tell her so
Would you like me to do it, Mr. Barkis
You might tell her, if you would
that Barkis was a-waitin' for a answer. Says you - what name is it
Her name
Ah
Peggotty
Chrisen name? Or nat'ral name
Oh, it's not her Christian name. Her Christian name is Clara
Is it though
Well
He is your brother
Davy, my pretty boy! My poor child
Peggotty
What's the matter
What are you doing, you stupid creature
Oh, drat the man
He wants to marry me
It would be a very good match for you; wouldn't it
Oh! I don't know
Don't ask me. I wouldn't have him if he was made of gold. Nor I wouldn't have anybody
Then, why don't you tell him so, you ridiculous thing
Tell him so
He has never said a word to me about it. He knows better. If he was to make so bold as say a word to me, I should slap his face
Peggotty, dear, you are not going to be married
Me, ma'am
Lord bless you, no
Not just yet
Never
Don't leave me, Peggotty. Stay with me. It will not be for long, perhaps. What should I ever do without you
Me leave you, my precious
Not for all the world and his wife. Why, what's put that in your silly little head
Me leave you? I think I see myself. Peggotty go away from you? I should like to catch her at it! No, no, no
And, Peggotty
I shall be glad to see you, and I'll make you as welcome as a queen
Bless your dear heart
I know you will
I wonder
what's become of Davy's great-aunt
Lor, Peggotty
what nonsense you talk
Well, but I really do wonder, ma'am
What can have put such a person in your head
Is there nobody else in the world to come there
I don't know how it is
unless it's on account of being stupid, but my head never can pick and choose its people. They come and they go, and they don't come and they don't go, just as they like. I wonder what's become of her
How absurd you are, Peggotty
One would suppose you wanted a second visit from her
Lord forbid
Well then, don't talk about such uncomfortable things, there's a good soul
Miss Betsey is shut up in her cottage by the sea, no doubt, and will remain there. At all events, she is not likely ever to trouble us again
No
No, that ain't likely at all. - I wonder, if she was to die, whether she'd leave Davy anything
Good gracious me, Peggotty
what a nonsensical woman you are! when you know that she took offence at the poor dear boy's ever being born at all
I suppose she wouldn't be inclined to forgive him now
Why should she be inclined to forgive him now
Now that he's got a brother, I mean
As if this poor little innocent in its cradle had ever done any harm to you or anybody else, you jealous thing
You had much better go and marry Mr. Barkis, the carrier. Why don't you
I should make Miss Murdstone happy, if I was to
What a bad disposition you have, Peggotty
You are as jealous of Miss Murdstone as it is possible for a ridiculous creature to be. You want to keep the keys yourself, and give out all the things, I suppose? I shouldn't be surprised if you did. When you know that she only does it out of kindness and the best intentions! You know she does, Peggotty - you know it well
Bother the best intentions
I know what you mean, you cross thing
Pretty
Well
and if she is so silly as to say so, can I be blamed for it
No one says you can
No, I should hope not, indeed
Haven't you heard her say, over and over again, that on this account she wished to spare me a great deal of trouble, which she thinks I am not suited for, and which I really don't know myself that I AM suited for; and isn't she up early and late, and going to and fro continually - and doesn't she do all sorts of things, and grope into all sorts of places, coal-holes and pantries and I don't know where, that can't be very agreeable - and do you mean to insinuate that there is not a sort of devotion in that
I don't insinuate at all
You do, Peggotty
You never do anything else, except your work. You are always insinuating. You revel in it. And when you talk of Mr. Murdstone's good intentions
I never talked of 'em
No, Peggotty
but you insinuated. That's what I told you just now. That's the worst of you. You WILL insinuate. I said, at the moment, that I understood you, and you see I did. When you talk of Mr. Murdstone's good intentions, and pretend to slight them (for I don't believe you really do, in your heart, Peggotty), you must be as well convinced as I am how good they are, and how they actuate him in everything. If he seems to have been at all stern with a certain person, Peggotty - you understand, and so I am sure does Davy, that I am not alluding to anybody present - it is solely because he is satisfied that it is for a certain person's benefit. He naturally loves a certain person, on my account; and acts solely for a certain person's good. He is better able to judge of it than I am; for I very well know that I am a weak, light, girlish creature, and that he is a firm, grave, serious man. And he takes
he takes great pains with me; and I ought to be very thankful to him, and very submissive to him even in my thoughts; and when I am not, Peggotty, I worry and condemn myself, and feel doubtful of my own heart, and don't know what to do
There, Peggotty
don't let us fall out with one another, for I couldn't bear it. You are my true friend, I know, if I have any in the world. When I call you a ridiculous creature, or a vexatious thing, or anything of that sort, Peggotty, I only mean that you are my true friend, and always have been, ever since the night when Mr. Copperfield first brought me home here, and you came out to the gate to meet me
I beg your pardon, sir. I am very sorry for what I did, and I hope you will forgive me
I am glad to hear you are sorry, David
How do you do, ma'am
Ah, dear me
How long are the holidays
A month, ma'am
Counting from when
From today, ma'am
Oh
Then here's one day off
My dear Jane
Good heavens, Clara, do you see
See what, my dear Jane
where
He's got it
The boy has got the baby
No doubt you are right, my dear Jane
Davy! come here
I declare
they are exactly alike. I suppose they are mine. I think they are the colour of mine. But they are wonderfully alike
What are you talking about, Clara
My dear Jane
I find that the baby's eyes and Davy's are exactly alike
Clara
you are a positive fool sometimes
My dear Jane
A positive fool
Who else could compare my brother's baby with your boy? They are not at all alike. They are exactly unlike. They are utterly dissimilar in all respects. I hope they will ever remain so. I will not sit here, and hear such comparisons made
David
I am sorry to observe that you are of a sullen disposition
As sulky as a bear
Now, David
a sullen obdurate disposition is, of all tempers, the worst
And the boy's is, of all such dispositions that ever I have seen
the most confirmed and stubborn. I think, my dear Clara, even you must observe it
I beg your pardon, my dear Jane
but are you quite sure - I am certain you'll excuse me, my dear Jane - that you understand Davy
I should be somewhat ashamed of myself, Clara
if I could not understand the boy, or any boy. I don't profess to be profound; but I do lay claim to common sense
No doubt, my dear Jane
your understanding is very vigorous
Oh dear, no! Pray don't say that, Clara
But I am sure it is
and everybody knows it is. I profit so much by it myself, in many ways - at least I ought to - that no one can be more convinced of it than myself; and therefore I speak with great diffidence, my dear Jane, I assure you
We'll say I don't understand the boy, Clara
We'll agree, if you please, that I don't understand him at all. He is much too deep for me. But perhaps my brother's penetration may enable him to have some insight into his character. And I believe my brother was speaking on the subject when we - not very decently - interrupted him
I think, Clara
that there may be better and more dispassionate judges of such a question than you
Edward
you are a far better judge of all questions than I pretend to be. Both you and Jane are. I only said
You only said something weak and inconsiderate
Try not to do it again, my dear Clara, and keep a watch upon yourself
Yes, my dear Edward
I was sorry, David, I remarked
to observe that you are of a sullen disposition. This is not a character that I can suffer to develop itself beneath my eyes without an effort at improvement. You must endeavour, sir, to change it. We must endeavour to change it for you
I beg your pardon, sir
I have never meant to be sullen since I came back
Don't take refuge in a lie, sir
You have withdrawn yourself in your sullenness to your own room. You have kept your own room when you ought to have been here. You know now, once for all, that I require you to be here, and not there. Further, that I require you to bring obedience here. You know me, David. I will have it done
I will have a respectful, prompt, and ready bearing towards myself
and towards Jane Murdstone, and towards your mother. I will not have this room shunned as if it were infected, at the pleasure of a child. Sit down
One thing more
I observe that you have an attachment to low and common company. You are not to associate with servants. The kitchen will not improve you, in the many respects in which you need improvement. Of the woman who abets you, I say nothing - since you, Clara
from old associations and long-established fancies, have a weakness respecting her which is not yet overcome
A most unaccountable delusion it is
I only say
that I disapprove of your preferring such company as Mistress Peggotty, and that it is to be abandoned. Now, David, you understand me, and you know what will be the consequence if you fail to obey me to the letter
Here's the last day off
Clara
David Copperfield is to go into the parlour
Don't hurry, David
There's time enough, my boy, don't hurry
David Copperfield
I want to speak to you very particularly. I have something to tell you, my child
You are too young to know how the world changes every day
and how the people in it pass away. But we all have to learn it, David; some of us when we are young, some of us when we are old, some of us at all times of our lives
When you came away from home at the end of the vacation
were they all well
Was your mama well
Because
I grieve to tell you that I hear this morning your mama is very ill
She is very dangerously ill
She is dead
Master Copperfield
Yes, sir
Will you come with me, young sir, if you please
and I shall have the pleasure of taking you home
Well
How do you get on, Minnie
We shall be ready by the trying-on time
Don't you be afraid, father
That's right
Father
What a porpoise you do grow
Well, I don't know how it is, my dear
I am rather so
You are such a comfortable man, you see
You take things so easy
No use taking 'em otherwise, my dear
No, indeed
We are all pretty gay here, thank Heaven! Ain't we, father
I hope so, my dear
As I have got my breath now, I think I'll measure this young scholar. Would you walk into the shop, Master Copperfield
And by that sort of thing we very often lose a little mint of money
But fashions are like human beings. They come in, nobody knows when, why, or how; and they go out, nobody knows when, why, or how. Everything is like life, in my opinion, if you look at it in that point of view
Bring up that tea and bread-and-butter
I have been acquainted with you
I have been acquainted with you a long time, my young friend
Have you, sir
All your life
I may say before it. I knew your father before you. He was five foot nine and a half, and he lays in five-and-twen-ty foot of ground
RAT - tat-tat, RAT - tat-tat, RAT - tat-tat
He lays in five and twen-ty foot of ground, if he lays in a fraction
It was either his request or her direction, I forget which
Do you know how my little brother is, sir
RAT - tat-tat, RAT - tat-tat, RAT - tat-tat
He is in his mother's arms
Oh, poor little fellow! Is he dead
Don't mind it more than you can help
Yes. The baby's dead
Well, Joram
How do you get on
All right
Done, sir
What! you were at it by candle-light last night, when I was at the club, then? Were you
Yes
As you said we could make a little trip of it, and go over together, if it was done, Minnie and me - and you
Oh! I thought you were going to leave me out altogether
As you was so good as to say that
why I turned to with a will, you see. Will you give me your opinion of it
I will
would you like to see your
No, father
I thought it might be agreeable, my dear
But perhaps you're right
Yes
And your shirts
have you brought 'em home
Yes, ma'am. I have brought home all my clothes
Oh no! oh no
And how is Master David
Dear me
Our little friends grow up around us. They grow out of our knowledge, ma'am
There is a great improvement here, ma'am
I am the Resurrection and the Life, saith the Lord
Well done
She was never well
I think she got to be more timid, and more frightened-like, of late; and that a hard word was like a blow to her. But she was always the same to me. She never changed to her foolish Peggotty, didn't my sweet girl
I never left her afterwards
On the last night, in the evening, she kissed me, and said: "If my baby should die too, Peggotty, please let them lay him in my arms, and bury us together." (It was done; for the poor lamb lived but a day beyond her.) "Let my dearest boy go with us to our resting-place," she said, "and tell him that his mother, when she lay here, blessed him not once, but a thousand times
It was pretty far in the night
Daybreak had come, and the sun was rising, when she said to me, how kind and considerate Mr. Copperfield had always been to her, and how he had borne with her, and told her, when she doubted herself, that a loving heart was better and stronger than wisdom, and that he was a happy man in hers. "Peggotty, my dear," she said then, "put me nearer to you," for she was very weak. "Lay your good arm underneath my neck," she said, "and turn me to you, for your face is going far off, and I want it to be near." I put it as she asked; and oh Davy! the time had come when my first parting words to you were true - when she was glad to lay her poor head on her stupid cross old Peggotty's arm - and she died like a child that had gone to sleep
Peggotty
Mr. Murdstone likes me less than he used to. He never liked me much, Peggotty; but he would rather not even see me now, if he can help it
Perhaps it's his sorrow
I am sure, Peggotty, I am sorry too. If I believed it was his sorrow, I should not think of it at all. But it's not that; oh, no, it's not that
How do you know it's not that
Oh, his sorrow is another and quite a different thing. He is sorry at this moment, sitting by the fireside with Miss Murdstone; but if I was to go in, Peggotty, he would be something besides
What would he be
Angry
If he was only sorry, he wouldn't look at me as he does. I am only sorry, and it makes me feel kinder
Davy
Yes, Peggotty
I have tried, my dear, all ways I could think of - all the ways there are, and all the ways there ain't, in short - to get a suitable service here, in Blunderstone; but there's no such a thing, my love
And what do you mean to do, Peggotty
Do you mean to go and seek your fortune
I expect I shall be forced to go to Yarmouth
and live there
You might have gone farther off
and been as bad as lost. I shall see you sometimes, my dear old Peggotty, there. You won't be quite at the other end of the world, will you
Contrary ways, please God
As long as you are here, my pet, I shall come over every week of my life to see you. One day, every week of my life
I'm a-going, Davy, you see, to my brother's, first, for another fortnight's visit - just till I have had time to look about me, and get to be something like myself again. Now, I have been thinking that perhaps, as they don't want you here at present, you might be let to go along with me
The boy will be idle there
and idleness is the root of all evil. But, to be sure, he would be idle here - or anywhere, in my opinion
Humph
it is of more importance than anything else - it is of paramount importance - that my brother should not be disturbed or made uncomfortable. I suppose I had better say yes
It's a beautiful day, Mr. Barkis
It ain't bad
Peggotty is quite comfortable now, Mr. Barkis
Is she, though
ARE you pretty comfortable
But really and truly, you know. Are you
Are you? Really and truly pretty comfortable? Are you? Eh
Are you pretty comfortable though
I say
it was all right
Oh
It didn't come to a end there
It was all right
Oh
It was Barkis, and Barkis only
It's all right
Like his impudence
but I don't mind that! Davy dear, what should you think if I was to think of being married
Why - I suppose you would like me as much then, Peggotty, as you do now
Tell me what should you say, darling
If you were thinking of being married - to Mr. Barkis, Peggotty
Yes
I should think it would be a very good thing. For then you know, Peggotty, you would always have the horse and cart to bring you over to see me, and could come for nothing, and be sure of coming
The sense of the dear
What I have been thinking of, this month back! Yes, my precious; and I think I should be more independent altogether, you see; let alone my working with a better heart in my own house, than I could in anybody else's now. I don't know what I might be fit for, now, as a servant to a stranger. And I shall be always near my pretty's resting-place
and be able to see it when I like; and when I lie down to rest, I may be laid not far off from my darling girl
But I wouldn't so much as give it another thought
if my Davy was anyways against it - not if I had been asked in church thirty times three times over, and was wearing out the ring in my pocket
Look at me, Peggotty
and see if I am not really glad, and don't truly wish it
Well, my life
I have thought of it night and day, every way I can, and I hope the right way; but I'll think of it again, and speak to my brother about it, and in the meantime we'll keep it to ourselves, Davy, you and me. Barkis is a good plain creature
and if I tried to do my duty by him, I think it would be my fault if I wasn't - if I wasn't pretty comfortable
She's at school, sir
she'll be home
in from twenty minutes to half-an-hour's time. We all on us feel the loss of her, bless ye
Cheer up, Mawther
I feel it more than anybody else
un
Oh, it's you, is it
Why, you knew who it was, Em'ly
And didn't YOU know who it was
A little puss, it is
So sh' is! so sh' is
Ah
here's another orphan, you see, sir. And here
is another of 'em, though he don't look much like it
If I had you for my guardian, Mr. Peggotty
I don't think I should FEEL much like it
Hoorah! Well said! Nor more you wouldn't! Hor! Hor
And how's your friend, sir
Steerforth
That's the name
I knowed it was something in our way
You said it was Rudderford
Well
And ye steer with a rudder, don't ye? It ain't fur off. How is he, sir
He was very well indeed when I came away, Mr. Peggotty
There's a friend
There's a friend, if you talk of friends! Why, Lord love my heart alive, if it ain't a treat to look at him
He is very handsome, is he not
Handsome
He stands up to you like - like a - why I don't know what he don't stand up to you like. He's so bold
Yes! That's just his character
He's as brave as a lion, and you can't think how frank he is, Mr. Peggotty
And I do suppose, now
that in the way of book-larning he'd take the wind out of a'most anything
Yes
he knows everything. He is astonishingly clever
There's a friend
Nothing seems to cost him any trouble
He knows a task if he only looks at it. He is the best cricketer you ever saw. He will give you almost as many men as you like at draughts, and beat you easily
Of course he will
He is such a speaker
that he can win anybody over; and I don't know what you'd say if you were to hear him sing, Mr. Peggotty
I have no doubt of it
Then, he's such a generous, fine, noble fellow
that it's hardly possible to give him as much praise as he deserves. I am sure I can never feel thankful enough for the generosity with which he has protected me, so much younger and lower in the school than himself
'Em'ly is like me
and would like to see him
No. It had better be done by somebody else, Dan'l
I'm a lone lorn creetur' myself, and everythink that reminds me of creetur's that ain't lone and lorn, goes contrary with me
Come, old gal
Take and heave it
No, Dan'l
If I felt less, I could do more. You don't feel like me, Dan'l; thinks don't go contrary with you, nor you with them; you had better do it yourself
What name was it as I wrote up in the cart
Clara Peggotty
What name would it be as I should write up now, if there was a tilt here
Clara Peggotty, again
Clara Peggotty BARKIS
Young or old, Davy dear, as long as I am alive and have this house over my head
you shall find it as if I expected you here directly minute. I shall keep it every day, as I used to keep your old little room, my darling; and if you was to go to China, you might think of it as being kept just the same, all the time you were away
What! Brooks
No, sir, David Copperfield
Don't tell me. You are Brooks
You are Brooks of Sheffield. That's your name
And how do you get on, and where are you being educated, Brooks
He is at home at present
He is not being educated anywhere. I don't know what to do with him. He is a difficult subject
Humph
Fine weather
I suppose you are a pretty sharp fellow still? Eh, Brooks
Aye! He is sharp enough
You had better let him go. He will not thank you for troubling him
David
to the young this is a world for action; not for moping and droning in
As you do
Jane Murdstone, leave it to me, if you please. I say, David, to the young this is a world for action, and not for moping and droning in. It is especially so for a young boy of your disposition, which requires a great deal of correcting; and to which no greater service can be done than to force it to conform to the ways of the working world, and to bend it and break it
For stubbornness won't do here
What it wants is, to be crushed. And crushed it must be. Shall be, too
I suppose you know, David, that I am not rich. At any rate, you know it now. You have received some considerable education already. Education is costly; and even if it were not, and I could afford it, I am of opinion that it would not be at all advantageous to you to be kept at school. What is before you, is a fight with the world; and the sooner you begin it, the better
You have heard the "counting-house" mentioned sometimes
The counting-house, sir
Of Murdstone and Grinby, in the wine trade
You have heard the "counting-house" mentioned, or the business, or the cellars, or the wharf, or something about it
I think I have heard the business mentioned, sir
But I don't know when
It does not matter when
Mr. Quinion manages that business
Mr. Quinion suggests that it gives employment to some other boys, and that he sees no reason why it shouldn't, on the same terms, give employment to you
He having
no other prospect, Murdstone
Those terms are, that you will earn enough for yourself to provide for your eating and drinking, and pocket-money. Your lodging (which I have arranged for) will be paid by me. So will your washing
Which will be kept down to my estimate
Your clothes will be looked after for you, too
as you will not be able, yet awhile, to get them for yourself. So you are now going to London, David, with Mr. Quinion, to begin the world on your own account
In short, you are provided for
and will please to do your duty
This
is he
This
is Master Copperfield. I hope I see you well, sir
I am
thank Heaven, quite well. I have received a letter from Mr. Murdstone, in which he mentions that he would desire me to receive into an apartment in the rear of my house, which is at present unoccupied - and is, in short, to be let as a - in short
as a bedroom - the young beginner whom I have now the pleasure to
This is Mr. Micawber
Ahem
that is my name
Mr. Micawber
is known to Mr. Murdstone. He takes orders for us on commission, when he can get any. He has been written to by Mr. Murdstone, on the subject of your lodgings, and he will receive you as a lodger
My address
is Windsor Terrace, City Road. I - in short
I live there
Under the impression
that your peregrinations in this metropolis have not as yet been extensive, and that you might have some difficulty in penetrating the arcana of the Modern Babylon in the direction of the City Road, - in short
that you might lose yourself - I shall be happy to call this evening, and install you in the knowledge of the nearest way
At what hour
shall I
At about eight
At about eight
I beg to wish you good day, Mr. Quinion. I will intrude no longer
I never thought
before I was married, when I lived with papa and mama, that I should ever find it necessary to take a lodger. But Mr. Micawber being in difficulties, all considerations of private feeling must give way
Yes, ma'am
Mr. Micawber's difficulties are almost overwhelming just at present
and whether it is possible to bring him through them, I don't know. When I lived at home with papa and mama, I really should have hardly understood what the word meant, in the sense in which I now employ it, but experientia does it, - as papa used to say
If Mr. Micawber's creditors will not give him time
they must take the consequences; and the sooner they bring it to an issue the better. Blood cannot be obtained from a stone, neither can anything on account be obtained at present (not to mention law expenses) from Mr. Micawber
Come! You ain't out yet, you know. Pay us, will you? Don't hide, you know; that's mean. I wouldn't be mean if I was you. Pay us, will you? You just pay us, d'ye hear? Come
What is your best - your very best - ale a glass
Twopence-halfpenny
is the price of the Genuine Stunning ale
Then
just draw me a glass of the Genuine Stunning, if you please, with a good head to it
the young Suffolker
Master Copperfield
I make no stranger of you, and therefore do not hesitate to say that Mr. Micawber's difficulties are coming to a crisis
With the exception of the heel of a Dutch cheese - which is not adapted to the wants of a young family' - said Mrs. Micawber, 'there is really not a scrap of anything in the larder. I was accustomed to speak of the larder when I lived with papa and mama, and I use the word almost unconsciously. What I mean to express is, that there is nothing to eat in the house
Dear me
No, my dear Master Copperfield
far be it from my thoughts! But you have a discretion beyond your years, and can render me another kind of service, if you will; and a service I will thankfully accept of
I have parted with the plate myself
being of a vulgar mind, would take painful liberties if so much confidence was reposed in her. Master Copperfield, if I might ask you
And then
I have no doubt I shall, please Heaven, begin to be beforehand with the world, and to live in a perfectly new manner, if - in short, if anything turns up
Have you read it
No
Would you like to hear it read
The people's representatives in Parliament assembled
His gracious Majesty's unfortunate subjects
On such an occasion I will give you, Master Copperfield
in a little more flip
the memory of my papa and mama
Are they dead, ma'am
My mama departed this life
before Mr. Micawber's difficulties commenced, or at least before they became pressing. My papa lived to bail Mr. Micawber several times, and then expired, regretted by a numerous circle
May I ask, ma'am, what you and Mr. Micawber intend to do, now that Mr. Micawber is out of his difficulties, and at liberty? Have you settled yet
My family
my family are of opinion that Mr. Micawber should quit London, and exert his talents in the country. Mr. Micawber is a man of great talent, Master Copperfield
Of great talent
My family are of opinion, that, with a little interest, something might be done for a man of his ability in the Custom House. The influence of my family being local, it is their wish that Mr. Micawber should go down to Plymouth. They think it indispensable that he should be upon the spot
That he may be ready
Exactly
That he may be ready - in case of anything turning up
And do you go too, ma'am
I never will desert Mr. Micawber. Mr. Micawber may have concealed his difficulties from me in the first instance, but his sanguine temper may have led him to expect that he would overcome them. The pearl necklace and bracelets which I inherited from mama, have been disposed of for less than half their value; and the set of coral, which was the wedding gift of my papa, has been actually thrown away for nothing. But I never will desert Mr. Micawber. No
I never will do it! It's of no use asking me
Mr. Micawber has his faults. I do not deny that he is improvident. I do not deny that he has kept me in the dark as to his resources and his liabilities both
but I never will desert Mr. Micawber
Emma, my angel
what is the matter
I never will desert you, Micawber
My life
I am perfectly aware of it
He is the parent of my children! He is the father of my twins! He is the husband of my affections
and I ne - ver - will - desert Mr. Micawber
How is Mrs. Micawber now, sir
Very low
reaction. Ah, this has been a dreadful day! We stand alone now - everything is gone from us
I shall never, Master Copperfield
revert to the period when Mr. Micawber was in difficulties, without thinking of you. Your conduct has always been of the most delicate and obliging description. You have never been a lodger. You have been a friend
My dear
Copperfield
has a heart to feel for the distresses of his fellow-creatures when they are behind a cloud, and a head to plan, and a hand to - in short, a general ability to dispose of such available property as could be made away with
My dear young friend
I am older than you; a man of some experience in life, and - and of some experience, in short, in difficulties, generally speaking. At present, and until something turns up (which I am, I may say, hourly expecting), I have nothing to bestow but advice. Still my advice is so far worth taking, that - in short, that I have never taken it myself, and am the' - here Mr. Micawber, who had been beaming and smiling, all over his head and face, up to the present moment, checked himself and frowned - 'the miserable wretch you behold
My dear Micawber
I say
the miserable wretch you behold. My advice is, never do tomorrow what you can do today. Procrastination is the thief of time. Collar him
My poor papa's maxim
My dear
your papa was very well in his way, and Heaven forbid that I should disparage him. Take him for all in all, we ne'er shall - in short, make the acquaintance, probably, of anybody else possessing, at his time of life, the same legs for gaiters, and able to read the same description of print, without spectacles. But he applied that maxim to our marriage, my dear; and that was so far prematurely entered into, in consequence, that I never recovered the expense
Not that I am sorry for it. Quite the contrary, my love
My other piece of advice, Copperfield
you know. Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure nineteen nineteen and six, result happiness. Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure twenty pounds ought and six, result misery. The blossom is blighted, the leaf is withered, the god of day goes down upon the dreary scene, and - and in short you are for ever floored. As I am
Master Copperfield
God bless you! I never can forget all that, you know, and I never would if I could
Copperfield
farewell! Every happiness and prosperity! If, in the progress of revolving years, I could persuade myself that my blighted destiny had been a warning to you, I should feel that I had not occupied another man's place in existence altogether in vain. In case of anything turning up (of which I am rather confident), I shall be extremely happy if it should be in my power to improve your prospects
Master David, to be left till called for, at the Coach Office, Dover
Wot job
To move a box
Wot box
Done with you for a tanner
Wot
This is a pollis case, is it? You're a-going to bolt, are you? Come to the pollis, you young warmin, come to the pollis
You give me my money back, if you please
and leave me alone
Come to the pollis
You shall prove it yourn to the pollis
Give me my box and money, will you
Come to the pollis
If you please, sir
I am to sell this for a fair price
What do you call a price, now, for this here little weskit
Oh! you know best, sir
I can't be buyer and seller too
Put a price on this here little weskit
I should rob my family
if I was to offer ninepence for it
Oh, what do you want
Oh, my eyes and limbs, what do you want? Oh, my lungs and liver, what do you want? Oh, goroo, goroo
Oh, what do you want? Oh, my eyes and limbs, what do you want? Oh, my lungs and liver, what do you want? Oh, goroo
I wanted to know
if you would buy a jacket
Oh, let's see the jacket
Oh, my heart on fire, show the jacket to us! Oh, my eyes and limbs, bring the jacket out
Oh, how much for the jacket
Oh - goroo! - how much for the jacket
Half-a-crown
Oh, my lungs and liver
no! Oh, my eyes, no! Oh, my limbs, no! Eighteenpence. Goroo
Well
I'll take eighteenpence
Oh, my liver
Get out of the shop! Oh, my lungs, get out of the shop! Oh, my eyes and limbs - goroo! - don't ask for money; make it an exchange
You ain't poor, you know, Charley, as you pretend. Bring out your gold. Bring out some of the gold you sold yourself to the devil for. Come! It's in the lining of the mattress, Charley. Rip it open and let's have some
Oh, my eyes and limbs
will you go for twopence more
I can't
I shall be starved
Oh, my lungs and liver, will you go for threepence
I would go for nothing, if I could
but I want the money badly
Oh, go-roo
will you go for fourpence
Come here, when you're called
or I'll rip your young body open
Where are you going
I am going to Dover
Where do you come from
I come from London
What lay are you upon
Are you a prig
N-no
Ain't you, by G --? If you make a brag of your honesty to me
I'll knock your brains out
Have you got the price of a pint of beer about you
If you have, out with it, afore I take it away
No
I am very poor
and have got no money
Why, what do you mean
Sir
What do you mean
by wearing my brother's silk handkerchief! Give it over here
Go
Trotwood
Let me see. I know the name, too. Old lady
Yes
rather
Pretty stiff in the back
Yes
I should think it very likely
Carries a bag
bag with a good deal of room in it - is gruffish, and comes down upon you, sharp
Why then, I tell you what
If you go up there
and keep right on till you come to some houses facing the sea, I think you'll hear of her. My opinion is she won't stand anything, so here's a penny for you
My mistress
What do you want with her, boy
I want
to speak to her, if you please
To beg of her, you mean
No
indeed
This is Miss Trotwood's
Now you know; and that's all I have got to say
Go away
Go along! No boys here
If you please, ma'am
If you please, aunt
EH
If you please, aunt, I am your nephew
Oh, Lord
I am David Copperfield, of Blunderstone, in Suffolk - where you came, on the night when I was born, and saw my dear mama. I have been very unhappy since she died. I have been slighted, and taught nothing, and thrown upon myself, and put to work not fit for me. It made me run away to you. I was robbed at first setting out, and have walked all the way, and have never slept in a bed since I began the journey
Mercy on us
Janet
Go upstairs, give my compliments to Mr. Dick, and say I wish to speak to him
Mr. Dick
don't be a fool, because nobody can be more discreet than you can, when you choose. We all know that. So don't be a fool, whatever you are
Mr. Dick
you have heard me mention David Copperfield? Now don't pretend not to have a memory, because you and I know better
David Copperfield
David Copperfield? Oh yes, to be sure. David, certainly
Well
this is his boy - his son. He would be as like his father as it's possible to be, if he was not so like his mother, too
His son
David's son? Indeed
Yes
and he has done a pretty piece of business. He has run away. Ah! His sister, Betsey Trotwood, never would have run away
Oh! you think she wouldn't have run away
Bless and save the man
how he talks! Don't I know she wouldn't? She would have lived with her god-mother, and we should have been devoted to one another. Where, in the name of wonder, should his sister, Betsey Trotwood, have run from, or to
Nowhere
Well then
how can you pretend to be wool-gathering, Dick, when you are as sharp as a surgeon's lancet? Now, here you see young David Copperfield, and the question I put to you is, what shall I do with him
What shall you do with him
Oh! do with him
Yes
Come! I want some very sound advice
Why, if I was you
I should
I should wash him
Janet
Mr. Dick sets us all right. Heat the bath
Janet! Donkeys
Janet! Donkeys
Pretty fellow
Poor fellow
Mercy upon us
Whatever possessed that poor unfortunate Baby, that she must go and be married again
I can't conceive
Perhaps she fell in love with her second husband
Fell in love
What do you mean? What business had she to do it
Perhaps
she did it for pleasure
Pleasure, indeed
A mighty pleasure for the poor Baby to fix her simple faith upon any dog of a fellow, certain to ill-use her in some way or other. What did she propose to herself, I should like to know! She had had one husband. She had seen David Copperfield out of the world, who was always running after wax dolls from his cradle. She had got a baby - oh, there were a pair of babies when she gave birth to this child sitting here, that Friday night! - and what more did she want
She couldn't even have a baby like anybody else
Where was this child's sister, Betsey Trotwood? Not forthcoming. Don't tell me
That little man of a doctor, with his head on one side
Jellips, or whatever his name was, what was he about? All he could do, was to say to me, like a robin redbreast - as he is - "It's a boy." A boy! Yah, the imbecility of the whole set of 'em
And then, as if this was not enough, and she had not stood sufficiently in the light of this child's sister, Betsey Trotwood
she marries a second time - goes and marries a Murderer - or a man with a name like it - and stands in THIS child's light! And the natural consequence is, as anybody but a baby might have foreseen, that he prowls and wanders. He's as like Cain before he was grown up, as he can be
And then there's that woman with the Pagan name
that Peggotty, she goes and gets married next. Because she has not seen enough of the evil attending such things, she goes and gets married next, as the child relates. I only hope
that her husband is one of those Poker husbands who abound in the newspapers, and will beat her well with one
Well, well
the child is right to stand by those who have stood by him - Janet! Donkeys
Now, Mr. Dick
I am going to ask you another question. Look at this child
David's son
Exactly so
What would you do with him, now
Do with David's son
Ay
with David's son
Oh
Yes. Do with - I should put him to bed
Janet
Mr. Dick sets us all right. If the bed is ready, we'll take him up to it
Hallo
I have written to him
To
To your father-in-law
I have sent him a letter that I'll trouble him to attend to, or he and I will fall out, I can tell him
Does he know where I am, aunt
I have told him
Shall I - be - given up to him
I don't know
We shall see
Oh! I can't think what I shall do
if I have to go back to Mr. Murdstone
I don't know anything about it
I can't say, I am sure. We shall see
I wish you'd go upstairs
and give my compliments to Mr. Dick, and I'll be glad to know how he gets on with his Memorial
I suppose
you think Mr. Dick a short name, eh
I thought it was rather a short name, yesterday
You are not to suppose that he hasn't got a longer name, if he chose to use it
Babley - Mr. Richard Babley - that's the gentleman's true name
But don't you call him by it, whatever you do. He can't bear his name. That's a peculiarity of his. Though I don't know that it's much of a peculiarity, either; for he has been ill-used enough, by some that bear it, to have a mortal antipathy for it, Heaven knows. Mr. Dick is his name here, and everywhere else, now - if he ever went anywhere else, which he don't. So take care, child, you don't call him anything BUT Mr. Dick
Ha! Phoebus
How does the world go? I'll tell you what
I shouldn't wish it to be mentioned, but it's a
it's a mad world. Mad as Bedlam, boy
Well
my compliments to her, and I - I believe I have made a start. I think I have made a start
You have been to school
Yes, sir
for a short time
Do you recollect the date
when King Charles the First had his head cut off
Well
So the books say; but I don't see how that can be. Because, if it was so long ago, how could the people about him have made that mistake of putting some of the trouble out of his head, after it was taken off, into mine
It's very strange
that I never can get that quite right. I never can make that perfectly clear. But no matter, no matter
there's time enough! My compliments to Miss Trotwood, I am getting on very well indeed
What do you think of that for a kite
I made it. We'll go and fly it, you and I
Do you see this
There's plenty of string
and when it flies high, it takes the facts a long way. That's my manner of diffusing 'em. I don't know where they may come down. It's according to circumstances, and the wind, and so forth; but I take my chance of that
Well, child
And what of Mr. Dick, this morning
What do you think of him
Come! Your sister Betsey Trotwood would have told me what she thought of anyone, directly. Be as like your sister as you can, and speak out
Is he - is Mr. Dick - I ask because I don't know, aunt - is he at all out of his mind, then
Not a morsel
Oh, indeed
If there is anything in the world
that Mr. Dick is not, it's that
Oh, indeed
He has been CALLED mad
I have a selfish pleasure in saying he has been called mad, or I should not have had the benefit of his society and advice for these last ten years and upwards - in fact, ever since your sister, Betsey Trotwood, disappointed me
So long as that
And nice people they were, who had the audacity to call him mad
Mr. Dick is a sort of distant connexion of mine - it doesn't matter how; I needn't enter into that. If it hadn't been for me, his own brother would have shut him up for life. That's all
A proud fool
Because his brother was a little eccentric - though he is not half so eccentric as a good many people - he didn't like to have him visible about his house, and sent him away to some private asylum-place: though he had been left to his particular care by their deceased father, who thought him almost a natural. And a wise man he must have been to think so! Mad himself, no doubt
So I stepped in
and made him an offer. I said, "Your brother's sane - a great deal more sane than you are, or ever will be, it is to be hoped. Let him have his little income, and come and live with me. I am not afraid of him, I am not proud, I am ready to take care of him, and shall not ill-treat him as some people (besides the asylum-folks) have done." After a good deal of squabbling
I got him; and he has been here ever since. He is the most friendly and amenable creature in existence; and as for advice! - But nobody knows what that man's mind is, except myself
He had a favourite sister
a good creature, and very kind to him. But she did what they all do - took a husband. And HE did what they all do - made her wretched. It had such an effect upon the mind of Mr. Dick (that's not madness, I hope!) that, combined with his fear of his brother, and his sense of his unkindness, it threw him into a fever. That was before he came to me, but the recollection of it is oppressive to him even now. Did he say anything to you about King Charles the First, child
Yes, aunt
Ah
That's his allegorical way of expressing it. He connects his illness with great disturbance and agitation, naturally, and that's the figure, or the simile, or whatever it's called, which he chooses to use. And why shouldn't he, if he thinks proper
Certainly, aunt
It's not a business-like way of speaking
nor a worldly way. I am aware of that; and that's the reason why I insist upon it, that there shan't be a word about it in his Memorial
Is it a Memorial about his own history that he is writing, aunt
Yes, child
He is memorializing the Lord Chancellor, or the Lord Somebody or other - one of those people, at all events, who are paid to be memorialized - about his affairs. I suppose it will go in, one of these days. He hasn't been able to draw it up yet, without introducing that mode of expressing himself; but it don't signify; it keeps him employed
I say again
nobody knows what that man's mind is except myself; and he's the most amenable and friendly creature in existence. If he likes to fly a kite sometimes, what of that! Franklin used to fly a kite. He was a Quaker, or something of that sort, if I am not mistaken. And a Quaker flying a kite is a much more ridiculous object than anybody else
Go along with you
You have no business there. How dare you trespass? Go along! Oh! you bold-faced thing
I don't care who it is
I won't be trespassed upon. I won't allow it. Go away! Janet, turn him round. Lead him off
Shall I go away, aunt
No, sir
Certainly not
Oh
I was not aware at first to whom I had the pleasure of objecting. But I don't allow anybody to ride over that turf. I make no exceptions. I don't allow anybody to do it
Your regulation is rather awkward to strangers
Is it
Miss Trotwood
I beg your pardon
You are the Mr. Murdstone who married the widow of my late nephew, David Copperfield, of Blunderstone Rookery! - Though why Rookery, I don't know
I am
You'll excuse my saying, sir
that I think it would have been a much better and happier thing if you had left that poor child alone
I so far agree with what Miss Trotwood has remarked
that I consider our lamented Clara to have been, in all essential respects, a mere child
It is a comfort to you and me, ma'am
who are getting on in life, and are not likely to be made unhappy by our personal attractions, that nobody can say the same of us
No doubt
And it certainly might have been, as you say, a better and happier thing for my brother if he had never entered into such a marriage. I have always been of that opinion
I have no doubt you have
Janet
my compliments to Mr. Dick, and beg him to come down
Mr. Dick. An old and intimate friend. On whose judgement
I rely
Miss Trotwood: on the receipt of your letter, I considered it an act of greater justice to myself, and perhaps of more respect to you
Thank you
You needn't mind me
To answer it in person, however inconvenient the journey
rather than by letter. This unhappy boy who has run away from his friends and his occupation
And whose appearance
is perfectly scandalous and disgraceful
Jane Murdstone
have the goodness not to interrupt me. This unhappy boy, Miss Trotwood, has been the occasion of much domestic trouble and uneasiness; both during the lifetime of my late dear wife, and since. He has a sullen, rebellious spirit; a violent temper; and an untoward, intractable disposition. Both my sister and myself have endeavoured to correct his vices, but ineffectually. And I have felt - we both have felt, I may say; my sister being fully in my confidence - that it is right you should receive this grave and dispassionate assurance from our lips
It can hardly be necessary for me to confirm anything stated by my brother
but I beg to observe, that, of all the boys in the world, I believe this is the worst boy
Strong
But not at all too strong for the facts
Ha
Well, sir
I have my own opinions
as to the best mode of bringing him up; they are founded, in part, on my knowledge of him, and in part on my knowledge of my own means and resources. I am responsible for them to myself, I act upon them, and I say no more about them. It is enough that I place this boy under the eye of a friend of my own, in a respectable business; that it does not please him; that he runs away from it; makes himself a common vagabond about the country; and comes here, in rags, to appeal to you, Miss Trotwood. I wish to set before you, honourably, the exact consequences - so far as they are within my knowledge - of your abetting him in this appeal
But about the respectable business first
If he had been your own boy, you would have put him to it, just the same, I suppose
If he had been my brother's own boy
his character, I trust, would have been altogether different
Or if the poor child, his mother, had been alive, he would still have gone into the respectable business, would he
I believe
that Clara would have disputed nothing which myself and my sister Jane Murdstone were agreed was for the best
Humph
Unfortunate baby
The poor child's annuity died with her
Died with her
And there was no settlement of the little property - the house and garden - the what's-its-name Rookery without any rooks in it - upon her boy
It had been left to her, unconditionally, by her first husband
Good Lord, man, there's no occasion to say that. Left to her unconditionally! I think I see David Copperfield looking forward to any condition of any sort or kind, though it stared him point-blank in the face! Of course it was left to her unconditionally. But when she married again - when she took that most disastrous step of marrying you, in short
to be plain - did no one put in a word for the boy at that time
My late wife loved her second husband, ma'am
and trusted implicitly in him
Your late wife, sir, was a most unworldly, most unhappy, most unfortunate baby
That's what she was. And now, what have you got to say next
Merely this, Miss Trotwood
I am here to take David back - to take him back unconditionally, to dispose of him as I think proper, and to deal with him as I think right. I am not here to make any promise, or give any pledge to anybody. You may possibly have some idea, Miss Trotwood, of abetting him in his running away, and in his complaints to you. Your manner, which I must say does not seem intended to propitiate, induces me to think it possible. Now I must caution you that if you abet him once, you abet him for good and all; if you step in between him and me, now, you must step in, Miss Trotwood, for ever. I cannot trifle, or be trifled with. I am here, for the first and last time, to take him away. Is he ready to go? If he is not - and you tell me he is not; on any pretence; it is indifferent to me what - my doors are shut against him henceforth, and yours, I take it for granted, are open to him
Well, ma'am, have YOU got anything to remark
Indeed, Miss Trotwood
all that I could say has been so well said by my brother, and all that I know to be the fact has been so plainly stated by him, that I have nothing to add except my thanks for your politeness. For your very great politeness, I am sure
And what does the boy say
Are you ready to go, David
Mr. Dick
what shall I do with this child
Have him measured for a suit of clothes directly
Mr. Dick
give me your hand, for your common sense is invaluable
You can go when you like; I'll take my chance with the boy. If he's all you say he is, at least I can do as much for him then, as you have done. But I don't believe a word of it
Miss Trotwood
if you were a gentleman
Bah! Stuff and nonsense
Don't talk to me
How exquisitely polite
Overpowering, really
Do you think I don't know
what kind of life you must have led that poor, unhappy, misdirected baby? Do you think I don't know what a woeful day it was for the soft little creature when you first came in her way - smirking and making great eyes at her, I'll be bound, as if you couldn't say boh! to a goose
I never heard anything so elegant
Do you think I can't understand you as well as if I had seen you
now that I DO see and hear you - which, I tell you candidly, is anything but a pleasure to me? Oh yes, bless us! who so smooth and silky as Mr. Murdstone at first! The poor, benighted innocent had never seen such a man. He was made of sweetness. He worshipped her. He doted on her boy - tenderly doted on him! He was to be another father to him, and they were all to live together in a garden of roses, weren't they? Ugh! Get along with you, do
I never heard anything like this person in my life
And when you had made sure of the poor little fool
God forgive me that I should call her so, and she gone where YOU won't go in a hurry - because you had not done wrong enough to her and hers, you must begin to train her, must you? begin to break her, like a poor caged bird, and wear her deluded life away, in teaching her to sing YOUR notes
This is either insanity or intoxication
and my suspicion is that it's intoxication
Mr. Murdstone
you were a tyrant to the simple baby, and you broke her heart. She was a loving baby - I know that; I knew it, years before you ever saw her - and through the best part of her weakness you gave her the wounds she died of. There is the truth for your comfort, however you like it. And you and your instruments may make the most of it
Allow me to inquire, Miss Trotwood
whom you are pleased to call, in a choice of words in which I am not experienced, my brother's instruments
It was clear enough, as I have told you, years before YOU ever saw her - and why, in the mysterious dispensations of Providence, you ever did see her, is more than humanity can comprehend - it was clear enough that the poor soft little thing would marry somebody, at some time or other; but I did hope it wouldn't have been as bad as it has turned out. That was the time, Mr. Murdstone, when she gave birth to her boy here
to the poor child you sometimes tormented her through afterwards, which is a disagreeable remembrance and makes the sight of him odious now. Aye, aye! you needn't wince
I know it's true without that
Good day, sir
and good-bye! Good day to you, too, ma'am
Let me see you ride a donkey over my green again, and as sure as you have a head upon your shoulders, I'll knock your bonnet off, and tread upon it
You'll consider yourself guardian, jointly with me, of this child, Mr. Dick
I shall be delighted
to be the guardian of David's son
Very good
that's settled. I have been thinking, do you know, Mr. Dick, that I might call him Trotwood
Certainly, certainly. Call him Trotwood, certainly
David's son's Trotwood
Trotwood Copperfield, you mean
Yes, to be sure. Yes. Trotwood Copperfield
Trot
we must not forget your education
Should you like to go to school at Canterbury
Good
Should you like to go tomorrow
Yes
Good
Very happy indeed, thank you, aunt
Is it a large school, aunt
Why, I don't know
We are going to Mr. Wickfield's first
Does he keep a school
No, Trot
He keeps an office
Is Mr. Wickfield at home, Uriah Heep
Mr. Wickfield's at home, ma'am
Miss Betsey Trotwood
pray walk in. I was engaged for a moment, but you'll excuse my being busy. You know my motive. I have but one in life
Well, Miss Trotwood
what wind blows you here? Not an ill wind, I hope
No
I have not come for any law
That's right, ma'am
You had better come for anything else
This is my nephew
Wasn't aware you had one, Miss Trotwood
My grand-nephew, that is to say
Wasn't aware you had a grand-nephew, I give you my word
I have adopted him
and I have brought him here, to put to a school where he may be thoroughly well taught, and well treated. Now tell me where that school is, and what it is, and all about it
Before I can advise you properly
the old question, you know. What's your motive in this
Deuce take the man
Always fishing for motives, when they're on the surface! Why, to make the child happy and useful
It must be a mixed motive, I think
A mixed fiddlestick
You claim to have one plain motive in all you do yourself. You don't suppose, I hope, that you are the only plain dealer in the world
Ay, but I have only one motive in life, Miss Trotwood
Other people have dozens, scores, hundreds. I have only one. There's the difference. However, that's beside the question. The best school? Whatever the motive, you want the best
At the best we have
your nephew couldn't board just now
But he could board somewhere else, I suppose
Our little friend here might have some motive, perhaps, for objecting to the arrangements. I think we had better leave him behind
It's very unfortunate
I don't know what to do, Trot
It does happen unfortunately
But I'll tell you what you can do, Miss Trotwood
What's that
Leave your nephew here, for the present. He's a quiet fellow. He won't disturb me at all. It's a capital house for study. As quiet as a monastery, and almost as roomy. Leave him here
Come, Miss Trotwood
This is the way out of the difficulty. It's only a temporary arrangement, you know. If it don't act well, or don't quite accord with our mutual convenience, he can easily go to the right-about. There will be time to find some better place for him in the meanwhile. You had better determine to leave him here for the present
I am very much obliged to you
and so is he, I see; but
Come! I know what you mean
You shall not be oppressed by the receipt of favours, Miss Trotwood. You may pay for him, if you like. We won't be hard about terms, but you shall pay if you will
On that understanding
though it doesn't lessen the real obligation, I shall be very glad to leave him
Then come and see my little housekeeper
Trot
be a credit to yourself, to me, and Mr. Dick, and Heaven be with you
Never
be mean in anything; never be false; never be cruel. Avoid those three vices, Trot, and I can always be hopeful of you
The pony's at the door
and I am off! Stay here
By the by, Wickfield
you have not found any suitable provision for my wife's cousin yet
No
No. Not yet
I could wish it done as soon as it can be done, Wickfield
for Jack Maldon is needy, and idle; and of those two bad things, worse things sometimes come. What does Doctor Watts say
Satan finds some mischief still, for idle hands to do
Egad, Doctor
if Doctor Watts knew mankind, he might have written, with as much truth, "Satan finds some mischief still, for busy hands to do." The busy people achieve their full share of mischief in the world, you may rely upon it. What have the people been about, who have been the busiest in getting money, and in getting power, this century or two? No mischief
Jack Maldon will never be very busy in getting either, I expect
Perhaps not
and you bring me back to the question, with an apology for digressing. No, I have not been able to dispose of Mr. Jack Maldon yet. I believe
I penetrate your motive, and it makes the thing more difficult
My motive
is to make some suitable provision for a cousin, and an old playfellow, of Annie's
Yes, I know
at home or abroad
Aye
At home or abroad
Your own expression, you know
Or abroad
Surely
Surely. One or other
One or other? Have you no choice
No
No
Not the least
No motive
for meaning abroad, and not at home
No
I am bound to believe you, and of course I do believe you
It might have simplified my office very much, if I had known it before. But I confess I entertained another impression
A new boy, young gentlemen
Trotwood Copperfield
You have never been to school
have you
Oh yes! Every day
Ah, but you mean here, at your own home
Papa couldn't spare me to go anywhere else
His housekeeper must be in his house, you know
He is very fond of you, I am sure
Yes
Mama has been dead ever since I was born
I only know her picture, downstairs. I saw you looking at it yesterday. Did you think whose it was
Papa says so, too
Hark! That's papa now
There may be some, perhaps - I don't know that there are - who abuse his kindness
Never be one of those, Trotwood, in anything. He is the least suspicious of mankind; and whether that's a merit, or whether it's a blemish, it deserves consideration in all dealings with the Doctor, great or small
Here's Mr. Maldon begs the favour of a word, sir
I am but this moment quit of Mr. Maldon
Yes, sir
but Mr. Maldon has come back, and he begs the favour of a word
I beg your pardon. It's only to say, on reflection
pray excuse me for this intrusion - that as it seems I have no choice in the matter, the sooner I go abroad the better. My cousin Annie did say, when we talked of it, that she liked to have her friends within reach rather than to have them banished, and the old Doctor
Doctor Strong, was that
Doctor Strong, of course
I call him the old Doctor; it's all the same, you know
I don't know
Well, Doctor Strong
Doctor Strong was of the same mind, I believed. But as it appears from the course you take with me he has changed his mind, why there's no more to be said, except that the sooner I am off, the better. Therefore, I thought I'd come back and say, that the sooner I am off the better. When a plunge is to be made into the water, it's of no use lingering on the bank
There shall be as little lingering as possible, in your case, Mr. Maldon, you may depend upon it
Thank'ee
Much obliged. I don't want to look a gift-horse in the mouth, which is not a gracious thing to do; otherwise, I dare say, my cousin Annie could easily arrange it in her own way. I suppose Annie would only have to say to the old Doctor
Meaning that Mrs. Strong would only have to say to her husband - do I follow you
Quite so
would only have to say, that she wanted such and such a thing to be so and so; and it would be so and so, as a matter of course
And why as a matter of course, Mr. Maldon
Why, because Annie's a charming young girl, and the old Doctor - Doctor Strong, I mean - is not quite a charming young boy
No offence to anybody, Mr. Wickfield. I only mean that I suppose some compensation is fair and reasonable in that sort of marriage
Compensation to the lady, sir
To the lady, sir
However, I have said what I came to say, and, with another apology for this intrusion, I may take myself off. Of course I shall observe your directions, in considering the matter as one to be arranged between you and me solely, and not to be referred to, up at the Doctor's
Have you dined
Thank'ee. I am going to dine
with my cousin Annie. Good-bye
Should you like to stay with us, Trotwood, or to go elsewhere
To stay
You are sure
If you please. If I may
Why, it's but a dull life that we lead here, boy, I am afraid
Not more dull for me than Agnes, sir. Not dull at all
Than Agnes
Than Agnes
Now I wonder
whether my Agnes tires of me. When should I ever tire of her! But that's different, that's quite different
A dull old house
and a monotonous life; but I must have her near me. I must keep her near me. If the thought that I may die and leave my darling, or that my darling may die and leave me, comes like a spectre, to distress my happiest hours, and is only to be drowned in
If it is miserable to bear, when she is here
what would it be, and she away? No, no, no. I cannot try that
Stay with us, Trotwood, eh
I am glad of it. You are company to us both. It is wholesome to have you here. Wholesome for me, wholesome for Agnes, wholesome perhaps for all of us
I am sure it is for me, sir
I am so glad to be here
That's a fine fellow
As long as you are glad to be here, you shall stay here
You are working late tonight, Uriah
Yes, Master Copperfield
I am not doing office-work, Master Copperfield
What work, then
I am improving my legal knowledge, Master Copperfield
I am going through Tidd's Practice. Oh, what a writer Mr. Tidd is, Master Copperfield
I suppose you are quite a great lawyer
Me, Master Copperfield
Oh, no! I'm a very umble person
I am well aware that I am the umblest person going
let the other be where he may. My mother is likewise a very umble person. We live in a numble abode, Master Copperfield, but have much to be thankful for. My father's former calling was umble. He was a sexton
What is he now
He is a partaker of glory at present, Master Copperfield
But we have much to be thankful for. How much have I to be thankful for in living with Mr. Wickfield
I have been with him, going on four year, Master Copperfield
Since a year after my father's death. How much have I to be thankful for, in that! How much have I to be thankful for, in Mr. Wickfield's kind intention to give me my articles, which would otherwise not lay within the umble means of mother and self
Then, when your articled time is over, you'll be a regular lawyer, I suppose
With the blessing of Providence, Master Copperfield
Perhaps you'll be a partner in Mr. Wickfield's business, one of these days
and it will be Wickfield and Heep, or Heep late Wickfield
Oh no, Master Copperfield
I am much too umble for that
Mr. Wickfield is a most excellent man, Master Copperfield
If you have known him long, you know it, I am sure, much better than I can inform you
Oh, indeed, Master Copperfield
Your aunt is a sweet lady, Master Copperfield
A sweet lady, Master Copperfield
She has a great admiration for Miss Agnes, Master Copperfield, I believe
Yes
I hope you have, too, Master Copperfield
But I am sure you must have
Everybody must have
Oh, thank you, Master Copperfield
for that remark! It is so true! Umble as I am, I know it is so true! Oh, thank you, Master Copperfield
Mother will be expecting me
and getting uneasy; for though we are very umble, Master Copperfield, we are much attached to one another. If you would come and see us, any afternoon, and take a cup of tea at our lowly dwelling, mother would be as proud of your company as I should be
Thank you, Master Copperfield
I suppose you stop here, some time, Master Copperfield
Oh, indeed
I should think YOU would come into the business at last, Master Copperfield
Oh, yes, Master Copperfield, I should think you would, indeed
Oh, indeed, Master Copperfield, I should think you would, certainly
Yes
I have forgotten, Doctor
to pay you the compliments of the day - though they are, as you may suppose, very far from being mere compliments in my case. Allow me to wish you many happy returns
I thank you, ma'am
Many, many, many, happy returns
Not only for your own sake, but for Annie's, and John Maldon's, and many other people's. It seems but yesterday to me, John, when you were a little creature, a head shorter than Master Copperfield, making baby love to Annie behind the gooseberry bushes in the back-garden
My dear mama
never mind that now
Annie, don't be absurd
If you are to blush to hear of such things now you are an old married woman, when are you not to blush to hear of them
Old
Annie? Come
Yes, John
Virtually, an old married woman. Although not old by years - for when did you ever hear me say, or who has ever heard me say, that a girl of twenty was old by years! - your cousin is the wife of the Doctor, and, as such, what I have described her. It is well for you, John, that your cousin is the wife of the Doctor. You have found in him an influential and kind friend, who will be kinder yet, I venture to predict, if you deserve it. I have no false pride. I never hesitate to admit, frankly, that there are some members of our family who want a friend. You were one yourself, before your cousin's influence raised up one for you
No, really, my dear Doctor, you must excuse me if I appear to dwell on this rather, because I feel so very strongly. I call it quite my monomania, it is such a subject of mine. You are a blessing to us. You really are a Boon, you know
Nonsense, nonsense
No, no, I beg your pardon
With nobody present, but our dear and confidential friend Mr. Wickfield, I cannot consent to be put down. I shall begin to assert the privileges of a mother-in-law, if you go on like that, and scold you. I am perfectly honest and outspoken. What I am saying, is what I said when you first overpowered me with surprise - you remember how surprised I was? - by proposing for Annie. Not that there was anything so very much out of the way, in the mere fact of the proposal - it would be ridiculous to say that! - but because, you having known her poor father, and having known her from a baby six months old, I hadn't thought of you in such a light at all, or indeed as a marrying man in any way, - simply that, you know
Aye, aye
Never mind
But I DO mind
I mind very much. I recall these things that I may be contradicted if I am wrong. Well! Then I spoke to Annie, and I told her what had happened. I said, "My dear, here's Doctor Strong has positively been and made you the subject of a handsome declaration and an offer." Did I press it in the least? No. I said, "Now, Annie, tell me the truth this moment; is your heart free?" "Mama," she said crying, "I am extremely young" - which was perfectly true - "and I hardly know if I have a heart at all." "Then, my dear," I said, "you may rely upon it, it's free. At all events, my love," said I, "Doctor Strong is in an agitated state of mind, and must be answered. He cannot be kept in his present state of suspense." "Mama," said Annie, still crying, "would he be unhappy without me? If he would, I honour and respect him so much, that I think I will have him." So it was settled. And then, and not till then, I said to Annie, "Annie, Doctor Strong will not only be your husband, but he will represent your late father: he will represent the head of our family, he will represent the wisdom and station, and I may say the means, of our family; and will be, in short, a Boon to it." I used the word at the time, and I have used it again, today. If I have any merit it is consistency
Mama, I hope you have finished
No, my dear Annie
I have not quite finished. Since you ask me, my love, I reply that I have not. I complain that you really are a little unnatural towards your own family; and, as it is of no use complaining to you. I mean to complain to your husband. Now, my dear Doctor, do look at that silly wife of yours
When I happened to say to that naughty thing, the other day
that there was a family circumstance she might mention to you - indeed, I think, was bound to mention - she said, that to mention it was to ask a favour; and that, as you were too generous, and as for her to ask was always to have, she wouldn't
Annie, my dear
That was wrong. It robbed me of a pleasure
Almost the very words I said to her
Now really, another time, when I know what she would tell you but for this reason, and won't, I have a great mind, my dear Doctor, to tell you myself
I shall be glad if you will
Shall I
Certainly
Well, then, I will
That's a bargain
Annie, my dear
it is past your cousin jack's time, and we must not detain him, since time and tide - both concerned in this case - wait for no man. Mr. Jack Maldon, you have a long voyage, and a strange country, before you; but many men have had both, and many men will have both, to the end of time. The winds you are going to tempt, have wafted thousands upon thousands to fortune, and brought thousands upon thousands happily back
It's an affecting thing
however it's viewed, it's affecting, to see a fine young man one has known from an infant, going away to the other end of the world, leaving all he knows behind, and not knowing what's before him. A young man really well deserves constant support and patronage
who makes such sacrifices
Time will go fast with you, Mr. Jack Maldon
and fast with all of us. Some of us can hardly expect, perhaps, in the natural course of things, to greet you on your return. The next best thing is to hope to do it, and that's my case. I shall not weary you with good advice. You have long had a good model before you, in your cousin Annie. Imitate her virtues as nearly as you can
Farewell, Mr. Jack
A prosperous voyage out, a thriving career abroad, and a happy return home
Where's Annie
Poor Annie! She's so faithful and tender-hearted! It's the parting from her old playfellow and friend - her favourite cousin - that has done this. Ah! It's a pity! I am very sorry
Annie, my dear
See here! You have lost a bow. Will anybody be so good as find a ribbon; a cherry-coloured ribbon
Do you recollect where you had it last, Annie
Trotwood
who's the man that hides near our house and frightens her
Frightens my aunt, sir
I thought nothing would have frightened her
for she's -' here he whispered softly, 'don't mention it - the wisest and most wonderful of women
The first time he came
was- let me see- sixteen hundred and forty-nine was the date of King Charles's execution. I think you said sixteen hundred and forty-nine
Yes, sir
I don't know how it can be
I don't think I am as old as that
Was it in that year that the man appeared, sir
I don't see how it can have been in that year, Trotwood. Did you get that date out of history
Yes, sir
I suppose history never lies, does it
Oh dear, no, sir
I can't make it out
There's something wrong, somewhere. However, it was very soon after the mistake was made of putting some of the trouble out of King Charles's head into my head, that the man first came. I was walking out with Miss Trotwood after tea, just at dark, and there he was, close to our house
Walking about
Walking about
Let me see, I must recollect a bit. N-no, no; he was not walking about
Well, he wasn't there at all
until he came up behind her, and whispered. Then she turned round and fainted, and I stood still and looked at him, and he walked away; but that he should have been hiding ever since (in the ground or somewhere), is the most extraordinary thing
HAS he been hiding ever since
To be sure he has
Never came out, till last night! We were walking last night, and he came up behind her again, and I knew him again
And did he frighten my aunt again
All of a shiver
Held by the palings. Cried. But, Trotwood, come here
why did she give him money, boy, in the moonlight
He was a beggar, perhaps
No beggar, no beggar, no beggar, sir
But I didn't expect you to keep it, Master Copperfield, we're so very umble
Oh, if that's all, Master Copperfield
and it really isn't our umbleness that prevents you, will you come this evening? But if it is our umbleness, I hope you won't mind owning to it, Master Copperfield; for we are well aware of our condition
Mother will be proud, indeed
Or she would be proud, if it wasn't sinful, Master Copperfield
Yet you didn't mind supposing I was proud this morning
Oh dear, no, Master Copperfield
Oh, believe me, no! Such a thought never came into my head! I shouldn't have deemed it at all proud if you had thought US too umble for you. Because we are so very umble
Have you been studying much law lately
Oh, Master Copperfield
my reading is hardly to be called study. I have passed an hour or two in the evening, sometimes, with Mr. Tidd
Rather hard, I suppose
He is hard to me sometimes
But I don't know what he might be to a gifted person
There are expressions, you see, Master Copperfield - Latin words and terms - in Mr. Tidd, that are trying to a reader of my umble attainments
Would you like to be taught Latin
I will teach it you with pleasure, as I learn it
Oh, thank you, Master Copperfield
I am sure it's very kind of you to make the offer, but I am much too umble to accept it
What nonsense, Uriah
Oh, indeed you must excuse me, Master Copperfield! I am greatly obliged, and I should like it of all things, I assure you; but I am far too umble. There are people enough to tread upon me in my lowly state, without my doing outrage to their feelings by possessing learning. Learning ain't for me. A person like myself had better not aspire. If he is to get on in life, he must get on umbly, Master Copperfield
I think you are wrong, Uriah
I dare say there are several things that I could teach you, if you would like to learn them
Oh, I don't doubt that, Master Copperfield
not in the least. But not being umble yourself, you don't judge well, perhaps, for them that are. I won't provoke my betters with knowledge, thank you. I'm much too umble. Here is my umble dwelling, Master Copperfield
This is a day to be remembered, my Uriah, I am sure
when Master Copperfield pays us a visit
I said you'd think so, mother
If I could have wished father to remain among us for any reason
it would have been, that he might have known his company this afternoon
My Uriah
has looked forward to this, sir, a long while. He had his fears that our umbleness stood in the way, and I joined in them myself. Umble we are, umble we have been, umble we shall ever be
I am sure you have no occasion to be so, ma'am
unless you like
Thank you, sir
We know our station and are thankful in it
Copperfield! Is it possible
My dear Copperfield
this is indeed a meeting which is calculated to impress the mind with a sense of the instability and uncertainty of all human - in short, it is a most extraordinary meeting. Walking along the street, reflecting upon the probability of something turning up (of which I am at present rather sanguine), I find a young but valued friend turn up, who is connected with the most eventful period of my life; I may say, with the turning-point of my existence. Copperfield, my dear fellow, how do you do
Thank you
She is tolerably convalescent. The twins no longer derive their sustenance from Nature's founts - in short
they are weaned - and Mrs. Micawber is, at present, my travelling companion. She will be rejoiced, Copperfield, to renew her acquaintance with one who has proved himself in all respects a worthy minister at the sacred altar of friendship
You are very good
I have discovered my friend Copperfield
not in solitude, but partaking of a social meal in company with a widow lady, and one who is apparently her offspring - in short
her son. I shall esteem it an honour to be presented
Any friend of my friend Copperfield's
has a personal claim upon myself
We are too umble, sir
my son and me, to be the friends of Master Copperfield. He has been so good as take his tea with us, and we are thankful to him for his company, also to you, sir, for your notice
Ma'am
you are very obliging: and what are you doing, Copperfield? Still in the wine trade
A pupil
I am extremely happy to hear it. Although a mind like my friend Copperfield's' - to Uriah and Mrs. Heep - 'does not require that cultivation which, without his knowledge of men and things, it would require, still it is a rich soil teeming with latent vegetation - in short
it is an intellect capable of getting up the classics to any extent
Shall we go and see Mrs. Micawber, sir
If you will do her that favour, Copperfield
I have no scruple in saying, in the presence of our friends here, that I am a man who has, for some years, contended against the pressure of pecuniary difficulties
Sometimes I have risen superior to my difficulties. Sometimes my difficulties have - in short, have floored me. There have been times when I have administered a succession of facers to them; there have been times when they have been too many for me, and I have given in, and said to Mrs. Micawber, in the words of Cato, "Plato, thou reasonest well. It's all up now. I can show fight no more." But at no time of my life
have I enjoyed a higher degree of satisfaction than in pouring my griefs (if I may describe difficulties, chiefly arising out of warrants of attorney and promissory notes at two and four months, by that word) into the bosom of my friend Copperfield
Mr. Heep! Good evening. Mrs. Heep! Your servant
My dear, allow me to introduce to you a pupil of Doctor Strong's
My dear
if you will mention to Copperfield what our present position is, which I have no doubt he will like to know, I will go and look at the paper the while, and see whether anything turns up among the advertisements
I thought you were at Plymouth, ma'am
My dear Master Copperfield
we went to Plymouth
To be on the spot
Just so
To be on the spot. But, the truth is, talent is not wanted in the Custom House. The local influence of my family was quite unavailing to obtain any employment in that department, for a man of Mr. Micawber's abilities. They would rather NOT have a man of Mr. Micawber's abilities. He would only show the deficiency of the others. Apart from which
I will not disguise from you, my dear Master Copperfield, that when that branch of my family which is settled in Plymouth, became aware that Mr. Micawber was accompanied by myself, and by little Wilkins and his sister, and by the twins, they did not receive him with that ardour which he might have expected, being so newly released from captivity. In fact
this is between ourselves - our reception was cool
Dear me
Yes
It is truly painful to contemplate mankind in such an aspect, Master Copperfield, but our reception was, decidedly, cool. There is no doubt about it. In fact, that branch of my family which is settled in Plymouth became quite personal to Mr. Micawber, before we had been there a week
Still, so it was
Under such circumstances, what could a man of Mr. Micawber's spirit do? But one obvious course was left. To borrow, of that branch of my family, the money to return to London, and to return at any sacrifice
Then you all came back again, ma'am
We all came back again
Since then, I have consulted other branches of my family on the course which it is most expedient for Mr. Micawber to take - for I maintain that he must take some course, Master Copperfield
It is clear that a family of six, not including a domestic, cannot live upon air
Certainly, ma'am
The opinion of those other branches of my family
is, that Mr. Micawber should immediately turn his attention to coals
To what, ma'am
To coals
To the coal trade. Mr. Micawber was induced to think, on inquiry, that there might be an opening for a man of his talent in the Medway Coal Trade. Then, as Mr. Micawber very properly said, the first step to be taken clearly was, to come and see the Medway. Which we came and saw. I say "we", Master Copperfield; for I never will
I never will desert Mr. Micawber
We came
and saw the Medway. My opinion of the coal trade on that river is, that it may require talent, but that it certainly requires capital. Talent, Mr. Micawber has; capital, Mr. Micawber has not. We saw, I think, the greater part of the Medway; and that is my individual conclusion. Being so near here, Mr. Micawber was of opinion that it would be rash not to come on, and see the Cathedral. Firstly, on account of its being so well worth seeing, and our never having seen it; and secondly, on account of the great probability of something turning up in a cathedral town. We have been here
three days. Nothing has, as yet, turned up; and it may not surprise you, my dear Master Copperfield, so much as it would a stranger, to know that we are at present waiting for a remittance from London, to discharge our pecuniary obligations at this hotel. Until the arrival of that remittance
I am cut off from my home (I allude to lodgings in Pentonville), from my boy and girl, and from my twins
Copperfield, you are a true friend; but when the worst comes to the worst, no man is without a friend who is possessed of shaving materials
And I'll tell you what, my dear Copperfield
your friend Heep is a young fellow who might be attorney-general. If I had known that young man, at the period when my difficulties came to a crisis, all I can say is, that I believe my creditors would have been a great deal better managed than they were
If you'll allow me, Mrs. Micawber, I shall now have the pleasure of drinking your health, ma'am
My DEAR YOUNG FRIEND, 'The die is cast - all is over. Hiding the ravages of care with a sickly mask of mirth, I have not informed you, this evening, that there is no hope of the remittance! Under these circumstances, alike humiliating to endure, humiliating to contemplate, and humiliating to relate, I have discharged the pecuniary liability contracted at this establishment, by giving a note of hand, made payable fourteen days after date, at my residence, Pentonville, London. When it becomes due, it will not be taken up. The result is destruction. The bolt is impending, and the tree must fall. 

'Let the wretched man who now addresses you, my dear Copperfield, be a beacon to you through life. He writes with that intention, and in that hope. If he could think himself of so much use, one gleam of day might, by possibility, penetrate into the cheerless dungeon of his remaining existence - though his longevity is, at present (to say the least of it), extremely problematical. 

'This is the last communication, my dear Copperfield, you will ever receive 

'From 

'The 

'Beggared Outcast, 

'WILKINS MICAWBER
No
Yes
Oh, Miss Shepherd
How do you do, Mr. Larkins? Are the young ladies and all the family quite well
Oh, Mr. Copperfield, can I believe my ears
My dear Copperfield, my daughter has told me all. Youth is no objection. Here are twenty thousand pounds. Be happy
With you, Miss Larkins
With no one else
I should have no pleasure in dancing with anyone else
Next time but one, I shall be very glad
It is a waltz, I think
Do you waltz? If not, Captain Bailey
I ask an inestimable price for it, Miss Larkins
Indeed! What is that
A flower of yours, that I may treasure it as a miser does gold
You're a bold boy
There
Now take me back to Captain Bailey
Oh! here is my bold friend! Mr. Chestle wants to know you, Mr. Copperfield
I admire your taste, sir
It does you credit. I suppose you don't take much interest in hops; but I am a pretty large grower myself; and if you ever like to come over to our neighbourhood - neighbourhood of Ashford - and take a run about our place, -we shall be glad for you to stop as long as you like
Trotwood
Who do you think is going to be married tomorrow? Someone you admire
Not you, I suppose, Agnes
Not me
Do you hear him, Papa? - The eldest Miss Larkins
To - to Captain Bailey
No; to no Captain. To Mr. Chestle, a hop-grower
What I would like to be
Trot, I tell you what, my dear
as this knotty point is still unsettled, and as we must not make a mistake in our decision if we can help it, I think we had better take a little breathing-time. In the meanwhile, you must try to look at it from a new point of view, and not as a schoolboy
I will, aunt
It has occurred to me
that a little change, and a glimpse of life out of doors, may be useful in helping you to know your own mind, and form a cooler judgement. Suppose you were to go down into the old part of the country again, for instance, and see that - that out-of-the-way woman with the savagest of names
Of all things in the world, aunt, I should like it best
Well
that's lucky, for I should like it too. But it's natural and rational that you should like it. And I am very well persuaded that whatever you do, Trot, will always be natural and rational
I hope so, aunt
Your sister, Betsey Trotwood
would have been as natural and rational a girl as ever breathed. You'll be worthy of her, won't you
I hope I shall be worthy of YOU, aunt. That will be enough for me
It's a mercy that poor dear baby of a mother of yours didn't live
or she'd have been so vain of her boy by this time, that her soft little head would have been completely turned, if there was anything of it left to turn
Bless me, Trotwood, how you do remind me of her
Pleasantly, I hope, aunt
He's as like her, Dick
he's as like her, as she was that afternoon before she began to fret - bless my heart, he's as like her, as he can look at me out of his two eyes
Is he indeed
And he's like David, too
He is very like David
But what I want you to be, Trot
I don't mean physically, but morally; you are very well physically - is, a firm fellow. A fine firm fellow, with a will of your own. With resolution
With determination. With character, Trot - with strength of character that is not to be influenced, except on good reason, by anybody, or by anything. That's what I want you to be. That's what your father and mother might both have been, Heaven knows, and been the better for it
That you may begin, in a small way, to have a reliance upon yourself, and to act for yourself
I shall send you upon your trip, alone. I did think, once, of Mr. Dick's going with you; but, on second thoughts, I shall keep him to take care of me
Besides
there's the Memorial
Oh, certainly
I intend, Trotwood, to get that done immediately - it really must be done immediately! And then it will go in, you know - and then -' said Mr. Dick, after checking himself, and pausing a long time, 'there'll be a pretty kettle of fish
I am sure I am not like myself when I am away
I seem to want my right hand, when I miss you. Though that's not saying much; for there's no head in my right hand, and no heart. Everyone who knows you, consults with you, and is guided by you, Agnes
Everyone who knows me, spoils me, I believe
No. it's because you are like no one else. You are so good, and so sweet-tempered. You have such a gentle nature, and you are always right
You talk
as if I were the late Miss Larkins
Come! It's not fair to abuse my confidence
But I shall confide in you, just the same, Agnes. I can never grow out of that. Whenever I fall into trouble, or fall in love, I shall always tell you, if you'll let me - even when I come to fall in love in earnest
Why, you have always been in earnest
Oh! that was as a child, or a schoolboy
Times are altering now, and I suppose I shall be in a terrible state of earnestness one day or other. My wonder is, that you are not in earnest yourself, by this time, Agnes
Oh, I know you are not
because if you had been you would have told me. Or at least' - for I saw a faint blush in her face, 'you would have let me find it out for myself. But there is no one that I know of, who deserves to love you, Agnes. Someone of a nobler character, and more worthy altogether than anyone I have ever seen here, must rise up, before I give my consent. In the time to come, I shall have a wary eye on all admirers; and shall exact a great deal from the successful one, I assure you
Trotwood, there is something that I want to ask you, and that I may not have another opportunity of asking for a long time, perhaps - something I would ask, I think, of no one else. Have you observed any gradual alteration in Papa
Tell me what it is
I think - shall I be quite plain, Agnes, liking him so much
Yes
I think he does himself no good by the habit that has increased upon him since I first came here. He is often very nervous - or I fancy so
It is not fancy
His hand trembles, his speech is not plain, and his eyes look wild. I have remarked that at those times, and when he is least like himself, he is most certain to be wanted on some business
By Uriah
Yes; and the sense of being unfit for it, or of not having understood it, or of having shown his condition in spite of himself, seems to make him so uneasy, that next day he is worse, and next day worse, and so he becomes jaded and haggard. Do not be alarmed by what I say, Agnes, but in this state I saw him, only the other evening, lay down his head upon his desk, and shed tears like a child
I shall not see many more new faces in Trotwood's stead, Wickfield
I am getting lazy, and want ease. I shall relinquish all my young people in another six months, and lead a quieter life
You have said so, any time these ten years, Doctor
But now I mean to do it
My first master will succeed me - I am in earnest at last - so you'll soon have to arrange our contracts, and to bind us firmly to them, like a couple of knaves
And to take care
that you're not imposed on, eh? As you certainly would be, in any contract you should make for yourself. Well! I am ready. There are worse tasks than that, in my calling
I shall have nothing to think of then
but my Dictionary; and this other contract-bargain - Annie
There is a post come in from India, I observe
By the by! and letters from Mr. Jack Maldon
Indeed
Poor dear Jack
That trying climate! - like living, they tell me, on a sand-heap, underneath a burning-glass! He looked strong, but he wasn't. My dear Doctor, it was his spirit, not his constitution, that he ventured on so boldly. Annie, my dear, I am sure you must perfectly recollect that your cousin never was strong - not what can be called ROBUST, you know
from the time when my daughter and himself were children together, and walking about, arm-in-arm, the livelong day
Do I gather from what you say, ma'am, that Mr. Maldon is ill
Ill
My dear sir, he's all sorts of things
Except well
Except well, indeed
He has had dreadful strokes of the sun, no doubt, and jungle fevers and agues, and every kind of thing you can mention. As to his liver
that, of course, he gave up altogether, when he first went out
Does he say all this
Say? My dear sir
you little know my poor Jack Maldon when you ask that question. Say? Not he. You might drag him at the heels of four wild horses first
Mama
Annie, my dear
once for all, I must really beg that you will not interfere with me, unless it is to confirm what I say. You know as well as I do that your cousin Maldon would be dragged at the heels of any number of wild horses - why should I confine myself to four! I WON'T confine myself to four - eight, sixteen, two-and-thirty, rather than say anything calculated to overturn the Doctor's plans
Wickfield's plans
That is to say, our joint plans for him. I said myself, abroad or at home
And I said' added Mr. Wickfield gravely, 'abroad. I was the means of sending him abroad. It's my responsibility
Oh! Responsibility
Everything was done for the best, my dear Mr. Wickfield; everything was done for the kindest and best, we know. But if the dear fellow can't live there, he can't live there. And if he can't live there, he'll die there, sooner than he'll overturn the Doctor's plans. I know him
and I know he'll die there, sooner than he'll overturn the Doctor's plans
Well, well, ma'am
I am not bigoted to my plans, and I can overturn them myself. I can substitute some other plans. If Mr. Jack Maldon comes home on account of ill health, he must not be allowed to go back, and we must endeavour to make some more suitable and fortunate provision for him in this country
Why, here
the dear fellow says to the Doctor himself - where is it? Oh! - "I am sorry to inform you that my health is suffering severely, and that I fear I may be reduced to the necessity of returning home for a time, as the only hope of restoration." That's pretty plain, poor fellow! His only hope of restoration! But Annie's letter is plainer still. Annie, show me that letter again
Not now, mama
My dear, you absolutely are, on some subjects, one of the most ridiculous persons in the world
and perhaps the most unnatural to the claims of your own family. We never should have heard of the letter at all, I believe, unless I had asked for it myself. Do you call that confidence, my love, towards Doctor Strong? I am surprised. You ought to know better
Now let us see
where the passage is. "The remembrance of old times, my dearest Annie" - and so forth - it's not there. "The amiable old Proctor" - who's he? Dear me, Annie, how illegibly your cousin Maldon writes, and how stupid I am! "Doctor," of course. Ah! amiable indeed
Now I have found it. "You may not be surprised to hear, Annie," - no, to be sure, knowing that he never was really strong; what did I say just now? - "that I have undergone so much in this distant place, as to have decided to leave it at all hazards; on sick leave, if I can; on total resignation, if that is not to be obtained. What I have endured, and do endure here, is insupportable." And but for the promptitude of that best of creatures
it would be insupportable to me to think of
You are going through, sir
Yes, William
I am going to London. I shall go down into Suffolk afterwards
Shooting, sir
I don't know
whether I shall take a shot or not
Birds is got wery shy, I'm told
So I understand
Is Suffolk your county, sir
Yes
Suffolk's my county
I'm told the dumplings is uncommon fine down there
I believe you
And the Punches
There's cattle! A Suffolk Punch, when he's a good un, is worth his weight in gold. Did you ever breed any Suffolk Punches yourself, sir
N-no
not exactly
said William, 'as has bred 'em by wholesale
Ain't you
Ain't I what
Bred them Suffolk Punches by wholesale
I should think so
There ain't no sort of orse that I ain't bred, and no sort of dorg. Orses and dorgs is some men's fancy. They're wittles and drink to me - lodging, wife, and children - reading, writing, and Arithmetic - snuff, tobacker, and sleep
That ain't a sort of man to see sitting behind a coach-box, is it though
Well, if you don't mind, sir
I think it would be more correct
Well now
what would you like for dinner? Young gentlemen likes poultry in general: have a fowl
Ain't you
Young gentlemen is generally tired of beef and mutton: have a weal cutlet
Do you care for taters
Young gentlemen generally has been overdosed with taters
Half a pint of sherry
Steerforth! won't you speak to me
You don't remember me, I am afraid
My God
It's little Copperfield
I never, never, never was so glad! My dear Steerforth, I am so overjoyed to see you
And I am rejoiced to see you, too
Why, Copperfield, old boy, don't be overpowered
Why, how do you come to be here
I came here by the Canterbury coach, today. I have been adopted by an aunt down in that part of the country, and have just finished my education there. How do YOU come to be here, Steerforth
Well, I am what they call an Oxford man
that is to say, I get bored to death down there, periodically - and I am on my way now to my mother's. You're a devilish amiable-looking fellow, Copperfield. just what you used to be, now I look at you! Not altered in the least
I knew you immediately
but you are more easily remembered
Yes, I am on an expedition of duty. My mother lives a little way out of town; and the roads being in a beastly condition, and our house tedious enough, I remained here tonight instead of going on. I have not been in town half-a-dozen hours, and those I have been dozing and grumbling away at the play
I have been at the play, too
At Covent Garden. What a delightful and magnificent entertainment, Steerforth
My dear young Davy
you are a very Daisy. The daisy of the field, at sunrise, is not fresher than you are. I have been at Covent Garden, too, and there never was a more miserable business. Holloa, you sir
Where have you put my friend, Mr. Copperfield
Beg your pardon, sir
Where does he sleep? What's his number? You know what I mean
Well, sir
Mr. Copperfield is at present in forty-four, sir
And what the devil do you mean
by putting Mr. Copperfield into a little loft over a stable
Why, you see we wasn't aware, sir
as Mr. Copperfield was anyways particular. We can give Mr. Copperfield seventy-two, sir, if it would be preferred. Next you, sir
Of course it would be preferred
And do it at once
Now, Copperfield
I should like to hear what you are doing, and where you are going, and all about you. I feel as if you were my property
As you are in no hurry, then
come home with me to Highgate, and stay a day or two. You will be pleased with my mother - she is a little vain and prosy about me, but that you can forgive her - and she will be pleased with you
I should like to be as sure of that, as you are kind enough to say you are
Oh
everyone who likes me, has a claim on her that is sure to be acknowledged
Then I think I shall be a favourite
Good
Come and prove it. We will go and see the lions for an hour or two - it's something to have a fresh fellow like you to show them to, Copperfield - and then we'll journey out to Highgate by the coach
You'll take a high degree at college, Steerforth
if you have not done so already; and they will have good reason to be proud of you
I take a degree
Not I! my dear Daisy - will you mind my calling you Daisy
Not at all
That's a good fellow! My dear Daisy
I have not the least desire or intention to distinguish myself in that way. I have done quite sufficient for my purpose. I find that I am heavy company enough for myself as I am
But the fame
You romantic Daisy
why should I trouble myself, that a parcel of heavy-headed fellows may gape and hold up their hands? Let them do it at some other man. There's fame for him, and he's welcome to it
My dearest James
Oh, really? You know how ignorant I am, and that I only ask for information, but isn't it always so? I thought that kind of life was on all hands understood to be - eh
It is education for a very grave profession, if you mean that, Rosa
Oh! Yes! That's very true
But isn't it, though? - I want to be put right, if I am wrong - isn't it, really
Really what
Oh! You mean it's not
Well, I'm very glad to hear it! Now, I know what to do! That's the advantage of asking. I shall never allow people to talk before me about wastefulness and profligacy, and so forth, in connexion with that life, any more
And you will be right
My son's tutor is a conscientious gentleman; and if I had not implicit reliance on my son, I should have reliance on him
Should you
Dear me! Conscientious, is he? Really conscientious, now
Yes, I am convinced of it
How very nice
What a comfort! Really conscientious? Then he's not - but of course he can't be, if he's really conscientious. Well, I shall be quite happy in my opinion of him, from this time. You can't think how it elevates him in my opinion, to know for certain that he's really conscientious
Oh! That bluff fellow
He had a son with him, hadn't he
No. That was his nephew
whom he adopted, though, as a son. He has a very pretty little niece too, whom he adopted as a daughter. In short, his house - or rather his boat, for he lives in one, on dry land - is full of people who are objects of his generosity and kindness. You would be delighted to see that household
Should I
Well, I think I should. I must see what can be done. It would be worth a journey (not to mention the pleasure of a journey with you, Daisy), to see that sort of people together, and to make one of 'em
Oh, but, really? Do tell me. Are they, though
Are they what? And are who what
That sort of people. - Are they really animals and clods, and beings of another order? I want to know SO much
Why, there's a pretty wide separation between them and us
They are not to be expected to be as sensitive as we are. Their delicacy is not to be shocked, or hurt easily. They are wonderfully virtuous, I dare say - some people contend for that, at least; and I am sure I don't want to contradict them - but they have not very fine natures, and they may be thankful that, like their coarse rough skins, they are not easily wounded
Really
Well, I don't know, now, when I have been better pleased than to hear that. It's so consoling! It's such a delight to know that, when they suffer, they don't feel! Sometimes I have been quite uneasy for that sort of people; but now I shall just dismiss the idea of them, altogether. Live and learn. I had my doubts, I confess, but now they're cleared up. I didn't know, and now I do know, and that shows the advantage of asking - don't it
She is very clever, is she not
Clever! She brings everything to a grindstone
What a remarkable scar that is upon her lip
Why, the fact is
I did that
By an unfortunate accident
No. I was a young boy, and she exasperated me, and I threw a hammer at her. A promising young angel I must have been
She has borne the mark ever since, as you see
and she'll bear it to her grave, if she ever rests in one - though I can hardly believe she will ever rest anywhere. She was the motherless child of a sort of cousin of my father's. He died one day. My mother, who was then a widow, brought her here to be company to her. She has a couple of thousand pounds of her own, and saves the interest of it every year, to add to the principal. There's the history of Miss Rosa Dartle for you
And I have no doubt she loves you like a brother
Humph
Some brothers are not loved over much; and some love - but help yourself, Copperfield! We'll drink the daisies of the field, in compliment to you; and the lilies of the valley that toil not, neither do they spin, in compliment to me - the more shame for me
It was at Mr. Creakle's, my son tells me, that you first became acquainted
Indeed, I recollect his speaking, at that time, of a pupil younger than himself who had taken his fancy there; but your name, as you may suppose, has not lived in my memory
He was very generous and noble to me in those days, I assure you, ma'am
and I stood in need of such a friend. I should have been quite crushed without him
He is always generous and noble
It was not a fit school generally for my son
far from it; but there were particular circumstances to be considered at the time, of more importance even than that selection. My son's high spirit made it desirable that he should be placed with some man who felt its superiority, and would be content to bow himself before it; and we found such a man there
My son's great capacity was tempted on, there, by a feeling of voluntary emulation and conscious pride
He would have risen against all constraint; but he found himself the monarch of the place, and he haughtily determined to be worthy of his station. It was like himself
So my son took, of his own will, and on no compulsion, to the course in which he can always, when it is his pleasure, outstrip every competitor
My son informs me, Mr. Copperfield, that you were quite devoted to him, and that when you met yesterday you made yourself known to him with tears of joy. I should be an affected woman if I made any pretence of being surprised by my son's inspiring such emotions; but I cannot be indifferent to anyone who is so sensible of his merit, and I am very glad to see you here, and can assure you that he feels an unusual friendship for you, and that you may rely on his protection
But really, Mr. Copperfield
is it a nickname? And why does he give it you? Is it - eh? - because he thinks you young and innocent? I am so stupid in these things
Oh
Now I am glad to know that! I ask for information, and I am glad to know it. He thinks you young and innocent; and so you are his friend. Well, that's quite delightful
Mr. Steerforth will be glad to hear how you have rested, sir
Thank you
very well indeed. Is Mr. Steerforth quite well
Thank you, sir, Mr. Steerforth is tolerably well
Is there anything more I can have the honour of doing for you, sir? The warning-bell will ring at nine; the family take breakfast at half past nine
Nothing, I thank you
When do you propose to introduce me there, Daisy
I am at your disposal. Make your own arrangements
Why, I was thinking that this evening would be a good time, Steerforth, when they are all sitting round the fire. I should like you to see it when it's snug, it's such a curious place
So be it
This evening
I shall not give them any notice that we are here, you know
We must take them by surprise
Oh, of course! It's no fun
unless we take them by surprise. Let us see the natives in their aboriginal condition
Though they ARE that sort of people that you mentioned
Aha! What! you recollect my skirmishes with Rosa, do you
Confound the girl, I am half afraid of her. She's like a goblin to me. But never mind her. Now what are you going to do? You are going to see your nurse, I suppose
Why, yes
I must see Peggotty first of all
Well
Suppose I deliver you up to be cried over for a couple of hours. Is that long enough
I'll come anywhere you like
or do anything you like. Tell me where to come to; and in two hours I'll produce myself in any state you please, sentimental or comical
Is Mr. Omer at home
I should like to see him, for a moment, if he is
Oh yes, sir, he is at home
the weather don't suit his asthma out of doors. Joe, call your grandfather
Servant, sir
What can I do for you, sir
You can shake hands with me, Mr. Omer, if you please
You were very good-natured to me once, when I am afraid I didn't show that I thought so
Was I though
I'm glad to hear it, but I don't remember when. Are you sure it was me
Quite
I think my memory has got as short as my breath
for I don't remember you
Don't you remember your coming to the coach to meet me, and my having breakfast here, and our riding out to Blunderstone together: you, and I, and Mrs. Joram, and Mr. Joram too - who wasn't her husband then
Why, Lord bless my soul
you don't say so! Minnie, my dear, you recollect? Dear me, yes; the party was a lady, I think
My mother
To - be - sure
and there was a little child too! There was two parties. The little party was laid along with the other party. Over at Blunderstone it was, of course. Dear me! And how have you been since
Oh! nothing to grumble at, you know
I find my breath gets short, but it seldom gets longer as a man gets older. I take it as it comes, and make the most of it. That's the best way, ain't it
Dear me
Yes, to be sure. Two parties! Why, in that very ride, if you'll believe me, the day was named for my Minnie to marry Joram. "Do name it, sir," says Joram. "Yes, do, father," says Minnie. And now he's come into the business. And look here! The youngest
Two parties, of course
by a good two inches. - Will you take something
Let me see
Barkis's the carrier's wife - Peggotty's the boatman's sister - she had something to do with your family? She was in service there, sure
I believe my breath will get long next, my memory's getting so much so
Well, sir, we've got a young relation of hers here, under articles to us, that has as elegant a taste in the dress-making business - I assure you I don't believe there's a Duchess in England can touch her
Not little Em'ly
'Em'ly's her name
and she's little too. But if you'll believe me, she has such a face of her own that half the women in this town are mad against her
Nonsense, father
My dear
I don't say it's the case with you
but I say that half the women in Yarmouth - ah! and in five mile round - are mad against that girl
Then she should have kept to her own station in life, father
and not have given them any hold to talk about her, and then they couldn't have done it
Couldn't have done it, my dear
Couldn't have done it! Is that YOUR knowledge of life? What is there that any woman couldn't do, that she shouldn't do - especially on the subject of another woman's good looks
You see
she hasn't taken much to any companions here; she hasn't taken kindly to any particular acquaintances and friends, not to mention sweethearts. In consequence, an ill-natured story got about, that Em'ly wanted to be a lady. Now my opinion is, that it came into circulation principally on account of her sometimes saying, at the school, that if she was a lady she would like to do so-and-so for her uncle - don't you see? - and buy him such-and-such fine things
I assure you, Mr. Omer, she has said so to me
when we were both children
Just so. Then out of a very little, she could dress herself, you see, better than most others could out of a deal, and that made things unpleasant. Moreover, she was rather what might be called wayward - I'll go so far as to say what I should call wayward myself
didn't know her own mind quite - a little spoiled - and couldn't, at first, exactly bind herself down. No more than that was ever said against her, Minnie
No, father
That's the worst, I believe
So when she got a situation
to keep a fractious old lady company, they didn't very well agree, and she didn't stop. At last she came here, apprenticed for three years. Nearly two of 'em are over, and she has been as good a girl as ever was. Worth any six! Minnie, is she worth any six, now
Yes, father
Never say I detracted from her
Very good
That's right. And so, young gentleman
that you may not consider me long-winded as well as short-breathed, I believe that's all about it
Wouldn't you like to step in
and speak to her? Walk in and speak to her, sir! Make yourself at home
Is Mr. Barkis at home, ma'am
He's at home, sir
but he's bad abed with the rheumatics
Don't he go over to Blunderstone now
When he's well he do
Do YOU ever go there, Mrs. Barkis
Because I want to ask a question about a house there, that they call the - what is it? - the Rookery
Peggotty
My darling boy
Barkis will be so glad
that it'll do him more good than pints of liniment. May I go and tell him you are here? Will you come up and see him, my dear
What name was it, as I wrote up in the cart, sir
Ah! Mr. Barkis, we had some grave talks about that matter, hadn't we
I was willin' a long time, sir
A long time
And I don't regret it
Do you remember what you told me once, about her making all the apple parsties and doing all the cooking
Yes, very well
It was as true
as turnips is. It was as true
as taxes is. And nothing's truer than them
Nothing's truer than them
a man as poor as I am, finds that out in his mind when he's laid up. I'm a very poor man, sir
I am sorry to hear it, Mr. Barkis
A very poor man, indeed I am
Old clothes
Oh
I wish it was Money, sir
I wish it was, indeed
But it AIN'T
She's the usefullest and best of women, C. P. Barkis. All the praise that anyone can give to C. P. Barkis, she deserves, and more! My dear, you'll get a dinner today, for company; something good to eat and drink, will you
I have got a trifle of money somewhere about me, my dear
but I'm a little tired. If you and Mr. David will leave me for a short nap, I'll try and find it when I wake
Of course
You'll sleep here, while we stay, and I shall sleep at the hotel
But to bring you so far
and to separate, seems bad companionship, Steerforth
Why, in the name of Heaven, where do you naturally belong
What is "seems", compared to that
This is a wild kind of place, Steerforth, is it not
Dismal enough in the dark
and the sea roars as if it were hungry for us. Is that the boat, where I see a light yonder
That's the boat
And it's the same I saw this morning
I came straight to it, by instinct, I suppose
Mas'r Davy! It's Mas'r Davy
Why, that you two gent'lmen - gent'lmen growed - should come to this here roof tonight, of all nights in my life
is such a thing as never happened afore, I do rightly believe! Em'ly, my darling, come here! Come here, my little witch! There's Mas'r Davy's friend, my dear! There's the gent'lman as you've heerd on, Em'ly. He comes to see you, along with Mas'r Davy, on the brightest night of your uncle's life as ever was or will be, Gorm the t'other one, and horroar for it
If you two gent'lmen - gent'lmen growed now, and such gent'lmen
So th' are, so th' are
Well said! So th' are. Mas'r Davy bor' - gent'lmen growed - so th' are
If you two gent'lmen, gent'lmen growed
don't ex-cuse me for being in a state of mind, when you understand matters, I'll arks your pardon. Em'ly, my dear! - She knows I'm a going to tell
and has made off. Would you be so good as look arter her, Mawther, for a minute
If this ain't
the brightest night o' my life, I'm a shellfish - biled too - and more I can't say. This here little Em'ly, sir
her as you see a blushing here just now
To be sure
That's her, and so she is. Thankee, sir
This here little Em'ly of ours
has been, in our house, what I suppose (I'm a ignorant man, but that's my belief) no one but a little bright-eyed creetur can be in a house. She ain't my child; I never had one; but I couldn't love her more. You understand! I couldn't do it
I quite understand
I know you do, sir
and thankee again. Mas'r Davy, he can remember what she was; you may judge for your own self what she is; but neither of you can't fully know what she has been, is, and will be, to my loving art. I am rough, sir
I am as rough as a Sea Porkypine; but no one, unless, mayhap, it is a woman, can know, I think, what our little Em'ly is to me. And betwixt ourselves
that woman's name ain't Missis Gummidge neither, though she has a world of merits
There was a certain person as had know'd our Em'ly, from the time when her father was drownded; as had seen her constant; when a babby, when a young gal, when a woman. Not much of a person to look at, he warn't
What does this here blessed tarpaulin go and do
but he loses that there art of his to our little Em'ly. He follers her about, he makes hisself a sort o' servant to her, he loses in a great measure his relish for his wittles, and in the long-run he makes it clear to me wot's amiss. Now I could wish myself, you see, that our little Em'ly was in a fair way of being married. I could wish to see her, at all ewents, under articles to a honest man as had a right to defend her. I don't know how long I may live, or how soon I may die; but I know that if I was capsized, any night, in a gale of wind in Yarmouth Roads here, and was to see the town-lights shining for the last time over the rollers as I couldn't make no head against, I could go down quieter for thinking "There's a man ashore there, iron-true to my little Em'ly, God bless her, and no wrong can touch my Em'ly while so be as that man lives
Well! I counsels him to speak to Em'ly. He's big enough, but he's bashfuller than a little un, and he don't like. So I speak. "What! Him!" says Em'ly. "Him that I've know'd so intimate so many years, and like so much. Oh, Uncle! I never can have him. He's such a good fellow!" I gives her a kiss, and I says no more to her than, "My dear, you're right to speak out, you're to choose for yourself, you're as free as a little bird." Then I aways to him, and I says, "I wish it could have been so, but it can't. But you can both be as you was, and wot I say to you is, Be as you was with her, like a man." He says to me, a-shaking of my hand, "I will!" he says. And he was - honourable and manful - for two year going on, and we was just the same at home here as afore
All of a sudden, one evening - as it might be tonight - comes little Em'ly from her work, and him with her! There ain't so much in that, you'll say. No, because he takes care on her, like a brother, arter dark, and indeed afore dark, and at all times. But this tarpaulin chap, he takes hold of her hand, and he cries out to me, joyful, "Look here! This is to be my little wife!" And she says, half bold and half shy, and half a laughing and half a crying, "Yes, Uncle! If you please." - If I please
Lord, as if I should do anythink else! - "If you please, I am steadier now, and I have thought better of it, and I'll be as good a little wife as I can to him, for he's a dear, good fellow!" Then Missis Gummidge, she claps her hands like a play, and you come in. Theer! the murder's out
You come in! It took place this here present hour; and here's the man that'll marry her, the minute she's out of her time
She warn't no higher than you was, Mas'r Davy - when you first come - when I thought what she'd grow up to be. I see her grown up - gent'lmen - like a flower. I'd lay down my life for her - Mas'r Davy - Oh! most content and cheerful! She's more to me - gent'lmen - than - she's all to me that ever I can want, and more than ever I - than ever I could say. I - I love her true. There ain't a gent'lman in all the land - nor yet sailing upon all the sea - that can love his lady more than I love her, though there's many a common man - would say better - what he meant
Mr. Peggotty
you are a thoroughly good fellow, and deserve to be as happy as you are tonight. My hand upon it! Ham, I give you joy, my boy. My hand upon that, too! Daisy, stir the fire, and make it a brisk one! and Mr. Peggotty, unless you can induce your gentle niece to come back (for whom I vacate this seat in the corner), I shall go. Any gap at your fireside on such a night - such a gap least of all - I wouldn't make, for the wealth of the Indies
A most engaging little Beauty
Well! It's a quaint place, and they are quaint company, and it's quite a new sensation to mix with them
How fortunate we are, too
to have arrived to witness their happiness in that intended marriage! I never saw people so happy. How delightful to see it, and to be made the sharers in their honest joy, as we have been
That's rather a chuckle-headed fellow for the girl; isn't he
Ah, Steerforth! It's well for you to joke about the poor! You may skirmish with Miss Dartle, or try to hide your sympathies in jest from me, but I know better. When I see how perfectly you understand them, how exquisitely you can enter into happiness like this plain fisherman's, or humour a love like my old nurse's, I know that there is not a joy or sorrow, not an emotion, of such people, that can be indifferent to you. And I admire and love you for it, Steerforth, twenty times the more
Daisy, I believe you are in earnest, and are good. I wish we all were
You come upon me
like a reproachful ghost
I was obliged to announce myself, somehow
Have I called you down from the stars
No
No
Up from anywhere, then
I was looking at the pictures in the fire
But you are spoiling them for me
You would not have seen them
I detest this mongrel time, neither day nor night. How late you are! Where have you been
I have been taking leave of my usual walk
And I have been sitting here
thinking that all the people we found so glad on the night of our coming down, might - to judge from the present wasted air of the place - be dispersed, or dead, or come to I don't know what harm. David, I wish to God I had had a judicious father these last twenty years
My dear Steerforth, what is the matter
I wish with all my soul I had been better guided
I wish with all my soul I could guide myself better
It would be better to be this poor Peggotty, or his lout of a nephew
than to be myself, twenty times richer and twenty times wiser, and be the torment to myself that I have been, in this Devil's bark of a boat, within the last half-hour
Tut, it's nothing, Daisy! nothing
I told you at the inn in London, I am heavy company for myself, sometimes. I have been a nightmare to myself, just now - must have had one, I think. At odd dull times, nursery tales come up into the memory, unrecognized for what they are. I believe I have been confounding myself with the bad boy who "didn't care", and became food for lions - a grander kind of going to the dogs, I suppose. What old women call the horrors, have been creeping over me from head to foot. I have been afraid of myself
You are afraid of nothing else, I think
Perhaps not, and yet may have enough to be afraid of too
Well! So it goes by! I am not about to be hipped again, David; but I tell you, my good fellow, once more, that it would have been well for me (and for more than me) if I had had a steadfast and judicious father
So much for that
But where are they all, I wonder
God knows
After strolling to the ferry looking for you, I strolled in here and found the place deserted. That set me thinking, and you found me thinking
And so
we abandon this buccaneer life tomorrow, do we
So we agreed
And our places by the coach are taken, you know
Ay! there's no help for it, I suppose
I have almost forgotten that there is anything to do in the world but to go out tossing on the sea here. I wish there was not
As long as the novelty should last
Like enough
though there's a sarcastic meaning in that observation for an amiable piece of innocence like my young friend. Well! I dare say I am a capricious fellow, David. I know I am; but while the iron is hot, I can strike it vigorously too. I could pass a reasonably good examination already, as a pilot in these waters, I think
Mr. Peggotty says you are a wonder
A nautical phenomenon, eh
Indeed he does, and you know how truly; I know how ardent you are in any pursuit you follow, and how easily you can master it. And that amazes me most in you, Steerforth- that you should be contented with such fitful uses of your powers
Contented
I am never contented, except with your freshness, my gentle Daisy. As to fitfulness, I have never learnt the art of binding myself to any of the wheels on which the Ixions of these days are turning round and round. I missed it somehow in a bad apprenticeship, and now don't care about it. - You know I have bought a boat down here
What an extraordinary fellow you are, Steerforth
When you may never care to come near the place again
I don't know that
I have taken a fancy to the place. At all events
I have bought a boat that was for sale - a clipper, Mr. Peggotty says; and so she is - and Mr. Peggotty will be master of her in my absence
Now I understand you, Steerforth
You pretend to have bought it for yourself, but you have really done so to confer a benefit on him. I might have known as much at first, knowing you. My dear kind Steerforth, how can I tell you what I think of your generosity
Tush
The less said, the better
Didn't I know
didn't I say that there was not a joy, or sorrow, or any emotion of such honest hearts that was indifferent to you
Aye, aye
you told me all that. There let it rest. We have said enough
She must be newly rigged
and I shall leave Littimer behind to see it done, that I may know she is quite complete. Did I tell you Littimer had come down
No
Oh yes! came down this morning, with a letter from my mother
Oh no
Nothing of the sort! Yes. He is come down, that man of mine
The same as ever
The same as ever
Distant and quiet as the North Pole. He shall see to the boat being fresh named. She's the "Stormy Petrel" now. What does Mr. Peggotty care for Stormy Petrels! I'll have her christened again
By what name
The "Little Em'ly
But see here
where the original little Em'ly comes! And that fellow with her, eh? Upon my soul, he's a true knight. He never leaves her
That is a black shadow to be following the girl
what does it mean
She must have it in her mind to beg of them, I think
A beggar would be no novelty
but it is a strange thing that the beggar should take that shape tonight
Why
For no better reason, truly, than because I was thinking
of something like it, when it came by. Where the Devil did it come from, I wonder
From the shadow of this wall, I think
It's gone
And all ill go with it. Now for our dinner
You are very young, sir; you are exceedingly young
I beg your pardon, sir. Miss Mowcher is down here
Who
Miss Mowcher, sir
Why, what on earth does she do here
It appears to be her native part of the country, sir. She informs me that she makes one of her professional visits here, every year, sir. I met her in the street this afternoon, and she wished to know if she might have the honour of waiting on you after dinner, sir
Do you know the Giantess in question, Daisy
Then you shall know her
for she is one of the seven wonders of the world. When Miss Mowcher comes, show her in
Miss Mowcher
What! My flower
You're there, are you! Oh, you naughty boy, fie for shame, what do you do so far away from home? Up to mischief, I'll be bound. Oh, you're a downy fellow, Steerforth, so you are, and I'm another, ain't I? Ha, ha, ha! You'd have betted a hundred pound to five, now, that you wouldn't have seen me here, wouldn't you? Bless you, man alive, I'm everywhere. I'm here and there, and where not, like the conjurer's half-crown in the lady's handkercher. Talking of handkerchers - and talking of ladies - what a comfort you are to your blessed mother, ain't you, my dear boy, over one of my shoulders, and I don't say which
Oh my stars and what's-their-names
I'm of too full a habit, that's the fact, Steerforth. After a flight of stairs, it gives me as much trouble to draw every breath I want, as if it was a bucket of water. If you saw me looking out of an upper window, you'd think I was a fine woman, wouldn't you
I should think that, wherever I saw you
Go along, you dog, do
and don't be impudent! But I give you my word and honour I was at Lady Mithers's last week - THERE'S a woman! How SHE wears! - and Mithers himself came into the room where I was waiting for her - THERE'S a man! How HE wears! and his wig too, for he's had it these ten years - and he went on at that rate in the complimentary line, that I began to think I should be obliged to ring the bell. Ha! ha! ha! He's a pleasant wretch, but he wants principle
What were you doing for Lady Mithers
That's tellings, my blessed infant
Never YOU mind! You'd like to know whether I stop her hair from falling off, or dye it, or touch up her complexion, or improve her eyebrows, wouldn't you? And so you shall, my darling - when I tell you! Do you know what my great grandfather's name was
No
It was Walker, my sweet pet
and he came of a long line of Walkers, that I inherit all the Hookey estates from
Who's your friend
Mr. Copperfield
he wants to know you
Well, then, he shall! I thought he looked as if he did
Face like a peach
Quite tempting! I'm very fond of peaches. Happy to make your acquaintance, Mr. Copperfield, I'm sure
Oh, my goodness, how polite we are
What a world of gammon and spinnage it is, though, ain't it
What do you mean, Miss Mowcher
Ha! ha! ha! What a refreshing set of humbugs we are, to be sure, ain't we, my sweet child
Look here
Scraps of the Russian Prince's nails. Prince Alphabet turned topsy-turvy, I call him, for his name's got all the letters in it, higgledy-piggledy
The Russian Prince is a client of yours, is he
I believe you, my pet
I keep his nails in order for him. Twice a week! Fingers and toes
He pays well, I hope
Pays, as he speaks, my dear child - through the nose
None of your close shavers the Prince ain't. You'd say so, if you saw his moustachios. Red by nature, black by art
By your art, of course
Forced to send for me. Couldn't help it. The climate affected his dye; it did very well in Russia, but it was no go here. You never saw such a rusty Prince in all your born days as he was. Like old iron
Is that why you called him a humbug, just now
Oh, you're a broth of a boy, ain't you
I said, what a set of humbugs we were in general, and I showed you the scraps of the Prince's nails to prove it. The Prince's nails do more for me in private families of the genteel sort, than all my talents put together. I always carry 'em about. They're the best introduction. If Miss Mowcher cuts the Prince's nails, she must be all right. I give 'em away to the young ladies. They put 'em in albums, I believe. Ha! ha! ha! Upon my life, "the whole social system" (as the men call it when they make speeches in Parliament) is a system of Prince's nails
Well, well
this is not business. Come, Steerforth, let's explore the polar regions, and have it over
If either of you saw my ankles
say so, and I'll go home and destroy myself
I did not
I did not
Well then
I'll consent to live. Now, ducky, ducky, ducky, come to Mrs. Bond and be killed
You're a pretty fellow
You'd be as bald as a friar on the top of your head in twelve months, but for me. Just half a minute, my young friend, and we'll give you a polishing that shall keep your curls on for the next ten years
There's Charley Pyegrave, the duke's son
You know Charley
A little
What a man HE is! THERE'S a whisker! As to Charley's legs, if they were only a pair (which they ain't), they'd defy competition. Would you believe he tried to do without me - in the Life-Guards, too
Mad
It looks like it. However, mad or sane, he tried
What does he do, but, lo and behold you, he goes into a perfumer's shop, and wants to buy a bottle of the Madagascar Liquid
Charley does
Charley does. But they haven't got any of the Madagascar Liquid
What is it? Something to drink
To drink
To doctor his own moustachios with, you know. There was a woman in the shop - elderly female - quite a Griffin - who had never even heard of it by name. "Begging pardon, sir," said the Griffin to Charley, "it's not - not - not ROUGE, is it?" "Rouge," said Charley to the Griffin. "What the unmentionable to ears polite, do you think I want with rouge?" "No offence, sir," said the Griffin; "we have it asked for by so many names, I thought it might be." Now that, my child
is another instance of the refreshing humbug I was speaking of. I do something in that way myself - perhaps a good deal - perhaps a little - sharp's the word, my dear boy - never mind
In what way do you mean? In the rouge way
Put this and that together, my tender pupil
work it by the rule of Secrets in all trades, and the product will give you the desired result. I say I do a little in that way myself. One Dowager, SHE calls it lip-salve. Another, SHE calls it gloves. Another, SHE calls it tucker-edging. Another, SHE calls it a fan. I call it whatever THEY call it. I supply it for 'em, but we keep up the trick so, to one another, and make believe with such a face, that they'd as soon think of laying it on, before a whole drawing-room, as before me. And when I wait upon 'em, they'll say to me sometimes - WITH IT ON - thick, and no mistake - "How am I looking, Mowcher? Am I pale?" Ha! ha! ha! ha! Isn't THAT refreshing, my young friend
Ah
Such things are not much in demand hereabouts. That sets me off again! I haven't seen a pretty woman since I've been here, jemmy
No
Not the ghost of one
We could show her the substance of one, I think
Eh, Daisy
Yes, indeed
Aha
Umph
A sister of yours, Mr. Copperfield
Aye, aye
No
Nothing of the sort. On the contrary, Mr. Copperfield used - or I am much mistaken - to have a great admiration for her
Why, hasn't he now
Is he fickle? Oh, for shame! Did he sip every flower, and change every hour, until Polly his passion requited? - Is her name Polly
No, Miss Mowcher
Her name is Emily
Aha
Umph? What a rattle I am! Mr. Copperfield, ain't I volatile
She is as virtuous as she is pretty. She is engaged to be married to a most worthy and deserving man in her own station of life. I esteem her for her good sense, as much as I admire her for her good looks
Well said
Hear, hear, hear! Now I'll quench the curiosity of this little Fatima, my dear Daisy, by leaving her nothing to guess at. She is at present apprenticed, Miss Mowcher, or articled, or whatever it may be, to Omer and Joram, Haberdashers, Milliners, and so forth, in this town. Do you observe? Omer and Joram. The promise of which my friend has spoken, is made and entered into with her cousin; Christian name, Ham; surname, Peggotty; occupation, boat-builder; also of this town. She lives with a relative; Christian name, unknown; surname, Peggotty; occupation, seafaring; also of this town. She is the prettiest and most engaging little fairy in the world. I admire her - as my friend does - exceedingly. If it were not that I might appear to disparage her Intended, which I know my friend would not like, I would add, that to me she seems to be throwing herself away; that I am sure she might do better; and that I swear she was born to be a lady
Oh! And that's all about it, is it
Very well: very well! Quite a long story. Ought to end "and they lived happy ever afterwards"; oughtn't it? Ah! What's that game at forfeits? I love my love with an E, because she's enticing; I hate her with an E, because she's engaged. I took her to the sign of the exquisite, and treated her with an elopement, her name's Emily, and she lives in the east? Ha! ha! ha! Mr. Copperfield, ain't I volatile
There! If ever any scapegrace was trimmed and touched up to perfection, you are, Steerforth. If I understand any noddle in the world, I understand yours. Do you hear me when I tell you that, my darling? I understand yours
Now you may mizzle, jemmy (as we say at Court), and if Mr. Copperfield will take the chair I'll operate on him
What do you say, Daisy
Will you be improved
Thank you, Miss Mowcher, not this evening
Don't say no
a little bit more eyebrow
Thank you
some other time
Have it carried half a quarter of an inch towards the temple
We can do it in a fortnight
No, I thank you. Not at present
Go in for a tip
No? Let's get the scaffolding up, then, for a pair of whiskers. Come
The fee
is
Five bob
and dirt cheap, my chicken. Ain't I volatile, Mr. Copperfield
Not at all
That's the Till
Have I got all my traps? It seems so. It won't do to be like long Ned Beadwood, when they took him to church "to marry him to somebody", as he says, and left the bride behind. Ha! ha! ha! A wicked rascal, Ned, but droll! Now, I know I'm going to break your hearts, but I am forced to leave you. You must call up all your fortitude, and try to bear it. Good-bye, Mr. Copperfield! Take care of yourself, jockey of Norfolk! How I have been rattling on! It's all the fault of you two wretches. I forgive you! "Bob swore!" - as the Englishman said for "Good night", when he first learnt French, and thought it so like English. "Bob swore," my ducks
Ain't I volatile
Bob swore
Why, you see, Mas'r Davy
un in here
I should have thought
that that was a reason for your being in here too, Ham
Well, Mas'r Davy, in a general way, so 't would be
but look'ee here, Mas'r Davy
It's a young woman, sir - a young woman, that Em'ly knowed once, and doen't ought to know no more
It's a poor wurem, Mas'r Davy
as is trod under foot by all the town. Up street and down street. The mowld o' the churchyard don't hold any that the folk shrink away from, more
Did I see her tonight, Ham, on the sand, after we met you
Keeping us in sight
It's like you did, Mas'r Davy. Not that I know'd then, she was theer, sir, but along of her creeping soon arterwards under Em'ly's little winder, when she see the light come, and whispering "Em'ly, Em'ly, for Christ's sake, have a woman's heart towards me. I was once like you!" Those was solemn words, Mas'r Davy, fur to hear
They were indeed, Ham. What did Em'ly do
Says Em'ly, "Martha, is it you? Oh, Martha, can it be you?" - for they had sat at work together, many a day, at Mr. Omer's
I recollect her now
I recollect her quite well
Martha Endell
Two or three year older than Em'ly, but was at the school with her
I never heard her name
I didn't mean to interrupt you
For the matter o' that, Mas'r Davy
all's told a'most in them words, "Em'ly, Em'ly, for Christ's sake, have a woman's heart towards me. I was once like you!" She wanted to speak to Em'ly. Em'ly couldn't speak to her theer, for her loving uncle was come home, and he wouldn't - no, Mas'r Davy
he couldn't, kind-natur'd, tender-hearted as he is, see them two together, side by side, for all the treasures that's wrecked in the sea
So Em'ly writes in pencil on a bit of paper
and gives it to her out o' winder to bring here. "Show that," she says, "to my aunt, Mrs. Barkis, and she'll set you down by her fire, for the love of me, till uncle is gone out, and I can come." By and by she tells me what I tell you, Mas'r Davy, and asks me to bring her. What can I do? She doen't ought to know any such, but I can't deny her, when the tears is on her face
And if I could deny her when the tears was on her face, Mas'r Davy
how could I deny her when she give me this to carry for her - knowing what she brought it for? Such a toy as it is
With such a little money in it, Em'ly my dear
Martha wants
to go to London
Why to London
Better there than here
No one knows me there. Everybody knows me here
What will she do there
She will try to do well
You don't know what she has said to us. Does he - do they - aunt
I'll try
if you'll help me away. I never can do worse than I have done here. I may do better. Oh
take me out of these streets, where the whole town knows me from a child
It's all yourn, Em'ly
I haven't nowt in all the wureld that ain't yourn, my dear. It ain't of no delight to me, except for you
More than enough
Doen't, Em'ly
Doen't, my dear! You doen't ought to cry so, pretty
Oh, Ham
I am not so good a girl as I ought to be! I know I have not the thankful heart, sometimes, I ought to have
Yes, yes, you have, I'm sure
No! no! no
I am not as good a girl as I ought to be. Not near! not near
I try your love too much. I know I do
I'm often cross to you, and changeable with you, when I ought to be far different. You are never so to me. Why am I ever so to you, when I should think of nothing but how to be grateful, and to make you happy
You always make me so
my dear! I am happy in the sight of you. I am happy, all day long, in the thoughts of you
Ah! that's not enough
That is because you are good; not because I am! Oh, my dear, it might have been a better fortune for you, if you had been fond of someone else - of someone steadier and much worthier than me, who was all bound up in you, and never vain and changeable like me
Poor little tender-heart
Martha has overset her, altogether
Please, aunt
come here, and let me lay my head upon you. Oh, I am very miserable tonight, aunt! Oh, I am not as good a girl as I ought to be. I am not, I know
Oh, pray, aunt, try to help me! Ham, dear, try to help me! Mr. David, for the sake of old times, do, please, try to help me! I want to be a better girl than I am. I want to feel a hundred times more thankful than I do. I want to feel more, what a blessed thing it is to be the wife of a good man, and to lead a peaceful life. Oh me, oh me! Oh my heart, my heart
No, sir
probably not very long, sir
He can hardly say, just now
He knows what he has to do, and he'll do it
That I am sure he will
Find a voice, David. What about that letter you were speaking of at breakfast
Oh
It's from my aunt
And what does she say, requiring consideration
Why, she reminds me, Steerforth
that I came out on this expedition to look about me, and to think a little
Which, of course, you have done
Indeed I can't say I have, particularly. To tell you the truth, I am afraid I have forgotten it
Well! look about you now, and make up for your negligence
Look to the right, and you'll see a flat country, with a good deal of marsh in it; look to the left, and you'll see the same. Look to the front, and you'll find no difference; look to the rear, and there it is still
What says our aunt on the subject
Does she suggest anything
Why, yes
She asks me, here, if I think I should like to be a proctor? What do you think of it
Well, I don't know
You may as well do that as anything else, I suppose
What is a proctor, Steerforth
Why, he is a sort of monkish attorney
He is, to some faded courts held in Doctors' Commons, - a lazy old nook near St. Paul's Churchyard - what solicitors are to the courts of law and equity. He is a functionary whose existence, in the natural course of things, would have terminated about two hundred years ago. I can tell you best what he is, by telling you what Doctors' Commons is. It's a little out-of-the-way place, where they administer what is called ecclesiastical law, and play all kinds of tricks with obsolete old monsters of acts of Parliament, which three-fourths of the world know nothing about, and the other fourth supposes to have been dug up, in a fossil state, in the days of the Edwards. It's a place that has an ancient monopoly in suits about people's wills and people's marriages, and disputes among ships and boats
Nonsense, Steerforth
You don't mean to say that there is any affinity between nautical matters and ecclesiastical matters
I don't, indeed, my dear boy
but I mean to say that they are managed and decided by the same set of people, down in that same Doctors' Commons. You shall go there one day, and find them blundering through half the nautical terms in Young's Dictionary, apropos of the "Nancy" having run down the "Sarah Jane", or Mr. Peggotty and the Yarmouth boatmen having put off in a gale of wind with an anchor and cable to the "Nelson" Indiaman in distress; and you shall go there another day, and find them deep in the evidence, pro and con, respecting a clergyman who has misbehaved himself; and you shall find the judge in the nautical case, the advocate in the clergyman's case, or contrariwise. They are like actors: now a man's a judge, and now he is not a judge; now he's one thing, now he's another; now he's something else, change and change about; but it's always a very pleasant, profitable little affair of private theatricals, presented to an uncommonly select audience
But advocates and proctors are not one and the same
Are they
No
the advocates are civilians - men who have taken a doctor's degree at college - which is the first reason of my knowing anything about it. The proctors employ the advocates. Both get very comfortable fees, and altogether they make a mighty snug little party. On the whole, I would recommend you to take to Doctors' Commons kindly, David. They plume them- selves on their gentility there, I can tell you, if that's any satisfaction
That's a laudable proceeding on the part of our aunt, at all events
and one deserving of all encouragement. Daisy, my advice is that you take kindly to Doctors' Commons
So you have left Mr. Dick behind, aunt
I am sorry for that. Ah, Janet, how do you do
I am sorry for it, too
I have had no peace of mind, Trot, since I have been here
I am convinced
that Dick's character is not a character to keep the donkeys off. I am confident he wants strength of purpose. I ought to have left Janet at home, instead, and then my mind might perhaps have been at ease. If ever there was a donkey trespassing on my green
It was a donkey
and it was the one with the stumpy tail which that Murdering sister of a woman rode, when she came to my house
If there is any Donkey in Dover, whose audacity it is harder to me to bear than another's, that
is the animal
I suppose this unfortunate fowl was born and brought up in a cellar
and never took the air except on a hackney coach-stand. I hope the steak may be beef, but I don't believe it. Nothing's genuine in the place, in my opinion, but the dirt
Don't you think the fowl may have come out of the country, aunt
Certainly not
It would be no pleasure to a London tradesman to sell anything which was what he pretended it was
Well, Trot
what do you think of the proctor plan? Or have you not begun to think about it yet
I have thought a good deal about it, my dear aunt, and I have talked a good deal about it with Steerforth. I like it very much indeed. I like it exceedingly
Come
That's cheering
I have only one difficulty, aunt
Say what it is, Trot
Why, I want to ask, aunt, as this seems, from what I understand, to be a limited profession, whether my entrance into it would not be very expensive
It will cost
to article you, just a thousand pounds
Now, my dear aunt
I am uneasy in my mind about that. It's a large sum of money. You have expended a great deal on my education, and have always been as liberal to me in all things as it was possible to be. You have been the soul of generosity. Surely there are some ways in which I might begin life with hardly any outlay, and yet begin with a good hope of getting on by resolution and exertion. Are you sure that it would not be better to try that course? Are you certain that you can afford to part with so much money, and that it is right that it should be so expended? I only ask you, my second mother, to consider. Are you certain
Trot, my child, if I have any object in life, it is to provide for your being a good, a sensible, and a happy man. I am bent upon it - so is Dick. I should like some people that I know to hear Dick's conversation on the subject. Its sagacity is wonderful. But no one knows the resources of that man's intellect, except myself
no, I have no other claim upon my means - and you are my adopted child. Only be a loving child to me in my age, and bear with my whims and fancies; and you will do more for an old woman whose prime of life was not so happy or conciliating as it might have been, than ever that old woman did for you
All is agreed and understood between us, now, Trot
and we need talk of this no more. Give me a kiss, and we'll go to the Commons after breakfast tomorrow
if I heard the engines
Trot! My dear Trot
I don't know what I am to do
Don't be alarmed
There's nothing to be afraid of. Step into a shop, and I'll soon get rid of this fellow
No, no, child
Don't speak to him for the world. I entreat, I order you
Good Heaven, aunt
He is nothing but a sturdy beggar
You don't know what he is
You don't know who he is! You don't know what you say
Don't look at him
but get me a coach, my dear, and wait for me in St. Paul's Churchyard
Wait for you
Yes
I must go alone. I must go with him
With him, aunt? This man
I am in my senses
and I tell you I must. Get mea coach
Drive anywhere! Drive straight on
My dear child, never ask me what it was, and don't refer to it
Mr. Spenlow's in Court, ma'am
it's an Arches day; but it's close by, and I'll send for him directly
And so, Mr. Copperfield, you think of entering into our profession? I casually mentioned to Miss Trotwood, when I had the pleasure of an interview with her the other day
Oh surely! surely
We always, in this house, propose a month - an initiatory month. I should be happy, myself, to propose two months - three - an indefinite period, in fact - but I have a partner. Mr. Jorkins
And the premium, sir
is a thousand pounds
And the premium, Stamp included, is a thousand pounds
As I have mentioned to Miss Trotwood, I am actuated by no mercenary considerations; few men are less so, I believe; but Mr. Jorkins has his opinions on these subjects, and I am bound to respect Mr. Jorkins's opinions. Mr. Jorkins thinks a thousand pounds too little, in short
I suppose, sir
I suppose it is not the custom, in the later years of his time, to allow him any
No. I will not say what consideration I might give to that point myself, Mr. Copperfield, if I were unfettered. Mr. Jorkins is immovable
I have not been here a week tomorrow, without considering that too, my dear
There is a furnished little set of chambers to be let in the Adelphi, Trot, which ought to suit you to a marvel
Why, this is the very thing, aunt
Then come
We'll go and look at 'em
Let us see these chambers of yours, if you please, ma'am
For this gentleman
Yes, for my nephew
And a sweet set they is for sich
Is it the last occupant's furniture
Yes, it is, ma'am
What's become of him
He was took ill here, ma'am, and - ugh! ugh! ugh! dear me! - and he died
Hey! What did he die of
Well, ma'am, he died of drink
And smoke
Smoke? You don't mean chimneys
No, ma'am
Cigars and pipes
That's not catching, Trot, at any rate
No, indeed
Was it really though
My dear Steerforth
I began to think I should never see you again
I was carried off, by force of arms
the very next morning after I got home. Why, Daisy, what a rare old bachelor you are here
I tell you what, old boy
I shall make quite a town-house of this place, unless you give me notice to quit
But you shall have some breakfast
and Mrs. Crupp shall make you some fresh coffee, and I'll toast you some bacon in a bachelor's Dutch-oven, that I have got here
No, no
Don't ring! I can't! I am going to breakfast with one of these fellows who is at the Piazza Hotel, in Covent Garden
But you'll come back to dinner
I can't, upon my life. There's nothing I should like better, but I must remain with these two fellows. We are all three off together tomorrow morning
Then bring them here to dinner
Do you think they would come
Oh! they would come fast enough
but we should inconvenience you. You had better come and dine with us somewhere
Never mind fish
A man might get on very well here, Mr. Copperfield
It's not a bad situation
and the rooms are really commodious
I hope you have both brought appetites with you
Upon my honour
town seems to sharpen a man's appetite. A man is hungry all day long. A man is perpetually eating
I'll give you Steerforth! God bless him! Hurrah
Steerforth - you'retheguidingstarofmyexistence
Woman
The Ladies
Why did you try to smoke? You might have known you couldn't do it
Let us go to the theatre, Copperfield
You are all right, Copperfield, are you not
Neverberrer
Silence
Agnes
Lorblessmer! Agnes
Hush! Pray
You disturb the company. Look at the stage
Agnes
I'mafraidyou'renorwell
Yes, yes. Do not mind me, Trotwood
Listen! Are you going away soon
Amigoarawaysoo
Yes
I know you will do as I ask you, if I tell you I am very earnest in it. Go away now, Trotwood, for my sake, and ask your friends to take you home
Goori
Good night
Oh, Mrs. Crupp, Mrs. Crupp, never mind the broken meats! I am very miserable
T. Copperfield, Esquire
My dear Trotwood. I am staying at the house of papa's agent, Mr. Waterbrook, in Ely Place, Holborn. Will you come and see me today, at any time you like to appoint? Ever yours affectionately, AGNES
If it had been anyone but you, Agnes
I should not have minded it half so much. But that it should have been you who saw me! I almost wish I had been dead, first
Sit down
Don't be unhappy, Trotwood. If you cannot confidently trust me, whom will you trust
Ah, Agnes
You are my good Angel
Yes, Agnes, my good Angel! Always my good Angel
If I were, indeed, Trotwood
there is one thing that I should set my heart on very much
On warning you
against your bad Angel
My dear Agnes
if you mean Steerforth
I do, Trotwood
Then, Agnes, you wrong him very much. He my bad Angel, or anyone's! He, anything but a guide, a support, and a friend to me! My dear Agnes! Now, is it not unjust, and unlike you, to judge him from what you saw of me the other night
I do not judge him from what I saw of you the other night
From what, then
From many things - trifles in themselves, but they do not seem to me to be so, when they are put together. I judge him, partly from your account of him, Trotwood, and your character, and the influence he has over you
It is very bold in me
who have lived in such seclusion, and can know so little of the world, to give you my advice so confidently, or even to have this strong opinion. But I know in what it is engendered, Trotwood, - in how true a remembrance of our having grown up together, and in how true an interest in all relating to you. It is that which makes me bold. I am certain that what I say is right. I am quite sure it is. I feel as if it were someone else speaking to you, and not I, when I caution you that you have made a dangerous friend
I am not so unreasonable as to expect
that you will, or that you can, at once, change any sentiment that has become a conviction to you; least of all a sentiment that is rooted in your trusting disposition. You ought not hastily to do that. I only ask you, Trotwood, if you ever think of me - I mean
as often as you think of me - to think of what I have said. Do you forgive me for all this
I will forgive you, Agnes
when you come to do Steerforth justice, and to like him as well as I do
Not until then
And when, Agnes
will you forgive me the other night
When I recall it
You must not forget
that you are always to tell me, not only when you fall into trouble, but when you fall in love. Who has succeeded to Miss Larkins, Trotwood
No one, Agnes
Someone, Trotwood
No, Agnes, upon my word! There is a lady, certainly, at Mrs. Steerforth's house, who is very clever, and whom I like to talk to - Miss Dartle - but I don't adore her
Uriah Heep
No. Is he in London
He comes to the office downstairs, every day
He was in London a week before me. I am afraid on disagreeable business, Trotwood
On some business that makes you uneasy, Agnes, I see
What can that be
I believe he is going to enter into partnership with papa
What? Uriah? That mean, fawning fellow, worm himself into such promotion
Have you made no remonstrance about it, Agnes? Consider what a connexion it is likely to be. You must speak out. You must not allow your father to take such a mad step. You must prevent it, Agnes, while there's time
You remember our last conversation about papa? It was not long after that - not more than two or three days - when he gave me the first intimation of what I tell you. It was sad to see him struggling between his desire to represent it to me as a matter of choice on his part, and his inability to conceal that it was forced upon him. I felt very sorry
Forced upon him, Agnes! Who forces it upon him
Uriah
has made himself indispensable to papa. He is subtle and watchful. He has mastered papa's weaknesses, fostered them, and taken advantage of them, until - to say all that I mean in a word, Trotwood, - until papa is afraid of him
His ascendancy over papa
is very great. He professes humility and gratitude - with truth, perhaps: I hope so - but his position is really one of power, and I fear he makes a hard use of his power
At the time I speak of, as the time when papa spoke to me
he had told papa that he was going away; that he was very sorry, and unwilling to leave, but that he had better prospects. Papa was very much depressed then, and more bowed down by care than ever you or I have seen him; but he seemed relieved by this expedient of the partnership, though at the same time he seemed hurt by it and ashamed of it
And how did you receive it, Agnes
I did, Trotwood
what I hope was right. Feeling sure that it was necessary for papa's peace that the sacrifice should be made, I entreated him to make it. I said it would lighten the load of his life - I hope it will! - and that it would give me increased opportunities of being his companion. Oh, Trotwood
I almost feel as if I had been papa's enemy, instead of his loving child. For I know how he has altered, in his devotion to me. I know how he has narrowed the circle of his sympathies and duties, in the concentration of his whole mind upon me. I know what a multitude of things he has shut out for my sake, and how his anxious thoughts of me have shadowed his life, and weakened his strength and energy, by turning them always upon one idea. If I could ever set this right! If I could ever work out his restoration, as I have so innocently been the cause of his decline
Pray, Agnes, don't! Don't, my dear sister
We are not likely to remain alone much longer
and while I have an opportunity, let me earnestly entreat you, Trotwood, to be friendly to Uriah. Don't repel him. Don't resent (as I think you have a general disposition to do) what may be uncongenial to you in him. He may not deserve it, for we know no certain ill of him. In any case, think first of papa and me
Indeed
You are too young to have been at school with Mr. Henry Spiker
Oh, I don't mean him
I mean the gentleman named Traddles
Oh! Aye, aye! Indeed
Possibly
If it's really the same person
it was at a place called Salem House where we were together, and he was an excellent fellow
Oh yes. Traddles is a good fellow
Traddles is quite a good fellow
It's a curious coincidence
It is really
quite a coincidence, that Traddles should be here at all: as Traddles was only invited this morning, when the place at table, intended to be occupied by Mrs. Henry Spiker's brother, became vacant, in consequence of his indisposition. A very gentlemanly man, Mrs. Henry Spiker's brother, Mr. Copperfield
Traddles
is a young man reading for the bar. Yes. He is quite a good fellow - nobody's enemy but his own
Is he his own enemy
Well
I should say he was one of those men who stand in their own light. Yes, I should say he would never, for example, be worth five hundred pound. Traddles was recommended to me by a professional friend. Oh yes. Yes. He has a kind of talent for drawing briefs, and stating a case in writing, plainly. I am able to throw something in Traddles's way, in the course of the year; something - for him - considerable. Oh yes. Yes
I confess I am of Mrs. Waterbrook's opinion
Other things are all very well in their way, but give me Blood
Oh! There is nothing
so satisfactory to one! There is nothing that is so much one's beau-ideal of - of all that sort of thing, speaking generally. There are some low minds (not many, I am happy to believe, but there are some) that would prefer to do what I should call bow down before idols. Positively Idols! Before service, intellect, and so on. But these are intangible points. Blood is not so. We see Blood in a nose, and we know it. We meet with it in a chin, and we say, "There it is! That's Blood!" It is an actual matter of fact. We point it out. It admits of no doubt
Oh, you know, deuce take it
we can't forego Blood, you know. We must have Blood, you know. Some young fellows, you know, may be a little behind their station, perhaps, in point of education and behaviour, and may go a little wrong, you know, and get themselves and other people into a variety of fixes - and all that - but deuce take it, it's delightful to reflect that they've got Blood in 'em! Myself, I'd rather at any time be knocked down by a man who had got Blood in him, than I'd be picked up by a man who hadn't
That affair of the first bond for four thousand five hundred pounds has not taken the course that was expected, Spiker
Do you mean the D. of A
The C. of B
When the question was referred to Lord - I needn't name him
I understand
N
was referred to him, his answer was, "Money, or no release
Lord bless my soul
The next in reversion - you understand me
K
K. then positively refused to sign. He was attended at Newmarket for that purpose, and he point-blank refused to do it
So the matter rests at this hour
Our friend Waterbrook will excuse me if I forbear to explain myself generally, on account of the magnitude of the interests involved
Oh, really, Master Copperfield
I beg your pardon, Mister Copperfield, but the other comes so natural, I don't like that you should put a constraint upon yourself to ask a numble person like me to your ouse
There is no constraint in the case
Will you come
I should like to, very much
Well, then, come along
Oh, really, Master Copperfield, - I mean Mister Copperfield
to see you waiting upon me is what I never could have expected! But, one way and another, so many things happen to me which I never could have expected, I am sure, in my umble station, that it seems to rain blessings on my ed. You have heard something, I des-say, of a change in my expectations, Master Copperfield, - I should say, Mister Copperfield
You have heard something, I des-say, of a change in my expectations, Master Copperfield, - I should say, Mister Copperfield
Yes
something
Ah! I thought Miss Agnes would know of it
I'm glad to find Miss Agnes knows of it. Oh, thank you, Master - Mister Copperfield
What a prophet you have shown yourself, Mister Copperfield
Dear me, what a prophet you have proved yourself to be! Don't you remember saying to me once, that perhaps I should be a partner in Mr. Wickfield's business, and perhaps it might be Wickfield and Heep? You may not recollect it; but when a person is umble, Master Copperfield, a person treasures such things up
I recollect talking about it
though I certainly did not think it very likely then
Oh! who would have thought it likely, Mister Copperfield
I am sure I didn't myself. I recollect saying with my own lips that I was much too umble. So I considered myself really and truly
But the umblest persons, Master Copperfield
may be the instruments of good. I am glad to think I have been the instrument of good to Mr. Wickfield, and that I may be more so. Oh what a worthy man he is, Mister Copperfield, but how imprudent he has been
I am sorry to hear it
on all accounts
Decidedly so, Mister Copperfield
On all accounts. Miss Agnes's above all! You don't remember your own eloquent expressions, Master Copperfield; but I remember how you said one day that everybody must admire her, and how I thanked you for it! You have forgot that, I have no doubt, Master Copperfield
No
Oh how glad I am you have not
To think that you should be the first to kindle the sparks of ambition in my umble breast, and that you've not forgot it! Oh! - Would you excuse me asking for a cup more coffee
So, Mr. Wickfield
has been imprudent, has he, Mr. Heep
Oh, very imprudent indeed, Master Copperfield
Oh, very much so! But I wish you'd call me Uriah, if you please. It's like old times
Well! Uriah
Thank you
Thank you, Master Copperfield! It's like the blowing of old breezes or the ringing of old bellses to hear YOU say Uriah. I beg your pardon. Was I making any observation
About Mr. Wickfield
Oh! Yes, truly
Ah! Great imprudence, Master Copperfield. It's a topic that I wouldn't touch upon, to any soul but you. Even to you I can only touch upon it, and no more. If anyone else had been in my place during the last few years, by this time he would have had Mr. Wickfield (oh, what a worthy man he is, Master Copperfield, too!) under his thumb. Un -- der -- his thumb
Oh, dear, yes, Master Copperfield
there's no doubt of it. There would have been loss, disgrace, I don't know what at all. Mr. Wickfield knows it. I am the umble instrument of umbly serving him, and he puts me on an eminence I hardly could have hoped to reach. How thankful should I be
Master Copperfield
but am I keeping you up
You are not keeping me up. I generally go to bed late
Thank you, Master Copperfield! I have risen from my umble station since first you used to address me, it is true; but I am umble still. I hope I never shall be otherwise than umble. You will not think the worse of my umbleness, if I make a little confidence to you, Master Copperfield? Will you
Oh no
Thank you
Miss Agnes, Master Copperfield
Oh, how pleasant to be called Uriah, spontaneously
You thought her looking very beautiful tonight, Master Copperfield
I thought her looking as she always does: superior, in all respects, to everyone around her
Oh, thank you! It's so true
Oh, thank you very much for that
Not at all
There is no reason why you should thank me
Why that, Master Copperfield
is, in fact, the confidence that I am going to take the liberty of reposing. Umble as I am
umble as my mother is, and lowly as our poor but honest roof has ever been, the image of Miss Agnes (I don't mind trusting you with my secret, Master Copperfield, for I have always overflowed towards you since the first moment I had the pleasure of beholding you in a pony-shay) has been in my breast for years. Oh, Master Copperfield, with what a pure affection do I love the ground my Agnes walks on
Oh no, Master Copperfield
oh dear, no! Not to anyone but you. You see I am only just emerging from my lowly station. I rest a good deal of hope on her observing how useful I am to her father (for I trust to be very useful to him indeed, Master Copperfield), and how I smooth the way for him, and keep him straight. She's so much attached to her father, Master Copperfield (oh, what a lovely thing it is in a daughter!), that I think she may come, on his account, to be kind to me
If you'll have the goodness to keep my secret, Master Copperfield
and not, in general, to go against me, I shall take it as a particular favour. You wouldn't wish to make unpleasantness. I know what a friendly heart you've got; but having only known me on my umble footing (on my umblest I should say, for I am very umble still), you might, unbeknown, go against me rather, with my Agnes. I call her mine, you see, Master Copperfield. There's a song that says, "I'd crowns resign, to call her mine!" I hope to do it, one of these days
There's no hurry at present, you know, Master Copperfield
My Agnes is very young still; and mother and me will have to work our way upwards, and make a good many new arrangements, before it would be quite convenient. So I shall have time gradually to make her familiar with my hopes, as opportunities offer. Oh, I'm so much obliged to you for this confidence! Oh, it's such a relief, you can't think, to know that you understand our situation, and are certain (as you wouldn't wish to make unpleasantness in the family) not to go against me
Dear me
it's past one. The moments slip away so, in the confidence of old times, Master Copperfield, that it's almost half past one
Dear me
The ouse that I am stopping at - a sort of a private hotel and boarding ouse, Master Copperfield, near the New River ed - will have gone to bed these two hours
I am sorry
that there is only one bed here, and that I
Oh, don't think of mentioning beds, Master Copperfield
But would you have any objections to my laying down before the fire
If it comes to that
pray take my bed, and I'll lie down before the fire
I did what I hope was right. Feeling sure that it was necessary for papa's peace that the sacrifice should be made, I entreated him to make it
Touch the Commons, and down comes the country
Here Miss Spenlow walks by herself
Dear me
Where is Miss Dora
Dora
What a beautiful name
Mr. Copperfield, my daughter Dora, and my daughter Dora's confidential friend
I
have seen Mr. Copperfield before
How do you do, Miss Murdstone? I hope you are well
Very well
How is Mr. Murdstone
My brother is robust, I am obliged to you
I am glad to find
Copperfield, that you and Miss Murdstone are already acquainted
Mr. Copperfield and myself
are connexions. We were once slightly acquainted. It was in his childish days. Circumstances have separated us since. I should not have known him
Miss Murdstone has had the goodness
to accept the office - if I may so describe it - of my daughter Dora's confidential friend. My daughter Dora having, unhappily, no mother, Miss Murdstone is obliging enough to become her companion and protector
David Copperfield
A word
David Copperfield
I need not enlarge upon family circumstances. They are not a tempting subject
Far from it, ma'am
Far from it
I do not wish to revive the memory of past differences, or of past outrages. I have received outrages from a person - a female I am sorry to say, for the credit of my sex - who is not to be mentioned without scorn and disgust; and therefore I would rather not mention her
David Copperfield, I shall not attempt to disguise the fact, that I formed an unfavourable opinion of you in your childhood. It may have been a mistaken one, or you may have ceased to justify it. That is not in question between us now. I belong to a family remarkable, I believe, for some firmness; and I am not the creature of circumstance or change. I may have my opinion of you. You may have your opinion of me
But it is not necessary
that these opinions should come into collision here. Under existing circumstances, it is as well on all accounts that they should not. As the chances of life have brought us together again, and may bring us together on other occasions, I would say, let us meet here as distant acquaintances. Family circumstances are a sufficient reason for our only meeting on that footing, and it is quite unnecessary that either of us should make the other the subject of remark. Do you approve of this
Miss Murdstone
I think you and Mr. Murdstone used me very cruelly, and treated my mother with great unkindness. I shall always think so, as long as I live. But I quite agree in what you propose
You - are - out early, Miss Spenlow
It's so stupid at home
and Miss Murdstone is so absurd! She talks such nonsense about its being necessary for the day to be aired, before I come out. Aired
On a Sunday morning, when I don't practise, I must do something. So I told papa last night I must come out. Besides, it's the brightest time of the whole day. Don't you think so
Do you mean a compliment
or that the weather has really changed
You have just come home from Paris
Yes
Have you ever been there
No
Oh! I hope you'll go soon! You would like it so much
You are not very intimate with Miss Murdstone, are you
No
Not at all so
She is a tiresome creature
I can't think what papa can have been about, when he chose such a vexatious thing to be my companion. Who wants a protector? I am sure I don't want a protector. Jip can protect me a great deal better than Miss Murdstone, - can't you, Jip, dear
Papa calls her my confidential friend, but I am sure she is no such thing - is she, Jip? We are not going to confide in any such cross people, Jip and I. We mean to bestow our confidence where we like, and to find out our own friends, instead of having them found out for us - don't we, Jip
It is very hard, because we have not a kind Mama, that we are to have, instead, a sulky, gloomy old thing like Miss Murdstone, always following us about - isn't it, Jip? Never mind, Jip. We won't be confidential, and we'll make ourselves as happy as we can in spite of her, and we'll tease her, and not please her - won't we, Jip
whose family
Cheer up, sir
I can't abear to see you so, sir: I'm a mother myself
Come, sir
Excuse me. I know what it is, sir. There's a lady in the case
Mrs. Crupp
Oh, bless you! Keep a good heart, sir
Never say die, sir! If She don't smile upon you, there's a many as will. You are a young gentleman to be smiled on, Mr. Copperfull, and you must learn your walue, sir
What makes you suppose there is any young lady in the case, Mrs. Crupp
Mr. Copperfull
I'm a mother myself
When the present set were took for you by your dear aunt, Mr. Copperfull
Is that what you found your supposition on, Mrs. Crupp
Sir
I've laundressed other young gentlemen besides yourself. A young gentleman may be over-careful of himself, or he may be under-careful of himself. He may brush his hair too regular, or too un-regular. He may wear his boots much too large for him, or much too small. That is according as the young gentleman has his original character formed. But let him go to which extreme he may, sir, there's a young lady in both of 'em
It was but the gentleman which died here before yourself
that fell in love - with a barmaid - and had his waistcoats took in directly, though much swelled by drinking
Mrs. Crupp
I must beg you not to connect the young lady in my case with a barmaid, or anything of that sort, if you please
Mr. Copperfull
I'm a mother myself, and not likely. I ask your pardon, sir, if I intrude. I should never wish to intrude where I were not welcome. But you are a young gentleman, Mr. Copperfull, and my adwice to you is, to cheer up, sir, to keep a good heart, and to know your own walue. If you was to take to something, sir
if you was to take to skittles, now, which is healthy, you might find it divert your mind, and do you good
Now
Has that there little bill of mine been heerd on
Oh, master says he'll attend to it immediate
Because
because that there little bill has been running so long, that I begin to believe it's run away altogether, and never won't be heerd of. Now, I'm not a going to stand it, you know
I tell you what
are you fond of milk
Yes, I likes it
Good
Then you won't have none tomorrow. D'ye hear? Not a fragment of milk you won't have tomorrow
Does Mr. Traddles live here
Yes
Yes
Is he at home
Traddles
I am delighted to see you
I am delighted to see YOU, Copperfield
I am very glad indeed to see you. It was because I was thoroughly glad to see you when we met in Ely Place, and was sure you were thoroughly glad to see me, that I gave you this address instead of my address at chambers
Oh! You have chambers
Why, I have the fourth of a room and a passage, and the fourth of a clerk
Three others and myself unite to have a set of chambers - to look business-like - and we quarter the clerk too. Half-a-crown a week he costs me
It's not because I have the least pride, Copperfield, you understand
that I don't usually give my address here. It's only on account of those who come to me, who might not like to come here. For myself, I am fighting my way on in the world against difficulties, and it would be ridiculous if I made a pretence of doing anything else
You are reading for the bar, Mr. Waterbrook informed me
Why, yes
I am reading for the bar. The fact is, I have just begun to keep my terms, after rather a long delay. It's some time since I was articled, but the payment of that hundred pounds was a great pull. A great pull
Do you know what I can't help thinking of, Traddles, as I sit here looking at you
No
That sky-blue suit you used to wear
Lord, to be sure
Tight in the arms and legs, you know? Dear me! Well! Those were happy times, weren't they
I think our schoolmaster might have made them happier, without doing any harm to any of us, I acknowledge
Perhaps he might
But dear me, there was a good deal of fun going on. Do you remember the nights in the bedroom? When we used to have the suppers? And when you used to tell the stories? Ha, ha, ha! And do you remember when I got caned for crying about Mr. Mell? Old Creakle! I should like to see him again, too
He was a brute to you, Traddles
Do you think so
Really? Perhaps he was rather. But it's all over, a long while. Old Creakle
You were brought up by an uncle, then
Of course I was
The one I was always going to write to. And always didn't, eh! Ha, ha, ha! Yes, I had an uncle then. He died soon after I left school
Indeed
Yes. He was a retired - what do you call it! - draper - cloth-merchant - and had made me his heir. But he didn't like me when I grew up
Do you really mean that
Oh dear, yes, Copperfield! I mean it
It was an unfortunate thing, but he didn't like me at all. He said I wasn't at all what he expected, and so he married his housekeeper
And what did you do
I didn't do anything in particular
I lived with them, waiting to be put out in the world, until his gout unfortunately flew to his stomach - and so he died, and so she married a young man, and so I wasn't provided for
Did you get nothing, Traddles, after all
Oh dear, yes
I got fifty pounds. I had never been brought up to any profession, and at first I was at a loss what to do for myself. However, I began, with the assistance of the son of a professional man, who had been to Salem House - Yawler, with his nose on one side. Do you recollect him
It don't matter
I am at work for him at this minute. I am not a bad compiler, Copperfield
but I have no invention at all; not a particle. I suppose there never was a young man with less originality than I have
So, by little and little, and not living high, I managed to scrape up the hundred pounds at last
and thank Heaven that's paid - though it was - though it certainly was
She is a curate's daughter
one of ten, down in Devonshire. Yes
That's the church! You come round here to the left, out of this gate
and exactly where I hold this pen, there stands the house - facing, you understand, towards the church
She is such a dear girl
a little older than me, but the dearest girl! I told you I was going out of town? I have been down there. I walked there, and I walked back, and I had the most delightful time! I dare say ours is likely to be a rather long engagement, but our motto is "Wait and hope!" We always say that. "Wait and hope," we always say. And she would wait, Copperfield, till she was sixty - any age you can mention - for me
However
it's not that we haven't made a beginning towards housekeeping. No, no; we have begun. We must get on by degrees, but we have begun. Here
are two pieces of furniture to commence with. This flower-pot and stand, she bought herself. You put that in a parlour window
with a plant in it, and - and there you are! This little round table with the marble top (it's two feet ten in circumference), I bought. You want to lay a book down, you know, or somebody comes to see you or your wife, and wants a place to stand a cup of tea upon, and - and there you are again
It's an admirable piece of workmanship - firm as a rock
It's not a great deal towards the furnishing
but it's something. The table-cloths, and pillow-cases, and articles of that kind, are what discourage me most, Copperfield. So does the ironmongery - candle-boxes, and gridirons, and that sort of necessaries - because those things tell, and mount up. However, "wait and hope!" And I assure you she's the dearest girl
I am quite certain of it
In the meantime
and this is the end of my prosing about myself, I get on as well as I can. I don't make much, but I don't spend much. In general, I board with the people downstairs, who are very agreeable people indeed. Both Mr. and Mrs. Micawber have seen a good deal of life, and are excellent company
My dear Traddles
What are you talking about
Mr. and Mrs. Micawber
Why, I am intimately acquainted with them
I beg your pardon, Mr. Traddles
I was not aware that there was any individual, alien to this tenement, in your sanctum
How do you do, Mr. Micawber
Sir
you are exceedingly obliging. I am in statu quo
And Mrs. Micawber
Sir
she is also, thank God, in statu quo
And the children, Mr. Micawber
Sir
I rejoice to reply that they are, likewise, in the enjoyment of salubrity
Is it possible! Have I the pleasure of again beholding Copperfield
Good Heaven, Mr. Traddles
to think that I should find you acquainted with the friend of my youth, the companion of earlier days! My dear
Here is a gentleman in Mr. Traddles's apartment, whom he wishes to have the pleasure of presenting to you, my love
And how is our good friend the Doctor, Copperfield
and all the circle at Canterbury
I have none but good accounts of them
I am most delighted to hear it
It was at Canterbury where we last met. Within the shadow, I may figuratively say, of that religious edifice immortalized by Chaucer, which was anciently the resort of Pilgrims from the remotest corners of - in short
in the immediate neighbourhood of the Cathedral
You find us, Copperfield
at present established, on what may be designated as a small and unassuming scale; but, you are aware that I have, in the course of my career, surmounted difficulties, and conquered obstacles. You are no stranger to the fact, that there have been periods of my life, when it has been requisite that I should pause, until certain expected events should turn up; when it has been necessary that I should fall back, before making what I trust I shall not be accused of presumption in terming - a spring. The present is one of those momentous stages in the life of man. You find me, fallen back, FOR a spring; and I have every reason to believe that a vigorous leap will shortly be the result
My dear
here is a gentleman of the name of Copperfield, who wishes to renew his acquaintance with you
My dear Copperfield
I need hardly tell you that to have beneath our roof, under existing circumstances, a mind like that which gleams - if I may be allowed the expression - which gleams - in your friend Traddles, is an unspeakable comfort. With a washerwoman, who exposes hard-bake for sale in her parlour-window, dwelling next door, and a Bow-street officer residing over the way, you may imagine that his society is a source of consolation to myself and to Mrs. Micawber. I am at present, my dear Copperfield, engaged in the sale of corn upon commission. It is not an avocation of a remunerative description - in other words, it does not pay - and some temporary embarrassments of a pecuniary nature have been the consequence. I am, however, delighted to add that I have now an immediate prospect of something turning up (I am not at liberty to say in what direction), which I trust will enable me to provide, permanently, both for myself and for your friend Traddles, in whom I have an unaffected interest. You may, perhaps, be prepared to hear that Mrs. Micawber is in a state of health which renders it not wholly improbable that an addition may be ultimately made to those pledges of affection which - in short, to the infantine group. Mrs. Micawber's family have been so good as to express their dissatisfaction at this state of things. I have merely to observe, that I am not aware that it is any business of theirs, and that I repel that exhibition of feeling with scorn, and with defiance
No! No, sir! You will not ask me sich a thing, for you are better acquainted with me than to suppose me capable of doing what I cannot do with ampial satisfaction to my own feelings
My dear Copperfield
this is luxurious. This is a way of life which reminds me of the period when I was myself in a state of celibacy, and Mrs. Micawber had not yet been solicited to plight her faith at the Hymeneal altar
He means, solicited by him, Mr. Copperfield
He cannot answer for others
My dear
I have no desire to answer for others. I am too well aware that when, in the inscrutable decrees of Fate, you were reserved for me, it is possible you may have been reserved for one, destined, after a protracted struggle, at length to fall a victim to pecuniary involvements of a complicated nature. I understand your allusion, my love. I regret it, but I can bear it
Micawber
Have I deserved this! I, who never have deserted you; who never WILL desert you, Micawber
My love
you will forgive, and our old and tried friend Copperfield will, I am sure, forgive, the momentary laceration of a wounded spirit, made sensitive by a recent collision with the Minion of Power - in other words, with a ribald Turncock attached to the water-works - and will pity, not condemn, its excesses
My dear friend Copperfield
accidents will occur in the best-regulated families; and in families not regulated by that pervading influence which sanctifies while it enhances the - a - I would say, in short, by the influence of Woman, in the lofty character of Wife, they may be expected with confidence, and must be borne with philosophy. If you will allow me to take the liberty of remarking that there are few comestibles better, in their way, than a Devil, and that I believe, with a little division of labour, we could accomplish a good one if the young person in attendance could produce a gridiron, I would put it to you, that this little misfortune may be easily repaired
What's the matter
I beg your pardon, sir, I was directed to come in. Is my master not here, sir
No
Have you not seen him, sir
No; don't you come from him
Not immediately so, sir
Did he tell you you would find him here
Not exactly so, sir. But I should think he might be here tomorrow, as he has not been here today
Is he coming up from Oxford
I beg, sir
that you will be seated, and allow me to do this
Can I do anything more, sir
None, I am obliged to you, sir
Is Mr. Steerforth coming from Oxford
I beg your pardon, sir
Is Mr. Steerforth coming from Oxford
I should imagine that he might be here tomorrow, sir. I rather thought he might have been here today, sir. The mistake is mine, no doubt, sir
If you should see him first
If you'll excuse me, sir, I don't think I shall see him first
In case you do
pray say that I am sorry he was not here today, as an old schoolfellow of his was here
Indeed, sir
Oh! Littimer
Sir
Did you remain long at Yarmouth, that time
Not particularly so, sir
You saw the boat completed
Yes, sir. I remained behind on purpose to see the boat completed
I know
Mr. Steerforth has not seen it yet, I suppose
I really can't say, sir. I think - but I really can't say, sir. I wish you good night, sir
But punch, my dear Copperfield
like time and tide, waits for no man. Ah! it is at the present moment in high flavour. My love, will you give me your opinion
Then I will drink
what gowans may be, but I have no doubt that Copperfield and myself would frequently have taken a pull at them, if it had been feasible
Ahem
My dear, another glass
As we are quite confidential here, Mr. Copperfield
Mr. Traddles being a part of our domesticity, I should much like to have your opinion on Mr. Micawber's prospects. For corn
as I have repeatedly said to Mr. Micawber, may be gentlemanly, but it is not remunerative. Commission to the extent of two and ninepence in a fortnight cannot, however limited our ideas, be considered remunerative
Then
then I ask myself this question. If corn is not to be relied upon, what is? Are coals to be relied upon? Not at all. We have turned our attention to that experiment, on the suggestion of my family, and we find it fallacious
The articles of corn and coals
being equally out of the question, Mr. Copperfield, I naturally look round the world, and say, "What is there in which a person of Mr. Micawber's talent is likely to succeed?" And I exclude the doing anything on commission, because commission is not a certainty. What is best suited to a person of Mr. Micawber's peculiar temperament is, I am convinced, a certainty
I will not conceal from you, my dear Mr. Copperfield
that I have long felt the Brewing business to be particularly adapted to Mr. Micawber. Look at Barclay and Perkins! Look at Truman, Hanbury, and Buxton! It is on that extensive footing that Mr. Micawber, I know from my own knowledge of him, is calculated to shine; and the profits, I am told, are e-NOR-MOUS! But if Mr. Micawber cannot get into those firms - which decline to answer his letters, when he offers his services even in an inferior capacity - what is the use of dwelling upon that idea? None. I may have a conviction that Mr. Micawber's manners
Hem! Really, my dear
My love, be silent
I may have a conviction, Mr. Copperfield, that Mr. Micawber's manners peculiarly qualify him for the Banking business. I may argue within myself, that if I had a deposit at a banking-house, the manners of Mr. Micawber, as representing that banking-house, would inspire confidence, and must extend the connexion. But if the various banking-houses refuse to avail themselves of Mr. Micawber's abilities, or receive the offer of them with contumely, what is the use of dwelling upon THAT idea? None. As to originating a banking-business, I may know that there are members of my family who, if they chose to place their money in Mr. Micawber's hands, might found an establishment of that description. But if they do NOT choose to place their money in Mr. Micawber's hands - which they don't - what is the use of that? Again I contend that we are no farther advanced than we were before
Not a bit
Not a bit
What do I deduce from this
What is the conclusion, my dear Mr. Copperfield, to which I am irresistibly brought? Am I wrong in saying, it is clear that we must live
Not at all
Not at all
Just so
It is precisely that. And the fact is, my dear Mr. Copperfield, that we can not live without something widely different from existing circumstances shortly turning up. Now I am convinced, myself, and this I have pointed out to Mr. Micawber several times of late, that things cannot be expected to turn up of themselves. We must, in a measure, assist to turn them up. I may be wrong, but I have formed that opinion
Very well
Then what do I recommend? Here is Mr. Micawber with a variety of qualifications - with great talent
Really, my love
Pray, my dear, allow me to conclude. Here is Mr. Micawber, with a variety of qualifications, with great talent - I should say, with genius, but that may be the partiality of a wife
No
And here is Mr. Micawber without any suitable position or employment. Where does that responsibility rest? Clearly on society. Then I would make a fact so disgraceful known, and boldly challenge society to set it right. It appears to me, my dear Mr. Copperfield
that what Mr. Micawber has to do, is to throw down the gauntlet to society, and say, in effect, "Show me who will take that up. Let the party immediately step forward
By advertising
in all the papers. It appears to me, that what Mr. Micawber has to do, in justice to himself, in justice to his family, and I will even go so far as to say in justice to society, by which he has been hitherto overlooked, is to advertise in all the papers; to describe himself plainly as so-and-so, with such and such qualifications and to put it thus: "Now employ me, on remunerative terms, and address, post-paid, to W. M., Post Office, Camden Town
This idea of Mrs. Micawber's, my dear Copperfield
is, in fact, the Leap to which I alluded, when I last had the pleasure of seeing you
Advertising is rather expensive
Exactly so
Quite true, my dear Mr. Copperfield! I have made the identical observation to Mr. Micawber. It is for that reason especially, that I think Mr. Micawber ought (as I have already said, in justice to himself, in justice to his family, and in justice to society) to raise a certain sum of money - on a bill
If no member of my family
is possessed of sufficient natural feeling to negotiate that bill - I believe there is a better business-term to express what I mean
Discount
To discount that bill
then my opinion is, that Mr. Micawber should go into the City, should take that bill into the Money Market, and should dispose of it for what he can get. If the individuals in the Money Market oblige Mr. Micawber to sustain a great sacrifice, that is between themselves and their consciences. I view it, steadily, as an investment. I recommend Mr. Micawber, my dear Mr. Copperfield, to do the same; to regard it as an investment which is sure of return, and to make up his mind to any sacrifice
I will not
I will not protract these remarks on the subject of Mr. Micawber's pecuniary affairs. At your fireside, my dear Mr. Copperfield, and in the presence of Mr. Traddles, who, though not so old a friend, is quite one of ourselves, I could not refrain from making you acquainted with the course I advise Mr. Micawber to take. I feel that the time is arrived when Mr. Micawber should exert himself and - I will add - assert himself, and it appears to me that these are the means. I am aware that I am merely a female, and that a masculine judgement is usually considered more competent to the discussion of such questions; still I must not forget that, when I lived at home with my papa and mama, my papa was in the habit of saying, "Emma's form is fragile, but her grasp of a subject is inferior to none." That my papa was too partial, I well know; but that he was an observer of character in some degree, my duty and my reason equally forbid me to doubt
I am very much obliged to you indeed. And I do assure you, she's the dearest girl
Well! I would give them D
Hear, hear! My dear Mr. Copperfield, I am delighted. Hear
Traddles
Mr. Micawber don't mean any harm, poor fellow: but, if I were you, I wouldn't lend him anything
My dear Copperfield
I haven't got anything to lend
You have got a name, you know
Oh! You call THAT something to lend
Certainly
Oh
Yes, to be sure! I am very much obliged to you, Copperfield; but - I am afraid I have lent him that already
For the bill that is to be a certain investment
No
Not for that one. This is the first I have heard of that one. I have been thinking that he will most likely propose that one, on the way home. Mine's another
I hope there will be nothing wrong about it
I hope not
I should think not, though, because he told me, only the other day, that it was provided for. That was Mr. Micawber's expression, "Provided for
Why, Daisy, old boy, dumb-foundered
Have I detected you in another feast, you Sybarite! These Doctors' Commons fellows are the gayest men in town, I believe, and beat us sober Oxford people all to nothing
I was so surprised at first
that I had hardly breath to greet you with, Steerforth
Well, the sight of me is good for sore eyes, as the Scotch say
and so is the sight of you, Daisy, in full bloom. How are you, my Bacchanal
I am very well
and not at all Bacchanalian tonight, though I confess to another party of three
All of whom I met in the street, talking loud in your praise
Who's our friend in the tights
But who do you suppose our other friend is
Heaven knows
Not a bore, I hope? I thought he looked a little like one
Traddles
Who's he
Don't you remember Traddles? Traddles in our room at Salem House
Oh! That fellow
Is he as soft as ever? And where the deuce did you pick him up
Why, Daisy, here's a supper for a king
I shall do it justice, for I have come from Yarmouth
I thought you came from Oxford
Not I
I have been seafaring - better employed
Littimer was here today, to inquire for you
and I understood him that you were at Oxford; though, now I think of it, he certainly did not say so
Littimer is a greater fool than I thought him, to have been inquiring for me at all
As to understanding him, you are a cleverer fellow than most of us, Daisy, if you can do that
That's true, indeed
So you have been at Yarmouth, Steerforth
Have you been there long
No
An escapade of a week or so
And how are they all? Of course, little Emily is not married yet
I have a letter for you
From whom
Why, from your old nurse
Barkis, do you mean
Yes
it's all over with poor Barkis, I am afraid. I saw a little apothecary there - surgeon, or whatever he is - who brought your worship into the world. He was mighty learned about the case, to me; but the upshot of his opinion was, that the carrier was making his last journey rather fast. - Put your hand into the breast pocket of my great-coat on the chair yonder, and I think you'll find the letter. Is it there
Here it is
That's right
It's a bad job
but the sun sets every day, and people die every minute, and we mustn't be scared by the common lot. If we failed to hold our own, because that equal foot at all men's doors was heard knocking somewhere, every object in this world would slip from us. No! Ride on! Rough-shod if need be, smooth-shod if that will do, but ride on! Ride on over all obstacles, and win the race
And win what race
The race that one has started in
Ride on
I tell you what, Steerforth
if your high spirits will listen to me
They are potent spirits, and will do whatever you like
Then I tell you what, Steerforth. I think I will go down and see my old nurse. It is not that I can do her any good, or render her any real service; but she is so attached to me that my visit will have as much effect on her, as if I could do both. She will take it so kindly that it will be a comfort and support to her. It is no great effort to make, I am sure, for such a friend as she has been to me. Wouldn't you go a day's journey, if you were in my place
Well! Go. You can do no harm
You have just come back
and it would be in vain to ask you to go with me
Quite
I am for Highgate tonight. I have not seen my mother this long time, and it lies upon my conscience, for it's something to be loved as she loves her prodigal son. - Bah! Nonsense! - You mean to go tomorrow, I suppose
Yes, I think so
Well, then, don't go till next day. I wanted you to come and stay a few days with us. Here I am, on purpose to bid you, and you fly off to Yarmouth
You are a nice fellow to talk of flying off, Steerforth, who are always running wild on some unknown expedition or other
Come! Say the next day, and pass as much of tomorrow as you can with us! Who knows when we may meet again, else? Come! Say the next day! I want you to stand between Rosa Dartle and me, and keep us asunder
Would you love each other too much, without me
Yes; or hate
no matter which. Come! Say the next day
Ride on over all obstacles, and win the race
WILKINS MICAWBER
You have been a long time
without coming here. Is your profession really so engaging and interesting as to absorb your whole attention? I ask because I always want to be informed, when I am ignorant. Is it really, though
Oh! I am glad to know that, because I always like to be put right when I am wrong
You mean it is a little dry, perhaps
Well
perhaps it was a little dry
Oh! and that's a reason why you want relief and change - excitement and all that
Ah! very true! But isn't it a little - Eh? - for him; I don't mean you
Don't it - I don't say that it does, mind I want to know - don't it rather engross him? Don't it make him, perhaps, a little more remiss than usual in his visits to his blindly-doting - eh
Miss Dartle
pray do not think
I don't
Oh dear me, don't suppose that I think anything! I am not suspicious. I only ask a question. I don't state any opinion. I want to found an opinion on what you tell me. Then, it's not so? Well! I am very glad to know it
It certainly is not the fact
that I am accountable for Steerforth's having been away from home longer than usual - if he has been: which I really don't know at this moment, unless I understand it from you. I have not seen him this long while, until last night
No
Indeed, Miss Dartle, no
What is he doing
What is he doing
In what is that man assisting him, who never looks at me without an inscrutable falsehood in his eyes? If you are honourable and faithful, I don't ask you to betray your friend. I ask you only to tell me, is it anger, is it hatred, is it pride, is it restlessness, is it some wild fancy, is it love, what is it, that is leading him
Miss Dartle
how shall I tell you, so that you will believe me, that I know of nothing in Steerforth different from what there was when I first came here? I can think of nothing. I firmly believe there is nothing. I hardly understand even what you mean
I swear you to secrecy about this
Oh, but do tell me, though, somebody, because I have been thinking about it all day, and I want to know
You want to know what, Rosa
Pray, pray, Rosa, do not be mysterious
Mysterious
Oh! really? Do you consider me so
Do I constantly entreat you
to speak plainly, in your own natural manner
Oh! then this is not my natural manner
Now you must really bear with me, because I ask for information. We never know ourselves
It has become a second nature
but I remember, - and so must you, I think, - when your manner was different, Rosa; when it was not so guarded, and was more trustful
I am sure you are right
and so it is that bad habits grow upon one! Really? Less guarded and more trustful? How can I, imperceptibly, have changed, I wonder! Well, that's very odd! I must study to regain my former self
I wish you would
Oh! I really will, you know
I will learn frankness from - let me see - from James
You cannot learn frankness, Rosa
in a better school
That I am sure of
If I am sure of anything, of course, you know, I am sure of that
Well, my dear Rosa, we have not heard what it is that you want to be satisfied about
That I want to be satisfied about
Oh! It was only whether people, who are like each other in their moral constitution - is that the phrase
It's as good a phrase as another
Thank you: - whether people, who are like each other in their moral constitution, are in greater danger than people not so circumstanced, supposing any serious cause of variance to arise between them, of being divided angrily and deeply
I should say yes
Should you
Dear me! Supposing then, for instance - any unlikely thing will do for a supposition - that you and your mother were to have a serious quarrel
My dear Rosa
suggest some other supposition! James and I know our duty to each other better, I pray Heaven
Oh
To be sure. That would prevent it? Why, of course it would. Exactly. Now, I am glad I have been so foolish as to put the case, for it is so very good to know that your duty to each other would prevent it! Thank you very much
She is playing her harp
and nobody but my mother has heard her do that, I believe, these three years
Don't get up
What do you care for an Irish song
Much
Much more than for any other. Here is Daisy, too, loves music from his soul. Sing us an Irish song, Rosa! and let me sit and listen as I used to do
Come, Rosa, for the future we will love each other very much
What is the matter with Rosa
She has been an angel, mother
for a little while; and has run into the opposite extreme, since, by way of compensation
You should be careful not to irritate her, James. Her temper has been soured, remember, and ought not to be tried
Oh, Heaven knows
Anything you like - or nothing! I told you she took everything, herself included, to a grindstone, and sharpened it. She is an edge-tool, and requires great care in dealing with. She is always dangerous. Good night
Good night
my dear Steerforth! I shall be gone before you wake in the morning. Good night
Daisy
for though that's not the name your godfathers and godmothers gave you, it's the name I like best to call you by - and I wish, I wish, I wish, you could give it to me
Why so I can, if I choose
Daisy, if anything should ever separate us, you must think of me at my best, old boy. Come! Let us make that bargain. Think of me at my best, if circumstances should ever part us
You have no best to me, Steerforth
and no worst. You are always equally loved, and cherished in my heart
God bless you, Daisy, and good night
Why, bless my life and soul
how do you find yourself? Take a seat. - Smoke not disagreeable, I hope
By no means
I like it - in somebody else's pipe
What, not in your own, eh
All the better, sir. Bad habit for a young man. Take a seat. I smoke, myself, for the asthma
I am sorry to have heard bad news of Mr. Barkis
Do you know how he is tonight
The very question I should have put to you, sir
but on account of delicacy. It's one of the drawbacks of our line of business. When a party's ill, we can't ask how the party is
Yes, yes, you understand
We dursn't do it. Bless you, it would be a shock that the generality of parties mightn't recover, to say "Omer and Joram's compliments, and how do you find yourself this morning?" - or this afternoon - as it may be
It's one of the things that cut the trade off from attentions they could often wish to show
Take myself. If I have known Barkis a year, to move to as he went by, I have known him forty years. But I can't go and say, "how is he
I'm not more self-interested, I hope, than another man
Look at me! My wind may fail me at any moment, and it ain't likely that, to my own knowledge, I'd be self-interested under such circumstances. I say it ain't likely, in a man who knows his wind will go, when it DOES go, as if a pair of bellows was cut open; and that man a grandfather
Not at all
It ain't that I complain of my line of business
It ain't that. Some good and some bad goes, no doubt, to all callings. What I wish is, that parties was brought up stronger-minded
Accordingly we're obleeged, in ascertaining how Barkis goes on, to limit ourselves to Em'ly. She knows what our real objects are, and she don't have any more alarms or suspicions about us, than if we was so many lambs. Minnie and Joram have just stepped down to the house, in fact (she's there, after hours, helping her aunt a bit), to ask her how he is tonight; and if you was to please to wait till they come back, they'd give you full partic'lers. Will you take something? A glass of srub and water, now? I smoke on srub and water, myself
because it's considered softening to the passages, by which this troublesome breath of mine gets into action. But, Lord bless you
it ain't the passages that's out of order! "Give me breath enough," said I to my daughter Minnie, "and I'll find passages, my dear
Well, sir
I tell you truly, I shall be glad when her marriage has taken place
Why so
Well, she's unsettled at present
It ain't that she's not as pretty as ever, for she's prettier - I do assure you, she is prettier. It ain't that she don't work as well as ever, for she does. She WAS worth any six, and she IS worth any six. But somehow she wants heart. If you understand
what I mean in a general way by the expression, "A long pull, and a strong pull, and a pull altogether, my hearties, hurrah!" I should say to you, that that was - in a general way - what I miss in Em'ly
Now I consider this is principally on account of her being in an unsettled state, you see. We have talked it over a good deal, her uncle and myself, and her sweetheart and myself, after business; and I consider it is principally on account of her being unsettled. You must always recollect of Em'ly
that she's a most extraordinary affectionate little thing. The proverb says, "You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear." Well, I don't know about that. I rather think you may, if you begin early in life. She has made a home out of that old boat, sir, that stone and marble couldn't beat
I am sure she has
To see the clinging of that pretty little thing to her uncle
to see the way she holds on to him, tighter and tighter, and closer and closer, every day, is to see a sight. Now, you know, there's a struggle going on when that's the case. Why should it be made a longer one than is needful
Therefore, I mentioned to them
this. I said, "Now, don't consider Em'ly nailed down in point of time, at all. Make it your own time. Her services have been more valuable than was supposed; her learning has been quicker than was supposed; Omer and Joram can run their pen through what remains; and she's free when you wish. If she likes to make any little arrangement, afterwards, in the way of doing any little thing for us at home, very well. If she don't, very well still. We're no losers, anyhow." For - don't you see
it ain't likely that a man so short of breath as myself, and a grandfather too, would go and strain points with a little bit of a blue-eyed blossom, like her
Not at all, I am certain
Not at all! You're right
Well, sir, her cousin - you know it's a cousin she's going to be married to
Oh yes
I know him well
Of course you do
Well, sir! Her cousin being, as it appears, in good work, and well to do, thanked me in a very manly sort of manner for this (conducting himself altogether, I must say, in a way that gives me a high opinion of him), and went and took as comfortable a little house as you or I could wish to clap eyes on. That little house is now furnished right through, as neat and complete as a doll's parlour; and but for Barkis's illness having taken this bad turn, poor fellow, they would have been man and wife - I dare say, by this time. As it is, there's a postponement
And Emily, Mr. Omer
Has she become more settled
Why that, you know
can't naturally be expected. The prospect of the change and separation, and all that, is, as one may say, close to her and far away from her, both at once. Barkis's death needn't put it off much, but his lingering might. Anyway, it's an uncertain state of matters, you see
I see
Consequently
'Em'ly's still a little down, and a little fluttered; perhaps, upon the whole, she's more so than she was. Every day she seems to get fonder and fonder of her uncle, and more loth to part from all of us. A kind word from me brings the tears into her eyes; and if you was to see her with my daughter Minnie's little girl, you'd never forget it. Bless my heart alive
how she loves that child
Ah
No good. A sad story, sir, however you come to know it. I never thought there was harm in the girl. I wouldn't wish to mention it before my daughter Minnie - for she'd take me up directly - but I never did. None of us ever did
This is very kind of you, Mas'r Davy
It's oncommon kind
'Em'ly, my dear
See here! Here's Mas'r Davy come! What, cheer up, pretty! Not a wured to Mas'r Davy
It's such a loving art
that it can't abear the sorrer of this. It's nat'ral in young folk, Mas'r Davy, when they're new to these here trials, and timid, like my little bird, - it's nat'ral
It's getting late, my dear
and here's Ham come fur to take you home. Theer! Go along with t'other loving art! What' Em'ly? Eh, my pretty
Let you stay with your uncle? Why, you doen't mean to ask me that! Stay with your uncle, Moppet? When your husband that'll be so soon, is here fur to take you home? Now a person wouldn't think it, fur to see this little thing alongside a rough-weather chap like me
but the sea ain't more salt in it than she has fondness in her for her uncle - a foolish little Em'ly
'Em'ly's in the right in that, Mas'r Davy
Lookee here! As Em'ly wishes of it, and as she's hurried and frightened, like, besides, I'll leave her till morning. Let me stay too
No, no
You doen't ought - a married man like you - or what's as good - to take and hull away a day's work. And you doen't ought to watch and work both. That won't do. You go home and turn in. You ain't afeerd of Em'ly not being took good care on, I know
Now, I'm a going upstairs to tell your aunt as Mas'r Davy's here, and that'll cheer her up a bit
Sit ye down by the fire, the while, my dear, and warm those mortal cold hands. You doen't need to be so fearsome, and take on so much. What? You'll go along with me? - Well! come along with me - come! If her uncle was turned out of house and home, and forced to lay down in a dyke, Mas'r Davy
it's my belief she'd go along with him, now! But there'll be someone else, soon, - someone else, soon, Em'ly
Old clothes
Barkis, my dear
Here's my dear boy - my dear boy, Master Davy, who brought us together, Barkis! That you sent messages by, you know! Won't you speak to Master Davy
He's a going out with the tide
With the tide
People can't die, along the coast
except when the tide's pretty nigh out. They can't be born, unless it's pretty nigh in - not properly born, till flood. He's a going out with the tide. It's ebb at half-arter three, slack water half an hour. If he lives till it turns, he'll hold his own till past the flood, and go out with the next tide
He's coming to himself
They are both a-going out fast
Barkis, my dear
C. P. Barkis
No better woman anywhere
Look! Here's Master Davy
You're first of the lot, Mas'r Davy
Doen't keep in that coat, sir, if it's wet
Thank you, Mr. Peggotty
It's quite dry
So 'tis
As a chip! Sit ye down, sir. It ain't o' no use saying welcome to you, but you're welcome, kind and hearty
Thank you, Mr. Peggotty, I am sure of that. Well, Peggotty
And how are you, old woman
Ha, ha
there's not a woman in the wureld, sir - as I tell her - that need to feel more easy in her mind than her! She done her dooty by the departed, and the departed know'd it; and the departed done what was right by her, as she done what was right by the departed; - and - and - and it's all right
Cheer up, my pritty mawther
Doen't be down! Cheer up, for your own self, on'y a little bit, and see if a good deal more doen't come nat'ral
Not to me, Dan'l
Nothink's nat'ral to me but to be lone and lorn
No, no
Yes, yes, Dan'l
I ain't a person to live with them as has had money left. Thinks go too contrary with me. I had better be a riddance
Why, how should I ever spend it without you
What are you a talking on? Doen't I want you more now, than ever I did
I know'd I was never wanted before
and now I'm told so! How could I expect to be wanted, being so lone and lorn, and so contrary
Theer
Lighted up, accordin' to custom! You're a wonderin' what that's fur, sir! Well, it's fur our little Em'ly. You see, the path ain't over light or cheerful arter dark; and when I'm here at the hour as she's a comin' home, I puts the light in the winder. That, you see
meets two objects. She says, says Em'ly, "Theer's home!" she says. And likewise, says Em'ly, "My uncle's theer!" Fur if I ain't theer, I never have no light showed
You're a baby
Well
I doen't know but I am. Not, you see, to look at
Not azackly
No
not to look at, but to - to consider on, you know. I doen't care, bless you! Now I tell you. When I go a looking and looking about that theer pritty house of our Em'ly's, I'm - I'm Gormed
theer! I can't say more - if I doen't feel as if the littlest things was her, a'most. I takes 'em up and I put 'em down, and I touches of 'em as delicate as if they was our Em'ly. So 'tis with her little bonnets and that. I couldn't see one on 'em rough used a purpose - not fur the whole wureld. There's a babby fur you, in the form of a great Sea Porkypine
It's my opinion, you see
as this is along of my havin' played with her so much, and made believe as we was Turks, and French, and sharks, and every wariety of forinners - bless you, yes; and lions and whales, and I doen't know what all! - when she warn't no higher than my knee. I've got into the way on it, you know. Why, this here candle, now
I know wery well that arter she's married and gone, I shall put that candle theer, just the same as now. I know wery well that when I'm here o' nights (and where else should I live, bless your arts, whatever fortun' I come into!) and she ain't here or I ain't theer, I shall put the candle in the winder, and sit afore the fire, pretending I'm expecting of her, like I'm a doing now. THERE'S a babby for you
in the form of a Sea Porkypine! Why, at the present minute, when I see the candle sparkle up, I says to myself, "She's a looking at it! Em'ly's a coming!" THERE'S a babby for you, in the form of a Sea Porkypine! Right for all that
fur here she is
Wheer's Em'ly
Mas'r Davy, will you come out a minute, and see what Em'ly and me has got to show you
Ham! what's the matter
Mas'r Davy
Ham! Poor good fellow! For Heaven's sake, tell me what's the matter
My love, Mas'r Davy - the pride and hope of my art - her that I'd have died for, and would die for now - she's gone
Gone
'Em'ly's run away! Oh, Mas'r Davy, think HOW she's run away, when I pray my good and gracious God to kill her (her that is so dear above all things) sooner than let her come to ruin and disgrace
You're a scholar
and know what's right and best. What am I to say, indoors? How am I ever to break it to him, Mas'r Davy
Read it, sir
Slow, please. I doen't know as I can understand
When you, who love me so much better than I ever have deserved, even when my mind was innocent, see this, I shall be far away
I shall be fur away
Stop! Em'ly fur away. Well
When I leave my dear home - my dear home - oh, my dear home! - in the morning
it will be never to come back, unless he brings me back a lady. This will be found at night, many hours after, instead of me. Oh, if you knew how my heart is torn. If even you, that I have wronged so much, that never can forgive me, could only know what I suffer! I am too wicked to write about myself! Oh, take comfort in thinking that I am so bad. Oh, for mercy's sake, tell uncle that I never loved him half so dear as now. Oh, don't remember how affectionate and kind you have all been to me - don't remember we were ever to be married - but try to think as if I died when I was little, and was buried somewhere. Pray Heaven that I am going away from, have compassion on my uncle! Tell him that I never loved him half so dear. Be his comfort. Love some good girl that will be what I was once to uncle, and be true to you, and worthy of you, and know no shame but me. God bless all! I'll pray for all, often, on my knees. If he don't bring me back a lady, and I don't pray for my own self, I'll pray for all. My parting love to uncle. My last tears, and my last thanks, for uncle
I thankee, sir, I thankee
Who's the man? I want to know his name
There's a man suspected
Who is it
Mas'r Davy
Go out a bit, and let me tell him what I must. You doen't ought to hear it, sir
I want to know his name
For some time past
'em belonged to one another
The servant
was seen along with - our poor girl - last night. He's been in hiding about here, this week or over. He was thought to have gone, but he was hiding. Doen't stay, Mas'r Davy, doen't
A strange chay and hosses was outside town, this morning, on the Norwich road, a'most afore the day broke
The servant went to it, and come from it, and went to it again. When he went to it again, Em'ly was nigh him. The t'other was inside. He's the man
For the Lord's love
Doen't tell me his name's Steerforth
Mas'r Davy
it ain't no fault of yourn - and I am far from laying of it to you - but his name is Steerforth, and he's a damned villain
Bear a hand with this! I'm struck of a heap, and can't do it
Bear a hand and help me. Well
Now give me that theer hat
I'm a going to seek my niece. I'm a going to seek my Em'ly. I'm a going, first, to stave in that theer boat, and sink it where I would have drownded him, as I'm a living soul, if I had had one thought of what was in him! As he sat afore me
as he sat afore me, face to face, strike me down dead, but I'd have drownded him, and thought it right! - I'm a going to seek my niece
Where
Anywhere! I'm a going to seek my niece through the wureld. I'm a going to find my poor niece in her shame, and bring her back. No one stop me! I tell you I'm a going to seek my niece
No, no
No, no, Dan'l, not as you are now. Seek her in a little while, my lone lorn Dan'l, and that'll be but right! but not as you are now. Sit ye down, and give me your forgiveness for having ever been a worrit to you, Dan'l - what have my contraries ever been to this! - and let us speak a word about them times when she was first an orphan, and when Ham was too, and when I was a poor widder woman, and you took me in. It'll soften your poor heart, Dan'l
and you'll bear your sorrow better; for you know the promise, Dan'l, "As you have done it unto one of the least of these, you have done it unto me",- and that can never fail under this roof, that's been our shelter for so many, many year
We have had a mort of talk, sir
of what we ought and doen't ought to do. But we see our course now
My dooty here, sir
is done. I'm a going to seek my
I'm a going to seek her. That's my dooty evermore
I'll go along with you, sir
if you're agreeable, tomorrow
Ham
he'll hold to his present work, and go and live along with my sister. The old boat yonder
Will you desert the old boat, Mr. Peggotty
My station, Mas'r Davy
ain't there no longer; and if ever a boat foundered, since there was darkness on the face of the deep, that one's gone down. But no, sir, no; I doen't mean as it should be deserted. Fur from that
My wishes is, sir, as it shall look, day and night, winter and summer, as it has always looked, since she fust know'd it. If ever she should come a wandering back, I wouldn't have the old place seem to cast her off, you understand, but seem to tempt her to draw nigher to 't, and to peep in, maybe, like a ghost, out of the wind and rain, through the old winder, at the old seat by the fire. Then, maybe, Mas'r Davy, seein' none but Missis Gummidge there, she might take heart to creep in, trembling; and might come to be laid down in her old bed, and rest her weary head where it was once so gay
Every night
as reg'lar as the night comes, the candle must be stood in its old pane of glass, that if ever she should see it, it may seem to say "Come back, my child, come back!" If ever there's a knock, Ham (partic'ler a soft knock), arter dark, at your aunt's door, doen't you go nigh it. Let it be her - not you - that sees my fallen child
On what's afore me, Mas'r Davy; and over yon
On the life before you, do you mean
Ay, Mas'r Davy. I doen't rightly know how 'tis, but from over yon there seemed to me to come - the end of it like
What end
I doen't know
I was calling to mind that the beginning of it all did take place here - and then the end come. But it's gone! Mas'r Davy
you han't no call to be afeerd of me: but I'm kiender muddled; I don't fare to feel no matters
Dan'l, my good man
you must eat and drink, and keep up your strength, for without it you'll do nowt. Try, that's a dear soul! An if I disturb you with my clicketten
tell me so, Dan'l, and I won't
All times and seasons, you know, Dan'l
I shall be allus here, and everythink will look accordin' to your wishes. I'm a poor scholar, but I shall write to you, odd times, when you're away, and send my letters to Mas'r Davy. Maybe you'll write to me too, Dan'l, odd times, and tell me how you fare to feel upon your lone lorn journies
You'll be a solitary woman heer, I'm afeerd
No, no, Dan'l
I shan't be that. Doen't you mind me. I shall have enough to do to keep a Beein for you' (Mrs. Gummidge meant a home), 'again you come back - to keep a Beein here for any that may hap to come back, Dan'l. In the fine time, I shall set outside the door as I used to do. If any should come nigh, they shall see the old widder woman true to 'em, a long way off
Ever bless you, Mas'r Davy, be a friend to him, poor dear
A deceitful, bad-hearted girl
There was no good in her, ever
Don't say so
You don't think so
Yes, I do
No, no
What will she ever do
Where will she go! What will become of her! Oh, how could she be so cruel, to herself and him
My little Minnie
has only just now been got to sleep. Even in her sleep she is sobbing for Em'ly. All day long, little Minnie has cried for her, and asked me, over and over again, whether Em'ly was wicked? What can I say to her, when Em'ly tied a ribbon off her own neck round little Minnie's the last night she was here, and laid her head down on the pillow beside her till she was fast asleep! The ribbon's round my little Minnie's neck now. It ought not to be, perhaps, but what can I do? Em'ly is very bad, but they were fond of one another. And the child knows nothing
Miss Mowcher
how do you come here? What is the matter
Pray tell me, Miss Mowcher, what is the matter! are you ill
My dear young soul
I am ill here, I am very ill. To think that it should come to this, when I might have known it and perhaps prevented it, if I hadn't been a thoughtless fool
I am surprised
Yes, it's always so
They are all surprised, these inconsiderate young people, fairly and full grown, to see any natural feeling in a little thing like me! They make a plaything of me, use me for their amusement, throw me away when they are tired, and wonder that I feel more than a toy horse or a wooden soldier! Yes, yes, that's the way. The old way
It may be, with others
but I do assure you it is not with me. Perhaps I ought not to be at all surprised to see you as you are now: I know so little of you. I said, without consideration, what I thought
What can I do
See! What I am, my father was; and my sister is; and my brother is. I have worked for sister and brother these many years - hard, Mr. Copperfield - all day. I must live. I do no harm. If there are people so unreflecting or so cruel, as to make a jest of me, what is left for me to do but to make a jest of myself, them, and everything? If I do so, for the time, whose fault is that? Mine
If I had shown myself a sensitive dwarf to your false friend
how much of his help or good will do you think I should ever have had? If little Mowcher (who had no hand, young gentleman, in the making of herself) addressed herself to him, or the like of him, because of her misfortunes, when do you suppose her small voice would have been heard? Little Mowcher would have as much need to live, if she was the bitterest and dullest of pigmies; but she couldn't do it. No. She might whistle for her bread and butter till she died of Air
Be thankful for me, if you have a kind heart, as I think you have
that while I know well what I am, I can be cheerful and endure it all. I am thankful for myself, at any rate, that I can find my tiny way through the world, without being beholden to anyone; and that in return for all that is thrown at me, in folly or vanity, as I go along, I can throw bubbles back. If I don't brood over all I want, it is the better for me, and not the worse for anyone. If I am a plaything for you giants, be gentle with me
I saw you in the street just now. You may suppose I am not able to walk as fast as you, with my short legs and short breath, and I couldn't overtake you; but I guessed where you came, and came after you. I have been here before, today, but the good woman wasn't at home
Do you know her
I know of her, and about her
May the Father of all Evil confound him
and ten times more confound that wicked servant; but I believed it was YOU who had a boyish passion for her
I
Child, child! In the name of blind ill-fortune
why did you praise her so, and blush, and look disturbed
What did I know
He was crossing you and wheedling you, I saw; and you were soft wax in his hands, I saw. Had I left the room a minute, when his man told me that "Young Innocence" (so he called you, and you may call him "Old Guilt" all the days of your life) had set his heart upon her, and she was giddy and liked him, but his master was resolved that no harm should come of it - more for your sake than for hers - and that that was their business here? How could I BUT believe him? I saw Steerforth soothe and please you by his praise of her! You were the first to mention her name. You owned to an old admiration of her. You were hot and cold, and red and white, all at once when I spoke to you of her. What could I think - what DID I think - but that you were a young libertine in everything but experience, and had fallen into hands that had experience enough, and could manage you (having the fancy) for your own good? Oh! oh! oh! They were afraid of my finding out the truth
because I am a sharp little thing - I need be, to get through the world at all! - and they deceived me altogether, and I gave the poor unfortunate girl a letter, which I fully believe was the beginning of her ever speaking to Littimer, who was left behind on purpose
My country rounds
brought me to Norwich, Mr. Copperfield, the night before last. What I happened to find there, about their secret way of coming and going, without you - which was strange - led to my suspecting something wrong. I got into the coach from London last night, as it came through Norwich, and was here this morning. Oh, oh, oh! too late
I must go
It's late. You don't mistrust me
Come
you know you wouldn't mistrust me, if I was a full-sized woman
You are a young man
Take a word of advice, even from three foot nothing. Try not to associate bodily defects with mental, my good friend, except for a solid reason
Now, mind
I have some reason to suspect, from what I have heard - my ears are always open; I can't afford to spare what powers I have - that they are gone abroad. But if ever they return, if ever any one of them returns, while I am alive, I am more likely than another, going about as I do, to find it out soon. Whatever I know, you shall know. If ever I can do anything to serve the poor betrayed girl, I will do it faithfully, please Heaven! And Littimer had better have a bloodhound at his back, than little Mowcher
Trust me no more, but trust me no less, than you would trust a full-sized woman
If ever you see me again, unlike what I am now, and like what I was when you first saw me, observe what company I am in. Call to mind that I am a very helpless and defenceless little thing. Think of me at home with my brother like myself and sister like myself, when my day's work is done. Perhaps you won't, then, be very hard upon me, or surprised if I can be distressed and serious. Good night
Mas'r Davy
his life is quite broke up. He doen't know wheer he's going; he doen't know -what's afore him; he's bound upon a voyage that'll last, on and off, all the rest of his days, take my wured for 't, unless he finds what he's a seeking of. I am sure you'll be a friend to him, Mas'r Davy
Trust me, I will indeed
Thankee. Thankee, very kind, sir. One thing furder. I'm in good employ, you know, Mas'r Davy, and I han't no way now of spending what I gets. Money's of no use to me no more, except to live. If you can lay it out for him, I shall do my work with a better art. Though as to that, sir
you're not to think but I shall work at all times, like a man, and act the best that lays in my power
No, sir
all that's past and over with me, sir. No one can never fill the place that's empty. But you'll bear in mind about the money, as theer's at all times some laying by for him
I shouldn't feel it nat'ral, ma'am, to sit down in this house. I'd sooner stand
I know, with deep regret, what has brought you here. What do you want of me? What do you ask me to do
Please to read that, ma'am. That's my niece's hand
Unless he brings me back a lady
I come to know, ma'am, whether he will keep his wured
No
Why not
It is impossible. He would disgrace himself. You cannot fail to know that she is far below him
Raise her up
She is uneducated and ignorant
Maybe she's not; maybe she is
I think not, ma'am; but I'm no judge of them things. Teach her better
Since you oblige me to speak more plainly, which I am very unwilling to do, her humble connexions would render such a thing impossible, if nothing else did
Hark to this, ma'am
You know what it is to love your child. So do I. If she was a hundred times my child, I couldn't love her more. You doen't know what it is to lose your child. I do. All the heaps of riches in the wureld would be nowt to me (if they was mine) to buy her back! But, save her from this disgrace, and she shall never be disgraced by us. Not one of us that she's growed up among, not one of us that's lived along with her and had her for their all in all, these many year, will ever look upon her pritty face again. We'll be content to let her be; we'll be content to think of her, far off, as if she was underneath another sun and sky; we'll be content to trust her to her husband, - to her little children, p'raps, - and bide the time when all of us shall be alike in quality afore our God
I justify nothing. I make no counter-accusations. But I am sorry to repeat, it is impossible. Such a marriage would irretrievably blight my son's career, and ruin his prospects. Nothing is more certain than that it never can take place, and never will. If there is any other compensation
I am looking at the likeness of the face
that has looked at me, in my home, at my fireside, in my boat - wheer not? - smiling and friendly, when it was so treacherous, that I go half wild when I think of it. If the likeness of that face don't turn to burning fire, at the thought of offering money to me for my child's blight and ruin, it's as bad. I doen't know, being a lady's, but what it's worse
What compensation can you make to ME for opening such a pit between me and my son? What is your love to mine? What is your separation to ours
No, Rosa, not a word! Let the man listen to what I say! My son, who has been the object of my life, to whom its every thought has been devoted, whom I have gratified from a child in every wish, from whom I have had no separate existence since his birth, - to take up in a moment with a miserable girl, and avoid me! To repay my confidence with systematic deception, for her sake, and quit me for her! To set this wretched fancy, against his mother's claims upon his duty, love, respect, gratitude - claims that every day and hour of his life should have strengthened into ties that nothing could be proof against! Is this no injury
I say, Rosa, not a word! If he can stake his all upon the lightest object, I can stake my all upon a greater purpose. Let him go where he will, with the means that my love has secured to him! Does he think to reduce me by long absence? He knows his mother very little if he does. Let him put away his whim now, and he is welcome back. Let him not put her away now, and he never shall come near me, living or dying, while I can raise my hand to make a sign against it, unless, being rid of her for ever, he comes humbly to me and begs for my forgiveness. This is my right. This is the acknowledgement I WILL HAVE. This is the separation that there is between us! And is this
no injury
Doen't fear me being any hindrance to you, I have no more to say, ma'am
You do well
indeed, to bring this fellow here
This is a fellow
to champion and bring here, is he not? You are a true man
Miss Dartle
you are surely not so unjust as to condemn ME
Why do you bring division between these two mad creatures
Don't you know that they are both mad with their own self-will and pride
Is it my doing
Is it your doing
Why do you bring this man here
He is a deeply-injured man, Miss Dartle
You may not know it
I know that James Steerforth
has a false, corrupt heart, and is a traitor. But what need I know or care about this fellow, and his common niece
Miss Dartle
you deepen the injury. It is sufficient already. I will only say, at parting, that you do him a great wrong
I do him no wrong
They are a depraved, worthless set. I would have her whipped
Oh, shame, Miss Dartle! shame
How can you bear to trample on his undeserved affliction
I would trample on them all
I would have his house pulled down. I would have her branded on the face, dressed in rags, and cast out in the streets to starve. If I had the power to sit in judgement on her, I would see it done. See it done? I would do it! I detest her. If I ever could reproach her with her infamous condition, I would go anywhere to do so. If I could hunt her to her grave, I would. If there was any word of comfort that would be a solace to her in her dying hour, and only I possessed it, I wouldn't part with it for Life itself
I'm a going, sir, to seek my niece
Good-bye
All good attend you, dear old woman
and you too, Mas'r Davy
I'm a-going to seek her, fur and wide. If she should come home while I'm away - but ah, that ain't like to be! - or if I should bring her back, my meaning is, that she and me shall live and die where no one can't reproach her. If any hurt should come to me, remember that the last words I left for her was, "My unchanged love is with my darling child, and I forgive her
I'm a going to seek her, fur and wide. If any hurt should come to me, remember that the last words I left for her was, "My unchanged love is with my darling child, and I forgive her
The young lady might think herself well off
to have such a beau. And as to her Pa
what did the gentleman expect, for gracious sake
Ah, Copperfield
You know this gentleman, I believe
I hope
that you are doing well
It can hardly be interesting to you
Yes, if you wish to know
And you
I am sorry to observe that you have lost your husband
It's not the first loss I have had in my life, Mr. Murdstone
I am glad to hope that there is nobody to blame for this one, - nobody to answer for it
Ha
that's a comfortable reflection. You have done your duty
I have not worn anybody's life away
I am thankful to think! No, Mr. Murdstone, I have not worrited and frightened any sweet creetur to an early grave
We are not likely to encounter soon again; - a source of satisfaction to us both, no doubt, for such meetings as this can never be agreeable. I do not expect that you, who always rebelled against my just authority, exerted for your benefit and reformation, should owe me any good-will now. There is an antipathy between us
An old one, I believe
It rankled in your baby breast
It embittered the life of your poor mother. You are right. I hope you may do better, yet; I hope you may correct yourself
Gentlemen of Mr. Spenlow's profession are accustomed to family differences, and know how complicated and difficult they always are
Miss Trotwood
Rather a good marriage this, I believe
Indeed
Speaking from the few words Mr. Murdstone dropped - as a man frequently does on these occasions - and from what Miss Murdstone let fall, I should say it was rather a good marriage
Do you mean that there is money, sir
Yes
I understand there's money. Beauty too, I am told
Indeed! Is his new wife young
Just of age
So lately, that I should think they had been waiting for that
Lord deliver her
Yes
That's right. Quite right. I should have been extremely happy, Copperfield, to have limited these charges to the actual expenditure out of pocket, but it is an irksome incident in my professional life, that I am not at liberty to consult my own wishes. I have a partner - Mr. Jorkins
Oh, thank you, Mr. Copperfield! What dear flowers
Kill me, if you have a heart, Miss Mills. Let me die here
My poor beautiful flowers
You'll be so glad to hear, Mr. Copperfield
that that cross Miss Murdstone is not here. She has gone to her brother's marriage, and will be away at least three weeks. Isn't that delightful
She is the most disagreeable thing I ever saw
You can't believe how ill-tempered and shocking she is, Julia
Yes, I can, my dear
YOU can, perhaps, love
Forgive my not excepting you, my dear, at first
Look, papa, what beautiful flowers
Ye Mayflies, enjoy your brief existence in the bright morning of life
Mr. Copperfield
you are dull
And Dora
YOU are dull
Mr. Copperfield and Dora
Enough of this. Do not allow a trivial misunderstanding to wither the blossoms of spring, which, once put forth and blighted, cannot be renewed. I speak
from experience of the past - the remote, irrevocable past. The gushing fountains which sparkle in the sun, must not be stopped in mere caprice; the oasis in the desert of Sahara must not be plucked up idly
where's Dora
Mr. Copperfield
come to this side of the carriage a moment - if you can spare a moment. I want to speak to you
Dora is coming to stay with me. She is coming home with me the day after tomorrow. If you would like to call, I am sure papa would be happy to see you
Go back to Dora
You must come in, Copperfield, and rest
I hope your poor horse was not tired, when he got home at night
It was a long way for him
It was a long way for him
for he had nothing to uphold him on the journey
Wasn't he fed, poor thing
Ye-yes
he was well taken care of. I mean he had not the unutterable happiness that I had in being so near you
You didn't seem to be sensible of that happiness yourself, at one time of the day
You didn't care for that happiness in the least
when you were sitting by Miss Kitt
Though certainly I don't know why you should
our love had begun in folly, and ended in madness
My dear Copperfield
how do you do
My dear Traddles
I am delighted to see you at last, and very sorry I have not been at home before. But I have been so much engaged
Yes, yes, I know
of course. Yours lives in London, I think
What did you say
She - excuse me - Miss D., you know
lives in London, I believe
Oh yes. Near London
Mine, perhaps you recollect
lives down in Devonshire - one of ten. Consequently, I am not so much engaged as you - in that sense
I wonder you can bear
to see her so seldom
Hah
It does seem a wonder. I suppose it is, Copperfield, because there is no help for it
I suppose so
And because you have so much constancy and patience, Traddles
Dear me
do I strike you in that way, Copperfield? Really I didn't know that I had. But she is such an extraordinarily dear girl herself, that it's possible she may have imparted something of those virtues to me. Now you mention it, Copperfield, I shouldn't wonder at all. I assure you she is always forgetting herself, and taking care of the other nine
Is she the eldest
Oh dear, no
The eldest is a Beauty
Not, of course, but that my Sophy - pretty name, Copperfield, I always think
Very pretty
Not, of course, but that Sophy is beautiful too in my eyes, and would be one of the dearest girls that ever was, in anybody's eyes (I should think). But when I say the eldest is a Beauty, I mean she really is a -' he seemed to be describing clouds about himself, with both hands: 'Splendid, you know
Indeed
Oh, I assure you
something very uncommon, indeed! Then, you know, being formed for society and admiration, and not being able to enjoy much of it in consequence of their limited means, she naturally gets a little irritable and exacting, sometimes. Sophy puts her in good humour
Is Sophy the youngest
Oh dear, no
The two youngest are only nine and ten. Sophy educates 'em
The second daughter, perhaps
No
Sarah's the second. Sarah has something the matter with her spine, poor girl. The malady will wear out by and by, the doctors say, but in the meantime she has to lie down for a twelvemonth. Sophy nurses her. Sophy's the fourth
Is the mother living
Oh yes
she is alive. She is a very superior woman indeed, but the damp country is not adapted to her constitution, and - in fact, she has lost the use of her limbs
Dear me
Very sad, is it not
But in a merely domestic view it is not so bad as it might be, because Sophy takes her place. She is quite as much a mother to her mother, as she is to the other nine
He is quite well, Copperfield, thank you
I am not living with him at present
No
No. You see the truth is
he had changed his name to Mortimer, in consequence of his temporary embarrassments; and he don't come out till after dark - and then in spectacles. There was an execution put into our house, for rent. Mrs. Micawber was in such a dreadful state that I really couldn't resist giving my name to that second bill we spoke of here. You may imagine how delightful it was to my feelings, Copperfield, to see the matter settled with it, and Mrs. Micawber recover her spirits
Hum
Not that her happiness was of long duration
for, unfortunately, within a week another execution came in. It broke up the establishment. I have been living in a furnished apartment since then, and the Mortimers have been very private indeed. I hope you won't think it selfish, Copperfield, if I mention that the broker carried off my little round table with the marble top, and Sophy's flower-pot and stand
What a hard thing
It was a - it was a pull
I don't mention it reproachfully, however, but with a motive. The fact is, Copperfield, I was unable to repurchase them at the time of their seizure; in the first place, because the broker, having an idea that I wanted them, ran the price up to an extravagant extent; and, in the second place, because I - hadn't any money. Now, I have kept my eye since, upon the broker's shop
which is up at the top of Tottenham Court Road, and, at last, today I find them put out for sale. I have only noticed them from over the way, because if the broker saw me, bless you, he'd ask any price for them! What has occurred to me, having now the money, is, that perhaps you wouldn't object to ask that good nurse of yours to come with me to the shop - I can show it her from round the corner of the next street - and make the best bargain for them, as if they were for herself, that she can
My dear Copperfield
I have already done so, because I begin to feel that I have not only been inconsiderate, but that I have been positively unjust to Sophy. My word being passed to myself, there is no longer any apprehension; but I pledge it to you, too, with the greatest readiness. That first unlucky obligation, I have paid. I have no doubt Mr. Micawber would have paid it if he could, but he could not. One thing I ought to mention, which I like very much in Mr. Micawber, Copperfield. It refers to the second obligation, which is not yet due. He don't tell me that it is provided for, but he says it WILL BE. Now, I think there is something very fair and honest about that
I am very much obliged to you, indeed
If I might ask one other favour, I hope you would not think it absurd, Copperfield
Then if you WOULD be good enough
to get the flower-pot now, I think I should like (it being Sophy's, Copperfield) to carry it home myself
My dear aunt
Why, what an unexpected pleasure
Holloa
How are YOU
You remember my aunt, Peggotty
For the love of goodness, child
don't call the woman by that South Sea Island name! If she married and got rid of it, which was the best thing she could do, why don't you give her the benefit of the change? What's your name now, - P
Barkis, ma'am
Well! That's human
It sounds less as if you wanted a missionary. How d'ye do, Barkis? I hope you're well
We are older than we were, I see
We have only met each other once before, you know. A nice business we made of it then! Trot, my dear, another cup
Let me draw the sofa here, or the easy-chair, aunt
Why should you be so uncomfortable
Thank you, Trot
I prefer to sit upon my property
We needn't trouble you to wait, ma'am
Shall I put a little more tea in the pot afore I go, ma'am
No, I thank you, ma'am
Would you let me fetch another pat of butter, ma'am
Or would you be persuaded to try a new-laid hegg? or should I brile a rasher? Ain't there nothing I could do for your dear aunt, Mr. Copperfull
Nothing, ma'am
I shall do very well, I thank you
Dick
You know what I told you about time-servers and wealth-worshippers
Mrs. Crupp is one of them
Barkis, I'll trouble you to look after the tea, and let me have another cup, for I don't fancy that woman's pouring-out
Trot
you needn't go, Barkis! - Trot, have you got to be firm and self-reliant
I hope so, aunt
What do you think
I think so, aunt
Then why, my love
why do you think I prefer to sit upon this property of mine tonight
Because
it's all I have. Because I'm ruined, my dear
Dick knows it
I am ruined, my dear Trot! All I have in the world is in this room, except the cottage; and that I have left Janet to let. Barkis, I want to get a bed for this gentleman tonight. To save expense, perhaps you can make up something here for myself. Anything will do. It's only for tonight. We'll talk about this, more, tomorrow
We must meet reverses boldly, and not suffer them to frighten us, my dear. We must learn to act the play out. We must live misfortune down, Trot
You know, Trotwood, I don't want to swing a cat. I never do swing a cat. Therefore, what does that signify to ME
Now, Dick, are you really and truly the philosopher I take you for
Dick, I am ruined
Oh, indeed
What can we do, Trotwood
To be sure there is
But all we can do just now, Mr. Dick, is to keep a cheerful countenance, and not let my aunt see that we are thinking about it
Trot, my dear
No
Nothing, aunt
Not wine, my dear. Ale
But there is wine here, aunt. And you always have it made of wine
Keep that, in case of sickness
We mustn't use it carelessly, Trot. Ale for me. Half a pint
My dear
it's a great deal better than wine. Not half so bilious
Tut, tut, child. If nothing worse than Ale happens to us, we are well off
I should think so myself, aunt, I am sure
Well, then, why DON'T you think so
Because you and I are very different people
Stuff and nonsense, Trot
Trot
I don't care for strange faces in general, but I rather like that Barkis of yours, do you know
It's better than a hundred pounds to hear you say so
It's a most extraordinary world
how that woman ever got into it with that name, is unaccountable to me. It would be much more easy to be born a Jackson, or something of that sort, one would think
Perhaps she thinks so, too; it's not her fault
I suppose not
but it's very aggravating. However, she's Barkis now. That's some comfort. Barkis is uncommonly fond of you, Trot
There is nothing she would leave undone to prove it
Nothing, I believe
Here, the poor fool has been begging and praying about handing over some of her money - because she has got too much of it. A simpleton
She's the most ridiculous creature that ever was born
I knew, from the first moment when I saw her with that poor dear blessed baby of a mother of yours, that she was the most ridiculous of mortals. But there are good points in Barkis
Ah! Mercy upon us
I know all about it, Trot! Barkis and myself had quite a gossip while you were out with Dick. I know all about it. I don't know where these wretched girls expect to go to, for my part. I wonder they don't knock out their brains against - against mantelpieces
Poor Emily
Oh, don't talk to me about poor
She should have thought of that, before she caused so much misery! Give me a kiss, Trot. I am sorry for your early experience
Oh, Trot, Trot! And so you fancy yourself in love! Do you
Fancy, aunt
I adore her with my whole soul
Dora, indeed
And you mean to say the little thing is very fascinating, I suppose
My dear aunt
no one can form the least idea what she is
Ah! And not silly
Silly, aunt
Not light-headed
Light-headed, aunt
Well, well
I only ask. I don't depreciate her. Poor little couple! And so you think you were formed for one another, and are to go through a party-supper-table kind of life, like two pretty pieces of confectionery, do you, Trot
We are young and inexperienced, aunt, I know
and I dare say we say and think a good deal that is rather foolish. But we love one another truly, I am sure. If I thought Dora could ever love anybody else, or cease to love me; or that I could ever love anybody else, or cease to love her; I don't know what I should do - go out of my mind, I think
Ah, Trot
blind, blind, blind
Someone that I know, Trot
though of a very pliant disposition, has an earnestness of affection in him that reminds me of poor Baby. Earnestness is what that Somebody must look for, to sustain him and improve him, Trot. Deep, downright, faithful earnestness
If you only knew the earnestness of Dora, aunt
Oh, Trot
blind, blind
However
I don't want to put two young creatures out of conceit with themselves, or to make them unhappy; so, though it is a girl and boy attachment, and girl and boy attachments very often - mind! I don't say always! - come to nothing, still we'll be serious about it, and hope for a prosperous issue one of these days. There's time enough for it to come to anything
Poor boy
How are you, Copperfield
Fine morning
Beautiful morning, sir
Could I say a word to you before you go into Court
By all means
Come into my room
I am sorry to say
that I have some rather disheartening intelligence from my aunt
No
Dear me! Not paralysis, I hope
It has no reference to her health, sir
She has met with some large losses. In fact, she has very little left, indeed
You as-tound me, Copperfield
Indeed, sir
her affairs are so changed, that I wished to ask you whether it would be possible - at a sacrifice on our part of some portion of the premium, of course
to cancel my articles
To cancel your articles, Copperfield? Cancel
I am extremely sorry to hear this, Copperfield
Extremely sorry. It is not usual to cancel articles for any such reason. It is not a professional course of proceeding. It is not a convenient precedent at all. Far from it. At the same time
You are very good, sir
Not at all. Don't mention it
At the same time, I was going to say, if it had been my lot to have my hands unfettered - if I had not a partner - Mr. Jorkins
Do you think, sir
if I were to mention it to Mr. Jorkins
Heaven forbid, Copperfield
that I should do any man an injustice: still less, Mr. jorkins. But I know my partner, Copperfield. Mr. jorkins is not a man to respond to a proposition of this peculiar nature. Mr. jorkins is very difficult to move from the beaten track. You know what he is
Would you object to my mentioning it to him, sir
By no means
But I have some experience of Mr. jorkins, Copperfield. I wish it were otherwise, for I should be happy to meet your views in any respect. I cannot have the objection to your mentioning it to Mr. jorkins, Copperfield, if you think it worth while
Come in, Mr. Copperfield
Come in
You have mentioned this to Mr. Spenlow, I suppose
He said I should object
I am sorry to say, Mr. Copperfield, I can't advance your object
The fact is - but I have an appointment at the Bank, if you'll have the goodness to excuse me
No
Oh, no! I object, you know
You must be aware, Mr. Copperfield
if Mr. Spenlow objects
Personally, he does not object, sir
Oh! Personally
I assure you there's an objection, Mr. Copperfield. Hopeless! What you wish to be done, can't be done. I - I really have got an appointment at the Bank
Copperfield
you have not known my partner, Mr. jorkins, as long as I have. Nothing is farther from my thoughts than to attribute any degree of artifice to Mr. jorkins. But Mr. jorkins has a way of stating his objections which often deceives people. No, Copperfield
Mr. jorkins is not to be moved, believe me
Agnes
Oh, my dear Agnes, of all people in the world, what a pleasure to see you
Is it, indeed
I want to talk to you so much
It's such a lightening of my heart, only to look at you! If I had had a conjuror's cap, there is no one I should have wished for but you
What
Well! perhaps Dora first
Certainly, Dora first, I hope
But you next
Where are you going
And now they are partners
Confound him
Yes
They have some business here; and I took advantage of their coming, to come too. You must not think my visit all friendly and disinterested, Trotwood, for - I am afraid I may be cruelly prejudiced - I do not like to let papa go away alone, with him
Does he exercise the same influence over Mr. Wickfield still, Agnes
There is such a change at home
that you would scarcely know the dear old house. They live with us now
They
Mr. Heep and his mother. He sleeps in your old room
I wish I had the ordering of his dreams
He wouldn't sleep there long
I keep my own little room
where I used to learn my lessons. How the time goes! You remember? The little panelled room that opens from the drawing-room
Remember, Agnes? When I saw you, for the first time, coming out at the door, with your quaint little basket of keys hanging at your side
It is just the same
I am glad you think of it so pleasantly. We were very happy
We were, indeed
I keep that room to myself still; but I cannot always desert Mrs. Heep, you know. And so
I feel obliged to bear her company, when I might prefer to be alone. But I have no other reason to complain of her. If she tires me, sometimes, by her praises of her son, it is only natural in a mother. He is a very good son to her
The chief evil of their presence in the house
is that I cannot be as near papa as I could wish - Uriah Heep being so much between us - and cannot watch over him, if that is not too bold a thing to say, as closely as I would. But if any fraud or treachery is practising against him, I hope that simple love and truth will be strong in the end. I hope that real love and truth are stronger in the end than any evil or misfortune in the world
Which was injudicious, Trot
but well meant. You are a generous boy - I suppose I must say, young man, now - and I am proud of you, my dear. So far, so good. Now, Trot and Agnes, let us look the case of Betsey Trotwood in the face, and see how it stands
Betsey Trotwood
I don't mean your sister, Trot, my dear, but myself - had a certain property. It don't matter how much; enough to live on. More; for she had saved a little, and added to it. Betsey funded her property for some time, and then, by the advice of her man of business, laid it out on landed security. That did very well, and returned very good interest, till Betsey was paid off. I am talking of Betsey as if she was a man-of-war. Well! Then, Betsey had to look about her, for a new investment. She thought she was wiser, now, than her man of business, who was not such a good man of business by this time, as he used to be - I am alluding to your father, Agnes - and she took it into her head to lay it out for herself. So she took her pigs
to a foreign market; and a very bad market it turned out to be. First, she lost in the mining way, and then she lost in the diving way - fishing up treasure, or some such Tom Tiddler nonsense
and then she lost in the mining way again, and, last of all, to set the thing entirely to rights, she lost in the banking way. I don't know what the Bank shares were worth for a little while
cent per cent was the lowest of it, I believe; but the Bank was at the other end of the world, and tumbled into space, for what I know; anyhow, it fell to pieces, and never will and never can pay sixpence; and Betsey's sixpences were all there, and there's an end of them. Least said, soonest mended
Dear Miss Trotwood, is that all the history
I hope it's enough, child
If there had been more money to lose, it wouldn't have been all, I dare say. Betsey would have contrived to throw that after the rest, and make another chapter, I have little doubt. But there was no more money, and there's no more story
Is that all
What's to be done? Here's the cottage, taking one time with another, will produce say seventy pounds a year. I think we may safely put it down at that. Well! - That's all we've got
Then
there's Dick. He's good for a hundred a-year, but of course that must be expended on himself. I would sooner send him away, though I know I am the only person who appreciates him, than have him, and not spend his money on himself. How can Trot and I do best, upon our means? What do you say, Agnes
I say, aunt
that I must do something
Go for a soldier, do you mean
or go to sea? I won't hear of it. You are to be a proctor. We're not going to have any knockings on the head in THIS family, if you please, sir
You come to the point, my dear
They are not to be got rid of, for six months at least, unless they could be underlet, and that I don't believe. The last man died here. Five people out of six would die - of course - of that woman in nankeen with the flannel petticoat. I have a little ready money; and I agree with you, the best thing we can do, is, to live the term out here, and get a bedroom hard by
I have been thinking, Trotwood
that if you had time
I have abundance of time
I know you would not mind
the duties of a secretary
Mind, my dear Agnes
Because
Doctor Strong has acted on his intention of retiring, and has come to live in London; and he asked papa, I know, if he could recommend him one. Don't you think he would rather have his favourite old pupil near him, than anybody else
Dear Agnes
What should I do without you! You are always my good angel. I told you so. I never think of you in any other light
I think
it's papa. He promised me that he would come
Papa! Here is Miss Trotwood - and Trotwood, whom you have not seen for a long while
Well, Wickfield
I have been telling your daughter how well I have been disposing of my money for myself, because I couldn't trust it to you, as you were growing rusty in business matters. We have been taking counsel together, and getting on very well, all things considered. Agnes is worth the whole firm, in my opinion
If I may umbly make the remark
I fully agree with Miss Betsey Trotwood, and should be only too appy if Miss Agnes was a partner
You're a partner yourself, you know
and that's about enough for you, I expect. How do you find yourself, sir
And you, Master - I should say, Mister Copperfield
I hope I see you well! I am rejoiced to see you, Mister Copperfield, even under present circumstances
Present circumstances is not what your friends would wish for you, Mister Copperfield, but it isn't money makes the man: it's - I am really unequal with my umble powers to express what it is
but it isn't money
And how do you think we are looking, Master Copperfield, - I should say, Mister
Don't you find Mr. Wickfield blooming, sir? Years don't tell much in our firm, Master Copperfield, except in raising up the umble, namely, mother and self - and in developing
the beautiful, namely, Miss Agnes
Deuce take the man
what's he about? Don't be galvanic, sir
I ask your pardon, Miss Trotwood
I'm aware you're nervous
Go along with you, sir
Don't presume to say so! I am nothing of the sort. If you're an eel, sir, conduct yourself like one. If you're a man, control your limbs, sir! Good God
I am not going to be serpentined and corkscrewed out of my senses
I am well aware, Master Copperfield, that Miss Trotwood, though an excellent lady, has a quick temper (indeed I think I had the pleasure of knowing her, when I was a numble clerk, before you did, Master Copperfield), and it's only natural, I am sure, that it should be made quicker by present circumstances. The wonder is, that it isn't much worse! I only called to say that if there was anything we could do, in present circumstances, mother or self, or Wickfield and Heep, -we should be really glad. I may go so far
Uriah Heep
is active in the business, Trotwood. What he says, I quite concur in. You know I had an old interest in you. Apart from that, what Uriah says I quite concur in
Oh, what a reward it is
to be so trusted in! But I hope I am able to do something to relieve him from the fatigues of business, Master Copperfield
Uriah Heep is a great relief to me
It's a load off my mind, Trotwood, to have such a partner
You are not going, papa
Will you not walk back with Trotwood and me
I am bespoke myself
on business; otherwise I should have been appy to have kept with my friends. But I leave my partner to represent the firm. Miss Agnes, ever yours! I wish you good-day, Master Copperfield, and leave my umble respects for Miss Betsey Trotwood
Blind! Blind! Blind
Why, my dear Copperfield
you are a man! How do you do? I am delighted to see you. My dear Copperfield, how very much you have improved! You are quite - yes - dear me
Oh dear, yes
Annie's quite well, and she'll be delighted to see you. You were always her favourite. She said so, last night, when I showed her your letter. And - yes, to be sure - you recollect Mr. Jack Maldon, Copperfield
Perfectly, sir
Of course
To be sure. He's pretty well, too
Has he come home, sir
From India
Yes. Mr. Jack Maldon couldn't bear the climate, my dear. Mrs. Markleham - you have not forgotten Mrs. Markleham
Mrs. Markleham
was quite vexed about him, poor thing; so we have got him at home again; and we have bought him a little Patent place, which agrees with him much better
Now, my dear Copperfield, in reference to this proposal of yours. It's very gratifying and agreeable to me, I am sure; but don't you think you could do better? You achieved distinction, you know, when you were with us. You are qualified for many good things. You have laid a foundation that any edifice may be raised upon; and is it not a pity that you should devote the spring-time of your life to such a poor pursuit as I can offer
Well, well
that's true. Certainly, your having a profession, and being actually engaged in studying it, makes a difference. But, my good young friend, what's seventy pounds a year
It doubles our income, Doctor Strong
Dear me
To think of that! Not that I mean to say it's rigidly limited to seventy pounds a-year, because I have always contemplated making any young friend I might thus employ, a present too. Undoubtedly
I have always taken an annual present into account
My dear tutor
to whom I owe more obligations already than I ever can acknowledge
No, no
Pardon me
If you will take such time as I have, and that is my mornings and evenings, and can think it worth seventy pounds a year, you will do me such a service as I cannot express
Dear me
To think that so little should go for so much! Dear, dear! And when you can do better, you will? On your word, now
On my word, sir
Then be it so
And I shall be twenty times happier, sir
if my employment is to be on the Dictionary
My dear young friend, you have hit it. It IS the Dictionary
Mr. Jack
Copperfield
Have you breakfasted this morning, Mr. Jack
I hardly ever take breakfast, sir
I find it bores me
Is there any news today
Nothing at all, sir
There's an account about the people being hungry and discontented down in the North, but they are always being hungry and discontented somewhere
Then there's no news at all; and no news, they say, is good news
There's a long statement in the papers, sir, about a murder
But somebody is always being murdered, and I didn't read it
I came out to inquire whether Annie would like to go to the opera tonight
It's the last good night there will be, this season; and there's a singer there, whom she really ought to hear. She is perfectly exquisite. Besides which, she is so charmingly ugly
You must go, Annie. You must go
I would rather not
I prefer to remain at home. I would much rather remain at home
Very likely
I am very much obliged to you, my dear Traddles
I'll begin tomorrow
I'll buy a book
with a good scheme of this art in it; I'll work at it at the Commons, where I haven't half enough to do; I'll take down the speeches in our court for practice - Traddles, my dear fellow, I'll master it
Dear me
I had no idea you were such a determined character, Copperfield
You see
if I could exert myself, Mr. Traddles - if I could beat a drum- or blow anything
But you are a very good penman, sir. You told me so, Copperfield
Excellent
Don't you think
you could copy writings, sir, if I got them for you
Eh, Trotwood
Tell him about the Memorial
But these writings, you know, that I speak of, are already drawn up and finished
Mr. Dick has nothing to do with them. Wouldn't that make a difference, Copperfield? At all events, wouldn't it be well to try
No starving now, Trotwood
I'll provide for her, Sir
It really
put Mr. Micawber quite out of my head
By the kindness of T. Traddles, Esquire, of the Inner Temple
WILKINS MICAWBER
My dear Copperfield
yourself and Mr. Traddles find us on the brink of migration, and will excuse any little discomforts incidental to that position
My dear Mr. Copperfield
of your friendly interest in all our affairs, I am well assured. My family may consider it banishment, if they please; but I am a wife and mother, and I never will desert Mr. Micawber
That
that, at least, is my view, my dear Mr. Copperfield and Mr. Traddles, of the obligation which I took upon myself when I repeated the irrevocable words, "I, Emma, take thee, Wilkins." I read the service over with a flat-candle on the previous night, and the conclusion I derived from it was, that I never could desert Mr. Micawber. And
though it is possible I may be mistaken in my view of the ceremony, I never will
My dear
I am not conscious that you are expected to do anything of the sort
I am aware, my dear Mr. Copperfield
that I am now about to cast my lot among strangers; and I am also aware that the various members of my family, to whom Mr. Micawber has written in the most gentlemanly terms, announcing that fact, have not taken the least notice of Mr. Micawber's communication. Indeed I may be superstitious
but it appears to me that Mr. Micawber is destined never to receive any answers whatever to the great majority of the communications he writes. I may augur, from the silence of my family, that they object to the resolution I have taken; but I should not allow myself to be swerved from the path of duty, Mr. Copperfield, even by my papa and mama, were they still living
It may be a sacrifice
to immure one's-self in a Cathedral town; but surely, Mr. Copperfield, if it is a sacrifice in me, it is much more a sacrifice in a man of Mr. Micawber's abilities
Oh! You are going to a Cathedral town
To Canterbury. In fact, my dear Copperfield, I have entered into arrangements, by virtue of which I stand pledged and contracted to our friend Heep, to assist and serve him in the capacity of - and to be - his confidential clerk
I am bound to state to you
that the business habits, and the prudent suggestions, of Mrs. Micawber, have in a great measure conduced to this result. The gauntlet, to which Mrs. Micawber referred upon a former occasion, being thrown down in the form of an advertisement, was taken up by my friend Heep, and led to a mutual recognition. Of my friend Heep
who is a man of remarkable shrewdness, I desire to speak with all possible respect. My friend Heep has not fixed the positive remuneration at too high a figure, but he has made a great deal, in the way of extrication from the pressure of pecuniary difficulties, contingent on the value of my services; and on the value of those services I pin my faith. Such address and intelligence as I chance to possess
will be devoted to my friend Heep's service. I have already some acquaintance with the law - as a defendant on civil process - and I shall immediately apply myself to the Commentaries of one of the most eminent and remarkable of our English jurists. I believe it is unnecessary to add that I allude to Mr. justice Blackstone
What I particularly request Mr. Micawber to be careful of, is
that he does not, my dear Mr. Copperfield, in applying himself to this subordinate branch of the law, place it out of his power to rise, ultimately, to the top of the tree. I am convinced that Mr. Micawber, giving his mind to a profession so adapted to his fertile resources, and his flow of language, must distinguish himself. Now, for example, Mr. Traddles
a judge, or even say a Chancellor. Does an individual place himself beyond the pale of those preferments by entering on such an office as Mr. Micawber has accepted
My dear
we have time enough before us, for the consideration of those questions
Micawber
no! Your mistake in life is, that you do not look forward far enough. You are bound, in justice to your family, if not to yourself, to take in at a comprehensive glance the extremest point in the horizon to which your abilities may lead you
Why, the plain state of the case, Mrs. Micawber
I mean the real prosaic fact, you know
Just so
my dear Mr. Traddles, I wish to be as prosaic and literal as possible on a subject of so much importance
Is
that this branch of the law, even if Mr. Micawber were a regular solicitor
Exactly so
Wilkins, you are squinting, and will not be able to get your eyes back
Has nothing
to do with that. Only a barrister is eligible for such preferments; and Mr. Micawber could not be a barrister, without being entered at an inn of court as a student, for five years
Do I follow you
Do I understand, my dear Mr. Traddles, that, at the expiration of that period, Mr. Micawber would be eligible as a Judge or Chancellor
He would be ELIGIBLE
Thank you
That is quite sufficient. If such is the case, and Mr. Micawber forfeits no privilege by entering on these duties, my anxiety is set at rest. I speak
as a female, necessarily; but I have always been of opinion that Mr. Micawber possesses what I have heard my papa call, when I lived at home, the judicial mind; and I hope Mr. Micawber is now entering on a field where that mind will develop itself, and take a commanding station
My dear, we will not anticipate the decrees of fortune. If I am reserved to wear a wig, I am at least prepared, externally
for that distinction. I do not
regret my hair, and I may have been deprived of it for a specific purpose. I cannot say. It is my intention, my dear Copperfield, to educate my son for the Church; I will not deny that I should be happy, on his account, to attain to eminence
For the Church
Yes
He has a remarkable head-voice, and will commence as a chorister. Our residence at Canterbury, and our local connexion, will, no doubt, enable him to take advantage of any vacancy that may arise in the Cathedral corps
My dear Copperfield
the companion of my youth: if I may be allowed the expression - and my esteemed friend Traddles: if I may be permitted to call him so - will allow me, on the part of Mrs. Micawber, myself, and our offspring, to thank them in the warmest and most uncompromising terms for their good wishes. It may be expected that on the eve of a migration which will consign us to a perfectly new existence
One thing more I have to do, before this separation is complete, and that is to perform an act of justice. My friend Mr. Thomas Traddles has, on two several occasions, "put his name", if I may use a common expression, to bills of exchange for my accommodation. On the first occasion Mr. Thomas Traddles was left - let me say, in short, in the lurch. The fulfilment of the second has not yet arrived. The amount of the first obligation
was, I believe, twenty-three, four, nine and a half, of the second, according to my entry of that transaction, eighteen, six, two. These sums, united, make a total, if my calculation is correct, amounting to forty-one, ten, eleven and a half. My friend Copperfield will perhaps do me the favour to check that total
To leave this metropolis
and my friend Mr. Thomas Traddles, without acquitting myself of the pecuniary part of this obligation, would weigh upon my mind to an insupportable extent. I have, therefore, prepared for my friend Mr. Thomas Traddles, and I now hold in my hand, a document, which accomplishes the desired object. I beg to hand to my friend Mr. Thomas Traddles my I.O.U. for forty-one, ten, eleven and a half, and I am happy to recover my moral dignity, and to know that I can once more walk erect before my fellow man
So good-bye, Barkis
and take care of yourself! I am sure I never thought I could be sorry to lose you
And now, my own dear Davy
if, while you're a prentice, you should want any money to spend; or if, when you're out of your time, my dear, you should want any to set you up (and you must do one or other, or both, my darling); who has such a good right to ask leave to lend it you, as my sweet girl's own old stupid me
And, my dear
tell the pretty little angel that I should so have liked to see her, only for a minute! And tell her that before she marries my boy, I'll come and make your house so beautiful for you, if you'll let me
How can you ask me anything so foolish
Love a beggar
Dora, my own dearest
I am a beggar
How can you be such a silly thing
as to sit there, telling such stories? I'll make Jip bite you
Dora, my own life, I am your ruined David
I declare I'll make Jip bite you
if you are so ridiculous
Is your heart mine still, dear Dora
Oh, yes
Oh, yes, it's all yours. Oh, don't be dreadful
Don't talk about being poor, and working hard
Oh, don't, don't
My dearest love
the crust well-earned
Oh, yes; but I don't want to hear any more about crusts
And Jip must have a mutton-chop every day at twelve, or he'll die
I am not dreadful now, Dora
Oh, no, no
But I hope your aunt will keep in her own room a good deal. And I hope she's not a scolding old thing
My own! May I mention something
Oh, please don't be practical
Because it frightens me so
Sweetheart
there is nothing to alarm you in all this. I want you to think of it quite differently. I want to make it nerve you, and inspire you, Dora
Oh, but that's so shocking
My love, no. Perseverance and strength of character will enable us to bear much worse things
But I haven't got any strength at all
Have I, Jip? Oh, do kiss Jip, and be agreeable
But, Dora, my beloved
I was going to mention something
Indeed I am not going to be, my darling
But, Dora, my love, if you will sometimes think, - not despondingly, you know; far from that! - but if you will sometimes think - just to encourage yourself - that you are engaged to a poor man
Don't, don't! Pray don't
It's so very dreadful
My soul, not at all
If you will sometimes think of that, and look about now and then at your papa's housekeeping, and endeavour to acquire a little habit - of accounts, for instance
It would be so useful to us afterwards
And if you would promise me to read a little - a little Cookery Book that I would send you, it would be so excellent for both of us. For our path in life, my Dora
is stony and rugged now, and it rests with us to smooth it. We must fight our way onward. We must be brave. There are obstacles to be met, and we must meet, and crush them
Who has done this
I, Miss Mills! I have done it! Behold the destroyer
Mr. Copperfield, I will be plain with you. Mental suffering and trial supply, in some natures, the place of years, and I will be as plain with you as if I were a Lady Abbess. No. The suggestion is not appropriate to our Dora. Our dearest Dora is a favourite child of nature. She is a thing of light, and airiness, and joy. I am free to confess that if it could be done, it might be well, but
My love
I have work to do
But don't do it
Why should you
Oh! How ridiculous
How shall we live without, Dora
How? Any how
Hear
No
Oh
Have the goodness to show Mr. Copperfield
I believe that is your writing, Mr. Copperfield
It is, sir
If I am not mistaken
those are also from your pen, Mr. Copperfield
My ever dearest and own Dora
My blessed one for ever
No, thank you
I will not deprive you of them. Miss Murdstone, be so good as to proceed
I must confess to having entertained my suspicions of Miss Spenlow, in reference to David Copperfield, for some time. I observed Miss Spenlow and David Copperfield, when they first met; and the impression made upon me then was not agreeable. The depravity of the human heart is such
You will oblige me, ma'am
by confining yourself to facts
knowing how little disposition there usually is in such cases, to acknowledge the conscientious discharge of duty
On my return to Norwood, after the period of absence occasioned by my brother's marriage
and on the return of Miss Spenlow from her visit to her friend Miss Mills, I imagined that the manner of Miss Spenlow gave me greater occasion for suspicion than before. Therefore I watched Miss Spenlow closely
Still
I found no proof until last night. It appeared to me that Miss Spenlow received too many letters from her friend Miss Mills; but Miss Mills being her friend with her father's full concurrence
it was not for me to interfere. If I may not be permitted to allude to the natural depravity of the human heart, at least I may - I must - be permitted, so far to refer to misplaced confidence
Last evening after tea
Miss Spenlow endeavoured
to bribe me with kisses, work-boxes, and small articles of jewellery - that, of course, I pass over. The little dog retreated under the sofa on my approaching him, and was with great difficulty dislodged by the fire-irons. Even when dislodged, he still kept the letter in his mouth; and on my endeavouring to take it from him, at the imminent risk of being bitten, he kept it between his teeth so pertinaciously as to suffer himself to be held suspended in the air by means of the document. At length I obtained possession of it. After perusing it, I taxed Miss Spenlow with having many such letters in her possession; and ultimately obtained from her the packet which is now in David Copperfield's hand
You have heard Miss Murdstone
I beg to ask, Mr. Copperfield, if you have anything to say in reply
There is nothing I can say, sir
except that all the blame is mine. Dora
Miss Spenlow, if you please
was induced and persuaded by me
to consent to this concealment, and I bitterly regret it
You are very much to blame, sir
You have done a stealthy and unbecoming action, Mr. Copperfield. When I take a gentleman to my house, no matter whether he is nineteen, twenty-nine, or ninety, I take him there in a spirit of confidence. If he abuses my confidence, he commits a dishonourable action, Mr. Copperfield
I feel it, sir, I assure you
But I never thought so, before. Sincerely, honestly, indeed, Mr. Spenlow, I never thought so, before. I love Miss Spenlow to that extent
Pooh! nonsense
Pray don't tell me to my face that you love my daughter, Mr. Copperfield
Could I defend my conduct if I did not, sir
Can you defend your conduct if you do, sir
Have you considered your years, and my daughter's years, Mr. Copperfield? Have you considered what it is to undermine the confidence that should subsist between my daughter and myself? Have you considered my daughter's station in life, the projects I may contemplate for her advancement, the testamentary intentions I may have with reference to her? Have you considered anything, Mr. Copperfield
Very little, sir, I am afraid
but pray believe me, I have considered my own worldly position. When I explained it to you, we were already engaged
I BEG
that YOU Will NOT talk to me of engagements, Mr. Copperfield
When I explained my altered position to you, sir
this concealment, into which I am so unhappy as to have led Miss Spenlow, had begun. Since I have been in that altered position, I have strained every nerve, I have exerted every energy, to improve it. I am sure I shall improve it in time. Will you grant me time - any length of time? We are both so young, sir
You are right
you are both very young. It's all nonsense. Let there be an end of the nonsense. Take away those letters, and throw them in the fire. Give me Miss Spenlow's letters to throw in the fire; and although our future intercourse must, you are aware, be restricted to the Commons here, we will agree to make no further mention of the past. Come, Mr. Copperfield, you don't want sense; and this is the sensible course
Very well, Mr. Copperfield
I must try my influence with my daughter
I must try
my influence with my daughter. Do you decline to take those letters, Mr. Copperfield
Nor from me
Very well
You are probably aware, Mr. Copperfield, that I am not altogether destitute of worldly possessions, and that my daughter is my nearest and dearest relative
I don't allude to the matter in that light
It would be better for yourself, and all of us, if you WERE mercenary, Mr. Copperfield - I mean, if you were more discreet and less influenced by all this youthful nonsense. No. I merely say, with quite another view, you are probably aware I have some property to bequeath to my child
And you can hardly think
having experience of what we see, in the Commons here, every day, of the various unaccountable and negligent proceedings of men, in respect of their testamentary arrangements - of all subjects, the one on which perhaps the strangest revelations of human inconsistency are to be met with - but that mine are made
I should not allow
my suitable provision for my child to be influenced by a piece of youthful folly like the present. It is mere folly. Mere nonsense. In a little while, it will weigh lighter than any feather. But I might - I might - if this silly business were not completely relinquished altogether, be induced in some anxious moment to guard her from, and surround her with protections against, the consequences of any foolish step in the way of marriage. Now, Mr. Copperfield, I hope that you will not render it necessary for me to open, even for a quarter of an hour, that closed page in the book of life, and unsettle, even for a quarter of an hour, grave affairs long since composed
In the meantime, confer with Miss Trotwood, or with any person with any knowledge of life
Take a week, Mr. Copperfield
You may make it necessary, if you are foolish or obstinate, Mr. Copperfield
for me to send my daughter abroad again, for a term; but I have a better opinion of you. I hope you will be wiser than that, in a few days. As to Miss Murdstone
I respect that lady's vigilance, and feel obliged to her; but she has strict charge to avoid the subject. All I desire, Mr. Copperfield, is, that it should be forgotten. All you have got to do, Mr. Copperfield, is to forget it
Oh pray come to me, Julia, do, do
This is a dreadful calamity, Mr. Copperfield
What is
What's the matter
Don't you know
No
Mr. Spenlow
What about him
Dead
Dead
He dined in town yesterday, and drove down in the phaeton by himself
having sent his own groom home by the coach, as he sometimes did, you know
Well
The phaeton went home without him. The horses stopped at the stable-gate. The man went out with a lantern. Nobody in the carriage
Had they run away
They were not hot
no hotter, I understand, than they would have been, going down at the usual pace. The reins were broken, but they had been dragging on the ground. The house was roused up directly, and three of them went out along the road. They found him a mile off
More than a mile off, Mr. Tiffey
Was it? I believe you are right
more than a mile off - not far from the church - lying partly on the roadside, and partly on the path, upon his face. Whether he fell out in a fit, or got out, feeling ill before the fit came on - or even whether he was quite dead then, though there is no doubt he was quite insensible - no one appears to know. If he breathed, certainly he never spoke. Medical assistance was got as soon as possible, but it was quite useless
Oh, dear papa! oh, poor papa
Oh
Mr. Tiffey and myself, Mr. Copperfield, are about to examine the desks, the drawers, and other such repositories of the deceased, with the view of sealing up his private papers, and searching for a Will. There is no trace of any, elsewhere. It may be as well for you to assist us, if you please
Mr. Spenlow was very difficult to move from the beaten track. You know what he was! I am disposed to think he had made no will
Oh, I know he had
On the very day when I last saw him
he told me that he had, and that his affairs were long since settled
That looks unpromising
Very unpromising
Surely you don't doubt
My good Mr. Copperfield
if you had been in the Commons as long as I have, you would know that there is no subject on which men are so inconsistent, and so little to be trusted
Why, bless my soul, he made that very remark
I should call that almost final
My opinion is - no will
Oh, poor papa! Oh, dear papa
O yes, aunts! Please take Julia Mills and me and Jip to Putney
Monday. My sweet D. still much depressed. Headache. Called attention to J. as being beautifully sleek. D. fondled J. Associations thus awakened, opened floodgates of sorrow. Rush of grief admitted. (Are tears the dewdrops of the heart? J. M.) 'Tuesday. D. weak and nervous. Beautiful in pallor. (Do we not remark this in moon likewise? J. M.) D., J. M. and J. took airing in carriage. J. looking out of window, and barking violently at dustman, occasioned smile to overspread features of D. (Of such slight links is chain of life composed! J. M.) 

'Wednesday. D. comparatively cheerful. Sang to her, as congenial melody, "Evening Bells". Effect not soothing, but reverse. D. inexpressibly affected. Found sobbing afterwards, in own room. Quoted verses respecting self and young Gazelle. Ineffectually. Also referred to Patience on Monument. (Qy. Why on monument? J. M.) 

'Thursday. D. certainly improved. Better night. Slight tinge of damask revisiting cheek. Resolved to mention name of D. C. Introduced same, cautiously, in course of airing. D. immediately overcome. "Oh, dear, dear Julia! Oh, I have been a naughty and undutiful child!" Soothed and caressed. Drew ideal picture of D. C. on verge of tomb. D. again overcome. "Oh, what shall I do, what shall I do? Oh, take me somewhere!" Much alarmed. Fainting of D. and glass of water from public-house. (Poetical affinity. Chequered sign on door-post; chequered human life. Alas! J. M.) 

'Friday. Day of incident. Man appears in kitchen, with blue bag, "for lady's boots left out to heel". Cook replies, "No such orders." Man argues point. Cook withdraws to inquire, leaving man alone with J. On Cook's return, man still argues point, but ultimately goes. J. missing. D. distracted. Information sent to police. Man to be identified by broad nose, and legs like balustrades of bridge. Search made in every direction. No J. D. weeping bitterly, and inconsolable. Renewed reference to young Gazelle. Appropriate, but unavailing. Towards evening, strange boy calls. Brought into parlour. Broad nose, but no balustrades. Says he wants a pound, and knows a dog. Declines to explain further, though much pressed. Pound being produced by D. takes Cook to little house, where J. alone tied up to leg of table. joy of D. who dances round J. while he eats his supper. Emboldened by this happy change, mention D. C. upstairs. D. weeps afresh, cries piteously, "Oh, don't, don't, don't! It is so wicked to think of anything but poor papa!" - embraces J. and sobs herself to sleep. (Must not D. C. confine himself to the broad pinions of Time? J. M
I know the house of old, you recollect
and will find my way upstairs. How do you like the law, Mr. Micawber
My dear Copperfield
To a man possessed of the higher imaginative powers, the objection to legal studies is the amount of detail which they involve. Even in our professional correspondence
the mind is not at liberty to soar to any exalted form of expression. Still, it is a great pursuit. A great pursuit
It is humble
to quote a favourite expression of my friend Heep; but it may prove the stepping-stone to more ambitious domiciliary accommodation
My dear Copperfield, a man who labours under the pressure of pecuniary embarrassments, is, with the generality of people, at a disadvantage. That disadvantage is not diminished, when that pressure necessitates the drawing of stipendiary emoluments, before those emoluments are strictly due and payable. All I can say is, that my friend Heep has responded to appeals to which I need not more particularly refer, in a manner calculated to redound equally to the honour of his head, and of his heart
I should not have supposed him to be very free with his money either
Pardon me
I speak of my friend Heep as I have experience
I am glad your experience is so favourable
You are very obliging, my dear Copperfield
Do you see much of Mr. Wickfield
Not much
Mr. Wickfield is, I dare say, a man of very excellent intentions; but he is - in short, he is obsolete
I am afraid his partner seeks to make him so
My dear Copperfield
allow me to offer a remark! I am here, in a capacity of confidence. I am here, in a position of trust. The discussion of some topics, even with Mrs. Micawber herself (so long the partner of my various vicissitudes, and a woman of a remarkable lucidity of intellect), is, I am led to consider, incompatible with the functions now devolving on me. I would therefore take the liberty of suggesting that in our friendly intercourse - which I trust will never be disturbed! - we draw a line. On one side of this line
is the whole range of the human intellect, with a trifling exception; on the other, IS that exception; that is to say, the affairs of Messrs Wickfield and Heep, with all belonging and appertaining thereunto. I trust I give no offence to the companion of my youth, in submitting this proposition to his cooler judgement
I am charmed, Copperfield
let me assure you, with Miss Wickfield. She is a very superior young lady, of very remarkable attractions, graces, and virtues. Upon my honour
I do Homage to Miss Wickfield! Hem
I am glad of that, at least
If you had not assured us, my dear Copperfield, on the occasion of that agreeable afternoon we had the happiness of passing with you, that D. was your favourite letter
I should unquestionably have supposed that A. had been so
Ah, Agnes
I have missed you so much, lately
Indeed
Again! And so soon
I don't know how it is, Agnes; I seem to want some faculty of mind that I ought to have. You were so much in the habit of thinking for me, in the happy old days here, and I came so naturally to you for counsel and support, that I really think I have missed acquiring it
And what is it
I don't know what to call it
I think I am earnest and persevering
I am sure of it
And patient, Agnes
Yes
Pretty well
And yet
I get so miserable and worried, and am so unsteady and irresolute in my power of assuring myself, that I know I must want - shall I call it - reliance, of some kind
Call it so, if you will
Well
See here! You come to London, I rely on you, and I have an object and a course at once. I am driven out of it, I come here, and in a moment I feel an altered person. The circumstances that distressed me are not changed, since I came into this room; but an influence comes over me in that short interval that alters me, oh, how much for the better! What is it? What is your secret, Agnes
It's the old story
Don't laugh, when I say it was always the same in little things as it is in greater ones. My old troubles were nonsense, and now they are serious; but whenever I have gone away from my adopted sister
Whenever I have not had you, Agnes, to advise and approve in the beginning, I have seemed to go wild, and to get into all sorts of difficulty. When I have come to you, at last (as I have always done), I have come to peace and happiness. I come home, now, like a tired traveller, and find such a blessed sense of rest
And there is not another word to tell, Agnes
Now, my reliance is on you
But it must not be on me, Trotwood
It must be on someone else
On Dora
Assuredly
Why, I have not mentioned, Agnes
that Dora is rather difficult to - I would not, for the world, say, to rely upon, because she is the soul of purity and truth - but rather difficult to - I hardly know how to express it, really, Agnes. She is a timid little thing, and easily disturbed and frightened. Some time ago, before her father's death, when I thought it right to mention to her - but I'll tell you, if you will bear with me, how it was
Oh, Trotwood
Just your old headlong way! You might have been in earnest in striving to get on in the world, without being so very sudden with a timid, loving, inexperienced girl. Poor Dora
What ought I to do then, Agnes
What would it be right to do
I think
that the honourable course to take, would be to write to those two ladies. Don't you think that any secret course is an unworthy one
Yes. If YOU think so
I am poorly qualified to judge of such matters
but I certainly feel - in short, I feel that your being secret and clandestine, is not being like yourself
Like myself, in the too high opinion you have of me, Agnes, I am afraid
Like yourself, in the candour of your nature
and therefore I would write to those two ladies. I would relate, as plainly and as openly as possible, all that has taken place; and I would ask their permission to visit sometimes, at their house. Considering that you are young, and striving for a place in life, I think it would be well to say that you would readily abide by any conditions they might impose upon you. I would entreat them not to dismiss your request, without a reference to Dora; and to discuss it with her when they should think the time suitable. I would not be too vehement
or propose too much. I would trust to my fidelity and perseverance - and to Dora
But if they were to frighten Dora again, Agnes, by speaking to her
And if Dora were to cry, and say nothing about me
Is that likely
God bless her, she is as easily scared as a bird
It might be! Or if the two Miss Spenlows (elderly ladies of that sort are odd characters sometimes) should not be likely persons to address in that way
I don't think, Trotwood
I would consider that. Perhaps it would be better only to consider whether it is right to do this; and, if it is, to do it
You stay with us, Trotwood, while you remain in Canterbury
Is there room for me
I am sure, Master Copperfield - I should say Mister, but the other comes so natural
No, no
Why should you be inconvenienced? There's another room. There's another room
Oh, but you know
I should really be delighted
I'm umbly thankful to you, sir
but I'm only pretty well. I haven't much to boast of. If I could see my Uriah well settled in life, I couldn't expect much more I think. How do you think my Ury looking, sir
Oh, don't you think he's changed
There I must umbly beg leave to differ from you. Don't you see a thinness in him
Not more than usual
Don't you though
But you don't take notice of him with a mother's eye
Don't YOU see a wasting and a wearing in him, Miss Wickfield
No
You are too solicitous about him. He is very well
Well
How fast you walk
My legs are pretty long, but you've given 'em quite a job
Where are you going
I am going with you, Master Copperfield, if you'll allow me the pleasure of a walk with an old acquaintance
Uriah
Master Copperfield
To tell you the truth (at which you will not be offended), I came Out to walk alone, because I have had so much company
You mean mother
Why yes, I do
Ah! But you know we're so very umble
And having such a knowledge of our own umbleness, we must really take care that we're not pushed to the wall by them as isn't umble. All stratagems are fair in love, sir
You see
you're quite a dangerous rival, Master Copperfield. You always was, you know
Do you set a watch upon Miss Wickfield, and make her home no home, because of me
Oh! Master Copperfield! Those are very arsh words
Put my meaning into any words you like
You know what it is, Uriah, as well as I do
Oh no! You must put it into words
Oh, really! I couldn't myself
Do you suppose
that I regard Miss Wickfield otherwise than as a very dear sister
Well, Master Copperfield
you perceive I am not bound to answer that question. You may not, you know. But then, you see, you may
Come then
For the sake of Miss Wickfield
My Agnes
Would you be so good as call her Agnes, Master Copperfield
For the sake of Agnes Wickfield - Heaven bless her
Thank you for that blessing, Master Copperfield
I will tell you what I should, under any other circumstances, as soon have thought of telling to - Jack Ketch
To who, sir
To the hangman
The most unlikely person I could think of
I am engaged to another young lady. I hope that contents you
Upon your soul
Oh, Master Copperfield
If you had only had the condescension to return my confidence when I poured out the fulness of my art, the night I put you so much out of the way by sleeping before your sitting-room fire, I never should have doubted you. As it is, I'm sure I'll take off mother directly, and only too appy. I know you'll excuse the precautions of affection, won't you? What a pity, Master Copperfield, that you didn't condescend to return my confidence! I'm sure I gave you every opportunity. But you never have condescended to me, as much as I could have wished. I know you have never liked me, as I have liked you
Shall we turn
Before we leave the subject, you ought to understand
that I believe Agnes Wickfield to be as far above you, and as far removed from all your aspirations, as that moon herself
Peaceful! Ain't she
Very! Now confess, Master Copperfield, that you haven't liked me quite as I have liked you. All along you've thought me too umble now, I shouldn't wonder
I am not fond of professions of humility
or professions of anything else
There now
Didn't I know it! But how little you think of the rightful umbleness of a person in my station, Master Copperfield! Father and me was both brought up at a foundation school for boys; and mother, she was likewise brought up at a public, sort of charitable, establishment. They taught us all a deal of umbleness - not much else that I know of, from morning to night. We was to be umble to this person, and umble to that; and to pull off our caps here, and to make bows there; and always to know our place, and abase ourselves before our betters. And we had such a lot of betters! Father got the monitor-medal by being umble. So did I. Father got made a sexton by being umble. He had the character, among the gentlefolks, of being such a well-behaved man, that they were determined to bring him in. "Be umble, Uriah," says father to me, "and you'll get on. It was what was always being dinned into you and me at school; it's what goes down best. Be umble," says father, "and you'll do!" And really it ain't done bad
When I was quite a young boy
I got to know what umbleness did, and I took to it. I ate umble pie with an appetite. I stopped at the umble point of my learning, and says I, "Hold hard!" When you offered to teach me Latin, I knew better. "People like to be above you," says father, "keep yourself down." I am very umble to the present moment, Master Copperfield, but I've got a little power
We seldom see our present visitor, sir
and I should propose to give him welcome in another glass or two of wine, if you have no objections. Mr. Copperfield, your elth and appiness
Come, fellow-partner
if I may take the liberty, - now, suppose you give us something or another appropriate to Copperfield
Come, fellow-partner
I'll give you another one, and I umbly ask for bumpers, seeing I intend to make it the divinest of her sex
I'm an umble individual to give you her elth
but I admire - adore her
Agnes
Agnes Wickfield is, I am safe to say, the divinest of her sex. May I speak out, among friends? To be her father is a proud distinction, but to be her usband
What's the matter
You are not gone mad, after all, Mr. Wickfield, I hope? If I say I've an ambition to make your Agnes my Agnes, I have as good a right to it as another man. I have a better right to it than any other man
I know, Trotwood! My darling child and you - I know! But look at him
Look at my torturer
Before him I have step by step abandoned name and reputation, peace and quiet, house and home
I have kept your name and reputation for you, and your peace and quiet, and your house and home too
Don't be foolish, Mr. Wickfield. If I have gone a little beyond what you were prepared for, I can go back, I suppose? There's no harm done
I looked for single motives in everyone
You had better stop him, Copperfield, if you can
He'll say something presently - mind you! - he'll be sorry to have said afterwards, and you'll be sorry to have heard
I'll say anything
Why should I not be in all the world's power if I am in yours
Mind! I tell you
If you don't stop his mouth, you're not his friend! Why shouldn't you be in all the world's power, Mr. Wickfield? Because you have got a daughter. You and me know what we know, don't we? Let sleeping dogs lie - who wants to rouse 'em? I don't. Can't you see I am as umble as I can be? I tell you, if I've gone too far, I'm sorry. What would you have, sir
Oh, Trotwood, Trotwood
What I have come down to be, since I first saw you in this house! I was on my downward way then, but the dreary, dreary road I have traversed since! Weak indulgence has ruined me. Indulgence in remembrance, and indulgence in forgetfulness. My natural grief for my child's mother turned to disease; my natural love for my child turned to disease. I have infected everything I touched. I have brought misery on what I dearly love, I know -you know! I thought it possible that I could truly love one creature in the world, and not love the rest; I thought it possible that I could truly mourn for one creature gone out of the world, and not have some part in the grief of all who mourned. Thus the lessons of my life have been perverted! I have preyed on my own morbid coward heart, and it has preyed on me. Sordid in my grief, sordid in my love, sordid in my miserable escape from the darker side of both, oh see the ruin I am, and hate me, shun me
I don't know all I have done, in my fatuity
He knows best
for he has always been at my elbow, whispering me. You see the millstone that he is about my neck. You find him in my house, you find him in my business. You heard him, but a little time ago. What need have I to say more
You haven't need to say so much, nor half so much, nor anything at all
You wouldn't have took it up so, if it hadn't been for the wine. You'll think better of it tomorrow, sir. If I have said too much, or more than I meant, what of it? I haven't stood by it
Papa, you are not well. Come with me
I didn't expect he'd cut up so rough, Master Copperfield
But it's nothing. I'll be friends with him tomorrow. It's for his good. I'm umbly anxious for his good
You will be going early in the morning, Trotwood! Let us say good-bye, now
Heaven bless you
Dearest Agnes
I see you ask me not to speak of tonight - but is there nothing to be done
There is God to trust in
Can I do nothing- I, who come to you with my poor sorrows
And make mine so much lighter
Dear Trotwood, no
Dear Agnes
it is presumptuous for me, who am so poor in all in which you are so rich - goodness, resolution, all noble qualities - to doubt or direct you; but you know how much I love you, and how much I owe you. You will never sacrifice yourself to a mistaken sense of duty, Agnes
Say you have no such thought, dear Agnes! Much more than sister! Think of the priceless gift of such a heart as yours, of such a love as yours
Copperfield
I thought you'd be glad to hear before you went off, that there are no squares broke between us. I've been into his room already, and we've made it all smooth. Why, though I'm umble, I'm useful to him, you know; and he understands his interest when he isn't in liquor! What an agreeable man he is, after all, Master Copperfield
Oh, to be sure
When a person's umble, you know, what's an apology? So easy! I say! I suppose
you have sometimes plucked a pear before it was ripe, Master Copperfield
I suppose I have
I did that last night
but it'll ripen yet! It only wants attending to. I can wait
I am in the lovingest of tempers, my dear
but I am fidgeted and sorry
I have not the heart to take it, Trot, tonight
Mas'r Davy
it do my art good to see you, sir. Well met, well met
Well met, my dear old friend
I had my thowts o' coming to make inquiration for you, sir, tonight
but knowing as your aunt was living along wi' you - fur I've been down yonder - Yarmouth way - I was afeerd it was too late. I should have come early in the morning, sir, afore going away
Again
Yes, sir
I'm away tomorrow
Where were you going now
Well
I was a-going to turn in somewheers
I'll tell you, Mas'r Davy
wheer all I've been, and what-all we've heerd. I've been fur, and we've heerd little; but I'll tell you
When she was a child
she used to talk to me a deal about the sea, and about them coasts where the sea got to be dark blue, and to lay a-shining and a-shining in the sun. I thowt, odd times, as her father being drownded made her think on it so much. I doen't know, you see, but maybe she believed - or hoped - he had drifted out to them parts, where the flowers is always a-blowing, and the country bright
It is likely to have been a childish fancy
When she was - lost
I know'd in my mind, as he would take her to them countries. I know'd in my mind, as he'd have told her wonders of 'em, and how she was to be a lady theer, and how he got her to listen to him fust, along o' sech like. When we see his mother, I know'd quite well as I was right. I went across-channel to France, and landed theer, as if I'd fell down from the sky
I found out an English gen'leman as was in authority
and told him I was a-going to seek my niece. He got me them papers as I wanted fur to carry me through - I doen't rightly know how they're called - and he would have give me money, but that I was thankful to have no need on. I thank him kind, for all he done, I'm sure! "I've wrote afore you," he says to me, "and I shall speak to many as will come that way, and many will know you, fur distant from here, when you're a-travelling alone." I told him, best as I was able, what my gratitoode was, and went away through France
Alone, and on foot
Mostly a-foot
sometimes in carts along with people going to market; sometimes in empty coaches. Many mile a day a-foot, and often with some poor soldier or another, travelling to see his friends. I couldn't talk to him
nor he to me; but we was company for one another, too, along the dusty roads
When I come to any town
I found the inn, and waited about the yard till someone turned up (someone mostly did) as know'd English. Then I told how that I was on my way to seek my niece, and they told me what manner of gentlefolks was in the house, and I waited to see any as seemed like her, going in or out. When it warn't Em'ly, I went on agen. By little and little, when I come to a new village or that, among the poor people, I found they know'd about me. They would set me down at their cottage doors, and give me what-not fur to eat and drink, and show me where to sleep; and many a woman, Mas'r Davy, as has had a daughter of about Em'ly's age, I've found a-waiting fur me, at Our Saviour's Cross outside the village, fur to do me sim'lar kindnesses. Some has had daughters as was dead. And God only knows how good them mothers was to me
They would often put their children - particular their little girls
upon my knee; and many a time you might have seen me sitting at their doors, when night was coming in, a'most as if they'd been my Darling's children. Oh, my Darling
Thankee, sir
doen't take no notice
They often walked with me
in the morning, maybe a mile or two upon my road; and when we parted, and I said, "I'm very thankful to you! God bless you!" they always seemed to understand, and answered pleasant. At last I come to the sea. It warn't hard, you may suppose, for a seafaring man like me to work his way over to Italy. When I got theer, I wandered on as I had done afore. The people was just as good to me, and I should have gone from town to town, maybe the country through, but that I got news of her being seen among them Swiss mountains yonder. One as know'd his servant see 'em there, all three, and told me how they travelled, and where they was. I made fur them mountains, Mas'r Davy, day and night. Ever so fur as I went, ever so fur the mountains seemed to shift away from me. But I come up with 'em, and I crossed 'em. When I got nigh the place as I had been told of, I began to think within my own self, "What shall I do when I see her
I never doubted her
No! Not a bit! On'y let her see my face - on'y let her beer my voice - on'y let my stanning still afore her bring to her thoughts the home she had fled away from, and the child she had been - and if she had growed to be a royal lady, she'd have fell down at my feet! I know'd it well! Many a time in my sleep had I heerd her cry out, "Uncle!" and seen her fall like death afore me. Many a time in my sleep had I raised her up, and whispered to her, "Em'ly, my dear, I am come fur to bring forgiveness, and to take you home
He was nowt to me now. Em'ly was all. I bought a country dress to put upon her; and I know'd that, once found, she would walk beside me over them stony roads, go where I would, and never, never, leave me more. To put that dress upon her, and to cast off what she wore - to take her on my arm again, and wander towards home - to stop sometimes upon the road, and heal her bruised feet and her worse-bruised heart - was all that I thowt of now. I doen't believe I should have done so much as look at him. But, Mas'r Davy, it warn't to be - not yet! I was too late, and they was gone. Wheer, I couldn't learn. Some said beer, some said theer. I travelled beer, and I travelled theer, but I found no Em'ly, and I travelled home
How long ago
A matter o' fower days
I sighted the old boat arter dark, and the light a-shining in the winder. When I come nigh and looked in through the glass, I see the faithful creetur Missis Gummidge sittin' by the fire, as we had fixed upon, alone. I called out, "Doen't be afeerd! It's Dan'l!" and I went in. I never could have thowt the old boat would have been so strange
This fust one come
afore I had been gone a week. A fifty pound Bank note, in a sheet of paper, directed to me, and put underneath the door in the night. She tried to hide her writing, but she couldn't hide it from Me
This come to Missis Gummidge
two or three months ago
Be so good as read it, sir
Oh what will you feel when you see this writing, and know it comes from my wicked hand! But try, try - not for my sake, but for uncle's goodness, try to let your heart soften to me, only for a little little time! Try, pray do, to relent towards a miserable girl, and write down on a bit of paper whether he is well, and what he said about me before you left off ever naming me among yourselves - and whether, of a night, when it is my old time of coming home, you ever see him look as if he thought of one he used to love so dear. Oh, my heart is breaking when I think about it! I am kneeling down to you, begging and praying you not to be as hard with me as I deserve - as I well, well, know I deserve - but to be so gentle and so good, as to write down something of him, and to send it to me. You need not call me Little, you need not call me by the name I have disgraced; but oh, listen to my agony, and have mercy on me so far as to write me some word of uncle, never, never to be seen in this world by my eyes again! 'Dear, if your heart is hard towards me - justly hard, I know - but, listen, if it is hard, dear, ask him I have wronged the most - him whose wife I was to have been - before you quite decide against my poor poor prayer! If he should be so compassionate as to say that you might write something for me to read - I think he would, oh, I think he would, if you would only ask him, for he always was so brave and so forgiving - tell him then (but not else), that when I hear the wind blowing at night, I feel as if it was passing angrily from seeing him and uncle, and was going up to God against me. Tell him that if I was to die tomorrow (and oh, if I was fit, I would be so glad to die!) I would bless him and uncle with my last words, and pray for his happy home with my last breath
What answer was sent
Missis Gummidge
not being a good scholar, sir, Ham kindly drawed it out, and she made a copy on it. They told her I was gone to seek her, and what my parting words was
Is that another letter in your hand
It's money, sir
Ten pound, you see. And wrote inside, "From a true friend," like the fust. But the fust was put underneath the door, and this come by the post, day afore yesterday. I'm a-going to seek her at the post-mark
He works
as bold as a man can. His name's as good, in all that part, as any man's is, anywheres in the wureld. Anyone's hand is ready to help him, you understand, and his is ready to help them. He's never been heerd fur to complain. But my sister's belief is ('twixt ourselves) as it has cut him deep
Poor fellow, I can believe it
He ain't no care, Mas'r Davy
kinder no care no-how for his life. When a man's wanted for rough sarvice in rough weather, he's theer. When there's hard duty to be done with danger in it, he steps for'ard afore all his mates. And yet he's as gentle as any child. There ain't a child in Yarmouth that doen't know him
Well
all that troubles me is, to think that any harm might come to me, afore that money was give back. If I was to die, and it was lost, or stole, or elseways made away with, and it was never know'd by him but what I'd took it, I believe the t'other wureld wouldn't hold me! I believe I must come back
I'd go ten thousand mile
I'd go till I dropped dead, to lay that money down afore him. If I do that, and find my Em'ly, I'm content. If I doen't find her, maybe she'll come to hear, sometime, as her loving uncle only ended his search for her when he ended his life; and if I know her, even that will turn her home at last
My dear Copperfield
nothing would give me greater pleasure. But it won't
Won't be smoothed down
No
Nothing will induce it. If I was to carry a half-hundred-weight upon it, all the way to Putney, it would be up again the moment the weight was taken off. You have no idea what obstinate hair mine is, Copperfield. I am quite a fretful porcupine
Oh
I assure you, it's quite an old story, my unfortunate hair. My uncle's wife couldn't bear it. She said it exasperated her. It stood very much in my way, too, when I first fell in love with Sophy. Very much
Did she object to it
SHE didn't
but her eldest sister - the one that's the Beauty - quite made game of it, I understand. In fact, all the sisters laugh at it
Agreeable
Yes
it's a joke for us. They pretend that Sophy has a lock of it in her desk, and is obliged to shut it in a clasped book, to keep it down. We laugh about it
By the by, my dear Traddles
your experience may suggest something to me. When you became engaged to the young lady whom you have just mentioned, did you make a regular proposal to her family? Was there anything like - what we are going through today, for instance
Why
it was rather a painful transaction, Copperfield, in my case. You see, Sophy being of so much use in the family, none of them could endure the thought of her ever being married. Indeed, they had quite settled among themselves that she never was to be married, and they called her the old maid. Accordingly, when I mentioned it, with the greatest precaution, to Mrs. Crewler
The mama
The mama
Reverend Horace Crewler - when I mentioned it with every possible precaution to Mrs. Crewler, the effect upon her was such that she gave a scream and became insensible. I couldn't approach the subject again, for months
You did at last
Well, the Reverend Horace did
He is an excellent man, most exemplary in every way; and he pointed out to her that she ought, as a Christian, to reconcile herself to the sacrifice (especially as it was so uncertain), and to bear no uncharitable feeling towards me. As to myself, Copperfield, I give you my word, I felt a perfect bird of prey towards the family
The sisters took your part, I hope, Traddles
Why, I can't say they did
When we had comparatively reconciled Mrs. Crewler to it, we had to break it to Sarah. You recollect my mentioning Sarah, as the one that has something the matter with her spine
Perfectly
She clenched both her hands
shut her eyes; turned lead-colour; became perfectly stiff; and took nothing for two days but toast-and-water, administered with a tea-spoon
What a very unpleasant girl, Traddles
Oh, I beg your pardon, Copperfield
She is a very charming girl, but she has a great deal of feeling. In fact, they all have. Sophy told me afterwards, that the self-reproach she underwent while she was in attendance upon Sarah, no words could describe. I know it must have been severe, by my own feelings, Copperfield; which were like a criminal's. After Sarah was restored, we still had to break it to the other eight; and it produced various effects upon them of a most pathetic nature. The two little ones, whom Sophy educates, have only just left off de-testing me
At any rate, they are all reconciled to it now, I hope
Ye-yes, I should say they were, on the whole, resigned to it
The fact is, we avoid mentioning the subject; and my unsettled prospects and indifferent circumstances are a great consolation to them. There will be a deplorable scene, whenever we are married. It will be much more like a funeral, than a wedding. And they'll all hate me for taking her away
Pray
be seated
Mr. Copperfield, I believe
Mr. Copperfield
My sister Lavinia
being conversant with matters of this nature, will state what we consider most calculated to promote the happiness of both parties
We will not
enter on the past history of this matter. Our poor brother Francis's death has cancelled that
We had not
been in the habit of frequent association with our brother Francis; but there was no decided division or disunion between us. Francis took his road; we took ours. We considered it conducive to the happiness of all parties that it should be so. And it was so
Our niece's position, or supposed position, is much changed by our brother Francis's death
and therefore we consider our brother's opinions as regarded her position as being changed too. We have no reason to doubt, Mr. Copperfield, that you are a young gentleman possessed of good qualities and honourable character; or that you have an affection - or are fully persuaded that you have an affection - for our niece
If Dora's mama
when she married our brother Francis, had at once said that there was not room for the family at the dinner-table, it would have been better for the happiness of all parties
Sister Clarissa
Perhaps we needn't mind that now
Sister Lavinia
it belongs to the subject. With your branch of the subject, on which alone you are competent to speak, I should not think of interfering. On this branch of the subject I have a voice and an opinion. It would have been better for the happiness of all parties, if Dora's mama, when she married our brother Francis, had mentioned plainly what her intentions were. We should then have known what we had to expect. We should have said "Pray do not invite us, at any time"; and all possibility of misunderstanding would have been avoided
You ask permission of my sister Clarissa and myself, Mr. Copperfield, to visit here, as the accepted suitor of our niece
If our brother Francis
wished to surround himself with an atmosphere of Doctors' Commons, and of Doctors' Commons only, what right or desire had we to object? None, I am sure. We have ever been far from wishing to obtrude ourselves on anyone. But why not say so? Let our brother Francis and his wife have their society. Let my sister Lavinia and myself have our society. We can find it for ourselves, I hope
Sister Lavinia
you can go on, my dear
Mr. Copperfield, my sister Clarissa and I have been very careful indeed in considering this letter; and we have not considered it without finally showing it to our niece, and discussing it with our niece. We have no doubt that you think you like her very much
Think, ma'am
oh
Affection
mature affection, homage, devotion, does not easily express itself. Its voice is low. It is modest and retiring, it lies in ambush, waits and waits. Such is the mature fruit. Sometimes a life glides away, and finds it still ripening in the shade
The light - for I call them, in comparison with such sentiments, the light - inclinations of very young people
are dust, compared to rocks. It is owing to the difficulty of knowing whether they are likely to endure or have any real foundation, that my sister Clarissa and myself have been very undecided how to act, Mr. Copperfield, and Mr
Traddles
I beg pardon. Of the Inner Temple, I believe
Exactly so
I speak, if I may presume to say so, as one who has some little experience of such things
being myself engaged to a young lady - one of ten, down in Devonshire - and seeing no probability, at present, of our engagement coming to a termination
You may be able to confirm what I have said, Mr. Traddles
of the affection that is modest and retiring; that waits and waits
Entirely, ma'am
Sister Lavinia
take my smelling-bottle
My sister and myself have been in great doubt, Mr. Traddles, what course we ought to take in reference to the likings, or imaginary likings, of such very young people as your friend Mr. Copperfield and our niece
Our brother Francis's child
If our brother Francis's wife had found it convenient in her lifetime (though she had an unquestionable right to act as she thought best) to invite the family to her dinner-table, we might have known our brother Francis's child better at the present moment. Sister Lavinia, proceed
It seems to us
prudent, Mr. Traddles, to bring these feelings to the test of our own observation. At present we know nothing of them, and are not in a situation to judge how much reality there may be in them. Therefore we are inclined so far to accede to Mr. Copperfield's proposal, as to admit his visits here
I shall never, dear ladies
forget your kindness
But
but, we would prefer to regard those visits, Mr. Traddles, as made, at present, to us. We must guard ourselves from recognizing any positive engagement between Mr. Copperfield and our niece, until we have had an opportunity
Until YOU have had an opportunity, sister Lavinia
Be it so
until I have had an opportunity of observing them
Copperfield
you feel, I am sure, that nothing could be more reasonable or considerate
Nothing
I am deeply sensible of it
In this position of affairs
and admitting his visits on this understanding only, we must require from Mr. Copperfield a distinct assurance, on his word of honour, that no communication of any kind shall take place between him and our niece without our knowledge. That no project whatever shall be entertained with regard to our niece, without being first submitted to us -' 'To you, sister Lavinia
Be it so, Clarissa
to me - and receiving our concurrence. We must make this a most express and serious stipulation, not to be broken on any account. We wished Mr. Copperfield to be accompanied by some confidential friend today
in order that there might be no doubt or misconception on this subject. If Mr. Copperfield, or if you, Mr. Traddles, feel the least scruple, in giving this promise, I beg you to take time to consider it
Stay
we resolved, before we had the pleasure of receiving you two gentlemen, to leave you alone for a quarter of an hour, to consider this point. You will allow us to retire
Sister Clarissa
the rest is with you
We shall be happy
to see Mr. Copperfield to dinner, every Sunday, if it should suit his convenience. Our hour is three
In the course of the week
we shall be happy to see Mr. Copperfield to tea. Our hour is half-past six
Twice in the week
but, as a rule, not oftener
Miss Trotwood
mentioned in Mr. Copperfield's letter, will perhaps call upon us. When visiting is better for the happiness of all parties, we are glad to receive visits, and return them. When it is better for the happiness of all parties that no visiting should take place, (as in the case of our brother Francis, and his establishment) that is quite different
My dearest Dora! Now, indeed, my own for ever
Oh, DON'T
Please
Are you not my own for ever, Dora
Oh yes, of course I am
but I am so frightened
Frightened, my own
Oh yes! I don't like him
Why don't he go
Who, my life
Your friend
It isn't any business of his. What a stupid he must be
My love
He is the best creature
Oh, but we don't want any best creatures
My dear
you will soon know him well, and like him of all things. And here is my aunt coming soon; and you'll like her of all things too, when you know her
No, please don't bring her
Don't. I know she's a naughty, mischief-making old thing! Don't let her come here, Doady
Nothing could be more satisfactory
and they are very agreeable old ladies, I am sure. I shouldn't be at all surprised if you were to be married years before me, Copperfield
Does your Sophy play on any instrument, Traddles
She knows enough of the piano to teach it to her little sisters
Does she sing at all
Why, she sings ballads, sometimes, to freshen up the others a little when they're out of spirits
Nothing scientific
She doesn't sing to the guitar
Oh dear no
Paint at all
Not at all
Because you know, my darling
you are not a child
There
Now you're going to be cross
Cross, my love
I am sure they're very kind to me
and I am very happy
Well! But my dearest life
you might be very happy, and yet be treated rationally
I am sure I am very affectionate
you oughtn't to be cruel to me, Doady
Cruel, my precious love! As if I would - or could - be cruel to you, for the world
Then don't find fault with me
and I'll be good
Now suppose, my pet, that we were married, and you were going to buy a shoulder of mutton for dinner, would you know how to buy it
Would you know how to buy it, my darling
Why, the butcher would know how to sell it, and what need I know? Oh, you silly boy
You see, Master Copperfield
where a person loves, a person is a little jealous - leastways, anxious to keep an eye on the beloved one
Of whom are you jealous, now
Thanks to you, Master Copperfield
of no one in particular just at present - no male person, at least
Do you mean that you are jealous of a female person
Really, Master Copperfield
I should say Mister, but I know you'll excuse the abit I've got into - you're so insinuating, that you draw me like a corkscrew! Well, I don't mind telling you
I'm not a lady's man in general, sir, and I never was, with Mrs. Strong
What do you mean
Why, though I am a lawyer, Master Copperfield
I mean, just at present, what I say
And what do you mean by your look
By my look? Dear me, Copperfield, that's sharp practice! What do I mean by my look
Yes
By your look
When I was but an umble clerk, she always looked down upon me. She was for ever having my Agnes backwards and forwards at her ouse, and she was for ever being a friend to you, Master Copperfield; but I was too far beneath her, myself, to be noticed
Well
suppose you were
And beneath him too
Don't you know the Doctor better
than to suppose him conscious of your existence, when you were not before him
Oh dear, I am not referring to the Doctor! Oh no, poor man! I mean Mr. Maldon
He never could come into the office, without ordering and shoving me about
One of your fine gentlemen he was! I was very meek and umble - and I am. But I didn't like that sort of thing - and I don't
She is one of your lovely women, she is
and ready to be no friend to such as me, I know. She's just the person as would put my Agnes up to higher sort of game. Now, I ain't one of your lady's men, Master Copperfield; but I've had eyes in my ed, a pretty long time back. We umble ones have got eyes, mostly speaking - and we look out of 'em
Now, I'm not a-going to let myself be run down, Copperfield
and I shall do what I can to put a stop to this friendship. I don't approve of it. I don't mind acknowledging to you that I've got rather a grudging disposition, and want to keep off all intruders. I ain't a-going, if I know it, to run the risk of being plotted against
You are always plotting, and delude yourself into the belief that everybody else is doing the like, I think
Perhaps so, Master Copperfield
But I've got a motive, as my fellow-partner used to say; and I go at it tooth and nail. I mustn't be put upon, as a numble person, too much. I can't allow people in my way. Really they must come out of the cart, Master Copperfield
I don't understand you
Don't you, though
I'm astonished at that, Master Copperfield, you being usually so quick! I'll try to be plainer, another time. - Is that Mr. Maldon a-norseback, ringing at the gate, sir
It looks like him
I am so glad
that you like me. I didn't think you would; and I want, more than ever, to be liked, now Julia Mills is gone
Oh no
it was all praise. He thinks so much of your opinion, that I was quite afraid of it
My good opinion cannot strengthen his attachment to some people whom he knows
it is not worth their having
But please let me have it
if you can
Don't you think, if I had had her for a friend a long time ago, Doady
I might have been more clever perhaps
My love
what nonsense
Do you think it is nonsense
Are you sure it is
Of course I am
I have forgotten
what relation Agnes is to you, you dear bad boy
No blood-relation
but we were brought up together, like brother and sister
I wonder why you ever fell in love with me
Perhaps because I couldn't see you, and not love you, Dora
Suppose you had never seen me at all
Suppose we had never been born
When you were sitting by her
you seemed to be no less her guardian angel than mine; and you seem so now, Agnes
A poor angel
but faithful
The cheerfulness that belongs to you, Agnes (and to no one else that ever I have seen), is so restored, I have observed today, that I have begun to hope you are happier at home
I am happier in myself
I am quite cheerful and light-hearted
There has been no change at home
No fresh reference
to - I wouldn't distress you, Agnes, but I cannot help asking - to what we spoke of, when we parted last
No, none
I have thought so much about it
You must think less about it. Remember that I confide in simple love and truth at last. Have no apprehensions for me, Trotwood
the step you dread my taking, I shall never take
And when this visit is over
for we may not be alone another time, - how long is it likely to be, my dear Agnes, before you come to London again
Probably a long time
I think it will be best - for papa's sake - to remain at home. We are not likely to meet often, for some time to come; but I shall be a good correspondent of Dora's, and we shall frequently hear of one another that way
Do not be troubled
by our misfortunes and anxieties. I can be happier in nothing than in your happiness. If you can ever give me help, rely upon it I will ask you for it. God bless you always
At any rate
we may keep the door shut. We needn't make it known to ALL the town
I have felt it incumbent upon me, Master Copperfield
to point out to Doctor Strong what you and me have already talked about. You didn't exactly understand me, though
As you didn't understand me, Master Copperfield
I may take the liberty of umbly mentioning, being among friends, that I have called Doctor Strong's attention to the goings-on of Mrs. Strong. It's much against the grain with me, I assure you, Copperfield, to be concerned in anything so unpleasant; but really, as it is, we're all mixing ourselves up with what oughtn't to be. That was what my meaning was, sir, when you didn't understand me
I dare say I didn't make myself very clear
nor you neither. Naturally, we was both of us inclined to give such a subject a wide berth. Hows'ever, at last I have made up my mind to speak plain; and I have mentioned to Doctor Strong that - did you speak, sir
mentioned to Doctor Strong
that anyone may see that Mr. Maldon, and the lovely and agreeable lady as is Doctor Strong's wife, are too sweet on one another. Really the time is come (we being at present all mixing ourselves up with what oughtn't to be), when Doctor Strong must be told that this was full as plain to everybody as the sun, before Mr. Maldon went to India; that Mr. Maldon made excuses to come back, for nothing else; and that he's always here, for nothing else. When you come in, sir, I was just putting it to my fellow-partner
to say to Doctor Strong upon his word and honour, whether he'd ever been of this opinion long ago, or not. Come, Mr. Wickfield, sir! Would you be so good as tell us? Yes or no, sir? Come, partner
For God's sake, my dear Doctor
don't attach too much weight to any suspicions I may have entertained
There
What a melancholy confirmation: ain't it? Him! Such an old friend! Bless your soul, when I was nothing but a clerk in his office, Copperfield, I've seen him twenty times, if I've seen him once, quite in a taking about it - quite put out, you know (and very proper in him as a father; I'm sure I can't blame him), to think that Miss Agnes was mixing herself up with what oughtn't to be
My dear Strong
my good friend, I needn't tell you that it has been my vice to look for some one master motive in everybody, and to try all actions by one narrow test. I may have fallen into such doubts as I have had, through this mistake
You have had doubts, Wickfield
You have had doubts
Speak up, fellow-partner
I had, at one time, certainly
I - God forgive me - I thought YOU had
No, no, no
I thought, at one time
that you wished to send Maldon abroad to effect a desirable separation
No, no, no
To give Annie pleasure, by making some provision for the companion of her childhood. Nothing else
So I found
I couldn't doubt it, when you told me so. But I thought - I implore you to remember the narrow construction which has been my besetting sin - that, in a case where there was so much disparity in point of years
That's the way to put it, you see, Master Copperfield
a lady of such youth, and such attractions, however real her respect for you, might have been influenced in marrying, by worldly considerations only. I make no allowance for innumerable feelings and circumstances that may have all tended to good. For Heaven's sake remember that
How kind he puts it
Always observing her from one point of view
No! There's no way out of it, Mr. Wickfield, sir
when it's got to this
that I did
that I did doubt her, and think her wanting in her duty to you; and that I did sometimes, if I must say all, feel averse to Agnes being in such a familiar relation towards her, as to see what I saw, or in my diseased theory fancied that I saw. I never mentioned this to anyone. I never meant it to be known to anyone. And though it is terrible to you to hear
if you knew how terrible it is for me to tell, you would feel compassion for me
I am sure
that this is a subject full of unpleasantness to everybody. But since we have got so far, I ought to take the liberty of mentioning that Copperfield has noticed it too
Oh! it's very kind of you, Copperfield
and we all know what an amiable character yours is; but you know that the moment I spoke to you the other night, you knew what I meant. You know you knew what I meant, Copperfield. Don't deny it! You deny it with the best intentions; but don't do it, Copperfield
I have been much to blame. I believe I have been very much to blame. I have exposed one whom I hold in my heart, to trials and aspersions - I call them aspersions, even to have been conceived in anybody's inmost mind - of which she never, but for me, could have been the object
Of which my Annie
never, but for me, could have been the object. Gentlemen, I am old now, as you know; I do not feel, tonight, that I have much to live for. But my life - my Life - upon the truth and honour of the dear lady who has been the subject of this conversation
But I am not prepared
to deny - perhaps I may have been, without knowing it, in some degree prepared to admit - that I may have unwittingly ensnared that lady into an unhappy marriage. I am a man quite unaccustomed to observe; and I cannot but believe that the observation of several people, of different ages and positions, all too plainly tending in one direction (and that so natural), is better than mine
I married that lady
when she was extremely young. I took her to myself when her character was scarcely formed. So far as it was developed, it had been my happiness to form it. I knew her father well. I knew her well. I had taught her what I could, for the love of all her beautiful and virtuous qualities. If I did her wrong; as I fear I did, in taking advantage (but I never meant it) of her gratitude and her affection; I ask pardon of that lady, in my heart
I regarded myself as a refuge, for her, from the dangers and vicissitudes of life. I persuaded myself that, unequal though we were in years, she would live tranquilly and contentedly with me. I did not shut out of my consideration the time when I should leave her free, and still young and still beautiful, but with her judgement more matured - no, gentlemen - upon my truth
My life with this lady has been very happy. Until tonight, I have had uninterrupted occasion to bless the day on which I did her great injustice
Once awakened from my dream - I have been a poor dreamer, in one way or other, all my life - I see how natural it is that she should have some regretful feeling towards her old companion and her equal. That she does regard him with some innocent regret, with some blameless thoughts of what might have been, but for me, is, I fear, too true. Much that I have seen, but not noted, has come back upon me with new meaning, during this last trying hour. But, beyond this, gentlemen, the dear lady's name never must be coupled with a word, a breath, of doubt
It only remains for me, to bear the knowledge of the unhappiness I have occasioned, as submissively as I can. It is she who should reproach; not I. To save her from misconstruction, cruel misconstruction, that even my friends have not been able to avoid, becomes my duty. The more retired we live, the better I shall discharge it. And when the time comes - may it come soon, if it be His merciful pleasure! - when my death shall release her from constraint, I shall close my eyes upon her honoured face, with unbounded confidence and love; and leave her, with no sorrow then, to happier and brighter days
Gentlemen, I have shown you my heart. I am sure you will respect it. What we have said tonight is never to be said more. Wickfield, give me an old friend's arm upstairs
Well, Master Copperfield
The thing hasn't took quite the turn that might have been expected, for the old Scholar - what an excellent man! - is as blind as a brickbat; but this family's out of the cart, I think
You villain
what do you mean by entrapping me into your schemes? How dare you appeal to me just now, you false rascal, as if we had been in discussion together
Copperfield
have you taken leave of your senses
I have taken leave of you
You dog, I'll know no more of you
Won't you
Perhaps you won't be able to help it. Isn't this ungrateful of you, now
I have shown you often enough
that I despise you. I have shown you now, more plainly, that I do. Why should I dread your doing your worst to all about you? What else do you ever do
Copperfield
you have always gone against me. I know you always used to be against me at Mr. Wickfield's
You may think what you like
If it is not true, so much the worthier you
And yet I always liked you, Copperfield
Copperfield
there must be two parties to a quarrel. I won't be one
You may go to the devil
Don't say that
I know you'll be sorry afterwards. How can you make yourself so inferior to me, as to show such a bad spirit? But I forgive you
You forgive me
I do, and you can't help yourself
To think of your going and attacking me, that have always been a friend to you! But there can't be a quarrel without two parties, and I won't be one. I will be a friend to you, in spite of you. So now you know what you've got to expect
You know, Copperfield
you can't make this a brave thing, and you can't help being forgiven. I don't intend to mention it to mother, nor to any living soul. I'm determined to forgive you. But I do wonder that you should lift your hand against a person that you knew to be so umble
Nobody but myself, Trot, knows what that man is
Dick will distinguish himself yet
EMMA MICAWBER
Oh, if you please, Miss Dora, would you step upstairs
I hope the next time you come here, my dear fellow
it will be on the same errand for yourself. And I hope it will be soon
Thank you for your good wishes, my dear Copperfield
I hope so too. It's a satisfaction to know that she'll wait for me any length of time, and that she really is the dearest girl
When are you to meet her at the coach
At seven
That is about Miss Wickfield's time, is it not
A little earlier. Her time is half past eight
I assure you, my dear boy
I am almost as pleased as if I were going to be married myself, to think that this event is coming to such a happy termination. And really the great friendship and consideration of personally associating Sophy with the joyful occasion, and inviting her to be a bridesmaid in conjunction with Miss Wickfield, demands my warmest thanks. I am extremely sensible of it
Come in
Do you think it pretty, Doady
And are you sure you like me very much
God bless you, Trot! My own boy never could be dearer. I think of poor dear Baby this morning
So do I. And of all I owe to you, dear aunt
Tut, child
If I have ever been cross or ungrateful to anybody, don't remember it
Are you happy now, you foolish boy
and sure you don't repent
My dearest life
do you think Mary Anne has any idea of time
Why, Doady
My love, because it's five, and we were to have dined at four
On the contrary, my love
it's a few minutes too slow
Don't you think, my dear
it would be better for you to remonstrate with Mary Anne
Oh no, please! I couldn't, Doady
Why not, my love
Oh, because I am such a little goose
and she knows I am
Oh, what ugly wrinkles in my bad boy's forehead
There's a good child
it makes its face so much prettier to laugh
But, my love
No, no! please
don't be a naughty Blue Beard! Don't be serious
my precious wife
You know, my love, it is not exactly comfortable to have to go out without one's dinner. Now, is it
N-n-no
My love, how you tremble
Because I KNOW you're going to scold me
My sweet, I am only going to reason
Oh, but reasoning is worse than scolding
I didn't marry to be reasoned with. If you meant to reason with such a poor little thing as I am, you ought to have told me so, you cruel boy
You cruel, cruel boy
Dora, my darling
No, I am not your darling. Because you must be sorry that you married me, or else you wouldn't reason with me
Now, my own Dora
you are very childish, and are talking nonsense. You must remember, I am sure, that I was obliged to go out yesterday when dinner was half over; and that, the day before, I was made quite unwell by being obliged to eat underdone veal in a hurry; today, I don't dine at all - and I am afraid to say how long we waited for breakfast - and then the water didn't boil. I don't mean to reproach you, my dear, but this is not comfortable
Oh, you cruel, cruel boy, to say I am a disagreeable wife
Now, my dear Dora, you must know that I never said that
You said, I wasn't comfortable
I said the housekeeping was not comfortable
It's exactly the same thing
I am not blaming you, Dora. We have both a great deal to learn. I am only trying to show you, my dear, that you must - you really must' (I was resolved not to give this up) - 'accustom yourself to look after Mary Anne. Likewise to act a little for yourself, and me
I wonder, I do, at your making such ungrateful speeches
When you know that the other day, when you said you would like a little bit of fish, I went out myself, miles and miles, and ordered it, to surprise you
And it was very kind of you, my own darling
I felt it so much that I wouldn't on any account have even mentioned that you bought a Salmon - which was too much for two. Or that it cost one pound six - which was more than we can afford
You enjoyed it very much
And you said I was a Mouse
And I'll say so again, my love
a thousand times
Is anything the matter, aunt
Nothing, Trot
Sit down, sit down. Little Blossom has been rather out of spirits, and I have been keeping her company. That's all
I assure you, aunt
I have been quite unhappy myself all night, to think of Dora's being so. But I had no other intention than to speak to her tenderly and lovingly about our home-affairs
You must have patience, Trot
Of course. Heaven knows I don't mean to be unreasonable, aunt
No, no
But Little Blossom is a very tender little blossom, and the wind must be gentle with her
Don't you think, aunt
that you could advise and counsel Dora a little, for our mutual advantage, now and then
Trot
no! Don't ask me such a thing
I look back on my life, child
and I think of some who are in their graves, with whom I might have been on kinder terms. If I judged harshly of other people's mistakes in marriage, it may have been because I had bitter reason to judge harshly of my own. Let that pass. I have been a grumpy, frumpy, wayward sort of a woman, a good many years. I am still, and I always shall be. But you and I have done one another some good, Trot, - at all events, you have done me good, my dear; and division must not come between us, at this time of day
Division between us
Child, child
how soon it might come between us, or how unhappy I might make our Little Blossom, if I meddled in anything, a prophet couldn't say. I want our pet to like me, and be as gay as a butterfly. Remember your own home, in that second marriage; and never do both me and her the injury you have hinted at
These are early days, Trot
and you have chosen a very pretty and a very affectionate creature. It will be your duty, and it will be your pleasure too - of course I know that; I am not delivering a lecture - to estimate her (as you chose her) by the qualities she has, and not by the qualities she may not have. The latter you must develop in her, if you can. And if you cannot, child
you must just accustom yourself to do without 'em. But remember, my dear, your future is between you two. No one can assist you; you are to work it out for yourselves. This is marriage, Trot; and Heaven bless you both, in it, for a pair of babes in the wood as you are
Now
Give Betsey Trotwood's love to Blossom, when you come back; and whatever you do, Trot, never dream of setting Betsey up as a scarecrow, for if I ever saw her in the glass, she's quite grim enough and gaunt enough in her private capacity
Glass rum and peppermint (Mrs. C
Oceans of room, Copperfield! I assure you, Oceans
My love
what have you got in that dish
Oysters, dear
Was that YOUR thought
Ye-yes, Doady
There never was a happier one
There is nothing Traddles likes so much
Ye-yes, Doady
and so I bought a beautiful little barrel of them, and the man said they were very good. But I - I am afraid there's something the matter with them. They don't seem right
They are only opened in both shells
Take the top one off, my love
But it won't come off
Do you know, Copperfield
I think it is in consequence - they are capital oysters, but I think it is in consequence - of their never having been opened
I am very sorry
Will you try to teach me, Doady
I must teach myself first, Dora
I am as bad as you, love
Ah! But you can learn
and you are a clever, clever man
Nonsense, mouse
I wish
that I could have gone down into the country for a whole year, and lived with Agnes
Why so
I think she might have improved me, and I think I might have learned from her
All in good time, my love. Agnes has had her father to take care of for these many years, you should remember. Even when she was quite a child, she was the Agnes whom we know
Will you call me a name I want you to call me
What is it
It's a stupid name
Child-wife
I don't mean, you silly fellow, that you should use the name instead of Dora. I only mean that you should think of me that way. When you are going to be angry with me, say to yourself, "it's only my child-wife!" When I am very disappointing, say, "I knew, a long time ago, that she would make but a child-wife!" When you miss what I should like to be, and I think can never be, say, "still my foolish child-wife loves me!" For indeed I do
like a lion' - which was one of his tricks, though I cannot say the likeness was striking - and, if he were in an obedient humour, he would obey. Then she would take up a pen, and begin to write, and find a hair in it. Then she would take up another pen, and begin to write, and find that it spluttered. Then she would take up another pen, and begin to write, and say in a low voice, 'Oh, it's a talking pen, and will disturb Doady
What's the matter, Dora
They won't come right. They make my head ache so. And they won't do anything I want
Now let us try together. Let me show you, Dora
Oh, what a weary boy
What a weary girl
That's more to the purpose. You must go to bed another time, my love. It's far too late for you
No, don't send me to bed
Pray, don't do that
Dora
Not well, my dear! not happy
Yes! quite well, and very happy
But say you'll let me stop, and see you write
Why, what a sight for such bright eyes at midnight
Are they bright, though
I'm so glad they're bright
Little Vanity
If you think them pretty, say I may always stop, and see you write
Do you think them pretty
Very pretty
Then let me always stop and see you write
I am afraid that won't improve their brightness, Dora
Yes, it will! Because, you clever boy, you'll not forget me then, while you are full of silent fancies. Will you mind it, if I say something very, very silly? - more than usual
What wonderful thing is that
Please let me hold the pens
I want to have something to do with all those many hours when you are so industrious. May I hold the pens
Where's Little Blossom
My dear soul
you know there is no doubt it would be a little pokey for Annie to be always shut up here
When she comes to her mother's age
then it'll be another thing. You might put ME into a Jail, with genteel society and a rubber, and I should never care to come out. But I am not Annie, you know; and Annie is not her mother
Surely, surely
You are the best of creatures - no, I beg your pardon
I must say before your face, as I always say behind your back, you are the best of creatures; but of course you don't - now do you? - enter into the same pursuits and fancies as Annie
No
No, of course not
Take your Dictionary, for example. What a useful work a Dictionary is! What a necessary work! The meanings of words! Without Doctor Johnson, or somebody of that sort, we might have been at this present moment calling an Italian-iron, a bedstead. But we can't expect a Dictionary - especially when it's making - to interest Annie, can we
And that's why I so much approve
of your thoughtfulness. It shows that you don't expect, as many elderly people do expect, old heads on young shoulders. You have studied Annie's character, and you understand it. That's what I find so charming
Therefore, my dear Doctor
you may command me, at all times and seasons. Now, do understand that I am entirely at your service. I am ready to go with Annie to operas, concerts, exhibitions, all kinds of places; and you shall never find that I am tired. Duty, my dear Doctor, before every consideration in the universe
Now, my dear Annie, I am sure you know better; and I must tell you, my love, that you are not making a proper return for the kindness of Doctor Strong
that if our military friend would cut off those butterflies, and give 'em to the chimney-sweepers for May-day, it would look like the beginning of something sensible on her part
You couldn't speak to me without inconveniencing yourself, Trotwood, I am afraid
Certainly, Mr. Dick
come in
Trotwood
Before I sit down, I wish to make an observation. You know your aunt
A little
She is the most wonderful woman in the world, sir
Now, boy
I am going to put a question to you
As many as you please
What do you consider me, sir
A dear old friend
Thank you, Trotwood
But I mean, boy
what do you consider me in this respect
Weak
Well
Rather so
Exactly
That is, Trotwood, when they took some of the trouble out of you-know-who's head, and put it you know where, there was a -' Mr. Dick made his two hands revolve very fast about each other a great number of times, and then brought them into collision, and rolled them over and over one another, to express confusion. 'There was that sort of thing done to me somehow. Eh
In short, boy
I am simple
Yes, I am! She pretends I am not. She won't hear of it; but I am. I know I am. If she hadn't stood my friend, sir, I should have been shut up, to lead a dismal life these many years. But I'll provide for her! I never spend the copying money. I put it in a box. I have made a will. I'll leave it all to her. She shall be rich - noble
Now you are a scholar, Trotwood
You are a fine scholar. You know what a learned man, what a great man, the Doctor is. You know what honour he has always done me. Not proud in his wisdom. Humble, humble - condescending even to poor Dick, who is simple and knows nothing. I have sent his name up, on a scrap of paper, to the kite, along the string, when it has been in the sky, among the larks. The kite has been glad to receive it, sir, and the sky has been brighter with it
And his beautiful wife is a star
A shining star. I have seen her shine, sir. But
clouds, sir - clouds
What clouds
There is some unfortunate division between them
Some unhappy cause of separation. A secret. It may be inseparable from the discrepancy in their years. It may have grown up out of almost nothing
Doctor not angry with her, Trotwood
No. Devoted to her
Then, I have got it, boy
Most wonderful woman in the world, Trotwood. Why has she done nothing to set things right
Too delicate and difficult a subject for such interference
Fine scholar
Why has HE done nothing
For the same reason
Then, I have got it, boy
A poor fellow with a craze, sir
a simpleton, a weak-minded person - present company, you know
may do what wonderful people may not do. I'll bring them together, boy. I'll try. They'll not blame me. They'll not object to me. They'll not mind what I do, if it's wrong. I'm only Mr. Dick. And who minds Dick? Dick's nobody! Whoo
Not a word, boy
leave all the blame with Dick - simple Dick - mad Dick. I have been thinking, sir, for some time, that I was getting it, and now I have got it. After what you have said to me, I am sure I have got it. All right
My goodness gracious, Annie, why didn't you tell me there was someone in the Study
My dear mama
how could I know that you desired the information
Desired the information
I never had such a turn in all my life
Have you been to the Study, then, mama
BEEN to the Study, my dear
Indeed I have! I came upon the amiable creature - if you'll imagine my feelings, Miss Trotwood and David - in the act of making his will
In the act, my dear Annie
of making his last Will and Testament. The foresight and affection of the dear! I must tell you how it was. I really must, in justice to the darling - for he is nothing less! - tell you how it was. Perhaps you know, Miss Trotwood, that there is never a candle lighted in this house, until one's eyes are literally falling out of one's head with being stretched to read the paper. And that there is not a chair in this house, in which a paper can be what I call, read, except one in the Study. This took me to the Study, where I saw a light. I opened the door. In company with the dear Doctor were two professional people, evidently connected with the law, and they were all three standing at the table: the darling Doctor pen in hand. "This simply expresses then," said the Doctor - Annie, my love, attend to the very words - "this simply expresses then, gentlemen, the confidence I have in Mrs. Strong, and gives her all unconditionally?" One of the professional people replied, "And gives her all unconditionally." Upon that, with the natural feelings of a mother, I said, "Good God, I beg your pardon!" fell over the door-step, and came away through the little back passage where the pantry is
But now isn't it, Miss Trotwood, isn't it, David, invigorating
to find a man at Doctor Strong's time of life, with the strength of mind to do this kind of thing? It only shows how right I was. I said to Annie, when Doctor Strong paid a very flattering visit to myself, and made her the subject of a declaration and an offer, I said, "My dear, there is no doubt whatever, in my opinion, with reference to a suitable provision for you, that Doctor Strong will do more than he binds himself to do
It's all over, no doubt
the dear creature has signed, sealed, and delivered, and his mind's at rest. Well it may be! What a mind! Annie, my love, I am going to the Study with my paper, for I am a poor creature without news. Miss Trotwood, David, pray come and see the Doctor
That man mad
Doctor
What is it that's amiss? Look here
Annie
Not at my feet, my dear
Yes
I beg and pray that no one will leave the room! Oh, my husband and father, break this long silence. Let us both know what it is that has come between us
Annie, get up immediately, and don't disgrace everybody belonging to you by humbling yourself like that, unless you wish to see me go out of my mind on the spot
Mama
Waste no words on me, for my appeal is to my husband, and even you are nothing here
Nothing
Me, nothing! The child has taken leave of her senses. Please to get me a glass of water
Annie
My dear! If any unavoidable change has come, in the sequence of time, upon our married life, you are not to blame. The fault is mine, and only mine. There is no change in my affection, admiration, and respect. I wish to make you happy. I truly love and honour you. Rise, Annie, pray
If I have any friend here, who can speak one word for me, or for my husband in this matter; if I have any friend here, who can give a voice to any suspicion that my heart has sometimes whispered to me; if I have any friend here, who honours my husband, or has ever cared for me, and has anything within his knowledge, no matter what it is, that may help to mediate between us, I implore that friend to speak
Mrs. Strong
there is something within my knowledge, which I have been earnestly entreated by Doctor Strong to conceal, and have concealed until tonight. But, I believe the time has come when it would be mistaken faith and delicacy to conceal it any longer, and when your appeal absolves me from his injunction
Our future peace
may be in your hands. I trust it confidently to your not suppressing anything. I know beforehand that nothing you, or anyone, can tell me, will show my husband's noble heart in any other light than one. Howsoever it may seem to you to touch me, disregard that. I will speak for myself, before him, and before God afterwards
All that has ever been in my mind, since I was married
I will lay bare before you. I could not live and have one reservation, knowing what I know now
Nay, Annie
I have never doubted you, my child. There is no need; indeed there is no need, my dear
There is great need
that I should open my whole heart before the soul of generosity and truth, whom, year by year, and day by day, I have loved and venerated more and more, as Heaven knows
Really
if I have any discretion at all
Which you haven't, you Marplot
I must be permitted to observe that it cannot be requisite to enter into these details
No one but my husband can judge of that, mama
and he will hear me. If I say anything to give you pain, mama, forgive me. I have borne pain first, often and long, myself
Upon my word
When I was very young
quite a little child, my first associations with knowledge of any kind were inseparable from a patient friend and teacher - the friend of my dead father - who was always dear to me. I can remember nothing that I know, without remembering him. He stored my mind with its first treasures, and stamped his character upon them all. They never could have been, I think, as good as they have been to me, if I had taken them from any other hands
Makes her mother nothing
Not so mama
but I make him what he was. I must do that. As I grew up, he occupied the same place still. I was proud of his interest: deeply, fondly, gratefully attached to him. I looked up to him, I can hardly describe how - as a father, as a guide, as one whose praise was different from all other praise, as one in whom I could have trusted and confided, if I had doubted all the world. You know, mama, how young and inexperienced I was, when you presented him before me, of a sudden, as a lover
I have mentioned the fact, fifty times at least, to everybody here
Then hold your tongue, for the Lord's sake, and don't mention it any more
It was so great a change: so great a loss, I felt it, at first
that I was agitated and distressed. I was but a girl; and when so great a change came in the character in which I had so long looked up to him, I think I was sorry. But nothing could have made him what he used to be again; and I was proud that he should think me so worthy, and we were married
At Saint Alphage, Canterbury
Confound the woman
she WON'T be quiet
I never thought
of any worldly gain that my husband would bring to me. My young heart had no room in its homage for any such poor reference. Mama, forgive me when I say that it was you who first presented to my mind the thought that anyone could wrong me, and wrong him, by such a cruel suspicion
Me
Ah! You, to be sure
and you can't fan it away, my military friend
It was the first unhappiness of my new life
It was the first occasion of every unhappy moment I have known. These moments have been more, of late, than I can count; but not - my generous husband! - not for the reason you suppose; for in my heart there is not a thought, a recollection, or a hope, that any power could separate from you
Mama is blameless
of having ever urged you for herself, and she is blameless in intention every way, I am sure, - but when I saw how many importunate claims were pressed upon you in my name; how you were traded on in my name; how generous you were, and how Mr. Wickfield, who had your welfare very much at heart, resented it; the first sense of my exposure to the mean suspicion that my tenderness was bought - and sold to you, of all men on earth - fell upon me like unmerited disgrace, in which I forced you to participate. I cannot tell you what it was - mama cannot imagine what it was - to have this dread and trouble always on my mind, yet know in my own soul that on my marriage-day I crowned the love and honour of my life
A specimen of the thanks one gets
for taking care of one's family! I wish I was a Turk
I wish you were, with all my heart - and in your native country
very much. We had been little lovers once. If circumstances had not happened otherwise, I might have come to persuade myself that I really loved him, and might have married him, and been most wretched. There can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose
There can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose
There is nothing
that we have in common. I have long found that there is nothing. If I were thankful to my husband for no more, instead of for so much, I should be thankful to him for having saved me from the first mistaken impulse of my undisciplined heart
When he was waiting to be the object of your munificence, so freely bestowed for my sake, and when I was unhappy in the mercenary shape I was made to wear, I thought it would have become him better to have worked his own way on. I thought that if I had been he, I would have tried to do it, at the cost of almost any hardship. But I thought no worse of him, until the night of his departure for India. That night I knew he had a false and thankless heart. I saw a double meaning, then, in Mr. Wickfield's scrutiny of me. I perceived, for the first time, the dark suspicion that shadowed my life
Suspicion, Annie
No, no, no
In your mind there was none, I know, my husband
And when I came to you, that night, to lay down all my load of shame and grief, and knew that I had to tell that, underneath your roof, one of my own kindred, to whom you had been a benefactor, for the love of me, had spoken to me words that should have found no utterance, even if I had been the weak and mercenary wretch he thought me - my mind revolted from the taint the very tale conveyed. It died upon my lips, and from that hour till now has never passed them
I have never, but in your presence, interchanged a word with him from that time; then, only when it has been necessary for the avoidance of this explanation. Years have passed since he knew, from me, what his situation here was. The kindnesses you have secretly done for his advancement, and then disclosed to me, for my surprise and pleasure, have been, you will believe, but aggravations of the unhappiness and burden of my secret
Do not speak to me yet! Let me say a little more! Right or wrong, if this were to be done again, I think I should do just the same. You never can know what it was to be devoted to you, with those old associations; to find that anyone could be so hard as to suppose that the truth of my heart was bartered away, and to be surrounded by appearances confirming that belief. I was very young, and had no adviser. Between mama and me, in all relating to you, there was a wide division. If I shrunk into myself, hiding the disrespect I had undergone, it was because I honoured you so much, and so much wished that you should honour me
Annie, my pure heart
my dear girl
A little more! a very few words more! I used to think there were so many whom you might have married, who would not have brought such charge and trouble on you, and who would have made your home a worthier home. I used to be afraid that I had better have remained your pupil, and almost your child. I used to fear that I was so unsuited to your learning and wisdom. If all this made me shrink within myself (as indeed it did), when I had that to tell, it was still because I honoured you so much, and hoped that you might one day honour me
That day has shone this long time, Annie
Another word! I afterwards meant - steadfastly meant, and purposed to myself - to bear the whole weight of knowing the unworthiness of one to whom you had been so good. And now a last word, dearest and best of friends! The cause of the late change in you, which I have seen with so much pain and sorrow, and have sometimes referred to my old apprehension - at other times to lingering suppositions nearer to the truth - has been made clear tonight; and by an accident I have also come to know, tonight, the full measure of your noble trust in me, even under that mistake. I do not hope that any love and duty I may render in return, will ever make me worthy of your priceless confidence; but with all this knowledge fresh upon me, I can lift my eyes to this dear face, revered as a father's, loved as a husband's, sacred to me in my childhood as a friend's, and solemnly declare that in my lightest thought I have never wronged you; never wavered in the love and the fidelity I owe you
Oh, hold me to your heart, my husband! Never cast me out! Do not think or speak of disparity between us, for there is none, except in all my many imperfections. Every succeeding year I have known this better, as I have esteemed you more and more. Oh, take me to your heart, my husband, for my love was founded on a rock, and it endures
You are a very remarkable man, Dick
and never pretend to be anything else, for I know better
That's a settler for our military friend, at any rate
I should sleep the better for that, if there was nothing else to be glad of
She was quite overcome, I am afraid
What! Did you ever see a crocodile overcome
I don't think I ever saw a crocodile
There never would have been anything the matter, if it hadn't been for that old Animal
It's very much to be wished that some mothers would leave their daughters alone after marriage, and not be so violently affectionate. They seem to think the only return that can be made them for bringing an unfortunate young woman into the world - God bless my soul, as if she asked to be brought, or wanted to come! - is full liberty to worry her out of it again. What are you thinking of, Trot
There can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose
The first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart
My love was founded on a rock
If you please, sir, would you have the goodness to walk in, and speak to Miss Dartle
Has Miss Dartle sent you for me
Not tonight, sir, but it's just the same. Miss Dartle saw you pass a night or two ago; and I was to sit at work on the staircase, and when I saw you pass again, to ask you to step in and speak to her
I am told you wish to speak to me, Miss Dartle
If you please
Pray has this girl been found
No
And yet she has run away
Run away
Yes! From him
If she is not found, perhaps she never will be found. She may be dead
To wish her dead
may be the kindest wish that one of her own sex could bestow upon her. I am glad that time has softened you so much, Miss Dartle
The friends of this excellent and much-injured young lady are friends of yours. You are their champion, and assert their rights. Do you wish to know what is known of her
Yes
Come here
You will restrain any demonstrative championship or vengeance in this place, of course, Mr. Copperfield
Come here
Now
Tell Mr. Copperfield about the flight
Mr. James and myself, ma'am
Don't address yourself to me
Mr. James and myself, sir
Nor to me, if you please
Mr. James and myself have been abroad with the young woman, ever since she left Yarmouth under Mr. james's protection. We have been in a variety of places, and seen a deal of foreign country. We have been in France, Switzerland, Italy, in fact, almost all parts
Mr. James took quite uncommonly to the young woman; and was more settled, for a length of time, than I have known him to be since I have been in his service. The young woman was very improvable, and spoke the languages; and wouldn't have been known for the same country-person. I noticed that she was much admired wherever we went
Very much admired, indeed, the young woman was. What with her dress; what with the air and sun; what with being made so much of; what with this, that, and the other; her merits really attracted general notice
The young woman went on in this manner for some time, being occasionally low in her spirits, until I think she began to weary Mr. James by giving way to her low spirits and tempers of that kind; and things were not so comfortable. Mr. James he began to be restless again. The more restless he got, the worse she got; and I must say, for myself, that I had a very difficult time of it indeed between the two. Still matters were patched up here, and made good there, over and over again; and altogether lasted, I am sure, for a longer time than anybody could have expected
gone. But Mr. James, I must say, certainly did behave extremely honourable; for he proposed that the young woman should marry a very respectable person, who was fully prepared to overlook the past, and who was, at least, as good as anybody the young woman could have aspired to in a regular way: her connexions being very common
This I also had it in charge to communicate. I was willing to do anything to relieve Mr. James from his difficulty, and to restore harmony between himself and an affectionate parent, who has undergone so much on his account. Therefore I undertook the commission. The young woman's violence when she came to, after I broke the fact of his departure, was beyond all expectations. She was quite mad, and had to be held by force; or, if she couldn't have got to a knife, or got to the sea, she'd have beaten her head against the marble floor
But when I came to the second part of what had been entrusted to me
which anybody might have supposed would have been, at all events, appreciated as a kind intention, then the young woman came out in her true colours. A more outrageous person I never did see. Her conduct was surprisingly bad. She had no more gratitude, no more feeling, no more patience, no more reason in her, than a stock or a stone. If I hadn't been upon my guard, I am convinced she would have had my blood
I think the better of her for it
Indeed, sir? But you're young
It was necessary, in short, for a time, to take away everything nigh her, that she could do herself, or anybody else, an injury with, and to shut her up close. Notwithstanding which, she got out in the night; forced the lattice of a window, that I had nailed up myself; dropped on a vine that was trailed below; and never has been seen or heard of, to my knowledge, since
She is dead, perhaps
She may have drowned herself, miss
It's very possible. Or, she may have had assistance from the boatmen, and the boatmen's wives and children. Being given to low company, she was very much in the habit of talking to them on the beach, Miss Dartle, and sitting by their boats. I have known her do it, when Mr. James has been away, whole days. Mr. James was far from pleased to find out, once, that she had told the children she was a boatman's daughter, and that in her own country, long ago, she had roamed about the beach, like them
Never more
When it was clear that nothing could be done, Miss Dartle
Did I tell you not to speak to me
You spoke to me, miss
I beg your pardon. But it is my service to obey
Do your service
Finish your story, and go
When it was clear
that she was not to be found, I went to Mr. James, at the place where it had been agreed that I should write to him, and informed him of what had occurred. Words passed between us in consequence, and I felt it due to my character to leave him. I could bear, and I have borne, a great deal from Mr. James; but he insulted me too far. He hurt me. Knowing the unfortunate difference between himself and his mother, and what her anxiety of mind was likely to be, I took the liberty of coming home to England, and relating
For money which I paid him
Just so, ma'am - and relating what I knew. I am not aware
that there is anything else. I am at present out of employment, and should be happy to meet with a respectable situation
I could wish to know from this - creature
whether they intercepted a letter that was written to her from home, or whether he supposes that she received it
I beg your pardon, miss
but, however submissive to you, I have my position, though a servant. Mr. Copperfield and you, miss, are different people. If Mr. Copperfield wishes to know anything from me, I take the liberty of reminding Mr. Copperfield that he can put a question to me. I have a character to maintain
You have heard my question. Consider it addressed to yourself, if you choose. What answer do you make
Sir
my answer must be qualified; because, to betray Mr. james's confidence to his mother, and to betray it to you, are two different actions. It is not probable, I consider, that Mr. James would encourage the receipt of letters likely to increase low spirits and unpleasantness; but further than that, sir, I should wish to avoid going
Is that all
Except
that I understand this fellow's part in the wicked story, and that, as I shall make it known to the honest man who has been her father from her childhood, I would recommend him to avoid going too much into public
Thank you, sir. But you'll excuse me if I say, sir, that there are neither slaves nor slave-drivers in this country, and that people are not allowed to take the law into their own hands. If they do, it is more to their own peril, I believe, than to other people's. Consequently speaking, I am not at all afraid of going wherever I may wish, sir
He says besides
that his master, as he hears, is coasting Spain; and this done, is away to gratify his seafaring tastes till he is weary. But this is of no interest to you. Between these two proud persons, mother and son, there is a wider breach than before, and little hope of its healing, for they are one at heart, and time makes each more obstinate and imperious. Neither is this of any interest to you; but it introduces what I wish to say. This devil whom you make an angel of. I mean this low girl whom he picked out of the tide-mud
may be alive, - for I believe some common things are hard to die. If she is, you will desire to have a pearl of such price found and taken care of. We desire that, too; that he may not by any chance be made her prey again. So far, we are united in one interest; and that is why I, who would do her any mischief that so coarse a wretch is capable of feeling, have sent for you to hear what you have heard
Is Mr. Copperfield informed of everything, Rosa
Yes
And has he heard Littimer himself
Yes; I have told him why you wished it
You are a good girl. I have had some slight correspondence with your former friend, sir
but it has not restored his sense of duty or natural obligation. Therefore I have no other object in this, than what Rosa has mentioned. If, by the course which may relieve the mind of the decent man you brought here (for whom I am sorry - I can say no more), my son may be saved from again falling into the snares of a designing enemy, well
Madam
I understand. I assure you I am in no danger of putting any strained construction on your motives. But I must say, even to you, having known this injured family from childhood, that if you suppose the girl, so deeply wronged, has not been cruelly deluded, and would not rather die a hundred deaths than take a cup of water from your son's hand now, you cherish a terrible mistake
Well, Rosa, well
it is no matter. Let it be. You are married, sir, I am told
And are doing well? I hear little in the quiet life I lead, but I understand you are beginning to be famous
I have been very fortunate
and find my name connected with some praise
You have no mother
No
It is a pity
She would have been proud of you. Good night
Mas'r Davy! Thankee, sir! thankee hearty, for this visit! Sit ye down. You're kindly welcome, sir
Mr. Peggotty
don't expect much! I have heard some news
Of Em'ly
It gives no clue to where she is; but she is not with him
How do you fare to feel about it, Mas'r Davy
I think that she is living
I doen't know. Maybe the first shock was too rough, and in the wildness of her art -! That there blue water as she used to speak on. Could she have thowt o' that so many year, because it was to be her grave
And yet
Mas'r Davy, I have felt so sure as she was living - I have know'd, awake and sleeping, as it was so trew that I should find her - I have been so led on by it, and held up by it - that I doen't believe I can have been deceived. No! Em'ly's alive
My niece, Em'ly, is alive, sir
I doen't know wheer it comes from, or how 'tis, but I am told as she's alive
Now, my dear friend
Thankee, thankee, kind sir
If she should make her way to London, which is likely - for where could she lose herself so readily as in this vast city; and what would she wish to do, but lose and hide herself, if she does not go home
And she won't go home
If she had left of her own accord, she might; not as It was, sir
If she should come here
I believe there is one person, here, more likely to discover her than any other in the world. Do you remember - hear what I say, with fortitude - think of your great object! - do you remember Martha
Of our town
Do you know that she is in London
I have seen her in the streets
But you don't know
that Emily was charitable to her, with Ham's help, long before she fled from home. Nor, that, when we met one night, and spoke together in the room yonder, over the way, she listened at the door
Mas'r Davy
That night when it snew so hard
That night. I have never seen her since. I went back, after parting from you, to speak to her, but she was gone. I was unwilling to mention her to you then, and I am now; but she is the person of whom I speak, and with whom I think we should communicate. Do you understand
Too well, sir
You say you have seen her. Do you think that you could find her? I could only hope to do so by chance
I think, Mas'r Davy, I know wheer to look
It is dark. Being together, shall we go out now, and try to find her tonight
The time was, Mas'r Davy
when I thowt this girl, Martha, a'most like the dirt underneath my Em'ly's feet. God forgive me, theer's a difference now
I doen't know, sir
I have thowt of it oftentimes, but I can't awize myself of it, no matters
Do you recollect
a certain wild way in which he looked out to sea, and spoke about "the end of it
Sure I do
What do you suppose he meant
Mas'r Davy
I've put the question to myself a mort o' times, and never found no answer. And theer's one curious thing - that, though he is so pleasant, I wouldn't fare to feel comfortable to try and get his mind upon 't. He never said a wured to me as warn't as dootiful as dootiful could be, and it ain't likely as he'd begin to speak any other ways now; but it's fur from being fleet water in his mind, where them thowts lays. It's deep, sir, and I can't see down
You are right
and that has sometimes made me anxious
And me too, Mas'r Davy
Even more so, I do assure you, than his ventersome ways, though both belongs to the alteration in him. I doen't know as he'd do violence under any circumstances, but I hope as them two may be kep asunders
Martha
Oh, the river
Oh, the river
Hush, hush
Calm yourself
Oh, the river
I know it's like me
I know that I belong to it. I know that it's the natural company of such as I am! It comes from country places, where there was once no harm in it - and it creeps through the dismal streets, defiled and miserable - and it goes away, like my life, to a great sea, that is always troubled - and I feel that I must go with it
I can't keep away from it. I can't forget it. It haunts me day and night. It's the only thing in all the world that I am fit for, or that's fit for me. Oh, the dreadful river
She is in a state of frenzy
She will speak differently in a little time
Martha
Do you know who this is, who is with me
Yes
Do you know that we have followed you a long way tonight
Are you composed enough
to speak on the subject which so interested you - I hope Heaven may remember it! - that snowy night
I want to say nothing for myself
I am bad, I am lost. I have no hope at all. But tell him, sir
if you don't feel too hard to me to do it, that I never was in any way the cause of his misfortune
It has never been attributed to you
It was you, if I don't deceive myself
that came into the kitchen, the night she took such pity on me; was so gentle to me; didn't shrink away from me like all the rest, and gave me such kind help! Was it you, sir
It was
I should have been in the river long ago
if any wrong to her had been upon my mind. I never could have kept out of it a single winter's night, if I had not been free of any share in that
The cause of her flight is too well understood
You are innocent of any part in it, we thoroughly believe, - we know
Oh, I might have been much the better for her, if I had had a better heart
for she was always good to me! She never spoke a word to me but what was pleasant and right. Is it likely I would try to make her what I am myself, knowing what I am myself, so well? When I lost everything that makes life dear, the worst of all my thoughts was that I was parted for ever from her
And when I heard what had happened before that snowy night, from some belonging to our town
the bitterest thought in all my mind was, that the people would remember she once kept company with me, and would say I had corrupted her! When, Heaven knows, I would have died to have brought back her good name
To have died, would not have been much - what can I say? - I would have lived
I would have lived to be old, in the wretched streets - and to wander about, avoided, in the dark - and to see the day break on the ghastly line of houses, and remember how the same sun used to shine into my room, and wake me once - I would have done even that, to save her
What shall I ever do
How can I go on as I am, a solitary curse to myself, a living disgrace to everyone I come near
Stamp upon me, kill me! When she was your pride, you would have thought I had done her harm if I had brushed against her in the street. You can't believe - why should you? - a syllable that comes out of my lips. It would be a burning shame upon you, even now, if she and I exchanged a word. I don't complain. I don't say she and I are alike - I know there is a long, long way between us. I only say, with all my guilt and wretchedness upon my head, that I am grateful to her from my soul, and love her. Oh, don't think that all the power I had of loving anything is quite worn out! Throw me away, as all the world does. Kill me for being what I am, and having ever known her; but don't think that of me
Martha
God forbid as I should judge you. Forbid as I, of all men, should do that, my girl! You doen't know half the change that's come, in course of time, upon me, when you think it likely. Well
You doen't understand how 'tis that this here gentleman and me has wished to speak to you. You doen't understand what 'tis we has afore us. Listen now
If you heerd
owt of what passed between Mas'r Davy and me, th' night when it snew so hard, you know as I have been - wheer not - fur to seek my dear niece. My dear niece
Fur she's more dear to me now, Martha, than she was dear afore
I have heerd her tell
as you was early left fatherless and motherless, with no friend fur to take, in a rough seafaring-way, their place. Maybe you can guess that if you'd had such a friend, you'd have got into a way of being fond of him in course of time, and that my niece was kiender daughter-like to me
Whereby
I know, both as she would go to the wureld's furdest end with me, if she could once see me again; and that she would fly to the wureld's furdest end to keep off seeing me. For though she ain't no call to doubt my love, and doen't - and doen't
there's shame steps in, and keeps betwixt us
According to our reckoning
Mas'r Davy's here, and mine, she is like, one day, to make her own poor solitary course to London. We believe - Mas'r Davy, me, and all of us - that you are as innocent of everything that has befell her, as the unborn child. You've spoke of her being pleasant, kind, and gentle to you. Bless her, I knew she was! I knew she always was, to all. You're thankful to her, and you love her. Help us all you can to find her, and may Heaven reward you
Will you trust me
Full and free
To speak to her, if I should ever find her; shelter her, if I have any shelter to divide with her; and then, without her knowledge, come to you, and bring you to her
Yes
There may be work to be got
I'll try
At least take some assistance
until you have tried
I could not do what I have promised, for money
I could not take it, if I was starving. To give me money would be to take away your trust, to take away the object that you have given me, to take away the only certain thing that saves me from the river
In the name of the great judge
before whom you and all of us must stand at His dread time, dismiss that terrible idea! We can all do some good, if we will
It has been put into your hearts, perhaps, to save a wretched creature for repentance. I am afraid to think so; it seems too bold. If any good should come of me, I might begin to hope; for nothing but harm has ever come of my deeds yet. I am to be trusted, for the first time in a long while, with my miserable life, on account of what you have given me to try for. I know no more, and I can say no more
What's the use of this
I can spare no more
Then I can't go
Here! You may take it back
You bad man
how can you use me so? But why do I ask? It is because you know how weak I am! What have I to do, to free myself for ever of your visits, but to abandon you to your deserts
And why don't you abandon me to my deserts
You ask me why
What a heart you must have
Is this all you mean to give me, then
It is all I CAN give you
You know I have had losses, and am poorer than I used to be. I have told you so. Having got it, why do you give me the pain of looking at you for another moment, and seeing what you have become
I have become shabby enough, if you mean that
I lead the life of an owl
You stripped me of the greater part of all I ever had
You closed my heart against the whole world, years and years. You treated me falsely, ungratefully, and cruelly. Go, and repent of it. Don't add new injuries to the long, long list of injuries you have done me
Aye
It's all very fine - Well! I must do the best I can, for the present, I suppose
Aunt
This man alarming you again! Let me speak to him. Who is he
Child
come in, and don't speak to me for ten minutes
Trot
it's my husband
Your husband, aunt? I thought he had been dead
Dead to me
but living
Betsey Trotwood don't look a likely subject for the tender passion
but the time was, Trot, when she believed in that man most entirely. When she loved him, Trot, right well. When there was no proof of attachment and affection that she would not have given him. He repaid her by breaking her fortune, and nearly breaking her heart. So she put all that sort of sentiment, once and for ever, in a grave, and filled it up, and flattened it down
My dear, good aunt
I left him
generously. I may say at this distance of time, Trot, that I left him generously. He had been so cruel to me, that I might have effected a separation on easy terms for myself; but I did not. He soon made ducks and drakes of what I gave him, sank lower and lower, married another woman, I believe, became an adventurer, a gambler, and a cheat. What he is now, you see. But he was a fine-looking man when I married him
and I believed him - I was a fool! - to be the soul of honour
He is nothing to me now, Trot- less than nothing. But, sooner than have him punished for his offences (as he would be if he prowled about in this country), I give him more money than I can afford, at intervals when he reappears, to go away. I was a fool when I married him; and I am so far an incurable fool on that subject, that, for the sake of what I once believed him to be, I wouldn't have even this shadow of my idle fancy hardly dealt with. For I was in earnest, Trot, if ever a woman was
There, my dear
Now you know the beginning, middle, and end, and all about it. We won't mention the subject to one another any more; neither, of course, will you mention it to anybody else. This is my grumpy, frumpy story, and we'll keep it to ourselves, Trot
My love
it is very painful to me to think that our want of system and management, involves not only ourselves (which we have got used to), but other people
You have been silent for a long time, and now you are going to be cross
No, my dear, indeed! Let me explain to you what I mean
I think I don't want to know
But I want you to know, my love. Put Jip down
Boh
The fact is, my dear
there is contagion in us. We infect everyone about us
It is not merely, my pet
that we lose money and comfort, and even temper sometimes, by not learning to be more careful; but that we incur the serious responsibility of spoiling everyone who comes into our service, or has any dealings with us. I begin to be afraid that the fault is not entirely on one side, but that these people all turn out ill because we don't turn out very well ourselves
Oh, what an accusation
to say that you ever saw me take gold watches! Oh
My dearest
don't talk preposterous nonsense! Who has made the least allusion to gold watches
You did
You know you did. You said I hadn't turned out well, and compared me to him
To whom
To the page
Oh, you cruel fellow, to compare your affectionate wife to a transported page! Why didn't you tell me your opinion of me before we were married? Why didn't you say, you hard-hearted thing, that you were convinced I was worse than a transported page? Oh, what a dreadful opinion to have of me! Oh, my goodness
Now, Dora, my love
this is not only very ridiculous of you, but very wrong. In the first place, it's not true
You always said he was a story-teller
And now you say the same of me! Oh, what shall I do! What shall I do
My darling girl
I really must entreat you to be reasonable, and listen to what I did say, and do say. My dear Dora, unless we learn to do our duty to those whom we employ, they will never learn to do their duty to us. I am afraid we present opportunities to people to do wrong, that never ought to be presented. Even if we were as lax as we are, in all our arrangements, by choice - which we are not - even if we liked it, and found it agreeable to be so - which we don't - I am persuaded we should have no right to go on in this way. We are positively corrupting people. We are bound to think of that. I can't help thinking of it, Dora. It is a reflection I am unable to dismiss, and it sometimes makes me very uneasy. There, dear, that's all. Come now. Don't be foolish
The truth is, Dora, my life
I have been trying to be wise
And to make me wise too
Haven't you, Doady
It's of not a bit of use
You know what a little thing I am, and what I wanted you to call me from the first. If you can't do so, I am afraid you'll never like me. Are you sure you don't think, sometimes, it would have been better to have
Done what, my dear
Nothing
Nothing
Don't I think it would have been better to have done nothing, than to have tried to form my little wife's mind
Is that the question? Yes, indeed, I do
Is that what you have been trying
Oh what a shocking boy
But I shall never try any more
For I love her dearly as she is
Without a story - really
Why should I seek to change
what has been so precious to me for so long! You never can show better than as your own natural self, my sweet Dora; and we'll try no conceited experiments, but go back to our old way, and be happy
And be happy
Yes! All day! And you won't mind things going a tiny morsel wrong, sometimes
No, no
We must do the best we can
And you won't tell me, any more, that we make other people bad
will you? Because you know it's so dreadfully cross
No, no
It's better for me to be stupid than uncomfortable, isn't it
Better to be naturally Dora than anything else in the world
In the world! Ah, Doady, it's a large place
The first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart
There can be no disparity in marriage, like unsuitability of mind and purpose
When I can run about again, as I used to do, aunt
I shall make Jip race. He is getting quite slow and lazy
I suspect, my dear
he has a worse disorder than that. Age, Dora
Do you think he is old
Oh, how strange it seems that Jip should be old
It's a complaint we are all liable to, Little One, as we get on in life
I don't feel more free from it than I used to be, I assure you
But Jip
even little Jip! Oh, poor fellow
I dare say he'll last a long time yet, Blossom
He must have a piece of flannel in his house this winter, and I shouldn't wonder if he came out quite fresh again, with the flowers in the spring. Bless the little dog
if he had as many lives as a cat, and was on the point of losing 'em all, he'd bark at me with his last breath, I believe
Even little Jip! Oh, poor fellow
His lungs are good enough
and his dislikes are not at all feeble. He has a good many years before him, no doubt. But if you want a dog to race with, Little Blossom, he has lived too well for that, and I'll give you one
Thank you, aunt
But don't, please
No
I couldn't have any other dog but Jip
It would be so unkind to Jip! Besides, I couldn't be such friends with any other dog but Jip; because he wouldn't have known me before I was married, and wouldn't have barked at Doady when he first came to our house. I couldn't care for any other dog but Jip, I am afraid, aunt
To be sure
You are right
You are not offended
Are you
Why, what a sensitive pet it is
To think that I could be offended
No, no, I didn't really think so
but I am a little tired, and it made me silly for a moment - I am always a silly little thing, you know, but it made me more silly - to talk about Jip. He has known me in all that has happened to me, haven't you, Jip? And I couldn't bear to slight him, because he was a little altered - could I, Jip
You are not so old, Jip, are you, that you'll leave your mistress yet
We may keep one another company a little longer
Good night, Little Blossom
MY DEAR SIR, 'Circumstances beyond my individual control have, for a considerable lapse of time, effected a severance of that intimacy which, in the limited opportunities conceded to me in the midst of my professional duties, of contemplating the scenes and events of the past, tinged by the prismatic hues of memory, has ever afforded me, as it ever must continue to afford, gratifying emotions of no common description. This fact, my dear sir, combined with the distinguished elevation to which your talents have raised you, deters me from presuming to aspire to the liberty of addressing the companion of my youth, by the familiar appellation of Copperfield! It is sufficient to know that the name to which I do myself the honour to refer, will ever be treasured among the muniments of our house (I allude to the archives connected with our former lodgers, preserved by Mrs. Micawber), with sentiments of personal esteem amounting to affection. 

'It is not for one, situated, through his original errors and a fortuitous combination of unpropitious events, as is the foundered Bark (if he may be allowed to assume so maritime a denomination), who now takes up the pen to address you - it is not, I repeat, for one so circumstanced, to adopt the language of compliment, or of congratulation. That he leaves to abler and to purer hands. 

'If your more important avocations should admit of your ever tracing these imperfect characters thus far - which may be, or may not be, as circumstances arise - you will naturally inquire by what object am I influenced, then, in inditing the present missive? Allow me to say that I fully defer to the reasonable character of that inquiry, and proceed to develop it; premising that it is not an object of a pecuniary nature. 

'Without more directly referring to any latent ability that may possibly exist on my part, of wielding the thunderbolt, or directing the devouring and avenging flame in any quarter, I may be permitted to observe, in passing, that my brightest visions are for ever dispelled - that my peace is shattered and my power of enjoyment destroyed - that my heart is no longer in the right place - and that I no more walk erect before my fellow man. The canker is in the flower. The cup is bitter to the brim. The worm is at his work, and will soon dispose of his victim. The sooner the better. But I will not digress. 'Placed in a mental position of peculiar painfulness, beyond the assuaging reach even of Mrs. Micawber's influence, though exercised in the tripartite character of woman, wife, and mother, it is my intention to fly from myself for a short period, and devote a respite of eight-and-forty hours to revisiting some metropolitan scenes of past enjoyment. Among other havens of domestic tranquillity and peace of mind, my feet will naturally tend towards the King's Bench Prison. In stating that I shall be (D. V.) on the outside of the south wall of that place of incarceration on civil process, the day after tomorrow, at seven in the evening, precisely, my object in this epistolary communication is accomplished. 

'I do not feel warranted in soliciting my former friend Mr. Copperfield, or my former friend Mr. Thomas Traddles of the Inner Temple, if that gentleman is still existent and forthcoming, to condescend to meet me, and renew (so far as may be) our past relations of the olden time. I confine myself to throwing out the observation, that, at the hour and place I have indicated, may be found such ruined vestiges as yet 'Remain, 'Of 'A 'Fallen Tower, 'WILKINS MICAWBER. 

'P.S. It may be advisable to superadd to the above, the statement that Mrs. Micawber is not in confidential possession of my intentions
My dear fellow
I never was better pleased to see you. You come to give me the benefit of your sober judgement at a most opportune time. I have received a very singular letter, Traddles, from Mr. Micawber
No
You don't say so? And I have received one from Mrs. Micawber
My best regards to Mr. Thomas Traddles, and if he should still remember one who formerly had the happiness of being well acquainted with him, may I beg a few moments of his leisure time? I assure Mr. T. T. that I would not intrude upon his kindness, were I in any other position than on the confines of distraction. 'Though harrowing to myself to mention, the alienation of Mr. Micawber (formerly so domesticated) from his wife and family, is the cause of my addressing my unhappy appeal to Mr. Traddles, and soliciting his best indulgence. Mr. T. can form no adequate idea of the change in Mr. Micawber's conduct, of his wildness, of his violence. It has gradually augmented, until it assumes the appearance of aberration of intellect. Scarcely a day passes, I assure Mr. Traddles, on which some paroxysm does not take place. Mr. T. will not require me to depict my feelings, when I inform him that I have become accustomed to hear Mr. Micawber assert that he has sold himself to the D. Mystery and secrecy have long been his principal characteristic, have long replaced unlimited confidence. The slightest provocation, even being asked if there is anything he would prefer for dinner, causes him to express a wish for a separation. Last night, on being childishly solicited for twopence, to buy 'lemon-stunners' - a local sweetmeat - he presented an oyster-knife at the twins! 

'I entreat Mr. Traddles to bear with me in entering into these details. Without them, Mr. T. would indeed find it difficult to form the faintest conception of my heart-rending situation. 

'May I now venture to confide to Mr. T. the purport of my letter? Will he now allow me to throw myself on his friendly consideration? Oh yes, for I know his heart! 

'The quick eye of affection is not easily blinded, when of the female sex. Mr. Micawber is going to London. Though he studiously concealed his hand, this morning before breakfast, in writing the direction-card which he attached to the little brown valise of happier days, the eagle-glance of matrimonial anxiety detected, d, o, n, distinctly traced. The West-End destination of the coach, is the Golden Cross. Dare I fervently implore Mr. T. to see my misguided husband, and to reason with him? Dare I ask Mr. T. to endeavour to step in between Mr. Micawber and his agonized family? Oh no, for that would be too much! 

'If Mr. Copperfield should yet remember one unknown to fame, will Mr. T. take charge of my unalterable regards and similar entreaties? In any case, he will have the benevolence to consider this communication strictly private, and on no account whatever to be alluded to, however distantly, in the presence of Mr. Micawber. If Mr. T. should ever reply to it (which I cannot but feel to be most improbable), a letter addressed to M. E., Post Office, Canterbury, will be fraught with less painful consequences than any addressed immediately to one, who subscribes herself, in extreme distress, 

'Mr. Thomas Traddles's respectful friend and suppliant, 

'EMMA MICAWBER
What do you think of that letter
What do you think of the other
I think that the two together, Copperfield
mean more than Mr. and Mrs. Micawber usually mean in their correspondence - but I don't know what. They are both written in good faith, I have no doubt, and without any collusion. Poor thing
it will be a charity to write to her, at all events, and tell her that we will not fail to see Mr. Micawber
Gentlemen
you are friends in need, and friends indeed. Allow me to offer my inquiries with reference to the physical welfare of Mrs. Copperfield in esse, and Mrs. Traddles in posse, - presuming, that is to say, that my friend Mr. Traddles is not yet united to the object of his affections, for weal and for woe
I assure you, gentlemen
My dear Copperfield
your cordiality overpowers me. This reception of a shattered fragment of the Temple once called Man - if I may be permitted so to express myself - bespeaks a heart that is an honour to our common nature. I was about to observe that I again behold the serene spot where some of the happiest hours of my existence fleeted by
Made so, I am sure, by Mrs. Micawber
I hope she is well
Thank you
she is but so-so. And this
is the Bench! Where, for the first time in many revolving years, the overwhelming pressure of pecuniary liabilities was not proclaimed, from day to day, by importune voices declining to vacate the passage; where there was no knocker on the door for any creditor to appeal to; where personal service of process was not required, and detainees were merely lodged at the gate! Gentlemen
when the shadow of that iron-work on the summit of the brick structure has been reflected on the gravel of the Parade, I have seen my children thread the mazes of the intricate pattern, avoiding the dark marks. I have been familiar with every stone in the place. If I betray weakness, you will know how to excuse me
We have all got on in life since then, Mr. Micawber
Mr. Copperfield
when I was an inmate of that retreat I could look my fellow-man in the face, and punch his head if he offended me. My fellow-man and myself are no longer on those glorious terms
There are some landmarks
on the road to the tomb, which, but for the impiety of the aspiration, a man would wish never to have passed. Such is the Bench in my chequered career
Oh, you are in low spirits, Mr. Micawber
I am, sir
I hope
it is not because you have conceived a dislike to the law - for I am a lawyer myself, you know
How is our friend Heep, Mr. Micawber
My dear Copperfield
if you ask after my employer as your friend, I am sorry for it; if you ask after him as MY friend, I sardonically smile at it. In whatever capacity you ask after my employer, I beg, without offence to you, to limit my reply to this - that whatever his state of health may be, his appearance is foxy: not to say diabolical. You will allow me, as a private individual, to decline pursuing a subject which has lashed me to the utmost verge of desperation in my professional capacity
May I ask
without any hazard of repeating the mistake, how my old friends Mr. and Miss Wickfield are
Miss Wickfield
is, as she always is, a pattern, and a bright example. My dear Copperfield, she is the only starry spot in a miserable existence. My respect for that young lady, my admiration of her character, my devotion to her for her love and truth, and goodness! - Take me
down a turning, for, upon my soul, in my present state of mind I am not equal to this
It is my fate
it is my fate, gentlemen, that the finer feelings of our nature have become reproaches to me. My homage to Miss Wickfield, is a flight of arrows in my bosom. You had better leave me, if you please, to walk the earth as a vagabond. The worm will settle my business in double-quick time
You shall make us a glass of your own punch, Mr. Micawber
and forget whatever you have on your mind, in pleasanter reminiscences
Or, if confiding anything to friends will be more likely to relieve you, you shall impart it to us, Mr. Micawber
Gentlemen
do with me as you will! I am a straw upon the surface of the deep, and am tossed in all directions by the elephants - I beg your pardon; I should have said the elements
My dear sir, you overpower me
The friendliness of this gentleman
if you will allow me, ma'am, to cull a figure of speech from the vocabulary of our coarser national sports - floors me. To a man who is struggling with a complicated burden of perplexity and disquiet, such a reception is trying, I assure you
My friend Mr. Dick
is not a common man
That I am convinced of
My dear sir
I am deeply sensible of your cordiality
How do you find yourself
Indifferent, my dear sir
You must keep up your spirits
and make yourself as comfortable as possible
It has been my lot
to meet, in the diversified panorama of human existence, with an occasional oasis, but never with one so green, so gushing, as the present
You are a very old friend of my nephew's, Mr. Micawber
I wish I had had the pleasure of seeing you before
Madam
I wish I had had the honour of knowing you at an earlier period. I was not always the wreck you at present behold
I hope Mrs. Micawber and your family are well, sir
They are as well, ma'am
as Aliens and Outcasts can ever hope to be
Lord bless you, sir
What are you talking about
The subsistence of my family, ma'am
trembles in the balance. My employer
Your employer, you know
My good sir
you recall me, I am obliged to you
My employer, ma'am - Mr. Heep - once did me the favour to observe to me, that if I were not in the receipt of the stipendiary emoluments appertaining to my engagement with him, I should probably be a mountebank about the country, swallowing a sword-blade, and eating the devouring element. For anything that I can perceive to the contrary, it is still probable that my children may be reduced to seek a livelihood by personal contortion, while Mrs. Micawber abets their unnatural feats by playing the barrel-organ
My dear Copperfield
this is an occupation, of all others, requiring an untroubled mind, and self-respect. I cannot perform it. It is out of the question
Mr. Micawber
what is the matter? Pray speak out. You are among friends
Among friends, sir
Good heavens, it is principally because I AM among friends that my state of mind is what it is. What is the matter, gentlemen? What is NOT the matter? Villainy is the matter; baseness is the matter; deception, fraud, conspiracy, are the matter; and the name of the whole atrocious mass is - HEEP
The struggle is over
I will lead this life no longer. I am a wretched being, cut off from everything that makes life tolerable. I have been under a Taboo in that infernal scoundrel's service. Give me back my wife, give me back my family, substitute Micawber for the petty wretch who walks about in the boots at present on my feet, and call upon me to swallow a sword tomorrow, and I'll do it. With an appetite
I'll put my hand in no man's hand
until I have - blown to fragments - the - a - detestable - serpent - HEEP! I'll partake of no one's hospitality, until I have - a - moved Mount Vesuvius - to eruption - on - a - the abandoned rascal - HEEP! Refreshment - a - underneath this roof - particularly punch - would - a - choke me - unless - I had - previously - choked the eyes - out of the head - a - of - interminable cheat, and liar - HEEP! I - a- I'll know nobody - and - a - say nothing - and - a - live nowhere - until I have crushed - to - a - undiscoverable atoms - the - transcendent and immortal hypocrite and perjurer - HEEP
No, Copperfield! - No communication - a - until - Miss Wickfield - a - redress from wrongs inflicted by consummate scoundrel - HEEP
Inviolable secret - a - from the whole world - a - no exceptions - this day week - a - at breakfast-time - a - everybody present - including aunt - a - and extremely friendly gentleman - to be at the hotel at Canterbury - a - where - Mrs. Micawber and myself - Auld Lang Syne in chorus - and - a - will expose intolerable ruffian - HEEP! No more to say - a - or listen to persuasion - go immediately - not capable - a - bear society - upon the track of devoted and doomed traitor - HEEP
With the plain Inscription, 'WILKINS MICAWBER
Did she tell you why
I asked her, Mas'r Davy
but it is but few words as she ever says, and she on'y got my promise and so went away
Did she say when you might expect to see her again
No, Mas'r Davy
I asked that too; but it was more (she said) than she could tell
Martha
Can you come with me
I have been to him, and he is not at home. I wrote down where he was to come, and left it on his table with my own hand. They said he would not be out long. I have tidings for him. Can you come directly
Anywhere near Golden Square! And quick
What's this
She has gone into my room. I don't know her
It matters little to me her not being at home
I know nothing of her. It is you I come to see
Me
Yes
I have come to look at you. What? You are not ashamed of the face that has done so much
I have come to see
James Steerforth's fancy; the girl who ran away with him, and is the town-talk of the commonest people of her native place; the bold, flaunting, practised companion of persons like James Steerforth. I want to know what such a thing is like
Stay there
or I'll proclaim you to the house, and the whole street! If you try to evade me, I'll stop you, if it's by the hair, and raise the very stones against you
So
I see her at last! Why, he was a poor creature to be taken by that delicate mock-modesty, and that hanging head
Oh, for Heaven's sake, spare me
Whoever you are, you know my pitiable story, and for Heaven's sake spare me, if you would be spared yourself
If I would be spared
what is there in common between US, do you think
Nothing but our sex
And that
is so strong a claim, preferred by one so infamous, that if I had any feeling in my breast but scorn and abhorrence of you, it would freeze it up. Our sex! You are an honour to our sex
I have deserved this
but it's dreadful! Dear, dear lady, think what I have suffered, and how I am fallen! Oh, Martha, come back! Oh, home, home
Listen to what I say
and reserve your false arts for your dupes. Do you hope to move me by your tears? No more than you could charm me by your smiles, you purchased slave
Oh, have some mercy on me
Show me some compassion, or I shall die mad
It would be no great penance
for your crimes. Do you know what you have done? Do you ever think of the home you have laid waste
Oh, is there ever night or day, when I don't think of it
Has there ever been a single minute, waking or sleeping, when it hasn't been before me, just as it used to be in the lost days when I turned my back upon it for ever and for ever! Oh, home, home! Oh dear, dear uncle, if you ever could have known the agony your love would cause me when I fell away from good, you never would have shown it to me so constant, much as you felt it; but would have been angry to me, at least once in my life, that I might have had some comfort! I have none, none, no comfort upon earth, for all of them were always fond of me
The miserable vanity of these earth-worms
YOUR home! Do you imagine that I bestow a thought on it, or suppose you could do any harm to that low place, which money would not pay for, and handsomely? YOUR home! You were a part of the trade of your home, and were bought and sold like any other vendible thing your people dealt in
Oh, not that
Say anything of me; but don't visit my disgrace and shame, more than I have done, on folks who are as honourable as you! Have some respect for them, as you are a lady, if you have no mercy for me
I speak
I speak of HIS home - where I live. Here
is a worthy cause of division between lady-mother and gentleman-son; of grief in a house where she wouldn't have been admitted as a kitchen-girl; of anger, and repining, and reproach. This piece of pollution, picked up from the water-side, to be made much of for an hour, and then tossed back to her original place
No! no
When he first came into my way - that the day had never dawned upon me, and he had met me being carried to my grave! - I had been brought up as virtuous as you or any lady, and was going to be the wife of as good a man as you or any lady in the world can ever marry. If you live in his home and know him, you know, perhaps, what his power with a weak, vain girl might be. I don't defend myself, but I know well, and he knows well, or he will know when he comes to die, and his mind is troubled with it, that he used all his power to deceive me, and that I believed him, trusted him, and loved him
YOU love him? You
And tell that to ME
with your shameful lips? Why don't they whip these creatures? If I could order it to be done, I would have this girl whipped to death
SHE love
THAT carrion! And he ever cared for her, she'd tell me. Ha, ha! The liars that these traders are
I came here, you pure fountain of love
to see - as I began by telling you - what such a thing as you was like. I was curious. I am satisfied. Also to tell you, that you had best seek that home of yours, with all speed, and hide your head among those excellent people who are expecting you, and whom your money will console. When it's all gone, you can believe, and trust, and love again, you know! I thought you a broken toy that had lasted its time; a worthless spangle that was tarnished, and thrown away. But, finding you true gold, a very lady, and an ill-used innocent, with a fresh heart full of love and trustfulness - which you look like, and is quite consistent with your story! - I have something more to say. Attend to it; for what I say I'll do. Do you hear me, you fairy spirit? What I say, I mean to do
Hide yourself
if not at home, somewhere. Let it be somewhere beyond reach; in some obscure life - or, better still, in some obscure death. I wonder, if your loving heart will not break, you have found no way of helping it to be still! I have heard of such means sometimes. I believe they may be easily found
I am of a strange nature, perhaps
but I can't breathe freely in the air you breathe. I find it sickly. Therefore, I will have it cleared; I will have it purified of you. If you live here tomorrow, I'll have your story and your character proclaimed on the common stair. There are decent women in the house, I am told; and it is a pity such a light as you should be among them, and concealed. If, leaving here, you seek any refuge in this town in any character but your true one (which you are welcome to bear, without molestation from me), the same service shall be done you, if I hear of your retreat. Being assisted by a gentleman who not long ago aspired to the favour of your hand, I am sanguine as to that
Oh me, oh me
What, what, shall I do
Do
Live happy in your own reflections! Consecrate your existence to the recollection of James Steerforth's tenderness - he would have made you his serving-man's wife, would he not? - or to feeling grateful to the upright and deserving creature who would have taken you as his gift. Or, if those proud remembrances, and the consciousness of your own virtues, and the honourable position to which they have raised you in the eyes of everything that wears the human shape, will not sustain you, marry that good man, and be happy in his condescension. If this will not do either, die! There are doorways and dust-heaps for such deaths, and such despair - find one, and take your flight to Heaven
But mark
I am resolved, for reasons that I have and hatreds that I entertain, to cast you out, unless you withdraw from my reach altogether, or drop your pretty mask. This is what I had to say; and what I say, I mean to do
Uncle
Mas'r Davy
I'll go in now, Trot
and look after Little Blossom, who will be getting up presently
Not along of my being heer, ma'am, I hope
Unless my wits is gone a bahd's neezing' - by which Mr. Peggotty meant to say, bird's-nesting - 'this morning, 'tis along of me as you're a-going to quit us
You have something to say, my good friend
and will do better without me
By your leave, ma'am
I should take it kind, pervising you doen't mind my clicketten, if you'd bide heer
Would you
Then I am sure I will
I took my dear child away last night
to my lodging, wheer I have a long time been expecting of her and preparing fur her. It was hours afore she knowed me right; and when she did, she kneeled down at my feet, and kiender said to me, as if it was her prayers, how it all come to be. You may believe me, when I heerd her voice, as I had heerd at home so playful - and see her humbled, as it might be in the dust our Saviour wrote in with his blessed hand - I felt a wownd go to my 'art, in the midst of all its thankfulness
It warn't for long as I felt that; for she was found. I had on'y to think as she was found, and it was gone. I doen't know why I do so much as mention of it now, I'm sure. I didn't have it in my mind a minute ago, to say a word about myself; but it come up so nat'ral, that I yielded to it afore I was aweer
You are a self-denying soul
and will have your reward
When my Em'ly took flight
from the house wheer she was made a prisoner by that theer spotted snake as Mas'r Davy see, - and his story's trew, and may GOD confound him! - she took flight in the night. It was a dark night, with a many stars a-shining. She was wild. She ran along the sea beach, believing the old boat was theer; and calling out to us to turn away our faces, for she was a-coming by. She heerd herself a-crying out, like as if it was another person; and cut herself on them sharp-pinted stones and rocks, and felt it no more than if she had been rock herself. Ever so fur she run, and there was fire afore her eyes, and roarings in her ears. Of a sudden - or so she thowt, you unnerstand - the day broke, wet and windy, and she was lying b'low a heap of stone upon the shore, and a woman was a-speaking to her, saying, in the language of that country, what was it as had gone so much amiss
As Em'ly's eyes - which was heavy - see this woman better
she know'd as she was one of them as she had often talked to on the beach. Fur, though she had run (as I have said) ever so fur in the night, she had oftentimes wandered long ways, partly afoot, partly in boats and carriages, and know'd all that country, 'long the coast, miles and miles. She hadn't no children of her own, this woman, being a young wife; but she was a- looking to have one afore long. And may my prayers go up to Heaven that 'twill be a happiness to her, and a comfort, and a honour, all her life! May it love her and be dootiful to her, in her old age; helpful of her at the last; a Angel to her heer, and heerafter
Amen
She had been summat timorous and down
It was a little cottage, you may suppose
but she found space for Em'ly in it, - her husband was away at sea, - and she kep it secret, and prevailed upon such neighbours as she had (they was not many near) to keep it secret too. Em'ly was took bad with fever, and, what is very strange to me is, - maybe 'tis not so strange to scholars, - the language of that country went out of her head, and she could only speak her own, that no one unnerstood. She recollects, as if she had dreamed it, that she lay there always a-talking her own tongue, always believing as the old boat was round the next pint in the bay, and begging and imploring of 'em to send theer and tell how she was dying, and bring back a message of forgiveness, if it was on'y a wured. A'most the whole time, she thowt, - now, that him as I made mention on just now was lurking for her unnerneath the winder; now that him as had brought her to this was in the room, - and cried to the good young woman not to give her up, and know'd, at the same time, that she couldn't unnerstand, and dreaded that she must be took away. Likewise the fire was afore her eyes, and the roarings in her ears; and theer was no today, nor yesterday, nor yet tomorrow; but everything in her life as ever had been, or as ever could be, and everything as never had been, and as never could be, was a crowding on her all at once, and nothing clear nor welcome, and yet she sang and laughed about it! How long this lasted, I doen't know; but then theer come a sleep; and in that sleep, from being a many times stronger than her own self, she fell into the weakness of the littlest child
It was a pleasant arternoon when she awoke; and so quiet, that there warn't a sound but the rippling of that blue sea without a tide, upon the shore. It was her belief, at first, that she was at home upon a Sunday morning; but the vine leaves as she see at the winder, and the hills beyond, warn't home, and contradicted of her. Then, come in her friend to watch alongside of her bed; and then she know'd as the old boat warn't round that next pint in the bay no more, but was fur off; and know'd where she was, and why; and broke out a-crying on that good young woman's bosom, wheer I hope her baby is a-lying now, a-cheering of her with its pretty eyes
That done my Em'ly good
When Em'ly got strong again
I doen't know
She come
to London. She - as had never seen it in her life - alone - without a penny - young - so pretty - come to London. A'most the moment as she lighted heer, all so desolate, she found (as she believed) a friend; a decent woman as spoke to her about the needle-work as she had been brought up to do, about finding plenty of it fur her, about a lodging fur the night, and making secret inquiration concerning of me and all at home, tomorrow. When my child
stood upon the brink of more than I can say or think on - Martha, trew to her promise, saved her
Mas'r Davy
She attended on Em'ly
All night long
we have been together, Em'ly and me. 'Tis little (considering the time) as she has said, in wureds, through them broken-hearted tears; 'tis less as I have seen of her dear face, as grow'd into a woman's at my hearth. But, all night long, her arms has been about my neck; and her head has laid heer; and we knows full well, as we can put our trust in one another, ever more
It was a gleam of light upon me, Trot
when I formed the resolution of being godmother to your sister Betsey Trotwood, who disappointed me; but, next to that, hardly anything would have given me greater pleasure, than to be godmother to that good young creature's baby
You have quite made up your mind
as to the future, good friend? I need scarcely ask you
Quite, Mas'r Davy
and told Em'ly. Theer's mighty countries, fur from heer. Our future life lays over the sea
They will emigrate together, aunt
Yes
No one can't reproach my darling in Australia. We will begin a new life over theer
I was down at the Docks early this morning, sir
to get information concerning of them ships. In about six weeks or two months from now, there'll be one sailing - I see her this morning - went aboard - and we shall take our passage in her
Quite alone
Aye, Mas'r Davy
My sister, you see, she's that fond of you and yourn, and that accustomed to think on'y of her own country, that it wouldn't be hardly fair to let her go. Besides which, theer's one she has in charge, Mas'r Davy, as doen't ought to be forgot
Poor Ham
My good sister takes care of his house, you see, ma'am, and he takes kindly to her
He'll set and talk to her, with a calm spirit, wen it's like he couldn't bring himself to open his lips to another. Poor fellow
theer's not so much left him, that he could spare the little as he has
And Mrs. Gummidge
Well, I've had a mort of consideration, I do tell you
un, she an't what you may call good company. Betwixt you and me, Mas'r Davy - and you, ma'am - wen Mrs. Gummidge takes to wimicking
un
and I know'd his merits, so I unnerstan' her; but 'tan't entirely so, you see, with others - nat'rally can't be
Wheerby
my sister might - I doen't say she would, but might - find Missis Gummidge give her a leetle trouble now-and-again. Theerfur 'tan't my intentions to moor Missis Gummidge 'long with them, but to find a Beein' fur her wheer she can fisherate for herself
Fur which purpose
Tan't to be expected, of course, at her time of life, and being lone and lorn, as the good old Mawther is to be knocked about aboardship, and in the woods and wilds of a new and fur-away country. So that's what I'm a-going to do with her
'Em'ly
will keep along with me - poor child, she's sore in need of peace and rest! - until such time as we goes upon our voyage. She'll work at them clothes, as must be made; and I hope her troubles will begin to seem longer ago than they was, wen she finds herself once more by her rough but loving uncle
Theer's one thing furder, Mas'r Davy
Theer's these here banknotes - fifty pound, and ten. To them I wish to add the money as she come away with. I've asked her about that (but not saying why), and have added of it up. I an't a scholar. Would you be so kind as see how 'tis
Thankee, sir
This money, if you doen't see objections, Mas'r Davy, I shall put up jest afore I go, in a cover directed to him; and put that up in another, directed to his mother. I shall tell her, in no more wureds than I speak to you, what it's the price on; and that I'm gone, and past receiving of it back
I said that theer was on'y one thing furder
but theer was two. I warn't sure in my mind, wen I come out this morning, as I could go and break to Ham, of my own self, what had so thankfully happened. So I writ a letter while I was out, and put it in the post-office, telling of 'em how all was as 'tis; and that I should come down tomorrow to unload my mind of what little needs a-doing of down theer, and, most-like, take my farewell leave of Yarmouth
And do you wish me to go with you
If you could do me that kind favour, Mas'r Davy
I know the sight on you would cheer 'em up a bit
How is Mr. Omer, after this long time
I should get up, sir, to acknowledge such an honour as this visit
only my limbs are rather out of sorts, and I am wheeled about. With the exception of my limbs and my breath, howsoever, I am as hearty as a man can be, I'm thankful to say
It's an ingenious thing, ain't it
It runs as light as a feather, and tracks as true as a mail-coach. Bless you, my little Minnie - my grand-daughter you know, Minnie's child - puts her little strength against the back, gives it a shove, and away we go, as clever and merry as ever you see anything! And I tell you what - it's a most uncommon chair to smoke a pipe in
I see more of the world, I can assure you
prentice, and away I go in my own carriage, like the Lord Mayor of London
Lord bless you
a man must take the fat with the lean; that's what he must make up his mind to, in this life. Joram does a fine business. Ex-cellent business
I am very glad to hear it
I knew you would be
And Joram and Minnie are like Valentines. What more can a man expect? What's his limbs to that
And since I've took to general reading, you've took to general writing, eh, sir
What a lovely work that was of yours! What expressions in it! I read it every word - every word. And as to feeling sleepy! Not at all
I give you my word and honour, sir
that when I lay that book upon the table, and look at it outside; compact in three separate and indiwidual wollumes - one, two, three; I am as proud as Punch to think that I once had the honour of being connected with your family. And dear me, it's a long time ago, now, ain't it? Over at Blunderstone. With a pretty little party laid along with the other party. And you quite a small party then, yourself. Dear, dear
I am rejoiced at it, sir! It's the best news I have heard for many a day. Dear, dear, dear! And what's going to be undertook for that unfortunate young woman, Martha, now
You touch a point that my thoughts have been dwelling on since yesterday
but on which I can give you no information yet, Mr. Omer. Mr. Peggotty has not alluded to it, and I have a delicacy in doing so. I am sure he has not forgotten it. He forgets nothing that is disinterested and good
Because you know
whatever is done, I should wish to be a member of. Put me down for anything you may consider right, and let me know. I never could think the girl all bad, and I am glad to find she's not. So will my daughter Minnie be. Young women are contradictory creatures in some things - her mother was just the same as her - but their hearts are soft and kind. It's all show with Minnie, about Martha. Why she should consider it necessary to make any show, I don't undertake to tell you. But it's all show, bless you. She'd do her any kindness in private. So, put me down for whatever you may consider right, will you be so good? and drop me a line where to forward it. Dear me
when a man is drawing on to a time of life, where the two ends of life meet; when he finds himself, however hearty he is, being wheeled about for the second time, in a speeches of go-cart; he should be over-rejoiced to do a kindness if he can. He wants plenty. And I don't speak of myself, particular
because, sir, the way I look at it is, that we are all drawing on to the bottom of the hill, whatever age we are, on account of time never standing still for a single moment. So let us always do a kindness, and be over-rejoiced. To be sure
There's Em'ly's cousin, him that she was to have been married to
as fine a fellow as there is in Yarmouth! He'll come and talk or read to me, in the evening, for an hour together sometimes. That's a kindness, I should call it! All his life's a kindness
I am going to see him now
Are you
Tell him I was hearty, and sent my respects. Minnie and Joram's at a ball. They would be as proud to see you as I am, if they was at home. Minnie won't hardly go out at all, you see, "on account of father", as she says. So I swore tonight, that if she didn't go, I'd go to bed at six. In consequence of which
she and Joram's at a ball
Half a minute, sir
If you was to go without seeing my little elephant, you'd lose the best of sights. You never see such a sight! Minnie
I am coming, grandfather
This is my little elephant, sir
Siamese breed, sir. Now, little elephant
The elephant butts, you know, sir
when he goes at a object. Once, elephant. Twice. Three times
Mas'r Davy, have you seen her
Only for a moment, when she was in a swoon
Mas'r Davy, shall you see her, d'ye think
It would be too painful to her, perhaps
I have thowt of that
So 'twould, sir, so 'twould
But, Ham
if there is anything that I could write to her, for you, in case I could not tell it; if there is anything you would wish to make known to her through me; I should consider it a sacred trust
I am sure on't. I thankee, sir, most kind! I think theer is something I could wish said or wrote
What is it
Tan't that I forgive her. 'Tan't that so much. 'Tis more as I beg of her to forgive me, for having pressed my affections upon her. Odd times, I think that if I hadn't had her promise fur to marry me, sir, she was that trustful of me, in a friendly way, that she'd have told me what was struggling in her mind, and would have counselled with me, and I might have saved her
Is that all
Theer's yet a something else
if I can say it, Mas'r Davy
I loved her - and I love the mem'ry of her - too deep - to be able to lead her to believe of my own self as I'm a happy man. I could only be happy - by forgetting of her - and I'm afeerd I couldn't hardly bear as she should be told I done that. But if you, being so full of learning, Mas'r Davy, could think of anything to say as might bring her to believe I wasn't greatly hurt: still loving of her, and mourning for her: anything as might bring her to believe as I was not tired of my life, and yet was hoping fur to see her without blame, wheer the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest - anything as would ease her sorrowful mind, and yet not make her think as I could ever marry, or as 'twas possible that anyone could ever be to me what she was - I should ask of you to say that - with my prayers for her - that was so dear
I thankee, sir
'Twas kind of you to meet me. 'Twas kind of you to bear him company down. Mas'r Davy, I unnerstan' very well, though my aunt will come to Lon'on afore they sail, and they'll unite once more, that I am not like to see him agen. I fare to feel sure on't. We doen't say so, but so 'twill be, and better so. The last you see on him - the very last - will you give him the lovingest duty and thanks of the orphan, as he was ever more than a father to
I thankee agen, sir
I know wheer you're a-going. Good-bye
Come, according to promise, to bid farewell to 't, eh, Mas'r Davy
Bare enough, now, an't it
Indeed you have made good use of the time
Why, we have not been idle, sir. Missis Gummidge has worked like a - I doen't know what Missis Gummidge an't worked like
Theer's the very locker that you used to sit on, 'long with Em'ly
I'm a-going to carry it away with me, last of all. And heer's your old little bedroom, see, Mas'r Davy! A'most as bleak tonight, as 'art could wish
'Tis like to be long
afore the boat finds new tenants. They look upon 't, down beer, as being unfortunate now
Does it belong to anybody in the neighbourhood
To a mast-maker up town
I'm a-going to give the key to him tonight
Dan'l
my dear Dan'l, the parting words I speak in this house is, I mustn't be left behind. Doen't ye think of leaving me behind, Dan'l! Oh, doen't ye ever do it
Doen't ye, dearest Dan'l, doen't ye
Take me 'long with you, Dan'l, take me 'long with you and Em'ly! I'll be your servant, constant and trew. If there's slaves in them parts where you're a-going, I'll be bound to you for one, and happy, but doen't ye leave me behind, Dan'l, that's a deary dear
My good soul
you doen't know what a long voyage, and what a hard life 'tis
Yes, I do, Dan'l! I can guess
But my parting words under this roof is, I shall go into the house and die, if I am not took. I can dig, Dan'l. I can work. I can live hard. I can be loving and patient now - more than you think, Dan'l, if you'll on'y try me. I wouldn't touch the 'lowance, not if I was dying of want, Dan'l Peggotty; but I'll go with you and Em'ly, if you'll on'y let me, to the world's end! I know how 'tis; I know you think that I am lone and lorn; but, deary love, 'tan't so no more! I ain't sat here, so long, a-watching, and a-thinking of your trials, without some good being done me. Mas'r Davy, speak to him for me! I knows his ways, and Em'ly's, and I knows their sorrows, and can be a comfort to 'em, some odd times, and labour for 'em allus! Dan'l, deary Dan'l, let me go 'long with you
I won't speak to you
I'll be disagreeable! I'll make Jip bark at you all day. I shall be sure that you really are a cross old thing, if you don't go
Tut, Blossom
You know you can't do without me
Yes, I can
You are no use to me at all. You never run up and down stairs for me, all day long. You never sit and tell me stories about Doady, when his shoes were worn out, and he was covered with dust - oh, what a poor little mite of a fellow! You never do anything at all to please me, do you, dear
But, aunt
now listen. You must go. I shall tease you, 'till you let me have my own way about it. I shall lead my naughty boy such a life, if he don't make you go. I shall make myself so disagreeable - and so will Jip! You'll wish you had gone, like a good thing, for ever and ever so long, if you don't go. Besides
why shouldn't you both go? I am not very ill indeed. Am I
Why, what a question
What a fancy
Yes! I know I am a silly little thing
Well, then, you must both go, or I shall not believe you; and then I shall cry
You'll come back with so much to tell me, that it'll take at least a week to make me understand
Because I know I shan't understand, for a length of time, if there's any business in it. And there's sure to be some business in it! If there's anything to add up, besides, I don't know when I shall make it out; and my bad boy will look so miserable all the time. There! Now you'll go, won't you? You'll only be gone one night, and Jip will take care of me while you are gone. Doady will carry me upstairs before you go, and I won't come down again till you come back; and you shall take Agnes a dreadfully scolding letter from me, because she has never been to see us
Here he is
and not in his legal attire
Gentlemen, and madam
good morning! My dear sir
you are extremely good
Have you breakfasted
Have a chop
Not for the world, my good sir
appetite and myself, Mr. Dixon, have long been strangers
Dick
attention
Now, sir
we are ready for Mount Vesuvius, or anything else, as soon as YOU please
Madam
I trust you will shortly witness an eruption. Mr. Traddles, I have your permission, I believe, to mention here that we have been in communication together
It is undoubtedly the fact, Copperfield
Mr. Micawber has consulted me in reference to what he has in contemplation; and I have advised him to the best of my judgement
Unless I deceive myself, Mr. Traddles
what I contemplate is a disclosure of an important nature
Highly so
Perhaps, under such circumstances, madam and gentlemen
you will do me the favour to submit yourselves, for the moment, to the direction of one who, however unworthy to be regarded in any other light but as a Waif and Stray upon the shore of human nature, is still your fellow-man, though crushed out of his original form by individual errors, and the accumulative force of a combination of circumstances
We have perfect confidence in you, Mr. Micawber
and will do what you please
Mr. Copperfield
your confidence is not, at the existing juncture, ill-bestowed. I would beg to be allowed a start of five minutes by the clock; and then to receive the present company, inquiring for Miss Wickfield, at the office of Wickfield and Heep, whose Stipendiary I am
I have no more
to say at present
How do you do, Mr. Micawber
Mr. Copperfield
I hope I see you well
Is Miss Wickfield at home
Mr. Wickfield is unwell in bed, sir, of a rheumatic fever
but Miss Wickfield, I have no doubt, will be happy to see old friends. Will you walk in, sir
Miss Trotwood, Mr. David Copperfield, Mr. Thomas Traddles, and Mr. Dixon
Well, I am sure
This is indeed an unexpected pleasure! To have, as I may say, all friends round St. Paul's at once, is a treat unlooked for! Mr. Copperfield, I hope I see you well, and - if I may umbly express myself so - friendly towards them as is ever your friends, whether or not. Mrs. Copperfield, sir, I hope she's getting on. We have been made quite uneasy by the poor accounts we have had of her state, lately, I do assure you
Things are changed in this office, Miss Trotwood, since I was an umble clerk, and held your pony; ain't they
But I am not changed, Miss Trotwood
Well, sir
to tell you the truth, I think you are pretty constant to the promise of your youth; if that's any satisfaction to you
Thank you, Miss Trotwood
for your good opinion! Micawber, tell 'em to let Miss Agnes know - and mother. Mother will be quite in a state, when she sees the present company
You are not busy, Mr. Heep
No, Mr. Traddles
Not so much so as I could wish. But lawyers, sharks, and leeches, are not easily satisfied, you know! Not but what myself and Micawber have our hands pretty full, in general, on account of Mr. Wickfield's being hardly fit for any occupation, sir. But it's a pleasure as well as a duty, I am sure, to work for him. You've not been intimate with Mr. Wickfield, I think, Mr. Traddles? I believe I've only had the honour of seeing you once myself
No, I have not been intimate with Mr. Wickfield
or I might perhaps have waited on you long ago, Mr. Heep
I am sorry for that, Mr. Traddles. You would have admired him as much as we all do. His little failings would only have endeared him to you the more. But if you would like to hear my fellow-partner eloquently spoken of, I should refer you to Copperfield. The family is a subject he's very strong upon, if you never heard him
Don't wait, Micawber
What are you waiting for
Micawber! did you hear me tell you not to wait
Yes
Then why DO you wait
Because I - in short, choose
You are a dissipated fellow, as all the world knows
and I am afraid you'll oblige me to get rid of you. Go along! I'll talk to you presently
If there is a scoundrel on this earth
with whom I have already talked too much, that scoundrel's name is - HEEP
Oho! This is a conspiracy! You have met here by appointment! You are playing Booty with my clerk, are you, Copperfield? Now, take care. You'll make nothing of this. We understand each other, you and me. There's no love between us. You were always a puppy with a proud stomach, from your first coming here; and you envy me my rise, do you? None of your plots against me; I'll counterplot you! Micawber, you be off. I'll talk to you presently
Mr. Micawber
there is a sudden change in this fellow. in more respects than the extraordinary one of his speaking the truth in one particular, which assures me that he is brought to bay. Deal with him as he deserves
You are a precious set of people, ain't you
to buy over my clerk, who is the very scum of society, - as you yourself were, Copperfield, you know it, before anyone had charity on you, - to defame me with his lies? Miss Trotwood, you had better stop this; or I'll stop your husband shorter than will be pleasant to you. I won't know your story professionally, for nothing, old lady! Miss Wickfield, if you have any love for your father, you had better not join that gang. I'll ruin him, if you do. Now, come! I have got some of you under the harrow. Think twice, before it goes over you. Think twice, you, Micawber, if you don't want to be crushed. I recommend you to take yourself off, and be talked to presently, you fool! while there's time to retreat. Where's mother
Fine doings in a person's own house
Mrs. Heep is here, sir
I have taken the liberty of making myself known to her
Who are you to make yourself known
And what do you want here
I am the agent and friend of Mr. Wickfield, sir
And I have a power of attorney from him in my pocket, to act for him in all matters
The old ass has drunk himself into a state of dotage
and it has been got from him by fraud
Something has been got from him by fraud, I know
and so do you, Mr. Heep. We will refer that question, if you please, to Mr. Micawber
Ury
YOU hold your tongue, mother
least said, soonest mended
But, my Ury
Will you hold your tongue, mother, and leave it to me
You think it justifiable, do you, Copperfield, you who pride yourself so much on your honour and all the rest of it, to sneak about my place, eaves-dropping with my clerk? If it had been ME, I shouldn't have wondered; for I don't make myself out a gentleman (though I never was in the streets either, as you were, according to Micawber), but being you! - And you're not afraid of doing this, either? You don't think at all of what I shall do, in return; or of getting yourself into trouble for conspiracy and so forth? Very well. We shall see! Mr. What's-your-name, you were going to refer some question to Micawber. There's your referee. Why don't you make him speak? He has learnt his lesson, I see
Dear Miss Trotwood and gentlemen
Bless and save the man
He'd write letters by the ream, if it was a capital offence
In appearing before you to denounce probably the most consummate Villain that has ever existed
I ask no consideration for myself. The victim, from my cradle, of pecuniary liabilities to which I have been unable to respond, I have ever been the sport and toy of debasing circumstances. Ignominy, Want, Despair, and Madness, have, collectively or separately, been the attendants of my career
In an accumulation of Ignominy, Want, Despair, and Madness, I entered the office - or, as our lively neighbour the Gaul would term it, the Bureau - of the Firm, nominally conducted under the appellation of Wickfield and - HEEP, but in reality, wielded by - HEEP alone. HEEP, and only HEEP, is the mainspring of that machine. HEEP, and only HEEP, is the Forger and the Cheat
The Devil take you
I'll be even with you
Approach me again, you - you - you HEEP of infamy
and if your head is human, I'll break it. Come on, come on
Come on
The stipendiary emoluments in consideration of which I entered into the service of - HEEP
were not defined, beyond the pittance of twenty-two shillings and six per week. The rest was left contingent on the value of my professional exertions; in other and more expressive words, on the baseness of my nature, the cupidity of my motives, the poverty of my family, the general moral (or rather immoral) resemblance between myself and - HEEP. Need I say, that it soon became necessary for me to solicit from - HEEP - pecuniary advances towards the support of Mrs. Micawber, and our blighted but rising family? Need I say that this necessity had been foreseen by - HEEP? That those advances were secured by I.O.U
Then it was that - HEEP - began to favour me with just so much of his confidence, as was necessary to the discharge of his infernal business. Then it was that I began, if I may so Shakespearianly express myself, to dwindle, peak, and pine. I found that my services were constantly called into requisition for the falsification of business, and the mystification of an individual whom I will designate as Mr. W. That Mr. W. was imposed upon, kept in ignorance, and deluded, in every possible way; yet, that all this while, the ruffian - HEEP - was professing unbounded gratitude to, and unbounded friendship for, that much-abused gentleman. This was bad enough; but, as the philosophic Dane observes, with that universal applicability which distinguishes the illustrious ornament of the Elizabethan Era, worse remains behind
It is not my intention
to enter on a detailed list, within the compass of the present epistle (though it is ready elsewhere), of the various malpractices of a minor nature, affecting the individual whom I have denominated Mr. W., to which I have been a tacitly consenting party. My object, when the contest within myself between stipend and no stipend, baker and no baker, existence and non-existence, ceased, was to take advantage of my opportunities to discover and expose the major malpractices committed, to that gentleman's grievous wrong and injury, by - HEEP. Stimulated by the silent monitor within, and by a no less touching and appealing monitor without - to whom I will briefly refer as Miss W. - I entered on a not unlaborious task of clandestine investigation, protracted - now, to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief, over a period exceeding twelve calendar months
My charges against - HEEP
are as follows
First
When Mr. W
You shall prove this, you Copperfield
All in good time
Ask - HEEP - Mr. Traddles, who lived in his house after him
will you
The fool himself- and lives there now
Ask - HEEP - if he ever kept a pocket-book in that house
will you
Or ask him
if he ever burnt one there. If he says yes, and asks you where the ashes are, refer him to Wilkins Micawber, and he will hear of something not at all to his advantage
Ury, Ury! Be umble, and make terms, my dear
Mother
will you keep quiet? You're in a fright, and don't know what you say or mean. Umble
I've umbled some of 'em for a pretty long time back, umble as I was
Second. HEEP has, on several occasions, to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief
But that won't do
Mother, you keep quiet
We will endeavour to provide something that WILL do, and do for you finally, sir, very shortly
Second. HEEP has, on several occasions, to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief, systematically forged, to various entries, books, and documents, the signature of Mr. W.; and has distinctly done so in one instance, capable of proof by me. To wit, in manner following, that is to say
To wit, in manner following, that is to say. Mr. W. being infirm, and it being within the bounds of probability that his decease might lead to some discoveries, and to the downfall of - HEEP'S - power over the W. family, - as I, Wilkins Micawber, the undersigned, assume - unless the filial affection of his daughter could be secretly influenced from allowing any investigation of the partnership affairs to be ever made, the said - HEEP - deemed it expedient to have a bond ready by him, as from Mr. W., for the before-mentioned sum of twelve six fourteen, two and nine, with interest, stated therein to have been advanced by - HEEP - to Mr. W. to save Mr. W. from dishonour; though really the sum was never advanced by him, and has long been replaced. The signatures to this instrument purporting to be executed by Mr. W. and attested by Wilkins Micawber, are forgeries by - HEEP. I have, in my possession, in his hand and pocket-book, several similar imitations of Mr. W
And I have the document
in my possession, - that is to say, I had, early this morning, when this was written, but have since relinquished it to Mr. Traddles
It is quite true
Ury, Ury
be umble and make terms. I know my son will be umble, gentlemen, if you'll give him time to think. Mr. Copperfield, I'm sure you know that he was always very umble, sir
Mother
you had better take and fire a loaded gun at me
But I love you, Ury
And I can't bear to hear you provoking the gentlemen, and endangering of yourself more. I told the gentleman at first, when he told me upstairs it was come to light, that I would answer for your being umble, and making amends. Oh, see how umble I am, gentlemen, and don't mind him
Why, there's Copperfield, mother
there's Copperfield, would have given you a hundred pound to say less than you've blurted out
I can't help it, Ury
I can't see you running into danger, through carrying your head so high. Better be umble, as you always was
What more have you got to bring forward? If anything, go on with it. What do you look at me for
Third. And last. I am now in a condition to show, by - HEEP'S - false books, and - HEEP'S - real memoranda, beginning with the partially destroyed pocket-book (which I was unable to comprehend, at the time of its accidental discovery by Mrs. Micawber, on our taking possession of our present abode, in the locker or bin devoted to the reception of the ashes calcined on our domestic hearth), that the weaknesses, the faults, the very virtues, the parental affections, and the sense of honour, of the unhappy Mr. W. have been for years acted on by, and warped to the base purposes of - HEEP. That Mr. W. has been for years deluded and plundered, in every conceivable manner, to the pecuniary aggrandisement of the avaricious, false, and grasping - HEEP. That the engrossing object of- HEEP - was, next to gain, to subdue Mr. and Miss W. (of his ulterior views in reference to the latter I say nothing) entirely to himself. That his last act, completed but a few months since, was to induce Mr. W. to execute a relinquishment of his share in the partnership, and even a bill of sale on the very furniture of his house, in consideration of a certain annuity, to be well and truly paid by - HEEP - on the four common quarter-days in each and every year. That these meshes; beginning with alarming and falsified accounts of the estate of which Mr. W. is the receiver, at a period when Mr. W. had launched into imprudent and ill-judged speculations, and may not have had the money, for which he was morally and legally responsible, in hand; going on with pretended borrowings of money at enormous interest, really coming from - HEEP - and by - HEEP - fraudulently obtained or withheld from Mr. W. himself, on pretence of such speculations or otherwise; perpetuated by a miscellaneous catalogue of unscrupulous chicaneries - gradually thickened, until the unhappy Mr. W. could see no world beyond. Bankrupt, as he believed, alike in circumstances, in all other hope, and in honour, his sole reliance was upon the monster in the garb of man
who, by making himself necessary to him, had achieved his destruction. All this I undertake to show. Probably much more
Pardon me
Remaining always, &amp;c. &amp;c., WILKINS MICAWBER
Where are the books
Some thief has stolen the books
I did, when I got the key from you as usual - but a little earlier - and opened it this morning
Don't be uneasy
They have come into my possession. I will take care of them, under the authority I mentioned
You receive stolen goods, do you
Under such circumstances
yes
You know what I want
A strait-waistcoat
No. My property
Agnes, my dear, as long as I believed it had been really made away with by your father, I wouldn't - and, my dear, I didn't, even to Trot, as he knows - breathe a syllable of its having been placed here for investment. But, now I know this fellow's answerable for it, and I'll have it! Trot, come and take it away from him
What do you want done
I will tell you what must be done
Has that Copperfield no tongue
I would do a good deal for you if you could tell me, without lying, that somebody had cut it out
My Uriah means to be umble
Don't mind what he says, good gentlemen
What must be done
is this. First, the deed of relinquishment, that we have heard of, must be given over to me now - here
Suppose I haven't got it
But you have
therefore, you know, we won't suppose so
Then
you must prepare to disgorge all that your rapacity has become possessed of, and to make restoration to the last farthing. All the partnership books and papers must remain in our possession; all your books and papers; all money accounts and securities, of both kinds. In short, everything here
Must it? I don't know that
I must have time to think about that
Certainly
but, in the meanwhile, and until everything is done to our satisfaction, we shall maintain possession of these things; and beg you - in short, compel you - to keep to your own room, and hold no communication with anyone
I won't do it
Maidstone jail is a safer place of detention
and though the law may be longer in righting us, and may not be able to right us so completely as you can, there is no doubt of its punishing YOU. Dear me, you know that quite as well as I! Copperfield, will you go round to the Guildhall, and bring a couple of officers
Stop
Mother, hold your noise. Well! Let 'em have that deed. Go and fetch it
Do you help her, Mr. Dick
if you please
Good
Now, Mr. Heep, you can retire to think: particularly observing, if you please, that I declare to you, on the part of all present, that there is only one thing to be done; that it is what I have explained; and that it must be done without delay
Copperfield, I have always hated you. You've always been an upstart, and you've always been against me
As I think I told you once before
it is you who have been, in your greed and cunning, against all the world. It may be profitable to you to reflect, in future, that there never were greed and cunning in the world yet, that did not do too much, and overreach themselves. It is as certain as death
You preach, about as consistent as they did. Won't umbleness go down? I shouldn't have got round my gentleman fellow-partner without it, I think. - Micawber, you old bully, I'll pay YOU
The veil that has long been interposed between Mrs. Micawber and myself, is now withdrawn
and my children and the Author of their Being can once more come in contact on equal terms
Emma! my life
Emma
The cloud is past from my mind. Mutual confidence, so long preserved between us once, is restored, to know no further interruption. Now, welcome poverty
Welcome misery, welcome houselessness, welcome hunger, rags, tempest, and beggary! Mutual confidence will sustain us to the end
Excuse me, dear Mr. Copperfield
but I am not strong; and the removal of the late misunderstanding between Mr. Micawber and myself was at first too much for me
Is this all your family, ma'am
There are no more at present
Good gracious, I didn't mean that, ma'am
I mean, are all these yours
Madam
it is a true bill
And that eldest young gentleman, now
what has he been brought up to
It was my hope when I came here
to have got Wilkins into the Church: or perhaps I shall express my meaning more strictly, if I say the Choir. But there was no vacancy for a tenor in the venerable Pile for which this city is so justly eminent; and he has - in short, he has contracted a habit of singing in public-houses, rather than in sacred edifices
But he means well
I dare say, my love
that he means particularly well; but I have not yet found that he carries out his meaning, in any given direction whatsoever
Mr. Micawber, I wonder you have never turned your thoughts to emigration
Madam
it was the dream of my youth, and the fallacious aspiration of my riper years
Aye
Why, what a thing it would be for yourselves and your family, Mr. and Mrs. Micawber, if you were to emigrate now
Capital, madam, capital
That is the principal, I may say the only difficulty, my dear Mr. Copperfield
Capital
But you are doing us a great service - have done us a great service, I may say, for surely much will come out of the fire - and what could we do for you, that would be half so good as to find the capital
I could not receive it as a gift
but if a sufficient sum could be advanced, say at five per cent interest, per annum, upon my personal liability - say my notes of hand, at twelve, eighteen, and twenty-four months, respectively, to allow time for something to turn up
Could be? Can be and shall be, on your own terms
if you say the word. Think of this now, both of you. Here are some people David knows, going out to Australia shortly. If you decide to go, why shouldn't you go in the same ship? You may help each other. Think of this now, Mr. and Mrs. Micawber. Take your time, and weigh it well
There is but one question, my dear ma'am, I could wish to ask
The climate, I believe, is healthy
Finest in the world
Just so
Then my question arises. Now, are the circumstances of the country such, that a man of Mr. Micawber's abilities would have a fair chance of rising in the social scale? I will not say, at present, might he aspire to be Governor, or anything of that sort; but would there be a reasonable opening for his talents to develop themselves - that would be amply sufficient - and find their own expansion
No better opening anywhere
for a man who conducts himself well, and is industrious
For a man who conducts himself well
and is industrious. Precisely. It is evident to me that Australia is the legitimate sphere of action for Mr. Micawber
I entertain the conviction, my dear madam
that it is, under existing circumstances, the land, the only land, for myself and family; and that something of an extraordinary nature will turn up on that shore. It is no distance - comparatively speaking; and though consideration is due to the kindness of your proposal, I assure you that is a mere matter of form
Not that I am vain of it, now, you mocking boy
but because you used to say you thought it so beautiful; and because, when I first began to think about you, I used to peep in the glass, and wonder whether you would like very much to have a lock of it. Oh what a foolish fellow you were, Doady, when I gave you one
That was on the day when you were painting the flowers I had given you, Dora, and when I told you how much in love I was
Ah! but I didn't like to tell you
then, how I had cried over them, because I believed you really liked me! When I can run about again as I used to do, Doady, let us go and see those places where we were such a silly couple, shall we? And take some of the old walks? And not forget poor papa
Yes, we will, and have some happy days. So you must make haste to get well, my dear
Oh, I shall soon do that! I am so much better, you don't know
Doady
My dear Dora
You won't think what I am going to say, unreasonable, after what you told me, such a little while ago, of Mr. Wickfield's not being well? I want to see Agnes. Very much I want to see her
I will write to her, my dear
Will you
Directly
What a good, kind boy! Doady, take me on your arm. Indeed, my dear, it's not a whim. It's not a foolish fancy. I want, very much indeed, to see her
I am certain of it. I have only to tell her so, and she is sure to come
You are very lonely when you go downstairs, now
How can I be otherwise, my own love, when I see your empty chair
My empty chair
And you really miss me, Doady
Even poor, giddy, stupid me
My heart, who is there upon earth that I could miss so much
Oh, husband! I am so glad, yet so sorry
Quite
Only give Agnes my dear love, and tell her that I want very, very, much to see her; and I have nothing left to wish for
Except to get well again, Dora
Ah, Doady! Sometimes I think - you know I always was a silly little thing! - that that will never be
Don't say so, Dora! Dearest love, don't think so
I won't, if I can help it, Doady. But I am very happy; though my dear boy is so lonely by himself, before his child-wife's empty chair
I am going to speak to you, Doady. I am going to say something I have often thought of saying, lately. You won't mind
Mind, my darling
Because I don't know what you will think, or what you may have thought sometimes. Perhaps you have often thought the same. Doady, dear, I am afraid I was too young
I am afraid, dear, I was too young. I don't mean in years only, but in experience, and thoughts, and everything. I was such a silly little creature! I am afraid it would have been better, if we had only loved each other as a boy and girl, and forgotten it. I have begun to think I was not fit to be a wife
Oh, Dora, love, as fit as I to be a husband
I don't know
Perhaps! But if I had been more fit to be married I might have made you more so, too. Besides, you are very clever, and I never was
We have been very happy, my sweet Dora
I was very happy, very. But, as years went on, my dear boy would have wearied of his child-wife. She would have been less and less a companion for him. He would have been more and more sensible of what was wanting in his home. She wouldn't have improved. It is better as it is
Oh, Dora, dearest, dearest, do not speak to me so. Every word seems a reproach
No, not a syllable
Oh, my dear, you never deserved it, and I loved you far too well to say a reproachful word to you, in earnest - it was all the merit I had, except being pretty - or you thought me so. Is it lonely, down- stairs, Doady
Very! Very
Don't cry! Is my chair there
In its old place
Oh, how my poor boy cries! Hush, hush! Now, make me one promise. I want to speak to Agnes. When you go downstairs, tell Agnes so, and send her up to me; and while I speak to her, let no one come - not even aunt. I want to speak to Agnes by herself. I want to speak to Agnes, quite alone
I said that it was better as it is
Oh, Doady, after more years, you never could have loved your child-wife better than you do; and, after more years, she would so have tried and disappointed you, that you might not have been able to love her half so well! I know I was too young and foolish. It is much better as it is
Not tonight, Jip! Not tonight
Oh, Jip! It may be, never again
Oh, Agnes! Look, look, here
Agnes
Well, Mr. and Mrs. Micawber
Pray, have you thought about that emigration proposal of mine
My dear madam
perhaps I cannot better express the conclusion at which Mrs. Micawber, your humble servant, and I may add our children, have jointly and severally arrived, than by borrowing the language of an illustrious poet, to reply that our Boat is on the shore, and our Bark is on the sea
That's right
I augur all sort of good from your sensible decision
Madam, you do us a great deal of honour
With respect to the pecuniary assistance enabling us to launch our frail canoe on the ocean of enterprise, I have reconsidered that important business-point; and would beg to propose my notes of hand - drawn, it is needless to stipulate, on stamps of the amounts respectively required by the various Acts of Parliament applying to such securities - at eighteen, twenty-four, and thirty months. The proposition I originally submitted, was twelve, eighteen, and twenty-four; but I am apprehensive that such an arrangement might not allow sufficient time for the requisite amount of - Something - to turn up. We might not
on the first responsibility becoming due, have been successful in our harvest, or we might not have got our harvest in. Labour, I believe, is sometimes difficult to obtain in that portion of our colonial possessions where it will be our lot to combat with the teeming soil
Arrange it in any way you please, sir
Madam
Mrs. Micawber and myself are deeply sensible of the very considerate kindness of our friends and patrons. What I wish is, to be perfectly business-like, and perfectly punctual. Turning over, as we are about to turn over, an entirely new leaf; and falling back, as we are now in the act of falling back, for a Spring of no common magnitude; it is important to my sense of self-respect, besides being an example to my son, that these arrangements should be concluded as between man and man
I propose
Bills - a convenience to the mercantile world, for which, I believe, we are originally indebted to the Jews, who appear to me to have had a devilish deal too much to do with them ever since - because they are negotiable. But if a Bond, or any other description of security, would be preferred, I should be happy to execute any such instrument. As between man and man
In reference to our domestic preparations, madam
for meeting the destiny to which we are now understood to be self-devoted, I beg to report them. My eldest daughter attends at five every morning in a neighbouring establishment, to acquire the process - if process it may be called - of milking cows. My younger children are instructed to observe, as closely as circumstances will permit, the habits of the pigs and poultry maintained in the poorer parts of this city: a pursuit from which they have, on two occasions, been brought home, within an inch of being run over. I have myself directed some attention, during the past week, to the art of baking; and my son Wilkins has issued forth with a walking-stick and driven cattle, when permitted, by the rugged hirelings who had them in charge, to render any voluntary service in that direction - which I regret to say, for the credit of our nature, was not often; he being generally warned, with imprecations, to desist
All very right indeed
Mrs. Micawber has been busy, too, I have no doubt
My dear madam
I am free to confess that I have not been actively engaged in pursuits immediately connected with cultivation or with stock, though well aware that both will claim my attention on a foreign shore. Such opportunities as I have been enabled to alienate from my domestic duties, I have devoted to corresponding at some length with my family. For I own it seems to me, my dear Mr. Copperfield
that the time is come when the past should be buried in oblivion; when my family should take Mr. Micawber by the hand, and Mr. Micawber should take my family by the hand; when the lion should lie down with the lamb, and my family be on terms with Mr. Micawber
This, at least, is the light, my dear Mr. Copperfield
in which I view the subject. When I lived at home with my papa and mama, my papa was accustomed to ask, when any point was under discussion in our limited circle, "In what light does my Emma view the subject?" That my papa was too partial, I know; still, on such a point as the frigid coldness which has ever subsisted between Mr. Micawber and my family, I necessarily have formed an opinion, delusive though it may be
No doubt. Of course you have, ma'am
Precisely so
Now, I may be wrong in my conclusions; it is very likely that I am, but my individual impression is, that the gulf between my family and Mr. Micawber may be traced to an apprehension, on the part of my family, that Mr. Micawber would require pecuniary accommodation. I cannot help thinking
that there are members of my family who have been apprehensive that Mr. Micawber would solicit them for their names. - I do not mean to be conferred in Baptism upon our children, but to be inscribed on Bills of Exchange, and negotiated in the Money Market
Well, ma'am, upon the whole, I shouldn't wonder if you were right
Mr. Micawber being now on the eve of casting off the pecuniary shackles that have so long enthralled him
and of commencing a new career in a country where there is sufficient range for his abilities, - which, in my opinion, is exceedingly important; Mr. Micawber's abilities peculiarly requiring space, - it seems to me that my family should signalize the occasion by coming forward. What I could wish to see, would be a meeting between Mr. Micawber and my family at a festive entertainment, to be given at my family's expense; where Mr. Micawber's health and prosperity being proposed, by some leading member of my family, Mr. Micawber might have an opportunity of developing his views
My dear
it may be better for me to state distinctly, at once, that if I were to develop my views to that assembled group, they would possibly be found of an offensive nature: my impression being that your family are, in the aggregate, impertinent Snobs; and, in detail, unmitigated Ruffians
Micawber
no! You have never understood them, and they have never understood you
They have never understood you, Micawber
They may be incapable of it. If so, that is their misfortune. I can pity their misfortune
I am extremely sorry, my dear Emma
to have been betrayed into any expressions that might, even remotely, have the appearance of being strong expressions. All I would say is, that I can go abroad without your family coming forward to favour me, - in short, with a parting Shove of their cold shoulders; and that, upon the whole, I would rather leave England with such impetus as I possess, than derive any acceleration of it from that quarter. At the same time, my dear, if they should condescend to reply to your communications - which our joint experience renders most improbable - far be it from me to be a barrier to your wishes
My dear Copperfield
I don't make any excuse for troubling you with business, because I know you are deeply interested in it, and it may divert your thoughts. My dear boy, I hope you are not worn out
I am quite myself
We have more cause to think of my aunt than of anyone. You know how much she has done
Surely, surely
Who can forget it
But even that is not all
During the last fortnight, some new trouble has vexed her; and she has been in and out of London every day. Several times she has gone out early, and been absent until evening. Last night, Traddles, with this journey before her, it was almost midnight before she came home. You know what her consideration for others is. She will not tell me what has happened to distress her
It's nothing, Trot; it's nothing. There will be no more of it. You shall know by and by. Now Agnes, my dear, let us attend to these affairs
I must do Mr. Micawber the justice to say
that although he would appear not to have worked to any good account for himself, he is a most untiring man when he works for other people. I never saw such a fellow. If he always goes on in the same way, he must be, virtually, about two hundred years old, at present. The heat into which he has been continually putting himself; and the distracted and impetuous manner in which he has been diving, day and night, among papers and books; to say nothing of the immense number of letters he has written me between this house and Mr. Wickfield's, and often across the table when he has been sitting opposite, and might much more easily have spoken; is quite extraordinary
Letters
I believe he dreams in letters
There's Mr. Dick, too
has been doing wonders! As soon as he was released from overlooking Uriah Heep, whom he kept in such charge as I never saw exceeded, he began to devote himself to Mr. Wickfield. And really his anxiety to be of use in the investigations we have been making, and his real usefulness in extracting, and copying, and fetching, and carrying, have been quite stimulating to us
Dick is a very remarkable man
and I always said he was. Trot, you know it
I am happy to say, Miss Wickfield
that in your absence Mr. Wickfield has considerably improved. Relieved of the incubus that had fastened upon him for so long a time, and of the dreadful apprehensions under which he had lived, he is hardly the same person. At times, even his impaired power of concentrating his memory and attention on particular points of business, has recovered itself very much; and he has been able to assist us in making some things clear, that we should have found very difficult indeed, if not hopeless, without him. But what I have to do is to come to results; which are short enough; not to gossip on all the hopeful circumstances I have observed, or I shall never have done
Now, let me see
Having counted our funds, and reduced to order a great mass of unintentional confusion in the first place, and of wilful confusion and falsification in the second, we take it to be clear that Mr. Wickfield might now wind up his business, and his agency-trust, and exhibit no deficiency or defalcation whatever
Oh, thank Heaven
But
the surplus that would be left as his means of support - and I suppose the house to be sold, even in saying this - would be so small, not exceeding in all probability some hundreds of pounds, that perhaps, Miss Wickfield, it would be best to consider whether he might not retain his agency of the estate to which he has so long been receiver. His friends might advise him, you know; now he is free. You yourself, Miss Wickfield - Copperfield - I
I have considered it, Trotwood
and I feel that it ought not to be, and must not be; even on the recommendation of a friend to whom I am so grateful, and owe so much
I will not say that I recommend it
I think it right to suggest it. No more
I am happy to hear you say so
for it gives me hope, almost assurance, that we think alike. Dear Mr. Traddles and dear Trotwood, papa once free with honour, what could I wish for! I have always aspired, if I could have released him from the toils in which he was held, to render back some little portion of the love and care I owe him, and to devote my life to him. It has been, for years, the utmost height of my hopes. To take our future on myself, will be the next great happiness - the next to his release from all trust and responsibility - that I can know
Have you thought how, Agnes
Often! I am not afraid, dear Trotwood. I am certain of success. So many people know me here, and think kindly of me, that I am certain. Don't mistrust me. Our wants are not many. If I rent the dear old house, and keep a school, I shall be useful and happy
Next, Miss Trotwood
that property of yours
Well, sir
All I have got to say about it is, that if it's gone, I can bear it; and if it's not gone, I shall be glad to get it back
It was originally, I think, eight thousand pounds, Consols
Right
I can't account for more than five
thousand, do you mean
or pounds
Five thousand pounds
It was all there was
I sold three, myself. One, I paid for your articles, Trot, my dear; and the other two I have by me. When I lost the rest, I thought it wise to say nothing about that sum, but to keep it secretly for a rainy day. I wanted to see how you would come out of the trial, Trot; and you came out nobly - persevering, self-reliant, self-denying! So did Dick. Don't speak to me, for I find my nerves a little shaken
Then I am delighted to say
that we have recovered the whole money
Don't congratulate me, anybody
How so, sir
You believed it had been misappropriated by Mr. Wickfield
Of course I did
and was therefore easily silenced. Agnes, not a word
And indeed
it was sold, by virtue of the power of management he held from you; but I needn't say by whom sold, or on whose actual signature. It was afterwards pretended to Mr. Wickfield, by that rascal, - and proved, too, by figures, - that he had possessed himself of the money (on general instructions, he said) to keep other deficiencies and difficulties from the light. Mr. Wickfield, being so weak and helpless in his hands as to pay you, afterwards, several sums of interest on a pretended principal which he knew did not exist, made himself, unhappily, a party to the fraud
And at last took the blame upon himself
and wrote me a mad letter, charging himself with robbery, and wrong unheard of. Upon which I paid him a visit early one morning, called for a candle, burnt the letter, and told him if he ever could right me and himself, to do it; and if he couldn't, to keep his own counsel for his daughter's sake. - If anybody speaks to me, I'll leave the house
Well, my dear friend
and you have really extorted the money back from him
Why, the fact is
Mr. Micawber had so completely hemmed him in, and was always ready with so many new points if an old one failed, that he could not escape from us. A most remarkable circumstance is, that I really don't think he grasped this sum even so much for the gratification of his avarice, which was inordinate, as in the hatred he felt for Copperfield. He said so to me, plainly. He said he would even have spent as much, to baulk or injure Copperfield
Ha
And what's become of him
I don't know. He left here
with his mother, who had been clamouring, and beseeching, and disclosing, the whole time. They went away by one of the London night coaches, and I know no more about him; except that his malevolence to me at parting was audacious. He seemed to consider himself hardly less indebted to me, than to Mr. Micawber; which I consider (as I told him) quite a compliment
Do you suppose he has any money, Traddles
Oh dear, yes, I should think so
I should say he must have pocketed a good deal, in one way or other. But, I think you would find, Copperfield, if you had an opportunity of observing his course, that money would never keep that man out of mischief. He is such an incarnate hypocrite, that whatever object he pursues, he must pursue crookedly. It's his only compensation for the outward restraints he puts upon himself. Always creeping along the ground to some small end or other, he will always magnify every object in the way; and consequently will hate and suspect everybody that comes, in the most innocent manner, between him and it. So the crooked courses will become crookeder, at any moment, for the least reason, or for none. It's only necessary to consider his history here
to know that
He's a monster of meanness
Really I don't know about that
Many people can be very mean, when they give their minds to it
And now, touching Mr. Micawber
Well, really
I must, once more, give Mr. Micawber high praise. But for his having been so patient and persevering for so long a time, we never could have hoped to do anything worth speaking of. And I think we ought to consider that Mr. Micawber did right, for right's sake, when we reflect what terms he might have made with Uriah Heep himself, for his silence
I think so too
Now, what would you give him
Oh! Before you come to that
I am afraid I thought it discreet to omit (not being able to carry everything before me) two points, in making this lawless adjustment - for it's perfectly lawless from beginning to end - of a difficult affair. Those I.O.U
Well! They must be paid
Yes, but I don't know when they may be proceeded on, or where they are
and I anticipate, that, between this time and his departure, Mr. Micawber will be constantly arrested, or taken in execution
Then he must be constantly set free again, and taken out of execution
What's the amount altogether
Why, Mr. Micawber has entered the transactions - he calls them transactions - with great form, in a book
and he makes the amount a hundred and three pounds, five
Now, what shall we give him, that sum included
Agnes, my dear, you and I can talk about division of it afterwards. What should it be? Five hundred pounds
You and your aunt will excuse me, Copperfield, if I touch upon a painful theme, as I greatly fear I shall
but I think it necessary to bring it to your recollection. On the day of Mr. Micawber's memorable denunciation a threatening allusion was made by Uriah Heep to your aunt's - husband
Perhaps
it was mere purposeless impertinence
No
There was - pardon me - really such a person, and at all in his power
Yes, my good friend
You are quite right
It was very thoughtful to mention it
Can I - or Copperfield - do anything
Nothing
I thank you many times. Trot, my dear, a vain threat! Let us have Mr. and Mrs. Micawber back. And don't any of you speak to me
Well, Mr. and Mrs. Micawber
We have been discussing your emigration, with many apologies to you for keeping you out of the room so long; and I'll tell you what arrangements we propose
Now, the best thing you can do, sir, if you'll allow me to advise you
is to abjure that occupation for evermore
Madam
it is my intention to register such a vow on the virgin page of the future. Mrs. Micawber will attest it. I trust
that my son Wilkins will ever bear in mind, that he had infinitely better put his fist in the fire, than use it to handle the serpents that have poisoned the life-blood of his unhappy parent
Trot, do you really wish to know what I have had upon my mind lately
Indeed I do, aunt. If there ever was a time when I felt unwilling that you should have a sorrow or anxiety which I could not share, it is now
You have had sorrow enough, child
without the addition of my little miseries. I could have no other motive, Trot, in keeping anything from you
I know that well
But tell me now
Would you ride with me a little way tomorrow morning
Of course
At nine
I'll tell you then, my dear
You understand it now, Trot
He is gone
Did he die in the hospital
Yes
He was there once before
He was ailing a long time - a shattered, broken man, these many years. When he knew his state in this last illness, he asked them to send for me. He was sorry then. Very sorry
You went, I know, aunt
I went. I was with him a good deal afterwards
He died the night before we went to Canterbury
No one can harm him now
It was a vain threat
Better here than in the streets
He was born here
Six-and-thirty years ago, this day, my dear
I was married. God forgive us all
He was a fine-looking man when I married him, Trot - and he was sadly changed
Canterbury, 'Friday. 

'My dear Madam, and Copperfield, 

'The fair land of promise lately looming on the horizon is again enveloped in impenetrable mists, and for ever withdrawn from the eyes of a drifting wretch whose Doom is sealed! 

'Another writ has been issued (in His Majesty's High Court of King's Bench at Westminster), in another cause of HEEP V. MICAWBER, and the defendant in that cause is the prey of the sheriff having legal jurisdiction in this bailiwick. 

'Now's the day, and now's the hour, See the front of battle lower, See approach proud EDWARD'S power - Chains and slavery! 

'Consigned to which, and to a speedy end (for mental torture is not supportable beyond a certain point, and that point I feel I have attained), my course is run. Bless you, bless you! Some future traveller, visiting, from motives of curiosity, not unmingled, let us hope, with sympathy, the place of confinement allotted to debtors in this city, may, and I trust will, Ponder, as he traces on its wall, inscribed with a rusty nail, 'The obscure initials, 

'W. M. 

'P.S. I re-open this to say that our common friend, Mr. Thomas Traddles (who has not yet left us, and is looking extremely well), has paid the debt and costs, in the noble name of Miss Trotwood; and that myself and family are at the height of earthly bliss
Trot, my dear
I couldn't make up my mind to disturb you. Mr. Peggotty is here; shall he come up
Mas'r Davy
I giv Em'ly your letter, sir, and she writ this heer; and begged of me fur to ask you to read it, and if you see no hurt in't, to be so kind as take charge on't
Have you read it
I have got your message. Oh, what can I write, to thank you for your good and blessed kindness to me! 'I have put the words close to my heart. I shall keep them till I die. They are sharp thorns, but they are such comfort. I have prayed over them, oh, I have prayed so much. When I find what you are, and what uncle is, I think what God must be, and can cry to him. 

'Good-bye for ever. Now, my dear, my friend, good-bye for ever in this world. In another world, if I am forgiven, I may wake a child and come to you. All thanks and blessings. Farewell, evermore
May I tell her as you doen't see no hurt in't, and as you'll be so kind as take charge on't, Mas'r Davy
Unquestionably
but I am thinking
Yes, Mas'r Davy
I am thinking
that I'll go down again to Yarmouth. There's time, and to spare, for me to go and come back before the ship sails. My mind is constantly running on him, in his solitude; to put this letter of her writing in his hand at this time, and to enable you to tell her, in the moment of parting, that he has got it, will be a kindness to both of them. I solemnly accepted his commission, dear good fellow, and cannot discharge it too completely. The journey is nothing to me. I am restless, and shall be better in motion. I'll go down tonight
Don't you think that
a very remarkable sky? I don't remember to have seen one like it
Nor I - not equal to it
That's wind, sir. There'll be mischief done at sea, I expect, before long
What is the matter
A wreck! Close by
A schooner, from Spain or Portugal, laden with fruit and wine. Make haste, sir, if you want to see her! It's thought, down on the beach, she'll go to pieces every moment
Mas'r Davy
if my time is come, 'tis come. If 'tan't, I'll bide it. Lord above bless you, and bless all! Mates, make me ready! I'm a-going off
Sir
will you come over yonder
Has a body come ashore
Yes
Do I know it
Think of me at my best
I beg your pardon, sir. Are you ill
I have been much agitated, and am fatigued
Is anything the matter, sir? - Mr. James
Yes, something has happened, that I have to break to Mrs. Steerforth. She is at home
I am sorry to observe you are in mourning, sir
I am unhappily a widower
You are very young to know so great a loss
I am grieved to hear it. I am grieved to hear it. I hope Time will be good to you
I hope Time
will be good to all of us. Dear Mrs. Steerforth, we must all trust to that, in our heaviest misfortunes
My son is ill
Very ill
You have seen him
I have
Are you reconciled
Dead
When I was last here
Miss Dartle told me he was sailing here and there. The night before last was a dreadful one at sea. If he were at sea that night, and near a dangerous coast, as it is said he was; and if the vessel that was seen should really be the ship which
Rosa
come to me
Now
is your pride appeased, you madwoman? Now has he made atonement to you - with his life! Do you hear? - His life
Aye
look at me! Moan, and groan, and look at me! Look here
at your dead child's handiwork
Do you remember when he did this
Do you remember when, in his inheritance of your nature, and in your pampering of his pride and passion, he did this, and disfigured me for life? Look at me, marked until I die with his high displeasure; and moan and groan for what you made him
Miss Dartle
For Heaven's sake
I WILL speak
Be silent, you! Look at me, I say, proud mother of a proud, false son! Moan for your nurture of him, moan for your corruption of him, moan for your loss of him, moan for mine
You, resent his self-will
You, injured by his haughty temper! You, who opposed to both, when your hair was grey, the qualities which made both when you gave him birth! YOU, who from his cradle reared him to be what he was, and stunted what he should have been! Are you rewarded, now, for your years of trouble
Oh, Miss Dartle, shame! Oh cruel
I tell you
I WILL speak to her. No power on earth should stop me, while I was standing here! Have I been silent all these years, and shall I not speak now? I loved him better than you ever loved him
I could have loved him, and asked no return. If I had been his wife, I could have been the slave of his caprices for a word of love a year. I should have been. Who knows it better than I? You were exacting, proud, punctilious, selfish. My love would have been devoted - would have trod your paltry whimpering under foot
Look here
When he grew into the better understanding of what he had done, he saw it, and repented of it! I could sing to him, and talk to him, and show the ardour that I felt in all he did, and attain with labour to such knowledge as most interested him; and I attracted him. When he was freshest and truest, he loved me. Yes, he did! Many a time, when you were put off with a slight word, he has taken Me to his heart
I descended - as I might have known I should, but that he fascinated me with his boyish courtship - into a doll, a trifle for the occupation of an idle hour, to be dropped, and taken up, and trifled with, as the inconstant humour took him. When he grew weary, I grew weary. As his fancy died out, I would no more have tried to strengthen any power I had, than I would have married him on his being forced to take me for his wife. We fell away from one another without a word. Perhaps you saw it, and were not sorry. Since then, I have been a mere disfigured piece of furniture between you both; having no eyes, no ears, no feelings, no remembrances. Moan? Moan for what you made him; not for your love. I tell you that the time was, when I loved him better than you ever did
Miss Dartle
if you can be so obdurate as not to feel for this afflicted mother
Who feels for me
She has sown this. Let her moan for the harvest that she reaps today
And if his faults
Faults
Who dares malign him? He had a soul worth millions of the friends to whom he stooped
No one can have loved him better, no one can hold him in dearer remembrance than I
I meant to say, if you have no compassion for his mother; or if his faults - you have been bitter on them
It's false
I loved him
if his faults cannot
be banished from your remembrance, in such an hour; look at that figure, even as one you have never seen before, and render it some help
A curse upon you
It was in an evil hour that you ever came here! A curse upon you! Go
If it penetrates to him, sir
it shall first pass through this body
Yeo - Heave - Yeo
And when does the ship sail, Mr. Micawber
The boat brought you word, I suppose
It did, ma'am
Well
And she sails
Madam
I am informed that we must positively be on board before seven tomorrow morning
Heyday
that's soon. Is it a sea-going fact, Mr. Peggotty
And that we shall do
be sure
Until then, and until we are at sea
Mr. Peggotty and myself will constantly keep a double look-out together, on our goods and chattels. Emma, my love
my friend Mr. Thomas Traddles is so obliging as to solicit, in my ear, that he should have the privilege of ordering the ingredients necessary to the composition of a moderate portion of that Beverage which is peculiarly associated, in our minds, with the Roast Beef of Old England. I allude to - in short, Punch. Under ordinary circumstances, I should scruple to entreat the indulgence of Miss Trotwood and Miss Wickfield, but
I can only say for myself
that I will drink all happiness and success to you, Mr. Micawber, with the utmost pleasure
And I too
The luxuries of the old country
we abandon. The denizens of the forest cannot, of course, expect to participate in the refinements of the land of the Free
I have a presentiment
that it is a member of my family
If so, my dear
as the member of your family - whoever he, she, or it, may be - has kept us waiting for a considerable period, perhaps the Member may now wait MY convenience
Micawber
at such a time as this
It is not meet
that every nice offence should bear its comment!" Emma, I stand reproved
The loss, Micawber
has been my family's, not yours. If my family are at length sensible of the deprivation to which their own conduct has, in the past, exposed them, and now desire to extend the hand of fellowship, let it not be repulsed
My dear
so be it
If not for their sakes; for mine, Micawber
Emma
that view of the question is, at such a moment, irresistible. I cannot, even now, distinctly pledge myself to fall upon your family's neck; but the member of your family, who is now in attendance, shall have no genial warmth frozen by me
I have still a presentiment
that my family will appear on board, before we finally depart
If you have any opportunity of sending letters home, on your passage, Mrs. Micawber
you must let us hear from you, you know
My dear Miss Trotwood
I shall only be too happy to think that anyone expects to hear from us. I shall not fail to correspond. Mr. Copperfield, I trust, as an old and familiar friend, will not object to receive occasional intelligence, himself, from one who knew him when the twins were yet unconscious
Please Heaven, there will be many such opportunities
The ocean, in these times, is a perfect fleet of ships; and we can hardly fail to encounter many, in running over. It is merely crossing
merely crossing. The distance is quite imaginary
On the voyage, I shall endeavour
occasionally to spin them a yarn; and the melody of my son Wilkins will, I trust, be acceptable at the galley-fire. When Mrs. Micawber has her sea-legs on - an expression in which I hope there is no conventional impropriety - she will give them, I dare say, "Little Tafflin". Porpoises and dolphins, I believe, will be frequently observed athwart our Bows; and, either on the starboard or the larboard quarter, objects of interest will be continually descried. In short
the probability is, all will be found so exciting, alow and aloft, that when the lookout, stationed in the main-top, cries Land-oh! we shall be very considerably astonished
What I chiefly hope, my dear Mr. Copperfield
is, that in some branches of our family we may live again in the old country. Do not frown, Micawber! I do not now refer to my own family, but to our children's children. However vigorous the sapling
I cannot forget the parent-tree; and when our race attains to eminence and fortune, I own I should wish that fortune to flow into the coffers of Britannia
My dear
Britannia must take her chance. I am bound to say that she has never done much for me, and that I have no particular wish upon the subject
Micawber
there, you are wrong. You are going out, Micawber, to this distant clime, to strengthen, not to weaken, the connexion between yourself and Albion
The connexion in question, my love
has not laid me, I repeat, under that load of personal obligation, that I am at all sensitive as to the formation of another connexion
Micawber
There, I again say, you are wrong. You do not know your power, Micawber. It is that which will strengthen, even in this step you are about to take, the connexion between yourself and Albion
My dear Mr. Copperfield
I wish Mr. Micawber to feel his position. It appears to me highly important that Mr. Micawber should, from the hour of his embarkation, feel his position. Your old knowledge of me, my dear Mr. Copperfield, will have told you that I have not the sanguine disposition of Mr. Micawber. My disposition is, if I may say so, eminently practical. I know that this is a long voyage. I know that it will involve many privations and inconveniences. I cannot shut my eyes to those facts. But I also know what Mr. Micawber is. I know the latent power of Mr. Micawber. And therefore I consider it vitally important that Mr. Micawber should feel his position
My love
perhaps you will allow me to remark that it is barely possible that I DO feel my position at the present moment
I think not, Micawber
Not fully. My dear Mr. Copperfield, Mr. Micawber's is not a common case. Mr. Micawber is going to a distant country expressly in order that he may be fully understood and appreciated for the first time. I wish Mr. Micawber to take his stand upon that vessel's prow, and firmly say, "This country I am come to conquer! Have you honours? Have you riches? Have you posts of profitable pecuniary emolument? Let them be brought forward. They are mine
I wish Mr. Micawber, if I make myself understood
to be the Caesar of his own fortunes. That, my dear Mr. Copperfield, appears to me to be his true position. From the first moment of this voyage, I wish Mr. Micawber to stand upon that vessel's prow and say, "Enough of delay: enough of disappointment: enough of limited means. That was in the old country. This is the new. Produce your reparation. Bring it forward
And doing that
feeling his position - am I not right in saying that Mr. Micawber will strengthen, and not weaken, his connexion with Britain? An important public character arising in that hemisphere, shall I be told that its influence will not be felt at home? Can I be so weak as to imagine that Mr. Micawber, wielding the rod of talent and of power in Australia, will be nothing in England? I am but a woman; but I should be unworthy of myself and of my papa, if I were guilty of such absurd weakness
And therefore it is
that I the more wish, that, at a future period, we may live again on the parent soil. Mr. Micawber may be - I cannot disguise from myself that the probability is, Mr. Micawber will be - a page of History; and he ought then to be represented in the country which gave him birth, and did NOT give him employment
My love
it is impossible for me not to be touched by your affection. I am always willing to defer to your good sense. What will be - will be. Heaven forbid that I should grudge my native country any portion of the wealth that may be accumulated by our descendants
That's well
and I drink my love to you all, and every blessing and success attend you
Is there any last wured, Mas'r Davy
Is there any one forgotten thing afore we parts
One thing
Martha
Heaven bless you, you good man
You take her with you
Do you know where Mr. Traddles lives in the Inn
Holborn Court, sir. Number two
Mr. Traddles has a rising reputation among the lawyers, I believe
Well, sir
probably he has, sir; but I am not aware of it myself
Mr. Traddles
Number two in the Court
I was inquiring
whether Mr. Traddles, at number two in the Court, has not a rising reputation among the lawyers
Never heard his name
He's a young man, sure
How long has he been in the Inn
Not above three years
Is Mr. Traddles within
Yes, sir, but he's engaged
I want to see him
Good God
It's Copperfield
All well, my dear Traddles
All well, my dear, dear Copperfield, and nothing but good news
My dear fellow
my dearest Copperfield, my long-lost and most welcome friend, how glad I am to see you! How brown you are! How glad I am! Upon my life and honour, I never was so rejoiced, my beloved Copperfield, never
My dear fellow
And grown so famous! My glorious Copperfield! Good gracious me, WHEN did you come, WHERE have you come from, WHAT have you been doing
To think
that you should have been so nearly coming home as you must have been, my dear old boy, and not at the ceremony
What ceremony, my dear Traddles
Good gracious me
Didn't you get my last letter
Certainly not, if it referred to any ceremony
Why, my dear Copperfield
I am married
Married
Lord bless me, yes
by the Reverend Horace - to Sophy - down in Devonshire. Why, my dear boy, she's behind the window curtain! Look here
Dear me
what a delightful re-union this is! You are so extremely brown, my dear Copperfield! God bless my soul, how happy I am
And so am I
And I am sure I am
We are all as happy as possible
Even the girls are happy. Dear me, I declare I forgot them
Forgot
The girls
Sophy's sisters. They are staying with us. They have come to have a peep at London. The fact is, when - was it you that tumbled upstairs, Copperfield
It was
Well then, when you tumbled upstairs
I was romping with the girls. In point of fact, we were playing at Puss in the Corner. But as that wouldn't do in Westminster Hall, and as it wouldn't look quite professional if they were seen by a client, they decamped. And they are now - listening, I have no doubt
I am sorry
to have occasioned such a dispersion
Upon my word
if you had seen them running away, and running back again, after you had knocked, to pick up the combs they had dropped out of their hair, and going on in the maddest manner, you wouldn't have said so. My love, will you fetch the girls
Really musical, isn't it, my dear Copperfield
It's very agreeable to hear. It quite lights up these old rooms. To an unfortunate bachelor of a fellow who has lived alone all his life, you know, it's positively delicious. It's charming. Poor things, they have had a great loss in Sophy - who, I do assure you, Copperfield is, and ever was, the dearest girl! - and it gratifies me beyond expression to find them in such good spirits. The society of girls is a very delightful thing, Copperfield. It's not professional, but it's very delightful
But then
our domestic arrangements are, to say the truth, quite unprofessional altogether, my dear Copperfield. Even Sophy's being here, is unprofessional. And we have no other place of abode. We have put to sea in a cockboat, but we are quite prepared to rough it. And Sophy's an extraordinary manager! You'll be surprised how those girls are stowed away. I am sure I hardly know how it's done
Are many of the young ladies with you
The eldest, the Beauty is here
Caroline. And Sarah's here - the one I mentioned to you as having something the matter with her spine, you know. Immensely better! And the two youngest that Sophy educated are with us. And Louisa's here
Indeed
Yes
Now the whole set - I mean the chambers - is only three rooms; but Sophy arranges for the girls in the most wonderful way, and they sleep as comfortably as possible. Three in that room
Two in that
Well
we are prepared to rough it, as I said just now, and we did improvise a bed last week, upon the floor here. But there's a little room in the roof - a very nice room, when you're up there - which Sophy papered herself, to surprise me; and that's our room at present. It's a capital little gipsy sort of place. There's quite a view from it
And you are happily married at last, my dear Traddles
How rejoiced I am
Thank you, my dear Copperfield
Yes, I am as happy as it's possible to be. There's your old friend, you see
and there's the table with the marble top! All the other furniture is plain and serviceable, you perceive. And as to plate, Lord bless you, we haven't so much as a tea-spoon
All to be earned
Exactly so
all to be earned. Of course we have something in the shape of tea-spoons, because we stir our tea. But they're Britannia metal
The silver will be the brighter when it comes
The very thing we say
You see, my dear Copperfield
after I had delivered my argument in DOE dem. JIPES versus WIGZIELL, which did me great service with the profession, I went down into Devonshire, and had some serious conversation in private with the Reverend Horace. I dwelt upon the fact that Sophy - who I do assure you, Copperfield, is the dearest girl
I am certain she is
She is, indeed
But I am afraid I am wandering from the subject. Did I mention the Reverend Horace
You said that you dwelt upon the fact
True! Upon the fact that Sophy and I had been engaged for a long period, and that Sophy, with the permission of her parents, was more than content to take me - in short
on our present Britannia-metal footing. Very well. I then proposed to the Reverend Horace - who is a most excellent clergyman, Copperfield, and ought to be a Bishop; or at least ought to have enough to live upon, without pinching himself - that if I could turn the corner, say of two hundred and fifty pounds, in one year; and could see my way pretty clearly to that, or something better, next year; and could plainly furnish a little place like this, besides; then, and in that case, Sophy and I should be united. I took the liberty of representing that we had been patient for a good many years; and that the circumstance of Sophy's being extraordinarily useful at home, ought not to operate with her affectionate parents, against her establishment in life - don't you see
Certainly it ought not
I am glad you think so, Copperfield
because, without any imputation on the Reverend Horace, I do think parents, and brothers, and so forth, are sometimes rather selfish in such cases. Well! I also pointed out, that my most earnest desire was, to be useful to the family; and that if I got on in the world, and anything should happen to him - I refer to the Reverend Horace
I understand
Or to Mrs. Crewler - it would be the utmost gratification of my wishes, to be a parent to the girls. He replied in a most admirable manner, exceedingly flattering to my feelings, and undertook to obtain the consent of Mrs. Crewler to this arrangement. They had a dreadful time of it with her. It mounted from her legs into her chest, and then into her head
What mounted
Her grief
Her feelings generally. As I mentioned on a former occasion, she is a very superior woman, but has lost the use of her limbs. Whatever occurs to harass her, usually settles in her legs; but on this occasion it mounted to the chest, and then to the head, and, in short, pervaded the whole system in a most alarming manner. However, they brought her through it by unremitting and affectionate attention; and we were married yesterday six weeks. You have no idea what a Monster I felt, Copperfield, when I saw the whole family crying and fainting away in every direction! Mrs. Crewler couldn't see me before we left - couldn't forgive me, then, for depriving her of her child - but she is a good creature, and has done so since. I had a delightful letter from her, only this morning
And in short, my dear friend
you feel as blest as you deserve to feel
Oh! That's your partiality
But, indeed, I am in a most enviable state. I work hard, and read Law insatiably. I get up at five every morning, and don't mind it at all. I hide the girls in the daytime, and make merry with them in the evening. And I assure you I am quite sorry that they are going home on Tuesday, which is the day before the first day of Michaelmas Term. But here
ARE the girls! Mr. Copperfield, Miss Crewler - Miss Sarah - Miss Louisa - Margaret and Lucy
How do you do, Mr. Chillip
I thank you, sir, you are very good. Thank you, sir. I hope YOU are well
You don't remember me
Well, sir
I have a kind of an impression that something in your countenance is familiar to me, sir; but I couldn't lay my hand upon your name, really
And yet you knew it, long before I knew it myself
Did I indeed, sir
Is it possible that I had the honour, sir, of officiating when
Yes
Dear me
But no doubt you are a good deal changed since then, sir
Probably
Well, sir
I hope you'll excuse me, if I am compelled to ask the favour of your name
Dear me, sir
And it's Mr. Copperfield, is it? Well, sir, I think I should have known you, if I had taken the liberty of looking more closely at you. There's a strong resemblance between you and your poor father, sir
I never had the happiness of seeing my father
Very true, sir
And very much to be deplored it was, on all accounts! We are not ignorant, sir
down in our part of the country, of your fame. There must be great excitement here, sir
You must find it a trying occupation, sir
What is your part of the country now
I am established within a few miles of Bury St. Edmund's, sir
Mrs. Chillip, coming into a little property in that neighbourhood, under her father's will, I bought a practice down there, in which you will be glad to hear I am doing well. My daughter is growing quite a tall lass now, sir
Her mother let down two tucks in her frocks only last week. Such is time, you see, sir
Well, sir
it's more than I am accustomed to; but I can't deny myself the pleasure of your conversation. It seems but yesterday that I had the honour of attending you in the measles. You came through them charmingly, sir
Quite an uncommon dissipation
but I can't resist so extraordinary an occasion. You have no family, sir
I was aware that you sustained a bereavement, sir, some time ago
I heard it from your father-in-law's sister. Very decided character there, sir
Why, yes
decided enough. Where did you see her, Mr. Chillip
Are you not aware, sir
that your father-in-law is again a neighbour of mine
No
He is indeed, sir
Married a young lady of that part, with a very good little property, poor thing. - And this action of the brain now, sir? Don't you find it fatigue you
I was aware of his being married again. Do you attend the family
Not regularly. I have been called in
Strong phrenological developments of the organ of firmness, in Mr. Murdstone and his sister, sir
Ah, dear me! We remember old times, Mr. Copperfield
And the brother and sister are pursuing their old course, are they
Well, sir
a medical man, being so much in families, ought to have neither eyes nor ears for anything but his profession. Still, I must say, they are very severe, sir: both as to this life and the next
The next will be regulated without much reference to them, I dare say
what are they doing as to this
She was a charming woman, sir
The present Mrs. Murdstone
said Mr. Chillip; 'as amiable, I am sure, as it was possible to be! Mrs. Chillip's opinion is, that her spirit has been entirely broken since her marriage, and that she is all but melancholy mad. And the ladies
are great observers, sir
I suppose she was to be subdued and broken to their detestable mould, Heaven help her
And she has been
Well, sir, there were violent quarrels at first, I assure you
but she is quite a shadow now. Would it be considered forward if I was to say to you, sir, in confidence, that since the sister came to help, the brother and sister between them have nearly reduced her to a state of imbecility
I have no hesitation in saying
between you and me, sir, that her mother died of it - or that tyranny, gloom, and worry have made Mrs. Murdstone nearly imbecile. She was a lively young woman, sir, before marriage, and their gloom and austerity destroyed her. They go about with her, now, more like her keepers than her husband and sister-in-law. That was Mrs. Chillip's remark to me, only last week. And I assure you, sir, the ladies are great observers. Mrs. Chillip herself is a great observer
Does he gloomily profess to be (I am ashamed to use the word in such association) religious still
You anticipate, sir
One of Mrs. Chillip's most impressive remarks. Mrs. Chillip
quite electrified me, by pointing out that Mr. Murdstone sets up an image of himself, and calls it the Divine Nature. You might have knocked me down on the flat of my back, sir, with the feather of a pen, I assure you, when Mrs. Chillip said so. The ladies are great observers, sir
Intuitively
I am very happy to receive such support in my opinion, sir
It is not often that I venture to give a non-medical opinion, I assure you. Mr. Murdstone delivers public addresses sometimes, and it is said, - in short, sir, it is said by Mrs. Chillip, - that the darker tyrant he has lately been, the more ferocious is his doctrine
I believe Mrs. Chillip to be perfectly right
Mrs. Chillip does go so far as to say
that what such people miscall their religion, is a vent for their bad humours and arrogance. And do you know I must say, sir
that I DON'T find authority for Mr. and Miss Murdstone in the New Testament
I never found it either
In the meantime, sir
they are much disliked; and as they are very free in consigning everybody who dislikes them to perdition, we really have a good deal of perdition going on in our neighbourhood! However, as Mrs. Chillip says, sir, they undergo a continual punishment; for they are turned inward, to feed upon their own hearts, and their own hearts are very bad feeding. Now, sir, about that brain of yours, if you'll excuse my returning to it. Don't you expose it to a good deal of excitement, sir
And I assure you, sir
I am extremely nervous on such occasions. I could not support being what is called Bullied, sir. It would quite unman me. Do you know it was some time before I recovered the conduct of that alarming lady, on the night of your birth, Mr. Copperfield
Is she so, indeed, sir? Really
And when, Trot
when are you going over to Canterbury
I shall get a horse, and ride over tomorrow morning, aunt, unless you will go with me
No
I mean to stay where I am
Tut, Trot; MY old bones would have kept till tomorrow
Oh, Trot
Blind, blind, blind
You will find her father a white-haired old man
though a better man in all other respects - a reclaimed man. Neither will you find him measuring all human interests, and joys, and sorrows, with his one poor little inch-rule now. Trust me, child, such things must shrink very much, before they can be measured off in that way
Indeed they must
You will find her
as good, as beautiful, as earnest, as disinterested, as she has always been. If I knew higher praise, Trot, I would bestow it on her
If she trains the young girls whom she has about her, to be like herself
Heaven knows, her life will be well employed! Useful and happy, as she said that day! How could she be otherwise than useful and happy
Has Agnes any
Well? Hey? Any what
Any lover
A score
She might have married twenty times, my dear, since you have been gone
No doubt
No doubt. But has she any lover who is worthy of her? Agnes could care for no other
I suspect she has an attachment, Trot
A prosperous one
Trot
I can't say. I have no right to tell you even so much. She has never confided it to me, but I suspect it
If it should be so
and I hope it is
I don't know that it is
You must not be ruled by my suspicions. You must keep them secret. They are very slight, perhaps. I have no right to speak
If it should be so
Agnes will tell me at her own good time. A sister to whom I have confided so much, aunt, will not be reluctant to confide in me
Agnes! my dear girl! I have come too suddenly upon you
No, no! I am so rejoiced to see you, Trotwood
Dear Agnes, the happiness it is to me, to see you once again
And you, Agnes
Tell me of yourself. You have hardly ever told me of your own life, in all this lapse of time
What should I tell
Papa is well. You see us here, quiet in our own home; our anxieties set at rest, our home restored to us; and knowing that, dear Trotwood, you know all
All, Agnes
Is there nothing else, Sister
You have much to do, dear Agnes
With my school
Yes. It is laborious, is it not
The labour is so pleasant
that it is scarcely grateful in me to call it by that name
Nothing good is difficult to you
You will wait and see papa
and pass the day with us? Perhaps you will sleep in your own room? We always call it yours
I must be a prisoner for a little while
but here are the old books, Trotwood, and the old music
Even the old flowers are here
or the old kinds
I have found a pleasure
while you have been absent, in keeping everything as it used to be when we were children. For we were very happy then, I think
Heaven knows we were
And every little thing that has reminded me of my brother
has been a welcome companion. Even this
seems to jingle a kind of old tune
My part in them
has much matter for regret - for deep regret, and deep contrition, Trotwood, you well know. But I would not cancel it, if it were in my power
I should cancel with it
such patience and devotion, such fidelity, such a child's love, as I must not forget, no! even to forget myself
I understand you, sir
I hold it - I have always held it - in veneration
But no one knows, not even you
how much she has done, how much she has undergone, how hard she has striven. Dear Agnes
Well, well
Well! I have never told you, Trotwood, of her mother. Has anyone
Never, sir
It's not much - though it was much to suffer. She married me in opposition to her father's wish, and he renounced her. She prayed him to forgive her, before my Agnes came into this world. He was a very hard man, and her mother had long been dead. He repulsed her. He broke her heart
She had an affectionate and gentle heart
and it was broken. I knew its tender nature very well. No one could, if I did not. She loved me dearly, but was never happy. She was always labouring, in secret, under this distress; and being delicate and downcast at the time of his last repulse - for it was not the first, by many - pined away and died. She left me Agnes, two weeks old; and the grey hair that you recollect me with, when you first came
My love for my dear child was a diseased love, but my mind was all unhealthy then. I say no more of that. I am not speaking of myself, Trotwood, but of her mother, and of her. If I give you any clue to what I am, or to what I have been, you will unravel it, I know. What Agnes is, I need not say. I have always read something of her poor mother's story, in her character; and so I tell it you tonight, when we three are again together, after such great changes. I have told it all
Have you any intention of going away again
What does my sister say to that
I hope not
Then I have no such intention, Agnes
I think you ought not, Trotwood, since you ask me
Your growing reputation and success enlarge your power of doing good; and if I could spare my brother
perhaps the time could not
What I am, you have made me, Agnes. You should know best
I made you, Trotwood
Yes! Agnes, my dear girl
I tried to tell you, when we met today, something that has been in my thoughts since Dora died. You remember, when you came down to me in our little room - pointing upward, Agnes
Oh, Trotwood
So loving, so confiding, and so young! Can I ever forget
As you were then, my sister, I have often thought since, you have ever been to me. Ever pointing upward, Agnes; ever leading me to something better; ever directing me to higher things
And I am so grateful to you for it, Agnes, so bound to you, that there is no name for the affection of my heart. I want you to know, yet don't know how to tell you, that all my life long I shall look up to you, and be guided by you, as I have been through the darkness that is past. Whatever betides, whatever new ties you may form, whatever changes may come between us, I shall always look to you, and love you, as I do now, and have always done. You will always be my solace and resource, as you have always been. Until I die, my dearest sister, I shall see you always before me, pointing upward
Do you know, what I have heard tonight, Agnes
You knew I had no mother
and felt kindly towards me
More than that, Agnes, I knew, almost as if I had known this story, that there was something inexplicably gentle and softened, surrounding you; something that might have been sorrowful in someone else (as I can now understand it was), but was not so in you
Will you laugh at my cherishing such fancies, Agnes
No
Or at my saying that I really believe I felt, even then, that you could be faithfully affectionate against all discouragement, and never cease to be so, until you ceased to live? - Will you laugh at such a dream
Oh, no! Oh, no
Oh, DON'T, Tom
My dear
why not? What do you say to that writing, Copperfield
It's extraordinarily legal and formal
I don't think I ever saw such a stiff hand
Not like a lady's hand, is it
A lady's
Bricks and mortar are more like a lady's hand
What a thoroughly good and charming wife she is, my dear Traddles
My dear Copperfield
she is, without any exception, the dearest girl! The way she manages this place; her punctuality, domestic knowledge, economy, and order; her cheerfulness, Copperfield
Indeed, you have reason to commend her
You are a happy fellow. I believe you make yourselves, and each other, two of the happiest people in the world
I am sure we ARE two of the happiest people
I admit that, at all events. Bless my soul, when I see her getting up by candle-light on these dark mornings, busying herself in the day's arrangements, going out to market before the clerks come into the Inn, caring for no weather, devising the most capital little dinners out of the plainest materials, making puddings and pies, keeping everything in its right place, always so neat and ornamental herself, sitting up at night with me if it's ever so late, sweet-tempered and encouraging always, and all for me, I positively sometimes can't believe it, Copperfield
I positively sometimes can't believe it
Then our pleasures! Dear me, they are inexpensive, but they are quite wonderful! When we are at home here, of an evening, and shut the outer door, and draw those curtains - which she made - where could we be more snug? When it's fine, and we go out for a walk in the evening, the streets abound in enjoyment for us. We look into the glittering windows of the jewellers' shops; and I show Sophy which of the diamond-eyed serpents, coiled up on white satin rising grounds, I would give her if I could afford it; and Sophy shows me which of the gold watches that are capped and jewelled and engine-turned, and possessed of the horizontal lever- escape-movement, and all sorts of things, she would buy for me if she could afford it; and we pick out the spoons and forks, fish-slices, butter-knives, and sugar-tongs, we should both prefer if we could both afford it; and really we go away as if we had got them! Then, when we stroll into the squares, and great streets, and see a house to let, sometimes we look up at it, and say, how would THAT do, if I was made a judge? And we parcel it out - such a room for us, such rooms for the girls, and so forth; until we settle to our satisfaction that it would do, or it wouldn't do, as the case may be. Sometimes, we go at half-price to the pit of the theatre - the very smell of which is cheap, in my opinion, at the money - and there we thoroughly enjoy the play: which Sophy believes every word of, and so do I. In walking home, perhaps we buy a little bit of something at a cook's-shop, or a little lobster at the fishmongers, and bring it here, and make a splendid supper, chatting about what we have seen. Now, you know, Copperfield, if I was Lord Chancellor, we couldn't do this
You would do something, whatever you were, my dear Traddles
that would be pleasant and amiable. And by the way
I suppose you never draw any skeletons now
Really
I can't wholly deny that I do, my dear Copperfield. For being in one of the back rows of the King's Bench the other day, with a pen in my hand, the fancy came into my head to try how I had preserved that accomplishment. And I am afraid there's a skeleton - in a wig - on the ledge of the desk
Old Creakle
I have a letter from that old - Rascal here
From Creakle the schoolmaster
No
Among the persons who are attracted to me in my rising fame and fortune
and who discover that they were always much attached to me, is the self-same Creakle. He is not a schoolmaster now, Traddles. He is retired. He is a Middlesex Magistrate
How do you suppose he comes to be a Middlesex Magistrate
Oh dear me
it would be very difficult to answer that question. Perhaps he voted for somebody, or lent money to somebody, or bought something of somebody, or otherwise obliged somebody, or jobbed for somebody, who knew somebody who got the lieutenant of the county to nominate him for the commission
On the commission he is, at any rate
And he writes to me here, that he will be glad to show me, in operation, the only true system of prison discipline; the only unchallengeable way of making sincere and lasting converts and penitents - which, you know, is by solitary confinement. What do you say
To the system
No. To my accepting the offer, and your going with me
I don't object
Then I'll write to say so. You remember (to say nothing of our treatment) this same Creakle turning his son out of doors, I suppose, and the life he used to lead his wife and daughter
Perfectly
Yet, if you'll read his letter, you'll find he is the tenderest of men to prisoners convicted of the whole calendar of felonies
though I can't find that his tenderness extends to any other class of created beings
How do you do, Mr. Copperfield? How do you do, Mr. Traddles
Well, Twenty Seven
How do you find yourself today
I am very umble, sir
You are always so, Twenty Seven
Are you quite comfortable
Yes, I thank you, sir
Far more comfortable here, than ever I was outside. I see my follies, now, sir. That's what makes me comfortable
How do you find the beef
Thank you, sir
it was tougher yesterday than I could wish; but it's my duty to bear. I have committed follies, gentlemen
and I ought to bear the consequences without repining
Twenty Eight
you complained last week, my good fellow, of the cocoa. How has it been since
I thank you, sir
it has been better made. If I might take the liberty of saying so, sir, I don't think the milk which is boiled with it is quite genuine; but I am aware, sir, that there is a great adulteration of milk, in London, and that the article in a pure state is difficult to be obtained
What is your state of mind, Twenty Eight
I thank you, sir
I see my follies now, sir. I am a good deal troubled when I think of the sins of my former companions, sir; but I trust they may find forgiveness
You are quite happy yourself
I am much obliged to you, sir
Perfectly so
Is there anything at all on your mind now
If so, mention it, Twenty Eight
Sir
if my eyes have not deceived me, there is a gentleman present who was acquainted with me in my former life. It may be profitable to that gentleman to know, sir, that I attribute my past follies, entirely to having lived a thoughtless life in the service of young men; and to having allowed myself to be led by them into weaknesses, which I had not the strength to resist. I hope that gentleman will take warning, sir, and will not be offended at my freedom. It is for his good. I am conscious of my own past follies. I hope he may repent of all the wickedness and sin to which he has been a party
This does you credit, Twenty Eight
I should have expected it of you. Is there anything else
Sir
there was a young woman who fell into dissolute courses, that I endeavoured to save, sir, but could not rescue. I beg that gentleman, if he has it in his power, to inform that young woman from me that I forgive her her bad conduct towards myself, and that I call her to repentance - if he will be so good
I have no doubt, Twenty Eight
that the gentleman you refer to feels very strongly - as we all must - what you have so properly said. We will not detain you
I thank you, sir
Gentlemen, I wish you a good day, and hoping you and your families will also see your wickedness, and amend
Now, Twenty Seven
is there anything that anyone can do for you? If so, mention it
I would umbly ask, sir
for leave to write again to mother
It shall certainly be granted
Thank you, sir! I am anxious about mother. I am afraid she ain't safe
Hush
Immortally safe, sir
I should wish mother to be got into my state. I never should have been got into my present state if I hadn't come here. I wish mother had come here. It would be better for everybody, if they got took up, and was brought here
Before I come here
I was given to follies; but now I am sensible of my follies. There's a deal of sin outside. There's a deal of sin in mother. There's nothing but sin everywhere - except here
You are quite changed
Oh dear, yes, sir
You wouldn't relapse, if you were going out
Oh de-ar no, sir
Well
this is very gratifying. You have addressed Mr. Copperfield, Twenty Seven. Do you wish to say anything further to him
You knew me, a long time before I came here and was changed, Mr. Copperfield
You knew me when, in spite of my follies, I was umble among them that was proud, and meek among them that was violent - you was violent to me yourself, Mr. Copperfield. Once, you struck me a blow in the face, you know
But I forgive you, Mr. Copperfield
I forgive everybody. It would ill become me to bear malice. I freely forgive you, and I hope you'll curb your passions in future. I hope Mr. W. will repent, and Miss W., and all of that sinful lot. You've been visited with affliction, and I hope it may do you good; but you'd better have come here. Mr. W. had better have come here, and Miss W. too. The best wish I could give you, Mr. Copperfield, and give all of you gentlemen, is, that you could be took up and brought here. When I think of my past follies, and my present state, I am sure it would be best for you. I pity all who ain't brought here
Do you know
what felony was Number Twenty Seven's last "folly
A fraud on the Bank of England
Yes, sir. Fraud, forgery, and conspiracy. He and some others. He set the others on. It was a deep plot for a large sum. Sentence, transportation for life. Twenty Seven was the knowingest bird of the lot, and had very nearly kept himself safe; but not quite. The Bank was just able to put salt upon his tail - and only just
Do you know Twenty Eight's offence
Twenty Eight
Twenty Eight (also transportation) got a place, and robbed a young master of a matter of two hundred and fifty pounds in money and valuables, the night before they were going abroad. I particularly recollect his case, from his being took by a dwarf
A what
A little woman. I have forgot her name
Not Mowcher
That's it! He had eluded pursuit, and was going to America in a flaxen wig, and whiskers, and such a complete disguise as never you see in all your born days; when the little woman, being in Southampton, met him walking along the street - picked him out with her sharp eye in a moment - ran betwixt his legs to upset him - and held on to him like grim Death
Excellent Miss Mowcher
You'd have said so, if you had seen her, standing on a chair in the witness-box at the trial, as I did
He cut her face right open, and pounded her in the most brutal manner, when she took him; but she never loosed her hold till he was locked up. She held so tight to him, in fact, that the officers were obliged to take 'em both together. She gave her evidence in the gamest way, and was highly complimented by the Bench, and cheered right home to her lodgings. She said in Court that she'd have took him single-handed (on account of what she knew concerning him), if he had been Samson. And it's my belief she would
Perhaps it's a good thing, Traddles
to have an unsound Hobby ridden hard; for it's the sooner ridden to death
I hope so
Agnes, so it was when I came home; and now I am old, and I never have loved since
Riding today, Trot
Yes
I am going over to Canterbury. It's a good day for a ride
I hope your horse may think so too
but at present he is holding down his head and his ears, standing before the door there, as if he thought his stable preferable
He will be fresh enough, presently
The ride will do his master good, at all events
Ah, child, you pass a good many hours here! I never thought, when I used to read books, what work it was to write them
It's work enough to read them, sometimes
As to the writing, it has its own charms, aunt
Ah! I see
Ambition, love of approbation, sympathy, and much more, I suppose? Well: go along with you
Do you know anything more
of that attachment of Agnes
I think I do, Trot
Are you confirmed in your impression
I think I am, Trot
And what is more, Trot
Yes
I think Agnes is going to be married
God bless her
God bless her
and her husband too
So I make the most of the present time, you see
and talk to you while I may
You are thoughtful today, Trotwood
Agnes, shall I tell you what about? I came to tell you
My dear Agnes, do you doubt my being true to you
No
Do you doubt my being what I always have been to you
No
Do you remember that I tried to tell you, when I came home, what a debt of gratitude I owed you, dearest Agnes, and how fervently I felt towards you
I remember it
very well
You have a secret
Let me share it, Agnes
I could hardly fail to know, even if I had not heard - but from other lips than yours, Agnes, which seems strange - that there is someone upon whom you have bestowed the treasure of your love. Do not shut me out of what concerns your happiness so nearly! If you can trust me, as you say you can, and as I know you may, let me be your friend, your brother, in this matter, of all others
Agnes! Sister! Dearest! What have I done
Let me go away, Trotwood. I am not well. I am not myself. I will speak to you by and by - another time. I will write to you. Don't speak to me now. Don't! don't
Agnes, I cannot bear to see you so, and think that I have been the cause. My dearest girl, dearer to me than anything in life, if you are unhappy, let me share your unhappiness. If you are in need of help or counsel, let me try to give it to you. If you have indeed a burden on your heart, let me try to lighten it. For whom do I live now, Agnes, if it is not for you
Oh, spare me! I am not myself! Another time
I must say more. I cannot let you leave me so! For Heaven's sake, Agnes, let us not mistake each other after all these years, and all that has come and gone with them! I must speak plainly. If you have any lingering thought that I could envy the happiness you will confer; that I could not resign you to a dearer protector, of your own choosing; that I could not, from my removed place, be a contented witness of your joy; dismiss it, for I don't deserve it! I have not suffered quite in vain. You have not taught me quite in vain. There is no alloy of self in what I feel for you
I owe it to your pure friendship for me, Trotwood - which, indeed, I do not doubt - to tell you, you are mistaken. I can do no more. If I have sometimes, in the course of years, wanted help and counsel, they have come to me. If I have sometimes been unhappy, the feeling has passed away. If I have ever had a burden on my heart, it has been lightened for me. If I have any secret, it is - no new one; and is - not what you suppose. I cannot reveal it, or divide it. It has long been mine, and must remain mine
Agnes! Stay! A moment
In the course of years
It is not a new one
Dearest Agnes! Whom I so respect and honour - whom I so devotedly love! When I came here today, I thought that nothing could have wrested this confession from me. I thought I could have kept it in my bosom all our lives, till we were old. But, Agnes, if I have indeed any new-born hope that I may ever call you something more than Sister, widely different from Sister
Agnes! Ever my guide, and best support! If you had been more mindful of yourself, and less of me, when we grew up here together, I think my heedless fancy never would have wandered from you. But you were so much better than I, so necessary to me in every boyish hope and disappointment, that to have you to confide in, and rely upon in everything, became a second nature, supplanting for the time the first and greater one of loving you as I do
When I loved Dora - fondly, Agnes, as you know
Yes
I am glad to know it
When I loved her - even then, my love would have been incomplete, without your sympathy. I had it, and it was perfected. And when I lost her, Agnes, what should I have been without you, still
I went away, dear Agnes, loving you. I stayed away, loving you. I returned home, loving you
I am so blest, Trotwood - my heart is so overcharged - but there is one thing I must say
Dearest, what
Do you know, yet, what it is
I am afraid to speculate on what it is. Tell me, my dear
I have loved you all my life
Goodness me
who's this you're bringing home
Agnes
By the by, aunt
I have been speaking to Agnes about what you told me
Then, Trot
you did wrong, and broke your promise
You are not angry, aunt, I trust? I am sure you won't be, when you learn that Agnes is not unhappy in any attachment
Stuff and nonsense
Dearest husband
Now that I may call you by that name, I have one thing more to tell you
Let me hear it, love
It grows out of the night when Dora died. She sent you for me
She did
She told me that she left me something. Can you think what it was
She told me that she made a last request to me, and left me a last charge
And it was
That only I would occupy this vacant place
Let him come in here
Mas'r Davy
Mas'r Davy, 'tis a joyful hour as I see you, once more, 'long with your own trew wife
A joyful hour indeed, old friend
And these heer pretty ones
To look at these heer flowers! Why, Mas'r Davy, you was but the heighth of the littlest of these, when I first see you! When Em'ly warn't no bigger, and our poor lad were BUT a lad
Time has changed me more than it has changed you since then
But let these dear rogues go to bed; and as no house in England but this must hold you, tell me where to send for your luggage (is the old black bag among it, that went so far, I wonder!), and then, over a glass of Yarmouth grog, we will have the tidings of ten years
Are you alone
Yes, ma'am
quite alone
It's a mort of water
fur to come across, and on'y stay a matter of fower weeks. But water ('specially when 'tis salt) comes nat'ral to me; and friends is dear, and I am heer. - Which is verse
though I hadn't such intentions
Are you going back those many thousand miles, so soon
Yes, ma'am
I giv the promise to Em'ly, afore I come away. You see, I doen't grow younger as the years comes round, and if I hadn't sailed as 'twas, most like I shouldn't never have done 't. And it's allus been on my mind, as I must come and see Mas'r Davy and your own sweet blooming self, in your wedded happiness, afore I got to be too old
And now tell us
everything relating to your fortunes
Our fortuns, Mas'r Davy
is soon told. We haven't fared nohows, but fared to thrive. We've allus thrived. We've worked as we ought to 't, and maybe we lived a leetle hard at first or so, but we have allus thrived. What with sheep-farming, and what with stock-farming, and what with one thing and what with t'other, we are as well to do, as well could be. Theer's been kiender a blessing fell upon us
and we've done nowt but prosper. That is, in the long run. If not yesterday, why then today. If not today, why then tomorrow
And Emily
'Em'ly
arter you left her, ma'am - and I never heerd her saying of her prayers at night, t'other side the canvas screen, when we was settled in the Bush, but what I heerd your name - and arter she and me lost sight of Mas'r Davy, that theer shining sundown - was that low, at first, that, if she had know'd then what Mas'r Davy kep from us so kind and thowtful, 'tis my opinion she'd have drooped away. But theer was some poor folks aboard as had illness among 'em, and she took care of them; and theer was the children in our company, and she took care of them; and so she got to be busy, and to be doing good, and that helped her
When did she first hear of it
I kep it from her arter I heerd on 't
going on nigh a year. We was living then in a solitary place, but among the beautifullest trees, and with the roses a-covering our Beein to the roof. Theer come along one day, when I was out a-working on the land, a traveller from our own Norfolk or Suffolk in England (I doen't rightly mind which), and of course we took him in, and giv him to eat and drink, and made him welcome. We all do that, all the colony over. He'd got an old newspaper with him, and some other account in print of the storm. That's how she know'd it. When I came home at night, I found she know'd it
Did it change her much
Aye, for a good long time
if not to this present hour. But I think the solitoode done her good. And she had a deal to mind in the way of poultry and the like, and minded of it, and come through. I wonder
if you could see my Em'ly now, Mas'r Davy, whether you'd know her
Is she so altered
I doen't know. I see her ev'ry day, and doen't know; But, odd-times, I have thowt so. A slight figure
kiender worn; soft, sorrowful, blue eyes; a delicate face; a pritty head, leaning a little down; a quiet voice and way - timid a'most. That's Em'ly
Some thinks
as her affection was ill-bestowed; some, as her marriage was broken off by death. No one knows how 'tis. She might have married well, a mort of times, "but, uncle," she says to me, "that's gone for ever." Cheerful along with me; retired when others is by; fond of going any distance fur to teach a child, or fur to tend a sick person, or fur to do some kindness tow'rds a young girl's wedding (and she's done a many, but has never seen one); fondly loving of her uncle; patient; liked by young and old; sowt out by all that has any trouble. That's Em'ly
Is Martha with you yet
Martha
got married, Mas'r Davy, in the second year. A young man, a farm-labourer, as come by us on his way to market with his mas'r's drays - a journey of over five hundred mile, theer and back - made offers fur to take her fur his wife (wives is very scarce theer), and then to set up fur their two selves in the Bush. She spoke to me fur to tell him her trew story. I did. They was married, and they live fower hundred mile away from any voices but their own and the singing birds
Mrs. Gummidge
Would you believe it
Why, someun even made offer fur to marry her! If a ship's cook that was turning settler, Mas'r Davy, didn't make offers fur to marry Missis Gummidge, I'm Gormed - and I can't say no fairer than that
And what did Mrs. Gummidge say
If you'll believe me
Missis Gummidge, 'stead of saying "thank you, I'm much obleeged to you, I ain't a-going fur to change my condition at my time of life," up'd with a bucket as was standing by, and laid it over that theer ship's cook's head 'till he sung out fur help, and I went in and reskied of him
But I must say this, for the good creetur
un is a thing she never done, I do assure you, since she left England
Now, last, not least, Mr. Micawber
He has paid off every obligation he incurred here - even to Traddles's bill, you remember my dear Agnes - and therefore we may take it for granted that he is doing well. But what is the latest news of him
said he, 'as we have left the Bush now, being so well to do; and have gone right away round to Port Middlebay Harbour, wheer theer's what we call a town
Mr. Micawber was in the Bush near you
Bless you, yes
and turned to with a will. I never wish to meet a better gen'l'man for turning to with a will. I've seen that theer bald head of his a perspiring in the sun, Mas'r Davy, till I a'most thowt it would have melted away. And now he's a Magistrate
A Magistrate, eh
The public dinner to our distinguished fellow-colonist and townsman, WILKINS MICAWBER, ESQUIRE, Port Middlebay District Magistrate, came off yesterday in the large room of the Hotel, which was crowded to suffocation. It is estimated that not fewer than forty-seven persons must have been accommodated with dinner at one time, exclusive of the company in the passage and on the stairs. The beauty, fashion, and exclusiveness of Port Middlebay, flocked to do honour to one so deservedly esteemed, so highly talented, and so widely popular. Doctor Mell (of Colonial Salem-House Grammar School, Port Middlebay) presided, and on his right sat the distinguished guest. After the removal of the cloth, and the singing of Non Nobis (beautifully executed, and in which we were at no loss to distinguish the bell-like notes of that gifted amateur, WILKINS MICAWBER, ESQUIRE, JUNIOR), the usual loyal and patriotic toasts were severally given and rapturously received. Doctor Mell, in a speech replete with feeling, then proposed "Our distinguished Guest, the ornament of our town. May he never leave us but to better himself, and may his success among us be such as to render his bettering himself impossible!" The cheering with which the toast was received defies description. Again and again it rose and fell, like the waves of ocean. At length all was hushed, and WILKINS MICAWBER, ESQUIRE, presented himself to return thanks. Far be it from us, in the present comparatively imperfect state of the resources of our establishment, to endeavour to follow our distinguished townsman through the smoothly-flowing periods of his polished and highly-ornate address! Suffice it to observe, that it was a masterpiece of eloquence; and that those passages in which he more particularly traced his own successful career to its source, and warned the younger portion of his auditory from the shoals of ever incurring pecuniary liabilities which they were unable to liquidate, brought a tear into the manliest eye present. The remaining toasts were DOCTOR MELL; Mrs. MICAWBER (who gracefully bowed her acknowledgements from the side-door, where a galaxy of beauty was elevated on chairs, at once to witness and adorn the gratifying scene), Mrs. RIDGER BEGS (late Miss Micawber); Mrs. MELL; WILKINS MICAWBER, ESQUIRE, JUNIOR (who convulsed the assembly by humorously remarking that he found himself unable to return thanks in a speech, but would do so, with their permission, in a song); Mrs. MICAWBER'S FAMILY (well known, it is needless to remark, in the mother-country), &amp;c. &amp;c. &amp;c. At the conclusion of the proceedings the tables were cleared as if by art-magic for dancing. Among the votaries of TERPSICHORE, who disported themselves until Sol gave warning for departure, Wilkins Micawber, Esquire, Junior, and the lovely and accomplished Miss Helena, fourth daughter of Doctor Mell, were particularly remarkable
I cannot, therefore, allow of the departure from this place of an individual whom we mutually respect and esteem, without, my dear Sir, taking this public opportunity of thanking you, on my own behalf, and, I may undertake to add, on that of the whole of the Inhabitants of Port Middlebay, for the gratification of which you are the ministering agent. 'Go on, my dear Sir! You are not unknown here, you are not unappreciated. Though "remote", we are neither "unfriended", "melancholy", nor (I may add) "slow". Go on, my dear Sir, in your Eagle course! The inhabitants of Port Middlebay may at least aspire to watch it, with delight, with entertainment, with instruction! 

'Among the eyes elevated towards you from this portion of the globe, will ever be found, while it has light and life, 

'The 'Eye 'Appertaining to 

'WILKINS MICAWBER, 'Magistrate
For Em'ly
I promised, Mas'r Davy
Trotwood, you will be glad to hear that I shall finish the Memorial when I have nothing else to do, and that your aunt's the most extraordinary woman in the world, sir
Rosa, I have forgotten this gentleman's name
Mr. Copperfield
I am glad to see you, sir. I am sorry to observe you are in mourning. I hope Time will be good to you
You have seen my son, sir
Are you reconciled
Rosa, come to me. He is dead
If Sophy were your clerk, now, Traddles, she would have enough to do
You may say that, my dear Copperfield! But those were capital days, too, in Holborn Court! Were they not
When she told you you would be a judge? But it was not the town talk then
At all events
if I ever am one
Well, my dear Copperfield, WHEN I am one, I shall tell the story, as I said I would
I really have been able, my dear Copperfield, to do all that I had most at heart. There's the Reverend Horace promoted to that living at four hundred and fifty pounds a year; there are our two boys receiving the very best education, and distinguishing themselves as steady scholars and good fellows; there are three of the girls married very comfortably; there are three more living with us; there are three more keeping house for the Reverend Horace since Mrs. Crewler's decease; and all of them happy
Except
Except the Beauty
Yes. It was very unfortunate that she should marry such a vagabond. But there was a certain dash and glare about him that caught her. However, now we have got her safe at our house, and got rid of him, we must cheer her up again
</text>
