<text>
The House will once again, Mrs Dombey
be not only in name but in fact Dombey and Son;' and he added, in a tone of luxurious satisfaction, with his eyes half-closed as if he were reading the name in a device of flowers, and inhaling their fragrance at the same time; 'Dom-bey and Son
Mrs Dombey, my -- my dear
He will be christened Paul, my -- Mrs Dombey -- of course
Of course
His father's name, Mrs Dombey, and his grandfather's! I wish his grandfather were alive this day! There is some inconvenience in the necessity of writing Junior
but it is merely of a private and personal complexion. It doesn't enter into the correspondence of the House. Its signature remains the same
Florence, you may go and look at your pretty brother, if you like, I daresay. Don't touch him
Her insensibility is as proof against a brother as against every thing else
Oh Lord bless me
A very illadvised and feverish proceeding this, I am sure. Please to ring there for Miss Florence's nurse. Really the person should be more care
Wait! I -- had better ask Doctor Peps if he'll have the goodness to step upstairs again perhaps. I'll go down. I'll go down. I needn't beg you
to take particular care of this young gentleman, Mrs
Blockitt, Sir
Of this young gentleman, Mrs Blockitt
No, Sir, indeed. I remember when Miss Florence was born
Ay, ay, ay
Miss Florence was all very well, but this is another matter. This young gentleman has to accomplish a destiny. A destiny, little fellow
Well, Sir
do you find that your dear lady is at all roused by your visit
Stimulated as it were
Excuse my putting in a word, but this is a valuable connexion
Good! We must not disguise from you, Sir
See
Quite so
which we would rather not see. It would appear that the system of Lady Cankaby -- excuse me: I should say of Mrs Dombey: I confuse the names of cases
So very numerous
can't be expected I'm sure -- quite wonderful if otherwise -- Doctor Parker Peps's West-End practice
Thank you
quite so. It would appear, I was observing, that the system of our patient has sustained a shock, from which it can only hope to rally by a great and strong
And vigorous
Quite so
and vigorous effort. Mr Pilkins here, who from his position of medical adviser in this family -- no one better qualified to fill that position, I am sure
Oh
Praise from Sir Hubert Stanley
You are good enough
to say so. Mr Pilkins who, from his position, is best acquainted with the patient's constitution in its normal state (an acquaintance very valuable to us in forming our opinions in these occasions), is of opinion, with me, that Nature must be called upon to make a vigorous effort in this instance; and that if our interesting friend the Countess of Dombey -- I beg your pardon; Mrs Dombey -- should not be
Able
To make
That effort
Successfully
Then
My dear Paul! He's quite a Dombey
Well, well
I think he is like the family. Don't agitate yourself, Louisa
It's very foolish of me
but he's -- he's such a perfect Dombey
It's so extraordinary
as to be perfectly ridiculous. So completely our family. I never saw anything like it in my life
But what is this about Fanny, herself
How is Fanny
My dear Paul
it's nothing whatever. Take my word, it's nothing whatever. There is exhaustion, certainly, but nothing like what I underwent myself, either with George or Frederick. An effort is necessary. That's all. If dear Fanny were a Dombey!-- But I daresay she'll make it; I have no doubt she'll make it. Knowing it to be required of her, as a duty, of course she'll make it. My dear Paul, it's very weak and silly of me, I know, to be so trembly and shaky from head to foot; but I am so very queer that I must ask you for a glass of wine and a morsel of that cake
I shall not drink my love to you, Paul
I shall drink to the little Dombey. Good gracious me!-- it's the most astonishing thing I ever knew in all my days, he's such a perfect Dombey
I know it's very weak and silly of me
to be so trembly and shaky from head to foot, and to allow my feelings so completely to get the better of me, but I cannot help it. I thought I should have fallen out of the staircase window as I came down from seeing dear Fanny, and that tiddy ickle sing
Mrs Chick
how are you now, my dear friend
My dear Paul
it's Miss Tox. The kindest creature! I never could have got here without her! Miss Tox, my brother Mr Dombey. Paul, my dear, my very particular friend Miss Tox
I am sure
that to have the honour of being presented to Mr Dombey is a distinction which I have long sought, but very little expected at the present moment. My dear Mrs Chick -- may I say Louisa
God bless you
My dear Louisa then
my sweet friend, how are you now
Better
Take some wine. You have been almost as anxious as I have been, and must want it, I am sure
My dear Paul, what have you been doing
Miss Tox, Paul
knowing how much I have been interested in the anticipation of the event of to-day, and how trembly and shaky I have been from head to foot in expectation of it, has been working at a little gift for Fanny, which I promised to present. Miss Tox is ingenuity itself
My dear Louisa
It is only a pincushion for the toilette table, Paul
Miss Tox is very good
And I do say, and will say, and must say
that Miss Tox has very prettily adapted the sentiment to the occasion. I call "Welcome little Dombey" Poetry, myself
Is that the device
That is the device
But do me the justice to remember, my dear Louisa
that nothing but the -- I have some difficulty in expressing myself -- the dubiousness of the result would have induced me to take so great a liberty: "Welcome, Master Dombey," would have been much more congenial to my feelings, as I am sure you know. But the uncertainty attendant on angelic strangers, will, I hope, excuse what must otherwise appear an unwarrantable familiarity
My dear Paul
I don't know whether to laugh or cry when I look at you, I declare, you do so remind me of that dear baby upstairs
Well
after this, I forgive Fanny everything
I knew you would admire my brother. I told you so beforehand, my dear
And as to his property, my dear
Ah
Im-mense
But his deportment, my dear Louisa
His presence! His dignity! No portrait that I have ever seen of anyone has been half so replete with those qualities. Something so stately, you know: so uncompromising: so very wide across the chest: so upright! A pecuniary Duke of York, my love, and nothing short of it
That's what I should designate him
Why, my dear Paul
you look quite pale! There's nothing the matter
I am sorry to say, Louisa, that they tell me that Fanny
Now, my dear Paul
don't believe it. Do not allow yourself to receive a turn unnecessarily. Remember of what importance you are to society, and do not allow yourself to be worried by what is so very inconsiderately told you by people who ought to know better. Really I'm surprised at them
I hope I know, Louisa
how to bear myself before the world
Nobody better, my dear Paul. Nobody half so well. They would be ignorant and base indeed who doubted it
Ignorant and base indeed
But
if you have any reliance on my experience, Paul, you may rest assured that there is nothing wanting but an effort on Fanny's part. And that effort
she must be encouraged, and really, if necessary, urged to make. Now, my dear Paul, come upstairs with me
Restless without the little girl
We found it best to have her in again
Can nothing be done
We can do no more
Fanny! Fanny
Fanny, my dear
here's Mr Dombey come to see you. Won't you speak to him? They want to lay your little boy -- the baby, Fanny, you know; you have hardly seen him yet, I think -- in bed; but they can't till you rouse yourself a little. Don't you think it's time you roused yourself a little? Eh
Eh
what was it you said, Fanny? I didn't hear you
Now, really, Fanny my dear
I shall have to be quite cross with you, if you don't rouse yourself. It's necessary for you to make an effort, and perhaps a very great and painful effort which you are not disposed to make; but this is a world of effort you know, Fanny, and we must never yield, when so much depends upon us. Come! Try! I must really scold you if you don't
Fanny
Only look at me. Only open your eyes to show me that you hear and understand me; will you? Good Heaven, gentlemen, what is to be done
Mama
Mama
Oh dear Mama! oh dear Mama
I shall never cease to congratulate myself
on having said, when I little thought what was in store for us,-- really as if I was inspired by something,-- that I forgave poor dear Fanny everything. Whatever happens, that must always be a comfort to me
Don't you over-exert yourself, Loo
or you'll be laid up with spasms, I see. Right tol loor rul! Bless my soul, I forgot! We're here one day and gone the next
I am sure
I hope this heart-rending occurrence will be a warning to all of us, to accustom ourselves to rouse ourselves, and to make efforts in time where they're required of us. There's a moral in everything, if we would only avail ourselves of it. It will be our own faults if we lose sight of this one
A cobbler there was
Which might be better improved, I should think, Mr C
than by the introduction, either of the college hornpipe, or the equally unmeaning and unfeeling remark of rump-te-iddity, bow-wow-wow
Merely habit, my dear
Nonsense! Habit
Bow-wow-wow
More like a professional singer with the hydrophobia, than a man in your station of life
How's the Baby, Loo
What Baby do you mean
The poor bereaved little baby
I don't know of any other, my dear
You don't know of any other
I am sure the morning I have had, with that dining-room downstairs, one mass of babies, no one in their senses would believe
One mass of babies
It would have occurred to most men
that poor dear Fanny being no more,-- those words of mine will always be a balm and comfort to me
it becomes necessary to provide a Nurse
Oh! Ah
Toor-ru!-- such is life, I mean. I hope you are suited, my dear
Indeed I am not
nor likely to be, so far as I can see, and in the meantime the poor child seems likely to be starved to death. Paul is so very particular -- naturally so, of course, having set his whole heart on this one boy -- and there are so many objections to everybody that offers, that I don't see, myself, the least chance of an arrangement. Meanwhile, of course, the child is
Going to the Devil
to be sure
Couldn't something temporary be done with a teapot
My dear Louisa
is the vacancy still unsupplied
You good soul, yes
Then, my dear Louisa
I hope and believe -- but in one moment, my dear, I'll introduce the party
kitch hold of his brother Johnny
My dear Louisa
knowing your great anxiety, and wishing to relieve it, I posted off myself to the Queen Charlotte's Royal Married Females
Like the dear good Tox, you are
Not at all
Don't say so. Arriving at the house (the cleanest place, my dear! You might eat your dinner off the floor), I found the whole family sitting at table; and feeling that no account of them could be half so comfortable to you and Mr Dombey as the sight of them all together, I brought them all away. This gentleman
is the father. Will you have the goodness to come a little forward, Sir
This is his wife, of course
How do you do, Polly
I'm pretty well, I thank you, Ma'am
I'm glad to hear it
The other young woman is her unmarried sister who lives with them, and would take care of her children. Her name's Jemima. How do you do, Jemima
I'm pretty well, I thank you, Ma'am
I'm very glad indeed to hear it
I hope you'll keep so. Five children. Youngest six weeks. The fine little boy with the blister on his nose is the eldest The blister, I believe
is not constitutional, but accidental
I beg your pardon, Sir
Flat iron
Oh yes
Yes! quite true. I forgot. The little creature, in his mother's absence, smelt a warm flat iron. You're quite right, Sir. You were going to have the goodness to inform me, when we arrived at the door that you were by trade a
Stoker
A choker
Stoker
Steam ingine
Oh-h! Yes
And how do you like it, Sir
Which, Mum
That
Your trade
Oh! Pretty well, Mum. The ashes sometimes gets in here;' touching his chest: 'and makes a man speak gruff, as at the present time. But it is ashes, Mum, not crustiness
These children look healthy
But my God, to think of their some day claiming a sort of relationship to Paul
But what relationship is there
Is there
Is there, did you say, Louisa
Can there be, I mean
Why none
The whole world knows that, I presume. Grief has not made me idiotic, Louisa. Take them away, Louisa! Let me see this woman and her husband
My good woman
I understand you are poor, and wish to earn money by nursing the little boy, my son, who has been so prematurely deprived of what can never be replaced. I have no objection to your adding to the comforts of your family by that means. So far as I can tell, you seem to be a deserving object. But I must impose one or two conditions on you, before you enter my house in that capacity. While you are here, I must stipulate that you are always known as -- say as Richards -- an ordinary name, and convenient. Have you any objection to be known as Richards? You had better consult your husband
Well
What does your husband say to your being called Richards
that perhaps if she was to be called out of her name, it would be considered in the wages
Oh, of course
I desire to make it a question of wages, altogether. Now, Richards, if you nurse my bereaved child, I wish you to remember this always. You will receive a liberal stipend in return for the discharge of certain duties, in the performance of which, I wish you to see as little of your family as possible. When those duties cease to be required and rendered, and the stipend ceases to be paid, there is an end of all relations between us. Do you understand me
You have children of your own
It is not at all in this bargain that you need become attached to my child, or that my child need become attached to you. I don't expect or desire anything of the kind. Quite the reverse. When you go away from here, you will have concluded what is a mere matter of bargain and sale, hiring and letting: and will stay away. The child will cease to remember you; and you will cease, if you please, to remember the child
she hoped she knew her place
I hope you do, Richards
I have no doubt you know it very well. Indeed it is so plain and obvious that it could hardly be otherwise. Louisa, my dear, arrange with Richards about money, and let her have it when and how she pleases. Mr what's-your name, a word with you, if you please
You have a son, I believe
Four on 'em, Sir. Four hims and a her. All alive
Why, it's as much as you can afford to keep them
I couldn't hardly afford but one thing in the world less, Sir
What is that
To lose 'em, Sir
Can you read
Why, not partick'ler, Sir
Write
With chalk, Sir
With anything
I could make shift to chalk a little bit, I think, if I was put to it
And yet
you are two or three and thirty, I suppose
Thereabouts, I suppose, Sir
Then why don't you learn
So I'm a going to, Sir. One of my little boys is a going to learn me, when he's old enough, and been to school himself
Well
You heard what I said to your wife just now
Polly heerd it
It's all right
But I ask you if you heard it. You did, I suppose, and understood it
I heerd it
but I don't know as I understood it rightly Sir, 'account of being no scholar, and the words being -- ask your pardon -- rayther high. But Polly heerd it. It's all right
As you appear to leave everything to her
I suppose it is of no use my saying anything to you
Not a bit
Polly heerd it. She's awake, Sir
I won't detain you any longer then
Where have you worked all your life
Mostly underground, Sir, 'till I got married. I come to the level then. I'm a going on one of these here railroads when they comes into full play
We means to bring up little Biler to that line
The eldest on 'em, Sir
Do you mean to say, Man
that you have called a child after a boiler
No, no, Sir
I should hope not! No, Sir. Arter a BILER Sir. The Steamingine was a'most as good as a godfather to him, and so we called him Biler, don't you see
Poor little fellow
You'll take a glass yourself, Sir, won't you
Thankee, Mum
since you are suppressing
And you're very glad to leave your dear good wife in such a comfortable home, ain't you, Sir
No, Mum
Here's wishing of her back agin
acid, indeed
Your little child will thrive charmingly with your sister Jemima, Richards
and you have only to make an effort -- this is a world of effort, you know, Richards -- to be very happy indeed. You have been already measured for your mourning, haven't you, Richards
Ye -- es, Ma'am
And it'll fit beautifully. I know
for the same young person has made me many dresses. The very best materials, too
Lor, you'll be so smart
that your husband won't know you; will you, Sir
I should know her
anyhows and anywheres
As to living, Richards, you know
why, the very best of everything will be at your disposal. You will order your little dinner every day; and anything you take a fancy to, I'm sure will be as readily provided as if you were a Lady
Yes to be sure
And as to porter!-- quite unlimited, will it not, Louisa
Oh, certainly
With a little abstinence, you know, my dear, in point of vegetables
And pickles, perhaps
With such exceptions
she'll consult her choice entirely, and be under no restraint at all, my love
And then, of course, you know
however fond she is of her own dear little child -- and I'm sure, Louisa, you don't blame her for being fond of it
Oh no
Still
she naturally must be interested in her young charge, and must consider it a privilege to see a little cherub connected with the superior classes, gradually unfolding itself from day to day at one common fountain -- is it not so, Louisa
Most undoubtedly
You see, my love, she's already quite contented and comfortable, and means to say goodbye to her sister Jemima and her little pets, and her good honest husband, with a light heart and a smile; don't she, my dear
Oh yes
To be sure she does
It's Miss Florence come home from her aunt's, no doubt
Hope I see you well, Miss
Is that my brother
Yes, my pretty
Come and kiss him
What have you done with my Mama
Lord bless the little creeter
what a sad question! I done? Nothing, Miss
What have they done with my Mama
I never saw such a melting thing in all my life
Come nearer here, my dear Miss! Don't be afraid of me
I am not afraid of you
But I want to know what they have done with my Mama
My darling
you wear that pretty black frock in remembrance of your Mama
I can remember my Mama
in any frock
But people put on black, to remember people when they're gone
Where gone
Come and sit down by me
and I'll tell you a story
Once upon a time
there was a lady -- a very good lady, and her little daughter dearly loved her
A very good lady and her little daughter dearly loved her
Who, when God thought it right that it should be so, was taken ill and died
The cold ground
No! The warm ground
where the ugly little seeds turn into beautiful flowers, and into grass, and corn, and I don't know what all besides. Where good people turn into bright angels, and fly away to Heaven
So; let me see
said Polly, affecting herself beyond measure; being heartily in earnest, 'to teach her little daughter to be sure of that in her heart: and to know that she was happy there and loved her still: and to hope and try -- Oh, all her life -- to meet her there one day, never, never, never to part any more
It was my Mama
And the child's heart
the little daughter's heart was so full of the truth of this, that even when she heard it from a strange nurse that couldn't tell it right, but was a poor mother herself and that was all, she found a comfort in it -- didn't feel so lonely -- sobbed and cried upon her bosom -- took kindly to the baby lying in her lap -- and -- there, there, there
There, poor dear
Oh well, Miss Floy! And won't your Pa be angry neither
She don't worry me
I am very fond of children
Oh! but begging your pardon, Mrs Richards, that don't matter, you know
Well, it don't matter
Oh, thank'ee, Mrs Richards, don't it
But still we needn't quarrel
Oh no, Mrs Richards
Not at all, I don't wish it, we needn't stand upon that footing, Miss Floy being a permanency, Master Paul a temporary
Miss Florence has just come home, hasn't she
Yes, Mrs Richards, just come, and here, Miss Floy, before you've been in the house a quarter of an hour, you go a smearing your wet face against the expensive mourning that Mrs Richards is a wearing for your Ma
She'll be quite happy, now she has come home again
and will be so pleased to see her dear Papa to-night
Lork, Mrs Richards
Don't. See her dear Papa indeed! I should like to see her do it
Won't she then
You surprise me
Hasn't Mr Dombey seen her since
No
Not once since, and he hadn't hardly set his eyes upon her before that for months and months, and I don't think he'd have known her for his own child if he had met her in the streets, or would know her for his own child if he was to meet her in the streets to-morrow, Mrs Richards, as to me
I doubt if he's aweer of my existence
Pretty dear
Oh! there's a Tartar within a hundred miles of where we're now in conversation, I can tell you, Mrs Richards, present company always excepted too
wish you good morning, Mrs Richards, now Miss Floy, you come along with me, and don't go hanging back like a naughty wicked child that judgments is no example to, don't
Oh dear! after it was given out so 'tickerlerly, that Mrs Richards wasn't to be made free with
Very well, Miss Floy
God bless the sweet thing
Good-bye, dear
Good-bye
God bless you! I shall come to see you again soon, and you'll come to see me? Susan will let us. Won't you, Susan
It ain't right of you to ask it, Miss Floy, for you know I can't refuse you, but Mrs Richards and me will see what can be done, if Mrs Richards likes, I may wish, you see, to take a voyage to Chaney, Mrs Richards, but I mayn't know how to leave the London Docks
This house ain't so exactly ringing with merry-making
that one need be lonelier than one must be. Your Toxes and your Chickses may draw out my two front double teeth, Mrs Richards, but that's no reason why I need offer 'em the whole set
So I'm able, I'm sure
to live friendly, Mrs Richards, while Master Paul continues a permanency, if the means can be planned out without going openly against orders, but goodness gracious Miss Floy, you haven't got your things off yet, you naughty child, you haven't, come along
Good evening, Richards
How is Master Paul, Richards
Quite thriving, Sir, and well
He looks so
They give you everything you want, I hope
Oh yes, thank you, Sir
If you please, Sir, the child is very much disposed to take notice of things
and -- upstairs is a little dull for him, perhaps, Sir
I begged them to take you out for airings, constantly
Very well! You shall go out oftener. You're quite right to mention it
I beg your pardon, Sir
but we go out quite plenty Sir, thank you
What would you have then
Indeed Sir, I don't exactly know
unless
Yes
I believe nothing is so good for making children lively and cheerful, Sir, as seeing other children playing about 'em
I think I mentioned to you, Richards, when you came here
that I wished you to see as little of your family as possible
Oh dear yes, Sir, I wasn't so much as thinking of that
I am glad of it
You can continue your walk if you please
If you really think that sort of society is good for the child
where's Miss Florence
Nothing could be better than Miss Florence, Sir
but I understood from her maid that they were not to
Tell them always to let Miss Florence be with Richards when she chooses, and go out with her, and so forth. Tell them to let the children be together, when Richards wishes it
Oh father, try to love me! there's no one else
Come in
come in: what is the child afraid of
Come here, Florence
Do you know who I am
Yes, Papa
Have you nothing to say to me
There! Be a good girl
Go to Richards! Go
if he takes only to one little motherless child, when he has another, and that a girl, before his eyes
Oh no, no! He don't want me. He don't want me
Miss Florence was afraid of interrupting, Sir, if she came in to say good-night
It doesn't matter
You can let her come and go without regarding me
I thought you would have been pleased
Oh yes, Mrs Richards, I'm very well pleased, thank you
You don't show it
Oh! Being only a permanency I couldn't be expected to show it like a temporary
Temporaries carries it all before 'em here, I find, but though there's a excellent party-wall between this house and the next, I mayn't exactly like to go to it, Mrs Richards, notwithstanding
The streets have thinned
very much
Where's Walter, I wonder
Here's dinner been ready, half an hour, and no Walter
If I didn't know he was too fond of me to make a run of it, and go and enter himself aboard ship against my wishes, I should begin to be fidgetty
I really should. All in the Downs, eh! Lots of moisture! Well! it's wanted
said Mr Gills, blowing the dust off the glass top of a compass-case, 'that you don't point more direct and due to the back parlour than the boy's inclination does after all. And the parlour couldn't bear straighter either. Due north. Not the twentieth part of a point either way
Halloa, Uncle Sol
Halloa, my boy
What! you are here, are you
Well, Uncle, how have you got on without me all day? Is dinner ready? I'm so hungry
As to getting on
it would be odd if I couldn't get on without a young dog like you a great deal better than with you. As to dinner being ready, it's been ready this half hour and waiting for you. As to being hungry, I am
Come along then, Uncle
Hurrah for the admiral
Confound the admiral
You mean the Lord Mayor
No I don't
Hurrah for the admiral! Hurrah for the admiral! For-ward
The Lord Mayor, Wally
for ever! No more admirals. The Lord Mayor's your admiral
Oh, is he though
And a pretty figure he cuts with it for his pains
Listen to me, Wally, listen to me. Look on the mantelshelf
Why who has cocked my silver mug up there, on a nail
Well, Uncle
Lord Mayor
For the Lord Mayor, Sheriffs, Common Council, and Livery
Long life to 'em
And now
let's hear something about the Firm
Oh! there's not much to be told about the Firm, Uncle
'em, just over my head, a shrivelled-up blue-bottle that looks as if it had hung there ever so long
Nothing else
No, nothing else, except an old birdcage (I wonder how that ever came there!) and a coal-scuttle
No bankers' books, or cheque books, or bills, or such tokens of wealth rolling in from day to day
Oh yes, plenty of that I suppose
but all that sort of thing's in Mr Carker's room, or Mr Morfin's, or MR Dombey's
Has Mr Dombey been there to-day
Oh yes! In and out all day
He didn't take any notice of you, I suppose?'. 'Yes he did. He walked up to my seat,-- I wish he wasn't so solemn and stiff, Uncle,-- and said, "Oh! you are the son of Mr Gills the Ships' Instrument-maker." "Nephew, Sir," I said. "I said nephew, boy," said he. But I could take my oath he said son, Uncle
You're mistaken I daresay. It's no matter. 'No, it's no matter, but he needn't have been so sharp, I thought. There was no harm in it though he did say son. Then he told me that you had spoken to him about me, and that he had found me employment in the House accordingly, and that I was expected to be attentive and punctual, and then he went away. I thought he didn't seem to like me much
You mean, I suppose
that you didn't seem to like him much
Well, Uncle
Perhaps so; I never thought of that
Why, Uncle Sol
what are you about? that's the wonderful Madeira!-- there's only one more bottle
You shall drink the other bottle, Wally
when you come to good fortune; when you are a thriving, respected, happy man; when the start in life you have made to-day shall have brought you, as I pray Heaven it may!-- to a smooth part of the course you have to run, my child. My love to you
Dear Uncle
for the honour you have done me, et cetera, et cetera. I shall now beg to propose Mr Solomon Gills with three times three and one cheer more. Hurrah! and you'll return thanks, Uncle, when we drink the last bottle together; won't you
You see, Walter
in truth this business is merely a habit with me. I am so accustomed to the habit that I could hardly live if I relinquished it: but there's nothing doing, nothing doing. When that uniform was worn
Never mind 'em, Uncle
Since you came home from weekly boarding-school at Peckham, for instance -- and that's ten days
I don't remember more than one person that has come into the shop
Two, Uncle, don't you recollect? There was the man who came to ask for change for a sovereign
That's the one
Why Uncle! don't you call the woman anybody, who came to ask the way to Mile-End Turnpike
Oh! it's true
I forgot her. Two persons
To be sure, they didn't buy anything
No. They didn't buy anything
Nor want anything
No. If they had, they'd gone to another shop
But there were two of 'em, Uncle
You said only one
Well, Wally
not being like the Savages who came on Robinson Crusoe's Island, we can't live on a man who asks for change for a sovereign, and a woman who inquires the way to Mile-End Turnpike. As I said just now, the world has gone past me. I don't blame it; but I no longer understand it. Tradesmen are not the same as they used to be, apprentices are not the same, business is not the same, business commodities are not the same. Seven-eighths of my stock is old-fashioned. I am an old-fashioned man in an old-fashioned shop, in a street that is not the same as I remember it. I have fallen behind the time, and am too old to catch it again. Even the noise it makes a long way ahead, confuses me
Therefore, Wally -- therefore it is that I am anxious you should be early in the busy world, and on the world's track. I am only the ghost of this business -- its substance vanished long ago; and when I die, its ghost will be laid. As it is clearly no inheritance for you then, I have thought it best to use for your advantage, almost the only fragment of the old connexion that stands by me, through long habit. Some people suppose me to be wealthy. I wish for your sake they were right. But whatever I leave behind me, or whatever I can give you, you in such a House as Dombey's are in the road to use well and make the most of. Be diligent, try to like it, my dear boy, work for a steady independence, and be happy
I'll do everything I can, Uncle, to deserve your affection. Indeed I will
I know it
I am sure of it
As to the Sea
that's well enough in fiction, Wally, but it won't do in fact: it won't do at all. It's natural enough that you should think about it, associating it with all these familiar things; but it won't do, it won't do
Think of this wine for instance
which has been to the East Indies and back, I'm not able to say how often, and has been once round the world. Think of the pitch-dark nights, the roaring winds, and rolling seas
The thunder, lightning, rain, hail, storm of all kinds
To be sure
that this wine has passed through. Think what a straining and creaking of timbers and masts: what a whistling and howling of the gale through ropes and rigging
What a clambering aloft of men, vying with each other who shall lie out first upon the yards to furl the icy sails, while the ship rolls and pitches, like mad
Exactly so
has gone on, over the old cask that held this wine. Why, when the Charming Sally went down in the
In the Baltic Sea, in the dead of night; five-and-twenty minutes past twelve when the captain's watch stopped in his pocket; he lying dead against the main-mast -- on the fourteenth of February, seventeen forty-nine
Ay, to be sure
quite right! Then, there were five hundred casks of such wine aboard; and all hands (except the first mate, first lieutenant, two seamen, and a lady, in a leaky boat) going to work to stave the casks, got drunk and died drunk, singing "Rule Britannia", when she settled and went down, and ending with one awful scream in chorus
But when the George the Second drove ashore, Uncle, on the coast of Cornwall, in a dismal gale, two hours before daybreak, on the fourth of March, 'seventy-one, she had near two hundred horses aboard; and the horses breaking loose down below, early in the gale, and tearing to and fro, and trampling each other to death, made such noises, and set up such human cries, that the crew believing the ship to be full of devils, some of the best men, losing heart and head, went overboard in despair, and only two were left alive, at last, to tell the tale
And when
when the Polyphemus
Private West India Trader, burden three hundred and fifty tons, Captain, John Brown of Deptford. Owners, Wiggs and Co
The same
when she took fire, four days' sail with a fair wind out of Jamaica Harbour, in the night
There were two brothers on board
and there not being room for both of them in the only boat that wasn't swamped, neither of them would consent to go, until the elder took the younger by the waist, and flung him in. And then the younger, rising in the boat, cried out, "Dear Edward, think of your promised wife at home. I'm only a boy. No one waits at home for me. Leap down into my place!" and flung himself in the sea
Well! suppose we change the subject
How goes it
All well
The
The
Wal'r
Look at him! Love! Honour! And Obey! Overhaul your catechism till you find that passage, and when found turn the leaf down. Success, my boy
But I never wanted two or three words in my life that I didn't know where to lay my hand upon 'em, Gills
It comes of not wasting language as some do
I suppose he could make a clock if he tried
I shouldn't wonder, Captain Cuttle
And it would go
Lord, how that clock would go
But he's chockful of science
Look'ye here! Here's a collection of 'em. Earth, air, or water. It's all one. Only say where you'll have it. Up in a balloon? There you are. Down in a bell? There you are. D'ye want to put the North Star in a pair of scales and weigh it? He'll do it for you
Ah
it's a fine thing to understand 'em. And yet it's a fine thing not to understand 'em. I hardly know which is best. It's so comfortable to sit here and feel that you might be weighed, measured, magnified, electrified, polarized, played the very devil with: and never know how
Come
Before you have your glass of grog, Ned, we must finish the bottle
Stand by
Give the boy some more
No more, thank'e, Uncle
Yes, yes
a little more. We'll finish the bottle, to the House, Ned -- Walter's House. Why it may be his House one of these days, in part. Who knows? Sir Richard Whittington married his master's daughter
Turn again Whittington, Lord Mayor of London, and when you are old you will never depart from it
Wal'r! Overhaul the book, my lad
And although Mr Dombey hasn't a daughter
Yes, yes, he has, Uncle
Has he
Oh! I know he has
Some of 'em were talking about it in the office today. And they do say, Uncle and Captain Cuttle
He knows all about her already, you see
Nonsense, Uncle
How can I help hearing what they tell me
The Son's a little in our way at present, I'm afraid, Ned
Very much
Nevertheless, we'll drink him
So, here's to Dombey and Son
Oh, very well, Uncle
Since you have introduced the mention of her, and have connected me with her and have said that I know all about her, I shall make bold to amend the toast. So here's to Dombey -- and Son -- and Daughter
pray tell your friend, Louisa, that she is very good
mention to Miss Tox, Louisa, that I am obliged to her
Is he not beautiful Mr Dombey! Is he not a Cupid, Sir
Louisa
I really think I must present your friend with some little token, on the occasion of Paul's christening. She has exerted herself so warmly in the child's behalf from the first, and seems to understand her position so thoroughly (a very rare merit in this world, I am sorry to say), that it would really be agreeable to me to notice her
My dear Paul
you do Miss Tox but justice, as a man of your penetration was sure, I knew, to do. I believe if there are three words in the English language for which she has a respect amounting almost to veneration, those words are, Dombey and Son
Well
I believe it. It does Miss Tox credit
And as to anything in the shape of a token, my dear Paul
all I can say is that anything you give Miss Tox will be hoarded and prized, I am sure, like a relic. But there is a way, my dear Paul, of showing your sense of Miss Tox's friendliness in a still more flattering and acceptable manner, if you should be so inclined
How is that
Godfathers, of course
are important in point of connexion and influence
Very true, my dear Paul
and spoken like yourself. I might have expected nothing else from you. I might have known that such would have been your opinion. Perhaps
Louisa
it is not to be supposed
Certainly not
I never thought it was
Don't flurry me, my dear Paul
for that destroys me. I am far from strong. I have not been quite myself, since poor dear Fanny departed
It is not be supposed, I say 'And I say
that I never thought it was
Good Heaven, Louisa
No, my dear Paul
I must really be allowed to speak. I am not so clever, or so reasoning, or so eloquent, or so anything, as you are. I know that very well. So much the worse for me. But if they were the last words I had to utter -- and last words should be very solemn to you and me, Paul, after poor dear Fanny -- I would still say I never thought it was. And what is more
I never did think it was
It is not to be supposed, Louisa
I know it isn't
but that there are many persons who, supposing that I recognised any claim at all in such a case, have a claim upon me superior to Miss Tox's. But I do not. I recognise no such thing. Paul and myself will be able, when the time comes, to hold our own -- the House, in other words, will be able to hold its own, and maintain its own, and hand down its own of itself, and without any such common-place aids. The kind of foreign help which people usually seek for their children, I can afford to despise; being above it, I hope. So that Paul's infancy and childhood pass away well, and I see him becoming qualified without waste of time for the career on which he is destined to enter, I am satisfied. He will make what powerful friends he pleases in after-life, when he is actively maintaining -- and extending, if that is possible -- the dignity and credit of the Firm. Until then, I am enough for him, perhaps, and all in all. I have no wish that people should step in between us. I would much rather show my sense of the obliging conduct of a deserving person like your friend. Therefore let it be so; and your husband and myself will do well enough for the other sponsors, I daresay
How sound she sleeps
Why, you know, my dear, she takes a great deal of exercise in the course of the day
playing about little Paul so much
She is a curious child
My dear
Her Mama, all over
In deed
Ah dear me
Florence will never, never, never be a Dombey
not if she lives to be a thousand years old
I quite fret and worry myself about her
I really don't see what is to become of her when she grows older, or what position she is to take. She don't gain on her Papa in the least. How can one expect she should, when she is so very unlike a Dombey
And the child, you see
has poor dear Fanny's nature. She'll never make an effort in after-life, I'll venture to say. Never! She'll never wind and twine herself about her Papa's heart like
Like the ivy
Like the ivy
Never! She'll never glide and nestle into the bosom of her Papa's affections like -- the
Startled fawn
Like the startled fawn
Never! Poor Fanny! Yet, how I loved her
You must not distress yourself, my dear
Now really! You have too much feeling
We have all our faults
I daresay we have. I never was blind to hers. I never said I was. Far from it. Yet how I loved her
Oh! dear nurse
let me lie by my brother
Why, my pet
Oh! I think he loves me
Let me lie by him. Pray do
I'll not wake him
I'll only touch him with my hand, and go to sleep. Oh, pray, pray, let me lie by my brother to-night, for I believe he's fond of me
Poor little thing
she has been dreaming, I daresay
Have the goodness, if you please, Towlinson
first of all, to carry out a pen and ink and take his number legibly
Yes, Miss
Then, if you please, Towlinson
have the goodness to turn the cushion. Which
is generally damp, my dear
Yes, Miss
I'll trouble you also, if you please, Towlinson
with this card and this shilling. He's to drive to the card, and is to understand that he will not on any account have more than the shilling
No, Miss
And -- I'm sorry to give you so much trouble, Towlinson
Not at all, Miss
Mention to the man, then, if you please, Towlinson
that the lady's uncle is a magistrate, and that if he gives her any of his impertinence he will be punished terribly. You can pretend to say that, if you please, Towlinson, in a friendly way, and because you know it was done to another man, who died
Certainly, Miss
And now good-night to my sweet, sweet, sweet, godson
and Louisa, my dear friend, promise me to take a little something warm before you go to bed, and not to distress yourself
You might keep me in a strait-waistcoat for six weeks
and when I got it off I'd only be more aggravated, who ever heard the like of them two Griffins, Mrs Richards
And then to talk of having been dreaming, poor dear
Oh you beauties
Never be a Dombey won't she? It's to be hoped she won't, we don't want any more such, one's enough
Don't wake the children, Susan dear
I'm very much beholden to you, Mrs Richards
and really feel it as a honour to receive your commands, being a black slave and a mulotter. Mrs Richards, if there's any other orders, you can give me, pray mention 'em
Nonsense; orders
Oh! bless your heart, Mrs Richards
temporaries always orders permanencies here, didn't you know that, why wherever was you born, Mrs Richards? But wherever you was born, Mrs Richards
and whenever, and however (which is best known to yourself), you may bear in mind, please, that it's one thing to give orders, and quite another thing to take 'em. A person may tell a person to dive off a bridge head foremost into five-and-forty feet of water, Mrs Richards, but a person may be very far from diving
There now
you're angry because you're a good little thing, and fond of Miss Florence; and yet you turn round on me, because there's nobody else
It's very easy for some to keep their tempers, and be soft-spoken, Mrs Richards
when their child's made as much of as a prince, and is petted and patted till it wishes its friends further, but when a sweet young pretty innocent, that never ought to have a cross word spoken to or of it, is rundown, the case is very different indeed. My goodness gracious me, Miss Floy, you naughty, sinful child, if you don't shut your eyes this minute, I'll call in them hobgoblins that lives in the cock-loft to come and eat you up alive
to take a deal of notice for his age
My dear Paul
the beginning, I hope, of many joyful days
Thank you, Louisa
How do you do, Mr John
How do you do, Sir
Perhaps, Louisa
you would have preferred a fire
Oh, my dear Paul, no
not for me
Mr John
you are not sensible of any chill
With my tiddle tol toor rul
Miss Tox
How do you do, Miss Tox
I can never forget this occasion, Sir
'Tis impossible. My dear Louisa, I can hardly believe the evidence of my senses
Now Florence, child
what are you doing, love? Show yourself to him. Engage his attention, my dear
Mr John
Take my sister, if you please: my arm today is Miss Tox's. You had better go first with Master Paul, Richards. Be very careful
Wilt thou have this man, Lucretia
Yes, I will
Please to bring the child in quick out of the air there
into my grave
There's a wedding just on, Sir
making a search
a tall figure all in white
Mr John
will you take the bottom of the table, if you please? What have you got there, Mr John
I have got a cold fillet of veal here, Sir
What have you got there, Sir
This
is some cold preparation of calf's head, I think. I see cold fowls -- ham -- patties -- salad -- lobster. Miss Tox will do me the honour of taking some wine? Champagne to Miss Tox
Hem
Well, Sir
I shall drink this, if you'll allow me, Sir, to little Paul
Bless him
Dear little Dombey
Mr John
my son would feel and express himself obliged to you, I have no doubt, if he could appreciate the favour you have done him. He will prove, in time to come, I trust, equal to any responsibility that the obliging disposition of his relations and friends, in private, or the onerous nature of our position, in public, may impose upon him
Louisa
My dear
Onerous nature of our position in public may -- I have forgotten the exact term
Expose him to
Pardon me, my dear
I think not. It was more rounded and flowing. Obliging disposition of relations and friends in private, or onerous nature of position in public -- may -- impose upon him
Impose upon him, to be sure
eloquence indeed
During the six months or so, Richards, which have seen you an inmate of this house, you have done your duty. Desiring to connect some little service to you with this occasion, I considered how I could best effect that object, and I also advised with my sister, Mrs
Chick
Oh, hush if you please
I was about to say to you, Richards
I am far from being friendly
to what is called by persons of levelling sentiments, general education. But it is necessary that the inferior classes should continue to be taught to know their position, and to conduct themselves properly. So far I approve of schools. Having the power of nominating a child on the foundation of an ancient establishment, called (from a worshipful company) the Charitable Grinders; where not only is a wholesome education bestowed upon the scholars, but where a dress and badge is likewise provided for them; I have (first communicating, through Mrs Chick, with your family) nominated your eldest son to an existing vacancy; and he has this day, I am informed, assumed the habit. The number of her son, I believe
One hundred and forty-seven
The dress, Richards, is a nice, warm, blue baize tailed coat and cap, turned up with orange coloured binding; red worsted stockings; and very strong leather small-clothes. One might wear the articles one's self
and be grateful
There, Richards
Now, indeed, you may be proud. The Charitable Grinders
I am sure I am very much obliged, Sir
and take it very kind that you should remember my little ones
I am very glad to see you have so much feeling, Richards
It makes one almost hope, it really does
that there may yet be some faint spark of gratitude and right feeling in the world
With a hey ho chevy
blessed legs
I don't know what I wouldn't give
to see the poor little dear before he gets used to 'em
Why, then, I tell you what, Mrs Richards
see him and make your mind easy
Mr Dombey wouldn't like it
Oh, wouldn't he, Mrs Richards
he'd like it very much, I think when he was asked
You wouldn't ask him, I suppose, at all
No, Mrs Richards, quite contrairy
and them two inspectors Tox and Chick, not intending to be on duty tomorrow, as I heard 'em say, me and Mid Floy will go along with you tomorrow morning, and welcome, Mrs Richards, if you like, for we may as well walk there as up and down a street, and better too
What's the matter with the child
He's cold, I think
That's my house, Susan
Is it, indeed, Mrs Richards
with my own sweet precious baby in her arms
Why, Polly
You! what a turn you have given me! who'd have thought it! come along in Polly! How well you do look to be sure! The children will go half wild to see you Polly, that they will
Look! there's a pretty little lady come to see you
and see how quiet she is! what a beautiful little lady, ain't she
Oh do come in and sit down a minute, Susan, please
This is my sister Jemima, this is. Jemima, I don't know what I should ever do with myself, if it wasn't for Susan Nipper; I shouldn't be here now but for her
Oh do sit down, Miss Nipper, if you please
I never was so glad to see anybody in all my life; now really I never was, Miss Nipper
Do untie your bonnet-strings, and make yourself at home, Miss Nipper, please
I am afraid it's a poorer place than you're used to; but you'll make allowances, I'm sure
But where's my pretty boy
My poor fellow? I came all this way to see him in his new clothes
Ah what a pity
He'll break his heart, when he hears his mother has been here. He's at school, Polly
Gone already
Yes. He went for the first time yesterday, for fear he should lose any learning. But it's half-holiday, Polly: if you could only stop till he comes home -- you and Miss Nipper, leastways
And how does he look, Jemima, bless him
Well, really he don't look so bad as you'd suppose
Ah
I knew his legs must be too short
returned Jemima; 'especially behind; but they'll get longer, Polly, every day
And where's Father, Jemima dear
There again
What a pity! Father took his dinner with him this morning, and isn't coming home till night. But he's always talking of you, Polly, and telling the children about you; and is the peaceablest, patientest, best-temperedest soul in the world, as he always was and will be
Thankee, Jemima
Oh you needn't thank me, Polly
I say the same of you sometimes, and think it too
Do you think that we might make time to go a little round in that direction, Susan
Why not, Mrs Richards
It's getting on towards our dinner time you know
a little round
Mad Bull
Susan! Susan
Oh, where are they? where are they
Where are they
Why did you run away from 'em
I was frightened
I didn't know what I did. I thought they were with me. Where are they
I'll show you
You needn't be frightened now
Come along with me
I -- I don't know you. What's your name
Mrs Brown
Good Mrs Brown
Are they near here
Susan ain't far off
and the others are close to her
Is anybody hurt
Not a bit of it
Now don't be a young mule
I'm not a going to hurt you. Sit upon the rags
I'm not a going to keep you, even, above an hour
D'ye understand what I say
Yes
Then
don't vex me. If you don't, I tell you I won't hurt you. But if you do, I'll kill you. I could have you killed at any time -- even if you was in your own bed at home. Now let's know who you are, and what you are, and all about it
So your name's Dombey, eh
I want that pretty frock, Miss Dombey
and that little bonnet, and a petticoat or two, and anything else you can spare. Come! Take 'em off
Humph
I don't see anything else -- except the shoes. I must have the shoes, Miss Dombey
Why couldn't you let me be
when I was contented? You little fool
I beg your pardon. I don't know what I have done
I couldn't help it
Couldn't help it
How do you expect I can help it? Why, Lord
anybody but me would have had 'em off, first of all
If I hadn't once had a gal of my own -- beyond seas now -- that was proud of her hair
I'd have had every lock of it. She's far away, she's far away! Oho! Oho
We haven't got anything for you, little girl. Be off
If you please, is this the City
Ah! It's the City. You know that well enough, I daresay. Be off! We haven't got anything for you
I don't want anything, thank you
Except to know the way to Dombey and Son's
Why, what can you want with Dombey and Son's
To know the way there, if you please
Joe
Joe it is
Where's that young spark of Dombey's who's been watching the shipment of them goods
Just gone, by t'other gate
Call him back a minute
You're Dombey's jockey, ain't you
I'm in Dombey's House, Mr Clark
Look'ye here, then
I am lost, if you please
Lost
Yes, I was lost this morning, a long way from here -- and I have had my clothes taken away, since -- and I am not dressed in my own now -- and my name is Florence Dombey, my little brother's only sister -- and, oh dear, dear, take care of me, if you please
Don't cry, Miss Dombey
What a wonderful thing for me that I am here! You are as safe now as if you were guarded by a whole boat's crew of picked men from a man-of-war. Oh, don't cry
I won't cry any more
I am only crying for joy
Crying for joy
and I'm the cause of it! Come along, Miss Dombey. There's the other shoe off now! Take mine, Miss Dombey
No, no, no
These do better. These do very well
Why, to be sure
mine are a mile too large. What am I thinking about! You never could walk in mine! Come along, Miss Dombey. Let me see the villain who will dare molest you now
Have we far to go
Ah! By-the-bye
let me see; where are we? Oh! I know. But the offices are shut up now, Miss Dombey. There's nobody there. Mr Dombey has gone home long ago. I suppose we must go home too? or, stay. Suppose I take you to my Uncle's, where I live -- it's very near here -- and go to your house in a coach to tell them you are safe, and bring you back some clothes. Won't that be best
I think so
Don't you? What do you think
Why, I think it's Mr Carker
Carker in our House. Not Carker our Manager, Miss Dombey -- the other Carker; the Junior -- Halloa! Mr Carker
Is that Walter Gay
What do you advise, Mr Carker
You always give me good advice, you know, when you do speak to me. That's not often, though
I think your own idea is the best
Mr Carker
Come! Here's a chance for you. Go you to Mr Dombey's, and be the messenger of good news. It may do you some good, Sir. I'll remain at home. You shall go
I
Yes. Why not, Mr Carker
Come, Miss Dombey
we'll go to my Uncle's as quick as we can. Did you ever hear Mr Dombey speak of Mr Carker the Junior, Miss Florence
No
I don't often hear Papa speak
Ah! true! more shame for him
The strangest man, Mr Carker the Junior is, Miss Florence, that ever you heard of. If you could understand what an extraordinary interest he takes in me, and yet how he shuns me and avoids me; and what a low place he holds in our office, and how he is never advanced, and never complains, though year after year he sees young men passed over his head, and though his brother (younger than he is), is our head Manager, you would be as much puzzled about him as I am
Holloa, Uncle Sol
Here's a wonderful adventure! Here's Mr Dombey's daughter lost in the streets, and robbed of her clothes by an old witch of a woman -- found by me -- brought home to our parlour to rest -- look here
Good Heaven
It can't be! Well, I
No, nor anybody else
Nobody would, nobody could, you know. Here! just help me lift the little sofa near the fire, will you, Uncle Sol -- take care of the plates -- cut some dinner for her, will you, Uncle -- throw those shoes under the grate. Miss Florence -- put your feet on the fender to dry -- how damp they are -- here's an adventure, Uncle, eh?-- God bless my soul, how hot I am
Here, wait a minute, Uncle
till I run upstairs, and get another jacket on, and then I'll be off. I say, Uncle, isn't this an adventure
My dear boy
it's the most extraordinary
No, but do, Uncle, please -- do, Miss Florence -- dinner, you know, Uncle
Yes, yes, yes
I'll take care of her, Wally! I understand. Pretty dear! Famished, of course. You go and get ready. Lord bless me! Sir Richard Whittington thrice Lord Mayor of London
That's capital
Now I'm off. I'll just take a crust of bread with me, for I'm very hungry -- and don't wake her, Uncle Sol
No, no
Pretty child
Pretty, indeed
I never saw such a face, Uncle Sol. Now I'm off
That's right
I say, Uncle Sol
Here he is again
How does she look now
Quite happy
That's famous! now I'm off
I hope you are
I say, Uncle Sol
Here he is again
We met Mr Carker the Junior in the street, queerer than ever. He bade me good-bye, but came behind us here -- there's an odd thing!-- for when we reached the shop door, I looked round, and saw him going quietly away, like a servant who had seen me home, or a faithful dog. How does she look now, Uncle
Pretty much the same as before, Wally
That's right. Now I am off
Oh! I beg your pardon, Sir
but I'm happy to say it's all right, Sir. Miss Dombey's found
I told you, Louisa, that she would certainly be found
Let the servants know that no further steps are necessary. This boy who brings the information, is young Gay, from the office. How was my daughter found, Sir? I know how she was lost
But how was she found? Who found her
Why, I believe I found Miss Dombey, Sir
at least I don't know that I can claim the merit of having exactly found her, Sir, but I was the fortunate instrument of
What do you mean, Sir
by not having exactly found my daughter, and by being a fortunate instrument? Be plain and coherent, if you please
You hear this, girl
Oh! thank you, Sir
You are very kind. I'm sure I was not thinking of any reward, Sir
You are a boy
and what you think of, or affect to think of, is of little consequence. You have done well, Sir. Don't undo it. Louisa, please to give the lad some wine
Good-night
Good-night, Walter! Good-bye
Good-bye
I'll never forget you
No! indeed I never will. Good-bye, Walter
Where's Walter
Good-night, Walter
Good-bye, Walter
Shake hands once more, Walter
for Mrs Richards
Ah, Richards
Cut off
from one common fountain
If it was ungrateful case
and I had your reflections, Richards, I should feel as if the Charitable Grinders' dress would blight my child, and the education choke him
Louisa
It is not necessary to prolong these observations. The woman is discharged and paid. You leave this house, Richards, for taking my son -- my son
into haunts and into society which are not to be thought of without a shudder. As to the accident which befel Miss Florence this morning, I regard that as, in one great sense, a happy and fortunate circumstance; inasmuch as, but for that occurrence, I never could have known -- and from your own lips too -- of what you had been guilty. I think, Louisa, the other nurse, the young person
being so much younger, and necessarily influenced by Paul's nurse, may remain. Have the goodness to direct that this woman's coach is paid to
to Staggs's Gardens
something so truly military
native
Joey B., Sir
is worth a dozen of you. If you had a few more of the Bagstock breed among you, Sir, you'd be none the worse for it. Old Joe, Sir, needn't look far for a wile even now, if he was on the look-out; but he's hard-hearted, Sir, is Joe -- he's tough, Sir, tough, and de-vilish sly
Good morning, Ma'am
Good morning, Sir
Joe Bagstock, Ma'am
has not had the happiness of bowing to you at your window, for a considerable period. Joe has been hardly used, Ma'am. His sun has been behind a cloud
Joe's luminary has been out of town, Ma'am, perhaps
I? out of town? oh no, I have not been out of town
I have been much engaged lately. My time is nearly all devoted to some very intimate friends. I am afraid I have none to spare, even now. Good morning, Sir
Why, damme, Sir
six months ago, the woman loved the ground Josh Bagstock walked on. What's the meaning of it
But you won't catch Joe, Ma'am
He's tough, Ma'am, tough, is J.B. Tough, and de-vilish sly
It's a Baby, Sir
for fifty thousand pounds
You'll quite win my brother Paul's heart, and that's the truth, my dear
He grows more like Paul every day
His mother, my dear
whose acquaintance I was to have made through you, does he at all resemble her
Not at all
She was -- she was pretty, I believe
Why, poor dear Fanny was interesting
Certainly interesting. She had not that air of commanding superiority which one would somehow expect, almost as a matter of course, to find in my brother's wife; nor had she that strength and vigour of mind which such a man requires
But she was pleasing:' said Mrs Chick: 'extremely so. And she meant!-- oh, dear, how well poor Fanny meant
You Angel
You Picture of your own Papa
Papa! what's money
What is money, Paul
Money
Yes
what is money
Gold, and silver, and copper. Guineas, shillings, half-pence. You know what they are
Oh yes, I know what they are
I don't mean that, Papa. I mean what's money after all
What is money after all
I mean, Papa, what can it do
You'll know better by-and-by, my man
Money, Paul, can do anything
Anything, Papa
Yes. Anything -- almost
Anything means everything, don't it, Papa
It includes it: yes
Why didn't money save me my Mama
It isn't cruel, is it
Cruel
No. A good thing can't be cruel
If it's a good thing, and can do anything
I wonder why it didn't save me my Mama
It can't make me strong and quite well, either, Papa; can it
Why, you are strong and quite well
Are you not
You are as strong and well as such little people usually are? Eh
I know
and I believe that when Florence was as little as me, she could play a great deal longer at a time without tiring herself. I am so tired sometimes
and my bones ache so (Wickam says it's my bones), that I don't know what to do
Ay! But that's at night
little people should be tired at night, for then they sleep well
Oh, it's not at night, Papa
it's in the day; and I lie down in Florence's lap, and she sings to me. At night I dream about such cu-ri-ous things
I want Florence to come for me
Won't you come with your poor Nurse Wickam, Master Paul
No, I won't
For the child is hardly
as stout as I could wish
My dear Paul
with your usual happy discrimination, which I am weak enough to envy you, every time I am in your company; and so I think is Miss Tox
Oh my dear
how could it be otherwise? Presumptuous as it is to aspire to such a level; still, if the bird of night may -- but I'll not trouble Mr Dombey with the sentiment. It merely relates to the Bulbul
With your usual happy discrimination, my dear Paul
you have hit the point at once. Our darling is altogether as stout as we could wish. The fact is, that his mind is too much for him. His soul is a great deal too large for his frame. I am sure the way in which that dear child talks
I am afraid
that some of those persons upstairs suggest improper subjects to the child. He was speaking to me last night about his -- about his Bones
Very far from it
I hope so
Funerals again! who talks to the child of funerals? We are not undertakers, or mutes, or grave-diggers, I believe
Very far from it
Then who puts such things into his head
Really I was quite dismayed and shocked last night. Who puts such things into his head, Louisa
My dear Paul
it is of no use inquiring. I do not think, I will tell you candidly that Wickam is a person of very cheerful spirit, or what one would call a
A daughter of Momus
Exactly so
but she is exceedingly attentive and useful, and not at all presumptuous; indeed I never saw a more biddable woman. I would say that for her, if I was put upon my trial before a Court of Justice
Well! you are not put upon your trial before a Court of Justice, at present, Louisa
My dear Paul
I must be spoken to kindly, or there is an end of me
I was inquiring, Louisa
If the dear child
is a little weakened by that last attack, and is not in quite such vigorous health as we could wish; and if he has some temporary weakness in his system, and does occasionally seem about to lose, for the moment, the use of his
members
Members
I think the medical gentleman mentioned legs this morning, my dear Louisa, did he not
Why, of course he did, my love
How can you ask me? You heard him. I say, if our dear Paul should lose, for the moment, the use of his legs, these are casualties common to many children at his time of life, and not to be prevented by any care or caution. The sooner you understand that, Paul, and admit that, the better. If you have any doubt as to the amount of care, and caution, and affection, and self-sacrifice, that has been bestowed upon little Paul, I should wish to refer the question to your medical attendant, or to any of your dependants in this house. Call Towlinson
I believe he has no prejudice in our favour; quite the contrary. I should wish to hear what accusation Towlinson can make
Surely you must know, Louisa
that I don't question your natural devotion to, and regard for, the future head of my house
I am glad to hear it, Paul
but really you are very odd, and sometimes talk very strangely, though without meaning it, I know. If your dear boy's soul is too much for his body, Paul, you should remember whose fault that is -- who he takes after, I mean -- and make the best of it. He's as like his Papa as he can be. People have noticed it in the streets. The very beadle, I am informed, observed it, so long ago as at his christening. He's a very respectable man, with children of his own. He ought to know
Mr Pilkins saw Paul this morning, I believe
Yes, he did
Miss Tox and myself were present. Miss Tox and myself are always present. We make a point of it. Mr Pilkins has seen him for some days past, and a very clever man I believe him to be. He says it is nothing to speak of; which I can confirm, if that is any consolation; but he recommended, to-day, sea-air. Very wisely, Paul, I feel convinced
Sea-air
There is nothing to be made uneasy by, in that
My George and Frederick were both ordered sea-air, when they were about his age; and I have been ordered it myself a great many times. I quite agree with you, Paul, that perhaps topics may be incautiously mentioned upstairs before him, which it would be as well for his little mind not to expatiate upon; but I really don't see how that is to be helped, in the case of a child of his quickness. If he were a common child, there would be nothing in it. I must say I think, with Miss Tox, that a short absence from this house, the air of Brighton, and the bodily and mental training of so judicious a person as Mrs Pipchin for instance
Who is Mrs Pipchin, Louisa
Mrs Pipchin, my dear Paul
In pumping water out of the Peruvian Mines
Not being a Pumper himself, of course
but having invested money in the speculation, which failed. I believe that Mrs Pipchin's management of children is quite astonishing. I have heard it commended in private circles ever since I was -- dear me -- how high
Perhaps I should say of Mrs Pipchin, my dear Sir
having been so pointedly referred to, that the encomium which has been passed upon her by your sweet sister is well merited. Many ladies and gentleman, now grown up to be interesting members of society, have been indebted to her care. The humble individual who addresses you was once under her charge. I believe juvenile nobility itself is no stranger to her establishment
Do I understand that this respectable matron keeps an establishment, Miss Tox
Why, I really don't know
whether I am justified in calling it so. It is not a Preparatory School by any means. Should I express my meaning
if I designated it an infantine Boarding-House of a very select description
On an exceedingly limited and particular scale
Oh! Exclusion itself
Supposing we should decide, on to-morrow's inquiries, to send Paul down to Brighton to this lady, who would go with him
I don't think you could send the child anywhere at present without Florence, my dear Paul
It's quite an infatuation with him. He's very young, you know, and has his fancies
Anybody else, Louisa
Wickam, of course. Wickam would be quite sufficient, I should say
Paul being in such hands as Mrs Pipchin's, you could hardly send anybody who would be a further check upon her. You would go down yourself once a week at least, of course
Of course
lady of remarkable firmness, who was quite scientific in her knowledge of the childish character
Well, Sir
how do you think you shall like me
I don't think I shall like you at all
I want to go away. This isn't my house
No. It's mine
It's a very nasty one
There's a worse place in it than this though
where we shut up our bad boys
Has he ever been in it
a smell of building
You
And what are you thinking about me
I'm thinking how old you must be
You mustn't say such things as that, young gentleman
That'll never do
Why not
Because it's not polite
Not polite
No
It's not polite
Wickam
is a wicked, impudent, bold-faced hussy
What's that
Never you mind, Sir
Remember the story of the little boy that was gored to death by a mad bull for asking questions
If the bull was mad
You don't believe it, Sir
No
Not if it should happen to have been a tame bull, you little Infidel
young hussy
What a pretty fellow he is when he's asleep
Ah
He need be
Why, he's not ugly when he's awake
No, Ma'am. Oh, no. No more was my Uncle's Betsey Jane
My Uncle's wife
died just like his Mama. My Uncle's child took on just as Master Paul do
Took on! You don't think he grieves for his Mama, sure
He can't remember anything about her, you know, Mrs Wickam. It's not possible
No, Ma'am
No more did my Uncle's child. But my Uncle's child said very strange things sometimes, and looked very strange, and went on very strange, and was very strange altogether. My Uncle's child made people's blood run cold, some times, she did
How
I wouldn't have sat up all night alone with Betsey Jane
Betsey Jane
was as sweet a child as I could wish to see. I couldn't wish to see a sweeter. Everything that a child could have in the way of illnesses, Betsey Jane had come through. The cramps was as common to her
as biles is to yourself, Miss Berry
But Betsey Jane
had been minded, in her cradle, by her departed mother. I couldn't say how, nor I couldn't say when, nor I couldn't say whether the dear child knew it or not, but Betsey Jane had been watched by her mother, Miss Berry
Nonsense
You may say nonsense! I ain't offended, Miss. I hope you may be able to think in your own conscience that it is nonsense; you'll find your spirits all the better for it in this -- you'll excuse my being so free -- in this burying-ground of a place; which is wearing of me down. Master Paul's a little restless in his sleep. Pat his back, if you please
Of course you think
that he has been nursed by his mother, too
Betsey Jane
was put upon as that child has been put upon, and changed as that child has changed. I have seen her sit, often and often, think, think, thinking, like him. I have seen her look, often and often, old, old, old, like him. I have heard her, many a time, talk just like him. I consider that child and Betsey Jane on the same footing entirely, Miss Berry
Is your Uncle's child alive
Yes, Miss, she is alive
and is married to a silver-chaser. Oh yes, Miss, SHE is alive
I wouldn't wish to make you uneasy
She took fancies to people; whimsical fancies, some of them; others, affections that one might expect to see -- only stronger than common. They all died
Remember my words, Miss Berry
and be thankful that Master Paul is not too fond of you. I am, that he's not too fond of me, I assure you; though there isn't much to live for -- you'll excuse my being so free -- in this jail of a house
He's asleep now, my dear
you'd better go to bed again. Don't you feel cold
No, nurse
Not at all
Ah
we shall be cold enough, some of us, by and by
Good-night, Miss
Good-night! Your aunt is an old lady, Miss Berry, and it's what you must have looked for, often
Go away, if you please
I am very well, I thank you
But you had better go and play, if you please
We don't want any others, do we? Kiss me, Floy
Floy
where's India, where that boy's friends live
Oh, it's a long, long distance off
Weeks off
Yes dear. Many weeks' journey, night and day
If you were in India, Floy
I should -- what is it that Mama did? I forget
Loved me
No, no. Don't I love you now, Floy? What is it?-- Died. in you were in India, I should die, Floy
Oh! I am a great deal better now
I don't mean that. I mean that I should die of being so sorry and so lonely, Floy
I want to know what it says
The sea' Floy, what is it that it keeps on saying
Yes, yes
But I know that they are always saying something. Always the same thing. What place is over there
lovely Peg
Uncle Sol
I don't think you're well. You haven't eaten any breakfast. I shall bring a doctor to you, if you go on like this
He can't give me what I want, my boy
At least he is in good practice if he can -- and then he wouldn't
What is it, Uncle? Customers
Ay
Customers would do
Confound it, Uncle
when I see the people going up and down the street in shoals all day, and passing and re-passing the shop every minute, by scores, I feel half tempted to rush out, collar somebody, bring him in, and make him buy fifty pounds' worth of instruments for ready money. What are you looking in at the door for?--' continued Walter, apostrophizing an old gentleman with a powdered head (inaudibly to him of course), who was staring at a ship's telescope with all his might and main. 'That's no use. I could do that. Come in and buy it
There he goes
That's the way with 'em all. But, Uncle -- I say, Uncle Sol
Don't be cast down. Don't be out of spirits, Uncle. When orders do come, they'll come in such a crowd, you won't be able to execute 'em
I shall be past executing 'em, whenever they come, my boy
They'll never come to this shop again, till I am out of t
I say, Uncle! You musn't really, you know
Don't
There's nothing more than usual the matter; is there, Uncle
Be open with me, Uncle, if there is, and tell me all about it
No, no, no
More than usual? No, no. What should there be the matter more than usual
That's what I want to know
and you ask me! I'll tell you what, Uncle, when I see you like this, I am quite sorry that I live with you
Yes. Though nobody ever was happier than I am and always have been with you, I am quite sorry that I live with you, when I see you with anything in your mind
I am a little dull at such times, I know
What I mean, Uncle Sol
is, that then I feel you ought to have, sitting here and pouring out the tea instead of me, a nice little dumpling of a wife, you know,-- a comfortable, capital, cosy old lady, who was just a match for you, and knew how to manage you, and keep you in good heart. Here am I, as loving a nephew as ever was (I am sure I ought to be!) but I am only a nephew, and I can't be such a companion to you when you're low and out of sorts as she would have made herself, years ago, though I'm sure I'd give any money if I could cheer you up. And so I say, when I see you with anything on your mind, that I feel quite sorry you haven't got somebody better about you than a blundering young rough-and-tough boy like me, who has got the will to console you, Uncle, but hasn't got the way -- hasn't got the way
Wally, my dear boy
if the cosy little old lady had taken her place in this parlour five and forty years ago, I never could have been fonder of her than I am of you
I know that, Uncle Sol
Lord bless you, I know that. But you wouldn't have had the whole weight of any uncomfortable secrets if she had been with you, because she would have known how to relieve you of 'em, and I don't
Yes, yes, you do
Well then, what's the matter, Uncle Sol
Come! What's the matter
All I can say is, Uncle Sol, that if there is
But there isn't
Very well
Then I've no more to say; and that's lucky, for my time's up for going to business. I shall look in by-and-by when I'm out, to see how you get on, Uncle. And mind, Uncle! I'll never believe you again, and never tell you anything more about Mr Carker the Junior, if I find out that you have been deceiving me
Well, Uncle Sol
How are you now
Is there anything the matter
No, no. There's nothing the matter, said Mr Brogley. 'Don't let it put you out of the way
The fact is
there's a little payment on a bond debt -- three hundred and seventy odd, overdue: and I'm in possession
In possession
Ah
It's an execution. That's what it is. Don't let it put you out of the way. I come myself, because of keeping it quiet and sociable. You know me. It's quite private
Uncle Sol
Wally, my boy
It's the first time. Such a calamity never happened to me before. I'm an old man to begin
Uncle Sol! Pray! oh don't
For God's sake don't do that. Mr Brogley, what shall I do
I should recommend you looking up a friend or so
and talking it over
To be sure
Certainly! Thankee. Captain Cuttle's the man, Uncle. Wait till I run to Captain Cuttle. Keep your eye upon my Uncle, will you, Mr Brogley, and make him as comfortable as you can while I am gone? Don't despair, Uncle Sol. Try and keep a good heart, there's a dear fellow
Wal'r, my lad
Stand by and knock again. Hard! It's washing day
Hard it is
Captain Cuttle's at home, I know
Is he
In-deed
He has just been speaking to me
Has he
Then p'raps you'll give him Mrs MacStinger's respects, and say that the next time he lowers himself and his lodgings by talking out of the winder she'll thank him to come down and open the door too
I'll mention it
if you'll have the goodness to let me in, Ma'am
A boy that can knock my door down
can get over that, I should hope
raff
Never owed her a penny, Wal'r
Done her a world of good turns, and the children too. Vixen at times, though. Whew
I should go away, Captain Cuttle
Dursn't do it, Wal'r
She'd find me out, wherever I went. Sit down. How's Gills
How's Gills
Oh, Captain Cuttle
Wal'r
Uncle much hove down, Wal'r
I am afraid so. If you had seen him this morning, you would never have forgotten it
Walk fast, Wal'r, my lad
and walk the same all the days of your life. Overhaul the catechism for that advice, and keep it
Gills
Lay your head well to the wind, and we'll fight through it. All you've got to do
is to lay your head well to the wind, and we'll fight through it
Come! What do you make of it
Why, Lord help you
you don't suppose that property's of any use, do you
Why not
Why? The amount's three hundred and seventy, odd
Never mind
all's fish that comes to your net, I suppose
Certainly
But sprats ain't whales, you know
Gills
what's the bearings of this business? Who's the creditor
Hush
Come away. Don't speak before Wally. It's a matter of security for Wally's father -- an old bond. I've paid a good deal of it, Ned, but the times are so bad with me that I can't do more just now. I've foreseen it, but I couldn't help it. Not a word before Wally, for all the world
You've got some money, haven't you
Yes, yes -- oh yes -- I've got some
but I -- the little I have got, isn't convertible, Ned; it can't be got at. I have been trying to do something with it for Wally, and I'm old fashioned, and behind the time. It's here and there, and -- and, in short, it's as good as nowhere
I'm behind the time altogether, my dear Ned
a long way. It's no use my lagging on so far behind it. The stock had better be sold -- it's worth more than this debt -- and I had better go and die somewhere, on the balance. I haven't any energy left. I don't understand things. This had better be the end of it. Let 'em sell the stock and take him down
and let us both be broken up together
And what d'ye mean to do with Wal'r
There, there! Sit ye down, Gills, sit ye down, and let me think o' this. If I warn't a man on a small annuity, that was large enough till to-day, I hadn't need to think of it. But you only lay your head well to the wind
and you're all right
Wal'r
I've got it
Have you, Captain Cuttle
Come this way, my lad
The stock's the security. I'm another. Your governor's the man to advance money
Mr Dombey
Look at him
Look at Gills. If they was to sell off these things now, he'd die of it. You know he would. We mustn't leave a stone unturned -- and there's a stone for you
A stone!-- Mr Dombey
You run round to the office, first of all, and see if he's there
Quick
I tell you what, Wal'r
We'll go to Brighton. I'll back you, my boy. I'll back you, Wal'r. We'll go to Brighton by the afternoon's coach
which
has been fifty to one in favour of Joey B., Sir, ever since his elder brother died of Yellow Jack in the West Indies
Would you, Ma'am, would you
Would you give Joey B. the go-by, Ma'am? Not yet, Ma'am, not yet! Damme, not yet, Sir. Joe is awake, Ma'am. Bagstock is alive, Sir. J. B. knows a move or two, Ma'am. Josh has his weather-eye open, Sir. You'll find him tough, Ma'am. Tough, Sir, tough is Joseph. Tough, and de-vilish sly
But my little friend here, Sir
makes a boy of me again: An old soldier, Sir -- Major Bagstock, at your service -- is not ashamed to confess it
Damme, Sir
I envy you
Excuse my freedom
An old campaigner, Sir
a smoke-dried, sun-burnt, used-up, invalided old dog of a Major, Sir, was not afraid of being condemned for his whim by a man like Mr Dombey. I have the honour of addressing Mr Dombey, I believe
I am the present unworthy representative of that name, Major
By G-, Sir
it's a great name. It's a name, Sir
that is known and honoured in the British possessions abroad. It is a name, Sir, that a man is proud to recognise. There is nothing adulatory in Joseph Bagstock, Sir. His Royal Highness the Duke of York observed on more than one occasion, "there is no adulation in Joey. He is a plain old soldier is Joe. He is tough to a fault is Joseph:" but it's a great name, Sir. By the Lord, it's a great name
You are good enough to rate it higher than it deserves, perhaps, Major
No, Sir
My little friend here, Sir
will certify for Joseph Bagstock that he is a thorough-going, down-right, plain-spoken, old Trump, Sir, and nothing more. That boy, Sir
will live in history. That boy, Sir, is not a common production. Take care of him, Mr Dombey
Here is a boy here, Sir
Son of Bitherstone of Bengal. Bill Bitherstone formerly of ours. That boy's father and myself, Sir, were sworn friends. Wherever you went, Sir, you heard of nothing but Bill Bitherstone and Joe Bagstock. Am I blind to that boy's defects? By no means. He's a fool, Sir
Really
That is what he is, sir
He's a fool. Joe Bagstock never minces matters. The son of my old friend Bill Bitherstone, of Bengal, is a born fool, Sir
My little friend is destined for a public school
I am not quite decided
I think not. He is delicate
If he's delicate, Sir
you are right. None but the tough fellows could live through it, Sir, at Sandhurst. We put each other to the torture there, Sir. We roasted the new fellows at a slow fire, and hung 'em out of a three pair of stairs window, with their heads downwards. Joseph Bagstock, Sir, was held out of the window by the heels of his boots, for thirteen minutes by the college clock
But it made us what we were, Sir
We were iron, Sir, and it forged us. Are you remaining here, Mr Dombey
I generally come down once a week, Major
I stay at the Bedford
I shall have the honour of calling at the Bedford, Sir, if you'll permit me
Joey B., Sir, is not in general a calling man, but Mr Dombey's is not a common name. I am much indebted to my little friend, Sir, for the honour of this introduction
and the oldsters too, Sir, if you come to that
My dearest Louisa
if I should seem at all reserved to Major Bagstock, or under any constraint with him, promise me not to notice it
My dear Lucretia
what mystery is involved in this remarkable request? I must insist upon knowing
Since you are resolved to extort a confession from me, Louisa
I have no alternative but to confide to you that the Major has been particular
Particular
The Major has long been very particular indeed, my love, in his attentions
occasionally they have been so very marked, that my position has been one of no common difficulty
Is he in good circumstances
I have every reason to believe, my dear -- indeed I may say I know
that he is wealthy. He is truly military, and full of anecdote. I have been informed that his valour, when he was in active service, knew no bounds. I am told that he did all sorts of things in the Peninsula, with every description of fire-arm; and in the East and West Indies, my love, I really couldn't undertake to say what he did not do
Very creditable to him indeed
extremely so; and you have given him no encouragement, my dear
If I were to say, Louisa
that I never encouraged Major Bagstock slightly, I should not do justice to the friendship which exists between you and me. It is, perhaps, hardly in the nature of woman to receive such attentions as the Major once lavished upon myself without betraying some sense of obligation. But that is past -- long past. Between the Major and me there is now a yawning chasm, and I will not feign to give encouragement, Louisa, where I cannot give my heart. My affections
but, Louisa, this is madness
Your family monopolises Joe's light, Sir
Joe lives in darkness. Princess's Place is changed into Kamschatka in the winter time. There is no ray of sun, Sir, for Joey B., now
Miss Tox is good enough to take a great deal of interest in Paul, Major
Damme Sir
I'm jealous of my little friend. I'm pining away Sir. The Bagstock breed is degenerating in the forsaken person of old Joe
Sly, Sir -- sly, Sir -- de-vil-ish sly
Would you, Ma'am, would you? Mrs Dombey, eh, Ma'am? I think not, Ma'am. Not while Joe B. can put a spoke in your wheel, Ma'am. J. B
Papa! Papa! Here's Walter! and he won't come in
Who
What does she mean? What is this
Walter, Papa
Who found me when I was lost
Does she mean young Gay, Louisa
Really, this child's manners have become very boisterous. She cannot mean young Gay, I think. See what it is, will you
Tell the boy to come in now
Now, Gay, what is the matter? Who sent you down here? Was there nobody else to come
I beg your pardon, Sir
What's that
Who is that? I think you have made some mistake in the door, Sir
Oh, I'm very sorry to intrude with anyone, Sir
but this is -- this is Captain Cuttle, Sir
Wal'r, my lad
stand by
Now, Gay
What have you got to say to me
Wal'r, standby
I am afraid, Sir
that I take a very great liberty in coming -- indeed, I am sure I do. I should hardly have had the courage to ask to see you, Sir, even after coming down, I am afraid, if I had not overtaken Miss Dombey, and
Well
Go on, if you please
Ay, ay
Well said! Go on, Wal'r
It is entirely a private and personal matter, that has brought me here, Sir
and Captain Cuttle
Here
Who is a very old friend of my poor Uncle's, and a most excellent man, Sir
was so good as to offer to come with me, which I could hardly refuse
No, no, no;' observed the Captain complacently. 'Of course not. No call for refusing. Go on, Wal'r
And therefore, Sir
therefore I have come, with him, Sir, to say that my poor old Uncle is in very great affliction and distress. That, through the gradual loss of his business, and not being able to make a payment, the apprehension of which has weighed very heavily upon his mind, months and months, as indeed I know, Sir, he has an execution in his house, and is in danger of losing all he has, and breaking his heart. And that if you would, in your kindness, and in your old knowledge of him as a respectable man, do anything to help him out of his difficulty, Sir, we never could thank you enough for it
It is a very large sum, Sir
More than three hundred pounds. My Uncle is quite beaten down by his misfortune, it lies so heavy on him; and is quite unable to do anything for his own relief. He doesn't even know yet, that I have come to speak to you. You would wish me to say, Sir
exactly what it is I want. I really don't know, Sir. There is my Uncle's stock, on which I believe I may say, confidently, there are no other demands, and there is Captain Cuttle, who would wish to be security too. I -- I hardly like to mention
such earnings as mine; but if you would allow them -- accumulate -- payment -- advance -- Uncle -- frugal, honourable, old man
Half a loaf's better than no bread, and the same remark holds good with crumbs. There's a few. Annuity of one hundred pound premium also ready to be made over. If there is a man chock full of science in the world, it's old Sol Gills. If there is a lad of promise -- one flowing
with milk and honey -- it's his nevy
What was this debt contracted for
Who is the creditor
He don't know
I do. It came of helping a man that's dead now, and that's cost my friend Gills many a hundred pound already. More particulars in private, if agreeable
People who have enough to do to hold their own way
had better be content with their own obligations and difficulties, and not increase them by engaging for other men. It is an act of dishonesty and presumption, too
great presumption; for the wealthy could do no more. Paul, come here
If you had money now --' said Mr Dombey. 'Look at me
If you had money now
as much money as young Gay has talked about; what would you do
Give it to his old Uncle
Lend it to his old Uncle, eh
Well! When you are old enough, you know, you will share my money, and we shall use it together
Dombey and Son
Dombey and Son
Would you like to begin to be Dombey and Son, now, and lend this money to young Gay's Uncle
Oh! if you please, Papa
and so would Florence
Girls
have nothing to do with Dombey and Son. Would you like it
Yes, Papa, yes
Then you shall do it
And you see, Paul
how powerful money is, and how anxious people are to get it. Young Gay comes all this way to beg for money, and you, who are so grand and great, having got it, are going to let him have it, as a great favour and obligation
Give that
the first thing to-morrow morning, to Mr Carker. He will immediately take care that one of my people releases your Uncle from his present position, by paying the amount at issue; and that such arrangements are made for its repayment as may be consistent with your Uncle's circumstances. You will consider that this is done for you by Master Paul
You will consider that it is done
by Master Paul. I have explained that to him, and he understands it. I wish no more to be said
My dear Sir
I think you have overlooked something. Pardon me, Mr Dombey, I think, in the nobility of your character, and its exalted scope, you have omitted a matter of detail
Indeed, Miss Tox
The gentleman with the -- Instrument
has left upon the table, at your elbow
Good Heaven
Take these things away. I am obliged to you, Miss Tox; it is like your usual discretion. Have the goodness to take these things away, Sir
Will you never be a Dombey, my dear child
Dear aunt
Don't be angry with me. I am so thankful to Papa
Florence
Damme, Sir
he's a prince, is my friend Dombey in the City. I tell you what, Sir. If you had a few more men among you like old Joe Bagstock and my friend Dombey in the City, Sir, you'd do
I hope, Miss Berry
that you'll come into whatever little property there may be to leave. You deserve it, I am sure, for yours is a trying life. Though there don't seem much worth coming into -- you'll excuse my being so open -- in this dismal den
Berry's very fond of you, ain't she
Yes
Why
Why
How can you ask such things, Sir! why are you fond of your sister Florence
Because she's very good
There's nobody like Florence
Well
and there's nobody like me, I suppose
Ain't there really though
No
I am glad of that
That's a very good thing
Mrs Pipchin
How do you do
Thank you, Sir
I am pretty well, considering
I can't expect, Sir, to be very well
but such health as I have, I am grateful for
Mrs Pipchin, I have taken the liberty of calling, to consult you in reference to my son. I have had it in my mind to do so for some time past; but have deferred it from time to time, in order that his health might be thoroughly re-established. You have no misgivings on that subject, Mrs Pipchin
Brighton has proved very beneficial, Sir
Very beneficial, indeed
I purpose
his remaining at Brighton
But
but possibly that he should now make a change, and lead a different kind of life here. In short, Mrs Pipchin, that is the object of my visit. My son is getting on, Mrs Pipchin. Really, he is getting on
Six years old
Dear me, six will be changed to sixteen, before we have time to look about us
Ten years
is a long time
It depends on circumstances, returned Mr Dombey; 'at all events, Mrs Pipchin, my son is six years old, and there is no doubt, I fear, that in his studies he is behind many children of his age -- or his youth
his youth is a more appropriate expression. Now, Mrs Pipchin, instead of being behind his peers, my son ought to be before them; far before them. There is an eminence ready for him to mount upon. There is nothing of chance or doubt in the course before my son. His way in life was clear and prepared, and marked out before he existed. The education of such a young gentleman must not be delayed. It must not be left imperfect. It must be very steadily and seriously undertaken, Mrs Pipchin
Well, Sir
I can say nothing to the contrary
I was quite sure, Mrs Pipchin
that a person of your good sense could not, and would not
There is a great deal of nonsense -- and worse -- talked about young people not being pressed too hard at first, and being tempted on, and all the rest of it, Sir
It never was thought of in my time, and it has no business to be thought of now. My opinion is "keep 'em at it
My good madam
you have not acquired your reputation undeservedly; and I beg you to believe, Mrs Pipchin, that I am more than satisfied with your excellent system of management, and shall have the greatest pleasure in commending it whenever my poor commendation --' Mr Dombey's loftiness when he affected to disparage his own importance, passed all bounds
My neighbour, Sir
I believe the Doctor's is an excellent establishment. I've heard that it's very strictly conducted, and there is nothing but learning going on from morning to night
And it's very expensive
And it's very expensive, Sir
I have had some communication with the Doctor, Mrs Pipchin
and he does not consider Paul at all too young for his purpose. He mentioned several instances of boys in Greek at about the same age. If I have any little uneasiness in my own mind, Mrs Pipchin, on the subject of this change, it is not on that head. My son not having known a mother has gradually concentrated much -- too much -- of his childish affection on his sister. Whether their separation
Hoity-toity
If she don't like it, Mr Dombey, she must be taught to lump it
He, my good madam, he
Now, Paul
This is the way indeed to be Dombey and Son, and have money. You are almost a man already
Almost
Doctor Blimber is at home, I believe
How dare you laugh behind the gentleman's back
And what do you take me for
I ain't a laughing at nobody, and I'm sure I don't take you for nothing, Ma'am
A pack of idle dogs
only fit to be turnspits. Go and tell your master that Mr Dombey's here, or it'll be worse for you
You're laughing again, Sir
I ain't
I never see such a thing as this
What is the matter, Mrs Pipchin
Softly! Pray
Oh! he was a precious fellow
And how do you do, Sir
and how is my little friend
how, is, my, lit, tle, friend? how, is, my, lit, tle, friend
Ha
Now I see my little friend. How do you do, my little friend
Very well, I thank you, Sir
Ha
Shall we make a man of him
Do you hear, Paul
Shall we make a man of him
I had rather be a child
Indeed
Why
This is why
Mrs Pipchin
I am really very sorry to see this
Come away from him, do, Miss Dombey
Never mind
Never mind; we shall substitute new cares and new impressions, Mr Dombey, very shortly. You would still wish my little friend to acquire
Everything, if you please, Doctor
Yes
Yes, exactly. Ha! We shall impart a great variety of information to our little friend, and bring him quickly forward, I daresay. I daresay. Quite a virgin soil, I believe you said, Mr Dombey
Except some ordinary preparation at home, and from this lady
except so far, Paul has, as yet, applied himself to no studies at all
That circumstance, indeed, Doctor Blimber
and the interview I have already had the pleasure of holding with you, renders any further explanation, and consequently, any further intrusion on your valuable time, so unnecessary, that
Now, Miss Dombey
Permit me
one moment. Allow me to present Mrs Blimber and my daughter; who will be associated with the domestic life of our young Pilgrim to Parnassus Mrs Blimber
Mr Dombey. My daughter Cornelia, Mr Dombey. Mr Dombey, my love
is so confiding as to -- do you see our little friend
Like a bee, Sir
about to plunge into a garden of the choicest flowers, and sip the sweets for the first time Virgil, Horace, Ovid, Terence, Plautus, Cicero. What a world of honey have we here. It may appear remarkable, Mr Dombey, in one who is a wife -- the wife of such a husband
Hush, hush
Fie for shame
Mr Dombey will forgive the partiality of a wife
Not at all
And it may seem remarkable in one who is a mother also
And such a mother
But really
I think if I could have known Cicero, and been his friend, and talked with him in his retirement at Tusculum (beau-ti-ful Tusculum!), I could have died contented
Who is that
Oh! Come in, Toots; come in. Mr Dombey, Sir
Quite a coincidence
Here we have the beginning and the end. Alpha and Omega Our head boy, Mr Dombey
An addition to our little Portico, Toots
Mr Dombey's son
How are you
Ask Mr Feeder, if you please, Toots
to prepare a few introductory volumes for Mr Dombey's son, and to allot him a convenient seat for study. My dear, I believe Mr Dombey has not seen the dormitories
If Mr Dombey will walk upstairs
I shall be more than proud to show him the dominions of the drowsy god
Don't tell me, Sir; I know better
I hope, Mr Dombey
that the arrangements meet your approval
They are excellent, Sir
Very fair, indeed
Mrs Pipchin
will, with your permission, Doctor and Mrs Blimber, visit Paul now and then
Whenever Mrs Pipchin pleases
Always happy to see her
I think
I have given all the trouble I need, and may take my leave. Paul, my child
Good-bye
Good-bye, Papa
I shall see you soon, Paul. You are free on Saturdays and Sundays, you know
Yes, Papa
On Saturdays and Sundays
And you'll try and learn a great deal here, and be a clever man
won't you
I'll try
And you'll soon be grown up now
Oh! very soon
how, is, my, lit, tle, friend? how, is, my, lit, tle, friend
weary, weary! very lonely, very sad
Can anybody have the goodness to indicate any subject, in any direction, on which I am uninformed? I rather think not
Cornelia
Dombey will be your charge at first. Bring him on, Cornelia, bring him on
How old are you, Dombey
Six
How much do you know of your Latin Grammar, Dombey
None of it
Unclassical to a degree! Who is the monster, child
What monster
Glubb
He's no more a monster than you are
What
Ay, ay, ay? Aha! What's that
He's a very nice old man, Ma'am
I don't know how many yards long, and I forget their names, but Florence knows, that pretend to be in distress; and when a man goes near them, out of compassion, they open their great jaws, and attack him. But all he has got to do
is to keep on turning as he runs away, and then, as they turn slowly, because they are so long, and can't bend, he's sure to beat them. And though old Glubb don't know why the sea should make me think of my Mama that's dead, or what it is that it is always saying -- always saying! he knows a great deal about it. And I wish
Ha
this is bad, but study will do much
Take him round the house, Cornelia
and familiarise him with his new sphere. Go with that young lady, Dombey
P. Toots, Esquire, Brighton, Sussex
friends
Heigh ho hum
Oh dear me, dear me! Ya-a-a-ah
Sit down, Dombey
Thank you, Sir
You're a very small chap
Yes, Sir, I'm small
Thank you, Sir
Who's your tailor
It's a woman that has made my clothes as yet
My sister's dressmaker
My tailor's Burgess and Co
Your father's regularly rich, ain't he
Yes, Sir
He's Dombey and Son
And which
And Son, Sir
You sleep in my room, don't you
Master Briggs
Tozer
Is yours a strong constitution
yes
It is remarkable, Mr Feeder, that the Romans
It is remarkable, Mr Feeder
that the Romans, in those gorgeous and profuse entertainments of which we read in the days of the Emperors, when luxury had attained a height unknown before or since, and when whole provinces were ravaged to supply the splendid means of one Imperial Banquet
Johnson
take some water
And when, Mr Feeder
I beg your pardon, Sir
I beg your pardon, Doctor Blimber
And when
when, Sir, as we read, and have no reason to doubt -- incredible as it may appear to the vulgar -- of our time -- the brother of Vitellius prepared for him a feast, in which were served, of fish, two thousand dishes
Take some water, Johnson -- dishes, Sir
Of various sorts of fowl, five thousand dishes
Or try a crust of bread
And one dish
called, from its enormous dimensions, the Shield of Minerva, and made, among other costly ingredients, of the brains of pheasants
Ow, ow, ow
Woodcocks
Ow, ow, ow
The sounds of the fish called scari
You'll burst some vessel in your head
You had better let it come
And the spawn of the lamprey, brought from the Carpathian Sea
when we read of costly entertainments such as these, and still remember, that we have a Titus
What would be your mother's feelings if you died of apoplexy
A Domitian
And you're blue, you know
it is, Mr Feeder -- if you are doing me the honour to attend -- remarkable; VERY remarkable, Sir
Gentlemen
rise for Grace! Cornelia, lift Dombey down
Johnson will repeat to me tomorrow morning before breakfast, without book, and from the Greek Testament, the first chapter of the Epistle of Saint Paul to the Ephesians. We will resume our studies, Mr Feeder, in half-an-hour
Yes, Sir
So am I
Gentlemen, we will resume our studies at seven to-morrow
Gentlemen, we will resume our studies at seven tomorrow
Bother
Oh yes
Is that Dombey
Yes, Ma'am
Come in, Dombey
I am going out for a constitutional
These are yours, Dombey
All of 'em, Ma'am
Yes
and Mr Feeder will look you out some more very soon, if you are as studious as I expect you will be, Dombey
Thank you, Ma'am
I am going out for a constitutional
and while I am gone, that is to say in the interval between this and breakfast, Dombey, I wish you to read over what I have marked in these books, and to tell me if you quite understand what you have got to learn. Don't lose time, Dombey, for you have none to spare, but take them downstairs, and begin directly
Yes, Ma'am
Oh, Dombey, Dombey, this is really very careless
was in for it now
Now, Dombey
How have you got on with those books
Oh, Dombey, Dombey
this is very shocking
If you please
I think if I might sometimes talk a little to old Glubb, I should be able to do better
Nonsense, Dombey
I couldn't hear of it. This is not the place for Glubbs of any kind. You must take the books down, I suppose, Dombey, one by one, and perfect yourself in the day's instalment of subject A, before you turn at all to subject B. I am sorry to say, Dombey, that your education appears to have been very much neglected
So Papa says
but I told you -- I have been a weak child. Florence knows I have. So does Wickam
Who is Wickam
She has been my nurse
I must beg you not to mention Wickam to me, then
You asked me who she was
Very well
but this is all very different indeed from anything of that sort, Dombey, and I couldn't think of permitting it. As to having been weak, you must begin to be strong. And now take away the top book, if you please, Dombey, and return when you are master of the theme
Good, Dombey
Gentlemen, we will now resume our studies
See here, Susan
These are the names of the little books that Paul brings home to do those long exercises with, when he is so tired. I copied them last night while he was writing
Don't show 'em to me, Miss Floy, if you please
I'd as soon see Mrs Pipchin
I want you to buy them for me, Susan, if you will, tomorrow morning. I have money enough
Why, goodness gracious me, Miss Floy
how can you talk like that, when you have books upon books already, and masterses and mississes a teaching of you everything continual, though my belief is that your Pa, Miss Dombey, never would have learnt you nothing, never would have thought of it, unless you'd asked him -- when he couldn't well refuse; but giving consent when asked, and offering when unasked, Miss, is quite two things; I may not have my objections to a young man's keeping company with me, and when he puts the question, may say "yes," but that's not saying "would you be so kind as like me
But you can buy me the books, Susan; and you will, when you know why I want them
Well, Miss, and why do you want 'em
If it was to fling at Mrs Pipchin's head, I'd buy a cart-load
Paul has a great deal too much to do, Susan
I am sure of it
And well you may be, Miss
and make your mind quite easy that the willing dear is worked and worked away. If those is Latin legs
give me English ones
I am afraid he feels lonely and lost at Doctor Blimber's, Susan
Ah
Oh, them "Blimbers
Don't blame anyone
It's a mistake
I say nothing about blame, Miss
for I know that you object, but I may wish, Miss, that the family was set to work to make new roads, and that Miss Blimber went in front and had the pickaxe
I think I could perhaps give Paul some help, Susan, if I had these books
and make the coming week a little easier to him. At least I want to try. So buy them for me, dear, and I will never forget how kind it was of you to do it
resume his studies
Oh, Floy
how I love you! How I love you, Floy
And I you, dear
Oh! I am sure of that, Floy
odd
moped
How are you
Quite well, Sir, thank you
Shake hands
How are you
Quite well, Sir, thank you
I say
what do you think about
Oh! I think about a great many things
Do you, though
If you had to die
Don't you think you would rather die on a moonlight night, when the sky was quite clear, and the wind blowing, as it did last night
Not blowing, at least
but sounding in the air like the sea sounds in the shells. It was a beautiful night. When I had listened to the water for a long time, I got up and looked out. There was a boat over there, in the full light of the moon; a boat with a sail
Smugglers
or Preventive
A boat with a sail
in the full light of the moon. The sail like an arm, all silver. It went away into the distance, and what do you think it seemed to do as it moved with the waves
Pitch
It seemed to beckon
to beckon me to come!-- There she is! There she is
Who
My sister Florence
looking up here, and waving her hand. She sees me -- she sees me! Good-night, dear, good-night, good-night
Mr Dombey, to a man in your position from a man in mine, there is no show of subservience compatible with the transaction of business between us, that I should think sufficient. I frankly tell you, Sir, I give it up altogether. I feel that I could not satisfy my own mind; and Heaven knows, Mr Dombey, you can afford to dispense with the endeavour
How do you do this morning
How do you do, Carker
Coolish
Rather
Any news of the young gentleman who is so important to us all
Yes -- not direct news -- I hear he's very well
Very well, and becoming a great scholar, no doubt
I hope so
Egad
Time flies
I think so, sometimes
Oh! You! You have no reason to think so
One who sits on such an elevation as yours, and can sit there, unmoved, in all seasons -- hasn't much reason to know anything about the flight of time. It's men like myself, who are low down and are not superior in circumstances, and who inherit new masters in the course of Time, that have cause to look about us. I shall have a rising sun to worship, soon
Time enough, time enough, Carker
Have you anything there for me
I don't know that I need trouble you
You have a committee today at three, you know
And one at three, three-quarters
Catch you forgetting anything
If Mr Paul inherits your memory, he'll be a troublesome customer in the House. One of you is enough
You have an accurate memory of your own
Oh! I
It's the only capital of a man like me
Is Morfin here
Morfin's here
humming musical recollections -- of his last night's quartette party, I suppose -- through the walls between us, and driving me half mad. I wish he'd make a bonfire of his violoncello, and burn his music-books in it
You respect nobody, Carker, I think
No
Well! Not many people, I believe. I wouldn't answer perhaps
for more than one
Talking of Morfin
he reports a junior dead in the agency at Barbados, and proposes to reserve a passage in the Son and Heir -- she'll sail in a month or so -- for the successor. You don't care who goes, I suppose? We have nobody of that sort here
It's no very precious appointment
I hope he may bestow it on some orphan nephew of a musical friend. It may perhaps stop his fiddle-playing, if he has a gift that way. Who's that? Come in
I beg your pardon, Mr Carker. I didn't know you were here, Sir
Mr Carker the junior, Sir
I thought, Sir
that you had been before requested not to drag Mr Carker the Junior into your conversation
I beg your pardon
I was only going to say that Mr Carker the Junior had told me he believed you were gone out, or I should not have knocked at the door when you were engaged with Mr Dombey. These are letters for Mr Dombey, Sir
Very well, Sir
Go about your business
You can leave the room, Sir
These continual references to Mr Carker the Junior
are, to a man in my position, uttered before one in yours, so unspeakably distressing
Nonsense, Carker
You are too sensitive
I am sensitive
If one in your position could by any possibility imagine yourself in my place: which you cannot: you would be so too
You want somebody to send to the West Indies, you were saying
Yes
Send young Gay
Good, very good indeed. Nothing easier
Send young Gay
Call him back
Gay
An opening
In the West Indies. At Barbados. I am going to send you
to fill a junior situation in the counting-house at Barbados. Let your Uncle know from me, that I have chosen you to go to the West Indies
West Indies
Somebody must go
and you are young and healthy, and your Uncle's circumstances are not good. Tell your Uncle that you are appointed. You will not go yet. There will be an interval of a month -- or two perhaps
Shall I remain there, Sir
Will you remain there, Sir
What do you mean? What does he mean, Carker
Live there, Sir
Certainly
That's all
You will explain to him in good time about the usual outfit and so forth, Carker, of course. He needn't wait, Carker
You needn't wait, Gay
Unless
Unless he has anything to say
No, Sir
I hardly know -- I -- I am much obliged, Sir
He needn't wait, Carker
Bring your friend Mr Carker the Junior to my room, Sir, if you please
John Carker
what is the league between you and this young man, in virtue of which I am haunted and hunted by the mention of your name? Is it not enough for you, John Carker, that I am your near relation, and can't detach myself from that
Say disgrace, James
You mean it, and have reason, say disgrace
From that disgrace
but is the fact to be blurted out and trumpeted, and proclaimed continually in the presence of the very House! In moments of confidence too? Do you think your name is calculated to harmonise in this place with trust and confidence, John Carker
No
No, James. God knows I have no such thought
What is your thought, then
and why do you thrust yourself in my way? Haven't you injured me enough already
I have never injured you, James, wilfully
You are my brother
That's injury enough
I wish I could undo it, James
I wish you could and would
Spare me
Mr Carker
Indeed, indeed, this is my fault solely. In a kind of heedlessness, for which I cannot blame myself enough, I have, I have no doubt, mentioned Mr Carker the Junior much oftener than was necessary; and have allowed his name sometimes to slip through my lips, when it was against your expressed wish. But it has been my own mistake, Sir. We have never exchanged one word upon the subject -- very few, indeed, on any subject. And it has not been
all heedlessness on my part, Sir; for I have felt an interest in Mr Carker ever since I have been here, and have hardly been able to help speaking of him sometimes, when I have thought of him so much
I have felt it; and why should I not avow it in behalf of this unfriended, broken man
You are an excitable youth, Gay
and should endeavour to cool down a little now, for it would be unwise to encourage feverish predispositions. Be as cool as you can, Gay. Be as cool as you can. You might have asked Mr John Carker himself (if you have not done so) whether he claims to be, or is, an object of such strong interest
James, do me justice
Honour
On my Me -- on my fallen life
Indeed, you have avoided me, Mr Carker
And observe
it will be of still less use, Gay, if you persist in forcing Mr John Carker's name on people's attention. That is not the way to befriend Mr John Carker. Ask him if he thinks it is
It is no service to me
It only leads to such a conversation as the present, which I need not say I could have well spared. No one can be a better friend to me:' he spoke here very distinctly, as if he would impress it upon Walter: 'than in forgetting me, and leaving me to go my way, unquestioned and unnoticed
Your memory not being retentive, Gay, of what you are told by others
I thought it well that you should be told this from the best authority
Think of me more leniently, if you can, James
when I tell you I have had -- how could I help having, with my history, written here
my whole heart awakened by my observation of that boy, Walter Gay. I saw in him when he first came here, almost my other self
Your other self
Not as I am, but as I was when I first came here too; as sanguine, giddy, youthful, inexperienced; flushed with the same restless and adventurous fancies; and full of the same qualities, fraught with the same capacity of leading on to good or evil
I hope not
You strike me sharply; and your hand is steady, and your thrust is very deep
I imagined all this when he was a boy. I believed it. It was a truth to me. I saw him lightly walking on the edge of an unseen gulf where so many others walk with equal gaiety, and from which
The old excuse
So many. Go on. Say, so many fall
From which ONE traveller fell
who set forward, on his way, a boy like him, and missed his footing more and more, and slipped a little and a little lower; and went on stumbling still, until he fell headlong and found himself below a shattered man. Think what I suffered, when I watched that boy
You have only yourself to thank for it
Only myself
I don't seek to divide the blame or shame
You have divided the shame
Ah, James
I have been, since then, a useful foil to you. You have trodden on me freely in your climbing up. Don't spurn me with your heel
That's all
Mr Carker, pray let me thank you! Let me say how much I feel for you! How sorry I am, to have been the unhappy cause of all this! How I almost look upon you now as my protector and guardian! How very, very much, I feel obliged to you and pity you
Walter
I am far removed from you, and may I ever be. Do you know what I am
What you are
It was begun
before my twenty-first birthday -- led up to, long before, but not begun till near that time. I had robbed them when I came of age. I robbed them afterwards. Before my twenty-second birthday, it was all found out; and then, Walter, from all men's society, I died
The House was very good to me. May Heaven reward the old man for his forbearance! This one, too, his son, who was then newly in the Firm, where I had held great trust! I was called into that room which is now his -- I have never entered it since -- and came out, what you know me. For many years I sat in my present seat, alone as now, but then a known and recognised example to the rest. They were all merciful to me, and I lived. Time has altered that part of my poor expiation; and I think, except the three heads of the House, there is no one here who knows my story rightly. Before the little boy grows up, and has it told to him, my corner may be vacant. I would rather that it might be so! This is the only change to me since that day, when I left all youth, and hope, and good men's company, behind me in that room. God bless you, Walter! Keep you, and all dear to you, in honesty, or strike them dead
breaking up
that the thoughts of home and all its recollections, awakened in his mind the most pleasing emotions of anticipation and delight
chuckle-headed noodle
Dombey, I am going to send home your analysis
Thank you, Ma'am
You know what I mean, do you, Dombey
No, Ma'am
Dombey, Dombey
I begin to be afraid you are a sad boy. When you don't know the meaning of an expression, why don't you seek for information
Mrs Pipchin told me I wasn't to ask questions
I must beg you not to mention Mrs Pipchin to me, on any account, Dombey
I couldn't think of allowing it. The course of study here, is very far removed from anything of that sort. A repetition of such allusions would make it necessary for me to request to hear, without a mistake, before breakfast-time to-morrow morning, from Verbum personale down to simillimia cygno
I didn't mean, Ma'am
I must trouble you not to tell me that you didn't mean, if you please, Dombey
That is a line of argument I couldn't dream of permitting
Analysis of the character of P. Dombey." If my recollection serves me
the word analysis as opposed to synthesis, is thus defined by Walker. "The resolution of an object, whether of the senses or of the intellect, into its first elements." As opposed to synthesis, you observe. Now you know what analysis is, Dombey
Analysis
of the character of P. Dombey." I find that the natural capacity of Dombey is extremely good; and that his general disposition to study may be stated in an equal ratio. Thus, taking eight as our standard and highest number, I find these qualities in Dombey stated each at six three-fourths
Violence two. Selfishness two. Inclination to low company, as evinced in the case of a person named Glubb, originally seven, but since reduced. Gentlemanly demeanour four, and improving with advancing years." Now what I particularly wish to call your attention to, Dombey, is the general observation at the close of this analysis
It may be generally observed of Dombey
that his abilities and inclinations are good, and that he has made as much progress as under the circumstances could have been expected. But it is to be lamented of this young gentleman that he is singular (what is usually termed old-fashioned) in his character and conduct, and that, without presenting anything in either which distinctly calls for reprobation, he is often very unlike other young gentlemen of his age and social position." Now, Dombey
do you understand that
I think I do, Ma'am
This analysis, you see, Dombey
is going to be sent home to your respected parent. It will naturally be very painful to him to find that you are singular in your character and conduct. It is naturally painful to us; for we can't like you, you know, Dombey, as well as we could wish
Not so fond
not so fond as I am of Florence, of course; that could never be. You couldn't expect that, could you, Ma'am
Oh! the old-fashioned little soul
But I like everybody here very much
and I should grieve to go away, and think that anyone was glad that I was gone, or didn't care
Bring him on, Cornelia! Bring him on
Aha, Dombey, there you are, are you
And there you are, too, Dombey. That's yours
Mine, Sir
Your invitation
Ah! Come, come! That's well! How is my little friend now
Oh, quite well, thank you, Sir
Mrs Pipchin, don't tell Florence
Don't tell Florence what, my little Paul
About me
No, no
What do you think I mean to do when I grow up, Mrs Pipchin
I mean
to put my money all together in one Bank, never try to get any more, go away into the country with my darling Florence, have a beautiful garden, fields, and woods, and live there with her all my life
Indeed
Yes
That's what I mean to do, when I
If I grow up
How are you now, Dombey
Cheer up, little Dombey
Yes, I think, Doctor Blimber, we may release this young gentleman from his books just now; the vacation being so very near at hand
By all means
My love, you will inform Cornelia, if you please
Assuredly
Thank you, Sir
Our little friend
has never complained
Oh no
He was not likely to complain
You find him greatly better
Oh! he is greatly better, Sir
How do you do, Sir
old-fashioned
poor little Dombey
Gentlemen, we will resume our studies on the twenty-fifth of next month
Ay, ay, ay! God bless my soul
What do you think of this, Dombey
Cook 'em
But what is the matter, Floy
Nothing, darling; nothing
Why, Floy
We'll go home together, and I'll nurse you, love
Nurse me
Floy
Tell me, dear, Do you think I have grown old-fashioned
No
Because I know they say so
and I want to know what they mean, Floy
And what room is this now, for instance
Doctor Blimber's study, Ma'am
Very good
And this little creature, now
Is he one of the
Young gentlemen, Ma'am; yes, Ma'am
And what is your name, my pale child
Dombey
City -- very rich -- most respectable -- Doctor mentioned it
Will you tell your good Papa that Sir Barnet Skettles rejoiced to hear that he was very well, and sent him his best compliments
Yes, Sir
That is my brave boy
Barnet
this is a young gentleman you ought to know. This is a young gentleman you may know, Barnet
What eyes! What hair! What a lovely face
My sister
Of something connected with statistics, I'll swear
Why no, Sir Barnet
No, not exactly
Figures of some sort, I would venture a bet
Why yes
Had I a heart for falsehood framed, I ne'er could injure You
Do, Floy! Please! For me, my dear
Good-bye, Doctor Blimber
Good-bye, my little friend
I'm very much obliged to you, Sir
Ask them to take care of Diogenes, if you please
Dombey, Dombey, you have always been my favourite pupil. God bless you
Dombey's going
Little Dombey's going
Dombey, don't forget me
Is Dombey there
Is Dombey there
Oh Floy, take me home, and never leave me
Take me home, Floy! take me home
I want to speak to Florence, if you please
To Florence by herself, for a moment
Floy, my pet, wasn't that Papa in the hall, when they brought me from the coach
Yes, dear
He didn't cry, and go into his room, Floy, did he, when he saw me coming in
I'm very glad he didn't cry
I thought he did. Don't tell them that I asked
Well! at last and at least, Uncle Sol must be told
Stinger
Cuttle
Wal'r
Ay, ay, Captain Cuttle
What's the matter, my lad
Gills an't been and sprung nothing again
No, no
My Uncle's all right, Captain Cuttle
Though you're early, Wal'r
Why, the fact is, Captain Cuttle
I was afraid you would have gone out, and I want to benefit by your friendly counsel
So you shall
what'll you take
I want to take your opinion, Captain Cuttle
That's the only thing for me
Come on then
With a will, my lad
You see, Captain Cuttle
for myself, I am young, as Mr Dombey said, and not to be considered. I am to fight my way through the world, I know; but there are two points I was thinking, as I came along, that I should be very particular about, in respect to my Uncle. I don't mean to say that I deserve to be the pride and delight of his life -- you believe me, I know -- but I am. Now, don't you think I am
If I live and have my health
and I am not afraid of that, still, when I leave England I can hardly hope to see my Uncle again. He is old, Captain Cuttle; and besides, his life is a life of custom
Steady, Wal'r! Of a want of custom
Too true
but I meant a life of habit, Captain Cuttle -- that sort of custom. And if (as you very truly said, I am sure) he would have died the sooner for the loss of the stock, and all those objects to which he has been accustomed for so many years, don't you think he might die a little sooner for the loss of
Of his Nevy
Right
Well then
we must do our best to make him believe that the separation is but a temporary one, after all; but as I know better, or dread that I know better, Captain Cuttle, and as I have so many reasons for regarding him with affection, and duty, and honour, I am afraid I should make but a very poor hand at that, if I tried to persuade him of it. That's my great reason for wishing you to break it out to him; and that's the first point
Keep her off a point or so
What did you say, Captain Cuttle
Stand by
Wal'r, my boy
in the Proverbs of Solomon you will find the following words, "May we never want a friend in need, nor a bottle to give him!" When found, make a note of
When found, make a note of
Captain Cuttle
Turn again, Whittington
Ay
and turn a great many times, too, Captain Cuttle, I'm afraid, before such fortune as his ever turns up again. Not that I complain
ahoy
And now, Captain Cuttle
if you'll come and break the news to Uncle Sol (which he ought to have known, days upon days ago, by rights), I'll leave you at the door, you know, and walk about until the afternoon
It's an old habit of mine, Wal'r
any time these fifty year. When you see Ned Cuttle bite his nails, Wal'r, then you may know that Ned Cuttle's aground
There's a friend of mine
but he's at present coasting round to Whitby, that would deliver such an opinion on this subject, or any other that could be named, as would give Parliament six and beat 'em. Been knocked overboard, that man
twice, and none the worse for it. Was beat in his apprenticeship, for three weeks (off and on), about the head with a ring-bolt. And yet a clearer-minded man don't walk
If you was to take and show that man the buoy at the Nore
and ask him his opinion of it, Wal'r, he'd give you an opinion that was no more like that buoy than your Uncle's buttons are. There ain't a man that walks -- certainly not on two legs -- that can come near him. Not near him
What's his name, Captain Cuttle
But Lord, it might be anything for the matter of that, with such a mind as his
Or if there should be any little hitch between 'em
it only wants a word in season from a friend of both parties, to set it right and smooth, and make all taut again
Would ye be so good, my lad, as report Cap'en Cuttle here
Now, Wal'r, my boy, you may help me on with them slops
You're going in
Yes
And you won't forget anything
No
I'll go upon my walk at once
and then I shall be out of the way, Captain Cuttle
un, my lad
Staggs's Gardens, Mr Walter
if you please, oh do
Eh
what is the matter
Oh, Mr Walter, Staggs's Gardens, if you please
There
that's the way the young lady's been a goin' on for up'ards of a mortal hour, and me continivally backing out of no thoroughfares, where she would drive up. I've had a many fares in this coach, first and last, but never such a fare as her
Do you want to go to Staggs's Gardens, Susan
Ah! She wants to go there! WHERE IS IT
I don't know where it is
Mr Walter, I was there once myself, along with Miss Floy and our poor darling Master Paul, on the very day when you found Miss Floy in the City, for we lost her coming home, Mrs Richards and me, and a mad bull, and Mrs Richards's eldest, and though I went there afterwards, I can't remember where it is, I think it's sunk into the ground. Oh, Mr Walter, don't desert me, Staggs's Gardens, if you please! Miss Floy's darling -- all our darlings -- little, meek, meek Master Paul! Oh Mr Walter
Good God
Is he very ill
The pretty flower
has took the fancy that he'd like to see his old nurse, and I've come to bring her to his bedside, Mrs Staggs, of Polly Toodle's Gardens, someone pray
not a rood of English ground
Yes' sir, yes
Has the little boy been long ill, Susan
Ailing for a deal of time, but no one knew how much
Oh, them Blimbers
Blimbers
I couldn't forgive myself at such a time as this, Mr Walter
and when there's so much serious distress to think about, if I rested hard on anyone, especially on them that little darling Paul speaks well of, but I may wish that the family was set to work in a stony soil to make new roads, and that Miss Blimber went in front, and had the pickaxe
Where's Mrs Richards
Oh Mrs Richards, Mrs Richards, come along with me, my dear creetur
Why, if it ain't Susan
Yes, Mrs Richards, it's me
and I wish it wasn't, though I may not seem to flatter when I say so, but little Master Paul is very ill, and told his Pa today that he would like to see the face of his old nurse, and him and Miss Floy hope you'll come along with me -- and Mr Walter, Mrs Richards -- forgetting what is past, and do a kindness to the sweet dear that is withering away. Oh, Mrs Richards, withering away
Polly! cut away
I am better. I am a great deal better, thank you! Tell Papa so
Why, will it never stop, Floy
It is bearing me away, I think
You are always watching me, Floy, let me watch you, now
Floy
What is that
Where, dearest
There! at the bottom of the bed
There's nothing there, except Papa
My own boy! Don't you know me
Don't be sorry for me, dear Papa! Indeed I am quite happy
Don't be sorry for me! Indeed I am quite happy
Floy, did I ever see Mama
No, darling, why
Did I ever see any kind face, like Mama's, looking at me when I was a baby, Floy
Oh yes, dear
Whose, Floy
Your old nurse's. Often
And where is my old nurse
Is she dead too? Floy, are we all dead, except you
Show me that old nurse, Floy, if you please
She is not here, darling. She shall come to-morrow
Thank you, Floy
Floy, is it tomorrow? Is she come
And who is this? Is this my old nurse
Floy! this is a kind good face
I am glad to see it again. Don't go away, old nurse! Stay here
Who was that, who said "Walter
Someone said Walter. Is he here? I should like to see him very much
Call him back, then: let him come up
Good-bye
Good-bye, my child
Not good-bye
Yes
good-bye! Walter dear, good-bye
Where is Papa
Remember Walter, dear Papa
Remember Walter. I was fond of Walter
good-bye
Now lay me down
and, Floy, come close to me, and let me see you
Floy! But it's very near the sea. I hear the waves! They always said so
Mama is like you, Floy. I know her by the face! But tell them that the print upon the stairs at school is not divine enough. The light about the head is shining on me as I go
Dear me, dear me! To think
that Dombey and Son should be a Daughter after all
But I'm behind the time, you understand
and I would rather have my dear boy here. It's an old-fashioned notion, I daresay. He was always fond of the sea
he's glad to go
Uncle Sol
if you say that, I won't go. No, Captain Cuttle, I won't. If my Uncle thinks I could be glad to leave him, though I was going to be made Governor of all the Islands in the West Indies, that's enough. I'm a fixture
Wal'r, my lad
Here is a certain craft
a-going to put out on a certain voyage. What name is wrote upon that craft indelibly? Is it The Gay? or
is it The Gills
Ned
I know. I know. Of course I know that Wally considers me more than himself always. That's in my mind. When I say he is glad to go, I mean I hope he is. Eh? look you, Ned and you too, Wally, my dear, this is new and unexpected to me; and I'm afraid my being behind the time, and poor, is at the bottom of it. Is it really good fortune for him, do you tell me, now
Really and truly? Is it? I can reconcile myself to almost anything that advances Wally, but I won't have Wally putting himself at any disadvantage for me, or keeping anything from me. You, Ned Cuttle
are you dealing plainly by your old friend? Speak out, Ned Cuttle. Is there anything behind? Ought he to go? How do you know it first, and why
Matey
One of your Governors is named Carker
Look'ee here, mate
my name's Cap'en Cuttle
If you'll be so good as just report Cap'en Cuttle here, when you get a chance
I'll wait
What name was it you said
Cap'en
Yes
Cuttle
Oh
I'll see if he's disengaged now. I don't know. Perhaps he may be for a minute
Ay, ay, my lad, I won't detain him longer than a minute
Will Captain Cuttle walk this way
Mr Carker
I believe so
You see
I'm a seafaring man myself, Mr Carker, and Wal'r, as is on your books here, is almost a son of mine
Walter Gay
Wal'r Gay it is
right
I'm a intimate friend of his and his Uncle's. Perhaps
you may have heard your head Governor mention my name?-- Captain Cuttle
No
Well
I've the pleasure of his acquaintance. I waited upon him down on the Sussex coast there, with my young friend Wal'r, when -- in short, when there was a little accommodation wanted
You remember, I daresay
I think
I had the honour of arranging the business
To be sure
Won't you sit down
Thank'ee
A man does get more way upon himself, perhaps, in his conversation, when he sits down. Won't you take a cheer yourself
No thank you
You have taken the liberty, you were going to say -- though it's none
Thank'ee kindly, my lad
of coming here, on account of my friend Wal'r. Sol Gills, his Uncle, is a man of science, and in science he may be considered a clipper; but he ain't what I should altogether call a able seaman -- not man of practice. Wal'r is as trim a lad as ever stepped; but he's a little down by the head in one respect, and that is, modesty. Now what I should wish to put to you
in a friendly way, entirely between you and me, and for my own private reckoning, 'till your head Governor has wore round a bit, and I can come alongside of him, is this -- Is everything right and comfortable here, and is Wal'r out'ard bound with a pretty fair wind
What do you think now, Captain Cuttle
You are a practical man; what do you think
Come
what do you say? Am I right or wrong
Right
I have no doubt
Out'ard bound with fair weather, then, I say
Wind right astarn, and plenty of it
Ay, ay
I know'd how she headed, well enough; I told Wal'r so. Thank'ee, thank'ee
Gay has brilliant prospects
all the world before him
All the world and his wife too, as the saying is
I'd bet a gill of old Jamaica
that I know what you're a smiling at
It goes no farther
Not an inch
You're thinking of a capital F perhaps
Anything about a L
or a O
Am I right, again
He know'd her first
in an uncommon manner -- you remember his finding her in the street when she was a'most a babby -- he has liked her ever since, and she him, as much as two youngsters can. We've always said, Sol Gills and me, that they was cut out for each other
There's a general indraught that way
Wind and water sets in that direction, you see. Look at his being present t'other day
Most favourable to his hopes
Look at his being towed along in the wake of that day
Why what can cut him adrift now
Nothing
You're right again
Nothing it is. So! steady! There's a son gone: pretty little creetur. Ain't there
Yes, there's a son gone
Pass the word, and there's another ready for you
Nevy of a scientific Uncle! Nevy of Sol Gills! Wal'r! Wal'r, as is already in your business! And
who -- comes from Sol Gills's daily, to your business, and your buzzums
Am I right
Captain Cuttle
Honour
Not a word
To him or anyone
But merely for your own satisfaction and guidance -- and guidance, of course
with a view to your future proceedings
Thank'ee kindly, I am sure
I have no hesitation in saying, that's the fact. You have hit the probabilities exactly
And with regard to your head Governor
why an interview had better come about nat'ral between us. There's time enough
Time enough
And as I know -- it's what I always said -- that Wal'r's in a way to make his fortune
To make his fortune
And as Wal'r's going on this little voyage is, as I may say, in his day's work, and a part of his general expectations here
Of his general expectations here
Why, so long as I know that
Farewell
I ain't a man of many words, but I take it very kind of you to be so friendly, and above-board. You'll excuse me if I've been at all intruding, will you
Not at all
Thank'ee. My berth ain't very roomy
Good day
Stand by, Ned
You've done a little business for the youngsters today, my lad
I'll give you for a toast
Wal'r
Who
Wal'r
What's that
brought down
Yes
It shall be done immediately, Sir
There is really nothing to inscribe but name and age, you see
I beg your pardon, Sir
but as you wish it done immediately, and it may be put in hand when I get back
Well
Will you be so good as read it over again? I think there's a mistake
Where
beloved and only child
It should be, "son," I think, Sir
You are right. Of course. Make the correction
it seems like Sunday
Amendment to us all
There's room enough, God knows
Oh my brother, oh my dearly loved and loving brother! Only friend and companion of my slighted childhood! Could any less idea shed the light already dawning on your early grave, or give birth to the softened sorrow that is springing into life beneath this rain of tears
My dear child
when you are as old as I am
Which will be the prime of life
You will then
you will then know that all grief is unavailing, and that it is our duty to submit
I will try, dear aunt I do try
I am glad to hear it
because; my love, as our dear Miss Tox -- of whose sound sense and excellent judgment, there cannot possibly be two opinions
My dear Louisa, I shall really be proud, soon
will tell you, and confirm by her experience
we are called upon on all occasions to make an effort It is required of us. If any -- my dear
I want a word. Mis -- Mis
Demeanour
No, no, no
How can you! Goodness me, it's on, the end of my tongue. Mis
Good gracious, Lucretia
How very monstrous! Misanthrope, is the word I want. The idea! Misplaced affection! I say, if any misanthrope were to put, in my presence, the question "Why were we born?" I should reply, "To make an effort
Very good indeed
Very good
Unhappily
we have a warning under our own eyes. We have but too much reason to suppose, my dear child, that if an effort had been made in time, in this family, a train of the most trying and distressing circumstances might have been avoided. Nothing shall ever persuade me
but that if that effort had been made by poor dear Fanny, the poor dear darling child would at least have had a stronger constitution
Therefore, Florence, pray let us see that you have some strength of mind, and do not selfishly aggravate the distress in which your poor Papa is plunged
Dear aunt
Tell me more about Papa. Pray tell me about him! Is he quite heartbroken
Florence, my dear child, your poor Papa is peculiar at times; and to question me about him, is to question me upon a subject which I really do not pretend to understand. I believe I have as much influence with your Papa as anybody has. Still, all I can say is, that he has said very little to me; and that I have only seen him once or twice for a minute at a time, and indeed have hardly seen him then, for his room has been dark. I have said to your Papa, "Paul!"-- that is the exact expression I used --"Paul! why do you not take something stimulating?" Your Papa's reply has always been, "Louisa, have the goodness to leave me. I want nothing. I am better by myself." If I was to be put upon my oath to-morrow, Lucretia, before a magistrate
I have no doubt I could venture to swear to those identical words
My Louisa is ever methodical
In short, Florence
literally nothing has passed between your poor Papa and myself, until to-day; when I mentioned to your Papa that Sir Barnet and Lady Skettles had written exceedingly kind notes -- our sweet boy! Lady Skettles loved him like a -- where's my pocket handkerchief
Exceedingly kind notes, proposing that you should visit them for change of scene. Mentioning to your Papa that I thought Miss Tox and myself might now go home (in which he quite agreed), I inquired if he had any objection to your accepting this invitation. He said, "No, Louisa, not the least
At the same time, if you would prefer staying here, Florence, to paying this visit at present, or to going home with me
I should much prefer it, aunt
Why then, child
I should not like to feel
as if the house was avoided. I should not like to think that the -- his -- the rooms upstairs were quite empty and dreary, aunt. I would rather stay here, for the present. Oh my brother! oh my brother
Well, child
I had no sooner begun to advise your poor Papa that he really ought to seek some distraction and restoration in a temporary change
than he told me he had already formed the intention of going into the country for a short time. I'm sure I hope he'll go very soon. He can't go too soon. But I suppose there are some arrangements connected with his private papers and so forth, consequent on the affliction that has tried us all so much -- I can't think what's become of mine: Lucretia, lend me yours, my dear -- that may occupy him for one or two evenings in his own room. Your Papa's a Dombey, child, if ever there was one
He'll make an effort. There's no fear of him
Is there nothing, aunt
I might do to --' 'Lord, my dear child
what are you talking about? If your Papa said to Me -- I have given you his exact words, "Louisa, I want nothing; I am better by myself"-- what do you think he'd say to you? You mustn't show yourself to him, child. Don't dream of such a thing
Aunt
I will go and lie down on my bed
Good-night, Papa
A visitor! To me, Susan
Well, it is a wonder, ain't it now, Miss Floy
but I wish you had a many visitors, I do, indeed, for you'd be all the better for it, and it's my opinion that the sooner you and me goes even to them old Skettleses, Miss, the better for both, I may not wish to live in crowds, Miss Floy, but still I'm not a oyster
But the visitor, Susan
Mr Toots
My own feelings exactly, Miss Floy
Immediately I see that Innocent in the Hall, Miss Floy, I burst out laughing first, and then I choked
How d'ye do, Miss Dombey
I'm very well, I thank you; how are you
How d'ye do, Miss Dombey
I'm very well, I thank you; how are you
I'm very well indeed
Very well indeed, I am. I don't remember
that I was ever better, thank you
It's very kind of you to come
I am very glad to see you
You were very kind to my dear brother
He often talked to me about you
Oh it's of no consequence
Warm, ain't it
It is beautiful weather
It agrees with me
You have left Dr Blimber's, I think
I should hope so
Well! Good morning, Miss Dombey
Are you going
I don't know, though. No, not just at present
The fact is -- I say, Miss Dombey
Don't be afraid to speak to me
I should be very glad if you would talk about my brother
Would you, though
Poor Dombey! I'm sure I never thought that Burgess and Co.-- fashionable tailors (but very dear), that we used to talk about -- would make this suit of clothes for such a purpose
Poor Dombey! I say! Miss Dombey
Yes
There's a friend he took to very much at last. I thought you'd lIke to have him, perhaps, as a sort of keepsake. You remember his remembering Diogenes
Poor Dombey! So do I
I say
Miss Dombey! I could have had him stolen for ten shillings, if they hadn't given him up: and I would: but they were glad to get rid of him, I think. If you'd like to have him, he's at the door. I brought him on purpose for you. He ain't a lady's dog, you know
but you won't mind that, will you
Come, then, Di! Dear Di! Make friends with your new mistress. Let us love each other, Di
Your Pa's a going off, Miss Floy, tomorrow morning
To-morrow morning, Susan
Yes, Miss; that's the orders. Early
Do you know
where Papa is going, Susan
Not exactly, Miss. He's going to meet that precious Major first, and I must say if I was acquainted with any Major myself (which Heavens forbid), it shouldn't be a blue one
Hush, Susan
Well, Miss Floy
I can't help it, blue he is, and while I was a Christian, although humble, I would have natural-coloured friends, or none
Talk of him being a change, indeed
Good-night, Susan
Good-night, my darling dear Miss Floy
Papa! Papa! speak to me, dear Papa
What is the matter
Why do you come here? What has frightened you
I ask you, Florence, are you frightened? Is there anything the matter, that you come here
I came, Papa
Against my wishes. Why
You are tired, I daresay
and want rest. We all want rest. Go, Florence. You have been dreaming
I will remain here to light you up the stairs. The whole house is yours above there
You are its mistress now. Good-night
Good-night, dear Papa
Oh, Di! Oh, dear Di! Love me for his sake
A few hours more
and no dream I ever had here when I was a schoolboy will be so little mine as this old room. The dream may come back in my sleep, and I may return waking to this place, it may be: but the dream at least will serve no other master, and the room may have a score, and every one of them may change, neglect, misuse it
Uncle
what shall I send you home from Barbados
Hope, my dear Wally. Hope that we shall meet again, on this side of the grave. Send me as much of that as you can
So I will, Uncle: I have enough and to spare, and I'll not be chary of it! And as to lively turtles, and limes for Captain Cuttle's punch, and preserves for you on Sundays, and all that sort of thing, why I'll send you ship-loads, Uncle: when I'm rich enough
That's right, Uncle
Wally, my dear boy
I'll do my best, I'll do my best
And your best, Uncle
is the best best that I know. You'll not forget what you're to send me, Uncle
No, Wally, no
everything I hear about Miss Dombey, now that she is left alone, poor lamb, I'll write. I fear it won't be much though, Wally
Why, I'll tell you what, Uncle
I have just been up there
Ay, ay, ay
Not to see her
though I could have seen her, I daresay, if I had asked, Mr Dombey being out of town: but to say a parting word to Susan. I thought I might venture to do that, you know, under the circumstances, and remembering when I saw Miss Dombey last
Yes, my boy, yes
So I saw her
Susan, I mean: and I told her I was off and away to-morrow. And I said, Uncle, that you had always had an interest in Miss Dombey since that night when she was here, and always wished her well and happy, and always would be proud and glad to serve her in the least: I thought I might say that, you know, under the circumstances. Don't you think so
Yes, my boy, yes
And I added
that if she -- Susan, I mean -- could ever let you know, either through herself, or Mrs Richards, or anybody else who might be coming this way, that Miss Dombey was well and happy, you would take it very kindly, and would write so much to me, and I should take it very kindly too. There! Upon my word, Uncle
I scarcely slept all last night through thinking of doing this; and could not make up my mind when I was out, whether to do it or not; and yet I am sure it is the true feeling of my heart, and I should have been quite miserable afterwards if I had not relieved it
So, if you ever see her, Uncle
I mean Miss Dombey now -- and perhaps you may, who knows!-- tell her how much I felt for her; how much I used to think of her when I was here; how I spoke of her, with the tears in my eyes, Uncle, on this last night before I went away. Tell her that I said I never could forget her gentle manner, or her beautiful face, or her sweet kind disposition that was better than all. And as I didn't take them from a woman's feet, or a young lady's: only a little innocent child's
tell her, if you don't mind, Uncle, that I kept those shoes -- she'll remember how often they fell off, that night -- and took them away with me as a remembrance
Why, Uncle
What's the matter
Miss Dombey
Is it possible
Here
Going away, Walter
Yes, Miss Dombey
I have a voyage before me
And your Uncle
He is sorry you are going, I am sure. Ah! I see he is! Dear Walter, I am very sorry too
Goodness knows
there's a many we could spare instead, if numbers is a object, Mrs Pipchin as a overseer would come cheap at her weight in gold, and if a knowledge of black slavery should be required, them Blimbers is the very people for the sitiwation
So grown
So improved! And yet not altered! Just the same
Indeed
Ye -- yes
Yes, that expression was in the younger face, too
You remember me
and what a little creature I was then
My dear young lady
how could I forget you, often as I have thought of you and heard of you since! At the very moment, indeed, when you came in, Wally was talking about you to me, and leaving messages for you, and
Was he
Thank you, Walter! Oh thank you, Walter! I was afraid you might be going away and hardly thinking of me
I -- I am afraid I must call you Walter's Uncle, Sir
if you'll let me
My dear young lady
Let you! Good gracious
We always knew you by that name, and talked of you
The nice old parlour! Just the same! How well I recollect it
Ah! time, time, time
I want to tell Walter's Uncle
something that I am anxious about. He is going to be left alone, and if he will allow me -- not to take Walter's place, for that I couldn't do, but to be his true friend and help him if I ever can while Walter is away, I shall be very much obliged to him indeed. Will you? May I, Walter's Uncle
You will let me come to see you
when I can; and you will tell me everything about yourself and Walter; and you will have no secrets from Susan when she comes and I do not, but will confide in us, and trust us, and rely upon us. And you'll try to let us be a comfort to you? Will you, Walter's Uncle
Wally! say a word for me, my dear. I'm very grateful
No, Walter
Say nothing for him, if you please. I understand him very well, and we must learn to talk together without you, dear Walter
Miss Florence
I know no more than my Uncle, what to say in acknowledgment of such kindness, I am sure. But what could I say, after all, if I had the power of talking for an hour, except that it is like you
Oh! but, Walter
there is something that I wish to say to you before you go away, and you must call me Florence, if you please, and not speak like a stranger
Like a stranger
No. I couldn't speak so. I am sure, at least, I couldn't feel like one
Ay, but that is not enough, and is not what I mean. For, Walter
he liked you very much, and said before he died that he was fond of you, and said "Remember Walter!" and if you'll be a brother to me, Walter, now that he is gone and I have none on earth, I'll be your sister all my life, and think of you like one wherever we may be! This is what I wished to say, dear Walter, but I cannot say it as I would, because my heart is full
Walter
I have been afraid to ask before your Uncle. Do you think you will be absent very long
Indeed
I don't know. I fear so. Mr Dombey signified as much, I thought, when he appointed me
Is it a favour, Walter
The appointment
Yes
I am afraid you have scarcely been a favourite with Papa
There is no reason
why I should be
No reason, Walter
There was no reason
There are many people employed in the House. Between Mr Dombey and a young man like me, there's a wide space of separation. If I do my duty, I do what I ought, and do no more than all the rest
You may come back very soon
perhaps, Walter
I may come back
an old man, and find you an old lady. But I hope for better things
Papa
will -- will recover from his grief, and -- speak more freely to me one day, perhaps; and if he should, I will tell him how much I wish to see you back again, and ask him to recall you for my sake
Walter
like you, I hope for better things. I will pray for them, and believe that they will arrive. I made this little gift for Paul. Pray take it with my love, and do not look at it until you are gone away. And now, God bless you, Walter! never forget me. You are my brother, dear
And, Wal'r
No, no, Ned
No! That shall be opened when Walter comes home again
Well said
Hear him
There it lies
down in the little cellar, covered with dirt and cobwebs. There may be dirt and cobwebs over you and me perhaps, Ned, before it sees the light
Good morality! Wal'r, my lad. Train up a fig-tree in the way it should go, and when you are old sit under the shade on it. Overhaul the -- Well
I ain't quite certain where that's to be found, but when found, make a note of. Sol Gills, heave ahead again
But there or somewhere, it shall lie, Ned, until Wally comes back to claim it
That's all I meant to say
And well said too
and if we three don't crack that bottle in company, I'll give you two leave to
Mr Carker
Pray come in! This is kind of you, to be here so early to say good-bye to me. You knew how glad it would make me to shake hands with you, once, before going away. I cannot say how glad I am to have this opportunity. Pray come in
It is not likely that we may ever meet again, Walter
Ah, Mr Carker
If there were any good
I could do on this earth, I would do it, Walter, for you. The sight of you from day to day, has been at once happiness and remorse to me. But the pleasure has outweighed the pain. I know that, now, by knowing what I lose
Come in, Mr Carker, and make acquaintance with my good old Uncle
I have often talked to him about you, and he will be glad to tell you all he hears from me. I have not
If I ever make acquaintance with him, Walter
it will be that I may hear tidings of you. Rely on my not wronging your forbearance and consideration. It would be to wrong it, not to tell him all the truth, before I sought a word of confidence from him. But I have no friend or acquaintance except you: and even for your sake, am little likely to make any
I wish
you had suffered me to be your friend indeed. I always wished it, Mr Carker, as you know; but never half so much as now, when we are going to part
It is enough replied the other, 'that you have been the friend of my own breast, and that when I have avoided you most, my heart inclined the most towards you, and was fullest of you. Walter, good-bye
Good-bye, Mr Carker. Heaven be with you, Sir
If
if when you come back, you miss me from my old corner, and should hear from anyone where I am lying, come and look upon my grave. Think that I might have been as honest and as happy as you! And let me think, when I know time is coming on, that some one like my former self may stand there, for a moment, and remember me with pity and forgiveness! Walter, good-bye
Wal'r
a parting gift, my lad. Put it back half an hour every morning, and about another quarter towards the arternoon, and it's a watch that'll do you credit
Captain Cuttle! I couldn't think of it
Pray take it back. I have one already
Then, Wal'r
take this here trifle of plate, instead
No, no, I couldn't indeed
a thousand thanks! Don't throw them away, Captain Cuttle
They'll be of much more use to you than me. Give me your stick. I have often thought I should like to have it. There! Good-bye, Captain Cuttle! Take care of my Uncle! Uncle Sol, God bless you
Mr Dombey, Sir
Joee' B. is not in general a man of sentiment, for Joseph is tough. But Joe has his feelings, Sir, and when they are awakened -- Damme, Mr Dombey
this is weakness, and I won't submit to it
It is not for an old soldier of the Bagstock breed
to deliver himself up, a prey to his own emotions; but -- damme, Sir
I condole with you
Dombey
I'm glad to see you. I'm proud to see you. There are not many men in Europe to whom J. Bagstock would say that -- for Josh is blunt. Sir: it's his nature -- but Joey B. is proud to see you, Dombey
Major
you are very obliging
No, Sir
Devil a bit! That's not my character. If that had been Joe's character, Joe might have been, by this time, Lieutenant-General Sir Joseph Bagstock, K.C.B., and might have received you in very different quarters. You don't know old Joe yet, I find. But this occasion, being special, is a source of pride to me. By the Lord, Sir
it's an honour to me
Where is my scoundrel
You villain
where's the breakfast
Dombey
Very excellent fare, Major
You have been looking over the way, Sir
Have you seen our friend
You mean Miss Tox
No
Charming woman, Sir
Miss Tox is a very good sort of person, I believe
Old Joe, Sir
was a bit of a favourite in that quarter once. But Joe has had his day. J. Bagstock is extinguished -- outrivalled -- floored, Sir
I should have supposed
that the lady's day for favourites was over: but perhaps you are jesting, Major
Perhaps you are jesting, Dombey
I beg your pardon
I see you are in earnest. I tell you what, Dombey
That's a de-vilish ambitious woman, Sir
Indeed
That woman, Sir
is, in her way, a Lucifer. Joey B. has had his day, Sir, but he keeps his eyes. He sees, does Joe. His Royal Highness the late Duke of York observed of Joey, at a levee, that he saw
That ridiculous old spectacle, Sir
aspires. She aspires sky-high, Sir. Matrimonially, Dombey
I am sorry for her
Don't say that, Dombey
Why should I not, Major
She has taken an interest in your household
and has been a frequent visitor at your house for some time now
Yes
Miss Tox was originally received there, at the time of Mrs Dombey's death, as a friend of my sister's; and being a well-behaved person, and showing a liking for the poor infant, she was permitted -- may I say encouraged -- to repeat her visits with my sister, and gradually to occupy a kind of footing of familiarity in the family. I have
I have a respect for Miss Tox. She his been so obliging as to render many little services in my house: trifling and insignificant services perhaps, Major, but not to be disparaged on that account: and I hope I have had the good fortune to be enabled to acknowledge them by such attention and notice as it has been in my power to bestow. I hold myself indebted to Miss Tox, Major
for the pleasure of your acquaintance
Dombey
no! No, Sir! Joseph Bagstock can never permit that assertion to pass uncontradicted. Your knowledge of old Joe, Sir, such as he is, and old Joe's knowledge of you, Sir, had its origin in a noble fellow, Sir -- in a great creature, Sir. Dombey
we knew each other through your boy
Our friend had a remote connexion with that event
and all the credit that belongs to her, J. B. is willing to give her, Sir. Notwithstanding which, Ma'am
you're a scheming jade, Ma'am, and your ambition is a piece of monstrous impudence. If it only made yourself ridiculous, Ma'am
you might do that to your heart's content, Ma'am, without any objection, I assure you, on the part of Bagstock
But when, Ma'am
you compromise other people, and generous, unsuspicious people too, as a repayment for their condescension, you stir the blood of old Joe in his body
Major
I hope you do not hint at anything so absurd on the part of Miss Tox as
Dombey
I hint at nothing. But Joey B. has lived in the world, Sir: lived in the world with his eyes open, Sir, and his ears cocked: and Joe tells you, Dombey, that there's a devilish artful and ambitious woman over the way
That's all on such a subject that shall pass the lips of Joseph Bagstock
Joe is not a tale-bearer, but there are times when he must speak, when he will speak!-- confound your arts, Ma'am
when the provocation is too strong to admit of his remaining silent
And now, Dombey, as you have invited Joe -- old Joe, who has no other merit, Sir, but that he is tough and hearty -- to be your guest and guide at Leamington, command him in any way you please, and he is wholly yours. I don't know, Sir
what it is you people see in Joe to make you hold him in such great request, all of you; but this I know, Sir, that if he wasn't pretty tough, and obstinate in his refusals, you'd kill him among you with your invitations and so forth, in double-quick time
J. B., Dombey is the man for you to choose as a friend
Beg your pardon, Sir
but I hope you're a doin' pretty well, Sir
I shall have the honour of stokin' of you down, Sir
Beg your pardon, Sir.-- I hope you find yourself a coming round
Scuse the liberty, Sir
but my wife Polly, as was called Richards in your family
Your wife wants money, I suppose
No thank'ee, Sir
I can't say she does. I don't
No, Sir
we're a doin' pretty well, Sir; we haven't no cause to complain in the worldly way, Sir. We've had four more since then, Sir, but we rubs on
We lost one babby
Lately
said Toodle, ducking again, as if to remind Mr Dombey of what had passed between them on that subject long ago, 'them boys o' mine, they learned me, among 'em, arter all. They've made a wery tolerable scholar of me, Sir, them boys
Come, Major
Beg your pardon, Sir
I wouldn't have troubled you with such a pint except as a way of gettin' in the name of my son Biler -- christened Robin -- him as you was so good as to make a Charitable Grinder on
Well, man
What about him
Why, Sir
He has gone wrong, has he
He has fell into bad company, you see, genelmen
He has got into bad ways. God send he may come to again, genelmen, but he's on the wrong track now! You could hardly be off hearing of it somehow, Sir
and it's better I should out and say my boy's gone rather wrong. Polly's dreadful down about it, genelmen
A son of this man's whom I caused to be educated, Major
The usual return
Take advice from plain old Joe, and never educate that sort of people, Sir
Damme, Sir, it never does! It always fails
The usual return
his own vagabond
want and fever hide themselves in many wretched shapes, while smoke and crowded gables, and distorted chimneys, and deformity of brick and mortar penning up deformity of mind and body, choke the murky distance. As Mr Dombey looks out of his carriage window, it is never in his thoughts that the monster who has brought him there has let the light of day in on these things: not made or caused them. It was the journey's fitting end, and might have been the end of everything; it was so ruinous and dreary
Dombey
don't be thoughtful. It's a bad habit, Old Joe, Sir, wouldn't be as tough as you see him, if he had ever encouraged it. You are too great a man, Dombey, to be thoughtful. In your position, Sir, you're far above that kind of thing
Bagstock, your friend Dombey now, what is the view he takes of such and such a question? Though, by the Rood, Sir
how they discovered that J. B. ever came to know you, is a mystery
Why, what the devil have we here, Sir
My dearest Edith
Major Bagstock
Joe Bagstock
is a proud and happy man for the rest of his life
Where do you come from? I can't bear you
Then suffer old Joe to present a friend, Ma'am
as a reason for being tolerated. Mr Dombey, Mrs Skewton
Mr Dombey, Mrs Granger
I am delighted, Sir
to have this opportunity
Mrs Skewton, Dombey
makes havoc in the heart of old Josh
You perfidious goblin
have done! How long have you been here, bad man
One day
And can you be a day, or even a minute
in the garden of what's-its-name
Eden, I suppose, Mama
My dear Edith
I cannot help it. I never can remember those frightful names -- without having your whole Soul and Being inspired by the sight of Nature; by the perfume
of her artless breath, you creature
Mr Dombey is devoted to Nature, I trust
My friend Dombey, Ma'am
No one can be a stranger
to Mr Dombey's immense influence
You reside here, Madam
No, we have been to a great many places. To Harrogate and Scarborough, and into Devonshire. We have been visiting, and resting here and there. Mama likes change
Edith of course does not
I have not found that there is any change in such places
They libel me. There is only one change, Mr Dombey
for which I really care, and that I fear I shall never be permitted to enjoy. People cannot spare one. But seclusion and contemplation are my what-his-name
If you mean Paradise, Mama, you had better say so, to render yourself intelligible
My dearest Edith
you know that I am wholly dependent upon you for those odious names. I assure you, Mr Dombey, Nature intended me for an Arcadian. I am thrown away in society. Cows are my passion. What I have ever sighed for, has been to retreat to a Swiss farm, and live entirely surrounded by cows -- and china
What I want
is heart
What I want, is frankness, confidence, less conventionality, and freer play of soul. We are so dreadfully artificial
In short
I want Nature everywhere. It would be so extremely charming
Nature is inviting us away now, Mama, if you are ready
Stop a moment, Withers
Where are you staying, abomination
You may come and see us any evening when you are good
If Mr Dombey will honour us, we shall be happy. Withers, go on
I tell you what, Sir
If Joe Bagstock were a younger man, there's not a woman in the world whom he'd prefer for Mrs Bagstock to that woman. By George, Sir
she's superb
Do you mean the daughter
Is Joey B. a turnip, Dombey
that he should mean the mother
You were complimentary to the mother
An ancient flame, Sir
Devilish ancient. I humour her
She impresses me as being perfectly genteel
Genteel, Sir
The Honourable Mrs Skewton, Sir, is sister to the late Lord Feenix, and aunt to the present Lord. The family are not wealthy -- they're poor, indeed -- and she lives upon a small jointure; but if you come to blood, Sir
You addressed the daughter, I observed
as Mrs Granger
Edith Skewton, Sir
married (at eighteen) Granger of Ours
Granger, Sir
was Colonel of Ours; a de-vilish handsome fellow, Sir, of forty-one. He died, Sir, in the second year of his marriage
How long is this ago
Edith Granger, Sir
is, at this present time, not quite thirty. And damme, Sir
she's a peerless woman
Was there any family
Yes, Sir
There was a boy
Who was drowned, Sir
When a child of four or five years old
Indeed
By the upsetting of a boat in which his nurse had no business to have put him
That's his history. Edith Granger is Edith Granger still; but if tough old Joey B., Sir, were a little younger and a little richer, the name of that immortal paragon should be Bagstock
Provided the lady made no objection, I suppose
By Gad, Sir
the Bagstock breed are not accustomed to that sort of obstacle. Though it's true enough that Edith might have married twenty times, but for being proud, Sir, proud
It's a great quality after all
By the Lord, it's a high quality! Dombey! You are proud yourself, and your friend, Old Joe, respects you for it, Sir
You are a shocking bear and I have a great mind not to forgive you, but if you are very good indeed
you may come. Compliments (in which Edith unites) to Mr Dombey
I hope, Mrs Granger
we are not the cause of your ceasing to play
You! oh no
Why do you not go on then, my dearest Edith
I left off as I began -- of my own fancy
Do you know, Mr Dombey
that occasionally my dearest Edith and myself actually almost differ
Not quite, sometimes, Mama
Oh never quite, my darling! Fie, fie, it would break my heart
about these old conventionalities of manner that are observed in little things? Why are we not more natural? Dear me! With all those yearnings, and gushings, and impulsive throbbings that we have implanted in our souls, and which are so very charming, why are we not more natural
We could be more natural I suppose if we tried
Devil a bit, Ma'am
We couldn't afford it. Unless the world was peopled with J.B
You naughty Infidel
be mute
Cleopatra commands
and Antony Bagstock obeys
The man has no sensitiveness
No sympathy. And what do we live for but sympathy! What else is so extremely charming! Without that gleam of sunshine on our cold cold earth
how could we possibly bear it? In short, obdurate man
I would have my world all heart; and Faith is so excessively charming, that I won't allow you to disturb it, do you hear
There is not much company here, it would seem
I believe not. We see none
Why really
there are no people here just now with whom we care to associate
They have not enough heart
My dearest Edith rallies me, you see
Wicked one
You have been here before, if I am not mistaken
Oh, several times. I think we have been everywhere
A beautiful country
I suppose it is. Everybody says so
Your cousin Feenix raves about it, Edith
I hope, for the credit of my good taste, that I am tired of the neighbourhood
You have almost reason to be, Madam
if these beautiful productions are from your hand
Have they that interest
Are they yours
Yes
And you play, I already know
Yes
And sing
Yes
You have many resources against weariness at least
Whatever their efficiency may be
May I hope to prove them all
Oh certainly! If you desire it
We are going to have some music, Mr Dombey, I hope
Mrs Granger has been kind enough to promise so
Ah! That's very nice. Do you propose, Major
No, Ma'am
Couldn't do it
You're a barbarous being
and my hand's destroyed. You are fond of music, Mr Dombey
Eminently so
Yes. It's very nice
So much heart in it -- undeveloped recollections of a previous state of existence
simpered Cleopatra, reversing the knave of clubs, who had come into her game with his heels uppermost, 'that if anything could tempt me to put a period to my life, it would be curiosity to find out what it's all about, and what it means; there are so many provoking mysteries, really, that are hidden from us. Major, you to play
Why do you answer it
The messenger is out, and I am the next
You are the next
Yes! Creditable to me! There
I am sorry to trouble you, James
but
Oh! you have something to say. I knew that. Well
Well
I am uneasy about Harriet
Harriet who? what Harriet? I know nobody of that name
She is not well, and has changed very much of late
She changed very much, a great many years ago
Why should I hear you, Brother John
I tell you, Harriet Carker made her choice many years ago between her two brothers. She may repent it, but she must abide by it
Don't mistake me. I do not say she does repent it. It would be black ingratitude in me to hint at such a thing
Though believe me, James, I am as sorry for her sacrifice as you
As I
As I
As sorry for her choice -- for what you call her choice -- as you are angry at it
Angry
Displeased. Whatever word you like best. You know my meaning. There is no offence in my intention
There is offence in everything you do
When Harriet tried in vain to plead for me with you, on your first just indignation, and my first disgrace; and when she left you, James, to follow my broken fortunes, and devote herself, in her mistaken affection, to a ruined brother, because without her he had no one, and was lost; she was young and pretty. I think if you could see her now -- if you would go and see her -- she would move your admiration and compassion
Dear me! Is that the case
We thought in those days: you and I both: that she would marry young, and lead a happy and light-hearted life
Oh if you knew how cheerfully she cast those hopes away; how cheerfully she has gone forward on the path she took, and never once looked back; you never could say again that her name was strange in your ears. Never
Remarkable indeed! You quite surprise me
May I go on
On your way
If she has gone, and goes, her own way cheerfully
you may tell her that I go as cheerfully on mine. If she has never once looked back, you may tell her that I have, sometimes, to recall her taking part with you, and that my resolution is no easier to wear away;' he smiled very sweetly here; 'than marble
I tell her nothing of you. We never speak about you. Once a year, on your birthday, Harriet says always, "Let us remember James by name, and wish him happy," but we say no more
Tell it then, if you please
to yourself. You can't repeat it too often, as a lesson to you to avoid the subject in speaking to me. I know no Harriet Carker. There is no such person. You may have a sister; make much of her. I have none
I find myself benefited by the change, and am not yet inclined to name any time for my return
I wish, Carker, you would arrange to come down once and see me here, and let me know how things are going on, in person
I omitted to speak to you about young Gay. If not gone per Son and Heir, or if Son and Heir still lying in the Docks, appoint some other young man and keep him in the City for the present. I am not decided
Now that's unfortunate
for he's far away
I think
my good friend Captain Cuttle mentioned something about being towed along in the wake of that day. What a pity he's so far away
Would you please to be engaged, Sir
Who wants me
Why, Sir
really nobody, Sir, to speak of at present. Mr Gills the Ship's Instrument-maker, Sir, has looked in, about a little matter of payment, he says: but I mentioned to him, Sir, that you was engaged several deep; several deep
Anybody else
Well, Sir
I wouldn't of my own self take the liberty of mentioning, Sir, that there was anybody else; but that same young lad that was here yesterday, Sir, and last week, has been hanging about the place; and it looks, Sir
dreadful unbusiness-like to see him whistling to the sparrows down the court, and making of 'em answer him
You said he wanted something to do, didn't you, Perch
Why, Sir
his expression certainly were that he was in wants of a sitiwation, and that he considered something might be done for him about the Docks, being used to fishing with a rod and line: but
What does he say when he comes
Indeed, Sir
his observation generally air that he would humbly wish to see one of the gentlemen, and that he wants to earn a living. But you see, Sir
it's hardly to be bore, Sir, that a common lad like that should come a prowling here, and saying that his mother nursed our House's young gentleman, and that he hopes our House will give him a chance on that account. I am sure, Sir
that although Mrs Perch was at that time nursing as thriving a little girl, Sir, as we've ever took the liberty of adding to our family, I wouldn't have made so free as drop a hint of her being capable of imparting nourishment, not if it was never so
Whether
it mightn't be best for me to tell him, that if he was seen here any more he would be given into custody; and to keep to it! With respect to bodily fear
I'm so timid, myself, by nature, Sir, and my nerves is so unstrung by Mrs Perch's state, that I could take my affidavit easy
Let me see this fellow, Perch
Bring him in
Yes, Sir. Begging your pardon, Sir
he's rough, Sir, in appearance
Never mind. If he's there, bring him in. I'll see Mr Gills directly. Ask him to wait
Come along with you
Come, Sir! You let me alone, will you
Let you alone
What! I have got you, have I
You dog
I'll strangle you
I haven't done nothing to you, Sir
You young scoundrel
What do you mean by daring to come here
I didn't mean no harm, Sir
I'll never come again, Sir. I only wanted work
Work, young Cain that you are
Ain't you the idlest vagabond in London
Ain't you a thief
No, sir
You are
I ain't indeed, Sir
I never did such a thing as thieve, Sir, if you'll believe me. I know I've been a going wrong, Sir, ever since I took to bird-catching' and walking-matching. I'm sure a cove might think
that singing birds was innocent company, but nobody knows what harm is in them little creeturs and what they brings you down to
I ain't been home twenty times since them birds got their will of me
and that's ten months. How can I go home when everybody's miserable to see me! I wonder
that I haven't been and drownded myself over and over again
You're a nice young gentleman
There's hemp-seed sown for you, my fine fellow
I'm sure, Sir
I shouldn't care, sometimes, if it was growed too. My misfortunes all began in wagging, Sir; but what could I do, exceptin' wag
Excepting what
Wag, Sir. Wagging from school
Do you mean pretending to go there, and not going
Yes, Sir, that's wagging, Sir
I was chivied through the streets, Sir, when I went there, and pounded when I got there. So I wagged, and hid myself, and that began it
And you mean to tell me
that you want a place, do you
I should be thankful to be tried, Sir
Tell Mr Gills to come here
Mr Gills
sit down. How do you do? You continue to enjoy your health, I hope
Thank you, Sir
Nothing ails me in body but old age. Twenty-five, Sir
You are as punctual and exact, Mr Gills
as one of your own chronometers. Quite right
The Son and Heir has not been spoken, I find by the list, Sir
The Son and Heir has not been spoken
There seems to have been tempestuous weather, Mr Gills, and she has probably been driven out of her course
She is safe, I trust in Heaven
She is safe, I trust in Heaven
Mr Gills
you must miss your nephew very much
Mr Gills
it would be company to you to have a young fellow in your shop just now, and it would be obliging me if you would give one house-room for the present. No, to be sure
there's not much business doing there, I know; but you can make him clean the place out, polish up the instruments; drudge, Mr Gills. That's the lad
Will you give him house-room, Mr Gills
I'll dispose of him so, then, Mr Gills
until I make up my mind what to do with him, and what he deserves. As I consider myself responsible for him, Mr Gills
I shall be glad if you'll look sharply after him, and report his behaviour to me. I'll ask a question or two of his parents as I ride home this afternoon -- respectable people -- to confirm some particulars in his own account of himself; and that done, Mr Gills, I'll send him round to you to-morrow morning. Goodbye
Now, boy
You have heard me
Yes, Sir
Perhaps you understand
that if you ever deceive or play tricks with me, you had better have drowned yourself, indeed, once for all, before you came here
If you have lied to me
Now, Sir
come along
Oh Rob, my poor boy, what have you done at last
Nothing, mother
ask the gentleman
Don't be alarmed
I want to do him good
This fellow
is your son, eh, Ma'am
Yes, Sir
yes, Sir
A bad son, I am afraid
Never a bad son to me, Sir
To whom then
He has been a little wild, Sir
and has gone with wrong companions: but I hope he has seen the misery of that, Sir, and will do well again
Your husband, I take it, is not at home
No, Sir
He's down the line at present
Then
I'll tell you how I have stumbled on this boy of yours, and who I am, and what I am going to do for him
I'll try hard, dear mother, now. Upon my soul I will
Oh do, my dear boy! I am sure you will, for our sakes and your own
But you're coming back to speak to me, when you have seen the gentleman away
I don't know, mother
Father -- when's he coming home
I'll come back, mother dear
What
You have a bad father, have you
No, Sir
There ain't a better nor a kinder father going, than mine is
Why don't you want to see him then
There's such a difference between a father and a mother, Sir
He couldn't hardly believe yet that I was doing to do better -- though I know he'd try to but a mother -- she always believes what's
You'll come to me tomorrow morning, and you shall be shown where that old gentleman lives; that old gentleman who was with me this morning; where you are going, as you heard me say
Yes, Sir
I have a great interest in that old gentleman, and in serving him, you serve me, boy, do you understand? Well
I see you do. I want to know all about that old gentleman, and how he goes on from day to day -- for I am anxious to be of service to him -- and especially who comes there to see him. Do you understand
Yes, Sir
I should like to know that he has friends who are attentive to him, and that they don't desert him -- for he lives very much alone now, poor fellow; but that they are fond of him, and of his nephew who has gone abroad. There is a very young lady who may perhaps come to see him. I want particularly to know all about her
I'll take care, Sir
And take care
take care you talk about affairs of mine to nobody but me
To nobody in the world, Sir
Neither there
nor anywhere else. I'll try how true and grateful you can be. I'll prove you
A very young lady
Ay! when I saw her last, she was a little child. With dark eyes and hair, I recollect, and a good face; a very good face! I daresay she's pretty
which
Oh! Good morning
For Mr Dombey
For Miss Dombey
Oh, I beg your pardon
Is the young woman at home
Oh! How de do
How's Diogenes going on
Miss Florence is quite well, Sir
For when I gaze
Go in and win
When your man's before you and your work cut out, go in and do it
Perhaps you'd like to walk upstairs, Sir
Well, I think I will come in
Go along with you
or Ill tear your eyes out
Just another
Go along with you
Innocents like you, too! Who'll begin next? Go along, Sir
I beg your pardon, Sir
I hope you are not hurt
Oh no, thank you
If the dog's teeth have entered the leg, Sir
No, thank you
it's all quite right. It's very comfortable, thank you
I have the pleasure of knowing Mr Dombey
Have you though
And you will allow me, perhaps, to apologise, in his absence
for such a misadventure, and to wonder how it can possibly have happened
Who enter here, leave light behind
Better late than never, dear Miss Floy
and I do say, that even a visit to them old Skettleses will be a Godsend
It is very good of Sir Barnet and Lady Skettles, Susan
to repeat their invitation so kindly
They know what they're about, if ever people did
oh! trust them Skettleses for that
I am not very anxious to go to Fulham, Susan, I confess
but it will be right to go. I think it will be better
Much better
And so
though I would prefer to have gone when there was no one there, instead of in this vacation time, when it seems there are some young people staying in the house, I have thankfully said yes
For which I say, Miss Floy, Oh be joyful
How long it is before we have any news of Walter, Susan
Long indeed, Miss Floy
And Perch said, when he came just now to see for letters -- but what signifies what he says
Much he knows about it
If I hadn't
if I hadn't more manliness than that insipidest of his sex, I'd never take pride in my hair again, but turn it up behind my ears, and wear coarse caps, without a bit of border, until death released me from my insignificance. I may not be a Amazon, Miss Floy, and wouldn't so demean myself by such disfigurement, but anyways I'm not a giver up, I hope
Give up! What
Why, nothing, Miss
Good gracious, nothing! It's only that wet curl-paper of a man, Perch, that anyone might almost make away with, with a touch, and really it would be a blessed event for all parties if someone would take pity on him, and would have the goodness
Does he give up the ship, Susan
No, Miss
I should like to see' him make so bold as do it to my face! No, Miss, but he goes 'on about some bothering ginger that Mr Walter was to send to Mrs Perch, and shakes his dismal head, and says he hopes it may be coming; anyhow, he says, it can't come now in time for the intended occasion, but may do for next, which really
puts me out of patience with the man, for though I can bear a great deal, I am not a camel, neither am I
if I know myself, a dromedary neither
What else does he say, Susan
Won't you tell me
As if I wouldn't tell you anything, Miss Floy, and everything
Why, nothing Miss, he says that there begins to be a general talk about the ship, and that they have never had a ship on that voyage half so long unheard of, and that the Captain's wife was at the office yesterday, and seemed a little put out about it, but anyone could say that, we knew nearly that before
I must visit Walter's uncle
Mrs Richards's eldest, Miss
and the worrit of Mrs Richards's life
Strays! Whip! Strays
Strays! Who-oop! Strays
Is this the way you show your penitence, when Mrs Richards has been fretting for you months and months
Where's Mr Gills
Fetch him home
and say that my young lady's here
I don't know where he's gone
Is that your penitence
Why how can I go and fetch him when I don't know where to go
How can you be so unreasonable
Did Mr Gills say when he should be home
Yes, Miss
He said he should be home early in the afternoon; in about a couple of hours from now, Miss
Is he very anxious about his nephew
Yes, Miss
I should say he was, very much so. He ain't indoors, Miss, not a quarter of an hour together. He can't settle in one place five minutes. He goes about, like a -- just like a stray
Do you know a friend of Mr Gills, called Captain Cuttle
Him with a hook, Miss
Has he not been here since
No, Miss
Perhaps Walter's Uncle has gone there, Susan
To Captain Cuttle's, Miss
no, he's not gone there, Miss. Because he left particular word that if Captain Cuttle called, I should tell him how surprised he was, not to have seen him yesterday, and should make him stop till he came back
Do you know where Captain Cuttle lives
I beg your pardon, Ma'am
Is this Captain Cuttle's house
No
Not Number Nine
Who said it wasn't Number Nine
What do you want with Captain Cuttle, I should wish to know
Should you? Then I'm sorry that you won't be satisfied
Hush, Susan! If you please
Perhaps you can have the goodness to tell us where Captain Cuttle lives, Ma'am as he don't live here
Who says he don't live here
I said it wasn't Cap'en Cuttle's house -- and it ain't his house -- and forbid it, that it ever should be his house -- for Cap'en Cuttle don't know how to keep a house -- and don't deserve to have a house -- it's my house -- and when I let the upper floor to Cap'en Cuttle, oh I do a thankless thing, and cast pearls before swine
Steady below
Since you want Cap'en Cuttle, there he is
You are amazed to see us, I am sure
Stand by! Stand by
But I couldn't rest
without coming to ask you what you think about dear Walter -- who is my brother now -- and whether there is anything to fear, and whether you will not go and console his poor Uncle every day, until we have some intelligence of him
Have you any fears for Walter's safety
No, Heart's-delight
I am not afeard. Wal'r is a lad as'll go through a deal o' hard weather. Wal'r is a lad as'll bring as much success to that 'ere brig as a lad is capable on. Wal'r
is what you may call a out'ard and visible sign of an in'ard and spirited grasp, and when found make a note of
I am not afeard, my Heart's-delight
the Captain made a little bow, 'to break up hearts of oak, whether they're in brigs or buzzums. Here we have 'em both ways, which is bringing it up with a round turn, and so I ain't a bit afeard as yet
As yet
Not a bit
and afore I begin to be, my Hearts-delight, Wal'r will have wrote home from the island, or from some port or another, and made all taut and shipsahape
who I'll stand by, and not desert until death do us part, and when the stormy winds do blow, do blow, do blow -- overhaul the Catechism
prenticeship, and of which the name is Bunsby, that 'ere man shall give him such an opinion in his own parlour as'll stun him. Ah
as much as if he'd gone and knocked his head again a door
Let us take this gentleman to see him, and let us hear what he says
Will you go with us now? We have a coach here
You see I should have bore down on Sol Gills yesterday, and this morning, but she -- she took it away and kep it. That's the long and short ofthe subject
Who did, for goodness sake
The lady of the house, my dear
said the Captain, eyeing the door, and relieving himself with a long breath, 'she stopped my liberty
Oh! I wish she had me to deal with
I'd stop her
Would you, do you, my dear
I don't know. It's difficult navigation. She's very hard to carry on with, my dear. You never can tell how she'll head, you see. She's full one minute, and round upon you next. And when she in a tartar
Would you, do you think, my dear
Clara a-hoy
A-hoy
Bunsby aboard
Ay, ay
human, and very large -- with one stationary eye in the mahogany face, and one revolving one, on the principle of some lighthouses. This head was decorated with shaggy hair, like oakum
Bunsby, my lad, how fares it
Ay, ay, shipmet, how goes it
Bunsby
here you are; a man of mind, and a man as can give an opinion. Here's a young lady as wants to take that opinion, in regard of my friend Wal'r; likewise my t'other friend, Sol Gills, which is a character for you to come within hail of, being a man of science, which is the mother of invention, and knows no law. Bunsby, will you wear, to oblige me, and come along with us
Here is a man
that has fell down, more than any man alive; that has had more accidents happen to his own self than the Seamen's Hospital to all hands; that took as many spars and bars and bolts about the outside of his head when he was young, as you'd want a order for on Chatham-yard to build a pleasure yacht with; and yet that his opinions in that way, it's my belief, for there ain't nothing like 'em afloat or ashore
Shipmate
what'll the ladies drink
Whether she can have run
but no, that's almost impossible or whether she can have been forced by stress of weather,-- but that's not reasonably likely. Or whether there is any hope she so far changed her course as -- but even I can hardly hope that
You have been to see me
To-day
Yes, my dear young lady
I wished to see you with my own eyes, and to hear you with my own ears, once more before
Before when? Before what
Did I say "before
If I did, I must have meant before we should have news of my dear boy
You are not well
You have been so very anxious I am sure you are not well
I am as well
as well and firm as any man at my time of life can hope to be. See! It's steady. Is its master not as capable of resolution and fortitude as many a younger man? I think so. We shall see
My name's Jack Bunsby
He was christened John
Hear him
And what I says
Now he's coming out. This is what I meant when I brought him
Whereby
why not? If so, what odds? Can any man say otherwise? No. Awast then
Do I believe that this here Son and Heir's gone down, my lads? Mayhap. Do I say so? Which? If a skipper stands out by Sen' George's Channel, making for the Downs, what's right ahead of him? The Goodwins. He isn't forced to run upon the Goodwins, but he may. The bearings of this observation lays in the application on it. That ain't no part of my duty. Awast then, keep a bright look-out for'ard, and good luck to you
What cheer, Sol Gills
But so-so, Ned
I have been remembering, all this afternoon, that on the very day when my boy entered Dombey's House, and came home late to dinner, sitting just there where you stand, we talked of storm and shipwreck, and I could hardly turn him from the subject
Stand by, old friend
Look alive! I tell you what, Sol Gills; arter I've convoyed Heart's-delight safe home
I'll come back and take you in tow for the rest of this blessed day. You'll come and eat your dinner along with me, Sol, somewheres or another
Not to-day, Ned
Not to-day. I couldn't do it
Why not
I -- I have so much to do. I -- I mean to think of, and arrange. I couldn't do it, Ned, indeed. I must go out again, and be alone, and turn my mind to many things to-day
To-morrow, then
Yes, yes. To-morrow
Think of me to-morrow. Say to-morrow
I shall come here early, mind, Sol Gills
Yes, yes. The first thing tomorrow morning
and now good-bye, Ned Cuttle, and God bless you
Would you, do you think my dear, though
Now, my dear Sir, is there anybody you would like to know? Who is there you would wish to meet? Do you take any interest in writing people, or in painting or sculpturing people, or in acting people, or in anything of that sort
My dear Sir -- penalty of your eminent position -- friend at my house naturally desirous -- Lady Skettles and myself participate -- trust that genius being superior to ceremonies, you will do us the distinguished favour of giving us the pleasure
My dear Miss Dombey, are you sure you can remember no one whom your good Papa -- to whom I beg you present the best compliments of myself and Lady Skettles when you write -- might wish you to know
Is there anybody you can suggest now, Doctor Blimber
You are very kind, Sir Barnet
Has Mrs Blimber any wish to see any remarkable person
Is Florence an orphan like me, aunt
No, my love. She has no mother, but her father is living
Is she in mourning for her poor Mama, now
No; for her only brother
Has she no other brother
None
No sister
None
I am very, very sorry
Florence is a favourite with everyone here, and deserves to be, I am sure
Where is her Papa
He is in England, I hope, aunt
I believe so. Yes; I know he is, indeed
Has he ever been here
I believe not. No
Is he coming here to see her
Is he lame, or blind, or ill, aunt
Kate
I will tell you the whole truth about Florence as I have heard it, and believe it to be. Tell no one else, my dear, because it may be little known here, and your doing so would give her pain
I never will
I know you never will
I can trust you as myself. I fear then, Kate, that Florence's father cares little for her, very seldom sees her, never was kind to her in her life, and now quite shuns her and avoids her. She would love him dearly if he would suffer her, but he will not -- though for no fault of hers; and she is greatly to be loved and pitied by all gentle hearts
Poor Florence! Dear, good Florence
Do you know why I have told you this, Kate
That I may be very kind to her, and take great care to try to please her. Is that the reason, aunt
Partly
but not all. Though we see her so cheerful; with a pleasant smile for everyone; ready to oblige us all, and bearing her part in every amusement here: she can hardly be quite happy, do you think she can, Kate
I am afraid not
And you can understand
why her observation of children who have parents who are fond of them, and proud of them -- like many here, just now -- should make her sorrowful in secret
Yes, dear aunt
I understand that very well. Poor Florence
My Kate
of all the youthful people here, you are her natural and harmless friend; you have not the innocent means, that happier children have
There are none happier, aunt
As other children have, dear Kate, of reminding her of her misfortune. Therefore I would have you, when you try to be her little friend, try all the more for that, and feel that the bereavement you sustained -- thank Heaven! before you knew its weight -- gives you claim and hold upon poor Florence
But I am not without a parent's love, aunt, and I never have been
with you
However that may be, my dear
your misfortune is a lighter one than Florence's; for not an orphan in the wide world can be so deserted as the child who is an outcast from a living parent's love
Good morning
you are at work early
I'd be glad to be often at work earlier, Miss, if I had work to do
Is it so hard to get
I find it so
Is that your daughter
Yes
Is she in want of employment also
No, Miss
I work for both
Are there only you two, then
Only us two
Her mother his been dead these ten year. Martha
won't you say a word to the pretty young lady
I'm afraid she's worse this morning, my poor girl
She is ill, then
I don't believe my Martha's had five short days' good health
in as many long years
Ay! and more than that, John
More than that, you say, do you
Very like. It seems a long, long time
And the more the time
the more you've favoured and humoured her, John, till she's got to be a burden to herself, and everybody else
Not to me
Not to me
Who would favour my poor girl -- to call it favouring -- if I didn't
Ay, ay
In reason, John. But you! You rob yourself to give to her. You bind yourself hand and foot on her account. You make your life miserable along of her. And what does she care! You don't believe she knows it
Only for that, Miss
only to get that, he never lets her out of his sight
Because the day'll come, and has been coming a long while
Dear Florence, live for me, and we will love each other as we might have done, and be as happy as we might have been these many years
It is too late for anything but this; I never could be happier, dear father
a parcel of girls
My horse is perfectly quiet, I assure you
I have the honour to address Miss Dombey, I believe
My name is Carker. I can hardly hope to be remembered by Miss Dombey, except by name. Carker
I beg pardon
a thousand times! But I am going down tomorrow morning to Mr Dombey, at Leamington, and if Miss Dombey can entrust me with any commission, need I say how very happy I shall be
There is no news of the ship
Nothing to send, Miss Dombey
Nothing
but my -- but my dear love -- if you please
Holloa
What's the matter
Steady, my lad
don't ye speak a word to me as yet
heave ahead
Do you mean, tell you, Captain
Ay
Well, Sir
I ain't got much to tell. But look here
And look here
When I woke this morning, Captain
which was about a quarter after five, I found these on my pillow. The shop-door was unbolted and unlocked, and Mr Gills gone
Gone
Flowed, Sir
For Captain Cuttle," Sir
is on the keys, and on the packet too. Upon my word and honour, Captain Cuttle, I don't know anything more about it. I wish I may die if I do! Here's a sitiwation for a lad that's just got a sitiwation
his master bolted with his place, and him blamed for it
My dear Ned Cuttle. Enclosed is my will
and Testament -- Where's the Testament
What have you done with that, my lad
I never see it
Don't keep on suspecting an innocent lad, Captain. I never touched the Testament
Which don't break open for a year, or until you have decisive intelligence of my dear Walter, who is dear to you, Ned, too, I am sure
If you should never hear of me, or see me more, Ned, remember an old friend as he will remember you to the last -- kindly; and at least until the period I have mentioned has expired, keep a home in the old place for Walter. There are no debts, the loan from Dombey's House is paid off and all my keys I send with this. Keep this quiet, and make no inquiry for me; it is useless. So no more, dear Ned, from your true friend, Solomon Gills
The boy Rob, well recommended, as I told you, from Dombey's House. If all else should come to the hammer, take care, Ned, of the little Midshipman
Oh, don't, Captain
I wonder how you can! what have I done to be looked at, like that
My lad
don't you sing out afore you're hurt. And don't you commit yourself, whatever you do
I haven't been and committed nothing, Captain
Keep her free, then
And I think, Captain
that when Mr Gills was going in and out so often, these last few days, he was taking little things away, piecemeal, not to attract attention
Ay
Why so, my lad
Why
I don't see his shaving tackle. Nor his brushes, Captain. Nor no shirts. Nor yet his shoes
And what should you say
not committing yourself -- about his time of sheering off? Hey
Why, I think, Captain
that he must have gone pretty soon after I began to snore
How can I tell, Captain
to make sure
that it wam't him
Now, look ye here, my lad
to-morrow, I shan't be found in this here roadstead till night -- not till arter midnight p'rhaps. But you keep watch till you hear me knock, and the moment you do, turn-to, and open the door
Very good, Captain
You'll continue to be rated on these here books
and I don't say but what you may get promotion, if you and me should pull together with a will. But the moment you hear me knock to-morrow night, whatever time it is, turn-to and show yourself smart with the door
I'll be sure to do it, Captain
Because you understand
there may be, for anything I can say, a chase; and I might be took while I was waiting, if you didn't show yourself smart with the door
A nice small kidney-pudding now, Cap'en Cuttle
or a sheep's heart. Don't mind my trouble
No thank'ee, Ma'am
Have a roast fowl
with a bit of weal stuffing and some egg sauce. Come, Cap'en Cuttle! Give yourself a little treat
No thank'ee, Ma'am
I'm sure you're out of sorts, and want to be stimulated
Why not have, for once in a way, a bottle of sherry wine
Well, Ma'am
if you'd be so good as take a glass or two, I think I would try that. Would you do me the favour, Ma'am
to accept a quarter's rent ahead
And why so, Cap'en Cuttle
If you would Ma'am
it would oblige me. I can't keep my money very well. It pays itself out. I should take it kind if you'd comply
Well, Cap'en Cuttle
you can do as you please. It's not for me, with my family, to refuse, no more than it is to ask
And would you, Ma'am
be so good as offer eighteen-pence a-piece to the little family all round? If you could make it convenient, Ma'am, to pass the word presently for them children to come for'ard, in a body, I should be glad to see 'em
Whew
It's a breather
Nothing the matter, is there, Captain
No, no
But mind ye, my lad; if any lady, except either of them two as you see t'other day, ever comes and asks for Cap'en Cuttle, be sure to report no person of that name known, nor never heard of here; observe them orders, will you
I'll take care, Captain
You might say -- if you liked
Your most obedient, Sir
Damme, Sir, a friend of my friend Dombey's is a friend of mine, and I'm glad to see you
I am infinitely obliged, Carker
to Major Bagstock, for his company and conversation. 'Major Bagstock has rendered me great service, Carker
By Gad, Sir
there are no thanks due to me, for it's a give and take affair. A great creature like our friend Dombey, Sir
cannot help improving and exalting his friends. He strengthens and invigorates a man, Sir, does Dombey, in his moral nature
But when my friend Dombey, Sir
talks to you of Major Bagstock, I must crave leave to set him and you right. He means plain Joe, Sir -- Joey B.-- Josh. Bagstock -- Joseph -- rough and tough Old J., Sir. At your service
And now, Sir
you and Dombey have the devil's own amount of business to talk over
By no means, Major
Dombey
I know better; a man of your mark -- the Colossus of commerce -- is not to be interrupted. Your moments are precious. We shall meet at dinner-time. In the interval, old Joseph will be scarce. The dinner-hour is a sharp seven, Mr Carker
I beg your pardon. Dombey, have you any message to 'em
By the Lord, Sir
you must make it something warmer than that, or old Joe will be far from welcome
Regards then, if you will, Major
Damme, Sir
make it something warmer than that
What you please, then, Major
Our friend is sly, Sir, sly, Sir, de-vilish sly
So is Bagstock
Dombey! I envy your feelings. God bless you
You must have found the gentleman a great resource
Very great indeed
He has friends here, no doubt
I perceive, from what he has said, that you go into society here. Do you know
I am so very glad that you go into society
You were formed for society
Of all the men I know, you are the best adapted, by nature and by position, for society. Do you know I have been frequently amazed that you should have held it at arm's length so long
I have had my reasons, Carker. I have been alone, and indifferent to it. But you have great social qualifications yourself, and are the more likely to have been surprised
Oh! I
It's quite another matter in the case of a man like me. I don't come into comparison with you
I shall have the pleasure, Carker
to present you to my -- to the Major's friends. Highly agreeable people
Ladies among them, I presume
They are all -- that is to say, they are both -- ladies
Only two
They are only two. I have confined my visits to their residence, and have made no other acquaintance here
Sisters, perhaps
Mother and daughter
You are very kind
I shall be delighted to know them. Speaking of daughters, I have seen Miss Dombey
I took the liberty of waiting on her
to inquire if she could charge me with any little commission. I am not so fortunate as to be the bearer of any but her -- but her dear love
What business intelligence is there
There is very little
Upon the whole we have not had our usual good fortune of late, but that is of little moment to you. At Lloyd's, they give up the Son and Heir for lost. Well, she was insured, from her keel to her masthead
Carker
I cannot say that young man, Gay, ever impressed me favourably
Nor me
But I wish
It is a pity you didn't say so, in good time, is it not
However, I think it's all for the best. I really, think it's all for the best. Did I mention that there was something like a little confidence between Miss Dombey and myself
No
I have no doubt
that wherever Gay is, he is much better where he is, than at home here. If I were, or could be, in your place, I should be satisfied of that. I am quite satisfied of it myself. Miss Dombey is confiding and young -- perhaps hardly proud enough, for your daughter -- if she have a fault. Not that that is much though, I am sure. Will you check these balances with me
What insupportable creature is this, coming in
I cannot hear it. Go away, whoever you are
You have not the heart to banish J. B., Ma'am
Oh it's you, is it? On second thoughts, you may enter
Sit down
a long way off. Don't come too near me, for I am frightfully faint and sensitive this morning, and you smell of the Sun. You are absolutely tropical
By George, Ma'am
the time has been when Joseph Bagstock has been grilled and blistered by the Sun; then time was, when he was forced, Ma'am, into such full blow, by high hothouse heat in the West Indies, that he was known as the Flower. A man never heard of Bagstock, Ma'am, in those days; he heard of the Flower -- the Flower of Ours. The Flower may have faded, more or less, Ma'am
but it is a tough plant yet, and constant as the evergreen
Where is Mrs Granger
Very well
Go away, and shut the door. I am engaged
Dombey, Ma'am
is as well as a man in his condition can be. His condition is a desperate one, Ma'am. He is touched, is Dombey! Touched
He is bayonetted through the body
Major Bagstock, although I know but little of the world,-- nor can I really regret my experience, for I fear it is a false place, full of withering conventionalities: where Nature is but little regarded, and where the music of the heart, and the gushing of the soul, and all that sort of thing, which is so truly poetical, is seldom heard,-- I cannot misunderstand your meaning. There is an allusion to Edith -- to my extremely dear child
in your words, to which the tenderest of chords vibrates excessively
Bluntness, Ma'am
has ever been the characteristic of the Bagstock breed. You are right. Joe admits it
And that allusion
would involve one of the most -- if not positively the most -- touching, and thrilling, and sacred emotions of which our sadly-fallen nature is susceptible, I conceive
I feel that I am weak. I feel that I am wanting in that energy, which should sustain a Mama: not to say a parent: on such a subject
but I can hardly approach a topic so excessively momentous to my dearest Edith without a feeling of faintness. Nevertheless, bad man, as you have boldly remarked upon it, and as it has occasioned me great anguish
I will not shrink from my duty
Mr Dombey
was obliging enough, now many weeks ago, to do us the honour of visiting us here; in company, my dear Major, with yourself. I acknowledge -- let me be open -- that it is my failing to be the creature of impulse, and to wear my heart as it were, outside. I know my failing full well. My enemy cannot know it better. But I am not penitent; I would rather not be frozen by the heartless world, and am content to bear this imputation justly
It gave me (my dearest Edith too, I am sure) infinite pleasure to receive Mr Dombey. As a friend of yours, my dear Major, we were naturally disposed to be prepossessed in his favour; and I fancied that I observed an amount of Heart in Mr Dombey, that was excessively refreshing
There is devilish little heart in Dombey now, Ma'am
Wretched man
pray be silent
J. B. is dumb, Ma'am
Mr Dombey
To beat up these quarters, Ma'am
The agony I have endured
as the truth has by degrees dawned upon me, has been too exceedingly terrific to dilate upon. My whole existence is bound up in my sweetest Edith; and to see her change from day to day -- my beautiful pet, who has positively garnered up her heart since the death of that most delightful creature, Granger -- is the most affecting thing in the world
Edith
who is the perfect pearl of my life, is said to resemble me. I believe we are alike
There is one man in the world who never will admit that anyone resembles you, Ma'am
and that man's name is Old Joe Bagstock
The confidence
that has subsisted between us -- the free development of soul, and openness of sentiment -- is touching to think of. We have been more like sisters than Mama and child
J. B
observed the Major, 'expressed by J. B. fifty thousand times
Do not interrupt, rude man
What are my feelings, then, when I find that there is one subject avoided by us! That there is a what's-his-name -- a gulf -- opened between us. That my own artless Edith is changed to me! They are of the most poignant description, of course
From day to day I see this, my dear Major
From day to day I feel this. From hour to hour I reproach myself for that excess of faith and trustfulness which has led to such distressing consequences; and almost from minute to minute, I hope that Mr Dombey may explain himself, and relieve the torture I undergo, which is extremely wearing. But nothing happens, my dear Major; I am the slave of remorse -- take care of the coffee-cup: you are so very awkward -- my darling Edith is an altered being; and I really don't see what is to be done, or what good creature I can advise with
Advise with Joe, Ma'am
Then, you aggravating monster
why don't you talk to me? you know what I mean. Why don't you tell me something to the purpose
Is there as much Heart in Mr Dombey as I gave him credit for
Do you think he is in earnest, my dear Major? Would you recommend his being spoken to, or his being left alone? Now tell me, like a dear man, what would you advise
Shall we marry him to Edith Granger, Ma'am
Mysterious creature
How can we marry him
Shall we marry him to Edith Granger, Ma'am, I say
Dombey, Ma'am
is a great catch
Oh, mercenary wretch
I am shocked
And Dombey, Ma'am
is in earnest. Joseph says it; Bagstock knows it; J. B. keeps him to the mark. Leave Dombey to himself, Ma'am. Dombey is safe, Ma'am. Do as you have done; do no more; and trust to J. B. for the end
You really think so, my dear Major
Sure of it, Ma'am
Cleopatra the peerless, and her Antony Bagstock, will often speak of this, triumphantly, when sharing the elegance and wealth of Edith Dombey's establishment. Dombey's right-hand man, Ma'am
has arrived
This morning
This morning, Ma'am
And Dombey's anxiety for his arrival, Ma'am, is to be referred -- take J. B
to his desire that what is in the wind should become known to him' without Dombey's telling and consulting him. For Dombey is as proud, Ma'am
as Lucifer
A charming quality
reminding one of dearest Edith
Well, Ma'am
I have thrown out hints already, and the right-hand man understands 'em; and I'll throw out more, before the day is done. Dombey projected this morning a ride to Warwick Castle, and to Kenilworth, to-morrow, to be preceded by a breakfast with us. I undertook the delivery of this invitation. Will you honour us so far, Ma'am
Hush
Edith
My dearest Edith
where on earth have you been? I have wanted you, my love, most sadly
You said you were engaged, and I stayed away
It was cruel to Old Joe, Ma'am
It was very cruel, I know
Major Bagstock, my darling Edith
who is generally the most useless and disagreeable creature in the world: as you know
It is surely not worthwhile, Mama
to observe these forms of speech. We are quite alone. We know each other
My darling girl
Not woman yet
How very odd you are to-day, my dear! Pray let me say, my love, that Major Bagstock has brought the kindest of notes from Mr Dombey, proposing that we should breakfast with him to-morrow, and ride to Warwick and Kenilworth. Will you go, Edith
Will I go
It is, as you say, quite a form to ask. Here is Mr Dombey's letter, Edith
Thank you. I have no desire to read it
Then perhaps I had better answer it myself
though I had thought of asking you to be my secretary, darling
Your regards, Edith, my dear
What you will, Mama
As to alteration in her, Sir
as to alteration, Sir, and pining, and so forth, that won't go down with Joseph Bagstock, None of that, Sir. It won't do here. But as to there being something of a division between 'em -- or a gulf as the mother calls it -- damme, Sir, that seems true enough. And it's odd enough! Well, Sir
Edith Granger and Dombey are well matched; let 'em fight it out! Bagstock backs the winner
Well, Sir
How have you passed the time since I had the happiness of meeting you? Have you walked at all
A saunter of barely half an hour's duration
We have been so much occupied
Business, eh
A variety of little matters necessary to be gone through
But do you know -- this is quite unusual with me, educated in a distrustful school, and who am not generally disposed to be communicative
but I feel quite confidential with you, Major Bagstock
You do me honour, Sir
You may be
Do you know, then
that I have not found my friend -- our friend, I ought rather to call him
Meaning Dombey, Sir
You see me, Mr Carker, standing here! J. B
Then you see a man, Sir, who would go through fire and water to serve Dombey
Do you know, Major
to resume where I left off' that I have not found our friend so attentive to business today, as usual
No
I have found him a little abstracted, and with his attention disposed to wander
By Jove, Sir
there's a lady in the case
Indeed, I begin to believe there really is
Well! we are gay dogs, there's no denying
Dombey
you don't eat; what's the matter
Thank you
I am doing very well; I have no great appetite today
Why, Dombey, what's become of it
Where's it gone? You haven't left it with our friends, I'll swear, for I can answer for their having none to-day at luncheon. I can answer for one of 'em, at least: I won't say which
Fill this to the brim, you scoundrel
Fill Mr Carker's to the brim too. And Mr Dombey's too. By Gad, gentlemen
we'll consecrate this glass of wine to a Divinity whom Joe is proud to know, and at a distance humbly and reverently to admire. Edith
is her name; angelic Edith
To angelic Edith
Edith, by all means
For though among ourselves, Joe Bagstock mingles jest and earnest on this subject, Sir
he holds that name too sacred to be made the property of these fellows, or of any fellows. Not a word!, Sir' while they are here
in short, a devilish intelligent and able fellow
Yes, I play picquet a little
Backgammon, perhaps
Yes, I play backgammon a little too
Carker plays at all games, I believe
and plays them well
Yes, I play chess a little
I have sometimes played, and won a game -- it's a mere trick -- without seeing the board
By Gad, Sir
you are a contrast to Dombey, who plays nothing
Oh! He
He has never had occasion to acquire such little arts. To men like me, they are sometimes useful. As at present, Major Bagstock, when they enable me to take a hand with you
Now to see the second Mrs Dombey
Let me tell your fortune, my pretty lady
I can tell it for myself
Ay, ay, pretty lady; but not right. You didn't tell it right when you were sitting there. I see you! Give me a piece of silver, pretty lady, and I'll tell your fortune true. There's riches, pretty lady, in your face
I know
What! You won't give me nothing
You won't give me nothing to tell your fortune, pretty lady? How much will you give me to tell it, then? Give me something, or I'll call it after you
You give me something then, or I'll call it after her
Or come
give me something, or I'll call it after you
After me, old lady
Yes
I know
What do you know
Do you know who the handsome lady is
Good
One child dead, and one child living: one wife dead, and one wife coming. Go and meet her
What was that you said, Beldamite
Go and meet her
My dear Mr Dombey
I am afraid we are late, but Edith has been out already looking for a favourable point of view for a sketch, and kept me waiting for her. Falsest of Majors
how do you do
Mrs Skewton
let me gratify my friend Carker
by presenting him to you. You have heard me mention Mr Carker
I am charmed, I am sure
Why, where, for Heaven's sake, is Edith
Carker
I am obliged to the gentleman
for sparing me some annoyance from an importunate beggar just now
I am obliged to my good fortune
for the opportunity of rendering so slight a service to one whose servant I am proud to be
Really
really now, this is one of the most enchanting coincidences that I ever heard of. The idea! My dearest Edith, there is such an obvious destiny in it, that really one might almost be induced to cross one's arms upon one's frock, and say, like those wicked Turks, there is no What's-his-name but Thingummy, and What-you-may-call-it is his prophet
It gives me great pleasure
that a gentleman so nearly connected with myself as Carker is, should have had the honour and happiness of rendering the least assistance to Mrs Granger
But it gives me some pain, and it occasions me to be really envious of Carker;' he unconsciously laid stress on these words, as sensible that they must appear to involve a very surprising proposition; 'envious of Carker, that I had not that honour and that happiness myself
By the Lord, Sir
it's an extraordinary thing to me that no one can have the honour and happiness of shooting all such beggars through the head without being brought to book for it. But here's an arm for Mrs Granger if she'll do J. B. the honour to accept it; and the greatest service Joe can render you, Ma'am, just now, is, to lead you into table
I am quite rejoiced, Mr Carker
that you have timed your visit so happily, as to go with us to-day. It is the most enchanting expedition
Any expedition would be enchanting in such society
but I believe it is, in itself, full of interest
Oh
the Castle is charming!-- associations of the Middle Ages -- and all that -- which is so truly exquisite. Don't you dote upon the Middle Ages, Mr Carker
Very much, indeed
Such charming times
So full of faith! So vigorous and forcible! So picturesque! So perfectly removed from commonplace! Oh dear! If they would only leave us a little more of the poetry of existence in these terrible days
We are dreadfully real, Mr Carker
are we not
Pictures at the Castle, quite divine
I hope you dote upon pictures
I assure you, Mrs Skewton
that Carker has a very good taste for pictures; quite a natural power of appreciating them. He is a very creditable artist himself. He will be delighted, I am sure, with Mrs Granger's taste and skill
Damme, Sir
my opinion is, that you're the admirable Carker, and can do anything
Oh
you are much too sanguine, Major Bagstock. I can do very little. But Mr Dombey is so generous in his estimation of any trivial accomplishment a man like myself may find it almost necessary to acquire, and to which, in his very different sphere, he is far superior, that
You have been to Warwick often, unfortunately
Several times
The visit will be tedious to you, I am afraid
Oh no; not at all
Ah! You are like your cousin Feenix, my dearest Edith
He has been to Warwick Castle fifty times, if he has been there once; yet if he came to Leamington to-morrow -- I wish he would, dear angel!-- he would make his fifty-second visit next day
We are all enthusiastic, are we not, Mama
Too much so, for our peace, perhaps, my dear
but we won't complain. Our own emotions are our recompense. If, as your cousin Feenix says, the sword wears out the what's-its-name
The scabbard, perhaps
Exactly -- a little too fast, it is because it is bright and glowing, you know, my dearest love
Those darling byegone times, Mr Carker
with their delicious fortresses, and their dear old dungeons, and their delightful places of torture, and their romantic vengeances, and their picturesque assaults and sieges, and everything that makes life truly charming! How dreadfully we have degenerated
Yes, we have fallen off deplorably
We have no Faith left, positively
We have no Faith in the dear old Barons, who were the most delightful creatures -- or in the dear old Priests, who were the most warlike of men -- or even in the days of that inestimable Queen Bess, upon the wall there, which were so extremely golden. Dear creature! She was all Heart And that charming father of hers! I hope you dote on Harry the Eighth
I admire him very much
So bluff
wasn't he? So burly. So truly English. Such a picture, too, he makes, with his dear little peepy eyes, and his benevolent chin
Ah, Ma'am
but if you speak of pictures, there's a composition! What gallery in the world can produce the counterpart of that
Look here, and see what We are, wedded to uncongenial Time
My dearest Edith knows I was admiring her
Sweet pet
Here, Carker, have the goodness to assist me, will you
Very true, Carker
Indeed, Carker
But I am afraid I trouble you too much
By no means. Where would you wish it taken from
I would rather you chose for yourself
Suppose then
we say from here. It appears a good spot for the purpose, or -- Carker, what do you think
Might I venture to suggest to Mrs Granger
that that is an interesting -- almost a curious -- point of view
Will you like that
I shall be charmed
My pencils are all pointless
Pray allow me
Are you satisfied with that, or shall I finish it a little more
It is most extraordinary
I was not prepared for anything so beautiful, and so unusual altogether
Edith, my dearest love
Mr Dombey is dying to hear you, I know
Mr Dombey has life enough left to say so for himself, Mama, I have no doubt
I shall be immensely obliged
What do you wish
Piano
I hope so
I think so
Dombey, come along
Damme, Sir, old Joe has a great mind to propose an alteration in the name of the Royal Hotel, and that it should be called the Three Jolly Bachelors, in honour of ourselves and Carker
Why don't you tell me
that he is coming here to-morrow by appointment
Because you know it
Mother
You know he has bought me
Or that he will, to-morrow. He has considered of his bargain; he has shown it to his friend; he is even rather proud of it; he thinks that it will suit him, and may be had sufficiently cheap; and he will buy to-morrow. God, that I have lived for this, and that I feel it
What do you mean
Haven't you from a child
A child
when was I a child? What childhood did you ever leave to me? I was a woman -- artful, designing, mercenary, laying snares for men -- before I knew myself, or you, or even understood the base and wretched aim of every new display I learnt You gave birth to a woman. Look upon her. She is in her pride tonight
Look at me
who have never known what it is to have an honest heart, and love. Look at me, taught to scheme and plot when children play; and married in my youth -- an old age of design -- to one for whom I had no feeling but indifference. Look at me, whom he left a widow, dying before his inheritance descended to him -- a judgment on you! well deserved!-- and tell me what has been my life for ten years since
We have been making every effort to endeavour to secure to you a good establishment
That has been your life. And now you have got it
There is no slave in a market: there is no horse in a fair: so shown and offered and examined and paraded, Mother, as I have been, for ten shameful years
Is it not so? Have I been made the bye-word of all kinds of men? Have fools, have profligates, have boys, have dotards, dangled after me, and one by one rejected me, and fallen off, because you were too plain with all your cunning: yes, and too true, with all those false pretences: until we have almost come to be notorious? The licence of look and touch
have I submitted to it, in half the places of resort upon the map of England? Have I been hawked and vended here and there, until the last grain of self-respect is dead within me, and I loathe myself? Has been my late childhood? I had none before. Do not tell me that I had, tonight of all nights in my life
You might have been well married
twenty times at least, Edith, if you had given encouragement enough
No! Who takes me, refuse that I am, and as I well deserve to be
You talk strangely to-night, Edith, to your own Mother
It seems so to me; stranger to me than you
But my education was completed long ago. I am too old now, and have fallen too low, by degrees, to take a new course, and to stop yours, and to help myself. The germ of all that purifies a woman's breast, and makes it true and good, has never stirred in mine, and I have nothing else to sustain me when I despise myself
So, as we are genteel and poor, I am content that we should be made rich by these means; all I say is, I have kept the only purpose I have had the strength to form -- I had almost said the power, with you at my side, Mother -- and have not tempted this man on
This man! You speak
as if you hated him
And you thought I loved him, did you not
Shall I tell you
who already knows us thoroughly, and reads us right, and before whom I have even less of self-respect or confidence than before my own inward self; being so much degraded by his knowledge of me
This is an attack, I suppose
on poor, unfortunate what's-his-name -- Mr Carker! Your want of self-respect and confidence, my dear, in reference to that person (who is very agreeable, it strikes me), is not likely to have much effect on your establishment. Why do you look at me so hard? Are you ill
So the day has come at length, Susan
when we are going back to our quiet home
Very quiet indeed, Miss Floy, no doubt. Excessive so
When I was a child
did you ever see that gentleman who has taken the trouble to ride down here to speak to me, now three times -- three times, I think, Susan
Three times, Miss
Once when you was out a walking with them Sket
With Sir Barnet and his lady, I mean to say, Miss, and the young gentleman. And two evenings since then
When I was a child, and when company used to come to visit Papa, did you ever see that gentleman at home, Susan
Well, Miss
I really couldn't say I ever did. When your poor dear Ma died, Miss Floy, I was very new in the family, you see, and my element
was the floor below the attics
To be sure
you are not likely to have known who came to the house. I quite forgot
Not, Miss, but what we talked about the family and visitors
and but what I heard much said, although the nurse before Mrs Richards make unpleasant remarks when I was in company, and hint at little Pitchers, but that could only be attributed, poor thing
to habits of intoxication, for which she was required to leave, and did
At all events, Miss
I remember very well that this same gentleman, Mr Carker, was almost, if not quite, as great a gentleman with your Papa then, as he is now. It used to be said in the house then, Miss, that he was at the head of all your Pa's affairs in the City, and managed the whole, and that your Pa minded him more than anybody, which, begging your pardon, Miss Floy, he might easy do, for he never minded anybody else. I knew that, Pitcher as I might have been
And that Mr Carker has not fallen off, Miss
but has stood his ground, and kept his credit with your Pa, I know from what is always said among our people by that Perch, whenever he comes to the house; and though he's the weakest weed in the world, Miss Floy, and no one can have a moment's patience with the man, he knows what goes on in the City tolerable well, and says that your Pa does nothing without Mr Carker, and leaves all to Mr Carker, and acts according to Mr Carker, and has Mr Carker always at his elbow, and I do believe that he believes (that washiest of Perches!) that after your Pa, the Emperor of India is the child unborn to Mr Carker
Yes, Susan
He is in Papa's confidence, and is his friend, I am sure
How are you, Toots
How de do, Sir Barnet
I never was so surprised
Is Miss Dombey there
Oh, Diogenes is quite well, Miss Dombey
I called to ask this morning
Thank you very much
Won't you come ashore, Toots
Come! you're in no hurry. Come and see us
Oh, it's of no consequence, thank you
I thought Miss Dombey might like to know, that's all. Good-bye
Oh, how de do, Miss Dombey
thank you, I'm very well indeed, I hope you're the same, so was Diogenes yesterday
You are very kind
Thank you, it's of no consequence
I thought perhaps you wouldn't mind, in this fine weather, coming home by water, Miss Dombey. There's plenty of room in the boat for your maid
I am very much obliged to you
I really am -- but I would rather not
Oh, it's of no consequence
Good morning
Won't you wait and see Lady Skettles
Oh no, thank you
it's of no consequence at all
We are losing, today, Toots
Oh, it's of no conseq -- I mean yes, to be sure
Good morning
May I beg of you, my dear Miss Dombey
to present my best compliments to your dear Papa
I shall be glad to see it again, I don't deny, Miss
There ain't much in it to boast of, but I wouldn't have it burnt or pulled down, neither
You'll be glad to go through the old rooms, won't you, Susan
Well, Miss
I won't deny but what I shall, though I shall hate 'em again, to-morrow, very likely
Why, Gracious me
where's our house
Our house
There is nothing the matter
Oh no, Miss
There are great alterations going on
Yes, Miss, great alterations
this room in panel. Green and gold
At home! and wishing to speak to me
Florence
how do you do
What dog is that
It is a dog, Papa -- from Brighton
Well
He is very good-tempered
He is only glad to see me. Pray forgive him
Mrs Skewton
this is my daughter Florence
Charming, I am sure
So natural! My darling Florence, you must kiss me, if you please
Edith
this is my daughter Florence. Florence, this lady will soon be your Mama
Oh, Papa, may you be happy! may you be very, very happy all your life
Shall we go on through the rooms
and see how our workmen are doing? Pray allow me, my dear madam
Let us ask Edith. Dear me, where is she
Edith, my dear
where are you? Looking for Mr Dombey somewhere, I know. We are here, my love
Florence
You will not begin by hating me
By hating you, Mama
Hush! Begin by thinking well of me
Begin by believing that I will try to make you happy, and that I am prepared to love you, Florence. Good-bye. We shall meet again soon. Good-bye! Don't stay here, now
How is my sweetest friend
Lucretia, thank you, I am pretty well. I hope you are the same. Hem
You call very early, and how kind that is, my dear
Now, have you breakfasted
Thank you, Lucretia
I have. I took an early breakfast
with my brother, who has come home
He is better, I trust, my love
He is greatly better, thank you. Hem
It's nothing
It's merely change of weather. We must expect change
Of weather
Of everything' returned Mrs Chick 'Of course we must. It's a world of change. Anyone would surprise me very much, Lucretia, and would greatly alter my opinion of their understanding, if they attempted to contradict or evade what is so perfectly evident. Change
Why, my gracious me, what is there that does not change! even the silkworm, who I am sure might be supposed not to trouble itself about such subjects, changes into all sorts of unexpected things continually
My Louisa
is ever happy in her illustrations
You are so kind, Lucretia
as to say so, and to think so, I believe. I hope neither of us may ever have any cause to lessen our opinion of the other, Lucretia
I am sure of it
Pardon me, my dear Louisa
but have I caught sight of the manly form of Mr Chick in the carriage
He is there
but pray leave him there. He has his newspaper, and would be quite contented for the next two hours. Go on with your flowers, Lucretia, and allow me to sit here and rest
My Louisa knows
that between friends like ourselves, any approach to ceremony would be out of the question. Therefore
Florence has returned home also
and really Florence is a great deal too old now, to continue to lead that solitary life to which she has been accustomed. Of course she is. There can be no doubt about it. I should have very little respect, indeed, for anybody who could advocate a different opinion. Whatever my wishes might be, I could not respect them. We cannot command our feelings to such an extent as that
If she's a strange girl
and if my brother Paul cannot feel perfectly comfortable in her society, after all the sad things that have happened, and all the terrible disappointments that have been undergone, then, what is the reply? That he must make an effort. That he is bound to make an effort. We have always been a family remarkable for effort. Paul is at the head of the family; almost the only representative of it left -- for what am I -- I am of no consequence
My dearest love
My sweet Louisa
Still, it is a triumph to me to know that he is so true to himself, and to his name of Dombey; although, of course, I always knew he would be. I only hope
My dear Louisa
will it be the least satisfaction to you, if I venture to observe in reference to that remark, that I, as a humble individual, think your sweet niece in every way most promising
What do you mean, Lucretia
To what remark of mine, my dear, do you refer
Her being worthy of her name, my love
If
I have not expressed myself with clearness, Lucretia, the fault of course is mine. There is, perhaps, no reason why I should express myself at all, except the intimacy that has subsisted between us, and which I very much hope, Lucretia -- confidently hope -- nothing will occur to disturb. Because, why should I do anything else? There is no reason; it would be absurd. But I wish to express myself clearly, Lucretia; and therefore to go back to that remark, I must beg to say that it was not intended to relate to Florence, in any way
Indeed
No
Pardon me, my dear
but I cannot have understood it. I fear I am dull
When I speak, Lucretia, of her being worthy of the name, I speak of my brother Paul's second wife. I believe I have already said, in effect, if not in the very words I now use, that it is his intention to marry a second wife
Whether she will be fully sensible of the distinction conferred upon her
is quite another question. I hope she may be. We are bound to think well of one another in this world, and I hope she may be. I have not been advised with myself If I had been advised with, I have no doubt my advice would have been cavalierly received, and therefore it is infinitely better as it is. I much prefer it as it is
If my brother Paul had consulted with me, which he sometimes does -- or rather, sometimes used to do; for he will naturally do that no more now, and this is a circumstance which I regard as a relief from responsibility
for I thank Heaven I am not jealous
if my brother Paul had come to me, and had said, "Louisa, what kind of qualities would you advise me to look out for, in a wife?" I should certainly have answered, "Paul, you must have family, you must have beauty, you must have dignity, you must have connexion." Those are the words I should have used. You might have led me to the block immediately afterwards
but I should have used them. I should have said, "Paul! You to marry a second time without family! You to marry without beauty! You to marry without dignity! You to marry without connexion! There is nobody in the world, not mad, who could dream of daring to entertain such a preposterous idea
because I trust I am not a fool. I make no claim to be considered a person of superior intellect -- though I believe some people have been extraordinary enough to consider me so; one so little humoured as I am, would very soon be disabused of any such notion; but I trust I am not a downright fool. And to tell ME
that my brother Paul Dombey could ever contemplate the possibility of uniting himself to anybody -- I don't care who
not possessing these requisites, would be to insult what understanding I have got, as much as if I was to be told that I was born and bred an elephant, which I may be told next
It wouldn't surprise me at all. I expect it
Therefore, of course my brother Paul has done what was to be expected of him, and what anybody might have foreseen he would do, if he entered the marriage state again. I confess it takes me rather by surprise, however gratifying; because when Paul went out of town I had no idea at all that he would form any attachment out of town, and he certainly had no attachment when he left here. However, it seems to be extremely desirable in every point of view. I have no doubt the mother is a most genteel and elegant creature, and I have no right whatever to dispute the policy of her living with them: which is Paul's affair, not mine -- and as to Paul's choice, herself, I have only seen her picture yet, but that is beautiful indeed. Her name is beautiful too
Edith is at once uncommon, as it strikes me, and distinguished. Consequently, Lucretia, I have no doubt you will be happy to hear that the marriage is to take place immediately -- of course, you will:' great emphasis again: 'and that you are delighted with this change in the condition of my brother, who has shown you a great deal of pleasant attention at various times
Lucretia
I am foolish to give way to faintness
I shall be better presently
You will be better presently, Lucretia
Do you suppose I am blind? Do you imagine I am in my second childhood? No, Lucretia! I am obliged to you
If anyone had told me this yesterday
or even half-an-hour ago, I should have been tempted, I almost believe, to strike them to the earth. Lucretia Tox, my eyes are opened to you all at once. The scales
Oh! to what do you allude so cruelly, my love
Lucretia
ask your own heart. I must entreat you not to address me by any such familiar term as you have just used, if you please. I have some self-respect left, though you may think otherwise
Oh, Louisa
How can you speak to me like that
How can I speak to you like that
Like that! You may well say like that, indeed
The idea
of your having basked at my brother's fireside, like a serpent, and wound yourself, through me, almost into his confidence, Lucretia, that you might, in secret, entertain designs upon him, and dare to aspire to contemplate the possibility of his uniting himself to you! Why, it is an idea
the absurdity of which almost relieves its treachery
Pray, Louisa
do not say such dreadful things
Dreadful things
Dreadful things! Is it not a fact, Lucretia, that you have just now been unable to command your feelings even before me, whose eyes you had so completely closed
I have made no complaint
I have said nothing. If I have been a little overpowered by your news, Louisa, and have ever had any lingering thought that Mr Dombey was inclined to be particular towards me, surely you will not condemn me
She is going to say
She is going to say -- I know it -- that I have encouraged her
I don't wish to exchange reproaches, dear Louisa
Nor do I wish to complain. But, in my own defence
Yes
that's what she's going to say. I knew it. You had better say it. Say it openly! Be open, Lucretia Tox
whatever you are
In my own defence
and only In my own defence against your unkind words, my dear Louisa, I would merely ask you if you haven't often favoured such a fancy, and even said it might happen, for anything we could tell
There is a point
beyond which endurance becomes ridiculous, if not culpable. I can bear much; but not too much. What spell was on me when I came into this house this day, I don't know; but I had a presentiment -- a dark presentiment
that something was going to happen. Well may I have had that foreboding, Lucretia, when my confidence of many years is destroyed in an instant, when my eyes are opened all at once, and when I find you revealed in your true colours. Lucretia, I have been mistaken in you. It is better for us both that this subject should end here. I wish you well, and I shall ever wish you well. But, as an individual who desires to be true to herself in her own poor position, whatever that position may be, or may not be -- and as the sister of my brother -- and as the sister-in-law of my brother's wife -- and as a connexion by marriage of my brother's wife's mother -- may I be permitted to add, as a Dombey?-- I can wish you nothing else but good morning
Oh the extent to which her eyes had been opened that day
To which your eyes have been opened, my dear
Oh, don't talk to me
if you can bear to see me in this state, and not ask me what the matter is, you had better hold your tongue for ever
What is the matter, my dear
To think
that she should ever have conceived the base idea of connecting herself with our family by a marriage with Paul! To think that when she was playing at horses with that dear child who is now in his grave -- I never liked it at the time -- she should have been hiding such a double-faced design! I wonder she was never afraid that something would happen to her. She is fortunate if nothing does
I really thought, my dear
that you had gone on the same tack yourself, all along, until this morning; and had thought it would be a convenient thing enough, if it could have been brought about
But with Lucretia Tox I have done
I can bear to resign Paul's confidence in favour of one who, I hope and trust, may be deserving of it, and with whom he has a perfect right to replace poor Fanny if he chooses; I can bear to be informed, In Paul's cool manner, of such a change in his plans, and never to be consulted until all is settled and determined; but deceit I can not bear, and with Lucretia Tox I have done. It is better as it is
much better. It would have been a long time before I could have accommodated myself comfortably with her, after this; and I really don't know, as Paul is going to be very grand, and these are people of condition, that she would have been quite presentable, and might not have compromised myself. There's a providence in everything; everything works for the best; I have been tried today but on the whole I do not regret it
Mama
Come again
Not Mama yet
But very soon to be
Have you been alone, Florence, since I was here last
Oh yes
I -- I -- am used to be alone
I don't mind it at all. Di and I pass whole days together, sometimes
Is Di your maid, love
My dog, Mama
Susan is my maid
And these are your rooms
I was not shown these rooms the other day. We must have them improved, Florence. They shall be made the prettiest in the house
If I might change them, Mama
there is one upstairs I should like much better
Is this not high enough, dear girl
The other was my brother's room
and I am very fond of it. I would have spoken to Papa about it when I came home, and found the workmen here, and everything changing; but
but I was afraid it might distress him; and as you said you would be here again soon, Mama, and are the mistress of everything, I determined to take courage and ask you
We have come to London now, my mother and I
and you shall stay with us until I am married. I wish that we should know and trust each other, Florence
You are very kind to me
dear Mama. How much I thank you
Let me say now, for it may be the best opportunity
that when I am married, and have gone away for some weeks, I shall be easier at heart if you will come home here. No matter who invites you to stay elsewhere. Come home here. It is better to be alone than -- what I would say is
that I know well you are best at home, dear Florence
Do so. I rely on that promise. Now, prepare to come with me, dear girl. You will find me downstairs when you are ready
And how
is my charming Florence? You must come and kiss me, Florence, if you please, my love
Edith, my dear
You don't remember, dearest Edith
what you were when you were about the same age as our exceedingly precious Florence, or a few years younger
I have long forgotten, mother
For positively, my dear
I do think that I see a decided resemblance to what you were then, in our extremely fascinating young friend. And it shows
what cultivation will do
It does, indeed
My charming Florence, you must come and kiss me once more, if you please, my love
And you have heard, no doubt, my darling pet
that your Papa, whom we all perfectly adore and dote upon, is to be married to my dearest Edith this day week
I knew it would be very soon
but not exactly when
My darling Edith
is it possible you have not told Florence
Why should I tell Florence
I hear him now
He is coming
My dear Dombey
come here and tell me how your pretty Florence is
Florence is very well
At home
At home
My dear Dombey
now are you sure you are not deceiving me? I don't know what my dearest Edith will say to me when I make such a declaration, but upon my honour I am afraid you are the falsest of men, my dear Dombey
Now, confess, my dear Dombey
that you never were more surprised and pleased in your life
I never was more surprised
Nor pleased, my dearest Dombey
I -- yes, I am exceedingly glad to meet Florence here
Yes, I really am very glad indeed to meet Florence here
You wonder how she comes here
don't you
Edith, perhaps
Ah! wicked guesser
Ah! cunning, cunning man! One shouldn't tell these things; your sex, my dear Dombey, are so vain, and so apt to abuse our weakness; but you know my open soul -- very well; immediately
But Edith, my dear Dombey
Bless you, my dear Dombey, for that proof of heart
But I am growing too serious! Take me downstairs, like an angel, and let us see what these people intend to give us for dinner. Bless you, dear Dombey
Even the lawyers' preparations
Yes, madam
the deed of settlement, the professional gentlemen inform me, is now ready, and as I was mentioning to you, Edith has only to do us the favour to suggest her own time for its execution
My dearest love
do you hear what Mr Dombey says? Ah, my dear Dombey
how her absence, as the time approaches, reminds me of the days, when that most agreeable of creatures, her Papa, was in your situation
I have nothing to suggest. It shall be when you please
To-morrow
If you please
Or would next day
suit your engagements better
I have no engagements. I am always at your disposal. Let it be when you like
No engagements, my dear Edith
when you are in a most terrible state of flurry all day long, and have a thousand and one appointments with all sorts of trades-people
They are of your making
You and Mr Dombey can arrange between you
Very true indeed, my love, and most considerate of you
My darling Florence, you must really come and kiss me once more, if you please, my dear
My dear Dombey
you will leave me Florence to-morrow, when you deprive me of my sweetest Edith
To have her about me, here, while you are both at Paris, and to think at her age, I am assisting in the formation of her mind, my dear Dombey
will be a perfect balm to me in the extremely shattered state to which I shall be reduced
My dear Dombey
a thousand thanks for your good opinion. I feared you were going, with malice aforethought' as the dreadful lawyers say -- those horrid proses!-- to condemn me to utter solitude
Why do me so great an injustice, my dear madam
Because my charming Florence tells me so positively she must go home tomorrow, returned Cleopatra, that I began to be afraid, my dearest Dombey, you were quite a Bashaw
I assure you, madam
I have laid no commands on Florence; and if I had, there are no commands like your wish
My dear Dombey
Is this a fact, or is it all a dream
Can I believe, my dearest Dombey, that you are coming back tomorrow morning to deprive me of my sweet companion; my own Edith
The pang
of consigning a child, even to you, my dear Dombey, is one of the most excruciating imaginable, and combined with a naturally delicate constitution, and the extreme stupidity of the pastry-cook who has undertaken the breakfast, is almost too much for my poor strength. But I shall rally, my dear Dombey, In the morning; do not fear for me, or be uneasy on my account. Heaven bless you! My dearest Edith
Somebody is going, pet
Tomorrow morning I shall have the happiness of claiming this hand as Mrs Dombey's
I am tired to death
You can't be trusted for a moment. You are worse than a child. Child! No child would be half so obstinate and undutiful
Listen to me, mother
You must remain alone here until I return
Must remain alone here, Edith, until you return
Or in that name upon which I shall call to-morrow to witness what I do, so falsely: and so shamefully, I swear I will refuse the hand of this man in the church. If I do not, may I fall dead upon the pavement
It is enough
that we are what we are. I will have no youth and truth dragged down to my level. I will have no guileless nature undermined, corrupted, and perverted, to amuse the leisure of a world of mothers. You know my meaning. Florence must go home
You are an idiot, Edith
Do you expect there can ever be peace for you in that house, till she is married, and away
Ask me, or ask yourself, if I ever expect peace in that house
And am I to be told to-night, after all my pains and labour, and when you are going, through me, to be rendered independent
that there is corruption and contagion in me, and that I am not fit company for a girl! What are you, pray? What are you
I have put the question to myself
more than once when I have been sitting there, and something in the faded likeness of my sex has wandered past outside; and God knows I have met with my reply. Oh mother, mother, if you had but left me to my natural heart when I too was a girl -- a younger girl than Florence -- how different I might have been
If one is to go on living through continual scenes like this
I am sure it would be much better for me to think of some means of putting an end to my existence. Oh! The idea of your being my daughter, Edith, and addressing me in such a strain
Between us, mother
Then why do you revive it
You know that you are lacerating me in the cruellest manner. You know how sensitive I am to unkindness. At such a moment, too, when I have so much to think of, and am naturally anxious to appear to the best advantage! I wonder at you, Edith. To make your mother a fright upon your wedding-day
I have said that Florence must go home
Let her go
I am sure I am willing she should go. What is the girl to me
She is so much to me, that rather than communicate, or suffer to be communicated to her, one grain of the evil that is in my breast, mother, I would renounce you, as I would (if you gave me cause) renounce him in the church to-morrow
Leave her alone. She shall not, while I can interpose, be tampered with and tainted by the lessons I have learned. This is no hard condition on this bitter night
If you had proposed it in a filial manner, Edith
perhaps not; very likely not. But such extremely cutting words
They are past and at an end between us now
Take your own way, mother; share as you please in what you have gained; spend, enjoy, make much of it; and be as happy as you will. The object of our lives is won. Henceforth let us wear it silently. My lips are closed upon the past from this hour. I forgive you your part in to-morrow's wickedness. May God forgive my own
exciseman
put about
overhaul that 'ere article again
Dombey
how are you
Major
how are You
By Jove, Sir
Joey B. is in such case this morning, Sir
In such case this morning, Sir, that, damme, Dombey, he has half a mind to make a double marriage of it, Sir, and take the mother
Dombey
I give you joy. I congratulate you, Dombey. By the Lord, Sir
you are more to be envied, this day, than any man in England
As to Edith Granger, Sir
there is not a woman in all Europe but might -- and would, Sir, you will allow Bagstock to add -- and would -- give her ears, and her earrings, too, to be in Edith Granger's place
You are good enough to say so, Major
Dombey
you know it. Let us have no false delicacy. You know it. Do you know it, or do you not, Dombey
Oh, really, Major
Damme, Sir
do you know that fact, or do you not? Dombey! Is old Joe your friend? Are we on that footing of unreserved intimacy, Dombey, that may justify a man -- a blunt old Joseph B., Sir -- in speaking out; or am I to take open order, Dombey, and to keep my distance, and to stand on forms
My dear Major Bagstock
you are quite warm
By Gad, Sir
I am warm. Joseph B. does not deny it, Dombey. He is warm. This is an occasion, Sir, that calls forth all the honest sympathies remaining in an old, infernal, battered, used-up, invalided, J. B. carcase. And I tell you what, Dombey -- at such a time a man must blurt out what he feels, or put a muzzle on; and Joseph Bagstock tells you to your face, Dombey, as he tells his club behind your back, that he never will be muzzled when Paul Dombey is in question. Now, damme, Sir
what do you make of that
Major
I assure you that I am really obliged to you. I had no idea of checking your too partial friendship
Not too partial, Sir
Dombey, I deny it
Your friendship I will say then
on any account. Nor can I forget, Major, on such an occasion as the present, how much I am indebted to it
Dombey
that is the hand of Joseph Bagstock: of plain old Joey B., Sir, if you like that better! That is the hand, of which His Royal Highness the late Duke of York, did me the honour to observe, Sir, to His Royal Highness the late Duke of Kent, that it was the hand of Josh: a rough and tough, and possibly an up-to-snuff, old vagabond. Dombey, may the present moment be the least unhappy of our lives. God bless you
The very day is auspicious
The brightest and most genial weather! I hope I am not a moment late
Punctual to your time, Sir
I am rejoiced, I am sure
I was afraid I might be a few seconds after the appointed time, for I was delayed by a procession of waggons; and I took the liberty of riding round to Brook Street
to leave a few poor rarities of flowers for Mrs Dombey. A man in my position, and so distinguished as to be invited here, is proud to offer some homage in acknowledgment of his vassalage: and as I have no doubt Mrs Dombey is overwhelmed with what is costly and magnificent
I hope the very poverty of my offering, may find favour for it
Mrs Dombey, that is to be
will be very sensible of your attention, Carker, I am sure
And if she is to be Mrs Dombey this morning, Sir
it's high time we were off
My dear Dombey
I fear I must relinquish darling Florence after all, and suffer her to go home, as she herself proposed. After my loss of to-day, my dear Dombey, I feel I shall not have spirits, even for her society
Had she not better stay with you
I think not, my dear Dombey. No, I think not. I shall be better alone. Besides, my dearest Edith will be her natural and constant guardian when you return, and I had better not encroach upon her trust, perhaps. She might be jealous. Eh, dear Edith
To be serious, my dear Dombey
I will relinquish our dear child, and not inflict my gloom upon her. We have settled that, just now. She fully understands, dear Dombey. Edith, my dear,-- she fully understands
Confound it
when we do get a rich City fellow into the family, let us show him some attention; let us do something for him
good lady:' whom Cousin Feenix giveth to married to this man accordingly. And will they in the sight of heaven --? Ay, that they will: Mr Dombey says he will. And what says Edith? She will. So, from that day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death do them part, they plight their troth to one another, and are married. In a firm, free hand, the Bride subscribes her name in the register, when they adjourn to the vestry. 'There ain't a many ladies come here
If wishes
are not superfluous, applied to such a union
I thank you, Sir
I am proud to see
I am proud to see that my humble offering is graced by Mrs Dombey's hand, and permitted to hold so favoured a place in so joyful an occasion
Upon my honour
A -- in fact it's not a
Hear, hear
It is
an occasion in fact, when the general usages of life may be a little departed from, without impropriety; and although I never was an orator in my life, and when I was in the House of Commons, and had the honour of seconding the address, was -- in fact, was laid up for a fortnight with the consciousness of failure
And in point of fact, when I was devilish ill -- still, you know, I feel that a duty devolves upon me. And when a duty devolves upon an Englishman, he is bound to get out of it, in my opinion, in the best way he can. Well! our family has had the gratification, to-day, of connecting itself, in the person of my lovely and accomplished relative, whom I now see -- in point of fact, present
Present
with one who -- that is to say, with a man, at whom the finger of scorn can never -- in fact, with my honourable friend Dombey, if he will allow me to call him so
I have not
enjoyed those opportunities which I could have desired, of cultivating the acquaintance of my friend Dombey, and studying those qualities which do equal honour to his head, and, in point of fact, to his heart; for it has been my misfortune to be, as we used to say in my time in the House of Commons, when it was not the custom to allude to the Lords, and when the order of parliamentary proceedings was perhaps better observed than it is now -- to be in -- in point of fact
But I know sufficient of my friend Dombey
to know that he is, in point of fact, what may be emphatically called a -- a merchant -- a British merchant -- and a -- and a man. And although I have been resident abroad, for some years (it would give me great pleasure to receive my friend Dombey, and everybody here, at Baden-Baden, and to have an opportunity of making 'em known to the Grand Duke), still I know enough, I flatter myself, of my lovely and accomplished relative, to know that she possesses every requisite to make a man happy, and that her marriage with my friend Dombey is one of inclination and affection on both sides
Therefore
I congratulate the family of which I am a member, on the acquisition of my friend Dombey. I congratulate my friend Dombey on his union with my lovely and accomplished relative who possesses every requisite to make a man happy; and I take the liberty of calling on you all, in point of fact, to congratulate both my friend Dombey and my lovely and accomplished relative, on the present occasion
To have and to hold, from this day forward, for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, until death do them part
Oh cheerily, cheerily
Now, my lad, stand by! If ever I'm took
Took, Captain
Ah
if ever I goes away, meaning to come back to supper, and don't come within hail again, twenty-four hours arter my loss, go you to Brig Place and whistle that 'ere tune near my old moorings -- not as if you was a meaning of it, you understand, but as if you'd drifted there, promiscuous. If I answer in that tune, you sheer off, my lad, and come back four-and-twenty hours arterwards; if I answer in another tune, do you stand off and on, and wait till I throw out further signals. Do you understand them orders, now
What am I to stand off and on of, Captain
The horse-road
Here's a smart lad for you
as don't know his own native alphabet! Go away a bit and come back again alternate -- d'ye understand that
Yes, Captain
Very good my lad, then
Do it
What's that
Somebody's knuckles, Captain
A job for Burgess and Co. at any rate
Oh, how-de-do, Mr Gills
Thankee
I'm very well indeed, myself, I'm much obliged to you. My name is Toots,-- Mister Toots
I say! I should like to speak a word to you, Mr Gills, if you please
I say! Miss D.O.M. you know
Oh! I beg your pardon though
you don't happen to know the Chicken at all; do you, Mr Gills
The Chicken
The Game Chicken
Because he's outside: that's all
But it's of no consequence; he won't get very wet, perhaps
I can pass the word for him in a moment
Well, if you would have the goodness to let him sit in the shop with your young man
I should be glad; because, you know, he's easily offended, and the damp's rather bad for his stamina. I'll call him in, Mr Gills
Sit down, Chicken
There ain't no drain of nothing short handy, is there
Towards us
Mr Gills
Awast
My name's Cuttle
Cap'en Cuttle is my name, and England is my nation, this here is my dwelling-place, and blessed be creation -- Job
Oh! I couldn't see Mr Gills, could I
because
said the Captain, impressively, and laying his heavy hand on Mr Toots's knee, 'old Sol, mind you -- with your own eyes -- as you sit there -- you'd be welcomer to me, than a wind astern, to a ship becalmed. But you can't see Sol Gills. And why can't you see Sol Gills
Because he's inwisible
Lor bless me
That there man
has left me in charge here by a piece of writing, but though he was a'most as good as my sworn brother, I know no more where he's gone, or why he's gone; if so be to seek his nevy, or if so be along of being not quite settled in his mind; than you do. One morning at daybreak, he went over the side
without a splash, without a ripple I have looked for that man high and low, and never set eyes, nor ears, nor nothing else, upon him from that hour
But, good Gracious, Miss Dombey don't know
Why, I ask you, as a feeling heart
why should she know? why should she be made to know, until such time as there wam't any help for it? She took to old Sol Gills, did that sweet creetur, with a kindness, with a affability, with a -- what's the good of saying so? you know her
I should hope so
And you come here from her
I should think so
Then all I need observe, is
that you know a angel, and are chartered a angel
Upon my word and honour
I should be very much obliged to you if you'd improve my acquaintance I should like to know you, Captain, very much. I really am In want of a friend, I am. Little Dombey was my friend at old Blimber's, and would have been now, if he'd have lived. The Chicken
is very well -- admirable in his way -- the sharpest man perhaps in the world; there's not a move he isn't up to, everybody says so -- but I don't know -- he's not everything. So she is an angel, Captain. If there is an angel anywhere, it's Miss Dombey. That's what I've always said. Really though, you know
I should be very much obliged to you if you'd cultivate my acquaintance
Ay, ay, my lad. We shall see, we shall see
Why the fact is
And I'll tell you how it happens
You know, I go and call sometimes, on Miss Dombey. I don't go there on purpose, you know, but I happen to be in the neighbourhood very often; and when I find myself there, why -- why I call
Nat'rally
Yes
I called this afternoon. Upon my word and honour, I don't think it's possible to form an idea of the angel Miss Dombey was this afternoon
As I was coming out
Where she brought out
this newspaper. She told me that she had kept it from Miss Dombey all day, on account of something that was in it, about somebody that she and Dombey used to know; and then she read the passage to me. Very well. Then she said -- wait a minute; what was it she said, though
Oh
Oh, ah! Yes! She said that she hoped there was a bare possibility that it mightn't be true; and that as she couldn't very well come out herself, without surprising Miss Dombey, would I go down to Mr Solomon Gills the Instrument-maker's in this street, who was the party's Uncle, and ask whether he believed it was true, or had heard anything else in the City. She said, if he couldn't speak to me, no doubt Captain Cuttle could. By the bye
you, you know
Well, pursued Mr Toots, 'the reason why I'm rather late is, because I went up as far as Finchley first, to get some uncommonly fine chickweed that grows there, for Miss Dombey's bird. But I came on here, directly afterwards. You've seen the paper, I suppose
Shall I read the passage to you
Southampton. The barque Defiance, Henry James, Commander, arrived in this port to-day, with a cargo of sugar, coffee, and rum, reports that being becalmed on the sixth day of her passage home from Jamaica, in" -- in such and such a latitude, you know
Ay
Heave ahead, my lad
latitude
and longitude so-and-so,--"the look-out observed, half an hour before sunset, some fragments of a wreck, drifting at about the distance of a mile. The weather being clear, and the barque making no way, a boat was hoisted out, with orders to inspect the same, when they were found to consist of sundry large spars, and a part of the main rigging of an English brig, of about five hundred tons burden, together with a portion of the stem on which the words and letters 'Son and H-' were yet plainly legible. No vestige of any dead body was to be seen upon the floating fragments. Log of the Defiance states, that a breeze springing up in the night, the wreck was seen no more. There can be no doubt that all surmises as to the fate of the missing vessel, the Son and Heir, port of London, bound for Barbados, are now set at rest for ever; that she broke up in the last hurricane; and that every soul on board perished
Oh' upon my word and honour
this is a most wretched sort of affair this world is! Somebody's always dying, or going and doing something uncomfortable in it. I'm sure I never should have looked forward so much, to coming into my property, if I had known this. I never saw such a world. It's a great deal worse than Blimber's
Wal'r, my dear lad
farewell! Wal'r my child, my boy, and man, I loved you! He warn't my flesh and blood
I ain't got none -- but something of what a father feels when he loses a son, I feel in losing Wal'r. For why
Because it ain't one loss, but a round dozen. Where's that there young school-boy with the rosy face and curly hair, that used to be as merry in this here parlour, come round every week, as a piece of music? Gone down with Wal'r. Where's that there fresh lad, that nothing couldn't tire nor put out, and that sparkled up and blushed so, when we joked him about Heart's Delight, that he was beautiful to look at? Gone down with Wal'r. Where's that there man's spirit, all afire, that wouldn't see the old man hove down for a minute, and cared nothing for itself? Gone down with Wal'r. It ain't one Wal'r. There was a dozen Wal'rs that I know'd and loved, all holding round his neck when he went down, and they're a-holding round mine now
And Sol Gills
poor nevyless old Sol, where are you got to! you was left in charge of me; his last words was, "Take care of my Uncle!" What came over you, Sol, when you went and gave the go-bye to Ned Cuttle; and what am I to put In my accounts that he's a looking down upon, respecting you! Sol Gills, Sol Gills
catch sight of that there newspaper, away from home, with no one as know'd Wal'r by, to say a word; and broadside to you broach, and down you pitch, head foremost
My lad
you must tell the young woman honestly that this here fatal news is too correct. They don't romance, you see, on such pints. It's entered on the ship's log, and that's the truest book as a man can write. To-morrow morning
I'll step out and make inquiries; but they'll lead to no good. They can't do it. If you'll give me a look-in in the forenoon, you shall know what I have heerd; but tell the young woman from Cap'en Cuttle, that it's over. Over
Oh! I assure you
really I am dreadfully sorry. Upon my word I am, though I wasn't acquainted with the party. Do you think Miss Dombey will be very much affected, Captain Gills -- I mean Mr Cuttle
Why, Lord love you
Were they though
They were made for one another
but what signifies that now
Upon my word and honour
I'm even more sorry than I was before. You know, Captain Gills, I -- I positively adore Miss Dombey;-- I -- I am perfectly sore with loving her
but what would be the good of my regarding her in this manner, if I wasn't truly sorry for her feeling pain, whatever was the cause of it. Mine ain't a selfish affection, you know
Thankee, Captain Gills
it's kind of you, in the midst of your own troubles, to say so. I'm very much obliged to you. As I said before, I really want a friend, and should be glad to have your acquaintance. Although I am very well off
you can't think what a miserable Beast I am. The hollow crowd, you know, when they see me with the Chicken, and characters of distinction like that, suppose me to be happy; but I'm wretched. I suffer for Miss Dombey, Captain Gills. I can't get through my meals; I have no pleasure in my tailor; I often cry when I'm alone. I assure you it'll be a satisfaction to me to come back to-morrow, or to come back fifty times
Well, Captain Cuttle
this is a bad business
You have received the news as was in print yesterday, Sir
Yes
we have received it! It was accurately stated. The underwriters suffer a considerable loss. We are very sorry. No help! Such is life
I excessively regret poor Gay
and the crew. I understand there were some of our very best men among 'em. It always happens so. Many men with families too. A comfort to reflect that poor Gay had no family, Captain Cuttle
Is there anything I can do for you, Captain Cuttle
I wish you could set my mind at rest, Sir, on something it's uneasy about
Ay
what's that? Come, Captain Cuttle, I must trouble you to be quick, if you please. I am much engaged
Lookee here, Sir
Come, come, Captain Cuttle
My lad
you are a'most a lad to me, and so I don't ask your pardon for that slip of a word,-- if you find any pleasure in this here sport, you ain't the gentleman I took you for. And if you ain't the gentleman I took you for, may be my mind has call to be uneasy. Now this is what it is, Mr Carker.-- Afore that poor lad went away, according to orders, he told me that he warn't a going away for his own good, or for promotion, he know'd. It was my belief that he was wrong, and I told him so, and I come here, your head governor being absent, to ask a question or two of you in a civil way, for my own satisfaction. Them questions you answered -- free. Now it'll ease my mind to know, when all is over, as it is, and when what can't be cured must be endoored -- for which, as a scholar, you'll overhaul the book it's in, and thereof make a note -- to know once more, in a word, that I warn't mistaken; that I warn't back'ard in my duty when I didn't tell the old man what Wal'r told me; and that the wind was truly in his sail, when he highsted of it for Barbados Harbour. Mr Carker
when I was here last, we was very pleasant together. If I ain't been altogether so pleasant myself this morning, on account of this poor lad, and if I have chafed again any observation of yours that I might have fended off, my name is Ed'ard Cuttle, and I ask your pardon
Captain Cuttle
I must ask you to do me a favour
And what is it, Sir
To have the goodness to walk off, if you please
and to carry your jargon somewhere else
I tell you what, Captain Cuttle
I was much too lenient with you when you came here before. You belong to an artful and audacious set of people. In my desire to save young what's-his-name from being kicked out of this place, neck and crop, my good Captain, I tolerated you; but for once, and only once. Now, go, my friend
Go
like a sensible fellow, and let us have no turning out, or any such violent measures. If Mr Dombey were here, Captain, you might be obliged to leave in a more ignominious manner, possibly. I merely say, Go
You are deep, Captain Cuttle
but you are not quite out of soundings, either -- neither you nor your absent friend, Captain. What have you done with your absent friend, hey
stand by
You hatch nice little plots, and hold nice little councils, and make nice little appointments, and receive nice little visitors, too, Captain, hey
but it's a bold measure to come here afterwards. Not like your discretion! You conspirators, and hiders, and runners-away, should know better than that. Will you oblige me by going
My lad
there's a many words I could wish to say to you, but I don't rightly know where they're stowed just at present. My young friend, Wal'r, was drownded only last night, according to my reckoning, and it puts me out, you see. But you and me will come alongside o'one another again, my lad
It will be anything but shrewd in you, my good fellow, if we do
for you may rely, I give you fair warning, upon my detecting and exposing you. I don't pretend to be a more moral man than my neighbours, my good Captain; but the confidence of this House, or of any member of this House, is not to be abused and undermined while I have eyes and ears. Good day
Heart's Delight
I'm took aback, my lad, at present
and will only confirm that there ill news. Tell the young woman to break it gentle to the young lady, and for neither of 'em never to think of me no more --'special, mind you, that is -- though I will think of them, when night comes on a hurricane and seas is mountains rowling, for which overhaul your Doctor Watts, brother, and when found make a note on
A most extraordinary accidental likeness, certainly
It is early, John
Why do you go so early
Not many minutes earlier than usual, Harriet. If I have the time to spare, I should like, I think -- it's a fancy -- to walk once by the house where I took leave of him
I wish I had ever seen or known him, John
It is better as it is, my dear, remembering his fate
But I could not regret it more, though I had known him. Is not your sorrow mine? And if I had, perhaps you would feel that I was a better companion to you in speaking about him, than I may seem now. 'My dearest sister! Is there anything within the range of rejoicing or regret, in which I am not sure of your companionship
I hope you think not, John, for surely there is nothing
How could you be better to me, or nearer to me then, than you are in this, or anything
I feel that you did know him, Harriet, and that you shared my feelings towards him
No, not quite
True, true
you think I might have done him no harm if I had allowed myself to know him better
Think! I know it
Designedly, Heaven knows I would not
but his reputation was too precious to be perilled by such association. Whether you share that knowledge, or do not, my dear
I do not
It is still the truth, Harriet, and my mind is lighter when I think of him for that which made it so much heavier then
Good-bye
Good-bye, dear John! In the evening, at the old time and place, I shall meet you as usual on your way home. Good-bye
You are come again, Sir
I take that liberty
May I ask for five minutes of your leisure
Miss Harriet, you cannot be proud. You signified to me, when I called t'other morning, that you were. Pardon me if I say that I looked into your face while you spoke, and that it contradicted you. I look into it again
and it contradicts you more and more
It is the mirror of truth
and gentleness. Excuse my trusting to it, and returning
The disparity between our ages
and the plainness of my purpose, empower me, I am glad to think, to speak my mind. That is my mind; and so you see me for the second time
There is a kind of pride, Sir
or what may be supposed to be pride, which is mere duty. I hope I cherish no other
For yourself
For myself
But -- pardon me
For your brother John
Proud of his love, I am
and proud of him. Sir, you who strangely know the story of his life, and repeated it to me when you were here last
Merely to make my way into your confidence
For heaven's sake, don't suppose
I am sure
you revived it, in my hearing, with a kind and good purpose. I am quite sure of it
I thank you
I am much obliged to you. You do me justice, I assure you. You were going to say, that I, who know the story of John Carker's life
May think it pride in me
when I say that I am proud of him! I am. You know the time was, when I was not -- when I could not be -- but that is past. The humility of many years, the uncomplaining expiation, the true repentance, the terrible regret, the pain I know he has even in my affection, which he thinks has cost me dear, though Heaven knows I am happy, but for his sorrow I -- oh, Sir, after what I have seen, let me conjure you, if you are in any place of power, and are ever wronged, never, for any wrong, inflict a punishment that cannot be recalled; while there is a GOD above us to work changes in the hearts He made
Your brother is an altered man
I assure you I don't doubt it
He was an altered man when he did wrong
He is an altered man again, and is his true self now, believe me, Sir
we go on in our clockwork routine, from day to day, and can't make out, or follow, these changes. They -- they're a metaphysical sort of thing. We -- we haven't leisure for it. We -- we haven't courage. They're not taught at schools or colleges, and we don't know how to set about it. In short, we are so d ------- d business-like
I am sure
I have good reason to believe that a jog-trot life, the same from day to day, would reconcile one to anything. One don't see anything, one don't hear anything, one don't know anything; that's the fact. We go on taking everything for granted, and so we go on, until whatever we do, good, bad, or indifferent, we do from habit. Habit is all I shall have to report, when I am called upon to plead to my conscience, on my death-bed. "Habit," says I; "I was deaf, dumb, blind, and paralytic, to a million things, from habit
says Conscience
Miss Harriet
I wish you would let me serve you. Look at me; I ought to look honest, for I know I am so, at present. Do I
Yes
I believe every word you have said
I am full of self-reproach that I might have known this and seen this, and known you and seen you, any time these dozen years, and that I never have. I hardly know how I ever got here -- creature that I am, not only of my own habit, but of other people's! But having done so, let me do something. I ask it in all honour and respect. You inspire me with both, in the highest degree. Let me do something
We are contented, Sir
No, no, not quite
I think not quite. There are some little comforts that might smooth your life, and his. And his
I have been in the habit of thinking that there was nothing wanting to be done for him; that it was all settled and over; in short, of not thinking at all about it. I am different now. Let me do something for him. You too
have need to watch your health closely, for his sake, and I fear it fails
Whoever you may be, Sir
when he is restored, in part, to the position he lost
Restored
How can that be hoped for? In whose hands does the power of any restoration lie? It is no mistake of mine, surely, to suppose that his having gained the priceless blessing of his life, is one cause of the animosity shown to him by his brother
You touch upon a subject that is never breathed between us; not even between us
I beg your forgiveness
I should have known it. I entreat you to forget that I have done so, inadvertently. And now, as I dare urge no more -- as I am not sure that I have a right to do so -- though Heaven knows, even that doubt may be habit
let me; though a stranger, yet no stranger; ask two favours
What are they
The first, that if you should see cause to change your resolution, you will suffer me to be as your right hand. My name shall then be at your service; it is useless now, and always insignificant
Our choice of friends
is not so great, that I need any time for consideration. I can promise that
in walking past, to see you at the door or window. I don't ask to come in, as your brother will be gone out at that hour. I don't ask to speak to you. I merely ask to see, for the satisfaction of my own mind, that you are well, and without intrusion to remind you, by the sight of me, that you have a friend -- an elderly friend, grey-haired already, and fast growing greyer -- whom you may ever command
I understand, as before
that you purpose not to mention my visit to John Carker, lest he should be at all distressed by my acquaintance with his history. I am glad of it, for it is out of the ordinary course of things, and -- habit again
as if there were no better course than the ordinary course
Why do you rest in the rain
Because I have no other resting-place
But there are many places of shelter near here. This
is better than where you were. You are very welcome to rest here
Why, what's a torn foot to such as me
And what's a torn foot in such as me, to such as you
Come in and wash it
and let me give you something to bind it up
I daresay you are thinking
that I used to be handsome, once. I believe I was -- I know I was -- Look here
Are you a stranger in this place
A stranger
Yes. Ten or a dozen years a stranger. I have had no almanack where I have been. Ten or a dozen years. I don't know this part. It's much altered since I went away
Have you been far
Very far. Months upon months over the sea, and far away even then. I have been where convicts go
I have been one myself
Heaven help you and forgive you
Ah! Heaven help me and forgive me
If man would help some of us a little more, God would forgive us all the sooner perhaps
We may be about the same age, you and me. If I am older, it is not above a year or two. Oh think of that
There is nothing we may not hope to repair; it is never too late to amend
You are penitent
No
I am not! I can't be. I am no such thing. Why should I be penitent, and all the world go free? They talk to me of my penitence. Who's penitent for the wrongs that have been done to me
Where are you going
Yonder
To London
Have you any home to go to
I think I have a mother. She's as much a mother, as her dwelling is a home
Take this
Try to do well. It is very little, but for one day it may keep you from harm
Are you married
No. I live here with my brother. We have not much to spare, or I would give you more
Will you let me kiss you
Who's that
One who brings you news, was the answer, in a woman's voice. 'News? Where from
From abroad
From beyond seas
Ay, from beyond seas
What is the matter
Oho! Oho
What is the matter
It's not my gal
Where's my Alice? Where's my handsome daughter? They've been the death of her
They've not been the death of her yet, if your name's Marwood
Have you seen my gal, then
Has she wrote to me
She said you couldn't read
No more I can
Have you no light here
She sent to me by word of mouth then, my gal, Alice
What did she say
Look
Alice said look again, mother
It's my gal! It's my Alice! It's my handsome daughter, living and come back
It's my gal! It's my Alice! It's my handsome daughter, living and come back
Yes, mother
I am here, at last. Let go, mother; let go. Get up, and sit in your chair. What good does this do
She's come back harder than she went
She don't care for me! after all these years, and all the wretched life I've led
Why&gt; mother
there are two sides to that. There have been years for me as well as you, and there has been wretchedness for me as well as you. Get up, get up
Did you expect to see me return as youthful as I went away, mother
Did you think a foreign life, like mine, was good for good looks? One would believe so, to hear you
It ain't that
She knows it
What is it then
Hear that
After all these years she threatens to desert me in the moment of her coming back again
I tell you, mother, for the second time, there have been years for me as well as you
Come back harder? Of course I have come back harder. What else did you expect
Harder to me! To her own dear mother
I don't know who began to harden me, if my own dear mother didn't
Listen, mother, to a word or two. If we understand each other now, we shall not fall out any more, perhaps. I went away a girl, and have come back a woman. I went away undutiful enough, and have come back no better, you may swear. But have you been very dutiful to me
I
To my gal! A mother dutiful to her own child
It sounds unnatural, don't it
There was a child called Alice Marwood
born, among poverty and neglect, and nursed in it. Nobody taught her, nobody stepped forward to help her, nobody cared for her
Nobody
The only care she knew
was to be beaten, and stinted, and abused sometimes; and she might have done better without that. She lived in homes like this, and in the streets, with a crowd of little wretches like herself; and yet she brought good looks out of this childhood. So much the worse for her. She had better have been hunted and worried to death for ugliness
Go on! go on
I am going on
There was a girl called Alice Marwood. She was handsome. She was taught too late, and taught all wrong. She was too well cared for, too well trained, too well helped on, too much looked after. You were very fond of her -- you were better off then. What came to that girl comes to thousands every year. It was only ruin, and she was born to it
After all these years
My gal begins with this
She'll soon have ended
There was a criminal called Alice Marwood -- a girl still, but deserted and an outcast. And she was tried, and she was sentenced. And lord, how the gentlemen in the Court talked about it! and how grave the judge was on her duty, and on her having perverted the gifts of nature -- as if he didn't know better than anybody there, that they had been made curses to her!-- and how he preached about the strong arm of the Law -- so very strong to save her, when she was an innocent and helpless little wretch!-- and how solemn and religious it all was! I have thought of that, many times since, to be sure
So Alice Marwood was transported, mother
and was sent to learn her duty, where there was twenty times less duty, and more wickedness, and wrong, and infamy, than here. And Alice Marwood is come back a woman. Such a woman as she ought to be, after all this. In good time, there will be more solemnity, and more fine talk, and more strong arm, most likely, and there will be an end of her; but the gentlemen needn't be afraid of being thrown out of work. There's crowds of little wretches, boy and girl, growing up in any of the streets they live in, that'll keep them to it till they've made their fortunes
There! I have done, mother
I have said enough. Don't let you and I talk of being dutiful, whatever we do. Your childhood was like mine, I suppose. So much the worse for both of us. I don't want to blame you, or to defend myself; why should I? That's all over long ago. But I am a woman -- not a girl, now -- and you and I needn't make a show of our history, like the gentlemen in the Court. We know all about it, well enough
You are very poor, mother, I see
Bitter poor, my deary
How have you lived
By begging, my deary. 'And pilfering, mother
Sometimes, Ally -- in a very small way. I am old and timid. I have taken trifles from children now and then, my deary, but not often. I have tramped about the country, pet, and I know what I know. I have watched
Watched
I have hung about a family, my deary
What family
Hush, darling. Don't be angry with me. I did it for the love of you. In memory of my poor gal beyond seas
Years ago, my deary
I came across his little child, by chance
Whose child
Not his, Alice deary; don't look at me like that; not his. How could it be his? You know he has none
Whose then
You said his
Hush, Ally; you frighten me, deary. Mr Dombey's -- only Mr Dombey's. Since then, darling, I have seen them often. I have seen him
Little he thought who I was
And little he cared
face to face. I spoke to him, and he spoke to me. I sat and watched him as he went away down a long grove of trees: and at every step he took, I cursed him soul and body
He will thrive in spite of that
Ay, he is thriving
Is he married
No, deary
Going to be
Not that I know of, deary. But his master and friend is married. Oh, we may give him joy! We may give 'em all joy
Nothing but joy to us will come of that marriage. Mind me
But you are wet and tired; hungry and thirsty
and there's little here, and little
little here. Have you any money, Alice, deary
Is that all
I have no more. I should not have this, but for charity
But for charity, eh, deary
Humph! six and six is twelve, and six eighteen -- so -- we must make the most of it. I'll go buy something to eat and drink
What joy is to come to us of this marriage, mother
You have not told me that
The joy
of no love at all, and much pride and hate, my deary. The joy of confusion and strife among 'em, proud as they are, and of danger -- danger, Alice
What danger
I have seen what I have seen. I know what I know
Let some look to it. Let some be upon their guard. My gal may keep good company yet
but I'll go buy something; I'll go buy something
What, Ally! Do you kiss it
That's like me -- I often do. Oh, it's so good to us
so good to us in everything but not coming in heaps
I kiss it, mother
or I did then -- I don't know that I ever did before -- for the giver's sake
The giver, eh, deary
Ay! I'll kiss it for the giver's sake, too, when the giver can make it go farther. But I'll go spend it, deary. I'll be back directly
You seem to say you know a great deal, mother
You have grown very wise since we parted
Know
I know more than you think I know more than he thinks, deary, as I'll tell you by and bye. I know all
I know of his brother, Alice
who might have been where you have been -- for stealing money -- and who lives with his sister, over yonder, by the north road out of London
Where
By the north road out of London, deary. You shall see the house if you like. It ain't much to boast of, genteel as his own is. No, no, no
not now; it's too far off; it's by the milestone, where the stones are heaped;-- to-morrow, deary, if it's fine, and you are in the humour. But I'll go spend
Stop
The sister is a fair-faced Devil, with brown hair
I see the shadow of him in her face! It's a red house standing by itself. Before the door there is a small green porch
In which I sat to-day! Give me back the money
Alice! Deary
Give me back the money, or you'll be hurt
This is a fit place for me
I thought so, when I was here before, to-day
Alice, my deary
Alice
What now, mother
Don't give the money back, my darling; please don't. We can't afford it. We want supper, deary. Money is money, whoever gives it. Say what you will, but keep the money
See there
That is the house I mean. Is that it
I want your sister
The woman who gave me money to-day
Oh
You are here! Do you remember me
Yes
That I could speak with you, and not know you! That I could come near you, and not feel what blood was running in your veins, by the tingling of my own
What do you mean? What have I done
Done
You have sat me by your fire; you have given me food and money; you have bestowed your compassion on me! You! whose name I spit upon
If I dropped a tear upon your hand, may it wither it up! If I spoke a gentle word in your hearing, may it deafen you! If I touched you with my lips, may the touch be poison to you! A curse upon this roof that gave me shelter! Sorrow and shame upon your head! Ruin upon all belonging to you
I tread it in the dust: I wouldn't take it if it paved my way to Heaven! I would the bleeding foot that brought me here to-day, had rotted off, before it led me to your house
It was well that I should be pitied and forgiven by you, or anyone of your name, in the first hour of my return! It was well that you should act the kind good lady to me! I'll thank you when I die; I'll pray for you, and all your race, you may be sure
Here they are
Ah, it's a strange world, it is indeed
but Miss Florence can't well be the worse for any change, Tom
Oh, can't she though
My sweetest Edith
My dearest Dombey
How do you do, Florence
You will not be long dressing, Mrs Dombey, I presume
I shall be ready immediately
Let them send up dinner in a quarter of an hour
And how, my dearest Dombey, did you find that delightfullest of cities, Paris
It was cold
Gay as ever
Not particularly. I thought it dull
Fie, my dearest Dombey
dull
It made that impression upon me, Madam
I believe Mrs Dombey found it dull too. She mentioned once or twice that she thought it so
Why, you naughty girl
what dreadfully heretical things have you been saying about Paris
My dear Dombey
how charmingly these people have carried out every idea that we hinted. They have made a perfect palace of the house, positively
It is handsome
I directed that no expense should be spared; and all that money could do, has been done, I believe
And what can it not do, dear Dombey
It is powerful, Madam
I hope, Mrs Dombey
that these alterations meet with your approval
They are as handsome as they can be
They should be so, of' course. And I suppose they are
I beg your pardon. Shall I go away, Papa
No
By the death-beds I have tended, by the childhood I have suffered, by our meeting in this dreary house at midnight, by the cry wrung from me in the anguish of my heart, oh, father, turn to me and seek a refuge in my love before it is too late
Florence, come here
Florence, dear
I have been looking for you everywhere
Softly, dear Mama. Papa is asleep
I scarcely thought you could be here, Florence
I left here early
Come, dear
Papa will not expect to find me, I suppose, when he wakes
Do you think he will, Florence
Oh, Mama! I have had a great sorrow since that day
You a great sorrow, Florence
Yes. Poor Walter is drowned
But tell me, dear
Who was Walter? What was he to you
And did he take care of Walter
Papa? He appointed him to go abroad. He was drowned in shipwreck on his voyage
Does he know that he is dead
I cannot tell, Mama. I have no means of knowing. Dear Mama
I know that you have seen
Stay! Stop, Florence
Tell me all about Walter first; let me understand this history all through
What is it that you know I have seen, Florence
That I am not
that I am not a favourite child, Mama. I never have been. I have never known how to be. I have missed the way, and had no one to show it to me. Oh, let me learn from you how to become dearer to Papa Teach me! you, who can so well
Florence, you do not know me! Heaven forbid that you should learn from me
Not learn from you
That I should teach you how to love, or be loved, Heaven forbid
If you could teach me, that were better; but it is too late. You are dear to me, Florence. I did not think that anything could ever be so dear to me, as you are in this little time
I will be your true friend always. I will cherish you, as much, if not as well as anyone in this world could. You may trust in me -- I know it and I say it, dear,-- with the whole confidence even of your pure heart. There are hosts of women whom he might have married, better and truer in all other respects than I am, Florence; but there is not one who could come here, his wife, whose heart could beat with greater truth to you than mine does
I know it, dear Mama
From that first most happy day I have known it
Most happy day
Though the merit is not mine, for I thought little of you until I saw you, let the undeserved reward be mine in your trust and love. And in this -- in this, Florence; on the first night of my taking up my abode here; I am led on as it is best I should be, to say it for the first and last time
Never seek to find in me
I have seen what you say, and know how true it is. But believe me -- you will soon, if you cannot now -- there is no one on this earth less qualified to set it right or help you, Florence, than I. Never ask me why, or speak to me about it or of my husband, more. There should be, so far, a division, and a silence between us two, like the grave itself
It is running on, Floy! It has never stopped! You are moving with it
Florence, dear Florence, it is nothing but a dream
Why, upon my life
there's nothing in it; it really is not worth repeating: in point of fact, it's merely an anecdote of Jack Adams. I dare say my friend Dombey;' for the general attention was concentrated on Cousin Feenix; 'may remember Jack Adams, Jack Adams, not Joe; that was his brother. Jack -- little Jack -- man with a cast in his eye, and slight impediment in his speech -- man who sat for somebody's borough. We used to call him in my parliamentary time W. P. Adams, in consequence of his being Warming Pan for a young fellow who was in his minority. Perhaps my friend Dombey may have known the man
always wore Hessian boots
Exactly
That was Jack. Joe wore
Tops
Of course
you were intimate with em
I knew them both
Devilish good fellow, Jack
Excellent
One of the best fellows I ever knew
No doubt you have heard the story
I shall know
when I have heard your Ludship tell it
In point of fact, it's nothing of a story in itself
and not worth a word of preface. But it's illustrative of the neatness of Jack's humour. The fact is, that Jack was invited down to a marriage -- which I think took place in Berkshire
Shropshire
Was it? Well! In point of fact it might have been in any shire
So my friend being invited down to this marriage in Anyshire
goes. Just as some of us, having had the honour of being invited to the marriage of my lovely and accomplished relative with my friend Dombey, didn't require to be asked twice, and were devilish glad to be present on so interesting an occasion.-- Goes -- Jack goes. Now, this marriage was, in point of fact, the marriage of an uncommonly fine girl with a man for whom she didn't care a button, but whom she accepted on account of his property, which was immense. When Jack returned to town, after the nuptials, a man he knew, meeting him in the lobby of the House of Commons, says, "Well, Jack, how are the ill-matched couple?" "Ill-matched," says Jack "Not at all. It's a perfectly and equal transaction. She is regularly bought, and you may take your oath he is as regularly sold
Very good
But I am made
of no more account than Florence! Who takes the smallest notice of me? No one
No one, my dear
Does it at all appear as if I was wanted here
No, my dear, I don't think it does
Paul's mad
Unless you are a monster, which I sometimes think you are
don't sit there humming tunes. How anyone with the most distant feelings of a man, can see that mother-in-law of Paul's, dressed as she is, going on like that, with Major Bagstock, for whom, among other precious things, we are indebted to your Lucretia Tox
My Lucretia Tox, my dear
Yes
your Lucretia Tox -- I say how anybody can see that mother-in-law of Paul's, and that haughty wife of Paul's, and these indecent old frights with their backs and shoulders, and in short this at home generally, and hum
But I hope I know what is due to myself
though Paul has forgotten what is due to me. I am not going to sit here, a member of this family, to be taken no notice of. I am not the dirt under Mrs Dombey's feet, yet -- not quite yet
And I shall go. I will not say (whatever I may think) that this affair has been got up solely to degrade and insult me. I shall merely go. I shall not be missed
I trust
that the fatigues of this delightful evening will not inconvenience Mrs Dombey to-morrow
Mrs Dombey
I am sorry, Madam
Your duty, Madam
Do you know that there is someone here
No! Carker! I beg that you do not. I insist that you do not
Mr Carker, Madam, as you know, possesses my confidence. He is as well acquainted as myself with the subject on which I speak. I beg to tell you, for your information, Mrs Dombey, that I consider these wealthy and important persons confer a distinction upon me
I ask you
do you know that there is someone here, Sir
I must entreat
I must beg, I must demand, to be released. Slight and unimportant as this difference is
My sweetest Edith
and my dearest Dombey; our excellent friend Mr Carker, for so I am sure I ought to mention him
Too much honour
That any difference between you two
I have pointed out to Mrs Dombey
that in her conduct thus early in our married life, to which I object, and which, I request, may be corrected. Carker
good-night to you
I think I am a little nervous this morning, Flowers
My hand quite shakes
You were the life of the party last night, Ma'am, you know
and you suffer for it, to-day, you see
My darling child
you are not nervous? Don't tell me, my dear Edith, that you, so enviably self-possessed, are beginning to be a martyr too, like your unfortunately constituted mother! Withers, someone at the door
Card, Ma'am
I am going out
My dear love
how very odd to send that message without seeing the name! Bring it here, Withers. Dear me, my love; Mr Carker, too! That very sensible person
I am going out
Mrs Dombey is going out. Get along with you
If you please, Ma'am, Mr Carker sends his respectful compliments, and begs you would spare him one minute, if you could -- for business, Ma'am, if you please
Really, my love
if you would allow me to offer a word, I should recommend
Show him this way
As he comes at your recommendation, let him come to your room
May I -- shall I go away
I have presumed
to solicit an interview, and I have ventured to describe it as being one of business, because
Perhaps you are charged by Mr Dombey with some message of reproof
You possess Mr Dombey's confidence in such an unusual degree, Sir, that you would scarcely surprise me if that were your business
I have no message to the lady who sheds a lustre upon his name
But I entreat that lady, on my own behalf to be just to a very humble claimant for justice at her hands -- a mere dependant of Mr Dombey's -- which is a position of humility; and to reflect upon my perfect helplessness last night, and the impossibility of my avoiding the share that was forced upon me in a very painful occasion
My dearest Edith
really very charming of Mr What's-his-name. And full of heart
For I do
I do venture to call it a painful occasion, though merely because it was so to me, who had the misfortune to be present. So slight a difference, as between the principals -- between those who love each other with disinterested devotion, and would make any sacrifice of self in such a cause -- is nothing. As Mrs Skewton herself expressed, with so much truth and feeling last night, it is nothing
And your business, Sir
Edith, my pet
all this time Mr Carker is standing! My dear Mr Carker, take a seat, I beg
May I be allowed, Madam
a lady of your excellent sense and quick feeling will give me credit, for good reason, I am sure -- to address what I have to say, to Mrs Dombey, and to leave her to impart it to you who are her best and dearest friend -- next to Mr Dombey
Miss Florence -- the young lady who has just left the room
Miss Florence's position
has been an unfortunate one. I have a difficulty in alluding to it to you, whose attachment to her father is naturally watchful and jealous of every word that applies to him
But, as one who is devoted to Mr Dombey in his different way, and whose life is passed in admiration of Mr Dombey's character, may I say, without offence to your tenderness as a wife, that Miss Florence has unhappily been neglected -- by her father. May I say by her father
I know it
You know it
It removes a mountain from my breast. May I hope you know how the neglect originated; in what an amiable phase of Mr Dombey's pride -- character I mean
You may pass that by, Sir
and come the sooner to the end of what you have to say
Indeed, I am sensible, Madam
Miss Florence
left to the care -- if one may call it care -- of servants and mercenary people, in every way her inferiors, necessarily wanted some guide and compass in her younger days, and, naturally, for want of them, has been indiscreet, and has in some degree forgotten her station. There was some folly about one Walter, a common lad, who is fortunately dead now: and some very undesirable association, I regret to say, with certain coasting sailors, of anything but good repute, and a runaway old bankrupt
I have heard the circumstances, Sir
and I know that you pervert them. You may not know it. I hope so
Pardon me
I believe that nobody knows them so well as I. Your generous and ardent nature, Madam -- the same nature which is so nobly imperative in vindication of your beloved and honoured husband, and which has blessed him as even his merits deserve -- I must respect, defer to, bow before. But, as regards the circumstances, which is indeed the business I presumed to solicit your attention to, I can have no doubt, since, in the execution of my trust as Mr Dombey's confidential -- I presume to say -- friend, I have fully ascertained them. In my execution of that trust; in my deep concern, which you can so well understand, for everything relating to him, intensified, if you will (for I fear I labour under your displeasure), by the lower motive of desire to prove my diligence, and make myself the more acceptable; I have long pursued these circumstances by myself and trustworthy instruments, and have innumerable and most minute proofs
Pardon me, Madam
if in my perplexity, I presume to take counsel with you, and to consult your pleasure. I think I have observed that you are greatly interested in Miss Florence
This interest, Madam -- so touching an evidence of everything associated with Mr Dombey being dear to you -- induces me to pause before I make him acquainted with these circumstances, which, as yet, he does not know. It so shakes me, if I may make the confession, in my allegiance, that on the intimation of the least desire to that effect from you, I would suppress them
Even so slight an incident as last night's
if I might refer to it once more, would serve to illustrate my meaning, better than a greater one. Dombey and Son know neither time, nor place, nor season, but bear them all down. But I rejoice in its occurrence, for it has opened the way for me to approach Mrs Dombey with this subject to-day, even if it has entailed upon me the penalty of her temporary displeasure. Madam, in the midst of my uneasiness and apprehension on this subject, I was summoned by Mr Dombey to Leamington. There I saw you. There I could not help knowing what relation you would shortly occupy towards him -- to his enduring happiness and yours. There I resolved to await the time of your establishment at home here, and to do as I have now done. I have, at heart, no fear that I shall be wanting in my duty to Mr Dombey, if I bury what I know in your breast; for where there is but one heart and mind between two persons -- as in such a marriage -- one almost represents the other. I can acquit my conscience therefore, almost equally, by confidence, on such a theme, in you or him. For the reasons I have mentioned I would select you. May I aspire to the distinction of believing that my confidence is accepted, and that I am relieved from my responsibility
I accept it, Sir You will please to consider this matter at an end, and that it goes no farther
Oh Florence, Florence
If you please, Ma'am, I beg your pardon, but I can't do nothing with Missis
What do you mean
Well, Ma'am
I hardly know. She's making faces
Rose-coloured curtains
Rose-coloured curtains for doctors
Where is Mrs Dombey? she would say to her maid. 'Gone out, Ma'am
Gone out! Does she go out to shun her Mama, Flowers
La bless you, no, Ma'am. Mrs Dombey has only gone out for a ride with Miss Florence
Miss Florence. Who's Miss Florence? Don't tell me about Miss Florence. What's Miss Florence to her, compared to me
Well, I am sure, Edith
What is the matter, mother
Matter! I really don't know what is the matter. The world is coming to such an artificial and ungrateful state, that I begin to think there's no Heart -- or anything of that sort -- left in it, positively. Withers is more a child to me than you are. He attends to me much more than my own daughter. I almost wish I didn't look so young -- and all that kind of thing -- and then perhaps I should be more considered
What would you have, mother
Oh, a great deal, Edith
Is there anything you want that you have not? It is your own fault if there be
My own fault
The parent I have been to you, Edith: making you a companion from your cradle! And when you neglect me, and have no more natural affection for me than if I was a stranger -- not a twentieth part of the affection that you have for Florence -- but I am only your mother, and should corrupt her in a day!-- you reproach me with its being my own fault
Mother, mother, I reproach you with nothing. Why will you always dwell on this
Isn't it natural that I should dwell on this, when I am all affection and sensitiveness, and am wounded in the cruellest way, whenever you look at me
I do not mean to wound you, mother. Have you no remembrance of what has been said between us? Let the Past rest
Yes, rest! And let gratitude to me rest; and let affection for me rest; and let me rest in my out-of-the-way room, with no society and no attention, while you find new relations to make much of, who have no earthly claim upon you! Good gracious, Edith, do you know what an elegant establishment you are at the head of
Yes. Hush
And that gentlemanly creature, Dombey? Do you know that you are married to him, Edith, and that you have a settlement and a position, and a carriage, and I don't know what
Indeed, I know it, mother; well
As you would have had with that delightful good soul -- what did they call him?-- Granger -- if he hadn't died. And who have you to thank for all this, Edith
You, mother; you
Then put your arms round my neck, and kiss me; and show me, Edith, that you know there never was a better Mama than I have been to you. And don't let me become a perfect fright with teasing and wearing myself at your ingratitude, or when I'm out again in society no soul will know me, not even that hateful animal, the Major
deeply hurt by the unmerited contumely she had met with from Louisa
that she had passed a great many happy hours in that house, which she must ever remember with gratification, and that she could never cease to regard Mr Dombey as one of the most impressive and dignified of men
Polly, my gal
you ain't seen our Biler lately, have you
No
but he's almost certain to look in tonight. It's his right evening, and he's very regular
I suppose
as our Biler is a doin' now about as well as a boy can do, eh, Polly
Oh! he's a doing beautiful
He ain't got to be at all secret-like -- has he, Polly
No
I'm glad he ain't got to be at all secret-like, Polly
because that don't look well; do it, Polly
Why, of course it don't, father. How can you ask
You see, my boys and gals
But what makes you say this along of Rob, father
Polly, old ooman
I don't know as I said it partickler along o' Rob, I'm sure. I starts light with Rob only; I comes to a branch; I takes on what I finds there; and a whole train of ideas gets coupled on to him, afore I knows where I am, or where they comes from. What a Junction a man's thoughts is
to-be-sure
a sight of mugs
Well, mother
how are you, mother
There's my boy
Secret! Bless you, father, not he
What! father's been a saying something more again me, has he
Oh, what a hard thing it is that when a cove has once gone a little wrong, a cove's own father should be always a throwing it in his face behind his back! It's enough
to make a cove go and do something, out of spite
My poor boy
father didn't mean anything
If father didn't mean anything
why did he go and say anything, mother? Nobody thinks half so bad of me as my own father does. What a unnatural thing! I wish somebody'd take and chop my head off. Father wouldn't mind doing it, I believe, and I'd much rather he did that than t'other
Will you do as I do, Biler, my boy
No, thank'ee, father. Master and I had tea together
And how is master, Rob
That ain't the way to make money, though, is it
Money, mother! He'll never make money. He has such ways as I never see. He ain't a bad master though, I'll say that for him. But that ain't much to me, for I don't think I shall stop with him long
Not stop in your place, Rob
Not in that place, p'raps
I shouldn't wonder -- friends at court you know -- but never you mind, mother, just now; I'm all right, that's all
How do you do, Mrs Richards
I have come to see you. May I come in
You have almost forgotten me, Sir, I daresay
No, Ma'am, no
But we've all on us got a little older since then
And how do you find yourself, Sir
Hearty, Ma'am, thank'ee
How do you find yourself, Ma'am? Do the rheumaticks keep off pretty well, Ma'am? We must all expect to grow into 'em, as we gets on
Thank you
I have not felt any inconvenience from that disorder yet
You're wery fortunate, Ma'am
Many people at your time of life, Ma'am, is martyrs to it. There was my mother
You never mean to say, Mrs Richards
that that is your
Eldest, Ma'am
Yes, indeed, it is. That's the little fellow, Ma'am, that was the innocent cause of so much
This here, Ma'am
is him with the short legs -- and they was
unusual short for leathers -- as Mr Dombey made a Grinder on
And now, Mrs Richards
and you too, Sir
I'll tell you, plainly and truly, what I have come here for. You may be aware, Mrs Richards -- and, possibly, you may be aware too, Sir -- that a little distance has interposed itself between me and some of my friends, and that where I used to visit a good deal, I do not visit now
Of course
how our little coolness has arisen is of no moment, and does not require to be discussed. It is sufficient for me to say, that I have the greatest possible respect for, and interest in, Mr Dombey;' Miss Tox's voice faltered; 'and everything that relates to him
Pray don't say so, Sir, if you please
Let me entreat you not to say so, Sir, either now, or at any future time. Such observations cannot but be very painful to me; and to a gentleman, whose mind is constituted as, I am quite sure, yours is, can afford no permanent satisfaction
All that I wish to say, Mrs Richards
and I address myself to you too, Sir,-- is this. That any intelligence of the proceedings of the family, of the welfare of the family, of the health of the family, that reaches you, will be always most acceptable to me. That I shall be always very glad to chat with Mrs Richards about the family, and about old time And as Mrs Richards and I never had the least difference (though I could wish now that we had been better acquainted, but I have no one but myself to blame for that), I hope she will not object to our being very good friends now, and to my coming backwards and forwards here, when I like, without being a stranger. Now, I really hope, Mrs Richards
that you will take this, as I mean it, like a good-humoured creature, as you always were
You see, Mrs Richards
and I hope you see too, Sir -- there are many little ways in which I can be slightly useful to you, if you will make no stranger of me; and in which I shall be delighted to be so. For instance, I can teach your children something. I shall bring a few little books, if you'll allow me, and some work, and of an evening now and then, they'll learn -- dear me, they'll learn a great deal, I trust, and be a credit to their teacher
Then, not being a stranger, I shall be in nobody's way
and everything will go on just as if I were not here. Mrs Richards will do her mending, or her ironing, or her nursing, whatever it is, without minding me: and you'll smoke your pipe, too, if you're so disposed, Sir, won't you
Thank'ee, Mum
Yes; I'll take my bit of backer
Very good of you to say so, Sir
and I really do assure you now, unfeignedly, that it will be a great comfort to me, and that whatever good I may be fortunate enough to do the children, you will more than pay back to me, if you'll enter into this little bargain comfortably, and easily, and good-naturedly, without another word about it
drew him out
I am quite glad
to know you. I hope you'll consider me your friend, and that you'll come and see me as often as you like. Do you keep a money-box
Yes, Ma'am
Very laudable indeed
I'm glad to hear it. Put this half-crown into it, if you please
Oh thank you, Ma'am
but really I couldn't think of depriving you
I commend your independent spirit
but it's no deprivation, I assure you. I shall be offended if you don't take it, as a mark of my good-will. Good-night, Robin
Good-night, Ma'am
and thank you
spoke him
Captain Gills
do you think you could think favourably of that proposition of mine, and give me the pleasure of your acquaintance
Why, I tell you what it is, my lad
I've been turning that there, over
Captain Gills, it's very kind of you
I'm much obliged to you. Upon my word and honour, Captain Gills, it would be a charity to give me the pleasure of your acquaintance. It really would
You see, brother
But you never can know me, Captain Gills
Well said, my lad
and true. Now look'ee here: You've made some observations to me, which gives me to understand as you admire a certain sweet creetur. Hey
Captain Gills
Admiration is not the word. Upon my honour, you have no conception what my feelings are. If I could be dyed black, and made Miss Dombey's slave, I should consider it a compliment. If, at the sacrifice of all my property, I could get transmigrated into Miss Dombey's dog -- I -- I really think I should never leave off wagging my tail. I should be so perfectly happy, Captain Gills
My lad
Captain Gills
I'm in such a state of mind, and am so dreadfully in earnest, that if I could swear to it upon a hot piece of iron, or a live coal, or melted lead, or burning sealing-wax, Or anything of that sort, I should be glad to hurt myself, as a relief to my feelings
If you're in arnest, you see, my lad
you're a object of clemency, and clemency is the brightest jewel in the crown of a Briton's head, for which you'll overhaul the constitution as laid down in Rule Britannia, and, when found, that is the charter as them garden angels was a singing of, so many times over. Stand by! This here proposal o' you'rn takes me a little aback. And why? Because I holds my own only, you understand, in these here waters, and haven't got no consort, and may be don't wish for none. Steady! You hailed me first, along of a certain young lady, as you was chartered by. Now if you and me is to keep one another's company at all, that there young creetur's name must never be named nor referred to. I don't know what harm mayn't have been done by naming of it too free, afore now, and thereby I brings up short. D'ye make me out pretty clear, brother
Well, you'll excuse me, Captain Gills
if I don't quite follow you sometimes. But upon my word I -- it's a hard thing, Captain Gills, not to be able to mention Miss Dombey. I really have got such a dreadful load here
Them
is the terms I offer. If they're hard upon you, brother, as mayhap they are, give 'em a wide berth, sheer off, and part company cheerily
Captain Gills
I hardly know how it is, but after what you told me when I came here, for the first time, I -- I feel that I'd rather think about Miss Dombey in your society than talk about her in almost anybody else's. Therefore, Captain Gills, if you'll give me the pleasure of your acquaintance, I shall be very happy to accept it on your own conditions. I wish to be honourable, Captain Gills
and therefore I am obliged to say that I can not help thinking about Miss Dombey. It's impossible for me to make a promise not to think about her
My lad
a man's thoughts is like the winds, and nobody can't answer for 'em for certain, any length of time together. Is it a treaty as to words
As to words, Captain Gills
I think I can bind myself
Oh! I beg your pardon, Captain, but you mayn't be in want of any pigeons, may you, Sir
No, my lad
Because I was wishing to dispose of mine, Captain
Ay, ay
Yes; I'm going, Captain, if you please
Going? Where are you going
What? didn't you know that I was going to leave you, Captain
Oh yes, Captain, I am going to give you warning. I thought you'd have known that beforehand, perhaps
If you could be so good as provide yourself soon, Captain, it would be a great convenience to me. You couldn't provide yourself by to-morrow morning, I am afraid, Captain: could you, do you think
And you're a going to desert your colours, are you, my lad
Oh, it's very hard upon a cove, Captain
that he can't give lawful warning, without being frowned at in that way, and called a deserter. You haven't any right to call a poor cove names, Captain. It ain't because I'm a servant and you're a master, that you're to go and libel me. What wrong have I done? Come, Captain, let me know what my crime is, will you
Come, Captain
give my crime a name! What have I been and done? Have I stolen any of the property? have I set the house a-fire? If I have, why don't you give me in charge, and try it? But to take away the character of a lad that's been a good servant to you, because he can't afford to stand in his own light for your good, what a injury it is, and what a bad return for faithful service! This is the way young coves is spiled and drove wrong. I wonder at you, Captain, I do
And so you've got another berth, have you, my lad
Yes, Captain, since you put it in that shape, I have got another berth
Look ye here, my boy
Don't you pay out no more of them words
Well, then, don't you pay in no more of your words, Captain
I'd sooner you took my blood than my character
Because
you have heerd, may be, of such a thing as a rope's end
Oh, have I though, Captain
No I haven't. I never heerd of any such a article
Well
it's my belief as you'll know more about it pretty soon, if you don't keep a bright look-out. I can read your signals, my lad. You may go
Oh! I may go at once, may I, Captain
But mind! I never asked to go at once, Captain. You are not to take away my character again, because you send me off of your own accord. And you're not to stop any of my wages, Captain
Good-night, Captain. I leave you without malice
My young man
my young man having bettered himself, Miss
He's a coming to-night
Bunsby
what cheer, my lad, what cheer
Shipmet
hearty, hearty
Bunsby
here you are! a man as can give an opinion as is brighter than di'monds -- and give me the lad with the tarry trousers as shines to me like di'monds bright, for which you'll overhaul the Stanfell's Budget, and when found make a note
Ay, ay
Every letter
For why
Which way? If so, why not? Therefore
Open
Last Will and Testament of Solomon Gills
Letter for Ned Cuttle
My dear Ned Cuttle. When I left home for the West Indies
in forlorn search of intelligence of my dear boy, I knew that if you were acquainted with my design, you would thwart it, or accompany me; and therefore I kept it secret. If you ever read this letter, Ned, I am likely to be dead. You will easily forgive an old friend's folly then, and will feel for the restlessness and uncertainty in which he wandered away on such a wild voyage. So no more of that. I have little hope that my poor boy will ever read these words, or gladden your eyes with the sight of his frank face any more." No, no; no more
no more. There he lays, all his days
In the Bays of Biscay, O
Well, well
Affliction sore, long time he bore, and let us overhaul the wollume, and there find it
Physicians
was in vain
Ay, ay, to be sure
what's the good o' them in two or three hundred fathoms o' water
But if he should be by, when it is opened
or should know of it at any other time
my blessing on him! In case the accompanying paper is not legally written, it matters very little, for there is no one interested but you and he, and my plain wish is, that if he is living he should have what little there may be, and if (as I fear) otherwise, that you should have it, Ned. You will respect my wish, I know. God bless you for it, and for all your friendliness besides, to Solomon Gills." Bunsby
what do you make of this? There you sit, a man as has had his head broke from infancy up'ards, and has got a new opinion into it at every seam as has been opened. Now, what do you make o' this
If so be
as he's dead, my opinion is he won't come back no more. If so be as he's alive, my opinion is he will. Do I say he will? No. Why not? Because the bearings of this obserwation lays in the application on it
Bunsby
Bunsby
you carry a weight of mind easy, as would swamp one of my tonnage soon. But in regard o' this here will, I don't mean to take no steps towards the property -- Lord forbid!-- except to keep it for a more rightful owner; and I hope yet as the rightful owner, Sol Gills, is living and'll come back, strange as it is that he ain't forwarded no dispatches. Now, what is your opinion, Bunsby, as to stowing of these here papers away again, and marking outside as they was opened, such a day, in the presence of John Bunsby and Ed'ard Cuttle
Oh, Cap'en Cuttle, Cap'en Cuttle
Oh, Cap'en Cuttle, Cap'en Cuttle, do you dare to look me in the face, and not be struck down in the berth
Standby
Oh I was a weak and trusting Fool when I took you under my roof, Cap'en Cuttle, I was
To think of the benefits I've showered on that man, and the way in which I brought my children up to love and honour him as if he was a father to 'em, when there ain't a housekeeper, no nor a lodger in our street, don't know that I lost money by that man, and by his guzzlings and his
and when they cried out one and all, shame upon him for putting upon an industrious woman, up early and late for the good of her young family, and keeping her poor place so clean that a individual might have ate his dinner, yes, and his tea too, if he was so disposed, off any one of the floors or stairs, in spite of all his guzzlings and his muzzlings, such was the care and pains bestowed upon him
And he runs awa-a-a-y
and keeps away a twelve-month! From a woman! Such is his conscience! He hasn't the courage to meet her hi-i-igh
but steals away, like a fellon. Why, if that baby of mine
was to offer to go and steal away, I'd do my duty as a mother by him, till he was covered with wales
A pretty sort of a man is Cap'en Cuttle
to take on for -- and to lose sleep for -- and to faint along of -- and to think dead forsooth -- and to go up and down the blessed town like a madwoman, asking questions after! Oh, a pretty sort of a man! Ha ha ha ha! He's worth all that trouble and distress of mind, and much more. That's nothing, bless you! Ha ha ha ha! Cap'en Cuttle
Cap'en Cuttle
I wish to know if you're a-coming home, Sir
not making so much noise about it
Ay, ay, ay
Awast, my lass, awast
And who may you be, if you please
Did you ever lodge at Number Nine, Brig Place, Sir? My memory may be bad, but not with me, I think. There was a Mrs Jollson lived at Number Nine before me, and perhaps you're mistaking me for her. That is my only ways of accounting for your familiarity, Sir
Come, come, my lass, awast, awast
Cuttle, I'm a-going to act as convoy home
Cuttle
are these here your traps
Done pretty taut and trim, hey, shipmet
Mrs Dombey
I must beg leave to have a few words with you
To-morrow
There is no time like the present, Madam
I think
that I understand you very well
Mrs Dombey, it is very necessary that there should be some understanding arrived at between us. Your conduct does not please me, Madam
I repeat, Mrs Dombey, does not please me. I have already taken occasion to request that it may be corrected. I now insist upon it
You chose a fitting occasion for your first remonstrance, Sir, and you adopt a fitting manner, and a fitting word for your second. You insist! To me
Madam
I have made you my wife. You bear my name. You are associated with my position and my reputation. I will not say that the world in general may be disposed to think you honoured by that association; but I will say that I am accustomed to "insist," to my connexions and dependents
Which may you be pleased to consider me? she asked. 'Possibly I may think that my wife should partake -- or does partake, and cannot help herself -- of both characters, Mrs Dombey
You are too expensive, Madam
You are extravagant. You waste a great deal of money -- or what would be a great deal in the pockets of most gentlemen -- in cultivating a kind of society that is useless to me, and, indeed, that upon the whole is disagreeable to me. I have to insist upon a total change in all these respects. I know that in the novelty of possessing a tithe of such means as Fortune has placed at your disposal, ladies are apt to run into a sudden extreme. There has been more than enough of that extreme. I beg that Mrs Granger's very different experiences may now come to the instruction of Mrs Dombey
You will further please, Madam
to understand distinctly, that I am to be deferred to and obeyed. That I must have a positive show and confession of deference before the world, Madam. I am used to this. I require it as my right. In short I will have it. I consider it no unreasonable return for the worldly advancement that has befallen you; and I believe nobody will be surprised, either at its being required from you, or at your making it.-- To Me -- To Me
I have learnt from your mother, Mrs Dombey
what no doubt you know, namely, that Brighton is recommended for her health. Mr Carker has been so good
Mr Carker has been so good as to go down and secure a house there, for a time. On the return of the establishment to London, I shall take such steps for its better management as I consider necessary. One of these, will be the engagement at Brighton (if it is to be effected), of a very respectable reduced person there, a Mrs Pipchin, formerly employed in a situation of trust in my family, to act as housekeeper. An establishment like this, presided over but nominally, Mrs Dombey, requires a competent head
I observed
and this concludes what I deem it necessary to say to you at present, Mrs Dombey -- I observed a moment ago, Madam, that my allusion to Mr Carker was received in a peculiar manner. On the occasion of my happening to point out to you, before that confidential agent, the objection I had to your mode of receiving my visitors, you were pleased to object to his presence. You will have to get the better of that objection, Madam, and to accustom yourself to it very probably on many similar occasions; unless you adopt the remedy which is in your own hands, of giving me no cause of complaint. Mr Carker
Mr Carker being in my confidence, Mrs Dombey, may very well be in yours to such an extent. I hope, Mrs Dombey
I may not find it necessary ever to entrust Mr Carker with any message of objection or remonstrance to you; but as it would be derogatory to my position and reputation to be frequently holding trivial disputes with a lady upon whom I have conferred the highest distinction that it is in my power to bestow, I shall not scruple to avail myself of his services if I see occasion
And now
she knows me and my resolution
Wait! For God's sake! I must speak to you
Did I ever tempt you to seek my hand? Did I ever use any art to win you? Was I ever more conciliating to you when you pursued me, than I have been since our marriage? Was I ever other to you than I am
It is wholly unnecessary, Madam
to enter upon such discussions
Did you think I loved you? Did you know I did not? Did you ever care, Man! for my heart, or propose to yourself to win the worthless thing? Was there any poor pretence of any in our bargain? Upon your side, or on mine
These questions
are all wide of the purpose, Madam
You answer each of them. You answer me before I speak, I see. How can you help it; you who know the miserable truth as well as I? Now, tell me. If I loved you to devotion, could I do more than render up my whole will and being to you, as you have just demanded? If my heart were pure and all untried, and you its idol, could you ask more; could you have more
Possibly not, Madam
You know how different I am. You see me looking on you now, and you can read the warmth of passion for you that is breathing in my face
You know my general history. You have spoken of my mother. Do you think you can degrade, or bend or break, me to submission and obedience
If there is anything unusual here
as I know there are unusual feelings here
consider that there is no common meaning in the appeal I am going to make you. Yes, for I am going;' she said it as in prompt reply to something in his face; 'to appeal to you
If you can believe that I am of such a nature now
as would make what I now say almost incredible to myself, said to any man who had become my husband, but, above all, said to you, you may, perhaps, attach the greater weight to it. In the dark end to which we are tending, and may come, we shall not involve ourselves alone (that might not be much) but others
I speak to you for the sake of others. Also your own sake; and for mine. Since our marriage, you have been arrogant to me; and I have repaid you in kind. You have shown to me and everyone around us, every day and hour, that you think I am graced and distinguished by your alliance. I do not think so, and have shown that too. It seems you do not understand, or (so far as your power can go) intend that each of us shall take a separate course; and you expect from me instead, a homage you will never have
I feel no tenderness towards you; that you know. You would care nothing for it, if I did or could. I know as well that you feel none towards me. But we are linked together; and in the knot that ties us, as I have said, others are bound up. We must both die; we are both connected with the dead already, each by a little child. Let us forbear
There is no wealth
Madam
I cannot
consent to temporise or treat with you, Mrs Dombey, upon a subject as to which you are in possession of my opinions and expectations. I have stated my ultimatum, Madam, and have only to request your very serious attention to it
Go, Sir
Our first and last confidence is at an end. Nothing can make us stranger to each other than we are henceforth
I shall take my rightful course, Madam
undeterred, you may be sure, by any general declamation
I place my reliance on your improved sense of duty, and more correct feeling, and better reflection, Madam
Grangeby
Domber
Now, my dearest Grangeby
you must posively prom
come down very soon
I said just now, Madam
that I am coming in a day or two
Bless you, Domber
Begad, Ma'am, you don't ask old Joe to come
Sterious wretch, who's he
Oh! You mean yourself, you naughty creature
Devilish queer, Sir
Bad case. Never did wrap up enough
Why who should J. B. mean by Joe, but old Joe Bagstock -- Joseph -- your slave -- Joe, Ma'am? Here! Here's the man! Here are the Bagstock bellows, Ma'am
My dearest Edith -- Grangeby -- it's most trordinry thing
that Major
Bagstock! J. B
Well, it don't matter
Edith, my love, you know I never could remember names -- what was it? oh!-- most trordinry thing that so many people want to come down to see me. I'm not going for long. I'm coming back. Surely they can wait, till I come back
I won't have Vistors -- really don't want visitors
little repose -- and all that sort of thing -- is what I quire. No odious brutes must proach me till I've shaken off this numbness
And is Joseph absolutely banished
Damme, Ma'am, is Cleopatra so hard-hearted as to forbid her faithful Antony Bagstock to approach the presence
Go along
I can't bear you. You shall see me when I come back, if you are very good
Tell Joseph, he may live in hope, Ma'am
or he'll die in despair
Edith, my dear
Tell him
What
Such dreadful words
He uses such dreadful words
I'll tell you what, Sir
a fair friend of ours has removed to Queer Street
What do you mean, Major
I mean to say, Dombey
that you'll soon be an orphan-in-law
Damme, Sir
there is no use in disguising a fact. Joe is blunt, Sir. That's his nature. If you take old Josh at all, you take him as you find him; and a devilish rusty, old rasper, of a close-toothed, J. B. file, you do find him. Dombey
your wife's mother is on the move, Sir
I fear
that Mrs Skewton is shaken
Shaken, Dombey
Smashed
Change, however
and attention, may do much yet
Don't believe it, Sir
Damme, Sir, she never wrapped up enough. If a man don't wrap up
he has nothing to fall back upon. But some people will die. They will do it. Damme, they will. They're obstinate. I tell you what, Dombey, it may not be ornamental; it may not be refined; it may be rough and tough; but a little of the genuine old English Bagstock stamina, Sir, would do all the good in the world to the human breed
What is it that you have to sell
Only this
I sold myself long ago
My Lady, don't believe her
don't believe what she says. She loves to talk like that. She's my handsome and undutiful daughter. She gives me nothing but reproaches, my Lady, for all I have done for her. Look at her now, my Lady, how she turns upon her poor old mother with her looks
I have seen you
before
Yes, my Lady
Down in Warwickshire. The morning among the trees. When you wouldn't give me nothing. But the gentleman, he give me something! Oh, bless him, bless him
It's of no use attempting to stay me, Edith
You know nothing about it. I won't be dissuaded. I am sure this is an excellent woman, and a good mother
Yes, my Lady, yes
Thankee, my Lady. Lord bless you, my Lady. Sixpence more, my pretty Lady, as a good mother yourself
And treated undutifully enough, too, my good old creature, sometimes, I assure you
There! Shake hands with me. You're a very good old creature -- full of what's-his-name -- and all that. You're all affection and et cetera, ain't you
Oh, yes, my Lady
Yes, I'm sure you are; and so's that gentlemanly creature Grangeby. I must really shake hands with you again. And now you can go, you know; and I hope
that you'll show more gratitude, and natural what's-its-name, and all the rest of it -- but I never remember names -- for there never was a better mother than the good old creature's been to you. Come, Edith
You're a handsome woman
but good looks won't save us. And you're a proud woman; but pride won't save us. We had need to know each other when we meet again
And you've brought Diogenes, too, Miss Dombey
Down, Di, down. Don't you remember who first made us friends, Di? For shame
Diogenes is quite in his native air, isn't he, Miss Dombey
Miss Dombey
beg your pardon, but if you would like to walk to Blimber's, I -- I'm going there
Toots
I am very glad to see you, Toots
Also to see you, Toots, in such good company
You will like
to step among our young friends, Miss Dombey, no doubt. All fellow-students of yours, Toots, once. I think we have no new disciples in our little portico, my dear
since Mr Toots left us
Except Bitherstone
Ay, truly
Bitherstone is new to Mr Toots
How are you, Feeder
Gentlemen, we will now resume our studies
at that there Toots
But really though, now -- ain't she like her brother, only prettier
Miss Dombey, I beg your pardon
If you would allow me to -- if you would not consider it a liberty, Miss Dombey, if I was to -- without any encouragement at all, if I was to hope, you know
Miss Dombey
Oh, if you please, don't
Oh, pray don't, Mr Toots. Stop, if you please. Don't say any more. As a kindness and a favour to me, don't
You have been so good to me
I am so grateful to you, I have such reason to like you for being a kind friend to me, and I do like you so much;' and here the ingenuous face smiles upon him with the pleasantest look of honesty in the world; 'that I am sure you are only going to say good-bye
Certainly, Miss Dombey
I -- I -- that's exactly what I mean. It's of no consequence
Good-bye
Good-bye, Miss Dombey
I hope you won't think anything about it. It's -- it's of no consequence, thank you. It's not of the least consequence in the world
When it is to come off
that there are certain
Feeder, you have no idea of the sentiments with which I propose that toast
Oh, yes, I have, my dear Toots; and greatly they redound to your honour, old boy
Edith, what is that stone arm raised to strike me? Don't you see it
But my fancy! Everything is my fancy. Look! Is it possible that you don't see it
Indeed, mother, there is nothing. Should I sit unmoved, if there were any such thing there
Unmoved
it's gone now -- and why are you so unmoved? That is not my fancy, Edith. It turns me cold to see you sitting at my side
I am sorry, mother
Sorry! You seem always sorry. But it is not for me
Edith! we are going home soon; going back. You mean that I shall go home again
Yes, mother, yes
And what he said -- what's-his-name, I never could remember names -- Major -- that dreadful word, when we came away -- it's not true? Edith
it's not that that is the matter with me
For I nursed you
Mother, can you hear me
Can you recollect the night before I married
I told you then that I forgave your part in it, and prayed God to forgive my own. I told you that time past was at an end between us. I say so now, again. Kiss me, mother
Dombey
upon my soul, I am very much shocked to see you on such a melancholy occasion. My poor aunt! She was a devilish lively woman
Very much so
And made up
really young, you know, considering. I am sure, on the day of your marriage, I thought she was good for another twenty years. In point of fact, I said so to a man at Brooks's -- little Billy Joper -- you know him, no doubt -- man with a glass in his eye
In reference to the obsequies
whether there is any suggestion
Well, upon my life
I really don't know. There's a Mausoleum down at my place, in the park, but I'm afraid it's in bad repair, and, in point of fact, in a devil of a state. But for being a little out at elbows, I should have had it put to rights; but I believe the people come and make pic-nic parties there inside the iron railings
There's an uncommon good church in the village
Perhaps Brighton itself
Upon my honour, Dombey, I don't think we could do better
It's on the spot, you see, and a very cheerful place
And when
would it be convenient
I shall make a point
of pledging myself for any day you think best. I shall have great pleasure (melancholy pleasure, of course) in following my poor aunt to the confines of the -- in point of fact, to the grave
Would Monday do for leaving town
Monday would suit me to perfection
I'm really excessively sorry, Dombey, that you should have so much trouble about it
Not at all
Tom Johnson. Man with cork leg, from White's. What, are you here, Tommy? Foley on a blood mare. The Smalder
What, scapegrace
Have you left your situation and come to me
Oh if you please, Sir
you said, you know, when I come here last
I said
what did I say
If you please, Sir, you didn't say nothing at all, Sir
Oh if you please, don't, Sir
I'm sure, Sir, I only want to work for you, Sir, and to wait upon you, Sir, and to do faithful whatever I'm bid, Sir
You had better do faithfully whatever you are bid
if you have anything to do with me
Yes, I know that, Sir
I'm sure of that, SIr. If you'll only be so good as try me, Sir! And if ever you find me out, Sir, doing anything against your wishes, I give you leave to kill me
You dog
That's nothing to what I'd do to you, if you tried to deceive me
Yes, Sir
I'm sure you would be down upon me dreadful, Sir. I wouldn't attempt for to go and do it, Sir, not if I was bribed with golden guineas
So you have left your old service, and come here to ask me to take you into mine, eh
Yes, if you please, Sir
Well
You know me, boy
Please, Sir, yes, Sir
Take care, then
Halloa
You have been -- shut that door
You have been used to eaves-dropping. Do you know what that means
Listening, Sir
And watching, and so forth
I wouldn't do such a thing here, Sir
upon my word and honour, I wouldn't, Sir, I wish I may die if I would, Sir, for anything that could be promised to me. I should consider it is as much as all the world was worth, to offer to do such a thing, unless I was ordered, Sir
You had better not' You have been used, too, to babbling and tattling
Beware of that here, or you're a lost rascal
I never thought
You have a tasteful place here, Carker
You can afford to say so
Thank you
Indeed
anyone might say so. As far as it goes, it is a very commodious and well-arranged place -- quite elegant
As far as it goes, truly
It wants that qualification. Well! we have said enough about it; and though you can afford to praise it, I thank you nonetheless. Will you walk in
But perhaps to you, who are so far removed, it really does look better than it is
Just as monarchs imagine attractions in the lives of beggars
Allow me
to ask how Mrs Dombey is
Now, see, how I will lead him on
Mrs Dombey is quite well. You remind me, Carker, of some conversation that I wish to have with you
Robin, you can leave us
You don't remember that boy, of course
No
Not likely that a man like you would. Hardly possible
But he is one of that family from whom you took a nurse. Perhaps you may remember having generously charged yourself with his education
Is it that boy
He does little credit to his education, I believe
Why, he is a young rip, I am afraid
He bears that character. But the truth is, I took him into my service because, being able to get no other employment, he conceived (had been taught at home, I daresay) that he had some sort of claim upon you, and was constantly trying to dog your heels with his petition. And although my defined and recognised connexion with your affairs is merely of a business character, still I have that spontaneous interest in everything belonging to you, that
Carker
I am sensible that you do not limit your
Service
No; I prefer to say your regard
to our mere business relations. Your consideration for my feelings, hopes, and disappointments, in the little instance you have just now mentioned, is an example in point. I I am obliged to you, Carker
Your allusion to it is opportune
for it prepares the way to what I was beginning to say to you, and reminds me that that involves no absolutely new relations between us, although it may involve more personal confidence on my part than I have hitherto
Distinguished me with
I will not say to you how honoured I am; for a man like you well knows how much honour he has in his power to bestow at pleasure
Mrs Dombey and myself
are not quite agreed upon some points. We do not appear to understand each other yet' Mrs Dombey has something to learn
Mrs Dombey is distinguished by many rare attractions; and has been accustomed, no doubt, to receive much adulation
But where there is affection, duty, and respect, any little mistakes engendered by such causes are soon set right
Mrs Dombey and myself
had some discussion, before Mrs Skewton's death, upon the causes of my dissatisfaction; of which you will have formed a general understanding from having been a witness of what passed between Mrs Dombey and myself on the evening when you were at our -- at my house
When I so much regretted being present
Proud as a man in my position nay must be of your familiar notice -- though I give you no credit for it; you may do anything you please without losing caste -- and honoured as I was by an early presentation to Mrs Dombey, before she was made eminent by bearing your name, I almost regretted that night, I assure you, that I had been the object of such especial good fortune
Indeed! And why, Carker
I fear
Carker
I presume that I am the first consideration
Oh! Can there be a doubt about it
Mrs Dombey becomes a secondary consideration, when we are both in question, I imagine
Is that so
Is it so
Do you know better than anyone, that you have no need to ask
Then I hope, Carker
that your regret in the acquisition of Mrs Dombey's displeasure, may be almost counterbalanced by your satisfaction in retaining my confidence and good opinion
I have the misfortune, I find
to have incurred that displeasure. Mrs Dombey has expressed it to you
Mrs Dombey has expressed various opinions
in which I do not participate, and which I am not inclined to discuss, or to recall. I made Mr Dombey acquainted, some time since, as I have already told you, with certain points of domestic deference and submission on which I felt it necessary to insist. I failed to convince Mrs Dombey of the expediency of her immediately altering her conduct in those respects, with a view to her own peace and welfare, and my dignity; and I informed Mrs Dombey that if I should find it necessary to object or remonstrate again, I should express my opinion to her through yourself, my confidential agent
Now, Carker
I do not hesitate to say to you that I will carry my point. I am not to be trifled with. Mrs Dombey must understand that my will is law, and that I cannot allow of one exception to the whole rule of my life. You will have the goodness to undertake this charge, which, coming from me, is not unacceptable to you, I hope, whatever regret you may politely profess -- for which I am obliged to you on behalf of Mrs Dombey; and you will have the goodness, I am persuaded, to discharge it as exactly as any other commission
You know
I know
To do credit even to your choice
Yes; if you please to adopt that form of words
and at present I do not conceive that Mrs Dombey does that credit to it, to which it is entitled. There is a principle of opposition in Mrs Dombey that must be eradicated; that must be overcome: Mrs Dombey does not appear to understand
that the idea of opposition to Me is monstrous and absurd
We, in the City, know you better
You know me better
I hope so. Though, indeed, I am bound to do Mrs Dombey the justice of saying, however inconsistent it may seem with her subsequent conduct (which remains unchanged), that on my expressing my disapprobation and determination to her, with some severity, on the occasion to which I have referred, my admonition appeared to produce a very powerful effect
I wish you to have the goodness, then, to inform Mrs Dombey, Carker, from me, that I must recall our former conversation to her remembrance, in some surprise that it has not yet had its effect. That I must insist upon her regulating her conduct by the injunctions laid upon her in that conversation. That I am not satisfied with her conduct. That I am greatly dissatisfied with it. And that I shall be under the very disagreeable necessity of making you the bearer of yet more unwelcome and explicit communications, if she has not the good sense and the proper feeling to adapt herself to my wishes, as the first Mrs Dombey did, and, I believe I may add, as any other lady in her place would
The first Mrs Dombey lived very happily
The first Mrs Dombey had great good sense
and very correct feeling
Is Miss Dombey like her mother, do you think
I have approached a painful subject
Pray forgive me. I forget these chains of association in the interest I have. Pray forgive me
said Mr Dombey, looking here and there upon the table, and saying in a somewhat altered and more hurried voice, and with a paler lip, 'there is no occasion for apology. You mistake. The association is with the matter in hand, and not with any recollection, as you suppose. I do not approve of Mrs Dombey's behaviour towards my daughter
Pardon me
I don't quite understand
Understand then
that you may make that -- that you will make that, if you please -- matter of direct objection from me to Mrs Dombey. You will please to tell her that her show of devotion for my daughter is disagreeable to me. It is likely to be noticed. It is likely to induce people to contrast Mrs Dombey in her relation towards my daughter, with Mrs Dombey in her relation towards myself. You will have the goodness to let Mrs Dombey know, plainly, that I object to it; and that I expect her to defer, immediately, to my objection. Mrs Dombey may be in earnest, or she may be pursuing a whim, or she may be opposing me; but I object to it in any case, and in every case. If Mrs Dombey is in earnest, so much the less reluctant should she be to desist; for she will not serve my daughter by any such display. If my wife has any superfluous gentleness, and duty over and above her proper submission to me, she may bestow them where she pleases, perhaps; but I will have submission first!-- Carker
you will have the goodness not to omit or slur this point, but to consider it a very important part of your instructions
I beg your pardon
but let me understand. Mrs Dombey is aware of the probability of your making me the organ of your displeasure
Yes
I have said so
Yes
but why
Why
Because I told her
Ay
But why did you tell her? You see
if I perfectly understand what is in your mind, I am so much more likely to be useful, and to have the happiness of being effectually employed. I think I do understand. I have not the honour of Mrs Dombey's good opinion. In my position, I have no reason to expect it; but I take the fact to be, that I have not got it
Possibly not
Consequently
your making the communications to Mrs Dombey through me, is sure to be particularly unpalatable to that lady
It appears to me
that Mrs Dombey's views upon the subject form no part of it as it presents itself to you and me, Carker. But it may be so
And -- pardon me -- do I misconceive you
when I think you descry in this, a likely means of humbling Mrs Dombey's pride -- I use the word as expressive of a quality which, kept within due bounds, adorns and graces a lady so distinguished for her beauty and accomplishments -- and, not to say of punishing her, but of reducing her to the submission you so naturally and justly require
I am not accustomed, Carker, as you know
to give such close reasons for any course of conduct I think proper to adopt, but I will gainsay nothing of this. If you have any objection to found upon it, that is indeed another thing, and the mere statement that you have one will be sufficient. But I have not supposed, I confess, that any confidence I could entrust to you, would be likely to degrade you
Oh! I degraded
In your service
or to place you
in a false position
I in a false position
I shall be proud -- delighted -- to execute your trust. I could have wished, I own, to have given the lady at whose feet I would lay my humble duty and devotion -- for is she not your wife!-- no new cause of dislike; but a wish from you is, of course, paramount to every other consideration on earth. Besides, when Mrs Dombey is converted from these little errors of judgment, incidental, I would presume to say, to the novelty of her situation, I shall hope that she will perceive in the slight part I take, only a grain -- my removed and different sphere gives room for little more -- of the respect for you, and sacrifice of all considerations to you, of which it will be her pleasure and privilege to garner up a great store every day
Nothing can make us stranger to each other than we are henceforth
Certainly, no doubt
There is nothing more
Nothing
but this. You will be good enough to observe, Carker, that no message to Mrs Dombey with which you are or may be charged, admits of reply. You will be good enough to bring me no reply. Mrs Dombey is informed that it does not become me to temporise or treat upon any matter that is at issue between us, and that what I say is final
I have given good cause of offence to Mrs Dombey now, if she knew it
Mama
if I might venture to go
I am directed to request
that the new housekeeper -- Mrs Pipchin, I think, is the name
may be informed that Mr Dombey wishes to have his bed prepared in his own apartments downstairs, as he prefers those rooms to any other. I shall return to Mr Dombey almost immediately. That every possible attention has been paid to his comfort, and that he is the object of every possible solicitude, I need not assure you, Madam. Let me again say, there is no cause for the least alarm. Even you may be quite at ease, believe me
And nice company he is, Miss Floy
Oh, he's a precious piece of goods! If ever he wants a character don't let him come to me whatever he does, that's all I tell him
Dear Susan
don't
Oh, it's very well to say "don't" Miss Floy
but raly begging your pardon we're coming to such passes that it turns all the blood in a person's body into pins and needles, with their pints all ways. Don't mistake me, Miss Floy, I don't mean nothing again your ma-in-law who has always treated me as a lady should though she is rather high I must say not that I have any right to object to that particular, but when we come to Mrs Pipchinses and having them put over us and keeping guard at your Pa's door like crocodiles (only make us thankful that they lay no eggs!) we are a growing too outrageous
Papa thinks well of Mrs Pipchin, Susan
and has a right to choose his housekeeper, you know. Pray don't
Well Miss Floy
when you say don't, I never do I hope but Mrs Pipchin acts like early gooseberries upon me Miss, and nothing less
Susan
it is very late. I shall want nothing more to-night
Ah, Miss Floy
I'm sure I often wish for them old times when I sat up with you hours later than this and fell asleep through being tired out when you was as broad awake as spectacles, but you've ma's-in-law to come and sit with you now Miss Floy and I'm thankful for it I'm sure. I've not a word to say against 'em
I shall not forget who was my old companion when I had none, Susan
never
Now my dear Miss Floy, said Susan, 'let me go downstairs again and see how your Pa is, I know you're wretched about him, do let me go downstairs again and knock at his door my own self
No
go to bed. We shall hear more in the morning. I will inquire myself in the morning. Mama has been down, I daresay;' Florence blushed, for she had no such hope; 'or is there now, perhaps. Good-night
Mama
what is the matter
Mama
Dear Mama! what is the matter
I have not been well
I have had had dreams, my love
And not yet been to bed, Mama
No
Half-waking dreams
But what does my bird do here? What does my bird do here
I have been uneasy, Mama, in not seeing you to-night, and in not knowing how Papa was; and I
Is it late
Very late. Near day
Near day
Dear Mama, what have you done to your hand
Nothing, nothing. A blow
My Florence
Mama
Oh Mama, what can I do, what should I do, to make us happier? Is there anything
Nothing
Are you sure of that? Can it never be? If I speak now of what is in my thoughts, in spite of what we have agreed
you will not blame me, will you
It is useless
useless. I have told you, dear, that I have had bad dreams. Nothing can change them, or prevent them coming back
I do not understand
I have dreamed
of a pride that is all powerless for good, all powerful for evil; of a pride that has been galled and goaded, through many shameful years, and has never recoiled except upon itself; a pride that has debased its owner with the consciousness of deep humiliation, and never helped its owner boldly to resent it or avoid it, or to say, "This shall not be!" a pride that, rightly guided, might have led perhaps to better things, but which, misdirected and perverted, like all else belonging to the same possessor, has been self-contempt, mere hardihood and ruin
I have dreamed
of such indifference and callousness, arising from this self-contempt; this wretched, inefficient, miserable pride; that it has gone on with listless steps even to the altar, yielding to the old, familiar, beckoning finger,-- oh mother, oh mother!-- while it spurned it; and willing to be hateful to itself for once and for all, rather than to be stung daily in some new form. Mean, poor thing
And I have dreamed
that in a first late effort to achieve a purpose, it has been trodden on, and trodden down by a base foot, but turns and looks upon him. I have dreamed that it is wounded, hunted, set upon by dogs, but that it stands at hay, and will not yield; no, that it cannot if it would; but that it is urged on to hate
Oh Florence
I think I have been nearly mad to-night
For you are weary, dearest, and unhappy, and should rest
I am indeed unhappy, dear Mama, tonight
But you are weary and unhappy, too
Not when you lie asleep so near me, sweet
Be near me, Florence. I have no hope but in you
I have often said I would
and now I will
Come in
What do you want
If you please, Sir, I wish to speak to you
I have been in your service, Sir
now twelve 'year a waiting on Miss Floy my own young lady who couldn't speak plain when I first come here and I was old in this house when Mrs Richards was new, I may not be Meethosalem, but I am not a child in arms
There never was a dearer or a blesseder young lady than is my young lady, Sir
and I ought to know a great deal better than some for I have seen her in her grief and I have seen her in her joy (there's not been much of it) and I have seen her with her brother and I have seen her in her loneliness and some have never seen her, and I say to some and all -- I do
that she's the blessedest and dearest angel is Miss Floy that ever drew the breath of life, the more that I was torn to pieces Sir the more I'd say it though I may not be a Fox's Martyr
No one could be anything but true and faithful to Miss Floy, Sir
and I take no merit for my service of twelve year, for I love her -- yes, I say to some and all I do
What do you mean, woman
How do you dare
What I mean, Sir, is to speak respectful and without offence, but out, and how I dare I know not but I do
Oh! you don't know my young lady Sir you don't indeed, you'd never know so little of her, if you did
Miss Floy
is the most devoted and most patient and most dutiful and beautiful of daughters, there ain't no gentleman, no Sir, though as great and rich as all the greatest and richest of England put together, but might be proud of her and would and ought. If he knew her value right, he'd rather lose his greatness and his fortune piece by piece and beg his way in rags from door to door, I say to some and all, he would
than bring the sorrow on her tender heart that I have seen it suffer in this house
Woman
Begging your pardon, not even if I am to leave the situation, Sir
in which I have been so many years and seen so much -- although I hope you'd never have the heart to send me from Miss Floy for such a cause -- will I go now till I have said the rest, I may not be a Indian widow Sir and I am not and I would not so become but if I once made up my mind to burn myself alive, I'd do it! And I've made my mind up to go on
There ain't a person in your service, Sir
that has always stood more in awe of you than me and you may think how true it is when I make so bold as say that I have hundreds and hundreds of times thought of speaking to you and never been able to make my mind up to it till last night, but last night decided of me
I have seen
Miss Floy strive and strive when nothing but a child so sweet and patient that the best of women might have copied from her, I've seen her sitting nights together half the night through to help her delicate brother with his learning, I've seen her helping him and watching him at other times -- some well know when -- I've seen her, with no encouragement and no help, grow up to be a lady, thank God! that is the grace and pride of every company she goes in, and I've always seen her cruelly neglected and keenly feeling of it -- I say to some and all, I have!-- and never said one word, but ordering one's self lowly and reverently towards one's betters, is not to be a worshipper of graven images, and I will and must speak
Is there anybody there
Where are the men? where are the women? Is there no one there
I left my dear young lady out of bed late last night
and I knew why, for you was ill Sir and she didn't know how ill and that was enough to make her wretched as I saw it did. I may not be a Peacock; but I have my eyes -- and I sat up a little in my own room thinking she might be lonesome and might want me, and I saw her steal downstairs and come to this door as if it was a guilty thing to look at her own Pa, and then steal back again and go into them lonely drawing-rooms, a-crying so, that I could hardly bear to hear it. I can not bear to hear it
It's not the first time I have heard it, not by many and many a time you don't know your own daughter, Sir, you don't know what you're doing, Sir, I say to some and all
that it's a sinful shame
Why, hoity toity
What's this, indeed
What's this
What's this, Madam? You who are at the head of this household, and bound to keep it in order, have reason to inquire. Do you know this woman
I know very little good of her, Sir
How dare you come here, you hussy? Go along with you
Do you call it managing this establishment, Madam
to leave a person like this at liberty to come and talk to me! A gentleman -- in his own house -- in his own room -- assailed with the impertinences of women-servants
Well, Sir
I exceedingly deplore it; nothing can be more irregular; nothing can be more out of all bounds and reason; but I regret to say, Sir, that this young woman is quite beyond control. She has been spoiled by Miss Dombey, and is amenable to nobody. You know you're not
For shame, you hussy! Go along with you
If you find people in my service who are not to be controlled, Mrs Pipchin
you know what to do with them, I presume. You know what you are here for? Take her away
Sir, I know what to do
and of course shall do it' Susan Nipper
a month's warning from this hour
Oh indeed
Yes
and don't smile at me, you minx, or I'll know the reason why! Go along with you this minute
I intend to go this minute, you may rely upon it
I have been in this house waiting on my young lady a dozen year and I won't stop in it one hour under notice from a person owning to the name of Pipchin trust me, Mrs P
A good riddance of bad rubbish
Get along with you, or I'll have you carried out
My comfort is
Go along with you
Does that bold-faced slut
intend to take her warning, or does she not
You saucy baggage
Go along with you this minute. Pack up your things directly! How dare you talk in this way to a gentle-woman who has seen better days
But you needn't trouble yourself to make a noise at my door
nor to contaminate the key-hole with your eye, I'm packing up and going you may take your affidavit
Susan
Going to leave me! You
Oh for goodness gracious sake, Miss Floy
don't speak a word to me or I shall demean myself before them' Pipchinses, and I wouldn't have 'em see me cry Miss Floy for worlds
Susan
My dear girl, my old friend! What shall I do without you! Can you bear to go away so
No-n-o-o, my darling dear Miss Floy, I can't indeed
But it can't be helped, I've done my duty' Miss, I have indeed. It's no fault of mine. I am quite resigned. I couldn't stay my month or I could never leave you then my darling and I must at last as well as at first, don't speak to me Miss Floy, for though I'm pretty firm I'm not a marble doorpost, my own dear
What is it? Why is it
Won't you tell me
No-n-no, my darling
Don't ask me, for I mustn't, and whatever you do don't put in a word for me to stop, for it couldn't be and you'd only wrong yourself, and so God bless you my own precious and forgive me any harm I have done, or any temper I have showed in all these many years
My darling there's a many that may come to serve you and be glad to serve you and who'll serve you well and true
but there can't be one who'll serve you so affectionate as me or love you half as dearly, that's my comfort' Good-bye, sweet Miss Floy
Where will you go, Susan
I've got a brother down in the country Miss -- a farmer in Essex said the heart-broken Nipper, 'that keeps ever so many co-o-ows and pigs and I shall go down there by the coach and sto-op with him, and don't mind me, for I've got money in the Savings Banks my dear, and needn't take another service just yet, which I couldn't, couldn't, couldn't do, my heart's own mistress
Now, here's the cab, and here's the boxes, get along with you, do
I beg your pardon, Ma'am, but Mr Dombey's orders are imperative
There's your money
I beg your pardon, Miss, I'm sure
but Mr Toots is in the drawing-room, and sends his compliments, and begs to know how Diogenes and Master is
Oh, how de do, Miss Dombey
God bless my soul
Dear Mr Toots
Miss Dombey
if you'll only name one, you'll -- you'll give me an appetite. To which
Susan, who is an old friend of mine, the oldest friend I have
is about to leave here suddenly, and quite alone, poor girl. She is going home, a little way into the country. Might I ask you to take care of her until she is in the coach
Miss Dombey
you really do me an honour and a kindness. This proof of your confidence, after the manner in which I was Beast enough to conduct myself at Brighton
Yes
no -- don't think of that. Then would you have the kindness to -- to go? and to be ready to meet her when she comes out? Thank you a thousand times! You ease my mind so much. She doesn't seem so desolate. You cannot think how grateful I feel to you, or what a good friend I am sure you are
Upon my soul and body
I feel for you. Upon my word and honour I think you can hardly know your own feelings better than I imagine them. I can conceive nothing more dreadful than to have to leave Miss Dombey
I say
now, don't! at least I mean now do, you know
Do what, Mr Toots
Why, come home to my place, and have some dinner before you start
My cook's a most respectable woman -- one of the most motherly people I ever saw -- and she'll be delighted to make you comfortable. Her son
was educated in the Bluecoat School
I say, Susan! Miss Dombey, you know
Yes, Sir
Do you think she could -- you know -- eh
I beg your pardon, Mr Toots
Do you think she could be brought, you know -- not exactly at once, but in time -- in a long time -- to -- to love me, you know? There
Oh dear no
I should say, never. Never
Thank'ee
It's of no consequence. Good-night. It's of no consequence, thank'ee
How is your patient, Sir
He is better
He is doing very well. I have left him for the night
Madam! May I beg the favour of a minute's audience
It is an unseasonable time, Sir, and I am fatigued. Is your business urgent
It is very urgent, returned Carker. 'As I am so fortunate as to have met you, let me press my petition
Where is Miss Dombey
In the morning room, Ma'am
Show the way there
I beg your pardon! Madam! Mrs Dombey
May I be permitted to entreat that Miss Dombey is not present
I would spare Miss Dombey
the knowledge of what I have to say. At least, Madam, I would leave it to you to decide whether she shall know of it or not. I owe that to you. It is my bounden duty to you. After our former interview, it would be monstrous in me if I did otherwise
Some other room
Before I hear you, Sir
I wish you to hear me
To be addressed by Mrs Dombey
even in accents of unmerited reproach, is an honour I so greatly esteem, that although I were not her servant in all things, I should defer to such a wish, most readily
If you are charged by the man whom you have just now left, Sir
It is my misfortune
to be here, wholly against my will, for such a purpose. Allow me to say that I am here for two purposes. That is one
That one, Sir
is ended. Or, if you return to it
Can Mrs Dombey believe
that I would return to it in the face of her prohibition? Is it possible that Mrs Dombey, having no regard to my unfortunate position, is so determined to consider me inseparable from my instructor as to do me great and wilful injustice
Sir
Why do you present yourself to me, as you have done, and speak to me of love and duty to my husband, and pretend to think that I am happily married, and that I honour him? How dare you venture so to affront me, when you know -- I do not know better, Sir: I have seen it in your every glance, and heard it in your every word -- that in place of affection between us there is aversion and contempt, and that I despise him hardly less than I despise myself for being his! Injustice! If I had done justice to the torment you have made me feel, and to my sense of the insult you have put upon me, I should have slain you
Madam
I know, and knew before to-day, that I have found no favour with you; and I knew why. Yes. I knew why. You have spoken so openly to me; I am so relieved by the possession of your confidence
Confidence
that I will make no pretence of concealment. I did see from the first, that there was no affection on your part for Mr Dombey -- how could it possibly exist between such different subjects? And I have seen, since, that stronger feelings than indifference have been engendered in your breast -- how could that possibly be otherwise, either, circumstanced as you have been? But was it for me to presume to avow this knowledge to you in so many words
Was it for you, Sir
to feign that other belief, and audaciously to thrust it on me day by day
Madam, it was
If I had done less, if I had done anything but that, I should not be speaking to you thus; and I foresaw -- who could better foresee, for who has had greater experience of Mr Dombey than myself?-- that unless your character should prove to be as yielding and obedient as that of his first submissive lady, which I did not believe
I say, which I did not believe,-- the time was likely to come, when such an understanding as we have now arrived at, would be serviceable
Serviceable to whom, Sir
To you. I will not add to myself, as warning me to refrain even from that limited commendation of Mr Dombey, in which I can honestly indulge, in order that I may not have the misfortune of saying anything distasteful to one whose aversion and contempt
are so keen
Is it honest in you, Sir
to confess to your "limited commendation," and to speak in that tone of disparagement, even of him: being his chief counsellor and flatterer
Counsellor,-- yes
Flatterer,-- no. A little reservation I fear I must confess to. But our interest and convenience commonly oblige many of us to make professions that we cannot feel. We have partnerships of interest and convenience, friendships of interest and convenience, dealings of interest and convenience, marriages of interest and convenience, every day
Madam
why should I hesitate now, being altogether devoted to your service, to speak plainly? It was natural that a lady, endowed as you are, should think it feasible to change her husband's character in some respects, and mould him to a better form
It was not natural to me, Sir
I had never any expectation or intention of that kind
At least it was natural
that you should deem it quite possible to live with Mr Dombey as his wife, at once without submitting to him, and without coming into such violent collision with him. But, Madam, you did not know Mr Dombey (as you have since ascertained), when you thought that. You did not know how exacting and how proud he is, or how he is, if I may say so, the slave of his own greatness, and goes yoked to his own triumphal car like a beast of burden, with no idea on earth but that it is behind him and is to be drawn on, over everything and through everything
Mr Dombey is really capable of no more true consideration for you, Madam, than for me. The comparison is an extreme one; I intend it to be so; but quite just. Mr Dombey, in the plenitude of his power, asked me -- I had it from his own lips yesterday morning -- to be his go-between to you, because he knows I am not agreeable to you, and because he intends that I shall be a punishment for your contumacy; and besides that, because he really does consider, that I, his paid servant, am an ambassador whom it is derogatory to the dignity -- not of the lady to whom I have the happiness of speaking; she has no existence in his mind -- but of his wife, a part of himself, to receive. You may imagine how regardless of me, how obtuse to the possibility of my having any individual sentiment or opinion he is, when he tells me, openly, that I am so employed. You know how perfectly indifferent to your feelings he is, when he threatens you with such a messenger. As you, of course, have not forgotten that he did
I do not recall all this to widen the breach between yourself and Mr Dombey, Madam -- Heaven forbid! what would it profit me?-- but as an example of the hopelessness of impressing Mr Dombey with a sense that anybody is to be considered when he is in question. We who are about him, have, in our various positions, done our part, I daresay, to confirm him in his way of thinking; but if we had not done so, others would -- or they would not have been about him; and it has always been, from the beginning, the very staple of his life. Mr Dombey has had to deal, in short, with none but submissive and dependent persons, who have bowed the knee, and bent the neck, before him. He has never known what it is to have angry pride and strong resentment opposed to him
But he will know it now
Mr Dombey, though a most honourable gentleman
is so prone to pervert even facts to his own view, when he is at all opposed, in consequence of the warp in his mind, that he -- can I give a better instance than this!-- he sincerely believes (you will excuse the folly of what I am about to say; it not being mine) that his severe expression of opinion to his present wife, on a certain special occasion she may remember, before the lamented death of Mrs Skewton, produced a withering effect, and for the moment quite subdued her
Madam
I have done with this. Your own opinions are so strong, and, I am persuaded, so unalterable
that I am almost afraid to incur your displeasure anew, when I say that in spite of these defects and my full knowledge of them, I have become habituated to Mr Dombey, and esteem him. But when I say so, it is not, believe me, for the mere sake of vaunting a feeling that is so utterly at variance with your own, and for which you can have no sympathy
but to give you an assurance of the zeal with which, in this unhappy matter, I am yours, and the indignation with which I regard the part I am to fill
It is growing late
and you are, as you said, fatigued. But the second object of this interview, I must not forget. I must recommend you, I must entreat you in the most earnest manner, for sufficient reasons that I have, to be cautious in your demonstrations of regard for Miss Dombey
Cautious! What do you mean
To be careful how you exhibit too much affection for that young lady
Too much affection, Sir
Who judges my affection, or measures it out? You
It is not I who do so
Who then
Can you not guess who then
I do not choose to guess
Madam
I am in a difficulty here. You have told me you will receive no message, and you have forbidden me to return to that subject; but the two subjects are so closely entwined, I find, that unless you will accept this vague caution from one who has now the honour to possess your confidence, though the way to it has been through your displeasure, I must violate the injunction you have laid upon me
You know that you are free to do so, Sir
Do it
His instructions were
that I should inform you that your demeanour towards Miss Dombey is not agreeable to him. That it suggests comparisons to him which are not favourable to himself. That he desires it may be wholly changed; and that if you are in earnest, he is confident it will be; for your continued show of affection will not benefit its object
That is a threat
That is a threat
but not directed against you
Please to leave me. Say no more to-night
I feel the urgency of this
because it is impossible to say what unforeseen consequences might arise, or how soon, from your being unacquainted with his state of mind. I understand Miss Dombey is concerned, now, at the dismissal of her old servant, which is likely to have been a minor consequence in itself. You don't blame me for requesting that Miss Dombey might not be present. May I hope so
I do not. Please to leave me, Sir
I knew that your regard for the young lady, which is very sincere and strong, I am well persuaded, would render it a great unhappiness to you, ever to be a prey to the reflection that you had injured her position and ruined her future hopes
No more to-night. Leave me, if you please
I shall be here constantly in my attendance upon him, and in the transaction of business matters. You will allow me to see you again, and to consult what should be done, and learn your wishes
At any time but now
You will understand, when I wish to see you, that Miss Dombey is not to be present; and that I seek an interview as one who has the happiness to possess your confidence, and who comes to render you every assistance in his power, and, perhaps, on many occasions, to ward off evil from her
Yes
I am forgiven, and have explained my fault. May I -- for Miss Dombey's sake, and for my own -- take your hand before I go
May this man be a liar! For if he has spoken truth, she is lost to me, and I have no hope left
See where he goes
I never thought to look at him again
but it's well I should, perhaps. I see. I see
Not changed
He changed
What for? What has he suffered? There is change enough for twenty in me. Isn't that enough
See where he goes
so easy and so trim a-horseback, while we are in the mud
And of it
We are mud, underneath his horse's feet. What should we be
Deary
Alice! Handsome gall Ally
Will you let him go like that, when you can wring money from him? Why, it's a wickedness, my daughter
Haven't I told you, that I will not have money from him
And him so rich
And us so poor
Poor in not being able to pay him any of the harm we owe him
Let him give me that sort of riches, and I'll take them from him, and use them. Come away. Its no good looking at his horse. Come away, mother
Why, where's my sprightly Rob been, all this time
Oh! why can't you leave a poor cove alone, Misses Brown, when he's getting an honest livelihood and conducting himself respectable? What do you come and deprive a cove of his character for, by talking to him in the streets, when he's taking his master's horse to a honest stable -- a horse you'd go and sell for cats' and dogs' meat if you had your way! Why, I thought
that you was dead long ago
This is the way
that he talks to me, who knew him weeks and months together, my deary, and have stood his friend many and many a time among the pigeon-fancying tramps and bird-catchers
Let the birds be, will you, Misses Brown
I think a cove had better have to do with lions than them little creeturs, for they're always flying back in your face when you least expect it. Well, how d'ye do and what do you want
Hark how he speaks to an old friend, my deary
But there's some of his old friends not so patient as me. If I was to tell some that he knows, and has spotted and cheated with, where to find him
Will you hold your tongue, Misses Brown
What do you take a pleasure in ruining a cove for? At your time of life too! when you ought to be thinking of a variety of things
What a gallant horse
Let him alone, will you, Misses Brown
You're enough to drive a penitent cove mad
Why, what hurt do I do him, child
Hurt
He's got a master that would find it out if he was touched with a straw
A good place, Rob, eh
You're in luck, my child
Oh don't talk about luck, Misses Brown
If you'd never come, or if you'd go away, then indeed a cove might be considered tolerable lucky. Can't you go along, Misses Brown, and not foller me
If the young woman's a friend of yours, why don't she take you away, instead of letting you make yourself so disgraceful
What
Do you deny your old chum! Have you lurked to my house fifty times, and slept sound in a corner when you had no other bed but the paving-stones, and do you talk to me like this! Have I bought and sold with you, and helped you in my way of business, schoolboy, sneak, and what not, and do you tell me to go along? Could I raise a crowd of old company about you to-morrow morning, that would follow you to ruin like copies of your own shadow, and do you turn on me with your bold looks! I'll go. Come, Alice
Stop, Misses Brown
What are you doing of? Don't put yourself in a passion! Don't let her go, if you please. I haven't meant any offence. I said "how d'ye do," at first, didn't I? But you wouldn't answer. How you do? Besides
look here! How can a cove stand talking in the street with his master's prad a wanting to be took to be rubbed down, and his master up to every individgle thing that happens
Come along to the stables, and have a glass of something that's good for you, Misses Brown, can't you
instead of going on, like that, which is no good to you, nor anybody else. Come along with her, will you be so kind
I'm sure I'm delighted to see her, if it wasn't for the horse
Here's master -- Mr Carker, child
Lord bless him
Why, I didn't tell you who he was
We know him by sight
We saw him pass this morning, afore he got off his horse; when you were ready to take it
Ay, ay
What's the matter with her? Won't she drink
Don't mind her
she's a strange creetur, if you know'd her, Rob. But Mr Carker
Hush
Softly
Why, he ain't here
I don't know that
Good master
precious sharp
Lives out of town, don't he, lovey
When he's at home
but we don't live at home just now
Where then
Lodgings; up near Mr Dombey's
Mr Dombey -- you and I used to talk about him, sometimes, you know
You used to get me to talk about him
Well, Mr Dombey, he's had a fall from his horse
and my master has to be up there, more than usual, either with him, or Mrs Dombey, or some of 'em; and so we've come to town
Are they good friends, lovey
Who
He and she
What, Mr and Mrs Dombey
How should I know
Not them -- Master and Mrs Dombey, chick
I don't know
I suppose so. How curious you are, Misses Brown! Least said, soonest mended
Why there's no harm in it
No, there's no harm in it, I know
but blabbing, if it's only about the number of buttons on my master's coat, won't do. I tell you it won't do with him. A cove had better drown himself. He says so. I shouldn't have so much as told you what his name was, if you hadn't known it. Talk about somebody else
Rob, lovey
You were always a pet and favourite of mine. Now, weren't you? Don't you know you were
Yes, Misses Brown
And you could leave me
You could go away, and grow almost out of knowledge, and never come to tell your poor old friend how fortunate you were, proud lad! Oho, Oho
Oh here's a dreadful go for a cove that's got a master wide awake in the neighbourhood
To be howled over like this here
Won't you come and see me, Robby
Oho, won't you ever come and see me
Yes, I tell you! Yes, I will
That's my own Rob! That's my lovey
At the old place, Rob
Yes
Soon, Robby dear
and often
Yes. Yes. Yes
I will indeed, upon my soul and body
And then
if he's true to his word, I'll never come a-near him though I know where he is, and never breathe a syllable about him! Never
A shilling, dear
or sixpence! For old acquaintance sake. I'm so poor. And my handsome gal
What
mother! always money! money from the first, and to the last' Do you mind so little what I said but now? Here. Take it
Well, John Carker, and what brings you here
I wonder
We had word this morning in the Counting House, that Mr Dombey was doing well
You are such a meek fellow
but you have grown so, in the course of years -- that if any harm came to him, you'd be miserable, I dare swear now
I should be truly sorry, James
He would be sorry
He would be truly sorry! This brother of mine! This junior of the place, this slighted piece of lumber, pushed aside with his face to the wall, like a rotten picture, and left so, for Heaven knows how many years he's all gratitude and respect, and devotion too, he would have me believe
I would have you believe nothing, James
Be as just to me as you would to any other man below you. You ask a question, and I answer it
And have you nothing, Spaniel
to complain of in him? No proud treatment to resent, no insolence, no foolery of state, no exaction of any sort! What the devil! are you man or mouse
But apart from my history here
His history here
Why, there it is. The very fact that makes him an extreme case, puts him out of the whole chapter! Well
Apart from that, which, as you hint, gives me a reason to be thankful that I alone (happily for all the rest) possess, surely there is no one in the House who would not say and feel at least as much. You do not think that anybody here would be indifferent to a mischance or misfortune happening to the head of the House, or anything than truly sorry for it
You have good reason to be bound to him too
Why, don't you believe that you are kept here, as a cheap example, and a famous instance of the clemency of Dombey and Son, redounding to the credit of the illustrious House
No
But you were going
to recite some Christian precept, I observed
Nay, James
though the tie of brotherhood between us has been long broken and thrown away
Who broke it, good Sir
I, by my misconduct. I do not charge it upon you
Oh, you don't charge it upon me
I say, though there is not that tie between us, do not, I entreat, assail me with unnecessary taunts, or misinterpret what I say, or would say. I was only going to suggest to you that it would be a mistake to suppose that it is only you, who have been selected here, above all others, for advancement, confidence and distinction (selected, in the beginning, I know, for your great ability and trustfulness), and who communicate more freely with Mr Dombey than anyone, and stand, it may be said, on equal terms with him, and have been favoured and enriched by him -- that it would be a mistake to suppose that it is only you who are tender of his welfare and reputation. There is no one in the House, from yourself down to the lowest, I sincerely believe, who does not participate in that feeling
You lie
You're a hypocrite, John Carker, and you lie
James
What do you mean by these insulting words? Why do you so basely use them to me, unprovoked
I tell you
that your hypocrisy and meekness -- that all the hypocrisy and meekness of this place -- is not worth that to me
and that I see through it as if it were air! There is not a man employed here, standing between myself and the lowest in place (of whom you are very considerate, and with reason, for he is not far off), who wouldn't be glad at heart to see his master humbled: who does not hate him, secretly: who does not wish him evil rather than good: and who would not turn upon him, if he had the power and boldness. The nearer to his favour, the nearer to his insolence; the closer to him, the farther from him. That's the creed here
I don't know
who may have abused your ear with such representations; or why you have chosen to try me, rather than another. But that you have been trying me, and tampering with me, I am now sure. You have a different manner and a different aspect from any that I ever saw m you. I will only say to you, once more, you are deceived
I know I am
I have told you so
Not by me
By your informant, if you have one. If not, by your own thoughts and suspicions
I have no suspicions
Mine are certainties. You pusillanimous, abject, cringing dogs! All making the same show, all canting the same story, all whining the same professions, all harbouring the same transparent secret
The faint-hearted, fawning knaves
There's not one among them, who wouldn't feign to be so shocked and outraged --! Bah! There's not one among them, but if he had at once the power, and the wit and daring to use it, would scatter Dombey's pride and lay it low, as ruthlessly as I rake out these ashes
Without the same queen beckoner too
and there is pride there, not to be forgotten -- witness our own acquaintance
Time was
when it was well to watch even your rising little star, and know in what quarter there were clouds, to shadow you if needful. But a planet has arisen, and you are lost in its light
I don't believe it
Mama
have I offended you
No
I must have done something
Tell me what it is. You have changed your manner to me, dear Mama. I cannot say how instantly I feel the least change; for I love you with my whole heart
As I do you
Ah, Florence, believe me never more than now
Why do you go away from me so often, and keep away
And why do you sometimes look so strangely on me, dear Mama? You do so, do you not
Why
My Florence
why it is, I cannot tell you. It is neither for me to say, nor you to hear; but that it is, and that it must be, I know. Should I do it if I did not
Are we to be estranged, Mama
Yes
Florence! my life
listen to me. I cannot bear to see this grief. Be calmer. You see that I am composed, and is it nothing to me
Not wholly estranged. Partially: and only that, in appearance, Florence, for in my own breast I am still the same to you, and ever will be. But what I do is not done for myself
Is it for me, Mama
It is enough
to know what it is; why, matters little. Dear Florence, it is better -- it is necessary -- it must be -- that our association should be less frequent. The confidence there has been between us must be broken off
When
Oh, Mama, when
Now
For all time to come
I do not say that
I do not know that. Nor will I say that companionship between us is, at the best, an ill-assorted and unholy union, of which I might have known no good could come. My way here has been through paths that you will never tread, and my way henceforth may lie -- God knows -- I do not see it
Mama
there is a change in you, in more than what you say to me, which alarms me. Let me stay with you a little
No
no, dearest. I am best left alone now, and I do best to keep apart from you, of all else. Ask me no questions, but believe that what I am when I seem fickle or capricious to you, I am not of my own will, or for myself. Believe, though we are stranger to each other than we have been, that I am unchanged to you within. Forgive me for having ever darkened your dark home -- I am a shadow on it, I know well -- and let us never speak of this again
Mama
we are not to part
We do this that we may not part
Ask no more. Go, Florence! My love and my remorse go with you
Good-night
style
Indeed, was that Miss Dombey, in the corner? Very pretty, but a little delicate and thoughtful in appearance
I do not dine at home
Not a large party
merely some twelve or fourteen. My sister, Major Bagstock, and some others whom you know but slightly
However doubtful reason I may have, Mrs Dombey
to hold the occasion in very pleasant remembrance just now, there are appearances in these things which must be maintained before the world. If you have no respect for yourself, Mrs Dombey
I have none
Madam
hear me if you please. I say, if you have no respect for yourself
And I say I have none
Carker
Tell your sovereign master, Sir
that I will take leave to speak to him on this subject by-and-bye, and that I will speak to him alone
Mr Carker, Madam
being in possession of the reason which obliges me to refuse you that privilege, shall be absolved from the delivery of any such message
Your daughter is present, Sir
My daughter will remain present
My daughter, Madam
I tell you I will speak to you alone
If you are not mad, heed what I say
I have authority to speak to you, Madam
when and where I please; and it is my pleasure to speak here and now
You shall
I must tell you first, that there is a threatening appearance in your manner, Madam
As to my daughter, Madam
it is by no means inconsistent with her duty to me, that she should know what conduct to avoid. At present you are a very strong example to her of this kind, and I hope she may profit by it
I would not stop you now
I would not rise and go away, and save you the utterance of one word, if the room were burning
Mrs Dombey
it may not be inconsistent with my daughter's improvement to know how very much to be lamented, and how necessary to be corrected, a stubborn disposition is, especially when it is indulged in -- unthankfully indulged in, I will add -- after the gratification of ambition and interest. Both of which, I believe, had some share in inducing you to occupy your present station at this board
No! I would not rise, and go away, and save you the utterance of one word
if the room were burning
It may be natural enough, Mrs Dombey
that you should be uneasy in the presence of any auditors of these disagreeable truths; though why
So it is not enough
that you know what has passed between yourself and me; it is not enough that you can look here
and be reminded of the affronts you have put upon me; it is not enough that you can look here
and think of what you have done, and of the ingenious agony, daily, hourly, constant, you have made me feel in doing it; it is not enough that this day, of all others in the year, is memorable to me for a struggle (well-deserved, but not conceivable by such as you) in which I wish I had died! You add to all this, do you, the last crowning meanness of making her a witness of the depth to which I have fallen; when you know that you have made me sacrifice to her peace, the only gentle feeling and interest of my life, when you know that for her sake, I would now if I could -- but I can not, my soul recoils from you too much -- submit myself wholly to your will, and be the meekest vassal that you have
I understand, Madam
the spirit of opposition that turned your affections in that channel, but they have been met, Mrs Dombey; they have been met, and turned back
The worse for you
Ay
what is the worse for me, is twenty million times the worse for you. Heed that, if you heed nothing else
Mrs Dombey
you will not conciliate me, or turn me from any purpose, by this course of conduct
It is the only true although it is a faint expression of what is within me
But if I thought it would conciliate you, I would repress it, if it were repressible by any human effort. I will do nothing that you ask
I am not accustomed to ask, Mrs Dombey
I direct
I will hold no place in your house to-morrow, or on any recurrence of to-morrow. I will be exhibited to no one, as the refractory slave you purchased, such a time. If I kept my marriage day, I would keep it as a day of shame. Self-respect! appearances before the world! what are these to me? You have done all you can to make them nothing to me, and they are nothing
Carker
Mrs Dombey is so forgetful of herself and me in all this, and places me in a position so unsuited to my character, that I must bring this state of matters to a close
Release me, then
from the chain by which I am bound. Let me go
Madam
Loose me. Set me free
Madam
Mrs Dombey
Tell him
that I wish for a separation between us, That there had better be one. That I recommend it to him, Tell him it may take place on his own terms -- his wealth is nothing to me -- but that it cannot be too soon
Good Heaven, Mrs Dombey
do you imagine it possible that I could ever listen to such a proposition? Do you know who I am, Madam? Do you know what I represent? Did you ever hear of Dombey and Son? People to say that Mr Dombey -- Mr Dombey!-- was separated from his wife! Common people to talk of Mr Dombey and his domestic affairs! Do you seriously think, Mrs Dombey, that I would permit my name to be banded about in such connexion? Pooh, pooh, Madam! Fie for shame! You're absurd
No, Mrs Dombey
I must beg you, now that matters have come to this, to inform Mrs Dombey, that it is not the rule of my life to allow myself to be thwarted by anybody -- anybody, Carker -- or to suffer anybody to be paraded as a stronger motive for obedience in those who owe obedience to me than I am my self. The mention that has been made of my daughter, and the use that is made of my daughter, in opposition to me, are unnatural. Whether my daughter is in actual concert with Mrs Dombey, I do not know, and do not care; but after what Mrs Dombey has said today, and my daughter has heard to-day, I beg you to make known to Mrs Dombey, that if she continues to make this house the scene of contention it has become, I shall consider my daughter responsible in some degree, on that lady's own avowal, and shall visit her with my severe displeasure. Mrs Dombey has asked "whether it is not enough," that she had done this and that. You will please to answer no, it is not enough
A moment
permit me! painful as my position is, at the best, and unusually painful in seeming to entertain a different opinion from you
I must ask, had you not better reconsider the question of a separation. I know how incompatible it appears with your high public position, and I know how determined you are when you give Mrs Dombey to understand
that nothing but death can ever part you. Nothing else. But when you consider that Mrs Dombey, by living in this house, and making it as you have said, a scene of contention, not only has her part in that contention, but compromises Miss Dombey every day (for I know how determined you are), will you not relieve her from a continual irritation of spirit, and a continual sense of being unjust to another, almost intolerable? Does this not seem like -- I do not say it is -- sacrificing Mrs Dombey to the preservation of your preeminent and unassailable position
Carker
Perhaps
you mistook my position, when you honoured me with the negotiations in which I have been engaged here
Not at all, Sir, not at all
You were employed
Being an inferior person, for the humiliation of Mrs Dombey. I forgot' Oh, yes, it was expressly understood
I beg your pardon
Don't come near me
Keep away! Let me go by
Mama
Don't call me by that name! Don't speak to me! Don't look at me!-- Florence
don't touch me
Where is Mama
Gone out to dinner
And Papa
Mr Dombey is in his own room, Miss Dombey
and the best thing you can do, is to take off your things and go to bed this minute
But what! what was it
But the inner dressing-room was locked and the key gone
Oh dear, dear Papa
Oh, Di! oh, dear, true, faithful Di, how did you come here? How could I ever leave you, Di, who would never leave me
It's Heart's Delight
It's the sweet creetur grow'd a woman
My Heart's Delight
If you can hail Ned Cuttle with a finger, do it
My Heart's Delight
For the sake of Wal'r drownded in the briny deep, turn to, and histe up something or another, if able
Cheerily
Cheerily! Stand by, my pretty one, stand by! There! You're better now. Steady's the word, and steady it is. Keep her so! Drink a little drop o' this here
There you are! What cheer now, my pretty, what cheer now
What cheer, my pretty
What cheer now? You've done her some good, my lad, I believe
Put you back half-an-hour every morning, and about another quarter towards the arternoon, and you're a watch as can be ekalled by few and excelled by none. What cheer, my lady lass
Captain Cuttle! Is it you
Yes, yes, my lady lass
Is Walter's Uncle here
Here, pretty
He ain't been here this many a long day. He ain't been heerd on, since he sheered off arter poor Wal'r. But
Though lost to sight, to memory dear, and England, Home, and Beauty
Do you live here
Yes, my lady lass
Oh, Captain Cuttle
Save me! keep me here! Let no one know where I am! I'll tell you what has happened by-and-by, when I can. I have no one in the world to go to. Do not send me away
Send you away, my lady lass
You, my Heart's Delight! Stay a bit! We'll put up this here deadlight, and take a double turn on the key
My lady lass
don't you say a word to Ed'ard Cuttle, until such times as you finds yourself a riding smooth and easy; which won't be to-day, nor yet to-morrow. And as to giving of you up, or reporting where you are, yes verily, and by God's help, so I won't, Church catechism, make a note on
yes verily
Steady
Steady! You're too weak to stand, you see, my pretty, and must lie down here again. There, there
And now
you must take some breakfast, lady lass, and the dog shall have some too. And arter that you shall go aloft to old Sol Gills's room, and fall asleep there, like a angel
Well, well
arter turning in, my Heart's Delight, you'll get more way upon you. Now, I'll serve out your allowance, my lad
And you shall keep guard on your mistress aloft
Can there be anybody there
No, my lady lass
Who'd stay there, without making any noise! Keep up a good heart, pretty. It's only people going by
If there should be someone listening and watching
Someone who saw me come -- who followed me, perhaps
It ain't the young woman, lady lass, is it
Susan
Ah no! Susan has been gone from me a long time
Not deserted, I hope
Don't say that that there young woman's run, my pretty
Oh, no, no
She is one of the truest hearts in the world
So you're quiet now, are you, brother
There warn't nobody there, my lady lass, bless you
My lady lass
you're as safe here as if you was at the top of St Paul's Cathedral, with the ladder cast off. Sleep is what you want, afore all other things, and may you be able to show yourself smart with that there balsam for the still small woice of a wounded mind! When there's anything you want, my Heart's Delight, as this here humble house or town can offer, pass the word to Ed'ard Cuttle, as'll stand off and on outside that door, and that there man will wibrate with joy
How de do, Captain Gills
How are, you, my lad
Well, I m pretty well, thank'ee, Captain Gills
You know I'm never quite what I could wish to be, now. I don't expect that I ever shall be any more
Captain Gills
if I could have the pleasure of a word with you, it's -- it's rather particular
Why, you see, my lad
I ain't what you may call exactly free this morning; and therefore if you can clap on a bit, I should take it kindly
Certainly, Captain Gills
To clap on, is exactly what I could wish to do. Naturally
If so be, my lad
Do it
I beg your pardon, Captain Gills, but you don't happen to see anything particular in me, do you
No, my lad
No
Because you know
I know I'm wasting away. You needn't at all mind alluding to that. I -- I should like it. Burgess and Co. have altered my measure, I'm in that state of thinness. It's a gratification to me. I -- I'm glad of it. I -- I'd a great deal rather go into a decline, if I could. I'm a mere brute you know, grazing upon the surface of the earth, Captain Gills
But I was going to say, Captain Gills
Happening to be this way early this morning -- to tell you the truth, I was coming to breakfast with you. As to sleep, you know, I never sleep now. I might be a Watchman, except that I don't get any pay, and he's got nothing on his mind
Carry on, my lad
Certainly, Captain Gills
Perfectly true! Happening to be this way early this morning (an hour or so ago), and finding the door shut
What! were you waiting there, brother
Not at all, Captain Gills
I didn't stop a moment. I thought you were out. But the person said -- by the bye, you don't keep a dog, you, Captain Gills
To be sure
that's exactly what I said. I knew you didn't. There is a dog, Captain Gills, connected with -- but excuse me. That's forbidden ground
The person said
that he had heard a dog barking in the shop: which I knew couldn't be, and I told him so. But he was as positive as if he had seen the dog
What person, my lad
Why, you see there it is, Captain Gills
It's not for me to say what may have taken place, or what may not have taken place. Indeed, I don't know. I get mixed up with all sorts of things that I don't quite understand, and I think there's something rather weak in my -- in my head, in short
But the person said, as we were walking away
that you knew what, under existing circumstances, might occur -- he said "might," very strongly -- and that if you were requested to prepare yourself, you would, no doubt, come prepared
I don't know what person, I'm sure, Captain Gills
I haven't the least idea. But coming to the door, I found him waiting there; and he said was I coming back again, and I said yes; and he said did I know you, and I said, yes, I had the pleasure of your acquaintance -- you had given me the pleasure of your acquaintance, after some persuasion; and he said, if that was the case, would I say to you what I have said, about existing circumstances and coming prepared, and as soon as ever I saw you, would I ask you to step round the corner, if it was only for one minute, on most important business, to Mr Brogley's the Broker's. Now, I tell you what, Captain Gills -- whatever it is, I am convinced it's very important; and if you like to step round, now, I'll wait here till you come back
If so be
as you'll excuse my doing of it, brother
Captain Gills
Captain Gills
I hope and trust there's nothing wrong
Thank'ee, my lad, not a bit
Quite contrairy
You have the appearance of being overcome, Captain Gills
Why, my lad, I am took aback
I am
Is there anything I can do, Captain Gills
If there is, make use of me
No, thank'ee
Nothing. Only I'll take it as a favour if you'll part company for the present. I believe, brother
that, after Wal'r, and on a different model, you're as good a lad as ever stepped
Upon my word and honour, Captain Gills
And bear a hand and cheer up
What! There's more than one sweet creetur in the world
Not to me, Captain Gills
Not to me, I assure you. The state of my feelings towards Miss Dombey is of that unspeakable description, that my heart is a desert island, and she lives in it alone. I'm getting more used up every day, and I'm proud to be so. If you could see my legs when I take my boots off, you'd form some idea of what unrequited affection is. I have been prescribed bark, but I don't take it, for I don't wish to have any tone whatever given to my constitution. I'd rather not. This, however, is forbidden ground. Captain Gills, goodbye
My pretty
what cheer
Dear friend
is it you
What cheer, bright di'mond
I have surely slept very long
When did I come here? Yesterday
This here blessed day, my lady lass
Has there been no night? Is it still day
Getting on for evening now, my pretty
See
Better now, my pretty
Cheerily, cheerily, I'll go down below, and get some dinner ready. Will you come down of your own self, arterwards, pretty, or shall Ed'ard Cuttle come and fetch you
My lady lass
cheer up, and try to eat a deal. Stand by, my deary! Liver wing it is. Sarse it is. Sassage it is. And potato
The whole row o' dead lights is up, for'ard, lady lass
and everythink is made snug. Try and pick a bit, my pretty. If Wal'r was here
Ah! If I had him for my brother now
Don't! don't take on, my pretty
awast, to obleege me! He was your nat'ral born friend like, warn't he, Pet
Oh, dear, dear Paul! oh, Walter
The wery planks she walked on
was as high esteemed by Wal'r, as the water brooks is by the hart which never rejices! I see him now, the wery day as he was rated on them Dombey books, a speaking of her with his face a glistening with doo -- leastways with his modest sentiments -- like a new blowed rose, at dinner. Well, well! If our poor Wal'r was here, my lady lass -- or if he could be -- for he's drownded, ain't he
Yes, yes; drownded
as I was saying, if he could be here he'd beg and pray of you, my precious, to pick a leetle bit, with a look-out for your own sweet health. Whereby, hold your own, my lady lass, as if it was for Wal'r's sake, and lay your pretty head to the wind
Wal'r was a trim lad, warn't he, precious
and a brave lad, and a good lad
And he's drownded, Beauty, ain't he
He was older than you, my lady lass
but you was like two children together, at first; wam't you
Yes
And Wal'r's drownded
Ain't he
Poor Wal'r. Ay, ay! Drownded. Ain't he
Poor Wal'r, ay, ay. Drownded, ain't he
niece
sing out
Dear Captain Cuttle
I don't want this money, indeed. I have not spent any of it. I have money of my own
My lady lass
take care on it for me, will you be so good, till such time as I ask ye for it
May I put it back in its usual place
and keep it there
Ay, ay, put it anywheres, my lady lass, so long as you know where to find it again. It ain't o' no use to me
Good-night, dear heart
Poor Wal'r
Poor, poor Walter
Drownded, ain't he
Good-night, my lady lass
God bless you, dear, kind friend
Is anything the matter, dear Captain Cuttle
Have you anything to tell me
To tell you, lady lass
No, no; what should I have to tell you, pretty! You don't expect as I've got anything good to tell you, sure
No
No
Poor Wal'r
My Wal'r, as I used to call you! Old Sol Gills's nevy! Welcome to all as knowed you, as the flowers in May! Where are you got to, brave boy? Drownded, ain't he
Drownded, ain't he, pretty
Steady, Ed'ard Cuttle, steady
Yes' my lady lass
Are you all right, di'mond
Yes
Poor Wal'r! Drownded, ain't he
You never was at sea, my own
No
Ay
it's a almighty element. There's wonders in the deep, my pretty. Think on it when the winds is roaring and the waves is rowling. Think on it when the stormy nights is so pitch dark
'em, how I pitys all unhappy folks ashore now
Stand by
Were you ever in a dreadful storm
Why ay, my lady lass, I've seen my share of bad weather
and I've had my share of knocking about; but -- but it ain't of myself as I was a meaning to speak. Our dear boy
Wal'r, darling, as was drownded
Your face is changed
You are altered in a moment. What is it? Dear Captain Cuttle, it turns me cold to see you
What! Lady lass
don't be took aback. No, no! All's well, all's well, my dear. As I was a saying -- Wal'r -- he's -- he's drownded. Ain't he
There's perils and dangers on the deep, my beauty
and over many a brave ship, and many and many a bould heart, the secret waters has closed up, and never told no tales. But there's escapes upon the deep, too, and sometimes one man out of a score,-- ah! maybe out of a hundred, pretty,-- has been saved by the mercy of God, and come home after being given over for dead, and told of all hands lost. I -- I know a story, Heart's Delight
o' this natur, as was told to me once; and being on this here tack, and you and me sitting alone by the fire, maybe you'd like to hear me tell it. Would you, deary
There's nothing there, my beauty
Don't look there
Why not
The story was about a ship, my lady lass
as sailed out of the Port of London, with a fair wind and in fair weather, bound for -- don't be took aback, my lady lass, she was only out'ard bound, pretty, only out'ard bound
Shall I go on, Beauty
Yes, yes, pray
They were not all lost
Some were saved!-- Was one
was a lad, a gallant lad -- as I've heerd tell -- that had loved, when he was a boy, to read and talk about brave actions in shipwrecks -- I've heerd him! I've heerd him!-- and he remembered of 'em in his hour of need; for when the stoutest and oldest hands was hove down, he was firm and cheery. It warn't the want of objects to like and love ashore that gave him courage, it was his nat'ral mind. I've seen it in his face, when he was no more than a child -- ay, many a time!-- and when I thought it nothing but his good looks, bless him
And was he saved
Was he saved
That brave lad
look at me, pretty! Don't look round
Why not
Because there's nothing there, my deary
Don't be took aback, pretty creetur! Don't, for the sake of Wal'r, as was dear to all on us! That there lad
Days and nights they drifted on them endless waters
until at last -- No! Don't look that way, pretty!-- a sail bore down upon 'em, and they was, by the Lord's mercy, took aboard: two living and one dead
Which of them was dead
Not the lad I speak on
Thank God! oh thank God
Amen
Don't be took aback! A minute more, my lady lass! with a good heart!-- aboard that ship, they went a long voyage, right away across the chart (for there warn't no touching nowhere), and on that voyage the seaman as was picked up with him died. But he was spared, and
Was spared
and
And come home in that ship
and -- don't be frightened, pretty -- and landed; and one morning come cautiously to his own door to take a obserwation, knowing that his friends would think him drownded, when he sheered off at the unexpected
At the unexpected barking of a dog
Yes
Steady, darling! courage! Don't look round yet. See there! upon the wall
Take care of Walter, I was fond of Walter
Oh welcome home, dear Walter! Welcome to this stricken breast
Wal'r, my lad, here is a little bit of property as I should wish to make over, jintly
Going, Walter
Where
He slings his hammock for the present, lady lass
round at Brogley's. Within hail, Heart's Delight
I am the cause of your going away, Walter
There is a houseless sister in your place
Dear Miss Dombey
If anything could make me happier in being allowed to see and speak to you, would it not be the discovery that I had any means on earth of doing you a moment's service! Where would I not go, what would I not do, for your sake
You are so changed
I changed
To me
changed to me. I left you such a child, and find you -- oh! something so different
But your sister, Walter. You have not forgotten what we promised to each other, when we parted
Forgotten
And if you had -- if suffering and danger had driven it from your thoughts -- which it has not -- you would remember it now, Walter, when you find me poor and abandoned, with no home but this, and no friends but the two who hear me speak
I would! Heaven knows I would
Oh, Walter
Dear brother! Show me some way through the world -- some humble path that I may take alone, and labour in, and sometimes think of you as one who will protect and care for me as for a sister! Oh, help me, Walter, for I need help so much
Miss Dombey! Florence! I would die to help you. But your friends are proud and rich. Your father
No, no! Walter
Don't say that word
There, precious
Awast, awast, my eyes! Wal'r, dear lad, sheer off for to-night, and leave the pretty one to me
Drownded. Ain't he, pretty
No, no, my lad
I've made that there little property over, jintly
Captain Cuttle
nothing at all of Uncle Sol, in all that time
Nothing at all, my lad
Gone in search of me, dear, kind old man
yet never write to you! But why not? He says, in effect, in this packet that you gave me
that if you never hear from him before opening it, you may believe him dead. Heaven forbid! But you would have heard of him, even if he were dead! Someone would have written, surely, by his desire, if he could not; and have said, "on such a day, there died in my house," or "under my care," or so forth, "Mr Solomon Gills of London, who left this last remembrance and this last request to you
Well said, my lad; wery well said
I have been thinking of this, or, at least
I have been thinking of one thing and another, all through a sleepless night, and I cannot believe, Captain Cuttle, but that my Uncle Sol (Lord bless him!) is alive, and will return. I don't so much wonder at his going away, because, leaving out of consideration that spice of the marvellous which was always in his character, and his great affection for me, before which every other consideration of his life became nothing, as no one ought to know so well as I who had the best of fathers in him
leaving that out of consideration, I say, I have often read and heard of people who, having some near and dear relative, who was supposed to be shipwrecked at sea, have gone down to live on that part of the sea-shore where any tidings of the missing ship might be expected to arrive, though only an hour or two sooner than elsewhere, or have even gone upon her track to the place whither she was bound, as if their going would create intelligence. I think I should do such a thing myself, as soon as another, or sooner than many, perhaps. But why my Uncle shouldn't write to you, when he so clearly intended to do so, or how he should die abroad, and you not know it through some other hand, I cannot make out
If my Uncle had been a heedless young man, likely to be entrapped by jovial company to some drinking-place, where he was to be got rid of for the sake of what money he might have about him
or if he had been a reckless sailor, going ashore with two or three months' pay in his pocket, I could understand his disappearing, and leaving no trace behind. But, being what he was -- and is, I hope -- I can't believe it
Wal'r, my lad
what do you make of it, then
Captain Cuttle
I don't know what to make of it. I suppose he never has written! There is no doubt about that
If so be as Sol Gills wrote, my lad
where's his dispatch
Say that he entrusted it to some private hand
and that it has been forgotten, or carelessly thrown aside, or lost. Even that is more probable to me, than the other event. In short, I not only cannot bear to contemplate that other event, Captain Cuttle, but I can't, and won't
Hope, you see, Wal'r
Hope. It's that as animates you. Hope is a buoy, for which you overhaul your Little Warbler, sentimental diwision, but Lord, my lad, like any other buoy, it only floats; it can't be steered nowhere. Along with the figure-head of Hope
there's a anchor; but what's the good of my having a anchor, if I can't find no bottom to let it go in
Hooroar, my lad! Indiwidually, I'm o' your opinion
Only one word more about my Uncle at present' Captain Cuttle. I suppose it is impossible that he can have written in the ordinary course -- by mail packet, or ship letter, you understand
Ay, ay, my lad
Why, Wal'r
ain't I been on the look-out for any tidings of that man o' science, old Sol Gills, your Uncle, day and night, ever since I lost him? Ain't my heart been heavy and watchful always, along of him and you? Sleeping and waking, ain't I been upon my post, and wouldn't I scorn to quit it while this here Midshipman held together
Yes, Captain Cuttle
I know you would, and I know how faithful and earnest all you say and feel is. I am sure of it. You don't doubt that I am as sure of it as I am that my foot is again upon this door-step, or that I again have hold of this true hand. Do you
No, no, Wal'r
I'll hazard no more conjectures
All I will add is, Heaven forbid that I should touch my Uncle's possessions, Captain Cuttle! Everything that he left here, shall remain in the care of the truest of stewards and kindest of men -- and if his name is not Cuttle, he has no name! Now, best of friends, about -- Miss Dombey
I thought, before Miss Dombey stopped me when I spoke of her father last night
you remember how
I thought
before that, that we had but one hard duty to perform, and that it was, to prevail upon her to communicate with her friends, and to return home
Awast
Stand by
But
that is over. I think so, no longer. I would sooner be put back again upon that piece of wreck, on which I have so often floated, since my preservation, in my dreams, and there left to drift, and drive, and die
Hooroar, my lad
Hooroar! hooroar! hooroar
To think that she, so young, so good, and beautiful
She ought not to be alone here; ought she, Captain Cuttle
Well, my lad
I don't know. You being here to keep her company, you see, and you two being jintly
Dear Captain Cuttle
I being here! Miss Dombey, in her guileless innocent heart, regards me as her adopted brother; but what would the guile and guilt of my heart be, if I pretended to believe that I had any right to approach her, familiarly, in that character -- if I pretended to forget that I am bound, in honour, not to do it
Wal'r, my lad
ain't there no other character as
Oh
would you have me die in her esteem -- in such esteem as hers -- and put a veil between myself and her angel's face for ever, by taking advantage of her being here for refuge, so trusting and so unprotected, to endeavour to exalt myself into her lover? What do I say? There is no one in the world who would be more opposed to me if I could do so, than you
Wal'r, my lad
prowiding as there is any just cause or impediment why two persons should not be jined together in the house of bondage, for which you'll overhaul the place and make a note, I hope I should declare it as promised and wowed in the banns. So there ain't no other character; ain't there, my lad
Well, my lad
I won't deny but what I find myself wery much down by the head, along o' this here, or but what I've gone clean about. But as to Lady lass, Wal'r, mind you, wot's respect and duty to her, is respect and duty in my articles, howsumever disapinting; and therefore I follows in your wake, my lad, and feel as you are, no doubt, acting up to yourself. And there ain't no other character, ain't there
Now, Captain Cuttle
I think we should exert ourselves to find someone who would be a proper attendant for Miss Dombey while she remains here, and who may be trusted. None of her relations may. It's clear Miss Dombey feels that they are all subservient to her father. What has become of Susan
The young woman
It's my belief as she was sent away again the will of Heart's Delight. I made a signal for her when Lady lass first come, and she rated of her wery high, and said she had been gone a long time
Then
do you ask Miss Dombey where she's gone, and we'll try to find her. The morning's getting on, and Miss Dombey will soon be rising. You are her best friend. Wait for her upstairs, and leave me to take care of all down here
Oh, yes, with her whole heart
Captain Gills
I'm in a state of mind bordering on distraction
You'll excuse me, Sir
but I'm at present in that state that my brain is going, if not gone, and anything approaching to politeness in an individual so situated would be a hollow mockery. Captain Gills, I beg to request the favour of a private interview
Why, Brother
you are the man as we was on the look-out for
Oh, Captain Gills
what a look-out that must be, of which I am the object! I haven't dared to shave, I'm in that rash state. I haven't had my clothes brushed. My hair is matted together. I told the Chicken that if he offered to clean my boots, I'd stretch him a Corpse before me
See here, Brother
This here's old Sol Gills's nevy Wal'r. Him as was supposed to have perished at sea
Good gracious me
What a complication of misery! How-de-do? I -- I -- I'm afraid you must have got very wet. Captain Gills, will you allow me a word in the shop
That then, Captain Gills, is the party you spoke of, when you said that he and Miss Dombey were made for one another
Why, ay, my lad
I was of that mind once
And at this time
Of all others!-- a hated rival! At least, he ain't a hated rival
what should I hate him for? No. If my affection has been truly disinterested, Captain Gills, let me prove it now
How-de-do? I hope you didn't take any cold. I -- I shall be very glad if you'll give me the pleasure of your acquaintance. I wish you many happy returns of the day. Upon my word and honour
I'm very glad to see you
Thank you, heartily
I couldn't desire a more genuine and genial welcome
Couldn't you, though
It's very kind of you. I'm much obliged to you. How-de-do? I hope you left everybody quite well over the -- that is, upon the -- I mean wherever you came from last, you know
Captain Gills
I should wish to be strictly honourable; but I trust I may be allowed now, to allude to a certain subject that
Ay, ay, my lad
Freely, freely
Then, Captain Gills
and Lieutenant Walters -- are you aware that the most dreadful circumstances have been happening at Mr Dombey's house, and that Miss Dombey herself has left her father, who, in my opinion
is a Brute, that it would be a flattery to call a -- a marble monument, or a bird of prey,-- and that she is not to be found, and has gone no one knows where
May I ask how you heard this
Lieutenant Walters
Lieutenant Walters, I can have no objection to make a straightforward reply. The fact is, that feeling extremely interested in everything that relates to Miss Dombey -- not for any selfish reason, Lieutenant Walters, for I am well aware that the most able thing I could do for all parties would be to put an end to my existence, which can only be regarded as an inconvenience -- I have been in the habit of bestowing a trifle now and then upon a footman; a most respectable young man, of the name of Towlinson, who has lived in the family some time; and Towlinson informed me, yesterday evening, that this was the state of things. Since which, Captain Gills -- and Lieutenant Walters -- I have been perfectly frantic, and have been lying down on the sofa all night, the Ruin you behold
Mr Toots
I am happy to be able to relieve your mind. Pray calm yourself. Miss Dombey is safe and well
Sir
the relief is so excessive, and unspeakable, that if you were to tell me now that Miss Dombey was married even, I could smile. Yes, Captain Gills
upon my soul and body, I really think, whatever I might do to myself immediately afterwards, that I could smile, I am so relieved
It will be a greater relief and delight still, to such a generous mind as yours
to find that you can render service to Miss Dombey. Captain Cuttle, will you have the kindness to take Mr Toots upstairs
Oh Di, you bad, forgetful dog! Dear Mr Toots, I am so rejoiced to see you
Thankee
I am pretty well, I'm much obliged to you, Miss Dombey. I hope all the family are the same
Captain Gills and Lieutenant Walters have mentioned, Miss Dombey
that I can do you some service. If I could by any means wash out the remembrance of that day at Brighton, when I conducted myself -- much more like a Parricide than a person of independent property
I should sink into the silent tomb with a gleam of joy
Pray, Mr Toots
do not wish me to forget anything in our acquaintance. I never can, believe me. You have been far too kind and good to me always
Miss Dombey
your consideration for my feelings is a part of your angelic character. Thank you a thousand times. It's of no consequence at all
What we thought of asking you
is, whether you remember where Susan, whom you were so kind as to accompany to the coach-office when she left me, is to be found
Why I do not certainly, Miss Dombey
Miss Dombey
Good-bye! Allow me to take the liberty of saying, that your misfortunes make me perfectly wretched, and that you may trust me, next to Captain Gills himself. I am quite aware, Miss Dombey, of my own deficiencies -- they're not of the least consequence, thank you -- but I am entirely to be relied upon, I do assure you, Miss Dombey
Captain Gills
to tell you the truth, I am not in a frame of mind at the present moment, in which I could see Lieutenant Walters with that entirely friendly feeling towards him that I should wish to harbour in my breast. We cannot always command our feelings, Captain Gills, and I should take it as a particular favour if you'd let me out at the private door
Brother
Captain Gills
you're extremely kind. Your good opinion is a consolation to me. There is one thing
that I hope you'll bear in mind, Captain Gills, and that I should wish Lieutenant Walters to be made acquainted with. I have quite come into my property now, you know, and -- and I don't know what to do with it. If I could be at all useful in a pecuniary point of view, I should glide into the silent tomb with ease and smoothness
I think he's down below, my lady lass
I should like to speak to him
I'll rouse him up here, Beauty
in a trice
Captain Cuttle tells me, Miss Dombey
You are not so well to-day. You look distressed. You have been weeping
Walter
I am not quite well, and I have been weeping. I want to speak to you
You said, upon the night when I knew that you were saved -- and oh! dear Walter, what I felt that night, and what I hoped
that I was changed. I was surprised to hear you say so, but I understand, now, that I am. Don't be angry with me, Walter. I was too much overjoyed to think of it, then
You remember the last time I saw you, Walter, before you went away
I have always worn it round my neck! If I had gone down in the deep, it would have been with me at the bottom of the sea
And you will wear it still, Walter, for my old sake
Until I die
I am glad of that. I shall be always glad to think so, Walter. Do you recollect that a thought of this change seemed to come into our minds at the same time that evening, when we were talking together
No
Yes, Walter. I had been the means of injuring your hopes and prospects even then. I feared to think so, then, but I know it now. If you were able, then, in your generosity, to hide from me that you knew it too, you cannot do so now, although you try as generously as before. You do. I thank you for it, Walter, deeply, truly; but you cannot succeed. You have suffered too much in your own hardships, and in those of your dearest relation, quite to overlook the innocent cause of all the peril and affliction that has befallen you. You cannot quite forget me in that character, and we can be brother and sister no longer. But, dear Walter, do not think that I complain of you in this. I might have known it -- ought to have known it -- but forgot it in my joy. All I hope is that you may think of me less irksomely when this feeling is no more a secret one; and all I ask is, Walter, in the name of the poor child who was your sister once, that you will not struggle with yourself, and pain yourself, for my sake, now that I know all
Oh, Miss Dombey
is it possible that while I have been suffering so much, in striving with my sense of what is due to you, and must be rendered to you, I have made you suffer what your words disclose to me? Never, never, before Heaven, have I thought of you but as the single, bright, pure, blessed recollection of my boyhood and my youth. Never have I from the first, and never shall I to the last, regard your part in my life, but as something sacred, never to be lightly thought of, never to be esteemed enough, never, until death, to be forgotten. Again to see you look, and hear you speak, as you did on that night when we parted, is happiness to me that there are no words to utter; and to be loved and trusted as your brother, is the next gift I could receive and prize
Walter
what is that which is due to me, and must be rendered to me, at the sacrifice of all this
Respect
I have not a brother's right
I have not a brother's claim. I left a child. I find a woman
I owe it to a heart so trusting, pure, and good
even to tear myself from it, though I rend my own. How dare I say it is my sister's
If you had been happy; surrounded as you should be by loving and admiring friends, and by all that makes the station you were born to enviable
and if you had called me brother, then, in your affectionate remembrance of the past, I could have answered to the name from my distant place, with no inward assurance that I wronged your spotless truth by doing so. But here -- and now
Oh thank you, thank you, Walter! Forgive my having wronged you so much. I had no one to advise me. I am quite alone
Florence
I am hurried on to say, what I thought, but a few moments ago, nothing could have forced from my lips. If I had been prosperous; if I had any means or hope of being one day able to restore you to a station near your own; I would have told you that there was one name you might bestow upon -- me -- a right above all others, to protect and cherish you -- that I was worthy of in nothing but the love and honour that I bore you, and in my whole heart being yours. I would have told you that it was the only claim that you could give me to defend and guard you, which I dare accept and dare assert; but that if I had that right, I would regard it as a trust so precious and so priceless, that the undivided truth and fervour of my life would poorly acknowledge its worth
Dear Florence! Dearest Florence! whom I called so in my thoughts before I could consider how presumptuous and wild it was. One last time let me call you by your own dear name, and touch this gentle hand in token of your sisterly forgetfulness of what I have said
No, Walter, I cannot forget it. I would not forget it, for the world. Are you -- are you very poor
I am but a wanderer
Are you soon going away again, Walter
If you will take me for your wife, Walter, I will love you dearly. If you will let me go with you, Walter, I will go to the world's end without fear. I can give up nothing for you -- I have nothing to resign, and no one to forsake; but all my love and life shall be devoted to you, and with my last breath I will breathe your name to God if I have sense and memory left
Ay! lady lass
Why, you and Wal'r have had a long spell o' talk, my beauty
What! Heart's Delight
Is it that
Yes
Wal'r! Husband! THAT
Yes
What, Wal'r my lad
So there ain't NO other character, ain't there
Ed'ard Cuttle, my lad, you never shaped a better course in your life, than when you made that there little property over, jintly
My dear Paul
your wife! that upstart woman! Is it possible that what I hear confusedly, is true, and that this is her return for your unparalleled devotion to her; extending, I am sure, even to the sacrifice of your own relations, to her caprices and haughtiness? My poor brother
I thank you, Louisa
for this mark of your affection; but desire that our conversation may refer to any other subject. When I bewail my fate, Louisa, or express myself as being in want of consolation, you can offer it, if you will have the goodness
My dear Paul
I know your great spirit, and will say no more upon a theme so painful and revolting
Louisa
silence! Not another word of this
An unusually cold spring
Damme, Sir
Joseph Bagstock is a bad hand at a counterfeit. If you want to hold your friends off, Dombey, and to give them the cold shoulder, J. B. is not the man for your purpose. Joe is rough and tough, Sir; blunt, Sir, blunt, is Joe. His Royal Highness the late Duke of York did me the honour to say, deservedly or undeservedly -- never mind that --"If there is a man in the service on whom I can depend for coming to the point, that man is Joe -- Joe Bagstock
Now, Dombey
I am a man of the world. Our friend Feenix -- if I may presume to
Honoured, I am sure
is
also a man of the world. Dombey, you are a man of the world. Now, when three men of the world meet together, and are friends -- as I believe
I am sure
most friendly
and are friends
Undoubtedly
In point of fact, it's quite a self-evident sort of thing. I am extremely anxious, Major, that my friend Dombey should hear me express my very great astonishment and regret, that my lovely and accomplished relative, who was possessed of every qualification to make a man happy, should have so far forgotten what was due to -- in point of fact, to the world -- as to commit herself in such a very extraordinary manner. I have been in a devilish state of depression ever since; and said indeed to Long Saxby last night -- man of six foot ten, with whom my friend Dombey is probably acquainted -- that it had upset me in a confounded way, and made me bilious. It induces a man to reflect, this kind of fatal catastrophe
that events do occur in quite a providential manner; for if my Aunt had been living at the time, I think the effect upon a devilish lively woman like herself, would have been prostration, and that she would have fallen, in point of fact, a victim
Now, Dombey
I beg your pardon
Allow me another word. My friend Dombey will permit me to say, that if any circumstance could have added to the most infernal state of pain in which I find myself on this occasion, it would be the natural amazement of the world at my lovely and accomplished relative (as I must still beg leave to call her) being supposed to have so committed herself with a person -- man with white teeth, in point of fact -- of very inferior station to her husband. But while I must, rather peremptorily, request my friend Dombey not to criminate my lovely and accomplished relative until her criminality is perfectly established, I beg to assure my friend Dombey that the family I represent, and which is now almost extinct (devilish sad reflection for a man), will interpose no obstacle in his way, and will be happy to assent to any honourable course of proceeding, with a view to the future, that he may point out. I trust my friend Dombey will give me credit for the intentions by which I am animated in this very melancholy affair, and -- a -- in point of fact, I am not aware that I need trouble my friend Dombey with any further observations
Now, Dombey
our friend Feenix having, with an amount of eloquence that Old Joe B. has never heard surpassed -- no, by the Lord, Sir! never
stated the case as regards the lady, I shall presume upon our friendship, Dombey, to offer a word on another aspect of it. Sir
the world in these things has opinions, which must be satisfied
I know it
Of course you know it, Dombey
Damme, Sir, I know you know it. A man of your calibre is not likely to be ignorant of it
I hope not
Dombey
you will guess the rest. I speak out -- prematurely, perhaps -- because the Bagstock breed have always spoke out. Little, Sir, have they ever got by doing it; but it's in the Bagstock blood. A shot is to be taken at this man. You have J. B. at your elbow. He claims the name of friend. God bless you
Major
I am obliged. I shall put myself in your hands when the time comes. The time not being come, I have forborne to speak to you
Where is the fellow, Dombey
I don't know
Any intelligence of him
Yes
Dombey, I am rejoiced to hear it
I congratulate you
You will excuse -- even you, Major
my entering into any further detail at present. The intelligence is of a singular kind, and singularly obtained. It may turn out to be valueless; it may turn out to be true; I cannot say at present. My explanation must stop here
How does he bear it, my dear creature
Well
he's pretty much as usual
Externally
But what he feels within
Ah! Perhaps. I suppose so
To tell you my mind, Lucretia
to tell you my mind, Lucretia, I think it's a good riddance. I don't want any of your brazen faces here, myself
Brazen indeed! Well may you say brazen, Mrs Pipchin
To leave him! Such a noble figure of a man
I don't know about noble, I'm sure
But I know this -- that when people meet with trials, they must bear 'em. Hoity, toity! I have had enough to bear myself, in my time! What a fuss there is! She's gone, and well got rid of. Nobody wants her back, I should think
Pretty well, Towlinson, I thank you
I beg you'll have the goodness, when you happen to see me here, not to mention it. My visits are merely to Mrs Pipchin
Very good, Miss
Shocking circumstances occur, Towlinson
Very much so indeed, Miss
I hope, Towlinson
that what has happened here, will be a warning to you, Towlinson
Thank you, Miss, I'm sure
What are you doing? Why don't you show the lady to the door
and in a daily paper which he need not name (here every other member of the company names it in an audible murmur), have caused him to reflect; and he feels that for him and Robinson to have any personal differences at such a moment, would be for ever to deny that good feeling in the general cause, for which he has reason to think and hope that the gentlemen in Dombey's House have always been distinguished. Robinson replies to this like a man and a brother; and one gentleman who has been in the office three years, under continual notice to quit on account of lapses in his arithmetic, appears in a perfectly new light, suddenly bursting out with a thrilling speech, in which he says, May their respected chief never again know the desolation which has fallen on his hearth! and says a great variety of things, beginning with 'May he never again
Sir
Madam
why do you look so pale
Oh, Perch
which
You may give him up, mother. He'll not come here
Death give him up
He will come here
We shall see
We shall see him
And doomsday
You think I'm in my second childhood, I know
That's the respect and duty that I get from my own gal, but I'm wiser than you take me for. He'll come. T'other day when I touched his coat in the street, he looked round as if I was a toad. But Lord, to see him when I said their names, and asked him if he'd like to find out where they was
Was it so angry
Angry? ask if it was bloody. That's more like the word. Angry? Ha, ha! To call that only angry
I might as well call your face only angry, when you think or talk about 'em
Hark
I hear a step coming. It's not the tread of anyone that lives about here, or comes this way often. We don't walk like that. We should grow proud on such neighbours! Do you hear him
I believe you are right, mother
Peace! open the door
It's a poor place for a great gentleman like your worship
I told you so, but there's no harm in it
Who is that
That's my handsome daughter
Your worship won't mind her. She knows all about it
Who does not know all about it
Woman
Woman! I believe that I am weak and forgetful of my station in coming here, but you know why I come, and what you offered when you stopped me in the street the other day. What is it that you have to tell me concerning what I want to know; and how does it happen that I can find voluntary intelligence in a hovel like this
when I have exerted my power and means to obtain it in vain? I do not think
that you are so audacious as to mean to trifle with me, or endeavour to impose upon me. But if you have that purpose, you had better stop on the threshold of your scheme. My humour is not a trifling one, and my acknowledgment will be severe
Oh a proud, hard gentleman
oh hard, hard, hard! But your worship shall see with your own eyes and hear with your own ears; not with ours -- and if your worship's put upon their track, you won't mind paying something for it, will you, honourable deary
Money
will bring about unlikely things, I know. It may turn even means as unexpected and unpromising as these, to account. Yes. For any reliable information I receive, I will pay. But I must have the information first, and judge for myself of its value
Do you know nothing more powerful than money
Not here, I should imagine
You should know of something that is more powerful elsewhere, as I judge
Do you know nothing of a woman's anger
You have a saucy tongue, Jade
Not usually
I speak to you now, that you may understand us better, and rely more on us. A woman's anger is pretty much the same here, as in your fine house. I am angry. I have been so, many years. I have as good cause for my anger as you have for yours, and its object is the same man
Yes
Wide as the distance may seem between us, it is so. How it is so, is no matter; that is my story, and I keep my story to myself. I would bring you and him together, because I have a rage against him. My mother there, is avaricious and poor; and she would sell any tidings she could glean, or anything, or anybody, for money. It is fair enough, perhaps, that you should pay her some, if she can help you to what you want to know. But that is not my motive. I have told you what mine is, and it would be as strong and all-sufficient with me if you haggled and bargained with her for a sixpence. I have done. My saucy tongue says no more, if you wait here till sunrise tomorrow
Go on -- what do you know
Oh, not so fast, your worship! we must wait for someone
It's to be got from someone else -- wormed out -- screwed and twisted from him
What do you mean
Patience
Patience. I'll get at it. I know I can! If he was to hold it back from me
I'd tear it out of him
Do you tell me, woman
that there is another person expected here
Yes
From whom you are to exact the intelligence that is to be useful to me
Yes
A stranger
Chut
What signifies! Well, well; no. No stranger to your worship. But he won't see you. He'd be afraid of you, and wouldn't talk. You'll stand behind that door, and judge him for yourself. We don't ask to be believed on trust What! Your worship doubts the room behind the door? Oh the suspicion of you rich gentlefolks! Look at it, then
How long
before this person comes
Not long
Would your worship sit down for a few odd minutes
Here he is
And here's my bonny boy
at last!-- oho, oho! You're like my own son, Robby
Oh! Misses Brown
Don't! Can't you be fond of a cove without squeedging and throttling of him? Take care of the birdcage in my hand, will you
Thinks of a birdcage, afore me
Me that feels more than a mother for him
Well, I'm sure I'm very much obliged to you, Misses Brown
but you're so jealous of a cove. I'm very fond of you myself, and all that, of course; but I don't smother you, do I, Misses Brown
And to talk about birdcages, too
As If that was a crime! Why, look'ee here! Do you know who this belongs to
To Master, dear
Ah
It's our parrot, this is
Mr Carker's parrot, Rob
Will you hold your tongue, Misses Brown
What do you go naming names for? I'm blest
if she ain't enough to make a cove run wild
What! Do you snub me, thankless boy
Good gracious, Misses Brown, no
Was there ever such a --! Don't I dote upon you, Misses Brown
Do you, sweet Rob? Do you truly, chickabiddy
Oh
what a thing it is to be perfectly pitched into with affection like this here. I wish she was -- How have you been, Misses Brown
Ah! Not here since this night week
Good gracious, Misses Brown
I said tonight's a week, that I'd come tonight, didn't I? And here I am. How you do go on! I wish you'd be a little rational, Misses Brown. I'm hoarse with saying things in my defence, and my very face is shiny with being hugged
Drink a little drop to comfort you, my Robin
Thank'ee, Misses Brown
Here's your health. And long may you -- et ceterer
And here's her health
and wishing her the same and many of 'em
Well, I say, Misses Brown
To go on a little rational now. You're a judge of birds, and up to their ways, as I know to my cost
Cost
Satisfaction, I mean
How you do take up a cove, Misses Brown! You've put it all out of my head again
Judge of birds, Robby
Ah
Well, I've got to take care of this parrot -- certain things being sold, and a certain establishment broke up -- and as I don't want no notice took at present, I wish you'd attend to her for a week or so, and give her board and lodging, will you? If I must come backwards and forwards
I may as well have something to come for
Something to come for
Besides you, I mean, Misses Brown
Not that I want any inducement but yourself, Misses Brown, I'm sure. Don't begin again, for goodness' sake
He don't care for me! He don't care for me, as I care for him
But I'll take care of his bird
Take good care of it too, you know, Mrs Brown
If you was so much as to stroke its feathers once the wrong way, I believe it would be found out
Ah, so sharp as that, Rob
Sharp, Misses Brown
But this is not to be talked about
Out of place now, Robby
Never you mind, Misses Brown
Board wages, perhaps, Rob
Pretty Polly
I wonder Master didn't take you with him, Rob
Robby, my child
Well, Misses Brown
I say I wonder Master didn't take you with him, dear
Never you mind, Misses Brown
Misses Brown
let go, will you? What are you doing of? Help, young woman! Misses Brow -- Brow
Well done, mother. Tear him to pieces
What, young woman
are you against me too? What have I been and done? What am I to be tore to pieces for, I should like to know? Why do you take and choke a cove who has never done you any harm, neither of you? Call yourselves females, too
I'm surprised at you! Where's your feminine tenderness
You thankless dog
You impudent insulting dog
What have I been and done to go and give you offence, Misses Brown
You was very much attached to me a minute ago
To cut me off with his short answers and his sulky words
Me! Because I happen to be curious to have a little bit of gossip about Master and the lady, to dare to play at fast and loose with me! But I'll talk to you no more, my lad. Now go
I'm sure, Misses Brown
I never Insiniwated that I wished to go. Don't talk like that, Misses Brown, if you please
I won't talk at all
Not another word with him shall pass my lips. He's an ungrateful hound. I cast him off. Now let him go! And I'll slip those after him that shall talk too much; that won't be shook away; that'll hang to him like leeches, and slink arter him like foxes. What! He knows 'em. He knows his old games and his old ways. If he's forgotten 'em, they'll soon remind him. Now let him go, and see how he'll do Master's business, and keep Master's secrets, with such company always following him up and down. Ha, ha, ha! He'll find 'em a different sort from you and me, Ally; Close as he is with you and me. Now let him go, now let him go
Misses Brown
I'm sure you wouldn't injure a cove, on second thoughts, and in cold blood, would you
Don't talk to me
Now let him go, now let him go
Misses Brown
I didn't mean to -- Oh, what a thing it is for a cove to get into such a line as this!-- I was only careful of talking, Misses Brown, because I always am, on account of his being up to everything; but I might have known it wouldn't have gone any further. I'm sure I'm quite agreeable
for any little bit of gossip, Misses Brown. Don't go on like this, if you please. Oh, couldn't you have the goodness to put in a word for a miserable cove, here
Come, mother, you hear what he says
try him once more, and if you fall out with him again, ruin him, if you like, and have done with him
And how's Master, deary dear
Hush! If you'd be so good, Misses Brown, as to speak a little lower
Why, he's pretty well, thank'ee, I suppose
You're not out of place, Robby
Why, I'm not exactly out of place, nor in
I -- I'm still in pay, Misses Brown
And nothing to do, Rob
Nothing particular to do just now, Misses Brown, but to -- keep my eyes open, said the Grinder, rolling them in a forlorn way. 'Master abroad, Rob
Oh, for goodness' sake, Misses Brown, couldn't you gossip with a cove about anything else
Ye-es, Misses Brown, I believe he's abroad. What's she staring at
Don't mind her, lad
It's her way -- her way. Tell me, Rob. Did you ever see the lady, deary
Oh, Misses Brown, what lady
What lady
The lady; Mrs Dombey
Yes, I believe I see her once
The night she went away, Robby, eh
Aha! I know it was that night
Well, if you know it was that night, you know, Misses Brown
Where did they go that night, Rob? Straight away? How did they go? Where did you see her? Did she laugh? Did she cry? Tell me all about it
Come! Begin! I want to be told all about it. What, Rob, boy! You and me can keep a secret together, eh? We've done so before now. Where did they go first, Rob
Are you dumb
Lord, Misses Brown, no! You expect a cove to be a flash of lightning. I wish I was the electric fluency
I'd have a shock at somebody, that would settle their business
What do you say
I'm wishing my love to you, Misses Brown
Where did they go to first was it? Him and her, do you mean
Ah
Them two
Why, they didn't go nowhere -- not together, I mean
That was the art of it
Ay, ay, ay! To meet at an appointed place
Why, if they weren't a going to meet somewhere, I suppose they might as well have stayed at home, mightn't they, Brown
Well, Rob? Well
What, haven't we talked enough yet, Misses Brown
Did she laugh that night, was it? Didn't you ask if she laughed, Misses Brown
Or cried
Neither
She kept as steady when she and me -- oh, I see you will have it out of me, Misses Brown! But take your solemn oath now, that you'll never tell anybody
She kept as steady, then, when she and me went down to Southampton
as a image. In the morning she was just the same, Misses Brown. And when she went away in the packet before daylight, by herself -- me pretending to be her servant, and seeing her safe aboard -- she was just the same. Now, are you contented, Misses Brown
No, Rob. Not yet
Oh, here's a woman for you
What did you wish to know next, Misses Brown
What became of Master? Where did he go
Upon my soul, I don't know, Misses Brown
Upon my soul I don't know what he did, nor where he went, nor anything about him I only know what he said to me as a caution to hold my tongue, when we parted; and I tell you this, Misses Brown, as a friend, that sooner than ever repeat a word of what we're saying now, you had better take and shoot yourself, or shut yourself up in this house, and set it a-fire, for there's nothing he wouldn't do, to be revenged upon you. You don't know him half as well as I do, Misses Brown. You're never safe from him, I tell you
Haven't I taken an oath
and won't I keep it
Well, I'm sure I hope you will, Misses Brown
For your own sake, quite as much as mine
Rob
Good gracious, Misses Brown, what's the matter now
Rob! where did the lady and Master appoint to meet
How should I know, Misses Brown
How can I pronounce the names of foreign places, Mrs Brown? What an unreasonable woman you are
But you have heard it said, Robby
and you know what it sounded like. Come
I never heard it said, Misses Brown
Then
you have seen it written, and you can spell it
Now I tell you beforehand what it is, Misses Brown
it's no use asking me anything else. I won't answer anything else; I can't. How long it was to be before they met, or whose plan it was that they was to go away alone, I don't know no more than you do. I don't know any more about it. If I was to tell you how I found out this word, you'd believe that. Shall I tell you, Misses Brown
Yes, Rob
Well then, Misses Brown. The way -- now you won't ask any more, you know
Not another word
Well then, the way was this. When a certain person left the lady with me, he put a piece of paper with a direction written on it in the lady's hand, saying it was in case she should forget. She wasn't afraid of forgetting, for she tore it up as soon as his back was turned, and when I put up the carriage steps, I shook out one of the pieces -- she sprinkled the rest out of the window, I suppose, for there was none there afterwards, though I looked for 'em. There was only one word on it, and that was this, if you must and will know. But remember! You're upon your oath, Misses Brown
D
Will you hold your tongue, Misses Brown
I won't have it read out. Be quiet, will you
Then write large, Rob
for my eyes are not good, even at print
There
Now, I hope you're contented, Misses Brown
What will he do, Ally
Mischief
Murder
He's a madman, in his wounded pride, and may do that, for anything we can say, or he either
I've stepped over from Balls Pond at a early hour
agreeable to my instructions last night. They was, to be sure and bring a note to you, Mr Carker, before you went out in the morning. I should have been here a good hour and a half ago
but for the state of health of Mrs P., who I thought I should have lost in the night, I do assure you, five distinct times
Is your wife so ill
Why, you see
I'm sure I feel it myself, in my humble way
in a manner I couldn't have believed if I hadn't been called upon to undergo. It has almost the effect of drink upon me. I literally feels every morning as if I had been taking more than was good for me over-night
Therefore I can judge
of the feelings of such as is at all peculiarly sitiwated in this most painful rewelation
If I rightly recollect, there was no answer
but perhaps you'll be so good as cast your eye over it, Sir
No. No answer is expected
Then I shall wish you good morning, Miss
with military frogs, is in the parlour of the King's Arms all the blessed day. I happened, last week, to let a little obserwation fall there, and next morning, which was Sunday, I see it worked up in print, in a most surprising manner
Oh! dear dear Perch, the sight of you is all the comfort I have left
Perch, I disown him. Never let me hear hIm mentioned as a brother more
Dear John
There are bad tidings in that letter
Yes. But nothing unexpected
I saw the writer yesterday
The writer
Mr Dombey. He passed twice through the Counting House while I was there. I had been able to avoid him before, but of course could not hope to do that long. I know how natural it was that he should regard my presence as something offensive; I felt it must be so, myself
He did not say so
No; he said nothing: but I saw that his glance rested on me for a moment, and I was prepared for what would happen -- for what has happened. I am dismissed
I need not tell you
why your name would henceforth have an unnatural sound, in however remote a connexion with mine, or why the daily sight of anyone who bears it, would be unendurable to me. I have to notify the cessation of all engagements between us, from this date, and to request that no renewal of any communication with me, or my establishment, be ever attempted by you."-- Enclosed is an equivalent in money to a generously long notice, and this is my discharge." Heaven knows, Harriet, it is a lenient and considerate one, when we remember all
If it be lenient and considerate to punish you at all, John, for the misdeed of another
yes
We have been an ill-omened race to him
He has reason to shrink from the sound of our name, and to think that there is something cursed and wicked in our blood. I should almost think it too, Harriet, but for you
Brother, don't speak like this. If you have any special reason, as you say you have, and think you have -- though I say, No!-- to love me, spare me the hearing of such wild mad words
After so many years, this parting is a melancholy thing, I know
and the cause of it is dreadful to us both. We have to live, too, and must look about us for the means. Well, well! We can do so, undismayed. It is our pride, not our trouble, to strive, John, and to strive together
Oh, dearest sister! Tied, of your own noble will, to a ruined man! whose reputation is blighted; who has no friend himself, and has driven every friend of yours away
John
for my sake! In remembrance of our long companionship
Now, let me tell you, dear
I have, as you have, expected this; and when I have been thinking of it, and fearing that it would happen, and preparing myself for it, as well as I could, I have resolved to tell you, if it should be so, that I have kept a secret from you, and that we have a friend
What's our friend's name, Harriet
him
Harriet
where does this friend live
Neither do I know that
Here! Has he been here, Harriet
Here, in this room. Once
What kind of man
Not young. "Grey-headed," as he said, "and fast growing greyer." But generous, and frank, and good, I am sure
And only seen once, Harriet
In this room only once
but when here, he entreated me to suffer him to see me once a week as he passed by, in token of our being well, and continuing to need nothing at his hands. For I told him, when he proffered us any service he could render -- which was the object of his visit -- that we needed nothing
And once a week
Once every week since then, and always on the same day, and at the same hour, he his gone past; always on foot; always going in the same direction -- towards London; and never pausing longer than to bow to me, and wave his hand cheerfully, as a kind guardian might. He made that promise when he proposed these curious interviews, and has kept it so faithfully and pleasantly, that if I ever felt any trifling uneasiness about them in the beginning (which I don't think I did, John; his manner was so plain and true) It very soon vanished, and left me quite glad when the day was coming. Last Monday -- the first since this terrible event -- he did not go by; and I have wondered whether his absence can have been in any way connected with what has happened
How
I don't know how. I have only speculated on the coincidence; I have not tried to account for it. I feel sure he will return. When he does, dear John, let me tell him that I have at last spoken to you, and let me bring you together. He will certainly help us to a new livelihood. His entreaty was that he might do something to smooth my life and yours; and I gave him my promise that if we ever wanted a friend, I would remember him
Harriet
describe this gentleman to me. I surely ought to know one who knows me so well
Harriet
Mr Morfin -- the gentleman so long in Dombey's House with James
John
It is the gentleman I told you of, today
The gentleman, Miss Harriet
is greatly relieved to hear you say that: he has been devising ways and means, all the way here, of explaining himself, and has been satisfied with none. Mr John, I am not quite a stranger here. You were stricken with astonishment when you saw me at your door just now. I observe you are more astonished at present. Well! That's reasonable enough under existing circumstances. If we were not such creatures of habit as we are, we shouldn't have reason to be astonished half so often
There's nothing astonishing
in my having conceived a desire to see your sister, Mr John, or in my having gratified it in my own way. As to the regularity of my visits since (which she may have mentioned to you), there is nothing extraordinary in that. They soon grew into a habit; and we are creatures of habit -- creatures of habit
It's this same habit that confirms some of us, who are capable of better things, in Lucifer's own pride and stubbornness -- that confirms and deepens others of us in villainy -- more of us in indifference -- that hardens us from day to day, according to the temper of our clay, like images, and leaves us as susceptible as images to new impressions and convictions. You shall judge of its influence on me, John. For more years than I need name, I had my small, and exactly defined share, in the management of Dombey's House, and saw your brother (who has proved himself a scoundrel! Your sister will forgive my being obliged to mention it) extending and extending his influence, until the business and its owner were his football; and saw you toiling at your obscure desk every day; and was quite content to be as little troubled as I might be, out of my own strip of duty, and to let everything about me go on, day by day, unquestioned, like a great machine -- that was its habit and mine -- and to take it all for granted, and consider it all right. My Wednesday nights came regularly round, our quartette parties came regularly off, my violoncello was in good tune, and there was nothing wrong in my world -- or if anything not much -- or little or much, it was no affair of mine
I can answer for your being more respected and beloved during all that time than anybody in the House, Sir
Pooh! Good-natured and easy enough, I daresay
a habit I had. It suited the Manager; it suited the man he managed: it suited me best of all. I did what was allotted to me to do, made no court to either of them, and was glad to occupy a station in which none was required. So I should have gone on till now, but that my room had a thin wall. You can tell your sister that it was divided from the Manager's room by a wainscot partition
They were adjoining rooms; had been one, Perhaps, originally; and were separated, as Mr Morfin says
I have whistled, hummed tunes, gone accurately through the whole of Beethoven's Sonata in B
but he never heeded me. It happened seldom enough that I was within hearing of anything of a private nature, certainly. But when I was, and couldn't otherwise avoid knowing something of it, I walked out. I walked out once, John, during a conversation between two brothers, to which, in the beginning, young Walter Gay was a party. But I overheard some of it before I left the room. You remember it sufficiently, perhaps, to tell your sister what its nature was
It referred, Harriet
to the past, and to our relative positions in the House
Its matter was not new to me, but was presented in a new aspect. It shook me in my habit -- the habit of nine-tenths of the world -- of believing that all was right about me, because I was used to it
and induced me to recall the history of the two brothers, and to ponder on it. I think it was almost the first time in my life when I fell into this train of reflection -- how will many things that are familiar, and quite matters of course to us now, look, when we come to see them from that new and distant point of view which we must all take up, one day or other? I was something less good-natured, as the phrase goes, after that morning, less easy and complacent altogether
Before I knew what to do, or whether I could do anything, there was a second conversation between the same two brothers, in which their sister was mentioned. I had no scruples of conscience in suffering all the waifs and strays of that conversation to float to me as freely as they would. I considered them mine by right. After that, I came here to see the sister for myself. The first time I stopped at the garden gate, I made a pretext of inquiring into the character of a poor neighbour; but I wandered out of that tract, and I think Miss Harriet mistrusted me. The second time I asked leave to come in; came in; and said what I wished to say. Your sister showed me reasons which I dared not dispute, for receiving no assistance from me then; but I established a means of communication between us, which remained unbroken until within these few days, when I was prevented, by important matters that have lately devolved upon me, from maintaining them
How little I have suspected this
when I have seen you every day, Sir! If Harriet could have guessed your name
Why, to tell you the truth, John
I kept it to myself for two reasons. I don't know that the first might have been binding alone; but one has no business to take credit for good intentions, and I made up my mind, at all events, not to disclose myself until I should be able to do you some real service or other. My second reason was, that I always hoped there might be some lingering possibility of your brother's relenting towards you both; and in that case, I felt that where there was the chance of a man of his suspicious, watchful character, discovering that you had been secretly befriended by me, there was the chance of a new and fatal cause of division. I resolved, to be sure, at the risk of turning his displeasure against myself -- which would have been no matter -- to watch my opportunity of serving you with the head of the House; but the distractions of death, courtship, marriage, and domestic unhappiness, have left us no head but your brother for this long, long time. And it would have been better for us
to have been a lifeless trunk
All I could desire to say, and more, I have now said. All I mean goes beyond words, as I hope you understand and believe. The time has come, John -- though most unfortunately and unhappily come -- when I may help you without interfering with that redeeming struggle, which has lasted through so many years; since you were discharged from it today by no act of your own. It is late; I need say no more to-night. You will guard the treasure you have here, without advice or reminder from me
But go you first, John
with a light, without saying what you want to say, whatever that maybe;' John Carker's heart was full, and he would have relieved it in speech
and let me have a word with your sister. We have talked alone before, and in this room too; though it looks more natural with you here
You wish to ask me something of the man whose sister it is your misfortune to be
I dread to ask
You have looked so earnestly at me more than once
that I think I can divine your question. Has he taken money? Is it that
Yes
He has not
I thank Heaven
For the sake of John
That he has abused his trust in many ways
that he has oftener dealt and speculated to advantage for himself, than for the House he represented; that he has led the House on, to prodigious ventures, often resulting in enormous losses; that he has always pampered the vanity and ambition of his employer, when it was his duty to have held them in check, and shown, as it was in his power to do, to what they tended here or there; will not, perhaps, surprise you now. Undertakings have been entered on, to swell the reputation of the House for vast resources, and to exhibit it in magnificent contrast to other merchants' Houses, of which it requires a steady head to contemplate the possibly -- a few disastrous changes of affairs might render them the probably -- ruinous consequences. In the midst of the many transactions of the House, in most parts of the world: a great labyrinth of which only he has held the clue: he has had the opportunity, and he seems to have used it, of keeping the various results afloat, when ascertained, and substituting estimates and generalities for facts. But latterly -- you follow me, Miss Harriet
Perfectly, perfectly
Latterly, he appears to have devoted the greatest pains to making these results so plain and clear, that reference to the private books enables one to grasp them, numerous and varying as they are, with extraordinary ease. As if he had resolved to show his employer at one broad view what has been brought upon him by ministration to his ruling passion! That it has been his constant practice to minister to that passion basely, and to flatter it corruptly, is indubitable. In that, his criminality, as it is connected with the affairs of the House, chiefly consists
One other word before you leave me, dear Sir
There is no danger in all this
How danger
To the credit of the House
I cannot help answering you plainly, and trusting you completely
You may. Indeed you may
I am sure I may. Danger to the House's credit? No; none There may be difficulty, greater or less difficulty, but no danger, unless -- unless, indeed -- the head of the House, unable to bring his mind to the reduction of its enterprises, and positively refusing to believe that it is, or can be, in any position but the position in which he has always represented it to himself, should urge it beyond its strength. Then it would totter
But there is no apprehension of that
There shall be no half-confidence
between us. Mr Dombey is unapproachable by anyone, and his state of mind is haughty, rash, unreasonable, and ungovernable, now. But he is disturbed and agitated now beyond all common bounds, and it may pass. You now know all, both worst and best. No more to-night, and good-night
Let me in! Let me in! I want to speak to you
Let me in! Let me speak to you! I am thankful -- quiet -- humble -- anything you like. But let me speak to you
May I come in, or shall I speak here
What is it that you want? What is it that you have to say
Not much, but let me say it out, or I shall never say it. I am tempted now to go away. There seem to be hands dragging me from the door. Let me come in, if you can trust me for this once
Sit there
and look at me. You remember me
I do
You remember what I told you I had been, and where I came from, ragged and lame, with the fierce wind and weather beating on my head
Yes
You know how I came back that night, and threw your money in the dirt, and you and your race. Now, see me here, upon my knees. Am I less earnest now, than I was then
If what you ask
is forgiveness
But it's not
What I ask is to be believed. Now you shall judge if I am worthy of belief, both as I was, and as I am
When I was young and pretty, and this
I am wasting time, and there is none to spare; yet if I hadn't thought of all, I shouldn't be here now. Wretchedness and ruin came on me, I say. I was made a short-lived toy, and flung aside more cruelly and carelessly than even such things are. By whose hand do you think
Why do you ask me
Why do you tremble
His usage made a Devil of me. I sunk in wretchedness and ruin, lower and lower yet. I was concerned in a robbery -- in every part of it but the gains -- and was found out, and sent to be tried, without a friend, without a penny. Though I was but a girl, I would have gone to Death, sooner than ask him for a word, if a word of his could have saved me. I would! To any death that could have been invented. But my mother, covetous always, sent to him in my name, told the true story of my case, and humbly prayed and petitioned for a small last gift -- for not so many pounds as I have fingers on this hand. Who was it, do you think, who snapped his fingers at me in my misery, lying, as he believed, at his feet, and left me without even this poor sign of remembrance; well satisfied that I should be sent abroad, beyond the reach of farther trouble to him, and should die, and rot there? Who was this, do you think
Why do you ask me
Why do you tremble
When I knew you were his sister -- which was on that night -- I came back, weary and lame, to spurn your gift. I felt that night as if I could have travelled, weary and lame, over the whole world, to stab him, if I could have found him in a lonely place with no one near. Do you believe that I was earnest in all that
I do! Good Heaven, why are you come again
Since then
I have seen him! I have followed him with my eyes, In the broad day. If any spark of my resentment slumbered in my bosom, it sprung into a blaze when my eyes rested on him. You know he has wronged a proud man, and made him his deadly enemy. What if I had given information of him to that man
Information
What if I had found out one who knew your brother's secret; who knew the manner of his flight, who knew where he and the companion of his flight were gone? What if I had made him utter all his knowledge, word by word, before his enemy, concealed to hear it? What if I had sat by at the time, looking into this enemy's face, and seeing it change till it was scarcely human? What if I had seen him rush away, mad, in pursuit? What if I knew, now, that he was on his road, more fiend than man, and must, in so many hours, come up with him
Remove your hand
Go away! Your touch is dreadful to me
I have done this
Do I speak and look as if I really had? Do you believe what I am saying
I fear I must. Let my arm go
Not yet. A moment more. You can think what my revengeful purpose must have been, to last so long, and urge me to do this
Dreadful
Then when you see me now
How can it be prevented? What can I do
All night long
What can I do
If there is anyone who'll write, or send, or go to him, let them lose no time. He is at Dijon. Do you know the name, and where it is
Yes
Warn him that the man he has made his enemy is in a frenzy, and that he doesn't know him if he makes light of his approach. Tell him that he is on the road -- I know he is!-- and hurrying on. Urge him to get away while there is time -- if there is time -- and not to meet him yet. A month or so will make years of difference. Let them not encounter, through me. Anywhere but there! Any time but now! Let his foe follow him, and find him for himself, but not through me! There is enough upon my head without
Who's that
Who had bade them to do so
Monsieur had commanded it, when it was his pleasure to take the apartment. Monsieur had said, when he stayed there for an hour, en route, and left the letter for Madame -- Madame had received it surely
Yes
A thousand pardons! The sudden apprehension that it might have been forgotten had struck hIm
with despair! Monsieur had said that supper was to be ready at that hour: also that he had forewarned Madame of the commands he had given, in his letter. Monsieur had done the Golden Head the honour to request that the supper should be choice and delicate. Monsieur would find that his confidence in the Golden Head was not misplaced
She couldn't say. It was all one
Pardon! There was the supper! It should be eaten on the instant. Monsieur (who spoke French like an Angel -- or a Frenchman -- it was all the same) had spoken with great emphasis of his punctuality. But the English nation had so grand a genius for punctuality. Ah! what noise! Great Heaven, here was Monsieur. Behold him
My God! Madame is going to faint. Madame is overcome with joy
Francois has flown over to the Golden Head for supper. He flies on these occasions like an angel or a bird. The baggage of Monsieur is in his room. All is arranged. The supper will be here this moment
Pardon
It was impossible
But Madame
Madame
had her own maid. It was enough
A million pardons! No! Madame had no maid
I came here alone
How strange to come here by yourself, my love
What
I say
how strange to come here alone! It was unnecessarty caution surely, and might have defeated itself. You were to have engaged an attendant at Havre or Rouen, and have had abundance of time for the purpose, though you had been the most capricious and difficult (as you are the most beautiful, my love) of women
I have never
seen you look so handsome, as you do to-night. Even the picture I have carried in my mind during this cruel probation, and which I have contemplated night and day, is exceeded by the reality
Hard, unrelenting terms they were
but they are all fulfilled and passed, and make the present more delicious and more safe. Sicily shall be the Place of our retreat. In the idlest and easiest part of the world, my soul, we'll both seek compensation for old slavery
Stand still
or I shall murder you
Stand still
come no nearer me, upon your life
Come, come! Tush, we are alone, and out of everybody's sight and hearing. Do you think to frighten me with these tricks of virtue
Do you think to frighten me
from any purpose that I have, and any course I am resolved upon, by reminding me of the solitude of this place, and there being no help near? Me, who am here alone, designedly? If I feared you, should I not have avoided you? If I feared you, should I be here, in the dead of night, telling you to your face what I am going to tell
And what is that
you handsome shrew? Handsomer so, than any other woman in her best humour
I tell you nothing
Do you mistake me for your husband
I have something lying here that is no love trinket, and sooner than endure your touch once more, I would use it on you -- and you know it, while I speak -- with less reluctance than I would on any other creeping thing that lives
How many times
has your bold knavery assailed me with outrage and insult? How many times in your smooth manner, and mocking words and looks, have I been twitted with my courtship and my marriage? How many times have you laid bare my wound of love for that sweet, injured girl and lacerated it? How often have you fanned the fire on which, for two years, I have writhed; and tempted me to take a desperate revenge, when it has most tortured me
I have no doubt, Ma'am
that you have kept a good account, and that it's pretty accurate. Come, Edith. To your husband, poor wretch, this was well enough
Why, if
if all my other reasons for despising him could have been blown away like feathers, his having you for his counsellor and favourite, would have almost been enough to hold their place
Is that a reason why you have run away with me
Yes, and why we are face to face for the last time. Wretch! We meet tonight, and part tonight. For not one moment after I have ceased to speak, will I stay here
I am a woman
who from her childhood has been shamed and steeled. I have been offered and rejected, put up and appraised, until my very soul has sickened. I have not had an accomplishment or grace that might have been a resource to me, but it has been paraded and vended to enhance my value, as if the common crier had called it through the streets. My poor, proud friends, have looked on and approved; and every tie between us has been deadened in my breast. There is not one of them for whom I care, as I could care for a pet dog. I stand alone in the world, remembering well what a hollow world it has been to me, and what a hollow part of it I have been myself. You know this, and you know that my fame with it is worthless to me
Yes; I imagined that
And calculated on it
and so pursued me. Grown too indifferent for any opposition but indifference, to the daily working of the hands that had moulded me to this; and knowing that my marriage would at least prevent their hawking of me up and down; I suffered myself to be sold, as infamously as any woman with a halter round her neck is sold in any market-place. You know that
Yes
I know that
And calculated on it
and so pursued me. From my marriage day, I found myself exposed to such new shame -- to such solicitation and pursuit (expressed as clearly as if it had been written in the coarsest words, and thrust into my hand at every turn) from one mean villain, that I felt as if I had never known humiliation till that time. This shame my husband fixed upon me; hemmed me round with, himself; steeped me in, with his own hands, and of his own act, repeated hundreds of times. And thus -- forced by the two from every point of rest I had -- forced by the two to yield up the last retreat of love and gentleness within me, or to be a new misfortune on its innocent object -- driven from each to each, and beset by one when I escaped the other -- my anger rose almost to distraction against both I do not know against which it rose higher -- the master or the man
What should I say of honour or of chastity to you
What meaning would it have to you; what meaning would it have from me! But if I tell you that the lightest touch of your hand makes my blood cold with antipathy; that from the hour when I first saw and hated you, to now, when my instinctive repugnance is enhanced by every minute's knowledge of you I have since had, you have been a loathsome creature to me which has not its like on earth; how then
Ay! How then, my queen
On that night, when, emboldened by the scene you had assisted at, you dared come to my room and speak to me
what passed
What passed
Your memory is so distinct
that I have no doubt you can recall it
I can
Hear it! Proposing then, this flight -- not this flight, but the flight you thought it -- you told me that in the having given you that meeting, and leaving you to be discovered there, if you so thought fit; and in the having suffered you to be alone with me many times before,-- and having made the opportunities, you said,-- and in the having openly avowed to you that I had no feeling for my husband but aversion, and no care for myself -- I was lost; I had given you the power to traduce my name; and I lived, in virtuous reputation, at the pleasure of your breath
All stratagems in love ---' he interrupted, smiling. 'The old adage
On that night
and then, the struggle that I long had had with something that was not respect for my good fame -- that was I know not what -- perhaps the clinging to that last retreat -- was ended. On that night, and then, I turned from everything but passion and resentment. I struck a blow that laid your lofty master in the dust, and set you there, before me, looking at me now, and knowing what I mean
When I forget that this man put his lips to mine that night, and held me in his arms as he has done again to-night
when I forget the taint of his kiss upon my cheek -- the cheek that Florence would have laid her guiltless face against -- when I forget my meeting with her, while that taint was hot upon me, and in what a flood the knowledge rushed upon me when I saw her, that in releasing her from the persecution I had caused by my love, I brought a shame and degradation on her name through mine, and in all time to come should be the solitary figure representing in her mind her first avoidance of a guilty creature -- then, Husband, from whom I stand divorced henceforth, I will forget these last two years, and undo what I have done, and undeceive you
See these
You have addressed these to me in the false name you go by; one here, some elsewhere on my road. The seals are unbroken. Take them back
We meet and part to-night
You have fallen on Sicilian days and sensual rest, too soon. You might have cajoled, and fawned, and played your traitor's part, a little longer, and grown richer. You purchase your voluptuous retirement dear
Edith
Sit down! Have done with this! What devil possesses you
Their name is Legion
you and your master have raised them in a fruitful house, and they shall tear you both. False to him, false to his innocent child, false every way and everywhere, go forth and boast of me, and gnash your teeth, for once, to know that you are lying
In every vaunt you make
I have my triumph I single out in you the meanest man I know, the parasite and tool of the proud tyrant, that his wound may go the deeper, and may rankle more. Boast, and revenge me on him! You know how you came here to-night; you know how you stand cowering there; you see yourself in colours quite as despicable, if not as odious, as those in which I see you. Boast then, and revenge me on yourself
We don't part so
Do you think I am drivelling, to let you go in your mad temper
Do you think
that I am to be stayed
I'll try, my dear
God's mercy on you, if you try by coming near me
And what
if there are none of these same boasts and vaunts on my part? What if I were to turn too? Come
We must make a treaty of this, or I may take some unexpected course. Sit down, sit down
Too late
Lastly, take my warning! Look to yourself
You have been betrayed, as all betrayers are. It has been made known that you are in this place, or were to be, or have been. If I live, I saw my husband in a carriage in the street to-night
Strumpet, it's false
Hark! do you hear it
I am safer there, in any case. If I should not decide
to give this fool a meeting, I am less likely to be traced there, than abroad here, now. And if I should (this cursed fit being over), at least I shall not be alone, with out a soul to speak to, or advise with, or stand by me. I shall not be run in upon and worried like a rat
Who goes there! Monsieur
Yes
Monsieur has walked a long way in the dark midnight
No matter. Everyone to his task. Were there any other horses ordered at the Post-house
A thousand devils!-- and pardons! other horses? at this hour? No
Listen, my friend. I am much hurried. Let us see how fast we can travel! The faster, the more money there will be to drink. Off we go then! Quick
Halloa! whoop! Halloa! Hi
whither
whither
The devil
what's the matter
Hark! What's that
What
That noise
Ah Heaven, be quiet, cursed brigand
What noise
Behind. Is it not another carriage at a gallop? There! what's that
There is nothing coming
Nothing
No, nothing but the day yonder
You are right, I think. I hear nothing now, indeed. Go on
Hallo, whoop! Hallo, hi
What day is this
Day, Sir
Is it Wednesday
Wednesday, Sir? No, Sir. Thursday, Sir
I forgot. How goes the time? My watch is unwound
By rail, Sir
Very confusing, Sir. Not much in the habit of travelling by rail myself, Sir, but gentlemen frequently say so
Do many gentlemen come here? 'Pretty well, Sir, in general. Nobody here at present. Rather slack just now, Sir. Everything is slack, Sir
At what time
do I leave here, did you say
Nobody going with you, Sir, probably
Two gentlemen here, Sir, but they're waiting for the train to London
I thought you said there was nobody here
Not then, sir. Two gentlemen came in the night by the short train that stops here, Sir. Warm water, Sir
No; and take away the candle. There's day enough for me
Oh my own pretty darling sweet Miss Floy
to think that it should come to this and I should find you here my own dear dove with nobody to wait upon you and no home to call your own but never never will I go away again Miss Floy for though I may not gather moss I'm not a rolling stone nor is my heart a stone or else it wouldn't bust as it is busting now oh dear oh dear
Oh love
I know all that's past I know it all my tender pet and I'm a choking give me air
Susan, dear good Susan
Oh bless her! I that was her little maid when she was a little child! and is she really, really truly going to be married
Who told you so
Oh gracious me! that innocentest creetur Toots
I knew he must be right my dear, because he took on so. He's the devotedest and innocentest infant! And is my darling
really really going to be married
There, there
Now you're quite yourself, dear Susan
I-I-I never did see such a creetur as that Toots
in all my born days never
So kind
And so comic
The way he's been going on inside with me with that disrespectable Chicken on the box
About what, Susan
Oh about Lieutenant Walters, and Captain Gills, and you my dear Miss Floy, and the silent tomb
The silent tomb
He says
that he'll go down into it now immediately and quite comfortable, but bless your heart my dear Miss Floy he won't, he's a great deal too happy in seeing other people happy for that, he may not be a Solomon
nor do I say he is but this I do say a less selfish human creature human nature never knew
Miss Dombey
I have to thank you so often
that I have no words left, and don't know how to do it
Miss Dombey
if it was possible that you could, consistently with your angelic nature, Curse me, you would -- if I may be allowed to say so -- floor me infinitely less, than by these undeserved expressions of kindness Their effect upon me -- is -- but
this is a digression, and of no consequence at all
I could wish
to take this opportunity, Miss Dombey, if I might, of entering into a word of explanation. I should have had the pleasure of -- of returning with Susan at an earlier period; but, in the first place, we didn't know the name of the relation to whose house she had gone, and, in the second, as she had left that relation's and gone to another at a distance, I think that scarcely anything short of the sagacity of the Chicken, would have found her out in the time
This, however
is not the point. The company of Susan has been, I assure you, Miss Dombey, a consolation and satisfaction to me, in my state of mind, more easily conceived than described. The journey has been its own reward. That, however, still, is not the point. Miss Dombey, I have before observed that I know I am not what is considered a quick person. I am perfectly aware of that. I don't think anybody could be better acquainted with his own -- if it was not too strong an expression, I should say with the thickness of his own head -- than myself. But, Miss Dombey, I do, notwithstanding, perceive the state of -- of things -- with Lieutenant Walters. Whatever agony that state of things may have caused me (which is of no consequence at all), I am bound to say, that Lieutenant Walters is a person who appears to be worthy of the blessing that has fallen on his -- on his brow. May he wear it long, and appreciate it, as a very different, and very unworthy individual, that it is of no consequence to name, would have done! That, however, still, is not the point. Miss Dombey, Captain Gills is a friend of mine; and during the interval that is now elapsing, I believe it would afford Captain Gills pleasure to see me occasionally coming backwards and forwards here. It would afford me pleasure so to come. But I cannot forget that I once committed myself, fatally, at the corner of the Square at Brighton; and if my presence will be, in the least degree, unpleasant to you, I only ask you to name it to me now, and assure you that I shall perfectly understand you. I shall not consider it at all unkind, and shall only be too delighted and happy to be honoured with your confidence
Mr Toots
Miss Dombey
if I shed a tear, it is a tear of joy. It is of no consequence, and I am very much obliged to you. I may be allowed to remark, after what you have so kindly said, that it is not my intention to neglect my person any longer
I mean
that I shall consider it my duty as a fellow-creature generally, until I am claimed by the silent tomb, to make the best of myself, and to -- to have my boots as brightly polished, as -- as -- circumstances will admit of. This is the last time, Miss Dombey, of my intruding any observation of a private and personal nature. I thank you very much indeed. If I am not, in a general way, as sensible as my friends could wish me to be, or as I could wish myself, I really am, upon my word and honour, particularly sensible of what is considerate and kind. I feel
as if I could express my feelings, at the present moment, in a most remarkable manner, if -- if -- I could only get a start
Captain Gills
what is now to take place between us, takes place under the sacred seal of confidence. It is the sequel, Captain Gills, of what has taken place between myself and Miss Dombey, upstairs
Alow and aloft, eh, my lad
Exactly so, Captain Gills
Miss Dombey, I believe, Captain Gills, is to be shortly united to Lieutenant Walters
Why, ay, my lad. We're all shipmets here,-- Wal'r and sweet -- heart will be jined together in the house of bondage, as soon as the askings is over
The askings, Captain Gills
In the church, down yonder
Oh! Yes
And then
what follers? That there pretty creetur, as delicately brought up as a foreign bird, goes away upon the roaring main with Wal'r on a woyage to China
Lord, Captain Gills
Ay
The ship as took him up, when he was wrecked in the hurricane that had drove her clean out of her course, was a China trader, and Wal'r made the woyage, and got into favour, aboard and ashore -- being as smart and good a lad as ever stepped -- and so, the supercargo dying at Canton, he got made (having acted as clerk afore), and now he's supercargo aboard another ship, same owners. And so, you see
the pretty creetur goes away upon the roaring main with Wal'r, on a woyage to China
What then
She loves him true. He loves her true. Them as should have loved and tended of her, treated of her like the beasts as perish. When she, cast out of home, come here to me, and dropped upon them planks, her wownded heart was broke. I know it. I, Ed'ard Cuttle, see it. There's nowt but true, kind, steady love, as can ever piece it up again. If so be I didn't know that, and didn't know as Wal'r was her true love, brother, and she his, I'd have these here blue arms and legs chopped off, afore I'd let her go. But I know it, and what then! Why, then, I say, Heaven go with 'em both, and so it will! Amen
Captain Gills
let me have the pleasure of shaking hands You've a way of saying things, that gives me an agreeable warmth, all up my back. I say Amen. You are aware, Captain Gills, that I, too, have adored Miss Dombey
Cheer up
Stand by, boy
It is my intention, Captain Gills
to cheer up. Also to standby, as much as possible. When the silent tomb shall yawn, Captain Gills, I shall be ready for burial; not before. But not being certain, just at present, of my power over myself, what I wish to say to you, and what I shall take it as a particular favour if you will mention to Lieutenant Walters, is as follows
Is as follers
Steady
Miss Dombey being so inexpressably kind
as to say that my presence is the reverse of disagreeable to her, and you and everybody here being no less forbearing and tolerant towards one who -- who certainly
My lad
say no more. There ain't a colour you can run up, as won't be made out, and answered to, by Wal'r and self
Captain Gills
my mind is greatly relieved. I wish to preserve the good opinion of all here. I -- I -- mean well, upon my honour, however badly I may show it. You know
it's as exactly as Burgess and Co. wished to oblige a customer with a most extraordinary pair of trousers, and could not cut out what they had in their minds
As to wages dear Miss Floy
you wouldn't hint and wrong me so as think of naming them, for I've put money by and wouldn't sell my love and duty at a time like this even if the Savings' Banks and me were total strangers or the Banks were broke to pieces, but you've never been without me darling from the time your poor dear Ma was took away, and though I'm nothing to be boasted of you're used to me and oh my own dear mistress through so many years don't think of going anywhere without me, for it mustn't and can't be
Dear Susan, I am going on a long, long voyage
Well Miss Floy, and what of that? the more you'll want me. Lengths of voyages ain't an object in my eyes, thank God
But, Susan, I am going with Walter, and I would go with Walter anywhere -- everywhere! Walter is poor, and I am very poor, and I must learn, now, both to help myself, and help him
Dear Miss Floy
it's nothing new to you to help yourself and others too and be the patientest and truest of noble hearts, but let me talk to Mr Walter Gay and settle it with him, for suffer you to go away across the world alone I cannot, and I won't
Alone, Susan
Alone? and Walter taking me with him
I am sure you will not speak to Walter if I ask you not
and pray don't, dear
Why not, Miss Floy
Because
I am going to be his wife, to give him up my whole heart, and to live with him and die with him. He might think, if you said to him what you have said to me, that I am afraid of what is before me, or that you have some cause to be afraid for me. Why, Susan, dear, I love him
Walter, dear
Thinking how the time is flying on, and how soon we shall be upon the sea, sweet Florence
I don't mean that, Walter, though I think of that too. I have been thinking what a charge I am to you. 'A precious, sacred charge, dear heart! Why, I think that sometimes
You are laughing, Walter. I know that's much more in your thoughts than mine. But I mean a cost. 'A cost, my own
In money, dear. All these preparations that Susan and I are so busy with -- I have been able to purchase very little for myself. You were poor before. But how much poorer I shall make you, Walter
And how much richer, Florence
Besides
long ago -- before I went to sea -- I had a little purse presented to me, dearest, which had money in it
Ah
very little! very little, Walter! But, you must not think
that I regret to be this burden on you. No, dear love, I am glad of it. I am happy in it. I wouldn't have it otherwise for all the world
Nor I, indeed, dear Florence
Ay! but, Walter, you can never feel it as I do. I am so proud of you! It makes my heart swell with such delight to know that those who speak of you must say you married a poor disowned girl, who had taken shelter here; who had no other home, no other friends; who had nothing -- nothing! Oh, Walter, if I could have brought you millions, I never could have been so happy for your sake, as I am
And you, dear Florence? are you nothing
No, nothing, Walter. Nothing but your wife
Florence, love, the lading of our ship is nearly finished, and probably on the very day of our marriage she will drop down the river. Shall we go away that morning, and stay in Kent until we go on board at Gravesend within a week
If you please, Walter. I shall be happy anywhere. But
Yes, my life
You know
that we shall have no marriage party, and that nobody will distinguish us by our dress from other people. As we leave the same day, will you -- will you take me somewhere that morning, Walter -- early -- before we go to church
Stand by
Ed'ard Cuttle, my lad
Susan
I am drawn towards the building. The words which cut me off from Miss Dombey for ever, will strike upon my ears like a knell you know, but upon my word and honour, I feel that I must hear them. Therefore
will you accompany me to-morrow, to the sacred edifice
Susan
before my whiskers began to be observed by anybody but myself, I adored Miss Dombey. While yet a victim to the thraldom of Blimber, I adored Miss Dombey. When I could no longer be kept out of my property, in a legal point of view, and -- and accordingly came into it -- I adored Miss Dombey. The banns which consign her to Lieutenant Walters, and me to -- to Gloom, you know
may be dreadful, will be dreadful; but I feel that I should wish to hear them spoken. I feel that I should wish to know that the ground was certainly cut from under me, and that I hadn't a hope to cherish, or a -- or a leg, in short, to -- to go upon
Steady, steady
what's amiss with you? You don't seem easy in your mind to-night, my boy
It's my opinion, Di
as you have your doubts of Mrs Richards; but if you're the animal I take you to be, you'll think better o' that; for her looks is her commission. Now, Brother
if so be as you're ready, heave ahead
Sol Gills ahoy
Hooroar, my lad, hooroar
Certainly, Captain Gills, whatever you think proper
Chock full o' science
as ever he was! Sol Gills, Sol Gills, what have you been up to, for this many a long day, my ould boy
I'm half blind, Ned
and almost deaf and dumb with joy
His wery woice
his wery woice as chock full o' science as ever it was! Sol Gills, lay to, my lad, upon your own wines and fig-trees like a taut ould patriark as you are, and overhaul them there adwentures o' yourn, in your own formilior woice. 'Tis the woice
of the sluggard, I heerd him complain, you have woke me too soon, I must slumber again. Scatter his ene-mies, and make 'em fall
Although
I had not the pleasure of your acquaintance, Sir, before you were -- you were
Lost to sight, to memory dear
Although I had not the pleasure of your acquaintance, Mr -- Mr Sols
before that happened, I have the greatest pleasure, I assure you, in -- you know, in knowing you. I hope
that you're as well as can be expected
Ned Cuttle, my dear boy, although I have heard something of the changes of events here, from my pleasant friend there -- what a pleasant face she has to be sure, to welcome a wanderer home
Hear him
'Tis woman as seduces all mankind. For which
you'll overhaul your Adam and Eve, brother
I shall make a point of doing so, Captain Gills
Although I have heard something of the changes of events, from her
they are so great and unexpected, and I am so overpowered by the sight of my dear boy, and by the
that I -- I can't say much to-night. But my dear Ned Cuttle, why didn't you write
Write
Write, Sol Gills
Ay
either to Barbados, or Jamaica, or Demerara, That was what I asked
What you asked, Sol Gills
Ay
Don't you know, Ned? Sure you have not forgotten? Every time I wrote to you
You don't appear to understand me, Ned
Sol Gills
I'm gone about and adrift. Pay out a word or two respecting them adwenturs, will you! Can't I bring up, nohows? Nohows
You know, Ned
why I left here. Did you open my packet, Ned
Why, ay, ay
To be sure, I opened the packet
And read it
And read it
My dear Ned Cuttle, when I left home for the West Indies in forlorn search of intelligence of my dear-" There he sits! There's Wal'r
Well, Ned. Now attend a moment
When I wrote first -- that was from Barbados -- I said that though you would receive that letter long before the year was out, I should be glad if you would open the packet, as it explained the reason of my going away. Very good, Ned. When I wrote the second, third, and perhaps the fourth times -- that was from Jamaica -- I said I was in just the same state, couldn't rest, and couldn't come away from that part of the world, without knowing that my boy was lost or saved. When I wrote next -- that, I think, was from Demerara, wasn't it
That he thinks was from Demerara, warn't it
I said
that still there was no certain information got yet. That I found many captains and others, in that part of the world, who had known me for years, and who assisted me with a passage here and there, and for whom I was able, now and then, to do a little in return, in my own craft. That everyone was sorry for me, and seemed to take a sort of interest in my wanderings; and that I began to think it would be my fate to cruise about in search of tidings of my boy, until I died
Began to think as how he was a scientific Flying Dutchman
But when the news come one day, Ned,-- that was to Barbados, after I got back there,-- that a China trader home'ard bound had been spoke, that had my boy aboard, then, Ned, I took passage in the next ship and came home; arrived at home to-night to find it true, thank God
Sol Gills! The observation as I'm a-going to make is calc'lated to blow every stitch of sail as you can carry, clean out of the bolt-ropes, and bring you on your beam ends with a lurch. Not one of them letters was ever delivered to Ed'ard Cuttle. Not one o' them letters
was ever delivered unto Ed'ard Cuttle, Mariner, of England, as lives at home at ease, and doth improve each shining hour
And posted by my own hand! And directed by my own hand, Number nine Brig Place
What do you mean, Sol Gills, my friend, by Number nine Brig Place
Mean? Your lodgings, Ned
Mrs What's-her-name! I shall forget my own name next, but I am behind the present time -- I always was, you recollect -- and very much confused. Mrs
Sol Gills
it ain't the name of MacStinger as you're a trying to remember
Of course it is
To be sure Ned. Mrs MacStinger
Overhaul that there again, Sol Gills, will you be so kind
All these letters
I posted with my own hand, and directed with my own hand, to Captain Cuttle, at Mrs MacStinger's, Number nine Brig Place
Why, friends all
I cut and run from there
And no one knew where you were gone, Captain Cuttle
Bless your heart, Wal'r
she'd never have allowed o' my coming to take charge o' this here property. Nothing could be done but cut and run. Lord love you, Wal'r
you've only seen her in a calm! But see her when her angry passions rise -- and make a note on
I'd give it her
Would you, do you think, my dear
Well, my dear, it does you credit. But there ain't no wild animal I wouldn't sooner face myself. I only got my chest away by means of a friend as nobody's a match for. It was no good sending any letter there. She wouldn't take in any letter, bless you
under them circumstances! Why, you could hardly make it worth a man's while to be the postman
Then it's pretty clear, Captain Cuttle, that all of us, and you and Uncle Sol especially
may thank Mrs MacStinger for no small anxiety
Mr Toots
we shall see each other to-morrow morning
Lieutenant Walters
This is the last night we shall meet for a long time -- the last night we may ever meet
Such a noble heart as yours, must feel, I think, when another heart is bound to it. I hope you know that I am very grateful to you
Walters
I should be glad to feel that you had reason to be so
Florence
on this last night of her bearing her own name, has made me promise -- it was only just now, when you left us together -- that I would tell you -- with her dear love
said Walter, 'that she can never have a friend whom she will value above you. That the recollection of your true consideration for her always, can never be forgotten by her. That she remembers you in her prayers to-night, and hopes that you will think of her when she is far away. Shall I say anything for you
Say, Walter
that I shall think of her every day, but never without feeling happy to know that she is married to the man she loves, and who loves her. Say, if you please, that I am sure her husband deserves her -- even her!-- and that I am glad of her choice
Now, Master
I want to know whether this here gammon is to finish it, or whether you're a going in to win
Chicken
explain yourself
Why then, here's all about it, Master
I ain't a cove to chuck a word away. Here's wot it is. Are any on 'em to be doubled up
Come, Master
Is it to be gammon or pluck? Which
returned Mr Toots, 'your expressions are coarse, and your meaning is obscure
Why, then, I tell you what, Master
This is where it is. It's mean
What is mean, Chicken
It is
Wy, it's mean
Chicken
you're a perfect Vulture! Your sentiments are atrocious
My sentiments is Game and Fancy, Master
said the Chicken, with increased expression. 'That's where it is. It's mean
Chicken
you disgust me
Master
there's a pair on us, then. Come! Here's a offer! You've spoke to me more than once't or twice't about the public line. Never mind! Give me afi't ypunnote to-morrow, and let me go
Chicken
after the odious sentiments you have expressed, I shall be glad to part on such terms
Done then
It's a bargain. This here conduct of yourn won't suit my book, Master. Wy, it's mean
That's where it is; it's mean
Baptists or Wesleyans, or some o' them
Drat 'em
you read the same things over 'em' and instead of sovereigns get sixpences
It must be done, Ma'am
We must marry 'em. We must have our national schools to walk at the head of, and we must have our standing armies. We must marry 'em, Ma'am
and keep the country going
Only
to walk round the church
Ahem
you'll come to us one of these mornings, my dears, unless I'm much mistaken
Well, well
you might do worse. For you're a tidy pair
Altogether, Mrs Miff
she is what you may call a rose-bud
Dear Walter, thank you! I can go away, now, happy
And when we come back, Florence, we will come and see his grave again
It is very early, Walter, and the streets are almost empty yet. Let us walk
But you will be so tired, my love
Oh no! I was very tired the first time that we ever walked together, but I shall not be so to-day
God bless you, Susan; dearest Susan! If you ever can bear witness to the love I have for Walter, and the reason that I have to love him, do it for his sake. Good-bye! Good-bye
Miss Floy, my darling! look at me! We are all so happy now, dear! One more good-bye, my precious, one more
You, you won't be angry with me now. Now will you
Angry, Susan
No, no; I am sure you won't. I say you won't, my pet, my dearest
and here's the Captain too -- your friend the Captain, you know -- to say good-bye once more
Hooroar, my Heart's Delight
Hooroar, Wal'r my lad. Hooroar! Hooroar
Hooroar, my lad! Hooroar, my Heart's Delight
a picter
A admiral's cabin, mind you
ain't more trim
Ed'ard Cuttle, my lad, you never shaped a better course in your life than when you made that there little property over jintly. You see how the land bore, Ed'ard
and it does you credit, my lad
My boy has been preserved and thrives
What right have I to be otherwise than thankful and happy
Sol! There's the last bottle of the old Madeira down below. Would you wish to have it up to-night, my boy, and drink to Wal'r and his wife
To Mr Dombey
From Walter. To be sent in three weeks' time. I'll read it
Sir. I am married to your daughter. She is gone with me upon a distant voyage. To be devoted to her is to have no claim on her or you, but God knows that I am. '"Why, loving her beyond all earthly things, I have yet, without remorse, united her to the uncertainties and dangers of my life, I will not say to you. You know why, and you are her father. 

'"Do not reproach her. She has never reproached you. 

'"I do not think or hope that you will ever forgive me. There is nothing I expect less. But if an hour should come when it will comfort you to believe that Florence has someone ever near her, the great charge of whose life is to cancel her remembrance of past sorrow, I solemnly assure you, you may, in that hour, rest in that belief
We won't drink the last bottle of the old Madeira yet, Ned
Not yet
No. Not yet
Oh Walter, dearest love, I am so happy
As I hear the sea
and sit watching it, it brings so many days into my mind. It makes me think so much
Of Paul, my love. I know it does
things was going wrong
twelve and ninepence in the pound, twelve and ninepence in the pound
Might I make so bold as ask, Sir, are you unhappy in your mind
My faithful Perch -- but no, it cannot be
Leave me, Perch
In mourning
Alone
and John here this morning! Is there anything the matter, my dear? But no
your face tells quite another story
I am afraid it is a selfish revelation that you see there, then
It is a very pleasant one
and, if selfish, a novelty too, worth seeing in you. But I don't believe that
You will not be surprised at my coming alone, or at John's not having told you I was coming
and you will believe that, when I tell you why I have come. May I do so now
You can do nothing better
You were not busy
I have been, all day. Here's my witness. I have been confiding all my cares to it. I wish I had none but my own to tell
Is the House at an end
Completely at an end
Will it never be resumed
Never
Never. You remember what I told you. It has been, all along, impossible to convince him; impossible to reason with him; sometimes, impossible even to approach him. The worst has happened; and the House has fallen, never to be built up any more
And Mr Dombey, is he personally ruined
Ruined
Will he have no private fortune left? Nothing
The extent of Mr Dombey's resources is not accurately within my knowledge; but though they are doubtless very large, his obligations are enormous. He is a gentleman of high honour and integrity. Any man in his position could, and many a man in his position would, have saved himself, by making terms which would have very slightly, almost insensibly, increased the losses of those who had had dealings with him, and left him a remnant to live upon. But he is resolved on payment to the last farthing of his means. His own words are, that they will clear, or nearly clear, the House, and that no one can lose much. Ah, Miss Harriet, it would do us no harm to remember oftener than we do, that vices are sometimes only virtues carried to excess! His pride shows well in this
Have you seen him lately
No one sees him. When this crisis of his affairs renders it necessary for him to come out of his house, he comes out for the occasion, and again goes home, and shuts himself up, and will sea no one. He has written me a letter, acknowledging our past connexion in higher terms than it deserved, and parting from me. I am delicate of obtruding myself upon him now, never having had much intercourse with him in better times; but I have tried to do so. I have written, gone there, entreated. Quite in vain
Well, well, Miss Harriet
this is not to the purpose. You have not come here to hear this. Some other and pleasanter theme is in your mind. Let it be in mine, too, and we shall talk upon more equal terms. Come
No, it is the same theme
Is it not likely that it should be? Is it not natural that John and I should have been thinking and speaking very much of late of these great changes? Mr Dombey, whom he served so many years -- you know upon what terms -- reduced, as you describe; and we quite rich
I need not remind you
through what means our circumstances changed. You have not forgotten that our brother James, upon that dreadful day, left no will, no relations but ourselves
You know
our history, the history of both my brothers, in connexion with the unfortunate, unhappy gentleman, of whom you have spoken so truly. You know how few our wants are -- John's and mine -- and what little use we have for money, after the life we have led together for so many years; and now that he is earning an income that is ample for us, through your kindness. You are not unprepared to hear what favour I have come to ask of you
I hardly know. I was, a minute ago. Now, I think, I am not
Of my dead brother I say nothing. If the dead know what we do -- but you understand me. Of my living brother I could say much; but what need I say more, than that this act of duty, in which I have come to ask your indispensable assistance, is his own, and that he cannot rest until it is performed
Dear Sir
it must be done very quietly and secretly. Your experience and knowledge will point out a way of doing it. Mr Dombey may, perhaps, be led to believe that it is something saved, unexpectedly, from the wreck of his fortunes; or that it is a voluntary tribute to his honourable and upright character, from some of those with whom he has had great dealings; or that it is some old lost debt repaid. There must be many ways of doing it. I know you will choose the best. The favour I have come to ask is, that you will do it for us in your own kind, generous, considerate manner. That you will never speak of it to John, whose chief happiness in this act of restitution is to do it secretly, unknown, and unapproved of: that only a very small part of the inheritance may be reserved to us, until Mr Dombey shall have possessed the interest of the rest for the remainder of his life; that you will keep our secret, faithfully -- but that I am sure you will; and that, from this time, it may seldom be whispered, even between you and me, but may live in my thoughts only as a new reason for thankfulness to Heaven, and joy and pride in my brother
My dear Harriet
I was not prepared for this. Do I understand you that you wish to make your own part in the inheritance available for your good purpose, as well as John's
Oh, yes
When we have shared everything together for so long a time, and have had no care, hope, or purpose apart, could I bear to be excluded from my share in this? May I not urge a claim to be my brother's partner and companion to the last
Heaven forbid that I should dispute it
We may rely on your friendly help
I knew we might
I should be a worse man than,-- than I hope I am, or would willingly believe myself, if I could not give you that assurance from my heart and soul. You may, implicitly. Upon my honour, I will keep your secret. And if it should be found that Mr Dombey is so reduced as I fear he will be, acting on a determination that there seem to be no means of influencing, I will assist you to accomplish the design, on which you and John are jointly resolved
Harriet
To speak to you of the worth of any sacrifice that you can make now -- above all, of any sacrifice of mere money -- would be idle and presumptuous. To put before you any appeal to reconsider your purpose or to set narrow limits to it, would be, I feel, not less so. I have no right to mar the great end of a great history, by any obtrusion of my own weak self. I have every right to bend my head before what you confide to me, satisfied that it comes from a higher and better source of inspiration than my poor worldly knowledge. I will say only this: I am your faithful steward; and I would rather be so, and your chosen friend, than I would be anybody in the world, except yourself
Are you going home
Let me go with you
Not to-night. I am not going home now; I have a visit to make alone. Will you come to-morrow
Well, well
I'll come to-morrow. In the meantime, I'll think of this, and how we can best proceed. And perhaps I'll think of it, dear Harriet, and -- and -- think of me a little in connexion with it
How is your patient, nurse, to-night
In a poor way, Miss, I am afraid. Oh how she do remind me, sometimes, of my Uncle's Betsey Jane
In what respect
Miss, in all respects
except that she's grown up, and Betsey Jane, when at death's door, was but a child
But you have told me she recovered
so there is the more reason for hope, Mrs Wickam
Ah, Miss, hope is an excellent thing for such as has the spirits to bear it
My own spirits is not equal to it, but I don't owe it any grudge. I envys them that is so blest
You should try to be more cheerful
Thank you, Miss, I'm sure
If I was so inclined, the loneliness of this situation -- you'll excuse my speaking so free -- would put it out of my power, in four and twenty hours; but I ain't at all. I'd rather not. The little spirits that I ever had, I was bereaved of at Brighton some few years ago, and I think I feel myself the better for it
Alice
am I late to-night
You always seem late, but are always early
You are better
It matters very little
Better or worse to-day, is but a day's difference -- perhaps not so much
while we are here, let us repeat the mixture as before
No
I lie here, sometimes, thinking I should like to live until I had had a little time to show you how grateful I could be! It is a weakness, and soon passes. Better for you as it is. Better for me
How long is it
since I went to you and told you what I had done, and when you were advised it was too late for anyone to follow
It is a year and more
A year and more
Months upon months since you brought me here
Yes
Brought me here, by force of gentleness and kindness. Me
and made me human by woman's looks and words, and angel's deeds
Mother
tell her what you know
To-night, my deary
Ay, mother
to-night
My handsome gal
Changed, long ago, mother! Withered, long ago
My daughter
my gal who'll soon get better, and shame 'em all with her good looks
Who'll soon get better, I say
and who'll shame 'em all with her good looks -- she will. I say she will! she shall
my daughter has been turned away from, and cast out, but she could boast relationship to proud folks too, if she chose. Ah! To proud folks! There's relationship without your clergy and your wedding rings -- they may make it, but they can't break it -- and my daughter's well related. Show me Mrs Dombey, and I'll show you my Alice's first cousin
What
Though I am old and ugly now,-- much older by life and habit than years though,-- I was once as young as any. Ah! as pretty too, as many! I was a fresh country wench in my time, darling
and looked it, too. Down in my country, Mrs Dombey's father and his brother were the gayest gentlemen and the best-liked that came a visiting from London -- they have long been dead, though! Lord, Lord, this long while! The brother, who was my Ally's father, longest of the two
They were as like
We shall all change, mother, in our turn
Turn
but why not hers as soon as my gal's! The mother must have changed -- she looked as old as me, and full as wrinkled through her paint -- but she was handsome. What have I done, I, what have I done worse than her, that only my gal is to lie there fading
That's what Alice bade me tell you, deary. That's all. I found it out when I began to ask who she was, and all about her, away in Warwickshire there, one summer-time. Such relations was no good to me, then. They wouldn't have owned me, and had nothing to give me. I should have asked 'em, maybe, for a little money, afterwards, if it hadn't been for my Alice; she'd a'most have killed me, if I had, I think She was as proud as t'other in her way
for all she's so quiet now; but she'll shame 'em with her good looks yet. Ha, ha! She'll shame 'em, will my handsome daughter
I have felt, lying here, that I should like you to know this. It might explain, I have thought, something that used to help to harden me. I had heard so much, in my wrongdoing, of my neglected duty, that I took up with the belief that duty had not been done to me, and that as the seed was sown, the harvest grew. I somehow made it out that when ladies had bad homes and mothers, they went wrong in their way, too; but that their way was not so foul a one as mine, and they had need to bless God for it
You will not forget my mother? I forgive her, if I have any cause. I know that she forgives me, and is sorry in her heart. You will not forget her
Never, Alice
A moment yet. Lay your head so, dear, that as you read I may see the words in your kind face
I shall come
very early in the morning
a hun-dred thou-sand pound
girls
Oh a long time, bless you! Take your oath of that
Ah, where he'll have his little garden, you know
and bring up sweet peas in the spring
Exactly so
and be one of the Brethren of something or another
We are all brethren
Except the sisters
How are the mighty fallen
Pride shall have a fall, and it always was and will be so
Suppose the wages shouldn't be paid
Because if that is your religious feelings, Mary Daws
Old Cock
Your master's in difficulties
You know that, I suppose
No more than yourself
That's your opinion, Mrs Impudence, is it
Yes, Mrs Pipchin, it is
And what then, pray
Why, then you may go as soon as you like
The sooner the better; and I hope I shall never see your face again
Now those that choose, can go about their business
and those that choose can stay here on board wages for a week or so, and make themselves useful. Except
that slut of a cook, who'll go immediately
That
she certainly will! I wish you good day, Mrs Pipchin, and sincerely wish I could compliment you on the sweetness of your appearance
Get along with you
Hear, hear
Go one, go all
For what
must his feelings be, if he was to come upon any of the poor servants that he once deceived into thinking him immensely rich
How is my brother, Mrs Pipchin
I don't know any more than the deuce
He never does me the honour to speak to me. He has his meat and drink put in the next room to his own; and what he takes, he comes out and takes when there's nobody there. It's no use asking me. I know no more about him than the man in the south who burnt his mouth by eating cold plum porridge
But good gracious me
How long is this to last! If my brother will not make an effort, Mrs Pipchin, what is to become of him? I am sure I should have thought he had seen enough of the consequences of not making an effort, by this time, to be warned against that fatal error
Hoity toity
There's a great fuss, I think, about it. It ain't so wonderful a case. People have had misfortunes before now, and been obliged to part with their furniture. I'm sure I have
My brother
is so peculiar -- so strange a man. He is the most peculiar man I ever saw. Would anyone believe that when he received news of the marriage and emigration of that unnatural child -- it's a comfort to me, now, to remember that I always said there was something extraordinary about that child: but nobody minds me -- would anybody believe, I say, that he should then turn round upon me and say he had supposed, from my manner, that she had come to my house? Why, my gracious! And would anybody believe that when I merely say to him, "Paul, I may be very foolish, and I have no doubt I am, but I cannot understand how your affairs can have got into this state," he should actually fly at me, and request that I will come to see him no more until he asks me! Why, my goodness
It's a pity he hadn't a little more to do with mines. They'd have tried his temper for him
And what
is it to end in? That's what I want to know. What does my brother mean to do? He must do something. It's of no use remaining shut up in his own rooms. Business won't come to him. No. He must go to it. Then why don't he go? He knows where to go, I suppose, having been a man of business all his life. Very good. Then why not go there
Besides
who ever heard of such obstinacy as his staying shut up here through all these dreadful disagreeables? It's not as if there was no place for him to go to. Of course he could have come to our house. He knows he is at home there, I suppose? Mr Chick has perfectly bored about it, and I said with my own lips, "Why surely, Paul, you don't imagine that because your affairs have got into this state, you are the less at home to such near relatives as ourselves? You don't imagine that we are like the rest of the world?" But no; here he stays all through, and here he is. Why, good gracious me, suppose the house was to be let! What would he do then? He couldn't remain here then. If he attempted to do so, there would be an ejectment, an action for Doe, and all sorts of things; and then he must go. Then why not go at first instead of at last? And that brings me back to what I said just now, and I naturally ask what is to be the end of it
I know what's to be the end of it, as far as I am concerned
and that's enough for me. I'm going to take myself off in a jiffy
In a which, Mrs Pipchin
In a jiffy
Ah, well! really I can't blame you, Mrs Pipchin
It would be pretty much the same to me, if you could
At any rate I'm going. I can't stop here. I should be dead in a week. I had to cook my own pork chop yesterday, and I'm not used to it. My constitution will be giving way next. Besides, I had a very fair connexion at Brighton when I came here -- little Pankey's folks alone were worth a good eighty pounds a-year to me -- and I can't afford to throw it away. I've written to my niece, and she expects me by this time
Have you spoken to my brother
Oh, yes, it's very easy to say speak to him
How is it done? I called out to him yesterday, that I was no use here, and that he had better let me send for Mrs Richards. He grunted something or other that meant yes, and I sent. Grunt indeed! If he had been Mr Pipchin, he'd have had some reason to grunt. Yah! I've no patience with it
I tell you what, Polly, me dear
being now an ingine-driver, and well to do in the world, I shouldn't allow of your coming here, to be made dull-like, if it warn't for favours past. But favours past, Polly, is never to be forgot. To them which is in adversity, besides, your face is a cord'l. So let's have another kiss on it, my dear. You wish no better than to do a right act, I know; and my views is, that it's right and dutiful to do this. Good-night, Polly
Oh, Polly
when I looked in to have a little lesson with the children just now, I got the message that you left for me; and as soon as I could recover my spirits at all, I came on after you. Is there no one here but you
Ah! not a soul
Have you seen him
Bless you
no; he has not been seen this many a day. They tell me he never leaves his room
Is he said to be ill
No, Ma'am, not that I know of
except in his mind. He must be very bad there, poor gentleman
Damme, Sir, the woman's a born idiot
Let him remember it in that room, years to come
Let him remember it in that room, years to come! The rain that falls upon the roof, the wind that mourns outside the door, may have foreknowledge in their melancholy sound. Let him remember it in that room, years to come
Papa! Papa! Speak to me, dear Papa
Papa! Dearest Papa! Pardon me, forgive me! I have come back to ask forgiveness on my knees. I never can be happy more, without it
Dear Papa, oh don't look strangely on me! I never meant to leave you. I never thought of it, before or afterwards. I was frightened when I went away, and could not think. Papa, dear, I am changed. I am penitent. I know my fault. I know my duty better now. Papa, don't cast me off, or I shall die
Papa, love, I am a mother. I have a child who will soon call Walter by the name by which I call you. When it was born, and when I knew how much I loved it, I knew what I had done in leaving you. Forgive me, dear Papa! oh say God bless me, and my little child
My little child was born at sea, Papa I prayed to God (and so did Walter for me) to spare me, that I might come home. The moment I could land, I came back to you. Never let us be parted any more, Papa. Never let us be parted any more
You will come home with me, Papa, and see my baby. A boy, Papa. His name is Paul. I think -- I hope -- he's like
Dear Papa, for the sake of my child, for the sake of the name we have given him, for my sake, pardon Walter. He is so kind and tender to me. I am so happy with him. It was not his fault that we were married. It was mine. I loved him so much
He is the darling of my heart, Papa I would die for him. He will love and honour you as I will. We will teach our little child to love and honour you; and we will tell him, when he can understand, that you had a son of that name once, and that he died, and you were very sorry; but that he is gone to Heaven, where we all hope to see him when our time for resting comes. Kiss me, Papa, as a promise that you will be reconciled to Walter -- to my dearest husband -- to the father of the little child who taught me to come back, Papa Who taught me to come back
Oh my God, forgive me, for I need it very much
And so Dombey and Son, as I observed upon a certain sad occasion
is indeed a daughter, Polly, after all
And a good one
You are right
and it's a credit to you, Polly, that you were always her friend when she was a little child. You were her friend long before I was, Polly
and you're a good creature. Robin
Robin
And so she is, Miss
Very well, Robin
I am glad to hear you say so. Now, Robin, as I am going to give you a trial, at your urgent request, as my domestic, with a view to your restoration to respectability, I will take this impressive occasion of remarking that I hope you will never forget that you have, and have always had, a good mother, and that you will endeavour so to conduct yourself as to be a comfort to her
Upon my soul I will, Miss
I have come through a good deal, and my intentions is now as straightfor'ard, Miss, as a cove's
I must get you to break yourself of that word, Robin, if you Please
If you please, Miss, as a chap's
Thankee, Robin, no
I should prefer individual
As a indiwiddle's
Much better
infinitely more expressive
can be
If I hadn't been and got made a Grinder on, Miss and Mother, which was a most unfortunate circumstance for a young co -- indiwiddle
Very good indeed
and if I hadn't been led away by birds, and then fallen into a bad service
I hope I might have done better. But it's never too late for a
Indi
widdle
to mend; and I hope to mend, Miss, with your kind trial; and wishing, Mother, my love to father, and brothers and sisters, and saying of it
I am very glad indeed to hear it
Will you take a little bread and butter, and a cup of tea, before we go, Robin
Thankee, Miss
Gentlemen, we will resume our studies on the twenty-fifth of next month
Gentlemen, when our friend Cincinnatus retired to his farm, he did not present to the senate any Roman who he sought to nominate as his successor
said Doctor Blimber, laying his hand on the shoulder of Mr Feeder, B.A., adolescens imprimis gravis et doctus, gentlemen, whom I, a retiring Cincinnatus, wish to present to my little senate, as their future Dictator. Gentlemen, we will resume our studies on the twenty-fifth of next month, under the auspices of Mr Feeder, B.A
Oh, ah. It was all very well for old Tozer, but they didn't subscribe money for old Tozer to show off with, they supposed; did they? What business was it of old Tozer's more than anybody else's? It wasn't his inkstand. Why couldn't he leave the boys' property alone
MR AND MRS TOOTS
Mrs Blimber
allow me to present my wife
And as you've known me for a long time, you know
let me assure you that she is one of the most remarkable women that ever lived
My dear
Upon my word and honour she is
I -- I assure you, Mrs Blimber, she's a most extraordinary woman
Well, Toots, well, Toots! So you are one of us, are you, Toots
Well, old Buck
Well! Here we are! Taken in and done for. Eh
Feeder
I give you joy. If you're as -- as -- as perfectly blissful in a matrimonial life, as I am myself, you'll have nothing to desire
I don't forget my old friends, you see
I ask em to my wedding, Toots
Feeder
the fact is, that there were several circumstances which prevented me from communicating with you until after my marriage had been solemnised. In the first place, I had made a perfect Brute of myself to you, on the subject of Miss Dombey; and I felt that if you were asked to any wedding of mine, you would naturally expect that it was with Miss Dombey, which involved explanations, that upon my word and honour, at that crisis, would have knocked me completely over. In the second place, our wedding was strictly private; there being nobody present but one friend of myself and Mrs Toots's, who is a Captain in -- I don't exactly know in what
but it's of no consequence. I hope, Feeder, that in writing a statement of what had occurred before Mrs Toots and myself went abroad upon our foreign tour, I fully discharged the offices of friendship
Toots, my boy
I was joking
And now, Feeder
I should be glad to know what you think of my union
Capital
You think it's capital, do you, Feeder
Then how capital must it be to Me! For you can never know what an extraordinary woman that is
You see
what I wanted in a wife was -- in short, was sense. Money, Feeder, I had. Sense I -- I had not, particularly
Oh, yes, you had, Toots
No, Feeder, I had not. Why should I disguise it? I had not. I knew that sense was There
in perfect heaps. I had no relation to object or be offended, on the score of station; for I had no relation. I have never had anybody belonging to me but my guardian, and him, Feeder, I have always considered as a Pirate and a Corsair. Therefore, you know it was not likely
that I should take his opinion
No
Accordingly
I acted on my own. Bright was the day on which I did so! Feeder! Nobody but myself can tell what the capacity of that woman's mind is. If ever the Rights of Women, and all that kind of thing, are properly attended to, it will be through her powerful intellect -- Susan, my dear
pray do not exert yourself
My dear
I was only talking
But, my love
pray do not exert yourself. You really must be careful. Do not, my dear Susan, exert yourself. She's so easily excited
and then she forgets the medical man altogether
went in
My dear Susan, don't exert yourself
I really
in this house, where whatever was done to me in the way of -- of any mental confusion sometimes -- which is of no consequence and I impute to nobody -- I was always treated like one of Doctor Blimber's family, and had a desk to myself for a considerable period -- can -- not -- allow -- my friend Feeder to be
married
It may not be inappropriate to the occasion, or altogether uninteresting
to observe that my wife is a most extraordinary woman, and would do this much better than myself -- allow my friend Feeder to be married -- especially to
to Miss Blimber
To Mrs Feeder, my love
said Mr Toots, fixing his eyes on his wife, as if for inspiration in a high flight, 'may the torch of Hymen be the beacon of joy, and may the flowers we have this day strewed in their path, be the -- the banishers of -- of gloom
Very good, Toots! Very well said, indeed, Toots
My dear Susan
fright is worse than exertion. Pray be calm
Who is it from
Why, my love
it's from Captain Gills. Do not excite yourself. Walters and Miss Dombey are expected home
My dear
don't try to deceive me, for it's no use, they're come home -- I see it plainly in your face
She's a most extraordinary woman
You're perfectly right, my love, they have come home. Miss Dombey has seen her father, and they are reconciled
Reconciled
My dear
pray do not exert yourself. Do remember the medical man! Captain Gills says -- at least he don't say, but I imagine, from what I can make out, he means -- that Miss Dombey has brought her unfortunate father away from his old house, to one where she and Walters are living; that he is lying very ill there -- supposed to be dying; and that she attends upon him night and day
My dearest Susan
do, do, if you possibly can, remember the medical man! If you can't, it's of no consequence -- but do endeavour to
Well, Cap'en Cuttle
This is indeed a meeting! I bear no malice now, Cap'en Cuttle -- you needn't fear that I'm a going to cast any reflections. I hope to go to the altar in another spirit
usband, Cap'en Cuttle
Cap'en Cuttle
usband, as a single person, we should be 'appy of your company to chapel. Here is a lady here
my bridesmaid, that will be glad of your protection, Cap'en Cuttle
I will
What cheer, my lad, what cheer
D ----- d bad
Jack Bunsby
do you do this here, of your own free will
No
Why do you do it, then, my lad
Why not sheer off
Eh
Sheer off
Where's the good
Try
Cheer up! Come! Now's your time. Sheer off, Jack Bunsby
It all began in that there chest o' yourn. Why did I ever conwoy her into port that night
My lad
I thought as you had come over her; not as she had come over you. A man as has got such opinions as you have
Come
now's your time! Sheer off! I'll cover your retreat. The time's a flying. Bunsby! It's for liberty. Will you once
Bunsby
will you twice
Bunsby
it's for liberty; will you three times? Now or never
And is your Pa very ill, my darling dear Miss Floy
He is very, very ill
But, Susan, dear, you must not speak to me as you used to speak. And what's this
Your old dress, dear? Your old cap, curls, and all
My dear Miss Dombey
I'll explain. She's the most extraordinary woman. There are not many to equal her! She has always said -- she said before we were married, and has said to this day -- that whenever you came home, she'd come to you in no dress but the dress she used to serve you in, for fear she might seem strange to you, and you might like her less. I admire the dress myself
of all things. I adore her in it! My dear Miss Dombey, she'll be your maid again, your nurse, all that she ever was, and more. There's no change in her. But, Susan, my dear
all I ask is, that you'll remember the medical man, and not exert yourself too much
Where is Florence
I am here, Papa, I am here
I don't know her
We have been parted so long, that I don't know her
What is money
Yes, dear Papa
very much
Go and walk, my dearest, in the sweet air. Go to your good husband
My dear
No, no, my love
I have seen the gentleman myself, and spoken with him. Nothing has happened. Will you come
I could have wished, I am sure
I have been mentioning to my friend Mr Gay, if I may be allowed to have the honour of calling him so
that I am rejoiced to hear that my friend Dombey is very decidedly mending. I trust my friend Dombey will not allow his mind to be too much preyed upon, by any mere loss of fortune. I cannot say that I have ever experienced any very great loss of fortune myself: never having had, in point of fact, any great amount of fortune to lose. But as much as I could lose, I have lost; and I don't find that I particularly care about it. I know my friend Dombey to be a devilish honourable man; and it's calculated to console my friend Dombey very much, to know, that this is the universal sentiment. Even Tommy Screwzer,-- a man of an extremely bilious habit, with whom my friend Gay is probably acquainted -- cannot say a syllable in disputation of the fact
The fact is
that my friend Gay and myself have been discussing the propriety of entreating a favour at your hands; and that I have the consent of my friend Gay -- who has met me in an exceedingly kind and open manner, for which I am very much indebted to him -- to solicit it. I am sensible that so amiable a lady as the lovely and accomplished daughter of my friend Dombey will not require much urging; but I am happy to know, that I am supported by my friend Gay's influence and approval. As in my parliamentary time, when a man had a motion to make of any sort -- which happened seldom in those days, for we were kept very tight in hand, the leaders on both sides being regular Martinets, which was a devilish good thing for the rank and file, like myself, and prevented our exposing ourselves continually, as a great many of us had a feverish anxiety to do -- as' in my parliamentary time, I was about to say, when a man had leave to let off any little private popgun, it was always considered a great point for him to say that he had the happiness of believing that his sentiments were not without an echo in the breast of Mr Pitt; the pilot, in point of fact, who had weathered the storm. Upon which, a devilish large number of fellows immediately cheered, and put him in spirits. Though the fact is, that these fellows, being under orders to cheer most excessively whenever Mr Pitt's name was mentioned, became so proficient that it always woke 'em. And they were so entirely innocent of what was going on, otherwise, that it used to be commonly said by Conversation Brown -- four-bottle man at the Treasury Board, with whom the father of my friend Gay was probably acquainted, for it was before my friend Gay's time -- that if a man had risen in his place, and said that he regretted to inform the house that there was an Honourable Member in the last stage of convulsions in the Lobby, and that the Honourable Member's name was Pitt, the approbation would have been vociferous
My love
There is nothing the matter, upon my honour
and I am deeply distressed at being the means of causing you a moment's uneasiness. I beg to assure you that there is nothing the matter. The favour that I have to ask is, simply -- but it really does seem so exceedingly singular, that I should be in the last degree obliged to my friend Gay if he would have the goodness to break the -- in point of fact, the ice
And my friend Gay, also -- I beg your pardon
To whom
If I might entreat
that you would not press for an answer to that question, I would venture to take the liberty of making the request
Do you know, Walter
Yes
And think it right
Yes. Only because I am sure that you would too. Though there may be reasons I very well understand, which make it better that nothing more should be said beforehand
If Papa is still asleep, or can spare me if he is awake, I will go immediately
I will leave
a card for my friend Dombey, sincerely trusting that he will pick up health and strength with every returning hour. And I hope my friend Dombey will do me the favour to consider me a man who has a devilish warm admiration of his character, as, in point of fact, a British merchant and a devilish upright gentleman. My place in the country is in a most confounded state of dilapidation, but if my friend Dombey should require a change of air, and would take up his quarters there, he would find it a remarkably healthy spot -- as it need be, for it's amazingly dull. If my friend Dombey suffers from bodily weakness, and would allow me to recommend what has frequently done myself good, as a man who has been extremely queer at times, and who lived pretty freely in the days when men lived very freely, I should say, let it be in point of fact the yolk of an egg, beat up with sugar and nutmeg, in a glass of sherry, and taken in the morning with a slice of dry toast. Jackson, who kept the boxing-rooms in Bond Street -- man of very superior qualifications, with whose reputation my friend Gay is no doubt acquainted -- used to mention that in training for the ring they substituted rum for sherry. I should recommend sherry in this case, on account of my friend Dombey being in an invalided condition; which might occasion rum to fly -- in point of fact to his head -- and throw him into a devil of a state
Walter, what is this? Who is here
Are you not coming, Walter
No, I will remain here. Don't tremble there is nothing to fear, dearest Florence
I know that, Walter, with you so near. I am sure of that, but
Great Heaven
what is this
No, no
Mama
Oh, Mama, Mama! why do we meet like this? Why were you ever kind to me when there was no one else, that we should meet like this
I dare not think of that
I am come from Papa's sick bed. We are never asunder now; we never shall be' any more. If you would have me ask his pardon, I will do it, Mama. I am almost sure he will grant it now, if I ask him. May Heaven grant it to you, too, and comfort you
Walter -- I am married to him, and we have a son
is at the door, and has brought me here. I will tell him that you are repentant; that you are changed
and he will speak to Papa with me, I know. Is there anything but this that I can do
The stain upon your name, upon your husband's, on your child's. Will that ever be forgiven, Florence
Will it ever be, Mama? It is! Freely, freely, both by Walter and by me. If that is any consolation to you, there is nothing that you may believe more certainly. You do not -- you do not
speak of Papa; but I am sure you wish that I should ask him for his forgiveness. I am sure you do
I will
I will bring it you, if you will let me; and then, perhaps, we may take leave of each other, more like what we used to be to one another. I have not
I have not shrunk back from you, Mama, because I fear you, or because I dread to be disgraced by you. I only wish to do my duty to Papa. I am very dear to him, and he is very dear to me. But I never can forget that you were very good to me. Oh, pray to Heaven
pray to Heaven, Mama, to forgive you all this sin and shame, and to forgive me if I cannot help doing this (if it is wrong), when I remember what you used to be
Florence
My better angel! Before I am mad again, before my stubbornness comes back and strikes me dumb, believe me, upon my soul I am innocent
Mama
Guilty of much! Guilty of that which sets a waste between us evermore. Guilty of what must separate me, through the whole remainder of my life, from purity and innocence -- from you, of all the earth. Guilty of a blind and passionate resentment, of which I do not, cannot, will not, even now, repent; but not guilty with that dead man. Before God
Florence
purest and best of natures,-- whom I love -- who might have changed me long ago, and did for a time work some change even in the woman that I am,-- believe me, I am innocent of that; and once more, on my desolate heart, let me lay this dear head, for the last time
There is nothing else in all the world
I trust
that my lovely and accomplished relative will excuse my having, by a little stratagem, effected this meeting. I cannot say that I was, at first, wholly incredulous as to the possibility of my lovely and accomplished relative having, very unfortunately, committed herself with the deceased person with white teeth; because in point of fact, one does see, in this world -- which is remarkable for devilish strange arrangements, and for being decidedly the most unintelligible thing within a man's experience -- very odd conjunctions of that sort. But as I mentioned to my friend Dombey, I could not admit the criminality of my lovely and accomplished relative until it was perfectly established. And feeling, when the deceased person was, in point of fact, destroyed in a devilish horrible manner, that her position was a very painful one -- and feeling besides that our family had been a little to blame in not paying more attention to her, and that we are a careless family -- and also that my aunt, though a devilish lively woman, had perhaps not been the very best of mothers -- I took the liberty of seeking her in France, and offering her such protection as a man very much out at elbows could offer. Upon which occasion, my lovely and accomplished relative did me the honour to express that she believed I was, in my way, a devilish good sort of fellow; and that therefore she put herself under my protection. Which in point of fact I understood to be a kind thing on the part of my lovely and accomplished relative, as I am getting extremely shaky, and have derived great comfort from her solicitude
My lovely and accomplished relative
will excuse me, if, for her satisfaction, and my own, and that of my friend Dombey, whose lovely and accomplished daughter we so much admire, I complete the thread of my observations. She will remember that, from the first, she and I never alluded to the subject of her elopement. My impression, certainly, has always been, that there was a mystery in the affair which she could explain if so inclined. But my lovely and accomplished relative being a devilish resolute woman, I knew that she was not, in point of fact, to be trifled with, and therefore did not involve myself in any discussions. But, observing lately, that her accessible point did appear to be a very strong description of tenderness for the daughter of my friend Dombey, it occurred to me that if I could bring about a meeting, unexpected on both sides, it might lead to beneficial results. Therefore, we being in London, in the present private way, before going to the South of Italy, there to establish ourselves, in point of fact, until we go to our long homes, which is a devilish disagreeable reflection for a man, I applied myself to the discovery of the residence of my friend Gay -- handsome man of an uncommonly frank disposition, who is probably known to my lovely and accomplished relative -- and had the happiness of bringing his amiable wife to the present place. And now
I do conjure my relative, not to stop half way, but to set right, as far as she can, whatever she has done wrong -- not for the honour of her family, not for her own fame, not for any of those considerations which unfortunate circumstances have induced her to regard as hollow, and in point of fact, as approaching to humbug -- but because it is wrong, and not right
I debated with myself a long time
whether to write this at all, in case of dying suddenly or by accident, and feeling the want of it upon me. I have deliberated, ever since, when and how to destroy it. Take it, Florence. The truth is written in it
Is it for Papa
It is for whom you will
It is given to you, and is obtained by you. He never could have had it otherwise
Mama
he has lost his fortune; he has been at the point of death; he may not recover, even now. Is there any word that I shall say to him from you
Did you tell me
that you were very dear to him
Yes
No more
Tell him, if he asks, that I do not repent of what I have done -- not yet -- for if it were to do again to-morrow, I should do it. But if he is a changed man
But that being a changed man, he knows, now, it would never be. Tell him I wish it never had been
May I say
that you grieved to hear of the afflictions he has suffered
Not
if they have taught him that his daughter is very dear to him. He will not grieve for them himself, one day, if they have brought that lesson, Florence
You wish well to him, and would have him happy. I am sure you would
Oh! let me be able, if I have the occasion at some future time, to say so
Tell him that if, in his own present, he can find any reason to compassionate my past, I sent word that I asked him to do so. Tell him that if, in his own present, he can find a reason to think less bitterly of me, I asked him to do so. Tell him, that, dead as we are to one another, never more to meet on this side of eternity, he knows there is one feeling in common between us now, that there never was before
I trust myself to that
for his better thoughts of me, and mine of him. When he loves his Florence most, he will hate me least. When he is most proud and happy in her and her children, he will be most repentant of his own part in the dark vision of our married life. At that time, I will be repentant too -- let him know it then -- and think that when I thought so much of all the causes that had made me what I was, I needed to have allowed more for the causes that had made him what he was. I will try, then, to forgive him his share of blame. Let him try to forgive me mine
Oh Mama
How it lightens my heart, even in such a strange meeting and parting, to hear this
Strange words in my own ears
and foreign to the sound of my own voice! But even if I had been the wretched creature I have given him occasion to believe me, I think I could have said them still, hearing that you and he were very dear to one another. Let him, when you are dearest, ever feel that he is most forbearing in his thoughts of me -- that I am most forbearing in my thoughts of him! Those are the last words I send him! Now, goodbye, my life
This kiss for your child! These kisses for a blessing on your head! My own dear Florence, my sweet girl, farewell
To meet again
Never again! Never again! When you leave me in this dark room, think that you have left me in the grave. Remember only that I was once, and that I loved you
I am devilish sorry
that the lovely and accomplished daughter of my friend Dombey and amiable wife of my friend Gay, should have had her sensitive nature so very much distressed and cut up by the interview which is just concluded. But I hope and trust I have acted for the best, and that my honourable friend Dombey will find his mind relieved by the disclosures which have taken place. I exceedingly lament that my friend Dombey should have got himself, in point of fact, into the devil's own state of conglomeration by an alliance with our family; but am strongly of opinion that if it hadn't been for the infernal scoundrel Barker -- man with white teeth -- everything would have gone on pretty smoothly. In regard to my relative who does me the honour to have formed an uncommonly good opinion of myself, I can assure the amiable wife of my friend Gay, that she may rely on my being, in point of fact, a father to her. And in regard to the changes of human life, and the extraordinary manner in which we are perpetually conducting ourselves, all I can say is, with my friend Shakespeare -- man who wasn't for an age but for all time, and with whom my friend Gay is no doubt acquainted -- that its like the shadow of a dream
You are quite right, Mr Gills
This is a very rare and most delicious wine
We always promised ourselves, Sir
Ned and myself, I mean
that we would drink this, one day or other, to Walter safe at home: though such a home we never thought of. If you don't object to our old whim, Sir, let us devote this first glass to Walter and his wife
To Walter and his wife
Florence, my child
To Walter and his wife
To Wal'r and his wife
Hooroar
Ed'ard Cuttle, my lad, if your mother could ha' know'd as you would ever be a man o' science, the good old creetur would ha' been took aback in-deed
Captain Gills
And it does her credit
I give you joy, Mr Toots
Thank'ee
I'm very much obliged to you. I knew that you'd be glad to hear, and so I came down myself. We're positively getting on, you know. There's Florence, and Susan, and now here's another little stranger
A female stranger
Yes, Captain Gills
and I'm glad of it. The oftener we can repeat that most extraordinary woman, my opinion is, the better
Stand by
Here's to her, and may she have ever so many more
Thank'ee, Captain Gills
I echo the sentiment. If you'll allow me, as my so doing cannot be unpleasant to anybody, under the circumstances, I think I'll take a pipe
Of all the remarkable instances that that delightful woman has given of her excellent sense, Captain Gills and Mr Sols
I think none is more remarkable than the perfection with which she has understood my devotion to Miss Dombey
Because you know
I have never changed my sentiments towards Miss Dombey. They are the same as ever. She is the same bright vision to me, at present, that she was before I made Walters's acquaintance. When Mrs Toots and myself first began to talk of -- in short, of the tender passion, you know, Captain Gills
Ay, ay, my lad
as makes us all slue round -- for which you'll overhaul the book
I shall certainly do so, Captain Gills
when we first began to mention such subjects, I explained that I was what you may call a Blighted Flower, you know
But Lord bless me
she was as entirely conscious of the state of my feelings as I was myself. There was nothing I could tell her. She was the only person who could have stood between me and the silent Tomb, and she did it, in a manner to command my everlasting admiration. She knows that there's nobody in the world I look up to, as I do to Miss Dombey. Knows that there's nothing on earth I wouldn't do for Miss Dombey. She knows that I consider Miss Dombey the most beautiful, the most amiable, the most angelic of her sex. What is her observation upon that? The perfection of sense. "My dear, you're right. I think so too
And so do I
So do I
Then
what an observant woman my wife is! What sagacity she possesses! What remarks she makes! It was only last night, when we were sitting in the enjoyment of connubial bliss -- which, upon my word and honour, is a feeble term to express my feelings in the society of my wife -- that she said how remarkable it was to consider the present position of our friend Walters. "Here," observes my wife, "he is, released from sea-going, after that first long voyage with his young bride"-- as you know he was, Mr Sols
Quite true
Why yes, yes -- some of our lost ships, freighted with gold, have come home, truly
Small craft, Mr Toots, but serviceable to my boy
Exactly so
You'll never find my wife wrong. "Here he is," says that most remarkable woman, "so situated,-- and what follows? What follows?" observed Mrs Toots. Now pray remark, Captain Gills, and Mr Sols, the depth of my wife's penetration. "Why that, under the very eye of Mr Dombey, there is a foundation going on, upon which a -- an Edifice;" that was Mrs Toots's word
Sol Gills, you man of science and my ould pardner, what did I tell Wal'r to overhaul on that there night when he first took to business? Was it this here quotation, "Turn again Whittington, Lord Mayor of London, and when you are old you will never depart from it." Was it them words, Sol Gills
It certainly was, Ned
I remember well
Then I tell you what
I'll give you Lovely Peg right through; and stand by, both on you, for the chorus
What, grandpa! Am I so like my poor little Uncle again
Yes, Paul. But he was weak, and you are very strong
Oh yes, I am very strong
And he lay on a little bed beside the sea, and you can run about
Dear grandpapa, why do you cry when you kiss me
Little Florence! little Florence
</text>
