<text>
Another
Have another
Ye've smoked as many as five since ye come in at midnight
Poor me, poor me, my head is so bad. Them two come in after ye. Ah, poor me, the business is slack, is slack! Few Chinamen about the Docks, and fewer Lascars, and no ships coming in, these say! Here's another ready for ye, deary. Ye'll remember like a good soul, won't ye, that the market price is dreffle high just now? More nor three shillings and sixpence for a thimbleful! And ye'll remember that nobody but me (and Jack Chinaman t'other side the court; but he can't do it as well as me) has the true secret of mixing it? Ye'll pay up accordingly, deary, won't ye
O me, O me, my lungs is weak, my lungs is bad! It's nearly ready for ye, deary. Ah, poor me, poor me, my poor hand shakes like to drop off! I see ye coming-to, and I ses to my poor self, "I'll have another ready for him, and he'll bear in mind the market price of opium, and pay according." O my poor head! I makes my pipes of old penny ink-bottles, ye see, deary -- this is one -- and I fits-in a mouthpiece, this way, and I takes my mixter out of this thimble with this little horn spoon; and so I fills, deary. Ah, my poor nerves! I got Heavens-hard drunk for sixteen year afore I took to this; but this don't hurt me, not to speak of. And it takes away the hunger as well as wittles, deary
What visions can SHE have
Visions of many butchers' shops, and public-houses, and much credit? Of an increase of hideous customers, and this horrible bedstead set upright again, and this horrible court swept clean? What can she rise to, under any quantity of opium, higher than that!-- Eh
Unintelligible
What do you say
Unintelligible
unintelligible
WHEN THE WICKED MAN
Mr. Jasper was that, Tope
Yes, Mr. Dean
He has stayed late
Yes, Mr. Dean. I have stayed for him, your Reverence. He has been took a little poorly
Say "taken," Tope -- to the Dean
You may offer bad grammar to the laity, or the humbler clergy, not to the Dean
And when and how has Mr. Jasper been taken -- for, as Mr. Crisparkle has remarked, it is better to say taken -- taken
when and how has Mr. Jasper been Taken
Taken, sir
Poorly, Tope
Why, sir, Mr. Jasper was that breathed
I wouldn't say "That breathed," Tope
Not English -- to the Dean
Breathed to that extent
would be preferable
Mr. Jasper's breathing was so remarkably short
when he came in, that it distressed him mightily to get his notes out: which was perhaps the cause of his having a kind of fit on him after a little. His memory grew DAZED
and a dimness and giddiness crept over him as strange as ever I saw: though he didn't seem to mind it particularly, himself. However, a little time and a little water brought him out of his DAZE
As I HAVE made a success, I'll make it again
And Mr. Jasper has gone home quite himself, has he
Your Reverence, he has gone home quite himself. And I'm glad to see he's having his fire kindled up, for it's chilly after the wet, and the Cathedral had both a damp feel and a damp touch this afternoon, and he was very shivery
Is Mr. Jasper's nephew with him
No, sir
but expected. There's his own solitary shadow betwixt his two windows -- the one looking this way, and the one looking down into the High Street -- drawing his own curtains now
Well, well
I hope Mr. Jasper's heart may not be too much set upon his nephew. Our affections, however laudable, in this transitory world, should never master us; we should guide them, guide them. I find I am not disagreeably reminded of my dinner, by hearing my dinner-bell. Perhaps, Mr. Crisparkle, you will, before going home, look in on Jasper
Certainly, Mr. Dean. And tell him that you had the kindness to desire to know how he was
Ay; do so, do so. Certainly. Wished to know how he was. By all means. Wished to know how he was
Sorry to hear from Tope that you have not been well, Jasper
O, it was nothing, nothing
You look a little worn
Do I? O, I don't think so. What is better, I don't feel so. Tope has made too much of it, I suspect. It's his trade to make the most of everything appertaining to the Cathedral, you know
I may tell the Dean -- I call expressly from the Dean -- that you are all right again
Certainly; with my respects and thanks to the Dean
I'm glad to hear that you expect young Drood
I expect the dear fellow every moment
Ah! He will do you more good than a doctor, Jasper
More good than a dozen doctors. For I love him dearly, and I don't love doctors, or doctors' stuff
We shall miss you, Jasper, at the "Alternate Musical Wednesdays" to-night; but no doubt you are best at home. Good-night. God bless you! "Tell me, shep-herds, te-e-ell me; tell me-e-e, have you seen (have you seen, have you seen, have you seen) my-y-y Flo- o-ora-a pass this way
My dear Edwin
My dear Jack! So glad to see you
Get off your greatcoat, bright boy, and sit down here in your own corner. Your feet are not wet? Pull your boots off. Do pull your boots off
My dear Jack, I am as dry as a bone. Don't moddley-coddley, there's a good fellow. I like anything better than being moddley- coddleyed
Now I am right, and now I'll take my corner, Jack. Any dinner, Jack
What a jolly old Jack it is
Look here, Jack; tell me; whose birthday is it
Not yours, I know
Not mine, you know? No; not mine, _I_ know! Pussy's
Pussy's, Jack! We must drink Many happy returns to her. Come, uncle; take your dutiful and sharp-set nephew in to dinner
And, Lord! here's Mrs. Tope
Lovelier than ever
Never you mind me, Master Edwin
I can take care of myself
You can't. You're much too handsome. Give me a kiss because it's Pussy's birthday
I'd Pussy you, young man, if I was Pussy, as you call her
Your uncle's too much wrapt up in you, that's where it is. He makes so much of you, that it's my opinion you think you've only to call your Pussys by the dozen, to make 'em come
You forget, Mrs. Tope
and so do you, Ned, that Uncle and Nephew are words prohibited here by common consent and express agreement. For what we are going to receive His holy name be praised
Done like the Dean! Witness, Edwin Drood! Please to carve, Jack, for I can't
I say! Tell me, Jack
do you really and truly feel as if the mention of our relationship divided us at all? _I_ don't
Uncles as a rule, Ned, are so much older than their nephews
that I have that feeling instinctively
As a rule! Ah, may-be! But what is a difference in age of half- a-dozen years or so? And some uncles, in large families, are even younger than their nephews. By George, I wish it was the case with us
Why
Because if it was, I'd take the lead with you, Jack, and be as wise as Begone, dull Care! that turned a young man gray, and Begone, dull Care! that turned an old man to clay.-- Halloa, Jack! Don't drink
Why not
Asks why not, on Pussy's birthday, and no Happy returns proposed! Pussy, Jack, and many of 'em! Happy returns, I mean
Hip, hip, hip, and nine times nine, and one to finish with, and all that, understood. Hooray, hooray, hooray!-- And now, Jack, let's have a little talk about Pussy. Two pairs of nut-crackers? Pass me one, and take the other
How's Pussy getting on Jack
With her music? Fairly
What a dreadfully conscientious fellow you are, Jack! But _I_ know, Lord bless you! Inattentive, isn't she
She can learn anything, if she will
IF she will! Egad, that's it. But if she won't
How's she looking, Jack
Very like your sketch indeed
I AM a little proud of it
Not badly hit off from memory. But I ought to have caught that expression pretty well, for I have seen it often enough
In point of fact
I see it whenever I go to see Pussy. If I don't find it on her face, I leave it there.-- You know I do, Miss Scornful Pert. Booh
Have you lost your tongue, Jack
Have you found yours, Ned
No, but really;-- isn't it, you know, after all
Isn't it unsatisfactory to be cut off from choice in such a matter? There, Jack! I tell you! If I could choose, I would choose Pussy from all the pretty girls in the world
But you have not got to choose
That's what I complain of. My dead and gone father and Pussy's dead and gone father must needs marry us together by anticipation. Why the -- Devil, I was going to say, if it had been respectful to their memory -- couldn't they leave us alone
Tut, tut, dear boy
Tut, tut? Yes, Jack, it's all very well for YOU. YOU can take it easily. YOUR life is not laid down to scale, and lined and dotted out for you, like a surveyor's plan. YOU have no uncomfortable suspicion that you are forced upon anybody, nor has anybody an uncomfortable suspicion that she is forced upon you, or that you are forced upon her. YOU can choose for yourself. Life, for YOU, is a plum with the natural bloom on; it hasn't been over-carefully wiped off for YOU
Don't stop, dear fellow. Go on
Can I anyhow have hurt your feelings, Jack
How can you have hurt my feelings
Good Heaven, Jack, you look frightfully ill! There's a strange film come over your eyes
I have been taking opium for a pain -- an agony -- that sometimes overcomes me. The effects of the medicine steal over me like a blight or a cloud, and pass. You see them in the act of passing; they will be gone directly. Look away from me. They will go all the sooner
There is said to be a hidden skeleton in every house; but you thought there was none in mine, dear Ned
Upon my life, Jack, I did think so. However, when I come to consider that even in Pussy's house -- if she had one -- and in mine -- if I had one
You were going to say (but that I interrupted you in spite of myself) what a quiet life mine is. No whirl and uproar around me, no distracting commerce or calculation, no risk, no change of place, myself devoted to the art I pursue, my business my pleasure
I really was going to say something of the kind, Jack; but you see, you, speaking of yourself, almost necessarily leave out much that I should have put in. For instance: I should have put in the foreground your being so much respected as Lay Precentor, or Lay Clerk, or whatever you call it, of this Cathedral; your enjoying the reputation of having done such wonders with the choir; your choosing your society, and holding such an independent position in this queer old place; your gift of teaching (why, even Pussy, who don't like being taught, says there never was such a Master as you are!), and your connexion
Yes; I saw what you were tending to. I hate it
Hate it, Jack
I hate it. The cramped monotony of my existence grinds me away by the grain. How does our service sound to you
Beautiful! Quite celestial
It often sounds to me quite devilish. I am so weary of it. The echoes of my own voice among the arches seem to mock me with my daily drudging round. No wretched monk who droned his life away in that gloomy place, before me, can have been more tired of it than I am. He could take for relief (and did take) to carving demons out of the stalls and seats and desks. What shall I do? Must I take to carving them out of my heart
I thought you had so exactly found your niche in life, Jack
I know you thought so. They all think so
Well, I suppose they do
Pussy thinks so
When did she tell you that
The last time I was here. You remember when. Three months ago
How did she phrase it
O, she only said that she had become your pupil, and that you were made for your vocation
Anyhow, my dear Ned
I must subdue myself to my vocation: which is much the same thing outwardly. It's too late to find another now. This is a confidence between us
It shall be sacredly preserved, Jack
I have reposed it in you, because
I feel it, I assure you. Because we are fast friends, and because you love and trust me, as I love and trust you. Both hands, Jack
You know now, don't you, that even a poor monotonous chorister and grinder of music -- in his niche -- may be troubled with some stray sort of ambition, aspiration, restlessness, dissatisfaction, what shall we call it
Yes, dear Jack
And you will remember
My dear Jack, I only ask you, am I likely to forget what you have said with so much feeling
Take it as a warning, then
I am afraid I am but a shallow, surface kind of fellow, Jack, and that my headpiece is none of the best. But I needn't say I am young; and perhaps I shall not grow worse as I grow older. At all events, I hope I have something impressible within me, which feels- -deeply feels -- the disinterestedness of your painfully laying your inner self bare, as a warning to me
I couldn't fail to notice, Jack, that it cost you a great effort, and that you were very much moved, and very unlike your usual self. Of course I knew that you were extremely fond of me, but I really was not prepared for your, as I may say, sacrificing yourself to me in that way
No; don't put the sentiment away, Jack; please don't; for I am very much in earnest. I have no doubt that that unhealthy state of mind which you have so powerfully described is attended with some real suffering, and is hard to bear. But let me reassure you, Jack, as to the chances of its overcoming me. I don't think I am in the way of it. In some few months less than another year, you know, I shall carry Pussy off from school as Mrs. Edwin Drood. I shall then go engineering into the East, and Pussy with me. And although we have our little tiffs now, arising out of a certain unavoidable flatness that attends our love-making, owing to its end being all settled beforehand, still I have no doubt of our getting on capitally then, when it's done and can't be helped. In short, Jack, to go back to the old song I was freely quoting at dinner (and who knows old songs better than you?), my wife shall dance, and I will sing, so merrily pass the day. Of Pussy's being beautiful there cannot be a doubt;-- and when you are good besides, Little Miss Impudence
I'll burn your comic likeness, and paint your music-master another
You won't be warned, then
No, Jack
You can't be warned, then
No, Jack, not by you. Besides that I don't really consider myself in danger, I don't like your putting yourself in that position
Shall we go and walk in the churchyard
By all means. You won't mind my slipping out of it for half a moment to the Nuns' House, and leaving a parcel there? Only gloves for Pussy; as many pairs of gloves as she is years old to-day. Rather poetical, Jack
Nothing half so sweet in life," Ned
Here's the parcel in my greatcoat-pocket. They must be presented to-night, or the poetry is gone. It's against regulations for me to call at night, but not to leave a packet. I am ready, Jack
Seminary for Young Ladies. Miss Twinkleton
O, what a pretending old thing Miss Twinkleton is, my dear
practising
Mr. Edwin Drood to see Miss Rosa
You may go down, my dear
O! IT IS so ridiculous
Don't, Eddy
Don't what, Rosa
Don't come any nearer, please. It IS so absurd
What is absurd, Rosa
The whole thing is. It IS so absurd to be an engaged orphan and it IS so absurd to have the girls and the servants scuttling about after one, like mice in the wainscot; and it IS so absurd to be called upon
You give me an affectionate reception, Pussy, I must say
Well, I will in a minute, Eddy, but I can't just yet. How are you
I am unable to reply that I am much the better for seeing you, Pussy, inasmuch as I see nothing of you
O good gracious! you have had half your hair cut off
I should have done better to have had my head cut off, I think
Shall I go
No; you needn't go just yet, Eddy. The girls would all be asking questions why you went
Once for all, Rosa, will you uncover that ridiculous little head of yours and give me a welcome
You're very welcome, Eddy. There! I'm sure that's nice. Shake hands. No, I can't kiss you, because I've got an acidulated drop in my mouth
Are you at all glad to see me, Pussy
O, yes, I'm dreadfully glad.-- Go and sit down.-- Miss Twinkleton
How do you do, Mr. Drood? Very glad indeed to have the pleasure. Pray excuse me. Tweezers. Thank you
I got the gloves last evening, Eddy, and I like them very much. They are beauties
Well, that's something
The smallest encouragement thankfully received. And how did you pass your birthday, Pussy
Delightfully! Everybody gave me a present. And we had a feast. And we had a ball at night
A feast and a ball, eh? These occasions seem to go off tolerably well without me, Pussy
De-lightfully
Hah! And what was the feast
Tarts, oranges, jellies, and shrimps
Any partners at the ball
We danced with one another, of course, sir. But some of the girls made game to be their brothers. It WAS so droll
Did anybody make game to be
To be you? O dear yes
That was the first thing done
I hope she did it pretty well
O, it was excellent!-- I wouldn't dance with you, you know
Because I was so tired of you
Dear Eddy, you were just as tired of me, you know
Did I say so, Rosa
Say so! Do you ever say so? No, you only showed it. O, she did it so well
It strikes me that she must be a devilish impudent girl
And so, Pussy, you have passed your last birthday in this old house
Ah, yes
You seem to be sorry, Rosa
I am sorry for the poor old place. Somehow, I feel as if it would miss me, when I am gone so far away, so young
Perhaps we had better stop short, Rosa
That is to say, is it, Pussy, that we are both resigned
You know we must be married, and married from here, Eddy, or the poor girls will be so dreadfully disappointed
Shall I take you out for a walk, Rosa dear
O, yes, Eddy; let us go for a walk! And I tell you what we'll do. You shall pretend that you are engaged to somebody else, and I'll pretend that I am not engaged to anybody, and then we shan't quarrel
Do you think that will prevent our falling out, Rosa
I know it will. Hush! Pretend to look out of window -- Mrs. Tisher
I hope I see Mr. Drood well; though I needn't ask, if I may judge from his complexion. I trust I disturb no one; but there WAS a paper-knife- -O, thank you, I am sure
One other thing you must do, Eddy, to oblige me
The moment we get into the street, you must put me outside, and keep close to the house yourself -- squeeze and graze yourself against it
By all means, Rosa, if you wish it. Might I ask why
O! because I don't want the girls to see you
It's a fine day; but would you like me to carry an umbrella up
Don't be foolish, sir. You haven't got polished leather boots on
Perhaps that might escape the notice of the girls, even if they did see me
Nothing escapes their notice, sir. And then I know what would happen. Some of them would begin reflecting on me by saying (for THEY are free) that they never will on any account engage themselves to lovers without polished leather boots. Hark! Miss Twinkleton. I'll ask for leave
Eh? Indeed! Are you quite sure you saw my mother-of-pearl button-holder on the work-table in my room
Which way shall we take, Rosa
I want to go to the Lumps-of-Delight shop
To the
A Turkish sweetmeat, sir. My gracious me, don't you understand anything? Call yourself an Engineer, and not know THAT
Why, how should I know it, Rosa
Because I am very fond of them. But O! I forgot what we are to pretend. No, you needn't know anything about them; never mind
Now, be a good-tempered Eddy, and pretend. And so you are engaged
And so I am engaged
Is she nice
Charming
Tall
Immensely tall
Must be gawky, I should think
I beg your pardon; not at all
What is termed a fine woman; a splendid woman
Big nose, no doubt
Not a little one, certainly
Long pale nose, with a red knob in the middle. I know the sort of nose
You DON'T know the sort of nose, Rosa
because it's nothing of the kind
Not a pale nose, Eddy
No
A red nose? O! I don't like red noses. However; to be sure she can always powder it
She would scorn to powder it
Would she? What a stupid thing she must be! Is she stupid in everything
No; in nothing
And this most sensible of creatures likes the idea of being carried off to Egypt; does she, Eddy
Yes. She takes a sensible interest in triumphs of engineering skill: especially when they are to change the whole condition of an undeveloped country
Lor
Do you object
do you object, Rosa, to her feeling that interest
Object? my dear Eddy! But really, doesn't she hate boilers and things
I can answer for her not being so idiotic as to hate Boilers
though I cannot answer for her views about Things; really not understanding what Things are meant
But don't she hate Arabs, and Turks, and Fellahs, and people
Certainly not
At least she MUST hate the Pyramids? Come, Eddy
Why should she be such a little -- tall, I mean -- goose, as to hate the Pyramids, Rosa
Ah! you should hear Miss Twinkleton
bore about them, and then you wouldn't ask. Tiresome old burying-grounds! Isises, and Ibises, and Cheopses, and Pharaohses; who cares about them? And then there was Belzoni, or somebody, dragged out by the legs, half-choked with bats and dust. All the girls say: Serve him right, and hope it hurt him, and wish he had been quite choked
Well
According to custom. We can't get on, Rosa
That's a pretty sentiment, Rosa, considering
Considering what
If I say what, you'll go wrong again
YOU'LL go wrong, you mean, Eddy. Don't be ungenerous
Ungenerous! I like that
Then I DON'T like that, and so I tell you plainly
Now, Rosa, I put it to you. Who disparaged my profession, my destination
You are not going to be buried in the Pyramids, I hope
You never said you were. If you are, why haven't you mentioned it to me? I can't find out your plans by instinct
Now, Rosa, you know very well what I mean, my dear
Well then, why did you begin with your detestable red-nosed giantesses? And she would, she would, she would, she would, she WOULD powder it
Somehow or other, I never can come right in these discussions
How is it possible, sir, that you ever can come right when you're always wrong? And as to Belzoni, I suppose he's dead;-- I'm sure I hope he is -- and how can his legs or his chokes concern you
It is nearly time for your return, Rosa. We have not had a very happy walk, have we
A happy walk? A detestably unhappy walk, sir. If I go up-stairs the moment I get in and cry till I can't take my dancing lesson, you are responsible, mind
Let us be friends, Rosa
Ah
I wish we COULD be friends! It's because we can't be friends, that we try one another so. I am a young little thing, Eddy, to have an old heartache; but I really, really have, sometimes. Don't be angry. I know you have one yourself too often. We should both of us have done better, if What is to be had been left What might have been. I am quite a little serious thing now, and not teasing you. Let each of us forbear, this one time, on our own account, and on the other's
One clear word of understanding, Pussy dear. I am not clever out of my own line -- now I come to think of it, I don't know that I am particularly clever in it -- but I want to do right. There is not -- there may be -- I really don't see my way to what I want to say, but I must say it before we part -- there is not any other young
O no, Eddy! It's generous of you to ask me; but no, no, no
I fancy I can distinguish Jack's voice
Take me back at once, please
They will all be coming out directly; let us get away. O, what a resounding chord! But don't let us stop to listen to it; let us get away
Eddy, no! I'm too sticky to be kissed. But give me your hand, and I'll blow a kiss into that
Now say, what do you see
See, Rosa
Why, I thought you Egyptian boys could look into a hand and see all sorts of phantoms. Can't you see a happy Future
Mr. Jasper is come, sir
Admit him
Glad to see you, sir. I congratulate myself on having the honour of receiving you here for the first time
You are very good. The honour is mine and the self-congratulation is mine
You are pleased to say so, sir. But I do assure you that it is a satisfaction to me to receive you in my humble home. And that is what I would not say to everybody
You will not easily believe that your society can be a satisfaction to a man like myself; nevertheless, it is
I have for some time desired to know you, Mr. Sapsea
And I, sir, have long known you by reputation as a man of taste. Let me fill your glass. I will give you, sir
When the French come over, May we meet them at Dover
You can scarcely be ignorant, Mr. Sapsea
that you know the world
Well, sir
I think I know something of it; something of it
Your reputation for that knowledge has always interested and surprised me, and made me wish to know you. For Cloisterham is a little place. Cooped up in it myself, I know nothing beyond it, and feel it to be a very little place
If I have not gone to foreign countries, young man
You will excuse me calling you young man, Mr. Jasper? You are much my junior
By all means
If I have not gone to foreign countries, young man, foreign countries have come to me. They have come to me in the way of business, and I have improved upon my opportunities. Put it that I take an inventory, or make a catalogue. I see a French clock. I never saw him before, in my life, but I instantly lay my finger on him and say "Paris!" I see some cups and saucers of Chinese make, equally strangers to me personally: I put my finger on them, then and there, and I say "Pekin, Nankin, and Canton." It is the same with Japan, with Egypt, and with bamboo and sandalwood from the East Indies; I put my finger on them all. I have put my finger on the North Pole before now, and said "Spear of Esquimaux make, for half a pint of pale sherry
Really? A very remarkable way, Mr. Sapsea, of acquiring a knowledge of men and things
I mention it, sir
because, as I say, it don't do to boast of what you are; but show how you came to be it, and then you prove it
Most interesting. We were to speak of the late Mrs. Sapsea
We were, sir
Before I consult your opinion as a man of taste on this little trifle
which is BUT a trifle, and still has required some thought, sir, some little fever of the brow, I ought perhaps to describe the character of the late Mrs. Sapsea, now dead three quarters of a year
Half a dozen years ago, or so
when I had enlarged my mind up to -- I will not say to what it now is, for that might seem to aim at too much, but up to the pitch of wanting another mind to be absorbed in it -- I cast my eye about me for a nuptial partner. Because, as I say, it is not good for man to be alone
Miss Brobity at that time kept, I will not call it the rival establishment to the establishment at the Nuns' House opposite, but I will call it the other parallel establishment down town. The world did have it that she showed a passion for attending my sales, when they took place on half holidays, or in vacation time. The world did put it about, that she admired my style. The world did notice that as time flowed by, my style became traceable in the dictation-exercises of Miss Brobity's pupils. Young man, a whisper even sprang up in obscure malignity, that one ignorant and besotted Churl (a parent) so committed himself as to object to it by name. But I do not believe this. For is it likely that any human creature in his right senses would so lay himself open to be pointed at, by what I call the finger of scorn
Miss Brobity's Being, young man, was deeply imbued with homage to Mind. She revered Mind, when launched, or, as I say, precipitated, on an extensive knowledge of the world. When I made my proposal, she did me the honour to be so overshadowed with a species of Awe, as to be able to articulate only the two words, "O Thou!" meaning myself. Her limpid blue eyes were fixed upon me, her semi- transparent hands were clasped together, pallor overspread her aquiline features, and, though encouraged to proceed, she never did proceed a word further. I disposed of the parallel establishment by private contract, and we became as nearly one as could be expected under the circumstances. But she never could, and she never did, find a phrase satisfactory to her perhaps-too-favourable estimate of my intellect. To the very last (feeble action of liver), she addressed me in the same unfinished terms
Ah
men
I have been since
what you behold me; I have been since a solitary mourner; I have been since, as I say, wasting my evening conversation on the desert air. I will not say that I have reproached myself; but there have been times when I have asked myself the question: What if her husband had been nearer on a level with her? If she had not had to look up quite so high, what might the stimulating action have been upon the liver
supposes it was to be
We can only suppose so, sir
As I say, Man proposes, Heaven disposes. It may or may not be putting the same thought in another form; but that is the way I put it
And now, Mr. Jasper
Mrs. Sapsea's monument having had full time to settle and dry, let me take your opinion, as a man of taste, on the inscription I have (as I before remarked, not without some little fever of the brow) drawn out for it. Take it in your own hand. The setting out of the lines requires to be followed with the eye, as well as the contents with the mind
Durdles is come, sir
Show Durdles in
Admirable
You approve, sir
Impossible not to approve. Striking, characteristic, and complete
Durdles come upon the old chap
by striking right into the coffin with his pick. The old chap gave Durdles a look with his open eyes, as much as to say, "Is your name Durdles? Why, my man, I've been waiting for you a devil of a time!" And then he turned to powder
un in here
This is for the monument, is it, Mr. Sapsea
The Inscription. Yes
It'll come in to a eighth of a inch
Your servant, Mr. Jasper. Hope I see you well
How are you Durdles
I've got a touch of the Tombatism on me, Mr. Jasper, but that I must expect
You mean the Rheumatism
No, I don't. I mean, Mr. Sapsea, the Tombatism. It's another sort from Rheumatism. Mr. Jasper knows what Durdles means. You get among them Tombs afore it's well light on a winter morning, and keep on, as the Catechism says, a-walking in the same all the days of your life, and YOU'LL know what Durdles means
It is a bitter cold place
uns
Durdles leaves you to judge.-- Is this to be put in hand at once, Mr. Sapsea
You had better let me have the key then
Why, man, it is not to be put inside the monument
Durdles knows where it's to be put, Mr. Sapsea; no man better. Ask 'ere a man in Cloisterham whether Durdles knows his work
When Durdles puts a touch or a finish upon his work, no matter where, inside or outside, Durdles likes to look at his work all round, and see that his work is a-doing him credit
Why, Durdles
you are undermined with pockets
And I carries weight in 'em too, Mr. Jasper. Feel those
Hand me Mr. Sapsea's likewise. Surely this is the heaviest of the three
You'll find 'em much of a muchness, I expect
They all belong to monuments. They all open Durdles's work. Durdles keeps the keys of his work mostly. Not that they're much used
By the bye
I have been going to ask you, many a day, and have always forgotten. You know they sometimes call you Stony Durdles, don't you
Cloisterham knows me as Durdles, Mr. Jasper
I am aware of that, of course. But the boys sometimes
O! if you mind them young imps of boys
I don't mind them any more than you do. But there was a discussion the other day among the Choir, whether Stony stood for Tony
Take care of the wards, Mr. Jasper
Or whether Stony stood for Stephen
You can't make a pitch pipe of 'em, Mr. Jasper
Or whether the name comes from your trade. How stands the fact
Mulled agin
What are you doing to the man
Making a cock-shy of him
Give me those stones in your hand
Yes, I'll give 'em you down your throat, if you come a-ketching hold of me
I'll smash your eye, if you don't look out
Baby-Devil that you are, what has the man done to you
He won't go home
What is that to you
He gives me a 'apenny to pelt him home if I ketches him out too late
Widdy widdy wen! I -- ket -- ches -- Im -- out -- ar -- ter -- ten, Widdy widdy wy! Then -- E -- don't -- go -- then -- I -- shy - Widdy Widdy Wake-cock warning
Do you know this thing, this child
Deputy
Is that its -- his -- name
Deputy
I'm man-servant up at the Travellers' Twopenny in Gas Works Garding
All us man-servants at Travellers' Lodgings is named Deputy. When we're chock full and the Travellers is all a-bed I come out for my 'elth
Widdy widdy wen! I -- ket -- ches -- Im -- out -- ar -- ter
Hold your hand
and don't throw while I stand so near him, or I'll kill you! Come, Durdles; let me walk home with you to-night. Shall I carry your bundle
Not on any account
Durdles was making his reflections here when you come up, sir, surrounded by his works, like a poplar Author.-- Your own brother-in-law;' introducing a sarcophagus within the railing, white and cold in the moonlight. 'Mrs. Sapsea;' introducing the monument of that devoted wife. 'Late Incumbent;' introducing the Reverend Gentleman's broken column. 'Departed Assessed Taxes
Former pastrycook and Muffin-maker, much respected;' introducing gravestone. 'All safe and sound here, sir, and all Durdles's work. Of the common folk, that is merely bundled up in turf and brambles, the less said the better. A poor lot, soon forgot
This creature, Deputy, is behind us
Is he to follow us
You never cried Widdy Warning before you begun to-night
Yer lie, I did
Own brother, sir
own brother to Peter the Wild Boy! But I gave him an object in life
At which he takes aim
That's it, sir
at which he takes aim. I took him in hand and gave him an object. What was he before? A destroyer. What work did he do? Nothing but destruction. What did he earn by it? Short terms in Cloisterham jail. Not a person, not a piece of property, not a winder, not a horse, nor a dog, nor a cat, nor a bird, nor a fowl, nor a pig, but what he stoned, for want of an enlightened object. I put that enlightened object before him, and now he can turn his honest halfpenny by the three penn'orth a week
I wonder he has no competitors
He has plenty, Mr. Jasper, but he stones 'em all away. Now, I don't know what this scheme of mine comes to
I don't know what you may precisely call it. It ain't a sort of a -- scheme of a- -National Education
I should say not
I should say not
then we won't try to give it a name
He still keeps behind us
is he to follow us
We can't help going round by the Travellers' Twopenny, if we go the short way, which is the back way
and we'll drop him there
Is there anything new down in the crypt, Durdles
Anything old, I think you mean
It ain't a spot for novelty
Any new discovery on your part, I meant
uns! Two on 'em meeting promiscuous must have hitched one another by the mitre pretty often, I should say
Yours is a curious existence
Yours is another
prentice, under you, and to let me go about with you sometimes, and see some of these odd nooks in which you pass your days
All right. Everybody knows where to find Durdles, when he's wanted
What I dwell upon most
is the remarkable accuracy with which you would seem to find out where people are buried.-- What is the matter? That bundle is in your way; let me hold it
Just you give me my hammer out of that
and I'll show you
Now, lookee here. You pitch your note, don't you, Mr. Jasper
Yes
So I sound for mine. I take my hammer, and I tap
un crumbled away in stone coffin, in vault
Astonishing
I have even done this
Say that hammer of mine's a wall -- my work. Two; four; and two is six
Six foot inside that wall is Mrs. Sapsea
Not really Mrs. Sapsea
Say Mrs. Sapsea. Her wall's thicker, but say Mrs. Sapsea. Durdles taps, that wall represented by that hammer, and says, after good sounding: "Something betwixt us!" Sure enough, some rubbish has been left in that same six-foot space by Durdles's men
is a gift
I wouldn't have it at a gift
I worked it out for myself. Durdles comes by HIS knowledge through grubbing deep for it, and having it up by the roots when it don't want to come.-- Holloa you Deputy
Widdy
Warning
Stop, you young brutes
and let us go by
they haven't got an object
Wake-Cock! Warning
I say, every morning of my life, that you'll do it at last, Sept
and so you will
Do what, Ma dear
Break the pier-glass, or burst a blood-vessel
Neither, please God, Ma dear. Here's wind, Ma. Look at this
My Sept
And what, Ma dear
does the letter say
It's from Mr. Honeythunder, of course
Of course
Haven of Philanthropy, Chief Offices, London, Wednesday. '"DEAR MADAM, 

' "I write in the --;" In the what's this? What does he write in
In the chair
Why, what should he write in
Bless me, bless me, Sept
you don't see the context! Give it back to me, my dear
I write
from the chair, to which I shall probably be confined for some hours
We have
a meeting of our Convened Chief Composite Committee of Central and District Philanthropists, at our Head Haven as above; and it is their unanimous pleasure that I take the chair
O! if he comes to THAT, let him
Not to lose a day's post, I take the opportunity of a long report being read, denouncing a public miscreant
It is a most extraordinary thing
that these Philanthropists are always denouncing somebody. And it is another most extraordinary thing that they are always so violently flush of miscreants
Denouncing a public miscreant
to get our little affair of business off my mind. I have spoken with my two wards, Neville and Helena Landless, on the subject of their defective education, and they give in to the plan proposed; as I should have taken good care they did, whether they liked it or not
And it is another most extraordinary thing
that these philanthropists are so given to seizing their fellow-creatures by the scruff of the neck, and (as one may say) bumping them into the paths of peace.-- I beg your pardon, Ma dear, for interrupting
Therefore, dear Madam, you will please prepare your son, the Rev. Mr. Septimus, to expect Neville as an inmate to be read with, on Monday next. On the same day Helena will accompany him to Cloisterham, to take up her quarters at the Nuns' House, the establishment recommended by yourself and son jointly. Please likewise to prepare for her reception and tuition there. The terms in both cases are understood to be exactly as stated to me in writing by yourself, when I opened a correspondence with you on this subject, after the honour of being introduced to you at your sister's house in town here. With compliments to the Rev. Mr. Septimus, I am, Dear Madam, Your affectionate brother (In Philanthropy), LUKE HONEYTHUNDER
Well, Ma
we must try it. There can be no doubt that we have room for an inmate, and that I have time to bestow upon him, and inclination too. I must confess to feeling rather glad that he is not Mr. Honeythunder himself. Though that seems wretchedly prejudiced -- does it not?-- for I never saw him. Is he a large man, Ma
I should call him a large man, my dear
but that his voice is so much larger
Than himself
Than anybody
Hah
I am sure you will agree with me, Ma
that the first thing to be done, is, to put these young people as much at their ease as possible. There is nothing disinterested in the notion, because we cannot be at our ease with them unless they are at their ease with us. Now, Jasper's nephew is down here at present; and like takes to like, and youth takes to youth. He is a cordial young fellow, and we will have him to meet the brother and sister at dinner. That's three. We can't think of asking him, without asking Jasper. That's four. Add Miss Twinkleton and the fairy bride that is to be, and that's six. Add our two selves, and that's eight. Would eight at a friendly dinner at all put you out, Ma
Nine would, Sept
My dear Ma, I particularise eight
The exact size of the table and the room, my dear
Beware of the Dog
Is this Cloisterham
It is
And I never was so glad to see it
Tell your master to make his box-seat wider, then
Your master is morally bound -- and ought to be legally, under ruinous penalties -- to provide for the comfort of his fellow- man
Have I sat upon you
You have
Take that card, my friend
I think I won't deprive you on it
What's the good of it to me
Be a Member of that Society
What shall I get by it
Brotherhood
Thankee
my mother was contented with myself, and so am I. I don't want no brothers
But you must have them
whether you like it or not. I am your brother
I say
not too fur! The worm WILL, when
Joe, Joe, Joe! don't forget yourself, Joe, my good fellow
Mr. Honeythunder
That is my name, sir
My name is Crisparkle
Reverend Mr. Septimus? Glad to see you, sir. Neville and Helena are inside. Having a little succumbed of late, under the pressure of my public labours, I thought I would take a mouthful of fresh air, and come down with them, and return at night. So you are the Reverend Mr. Septimus, are you
Hah! I expected to see you older, sir
I hope you will
Eh
Only a poor little joke. Not worth repeating
Joke? Ay; I never see a joke
A joke is wasted upon me, sir. Where are they? Helena and Neville, come here! Mr. Crisparkle has come down to meet you
Curse your souls and bodies, come here and be blessed
That this assembled Body of Professing Philanthropists views, with indignant scorn and contempt, not unmixed with utter detestation and loathing abhorrence
And will you, sir, now stultify yourself by telling me
Now see, sir, to what a position you are reduced. I will leave you no escape. After exhausting all the resources of fraud and falsehood, during years upon years; after exhibiting a combination of dastardly meanness with ensanguined daring, such as the world has not often witnessed; you have now the hypocrisy to bend the knee before the most degraded of mankind, and to sue and whine and howl for mercy
I know very little of that gentleman, sir
You know very little of your guardian
Almost nothing
How came he
To BE my guardian? I'll tell you, sir. I suppose you know that we come (my sister and I) from Ceylon
Indeed, no
I wonder at that. We lived with a stepfather there. Our mother died there, when we were little children. We have had a wretched existence. She made him our guardian, and he was a miserly wretch who grudged us food to eat, and clothes to wear. At his death, he passed us over to this man; for no better reason that I know of, than his being a friend or connexion of his, whose name was always in print and catching his attention
That was lately, I suppose
Quite lately, sir. This stepfather of ours was a cruel brute as well as a grinding one. It is well he died when he did, or I might have killed him
I surprise you, sir
You shock me; unspeakably shock me
You never saw him beat your sister. I have seen him beat mine, more than once or twice, and I never forgot it
Nothing
not even a beloved and beautiful sister's tears under dastardly ill-usage
could justify those horrible expressions that you used
I am sorry I used them, and especially to you, sir. I beg to recall them. But permit me to set you right on one point. You spoke of my sister's tears. My sister would have let him tear her to pieces, before she would have let him believe that he could make her shed a tear
Perhaps you will think it strange, sir
that I should so soon ask you to allow me to confide in you, and to have the kindness to hear a word or two from me in my defence
Defence
You are not on your defence, Mr. Neville
I think I am, sir. At least I know I should be, if you were better acquainted with my character
Well, Mr. Neville
What if you leave me to find it out
Since it is your pleasure, sir
since it is your pleasure to check me in my impulse, I must submit
Let us turn back and take a turn or two up and down, Mr. Neville, or you may not have time to finish what you wish to say to me. You are hasty in thinking that I mean to check you. Quite the contrary. I invite your confidence
You have invited it, sir, without knowing it, ever since I came here. I say "ever since," as if I had been here a week. The truth is, we came here (my sister and I) to quarrel with you, and affront you, and break away again
Really
You see, we could not know what you were beforehand, sir; could we
Clearly not
And having liked no one else with whom we have ever been brought into contact, we had made up our minds not to like you
Really
But we do like you, sir, and we see an unmistakable difference between your house and your reception of us, and anything else we have ever known. This -- and my happening to be alone with you -- and everything around us seeming so quiet and peaceful after Mr. Honeythunder's departure -- and Cloisterham being so old and grave and beautiful, with the moon shining on it -- these things inclined me to open my heart
I quite understand, Mr. Neville. And it is salutary to listen to such influences
In describing my own imperfections, sir, I must ask you not to suppose that I am describing my sister's. She has come out of the disadvantages of our miserable life, as much better than I am, as that Cathedral tower is higher than those chimneys
I have had, sir, from my earliest remembrance, to suppress a deadly and bitter hatred. This has made me secret and revengeful. I have been always tyrannically held down by the strong hand. This has driven me, in my weakness, to the resource of being false and mean. I have been stinted of education, liberty, money, dress, the very necessaries of life, the commonest pleasures of childhood, the commonest possessions of youth. This has caused me to be utterly wanting in I don't know what emotions, or remembrances, or good instincts -- I have not even a name for the thing, you see!-- that you have had to work upon in other young men to whom you have been accustomed
This is evidently true. But this is not encouraging
And to finish with, sir: I have been brought up among abject and servile dependents, of an inferior race, and I may easily have contracted some affinity with them. Sometimes, I don't know but that it may be a drop of what is tigerish in their blood
As in the case of that remark just now
In a last word of reference to my sister, sir (we are twin children), you ought to know, to her honour, that nothing in our misery ever subdued her, though it often cowed me. When we ran away from it (we ran away four times in six years, to be soon brought back and cruelly punished), the flight was always of her planning and leading. Each time she dressed as a boy, and showed the daring of a man. I take it we were seven years old when we first decamped; but I remember, when I lost the pocket-knife with which she was to have cut her hair short, how desperately she tried to tear it out, or bite it off. I have nothing further to say, sir, except that I hope you will bear with me and make allowance for me
Of that, Mr. Neville, you may be sure
I don't preach more than I can help, and I will not repay your confidence with a sermon. But I entreat you to bear in mind, very seriously and steadily, that if I am to do you any good, it can only be with your own assistance; and that you can only render that, efficiently, by seeking aid from Heaven
I will try to do my part, sir
And, Mr. Neville, I will try to do mine. Here is my hand on it. May God bless our endeavours
We will take one more turn before going in
for I want to ask you a question. When you said you were in a changed mind concerning me, you spoke, not only for yourself, but for your sister too
Undoubtedly I did, sir
Excuse me, Mr. Neville, but I think you have had no opportunity of communicating with your sister, since I met you. Mr. Honeythunder was very eloquent; but perhaps I may venture to say, without ill- nature, that he rather monopolised the occasion. May you not have answered for your sister without sufficient warrant
You don't know, sir, yet, what a complete understanding can exist between my sister and me, though no spoken word -- perhaps hardly as much as a look -- may have passed between us. She not only feels as I have described, but she very well knows that I am taking this opportunity of speaking to you, both for her and for myself
I will ask for one more turn, sir, this time
But for Mr. Honeythunder's -- I think you called it eloquence, sir
I -- yes, I called it eloquence
But for Mr. Honeythunder's eloquence, I might have had no need to ask you what I am going to ask you. This Mr. Edwin Drood, sir: I think that's the name
Quite correct
D-r-double o-d
Does he -- or did he -- read with you, sir
Never, Mr. Neville. He comes here visiting his relation, Mr. Jasper
Is Miss Bud his relation too, sir
Now, why should he ask that, with sudden superciliousness
O! THAT'S it, is it
I understand his air of proprietorship now
I can't bear this! I am frightened! Take me away
It's nothing; it's all over; don't speak to her for one minute, and she is well
Pussy's not used to an audience; that's the fact
She got nervous, and couldn't hold out. Besides, Jack, you are such a conscientious master, and require so much, that I believe you make her afraid of you. No wonder
No wonder
There, Jack, you hear! You would be afraid of him, under similar circumstances, wouldn't you, Miss Landless
Not under any circumstances
Jack's gone, Pussy
I am more than half afraid he didn't like to be charged with being the Monster who had frightened you
This is a blessed relief, my dear
I have been dreading all day, that I should be brought to bay at this time
There are not many of us
and we are good-natured girls; at least the others are; I can answer for them
I can answer for you
You will be a friend to me, won't you
I hope so. But the idea of my being a friend to you seems too absurd, though
Why
O, I am such a mite of a thing, and you are so womanly and handsome. You seem to have resolution and power enough to crush me. I shrink into nothing by the side of your presence even
I am a neglected creature, my dear, unacquainted with all accomplishments, sensitively conscious that I have everything to learn, and deeply ashamed to own my ignorance
And yet you acknowledge everything to me
My pretty one, can I help it? There is a fascination in you
O! is there though
What a pity Master Eddy doesn't feel it more
Why, surely he must love you with all his heart
Eh? O, well, I suppose he does
I am sure I have no right to say he doesn't. Perhaps it's my fault. Perhaps I am not as nice to him as I ought to be. I don't think I am. But it IS so ridiculous
WE are
We are such a ridiculous couple. And we are always quarrelling
Why
Because we both know we are ridiculous, my dear
You will be my friend and help me
Indeed, my dear, I will
I will be as good a friend as such a mite of a thing can be to such a noble creature as you. And be a friend to me, please; I don't understand myself: and I want a friend who can understand me, very much indeed
Who is Mr. Jasper
Eddy's uncle, and my music-master
You do not love him
Ugh
You know that he loves you
O, don't, don't, don't
Don't tell me of it! He terrifies me. He haunts my thoughts, like a dreadful ghost. I feel that I am never safe from him. I feel as if he could pass in through the wall when he is spoken of
Try to tell me more about it, darling
Yes, I will, I will. Because you are so strong. But hold me the while, and stay with me afterwards
My child! You speak as if he had threatened you in some dark way
He has never spoken to me about -- that. Never
What has he done
He has made a slave of me with his looks. He has forced me to understand him, without his saying a word; and he has forced me to keep silence, without his uttering a threat. When I play, he never moves his eyes from my hands. When I sing, he never moves his eyes from my lips. When he corrects me, and strikes a note, or a chord, or plays a passage, he himself is in the sounds, whispering that he pursues me as a lover, and commanding me to keep his secret. I avoid his eyes, but he forces me to see them without looking at them. Even when a glaze comes over them (which is sometimes the case), and he seems to wander away into a frightful sort of dream in which he threatens most, he obliges me to know it, and to know that he is sitting close at my side, more terrible to me than ever
What is this imagined threatening, pretty one? What is threatened
I don't know. I have never even dared to think or wonder what it is
And was this all, to-night
This was all; except that to-night when he watched my lips so closely as I was singing, besides feeling terrified I felt ashamed and passionately hurt. It was as if he kissed me, and I couldn't bear it, but cried out. You must never breathe this to any one. Eddy is devoted to him. But you said to-night that you would not be afraid of him, under any circumstances, and that gives me -- who am so much afraid of him -- courage to tell only you. Hold me! Stay with me! I am too frightened to be left by myself
Do you stay here long, Mr. Drood
Not this time
I leave for London again, to-morrow. But I shall be here, off and on, until next Midsummer; then I shall take my leave of Cloisterham, and England too; for many a long day, I expect
Are you going abroad
Going to wake up Egypt a little
Are you reading
Reading
No. Doing, working, engineering. My small patrimony was left a part of the capital of the Firm I am with, by my father, a former partner; and I am a charge upon the Firm until I come of age; and then I step into my modest share in the concern. Jack -- you met him at dinner -- is, until then, my guardian and trustee
I heard from Mr. Crisparkle of your other good fortune
What do you mean by my other good fortune
I hope
there is no offence, Mr. Drood, in my innocently referring to your betrothal
By George
everybody in this chattering old Cloisterham refers to it I wonder no public-house has been set up, with my portrait for the sign of The Betrothed's Head. Or Pussy's portrait. One or the other
I am not accountable for Mr. Crisparkle's mentioning the matter to me, quite openly
No; that's true; you are not
But
I am accountable for mentioning it to you. And I did so, on the supposition that you could not fail to be highly proud of it
I don't know, Mr. Neville' (adopting that mode of address from Mr. Crisparkle), 'that what people are proudest of, they usually talk most about; I don't know either, that what they are proudest of, they most like other people to talk about. But I live a busy life, and I speak under correction by you readers, who ought to know everything, and I daresay do
It does not seem to me very civil in you
to reflect upon a stranger who comes here, not having had your advantages, to try to make up for lost time. But, to be sure, I was not brought up in "busy life," and my ideas of civility were formed among Heathens
Perhaps, the best civility, whatever kind of people we are brought up among
is to mind our own business. If you will set me that example, I promise to follow it
Do you know that you take a great deal too much upon yourself
and that in the part of the world I come from, you would be called to account for it
By whom, for instance
Ned, Ned, Ned
we must have no more of this. I don't like this. I have overheard high words between you two. Remember, my dear boy, you are almost in the position of host to-night. You belong, as it were, to the place, and in a manner represent it towards a stranger. Mr. Neville is a stranger, and you should respect the obligations of hospitality. And, Mr. Neville
you will pardon me; but I appeal to you to govern your temper too. Now, what is amiss? But why ask! Let there be nothing amiss, and the question is superfluous. We are all three on a good understanding, are we not
So far as I am concerned, Jack, there is no anger in me
Nor in me
But if Mr. Drood knew all that lies behind me, far away from here, he might know better how it is that sharp- edged words have sharp edges to wound me
Perhaps
we had better not qualify our good understanding. We had better not say anything having the appearance of a remonstrance or condition; it might not seem generous. Frankly and freely, you see there is no anger in Ned. Frankly and freely, there is no anger in you, Mr. Neville
None at all, Mr. Jasper
All over then! Now, my bachelor gatehouse is a few yards from here, and the heater is on the fire, and the wine and glasses are on the table, and it is not a stone's throw from Minor Canon Corner. Ned, you are up and away to-morrow. We will carry Mr. Neville in with us, to take a stirrup-cup
With all my heart, Jack
And with all mine, Mr. Jasper
You recognise that picture, Mr. Neville
I recognise it, but it is far from flattering the original
O, you are hard upon it! It was done by Ned, who made me a present of it
I am sorry for that, Mr. Drood
if I had known I was in the artist's presence
O, a joke, sir, a mere joke
A little humouring of Pussy's points! I'm going to paint her gravely, one of these days, if she's good
I suppose, Mr. Neville
I suppose that if you painted the picture of your lady love
I can't paint
That's your misfortune, and not your fault. You would if you could. But if you could, I suppose you would make her (no matter what she was in reality), Juno, Minerva, Diana, and Venus, all in one. Eh
I have no lady love, and I can't say
If I were to try my hand
on a portrait of Miss Landless -- in earnest, mind you; in earnest -- you should see what I could do
My sister's consent to sit for it being first got, I suppose? As it never will be got, I am afraid I shall never see what you can do. I must bear the loss
Come, Mr. Neville, we are to drink to my nephew, Ned. As it is his foot that is in the stirrup -- metaphorically -- our stirrup-cup is to be devoted to him. Ned, my dearest fellow, my love
Thank you both very much
Look at him
See where he lounges so easily, Mr. Neville! The world is all before him where to choose. A life of stirring work and interest, a life of change and excitement, a life of domestic ease and love! Look at him
See how little he heeds it all
It is hardly worth his while to pluck the golden fruit that hangs ripe on the tree for him. And yet consider the contrast, Mr. Neville. You and I have no prospect of stirring work and interest, or of change and excitement, or of domestic ease and love. You and I have no prospect (unless you are more fortunate than I am, which may easily be), but the tedious unchanging round of this dull place
Upon my soul, Jack
I feel quite apologetic for having my way smoothed as you describe. But you know what I know, Jack, and it may not be so very easy as it seems, after all. May it, Pussy
We have got to hit it off yet; haven't we, Pussy? You know what I mean, Jack
It might have been better for Mr. Drood to have known some hardships
Pray
pray why might it have been better for Mr. Drood to have known some hardships
Ay
let us know why
Because they might have made him more sensible
of good fortune that is not by any means necessarily the result of his own merits
Have YOU known hardships, may I ask
I have
And what have they made you sensible of
I have told you once before to-night
You have done nothing of the sort
I tell you I have. That you take a great deal too much upon yourself
You added something else to that, if I remember
Yes, I did say something else
Say it again
I said that in the part of the world I come from, you would be called to account for it
Only there
A long way off, I believe? Yes; I see! That part of the world is at a safe distance
Say here, then
Say anywhere! Your vanity is intolerable, your conceit is beyond endurance; you talk as if you were some rare and precious prize, instead of a common boaster. You are a common fellow, and a common boaster
Pooh, pooh
how should you know? You may know a black common fellow, or a black common boaster, when you see him (and no doubt you have a large acquaintance that way); but you are no judge of white men
Ned, my dear fellow
I entreat you, I command you, to be still
Mr. Neville, for shame! Give this glass to me. Open your hand, sir. I WILL have it
Mr. Neville! In this disorder! Where have you been
I have been to Mr. Jasper's, sir. With his nephew
Come in
I have begun ill, sir. I have begun dreadfully ill
Too true. You are not sober, Mr. Neville
I am afraid I am not, sir, though I can satisfy you at another time that I have had a very little indeed to drink, and that it overcame me in the strangest and most sudden manner
Mr. Neville, Mr. Neville
I have heard that said before
I think -- my mind is much confused, but I think -- it is equally true of Mr. Jasper's nephew, sir
Very likely
We quarrelled, sir. He insulted me most grossly. He had heated that tigerish blood I told you of to-day, before then
Mr. Neville
I request you not to speak to me with that clenched right hand. Unclench it, if you please
He goaded me, sir
beyond my power of endurance. I cannot say whether or no he meant it at first, but he did it. He certainly meant it at last. In short, sir
in the passion into which he lashed me, I would have cut him down if I could, and I tried to do it
You have clenched that hand again
I beg your pardon, sir
You know your room, for I showed it you before dinner; but I will accompany you to it once more. Your arm, if you please. Softly, for the house is all a-bed
Good night
We have had an awful scene with him
Has it been so bad as that
Murderous
No, no, no. Do not use such strong words
He might have laid my dear boy dead at my feet. It is no fault of his, that he did not. But that I was, through the mercy of God, swift and strong with him, he would have cut him down on my hearth
Ah
his own words
Seeing what I have seen to-night, and hearing what I have heard
I shall never know peace of mind when there is danger of those two coming together, with no one else to interfere. It was horrible. There is something of the tiger in his dark blood
Ah
so he said
You, my dear sir
even you, have accepted a dangerous charge
You need have no fear for me, Jasper
I have none for myself
I have none for myself
because I am not, nor am I in the way of being, the object of his hostility. But you may be, and my dear boy has been. Good night
some other words between them
the apartment allotted to study
Ladies
who drew The celebrated Jew
I really cannot be worried to finish off this man; let him go as he is
My dear, how do you do? I am glad to see you. My dear, how much improved you are. Permit me to hand you a chair, my dear
Will you permit me to retire
By no means, madam, on my account. I beg that you will not move
I must entreat permission to MOVE
but I will not withdraw, since you are so obliging. If I wheel my desk to this corner window, shall I be in the way
Madam! In the way
You are very kind.-- Rosa, my dear, you will be under no restraint, I am sure
My dear, how do you do? I am glad to see you, my dear
My visits
are, like those of the angels -- not that I compare myself to an angel
No, sir
Not by any means
I merely refer to my visits, which are few and far between. The angels are, we know very well, up-stairs
I refer, my dear
I refer to the other young ladies
I made
I made a guiding memorandum or so -- as I usually do, for I have no conversational powers whatever -- to which I will, with your permission, my dear, refer. "Well and happy." Truly. You are well and happy, my dear? You look so
Yes, indeed, sir
For which
our warmest acknowledgments are due, and I am sure are rendered, to the maternal kindness and the constant care and consideration of the lady whom I have now the honour to see before me
well and happy
Pounds, shillings, and pence," is my next note. A dry subject for a young lady, but an important subject too. Life is pounds, shillings, and pence. Death is --' A sudden recollection of the death of her two parents seemed to stop him, and he said in a softer tone, and evidently inserting the negative as an after- thought: 'Death is NOT pounds, shillings, and pence
Pounds, shillings, and pence." You find your allowance always sufficient for your wants, my dear
And you are not in debt
Ah
I spoke of having got among the angels! So I did
Marriage." Hem
I now touch, my dear, upon the point that is the direct cause of my troubling you with the present visit. Othenwise, being a particularly Angular man, I should not have intruded here. I am the last man to intrude into a sphere for which I am so entirely unfitted. I feel, on these premises, as if I was a bear -- with the cramp -- in a youthful Cotillon
It strikes you in the same light
Just so. To return to my memorandum. Mr. Edwin has been to and fro here, as was arranged. You have mentioned that, in your quarterly letters to me. And you like him, and he likes you
I LIKE him very much, sir
So I said, my dear
Good. And you correspond
We write to one another
Such is the meaning that I attach to the word "correspond" in this application, my dear
Good. All goes well, time works on, and at this next Christmas-time it will become necessary, as a matter of form, to give the exemplary lady in the corner window, to whom we are so much indebted, business notice of your departure in the ensuing half-year. Your relations with her are far more than business relations, no doubt; but a residue of business remains in them, and business is business ever. I am a particularly Angular man
and I am not used to give anything away. If, for these two reasons, some competent Proxy would give YOU away, I should take it very kindly
Surely, surely
For instance, the gentleman who teaches Dancing here -- he would know how to do it with graceful propriety. He would advance and retire in a manner satisfactory to the feelings of the officiating clergyman, and of yourself, and the bridegroom, and all parties concerned. I am -- I am a particularly Angular man
and should only blunder
Memorandum, "Will." Now, my dear
Marriage' with his pencil, and taking a paper from his pocket; 'although. I have before possessed you with the contents of your father's will, I think it right at this time to leave a certified copy of it in your hands. And although Mr. Edwin is also aware of its contents, I think it right at this time likewise to place a certified copy of it in Mr. Jasper's hand
Not in his own
Cannot the copy go to Eddy himself
Why, yes, my dear, if you particularly wish it; but I spoke of Mr. Jasper as being his trustee
I do particularly wish it, if you please
I don't like Mr. Jasper to come between us, in any way
It is natural, I suppose
that your young husband should be all in all. Yes. You observe that I say, I suppose. The fact is, I am a particularly Unnatural man, and I don't know from my own knowledge
I mean
that young ways were never my ways. I was the only offspring of parents far advanced in life, and I half believe I was born advanced in life myself. No personality is intended towards the name you will so soon change, when I remark that while the general growth of people seem to have come into existence, buds, I seem to have come into existence a chip. I was a chip -- and a very dry one -- when I first became aware of myself. Respecting the other certified copy, your wish shall be complied with. Respecting your inheritance, I think you know all. It is an annuity of two hundred and fifty pounds. The savings upon that annuity, and some other items to your credit, all duly carried to account, with vouchers, will place you in possession of a lump-sum of money, rather exceeding Seventeen Hundred Pounds. I am empowered to advance the cost of your preparations for your marriage out of that fund. All is told
Will you please tell me
whether I am right in what I am going to say? I can understand what you tell me, so very much better than what I read in law-writings. My poor papa and Eddy's father made their agreement together, as very dear and firm and fast friends, in order that we, too, might be very dear and firm and fast friends after them
Just so
For the lasting good of both of us, and the lasting happiness of both of us
Just so
That we might be to one another even much more than they had been to one another
Just so
It was not bound upon Eddy, and it was not bound upon me, by any forfeit, in case
Don't be agitated, my dear. In the case that it brings tears into your affectionate eyes even to picture to yourself -- in the case of your not marrying one another -- no, no forfeiture on either side. You would then have been my ward until you were of age. No worse would have befallen you. Bad enough perhaps
And Eddy
He would have come into his partnership derived from his father, and into its arrears to his credit (if any), on attaining his majority, just as now
In short
this betrothal is a wish, a sentiment, a friendly project, tenderly expressed on both sides. That it was strongly felt, and that there was a lively hope that it would prosper, there can be no doubt. When you were both children, you began to be accustomed to it, and it HAS prospered. But circumstances alter cases; and I made this visit to-day, partly, indeed principally, to discharge myself of the duty of telling you, my dear, that two young people can only be betrothed in marriage (except as a matter of convenience, and therefore mockery and misery) of their own free will, their own attachment, and their own assurance (it may or it may not prove a mistaken one, but we must take our chance of that), that they are suited to each other, and will make each other happy. Is it to be supposed, for example, that if either of your fathers were living now, and had any mistrust on that subject, his mind would not be changed by the change of circumstances involved in the change of your years? Untenable, unreasonable, inconclusive, and preposterous
I have now, my dear
Will' with his pencil, 'discharged myself of what is doubtless a formal duty in this case, but still a duty in such a case. Memorandum, "Wishes." My dear, is there any wish of yours that I can further
Is there any instruction that I can take from you with reference to your affairs
I -- I should like to settle them with Eddy first, if you please
Surely, surely
You two should be of one mind in all things. Is the young gentleman expected shortly
He has gone away only this morning. He will be back at Christmas
Nothing could happen better. You will, on his return at Christmas, arrange all matters of detail with him; you will then communicate with me; and I will discharge myself (as a mere business acquaintance) of my business responsibilities towards the accomplished lady in the corner window. They will accrue at that season
Memorandum, "Leave." Yes. I will now, my dear, take my leave
Could I
could I ask you, most kindly to come to me at Christmas, if I had anything particular to say to you
Why, certainly, certainly
As a particularly Angular man, I do not fit smoothly into the social circle, and consequently I have no other engagement at Christmas-time than to partake, on the twenty-fifth, of a boiled turkey and celery sauce with a -- with a particularly Angular clerk I have the good fortune to possess, whose father, being a Norfolk farmer, sends him up (the turkey up), as a present to me, from the neighbourhood of Norwich. I should be quite proud of your wishing to see me, my dear. As a professional Receiver of rents, so very few people DO wish to see me, that the novelty would be bracing
Lord bless me
Thank you, my dear! The honour is almost equal to the pleasure. Miss Twinkleton, madam, I have had a most satisfactory conversation with my ward, and I will now release you from the incumbrance of my presence
Nay, sir
say not incumbrance. Not so, by any means. I cannot permit you to say so
Thank you, madam. I have read in the newspapers
that when a distinguished visitor (not that I am one: far from it) goes to a school (not that this is one: far from it), he asks for a holiday, or some sort of grace. It being now the afternoon in the -- College -- of which you are the eminent head, the young ladies might gain nothing, except in name, by having the rest of the day allowed them. But if there is any young lady at all under a cloud, might I solicit
Ah, Mr. Grewgious, Mr. Grewgious
O you gentlemen, you gentlemen! Fie for shame, that you are so hard upon us poor maligned disciplinarians of our sex, for your sakes! But as Miss Ferdinand is at present weighed down by an
go to her, Rosa my dear, and tell her the penalty is remitted, in deference to the intercession of your guardian, Mr. Grewgious
Cathedral
Dear me
it's like looking down the throat of Old Time
Nothing is the matter
You have not been sent for
Not at all, not at all. I came down of my own accord. I have been to my pretty ward's, and am now homeward bound again
You found her thriving
Blooming indeed. Most blooming. I merely came to tell her, seriously, what a betrothal by deceased parents is
And what is it -- according to your judgment
I merely came to tell her that it could not be considered binding, against any such reason for its dissolution as a want of affection, or want of disposition to carry it into effect, on the side of either party
May I ask, had you any especial reason for telling her that
The especial reason of doing my duty, sir. Simply that
Come, Mr. Jasper; I know your affection for your nephew, and that you are quick to feel on his behalf. I assure you that this implies not the least doubt of, or disrespect to, your nephew
You could not
speak more handsomely
I will wager
I will wager that she hinted no wish to be released from Ned
And you will win your wager, if you do
We should allow some margin for little maidenly delicacies in a young motherless creature, under such circumstances, I suppose; it is not in my line; what do you think
There can be no doubt of it
I am glad you say so. Because
because she seems to have some little delicate instinct that all preliminary arrangements had best be made between Mr. Edwin Drood and herself, don't you see? She don't want us, don't you know
You mean me
I mean us. Therefore, let them have their little discussions and councils together, when Mr. Edwin Drood comes back here at Christmas; and then you and I will step in, and put the final touches to the business
So, you settled with her that you would come back at Christmas
I see! Mr. Grewgious, as you quite fairly said just now, there is such an exceptional attachment between my nephew and me, that I am more sensitive for the dear, fortunate, happy, happy fellow than for myself. But it is only right that the young lady should be considered, as you have pointed out, and that I should accept my cue from you. I accept it. I understand that at Christmas they will complete their preparations for May, and that their marriage will be put in final train by themselves, and that nothing will remain for us but to put ourselves in train also, and have everything ready for our formal release from our trusts, on Edwin's birthday
That is my understanding
God bless them both
God save them both
I said, bless them
I said, save them
Is there any difference
Now, don't you think, Ma dear
that you are rather hard on Mr. Neville
No, I do NOT, Sept
Let us discuss it, Ma
I have no objection to discuss it, Sept. I trust, my dear, I am always open to discussion
and I should like to see the discussion that would change MY mind
Very good, Ma
There is nothing like being open to discussion
I hope not, my dear
Well! Mr. Neville, on that unfortunate occasion, commits himself under provocation
And under mulled wine
I must admit the wine. Though I believe the two young men were much alike in that regard
I don't
Why not, Ma
Because I DON'T
Still, I am quite open to discussion
But, my dear Ma, I cannot see how we are to discuss, if you take that line
Blame Mr. Neville for it, Sept, and not me
My dear Ma! why Mr. Neville
Because
he came home intoxicated, and did great discredit to this house, and showed great disrespect to this family
That is not to be denied, Ma. He was then, and he is now, very sorry for it
But for Mr. Jasper's well-bred consideration in coming up to me, next day, after service, in the Nave itself, with his gown still on, and expressing his hope that I had not been greatly alarmed or had my rest violently broken, I believe I might never have heard of that disgraceful transaction
To be candid, Ma, I think I should have kept it from you if I could: though I had not decidedly made up my mind. I was following Jasper out, to confer with him on the subject, and to consider the expediency of his and my jointly hushing the thing up on all accounts, when I found him speaking to you. Then it was too late
Too late, indeed, Sept. He was still as pale as gentlemanly ashes at what had taken place in his rooms overnight
If I HAD kept it from you, Ma, you may be sure it would have been for your peace and quiet, and for the good of the young men, and in my best discharge of my duty according to my lights
Of course, my dear Sept, I am sure of that
However, it became the town-talk
and passed out of my power
And I said then, Sept
that I thought ill of Mr. Neville. And I say now, that I think ill of Mr. Neville. And I said then, and I say now, that I hope Mr. Neville may come to good, but I don't believe he will
I am sorry to hear you say so, Ma
I am sorry to say so, my dear
but I can't help it
For
it is undeniable that Mr. Neville is exceedingly industrious and attentive, and that he improves apace, and that he has -- I hope I may say -- an attachment to me
There is no merit in the last article, my dear
and if he says there is, I think the worse of him for the boast
But, my dear Ma, he never said there was
Perhaps not
still, I don't see that it greatly signifies
Besides, Sept, ask yourself what he would be without his sister. You know what an influence she has over him; you know what a capacity she has; you know that whatever he reads with you, he reads with her. Give her her fair share of your praise, and how much do you leave for him
wanted support
A wild evening, Miss Landless! Do you not find your usual walk with your brother too exposed and cold for the time of year? Or at all events, when the sun is down, and the weather is driving in from the sea
It is very retired
It is a place of all others where one can speak without interruption, as I wish to do. Mr. Neville, I believe you tell your sister everything that passes between us
Everything, sir
Consequently
your sister is aware that I have repeatedly urged you to make some kind of apology for that unfortunate occurrence which befell on the night of your arrival here
Yes
I call it unfortunate, Miss Helena
forasmuch as it certainly has engendered a prejudice against Neville. There is a notion about, that he is a dangerously passionate fellow, of an uncontrollable and furious temper: he is really avoided as such
I have no doubt he is, poor fellow
I should be quite sure of it, from your saying so; but what you tell me is confirmed by suppressed hints and references that I meet with every day
Now
is not this to be regretted, and ought it not to be amended? These are early days of Neville's in Cloisterham, and I have no fear of his outliving such a prejudice, and proving himself to have been misunderstood. But how much wiser to take action at once, than to trust to uncertain time! Besides, apart from its being politic, it is right. For there can be no question that Neville was wrong
He was provoked
He was the assailant
O Mr. Crisparkle, would you have Neville throw himself at young Drood's feet, or at Mr. Jasper's, who maligns him every day? In your heart you cannot mean it. From your heart you could not do it, if his case were yours
I have represented to Mr. Crisparkle, Helena
that if I could do it from my heart, I would. But I cannot, and I revolt from the pretence. You forget however, that to put the case to Mr. Crisparkle as his own, is to suppose to have done what I did
I ask his pardon
You see
you both instinctively acknowledge that Neville did wrong. Then why stop short, and not otherwise acknowledge it
Is there no difference
between submission to a generous spirit, and submission to a base or trivial one
Help me to clear myself with Mr. Crisparkle, Helena. Help me to convince him that I cannot be the first to make concessions without mockery and falsehood. My nature must be changed before I can do so, and it is not changed. I am sensible of inexpressible affront, and deliberate aggravation of inexpressible affront, and I am angry. The plain truth is, I am still as angry when I recall that night as I was that night
Neville
you have repeated that former action of your hands, which I so much dislike
I am sorry for it, sir, but it was involuntary. I confessed that I was still as angry
And I confess
that I hoped for better things
I am sorry to disappoint you, sir, but it would be far worse to deceive you, and I should deceive you grossly if I pretended that you had softened me in this respect. The time may come when your powerful influence will do even that with the difficult pupil whose antecedents you know; but it has not come yet. Is this so, and in spite of my struggles against myself, Helena
It is so
I have never yet had the courage to say to you, sir, what in full openness I ought to have said when you first talked with me on this subject. It is not easy to say, and I have been withheld by a fear of its seeming ridiculous, which is very strong upon me down to this last moment, and might, but for my sister, prevent my being quite open with you even now.-- I admire Miss Bud, sir, so very much, that I cannot bear her being treated with conceit or indifference; and even if I did not feel that I had an injury against young Drood on my own account, I should feel that I had an injury against him on hers
The young lady of whom you speak is, as you know, Mr. Neville, shortly to be married
therefore your admiration, if it be of that special nature which you seem to indicate, is outrageously misplaced. Moreover, it is monstrous that you should take upon yourself to be the young lady's champion against her chosen husband. Besides, you have seen them only once. The young lady has become your sister's friend; and I wonder that your sister, even on her behalf, has not checked you in this irrational and culpable fancy
She has tried, sir, but uselessly. Husband or no husband, that fellow is incapable of the feeling with which I am inspired towards the beautiful young creature whom he treats like a doll. I say he is as incapable of it, as he is unworthy of her. I say she is sacrificed in being bestowed upon him. I say that I love her, and despise and hate him
Neville, Neville
Mr. Neville, Mr. Neville, I am sorely grieved to see in you more traces of a character as sullen, angry, and wild, as the night now closing in. They are of too serious an aspect to leave me the resource of treating the infatuation you have disclosed, as undeserving serious consideration. I give it very serious consideration, and I speak to you accordingly. This feud between you and young Drood must not go on. I cannot permit it to go on any longer, knowing what I now know from you, and you living under my roof. Whatever prejudiced and unauthorised constructions your blind and envious wrath may put upon his character, it is a frank, good-natured character. I know I can trust to it for that. Now, pray observe what I am about to say. On reflection, and on your sister's representation, I am willing to admit that, in making peace with young Drood, you have a right to be met half-way. I will engage that you shall be, and even that young Drood shall make the first advance. This condition fulfilled, you will pledge me the honour of a Christian gentleman that the quarrel is for ever at an end on your side. What may be in your heart when you give him your hand, can only be known to the Searcher of all hearts; but it will never go well with you, if there be any treachery there. So far, as to that; next as to what I must again speak of as your infatuation. I understand it to have been confided to me, and to be known to no other person save your sister and yourself. Do I understand aright
It is only known to us three who are here together
It is not at all known to the young lady, your friend
On my soul, no
I require you, then, to give me your similar and solemn pledge, Mr. Neville, that it shall remain the secret it is, and that you will take no other action whatsoever upon it than endeavouring (and that most earnestly) to erase it from your mind. I will not tell you that it will soon pass; I will not tell you that it is the fancy of the moment; I will not tell you that such caprices have their rise and fall among the young and ardent every hour; I will leave you undisturbed in the belief that it has few parallels or none, that it will abide with you a long time, and that it will be very difficult to conquer. So much the more weight shall I attach to the pledge I require from you, when it is unreservedly given
Let me leave you with your sister, whom it is time you took home
You will find me alone in my room by-and- by
Pray do not leave us yet
Another minute
I should not
have needed so much as another minute, if you had been less patient with me, Mr. Crisparkle, less considerate of me, and less unpretendingly good and true. O, if in my childhood I had known such a guide
Follow your guide now, Neville
and follow him to Heaven
To say that I give both pledges, Mr. Crisparkle, out of my innermost heart, and to say that there is no treachery in it, is to say nothing
I beg your forgiveness for my miserable lapse into a burst of passion
Not mine, Neville, not mine. You know with whom forgiveness lies, as the highest attribute conceivable. Miss Helena, you and your brother are twin children. You came into this world with the same dispositions, and you passed your younger days together surrounded by the same adverse circumstances. What you have overcome in yourself, can you not overcome in him? You see the rock that lies in his course. Who but you can keep him clear of it
Who but you, sir
What is my influence, or my weak wisdom, compared with yours
You have the wisdom of Love
and it was the highest wisdom ever known upon this earth, remember. As to mine -- but the less said of that commonplace commodity the better. Good night
Tut
I am much overpaid
I shall probably be asked to marry them
and I would they were married and gone! But this presses first
I will strike while the iron is hot
and see him now
What is the matter? Who did it
It is only I, Jasper. I am sorry to have disturbed you
I was dreaming at a great rate, and am glad to be disturbed from an indigestive after-dinner sleep. Not to mention that you are always welcome
Thank you. I am not confident
that my subject will at first sight be quite as welcome as myself; but I am a minister of peace, and I pursue my subject in the interests of peace. In a word, Jasper, I want to establish peace between these two young fellows
How
For the "How" I come to you. I want to ask you to do me the great favour and service of interposing with your nephew (I have already interposed with Mr. Neville), and getting him to write you a short note, in his lively way, saying that he is willing to shake hands. I know what a good-natured fellow he is, and what influence you have with him. And without in the least defending Mr. Neville, we must all admit that he was bitterly stung
I know that you are not prepossessed in Mr. Neville's favour
You have cause to say so. I am not, indeed
Undoubtedly; and I admit his lamentable violence of temper, though I hope he and I will get the better of it between us. But I have exacted a very solemn promise from him as to his future demeanour towards your nephew, if you do kindly interpose; and I am sure he will keep it
You are always responsible and trustworthy, Mr. Crisparkle. Do you really feel sure that you can answer for him so confidently
I do
Then you relieve my mind of a great dread, and a heavy weight
I will do it
I will do it
for the comfort of having your guarantee against my vague and unfounded fears. You will laugh -- but do you keep a Diary
A line for a day; not more
A line for a day would be quite as much as my uneventful life would need, Heaven knows
Again and again
I have relapsed into these moods, as other entries show. But I have now your assurance at my back, and shall put it in my book, and make it an antidote to my black humours
Such an antidote, I hope
as will induce you before long to consign the black humours to the flames. I ought to be the last to find any fault with you this evening, when you have met my wishes so freely; but I must say, Jasper, that your devotion to your nephew has made you exaggerative here
You are my witness
what my state of mind honestly was, that night, before I sat down to write, and in what words I expressed it. You remember objecting to a word I used, as being too strong? It was a stronger word than any in my Diary
Well, well. Try the antidote
and may it give you a brighter and better view of the case! We will discuss it no more now. I have to thank you for myself, thank you sincerely
You shall find
that I will not do the thing you wish me to do, by halves. I will take care that Ned, giving way at all, shall give way thoroughly
MY DEAR JACK, 'I am touched by your account of your interview with Mr. Crisparkle, whom I much respect and esteem. At once I openly say that I forgot myself on that occasion quite as much as Mr. Landless did, and that I wish that bygone to be a bygone, and all to be right again. 

'Look here, dear old boy. Ask Mr. Landless to dinner on Christmas Eve (the better the day the better the deed), and let there be only we three, and let us shake hands all round there and then, and say no more about it. 

'My dear Jack, 'Ever your most affectionate, 'EDWIN DROOD. 

'P.S. Love to Miss Pussy at the next music-lesson
You expect Mr. Neville, then
I count upon his coming
Let us play at country
convey the wise it call
Now, Bazzard
what is in the wind besides fog
Mr. Drood
What of him
Has called
You might have shown him in
I am doing it
Dear me
I thought you had called and merely left your name and gone. How do you do, Mr. Edwin? Dear me, you're choking
It's this fog
and it makes my eyes smart, like Cayenne pepper
Is it really so bad as that? Pray undo your wrappers. It's fortunate I have so good a fire; but Mr. Bazzard has taken care of me
No I haven't
Ah! then it follows that I must have taken care of myself without observing it
Pray be seated in my chair. No. I beg! Coming out of such an atmosphere, in MY chair
I look
as if I had come to stop
By the by
excuse my interrupting you; do stop. The fog may clear in an hour or two. We can have dinner in from just across Holborn. You had better take your Cayenne pepper here than outside; pray stop and dine
You are very kind
Not at all
YOU are very kind to join issue with a bachelor in chambers, and take pot-luck. And I'll ask
I'll ask Bazzard. He mightn't like it else.-- Bazzard
Dine presently with Mr. Drood and me
If I am ordered to dine, of course I will, sir
Save the man
You're not ordered; you're invited
Thank you, sir
in that case I don't care if I do
That's arranged. And perhaps you wouldn't mind
stepping over to the hotel in Furnival's, and asking them to send in materials for laying the cloth. For dinner we'll have a tureen of the hottest and strongest soup available, and we'll have the best made-dish that can be recommended, and we'll have a joint (such as a haunch of mutton), and we'll have a goose, or a turkey, or any little stuffed thing of that sort that may happen to be in the bill of fare -- in short, we'll have whatever there is on hand
I was a little delicate, you see
about employing him in the foraging or commissariat department. Because he mightn't like it
He seems to have his own way, sir
His own way
O dear no! Poor fellow, you quite mistake him. If he had his own way, he wouldn't be here
I wonder where he would be
I take it, without having the gift of prophecy, that you have done me the favour of looking in to mention that you are going down yonder -- where I can tell you, you are expected -- and to offer to execute any little commission from me to my charming ward, and perhaps to sharpen me up a bit in any proceedings? Eh, Mr. Edwin
I called, sir, before going down, as an act of attention
Of attention
Ah! of course, not of impatience
Impatience, sir
I have lately been down yonder
and that was what I referred to, when I said I could tell you you are expected
Indeed, sir! Yes; I knew that Pussy was looking out for me
Do you keep a cat down there
I call Rosa Pussy
O, really
that's very affable
A pet name, sir
Umps
Did PRosa
PRosa
I was going to say Pussy, and changed my mind;-- did she tell you anything about the Landlesses
No
What is the Landlesses? An estate? A villa? A farm
A brother and sister. The sister is at the Nuns' House, and has become a great friend of P
PRosa's
She is a strikingly handsome girl, sir, and I thought she might have been described to you, or presented to you perhaps
Neither
But here is Bazzard
Let it be clearly understood between us that the reward is mine, and that Nil is the claim of this slave
Bazzard
I follow you, sir
I drink to you, Bazzard; Mr. Edwin, success to Mr. Bazzard
Success to Mr. Bazzard
What in, I wonder
And May
I am not at liberty to be definite -- May!-- my conversational powers are so very limited that I know I shall not come well out of this -- May!-- it ought to be put imaginatively, but I have no imagination -- May!-- the thorn of anxiety is as nearly the mark as I am likely to get -- May it come out at last
I follow you, sir, and I thank you
I am going
to drink to my ward. But I put Bazzard first. He mightn't like it else
And now
I devote a bumper to the fair and fascinating Miss Rosa. Bazzard, the fair and fascinating Miss Rosa
I follow you, sir
and I pledge you
And so do I
Lord bless me
I am a particularly Angular man, and yet I fancy (if I may use the word, not having a morsel of fancy), that I could draw a picture of a true lover's state of mind, to-night
Let us follow you, sir
and have the picture
Mr. Edwin will correct it where it's wrong
and will throw in a few touches from the life. I dare say it is wrong in many particulars, and wants many touches from the life, for I was born a Chip, and have neither soft sympathies nor soft experiences. Well! I hazard the guess that the true lover's mind is completely permeated by the beloved object of his affections. I hazard the guess that her dear name is precious to him, cannot be heard or repeated without emotion, and is preserved sacred. If he has any distinguishing appellation of fondness for her, it is reserved for her, and is not for common ears. A name that it would be a privilege to call her by, being alone with her own bright self, it would be a liberty, a coldness, an insensibility, almost a breach of good faith, to flaunt elsewhere
My picture
goes on to represent (under correction from you, Mr. Edwin), the true lover as ever impatient to be in the presence or vicinity of the beloved object of his affections; as caring very little for his case in any other society; and as constantly seeking that. If I was to say seeking that, as a bird seeks its nest, I should make an ass of myself, because that would trench upon what I understand to be poetry; and I am so far from trenching upon poetry at any time, that I never, to my knowledge, got within ten thousand miles of it. And I am besides totally unacquainted with the habits of birds, except the birds of Staple Inn, who seek their nests on ledges, and in gutter- pipes and chimneypots, not constructed for them by the beneficent hand of Nature. I beg, therefore, to be understood as foregoing the bird's-nest. But my picture does represent the true lover as having no existence separable from that of the beloved object of his affections, and as living at once a doubled life and a halved life. And if I do not clearly express what I mean by that, it is either for the reason that having no conversational powers, I cannot express what I mean, or that having no meaning, I do not mean what I fail to express. Which, to the best of my belief, is not the case
The speculations of an Angular man
are probably erroneous on so globular a topic. But I figure to myself (subject, as before, to Mr. Edwin's correction), that there can be no coolness, no lassitude, no doubt, no indifference, no half fire and half smoke state of mind, in a real lover. Pray am I at all near the mark in my picture
I should say, sir
as you refer the question to me
Yes
I refer it to you, as an authority
I should say, then, sir
that the picture you have drawn is generally correct; but I submit that perhaps you may be rather hard upon the unlucky lover
Likely so
likely so. I am a hard man in the grain
He may not show
all he feels; or he may not
No to be sure; he MAY not
His responsibility is very great, though
And let him be sure that he trifles with no one
neither with himself, nor with any other
He must not make a plaything of a treasure. Woe betide him if he does! Let him take that well to heart
We must finish this bottle, Mr. Edwin. Let me help you. I'll help Bazzard too, though he IS asleep. He mightn't like it else
And now, Mr. Edwin
to a little piece of business. You received from me, the other day, a certified copy of Miss Rosa's father's will. You knew its contents before, but you received it from me as a matter of business. I should have sent it to Mr. Jasper, but for Miss Rosa's wishing it to come straight to you, in preference. You received it
Quite safely, sir
You should have acknowledged its receipt
business being business all the world over. However, you did not
I meant to have acknowledged it when I first came in this evening, sir
Not a business-like acknowledgment
however, let that pass. Now, in that document you have observed a few words of kindly allusion to its being left to me to discharge a little trust, confided to me in conversation, at such time as I in my discretion may think best
Yes, sir
Mr. Edwin, it came into my mind just now, when I was looking at the fire, that I could, in my discretion, acquit myself of that trust at no better time than the present. Favour me with your attention, half a minute
Mr. Edwin, this rose of diamonds and rubies delicately set in gold, was a ring belonging to Miss Rosa's mother. It was removed from her dead hand, in my presence, with such distracted grief as I hope it may never be my lot to contemplate again. Hard man as I am, I am not hard enough for that. See how bright these stones shine
And yet the eyes that were so much brighter, and that so often looked upon them with a light and a proud heart, have been ashes among ashes, and dust among dust, some years! If I had any imagination (which it is needless to say I have not), I might imagine that the lasting beauty of these stones was almost cruel
This ring was given to the young lady who was drowned so early in her beautiful and happy career, by her husband, when they first plighted their faith to one another. It was he who removed it from her unconscious hand, and it was he who, when his death drew very near, placed it in mine. The trust in which I received it, was, that, you and Miss Rosa growing to manhood and womanhood, and your betrothal prospering and coming to maturity, I should give it to you to place upon her finger. Failing those desired results, it was to remain in my possession
Your placing it on her finger
will be the solemn seal upon your strict fidelity to the living and the dead. You are going to her, to make the last irrevocable preparations for your marriage. Take it with you
If anything should be amiss, if anything should be even slightly wrong, between you; if you should have any secret consciousness that you are committing yourself to this step for no higher reason than because you have long been accustomed to look forward to it; then
I charge you once more, by the living and by the dead, to bring that ring back to me
Bazzard
I follow you, sir
and I have been following you
In discharge of a trust, I have handed Mr. Edwin Drood a ring of diamonds and rubies. You see
I follow you both, sir
and I witness the transaction
I hope I have done right
The appeal to him seemed necessary. It was hard to lose the ring, and yet it must have gone from me very soon
Her ring
Will it come back to me? My mind hangs about her ring very uneasily to-night. But that is explainable. I have had it so long, and I have prized it so much! I wonder
I wonder (for the ten-thousandth time, and what a weak fool I, for what can it signify now!) whether he confided the charge of their orphan child to me, because he knew -- Good God, how like her mother she has become
I wonder whether he ever so much as suspected that some one doted on her, at a hopeless, speechless distance, when he struck in and won her. I wonder whether it ever crept into his mind who that unfortunate some one was
I wonder whether I shall sleep to-night! At all events, I will shut out the world with the bedclothes, and try
A likely some one, YOU, to come into anybody's thoughts in such an aspect
There! there! there! Get to bed, poor man, and cease to jabber
with a blush retiring
You are evidently going to write a book about us, Mr. Jasper
to write a book about us. Well! We are very ancient, and we ought to make a good book. We are not so richly endowed in possessions as in age; but perhaps you will put THAT in your book, among other things, and call attention to our wrongs
I really have no intention at all, sir
of turning author or archaeologist. It is but a whim of mine. And even for my whim, Mr. Sapsea here is more accountable than I am
How so, Mr. Mayor
How is that, Mr. Mayor
I am not aware
to what the Very Reverend the Dean does me the honour of referring
Durdles
Ay
Durdles, Durdles
The truth is, sir
that my curiosity in the man was first really stimulated by Mr. Sapsea. Mr. Sapsea's knowledge of mankind and power of drawing out whatever is recluse or odd around him, first led to my bestowing a second thought upon the man: though of course I had met him constantly about. You would not be surprised by this, Mr. Dean, if you had seen Mr. Sapsea deal with him in his own parlour, as I did
O
yes, yes. The Very Reverend the Dean refers to that? Yes. I happened to bring Durdles and Mr. Jasper together. I regard Durdles as a Character
A character, Mr. Sapsea, that with a few skilful touches you turn inside out
Nay, not quite that
I may have a little influence over him, perhaps; and a little insight into his character, perhaps. The Very Reverend the Dean will please to bear in mind that I have seen the world
Well
I hope, Mr. Mayor, you will use your study and knowledge of Durdles to the good purpose of exhorting him not to break our worthy and respected Choir-Master's neck; we cannot afford it; his head and voice are much too valuable to us
I will take it upon myself, sir
to answer for Mr. Jasper's neck. I will tell Durdles to be careful of it. He will mind what _I_ say. How is it at present endangered
Only by my making a moonlight expedition with Durdles among the tombs, vaults, towers, and ruins
You remember suggesting, when you brought us together, that, as a lover of the picturesque, it might be worth my while
I remember
Profiting by your hint
I have had some day- rambles with the extraordinary old fellow, and we are to make a moonlight hole-and-corner exploration to-night
And here he is
Mind you take care of my friend
What friend o' yourn is dead
No orders has come in for any friend o' yourn
I mean my live friend there
O! him
He can take care of himself, can Mister Jarsper
But do you take care of him too
With submission to his Reverence the Dean, if you'll mind what concerns you, Mr. Sapsea, Durdles he'll mind what concerns him
You're out of temper
My friend concerns me, and Mr. Jasper is my friend. And you are my friend
Don't you get into a bad habit of boasting
It'll grow upon you
You are out of temper
I own to it
I don't like liberties
I think you will agree with me that I have settled HIS business
You'll find me at home, Mister Jarsper, as agreed, when you want me; I'm a-going home to clean myself
Ho! Durdles
Are you ready
uns come out if they dare, when we go among their tombs. My spirit is ready for 'em
Do you mean animal spirits, or ardent
The one's the t'other
and I mean 'em both
I see it. What is it
Lime
What you call quick-lime
Ay
quick enough to eat your boots. With a little handy stirring, quick enough to eat your bones
Those two are only sauntering
they will go out into the moonlight soon. Let us keep quiet here, or they will detain us, or want to join us, or what not
This is the first day of the week
and the last day of the week is Christmas Eve
You may be certain of me, sir
confidence
Not deserved yet, but shall be, sir
Remember that I said I answered for you confidently
If the dead do, under any circumstances, become visible to the living, these are such likely surroundings for the purpose that I, the living, will get out of them as soon as I can
This is good stuff, Mister Jarsper
It is very good stuff, I hope.-- I bought it on purpose
They don't show, you see, the old uns don't, Mister Jarsper
It would be a more confused world than it is, if they could
Well, it WOULD lead towards a mixing of things
But do you think there may be Ghosts of other things, though not of men and women
What things? Flower-beds and watering-pots? horses and harness
No. Sounds
What sounds
Cries
What cries do you mean? Chairs to mend
No. I mean screeches. Now I'll tell you, Mr. Jarsper. Wait a bit till I put the bottle right
There! NOW it's right! This time last year, only a few days later, I happened to have been doing what was correct by the season, in the way of giving it the welcome it had a right to expect, when them town-boys set on me at their worst. At length I gave 'em the slip, and turned in here. And here I fell asleep. And what woke me? The ghost of a cry. The ghost of one terrific shriek, which shriek was followed by the ghost of the howl of a dog: a long, dismal, woeful howl, such as a dog gives when a person's dead. That was MY last Christmas Eve
What do you mean
I mean that I made inquiries everywhere about, and, that no living ears but mine heard either that cry or that howl. So I say they was both ghosts; though why they came to me, I've never made out
I thought you were another kind of man
So I thought myself
and yet I was picked out for it
Come; we shall freeze here; lead the way
That and the bottle are enough for you to carry
hand your bundle to me; I am younger and longer- winded than you
If you will have it so, or must have it so
I'll not leave you here. Take them, while I walk to and fro
Holloa
Awake at last
Do you know that your forties have stretched into thousands
No
They have though
What's the time
Hark! The bells are going in the Tower
Two
why didn't you try to wake me, Mister Jarsper
I did. I might as well have tried to wake the dead -- your own family of dead, up in the corner there
Did you touch me
Touch you! Yes. Shook you
I dropped you, did I
Well
are you quite ready? Pray don't hurry
Let me get my bundle right, Mister Jarsper, and I'm with you
What do you suspect me of, Mister Jarsper
Let them as has any suspicions of Durdles name 'em
I've no suspicions of you, my good Mr. Durdles; but I have suspicions that my bottle was filled with something stiffer than either of us supposed. And I also have suspicions
that it's empty
A thousand thanks for a curious and interesting night
you can make your own way home
I should think so
Good-night, then
Good-night, Mister Jarsper
What! Is that baby-devil on the watch there
I shall shed the blood of that impish wretch! I know I shall do it
I'll blind yer, s'elp me! I'll stone yer eyes out, s'elp me! If I don't have yer eyesight, bellows me
Now, hit me when I'm down! Do it
Don't hurt the boy, Mister Jarsper
Recollect yourself
He followed us to-night, when we first came here
Yer lie, I didn't
He has been prowling near us ever since
Yer lie, I haven't
it ain't ANY fault, is it
Take him home, then
and let my eyes be rid of the sight of you
the half;' but what was now called, as being more elegant, and more strictly collegiate, 'the term
at home
bosoms
hearts
The dawn is overcast, the morning lowers, And heavily in clouds brings on the day, The great, th' important day
Good-bye, Rosebud darling
Gentlemen, favour me with your attention to this charming little last lot left behind, and bid with a spirit worthy of the occasion
I will be guided by what she says, and by how we get on
Whatever comes of it, I will bear his words in mind, and try to be true to the living and the dead
My dear Eddy
I want to say something very serious to you. I have been thinking about it for a long, long time
I want to be serious with you too, Rosa dear. I mean to be serious and earnest
Thank you, Eddy. And you will not think me unkind because I begin, will you? You will not think I speak for myself only, because I speak first? That would not be generous, would it? And I know you are generous
I hope I am not ungenerous to you, Rosa
And there is no fear
of our quarrelling, is there? Because, Eddy
we have so much reason to be very lenient to each other
We will be, Rosa
That's a dear good boy! Eddy, let us be courageous. Let us change to brother and sister from this day forth
Never be husband and wife
Never
Of course I know that this has been in both our minds, Rosa, and of course I am in honour bound to confess freely that it does not originate with you
No, nor with you, dear
That sprung up between us. You are not truly happy in our engagement; I am not truly happy in it. O, I am so sorry, so sorry
I am deeply sorry too, Rosa. Deeply sorry for you
And I for you, poor boy! And I for you
If we knew yesterday
and we did know yesterday, and on many, many yesterdays, that we were far from right together in those relations which were not of our own choosing, what better could we do to-day than change them? It is natural that we should be sorry, and you see how sorry we both are; but how much better to be sorry now than then
When, Rosa
When it would be too late. And then we should be angry, besides
And you know
you couldn't like me then; and you can always like me now, for I shall not be a drag upon you, or a worry to you. And I can always like you now, and your sister will not tease or trifle with you. I often did when I was not your sister, and I beg your pardon for it
Don't let us come to that, Rosa; or I shall want more pardoning than I like to think of
No, indeed, Eddy; you are too hard, my generous boy, upon yourself. Let us sit down, brother, on these ruins, and let me tell you how it was with us. I think I know, for I have considered about it very much since you were here last time. You liked me, didn't you? You thought I was a nice little thing
Everybody thinks that, Rosa
Do they
Well, but say they do. Surely it was not enough that you should think of me only as other people did; now, was it
And that is just what I mean; that is just how it was with us
You liked me very well, and you had grown used to me, and had grown used to the idea of our being married. You accepted the situation as an inevitable kind of thing, didn't you? It was to be, you thought, and why discuss or dispute it
All this that I say of you is true of me as well, Eddy. Unless it was, I might not be bold enough to say it. Only, the difference between us was, that by little and little there crept into my mind a habit of thinking about it, instead of dismissing it. My life is not so busy as yours, you see, and I have not so many things to think of. So I thought about it very much, and I cried about it very much too (though that was not your fault, poor boy); when all at once my guardian came down, to prepare for my leaving the Nuns' House. I tried to hint to him that I was not quite settled in my mind, but I hesitated and failed, and he didn't understand me. But he is a good, good man. And he put before me so kindly, and yet so strongly, how seriously we ought to consider, in our circumstances, that I resolved to speak to you the next moment we were alone and grave. And if I seemed to come to it easily just now, because I came to it all at once, don't think it was so really, Eddy, for O, it was very, very hard, and O, I am very, very sorry
Your guardian has spoken to me too, Rosa dear. I saw him before I left London
If I am to take it back, why should I tell her of it
And that made you more serious about it, didn't it, Eddy? And if I had not spoken to you, as I have, you would have spoken to me? I hope you can tell me so? I don't like it to be ALL my doing, though it IS so much better for us
Yes, I should have spoken; I should have put everything before you; I came intending to do it. But I never could have spoken to you as you have spoken to me, Rosa
Don't say you mean so coldly or unkindly, Eddy, please, if you can help it
I mean so sensibly and delicately, so wisely and affectionately
That's my dear brother
The dear girls will be dreadfully disappointed
They have looked forward to it so, poor pets
Ah! but I fear it will be a worse disappointment to Jack
I never thought of Jack
You don't doubt its being a blow to Jack, Rosa
My dear child! can you suppose that any one so wrapped up in another -- Mrs. Tope's expression: not mine -- as Jack is in me, could fail to be struck all of a heap by such a sudden and complete change in my life? I say sudden, because it will be sudden to HIM, you know
How shall I tell Jack
I never thought of Jack. It must be broken to him, before the town-crier knows it. I dine with the dear fellow to- morrow and next day -- Christmas Eve and Christmas Day -- but it would never do to spoil his feast-days. He always worries about me, and moddley-coddleys in the merest trifles. The news is sure to overset him. How on earth shall this be broken to Jack
He must be told, I suppose
My dear Rosa! who ought to be in our confidence, if not Jack
My guardian promised to come down, if I should write and ask him. I am going to do so. Would you like to leave it to him
A bright idea
The other trustee. Nothing more natural. He comes down, he goes to Jack, he relates what we have agreed upon, and he states our case better than we could. He has already spoken feelingly to you, he has already spoken feelingly to me, and he'll put the whole thing feelingly to Jack. That's it! I am not a coward, Rosa, but to tell you a secret, I am a little afraid of Jack
No, no! you are not afraid of him
Why, sister Rosa, sister Rosa, what do you see from the turret
My dear girl
You frightened me
Most unintentionally, but I am as sorry as if I had meant to do it. Could you possibly suppose for a moment, from any loose way of speaking of mine, that I was literally afraid of the dear fond fellow? What I mean is, that he is subject to a kind of paroxysm, or fit -- I saw him in it once -- and I don't know but that so great a surprise, coming upon him direct from me whom he is so wrapped up in, might bring it on perhaps. Which -- and this is the secret I was going to tell you -- is another reason for your guardian's making the communication. He is so steady, precise, and exact, that he will talk Jack's thoughts into shape, in no time: whereas with me Jack is always impulsive and hurried, and, I may say, almost womanish
Jack
It is certain, now, that I am to give it back to him; then why should I tell her of it
I will prepare Jack for my flitting soon
and I will but see your guardian when he comes, and then go before they speak together. It will be better done without my being by. Don't you think so
Yes
We know we have done right, Rosa
Yes
We know we are better so, even now
And shall be far, far better so by-and-by
God bless you, dear! Good-bye
God bless you, dear! Good-bye
Now, please take me home, Eddy, and let me be by myself
Don't look round, Rosa
Didn't you see Jack
No! Where
Under the trees. He saw us, as we took leave of each other. Poor fellow! he little thinks we have parted. This will be a blow to him, I am much afraid
Has he followed us? You can look without seeming to. Is he behind
No. Yes, he is! He has just passed out under the gateway. The dear, sympathetic old fellow likes to keep us in sight. I am afraid he will be bitterly disappointed
O! don't you understand
How do you do to-morrow
Really I don't know that I understand the subject
I chose it for its weight
Much too heavy, Neville; MUCH too heavy
To rest upon in a long walk, sir
Rest upon
You don't rest upon it; you merely balance with it
I shall know better, with practice, sir. I have not lived in a walking country, you know
True
Get into a little training, and we will have a few score miles together. I should leave you nowhere now. Do you come back before dinner
I think not, as we dine early
I am not going to tread upon forbidden ground, Helena
you will understand in another moment that I cannot help referring to -- what shall I say?-- my infatuation
Had you not better avoid it, Neville? You know that I can hear nothing
You can hear, my dear, what Mr. Crisparkle has heard, and heard with approval
Yes; I can hear so much
Well, it is this. I am not only unsettled and unhappy myself, but I am conscious of unsettling and interfering with other people. How do I know that, but for my unfortunate presence, you, and -- and- -the rest of that former party, our engaging guardian excepted, might be dining cheerfully in Minor Canon Corner to-morrow? Indeed it probably would be so. I can see too well that I am not high in the old lady's opinion, and it is easy to understand what an irksome clog I must be upon the hospitalities of her orderly house- -especially at this time of year -- when I must be kept asunder from this person, and there is such a reason for my not being brought into contact with that person, and an unfavourable reputation has preceded me with such another person; and so on. I have put this very gently to Mr. Crisparkle, for you know his self-denying ways; but still I have put it. What I have laid much greater stress upon at the same time is, that I am engaged in a miserable struggle with myself, and that a little change and absence may enable me to come through it the better. So, the weather being bright and hard, I am going on a walking expedition, and intend taking myself out of everybody's way (my own included, I hope) to-morrow morning
When to come back
In a fortnight
And going quite alone
I am much better without company, even if there were any one but you to bear me company, my dear Helena
Mr. Crisparkle entirely agrees, you say
Entirely. I am not sure but that at first he was inclined to think it rather a moody scheme, and one that might do a brooding mind harm. But we took a moonlight walk last Monday night, to talk it over at leisure, and I represented the case to him as it really is. I showed him that I do want to conquer myself, and that, this evening well got over, it is surely better that I should be away from here just now, than here. I could hardly help meeting certain people walking together here, and that could do no good, and is certainly not the way to forget. A fortnight hence, that chance will probably be over, for the time; and when it again arises for the last time, why, I can again go away. Farther, I really do feel hopeful of bracing exercise and wholesome fatigue. You know that Mr. Crisparkle allows such things their full weight in the preservation of his own sound mind in his own sound body, and that his just spirit is not likely to maintain one set of natural laws for himself and another for me. He yielded to my view of the matter, when convinced that I was honestly in earnest; and so, with his full consent, I start to-morrow morning. Early enough to be not only out of the streets, but out of hearing of the bells, when the good people go to church
My dear Helena, no. Travel like a pilgrim, with wallet and staff. My wallet -- or my knapsack -- is packed, and ready for strapping on; and here is my staff
I wish I were not going to this dinner, Helena
Dear Neville, is it worth while to care much about it? Think how soon it will be over
How soon it will be over
Yes. But I don't like it
I wish I felt as sure of everything else, as I feel of myself
How strangely you speak, dear! What do you mean
Helena, I don't know. I only know that I don't like it. What a strange dead weight there is in the air
That I was aware of
for Mr. Jasper dropped in for a watch-glass the other day, and, in fact, I showed these articles to him, remarking that if he SHOULD wish to make a present to a gentleman relative, on any particular occasion -- But he said with a smile that he had an inventory in his mind of all the jewellery his gentleman relative ever wore; namely, his watch and chain, and his shirt-pin
Twenty minutes past two, Mr. Drood, I set your watch at. Let me recommend you not to let it run down, sir
Dear old Jack! If I were to make an extra crease in my neckcloth, he would think it worth noticing
Are you ill
No, deary
Are you blind
No, deary
Are you lost, homeless, faint? What is the matter, that you stay here in the cold so long, without moving
Good Heaven
Like Jack that night
My lungs is weakly; my lungs is dreffle bad. Poor me, poor me, my cough is rattling dry
Where do you come from
Come from London, deary
Where are you going to
Back to London, deary. I came here, looking for a needle in a haystack, and I ain't found it. Look'ee, deary; give me three-and- sixpence, and don't you be afeard for me. I'll get back to London then, and trouble no one. I'm in a business.-- Ah, me! It's slack, it's slack, and times is very bad!-- but I can make a shift to live by it
Do you eat opium
Smokes it
Give me three-and-sixpence, and I'll lay it out well, and get back. If you don't give me three-and-sixpence, don't give me a brass farden. And if you do give me three-and-sixpence, deary, I'll tell you something
Bless ye! Hark'ee, dear genl'mn. What's your Chris'en name
Edwin
Edwin, Edwin, Edwin
Is the short of that name Eddy
It is sometimes called so
Don't sweethearts call it so
How should I know
Haven't you a sweetheart, upon your soul
None
Bless ye, and thank'ee, deary
You were to tell me something; you may as well do so
So I was, so I was. Well, then. Whisper. You be thankful that your name ain't Ned
Why
Because it's a bad name to have just now
How a bad name
A threatened name. A dangerous name
The proverb says that threatened men live long
Then Ned -- so threatened is he, wherever he may be while I am a- talking to you, deary -- should live to all eternity
Bless ye, and thank'ee
Un- English
I must thank you, Jasper, for the pleasure with which I have heard you to-day. Beautiful! Delightful! You could not have so outdone yourself, I hope, without being wonderfully well
I AM wonderfully well
Nothing unequal
nothing unsteady, nothing forced, nothing avoided; all thoroughly done in a masterly manner, with perfect self-command
Thank you. I hope so, if it is not too much to say
One would think, Jasper, you had been trying a new medicine for that occasional indisposition of yours
No, really? That's well observed; for I have
Then stick to it, my good fellow
stick to it
I will
I congratulate you
on all accounts
Thank you again. I will walk round to the Corner with you, if you don't object; I have plenty of time before my company come; and I want to say a word to you, which I think you will not be displeased to hear
What is it
Well. We were speaking, the other evening, of my black humours
I said, you know, that I should make you an antidote to those black humours; and you said you hoped I would consign them to the flames
And I still hope so, Jasper
With the best reason in the world! I mean to burn this year's Diary at the year's end
Because you
You anticipate me. Because I feel that I have been out of sorts, gloomy, bilious, brain-oppressed, whatever it may be. You said I had been exaggerative. So I have
I couldn't see it then, because I WAS out of sorts; but I am in a healthier state now, and I acknowledge it with genuine pleasure. I made a great deal of a very little; that's the fact
It does me good
to hear you say it
A man leading a monotonous life
and getting his nerves, or his stomach, out of order, dwells upon an idea until it loses its proportions. That was my case with the idea in question. So I shall burn the evidence of my case, when the book is full, and begin the next volume with a clearer vision
This is better
than I could have hoped
Why, naturally
You had but little reason to hope that I should become more like yourself. You are always training yourself to be, mind and body, as clear as crystal, and you always are, and never change; whereas I am a muddy, solitary, moping weed. However, I have got over that mope. Shall I wait, while you ask if Mr. Neville has left for my place? If not, he and I may walk round together
I think
that he left some time ago; at least I know he left, and I think he has not come back. But I'll inquire. You won't come in
My company wait
Bad manners in a host
My company will be there before me! What will you bet that I don't find my company embracing
I will bet -- or I would, if ever I did bet
that your company will have a gay entertainer this evening
Where is my nephew
He has not been here. Is he not with you
No. He went down to the river last night, with Mr. Neville, to look at the storm, and has not been back. Call Mr. Neville
He left this morning, early
Left this morning early? Let me in! let me in
Why do you attend upon me in this way
Are you a pack of thieves
Don't answer him
Better be quiet
Better be quiet
Who said so
It's good advice, whichever of you skulkers gave it
I will not submit to be penned in between four men there, and four men there. I wish to pass, and I mean to pass, those four in front
If eight men, or four men, or two men, set upon one
the one has no chance but to set his mark upon some of them. And, by the Lord, I'll do it, if I am interrupted any farther
Let him be
Fair play! His is the build of a girl to mine, and he's got a weight strapped to his back besides. Let him alone. I'll manage him
There! Now take him arm- in-arm, any two of you
As to our being a pack of thieves, Mr. Landless
you know better than that at midday. We wouldn't have touched you if you hadn't forced us. We're going to take you round to the high road, anyhow, and you'll find help enough against thieves there, if you want it.-- Wipe his face, somebody; see how it's a-trickling down him
And what I recommend you for the present, is, don't talk, Mr. Landless. You'll find a friend waiting for you, at the high road -- gone ahead by the other way when we split into two parties -- and you had much better say nothing till you come up with him. Bring that stick along, somebody else, and let's be moving
What is all this, sir? What is the matter? I feel as if I had lost my senses
Where is my nephew
Where is your nephew
Why do you ask me
I ask you
because you were the last person in his company, and he is not to be found
Not to be found
Stay, stay
Permit me, Jasper. Mr. Neville, you are confounded; collect your thoughts; it is of great importance that you should collect your thoughts; attend to me
I will try, sir, but I seem mad
You left Mr. Jasper last night with Edwin Drood
Yes
At what hour
Quite right
the hour Mr. Jasper has already named to me. You went down to the river together
Undoubtedly. To see the action of the wind there
What followed? How long did you stay there
About ten minutes; I should say not more. We then walked together to your house, and he took leave of me at the door
Did he say that he was going down to the river again
No. He said that he was going straight back
What are those stains upon his dress
And here are the same stains upon this stick
I know the stick to be his, and he carried it last night. What does this mean
In the name of God, say what it means, Neville
That man and I
had a struggle for the stick just now, and you may see the same marks on him, sir. What was I to suppose, when I found myself molested by eight people? Could I dream of the true reason when they would give me none at all
We must return, Neville
of course you will be glad to come back to clear yourself
Of course, sir
Mr. Landless will walk at my side
Come, Neville
This is strange news
Strange and fearful news
How is your ward
Poor little thing! You may imagine her condition
Have you seen his sister
Whose
The suspected young man's
Do you suspect him
I don't know what to think. I cannot make up my mind
Nor I
But as you spoke of him as the suspected young man, I thought you HAD made up your mind.-- I have just left Miss Landless
What is her state
Defiance of all suspicion, and unbounded faith in her brother
Poor thing
However
it is not of her that I came to speak. It is of my ward. I have a communication to make that will surprise you. At least, it has surprised me
Shall I put it off till to-morrow
Mind, I warn you, that I think it will surprise you
What is it
To be sure
I might have known it sooner; she gave me the opening; but I am such an exceedingly Angular man, that it never occurred to me; I took all for granted
What is it
This young couple, the lost youth and Miss Rosa, my ward, though so long betrothed, and so long recognising their betrothal, and so near being married
This young couple came gradually to the discovery (made on both sides pretty equally, I think), that they would be happier and better, both in their present and their future lives, as affectionate friends, or say rather as brother and sister, than as husband and wife
This young couple formed at length the healthy resolution of interchanging their discoveries, openly, sensibly, and tenderly. They met for that purpose. After some innocent and generous talk, they agreed to dissolve their existing, and their intended, relations, for ever and ever
One of this young couple, and that one your nephew, fearful, however, that in the tenderness of your affection for him you would be bitterly disappointed by so wide a departure from his projected life, forbore to tell you the secret, for a few days, and left it to be disclosed by me, when I should come down to speak to you, and he would be gone. I speak to you, and he is gone
I have now said all I have to say: except that this young couple parted, firmly, though not without tears and sorrow, on the evening when you last saw them together
There! You've come to nicely now, sir
you were thoroughly worn out, and no wonder
A man
cannot have his rest broken, and his mind cruelly tormented, and his body overtaxed by fatigue, without being thoroughly worn out
I fear I have alarmed you
Not at all, I thank you
You are too considerate
Not at all, I thank you
You must take some wine, sir
and the jelly that I had ready for you, and that you wouldn't put your lips to at noon, though I warned you what would come of it, you know, and you not breakfasted; and you must have a wing of the roast fowl that has been put back twenty times if it's been put back once. It shall all be on table in five minutes, and this good gentleman belike will stop and see you take it
You will take something with me
I couldn't get a morsel down my throat, I thank you
I couldn't originate the faintest approach to an observation on any subject whatever, I thank you
Do you know
do you know that I find some crumbs of comfort in the communication with which you have so much amazed me
DO you
I don't, I thank you
After recovering from the shock of a piece of news of my dear boy, so entirely unexpected, and so destructive of all the castles I had built for him; and after having had time to think of it; yes
I shall be glad to pick up your crumbs
Is there not, or is there -- if I deceive myself, tell me so, and shorten my pain -- is there not, or is there, hope that, finding himself in this new position, and becoming sensitively alive to the awkward burden of explanation, in this quarter, and that, and the other, with which it would load him, he avoided the awkwardness, and took to flight
Such a thing might be
Such a thing has been. I have read of cases in which people, rather than face a seven days' wonder, and have to account for themselves to the idle and impertinent, have taken themselves away, and been long unheard of
I believe such things have happened
When I had, and could have, no suspicion
that the dear lost boy had withheld anything from me -- most of all, such a leading matter as this -- what gleam of light was there for me in the whole black sky? When I supposed that his intended wife was here, and his marriage close at hand, how could I entertain the possibility of his voluntarily leaving this place, in a manner that would be so unaccountable, capricious, and cruel? But now that I know what you have told me, is there no little chink through which day pierces? Supposing him to have disappeared of his own act, is not his disappearance more accountable and less cruel? The fact of his having just parted from your ward, is in itself a sort of reason for his going away. It does not make his mysterious departure the less cruel to me, it is true; but it relieves it of cruelty to her
And even as to me
he knew that you were coming to me; he knew that you were intrusted to tell me what you have told me; if your doing so has awakened a new train of thought in my perplexed mind, it reasonably follows that, from the same premises, he might have foreseen the inferences that I should draw. Grant that he did foresee them; and even the cruelty to me -- and who am I!-- John Jasper, Music Master, vanishes
I have had my distrusts, and terrible distrusts they have been
but your disclosure, overpowering as it was at first- -showing me that my own dear boy had had a great disappointing reservation from me, who so fondly loved him, kindles hope within me. You do not extinguish it when I state it, but admit it to be a reasonable hope. I begin to believe it possible:' here he clasped his hands: 'that he may have disappeared from among us of his own accord, and that he may yet be alive and well
I begin to believe it possible that he may have disappeared of his own accord, and may yet be alive and well
Why so
I stated to Mr. Sapsea, when we waited on him
that there was no quarrel or difference between the two young men at their last meeting. We all know that their first meeting was unfortunately very far from amicable; but all went smoothly and quietly when they were last together at my house. My dear boy was not in his usual spirits; he was depressed- -I noticed that -- and I am bound henceforth to dwell upon the circumstance the more, now that I know there was a special reason for his being depressed: a reason, moreover, which may possibly have induced him to absent himself
I pray to Heaven it may turn out so
_I_ pray to Heaven it may turn out so
You know -- and Mr. Grewgious should now know likewise -- that I took a great prepossession against Mr. Neville Landless, arising out of his furious conduct on that first occasion. You know that I came to you, extremely apprehensive, on my dear boy's behalf, of his mad violence. You know that I even entered in my Diary, and showed the entry to you, that I had dark forebodings against him. Mr. Grewgious ought to be possessed of the whole case. He shall not, through any suppression of mine, be informed of a part of it, and kept in ignorance of another part of it. I wish him to be good enough to understand that the communication he has made to me has hopefully influenced my mind, in spite of its having been, before this mysterious occurrence took place, profoundly impressed against young Landless
How did I come here
Why did I come here
I owe it to my fellow-creatures that he should be, in the words of BENTHAM, where he is the cause of the greatest danger to the smallest number
Mr. Crisparkle
human justice may err, but it must act according to its lights. The days of taking sanctuary are past. This young man must not take sanctuary with us
You mean that he must leave my house, sir
Mr. Crisparkle
I claim no authority in your house. I merely confer with you, on the painful necessity you find yourself under, of depriving this young man of the great advantages of your counsel and instruction
It is very lamentable, sir
Very much so
And if it be a necessity
As you unfortunately find it to be
It is hard to prejudge his case, sir, but I am sensible that
Just so. Perfectly. As you say, Mr. Crisparkle
there is nothing else to be done. No doubt, no doubt. There is no alternative, as your good sense has discovered
I am entirely satisfied of his perfect innocence, sir, nevertheless
We-e-ell
I would not say so, generally. Not generally. Enough of suspicion attaches to him to -- no, I think I would not say so, generally
It does not become us, perhaps
to be partisans. Not partisans. We clergy keep our hearts warm and our heads cool, and we hold a judicious middle course
I hope you do not object, sir, to my having stated in public, emphatically, that he will reappear here, whenever any new suspicion may be awakened, or any new circumstance may come to light in this extraordinary matter
Not at all
And yet, do you know, I don't think
I DON'T THINK I would state it emphatically. State it? Ye-e-es! But emphatically? No-o-o. I THINK not. In point of fact, Mr. Crisparkle, keeping our hearts warm and our heads cool, we clergy need do nothing emphatically
My dear boy is murdered. The discovery of the watch and shirt-pin convinces me that he was murdered that night, and that his jewellery was taken from him to prevent identification by its means. All the delusive hopes I had founded on his separation from his betrothed wife, I give to the winds. They perish before this fatal discovery. I now swear, and record the oath on this page, That I nevermore will discuss this mystery with any human creature until I hold the clue to it in my hand. That I never will relax in my secrecy or in my search. That I will fasten the crime of the murder of my dear dead boy upon the murderer. And, That I devote myself to his destruction
Sir
sit down
Now, Mr. Crisparkle
Now, Mr. Crisparkle, we entertain different views, you and I, sir, of the sanctity of human life
Do we
We do, sir
Might I ask you
what are your views on that subject
That human life is a thing to be held sacred, sir
Might I ask you
what you suppose to be my views on that subject
By George, sir
they are best known to yourself
Readily admitted. But you began by saying that we took different views, you know. Therefore (or you could not say so) you must have set up some views as mine. Pray, what views HAVE you set up as mine
Here is a man -- and a young man
swept off the face of the earth by a deed of violence. What do you call that
Murder
A murderer
I am glad to hear you admit so much, sir
and I candidly tell you that I didn't expect it
Be so good as to explain what you mean by those very unjustifiable expressions
I don't sit here, sir
to be browbeaten
As the only other person present, no one can possibly know that better than I do
But I interrupt your explanation
Murder
Bloodshed! Abel! Cain! I hold no terms with Cain. I repudiate with a shudder the red hand when it is offered me
Don't let me interrupt your explanation -- when you begin it
The Commandments say, no murder. NO murder, sir
And they also say, you shall bear no false witness
Enough
E-e-nough! My late wards being now of age, and I being released from a trust which I cannot contemplate without a thrill of horror, there are the accounts which you have undertaken to accept on their behalf, and there is a statement of the balance which you have undertaken to receive, and which you cannot receive too soon. And let me tell you, sir, I wish that, as a man and a Minor Canon, you were better employed
Better employed
Bet- ter em-ployed
Mr. Honeythunder
my being better or worse employed than I am at present is a matter of taste and opinion. You might think me better employed in enrolling myself a member of your Society
Ay, indeed, sir
It would have been better for you if you had done that long ago
I think otherwise
Or
I might think one of your profession better employed in devoting himself to the discovery and punishment of guilt than in leaving that duty to be undertaken by a layman
I may regard my profession from a point of view which teaches me that its first duty is towards those who are in necessity and tribulation, who are desolate and oppressed
However, as I have quite clearly satisfied myself that it is no part of my profession to make professions, I say no more of that. But I owe it to Mr. Neville, and to Mr. Neville's sister (and in a much lower degree to myself), to say to you that I KNOW I was in the full possession and understanding of Mr. Neville's mind and heart at the time of this occurrence; and that, without in the least colouring or concealing what was to be deplored in him and required to be corrected, I feel certain that his tale is true. Feeling that certainty, I befriend him. As long as that certainty shall last, I will befriend him. And if any consideration could shake me in this resolve, I should be so ashamed of myself for my meanness, that no man's good opinion -- no, nor no woman's -- so gained, could compensate me for the loss of my own
Then who do you make out did the deed
Heaven forbid
that in my desire to clear one man I should lightly criminate another! I accuse no one
Tcha
And, sir, you are not a disinterested witness, we must bear in mind
How am I an interested one
There was a certain stipend, sir, paid to you for your pupil, which may have warped your judgment a bit
Perhaps I expect to retain it still
do you mean that too
Well, sir
I don't go about measuring people for caps. If people find I have any about me that fit 'em, they can put 'em on and wear 'em, if they like. That's their look out: not mine
Mr. Honeythunder, I hoped when I came in here that I might be under no necessity of commenting on the introduction of platform manners or platform manoeuvres among the decent forbearances of private life. But you have given me such a specimen of both, that I should be a fit subject for both if I remained silent respecting them. They are detestable
They don't suit YOU, I dare say, sir
They are
detestable. They violate equally the justice that should belong to Christians, and the restraints that should belong to gentlemen. You assume a great crime to have been committed by one whom I, acquainted with the attendant circumstances, and having numerous reasons on my side, devoutly believe to be innocent of it. Because I differ from you on that vital point, what is your platform resource? Instantly to turn upon me, charging that I have no sense of the enormity of the crime itself, but am its aider and abettor! So, another time -- taking me as representing your opponent in other cases -- you set up a platform credulity; a moved and seconded and carried-unanimously profession of faith in some ridiculous delusion or mischievous imposition. I decline to believe it, and you fall back upon your platform resource of proclaiming that I believe nothing; that because I will not bow down to a false God of your making, I deny the true God! Another time you make the platform discovery that War is a calamity, and you propose to abolish it by a string of twisted resolutions tossed into the air like the tail of a kite. I do not admit the discovery to be yours in the least, and I have not a grain of faith in your remedy. Again, your platform resource of representing me as revelling in the horrors of a battle-field like a fiend incarnate! Another time, in another of your undiscriminating platform rushes, you would punish the sober for the drunken. I claim consideration for the comfort, convenience, and refreshment of the sober; and you presently make platform proclamation that I have a depraved desire to turn Heaven's creatures into swine and wild beasts! In all such cases your movers, and your seconders, and your supporters -- your regular Professors of all degrees, run amuck like so many mad Malays; habitually attributing the lowest and basest motives with the utmost recklessness (let me call your attention to a recent instance in yourself for which you should blush), and quoting figures which you know to be as wilfully onesided as a statement of any complicated account that should be all Creditor side and no Debtor, or all Debtor side and no Creditor. Therefore it is, Mr. Honeythunder, that I consider the platform a sufficiently bad example and a sufficiently bad school, even in public life; but hold that, carried into private life, it becomes an unendurable nuisance
These are strong words, sir
I hope so
Good morning
How goes it, Neville
I am in good heart, Mr. Crisparkle, and working away
I wish your eyes were not quite so large and not quite so bright
They brighten at the sight of you
If you were to fall away from me, they would soon be dull enough
Rally, rally
Fight for it, Neville
If I were dying, I feel as if a word from you would rally me; if my pulse had stopped, I feel as if your touch would make it beat again
But I HAVE rallied, and am doing famously
I want to see a ruddier touch here, Neville
I want more sun to shine upon you
I am not hardy enough for that, yet. I may become so, but I cannot bear it yet. If you had gone through those Cloisterham streets as I did; if you had seen, as I did, those averted eyes, and the better sort of people silently giving me too much room to pass, that I might not touch them or come near them, you wouldn't think it quite unreasonable that I cannot go about in the daylight
My poor fellow
I never said it was unreasonable; never thought so. But I should like you to do it
And that would give me the strongest motive to do it. But I cannot yet. I cannot persuade myself that the eyes of even the stream of strangers I pass in this vast city look at me without suspicion. I feel marked and tainted, even when I go out -- as I do only -- at night. But the darkness covers me then, and I take courage from it
If I could have changed my name
I would have done so. But as you wisely pointed out to me, I can't do that, for it would look like guilt. If I could have gone to some distant place, I might have found relief in that, but the thing is not to be thought of, for the same reason. Hiding and escaping would be the construction in either case. It seems a little hard to be so tied to a stake, and innocent; but I don't complain
And you must expect no miracle to help you, Neville
No, sir, I know that. The ordinary fulness of time and circumstances is all I have to trust to
It will right you at last, Neville
So I believe, and I hope I may live to know it
Excellent circumstances for study, anyhow! and you know, Mr. Crisparkle, what need I have of study in all ways. Not to mention that you have advised me to study for the difficult profession of the law, specially, and that of course I am guiding myself by the advice of such a friend and helper. Such a good friend and helper
I gather from your silence on the subject that my late guardian is adverse, Mr. Crisparkle
Your late guardian is a -- a most unreasonable person, and it signifies nothing to any reasonable person whether he is ADverse, PERverse, or the REverse
Well for me that I have enough with economy to live upon
while I wait to be learned, and wait to be righted! Else I might have proved the proverb, that while the grass grows, the steed starves
Next week
you will cease to be alone, and will have a devoted companion
And yet
this seems an uncongenial place to bring my sister to
I don't think so
There is duty to be done here; and there are womanly feeling, sense, and courage wanted here
I meant
that the surroundings are so dull and unwomanly, and that Helena can have no suitable friend or society here
You have only to remember
that you are here yourself, and that she has to draw you into the sunlight
When we first spoke together, Neville, you told me that your sister had risen out of the disadvantages of your past lives as superior to you as the tower of Cloisterham Cathedral is higher than the chimneys of Minor Canon Corner. Do you remember that
Right well
I was inclined to think it at the time an enthusiastic flight. No matter what I think it now. What I would emphasise is, that under the head of Pride your sister is a great and opportune example to you
Under ALL heads that are included in the composition of a fine character, she is
Say so; but take this one. Your sister has learnt how to govern what is proud in her nature. She can dominate it even when it is wounded through her sympathy with you. No doubt she has suffered deeply in those same streets where you suffered deeply. No doubt her life is darkened by the cloud that darkens yours. But bending her pride into a grand composure that is not haughty or aggressive, but is a sustained confidence in you and in the truth, she has won her way through those streets until she passes along them as high in the general respect as any one who treads them. Every day and hour of her life since Edwin Drood's disappearance, she has faced malignity and folly -- for you -- as only a brave nature well directed can. So it will be with her to the end. Another and weaker kind of pride might sink broken-hearted, but never such a pride as hers: which knows no shrinking, and can get no mastery over her
I will do all I can to imitate her
Do so, and be a truly brave man, as she is a truly brave woman
It is growing dark. Will you go my way with me, when it is quite dark? Mind! it is not I who wait for darkness
How do you do, reverend sir
And how is your charge getting on over the way in the set that I had the pleasure of recommending to you as vacant and eligible
I am glad you approve of them
because I entertain a sort of fancy for having him under my eye
And how did you leave Mr. Jasper, reverend sir
And where did you leave Mr. Jasper, reverend sir
And when did you leave Mr. Jasper, reverend sir
Umps
He didn't say he was coming, perhaps
Coming where
Anywhere, for instance
No
Because here he is
And he don't look agreeable, does he
If you will kindly step round here behind me, in the gloom of the room, and will cast your eye at the second-floor landing window in yonder house, I think you will hardly fail to see a slinking individual in whom I recognise our local friend
You are right
Umps
what should you say that our local friend was up to
A watch
Ay
Which would not only of itself haunt and torture his life
but would expose him to the torment of a perpetually reviving suspicion, whatever he might do, or wherever he might go
Ay
Do I see him waiting for you
No doubt you do
Then WOULD you have the goodness to excuse my getting up to see you out, and to go out to join him, and to go the way that you were going, and to take no notice of our local friend
I entertain a sort of fancy for having HIM under my eye to-night, do you know
I beg your pardon
the beans
Runners
Scarlet. Next door at the back
O
And the mignonette and wall-flower
The same
Pray walk in
Thank you
I have noticed
my name is Tartar
I have noticed (excuse me) that you shut yourself up a good deal, and that you seem to like my garden aloft here. If you would like a little more of it, I could throw out a few lines and stays between my windows and yours, which the runners would take to directly. And I have some boxes, both of mignonette and wall- flower, that I could shove on along the gutter (with a boathook I have by me) to your windows, and draw back again when they wanted watering or gardening, and shove on again when they were ship- shape; so that they would cause you no trouble. I couldn't take this liberty without asking your permission, so I venture to ask it. Tartar, corresponding set, next door
You are very kind
Not at all. I ought to apologise for looking in so late. But having noticed (excuse me) that you generally walk out at night, I thought I should inconvenience you least by awaiting your return. I am always afraid of inconveniencing busy men, being an idle man
I should not have thought so, from your appearance
No? I take it as a compliment. In fact, I was bred in the Royal Navy, and was First Lieutenant when I quitted it. But, an uncle disappointed in the service leaving me his property on condition that I left the Navy, I accepted the fortune, and resigned my commission
Lately, I presume
Well, I had had twelve or fifteen years of knocking about first. I came here some nine months before you; I had had one crop before you came. I chose this place, because, having served last in a little corvette, I knew I should feel more at home where I had a constant opportunity of knocking my head against the ceiling. Besides, it would never do for a man who had been aboard ship from his boyhood to turn luxurious all at once. Besides, again; having been accustomed to a very short allowance of land all my life, I thought I'd feel my way to the command of a landed estate, by beginning in boxes
However
I have talked quite enough about myself. It is not my way, I hope; it has merely been to present myself to you naturally. If you will allow me to take the liberty I have described, it will be a charity, for it will give me something more to do. And you are not to suppose that it will entail any interruption or intrusion on you, for that is far from my intention
I am very glad to take your windows in tow
From what I have seen of you when I have been gardening at mine, and you have been looking on, I have thought you (excuse me) rather too studious and delicate. May I ask, is your health at all affected
I have undergone some mental distress
which has stood me in the stead of illness
Pardon me
For Heaven's sake
don't do that! Where are you going Mr. Tartar? You'll be dashed to pieces
All well
All taut and trim here. Those lines and stays shall be rigged before you turn out in the morning. May I take this short cut home, and say good-night
Mr. Tartar
Pray! It makes me giddy to see you
gone below
I suppose, waiter
that a fair lodging for a single buffer might be found in these parts, eh
Something old
Take my hat down for a moment from that peg, will you? No, I don't want it; look into it. What do you see written there
Datchery
Now you know my name
Dick Datchery. Hang it up again. I was saying something old is what I should prefer, something odd and out of the way; something venerable, architectural, and inconvenient
We have a good choice of inconvenient lodgings in the town, sir, I think
indeed, I have no doubt that we could suit you that far, however particular you might be. But a architectural lodging
Anything Cathedraly, now
Mr. Tope
would be the likeliest party to inform in that line
Who is Mr. Tope
I'll call on Mrs. Tope
after dinner
im agin
and made a dint in his wool
Let him be
Don't you see you have lamed him
Yer lie
is master's mutton any more
Come here
I won't; I'll come when yer can ketch me
Stay there then, and show me which is Mr. Tope's
Ow can I stay here and show you which is Topeseses, when Topeseses is t'other side the Kinfreederal, and over the crossings, and round ever so many comers? Stoo-pid! Ya-a-ah
Show me where it is, and I'll give you something
Come on, then
Lookie yonder. You see that there winder and door
That's Tope's
Yer lie; it ain't. That's Jarsper's
Indeed
IM, I tell yer
Why not
is jolly old 'ed some day! Now look t'other side the harch; not the side where Jarsper's door is; t'other side
I see
is name on a hoval plate
Good. See here
You owe me half of this
Yer lie! I don't owe yer nothing; I never seen yer
I tell you you owe me half of this, because I have no sixpence in my pocket. So the next time you meet me you shall do something else for me, to pay me
All right, give us 'old
What is your name, and where do you live
cross the green
speak for her
I beg pardon
a selfish precaution on my part, and not personally interesting to anybody but myself. But as a buffer living on his means, and having an idea of doing it in this lovely place in peace and quiet, for remaining span of life, I beg to ask if the Tope family are quite respectable
That is enough, sir
My friend the Mayor
whose recommendation is actually much more important to a stranger than that of an obscure person like myself, will testify in their behalf, I am sure
The Worshipful the Mayor
places me under an infinite obligation
Very good people, sir, Mr. and Mrs. Tope
Very good opinions. Very well behaved. Very respectful. Much approved by the Dean and Chapter
The Worshipful the Mayor gives them a character
of which they may indeed be proud. I would ask His Honour (if I might be permitted) whether there are not many objects of great interest in the city which is under his beneficent sway
We are, sir
an ancient city, and an ecclesiastical city. We are a constitutional city, as it becomes such a city to be, and we uphold and maintain our glorious privileges
His Honour
inspires me with a desire to know more of the city, and confirms me in my inclination to end my days in the city
Retired from the Army, sir
His Honour the Mayor does me too much credit
Navy, sir
Again
His Honour the Mayor does me too much credit
Diplomacy is a fine profession
There, I confess, His Honour the Mayor is too many for me
even a diplomatic bird must fall to such a gun
But I crave pardon
His Honour the Mayor will bear with me, if for a moment I have been deluded into occupying his time, and have forgotten the humble claims upon my own, of my hotel, the Crozier
Not at all, sir
I am returning home, and if you would like to take the exterior of our Cathedral in your way, I shall be glad to point it out
His Honour the Mayor
is more than kind and gracious
Might I ask His Honour
whether that gentleman we have just left is the gentleman of whom I have heard in the neighbourhood as being much afflicted by the loss of a nephew, and concentrating his life on avenging the loss
That is the gentleman. John Jasper, sir
Would His Honour allow me to inquire whether there are strong suspicions of any one
More than suspicions, sir
all but certainties
Only think now
But proof, sir, proof must be built up stone by stone
As I say, the end crowns the work. It is not enough that justice should be morally certain; she must be immorally certain -- legally, that is
His Honour
reminds me of the nature of the law. Immoral. How true
As I say, sir
the arm of the law is a strong arm, and a long arm. That is the may I put it. A strong arm and a long arm
How forcible!-- And yet, again, how true
And without betraying, what I call the secrets of the prison- house
the secrets of the prison-house is the term I used on the bench
And what other term than His Honour's would express it
Without, I say, betraying them, I predict to you, knowing the iron will of the gentleman we have just left (I take the bold step of calling it iron, on account of its strength), that in this case the long arm will reach, and the strong arm will strike.-- This is our Cathedral, sir. The best judges are pleased to admire it, and the best among our townsmen own to being a little vain of it
Pray be covered, sir
I shall not mind it, I assure you
His Honour is very good, but I do it for coolness
And by the by
THAT is one of our small lions. The partiality of our people has made it so, and strangers have been seen taking a copy of it now and then. I am not a judge of it myself, for it is a little work of my own. But it was troublesome to turn, sir; I may say, difficult to turn with elegance
Ah, Durdles! This is the mason, sir; one of our Cloisterham worthies; everybody here knows Durdles. Mr. Datchery, Durdles a gentleman who is going to settle here
I wouldn't do it if I was him
We're a heavy lot
You surely don't speak for yourself, Mr. Durdles
any more than for His Honour
Who's His Honour
His Honour the Mayor
I never was brought afore him
I suppose a curious stranger might come to see you, and your works, Mr. Durdles, at any odd time
Any gentleman is welcome to come and see me any evening if he brings liquor for two with him
or if he likes to make it twice two, he'll be doubly welcome
I shall come. Master Deputy, what do you owe me
A job
Mind you pay me honestly with the job of showing me Mr. Durdles's house when I want to go there
For a single buffer, of an easy temper, living idly on his means, I have had a rather busy afternoon
O why, why, why, did you say I was at home
What shall I do! what shall I do
I have been waiting
for some time, to be summoned back to my duty near you
Duty, sir
The duty of teaching you, serving you as your faithful music- master
I have left off that study
Not left off, I think. Discontinued. I was told by your guardian that you discontinued it under the shock that we have all felt so acutely. When will you resume
Never, sir
Never? You could have done no more if you had loved my dear boy
I did love him
Yes; but not quite -- not quite in the right way, shall I say? Not in the intended and expected way. Much as my dear boy was, unhappily, too self-conscious and self-satisfied (I'll draw no parallel between him and you in that respect) to love as he should have loved, or as any one in his place would have loved -- must have loved
Then, to be told that you discontinued your study with me, was to be politely told that you abandoned it altogether
Yes
The politeness was my guardian's, not mine. I told him that I was resolved to leave off, and that I was determined to stand by my resolution
And you still are
I still am, sir. And I beg not to be questioned any more about it. At all events, I will not answer any more; I have that in my power
I will not question you any more, since you object to it so much; I will confess
I do not wish to hear you, sir
We must sometimes act in opposition to our wishes
You must do so now, or do more harm to others than you can ever set right
What harm
Presently, presently. You question ME, you see, and surely that's not fair when you forbid me to question you. Nevertheless, I will answer the question presently. Dearest Rosa! Charming Rosa
I do not forget how many windows command a view of us
I will not touch you again; I will come no nearer to you than I am. Sit down, and there will be no mighty wonder in your music-master's leaning idly against a pedestal and speaking with you, remembering all that has happened, and our shares in it. Sit down, my beloved
Rosa, even when my dear boy was affianced to you, I loved you madly; even when I thought his happiness in having you for his wife was certain, I loved you madly; even when I strove to make him more ardently devoted to you, I loved you madly; even when he gave me the picture of your lovely face so carelessly traduced by him, which I feigned to hang always in my sight for his sake, but worshipped in torment for years, I loved you madly; in the distasteful work of the day, in the wakeful misery of the night, girded by sordid realities, or wandering through Paradises and Hells of visions into which I rushed, carrying your image in my arms, I loved you madly
I endured it all in silence. So long as you were his, or so long as I supposed you to be his, I hid my secret loyally. Did I not
You were as false throughout, sir, as you are now. You were false to him, daily and hourly. You know that you made my life unhappy by your pursuit of me. You know that you made me afraid to open his generous eyes, and that you forced me, for his own trusting, good, good sake, to keep the truth from him, that you were a bad, bad man
How beautiful you are! You are more beautiful in anger than in repose. I don't ask you for your love; give me yourself and your hatred; give me yourself and that pretty rage; give me yourself and that enchanting scorn; it will be enough for me
I told you, you rare charmer, you sweet witch, that you must stay and hear me, or do more harm than can ever be undone. You asked me what harm. Stay, and I will tell you. Go, and I will do it
I have made my confession that my love is mad. It is so mad, that had the ties between me and my dear lost boy been one silken thread less strong, I might have swept even him from your side, when you favoured him
Even him
Yes, even him! Rosa, you see me and you hear me. Judge for yourself whether any other admirer shall love you and live, whose life is in my hand
What do you mean, sir
I mean to show you how mad my love is. It was hawked through the late inquiries by Mr. Crisparkle, that young Landless had confessed to him that he was a rival of my lost boy. That is an inexpiable offence in my eyes. The same Mr. Crisparkle knows under my hand that I have devoted myself to the murderer's discovery and destruction, be he whom he might, and that I determined to discuss the mystery with no one until I should hold the clue in which to entangle the murderer as in a net. I have since worked patiently to wind and wind it round him; and it is slowly winding as I speak
Your belief, if you believe in the criminality of Mr. Landless, is not Mr. Crisparkle's belief, and he is a good man
My belief is my own; and I reserve it, worshipped of my soul! Circumstances may accumulate so strongly EVEN AGAINST AN INNOCENT MAN, that directed, sharpened, and pointed, they may slay him. One wanting link discovered by perseverance against a guilty man, proves his guilt, however slight its evidence before, and he dies. Young Landless stands in deadly peril either way
If you really suppose
that I favour Mr. Landless, or that Mr. Landless has ever in any way addressed himself to me, you are wrong
I was going to show you how madly I love you. More madly now than ever, for I am willing to renounce the second object that has arisen in my life to divide it with you; and henceforth to have no object in existence but you only. Miss Landless has become your bosom friend. You care for her peace of mind
I love her dearly
You care for her good name
I have said, sir, I love her dearly
I am unconsciously
I am unconsciously giving offence by questioning again. I will simply make statements, therefore, and not put questions. You do care for your bosom friend's good name, and you do care for her peace of mind. Then remove the shadow of the gallows from her, dear one
You dare propose to me to
Darling, I dare propose to you. Stop there. If it be bad to idolise you, I am the worst of men; if it be good, I am the best. My love for you is above all other love, and my truth to you is above all other truth. Let me have hope and favour, and I am a forsworn man for your sake
Reckon up nothing at this moment, angel, but the sacrifices that I lay at those dear feet, which I could fall down among the vilest ashes and kiss, and put upon my head as a poor savage might. There is my fidelity to my dear boy after death. Tread upon it
There is the inexpiable offence against my adoration of you. Spurn it
There are my labours in the cause of a just vengeance for six toiling months. Crush them
There is my past and my present wasted life. There is the desolation of my heart and my soul. There is my peace; there is my despair. Stamp them into the dust; so that you take me, were it even mortally hating me
Rosa, I am self-repressed again. I am walking calmly beside you to the house. I shall wait for some encouragement and hope. I shall not strike too soon. Give me a sign that you attend to me
Not a word of this to any one, or it will bring down the blow, as certainly as night follows day. Another sign that you attend to me
I love you, love you, love you! If you were to cast me off now -- but you will not -- you would never be rid of me. No one should come between us. I would pursue you to the death
Am I so wicked in my thoughts as to conceive a wickedness that others cannot imagine
What motive could he have, according to my accusation
The motive of gaining ME
Stop and take me, if you please, Joe. I am obliged to go to London
Can you go round when you get back, and tell Miss Twinkleton that you saw me safely off, Joe 'It shall be done, Miss
With my love, please, Joe
Yes, Miss -- and I wouldn't mind having it myself
Hiram Grewgious, Esquire, Staple Inn, London
Does Mr. Grewgious live here
Mr. Grewgious lives there, Miss
Good Heaven
My child, my child! I thought you were your mother!-- But what, what, what
has happened? My dear, what has brought you here? Who has brought you here
No one. I came alone
Lord bless me
Came alone! Why didn't you write to me to come and fetch you
I had no time. I took a sudden resolution. Poor, poor Eddy
Ah, poor fellow, poor fellow
His uncle has made love to me. I cannot bear it
I shudder with horror of him, and I have come to you to protect me and all of us from him, if you will
I will
I beg your pardon, my dear, but you will be glad to know I feel better. Tell me no more just now, or I might do it again. You must be refreshed and cheered. What did you take last? Was it breakfast, lunch, dinner, tea, or supper? And what will you take next? Shall it be breakfast, lunch, dinner, tea, or supper
Your rest too must be provided for
and you shall have the prettiest chamber in Furnival's. Your toilet must be provided for, and you shall have everything that an unlimited head chambermaid -- by which expression I mean a head chambermaid not limited as to outlay -- can procure. Is that a bag
and is it your property, my dear
Yes, sir. I brought it with me
It is not an extensive bag
though admirably calculated to contain a day's provision for a canary- bird. Perhaps you brought a canary-bird
If you had, he should have been made welcome
and I think he would have been pleased to be hung upon a nail outside and pit himself against our Staple sparrows; whose execution must be admitted to be not quite equal to their intention. Which is the case with so many of us! You didn't say what meal, my dear. Have a nice jumble of all meals
Lord bless my soul
what a new sensation for a poor old Angular bachelor, to be sure
The sensation of having a sweet young presence in the place, that whitewashes it, paints it, papers it, decorates it with gilding, and makes it Glorious
Ah me! Ah me
Thank you, my dear
Ahem! Let's talk
Do you always live here, sir
Yes, my dear
And always alone
Always alone; except that I have daily company in a gentleman by the name of Bazzard, my clerk
HE doesn't live here
No, he goes his way, after office hours. In fact, he is off duty here, altogether, just at present; and a firm down-stairs, with which I have business relations, lend me a substitute. But it would be extremely difficult to replace Mr. Bazzard
He must be very fond of you
He bears up against it with commendable fortitude if he is
But I doubt if he is. Not particularly so. You see, he is discontented, poor fellow
Why isn't he contented
Misplaced
So misplaced
that I feel constantly apologetic towards him. And he feels (though he doesn't mention it) that I have reason to be
Let's talk. We were speaking of Mr. Bazzard. It's a secret, and moreover it is Mr. Bazzard's secret; but the sweet presence at my table makes me so unusually expansive, that I feel I must impart it in inviolable confidence. What do you think Mr. Bazzard has done
O dear
nothing dreadful, I hope
He has written a play
A tragedy
And nobody
will hear, on any account whatever, of bringing it out
Such things are, and why are they
Now, you know
_I_ couldn't write a play
Not a bad one, sir
No. If I was under sentence of decapitation, and was about to be instantly decapitated, and an express arrived with a pardon for the condemned convict Grewgious if he wrote a play, I should be under the necessity of resuming the block, and begging the executioner to proceed to extremities,-- meaning
the singular number, and this extremity
Consequently
Mr. Bazzard would have a sense of my inferiority to himself under any circumstances; but when I am his master, you know, the case is greatly aggravated
How came you to be his master, sir
A question that naturally follows
Let's talk. Mr. Bazzard's father, being a Norfolk farmer, would have furiously laid about him with a flail, a pitch-fork, and every agricultural implement available for assaulting purposes, on the slightest hint of his son's having written a play. So the son, bringing to me the father's rent (which I receive), imparted his secret, and pointed out that he was determined to pursue his genius, and that it would put him in peril of starvation, and that he was not formed for it
For pursuing his genius, sir
No, my dear
for starvation. It was impossible to deny the position, that Mr. Bazzard was not formed to be starved, and Mr. Bazzard then pointed out that it was desirable that I should stand between him and a fate so perfectly unsuited to his formation. In that way Mr. Bazzard became my clerk, and he feels it very much
I am glad he is grateful
I didn't quite mean that, my dear. I mean, that he feels the degradation. There are some other geniuses that Mr. Bazzard has become acquainted with, who have also written tragedies, which likewise nobody will on any account whatever hear of bringing out, and these choice spirits dedicate their plays to one another in a highly panegyrical manner. Mr. Bazzard has been the subject of one of these dedications. Now, you know, I never had a play dedicated to ME
Which again, naturally, rubs against the grain of Mr. Bazzard
He is very short with me sometimes, and then I feel that he is meditating, "This blockhead is my master! A fellow who couldn't write a tragedy on pain of death, and who will never have one dedicated to him with the most complimentary congratulations on the high position he has taken in the eyes of posterity!" Very trying, very trying. However, in giving him directions, I reflect beforehand: "Perhaps he may not like this," or "He might take it ill if I asked that;" and so we get on very well. Indeed, better than I could have expected
Is the tragedy named, sir
Strictly between ourselves
it has a dreadfully appropriate name. It is called The Thorn of Anxiety. But Mr. Bazzard hopes -- and I hope -- that it will come out at last
And now, my dear
if you are not too tired to tell me more of what passed to-day -- but only if you feel quite able -- I should be glad to hear it. I may digest it the better, if I sleep on it to-night
Clearly narrated
and, I hope, clearly put away here
See, my dear
where they live! The dark windows over yonder
I may go to Helena to-morrow
I should like to sleep on that question to-night
But let me take you to your own rest, for you must need it
Not at all, my dear
O no, I feel so safe
Yes, you may be sure that the stairs are fire-proof
and that any outbreak of the devouring element would be perceived and suppressed by the watchmen
I did not mean that
I mean, I feel so safe from him
There is a stout gate of iron bars to keep him out
and Furnival's is fire-proof, and specially watched and lighted, and _I_ live over the way
If some one staying in the hotel should wish to send across the road to me in the night, a crown will be ready for the messenger
Miss Twinkleton was so uneasy, Miss Rosa
and came round to Ma and me with your note, in such a state of wonder, that, to quiet her, I volunteered on this service by the very first train to be caught in the morning. I wished at the time that you had come to me; but now I think it best that you did AS you did, and came to your guardian
I did think of you
but Minor Canon Corner was so near him
I understand. It was quite natural
I have told Mr. Crisparkle
all that you told me last night, my dear. Of course I should have written it to him immediately; but his coming was most opportune. And it was particularly kind of him to come, for he had but just gone
Have you settled
what is to be done for Helena and her brother
Why really
I am in great perplexity. If even Mr. Grewgious, whose head is much longer than mine, and who is a whole night's cogitation in advance of me, is undecided, what must I be
Such a gentleman is here
but is engaged just now
Is it a dark gentleman
No, Miss, more of a brown gentleman
You are sure not with black hair
Quite sure of that, Miss. Brown hair and blue eyes
Perhaps
it might be well to see him, reverend sir, if you don't object. When one is in a difficulty or at a loss, one never knows in what direction a way out may chance to open. It is a business principle of mine, in such a case, not to close up any direction, but to keep an eye on every direction that may present itself. I could relate an anecdote in point, but that it would be premature
If Miss Rosa will allow me, then? Let the gentleman come in
Who am I
You are the gentleman I saw smoking under the trees in Staple Inn, a few minutes ago
True. There I saw you. Who else am I
What will you have for breakfast this morning? You are out of jam
Wait a moment
Give me another instant! Tartar
My old fag
My old master
You saved me from drowning
After which you took to swimming, you know
God bless my soul
Amen
Imagine
Miss Rosa Bud and Mr. Grewgious, imagine Mr. Tartar, when he was the smallest of juniors, diving for me, catching me, a big heavy senior, by the hair of the head, and striking out for the shore with me like a water-giant
Imagine my not letting him sink, as I was his fag
But the truth being that he was my best protector and friend, and did me more good than all the masters put together, an irrational impulse seized me to pick him up, or go down with him
Hem! Permit me, sir, to have the honour
for an honour I truly esteem it. I am proud to make your acquaintance. I hope you didn't take cold. I hope you were not inconvenienced by swallowing too much water. How have you been since
I don't wish to be complimented upon it, I thank you; but I think I have an idea
I THINK I have an idea. I believe I have had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Tartar's name as tenant of the top set in the house next the top set in the corner
Yes, sir
You are right so far
I am right so far
Tick that off;' which he did, with his right thumb on his left. 'Might you happen to know the name of your neighbour in the top set on the other side of the party-wall
Landless
Tick that off
No personal knowledge, I suppose, sir
Slight, but some
Tick that off
Nature of knowledge, Mr. Tartar
I thought he seemed to be a young fellow in a poor way, and I asked his leave -- only within a day or so -- to share my flowers up there with him; that is to say, to extend my flower-garden to his windows
Would you have the kindness to take seats
I HAVE an idea
I cannot as yet make up my mind whether it is prudent to hold open communication under present circumstances, and on the part of the fair member of the present company, with Mr. Neville or Miss Helena. I have reason to know that a local friend of ours (on whom I beg to bestow a passing but a hearty malediction, with the kind permission of my reverend friend) sneaks to and fro, and dodges up and down. When not doing so himself, he may have some informant skulking about, in the person of a watchman, porter, or such-like hanger-on of Staple. On the other hand, Miss Rosa very naturally wishes to see her friend Miss Helena, and it would seem important that at least Miss Helena (if not her brother too, through her) should privately know from Miss Rosa's lips what has occurred, and what has been threatened. Am I agreed with generally in the views I take
I entirely coincide with them
As I have no doubt I should
if I understood them
Fair and softly, sir
we shall fully confide in you directly, if you will favour us with your permission. Now, if our local friend should have any informant on the spot, it is tolerably clear that such informant can only be set to watch the chambers in the occupation of Mr. Neville. He reporting, to our local friend, who comes and goes there, our local friend would supply for himself, from his own previous knowledge, the identity of the parties. Nobody can be set to watch all Staple, or to concern himself with comers and goers to other sets of chambers: unless, indeed, mine
I begin to understand to what you tend
and highly approve of your caution
I needn't repeat that I know nothing yet of the why and wherefore
but I also understand to what you tend, so let me say at once that my chambers are freely at your disposal
There
now we have all got the idea. You have it, my dear
I think I have
You see, you go over to Staple with Mr. Crisparkle and Mr. Tartar
I going in and out, and out and in alone, in my usual way; you go up with those gentlemen to Mr. Tartar's rooms; you look into Mr. Tartar's flower-garden; you wait for Miss Helena's appearance there, or you signify to Miss Helena that you are close by; and you communicate with her freely, and no spy can be the wiser
I am very much afraid I shall be
Be what, my dear
Not frightened
No, not that
in Mr. Tartar's way. We seem to be appropriating Mr. Tartar's residence so very coolly
I protest to you
that I shall think the better of it for evermore, if your voice sounds in it only once
Poor, poor Eddy
It was not so powerful or so sun-browned when it saved Mr. Crisparkle
but it must have been very steady and determined even then
When are you going to sea again
Never
Helena! Helena Landless! Are you there
Who speaks to me? Not Rosa
Yes, my darling
Why, how did you come here, dearest
I -- I don't quite know
unless I am dreaming
_I_ am not dreaming
I should take more for granted if I were. How do we come together -- or so near together -- so very unexpectedly
And Mr. Crisparkle is here
and, could you believe it? long ago he saved his life
I could believe any such thing of Mr. Crisparkle
Yes, but it wasn't Crisparkle
I don't understand, love
It was very nice of Mr. Crisparkle to be saved
and he couldn't have shown his high opinion of Mr. Tartar more expressively. But it was Mr. Tartar who saved him
Is Mr. Tartar with you now, dear
No; because he has given up his rooms to me -- to us, I mean. It is such a beautiful place
Is it
It is like the inside of the most exquisite ship that ever sailed. It is like -- it is like
Like a dream
My poor Neville is reading in his own room, the sun being so very bright on this side just now. I think he had better not know that you are so near
O, I think so too
I suppose
that he must know by-and- by all you have told me; but I am not sure. Ask Mr. Crisparkle's advice, my darling. Ask him whether I may tell Neville as much or as little of what you have told me as I think best
I thank him very much
Ask him whether it would be best to wait until any more maligning and pursuing of Neville on the part of this wretch shall disclose itself, or to try to anticipate it: I mean, so far as to find out whether any such goes on darkly about us
We may count on Mr. Tartar's readiness to help us, Rosa
I think your authority on the point as good as his, my dear
and you needn't disappear again for that
You see, Neville
knows no one else here: he has not so much as exchanged a word with any one else here. If Mr. Tartar would call to see him openly and often; if he would spare a minute for the purpose, frequently; if he would even do so, almost daily; something might come of it
Something might come of it, dear
Something might
If Neville's movements are really watched, and if the purpose really is to isolate him from all friends and acquaintance and wear his daily life out grain by grain (which would seem to be the threat to you), does it not appear likely
that his enemy would in some way communicate with Mr. Tartar to warn him off from Neville? In which case, we might not only know the fact, but might know from Mr. Tartar what the terms of the communication were
I see
who is waiting now, in case you want him
I thank him from my heart
Pray tell him so
And now, darling
we will be mindful of the caution that has restricted us to this interview for the present, and will part. I hear Neville moving too. Are you going back
To Miss Twinkleton's
Yes
O, I could never go there any more. I couldn't indeed, after that dreadful interview
Then where ARE you going, pretty one
Now I come to think of it, I don't know
I have settled nothing at all yet, but my guardian will take care of me. Don't be uneasy, dear. I shall be sure to be somewhere
And I shall hear of my Rosebud from Mr. Tartar
Yes, I suppose so; from
But tell me one thing before we part, dearest Helena. Tell me -- that you are sure, sure, sure, I couldn't help it
Help it, love
Help making him malicious and revengeful. I couldn't hold any terms with him, could I
You know how I love you, darling
but I would sooner see you dead at his wicked feet
That's a great comfort to me! And you will tell your poor brother so, won't you? And you will give him my remembrance and my sympathy? And you will ask him not to hate me
And now, my dear
what is to be done next? To put the same thought in another form; what is to be done with you
It has come into my thoughts
that as the respected lady, Miss Twinkleton, occasionally repairs to London in the recess, with the view of extending her connection, and being available for interviews with metropolitan parents, if any -- whether, until we have time in which to turn ourselves round, we might invite Miss Twinkleton to come and stay with you for a month
Stay where, sir
Whether
we might take a furnished lodging in town for a month, and invite Miss Twinkleton to assume the charge of you in it for that period
And afterwards
And afterwards
we should be no worse off than we are now
I think that might smooth the way
Then let us
go and look for a furnished lodging. Nothing could be more acceptable to me than the sweet presence of last evening, for all the remaining evenings of my existence; but these are not fit surroundings for a young lady. Let us set out in quest of adventures, and look for a furnished lodging. In the meantime, Mr. Crisparkle here, about to return home immediately, will no doubt kindly see Miss Twinkleton, and invite that lady to co-operate in our plan
I hope I see you well, sir
Thank you, quite well. And you, ma'am
I am as well
as I hever ham
My ward and an elderly lady
wish to find a genteel lodging for a month or so. Have you any apartments available, ma'am
Mr. Grewgious
I will not deceive you; far from it. I HAVE apartments available
Convey me to the stake, if you will; but while I live, I will be candid
And now, what apartments, ma'am
There is this sitting-room -- which, call it what you will, it is the front parlour, Miss
the back parlour being what I cling to and never part with; and there is two bedrooms at the top of the 'ouse with gas laid on. I do not tell you that your bedroom floors is firm, for firm they are not. The gas-fitter himself allowed, that to make a firm job, he must go right under your jistes, and it were not worth the outlay as a yearly tenant so to do. The piping is carried above your jistes, and it is best that it should be made known to you
Well! The roof is all right, no doubt
Mr. Grewgious
if I was to tell you, sir, that to have nothink above you is to have a floor above you, I should put a deception upon you which I will not do. No, sir. Your slates WILL rattle loose at that elewation in windy weather, do your utmost, best or worst! I defy you, sir, be you what you may, to keep your slates tight, try how you can
Consequent
consequent it would be worse than of no use for me to trapse and travel up to the top of the 'ouse with you, and for you to say, "Mrs. Billickin, what stain do I notice in the ceiling, for a stain I do consider it?" and for me to answer, "I do not understand you, sir." No, sir, I will not be so underhand. I DO understand you before you pint it out. It is the wet, sir. It do come in, and it do not come in. You may lay dry there half your lifetime; but the time will come, and it is best that you should know it, when a dripping sop would be no name for you
Have you any other apartments, ma'am
Mr. Grewgious
I have. You ask me have I, and my open and my honest answer air, I have. The first and second floors is wacant, and sweet rooms
Come, come! There's nothing against THEM
Mr. Grewgious
pardon me, there is the stairs. Unless your mind is prepared for the stairs, it will lead to inevitable disappointment. You cannot, Miss
place a first floor, and far less a second, on the level footing 'of a parlour. No, you cannot do it, Miss, it is beyond your power, and wherefore try
Can we see these rooms, ma'am
Mr. Grewgious
you can. I will not disguise it from you, sir; you can
And the second floor
Mr. Grewgious
the second floor is over this
Can we see that too, ma'am
Yes, sir
it is open as the day
Five-and-forty shillings per week by the month certain at the time of year
Dogs is not viewed with favour. Besides litter, they gets stole, and sharing suspicions is apt to creep in, and unpleasantness takes place
I have signed it for the ladies, ma'am
and you'll have the goodness to sign it for yourself, Christian and Surname, there, if you please
Mr. Grewgious
no, sir! You must excuse the Christian name
The door-plate is used as a protection
and acts as such, and go from it I will not
said Mrs. Billickin, with a strong sense of injury, 'to take that advantage of your sex, if you were not brought to it by inconsiderate example
It occurred to me
that we might go up the river, the weather being so delicious and the tide serving. I have a boat of my own at the Temple Stairs
I have not been up the river for this many a day
I was never up the river
Cannot people get through life without gritty stages, I wonder
Things cannot too soon be put upon the footing
ily obleeged to you, Miss Twinkleton, nor yet a beggar
But you don't do it
I am not your pupil, whatever she
may be, poor thing
I will not hide from you, ladies
for it is not my character to hide neither my motives nor my actions, that I take the liberty to look in upon you to express a 'ope that your dinner was to your liking. Though not Professed but Plain, still her wages should be a sufficient object to her to stimilate to soar above mere roast and biled
We dined very well indeed
thank you
Accustomed
my good woman
accustomed to a liberal and nutritious, yet plain and salutary diet, we have found no reason to bemoan our absence from the ancient city, and the methodical household, in which the quiet routine of our lot has been hitherto cast
I did think it well to mention to my cook
which I 'ope you will agree with, Miss Twinkleton, was a right precaution, that the young lady being used to what we should consider here but poor diet, had better be brought forward by degrees. For, a rush from scanty feeding to generous feeding, and from what you may call messing to what you may call method, do require a power of constitution which is not often found in youth, particular when undermined by boarding- school
Your remarks
are well meant, I have no doubt; but you will permit me to observe that they develop a mistaken view of the subject, which can only be imputed to your extreme want of accurate information
My informiation
my informiation, Miss Twinkleton, were my own experience, which I believe is usually considered to be good guidance. But whether so or not, I was put in youth to a very genteel boarding-school, the mistress being no less a lady than yourself, of about your own age or it may be some years younger, and a poorness of blood flowed from the table which has run through my life
Very likely
and very much to be deplored.-- Rosa, my dear, how are you getting on with your work
Miss Twinkleton
int, as a lady should, I wish to ask of yourself, as a lady, whether I am to consider that my words is doubted
I am not aware on what ground you cherish such a supposition
Do not, if you please, put suppositions betwixt my lips where none such have been imparted by myself. Your flow of words is great, Miss Twinkleton, and no doubt is expected from you by your pupils, and no doubt is considered worth the money. NO doubt, I am sure. But not paying for flows of words, and not asking to be favoured with them here, I wish to repeat my question
If you refer to the poverty of your circulation
I have used no such expressions
If you refer, then, to the poorness of your blood
Brought upon me
at a boarding-school
Then
all I can say is, that I am bound to believe, on your asseveration, that it is very poor indeed. I cannot forbear adding, that if that unfortunate circumstance influences your conversation, it is much to be lamented, and it is eminently desirable that your blood were richer.-- Rosa, my dear, how are you getting on with your work
Hem! Before retiring, Miss
I should wish it to be understood between yourself and me that my transactions in future is with you alone. I know no elderly lady here, Miss, none older than yourself
A highly desirable arrangement, Rosa my dear
It is not, Miss
that I possess the Mill I have heard of, in which old single ladies could be ground up young (what a gift it would be to some of us), but that I limit myself to you totally
When I have any desire to communicate a request to the person of the house, Rosa my dear
I will make it known to you, and you will kindly undertake, I am sure, that it is conveyed to the proper quarter
Good-evening, Miss
Being alone in my eyes, I wish you good-evening with best wishes, and do not find myself drove, I am truly 'appy to say, into expressing my contempt for an indiwidual, unfortunately for yourself, belonging to you
Perhaps, my love, you will consult with the person of the house, whether she can procure us a lamb's fry; or, failing that, a roast fowl
If you was better accustomed to butcher's meat, Miss, you would not entertain the idea of a lamb's fry. Firstly, because lambs has long been sheep, and secondly, because there is such things as killing-days, and there is not. As to roast fowls, Miss, why you must be quite surfeited with roast fowls, letting alone your buying, when you market for yourself, the agedest of poultry with the scaliest of legs, quite as if you was accustomed to picking 'em out for cheapness. Try a little inwention, Miss. Use yourself to 'ousekeeping a bit. Come now, think of somethink else
Or, my dear, you might propose to the person of the house a duck
Well, Miss
you do surprise me when you speak of ducks! Not to mention that they're getting out of season and very dear, it really strikes to my heart to see you have a duck; for the breast, which is the only delicate cuts in a duck, always goes in a direction which I cannot imagine where, and your own plate comes down so miserably skin-and-bony! Try again, Miss. Think more of yourself, and less of others. A dish of sweetbreads now, or a bit of mutton. Something at which you can get your equal chance
Ever dearest and best adored,-- said Edward, clasping the dear head to his breast, and drawing the silken hair through his caressing fingers, from which he suffered it to fall like golden rain,-- ever dearest and best adored, let us fly from the unsympathetic world and the sterile coldness of the stony-hearted, to the rich warm Paradise of Trust and Love
Ever engaged to me with the consent of our parents on both sides, and the approbation of the silver-haired rector of the district,-- said Edward, respectfully raising to his lips the taper fingers so skilful in embroidery, tambour, crochet, and other truly feminine arts,-- let me call on thy papa ere to- morrow's dawn has sunk into the west, and propose a suburban establishment, lowly it may be, but within our means, where he will be always welcome as an evening guest, and where every arrangement shall invest economy, and constant interchange of scholastic acquirements with the attributes of the ministering angel to domestic bliss
Are you alone here
Alone, deary; worse luck for me, and better for you
Come in, come in, whoever you be: I can't see you till I light a match, yet I seem to know the sound of your speaking. I'm acquainted with you, ain't I
Light your match, and try
So I will, deary, so I will; but my hand that shakes, as I can't lay it on a match all in a moment. And I cough so, that, put my matches where I may, I never find 'em there. They jump and start, as I cough and cough, like live things. Are you off a voyage, deary
No
Not seafaring
No
Well, there's land customers, and there's water customers. I'm a mother to both. Different from Jack Chinaman t'other side the court. He ain't a father to neither. It ain't in him. And he ain't got the true secret of mixing, though he charges as much as me that has, and more if he can get it. Here's a match, and now where's the candle? If my cough takes me, I shall cough out twenty matches afore I gets a light
O, my lungs is awful bad! my lungs is wore away to cabbage-nets
Why, it's you
Are you so surprised to see me
I thought I never should have seen you again, deary. I thought you was dead, and gone to Heaven
Why
I didn't suppose you could have kept away, alive, so long, from the poor old soul with the real receipt for mixing it. And you are in mourning too! Why didn't you come and have a pipe or two of comfort? Did they leave you money, perhaps, and so you didn't want comfort
No
Who was they as died, deary
A relative
Died of what, lovey
Probably, Death
We are short to-night
Short and snappish we are! But we're out of sorts for want of a smoke. We've got the all-overs, haven't us, deary? But this is the place to cure 'em in; this is the place where the all- overs is smoked off
You may make ready, then
as soon as you like
Now you begin to look like yourself
Now I begin to know my old customer indeed! Been trying to mix for yourself this long time, poppet
I have been taking it now and then in my own way
Never take it your own way. It ain't good for trade, and it ain't good for you. Where's my ink-bottle, and where's my thimble, and where's my little spoon? He's going to take it in a artful form now, my deary dear
I've got a pretty many smokes ready for you, first and last, haven't I, chuckey
A good many
When you first come, you was quite new to it; warn't ye
Yes, I was easily disposed of, then
But you got on in the world, and was able by-and-by to take your pipe with the best of 'em, warn't ye
Ah; and the worst
It's just ready for you. What a sweet singer you was when you first come! Used to drop your head, and sing yourself off like a bird! It's ready for you now, deary
Is it as potent as it used to be
What do you speak of, deary
What should I speak of, but what I have in my mouth
It's just the same. Always the identical same
It doesn't taste so. And it's slower
You've got more used to it, you see
That may be the cause, certainly. Look here
I'm attending to you. Says you just now, Look here. Says I now, I'm attending to ye. We was talking just before of your being used to it
I know all that. I was only thinking. Look here. Suppose you had something in your mind; something you were going to do
Yes, deary; something I was going to do
But had not quite determined to do
Yes, deary
Might or might not do, you understand
Yes
Should you do it in your fancy, when you were lying here doing this
Over and over again
Just like me! I did it over and over again. I have done it hundreds of thousands of times in this room
It's to be hoped it was pleasant to do, deary
It WAS pleasant to do
It was a journey, a difficult and dangerous journey. That was the subject in my mind. A hazardous and perilous journey, over abysses where a slip would be destruction. Look down, look down! You see what lies at the bottom there
Well; I have told you I did it here hundreds of thousands of times. What do I say? I did it millions and billions of times. I did it so often, and through such vast expanses of time, that when it was really done, it seemed not worth the doing, it was done so soon
That's the journey you have been away upon
That's the journey
I'll warrant
I'll warrant you made the journey in a many ways, when you made it so often
No, always in one way
Always in the same way
Ay
In the way in which it was really made at last
Ay
And always took the same pleasure in harping on it
Ay
Did you never get tired of it, deary, and try to call up something else for a change
What do you mean? What did I want? What did I come for
Sure, sure, sure! Yes, yes, yes! Now I go along with you. You was too quick for me. I see now. You come o' purpose to take the journey. Why, I might have known it, through its standing by you so
Yes, I came on purpose. When I could not bear my life, I came to get the relief, and I got it. It WAS one! It WAS one
There was a fellow-traveller, deary
Ha, ha, ha
To think
how often fellow-traveller, and yet not know it! To think how many times he went the journey, and never saw the road
Yes! I always made the journey first, before the changes of colours and the great landscapes and glittering processions began. They couldn't begin till it was off my mind. I had no room till then for anything else
What? I told you so. When it comes to be real at last, it is so short that it seems unreal for the first time. Hark
Yes, deary. I'm listening
Time and place are both at hand
Time, place, and fellow-traveller
How could the time be at hand unless the fellow-traveller was? Hush! The journey's made. It's over
So soon
That's what I said to you. So soon. Wait a little. This is a vision. I shall sleep it off. It has been too short and easy. I must have a better vision than this; this is the poorest of all. No struggle, no consciousness of peril, no entreaty -- and yet I never saw THAT before
Saw what, deary
Look at it! Look what a poor, mean, miserable thing it is! THAT must be real. It's over
I heard ye say once
I heard ye say once, when I was lying where you're lying, and you were making your speculations upon me, "Unintelligible!" I heard you say so, of two more than me. But don't ye be too sure always; don't be ye too sure, beauty
Not so potent as it once was? Ah! Perhaps not at first. You may be more right there. Practice makes perfect. I may have learned the secret how to make ye talk, deary
Bless ye, bless ye, deary
I'll not miss ye twice
Is the gentleman from Cloisterham indoors? 'Just gone out
Unlucky. When does the gentleman return to Cloisterham
At six this evening
Bless ye and thank ye. May the Lord prosper a business where a civil question, even from a poor soul, is so civilly answered
I'll not miss ye twice
I lost ye last, where that omnibus you got into nigh your journey's end plied betwixt the station and the place. I wasn't so much as certain that you even went right on to the place. Now I know ye did. My gentleman from Cloisterham, I'll be there before ye, and bide your coming. I've swore my oath that I'll not miss ye twice
Now let me see what becomes of you. Go on
Halloa
who are you looking for
There was a gentleman passed in here this minute, sir
Of course there was. What do you want with him
Where do he live, deary
Live? Up that staircase
Bless ye! Whisper. What's his name, deary
Surname Jasper, Christian name John. Mr. John Jasper
Has he a calling, good gentleman
Calling? Yes. Sings in the choir
In the spire
Choir
What's that
Do you know what a cathedral is
What is it
That's the answer. Go in there at seven to-morrow morning, and you may see Mr. John Jasper, and hear him too
Thank ye! Thank ye
Or
you can go up at once to Mr. Jasper's rooms there
O! you don't want to speak to him
No
You can admire him at a distance three times a day, whenever you like. It's a long way to come for that, though
Wouldn't you help me to pay for my traveller's lodging, dear gentleman, and to pay my way along? I am a poor soul, I am indeed, and troubled with a grievous cough
You know the travellers' lodging, I perceive, and are making directly for it
Been here often, my good woman
Once in all my life
Ay, ay
By this token, though you mayn't believe it, That a young gentleman gave me three-and-sixpence as I was coughing my breath away on this very grass. I asked him for three-and-sixpence, and he gave it me
Wasn't it a little cool to name your sum
Isn't it customary to leave the amount open? Mightn't it have had the appearance, to the young gentleman -- only the appearance -- that he was rather dictated to
Look'ee here, deary
I wanted the money to lay it out on a medicine as does me good, and as I deal in. I told the young gentleman so, and he gave it me, and I laid it out honest to the last brass farden. I want to lay out the same sum in the same way now; and if you'll give it me, I'll lay it out honest to the last brass farden again, upon my soul
What's the medicine
I'll be honest with you beforehand, as well as after. It's opium
It's opium, deary. Neither more nor less. And it's like a human creetur so far, that you always hear what can be said against it, but seldom what can be said in its praise
It was last Christmas Eve, just arter dark, the once that I was here afore, when the young gentleman gave me the three-and-six
And the young gentleman's name
was Edwin
How do you know the young gentleman's name
I asked him for it, and he told it me. I only asked him the two questions, what was his Chris'en name, and whether he'd a sweetheart? And he answered, Edwin, and he hadn't
Halloa, Winks
Halloa, Dick
But, I say
don't yer go a-making my name public. I never means to plead to no name, mind yer. When they says to me in the Lock-up, a-going to put me down in the book, "What's your name?" I says to them, "Find out." Likewise when they says, "What's your religion?" I says, "Find out
Asides which
there ain't no family of Winkses
I think there must be
Yer lie, there ain't. The travellers give me the name on account of my getting no settled sleep and being knocked up all night; whereby I gets one eye roused open afore I've shut the other. That's what Winks means. Deputy's the nighest name to indict me by: but yer wouldn't catch me pleading to that, neither
Deputy be it always, then. We two are good friends; eh, Deputy
Jolly good
I forgave you the debt you owed me when we first became acquainted, and many of my sixpences have come your way since; eh, Deputy
Ah! And what's more, yer ain't no friend o' Jarsper's. What did he go a-histing me off my legs for
What indeed! But never mind him now. A shilling of mine is going your way to-night, Deputy. You have just taken in a lodger I have been speaking to; an infirm woman with a cough
Puffer
Hopeum Puffer
What is her name
Er Royal Highness the Princess Puffer
She has some other name than that; where does she live
Up in London. Among the Jacks
The sailors
I said so; Jacks; and Chayner men: and hother Knifers
I should like to know, through you, exactly where she lives
All right. Give us 'old
But here's a lark
Where did yer think 'Er Royal Highness is a-goin' to to-morrow morning? Blest if she ain't a- goin' to the KIN-FREE-DER-EL
How do you know that, Deputy
Cos she told me so just now. She said she must be hup and hout o' purpose. She ses, "Deputy, I must 'ave a early wash, and make myself as swell as I can, for I'm a-goin' to take a turn at the KIN-FREE-DER-EL
I like
the old tavern way of keeping scores. Illegible except to the scorer. The scorer not committed, the scored debited with what is against him. Hum; ha! A very small score this; a very poor score
I think a moderate stroke
is all I am justified in scoring up
Well, mistress. Good morning. You have seen him
I'VE seen him, deary; I'VE seen him
And you know him
Know him! Better far than all the Reverend Parsons put together know him
</text>
