<text>
Also Georgiana Wife of the Above
Hold your noise
Keep still, you little devil, or I'll cut your throat
O! Don't cut my throat, sir
Pray don't do it, sir
Tell us your name
Quick
Pip, sir
Once more
Give it mouth
Pip. Pip, sir
Show us where you live
Pint out the place
You young dog
what fat cheeks you ha' got
Darn me if I couldn't eat em
and if I han't half a mind to't
Now lookee here
Where's your mother
There, sir
There, sir
Also Georgiana. That's my mother
Oh
And is that your father alonger your mother
Yes, sir
him too; late of this parish
Ha
Who d'ye live with - supposin' you're kindly let to live, which I han't made up my mind about
My sister, sir - Mrs. Joe Gargery - wife of Joe Gargery, the blacksmith, sir
Blacksmith, eh
Now lookee here
the question being whether you're to be let to live. You know what a file is
Yes, sir
And you know what wittles is
Yes, sir
You get me a file
And you get me wittles
You bring 'em both to me
Or I'll have your heart and liver out
If you would kindly please to let me keep upright, sir, perhaps I shouldn't be sick, and perhaps I could attend more
You bring me, to-morrow morning early, that file and them wittles. You bring the lot to me, at that old Battery over yonder. You do it, and you never dare to say a word or dare to make a sign concerning your having seen such a person as me, or any person sumever, and you shall be let to live. You fail, or you go from my words in any partickler, no matter how small it is, and your heart and your liver shall be tore out, roasted and ate. Now, I ain't alone, as you may think I am. There's a young man hid with me, in comparison with which young man I am a Angel. That young man hears the words I speak. That young man has a secret way pecooliar to himself, of getting at a boy, and at his heart, and at his liver. It is in wain for a boy to attempt to hide himself from that young man. A boy may lock his door, may be warm in bed, may tuck himself up, may draw the clothes over his head, may think himself comfortable and safe, but that young man will softly creep and creep his way to him and tear him open. I am a-keeping that young man from harming of you at the present moment, with great difficulty. I find it wery hard to hold that young man off of your inside. Now, what do you say
Say Lord strike you dead if you don't
Now
you remember what you've undertook, and you remember that young man, and you get home
Goo-good night, sir
Much of that
I wish I was a frog. Or a eel
by hand
Mrs. Joe has been out a dozen times, looking for you, Pip. And she's out now, making it a baker's dozen
Is she
Yes, Pip
and what's worse, she's got Tickler with her
She sot down
and she got up, and she made a grab at Tickler, and she Ram-paged out. That's what she did
she Ram-paged out, Pip
Has she been gone long, Joe
Well
she's been on the Ram-page, this last spell, about five minutes, Pip. She's a- coming! Get behind the door, old chap, and have the jack-towel betwixt you
Where have you been, you young monkey
Tell me directly what you've been doing to wear me away with fret and fright and worrit, or I'd have you out of that corner if you was fifty Pips, and he was five hundred Gargerys
I have only been to the churchyard
Churchyard
If it warn't for me you'd have been to the churchyard long ago, and stayed there. Who brought you up by hand
You did
And why did I do it, I should like to know
I don't know
I don't
I'd never do it again! I know that. I may truly say I've never had this apron of mine off, since born you were. It's bad enough to be a blacksmith's wife (and him a Gargery) without being your mother
Hah
Churchyard, indeed! You may well say churchyard, you two
You'll drive me to the churchyard betwixt you, one of these days, and oh, a pr-r-recious pair you'd be without me
What's the matter now
I say, you know
Pip, old chap! You'll do yourself a mischief. It'll stick somewhere. You can't have chawed it, Pip
What's the matter now
If you can cough any trifle on it up, Pip, I'd recommend you to do it
Manners is manners, but still your elth's your elth
Now, perhaps you'll mention what's the matter
you staring great stuck pig
You know, Pip
you and me is always friends, and I'd be the last to tell upon you, any time. But such a
such a most oncommon Bolt as that
Been bolting his food, has he
You know, old chap
I Bolted, myself, when I was your age - frequent - and as a boy I've been among a many Bolters; but I never see your Bolting equal yet, Pip, and it's a mercy you ain't Bolted dead
You come along and be dosed
because he had had a turn
Hark
was that great guns, Joe
Ah
There's another conwict off
What does that mean, Joe
Escaped. Escaped
What's a convict
Pip
There was a conwict off last night
after sun-set-gun. And they fired warning of him. And now, it appears they're firing warning of another
Who's firing
Drat that boy
what a questioner he is. Ask no questions, and you'll be told no lies
sulks
her
Mrs. Joe
I should like to know - if you wouldn't much mind - where the firing comes from
Lord bless the boy
From the Hulks
Oh-h
Hulks
Well, I told you so
And please what's Hulks
That's the way with this boy
Answer him one question, and he'll ask you a dozen directly. Hulks are prison-ships, right 'cross th' meshes
I wonder who's put into prison-ships, and why they're put there
I tell you what, young fellow
I didn't bring you up by hand to badger people's lives out. It would be blame to me, and not praise, if I had. People are put in the Hulks because they murder, and because they rob, and forge, and do all sorts of bad; and they always begin by asking questions. Now, you get along to bed
Stop thief
Get up, Mrs. Joe
A boy with Somebody-else's pork pie! Stop him
Holloa, young thief
I couldn't help it, sir! It wasn't for myself I took it
It's the young man
What's in the bottle, boy
Brandy
I think you have got the ague
I'm much of your opinion, boy
It's bad about here
You've been lying out on the meshes, and they're dreadful aguish. Rheumatic too
I'll eat my breakfast afore they're the death of me
I'd do that, if I was going to be strung up to that there gallows as there is over there, directly afterwards. I'll beat the shivers so far, I'll bet you
You're not a deceiving imp? You brought no one with you
No, sir! No
Nor giv' no one the office to follow you
No
Well
I believe you. You'd be but a fierce young hound indeed, if at your time of life you could help to hunt a wretched warmint, hunted as near death and dunghill as this poor wretched warmint is
I am glad you enjoy it
Did you speak
I said I was glad you enjoyed it
Thankee, my boy. I do
I am afraid you won't leave any of it for him
There's no more to be got where that came from
Leave any for him? Who's him
The young man. That you spoke of. That was hid with you
Oh ah
Him? Yes, yes! He don't want no wittles
I thought he looked as if he did
Looked? When
Just now
Where
Yonder
over there, where I found him nodding asleep, and thought it was you
Dressed like you, you know, only with a hat
and with - the same reason for wanting to borrow a file. Didn't you hear the cannon last night
Then, there was firing
I wonder you shouldn't have been sure of that
for we heard it up at home, and that's further away, and we were shut in besides
Why, see now
When a man's alone on these flats, with a light head and a light stomach, perishing of cold and want, he hears nothin' all night, but guns firing, and voices calling. Hears? He sees the soldiers, with their red coats lighted up by the torches carried afore, closing in round him. Hears his number called, hears himself challenged, hears the rattle of the muskets, hears the orders 'Make ready! Present! Cover him steady, men!' and is laid hands on - and there's nothin'! Why, if I see one pursuing party last night - coming up in order, Damn 'em, with their tramp, tramp - I see a hundred. And as to firing! Why, I see the mist shake with the cannon, arter it was broad day - But this man
did you notice anything in him
He had a badly bruised face
Not here
Yes, there
Where is he
Show me the way he went. I'll pull him down, like a bloodhound. Curse this iron on my sore leg! Give us hold of the file, boy
And where the deuce ha' you been
Ah! well
You might ha' done worse
Perhaps if I warn't a blacksmith's wife, and (what's the same thing) a slave with her apron never off, I should have been to hear the Carols
I'm rather partial to Carols, myself, and that's the best of reasons for my never hearing any
for I an't
I an't a-going to have no formal cramming and busting and washing up now, with what I've got before me, I promise you
Ye are now to declare it
thrown open
thrown open
You have heard my friend overhead; oblige me with your opinion of this style
Mrs. Joe
I have brought you, as the compliments of the season - I have brought you, Mum, a bottle of sherry wine - and I have brought you, Mum, a bottle of port wine
Oh, Un - cle Pum - ble - chook! This IS kind
It's no more than your merits. And now are you all bobbish, and how's Sixpennorth of halfpence
Do you hear that? Be grateful
Especially
be grateful, boy, to them which brought you up by hand
Why is it that the young are never grateful
Naterally wicious
True
going about
True again
You've hit it, sir! Plenty of subjects going about, for them that know how to put salt upon their tails. That's what's wanted. A man needn't go far to find a subject, if he's ready with his salt-box
Look at Pork alone. There's a subject! If you want a subject, look at Pork
True, sir. Many a moral for the young
might be deduced from that text
You listen to this
Swine
Swine were the companions of the prodigal. The gluttony of Swine is put before us, as an example to the young
What is detestable in a pig, is more detestable in a boy
Or girl
Of course, or girl, Mr. Hubble
but there is no girl present
Besides
think what you've got to be grateful for. If you'd been born a Squeaker
He was, if ever a child was
Well, but I mean a four-footed Squeaker
If you had been born such, would you have been here now? Not you
Unless in that form
But I don't mean in that form, sir
I mean, enjoying himself with his elders and betters, and improving himself with their conversation, and rolling in the lap of luxury. Would he have been doing that? No, he wouldn't. And what would have been your destination
You would have been disposed of for so many shillings according to the market price of the article, and Dunstable the butcher would have come up to you as you lay in your straw, and he would have whipped you under his left arm, and with his right he would have tucked up his frock to get a penknife from out of his waistcoat-pocket, and he would have shed your blood and had your life. No bringing up by hand then. Not a bit of it
He was a world of trouble to you, ma'am
Trouble
trouble
Yet
Pork - regarded as biled - is rich, too; ain't it
Have a little brandy, uncle
Tar
Tar
Why, how ever could Tar come there
Clean plates - cold
You must taste
You must taste, to finish with, such a delightful and delicious present of Uncle Pumblechook's
You must know
it's a pie; a savoury pork pie
Well, Mrs. Joe, we'll do our best endeavours; let us have a cut at this same pie
a bit of savoury pork pie would lay atop of anything you could mention, and do no harm
You shall have some, Pip
Here you are, look sharp, come on
Gracious goodness gracious me, what's gone - with the - pie
Excuse me, ladies and gentleman
I am on a chase in the name of the king, and I want the blacksmith
And pray what might you want with him
Missis
speaking for myself, I should reply, the honour and pleasure of his fine wife's acquaintance; speaking for the king, I answer, a little job done
Good again
You see, blacksmith
we have had an accident with these, and I find the lock of one of 'em goes wrong, and the coupling don't act pretty. As they are wanted for immediate service, will you throw your eye over them
Will it? Then will you set about it at once, blacksmith
as it's on his Majesty's service. And if my men can beat a hand anywhere, they'll make themselves useful
Would you give me the Time
It's just gone half-past two
That's not so bad
even if I was forced to halt here nigh two hours, that'll do. How far might you call yourselves from the marshes, hereabouts? Not above a mile, I reckon
Just a mile
That'll do. We begin to close in upon 'em about dusk. A little before dusk, my orders are. That'll do
Convicts, sergeant
Ay
two. They're pretty well known to be out on the marshes still, and they won't try to get clear of 'em before dusk. Anybody here seen anything of any such game
Well
they'll find themselves trapped in a circle, I expect, sooner than they count on. Now, blacksmith! If you're ready, his Majesty the King is
Give him wine, Mum. I'll engage there's no Tar in that
Good stuff, eh, sergeant
I'll tell you something
I suspect that stuff's of your providing
Ay, ay? Why
Because
you're a man that knows what's what
D'ye think so
Have another glass
With you. Hob and nob
The top of mine to the foot of yours - the foot of yours to the top of mine - Ring once, ring twice - the best tune on the Musical Glasses! Your health. May you live a thousand years, and never be a worse judge of the right sort than you are at the present moment of your life
If you bring the boy back with his head blown to bits by a musket, don't look to me to put it together again
I hope, Joe, we shan't find them
I'd give a shilling if they had cut and run, Pip
at the double
a Winder
Murder
Convicts! Runaways! Guard! This way for the runaway convicts
Here are both men
Surrender, you two! and confound you for two wild beasts! Come asunder
Mind
I took him! I give him up to you! Mind that
It's not much to be particular about
it'll do you small good, my man, being in the same plight yourself. Handcuffs there
I don't expect it to do me any good. I don't want it to do me more good than it does now
I took him. He knows it. That's enough for me
Take notice, guard - he tried to murder me
Tried to murder him
Try, and not do it? I took him, and giv' him up; that's what I done. I not only prevented him getting off the marshes, but I dragged him here - dragged him this far on his way back. He's a gentleman, if you please, this villain. Now, the Hulks has got its gentleman again, through me. Murder him? Worth my while, too, to murder him, when I could do worse and drag him back
He tried - he tried - to - murder me. Bear - bear witness
Lookee here
Single-handed I got clear of the prison-ship; I made a dash and I done it. I could ha' got clear of these death-cold flats likewise - look at my leg: you won't find much iron on it - if I hadn't made the discovery that he was here. Let him go free? Let him profit by the means as I found out? Let him make a tool of me afresh and again? Once more? No, no, no. If I had died at the bottom there
I'd have held to him with that grip, that you should have been safe to find him in my hold
He tried to murder me. I should have been a dead man if you had not come up
He lies
He's a liar born, and he'll die a liar. Look at his face; ain't it written there? Let him turn those eyes of his on me. I defy him to do it
Do you see him
Do you see what a villain he is? Do you see those grovelling and wandering eyes? That's how he looked when we were tried together. He never looked at me
You are not much to look at
Didn't I tell you
that he would murder me, if he could
Enough of this parley
Light those torches
All right
March
You are expected on board
they know you are coming. Don't straggle, my man. Close up here
I wish to say something respecting this escape. It may prevent some persons laying under suspicion alonger me
You can say what you like
but you have no call to say it here. You'll have opportunity enough to say about it, and hear about it, before it's done with, you know
I know, but this is another pint, a separate matter. A man can't starve; at least I can't. I took some wittles, up at the willage over yonder - where the church stands a'most out on the marshes
You mean stole
And I'll tell you where from. From the blacksmith's
Halloa
Halloa, Pip
It was some broken wittles - that's what it was - and a dram of liquor, and a pie
Have you happened to miss such an article as a pie, blacksmith
My wife did, at the very moment when you came in. Don't you know, Pip
So
so you're the blacksmith, are you? Than I'm sorry to say, I've eat your pie
God knows you're welcome to it - so far as it was ever mine
We don't know what you have done, but we wouldn't have you starved to death for it, poor miserable fellow-creatur. - Would us, Pip
Give way, you
Yah! Was there ever such a boy as this
No
Below
walk in the same all the days of my life
Pompeyed
MI DEER JO i OPE U R KR WITE WELL i OPE i SHAL SON B HABELL 4 2 TEEDGE U JO AN THEN WE SHORL B SO GLODD AN WEN i M PRENGTD 2 U JO WOT LARX AN BLEVE ME INF XN PIP
I say, Pip, old chap
what a scholar you are! An't you
I should like to be
Why, here's a J
and a O equal to anythink! Here's a J and a O, Pip, and a J-O, Joe
Ah! But read the rest, Jo
The rest, eh, Pip
One, two, three. Why, here's three Js, and three Os, and three J-O, Joes in it, Pip
Astonishing
You ARE a scholar
How do you spell Gargery, Joe
I don't spell it at all
But supposing you did
It can't be supposed
Tho' I'm oncommon fond of reading, too
Are you, Joe
On-common. Give me
a good book, or a good newspaper, and sit me down afore a good fire, and I ask no better. Lord
Here, at last, is a J-O, Joe
Didn't you ever go to school, Joe, when you were as little as me
No, Pip
Why didn't you ever go to school, Joe, when you were as little as me
Well, Pip
I'll tell you. My father, Pip, he were given to drink, and when he were overtook with drink, he hammered away at my mother, most onmerciful. It were a'most the only hammering he did, indeed, 'xcepting at myself. And he hammered at me with a wigour only to be equalled by the wigour with which he didn't hammer at his anwil. - You're a-listening and understanding, Pip
Yes, Joe
Joe
now, please God, you shall have some schooling, child
were a drawback on my learning
Certainly, poor Joe
Though mind you, Pip
rendering unto all their doo, and maintaining equal justice betwixt man and man, my father were that good in his hart, don't you see
Well
somebody must keep the pot a biling, Pip, or the pot won't bile, don't you know
Consequence, my father didn't make objections to my going to work; so I went to work to work at my present calling, which were his too, if he would have followed it, and I worked tolerable hard, I assure you, Pip. In time I were able to keep him, and I kept him till he went off in a purple leptic fit. And it were my intentions to have had put upon his tombstone that Whatsume'er the failings on his part, Remember reader he were that good in his hart
I made it
my own self. I made it in a moment. It was like striking out a horseshoe complete, in a single blow. I never was so much surprised in all my life - couldn't credit my own ed - to tell you the truth, hardly believed it were my own ed. As I was saying, Pip, it were my intentions to have had it cut over him; but poetry costs money, cut it how you will, small or large, and it were not done. Not to mention bearers, all the money that could be spared were wanted for my mother. She were in poor elth, and quite broke. She weren't long of following, poor soul, and her share of peace come round at last
It were but lonesome then
living here alone, and I got acquainted with your sister. Now, Pip
your sister is a fine figure of a woman
Whatever family opinions, or whatever the world's opinions, on that subject may be, Pip, your sister is
a - fine - figure - of - a - woman
I am glad you think so, Joe
So am I
I am glad I think so, Pip. A little redness or a little matter of Bone, here or there, what does it signify to Me
Certainly
That's it. You're right, old chap! When I got acquainted with your sister, it were the talk how she was bringing you up by hand. Very kind of her too, all the folks said, and I said, along with all the folks. As to you
if you could have been aware how small and flabby and mean you was, dear me, you'd have formed the most contemptible opinion of yourself
Never mind me, Joe
But I did mind you, Pip
When I offered to your sister to keep company, and to be asked in church at such times as she was willing and ready to come to the forge, I said to her, 'And bring the poor little child. God bless the poor little child,' I said to your sister, 'there's room for him at the forge
Ever the best of friends; an't us, Pip? Don't cry, old chap
Well, you see, Pip, and here we are! That's about where it lights; here we are! Now, when you take me in hand in my learning, Pip (and I tell you beforehand I am awful dull, most awful dull), Mrs. Joe mustn't see too much of what we're up to. It must be done, as I may say, on the sly. And why on the sly? I'll tell you why, Pip
Your sister is given to government
Given to government, Joe
Given to government
Which I meantersay the government of you and myself
Oh
And she an't over partial to having scholars on the premises
and in partickler would not be over partial to my being a scholar, for fear as I might rise. Like a sort or rebel, don't you see
Why
Stay a bit. I know what you're a-going to say, Pip; stay a bit! I don't deny that your sister comes the Mo-gul over us, now and again. I don't deny that she do throw us back-falls, and that she do drop down upon us heavy. At such times as when your sister is on the Ram-page, Pip
candour compels fur to admit that she is a Buster
Why don't I rise? That were your observation when I broke it off, Pip
Yes, Joe
Well
your sister's a master-mind. A master-mind
What's that
Her
And I an't a master-mind
And last of all, Pip - and this I want to say very serious to you, old chap - I see so much in my poor mother, of a woman drudging and slaving and breaking her honest hart and never getting no peace in her mortal days, that I'm dead afeerd of going wrong in the way of not doing what's right by a woman, and I'd fur rather of the two go wrong the t'other way, and be a little ill-conwenienced myself. I wish it was only me that got put out, Pip; I wish there warn't no Tickler for you, old chap; I wish I could take it all on myself; but this is the up-and-down-and-straight on it, Pip, and I hope you'll overlook shortcomings
However
here's the Dutch-clock a working himself up to being equal to strike Eight of 'em, and she's not come home yet! I hope Uncle Pumblechook's mare mayn't have set a fore-foot on a piece o' ice, and gone down
Here comes the mare
ringing like a peal of bells
Now
if this boy an't grateful this night, he never will be
It's only to be hoped
that he won't be Pomp-eyed. But I have my fears
She an't in that line, Mum
She knows better
She
She
Well
What are you staring at? Is the house a-fire
Which some individual
mentioned - she
And she is a she, I suppose
Unless you call Miss Havisham a he. And I doubt if even you'll go so far as that
Miss Havisham, up town
Is there any Miss Havisham down town
She wants this boy to go and play there. And of course he's going. And he had better play there
or I'll work him
Well to be sure
I wonder how she come to know Pip
Noodle
Who said she knew him
Which some individual
mentioned that she wanted him to go and play there
And couldn't she ask Uncle Pumblechook if he knew of a boy to go and play there? Isn't it just barely possible that Uncle Pumblechook may be a tenant of hers, and that he may sometimes - we won't say quarterly or half-yearly, for that would be requiring too much of you - but sometimes - go there to pay his rent? And couldn't she then ask Uncle Pumblechook if he knew of a boy to go and play there? And couldn't Uncle Pumblechook, being always considerate and thoughtful for us - though you may not think it, Joseph
that I have for ever been a willing slave to
Good again
Well put! Prettily pointed! Good indeed! Now Joseph, you know the case
No, Joseph
you do not yet - though you may not think it - know the case. You may consider that you do, but you do not, Joseph. For you do not know that Uncle Pumblechook, being sensible that for anything we can tell, this boy's fortune may be made by his going to Miss Havisham's, has offered to take him into town to-night in his own chaise-cart, and to keep him to-night, and to take him with his own hands to Miss Havisham's to-morrow morning. And Lor-a-mussy me
here I stand talking to mere Mooncalfs, with Uncle Pumblechook waiting, and the mare catching cold at the door, and the boy grimed with crock and dirt from the hair of his head to the sole of his foot
Boy, be for ever grateful to all friends, but especially unto them which brought you up by hand
Good-bye, Joe
God bless you, Pip, old chap
Seven times nine, boy
Seven
And four
And eight
And six
And two
And ten
And fourteen
What name
Pumblechook
Quite right
This
is Pip
This is Pip, is it
come in, Pip
Oh
Did you wish to see Miss Havisham
If Miss Havisham wished to see me
Ah
but you see she don't
Boy! Let your behaviour here be a credit unto them which brought you up by hand
And sixteen
You could drink without hurt all the strong beer that's brewed there now, boy
I should think I could, miss
Better not try to brew beer there now, or it would turn out sour, boy; don't you think so
It looks like it, miss
Not that anybody means to try
for that's all done with, and the place will stand as idle as it is, till it falls. As to strong beer, there's enough of it in the cellars already, to drown the Manor House
Is that the name of this house, miss
One of its names, boy
It has more than one, then, miss
One more. Its other name was Satis; which is Greek, or Latin, or Hebrew, or all three - or all one to me - for enough
Enough House
that's a curious name, miss
Yes
but it meant more than it said. It meant, when it was given, that whoever had this house, could want nothing else. They must have been easily satisfied in those days, I should think. But don't loiter, boy
Go in
After you, miss
Don't be ridiculous, boy; I am not going in
Who is it
Pip, ma'am
Pip
Mr. Pumblechook's boy, ma'am. Come - to play
Come nearer; let me look at you. Come close
Look at me
You are not afraid of a woman who has never seen the sun since you were born
No
Do you know what I touch here
Yes, ma'am
What do I touch
Your heart
Broken
I am tired
I want diversion, and I have done with men and women. Play
I sometimes have sick fancies
and I have a sick fancy that I want to see some play. There there
play, play, play
Are you sullen and obstinate
No, ma'am, I am very sorry for you, and very sorry I can't play just now. If you complain of me I shall get into trouble with my sister, so I would do it if I could; but it's so new here, and so strange, and so fine - and melancholy
So new to him
so old to me; so strange to him, so familiar to me; so melancholy to both of us! Call Estella
Call Estella
You can do that. Call Estella. At the door
Your own, one day, my dear, and you will use it well. Let me see you play cards with this boy
With this boy? Why, he is a common labouring-boy
Well? You can break his heart
What do you play, boy
Nothing but beggar my neighbour, miss
Beggar him
He calls the knaves, Jacks, this boy
And what coarse hands he has! And what thick boots
You say nothing of her
She says many hard things of you, but you say nothing of her. What do you think of her
I don't like to say
Tell me in my ear
I think she is very proud
Anything else
I think she is very pretty
Anything else
I think she is very insulting
Anything else
I think I should like to go home
And never see her again, though she is so pretty
I am not sure that I shouldn't like to see her again, but I should like to go home now
You shall go soon
Play the game out
When shall I have you here again
Let me think
There, there! I know nothing of days of the week; I know nothing of weeks of the year. Come again after six days. You hear
Yes, ma'am
Estella, take him down. Let him have something to eat, and let him roam and look about him while he eats. Go, Pip
You are to wait here, you boy
Why don't you cry
Because I don't want to
You do
You have been crying till you are half blind, and you are near crying again now
Well, boy
How did you get on up town
Pretty well, sir
Pretty well
Pretty well is no answer. Tell us what you mean by pretty well, boy
I mean pretty well
No! Don't lose your temper. Leave this lad to me, ma'am; leave this lad to me
First (to get our thoughts in order): Forty-three pence
Four Hundred Pound
twelve pence make one shilling
forty pence make three and fourpence
Now! How much is forty-three pence
I don't know
Is forty-three pence seven and sixpence three fardens, for instance
Yes
Boy! What like is Miss Havisham
Very tall and dark
Is she, uncle
Good
This is the way to have him! We are beginning to hold our own, I think, Mum
I am sure, uncle
I wish you had him always: you know so well how to deal with him
Now, boy! What was she a-doing of, when you went in today
She was sitting
in a black velvet coach
In a black velvet coach
Yes
And Miss Estella - that's her niece, I think - handed her in cake and wine at the coach-window, on a gold plate. And we all had cake and wine on gold plates. And I got up behind the coach to eat mine, because she told me to
Was anybody else there
Four dogs
Large or small
Immense
And they fought for veal cutlets out of a silver basket
Where was this coach, in the name of gracious
In Miss Havisham's room
But there weren't any horses to it
Can this be possible, uncle
What can the boy mean
I'll tell you, Mum
My opinion is, it's a sedan-chair. She's flighty, you know - very flighty - quite flighty enough to pass her days in a sedan-chair
Did you ever see her in it, uncle
How could I
when I never see her in my life? Never clapped eyes upon her
Goodness, uncle! And yet you have spoken to her
Why, don't you know
that when I have been there, I have been took up to the outside of her door, and the door has stood ajar, and she has spoke to me that way. Don't say you don't know that, Mum. Howsever, the boy went there to play. What did you play at, boy
We played with flags
Flags
Yes
Estella waved a blue flag, and I waved a red one, and Miss Havisham waved one sprinkled all over with little gold stars, out at the coach-window. And then we all waved our swords and hurrahed
Swords
Where did you get swords from
Out of a cupboard
And I saw pistols in it - and jam - and pills. And there was no daylight in the room, but it was all lighted up with candles
That's true, Mum
That's the state of the case, for that much I've seen myself
property
If a fool's head can't express better opinions than that
and you have got any work to do, you had better go and do it
Before the fire goes out, Joe, I should like to tell you something
Should you, Pip
Then tell us. What is it, Pip
Joe
you remember all that about Miss Havisham's
Remember
I believe you! Wonderful
It's a terrible thing, Joe; it ain't true
What are you telling of, Pip
You don't mean to say it's
Yes I do; it's lies, Joe
But not all of it? Why sure you don't mean to say, Pip, that there was no black welwet coach
But at least there was dogs, Pip? Come, Pip
if there warn't no weal-cutlets, at least there was dogs
No, Joe
A dog
A puppy? Come
No, Joe, there was nothing at all of the kind
Pip, old chap! This won't do, old fellow! I say! Where do you expect to go to
It's terrible, Joe; an't it
Terrible
Awful! What possessed you
I don't know what possessed me, Joe
but I wish you hadn't taught me to call Knaves at cards, Jacks; and I wish my boots weren't so thick nor my hands so coarse
There's one thing you may be sure of, Pip
namely, that lies is lies. Howsever they come, they didn't ought to come, and they come from the father of lies, and work round to the same. Don't you tell no more of 'em, Pip. That ain't the way to get out of being common, old chap. And as to being common, I don't make it out at all clear. You are oncommon in some things. You're oncommon small. Likewise you're a oncommon scholar
No, I am ignorant and backward, Joe
Why, see what a letter you wrote last night! Wrote in print even! I've seen letters - Ah! and from gentlefolks! - that I'll swear weren't wrote in print
I have learnt next to nothing, Joe. You think much of me. It's only that
Well, Pip
be it so or be it son't, you must be a common scholar afore you can be a oncommon one, I should hope! The king upon his throne, with his crown upon his 'ed, can't sit and write his acts of Parliament in print, without having begun, when he were a unpromoted Prince, with the alphabet - Ah
and begun at A too, and worked his way to Z. And I know what that is to do, though I can't say I've exactly done it
Whether common ones as to callings and earnings
mightn't be the better of continuing for a keep company with common ones, instead of going out to play with oncommon ones - which reminds me to hope that there were a flag, perhaps
No, Joe
I'm sorry there weren't a flag, Pip). Whether that might be, or mightn't be, is a thing as can't be looked into now, without putting your sister on the Rampage; and that's a thing not to be thought of, as being done intentional. Lookee here, Pip, at what is said to you by a true friend. Which this to you the true friend say. If you can't get to be oncommon through going straight, you'll never get to do it through going crooked. So don't tell no more on 'em, Pip, and live well and die happy
You are not angry with me, Joe
No, old chap. But bearing in mind that them were which I meantersay of a stunning and outdacious sort - alluding to them which bordered on weal-cutlets and dog-fighting - a sincere wellwisher would adwise, Pip, their being dropped into your meditations, when you go up-stairs to bed. That's all, old chap, and don't never do it no more
Halloa, Pip, old chap
No, thank you, sir
You was saying
that you was a blacksmith
Yes. I said it, you know
What'll you drink, Mr. - ? You didn't mention your name, by-the-bye
What'll you drink, Mr. Gargery? At my expense? To top up with
Well
to tell you the truth, I ain't much in the habit of drinking at anybody's expense but my own
Habit? No
but once and away, and on a Saturday night too. Come! Put a name to it, Mr. Gargery
I wouldn't wish to be stiff company
Rum
Rum
And will the other gentleman originate a sentiment
Rum
Three Rums
Glasses round
This other gentleman
is a gentleman that you would like to hear give it out. Our clerk at church
Aha
The lonely church, right out on the marshes, with graves round it
That's it
I am not acquainted with this country, gentlemen, but it seems a solitary country towards the river
Most marshes is solitary
No doubt, no doubt. Do you find any gipsies, now, or tramps, or vagrants of any sort, out there
No
none but a runaway convict now and then. And we don't find them, easy. Eh, Mr. Wopsle
Seems you have been out after such
Once
Not that we wanted to take them, you understand; we went out as lookers on; me, and Mr. Wopsle, and Pip. Didn't us, Pip
Yes, Joe
He's a likely young parcel of bones that. What is it you call him
Pip
Christened Pip
No, not christened Pip
Surname Pip
No
it's a kind of family name what he gave himself when a infant, and is called by
Son of yours
Well
well - no. No, he ain't
Nevvy
Well
he is not - no, not to deceive you, he is not - my nevvy
What the Blue Blazes is he
as the poet says
Stop half a moment, Mr. Gargery
I think I've got a bright new shilling somewhere in my pocket, and if I have, the boy shall have it
Yours
Mind! Your own
A bad un, I'll be bound
or he wouldn't have given it to the boy! Let's look at it
But what's this
Two One-Pound notes
You are to come this way today
You are to go and stand there, boy, till you are wanted
there
Poor dear soul
Nobody's enemy but his own
It would be much more commendable to be somebody else's enemy
far more natural
Cousin Raymond
we are to love our neighbour
Sarah Pocket
if a man is not his own neighbour, who is
The idea
Very true
Poor soul
he is so very strange! Would anyone believe that when Tom's wife died, he actually could not be induced to see the importance of the children's having the deepest of trimmings to their mourning? 'Good Lord!' says he, 'Camilla, what can it signify so long as the poor bereaved little things are in black?' So like Matthew! The idea
Good points in him, good points in him
Heaven forbid I should deny good points in him; but he never had, and he never will have, any sense of the proprieties
You know I was obliged
I was obliged to be firm. I said, 'It WILL NOT DO, for the credit of the family.' I told him that, without deep trimmings, the family was disgraced. I cried about it from breakfast till dinner. I injured my digestion. And at last he flung out in his violent way, and said, with a D, 'Then do as you like.' Thank Goodness it will always be a consolation to me to know that I instantly went out in a pouring rain and bought the things
He paid for them, did he not
It's not the question, my dear child, who paid for them
I bought them. And I shall often think of that with peace, when I wake up in the night
Now, boy
Well I am sure! What next
Was there ever such a fancy! The i-de-a
Well
Well, miss
Am I pretty
Yes; I think you are very pretty
Am I insulting
Not so much so as you were last time
Not so much so
No
Now
You little coarse monster, what do you think of me now
I shall not tell you
Because you are going to tell, up-stairs. Is that it
No
that's not it
Why don't you cry again, you little wretch
Because I'll never cry for you again
Whom have we here
A boy
Boy of the neighbourhood? Hey
Yes, sir
How do you come here
Miss Havisham sent for me, sir
Well! Behave yourself. I have a pretty large experience of boys, and you're a bad set of fellows. Now mind
you behave yourself
So
the days have worn away, have they
Yes, ma'am. To-day is
There, there, there
I don't want to know. Are you ready to play
I don't think I am, ma'am
Not at cards again
Yes, ma'am; I could do that, if I was wanted
Since this house strikes you old and grave, boy
and you are unwilling to play, are you willing to work
Then go into that opposite room
and wait there till I come
This
is where I will be laid when I am dead. They shall come and look at me here
What do you think that is
that, where those cobwebs are
I can't guess what it is, ma'am
It's a great cake. A bride-cake. Mine
Come, come, come! Walk me, walk me
Slower
Call Estella
Dear Miss Havisham
How well you look
I do not
I am yellow skin and bone
Poor dear soul! Certainly not to be expected to look well, poor thing. The idea
And how are you
Thank you, Miss Havisham
I am as well as can be expected
Why, what's the matter with you
Nothing worth mentioning
I don't wish to make a display of my feelings, but I have habitually thought of you more in the night than I am quite equal to
Then don't think of me
Very easily said
Raymond is a witness what ginger and sal volatile I am obliged to take in the night. Raymond is a witness what nervous jerkings I have in my legs. Chokings and nervous jerkings, however, are nothing new to me when I think with anxiety of those I love. If I could be less affectionate and sensitive, I should have a better digestion and an iron set of nerves. I am sure I wish it could be so. But as to not thinking of you in the night - The idea
Camilla, my dear, it is well known that your family feelings are gradually undermining you to the extent of making one of your legs shorter than the other
I am not aware
that to think of any person is to make a great claim upon that person, my dear
No, indeed, my dear. Hem
Thinking is easy enough
What is easier, you know
Oh, yes, yes
It's all very true! It's a weakness to be so affectionate, but I can't help it. No doubt my health would be much better if it was otherwise, still I wouldn't change my disposition if I could. It's the cause of much suffering, but it's a consolation to know I posses it, when I wake up in the night
There's Matthew
Never mixing with any natural ties, never coming here to see how Miss Havisham is! I have taken to the sofa with my staylace cut, and have lain there hours, insensible, with my head over the side, and my hair all down, and my feet I don't know where
Much higher than your head, my love
I have gone off into that state, hours and hours, on account of Matthew's strange and inexplicable conduct, and nobody has thanked me
Really I must say I should think not
You see, my dear
the question to put to yourself is, who did you expect to thank you, my love
Without expecting any thanks, or anything of the sort
I have remained in that state, hours and hours, and Raymond is a witness of the extent to which I have choked, and what the total inefficacy of ginger has been, and I have been heard at the pianoforte-tuner's across the street, where the poor mistaken children have even supposed it to be pigeons cooing at a distance-and now to be told
Matthew will come and see me at last
when I am laid on that table. That will be his place - there
at my head! And yours will be there! And your husband's there! And Sarah Pocket's there! And Georgiana's there! Now you all know where to take your stations when you come to feast upon me. And now go
Walk me, walk me
I suppose there's nothing to be done
but comply and depart. It's something to have seen the object of one's love and duty, for even so short a time. I shall think of it with a melancholy satisfaction when I wake up in the night. I wish Matthew could have that comfort, but he sets it at defiance. I am determined not to make a display of my feelings, but it's very hard to be told one wants to feast on one's relations - as if one was a Giant - and to be told to go. The bare idea
Bless you, Miss Havisham dear
This is my birthday, Pip
I don't suffer it to be spoken of. I don't suffer those who were here just now, or any one, to speak of it. They come here on the day, but they dare not refer to it
On this day of the year, long before you were born, this heap of decay
was brought here. It and I have worn away together. The mice have gnawed at it, and sharper teeth than teeth of mice have gnawed at me
When the ruin is complete
and when they lay me dead, in my bride's dress on the bride's table - which shall be done, and which will be the finished curse upon him - so much the better if it is done on this day
Let me see you two play cards; why have you not begun
Halloa
young fellow
Halloa
Who let you in
Miss Estella
Who gave you leave to prowl about
Miss Estella
Come and fight
Stop a minute, though
I ought to give you a reason for fighting, too. There it is
Aha! Would you
Laws of the game
Regular rules
Come to the ground, and go through the preliminaries
Available for both
That means you have won
Can I help you
No thankee
Good afternoon
Same to you
Come here! You may kiss me, if you like
Does she grow prettier and prettier, Pip
Break their hearts my pride and hope, break their hearts and have no mercy
There, there, there! Sing
Now, Mum, here is this boy! Here is this boy which you brought up by hand. Hold up your head, boy, and be for ever grateful unto them which so did do. Now, Mum, with respections to this boy
Come! there's enough of you! You get along to bed; you've given trouble enough for one night, I hope
You are growing tall, Pip
Tell me the name again of that blacksmith of yours
Joe Gargery, ma'am
Meaning the master you were to be apprenticed to
Yes, Miss Havisham
You had better be apprenticed at once. Would Gargery come here with you, and bring your indentures, do you think
Then let him come
At any particular time, Miss Havisham
There, there! I know nothing about times. Let him come soon, and come along with you
went on the Rampage
Oh
You are the husband of the sister of this boy
You are the husband
of the sister of this boy
Which I meantersay, Pip
as I hup and married your sister, and I were at the time what you might call (if you was anyways inclined) a single man
Well
And you have reared the boy, with the intention of taking him for your apprentice; is that so, Mr. Gargery
You know, Pip
as you and me were ever friends, and it were looked for'ard to betwixt us, as being calc'lated to lead to larks. Not but what, Pip, if you had ever made objections to the business - such as its being open to black and sut, or such-like - not but what they would have been attended to, don't you see
Has the boy
ever made any objection? Does he like the trade
Which it is well beknown to yourself, Pip
that it were the wish of your own hart
And there weren't no objection on your part, and Pip it were the great wish of your heart
Have you brought his indentures with you
Well, Pip, you know
you yourself see me put 'em in my 'at, and therefore you know as they are here
You expected
no premium with the boy
Joe
Why don't you answer
Pip
which I meantersay that were not a question requiring a answer betwixt yourself and me, and which you know the answer to be full well No. You know it to be No, Pip, and wherefore should I say it
Pip has earned a premium here
and here it is. There are five-and-twenty guineas in this bag. Give it to your master, Pip
This is wery liberal on your part, Pip
and it is as such received and grateful welcome, though never looked for, far nor near nor nowheres. And now, old chap
and now, old chap, may we do our duty! May you and me do our duty, both on us by one and another, and by them which your liberal present - have - conweyed - to be - for the satisfaction of mind - of - them as never
and from myself far be it
Good-bye, Pip
Let them out, Estella
Am I to come again, Miss Havisham
No. Gargery is your master now. Gargery! One word
The boy has been a good boy here, and that is his reward. Of course, as an honest man, you will expect no other and no more
Astonishing
Pip, I do assure you this is as-TONishing
Well
And what's happened to you? I wonder you condescend to come back to such poor society as this, I am sure I do
Miss Havisham
made it wery partick'ler that we should give her - were it compliments or respects, Pip
Compliments
Which that were my own belief
her compliments to Mrs. J. Gargery
Much good they'll do me
And wishing
that the state of Miss Havisham's elth were sitch as would have - allowed, were it, Pip
Of her having the pleasure
Of ladies' company
Well
She might have had the politeness to send that message at first, but it's better late than never. And what did she give young Rantipole here
She giv' him
nothing
What she giv
she giv' to his friends. 'And by his friends,' were her explanation, 'I mean into the hands of his sister Mrs. J. Gargery.' Them were her words; 'Mrs. J. Gargery.' She mayn't have know'd
whether it were Joe, or Jorge
And how much have you got
What would present company say to ten pound
They'd say
pretty well. Not too much, but pretty well
It's more than that, then
It's more than that, Mum
Why, you don't mean to say
Yes I do, Mum
but wait a bit. Go on, Joseph. Good in you! Go on
What would present company say
to twenty pound
Handsome would be the word
Well, then
It's more than twenty pound
It's more than that, Mum. Good again! Follow her up, Joseph
Then to make an end of it
it's five-and-twenty pound
It's five-and-twenty pound, Mum
and it's no more than your merits (as I said when my opinion was asked), and I wish you joy of the money
Now you see, Joseph and wife
I am one of them that always go right through with what they've begun. This boy must be bound, out of hand. That's my way. Bound out of hand
Goodness knows, Uncle Pumblechook
we're deeply beholden to you
Never mind me, Mum
A pleasure's a pleasure, all the world over. But this boy, you know; we must have him bound. I said I'd see to it - to tell you the truth
What's he done
He's a young 'un, too, but looks bad, don't he
bound
The Commercials underneath sent up their compliments, and it wasn't the Tumblers' Arms
time
most awful dull
Joe
don't you think I ought to make Miss Havisham a visit
Well, Pip
What for
What for, Joe? What is any visit made for
There is some wisits, p'r'aps
as for ever remains open to the question, Pip. But in regard to wisiting Miss Havisham. She might think you wanted something - expected something of her
Don't you think I might say that I did not, Joe
You might, old chap
And she might credit it. Similarly she mightn't
You see, Pip
Miss Havisham done the handsome thing by you. When Miss Havisham done the handsome thing by you, she called me back to say to me as that were all
Yes, Joe. I heard her
ALL
Yes, Joe. I tell you, I heard her
Which I meantersay, Pip, it might be that her meaning were - Make a end on it! - As you was! - Me to the North, and you to the South! - Keep in sunders
But, Joe
Yes, old chap
Here am I, getting on in the first year of my time, and, since the day of my being bound, I have never thanked Miss Havisham, or asked after her, or shown that I remember her
That's true, Pip; and unless you was to turn her out a set of shoes all four round - and which I meantersay as even a set of shoes all four round might not be acceptable as a present, in a total wacancy of hoofs
I don't mean that sort of remembrance, Joe; I don't mean a present
Or even
if you was helped to knocking her up a new chain for the front door - or say a gross or two of shark-headed screws for general use - or some light fancy article, such as a toasting-fork when she took her muffins - or a gridiron when she took a sprat or such like
I don't mean any present at all, Joe
Well
if I was yourself, Pip, I wouldn't. No, I would not. For what's a door-chain when she's got one always up? And shark-headers is open to misrepresentations. And if it was a toasting-fork, you'd go into brass and do yourself no credit. And the oncommonest workman can't show himself oncommon in a gridiron - for a gridiron IS a gridiron
and you may haim at what you like, but a gridiron it will come out, either by your leave or again your leave, and you can't help yourself
My dear Joe
don't go on in that way. I never thought of making Miss Havisham any present
No, Pip
and what I say to you is, you are right, Pip
Yes, Joe; but what I wanted to say, was, that as we are rather slack just now, if you would give me a half-holiday to-morrow, I think I would go up-town and make a call on Miss Est - Havisham
Which her name
ain't Estavisham, Pip, unless she have been rechris'ened
I know, Joe, I know. It was a slip of mine. What do you think of it, Joe
Now, master! Sure you're not a-going to favour only one of us. If Young Pip has a half-holiday, do as much for Old Orlick
Why, what'll you do with a half-holiday, if you get it
What'll I do with it! What'll he do with it? I'll do as much with it as him
As to Pip, he's going up-town
Well then, as to Old Orlick, he's a-going up-town
Don't lose your temper
Shall if I like
Some and their up-towning! Now, master! Come. No favouring in this shop. Be a man
Now, master
Are you all right now
Ah! I am all right
Then, as in general you stick to your work as well as most men
let it be a half-holiday for all
Like you, you fool
giving holidays to great idle hulkers like that. You are a rich man, upon my life, to waste wages in that way. I wish I was his master
You'd be everybody's master, if you durst
Let her alone
I'd be a match for all noodles and all rogues
And I couldn't be a match for the noodles, without being a match for your master, who's the dunder-headed king of the noodles. And I couldn't be a match for the rogues, without being a match for you, who are the blackest-looking and the worst rogue between this and France. Now
You're a foul shrew, Mother Gargery
If that makes a judge of rogues, you ought to be a good'un
Let her alone, will you
What did you say
What did you say? What did that fellow Orlick say to me, Pip? What did he call me, with my husband standing by? O! O! O
what was the name he gave me before the base man who swore to defend me? O! Hold me! O
Ah-h-h
I'd hold you, if you was my wife. I'd hold you under the pump, and choke it out of you
I tell you, let her alone
Oh! To hear him
To hear the names he's giving me! That Orlick! In my own house! Me, a married woman! With my husband standing by! O! O
On the Rampage, Pip, and off the Rampage, Pip - such is Life
How, then? You here again
What do you want
come up
Well
I hope you want nothing? You'll get nothing
No, indeed, Miss Havisham. I only wanted you to know that I am doing very well in my apprenticeship, and am always much obliged to you
There, there
Come now and then; come on your birthday. - Ay
You are looking round for Estella? Hey
Abroad
educating for a lady; far out of reach; prettier than ever; admired by all who see her. Do you feel that you have lost her
Take warning, boy, take warning
Halloa
Orlick, there
Ah
I was standing by, a minute, on the chance of company
You are late
Well? And you're late
We have been
we have been indulging, Mr. Orlick, in an intellectual evening
Yes
all of it. I come in behind yourself. I didn't see you, but I must have been pretty close behind you. By-the-bye, the guns is going again
At the Hulks
Ay! There's some of the birds flown from the cages. The guns have been going since dark, about. You'll hear one presently
A good night for cutting off in
We'd be puzzled how to bring down a jail-bird on the wing, to-night
Beat it out, beat it out - Old Clem! With a clink for the stout - Old Clem
There's something wrong
up at your place, Pip. Run all
What is it
I can't quite understand. The house seems to have been violently entered when Joe Gargery was out. Supposed by convicts. Somebody has been attacked and hurt
Such a fine figure of a woman as she once were, Pip
Why, of course
Don't you see? It's him
Biddy
how do you manage it? Either I am very stupid, or you are very clever
What is it that I manage? I don't know
How do you manage, Biddy
to learn everything that I learn, and always to keep up with me
I might as well ask you
how you manage
No; because when I come in from the forge of a night, any one can see me turning to at it. But you never turn to at it, Biddy
I suppose I must catch it - like a cough
You are one of those, Biddy
who make the most of every chance. You never had a chance before you came here, and see how improved you are
I was your first teacher though; wasn't I
Biddy
Why, you are crying
No I am not
What put that in your head
Yes, Biddy
you were my first teacher, and that at a time when we little thought of ever being together like this, in this kitchen
Ah, poor thing
that's sadly true
Well
we must talk together a little more, as we used to do. And I must consult you a little more, as I used to do. Let us have a quiet walk on the marshes next Sunday, Biddy, and a long chat
Biddy
I want to be a gentleman
Oh, I wouldn't, if I was you
I don't think it would answer
Biddy
I have particular reasons for wanting to be a gentleman
You know best, Pip; but don't you think you are happier as you are
Biddy
I am not at all happy as I am. I am disgusted with my calling and with my life. I have never taken to either, since I was bound. Don't be absurd
Was I absurd
I am sorry for that; I didn't mean to be. I only want you to do well, and to be comfortable
Well then, understand once for all that I never shall or can be comfortable - or anything but miserable - there, Biddy! - unless I can lead a very different sort of life from the life I lead now
That's a pity
If I could have settled down
if I could have settled down and been but half as fond of the forge as I was when I was little, I know it would have been much better for me. You and I and Joe would have wanted nothing then, and Joe and I would perhaps have gone partners when I was out of my time, and I might even have grown up to keep company with you, and we might have sat on this very bank on a fine Sunday, quite different people. I should have been good enough for you; shouldn't I, Biddy
Yes; I am not over-particular
Instead of that
see how I am going on. Dissatisfied, and uncomfortable, and - what would it signify to me, being coarse and common, if nobody had told me so
It was neither a very true nor a very polite thing to say
Who said it
The beautiful young lady at Miss Havisham's, and she's more beautiful than anybody ever was, and I admire her dreadfully, and I want to be a gentleman on her account
Do you want to be a gentleman, to spite her or to gain her over
I don't know
Because, if it is to spite her
I should think - but you know best - that might be better and more independently done by caring nothing for her words. And if it is to gain her over, I should think - but you know best - she was not worth gaining over
It may be all quite true
but I admire her dreadfully
I am glad of one thing
and that is, that you have felt you could give me your confidence, Pip. And I am glad of another thing, and that is, that of course you know you may depend upon my keeping it and always so far deserving it. If your first teacher (dear! such a poor one, and so much in need of being taught herself!) had been your teacher at the present time, she thinks she knows what lesson she would set. But It would be a hard one to learn, and you have got beyond her, and it's of no use now
Shall we walk a little further, or go home
Biddy
I shall always tell you everything
Till you're a gentleman
You know I never shall be, so that's always. Not that I have any occasion to tell you anything, for you know everything I know - as I told you at home the other night
Ah
shall we walk a little further, or go home
Pip, what a fool you are
Biddy
I wish you could put me right
I wish I could
If I could only get myself to fall in love with you - you don't mind my speaking so openly to such an old acquaintance
Oh dear, not at all
Don't mind me
If I could only get myself to do it, that would be the thing for me
But you never will, you see
Halloa
where are you two going
Where should we be going, but home
Well then
I'm jiggered if I don't see you home
Don't let him come; I don't like him
Oh
because I - I am afraid he likes me
Did he ever tell you he liked you
No
he never told me so; but he dances at me, whenever he can catch my eye
But it makes no difference to you, you know
No, Biddy, it makes no difference to me; only I don't like it; I don't approve of it
Nor I neither
Though that makes no difference to you
Exactly
but I must tell you I should have no opinion of you, Biddy, if he danced at you with your own consent
I am done for
I'll serve you out
Well
you have settled it all to your own satisfaction, I have no doubt
Guilty, of course
Out with it. Come
Sir
without having the honour of your acquaintance, I do say Guilty
I know you do
I knew you would. I told you so. But now I'll ask you a question. Do you know, or do you not know, that the law of England supposes every man to be innocent, until he is proved - proved - to be guilty
Sir
as an Englishman myself, I
Come
Don't evade the question. Either you know it, or you don't know it. Which is it to be
Now
Do you know it, or don't you know it
Certainly I know it
Certainly you know it. Then why didn't you say so at first? Now, I'll ask you another question
Do you know that none of these witnesses have yet been cross-examined
I can only say
What? You won't answer the question, yes or no? Now, I'll try you again
Attend to me. Are you aware, or are you not aware, that none of these witnesses have yet been cross-examined? Come, I only want one word from you. Yes, or no
Come
I'll help you. You don't deserve help, but I'll help you. Look at that paper you hold in your hand. What is it
What is it
Is it
the printed paper you have just been reading from
Undoubtedly
Undoubtedly. Now, turn to that paper, and tell me whether it distinctly states that the prisoner expressly said that his legal advisers instructed him altogether to reserve his defence
I read that just now
Never mind what you read just now, sir; I don't ask you what you read just now. You may read the Lord's Prayer backwards, if you like - and, perhaps, have done it before to-day. Turn to the paper. No, no, no my friend; not to the top of the column; you know better than that; to the bottom, to the bottom
Well? Have you found it
Here it is
Now, follow that passage with your eye, and tell me whether it distinctly states that the prisoner expressly said that he was instructed by his legal advisers wholly to reserve his defence? Come! Do you make that of it
Those are not the exact words
Not the exact words
Is that the exact substance
Yes
Yes
And now I ask you what you say to the conscience of that man who, with that passage before his eyes, can lay his head upon his pillow after having pronounced a fellow-creature guilty, unheard
And that same man, remember
that same man might be summoned as a juryman upon this very trial, and, having thus deeply committed himself, might return to the bosom of his family and lay his head upon his pillow, after deliberately swearing that he would well and truly try the issue joined between Our Sovereign Lord the King and the prisoner at the bar, and would a true verdict give according to the evidence, so help him God
From information I have received
I have reason to believe there is a blacksmith among you, by name Joseph - or Joe - Gargery. Which is the man
Here is the man
You have an apprentice
commonly known as Pip? Is he here
I am here
I wish to have a private conference with you two
It will take a little time. Perhaps we had better go to your place of residence. I prefer not to anticipate my communication here; you will impart as much or as little of it as you please to your friends afterwards; I have nothing to do with that
My name
is Jaggers, and I am a lawyer in London. I am pretty well known. I have unusual business to transact with you, and I commence by explaining that it is not of my originating. If my advice had been asked, I should not have been here. It was not asked, and you see me here. What I have to do as the confidential agent of another, I do. No less, no more
Now, Joseph Gargery, I am the bearer of an offer to relieve you of this young fellow your apprentice. You would not object to cancel his indentures, at his request and for his good? You would want nothing for so doing
Lord forbid that I should want anything for not standing in Pip's way
Lord forbidding is pious, but not to the purpose
The question is, Would you want anything? Do you want anything
The answer is
No
Very well
Recollect the admission you have made, and don't try to go from it presently
Who's a-going to try
I don't say anybody is. Do you keep a dog
Yes, I do keep a dog
Bear in mind then, that Brag is a good dog, but Holdfast is a better. Bear that in mind, will you
Now, I return to this young fellow. And the communication I have got to make is, that he has great expectations
I am instructed to communicate to him
that he will come into a handsome property. Further, that it is the desire of the present possessor of that property, that he be immediately removed from his present sphere of life and from this place, and be brought up as a gentleman - in a word, as a young fellow of great expectations
Now, Mr. Pip
I address the rest of what I have to say, to you. You are to understand, first, that it is the request of the person from whom I take my instructions, that you always bear the name of Pip. You will have no objection, I dare say, to your great expectations being encumbered with that easy condition. But if you have any objection, this is the time to mention it
I should think not! Now you are to understand, secondly, Mr. Pip, that the name of the person who is your liberal benefactor remains a profound secret, until the person chooses to reveal it. I am empowered to mention that it is the intention of the person to reveal it at first hand by word of mouth to yourself. When or where that intention may be carried out, I cannot say; no one can say. It may be years hence. Now, you are distinctly to understand that you are most positively prohibited from making any inquiry on this head, or any allusion or reference, however distant, to any individual whomsoever as the individual, in all the communications you may have with me. If you have a suspicion in your own breast, keep that suspicion in your own breast. It is not the least to the purpose what the reasons of this prohibition are; they may be the strongest and gravest reasons, or they may be mere whim. This is not for you to inquire into. The condition is laid down. Your acceptance of it, and your observance of it as binding, is the only remaining condition that I am charged with, by the person from whom I take my instructions, and for whom I am not otherwise responsible. That person is the person from whom you derive your expectations, and the secret is solely held by that person and by me. Again, not a very difficult condition with which to encumber such a rise in fortune; but if you have any objection to it, this is the time to mention it. Speak out
I should think not! Now, Mr. Pip, I have done with stipulations
I tell you at once, I am paid for my services, or I shouldn't render them. It is considered that you must be better educated, in accordance with your altered position, and that you will be alive to the importance and necessity of at once entering on that advantage
Never mind what you have always longed for, Mr. Pip
keep to the record. If you long for it now, that's enough. Am I answered that you are ready to be placed at once, under some proper tutor? Is that it
Good. Now, your inclinations are to be consulted. I don't think that wise, mind, but it's my trust. Have you ever heard of any tutor whom you would prefer to another
There is a certain tutor, of whom I have some knowledge, who I think might suit the purpose
I don't recommend him, observe; because I never recommend anybody. The gentleman I speak of, is one Mr. Matthew Pocket
You know the name
Oh
You have heard of the name. But the question is, what do you say of it
No, my young friend
Recollect yourself
No, my young friend
no, no, no; it's very well done, but it won't do; you are too young to fix me with it. Recommendation is not the word, Mr. Pip. Try another
That's more like it
Good. You had better try him in his own house. The way shall be prepared for you, and you can see his son first, who is in London. When will you come to London
First
you should have some new clothes to come in, and they should not be working clothes. Say this day week. You'll want some money. Shall I leave you twenty guineas
Well, Joseph Gargery? You look dumbfoundered
I am
It was understood that you wanted nothing for yourself, remember
It were understood
And it are understood. And it ever will be similar according
But what
what if it was in my instructions to make you a present, as compensation
As compensation what for
For the loss of his services
Pip is that hearty welcome
to go free with his services, to honour and fortun', as no words can tell him. But if you think as Money can make compensation to me for the loss of the little child - what come to the forge - and ever the best of friends
Now, Joseph Gargery, I warn you this is your last chance. No half measures with me. If you mean to take a present that I have it in charge to make you, speak out, and you shall have it. If on the contrary you mean to say
Which I meantersay
that if you come into my place bull-baiting and badgering me, come out! Which I meantersay as sech if you're a man, come on! Which I meantersay that what I say, I meantersay and stand or fall by
Well, Mr. Pip, I think the sooner you leave here - as you are to be a gentleman - the better. Let it stand for this day week, and you shall receive my printed address in the meantime. You can take a hackney-coach at the stage-coach office in London, and come straight to me. Understand, that I express no opinion, one way or other, on the trust I undertake. I am paid for undertaking it, and I do so. Now, understand that, finally. Understand that
I beg your pardon, Mr. Jaggers
Halloa
what's the matter
I wish to be quite right, Mr. Jaggers, and to keep to your directions; so I thought I had better ask. Would there be any objection to my taking leave of any one I know, about here, before I go away
No
I don't mean in the village only, but up-town
No
No objection
Joe, have you told Biddy
No, Pip
which I left it to yourself, Pip
I would rather you told, Joe
Pip's a gentleman of fortun' then
and God bless him in it
Ay, ay, I'll be ekervally partickler, Pip
Property
Saturday night
Five more days, and then the day before the day! They'll soon go
Yes, Pip
They'll soon go
Soon, soon go
I have been thinking, Joe, that when I go down town on Monday, and order my new clothes, I shall tell the tailor that I'll come and put them on there, or that I'll have them sent to Mr. Pumblechook's. It would be very disagreeable to be stared at by all the people here
Mr. and Mrs. Hubble might like to see you in your new genteel figure too, Pip
So might Wopsle. And the Jolly Bargemen might take it as a compliment
That's just what I don't want, Joe. They would make such a business of it - such a coarse and common business - that I couldn't bear myself
Ah, that indeed, Pip
If you couldn't abear yourself
Have you thought about when you'll show yourself to Mr. Gargery, and your sister, and me? You will show yourself to us; won't you
Biddy
you are so exceedingly quick that it's difficult to keep up with you
She always were quick
If you had waited another moment, Biddy, you would have heard me say that I shall bring my clothes here in a bundle one evening - most likely on the evening before I go away
As being the last time, Pip, I thought I'd foller
And Joe, I am very glad you did so
Thankee, Pip
You may be sure, dear Joe
that I shall never forget you
No, no, Pip
I'm sure of that. Ay, ay, old chap! Bless you, it were only necessary to get it well round in a man's mind, to be certain on it. But it took a bit of time to get it well round, the change come so oncommon plump; didn't it
It does you credit, Pip
Have you though
Astonishing
It's a pity now, Joe
that you did not get on a little more, when we had our lessons here; isn't it
Well, I don't know
I'm so awful dull. I'm only master of my own trade. It were always a pity as I was so awful dull; but it's no more of a pity now, than it was - this day twelvemonth - don't you see
And it is, Biddy
that you will not omit any opportunity of helping Joe on, a little
How helping him on
Well! Joe is a dear good fellow - in fact, I think he is the dearest fellow that ever lived - but he is rather backward in some things. For instance, Biddy, in his learning and his manners
Oh, his manners! won't his manners do, then
My dear Biddy, they do very well here
Oh! they do very well here
Hear me out - but if I were to remove Joe into a higher sphere, as I shall hope to remove him when I fully come into my property, they would hardly do him justice
And don't you think he knows that
Biddy, what do you mean
Have you never considered that he may be proud
Proud
Oh! there are many kinds of pride
pride is not all of one kind
Well? What are you stopping for
Not all of one kind
He may be too proud to let any one take him out of a place that he is competent to fill, and fills well and with respect. To tell you the truth, I think he is: though it sounds bold in me to say so, for you must know him far better than I do
Now, Biddy
I am very sorry to see this in you. I did not expect to see this in you. You are envious, Biddy, and grudging. You are dissatisfied on account of my rise in fortune, and you can't help showing it
If you have the heart to think so
say so. Say so over and over again, if you have the heart to think so
If you have the heart to be so, you mean, Biddy
don't put it off upon me. I am very sorry to see it, and it's a - it's a bad side of human nature. I did intend to ask you to use any little opportunities you might have after I was gone, of improving dear Joe. But after this, I ask you nothing. I am extremely sorry to see this in you, Biddy
It's a - it's a bad side of human nature
Whether you scold me or approve of me
you may equally depend upon my trying to do all that lies in my power, here, at all times. And whatever opinion you take away of me, shall make no difference in my remembrance of you. Yet a gentleman should not be unjust neither
Well
How are you, and what can I do for you
Mr. Trabb
it's an unpleasant thing to have to mention, because it looks like boasting; but I have come into a handsome property
Lord bless my soul
I am going up to my guardian in London
and I want a fashionable suit of clothes to go in. I wish to pay for them
with ready money
My dear sir
don't hurt me by mentioning that. May I venture to congratulate you? Would you do me the favour of stepping into the shop
Hold that noise
or I'll knock your head off! Do me the favour to be seated, sir. Now, this
is a very sweet article. I can recommend it for your purpose, sir, because it really is extra super. But you shall see some others. Give me Number Four, you
And let me have none of your tricks here
or you shall repent it, you young scoundrel, the longest day you have to live
Are you bringing numbers five and eight, you vagabond
or shall I kick you out of the shop and bring them myself
wouldn't do under existing circumstances, sir - wouldn't do at all
I know, sir, that London gentlemen cannot be expected to patronize local work, as a rule; but if you would give me a turn now and then in the quality of a townsman, I should greatly esteem it. Good morning, sir, much obliged. - Door
My dear friend
I give you joy of your good fortune. Well deserved, well deserved
To think
that I should have been the humble instrument of leading up to this, is a proud reward
My dear young friend
if you will allow me to call you so
Certainly
My dear young friend, rely upon my doing my little all in your absence, by keeping the fact before the mind of Joseph. - Joseph
Joseph!! Joseph
But my dear young friend
you must be hungry, you must be exhausted. Be seated. Here is a chicken had round from the Boar, here is a tongue had round from the Boar, here's one or two little things had round from the Boar, that I hope you may not despise. But do I
see afore me, him as I ever sported with in his times of happy infancy? And may I - may I
Here is wine
Let us drink, Thanks to Fortune, and may she ever pick out her favourites with equal judgment! And yet I cannot
see afore me One - and likewise drink to One - without again expressing - May I - may I
Ah! poultry, poultry! You little thought
when you was a young fledgling, what was in store for you. You little thought you was to be refreshment beneath this humble roof for one as - Call it a weakness, if you will
but may I? may I
And your sister
which had the honour of bringing you up by hand! It's a sad picter, to reflect that she's no longer equal to fully understanding the honour. May
We'll drink her health
Ah
that's the way you know 'em, sir
that's the way you know the nobleminded, sir! Ever forgiving and ever affable. It might
to a common person, have the appearance of repeating - but may I
Let us never be blind
to her faults of temper, but it is to be hoped she meant well
Wait a bit
That boy is no common boy, and mark me, his fortun' will be no common fortun
No, my dear friend
Not if I can help it. This occasion shall not entirely pass without that affability on your part. - May I, as an old friend and well-wisher? May I
You
You, good gracious! What do you want
I am going to London, Miss Pocket
and want to say good-bye to Miss Havisham
Don't go, Sarah
Well, Pip
I start for London, Miss Havisham, to-morrow
and I thought you would kindly not mind my taking leave of you
This is a gay figure, Pip
I have come into such good fortune since I saw you last, Miss Havisham
And I am so grateful for it, Miss Havisham
Ay, ay
I have seen Mr. Jaggers. I have heard about it, Pip. So you go to-morrow
Yes, Miss Havisham
And you are adopted by a rich person
Yes, Miss Havisham
Not named
No, Miss Havisham
And Mr. Jaggers is made your guardian
Yes, Miss Havisham
Well
you have a promising career before you. Be good - deserve it - and abide by Mr. Jaggers's instructions
Good-bye, Pip! - you will always keep the name of Pip, you know
Yes, Miss Havisham
Good-bye, Pip
Good-bye, Miss Pocket
Well! I suppose I must be off
Hooroar
Good-bye O my dear, dear friend
just out of Smithfield, and close by the coach-office
How much
A shilling - unless you wish to make it more
Then it must be a shilling
I don't want to get into trouble. I know him
He is not
He is in Court at present. Am I addressing Mr. Pip
Mr. Jaggers left word would you wait in his room. He couldn't say how long he might be, having a case on. But it stands to reason, his time being valuable, that he won't be longer than he can help
Go and wait outside, Mike
Jaggers would do it if it was to be done
Jaggers is for him, 'Melia, and what more could you have
Oh Jaggerth, Jaggerth, Jaggerth! all otherth ith Cag-Maggerth, give me Jaggerth
Now, I have nothing to say to you
I want to know no more than I know. As to the result, it's a toss-up. I told you from the first it was a toss-up. Have you paid Wemmick
We made the money up this morning, sir
I don't ask you when you made it up, or where, or whether you made it up at all. Has Wemmick got it
Yes, sir
Very well; then you may go. Now, I won't have it
If you say a word to me, I'll throw up the case
We thought, Mr. Jaggers
That's what I told you not to do
You thought! I think for you; that's enough for you. If I want you, I know where to find you; I don't want you to find me. Now I won't have it. I won't hear a word
And now you
Oh! Amelia, is it
Yes, Mr. Jaggers
And do you remember
that but for me you wouldn't be here and couldn't be here
Oh yes, sir
Lord bless you, sir, well we knows that
Then why
do you come here
My Bill, sir
Now, I tell you what
Once for all. If you don't know that your Bill's in good hands, I know it. And if you come here, bothering about your Bill, I'll make an example of both your Bill and you, and let him slip through my fingers. Have you paid Wemmick
Oh yes, sir! Every farden
Very well. Then you have done all you have got to do. Say another word - one single word - and Wemmick shall give you your money back
I don't know this man
What does this fellow want
Ma thear Mithter Jaggerth. Hown brother to Habraham Latharuth
Who's he
Let go of my coat
Habraham Latharuth, on thuthpithion of plate
You're too late
I am over the way
Holy father, Mithter Jaggerth
don't thay you're again Habraham Latharuth
I am
and there's an end of it. Get out of the way
Mithter Jaggerth! Half a moment! My howncuthen't h gone to Mithter Wemmick at thith prethent minute, to hoffer him hany termth. Mithter Jaggerth! Half a quarter of a moment! If you'd have the condethenthun to be bought off from the t'other thide - at hany thuperior prithe! - money no object! - Mithter Jaggerth - Mithter
Here's Mike
Oh
your man comes on this afternoon. Well
Well, Mas'r Jaggers
arter a deal o' trouble, I've found one, sir, as might do
What is he prepared to swear
Well, Mas'r Jaggers
in a general way, anythink
Now, I warned you before
that if you ever presumed to talk in that way here, I'd make an example of you. You infernal scoundrel, how dare you tell ME that
Spooney
Soft Head! Need you say it face to face
Now, I ask you, you blundering booby
once more and for the last time, what the man you have brought here is prepared to swear
Ayther to character, or to having been in his company and never left him all the night in question
Now, be careful. In what station of life is this man
We've dressed him up like
What? You WILL, will you
Spooney
He is dressed like a 'spectable pieman. A sort of a pastry-cook
Is he here
I left him
a settin on some doorsteps round the corner
Take him past that window, and let me see him
Tell him to take his witness away directly
and ask him what he means by bringing such a fellow as that
Barnard's Inn
You will find your credit good, Mr. Pip
but I shall by this means be able to check your bills, and to pull you up if I find you outrunning the constable. Of course you'll go wrong somehow, but that's no fault of mine
I tell you it's no use; he won't have a word to say to one of you
So you were never in London before
No
I was new here once
Rum to think of now
You are well acquainted with it now
Why, yes
I know the moves of it
Is it a very wicked place
You may get cheated, robbed, and murdered, in London. But there are plenty of people anywhere, who'll do that for you
If there is bad blood between you and them
Oh! I don't know about bad blood
there's not much bad blood about. They'll do it, if there's anything to be got by it
That makes it worse
You think so
Much about the same, I should say
Do you know where Mr. Matthew Pocket lives
Yes
At Hammersmith, west of London
Is that far
Well! Say five miles
Do you know him
Why, you're a regular cross-examiner
Yes, I know him. I know him
Try Barnard's Mixture
Ah
the retirement reminds you of the country. So it does me
Return shortly
He hardly thought you'd come so soon
You don't want me any more
No, thank you
As I keep the cash
we shall most likely meet pretty often. Good day
Good day
To be sure! Yes. You're in the habit of shaking hands
I have got so out of it
except at last. Very glad, I'm sure, to make your acquaintance. Good day
Mr. Pip
Mr. Pocket
Dear me
I am extremely sorry; but I knew there was a coach from your part of the country at midday, and I thought you would come by that one. The fact is, I have been out on your account - not that that is any excuse - for I thought, coming from the country, you might like a little fruit after dinner, and I went to Covent Garden Market to get it good
Dear me
This door sticks so
Pray come in
Allow me to lead the way. I am rather bare here, but I hope you'll be able to make out tolerably well till Monday. My father thought you would get on more agreeably through to-morrow with me than with him, and might like to take a walk about London. I am sure I shall be very happy to show London to you. As to our table, you won't find that bad, I hope, for it will be supplied from our coffee-house here, and (it is only right I should add) at your expense, such being Mr. Jaggers's directions. As to our lodging, it's not by any means splendid, because I have my own bread to earn, and my father hasn't anything to give me, and I shouldn't be willing to take it, if he had. This is our sitting-room - just such chairs and tables and carpet and so forth, you see, as they could spare from home. You mustn't give me credit for the tablecloth and spoons and castors, because they come for you from the coffee-house. This is my little bedroom; rather musty, but Barnard's is musty. This is your bed-room; the furniture's hired for the occasion, but I trust it will answer the purpose; if you should want anything, I'll go and fetch it. The chambers are retired, and we shall be alone together, but we shan't fight, I dare say. But, dear me, I beg your pardon, you're holding the fruit all this time. Pray let me take these bags from you. I am quite ashamed
Lord bless me, you're the prowling boy
And you
are the pale young gentleman
The idea of its being you
The idea of its being you
Well
it's all over now, I hope, and it will be magnanimous in you if you'll forgive me for having knocked you about so
You hadn't come into your good fortune at that time
No
No
I heard it had happened very lately. I was rather on the look-out for good-fortune then
Indeed
Yes. Miss Havisham had sent for me, to see if she could take a fancy to me. But she couldn't - at all events, she didn't
Bad taste
but a fact. Yes, she had sent for me on a trial visit, and if I had come out of it successfully, I suppose I should have been provided for; perhaps I should have been what-you-may-called it to Estella
What's that
Affianced
Betrothed. Engaged. What's-his-named. Any word of that sort
How did you bear your disappointment
Pooh
I didn't care much for it. She's a Tartar
Miss Havisham
I don't say no to that, but I meant Estella. That girl's hard and haughty and capricious to the last degree, and has been brought up by Miss Havisham to wreak revenge on all the male sex
What relation is she to Miss Havisham
None
Only adopted
Why should she wreak revenge on all the male sex? What revenge
Lord, Mr. Pip
Don't you know
No
Dear me! It's quite a story, and shall be saved till dinner-time. And now let me take the liberty of asking you a question. How did you come there, that day
Mr. Jaggers is your guardian, I understand
Yes
You know he is Miss Havisham's man of business and solicitor, and has her confidence when nobody else has
He was so obliging as to suggest my father for your tutor, and he called on my father to propose it. Of course he knew about my father from his connexion with Miss Havisham. My father is Miss Havisham's cousin; not that that implies familiar intercourse between them, for he is a bad courtier and will not propitiate her
With pleasure
though I venture to prophesy that you'll want very few hints. I dare say we shall be often together, and I should like to banish any needless restraint between us. Will you do me the favour to begin at once to call me by my Christian name, Herbert
I don't take to Philip
for it sounds like a moral boy out of the spelling-book, who was so lazy that he fell into a pond, or so fat that he couldn't see out of his eyes, or so avaricious that he locked up his cake till the mice ate it, or so determined to go a bird's-nesting that he got himself eaten by bears who lived handy in the neighbourhood. I tell you what I should like. We are so harmonious, and you have been a blacksmith - would you mind it
I shouldn't mind anything that you propose
but I don't understand you
Would you mind Handel for a familiar name? There's a charming piece of music by Handel, called the Harmonious Blacksmith
I should like it very much
Then, my dear Handel
here is the dinner, and I must beg of you to take the top of the table, because the dinner is of your providing
True
I'll redeem it at once. Let me introduce the topic, Handel, by mentioning that in London it is not the custom to put the knife in the mouth - for fear of accidents - and that while the fork is reserved for that use, it is not put further in than necessary. It is scarcely worth mentioning, only it's as well to do as other people do. Also, the spoon is not generally used over-hand, but under. This has two advantages. You get at your mouth better (which after all is the object), and you save a good deal of the attitude of opening oysters, on the part of the right elbow
Now
concerning Miss Havisham. Miss Havisham, you must know, was a spoilt child. Her mother died when she was a baby, and her father denied her nothing. Her father was a country gentleman down in your part of the world, and was a brewer. I don't know why it should be a crack thing to be a brewer; but it is indisputable that while you cannot possibly be genteel and bake, you may be as genteel as never was and brew. You see it every day
Yet a gentleman may not keep a public-house; may he
Not on any account
but a public-house may keep a gentleman. Well! Mr. Havisham was very rich and very proud. So was his daughter
Miss Havisham was an only child
Stop a moment, I am coming to that. No, she was not an only child; she had a half-brother. Her father privately married again - his cook, I rather think
I thought he was proud
My good Handel, so he was. He married his second wife privately, because he was proud, and in course of time she died. When she was dead, I apprehend he first told his daughter what he had done, and then the son became a part of the family, residing in the house you are acquainted with. As the son grew a young man, he turned out riotous, extravagant, undutiful - altogether bad. At last his father disinherited him; but he softened when he was dying, and left him well off, though not nearly so well off as Miss Havisham. - Take another glass of wine, and excuse my mentioning that society as a body does not expect one to be so strictly conscientious in emptying one's glass, as to turn it bottom upwards with the rim on one's nose
Not at all
Miss Havisham was now an heiress, and you may suppose was looked after as a great match. Her half-brother had now ample means again, but what with debts and what with new madness wasted them most fearfully again. There were stronger differences between him and her, than there had been between him and his father, and it is suspected that he cherished a deep and mortal grudge against her, as having influenced the father's anger. Now, I come to the cruel part of the story - merely breaking off, my dear Handel, to remark that a dinner-napkin will not go into a tumbler
Not at all, I am sure
There appeared upon the scene - say at the races, or the public balls, or anywhere else you like - a certain man, who made love to Miss Havisham. I never saw him, for this happened five-and-twenty years ago (before you and I were, Handel), but I have heard my father mention that he was a showy-man, and the kind of man for the purpose. But that he was not to be, without ignorance or prejudice, mistaken for a gentleman, my father most strongly asseverates; because it is a principle of his that no man who was not a true gentleman at heart, ever was, since the world began, a true gentleman in manner. He says, no varnish can hide the grain of the wood; and that the more varnish you put on, the more the grain will express itself. Well! This man pursued Miss Havisham closely, and professed to be devoted to her. I believe she had not shown much susceptibility up to that time; but all the susceptibility she possessed, certainly came out then, and she passionately loved him. There is no doubt that she perfectly idolized him. He practised on her affection in that systematic way, that he got great sums of money from her, and he induced her to buy her brother out of a share in the brewery (which had been weakly left him by his father) at an immense price, on the plea that when he was her husband he must hold and manage it all. Your guardian was not at that time in Miss Havisham's councils, and she was too haughty and too much in love, to be advised by any one. Her relations were poor and scheming, with the exception of my father; he was poor enough, but not time-serving or jealous. The only independent one among them, he warned her that she was doing too much for this man, and was placing herself too unreservedly in his power. She took the first opportunity of angrily ordering my father out of the house, in his presence, and my father has never seen her since
Matthew will come and see me at last when I am laid dead upon that table
It's not that
but she charged him, in the presence of her intended husband, with being disappointed in the hope of fawning upon her for his own advancement, and, if he were to go to her now, it would look true - even to him - and even to her. To return to the man and make an end of him. The marriage day was fixed, the wedding dresses were bought, the wedding tour was planned out, the wedding guests were invited. The day came, but not the bridegroom. He wrote her a letter
Which she received
when she was dressing for her marriage? At twenty minutes to nine
At the hour and minute
at which she afterwards stopped all the clocks. What was in it, further than that it most heartlessly broke the marriage off, I can't tell you, because I don't know. When she recovered from a bad illness that she had, she laid the whole place waste, as you have seen it, and she has never since looked upon the light of day
Is that all the story
All I know of it; and indeed I only know so much, through piecing it out for myself; for my father always avoids it, and, even when Miss Havisham invited me to go there, told me no more of it than it was absolutely requisite I should understand. But I have forgotten one thing. It has been supposed that the man to whom she gave her misplaced confidence, acted throughout in concert with her half-brother; that it was a conspiracy between them; and that they shared the profits
I wonder he didn't marry her and get all the property
He may have been married already, and her cruel mortification may have been a part of her half-brother's scheme
Mind! I don't know that
What became of the two men
They fell into deeper shame and degradation - if there can be deeper - and ruin
Are they alive now
I don't know
You said just now, that Estella was not related to Miss Havisham, but adopted. When adopted
There has always been an Estella, since I have heard of a Miss Havisham. I know no more. And now, Handel
there is a perfectly open understanding between us. All that I know about Miss Havisham, you know
And all that I know
you know
I fully believe it. So there can be no competition or perplexity between you and me. And as to the condition on which you hold your advancement in life - namely, that you are not to inquire or discuss to whom you owe it - you may be very sure that it will never be encroached upon, or even approached, by me, or by any one belonging to me
A capitalist - an Insurer of Ships
In the City
I shall not rest satisfied with merely employing my capital in insuring ships. I shall buy up some good Life Assurance shares, and cut into the Direction. I shall also do a little in the mining way. None of these things will interfere with my chartering a few thousand tons on my own account. I think I shall trade
to the East Indies, for silks, shawls, spices, dyes, drugs, and precious woods. It's an interesting trade
And the profits are large
Tremendous
I think I shall trade, also
to the West Indies, for sugar, tobacco, and rum. Also to Ceylon, specially for elephants' tusks
You will want a good many ships
A perfect fleet
I haven't begun insuring yet
I am looking about me
Ah-h
Yes. I am in a counting-house, and looking about me
Is a counting-house profitable
To - do you mean to the young fellow who's in it
Yes; to you
Why, n-no: not to me
Not directly profitable. That is, it doesn't pay me anything, and I have to - keep myself
But the thing is
that you look about you. That's the grand thing. You are in a counting-house, you know, and you look about you
Then the time comes
when you see your opening. And you go in, and you swoop upon it and you make your capital, and then there you are! When you have once made your capital, you have nothing to do but employ it
Mamma
this is young Mr. Pip
Master Alick and Miss Jane
if you go a-bouncing up against them bushes you'll fall over into the river and be drownded, and what'll your pa say then
If that don't make six times you've dropped it, Mum
Thank you, Flopson
I hope your mamma is quite well
Well
if that don't make seven times! What ARE you a-doing of this afternoon, Mum
Thank you, Flopson
If there ain't Baby
Make haste up, Millers
Gracious me, Flopson
everybody's tumbling
Gracious you, indeed, Mum
what have you got there
I got here, Flopson
Why, if it ain't your footstool
And if you keep it under your skirts like that, who's to help tumbling? Here! Take the baby, Mum, and give me your book
For, I really am not
an alarming personage
Belinda, I hope you have welcomed Mr. Pip
Yes
a treasure for a Prince
But dear Mrs. Pocket
after her early disappointment (not that dear Mr. Pocket was to blame in that), requires so much luxury and elegance
Yes, ma'am
And she is of so aristocratic a disposition
Yes, ma'am
that it is hard
to have dear Mr. Pocket's time and attention diverted from dear Mrs. Pocket
Here! Give me your fork, Mum, and take the baby
Don't take it that way, or you'll get its head under the table
Dear, dear! Give it me back, Mum
and Miss Jane, come and dance to baby, do
You naughty child, how dare you? Go and sit down this instant
Mamma dear
baby ood have put hith eyeth out
How dare you tell me so
Go and sit down in your chair this moment
Belinda
how can you be so unreasonable? Jane only interfered for the protection of baby
I will not allow anybody to interfere
I am surprised, Matthew, that you should expose me to the affront of interference
Good God
Are infants to be nutcrackered into their tombs, and is nobody to save them
I will not be interfered with by Jane
I hope I know my poor grandpapa's position. Jane, indeed
Hear this
Babies are to be nutcrackered dead, for people's poor grandpapa's positions
Mr. Drummle
will you ring for Flopson? Jane, you undutiful little thing, go and lie down. Now, baby darling, come with ma
If you please, sir, I should wish to speak to you
Speak to your master
How can you think of such a thing? Go and speak to Flopson. Or speak to me - at some other time
Begging your pardon, ma'am
I should wish to speak at once, and to speak to master
This is a pretty thing, Belinda
Here's the cook lying insensibly drunk on the kitchen floor, with a large bundle of fresh butter made up in the cupboard ready to sell for grease
This is that odious Sophia's doing
What do you mean, Belinda
Sophia has told you
Did I not see her with my own eyes and hear her with my own ears, come into the room just now and ask to speak to you
But has she not taken me down stairs, Belinda
and shown me the woman, and the bundle too
And do you defend her, Matthew
for making mischief
Am I, grandpapa's granddaughter, to be nothing in the house
Besides, the cook has always been a very nice respectful woman, and said in the most natural manner when she came to look after the situation, that she felt I was born to be a Duchess
Good night, Mr. Pip
If I could buy the furniture now hired for me
and one or two other little things, I should be quite at home there
Go it
I told you you'd get on. Well! How much do you want
Come
How much? Fifty pounds
Oh, not nearly so much
Five pounds
Oh! more than that
More than that, eh
how much more
It is so difficult to fix a sum
Come
Let's get at it. Twice five; will that do? Three times five; will that do? Four times five; will that do
Four times five will do handsomely, will it
Now, what do you make of four times five
What do I make of it
Ah
how much
I suppose you make it twenty pounds
Never mind what I make it, my friend
I want to know what you make it
Twenty pounds, of course
Wemmick
Take Mr. Pip's written order, and pay him twenty pounds
Tell him that, and he'll take it as a compliment
he don't mean that you should know what to make of it. - Oh
it's not personal; it's professional: only professional
Always seems to me
as if he had set a mantrap and was watching it. Suddenly - click - you're caught
Deep
as Australia
If there was anything deeper
he'd be it
Ca-pi-tal
We don't run much into clerks, because there's only one Jaggers, and people won't have him at second-hand. There are only four of us. Would you like to see 'em? You are one of us, as I may say
Getting evidence together
for the Bailey
This you've seen already
Pray
whose likenesses are those
These
These are two celebrated ones. Famous clients of ours that got us a world of credit. This chap (why you must have come down in the night and been peeping into the inkstand, to get this blot upon your eyebrow, you old rascal!) murdered his master, and, considering that he wasn't brought up to evidence, didn't plan it badly
Is it like him
Like him? It's himself, you know. The cast was made in Newgate, directly after he was taken down. You had a particular fancy for me, hadn't you, Old Artful
Had it made for me, express
Is the lady anybody
No
Only his game. (You liked your bit of game, didn't you?) No; deuce a bit of a lady in the case, Mr. Pip, except one - and she wasn't of this slender ladylike sort, and you wouldn't have caught her looking after this urn - unless there was something to drink in it
Did that other creature come to the same end
He has the same look
You're right
and you said you could write Greek. Yah, Bounceable! What a liar you were! I never met such a liar as you
Sent out to buy it for me, only the day before
Oh yes
If at any odd time when you have nothing better to do, you wouldn't mind coming over to see me at Walworth, I could offer you a bed, and I should consider it an honour. I have not much to show you; but such two or three curiosities as I have got, you might like to look over; and I am fond of a bit of garden and a summer-house
Thankee
then we'll consider that it's to come off, when convenient to you. Have you dined with Mr. Jaggers yet
Not yet
Well
he'll give you wine, and good wine. I'll give you punch, and not bad punch. And now I'll tell you something. When you go to dine with Mr. Jaggers, look at his housekeeper
Shall I see something very uncommon
Well
you'll see a wild beast tamed. Not so very uncommon, you'll tell me. I reply, that depends on the original wildness of the beast, and the amount of taming. It won't lower your opinion of Mr. Jaggers's powers. Keep your eye on it
at it
at
taken down
I'll have it out of you
Now I have got you
as you may see, though you never saw her
Did you think of walking down to Walworth
Certainly
if you approve
Very much
Pick us out a good one, old Briton, because if we had chosen to keep you in the box another day or two, we could easily have done it
Let me make you a present of the best fowl in the shop
Because I have got an aged parent at my place
So, you haven't dined with Mr. Jaggers yet
Not yet
He told me so this afternoon when he heard you were coming. I expect you'll have an invitation to-morrow. He's going to ask your pals, too. Three of 'em; ain't there
Yes
Well, he's going to ask the whole gang
and whatever he gives you, he'll give you good. Don't look forward to variety, but you'll have excellence. Andthere's a nother rum thing in his house
he never lets a door or window be fastened at night
Is he never robbed
That's it
I want to see the man who'll rob me
You know where I live; now, no bolt is ever drawn there; why don't you do a stroke of business with me? Come; can't I tempt you
They dread him so much
Dread him
I believe you they dread him. Not but what he's artful, even in his defiance of them. No silver, sir. Britannia metal, every spoon
So they wouldn't have much
even if they
Ah! But he would have much
and they know it. He'd have their lives, and the lives of scores of 'em. He'd have all he could get. And it's impossible to say what he couldn't get, if he gave his mind to it
As to the absence of plate, that's only his natural depth, you know. A river's its natural depth, and he's his natural depth. Look at his watch-chain. That's real enough
It's very massive
Massive
I think so. And his watch is a gold repeater, and worth a hundred pound if it's worth a penny. Mr. Pip, there are about seven hundred thieves in this town who know all about that watch; there's not a man, a woman, or a child, among them, who wouldn't identify the smallest link in that chain, and drop it as if it was red-hot, if inveigled into touching it
My own doing
Looks pretty; don't it
That's a real flagstaff, you see
and on Sundays I run up a real flag. Then look here. After I have crossed this bridge, I hoist it up - so - and cut off the communication
At nine o'clock every night, Greenwich time
the gun fires. There he is, you see! And when you hear him go, I think you'll say he's a Stinger
Then, at the back
out of sight, so as not to impede the idea of fortifications - for it's a principle with me, if you have an idea, carry it out and keep it up - I don't know whether that's your opinion
At the back, there's a pig, and there are fowls and rabbits; then, I knock together my own little frame, you see, and grow cucumbers; and you'll judge at supper what sort of a salad I can raise. So, sir
if you can suppose the little place besieged, it would hold out a devil of a time in point of provisions
I am my own engineer, and my own carpenter, and my own plumber, and my own gardener, and my own Jack of all Trades
Well; it's a good thing, you know. It brushes the Newgate cobwebs away, and pleases the Aged. You wouldn't mind being at once introduced to the Aged, would you? It wouldn't put you out
Well aged parent
how am you
All right, John; all right
Here's Mr. Pip, aged parent
and I wish you could hear his name. Nod away at him, Mr. Pip; that's what he likes. Nod away at him, if you please, like winking
This is a fine place of my son's, sir
This is a pretty pleasure-ground, sir. This spot and these beautiful works upon it ought to be kept together by the Nation, after my son's time, for the people's enjoyment
You're as proud of it as Punch; ain't you, Aged
there's a nod for you
there's another for you
you like that, don't you? If you're not tired, Mr. Pip - though I know it's tiring to strangers - will you tip him one more? You can't think how it pleases him
Is it your own, Mr. Wemmick
O yes
I have got hold of it, a bit at a time. It's a freehold, by George
Is it, indeed? I hope Mr. Jaggers admires it
Never seen it
Never heard of it. Never seen the Aged. Never heard of him. No; the office is one thing, and private life is another. When I go into the office, I leave the Castle behind me, and when I come into the Castle, I leave the office behind me. If it's not in any way disagreeable to you, you'll oblige me by doing the same. I don't wish it professionally spoken about
Getting near gun-fire
it's the Aged's treat
He's fired! I heerd him
every one of 'em Lies, sir
No ceremony
and no dinner dress, and say tomorrow
Come here, and I'll take you home with me
Pip
I don't know one from the other. Who's the Spider
The spider
The blotchy, sprawly, sulky fellow
That's Bentley Drummle
the one with the delicate face is Startop
the one with the delicate face
Bentley Drummle is his name, is it? I like the look of that fellow
If you talk of strength
I'll show you a wrist. Molly, let them see your wrist
Master
Don't
I'll show you a wrist
Molly, let them see your wrist
Master
Please
Molly
let them see both your wrists. Show them. Come
There's power here
Very few men have the power of wrist that this woman has. It's remarkable what mere force of grip there is in these hands. I have had occasion to notice many hands; but I never saw stronger in that respect, man's or woman's, than these
That'll do, Molly
you have been admired, and can go
At half-past nine, gentlemen
we must break up. Pray make the best use of your time. I am glad to see you all. Mr. Drummle, I drink to you
Well
he'll be paid
I don't mean to imply that he won't
but it might make you hold your tongue about us and our money, I should think
You should think
Oh Lord
I dare say
that you wouldn't lend money to any of us, if we wanted it
You are right
I wouldn't lend one of you a sixpence. I wouldn't lend anybody a sixpence
Rather mean to borrow under those circumstances, I should say
You should say
Oh Lord
Come, Mr. Drummle, since we are on the subject, I'll tell you what passed between Herbert here and me, when you borrowed that money
I don't want to know what passed between Herbert there and you
I'll tell you, however
whether you want to know or not. We said that as you put it in your pocket very glad to get it, you seemed to be immensely amused at his being so weak as to lend it
Gentlemen
I am exceedingly sorry to announce that it's half-past nine
old boy
Pooh
it's nothing, Pip. I like that Spider though
I am glad you like him, sir
but I don't
No, no
don't have too much to do with him. Keep as clear of him as you can. But I like the fellow, Pip; he is one of the true sort. Why, if I was a fortune-teller
But I am not a fortune-teller
You know what I am, don't you? Good-night, Pip
Good-night, sir
MY DEAR MR PIP, "I write this by request of Mr. Gargery, for to let you know that he is going to London in company with Mr. Wopsle and would be glad if agreeable to be allowed to see you. He would call at Barnard's Hotel Tuesday morning 9 o'clock, when if not agreeable please leave word. Your poor sister is much the same as when you left. We talk of you in the kitchen every night, and wonder what you are saying and doing. If now considered in the light of a liberty, excuse it for the love of poor old days. No more, dear Mr. Pip, from 

"Your ever obliged, and affectionate servant, 

"BIDDY
P.S. He wishes me most particular to write what larks. He says you will understand. I hope and do not doubt it will be agreeable to see him even though a gentleman, for you had ever a good heart, and he is a worthy worthy man. I have read him all excepting only the last little sentence, and he wishes me most particular to write again what larks
Mr. Gargery
Joe, how are you, Joe
Pip, how AIR you, Pip
I am glad to see you, Joe. Give me your hat
Which you have that growed
and that swelled, and that gentle-folked
as to be sure you are a honour to your king and country
And you, Joe, look wonderfully well
Thank God
I'm ekerval to most. And your sister, she's no worse than she were. And Biddy, she's ever right and ready. And all friends is no backerder, if not no forarder. 'Ceptin Wopsle; he's had a drop
Had a drop, Joe
Why yes
he's left the Church, and went into the playacting. Which the playacting have likeways brought him to London along with me. And his wish were
if no offence, as I would 'and you that
the celebrated Provincial Amateur of Roscian renown, whose unique performance in the highest tragic walk of our National Bard has lately occasioned so great a sensation in local dramatic circles
Were you at his performance, Joe
I were
Was there a great sensation
Why
Amen
but that is no reason why you should put him out at such a time. Which I meantersay, if the ghost of a man's own father cannot be allowed to claim his attention, what can, Sir? Still more, when his mourning 'at is unfortunately made so small as that the weight of the black feathers brings it off, try to keep it on how you may
Your servant, Sir
I meantersay, you two gentlemen - which I hope as you get your elths in this close spot? For the present may be a werry good inn, according to London opinions
and I believe its character do stand i; but I wouldn't keep a pig in it myself - not in the case that I wished him to fatten wholesome and to eat with a meller flavour on him
sir
Do you take tea, or coffee, Mr. Gargery
Thankee, Sir
I'll take whichever is most agreeable to yourself
What do you say to coffee
Thankee, Sir
since you are so kind as make chice of coffee, I will not run contrairy to your own opinions. But don't you never find it a little 'eating
Say tea then
When did you come to town, Mr. Gargery
Were it yesterday afternoon
Have you seen anything of London, yet
Why, yes, Sir
me and Wopsle went off straight to look at the Blacking Ware'us. But we didn't find that it come up to its likeness in the red bills at the shop doors; which I meantersay
as it is there drawd too architectooralooral
Us two being now alone, Sir
Joe
how can you call me, Sir
Us two being now alone
and me having the intentions and abilities to stay not many minutes more, I will now conclude - leastways begin - to mention what have led to my having had the present honour. For was it not
that my only wish were to be useful to you, I should not have had the honour of breaking wittles in the company and abode of gentlemen
Well, Sir
this is how it were. I were at the Bargemen t'other night, Pip
when there come up in his shay-cart, Pumblechook. Which that same identical
do comb my 'air the wrong way sometimes, awful, by giving out up and down town as it were him which ever had your infant companionation and were looked upon as a playfellow by yourself
Nonsense. It was you, Joe
Which I fully believed it were, Pip
though it signify little now, Sir. Well, Pip; this same identical, which his manners is given to blusterous, come to me at the Bargemen (wot a pipe and a pint of beer do give refreshment to the working-man, Sir, and do not over stimilate), and his word were, 'Joseph, Miss Havisham she wish to speak to you
Miss Havisham, Joe
She wish,' were Pumblechook's word, 'to speak to you
Yes, Joe? Go on, please
Next day, Sir
having cleaned myself, I go and I see Miss A
Miss A., Joe? Miss Havisham
Which I say, Sir
Miss A., or otherways Havisham. Her expression air then as follering: 'Mr. Gargery. You air in correspondence with Mr. Pip?' Having had a letter from you, I were able to say 'I am.' (When I married your sister, Sir, I said 'I will;' and when I answered your friend, Pip, I said 'I am.') )'Would you tell him, then,' said she, 'that which Estella has come home and would be glad to see him
Biddy
when I got home and asked her fur to write the message to you, a little hung back. Biddy says, 'I know he will be very glad to have it by word of mouth, it is holidaytime, you want to see him, go!' I have now concluded, Sir
and, Pip, I wish you ever well and ever prospering to a greater and a greater heighth
But you are not going now, Joe
Yes I am
But you are coming back to dinner, Joe
No I am not
Pip, dear old chap, life is made of ever so many partings welded together, as I may say, and one man's a blacksmith, and one's a whitesmith, and one's a goldsmith, and one's a coppersmith. Diwisions among such must come, and must be met as they come. If there's been any fault at all to-day, it's mine. You and me is not two figures to be together in London; nor yet anywheres else but what is private, and beknown, and understood among friends. It ain't that I am proud, but that I want to be right, as you shall never see me no more in these clothes. I'm wrong in these clothes. I'm wrong out of the forge, the kitchen, or off th' meshes. You won't find half so much fault in me if you think of me in my forge dress, with my hammer in my hand, or even my pipe. You won't find half so much fault in me if, supposing as you should ever wish to see me, you come and put your head in at the forge window and see Joe the blacksmith, there, at the old anvil, in the old burnt apron, sticking to the old work. I'm awful dull, but I hope I've beat out something nigh the rights of this at last. And so GOD bless you, dear old Pip, old chap, GOD bless you
You don't mind them, Handel
Oh no
I thought you seemed as if you didn't like them
I can't pretend that I do like them, and I suppose you don't particularly. But I don't mind them
See! There they are
coming out of the Tap. What a degraded and vile sight it is
Don't take it so much amiss, sir
I'll sit next you myself. I'll put 'em on the outside of the row. They won't interfere with you, sir. You needn't know they're there
And don't blame me
I don't want to go. I am quite ready to stay behind. As fur as I am concerned any one's welcome to my place
Or mine
I wouldn't have incommoded none of you, if I'd had my way
Good-bye, Handel
Two One Pound notes
How did he get 'em
How should I know
He had 'em stowed away somehows. Giv him by friends, I expect
I wish
that I had 'em here
Two one pound notes, or friends
Two one pound notes. I'd sell all the friends I ever had, for one, and think it a blessed good bargain. Well? So he says
So he says
it was all said and done in half a minute, behind a pile of timber in the Dockyard - 'You're a-going to be discharged?' Yes, I was. Would I find out that boy that had fed him and kep his secret, and give him them two one pound notes? Yes, I would. And I did
More fool you
I'd have spent 'em on a Man, in wittles and drink. He must have been a green one. Mean to say he knowed nothing of you
Not a ha'porth. Different gangs and different ships. He was tried again for prison breaking, and got made a Lifer
And was that - Honour! - the only time you worked out, in this part of the country
The only time
What might have been your opinion of the place
A most beastly place. Mudbank, mist, swamp, and work; work, swamp, mist, and mudbank
Give way, you
No
certainly not
Orlick
Ah, young master, there's more changes than yours. But come in, come in. It's opposed to my orders to hold the gate open
Yes
Here I am
How did you come here
I come her
on my legs. I had my box brought alongside me in a barrow
Are you here for good
I ain't her for harm, young master, I suppose
Then you have left the forge
Do this look like a forge
Now, do it look like it
One day is so like another here
that I don't know without casting it up. However, I come her some time since you left
I could have told you that, Orlick
Ah
But then you've got to be a scholar
I never saw this room before
but there used to be no Porter here
No
not till it got about that there was no protection on the premises, and it come to be considered dangerous, with convicts and Tag and Rag and Bobtail going up and down. And then I was recommended to the place as a man who could give another man as good as he brought, and I took it. It's easier than bellowsing and hammering. - That's loaded, that is
Well
shall I go up to Miss Havisham
Burn me, if I know
my orders ends here, young master. I give this here bell a rap with this here hammer, and you go on along the passage till you meet somebody
I am expected, I believe
Burn me twice over, if I can say
Oh
You, is it, Mr. Pip
It is, Miss Pocket. I am glad to tell you that Mr. Pocket and family are all well
Are they any wiser
they had better be wiser, than well. Ah, Matthew, Matthew! You know your way, sir
Pip's rap
come in, Pip
Come in, Pip
come in, Pip, how do you do, Pip? so you kiss my hand as if I were a queen, eh? - Well
Well
I heard, Miss Havisham
that you were so kind as to wish me to come and see you, and I came directly
Well
Do you find her much changed, Pip
When I came in, Miss Havisham, I thought there was nothing of Estella in the face or figure; but now it all settles down so curiously into the old
What? You are not going to say into the old Estella
She was proud and insulting, and you wanted to go away from her. Don't you remember
Is he changed
Very much
Less coarse and common
I must have been a singular little creature to hide and see that fight that day: but I did, and I enjoyed it very much
You rewarded me very much
Did I
I remember I entertained a great objection to your adversary, because I took it ill that he should be brought here to pester me with his company
He and I are great friends now
Are you? I think I recollect though, that you read with his father
Yes
Since your change of fortune and prospects, you have changed your companions
Naturally
And necessarily
what was fit company for you once, would be quite unfit company for you now
You had no idea of your impending good fortune, in those times
Not the least
Did I
I don't remember
Not remember that you made me cry
No
You must know
that I have no heart - if that has anything to do with my memory
Oh! I have a heart to be stabbed in or shot in, I have no doubt
and, of course, if it ceased to beat I should cease to be. But you know what I mean. I have no softness there, no - sympathy - sentiment - nonsense
I am serious
if we are to be thrown much together, you had better believe it at once. No
I have not bestowed my tenderness anywhere. I have never had any such thing
What is the matter
Are you scared again
I should be, if I believed what you said just now
Then you don't? Very well. It is said, at any rate. Miss Havisham will soon be expecting you at your old post, though I think that might be laid aside now, with other old belongings. Let us make one more round of the garden, and then go in. Come! You shall not shed tears for my cruelty to-day; you shall be my Page, and give me your shoulder
Is she beautiful, graceful, well-grown? Do you admire her
Everybody must who sees her, Miss Havisham
Love her, love her, love her! How does she use you
Love her, love her, love her! If she favours you, love her. If she wounds you, love her. If she tears your heart to pieces - and as it gets older and stronger, it will tear deeper - love her, love her, love her
Hear me, Pip! I adopted her to be loved. I bred her and educated her, to be loved. I developed her into what she is, that she might be loved. Love her
I'll tell you
what real love is. It is blind devotion, unquestioning self-humiliation, utter submission, trust and belief against yourself and against the whole world, giving up your whole heart and soul to the smiter - as I did
Indeed? Singular
As punctual as ever
How do you do, Pip? Shall I give you a ride, Miss Havisham? Once round?) And so you are here, Pip
Ah! Very fine young lady
Well, Pip! How often have you seen Miss Estella before
How often
Ah! How many times? Ten thousand times
Oh! Certainly not so many
Twice
Jaggers
leave my Pip alone, and go with him to your dinner
Never
And never will, Pip
She has never allowed herself to be seen doing either, since she lived this present life of hers. She wanders about in the night, and then lays hands on such food as she takes
Pray, sir
may I ask you a question
You may
and I may decline to answer it. Put your question
Estella's name. Is it Havisham or
Or what
Is it Havisham
It is Havisham
Love her, love her, love her
I love her, I love her, I love her
Why, of course he is not the right sort of man, Pip
because the man who fills the post of trust never is the right sort of man
Very good, Pip
I'll go round presently, and pay our friend off
Oh no he won't
I should like to see him argue the question with me
Hold me! I'm so frightened
Don't know yah
Don't know yah, don't know yah, pon my soul don't know yah
My dear Herbert, I have something very particular to tell you
My dear Handel
I shall esteem and respect your confidence
It concerns myself, Herbert
and one other person
Herbert
I love - I adore - Estella
Exactly. Well
Well, Herbert? Is that all you say? Well
What next, I mean
Of course I know that
How do you know it
How do I know it, Handel? Why, from you
I never told you
Told me! You have never told me when you have got your hair cut, but I have had senses to perceive it. You have always adored her, ever since I have known you. You brought your adoration and your portmanteau here, together. Told me! Why, you have always told me all day long. When you told me your own story, you told me plainly that you began adoring her the first time you saw her, when you were very young indeed
Very well, then
I have never left off adoring her. And she has come back, a most beautiful and most elegant creature. And I saw her yesterday. And if I adored her before, I now doubly adore her
Lucky for you then, Handel
that you are picked out for her and allotted to her. Without encroaching on forbidden ground, we may venture to say that there can be no doubt between ourselves of that fact. Have you any idea yet, of Estella's views on the adoration question
Oh! She is thousands of miles away, from me
Patience, my dear Handel: time enough, time enough. But you have something more to say
I am ashamed to say it
and yet it's no worse to say it than to think it. You call me a lucky fellow. Of course, I am. I was a blacksmith's boy but yesterday; I am - what shall I say I am - to-day
Say, a good fellow, if you want a phrase
a good fellow, with impetuosity and hesitation, boldness and diffidence, action and dreaming, curiously mixed in him
When I ask what I am to call myself to-day, Herbert
I suggest what I have in my thoughts. You say I am lucky. I know I have done nothing to raise myself in life, and that Fortune alone has raised me; that is being very lucky. And yet, when I think of Estella
And when don't you, you know
Then, my dear Herbert, I cannot tell you how dependent and uncertain I feel, and how exposed to hundreds of chances. Avoiding forbidden ground, as you did just now, I may still say that on the constancy of one person (naming no person) all my expectations depend. And at the best, how indefinite and unsatisfactory, only to know so vaguely what they are
Now, Handel
it seems to me that in the despondency of the tender passion, we are looking into our gift-horse's mouth with a magnifying-glass. Likewise, it seems to me that, concentrating our attention on the examination, we altogether overlook one of the best points of the animal. Didn't you tell me that your guardian, Mr. Jaggers, told you in the beginning, that you were not endowed with expectations only? And even if he had not told you so - though that is a very large If, I grant - could you believe that of all men in London, Mr. Jaggers is the man to hold his present relations towards you unless he were sure of his ground
I should think it was a strong point
and I should think you would be puzzled to imagine a stronger; as to the rest, you must bide your guardian's time, and he must bide his client's time. You'll be one-and-twenty before you know where you are, and then perhaps you'll get some further enlightenment. At all events, you'll be nearer getting it, for it must come at last
What a hopeful disposition you have
I ought to have
The thing is settled and done, or Mr. Jaggers would not be in it
You won't succeed
Oh yes I shall
One, two, three, and now I am in for it. Handel, my good fellow
I have been thinking since we have been talking with our feet on this fender, that Estella surely cannot be a condition of your inheritance, if she was never referred to by your guardian. Am I right in so understanding what you have told me, as that he never referred to her, directly or indirectly, in any way? Never even hinted, for instance, that your patron might have views as to your marriage ultimately
Never
Now, Handel, I am quite free from the flavour of sour grapes, upon my soul and honour! Not being bound to her, can you not detach yourself from her? - I told you I should be disagreeable
Yes; but my dear Handel
its having been so strongly rooted in the breast of a boy whom nature and circumstances made so romantic, renders it very serious. Think of her bringing-up, and think of Miss Havisham. Think of what she is herself (now I am repulsive and you abominate me). This may lead to miserable things
I know it, Herbert
but I can't help it
You can't detach yourself
No. Impossible
You can't try, Handel
No. Impossible
Well
now I'll endeavour to make myself agreeable again
I was going to say a word or two, Handel, concerning my father and my father's son. I am afraid it is scarcely necessary for my father's son to remark that my father's establishment is not particularly brilliant in its housekeeping
There is always plenty, Herbert
Oh yes! and so the dustman says, I believe, with the strongest approval, and so does the marine-store shop in the back street. Gravely, Handel, for the subject is grave enough, you know how it is, as well as I do. I suppose there was a time once when my father had not given matters up; but if ever there was, the time is gone. May I ask you if you have ever had an opportunity of remarking, down in your part of the country, that the children of not exactly suitable marriages, are always most particularly anxious to be married
Is it so
I don't know
that's what I want to know. Because it is decidedly the case with us. My poor sister Charlotte who was next me and died before she was fourteen, was a striking example. Little Jane is the same. In her desire to be matrimonially established, you might suppose her to have passed her short existence in the perpetual contemplation of domestic bliss. Little Alick in a frock has already made arrangements for his union with a suitable young person at Kew. And indeed, I think we are all engaged, except the baby
Then you are
I am
but it's a secret
May I ask the name
Name of Clara
Live in London
Yes. Perhaps I ought to mention
that she is rather below my mother's nonsensical family notions. Her father had to do with the victualling of passenger-ships. I think he was a species of purser
What is he now
He's an invalid now
Living on
On the first floor
I have never seen him, for he has always kept his room overhead, since I have known Clara. But I have heard him constantly. He makes tremendous rows - roars, and pegs at the floor with some frightful instrument
Don't you expect to see him
Oh yes, I constantly expect to see him
because I never hear him, without expecting him to come tumbling through the ceiling. But I don't know how long the rafters may hold
But you can't marry, you know, while you're looking about you
And bless my heart
it's to-night
turn over
the kettledrum
Now the baby's put to bed let's have supper
toss up for it
Hear, hear
And don't you do it, neither; you're a deal worse than him
Look out! Here's the undertaker a-coming, to see how you're a-getting on with your work
Wai-ter
Let us go at once, or perhaps we shall meet him
Mr. Pip and friend
Mr. Waldengarver
would be glad to have the honour
Waldengarver
Probably Wopsle
Oh
Yes. Shall we follow you
A few steps, please
How did you think he looked? - I dressed him
When he come to the grave
he showed his cloak beautiful. But, judging from the wing, it looked to me that when he see the ghost in the queen's apartment, he might have made more of his stockings
Gentlemen
I am proud to see you. I hope, Mr. Pip, you will excuse my sending round. I had the happiness to know you in former times, and the Drama has ever had a claim which has ever been acknowledged, on the noble and the affluent
Skin the stockings off, Mr. Waldengarver
or you'll bust 'em. Bust 'em, and you'll bust five-and-thirty shillings. Shakspeare never was complimented with a finer pair. Keep quiet in your chair now, and leave 'em to me
Gentlemen, how did it seem to you, to go, in front
capitally
capitally
How did you like my reading of the character, gentlemen
massive and concrete
massive and concrete
I am glad to have your approbation, gentlemen
But I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Waldengarver
I don't see no wafers
a faithful dependent - I overlook his folly
My view is a little classic and thoughtful for them here; but they will improve, they will improve
Did you observe, gentlemen
that there was a man in the gallery who endeavoured to cast derision on the service - I mean, the representation
He was drunk, no doubt
Oh dear no, sir
not drunk. His employer would see to that, sir. His employer would not allow him to be drunk
You know his employer
You must have observed, gentlemen
an ignorant and a blatant ass, with a rasping throat and a countenance expressive of low malignity, who went through - I will not say sustained - the role (if I may use a French expression) of Claudius King of Denmark. That is his employer, gentlemen. Such is the profession
Halloa, Mr. Pip
how do you do? I should hardly have thought this was your beat
Both flourishing thankye
and particularly the Aged. He's in wonderful feather. He'll be eighty-two next birthday. I have a notion of firing eighty-two times, if the neighbourhood shouldn't complain, and that cannon of mine should prove equal to the pressure. However, this is not London talk. Where do you think I am going to
To the office
Next thing to it
I am going to Newgate. We are in a banker's-parcel case just at present, and I have been down the road taking as squint at the scene of action, and thereupon must have a word or two with our client
Did your client commit the robbery
Bless your soul and body, no
But he is accused of it. So might you or I be. Either of us might be accused of it, you know
Only neither of us is
Yah
you're a deep one, Mr. Pip! Would you like to have a look at Newgate? Have you time to spare
What, Captain Tom? Are you there? Ah, indeed
Is that Black Bill behind the cistern? Why I didn't look for you these two months; how do you find yourself
it's no use, my boy. I'm only a subordinate. I can't take it. Don't go on in that way with a subordinate. If you are unable to make up your quantum, my boy, you had better address yourself to a principal; there are plenty of principals in the profession, you know, and what is not worth the while of one, may be worth the while of another; that's my recommendation to you, speaking as a subordinate. Don't try on useless measures. Why should you? Now, who's next
Notice the man I shall shake hands with
Colonel, to you
how are you, Colonel
All right, Mr. Wemmick
Everything was done that could be done, but the evidence was too strong for us, Colonel
Yes, it was too strong, sir - but I don't care
No, no
you don't care
Served His Majesty this man. Was a soldier in the line and bought his discharge
Indeed
I think I shall be out of this on Monday, sir
Perhaps
but there's no knowing
I am glad to have the chance of bidding you good-bye, Mr. Wemmick
Thankye
Same to you, Colonel
If what I had upon me when taken, had been real, Mr. Wemmick
I should have asked the favour of your wearing another ring - in acknowledgment of your attentions
I'll accept the will for the deed
By-the-bye; you were quite a pigeon-fancier
I am told you had a remarkable breed of tumblers. could you commission any friend of yours to bring me a pair, of you've no further use for 'em
It shall be done, sir
All right
they shall be taken care of. Good afternoon, Colonel. Good-bye
A Coiner, a very good workman. The Recorder's report is made to-day, and he is sure to be executed on Monday. Still you see, as far as it goes, a pair of pigeons are portable property, all the same
Well, Mr. Wemmick
what's Mr. Jaggers going to do with that waterside murder? Is he going to make it manslaughter, or what's he going to make of it
Why don't you ask him
Oh yes, I dare say
Now, that's the way with them here. Mr. Pip
They don't mind what they ask of me, the subordinate; but you'll never catch 'em asking any questions of my principal
Is this young gentleman one of the 'prentices or articled ones of your office
There he goes again, you see
I told you so! Asks another question of the subordinate before his first is dry! Well, supposing Mr. Pip is one of them
Why then
he knows what Mr. Jaggers is
Yah
you're dumb as one of your own keys when you have to do with my principal, you know you are. Let us out, you old fox, or I'll get him to bring an action against you for false imprisonment
Mind you, Mr. Pip
I don't know that Mr. Jaggers does a better thing than the way in which he keeps himself so high. He's always so high. His constant height is of a piece with his immense abilities. That Colonel durst no more take leave of him, than that turnkey durst ask him his intentions respecting a case. Then, between his height and them, he slips in his subordinate - don't you see? - and so he has 'em, soul and body
I am going to Richmond
Our lesson is, that there are two Richmonds, one in Surrey and one in Yorkshire, and that mine is the Surrey Richmond. The distance is ten miles. I am to have a carriage, and you are to take me. This is my purse, and you are to pay my charges out of it. Oh, you must take the purse! We have no choice, you and I, but to obey our instructions. We are not free to follow our own devices, you and I
A carriage will have to be sent for, Estella. Will you rest here a little
Yes, I am to rest here a little, and I am to drink some tea, and you are to take care of me the while
Some tea for the lady
Where are you going to, at Richmond
I am going to live
at a great expense, with a lady there, who has the power - or says she has - of taking me about, and introducing me, and showing people to me and showing me to people
I suppose you will be glad of variety and admiration
Yes, I suppose so
You speak of yourself as if you were some one else
Where did you learn how I speak of others? Come, come
you must not expect me to go to school to you; I must talk in my own way. How do you thrive with Mr. Pocket
I live quite pleasantly there; at least
At least
As pleasantly as I could anywhere, away from you
You silly boy
how can you talk such nonsense? Your friend Mr. Matthew, I believe, is superior to the rest of his family
Very superior indeed. He is nobody's enemy
Don't add but his own
for I hate that class of man. But he really is disinterested, and above small jealousy and spite, I have heard
I am sure I have every reason to say so
You have not every reason to say so of the rest of his people
for they beset Miss Havisham with reports and insinuations to your disadvantage. They watch you, misrepresent you, write letters about you (anonymous sometimes), and you are the torment and the occupation of their lives. You can scarcely realize to yourself the hatred those people feel for you
They do me no harm, I hope
I hope I may suppose that you would not be amused if they did me any harm
No, no you may be sure of that
You may be certain that I laugh because they fail. Oh, those people with Miss Havisham, and the tortures they undergo
It is not easy for even you
to know what satisfaction it gives me to see those people thwarted, or what an enjoyable sense of the ridiculous I have when they are made ridiculous. For you were not brought up in that strange house from a mere baby. - I was. You had not your little wits sharpened by their intriguing against you, suppressed and defenceless, under the mask of sympathy and pity and what not that is soft and soothing. - I had. You did not gradually open your round childish eyes wider and wider to the discovery of that impostor of a woman who calculates her stores of peace of mind for when she wakes up in the night. - I did
Two things I can tell you
First, notwithstanding the proverb that constant dropping will wear away a stone, you may set your mind at rest that these people never will - never would, in hundred years - impair your ground with Miss Havisham, in any particular, great or small. Second, I am beholden to you as the cause of their being so busy and so mean in vain, and there is my hand upon it
You ridiculous boy
will you never take warning? Or do you kiss my hand in the same spirit in which I once let you kiss my cheek
What spirit was that
I must think a moment A spirit of contempt for the fawners and plotters
If I say yes, may I kiss the cheek again
You should have asked before you touched the hand. But, yes, if you like
Now
you are to take care that I have some tea, and you are to take me to Richmond
What place is that
Wretches
Mr. Jaggers
has the reputation of being more in the secrets of that dismal place than any man in London
He is more in the secrets of every place, I think
You have been accustomed to see him often, I suppose
I have been accustomed to see him at uncertain intervals, ever since I can remember. But I know him no better now, than I did before I could speak plainly. What is your own experience of him? Do you advance with him
Once habituated to his distrustful manner
I have done very well
Are you intimate
I have dined with him at his private house
I fancy
that must be a curious place
It is a curious place
God forbid
Oh yes, you are to see me; you are to come when you think proper; you are to be mentioned to the family; indeed you are already mentioned
No; there are only two; mother and daughter. The mother is a lady of some station, though not averse to increasing her income
I wonder Miss Havisham could part with you again so soon
It is a part of Miss Havisham's plans for me, Pip
I am to write to her constantly and see her regularly and report how I go on - I and the jewels - for they are nearly all mine now
Gentlemen, may the present promotion of good feeling ever reign predominant among the Finches of the Grove
For
I find the truth to be, Handel, that an opening won't come to one, but one must go to it - so I have been
not unwholly unconnected
with jewellery
My dear Herbert, we are getting on badly
My dear Handel
Then, Herbert
let us look into out affairs
Memorandum of Pip's debts
Memorandum of Herbert's debts
They are mounting up, Handel
upon my life, they are mounting up
Be firm, Herbert
Look the thing in the face. Look into your affairs. Stare them out of countenance
So I would, Handel, only they are staring me out of countenance
Then, Herbert, estimate; estimate it in round numbers, and put it down
What a fellow of resource you are
Really your business powers are very remarkable
leaving a Margin
Leave a margin, and put them down at two hundred
It's for you, Handel
and I hope there is nothing the matter
Dear Joe, how are you
Pip, old chap, you knowed her when she were a fine figure of a
May I, dear sir
follow
Which I meantersay, Pip
which I meantersay, sir, as I would in preference have carried her to the church myself, along with three or four friendly ones wot come to it with willing harts and arms, but it were considered wot the neighbours would look down on such and would be of opinions as it were wanting in respect
Pocket-handkerchiefs out, all
Pocket-handkerchiefs out! We are ready
Here they come
Here they are
Biddy
I think you might have written to me about these sad matters
Do you, Mr. Pip
I should have written if I had thought that
Don't suppose that I mean to be unkind, Biddy, when I say I consider that you ought to have thought that
Do you, Mr. Pip
I suppose it will be difficult for you to remain here now, Biddy dear
Oh! I can't do so, Mr. Pip
I have been speaking to Mrs. Hubble, and I am going to her to-morrow. I hope we shall be able to take some care of Mr. Gargery, together, until he settles down
How are you going to live, Biddy? If you want any mo
How am I going to live
I'll tell you, Mr. Pip. I am going to try to get the place of mistress in the new school nearly finished here. I can be well recommended by all the neighbours, and I hope I can be industrious and patient, and teach myself while I teach others. You know, Mr. Pip
the new schools are not like the old, but I learnt a good deal from you after that time, and have had time since then to improve
I think you would always improve, Biddy, under any circumstances
Ah! Except in my bad side of human nature
I have not heard the particulars of my sister's death, Biddy
They are very slight, poor thing. She had been in one of her bad states - though they had got better of late, rather than worse - for four days, when she came out of it in the evening, just at teatime, and said quite plainly, 'Joe.' As she had never said any word for a long while, I ran and fetched in Mr. Gargery from the forge. She made signs to me that she wanted him to sit down close to her, and wanted me to put her arms round his neck. So I put them round his neck, and she laid her head down on his shoulder quite content and satisfied. And so she presently said 'Joe' again, and once 'Pardon,' and once 'Pip.' And so she never lifted her head up any more, and it was just an hour later when we laid it down on her own bed, because we found she was gone
Nothing was ever discovered, Biddy
Nothing
Do you know what is become of Orlick
I should think from the colour of his clothes that he is working in the quarries
Of course you have seen him then? - Why are you looking at that dark tree in the lane
I saw him there, on the night she died
That was not the last time either, Biddy
No; I have seen him there, since we have been walking here. - It is of no use
you know I would not deceive you; he was not there a minute, and he is gone
Indeed, it would be hard to say too much for him
and Biddy, we must often speak of these things, for of course I shall be often down here now. I am not going to leave poor Joe alone
Biddy, don't you hear me
Yes, Mr. Pip
Not to mention your calling me Mr. Pip - which appears to me to be in bad taste, Biddy - what do you mean
What do I mean
Biddy
I must request to know what you mean by this
By this
Now, don't echo
You used not to echo, Biddy
Used not
O Mr. Pip! Used
Biddy
I made a remark respecting my coming down here often, to see Joe, which you received with a marked silence. Have the goodness, Biddy, to tell me why
Are you quite sure, then, that you WILL come to see him often
Oh dear me
This really is a very bad side of human nature! Don't say any more, if you please, Biddy. This shocks me very much
Good-bye, dear Joe! - No, don't wipe it off - for God's sake, give me your blackened hand! - I shall be down soon, and often
Never too soon, sir
and never too often, Pip
Biddy
I am not angry, but I am hurt
No, don't be hurt
let only me be hurt, if I have been ungenerous
Well, Pip
I must call you Mr. Pip to-day. Congratulations, Mr. Pip
Take a chair, Mr. Pip
Now my young friend
I am going to have a word or two with you
If you please, sir
What do you suppose
what do you suppose you are living at the rate of
At the rate of, sir
At
the - rate - of
I thought so
Now, I have asked you a question, my friend
Have you anything to ask me
Of course it would be a great relief to me to ask you several questions, sir; but I remember your prohibition
Ask one
Is my benefactor to be made known to me to-day
No. Ask another
Is that confidence to be imparted to me soon
Waive that, a moment
and ask another
Have - I - anything to receive, sir
I thought we should come to it
Now, Mr. Pip
attend, if you please. You have been drawing pretty freely here; your name occurs pretty often in Wemmick's cash-book; but you are in debt, of course
I am afraid I must say yes, sir
You know you must say yes; don't you
Yes, sir
I don't ask you what you owe, because you don't know; and if you did know, you wouldn't tell me; you would say less. Yes, yes, my friend
it's likely enough that you think you wouldn't, but you would. You'll excuse me, but I know better than you. Now, take this piece of paper in your hand. You have got it? Very good. Now, unfold it and tell me what it is
This is a bank-note
for five hundred pounds
That is a bank-note
for five hundred pounds. And a very handsome sum of money too, I think. You consider it so
How could I do otherwise
Ah! But answer the question
Undoubtedly
You consider it, undoubtedly, a handsome sum of money. Now, that handsome sum of money, Pip, is your own. It is a present to you on this day, in earnest of your expectations. And at the rate of that handsome sum of money per annum, and at no higher rate, you are to live until the donor of the whole appears. That is to say, you will now take your money affairs entirely into your own hands, and you will draw from Wemmick one hundred and twenty-five pounds per quarter, until you are in communication with the fountain-head, and no longer with the mere agent. As I have told you before, I am the mere agent. I execute my instructions, and I am paid for doing so. I think them injudicious, but I am not paid for giving any opinion on their merits
I am not paid, Pip
to carry your words to any one
There was a question just now, Mr. Jaggers, which you desired me to waive for a moment. I hope I am doing nothing wrong in asking it again
What is it
Is it likely
that my patron, the fountain-head you have spoken of, Mr. Jaggers, will soon
Will soon what
That's no question as it stands, you know
Will soon come to London
or summon me anywhere else
Now here
we must revert to the evening when we first encountered one another in your village. What did I tell you then, Pip
You told me, Mr. Jaggers, that it might be years hence when that person appeared
Just so
that's my answer
Do you suppose it will still be years hence, Mr. Jaggers
Come
I'll be plain with you, my friend Pip. That's a question I must not be asked. You'll understand that, better, when I tell you it's a question that might compromise me. Come! I'll go a little further with you; I'll say something more
When that person discloses
you and that person will settle your own affairs. When that person discloses, my part in this business will cease and determine. When that person discloses, it will not be necessary for me to know anything about it. And that's all I have got to say
If that is all you have to say, sir
there can be nothing left for me to say
Mr. Wemmick
I want to ask your opinion. I am very desirous to serve a friend
This friend
is trying to get on in commercial life, but has no money, and finds it difficult and disheartening to make a beginning. Now, I want somehow to help him to a beginning
With money down
With some money down
with some money down, and perhaps some anticipation of my expectations
Mr. Pip
I should like just to run over with you on my fingers, if you please, the names of the various bridges up as high as Chelsea Reach. Let's see; there's London, one; Southwark, two; Blackfriars, three; Waterloo, four; Westminster, five; Vauxhall, six
There's as many as six, you see, to choose from
I don't understand you
Choose your bridge, Mr. Pip
and take a walk upon your bridge, and pitch your money into the Thames over the centre arch of your bridge, and you know the end of it. Serve a friend with it, and you may know the end of it too - but it's a less pleasant and profitable end
This is very discouraging
Meant to be so
Then is it your opinion
that a man should never
Invest portable property in a friend
Certainly he should not. Unless he wants to get rid of the friend - and then it becomes a question how much portable property it may be worth to get rid of him
And that
is your deliberate opinion, Mr. Wemmick
That
is my deliberate opinion in this office
Ah
but would that be your opinion at Walworth
Mr. Pip
Walworth is one place, and this office is another. Much as the Aged is one person, and Mr. Jaggers is another. They must not be confounded together. My Walworth sentiments must be taken at Walworth; none but my official sentiments can be taken in this office
Very well
then I shall look you up at Walworth, you may depend upon it
Mr. Pip
you will be welcome there, in a private and personal capacity
My son, sir
rather had it in his mind that you might happen to drop in, and he left word that he would soon be home from his afternoon's walk. He is very regular in his walks, is my son. Very regular in everything, is my son
You made acquaintance with my son, sir
at his office, I expect
Hah! I have heerd that my son is a wonderful hand at his business, sir
Yes; so they tell me. His business is the Law
Which makes it more surprising in my son
for he was not brought up to the Law, but to the Wine-Coopering
No, to be sure; you're right
the Wine-Coopering
No
the warehousing, the warehousing. First, over yonder
and then in the City of London here. However, having an infirmity - for I am hard of hearing, sir
Yes, hard of hearing; having that infirmity coming upon me, my son he went into the Law, and he took charge of me, and he by little and little made out this elegant and beautiful property. But returning to what you said, you know
what I say is, No to be sure; you're right
My son's come home
Well, you know, they're both pleasant and useful to the Aged. And by George, sir, it's a thing worth mentioning, that of all the people who come to this gate, the secret of those pulls is only known to the Aged, Miss Skiffins, and me
And Mr. Wemmick made them
with his own hands out of his own head
I can't help confiding in you, though I know it must be troublesome to you; but that is your fault, in having ever brought me here
Well you know, Mr. Pip, I must tell you one thing. This is devilish good of you
Say you'll help me to be good then
Ecod
that's not my trade
Nor is this your trading-place
You are right
You hit the nail on the head. Mr. Pip, I'll put on my considering-cap, and I think all you want to do, may be done by degrees. Skiffins (that's her brother) is an accountant and agent. I'll look him up and go to work for you
I thank you ten thousand times
On the contrary
I thank you, for though we are strictly in our private and personal capacity, still it may be mentioned that there are Newgate cobwebs about, and it brushes them away
Now Aged Parent, tip us the paper
I won't offer an apology
for he isn't capable of many pleasures - are you, Aged P
All right, John, all right
Only tip him a nod every now and then when he looks off his paper
and he'll be as happy as a king. We are all attention, Aged One
All right, John, all right
Pip, Pip
will you never take warning
Of what
Of me
Warning not to be attracted by you, do you mean, Estella
Do I mean! If you don't know what I mean, you are blind
At any rate
I have no warning given me just now, for you wrote to me to come to you, this time
That's true
The time has come round when Miss Havisham wishes to have me for a day at Satis. You are to take me there, and bring me back, if you will. She would rather I did not travel alone, and objects to receiving my maid, for she has a sensitive horror of being talked of by such people. Can you take me
Can I take you, Estella
You can then? The day after to-morrow, if you please. You are to pay all charges out of my purse, You hear the condition of your going
And must obey
How does she use you, Pip; how does she use you
What
are you tired of me
Only a little tired of myself
Speak the truth, you ingrate
you are tired of me
You stock and stone
You cold, cold heart
What
do you reproach me for being cold? You
Are you not
You should know
I am what you have made me. Take all the praise, take all the blame; take all the success, take all the failure; in short, take me
O, look at her, look at her
Look at her, so hard and thankless, on the hearth where she was reared! Where I took her into this wretched breast when it was first bleeding from its stabs, and where I have lavished years of tenderness upon her
At least I was no party to the compact
for if I could walk and speak, when it was made, it was as much as I could do. But what would you have? You have been very good to me, and I owe everything to you. What would you have
Love
You have it
I have not
Mother by adoption
Mother by adoption, I have said that I owe everything to you. All I possess is freely yours. All that you have given me, is at your command to have again. Beyond that, I have nothing. And if you ask me to give you what you never gave me, my gratitude and duty cannot do impossibilities
Did I never give her love
Did I never give her a burning love, inseparable from jealousy at all times, and from sharp pain, while she speaks thus to me! Let her call me mad, let her call me mad
Why should I call you mad
I, of all people? Does any one live, who knows what set purposes you have, half as well as I do? Does any one live, who knows what a steady memory you have, half as well as I do? I who have sat on this same hearth on the little stool that is even now beside you there, learning your lessons and looking up into your face, when your face was strange and frightened me
Soon forgotten
Times soon forgotten
No, not forgotten
Not forgotten, but treasured up in my memory. When have you found me false to your teaching? When have you found me unmindful of your lessons? When have you found me giving admission here
to anything that you excluded? Be just to me
So proud, so proud
Who taught me to be proud
Who praised me when I learnt my lesson
So hard, so hard
Who taught me to be hard
Who praised me when I learnt my lesson
But to be proud and hard to me
Estella, Estella, Estella, to be proud and hard to me
I cannot think
why you should be so unreasonable when I come to see you after a separation. I have never forgotten your wrongs and their causes. I have never been unfaithful to you or your schooling. I have never shown any weakness that I can charge myself with
Would it be weakness to return my love
But yes, yes, she would call it so
I begin to think
that I almost understand how this comes about. If you had brought up your adopted daughter wholly in the dark confinement of these rooms, and had never let her know that there was such a thing as the daylight by which she had never once seen your face - if you had done that, and then, for a purpose had wanted her to understand the daylight and know all about it, you would have been disappointed and angry
Or
which is a nearer case - if you had taught her, from the dawn of her intelligence, with your utmost energy and might, that there was such a thing as daylight, but that it was made to be her enemy and destroyer, and she must always turn against it, for it had blighted you and would else blight her; - if you had done this, and then, for a purpose, had wanted her to take naturally to the daylight and she could not do it, you would have been disappointed and angry
So
I must be taken as I have been made. The success is not mine, the failure is not mine, but the two together make me
Estella
Estella who
Never you mind
Estella of where
You are bound to say of where
Of Richmond, gentlemen
and a peerless beauty
I know that lady
Do you
And so do I
Do you
Oh, Lord
having been betrayed into a warmth which
betrayed into a warmth which
Are you tired, Estella
Rather, Pip
You should be
Say rather, I should not be; for I have my letter to Satis House to write, before I go to sleep
Recounting to-night's triumph
Surely a very poor one, Estella
What do you mean? I didn't know there had been any
Estella
do look at that fellow in the corner yonder, who is looking over here at us
Why should I look at him
What is there in that fellow in the corner yonder - to use your words - that I need look at
Indeed, that is the very question I want to ask you
For he has been hovering about you all night
Moths, and all sorts of ugly creatures
hover about a lighted candle. Can the candle help it
No
but cannot the Estella help it
Well
perhaps. Yes. Anything you like
But, Estella, do hear me speak. It makes me wretched that you should encourage a man so generally despised as Drummle. You know he is despised
Well
You know he is as ungainly within, as without. A deficient, illtempered, lowering, stupid fellow
Well
You know he has nothing to recommend him but money, and a ridiculous roll of addle-headed predecessors; now, don't you
Well
Well! Then, that is why it makes me wretched
Pip
don't be foolish about its effect on you. It may have its effect on others, and may be meant to have. It's not worth discussing
Yes it is
because I cannot bear that people should say, 'she throws away her graces and attractions on a mere boor, the lowest in the crowd
I can bear it
Oh! don't be so proud, Estella, and so inflexible
Calls me proud and inflexible in this breath
And in his last breath reproached me for stooping to a boor
There is no doubt you do
for I have seen you give him looks and smiles this very night, such as you never give to - me
Do you want me then
to deceive and entrap you
Do you deceive and entrap him, Estella
Yes, and many others - all of them but you. Here is Mrs. Brandley. I'll say no more
There is some one down there, is there not
Yes
What floor do you want
The top. Mr. Pip
That is my name. - There is nothing the matter
Nothing the matter
Pray what is your business
My business
Ah! Yes. I will explain my business, by your leave
Do you wish to come in
Yes
I wish to come in, Master
What do you mean
It's disapinting to a man
arter having looked for'ard so distant, and come so fur; but you're not to blame for that - neither on us is to blame for that. I'll speak in half a minute. Give me half a minute, please
There's no one nigh
is there
Why do you, a stranger coming into my rooms at this time of the night, ask that question
You're a game one
I'm glad you've grow'd up, a game one! But don't catch hold of me. You'd be sorry arterwards to have done it
You acted noble, my boy
Noble, Pip! And I have never forgot it
Stay
Keep off! If you are grateful to me for what I did when I was a little child, I hope you have shown your gratitude by mending your way of life. If you have come here to thank me, it was not necessary. Still, however you have found me out, there must be something good in the feeling that has brought you here, and I will not repulse you; but surely you must understand that - I
You was a saying
that surely I must understand. What, surely must I understand
That I cannot wish to renew that chance intercourse with you of long ago, under these different circumstances. I am glad to believe you have repented and recovered yourself. I am glad to tell you so. I am glad that, thinking I deserve to be thanked, you have come to thank me. But our ways are different ways, none the less. You are wet, and you look weary. Will you drink something before you go
I think
that I will drink (I thank you) afore I go
I hope
that you will not think I spoke harshly to you just now. I had no intention of doing it, and I am sorry for it if I did. I wish you well, and happy
How are you living
I've been a sheep-farmer, stock-breeder, other trades besides, away in the new world
many a thousand mile of stormy water off from this
I hope you have done well
I've done wonderfully well. There's others went out alonger me as has done well too, but no man has done nigh as well as me. I'm famous for it
I am glad to hear it
I hope to hear you say so, my dear boy
Have you ever seen a messenger you once sent to me
since he undertook that trust
Never set eyes upon him. I warn't likely to it
He came faithfully, and he brought me the two one-pound notes. I was a poor boy then, as you know, and to a poor boy they were a little fortune. But, like you, I have done well since, and you must let me pay them back. You can put them to some other poor boy's use
May I make so bold
as ask you how you have done well, since you and me was out on them lone shivering marshes
How
Ah
Might a mere warmint ask what property
I don't know
Might a mere warmint ask whose property
I don't know
Could I make a guess, I wonder
at your income since you come of age! As to the first figure now. Five
Concerning a guardian
There ought to have been some guardian, or such-like, whiles you was a minor. Some lawyer, maybe. As to the first letter of that lawyer's name now. Would it be J
Put it
as the employer of that lawyer whose name begun with a J, and might be Jaggers - put it as he had come over sea to Portsmouth, and had landed there, and had wanted to come on to you. 'However, you have found me out,' you says just now. Well! However, did I find you out? Why, I wrote from Portsmouth to a person in London, for particulars of your address. That person's name? Why, Wemmick
Yes, Pip, dear boy, I've made a gentleman on you! It's me wot has done it! I swore that time, sure as ever I earned a guinea, that guinea should go to you. I swore arterwards, sure as ever I spec'lated and got rich, you should get rich. I lived rough, that you should live smooth; I worked hard, that you should be above work. What odds, dear boy? Do I tell it, fur you to feel a obligation? Not a bit. I tell it, fur you to know as that there hunted dunghill dog wot you kep life in, got his head so high that he could make a gentleman - and, Pip, you're him
Look'ee here, Pip. I'm your second father. You're my son - more to me nor any son. I've put away money, only for you to spend. When I was a hired-out shepherd in a solitary hut, not seeing no faces but faces of sheep till I half forgot wot men's and women's faces wos like, I see yourn. I drops my knife many a time in that hut when I was a-eating my dinner or my supper, and I says, 'Here's the boy again, a-looking at me whiles I eats and drinks!' I see you there a many times, as plain as ever I see you on them misty marshes. 'Lord strike me dead!' I says each time - and I goes out in the air to say it under the open heavens - 'but wot, if I gets liberty and money, I'll make that boy a gentleman!' And I done it. Why, look at you, dear boy! Look at these here lodgings o'yourn, fit for a lord! A lord? Ah! You shall show money with lords for wagers, and beat 'em
Look'ee here
a gold 'un and a beauty: that's a gentleman's, I hope! A diamond all set round with rubies; that's a gentleman's, I hope! Look at your linen; fine and beautiful! Look at your clothes; better ain't to be got! And your books too
mounting up, on their shelves, by hundreds! And you read 'em; don't you? I see you'd been a reading of 'em when I come in. Ha, ha, ha! You shall read 'em to me, dear boy! And if they're in foreign languages wot I don't understand, I shall be just as proud as if I did
Don't you mind talking, Pip
you can't do better nor keep quiet, dear boy. You ain't looked slowly forward to this as I have; you wosn't prepared for this, as I wos. But didn't you never think it might be me
O no, no, no
Never, never
Well, you see it wos me, and single-handed. Never a soul in it but my own self and Mr. Jaggers
Was there no one else
No
who else should there be? And, dear boy, how good looking you have growed! There's bright eyes somewheres - eh? Isn't there bright eyes somewheres, wot you love the thoughts on
They shall be yourn, dear boy, if money can buy 'em. Not that a gentleman like you, so well set up as you, can't win 'em off of his own game; but money shall back you! Let me finish wot I was a- telling you, dear boy. From that there hut and that there hiring-out, I got money left me by my master (which died, and had been the same as me), and got my liberty and went for myself. In every single thing I went for, I went for you. 'Lord strike a blight upon it,' I says, wotever it was I went for, 'if it ain't for him!' It all prospered wonderful. As I giv' you to understand just now, I'm famous for it. It was the money left me, and the gains of the first few year wot I sent home to Mr. Jaggers - all for you - when he first come arter you, agreeable to my letter
And then, dear boy, it was a recompense to me, look'ee here, to know in secret that I was making a gentleman. The blood horses of them colonists might fling up the dust over me as I was walking; what do I say? I says to myself, 'I'm making a better gentleman nor ever you'll be!' When one of 'em says to another, 'He was a convict, a few year ago, and is a ignorant common fellow now, for all he's lucky,' what do I say? I says to myself, 'If I ain't a gentleman, nor yet ain't got no learning, I'm the owner of such. All on you owns stock and land; which on you owns a brought-up London gentleman?' This way I kep myself a-going. And this way I held steady afore my mind that I would for certain come one day and see my boy, and make myself known to him, on his own ground
It warn't easy, Pip, for me to leave them parts, nor yet it warn't safe. But I held to it, and the harder it was, the stronger I held, for I was determined, and my mind firm made up. At last I done it. Dear boy, I done it
Where will you put me
I must be put somewheres, dear boy
To sleep
Yes. And to sleep long and sound
for I've been sea-tossed and sea-washed, months and months
My friend and companion
is absent; you must have his room
He won't come back to-morrow; will he
No
not to-morrow
Because, look'ee here, dear boy
caution is necessary
How do you mean? Caution
By G - , it's Death
What's death
I was sent for life. It's death to come back. There's been overmuch coming back of late years, and I should of a certainty be hanged if took
The night being so bad, sir
uncommon few have come in at my gate. Besides them three gentlemen that I have named, I don't call to mind another since about eleven o'clock, when a stranger asked for you
My uncle
Yes
You saw him, sir
Yes. Oh yes
Likewise the person with him
Person with him
I judged the person to be with him
The person stopped, when he stopped to make inquiry of me, and the person took this way when he took this way
What sort of person
I do not even know
by what name to call you. I have given out that you are my uncle
That's it, dear boy! Call me uncle
You assumed some name, I suppose, on board ship
Yes, dear boy. I took the name of Provis
Do you mean to keep that name
Why, yes, dear boy, it's as good as another - unless you'd like another
What is your real name
Magwitch
chrisen'd Abel
What were you brought up to be
A warmint, dear boy
When you came into the Temple last night
Yes, dear boy
When you came in at the gate and asked the watchman the way here, had you any one with you
With me? No, dear boy
But there was some one there
I didn't take particular notice
not knowing the ways of the place. But I think there was a person, too, come in alonger me
Are you known in London
I hope not
Were you known in London, once
Not over and above, dear boy. I was in the provinces mostly
Were you - tried - in London
Which time
The last time
First knowed Mr. Jaggers that way. Jaggers was for me
And what I done is worked out and paid for
I'm a heavy grubber, dear boy
but I always was. If it had been in my constitution to be a lighter grubber, I might ha' got into lighter trouble. Similarly, I must have my smoke. When I was first hired out as shepherd t'other side the world, it's my belief I should ha' turned into a molloncolly-mad sheep myself, if I hadn't a had my smoke
And this
and this is the gentleman what I made! The real genuine One! It does me good fur to look at you, Pip. All I stip'late, is, to stand by and look at you, dear boy
I mustn't see my gentleman a footing it in the mire of the streets; there mustn't be no mud on his boots. My gentleman must have horses, Pip! Horses to ride, and horses to drive, and horses for his servant to ride and drive as well. Shall colonists have their horses (and blood 'uns, if you please, good Lord!) and not my London gentleman? No, no. We'll show 'em another pair of shoes than that, Pip; won't us
There's something worth spending in that there book, dear boy. It's yourn. All I've got ain't mine; it's yourn. Don't you be afeerd on it. There's more where that come from. I've come to the old country fur to see my gentleman spend his money like a gentleman. That'll be my pleasure. My pleasure 'ull be fur to see him do it. And blast you all
blast you every one, from the judge in his wig, to the colonist a stirring up the dust, I'll show a better gentleman than the whole kit on you put together
Stop
I want to speak to you. I want to know what is to be done. I want to know how you are to be kept out of danger, how long you are going to stay, what projects you have
Look'ee here, Pip
first of all, look'ee here. I forgot myself half a minute ago. What I said was low; that's what it was; low. Look'ee here, Pip. Look over it. I ain't a-going to be low
First
what precautions can be taken against your being recognized and seized
No, dear boy
that don't go first. Lowness goes first. I ain't took so many years to make a gentleman, not without knowing what's due to him. Look'ee here, Pip. I was low; that's what I was; low. Look over it, dear boy
I have looked over it. In Heaven's name, don't harp upon it
Yes, but look'ee here
Dear boy, I ain't come so fur, not fur to be low. Now, go on, dear boy. You was a-saying
How are you to be guarded from the danger you have incurred
Well, dear boy, the danger ain't so great. Without I was informed agen, the danger ain't so much to signify. There's Jaggers, and there's Wemmick, and there's you. Who else is there to inform
Is there no chance person who might identify you in the street
Well
there ain't many. Nor yet I don't intend to advertise myself in the newspapers by the name of A. M. come back from Botany Bay; and years have rolled away, and who's to gain by it? Still, look'ee here, Pip. If the danger had been fifty times as great, I should ha' come to see you, mind you, just the same
And how long do you remain
How long
I'm not a-going back. I've come for good
Where are you to live
What is to be done with you? Where will you be safe
Dear boy
there's disguising wigs can be bought for money, and there's hair powder, and spectacles, and black clothes - shorts and what not. Others has done it safe afore, and what others has done afore, others can do agen. As to the where and how of living, dear boy, give me your own opinions on it
You take it smoothly now
but you were very serious last night, when you swore it was Death
And so I swear it is Death
and Death by the rope, in the open street not fur from this, and it's serious that you should fully understand it to be so. What then, when that's once done? Here I am. To go back now, 'ud be as bad as to stand ground - worse. Besides, Pip, I'm here, because I've meant it by you, years and years. As to what I dare, I'm a old bird now, as has dared all manner of traps since first he was fledged, and I'm not afeerd to perch upon a scarecrow. If there's Death hid inside of it, there is, and let him come out, and I'll face him, and then I'll believe in him and not afore. And now let me have a look at my gentleman agen
And even then, dear boy
we'll have him on his oath
Now, Pip
be careful
I will, sir
Don't commit yourself
and don't commit any one. You understand - any one. Don't tell me anything: I don't want to know anything; I am not curious
I merely want, Mr. Jaggers
to assure myself that what I have been told, is true. I have no hope of its being untrue, but at least I may verify it
But did you say 'told' or 'informed
Told would seem to imply verbal communication. You can't have verbal communication with a man in New South Wales, you know
I will say, informed, Mr. Jaggers
Good
I have been informed by a person named Abel Magwitch, that he is the benefactor so long unknown to me
That is the man
in New South Wales
And only he
And only he
I am not so unreasonable, sir, as to think you at all responsible for my mistakes and wrong conclusions; but I always supposed it was Miss Havisham
As you say, Pip
I am not at all responsible for that
And yet it looked so like it, sir
Not a particle of evidence, Pip
Take nothing on its looks; take everything on evidence. There's no better rule
I have no more to say
I have verified my information, and there's an end
And Magwitch - in New South Wales - having at last disclosed himself
you will comprehend, Pip, how rigidly throughout my communication with you, I have always adhered to the strict line of fact. There has never been the least departure from the strict line of fact. You are quite aware of that
Quite, sir
I communicated to Magwitch - in New South Wales - when he first wrote to me - from New South Wales - the caution that he must not expect me ever to deviate from the strict line of fact. I also communicated to him another caution. He appeared to me to have obscurely hinted in his letter at some distant idea he had of seeing you in England here. I cautioned him that I must hear no more of that; that he was not at all likely to obtain a pardon; that he was expatriated for the term of his natural life; and that his presenting himself in this country would be an act of felony, rendering him liable to the extreme penalty of the law. I gave Magwitch that caution
I wrote it to New South Wales. He guided himself by it, no doubt
No doubt
I have been informed by Wemmick
that he has received a letter, under date Portsmouth, from a colonist of the name of Purvis, or
Or Provis
Or Provis - thank you, Pip. Perhaps it is Provis? Perhaps you know it's Provis
Yes
You know it's Provis. A letter, under date Portsmouth, from a colonist of the name of Provis, asking for the particulars of your address, on behalf of Magwitch. Wemmick sent him the particulars, I understand, by return of post. Probably it is through Provis that you have received the explanation of Magwitch - in New South Wales
It came through Provis
Good day, Pip
glad to have seen you. In writing by post to Magwitch - in New South Wales - or in communicating with him through Provis, have the goodness to mention that the particulars and vouchers of our long account shall be sent to you, together with the balance; for there is still a balance remaining. Good day, Pip
O, what a man he is
Foreign language, dear boy
Quiet! It's Herbert
Handel, my dear fellow, how are you, and again how are you, and again how are you? I seem to have been gone a twelvemonth! Why, so I must have been, for you have grown quite thin and pale! Handel, my - Halloa! I beg your pardon
Herbert, my dear friend
something very strange has happened. This is - a visitor of mine
It's all right, dear boy
Take it in your right hand. Lord strike you dead on the spot, if ever you split in any way sumever! Kiss it
Do so, as he wishes it
Now you're on your oath, you know. And never believe me on mine, if Pip shan't make a gentleman on you
Though, look'ee here, Pip's comrade
I know very well that once since I come back - for half a minute - I've been low. I said to Pip, I knowed as I had been low. But don't you fret yourself on that score. I ain't made Pip a gentleman, and Pip ain't a-going to make you a gentleman, not fur me not to know what's due to ye both. Dear boy, and Pip's comrade, you two may count upon me always having a gen-teel muzzle on. Muzzled I have been since that half a minute when I was betrayed into lowness, muzzled I am at the present time, muzzled I ever will be
Certainly
What
what is to be done
My poor dear Handel
I am too stunned to think
So was I, Herbert, when the blow first fell. Still, something must be done. He is intent upon various new expenses - horses, and carriages, and lavish appearances of all kinds. He must be stopped somehow
You mean that you can't accept
How can I
Think of him! Look at him
Yet I am afraid the dreadful truth is, Herbert, that he is attached to me, strongly attached to me. Was there ever such a fate
My poor dear Handel
Then
after all, stopping short here, never taking another penny from him, think what I owe him already! Then again: I am heavily in debt - very heavily for me, who have now no expectations - and I have been bred to no calling, and I am fit for nothing
Well, well, well
Don't say fit for nothing
What am I fit for? I know only one thing that I am fit for, and that is, to go for a soldier. And I might have gone, my dear Herbert, but for the prospect of taking counsel with your friendship and affection
Anyhow, my dear Handel
soldiering won't do. If you were to renounce this patronage and these favours, I suppose you would do so with some faint hope of one day repaying what you have already had. Not very strong, that hope, if you went soldiering! Besides, it's absurd. You would be infinitely better in Clarriker's house, small as it is. I am working up towards a partnership, you know
But there is another question
This is an ignorant determined man, who has long had one fixed idea. More than that, he seems to me (I may misjudge him) to be a man of a desperate and fierce character
I know he is
Let me tell you what evidence I have seen of it
See, then
think of this! He comes here at the peril of his life, for the realization of his fixed idea. In the moment of realization, after all his toil and waiting, you cut the ground from under his feet, destroy his idea, and make his gains worthless to him. Do you see nothing that he might do, under the disappointment
I have seen it, Herbert, and dreamed of it, ever since the fatal night of his arrival. Nothing has been in my thoughts so distinctly, as his putting himself in the way of being taken
Then you may rely upon it
that there would be great danger of his doing it. That is his power over you as long as he remains in England, and that would be his reckless course if you forsook him
The first and the main thing to be done
is to get him out of England. You will have to go with him, and then he may be induced to go
But get him where I will, could I prevent his coming back
My good Handel, is it not obvious that with Newgate in the next street, there must be far greater hazard in your breaking your mind to him and making him reckless, here, than elsewhere. If a pretext to get him away could be made out of that other convict, or out of anything else in his life, now
There, again
I know nothing of his life. It has almost made me mad to sit here of a night and see him before me, so bound up with my fortunes and misfortunes, and yet so unknown to me, except as the miserable wretch who terrified me two days in my childhood
Handel
you feel convinced that you can take no further benefits from him; do you
Fully. Surely you would, too, if you were in my place
And you feel convinced that you must break with him
Herbert, can you ask me
And you have, and are bound to have, that tenderness for the life he has risked on your account, that you must save him, if possible, from throwing it away. Then you must get him out of England before you stir a finger to extricate yourself. That done, extricate yourself, in Heaven's name, and we'll see it out together, dear old boy
Now, Herbert
with reference to gaining some knowledge of his history. There is but one way that I know of. I must ask him point-blank
Yes. Ask him
when we sit at breakfast in the morning
for his gentleman's coming out strong, and like a gentleman
After you were gone last night, I told my friend of the struggle that the soldiers found you engaged in on the marshes, when we came up. You remember
Remember
I think so
We want to know something about that man - and about you. It is strange to know no more about either, and particularly you, than I was able to tell last night. Is not this as good a time as another for our knowing more
Well
You're on your oath, you know, Pip's comrade
Assuredly
As to anything I say, you know
The oath applies to all
I understand it to do so
And look'ee here! Wotever I done, is worked out and paid for
So be it
This is a terrible hardened one
Tramping, begging, thieving, working sometimes when I could - though that warn't as often as you may think, till you put the question whether you would ha' been over-ready to give me work yourselves - a bit of a poacher, a bit of a labourer, a bit of a waggoner, a bit of a haymaker, a bit of a hawker, a bit of most things that don't pay and lead to trouble, I got to be a man. A deserting soldier in a Traveller's Rest, what lay hid up to the chin under a lot of taturs, learnt me to read; and a travelling Giant what signed his name at a penny a time learnt me to write. I warn't locked up as often now as formerly, but I wore out my good share of keymetal still. "At Epsom races, a matter of over twenty years ago, I got acquainted wi' a man whose skull I'd crack wi' this poker, like the claw of a lobster, if I'd got it on this hob. His right name was Compeyson; and that's the man, dear boy, what you see me a-pounding in the ditch, according to what you truly told your comrade arter I was gone last night. 

"He set up fur a gentleman, this Compeyson, and he'd been to a public boarding-school and had learning. He was a smooth one to talk, and was a dab at the ways of gentlefolks. He was good-looking too. It was the night afore the great race, when I found him on the heath, in a booth that I know'd on. Him and some more was a sitting among the tables when I went in, and the landlord (which had a knowledge of me, and was a sporting one) called him out, and said, 'I think this is a man that might suit you' - meaning I was. 

"Compeyson, he looks at me very noticing, and I look at him. He has a watch and a chain and a ring and a breast-pin and a handsome suit of clothes. 

"'To judge from appearances, you're out of luck,' says Compeyson to me. 

"'Yes, master, and I've never been in it much.' (I had come out of Kingston Jail last on a vagrancy committal. Not but what it might have been for something else; but it warn't.) 

"'Luck changes,' says Compeyson; 'perhaps yours is going to change.' 

"I says, 'I hope it may be so. There's room.' 

"'What can you do?' says Compeyson. 

"'Eat and drink,' I says; 'if you'll find the materials.' 

"Compeyson laughed, looked at me again very noticing, giv me five shillings, and appointed me for next night. Same place. 

"I went to Compeyson next night, same place, and Compeyson took me on to be his man and pardner. And what was Compeyson's business in which we was to go pardners? Compeyson's business was the swindling, handwriting forging, stolen bank-note passing, and such-like. All sorts of traps as Compeyson could set with his head, and keep his own legs out of and get the profits from and let another man in for, was Compeyson's business. He'd no more heart than a iron file, he was as cold as death, and he had the head of the Devil afore mentioned. 

"There was another in with Compeyson, as was called Arthur - not as being so chrisen'd, but as a surname. He was in a Decline, and was a shadow to look at. Him and Compeyson had been in a bad thing with a rich lady some years afore, and they'd made a pot of money by it; but Compeyson betted and gamed, and he'd have run through the king's taxes. So, Arthur was a-dying, and a-dying poor and with the horrors on him, and Compeyson's wife (which Compeyson kicked mostly) was a-having pity on him when she could, and Compeyson was a-having pity on nothing and nobody. 

"I might a-took warning by Arthur, but I didn't; and I won't pretend I was partick'ler - for where 'ud be the good on it, dear boy and comrade? So I begun wi' Compeyson, and a poor tool I was in his hands. Arthur lived at the top of Compeyson's house (over nigh Brentford it was), and Compeyson kept a careful account agen him for board and lodging, in case he should ever get better to work it out. But Arthur soon settled the account. The second or third time as ever I see him, he come a-tearing down into Compeyson's parlour late at night, in only a flannel gown, with his hair all in a sweat, and he says to Compeyson's wife, 'Sally, she really is upstairs alonger me, now, and I can't get rid of her. She's all in white,' he says, 'wi' white flowers in her hair, and she's awful mad, and she's got a shroud hanging over her arm, and she says she'll put it on me at five in the morning.' 

"Says Compeyson: 'Why, you fool, don't you know she's got a living body? And how should she be up there, without coming through the door, or in at the window, and up the stairs?' 

"'I don't know how she's there,' says Arthur, shivering dreadful with the horrors, 'but she's standing in the corner at the foot of the bed, awful mad. And over where her heart's brook - you broke it! - there's drops of blood.' 

"Compeyson spoke hardy, but he was always a coward. 'Go up alonger this drivelling sick man,' he says to his wife, 'and Magwitch, lend her a hand, will you?' But he never come nigh himself. 

"Compeyson's wife and me took him up to bed agen, and he raved most dreadful. 'Why look at her!' he cries out. 'She's a-shaking the shroud at me! Don't you see her? Look at her eyes! Ain't it awful to see her so mad?' Next, he cries, 'She'll put it on me, and then I'm done for! Take it away from her, take it away!' And then he catched hold of us, and kep on a-talking to her, and answering of her, till I half believed I see her myself. 

"Compeyson's wife, being used to him, giv him some liquor to get the horrors off, and by-and-by he quieted. 'Oh, she's gone! Has her keeper been for her?' he says. 'Yes,' says Compeyson's wife. 'Did you tell him to lock her and bar her in?' 'Yes.' 'And to take that ugly thing away from her?' 'Yes, yes, all right.' 'You're a good creetur,' he says, 'don't leave me, whatever you do, and thank you!' 

"He rested pretty quiet till it might want a few minutes of five, and then he starts up with a scream, and screams out, 'Here she is! She's got the shroud again. She's unfolding it. She's coming out of the corner. She's coming to the bed. Hold me, both on you - one of each side - don't let her touch me with it. Hah! she missed me that time. Don't let her throw it over my shoulders. Don't let her lift me up to get it round me. She's lifting me up. Keep me down!' Then he lifted himself up hard, and was dead. 

"Compeyson took it easy as a good riddance for both sides. Him and me was soon busy, and first he swore me (being ever artful) on my own book - this here little black book, dear boy, what I swore your comrade on. 

"Not to go into the things that Compeyson planned, and I done - which 'ud take a week - I'll simply say to you, dear boy, and Pip's comrade, that that man got me into such nets as made me his black slave. I was always in debt to him, always under his thumb, always a-working, always a-getting into danger. He was younger than me, but he'd got craft, and he'd got learning, and he overmatched me five hundred times told and no mercy. My Missis as I had the hard time wi' - Stop though! I ain't brought her in
There ain't no need to go into it
The time wi' Compeyson was a'most as hard a time as ever I had; that said, all's said. Did I tell you as I was tried, alone, for misdemeanour, while with Compeyson
Well
When we was put in the dock, I noticed first of all what a gentleman Compeyson looked, wi' his curly hair and his black clothes and his white pocket-handkercher, and what a common sort of a wretch I looked. When the prosecution opened and the evidence was put short, aforehand, I noticed how heavy it all bore on me, and how light on him. When the evidence was giv in the box, I noticed how it was always me that had come for'ard, and could be swore to, how it was always me that the money had been paid to, how it was always me that had seemed to work the thing and get the profit. But, when the defence come on, then I see the plan plainer; for, says the counsellor for Compeyson, 'My lord and gentlemen, here you has afore you, side by side, two persons as your eyes can separate wide; one, the younger, well brought up, who will be spoke to as such; one, the elder, ill brought up, who will be spoke to as such; one, the younger, seldom if ever seen in these here transactions, and only suspected; t'other, the elder, always seen in 'em and always wi'his guilt brought home. Can you doubt, if there is but one in it, which is the one, and, if there is two in it, which is much the worst one?' And such-like. And when it come to character, warn't it Compeyson as had been to the school, and warn't it his schoolfellows as was in this position and in that, and warn't it him as had been know'd by witnesses in such clubs and societies, and nowt to his disadvantage? And warn't it me as had been tried afore, and as had been know'd up hill and down dale in Bridewells and Lock-Ups? And when it come to speech-making, warn't it Compeyson as could speak to 'em wi' his face dropping every now and then into his white pocket-handkercher - ah! and wi' verses in his speech, too - and warn't it me as could only say, 'Gentlemen, this man at my side is a most precious rascal'? And when the verdict come, warn't it Compeyson as was recommended to mercy on account of good character and bad company, and giving up all the information he could agen me, and warn't it me as got never a word but Guilty? And when I says to Compeyson, 'Once out of this court, I'll smash that face of yourn!' ain't it Compeyson as prays the Judge to be protected, and gets two turnkeys stood betwixt us? And when we're sentenced, ain't it him as gets seven year, and me fourteen, and ain't it him as the Judge is sorry for, because he might a done so well, and ain't it me as the Judge perceives to be a old offender of wiolent passion, likely to come to worse
I ain't a-going to be low, dear boy
I had said to Compeyson that I'd smash that face of his, and I swore Lord smash mine! to do it. We was in the same prison-ship, but I couldn't get at him for long, though I tried. At last I come behind him and hit him on the cheek to turn him round and get a smashing one at him, when I was seen and seized. The black-hole of that ship warn't a strong one, to a judge of black-holes that could swim and dive. I escaped to the shore, and I was a hiding among the graves there, envying them as was in 'em and all over, when I first see my boy
By my boy, I was giv to understand as Compeyson was out on them marshes too. Upon my soul, I half believe he escaped in his terror, to get quit of me, not knowing it was me as had got ashore. I hunted him down. I smashed his face. 'And now,' says I 'as the worst thing I can do, caring nothing for myself, I'll drag you back.' And I'd have swum off, towing him by the hair, if it had come to that, and I'd a got him aboard without the soldiers. "Of course he'd much the best of it to the last - his character was so good. He had escaped when he was made half-wild by me and my murderous intentions; and his punishment was light. I was put in irons, brought to trial again, and sent for life. I didn't stop for life, dear boy and Pip's comrade, being here
Is he dead
Is who dead, dear boy
Compeyson
He hopes I am, if he's alive, you may be sure
I never heerd no more of him
Young Havisham's name was Arthur. Compeyson is the man who professed to be Miss Havisham's lover
Is this a cut
Oh
it's you, is it? How do you do? I was wondering who it was, who kept the fire off
You have just come down
Yes
Beastly place
Your part of the country, I think
Yes
I am told it's very like your Shropshire
Not in the least like it
Have you been here long
Long enough to be tired of it
Do you stay here long
Can't say
Do you
Can't say
Large tract of marshes about here, I believe
Yes. What of that
Oh
Are you amused, Mr. Drummle
No
not particularly. I am going out for a ride in the saddle. I mean to explore those marshes for amusement. Out-of-the-way villages there, they tell me. Curious little public-houses - and smithies - and that. Waiter
Yes, sir
Is that horse of mine ready
Brought round to the door, sir
I say. Look here, you sir. The lady won't ride to-day; the weather won't do
Very good, sir
And I don't dine, because I'm going to dine at the lady's
Very good, sir
Have you been to the Grove since
No
I had quite enough of the Finches the last time I was there
Was that when we had a difference of opinion
Yes
Come, come! They let you off easily enough
You shouldn't have lost your temper
Mr. Drummle
you are not competent to give advice on that subject. When I lose my temper (not that I admit having done so on that occasion), I don't throw glasses
I do
Mr. Drummle, I did not seek this conversation, and I don't think it an agreeable one
I am sure it's not
I don't think anything about it
And therefore
with your leave, I will suggest that we hold no kind of communication in future
Quite my opinion
and what I should have suggested myself, or done - more likely - without suggesting. But don't lose your temper. Haven't you lost enough without that
What do you mean, sir
Wai-ter
Look here, you sir. You quite understand that the young lady don't ride to-day, and that I dine at the young lady's
Quite so, sir
And what wind
blows you here, Pip
Miss Havisham
I went to Richmond yesterday, to speak to Estella; and finding that some wind had blown her here, I followed
What I had to say to Estella, Miss Havisham, I will say before you, presently - in a few moments. It will not surprise you, it will not displease you. I am as unhappy as you can ever have meant me to be
I have found out who my patron is. It is not a fortunate discovery, and is not likely ever to enrich me in reputation, station, fortune, anything. There are reasons why I must say no more of that. It is not my secret, but another's
It is not your secret, but another's. Well
When you first caused me to be brought here, Miss Havisham; when I belonged to the village over yonder, that I wish I had never left; I suppose I did really come here, as any other chance boy might have come - as a kind of servant, to gratify a want or a whim, and to be paid for it
Ay, Pip
you did
And that Mr. Jaggers
Mr. Jaggers
had nothing to do with it, and knew nothing of it. His being my lawyer, and his being the lawyer of your patron, is a coincidence. He holds the same relation towards numbers of people, and it might easily arise. Be that as it may, it did arise, and was not brought about by any one
But when I fell into the mistake I have so long remained in, at least you led me on
Yes
I let you go on
Was that kind
Who am I
who am I, for God's sake, that I should be kind
Well, well, well
What else
I was liberally paid for my old attendance here
in being apprenticed, and I have asked these questions only for my own information. What follows has another (and I hope more disinterested) purpose. In humouring my mistake, Miss Havisham, you punished - practised on - perhaps you will supply whatever term expresses your intention, without offence - your self-seeking relations
I did. Why, they would have it so! So would you. What has been my history, that I should be at the pains of entreating either them, or you, not to have it so! You made your own snares. I never made them
I have been thrown among one family of your relations, Miss Havisham, and have been constantly among them since I went to London. I know them to have been as honestly under my delusion as I myself. And I should be false and base if I did not tell you, whether it is acceptable to you or no, and whether you are inclined to give credence to it or no, that you deeply wrong both Mr. Matthew Pocket and his son Herbert, if you suppose them to be otherwise than generous, upright, open, and incapable of anything designing or mean
They are your friends
They made themselves my friends
when they supposed me to have superseded them; and when Sarah Pocket, Miss Georgiana, and Mistress Camilla, were not my friends, I think
What do you want for them
Only
that you would not confound them with the others. They may be of the same blood, but, believe me, they are not of the same nature
What do you want for them
I am not so cunning, you see
as that I could hide from you, even if I desired, that I do want something. Miss Havisham, if you would spare the money to do my friend Herbert a lasting service in life, but which from the nature of the case must be done without his knowledge, I could show you how
Why must it be done without his knowledge
Because
I began the service myself, more than two years ago, without his knowledge, and I don't want to be betrayed. Why I fail in my ability to finish it, I cannot explain. It is a part of the secret which is another person's and not mine
What else
Estella
you know I love you. You know that I have loved you long and dearly
I should have said this sooner, but for my long mistake. It induced me to hope that Miss Havisham meant us for one another. While I thought you could not help yourself, as it were, I refrained from saying it. But I must say it now
I know
I know. I have no hope that I shall ever call you mine, Estella. I am ignorant what may become of me very soon, how poor I may be, or where I may go. Still, I love you. I have loved you ever since I first saw you in this house
It would have been cruel in Miss Havisham, horribly cruel, to practise on the susceptibility of a poor boy, and to torture me through all these years with a vain hope and an idle pursuit, if she had reflected on the gravity of what she did. But I think she did not. I think that in the endurance of her own trial, she forgot mine, Estella
It seems
that there are sentiments, fancies - I don't know how to call them - which I am not able to comprehend. When you say you love me, I know what you mean, as a form of words; but nothing more. You address nothing in my breast, you touch nothing there. I don't care for what you say at all. I have tried to warn you of this; now, have I not
Yes
Yes. But you would not be warned, for you thought I did not mean it. Now, did you not think so
I thought and hoped you could not mean it. You, so young, untried, and beautiful, Estella! Surely it is not in Nature
It is in my nature
It is in the nature formed within me. I make a great difference between you and all other people when I say so much. I can do no more
Is it not true
that Bentley Drummle is in town here, and pursuing you
It is quite true
That you encourage him, and ride out with him, and that he dines with you this very day
Quite true
You cannot love him, Estella
What have I told you? Do you still think, in spite of it, that I do not mean what I say
You would never marry him, Estella
Why not tell you the truth? I am going to be married to him
Estella, dearest dearest Estella, do not let Miss Havisham lead you into this fatal step. Put me aside for ever - you have done so, I well know - but bestow yourself on some worthier person than Drummle. Miss Havisham gives you to him, as the greatest slight and injury that could be done to the many far better men who admire you, and to the few who truly love you. Among those few, there may be one who loves you even as dearly, though he has not loved you as long, as I. Take him, and I can bear it better, for your sake
I am going
to be married to him. The preparations for my marriage are making, and I shall be married soon. Why do you injuriously introduce the name of my mother by adoption? It is my own act
Your own act, Estella, to fling yourself away upon a brute
On whom should I fling myself away
Should I fling myself away upon the man who would the soonest feel (if people do feel such things) that I took nothing to him? There! It is done. I shall do well enough, and so will my husband. As to leading me into what you call this fatal step, Miss Havisham would have had me wait, and not marry yet; but I am tired of the life I have led, which has very few charms for me, and I am willing enough to change it. Say no more. We shall never understand each other
Such a mean brute, such a stupid brute
Don't be afraid of my being a blessing to him
I shall not be that. Come! Here is my hand. Do we part on this, you visionary boy - or man
O Estella
even if I remained in England and could hold my head up with the rest, how could I see you Drummle's wife
Nonsense
nonsense. This will pass in no time
Never, Estella
You will get me out of your thoughts in a week
Out of my thoughts! You are part of my existence, part of myself. You have been in every line I have ever read, since I first came here, the rough common boy whose poor heart you wounded even then. You have been in every prospect I have ever seen since - on the river, on the sails of the ships, on the marshes, in the clouds, in the light, in the darkness, in the wind, in the woods, in the sea, in the streets. You have been the embodiment of every graceful fancy that my mind has ever become acquainted with. The stones of which the strongest London buildings are made, are not more real, or more impossible to be displaced by your hands, than your presence and influence have been to me, there and everywhere, and will be. Estella, to the last hour of my life, you cannot choose but remain part of my character, part of the little good in me, part of the evil. But, in this separation I associate you only with the good, and I will faithfully hold you to that always, for you must have done me far more good than harm, let me feel now what sharp distress I may. O God bless you, God forgive you
I was not quite sure, sir, but I thought so. Here's a note, sir. The messenger that brought it, said would you be so good as read it by my lantern
PLEASE READ THIS, HERE
DON'T GO HOME
Halloa, Mr. Pip
You did come home, then
Yes
but I didn't go home
That's all right
I left a note for you at each of the Temple gates, on the chance. Which gate did you come to
I'll go round to the others in the course of the day and destroy the notes
it's a good rule never to leave documentary evidence if you can help it, because you don't know when it may be put in. I'm going to take a liberty with you. - Would you mind toasting this sausage for the Aged P
Then you can go about your work, Mary Anne
which leaves us to ourselves, don't you see, Mr. Pip
Now, Mr. Pip, you know
you and I understand one another. We are in our private and personal capacities, and we have been engaged in a confidential transaction before today. Official sentiments are one thing. We are extra official
I accidentally heard, yesterday morning
being in a certain place where I once took you - even between you and me, it's as well not to mention names when avoidable
Much better not
I understand you
I heard there by chance, yesterday morning
that a certain person not altogether of uncolonial pursuits, and not unpossessed of portable property - I don't know who it may really be - we won't name this person
Not necessary
had made some little stir in a certain part of the world where a good many people go, not always in gratification of their own inclinations, and not quite irrespective of the government expense
by disappearing from such place, and being no more heard of thereabouts. From which
conjectures had been raised and theories formed. I also heard that you at your chambers in Garden Court, Temple, had been watched, and might be watched again
By whom
I wouldn't go into that
it might clash with official responsibilities. I heard it, as I have in my time heard other curious things in the same place. I don't tell it you on information received. I heard it
All right, ain't you, Aged P
All right, John, my boy, all right
This watching of me at my chambers (which I have once had reason to suspect
is inseparable from the person to whom you have adverted; is it
I couldn't undertake to say that, of my own knowledge. I mean, I couldn't undertake to say it was at first. But it either is, or it will be, or it's in great danger of being
You have heard of a man of bad character, whose true name is Compeyson
Is he living
Is he in London
Now
questioning being over
I come to what I did, after hearing what I heard. I went to Garden Court to find you; not finding you, I went to Clarriker's to find Mr. Herbert
And him you found
And him I found. Without mentioning any names or going into any details, I gave him to understand that if he was aware of anybody - Tom, Jack, or Richard - being about the chambers, or about the immediate neighbourhood, he had better get Tom, Jack, or Richard, out of the way while you were out of the way
He would be greatly puzzled what to do
He was puzzled what to do; not the less, because I gave him my opinion that it was not safe to try to get Tom, Jack, or Richard, too far out of the way at present. Mr. Pip, I'll tell you something. Under existing circumstances there is no place like a great city when you are once in it. Don't break cover too soon. Lie close. Wait till things slacken, before you try the open, even for foreign air
Mr. Herbert
after being all of a heap for half an hour, struck out a plan. He mentioned to me as a secret, that he is courting a young lady who has, as no doubt you are aware, a bedridden Pa. Which Pa, having been in the Purser line of life, lies a-bed in a bow-window where he can see the ships sail up and down the river. You are acquainted with the young lady, most probably
Not personally
The house with the bow-window
being by the river-side, down the Pool there between Limehouse and Greenwich, and being kept, it seems, by a very respectable widow who has a furnished upper floor to let, Mr. Herbert put it to me, what did I think of that as a temporary tenement for Tom, Jack, or Richard? Now, I thought very well of it, for three reasons I'll give you. That is to say. Firstly. It's altogether out of all your beats, and is well away from the usual heap of streets great and small. Secondly. Without going near it yourself, you could always hear of the safety of Tom, Jack, or Richard, through Mr. Herbert. Thirdly. After a while and when it might be prudent, if you should want to slip Tom, Jack, or Richard, on board a foreign packet-boat, there he is - ready
Well, sir! Mr. Herbert threw himself into the business with a will, and by nine o'clock last night he housed Tom, Jack, or Richard - whichever it may be - you and I don't want to know - quite successfully. At the old lodgings it was understood that he was summoned to Dover, and in fact he was taken down the Dover road and cornered out of it. Now, another great advantage of all this, is, that it was done without you, and when, if any one was concerning himself about your movements, you must be known to be ever so many miles off and quite otherwise engaged. This diverts suspicion and confuses it; and for the same reason I recommended that even if you came back last night, you should not go home. It brings in more confusion, and you want confusion
And now, Mr. Pip
I have probably done the most I can do; but if I can ever do more - from a Walworth point of view, and in a strictly private and personal capacity - I shall be glad to do it. Here's the address. There can be no harm in your going here to-night and seeing for yourself that all is well with Tom, Jack, or Richard, before you go home - which is another reason for your not going home last night. But after you have gone home, don't go back here. You are very welcome, I am sure, Mr. Pip
and let me finally impress one important point upon you
Avail yourself of this evening to lay hold of his portable property. You don't know what may happen to him. Don't let anything happen to the portable property
Time's up
and I must be off. If you had nothing more pressing to do than to keep here till dark, that's what I should advise. You look very much worried, and it would do you good to have a perfectly quiet day with the Aged - he'll be up presently - and a little bit of - you remember the pig
Of course
Well; and a little bit of him. That sausage you toasted was his, and he was in all respects a first-rater. Do try him, if it is only for old acquaintance sake. Good-bye, Aged Parent
All right, John; all right, my boy
All is well, Handel
and he is quite satisfied, though eager to see you. My dear girl is with her father; and if you'll wait till she comes down, I'll make you known to her, and then we'll go up-stairs. - That's her father
I am afraid he is a sad old rascal
but I have never seen him. Don't you smell rum? He is always at it
At rum
Yes
and you may suppose how mild it makes his gout. He persists, too, in keeping all the provisions upstairs in his room, and serving them out. He keeps them on shelves over his head, and will weigh them all. His room must be like a chandler's shop
What else can be the consequence
if he will cut the cheese? A man with the gout in his right hand - and everywhere else - can't expect to get through a Double Gloucester without hurting himself
To have Provis for an upper lodger is quite a godsend to Mrs. Whimple
for of course people in general won't stand that noise. A curious place, Handel; isn't it
Mrs. Whimple
is the best of housewives, and I really do not know what my Clara would do without her motherly help. For, Clara has no mother of her own, Handel, and no relation in the world but old Gruffandgrim
Surely that's not his name, Herbert
No, no
that's my name for him. His name is Mr. Barley. But what a blessing it is for the son of my father and mother, to love a girl who has no relations, and who can never bother herself, or anybody else, about her family
Clara
Look here
here's poor Clara's supper, served out every night. Here's her allowance of bread, and here's her slice of cheese, and here's her rum - which I drink. This is Mr. Barley's breakfast for to-morrow, served out to be cooked. Two mutton chops, three potatoes, some split peas, a little flour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of salt, and all this black pepper. It's stewed up together, and taken hot, and it's a nice thing for the gout, I should think
Papa wants me, darling
There is an unconscionable old shark for you
What do you suppose he wants now, Handel
I don't know
Something to drink
That's it
He keeps his grog ready-mixed in a little tub on the table. Wait a moment, and you'll hear Clara lift him up to take some. - There he goes
Now
he's drinking. Now
he's down again on his back
Ahoy! Bless your eyes, here's old Bill Barley. Here's old Bill Barley, bless your eyes. Here's old Bill Barley on the flat of his back, by the Lord. Lying on the flat of his back, like a drifting old dead flounder, here's your old Bill Barley, bless your eyes. Ahoy! Bless you
Ay, ay, dear boy
Jaggers knows
Then, I have talked with Wemmick
and have come to tell you what caution he gave me and what advice
We are both good watermen, Handel, and could take him down the river ourselves when the right time comes. No boat would then be hired for the purpose, and no boatmen; that would save at least a chance of suspicion, and any chance is worth saving. Never mind the season; don't you think it might be a good thing if you began at once to keep a boat at the Temple stairs, and were in the habit of rowing up and down the river? You fall into that habit, and then who notices or minds? Do it twenty or fifty times, and there is nothing special in your doing it the twenty-first or fifty-first
I don't like to leave you here
though I cannot doubt your being safer here than near me. Good-bye
Dear boy
I don't know when we may meet again, and I don't like Good-bye. Say Good Night
Good night! Herbert will go regularly between us, and when the time comes you may be certain I shall be ready. Good night, Good night
Fill, fill
How do you do
I saw that you saw me
Saw you, Mr. Pip
Yes, of course I saw you. But who else was there
Who else
It is the strangest thing
and yet I could swear to him
Whether I should have noticed him at first but for your being there
I can't be positive; yet I think I should
Oh! He can't be in sight
He went out, before I went off, I saw him go
I had a ridiculous fancy that he must be with you, Mr. Pip, till I saw that you were quite unconscious of him, sitting behind you there, like a ghost
I dare say you wonder at me, Mr. Pip; indeed I see you do. But it is so very strange! You'll hardly believe what I am going to tell you. I could hardly believe it myself, if you told me
Indeed
No, indeed. Mr. Pip, you remember in old times a certain Christmas Day, when you were quite a child, and I dined at Gargery's, and some soldiers came to the door to get a pair of handcuffs mended
I remember it very well
And you remember that there was a chase after two convicts, and that we joined in it, and that Gargery took you on his back, and that I took the lead and you kept up with me as well as you could
I remember it all very well
And you remember that we came up with the two in a ditch, and that there was a scuffle between them, and that one of them had been severely handled and much mauled about the face, by the other
I see it all before me
And that the soldiers lighted torches, and put the two in the centre, and that we went on to see the last of them, over the black marshes, with the torchlight shining on their faces - I am particular about that; with the torchlight shining on their faces, when there was an outer ring of dark night all about us
Yes
I remember all that
Then, Mr. Pip, one of those two prisoners sat behind you tonight. I saw him over your shoulder
Steady
Which of the two do you suppose you saw
The one who had been mauled
and I'll swear I saw him! The more I think of him, the more certain I am of him
This is very curious
Very curious indeed
like a ghost
As we are going in the same direction, Pip, we may walk together. Where are you bound for
For the Temple, I think
Don't you know
Well
I do not know, for I have not made up my mind
You are going to dine
You don't mind admitting that, I suppose
No
I don't mind admitting that
And are not engaged
I don't mind admitting also, that I am not engaged
Then
come and dine with me
Wemmick's coming
Did you send that note of Miss Havisham's to Mr. Pip, Wemmick
No, sir
it was going by post, when you brought Mr. Pip into the office. Here it is
It's a note of two lines, Pip
sent up to me by Miss Havisham, on account of her not being sure of your address. She tells me that she wants to see you on a little matter of business you mentioned to her. You'll go down
Yes
When do you think of going down
I have an impending engagement
that renders me rather uncertain of my time. At once, I think
If Mr. Pip has the intention of going at once
he needn't write an answer, you know
So, Pip! Our friend the Spider
has played his cards. He has won the pool
Hah! He is a promising fellow - in his way - but he may not have it all his own way. The stronger will win in the end, but the stronger has to be found out first. If he should turn to, and beat her
Surely
you do not seriously think that he is scoundrel enough for that, Mr. Jaggers
I didn't say so, Pip. I am putting a case. If he should turn to and beat her, he may possibly get the strength on his side; if it should be a question of intellect, he certainly will not. It would be chance work to give an opinion how a fellow of that sort will turn out in such circumstances, because it's a toss-up between two results
May I ask what they are
A fellow like our friend the Spider
either beats, or cringes. He may cringe and growl, or cringe and not growl; but he either beats or cringes. Ask Wemmick his opinion
Either beats or cringes
So, here's to Mrs. Bentley Drummle
and may the question of supremacy be settled to the lady's satisfaction! To the satisfaction of the lady and the gentleman, it never will be. Now, Molly, Molly, Molly, Molly, how slow you are to-day
What's the matter
Nothing. Only the subject we were speaking of
was rather painful to me
Well
that's over! He's a wonderful man, without his living likeness; but I feel that I have to screw myself up when I dine with him - and I dine more comfortably unscrewed
Wouldn't say it to anybody but yourself
I know that what is said between you and me, goes no further
Wemmick
do you remember telling me before I first went to Mr. Jaggers's private house, to notice that housekeeper
Did I
Ah, I dare say I did. Deuce take me
I know I did. I find I am not quite unscrewed yet
A wild beast tamed, you called her
And what do you call her
The same. How did Mr. Jaggers tame her, Wemmick
That's his secret. She has been with him many a long year
I wish you would tell me her story. I feel a particular interest in being acquainted with it. You know that what is said between you and me goes no further
Well
I don't know her story - that is, I don't know all of it. But what I do know, I'll tell you. We are in our private and personal capacities, of course
Of course
A score or so of years ago, that woman was tried at the Old Bailey for murder, and was acquitted. She was a very handsome young woman, and I believe had some gipsy blood in her. Anyhow, it was hot enough when it was up, as you may suppose
But she was acquitted
Mr. Jaggers was for her
and worked the case in a way quite astonishing. It was a desperate case, and it was comparatively early days with him then, and he worked it to general admiration; in fact, it may almost be said to have made him. He worked it himself at the police-office, day after day for many days, contending against even a committal; and at the trial where he couldn't work it himself, sat under Counsel, and - every one knew - put in all the salt and pepper. The murdered person was a woman; a woman, a good ten years older, very much larger, and very much stronger. It was a case of jealousy. They both led tramping lives, and this woman in Gerrard-street here had been married very young, over the broomstick (as we say), to a tramping man, and was a perfect fury in point of jealousy. The murdered woman - more a match for the man, certainly, in point of years - was found dead in a barn near Hounslow Heath. There had been a violent struggle, perhaps a fight. She was bruised and scratched and torn, and had been held by the throat at last and choked. Now, there was no reasonable evidence to implicate any person but this woman, and, on the improbabilities of her having been able to do it, Mr. Jaggers principally rested his case. You may be sure
that he never dwelt upon the strength of her hands then, though he sometimes does now
Well, sir
We say these are not marks of finger-nails, but marks of brambles, and we show you the brambles. You say they are marks of finger-nails, and you set up the hypothesis that she destroyed her child. You must accept all consequences of that hypothesis. For anything we know, she may have destroyed her child, and the child in clinging to her may have scratched her hands. What then? You are not trying her for the murder of her child; why don't you? As to this case, if you will have scratches, we say that, for anything we know, you may have accounted for them, assuming for the sake of argument that you have not invented them
Mr. Jaggers was altogether too many for the Jury, and they gave in
Has she been in his service ever since
Yes; but not only that
She went into his service immediately after her acquittal, tamed as she is now. She has since been taught one thing and another in the way of her duties, but she was tamed from the beginning
Do you remember the sex of the child
Said to have been a girl
You have nothing more to say to me to-night
Nothing. I got your letter and destroyed it. Nothing
Is it real
It is I, Pip. Mr. Jaggers gave me your note yesterday, and I have lost no time
Thank you. Thank you
I want
to pursue that subject you mentioned to me when you were last here, and to show you that I am not all stone. But perhaps you can never believe, now, that there is anything human in my heart
You said, speaking for your friend, that you could tell me how to do something useful and good. Something that you would like done, is it not
Something that I would like done very much
What is it
Do you break off
because you hate me too much to bear to speak to me
No, no
how can you think so, Miss Havisham! I stopped because I thought you were not following what I said
Perhaps I was not
Begin again, and let me look at something else. Stay! Now tell me
So
And how much money is wanting to complete the purchase
Nine hundred pounds
If I give you the money for this purpose, will you keep my secret as you have kept your own
Quite as faithfully
And your mind will be more at rest
Much more at rest
Are you very unhappy now
I am far from happy, Miss Havisham; but I have other causes of disquiet than any you know of. They are the secrets I have mentioned
It is noble in you to tell me that you have other causes of unhappiness, Is it true
Too true
Can I only serve you, Pip, by serving your friend? Regarding that as done, is there nothing I can do for you yourself
Nothing. I thank you for the question. I thank you even more for the tone of the question. But, there is nothing
You are still on friendly terms with Mr. Jaggers
Quite. I dined with him yesterday
This is an authority to him to pay you that money, to lay out at your irresponsible discretion for your friend. I keep no money here; but if you would rather Mr. Jaggers knew nothing of the matter, I will send it to you
Thank you, Miss Havisham; I have not the least objection to receiving it from him
I forgive her
O Miss Havisham
I can do it now. There have been sore mistakes; and my life has been a blind and thankless one; and I want forgiveness and direction far too much, to be bitter with you
O
What have I done! What have I done
If you mean, Miss Havisham, what have you done to injure me, let me answer. Very little. I should have loved her under any circumstances. - Is she married
Yes
What have I done! What have I done
What have I done
Until you spoke to her the other day, and until I saw in you a looking-glass that showed me what I once felt myself, I did not know what I had done. What have I done! What have I done
Miss Havisham
you may dismiss me from your mind and conscience. But Estella is a different case, and if you can ever undo any scrap of what you have done amiss in keeping a part of her right nature away from her, it will be better to do that, than to bemoan the past through a hundred years
Yes, yes, I know it. But, Pip - my Dear
My Dear! Believe this: when she first came to me, I meant to save her from misery like my own. At first I meant no more
Well, well
I hope so
But as she grew, and promised to be very beautiful, I gradually did worse, and with my praises, and with my jewels, and with my teachings, and with this figure of myself always before her a warning to back and point my lessons, I stole her heart away and put ice in its place
Better
to have left her a natural heart, even to be bruised or broken
If you knew all my story
you would have some compassion for me and a better understanding of me
Miss Havisham
I believe I may say that I do know your story, and have known it ever since I first left this neighbourhood. It has inspired me with great commiseration, and I hope I understand it and its influences. Does what has passed between us give me any excuse for asking you a question relative to Estella? Not as she is, but as she was when she first came here
Go on
Whose child was Estella
You don't know
But Mr. Jaggers brought her here, or sent her here
Brought her here
Will you tell me how that came about
I had been shut up in these rooms a long time (I don't know how long; you know what time the clocks keep here), when I told him that I wanted a little girl to rear and love, and save from my fate. I had first seen him when I sent for him to lay this place waste for me; having read of him in the newspapers, before I and the world parted. He told me that he would look about him for such an orphan child. One night he brought her here asleep, and I called her Estella
Might I ask her age then
Two or three. She herself knows nothing, but that she was left an orphan and I adopted her
What have I done
When she first came, I meant to save her from misery like mine
Take the pencil and write under my name, 'I forgive her
Take the pencil and write under my name, 'I forgive her
I sat with Provis last night, Handel, two good hours
Where was Clara
Dear little thing
She was up and down with Gruffandgrim all the evening. He was perpetually pegging at the floor, the moment she left his sight. I doubt if he can hold out long though. What with rum and pepper - and pepper and rum - I should think his pegging must be nearly over
And then you will be married, Herbert
How can I take care of the dear child otherwise? - Lay your arm out upon the back of the sofa, my dear boy, and I'll sit down here, and get the bandage off so gradually that you shall not know when it comes. I was speaking of Provis. Do you know, Handel, he improves
I said to you I thought he was softened when I last saw him
So you did. And so he is. He was very communicative last night, and told me more of his life. You remember his breaking off here about some woman that he had had great trouble with. - Did I hurt you
I had forgotten that, Herbert, but I remember it now you speak of it
Well! He went into that part of his life, and a dark wild part it is. Shall I tell you? Or would it worry you just now
Tell me by all means. Every word
Your head is cool
Quite
Tell me what Provis said, my dear Herbert
It seems
there's a bandage off most charmingly, and now comes the cool one - makes you shrink at first, my poor dear fellow, don't it? but it will be comfortable presently - it seems that the woman was a young woman, and a jealous woman, and a revengeful woman; revengeful, Handel, to the last degree
To what last degree
Murder. - Does it strike too cold on that sensitive place
I don't feel it. How did she murder? Whom did she murder
Why, the deed may not have merited quite so terrible a name
but, she was tried for it, and Mr. Jaggers defended her, and the reputation of that defence first made his name known to Provis. It was another and a stronger woman who was the victim, and there had been a struggle - in a barn. Who began it, or how fair it was, or how unfair, may be doubtful; but how it ended, is certainly not doubtful, for the victim was found throttled
Was the woman brought in guilty
No; she was acquitted. - My poor Handel, I hurt you
It is impossible to be gentler, Herbert. Yes? What else
This acquitted young woman and Provis had a little child: a little child of whom Provis was exceedingly fond. On the evening of the very night when the object of her jealousy was strangled as I tell you, the young woman presented herself before Provis for one moment, and swore that she would destroy the child (which was in her possession), and he should never see it again; then, she vanished. - There's the worst arm comfortably in the sling once more, and now there remains but the right hand, which is a far easier job. I can do it better by this light than by a stronger, for my hand is steadiest when I don't see the poor blistered patches too distinctly. - You don't think your breathing is affected, my dear boy? You seem to breathe quickly
Perhaps I do, Herbert. Did the woman keep her oath
There comes the darkest part of Provis's life. She did
That is, he says she did
Why, of course, my dear boy
He says it all. I have no other information
No, to be sure
Now, whether
he had used the child's mother ill, or whether he had used the child's mother well, Provis doesn't say; but, she had shared some four or five years of the wretched life he described to us at this fireside, and he seems to have felt pity for her, and forbearance towards her. Therefore, fearing he should be called upon to depose about this destroyed child, and so be the cause of her death, he hid himself (much as he grieved for the child), kept himself dark, as he says, out of the way and out of the trial, and was only vaguely talked of as a certain man called Abel, out of whom the jealousy arose. After the acquittal she disappeared, and thus he lost the child and the child's mother
I want to ask
A moment, my dear boy, and I have done. That evil genius, Compeyson, the worst of scoundrels among many scoundrels, knowing of his keeping out of the way at that time, and of his reasons for doing so, of course afterwards held the knowledge over his head as a means of keeping him poorer, and working him harder. It was clear last night that this barbed the point of Provis's animosity
I want to know
and particularly, Herbert, whether he told you when this happened
Particularly? Let me remember, then, what he said as to that. His expression was, 'a round score o' year ago, and a'most directly after I took up wi' Compeyson.' How old were you when you came upon him in the little churchyard
I think in my seventh year
Ay. It had happened some three or four years then, he said, and you brought into his mind the little girl so tragically lost, who would have been about your age
Herbert
can you see me best by the light of the window, or the light of the fire
By the firelight
Look at me
I do look at you, my dear boy
Touch me
I do touch you, my dear boy
You are not afraid that I am in any fever, or that my head is much disordered by the accident of last night
N-no, my dear boy
You are rather excited, but you are quite yourself
I know I am quite myself. And the man we have in hiding down the river, is Estella's Father
I am sorry, Pip
that we do nothing for you
Miss Havisham was good enough to ask me
whether she could do nothing for me, and I told her No
Everybody should know his own business
portable property
I should not have told her No, if I had been you
but every man ought to know his own business best
Every man's business
is portable property
I did ask something of Miss Havisham, however, sir. I asked her to give me some information relative to her adopted daughter, and she gave me all she possessed
Did she
Hah! I don't think I should have done so, if I had been Miss Havisham. But she ought to know her own business best
I know more of the history of Miss Havisham's adopted child, than Miss Havisham herself does, sir. I know her mother
Mother
I have seen her mother within these three days
Yes
And so have you, sir. And you have seen her still more recently
Yes
Perhaps I know more of Estella's history than even you do
I know her father too
So! You know the young lady's father, Pip
Yes
and his name is Provis - from New South Wales
And on what evidence, Pip
does Provis make this claim
He does not make it
and has never made it, and has no knowledge or belief that his daughter is in existence
Hah
What item was it you were at, Wemmick, when Mr. Pip came in
Wemmick, I know you to be a man with a gentle heart. I have seen your pleasant home, and your old father, and all the innocent cheerful playful ways with which you refresh your business life. And I entreat you to say a word for me to Mr. Jaggers, and to represent to him that, all circumstances considered, he ought to be more open with me
What's all this
You with an old father, and you with pleasant and playful ways
Well
If I don't bring 'em here, what does it matter
Pip
this man must be the most cunning impostor in all London
Not a bit of it
I think you're another
You with a pleasant home
Since it don't interfere with business
let it be so. Now, I look at you, sir, I shouldn't wonder if you might be planning and contriving to have a pleasant home of your own, one of these days, when you're tired of all this work
Pip
we won't talk about 'poor dreams;' you know more about such things than I, having much fresher experience of that kind. But now, about this other matter. I'll put a case to you. Mind! I admit nothing
Now, Pip
put this case. Put the case that a woman, under such circumstances as you have mentioned, held her child concealed, and was obliged to communicate the fact to her legal adviser, on his representing to her that he must know, with an eye to the latitude of his defence, how the fact stood about that child. Put the case that at the same time he held a trust to find a child for an eccentric rich lady to adopt and bring up
I follow you, sir
Put the case that he lived in an atmosphere of evil, and that all he saw of children, was, their being generated in great numbers for certain destruction. Put the case that he often saw children solemnly tried at a criminal bar, where they were held up to be seen; put the case that he habitually knew of their being imprisoned, whipped, transported, neglected, cast out, qualified in all ways for the hangman, and growing up to be hanged. Put the case that pretty nigh all the children he saw in his daily business life, he had reason to look upon as so much spawn, to develop into the fish that were to come to his net - to be prosecuted, defended, forsworn, made orphans, bedevilled somehow
I follow you, sir
I know what you did, and how you did it. You came so and so, this was your manner of attack and this the manner of resistance, you went so and so, you did such and such things to divert suspicion. I have tracked you through it all, and I tell it you all. Part with the child, unless it should be necessary to produce it to clear you, and then it shall be produced. Give the child into my hands, and I will do my best to bring you off. If you are saved, your child is saved too; if you are lost, your child is still saved
I understand you perfectly
But that I make no admissions
That you make no admissions
No admissions
Put the case, Pip, that passion and the terror of death had a little shaken the woman's intellect, and that when she was set at liberty, she was scared out of the ways of the world and went to him to be sheltered. Put the case that he took her in, and that he kept down the old wild violent nature whenever he saw an inkling of its breaking out, by asserting his power over her in the old way. Do you comprehend the imaginary case
Quite
Put the case that the child grew up, and was married for money. That the mother was still living. That the father was still living. That the mother and father unknown to one another, were dwelling within so many miles, furlongs, yards if you like, of one another. That the secret was still a secret, except that you had got wind of it. Put that last case to yourself very carefully
I do
I ask Wemmick to put it to himself very carefully
I do
For whose sake would you reveal the secret? For the father's? I think he would not be much the better for the mother. For the mother's? I think if she had done such a deed she would be safer where she was. For the daughter's? I think it would hardly serve her, to establish her parentage for the information of her husband, and to drag her back to disgrace, after an escape of twenty years, pretty secure to last for life. But, add the case that you had loved her, Pip, and had made her the subject of those 'poor dreams' which have, at one time or another, been in the heads of more men than you think likely, then I tell you that you had better - and would much sooner when you had thought well of it - chop off that bandaged left hand of yours with your bandaged right hand, and then pass the chopper on to Wemmick there, to cut that off, too
Now, Wemmick
what item was it you were at, when Mr. Pip came in
What are you about
What do you come snivelling here for
I didn't go to do it, Mr. Wemmick
You did
How dare you? You're not in a fit state to come here, if you can't come here without spluttering like a bad pen. What do you mean by it
A man can't help his feelings, Mr. Wemmick
His what
Say that again
Now, look here my man
Get out of this office. I'll have no feelings here. Get out
It serves you right
Get out
Walworth. Burn this as soon as read. Early in the week, or say Wednesday, you might do what you know of, if you felt disposed to try it. Now burn
I have thought it over, again and again
and I think I know a better course than taking a Thames waterman. Take Startop. A good fellow, a skilled hand, fond of us, and enthusiastic and honourable
But how much would you tell him, Herbert
It is necessary to tell him very little. Let him suppose it a mere freak, but a secret one, until the morning comes: then let him know that there is urgent reason for your getting Provis aboard and away. You go with him
No doubt
Where
If you are not afraid to come to the old marshes to-night or tomorrow night at Nine, and to come to the little sluice-house by the limekiln, you had better come. If you want information regarding your uncle Provis, you had much better come and tell no one and lose no time. You must come alone. Bring this with you
Do you know the young man
Know him
Ever since he was - no height at all
Does he ever come back to this neighbourhood
Ay, he comes back
to his great friends, now and again, and gives the cold shoulder to the man that made him
What man is that
Him that I speak of
Mr. Pumblechook
Is he ungrateful to no one else
No doubt he would be, if he could
but he can't. And why? Because Pumblechook done everything for him
Does Pumblechook say so
Say so
He han't no call to say so
But does he say so
It would turn a man's blood to white wine winegar to hear him tell of it, sir
Yet Joe, dear Joe, you never tell of it. Long-suffering and loving Joe, you never complain. Nor you, sweet-tempered Biddy
Your appetite's been touched like, by your accident
Try a tenderer bit
No thank you
I can eat no more. Please take it away
Is there any one here
Is there any one here
Now
I've got you
What is this
Who is it? Help, help, help
And now
call out again, and I'll make short work of you
Now
I've got you
Unbind me. Let me go
Ah
I'll let you go. I'll let you go to the moon, I'll let you go to the stars. All in good time
Why have you lured me here
Don't you know
Why have you set upon me in the dark
Because I mean to do it all myself. One keeps a secret better than two. Oh you enemy, you enemy
Do you know this
Do you know where you saw it afore? Speak, wolf
Yes
You cost me that place. You did. Speak
What else could I do
You did that, and that would be enough, without more. How dared you to come betwixt me and a young woman I liked
When did I
When didn't you? It was you as always give Old Orlick a bad name to her
You gave it to yourself; you gained it for yourself. I could have done you no harm, if you had done yourself none
You're a liar. And you'll take any pains, and spend any money, to drive me out of this country, will you
Now, I'll tell you a piece of information. It was never so well worth your while to get me out of this country as it is to-night. Ah! If it was all your money twenty times told, to the last brass farden
What are you going to do to me
I'm a-going
I'm a-going to have your life
You was always in Old Orlick's way since ever you was a child. You goes out of his way, this present night. He'll have no more on you. You're dead
More than that
I won't have a rag of you, I won't have a bone of you, left on earth. I'll put your body in the kiln - I'd carry two such to it, on my shoulders - and, let people suppose what they may of you, they shall never know nothing
Now, wolf
afore I kill you like any other beast - which is wot I mean to do and wot I have tied you up for - I'll have a good look at you and a good goad at you. Oh, you enemy
Wolf
Old Orlick's a-going to tell you somethink. It was you as did for your shrew sister
It was you, villain
I tell you it was your doing - I tell you it was done through you
I come upon her from behind, as I come upon you to-night. I giv' it her! I left her for dead, and if there had been a limekiln as nigh her as there is now nigh you, she shouldn't have come to life again. But it warn't Old Orlick as did it; it was you. You was favoured, and he was bullied and beat. Old Orlick bullied and beat, eh? Now you pays for it. You done it; now you pays for it
Wolf, I'll tell you something more. It was Old Orlick as you tumbled over on your stairs that night
And why was Old Orlick there? I'll tell you something more, wolf. You and her have pretty well hunted me out of this country, so far as getting a easy living in it goes, and I've took up with new companions, and new masters. Some of 'em writes my letters when I wants 'em wrote - do you mind? - writes my letters, wolf! They writes fifty hands; they're not like sneaking you, as writes but one. I've had a firm mind and a firm will to have your life, since you was down here at your sister's burying. I han't seen a way to get you safe, and I've looked arter you to know your ins and outs. For, says Old Orlick to himself, 'Somehow or another I'll have him!' What! When I looks for you, I finds your uncle Provis, eh
You with a uncle too! Why, I know'd you at Gargery's when you was so small a wolf that I could have took your weazen betwixt this finger and thumb and chucked you away dead (as I'd thoughts o' doing, odd times, when I see you loitering amongst the pollards on a Sunday), and you hadn't found no uncles then. No, not you! But when Old Orlick come for to hear that your uncle Provis had mostlike wore the leg-iron wot Old Orlick had picked up, filed asunder, on these meshes ever so many year ago, and wot he kep by him till he dropped your sister with it, like a bullock, as he means to drop you - hey? - when he come for to hear that - hey
Ah
the burnt child dreads the fire! Old Orlick knowed you was burnt, Old Orlick knowed you was smuggling your uncle Provis away, Old Orlick's a match for you and know'd you'd come to-night! Now I'll tell you something more, wolf, and this ends it. There's them that's as good a match for your uncle Provis as Old Orlick has been for you. Let him 'ware them, when he's lost his nevvy! Let him 'ware them, when no man can't find a rag of his dear relation's clothes, nor yet a bone of his body. There's them that can't and that won't have Magwitch - yes, I know the name! - alive in the same land with them, and that's had such sure information of him when he was alive in another land, as that he couldn't and shouldn't leave it unbeknown and put them in danger. P'raps it's them that writes fifty hands, and that's not like sneaking you as writes but one. 'Ware Compeyson, Magwitch, and the gallows
I think he's all right
but ain't he just pale though
Herbert! Great Heaven
Softly
Gently, Handel. Don't be too eager
And our old comrade, Startop
Remember what he is going to assist us in
and be calm
The time has not gone by, Herbert, has it? What night is to-night? How long have I been here
The time has not gone by. It is still Monday night
Thank God
And you have all to-morrow, Tuesday, to rest in
But you can't help groaning, my dear Handel. What hurt have you got? Can you stand
Yes, yes
I can walk. I have no hurt but in this throbbing arm
Now it has come, and I am turning delirious
When it turns at nine o'clock
look out for us, and stand ready, you over there at Mill Pond Bank
Is he there
Not yet
Right! He was not to come down till he saw us. Can you see his signal
Not well from here; but I think I see it. - Now, I see him! Pull both. Easy, Herbert. Oars
Dear boy
Faithful dear boy, well done. Thankye, thankye
If you knowed, dear boy
what it is to sit here alonger my dear boy and have my smoke, arter having been day by day betwixt four walls, you'd envy me. But you don't know what it is
I think I know the delights of freedom
Ah
But you don't know it equal to me. You must have been under lock and key, dear boy, to know it equal to me - but I ain't a-going to be low
You see, dear boy, when I was over yonder, t'other side the world, I was always a-looking to this side; and it come flat to be there, for all I was a-growing rich. Everybody knowed Magwitch, and Magwitch could come, and Magwitch could go, and nobody's head would be troubled about him. They ain't so easy concerning me here, dear boy - wouldn't be, leastwise, if they knowed where I was
If all goes well
you will be perfectly free and safe again, within a few hours
Well
I hope so
And think so
Ay, I s'pose I think so, dear boy. We'd be puzzled to be more quiet and easy-going than we are at present. But - it's a-flowing so soft and pleasant through the water, p'raps, as makes me think it - I was a-thinking through my smoke just then, that we can no more see to the bottom of the next few hours, than we can see to the bottom of this river what I catches hold of. Nor yet we can't no more hold their tide than I can hold this. And it's run through my fingers and gone, you see
But for your face, I should think you were a little despondent
Not a bit on it, dear boy! It comes of flowing on so quiet, and of that there rippling at the boat's head making a sort of a Sunday tune. Maybe I'm a-growing a trifle old besides
Do you, dear boy
What was that ripple
Is that a boat yonder
such as they were
took up too
They must ha' thought better on't for some reason or another
and gone down
A four-oared galley, did you say
A four
and two sitters
Did they come ashore here
They put in with a stone two-gallon jar, for some beer. I'd ha'been glad to pison the beer myself
or put some rattling physic in it
Why
I know why
He thinks
he thinks they was, what they wasn't
I knows what I thinks
You thinks Custum 'Us, Jack
I do
Then you're wrong, Jack
Am I
Why, what do you make out that they done with their buttons then, Jack
Done with their buttons
Chucked 'em overboard. Swallered 'em. Sowed 'em, to come up small salad. Done with their buttons
Don't be cheeky, Jack
A Custum 'Us officer knows what to do with his Buttons
when they comes betwixt him and his own light. A Four and two sitters don't go hanging and hovering, up with one tide and down with another, and both with and against another, without there being Custum 'Us at the bottom of it
Trust to me, dear boy
Hamburg
You have a returned Transport there
That's the man, wrapped in the cloak. His name is Abel Magwitch, otherwise Provis. I apprehend that man, and call upon him to surrender, and you to assist
Dear boy
I'm quite content to take my chance. I've seen my boy, and he can be a gentleman without me
Lookee here, dear boy
It's best as a gentleman should not be knowed to belong to me now. Only come to see me as if you come by chance alonger Wemmick. Sit where I can see you when I am swore to, for the last o' many times, and I don't ask no more
I will never stir from your side
when I am suffered to be near you. Please God, I will be as true to you, as you have been to me
let it slip through my fingers
My dear Handel, I fear I shall soon have to leave you
We shall lose a fine opportunity if I put off going to Cairo, and I am very much afraid I must go, Handel, when you most need me
Herbert, I shall always need you, because I shall always love you; but my need is no greater now, than at another time
You will be so lonely
I have not leisure to think of that
You know that I am always with him to the full extent of the time allowed, and that I should be with him all day long, if I could. And when I come away from him, you know that my thoughts are with him
My dear fellow
let the near prospect of our separation - for, it is very near - be my justification for troubling you about yourself. Have you thought of your future
No, for I have been afraid to think of any future
But yours cannot be dismissed; indeed, my dear dear Handel, it must not be dismissed. I wish you would enter on it now, as far as a few friendly words go, with me
I will
In this branch house of ours, Handel, we must have a
A clerk
A clerk. And I hope it is not at all unlikely that he may expand (as a clerk of your acquaintance has expanded) into a partner. Now, Handel - in short, my dear boy, will you come to me
Now, Handel
Clara and I have talked about it again and again
and the dear little thing begged me only this evening, with tears in her eyes, to say to you that if you will live with us when we come together, she will do her best to make you happy, and to convince her husband's friend that he is her friend too. We should get on so well, Handel
But if you thought, Herbert, that you could, without doing any injury to your business, leave the question open for a little while
For any while
Six months, a year
Not so long as that
Two or three months at most
And Clara
The dear little thing
holds dutifully to her father as long as he lasts; but he won't last long. Mrs. Whimple confides to me that he is certainly going
Not to say an unfeeling thing
he cannot do better than go
I am afraid that must be admitted
and then I shall come back for the dear little thing, and the dear little thing and I will walk quietly into the nearest church. Remember! The blessed darling comes of no family, my dear Handel, and never looked into the red book, and hasn't a notion about her grandpapa. What a fortune for the son of my mother
The late Compeyson
had by little and little got at the bottom of half of the regular business now transacted, and it was from the talk of some of his people in trouble (some of his people being always in trouble) that I heard what I did. I kept my ears open, seeming to have them shut, until I heard that he was absent, and I thought that would be the best time for making the attempt. I can only suppose now, that it was a part of his policy, as a very clever man, habitually to deceive his own instruments. You don't blame me, I hope, Mr. Pip? I am sure I tried to serve you, with all my heart
I am as sure of that, Wemmick, as you can be, and I thank you most earnestly for all your interest and friendship
Thank you, thank you very much. It's a bad job
and I assure you I haven't been so cut up for a long time. What I look at, is the sacrifice of so much portable property. Dear me
What I think of, Wemmick, is the poor owner of the property
Yes, to be sure
Of course there can be no objection to your being sorry for him, and I'd put down a five-pound note myself to get him out of it. But what I look at, is this. The late Compeyson having been beforehand with him in intelligence of his return, and being so determined to bring him to book, I do not think he could have been saved. Whereas, the portable property certainly could have been saved. That's the difference between the property and the owner, don't you see
What do you think of my meaning to take a holiday on Monday, Mr. Pip
Why, I suppose you have not done such a thing these twelve months
These twelve years, more likely
Yes. I'm going to take a holiday. More than that; I'm going to take a walk. More than that; I'm going to ask you to take a walk with me
I know your engagements
and I know you are out of sorts, Mr. Pip. But if you could oblige me, I should take it as a kindness. It ain't a long walk, and it's an early one. Say it might occupy you (including breakfast on the walk) from eight to twelve. Couldn't you stretch a point and manage it
Why, we are not going fishing
No
but I like to walk with one
Halloa! Here's a church
Let's go in
Halloa
Here's a couple of pair of gloves! Let's put 'em on
Halloa
Here's Miss Skiffins! Let's have a wedding
Halloa! Here's a ring
Who giveth this woman to be married to this man
WHO giveth this woman to be married to this man
Now Aged P. you know; who giveth
All right, John, all right, my boy
Now, Mr. Pip
let me ask you whether anybody would suppose this to be a wedding-party
Provided by contract, you know; don't be afraid of it
Thankee
She's such a manager of fowls, you have no idea. You shall have some eggs, and judge for yourself. I say, Mr. Pip
This is altogether a Walworth sentiment, please
I understand. Not to be mentioned in Little Britain
After what you let out the other day, Mr. Jaggers may as well not know of it. He might think my brain was softening, or something of the kind
My Lord, I have received my sentence of Death from the Almighty, but I bow to yours
Dear boy
I thought you was late. But I knowed you couldn't be that
It is just the time
I waited for it at the gate
You always waits at the gate; don't you, dear boy
Yes. Not to lose a moment of the time
Thank'ee dear boy, thank'ee. God bless you! You've never deserted me, dear boy
And what's the best of all
you've been more comfortable alonger me, since I was under a dark cloud, than when the sun shone. That's best of all
Are you in much pain to-day
I don't complain of none, dear boy
You never do complain
You needn't go yet
Might I speak to him, if he can hear me
Dear Magwitch, I must tell you, now at last. You understand what I say
You had a child once, whom you loved and lost
She lived and found powerful friends. She is living now. She is a lady and very beautiful. And I love her
O Lord, be merciful to him, a sinner
What do you want
I don't know you
Well, sir
this is a matter that you'll soon arrange, I dare say, but you're arrested
What is the debt
Hundred and twenty-three pound, fifteen, six. Jeweller's account, I think
What is to be done
You had better come to my house
I keep a very nice house
You see my state
I would come with you if I could; but indeed I am quite unable. If you take me from here, I think I shall die by the way
Is it Joe
Which it air, old chap
O Joe, you break my heart! Look angry at me, Joe. Strike me, Joe. Tell me of my ingratitude. Don't be so good to me
Which dear old Pip, old chap
you and me was ever friends. And when you're well enough to go out for a ride - what larks
O God bless him! O God bless this gentle Christian man
How long, dear Joe
Which you meantersay, Pip, how long have your illness lasted, dear old chap
Yes, Joe
It's the end of May, Pip. To-morrow is the first of June
And have you been here all that time, dear Joe
Pretty nigh, old chap. For, as I says to Biddy when the news of your being ill were brought by letter, which it were brought by the post and being formerly single he is now married though underpaid for a deal of walking and shoe-leather, but wealth were not a object on his part, and marriage were the great wish of his hart
It is so delightful to hear you, Joe! But I interrupt you in what you said to Biddy
Which it were
that how you might be amongst strangers, and that how you and me having been ever friends, a wisit at such a moment might not prove unacceptabobble. And Biddy, her word were, 'Go to him, without loss of time.' That
were the word of Biddy. 'Go to him,' Biddy say, 'without loss of time.' In short, I shouldn't greatly deceive you
if I represented to you that the word of that young woman were, 'without a minute's loss of time
Is she dead, Joe
Why you see, old chap
I wouldn't go so far as to say that, for that's a deal to say; but she ain't
Living, Joe
That's nigher where it is
she ain't living
Did she linger long, Joe
Arter you was took ill, pretty much about what you might call (if you was put to it) a week
Dear Joe, have you heard what becomes of her property
Well, old chap
it do appear that she had settled the most of it, which I meantersay tied it up, on Miss Estella. But she had wrote out a little coddleshell in her own hand a day or two afore the accident, leaving a cool four thousand to Mr. Matthew Pocket. And why, do you suppose, above all things, Pip, she left that cool four thousand unto him? 'Because of Pip's account of him the said Matthew.' I am told by Biddy, that air the writing
account of him the said Matthew.' And a cool four thousand, Pip
Miss Sarah
she have twenty-five pound perannium fur to buy pills, on account of being bilious. Miss Georgiana, she have twenty pound down. Mrs. - what's the name of them wild beasts with humps, old chap
Camels
Mrs. Camels
she have five pound fur to buy rushlights to put her in spirits when she wake up in the night
And now
you ain't that strong yet, old chap, that you can take in more nor one additional shovel-full to-day. Old Orlick he's been a bustin' open a dwelling-ouse
Whose
Not, I grant, you, but what his manners is given to blusterous
still, a Englishman's ouse is his Castle, and castles must not be busted 'cept when done in war time. And wotsume'er the failings on his part, he were a corn and seedsman in his hart
Is it Pumblechook's house that has been broken into, then
That's it, Pip
and they took his till, and they took his cash-box, and they drinked his wine, and they partook of his wittles, and they slapped his face, and they pulled his nose, and they tied him up to his bedpust, and they giv' him a dozen, and they stuffed his mouth full of flowering annuals to prewent his crying out. But he knowed Orlick, and Orlick's in the county jail
Which I do assure you, Pip
I found her a tapping the spare bed, like a cask of beer, and drawing off the feathers in a bucket, for sale. Which she would have tapped yourn next, and draw'd it off with you a laying on it, and was then a carrying away the coals gradiwally in the souptureen and wegetable-dishes, and the wine and spirits in your Wellington boots
Have you heard, Joe
who my patron was
I heerd
as it were not Miss Havisham, old chap
Did you hear who it was, Joe
Well! I heerd as it were a person what sent the person what giv' you the bank-notes at the Jolly Bargemen, Pip
So it was
Astonishing
Did you hear that he was dead, Joe
Which? Him as sent the bank-notes, Pip
Yes
I think
as I did hear tell that how he were something or another in a general way in that direction
Did you hear anything of his circumstances, Joe
Not partickler, Pip
If you would like to hear, Joe
Lookee here, old chap
Ever the best of friends; ain't us, Pip
Wery good, then
that's all right, that's agreed upon. Then why go into subjects, old chap, which as betwixt two sech must be for ever onnecessary? There's subjects enough as betwixt two sech, without onnecessary ones. Lord! To think of your poor sister and her Rampages! And don't you remember Tickler
I do indeed, Joe
Lookee here, old chap
I done what I could to keep you and Tickler in sunders, but my power were not always fully equal to my inclinations. For when your poor sister had a mind to drop into you, it were not so much
that she dropped into me too, if I put myself in opposition to her but that she dropped into you always heavier for it. I noticed that. It ain't a grab at a man's whisker, not yet a shake or two of a man (to which your sister was quite welcome), that 'ud put a man off from getting a little child out of punishment. But when that little child is dropped into, heavier, for that grab of whisker or shaking, then that man naterally up and says to himself, 'Where is the good as you are a-doing? I grant you I see the 'arm,' says the man, 'but I don't see the good. I call upon you, sir, therefore, to pint out the good
The man says
The man says
Is he right, that man
Dear Joe, he is always right
Well, old chap
then abide by your words. If he's always right (which in general he's more likely wrong), he's right when he says this: - Supposing ever you kep any little matter to yourself, when you was a little child, you kep it mostly because you know'd as J. Gargery's power to part you and Tickler in sunders, were not fully equal to his inclinations. Therefore, think no more of it as betwixt two sech, and do not let us pass remarks upon onnecessary subjects. Biddy giv' herself a deal o' trouble with me afore I left (for I am almost awful dull), as I should view it in this light, and, viewing it in this light, as I should so put it. Both of which
being done, now this to you a true friend, say. Namely. You mustn't go a-over-doing on it, but you must have your supper and your wine-and-water, and you must be put betwixt the sheets
old Pip, old chap
See, Joe! I can walk quite strongly. Now, you shall see me walk back by myself
Which do not over-do it, Pip
but I shall be happy fur to see you able, sir
I feel thankful that I have been ill, Joe
Dear old Pip, old chap, you're a'most come round, sir
It has been a memorable time for me, Joe
Likeways for myself, sir
We have had a time together, Joe, that I can never forget. There were days once, I know, that I did for a while forget; but I never shall forget these
Pip
there has been larks, And, dear sir, what have been betwixt us - have been
Yes, dear Joe, quite
And are always a-getting stronger, old chap
Yes, dear Joe, steadily
Good night
Not wishful to intrude I have departured fur you are well again dear Pip and will do better without JO. "P.S. Ever the best of friends
Biddy, I think you once liked me very well, when my errant heart, even while it strayed away from you, was quieter and better with you than it ever has been since. If you can like me only half as well once more, if you can take me with all my faults and disappointments on my head, if you can receive me like a forgiven child (and indeed I am as sorry, Biddy, and have as much need of a hushing voice and a soothing hand), I hope I am a little worthier of you that I was - not much, but a little. And, Biddy, it shall rest with you to say whether I shall work at the forge with Joe, or whether I shall try for any different occupation down in this country, or whether we shall go away to a distant place where an opportunity awaits me, which I set aside when it was offered, until I knew your answer. And now, dear Biddy, if you can tell me that you will go through the world with me, you will surely make it a better world for me, and me a better man for it, and I will try hard to make it a better world for you
Young man, I am sorry to see you brought low. But what else could be expected! What else could be expected
William
put a muffin on table. And has it come to this! Has it come to this
William
put the salt on. In happier times
I think you took sugar. And did you take milk? You did. Sugar and milk. William, bring a watercress
Thank you
but I don't eat watercresses
You don't eat 'em
True. The simple fruits of the earth. No. You needn't bring any, William
Little more than skin and bone
And yet when he went from here (I may say with my blessing), and I spread afore him my humble store, like the Bee, he was as plump as a Peach
May I
Hah
And air you a-going to Joseph
In heaven's name
what does it matter to you where I am going? Leave that teapot alone
Yes, young man
I will leave that teapot alone. You are right, young man. For once, you are right. I forgit myself when I take such an interest in your breakfast, as to wish your frame, exhausted by the debilitating effects of prodigygality, to be stimilated by the 'olesome nourishment of your forefathers. And yet
this is him as I ever sported with in his days of happy infancy! Tell me not it cannot be; I tell you this is him
This is him
as I have rode in my shaycart. This is him as I have seen brought up by hand. This is him untoe the sister of which I was uncle by marriage, as her name was Georgiana M'ria from her own mother, let him deny it if he can
Young man
you air a-going to Joseph. What does it matter to me, you ask me, where you air a-going? I say to you, Sir, you air a-going to Joseph
Now
I will tell you what to say to Joseph. Here is Squires of the Boar present, known and respected in this town, and here is William, which his father's name was Potkins if I do not deceive myself
You do not, sir
In their presence
Joseph, I have this day seen my earliest benefactor and the founder of my fortun's. I will name no names, Joseph, but so they are pleased to call him up-town, and I have seen that man
I swear I don't see him here
Say that likewise
Say you said that, and even Joseph will probably betray surprise
There you quite mistake him
I know better
Says you
Joseph, I have seen that man, and that man bears you no malice and bears me no malice. He knows your character, Joseph, and is well acquainted with your pig-headedness and ignorance; and he knows my character, Joseph, and he knows my want of gratitoode. Yes, Joseph,' says you
he knows my total deficiency of common human gratitoode. He knows it, Joseph, as none can. You do not know it, Joseph, having no call to know it, but that man do
Says you, 'Joseph, he gave me a little message, which I will now repeat. It was, that in my being brought low, he saw the finger of Providence. He knowed that finger when he saw it, Joseph, and he saw it plain. It pinted out this writing, Joseph. Reward of ingratitoode to his earliest benefactor, and founder of fortun's. But that man said he did not repent of what he had done, Joseph. Not at all. It was right to do it, it was kind to do it, it was benevolent to do it, and he would do it again
It's pity
that the man did not say what he had done and would do again
Squires of the Boar
and William! I have no objections to your mentioning, either up-town or down-town, if such should be your wishes, that it was right to do it, kind to do it, benevolent to do it, and that I would do it again
it
But dear Biddy, how smart you are
Yes, dear Pip
And Joe, how smart you are
Yes, dear old Pip, old chap
It's my wedding-day
and I am married to Joe
Which he warn't strong enough, my dear, fur to be surprised
I ought to have thought of it, dear Joe, but I was too happy
Dear Biddy
you have the best husband in the whole world, and if you could have seen him by my bed you would have - But no, you couldn't love him better than you do
No, I couldn't indeed
And, dear Joe, you have the best wife in the whole world, and she will make you as happy as even you deserve to be, you dear, good, noble Joe
And Joe and Biddy both, as you have been to church to-day, and are in charity and love with all mankind, receive my humble thanks for all you have done for me and all I have so ill repaid! And when I say that I am going away within the hour, for I am soon going abroad, and that I shall never rest until I have worked for the money with which you have kept me out of prison, and have sent it to you, don't think, dear Joe and Biddy, that if I could repay it a thousand times over, I suppose I could cancel a farthing of the debt I owe you, or that I would do so if I could
But I must say more. Dear Joe, I hope you will have children to love, and that some little fellow will sit in this chimney corner of a winter night, who may remind you of another little fellow gone out of it for ever. Don't tell him, Joe, that I was thankless; don't tell him, Biddy, that I was ungenerous and unjust; only tell him that I honoured you both, because you were both so good and true, and that, as your child, I said it would be natural to him to grow up a much better man than I did
I ain't a-going
to tell him nothink o' that natur, Pip. Nor Biddy ain't. Nor yet no one ain't
And now, though I know you have already done it in your own kind hearts, pray tell me, both, that you forgive me! Pray let me hear you say the words, that I may carry the sound of them away with me, and then I shall be able to believe that you can trust me, and think better of me, in the time to come
O dear old Pip, old chap
God knows as I forgive you, if I have anythink to forgive
Amen! And God knows I do
Now let me go up and look at my old little room, and rest there a few minutes by myself, and then when I have eaten and drunk with you, go with me as far as the finger-post, dear Joe and Biddy, before we say good-bye
We giv' him the name of Pip for your sake, dear old chap
and we hoped he might grow a little bit like you, and we think he do
Biddy
you must give Pip to me, one of these days; or lend him, at all events
No, no
You must marry
So Herbert and Clara say, but I don't think I shall, Biddy. I have so settled down in their home, that it's not at all likely. I am already quite an old bachelor
Dear Pip
you are sure you don't fret for her
O no - I think not, Biddy
Tell me as an old, old friend. Have you quite forgotten her? "My dear Biddy, I have forgotten nothing in my life that ever had a foremost place there, and little that ever had any place there. But that poor dream, as I once used to call it, has all gone by, Biddy, all gone by
Estella
I am greatly changed. I wonder you know me
After so many years, it is strange that we should thus meet again, Estella, here where our first meeting was! Do you often come back
I have never been here since
Nor I
I have very often hoped and intended to come back, but have been prevented by many circumstances. Poor, poor old place
Were you wondering, as you walked along, how it came to be left in this condition
Yes, Estella
The ground belongs to me. It is the only possession I have not relinquished. Everything else has gone from me, little by little, but I have kept this. It was the subject of the only determined resistance I made in all the wretched years
Is it to be built on
At last it is. I came here to take leave of it before its change. And you
you live abroad still
Still
And do well, I am sure
I work pretty hard for a sufficient living, and therefore - Yes, I do well
I have often thought of you
Have you
Of late, very often. There was a long hard time when I kept far from me, the remembrance, of what I had thrown away when I was quite ignorant of its worth. But, since my duty has not been incompatible with the admission of that remembrance, I have given it a place in my heart
You have always held your place in my heart
I little thought
that I should take leave of you in taking leave of this spot. I am very glad to do so
Glad to part again, Estella? To me, parting is a painful thing. To me, the remembrance of our last parting has been ever mournful and painful
But you said to me
God bless you, God forgive you!' And if you could say that to me then, you will not hesitate to say that to me now - now, when suffering has been stronger than all other teaching, and has taught me to understand what your heart used to be. I have been bent and broken, but - I hope - into a better shape. Be as considerate and good to me as you were, and tell me we are friends
We are friends
And will continue friends apart
</text>
