<text>
NOW, what I want is, Facts. Teach these boys and girls nothing but Facts. Facts alone are wanted in life. Plant nothing else, and root out everything else. You can only form the minds of reasoning animals upon Facts: nothing else will ever be of any service to them. This is the principle on which I bring up my own children, and this is the principle on which I bring up these children. Stick to Facts, sir
In this life, we want nothing but Facts, sir; nothing but Facts
boys and girls
sir
Girl number twenty
I don't know that girl. Who is that girl
Sissy Jupe, sir
Sissy is not a name
Don't call yourself Sissy. Call yourself Cecilia
It's father as calls me Sissy, sir
Then he has no business to do it
Tell him he mustn't. Cecilia Jupe. Let me see. What is your father
He belongs to the horse-riding, if you please, sir
We don't want to know anything about that, here. You mustn't tell us about that, here. Your father breaks horses, don't he
If you please, sir, when they can get any to break, they do break horses in the ring, sir
You mustn't tell us about the ring, here. Very well, then. Describe your father as a horsebreaker. He doctors sick horses, I dare say
Oh yes, sir
Very well, then. He is a veterinary surgeon, a farrier, and horsebreaker. Give me your definition of a horse
Girl number twenty unable to define a horse
Girl number twenty possessed of no facts, in reference to one of the commonest of animals! Some boy's definition of a horse. Bitzer, yours
Bitzer
Your definition of a horse
Quadruped. Graminivorous. Forty teeth, namely twenty-four grinders, four eye-teeth, and twelve incisive. Sheds coat in the spring; in marshy countries, sheds hoofs, too. Hoofs hard, but requiring to be shod with iron. Age known by marks in mouth
Now girl number twenty
You know what a horse is
Very well
That's a horse. Now, let me ask you girls and boys, Would you paper a room with representations of horses
Yes, sir
No, sir
Of course, No. Why wouldn't you
You must paper it
You must paper it
whether you like it or not. Don't tell us you wouldn't paper it. What do you mean, boy
I'll explain to you, then
why you wouldn't paper a room with representations of horses. Do you ever see horses walking up and down the sides of rooms in reality - in fact? Do you
Yes, sir
No, sir
Of course no
Why, then, you are not to see anywhere, what you don't see in fact; you are not to have anywhere, what you don't have in fact. What is called Taste, is only another name for Fact
This is a new principle, a discovery, a great discovery
Now, I'll try you again. Suppose you were going to carpet a room. Would you use a carpet having a representation of flowers upon it
No, sir
Girl number twenty
So you would carpet your room - or your husband's room, if you were a grown woman, and had a husband - with representations of flowers, would you
Why would you
If you please, sir, I am very fond of flowers
And is that why you would put tables and chairs upon them, and have people walking over them with heavy boots
Ay, ay, ay! But you mustn't fancy
That's it! You are never to fancy
You are not, Cecilia Jupe
to do anything of that kind
Fact, fact, fact
Fact, fact, fact
You are to be in all things regulated and governed
by fact. We hope to have, before long, a board of fact, composed of commissioners of fact, who will force the people to be a people of fact, and of nothing but fact. You must discard the word Fancy altogether. You have nothing to do with it. You are not to have, in any object of use or ornament, what would be a contradiction in fact. You don't walk upon flowers in fact; you cannot be allowed to walk upon flowers in carpets. You don't find that foreign birds and butterflies come and perch upon your crockery; you cannot be permitted to paint foreign birds and butterflies upon your crockery. You never meet with quadrupeds going up and down walls; you must not have quadrupeds represented upon walls. You must use
for all these purposes, combinations and modifications (in primary colours) of mathematical figures which are susceptible of proof and demonstration. This is the new discovery. This is fact. This is taste
will proceed to give his first lesson here, Mr. Gradgrind, I shall be happy, at your request, to observe his mode of procedure
Sleary's Horse-riding' which claimed their suffrages. Sleary himself, a stout modern statue with a money-box at its elbow, in an ecclesiastical niche of early Gothic architecture, took the money. Miss Josephine Sleary, as some very long and very narrow strips of printed bill announced, was then inaugurating the entertainments with her graceful equestrian Tyrolean flower-act. Among the other pleasing but always strictly moral wonders which must be seen to be believed, Signor Jupe was that afternoon to 'elucidate the diverting accomplishments of his highly trained performing dog Merrylegs
his astounding feat of throwing seventy-five hundred-weight in rapid succession backhanded over his head, thus forming a fountain of solid iron in mid-air, a feat never before attempted in this or any other country, and which having elicited such rapturous plaudits from enthusiastic throngs it cannot be withdrawn
enliven the varied performances at frequent intervals with his chaste Shaksperean quips and retorts
the highly novel and laughable hippo- comedietta of The Tailor's Journey to Brentford
Now, to think of these vagabonds
attracting the young rabble from a model school
Louisa!! Thomas
In the name of wonder, idleness, and folly
what do you do here
Wanted to see what it was like
What it was like
Yes, father
Thomas, though I have the fact before me, I find it difficult to believe that you, with your education and resources, should have brought your sister to a scene like this
I brought him, father
I asked him to come
I am sorry to hear it. I am very sorry indeed to hear it. It makes Thomas no better, and it makes you worse, Louisa
You! Thomas and you, to whom the circle of the sciences is open; Thomas and you, who may be said to be replete with facts; Thomas and you, who have been trained to mathematical exactness; Thomas and you, here
In this degraded position! I am amazed
I was tired, father. I have been tired a long time
Tired? Of what
I don't know of what - of everything, I think
Say not another word
You are childish. I will hear no more
What would your best friends say, Louisa? Do you attach no value to their good opinion? What would Mr. Bounderby say
What
would Mr. Bounderby say
What would Mr. Bounderby say
I hadn't a shoe to my foot. As to a stocking, I didn't know such a thing by name. I passed the day in a ditch, and the night in a pigsty. That's the way I spent my tenth birthday. Not that a ditch was new to me, for I was born in a ditch
No! As wet as a sop. A foot of water in it
Enough to give a baby cold
Cold? I was born with inflammation of the lungs, and of everything else, I believe, that was capable of inflammation
For years, ma'am, I was one of the most miserable little wretches ever seen. I was so sickly, that I was always moaning and groaning. I was so ragged and dirty, that you wouldn't have touched me with a pair of tongs
How I fought through it, I don't know
I was determined, I suppose. I have been a determined character in later life, and I suppose I was then. Here I am, Mrs. Gradgrind, anyhow, and nobody to thank for my being here, but myself
My mother? Bolted, ma'am
My mother left me to my grandmother
and, according to the best of my remembrance, my grandmother was the wickedest and the worst old woman that ever lived. If I got a little pair of shoes by any chance, she would take 'em off and sell 'em for drink. Why, I have known that grandmother of mine lie in her bed and drink her four-teen glasses of liquor before breakfast
She kept a chandler's shop
and kept me in an egg-box. That was the cot of my infancy; an old egg-box. As soon as I was big enough to run away, of course I ran away. Then I became a young vagabond; and instead of one old woman knocking me about and starving me, everybody of all ages knocked me about and starved me. They were right; they had no business to do anything else. I was a nuisance, an incumbrance, and a pest. I know that very well
I was to pull through it, I suppose, Mrs. Gradgrind. Whether I was to do it or not, ma'am, I did it. I pulled through it, though nobody threw me out a rope. Vagabond, errand-boy, vagabond, labourer, porter, clerk, chief manager, small partner, Josiah Bounderby of Coketown. Those are the antecedents, and the culmination. Josiah Bounderby of Coketown learnt his letters from the outsides of the shops, Mrs. Gradgrind, and was first able to tell the time upon a dial-plate, from studying the steeple clock of St. Giles's Church, London, under the direction of a drunken cripple, who was a convicted thief, and an incorrigible vagrant. Tell Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, of your district schools and your model schools, and your training schools, and your whole kettle-of-fish of schools; and Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, tells you plainly, all right, all correct - he hadn't such advantages - but let us have hard-headed, solid-fisted people - the education that made him won't do for everybody, he knows well - such and such his education was, however, and you may force him to swallow boiling fat, but you shall never force him to suppress the facts of his life
Behold your Bounderby
Well
what's the matter? What is young Thomas in the dumps about
We were peeping at the circus
and father caught us
And, Mrs. Gradgrind
I should as soon have expected to find my children reading poetry
Dear me
How can you, Louisa and Thomas! I wonder at you. I declare you're enough to make one regret ever having had a family at all. I have a great mind to say I wish I hadn't. Then what would you have done, I should like to know
As if, with my head in its present throbbing state, you couldn't go and look at the shells and minerals and things provided for you, instead of circuses
You know, as well as I do, no young people have circus masters, or keep circuses in cabinets, or attend lectures about circuses. What can you possibly want to know of circuses then? I am sure you have enough to do, if that's what you want. With my head in its present state, I couldn't remember the mere names of half the facts you have got to attend to
That's the reason
Don't tell me that's the reason, because it can't be nothing of the sort
Go and be somethingological directly
Bounderby
you are always so interested in my young people - particularly in Louisa - that I make no apology for saying to you, I am very much vexed by this discovery. I have systematically devoted myself (as you know) to the education of the reason of my family. The reason is (as you know) the only faculty to which education should be addressed. 'And yet, Bounderby, it would appear from this unexpected circumstance of to-day, though in itself a trifling one, as if something had crept into Thomas's and Louisa's minds which is - or rather, which is not - I don't know that I can express myself better than by saying - which has never been intended to be developed, and in which their reason has no part
There certainly is no reason in looking with interest at a parcel of vagabonds
When I was a vagabond myself, nobody looked with any interest at me; I know that
in what has this vulgar curiosity its rise
I'll tell you in what. In idle imagination
I hope not
I confess, however, that the misgiving has crossed me on my way home
In idle imagination, Gradgrind
A very bad thing for anybody, but a cursed bad thing for a girl like Louisa. I should ask Mrs. Gradgrind's pardon for strong expressions, but that she knows very well I am not a refined character. Whoever expects refinement in me will be disappointed. I hadn't a refined bringing up
Whether
whether any instructor or servant can have suggested anything? Whether Louisa or Thomas can have been reading anything? Whether, in spite of all precautions, any idle story-book can have got into the house? Because, in minds that have been practically formed by rule and line, from the cradle upwards, this is so curious, so incomprehensible
Stop a bit
You have one of those strollers' children in the school
Cecilia Jupe, by name
Now, stop a bit
How did she come there
Why, the fact is, I saw the girl myself, for the first time, only just now. She specially applied here at the house to be admitted, as not regularly belonging to our town, and - yes, you are right, Bounderby, you are right
Now, stop a bit
Louisa saw her when she came
Louisa certainly did see her, for she mentioned the application to me. But Louisa saw her, I have no doubt, in Mrs. Gradgrind's presence
Pray, Mrs. Gradgrind
what passed
Oh, my poor health
The girl wanted to come to the school, and Mr. Gradgrind wanted girls to come to the school, and Louisa and Thomas both said that the girl wanted to come, and that Mr. Gradgrind wanted girls to come, and how was it possible to contradict them when such was the fact
Now I tell you what, Gradgrind
Turn this girl to the right about, and there's an end of it
I am much of your opinion
Do it at once
has always been my motto from a child. When I thought I would run away from my egg-box and my grandmother, I did it at once. Do you the same. Do this at once
Are you walking
I have the father's address. Perhaps you would not mind walking to town with me
Not the least in the world
as long as you do it at once
I never wear gloves
I didn't climb up the ladder in them. - Shouldn't be so high up, if I had
It's all right now, Louisa: it's all right, young Thomas
you won't do so any more. I'll answer for it's being all over with father. Well, Louisa, that's worth a kiss, isn't it
You can take one, Mr. Bounderby
Always my pet; ain't you, Louisa
Good-bye, Louisa
What are you about, Loo
You'll rub a hole in your face
You may cut the piece out with your penknife if you like, Tom. I wouldn't cry
This man lives at Pod's End, and I don't quite know Pod's End
Which is it, Bounderby
Halloa
Stop! Where are you going! Stop
Why are you tearing about the streets
in this improper manner
I was - I was run after, sir
and I wanted to get away
Run after
Who would run after you
What do you mean, boy
What are you doing? How dare you dash against - everybody - in this manner
Was this boy running after you, Jupe
Yes, sir
No, I wasn't, sir
Not till she run away from me. But the horse-riders never mind what they say, sir; they're famous for it. You know the horse-riders are famous for never minding what they say
It's as well known in the town as - please, sir, as the multiplication table isn't known to the horse-riders
He frightened me so
with his cruel faces
Oh
Oh! An't you one of the rest! An't you a horse-rider! I never looked at her, sir. I asked her if she would know how to define a horse to-morrow, and offered to tell her again, and she ran away, and I ran after her, sir, that she might know how to answer when she was asked. You wouldn't have thought of saying such mischief if you hadn't been a horse-rider
Her calling seems to be pretty well known among 'em
You'd have had the whole school peeping in a row, in a week
Truly, I think so
Bitzer, turn you about and take yourself home. Jupe, stay here a moment. Let me hear of your running in this manner any more, boy, and you will hear of me through the master of the school. You understand what I mean. Go along
Now, girl
take this gentleman and me to your father's; we are going there. What have you got in that bottle you are carrying
Gin
Dear, no, sir! It's the nine oils
The what
The nine oils, sir, to rub father with
Then
what the devil do you rub your father with nine oils for
It's what our people aways use, sir, when they get any hurts in the ring
They bruise themselves very bad sometimes
Serve 'em right
for being idle
By George
when I was four or five years younger than you, I had worse bruises upon me than ten oils, twenty oils, forty oils, would have rubbed off. I didn't get 'em by posture-making, but by being banged about. There was no rope- dancing for me; I danced on the bare ground and was larruped with the rope
And this is Pod's End; is it, Jupe
This is it, sir, and - if you wouldn't mind, sir - this is the house
It's only crossing the bar, sir, and up the stairs, if you wouldn't mind, and waiting there for a moment till I get a candle. If you should hear a dog, sir, it's only Merrylegs, and he only barks
Merrylegs and nine oils, eh
Pretty well this, for a self-made man
Father is not in our room, sir
If you wouldn't mind walking in, I'll find him directly
Father must have gone down to the Booth, sir. I don't know why he should go there, but he must be there; I'll bring him in a minute
What does she mean
Back in a minute? It's more than a mile off
By your leaves, gentlemen
By your leaves, gentlemen
It was you, I believe, that were wishing to see Jupe
It was
His daughter has gone to fetch him, but I can't wait; therefore, if you please, I will leave a message for him with you
You see, my friend
we are the kind of people who know the value of time, and you are the kind of people who don't know the value of time
I have not
the honour of knowing you, - but if you mean that you can make more money of your time than I can of mine, I should judge from your appearance, that you are about right
And when you have made it, you can keep it too, I should think
Kidderminster, stow that
What does he come here cheeking us for, then
If you want to cheek us, pay your ochre at the doors and take it out
Kidderminster
stow that! - Sir
I was addressing myself to you. You may or you may not be aware (for perhaps you have not been much in the audience), that Jupe has missed his tip very often, lately
Has - what has he missed
Missed his tip
Offered at the Garters four times last night, and never done 'em once
Missed his tip at the banners, too, and was loose in his ponging
Didn't do what he ought to do. Was short in his leaps and bad in his tumbling
Oh
that is tip, is it
In a general way that's missing his tip
Nine oils, Merrylegs, missing tips, garters, banners, and Ponging, eh
Queer sort of company, too, for a man who has raised himself
Lower yourself, then
Oh Lord! if you've raised yourself so high as all that comes to, let yourself down a bit
This is a very obtrusive lad
We'd have had a young gentleman to meet you, if we had known you were coming
It's a pity you don't have a bespeak, being so particular. You're on the Tight-Jeff, ain't you
What does this unmannerly boy mean
by Tight-Jeff
There! Get out, get out
Tight-Jeff or Slack-Jeff, it don't much signify: it's only tight-rope and slack- rope. You were going to give me a message for Jupe
Yes, I was
Then
my opinion is, he will never receive it. Do you know much of him
I never saw the man in my life
I doubt if you ever will see him now. It's pretty plain to me, he's off
Do you mean that he has deserted his daughter
Ay! I mean
that he has cut. He was goosed last night, he was goosed the night before last, he was goosed to-day. He has lately got in the way of being always goosed, and he can't stand it
Why has he been - so very much - Goosed
His joints are turning stiff, and he is getting used up
He has his points as a Cackler still, but he can't get a living out of them
A Cackler
Here we go again
A speaker, if the gentleman likes it better
Now, it's a remarkable fact, sir, that it cut that man deeper, to know that his daughter knew of his being goosed, than to go through with it
Good
This is good, Gradgrind! A man so fond of his daughter, that he runs away from her! This is devilish good! Ha! ha! Now, I'll tell you what, young man. I haven't always occupied my present station of life. I know what these things are. You may be astonished to hear it, but my mother - ran away from me
Very well
I was born in a ditch, and my mother ran away from me. Do I excuse her for it? No. Have I ever excused her for it? Not I. What do I call her for it? I call her probably the very worst woman that ever lived in the world, except my drunken grandmother. There's no family pride about me, there's no imaginative sentimental humbug about me. I call a spade a spade; and I call the mother of Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, without any fear or any favour, what I should call her if she had been the mother of Dick Jones of Wapping. So, with this man. He is a runaway rogue and a vagabond, that's what he is, in English
It's all the same to me what he is or what he is not, whether in English or whether in French
I am telling your friend what's the fact; if you don't like to hear it, you can avail yourself of the open air. You give it mouth enough, you do; but give it mouth in your own building at least
Don't give it mouth in this building, till you're called upon. You have got some building of your own I dare say, now
Perhaps so
Then give it mouth in your own building, will you, if you please
Because this isn't a strong building, and too much of you might bring it down
Jupe sent his daughter out on an errand not an hour ago, and then was seen to slip out himself, with his hat over his eyes, and a bundle tied up in a handkerchief under his arm. She will never believe it of him, but he has cut away and left her
Pray
why will she never believe it of him
Because those two were one. Because they were never asunder. Because, up to this time, he seemed to dote upon her
Poor Sissy! He had better have apprenticed her
Now, he leaves her without anything to take to
It is creditable to you, who have never been apprenticed, to express that opinion
I never apprenticed? I was apprenticed when I was seven year old
Oh! Indeed
Idleness
No, by the Lord Harry! Nor I
Her father always had it in his head
that she was to be taught the deuce-and-all of education. How it got into his head, I can't say; I can only say that it never got out. He has been picking up a bit of reading for her, here - and a bit of writing for her, there - and a bit of ciphering for her, somewhere else - these seven years
When Sissy got into the school here
her father was as pleased as Punch. I couldn't altogether make out why, myself, as we were not stationary here, being but comers and goers anywhere. I suppose, however, he had this move in his mind - he was always half-cracked - and then considered her provided for. If you should happen to have looked in to-night, for the purpose of telling him that you were going to do her any little service
it would be very fortunate and well-timed; very fortunate and well- timed
On the contrary
I came to tell him that her connections made her not an object for the school, and that she must not attend any more. Still, if her father really has left her, without any connivance on her part - Bounderby, let me have a word with you
No. I say no. I advise you not. I say by no means
But even as an example to Louisa, of what this pursuit which has been the subject of a vulgar curiosity, leads to and ends in. Think of it, Bounderby, in that point of view
Thquire
Your thervant! Thith ith a bad piethe of bithnith, thith ith. You've heard of my Clown and hith dog being thuppothed to have morrithed
Yes
Well, Thquire
Ith it your intenthion to do anything for the poor girl, Thquire
I shall have something to propose to her when she comes back
Glad to hear it, Thquire. Not that I want to get rid of the child, any more than I want to thtand in her way. I'm willing to take her prentith, though at her age ith late. My voithe ith a little huthky, Thquire, and not eathy heard by them ath don't know me; but if you'd been chilled and heated, heated and chilled, chilled and heated in the ring when you wath young, ath often ath I have been, your voithe wouldn't have lathted out, Thquire, no more than mine
I dare say not
What thall it be, Thquire, while you wait? Thall it be Therry? Give it a name, Thquire
Nothing for me, I thank you
Don't thay nothing, Thquire. What doth your friend thay? If you haven't took your feed yet, have a glath of bitterth
Father, hush! she has come back
Ith an internal thame, upon my thoul it ith
O my dear father, my good kind father, where are you gone? You are gone to try to do me some good, I know! You are gone away for my sake, I am sure! And how miserable and helpless you will be without me, poor, poor father, until you come back
Now, good people all
this is wanton waste of time. Let the girl understand the fact. Let her take it from me, if you like, who have been run away from, myself. Here, what's your name! Your father has absconded - deserted you - and you mustn't expect to see him again as long as you live
Shame
Brute
I tell you what, Thquire. To thpeak plain to you, my opinion ith that you had better cut it thort, and drop it. They're a very good natur'd people, my people, but they're accuthtomed to be quick in their movementh; and if you don't act upon my advithe, I'm damned if I don't believe they'll pith you out o' winder
It is of no moment
whether this person is to be expected back at any time, or the contrary. He is gone away, and there is no present expectation of his return. That, I believe, is agreed on all hands
Thath agreed, Thquire. Thick to that
Well then. I, who came here to inform the father of the poor girl, Jupe, that she could not be received at the school any more, in consequence of there being practical objections, into which I need not enter, to the reception there of the children of persons so employed, am prepared in these altered circumstances to make a proposal. I am willing to take charge of you, Jupe, and to educate you, and provide for you. The only condition (over and above your good behaviour) I make is, that you decide now, at once, whether to accompany me or remain here. Also, that if you accompany me now, it is understood that you communicate no more with any of your friends who are here present. These observations comprise the whole of the case
At the thame time
The only observation I will make to you, Jupe, in the way of influencing your decision, is, that it is highly desirable to have a sound practical education, and that even your father himself (from what I understand) appears, on your behalf, to have known and felt that much
she will go
Be sure you know your own mind, Jupe
I say no more. Be sure you know your own mind
When father comes back
how will he ever find me if I go away
You may be quite at ease
Thleary. Thath my name, Thquire. Not athamed of it. Known all over England, and alwayth paythe ith way
Must find out Mr. Sleary, who would then let him know where you went. I should have no power of keeping you against his wish, and he would have no difficulty, at any time, in finding Mr. Thomas Gradgrind of Coketown. I am well known
Well known
You're one of the thort, Thquire, that keepth a prethiouth thight of money out of the houthe. But never mind that at prethent
Oh, give me my clothes, give me my clothes, and let me go away before I break my heart
Now, Jupe
If you are quite determined, come
Good-bye, my dear
You'll make your fortun, I hope, and none of our poor folkth will ever trouble you, I'll pound it. I with your father hadn't taken hith dog with him; ith a ill- conwenienth to have the dog out of the billth. But on thecond thoughth, he wouldn't have performed without hith mathter, tho ith ath broad ath ith long
There the ith, Thquire
and the'll do you juthtithe. Good-bye, Thethilia
Good-bye, Cecilia
Good-bye, Sissy
God bless you, dear
Leave the bottle, my dear; ith large to carry; it will be of no uthe to you now. Give it to me
No, no
Oh, no! Pray let me keep it for father till he comes back! He will want it when he comes back. He had never thought of going away, when he sent me for it. I must keep it for him, if you please
Tho be it, my dear. (You thee how it ith, Thquire!) Farewell, Thethilia! My latht wordth to you ith thith, Thtick to the termth of your engagement, be obedient to the Thquire, and forget uth. But if, when you're grown up and married and well off, you come upon any horthe-riding ever, don't be hard upon it, don't be croth with it, give it a Bethpeak if you can, and think you might do wurth. People mutht be amuthed, Thquire, thomehow
they can't be alwayth a working, nor yet they can't be alwayth a learning. Make the betht of uth; not the wurtht. I've got my living out of the horthe-riding all my life, I know; but I conthider that I lay down the philothophy of the thubject when I thay to you, Thquire, make the betht of uth: not the wurtht
a Powler
And yet, sir
how does it turn out after all? Why here she is at a hundred a year (I give her a hundred, which she is pleased to term handsome), keeping the house of Josiah Bounderby of Coketown
Princes and lords may flourish or may fade, A breath can make them, as a breath has made
Mr. Bounderby
you are unusually slow, sir, with your breakfast this morning
Why, ma'am
I am thinking about Tom Gradgrind's whim;' Tom Gradgrind, for a bluff independent manner of speaking - as if somebody were always endeavouring to bribe him with immense sums to say Thomas, and he wouldn't; 'Tom Gradgrind's whim, ma'am, of bringing up the tumbling-girl
The girl is now waiting to know
whether she is to go straight to the school, or up to the Lodge
She must wait, ma'am
till I know myself. We shall have Tom Gradgrind down here presently, I suppose. If he should wish her to remain here a day or two longer, of course she can, ma'am
Of course she can if you wish it, Mr. Bounderby
I told him I would give her a shake-down here, last night, in order that he might sleep on it before he decided to let her have any association with Louisa
Indeed, Mr. Bounderby? Very thoughtful of you
It's tolerably clear to me
that the little puss can get small good out of such companionship
Are you speaking of young Miss Gradgrind, Mr. Bounderby
Yes, ma'am, I'm speaking of Louisa
Your observation being limited to "little puss,"' said Mrs. Sparsit, 'and there being two little girls in question, I did not know which might be indicated by that expression
Louisa
Louisa, Louisa
You are quite another father to Louisa, sir
If you had said I was another father to Tom - young Tom, I mean, not my friend Tom Gradgrind - you might have been nearer the mark. I am going to take young Tom into my office. Going to have him under my wing, ma'am
Indeed? Rather young for that, is he not, sir
sir
I'm not going to take him at once; he is to finish his educational cramming before then
By the Lord Harry, he'll have enough of it, first and last! He'd open his eyes, that boy would, if he knew how empty of learning my young maw was, at his time of life
But it's extraordinary the difficulty I have on scores of such subjects, in speaking to any one on equal terms. Here, for example, I have been speaking to you this morning about tumblers. Why, what do you know about tumblers? At the time when, to have been a tumbler in the mud of the streets, would have been a godsend to me, a prize in the lottery to me, you were at the Italian Opera. You were coming out of the Italian Opera, ma'am, in white satin and jewels, a blaze of splendour, when I hadn't a penny to buy a link to light you
I certainly, sir
was familiar with the Italian Opera at a very early age
Egad, ma'am, so was I
with the wrong side of it. A hard bed the pavement of its Arcade used to make, I assure you. People like you, ma'am, accustomed from infancy to lie on Down feathers, have no idea how hard a paving-stone is, without trying it. No, no, it's of no use my talking to you about tumblers. I should speak of foreign dancers, and the West End of London, and May Fair, and lords and ladies and honourables
I trust, sir
it is not necessary that you should do anything of that kind. I hope I have learnt how to accommodate myself to the changes of life. If I have acquired an interest in hearing of your instructive experiences, and can scarcely hear enough of them, I claim no merit for that, since I believe it is a general sentiment
Well, ma'am
perhaps some people may be pleased to say that they do like to hear, in his own unpolished way, what Josiah Bounderby, of Coketown, has gone through. But you must confess that you were born in the lap of luxury, yourself. Come, ma'am, you know you were born in the lap of luxury
I do not, sir
deny it
And you were in crack society. Devilish high society
It is true, sir
You were in the tiptop fashion, and all the rest of it
Yes, sir
It is unquestionably true
Can Jupe be sent here, Bounderby
Now, I tell you what, my girl. The name of that lady by the teapot, is Mrs. Sparsit. That lady acts as mistress of this house, and she is a highly connected lady. Consequently, if ever you come again into any room in this house, you will make a short stay in it if you don't behave towards that lady in your most respectful manner. Now, I don't care a button what you do to me, because I don't affect to be anybody. So far from having high connections I have no connections at all, and I come of the scum of the earth. But towards that lady, I do care what you do; and you shall do what is deferential and respectful, or you shall not come here
I hope, Bounderby
that this was merely an oversight
My friend Tom Gradgrind suggests, Mrs. Sparsit
that this was merely an oversight. Very likely. However, as you are aware, ma'am, I don't allow of even oversights towards you
You are very good indeed, sir
It is not worth speaking of
Jupe, I have made up my mind to take you into my house; and, when you are not in attendance at the school, to employ you about Mrs. Gradgrind, who is rather an invalid. I have explained to Miss Louisa - this is Miss Louisa - the miserable but natural end of your late career; and you are to expressly understand that the whole of that subject is past, and is not to be referred to any more. From this time you begin your history. You are, at present, ignorant, I know
Yes, sir, very
I shall have the satisfaction of causing you to be strictly educated; and you will be a living proof to all who come into communication with you, of the advantages of the training you will receive. You will be reclaimed and formed. You have been in the habit now of reading to your father, and those people I found you among, I dare say
Only to father and Merrylegs, sir. At least I mean to father, when Merrylegs was always there
Never mind Merrylegs, Jupe
I don't ask about him. I understand you to have been in the habit of reading to your father
O, yes, sir, thousands of times. They were the happiest - O, of all the happy times we had together, sir
And what
did you read to your father, Jupe
About the Fairies, sir, and the Dwarf, and the Hunchback, and the Genies
Hush
that is enough. Never breathe a word of such destructive nonsense any more. Bounderby, this is a case for rigid training, and I shall observe it with interest
Well
I have given you my opinion already, and I shouldn't do as you do. But, very well, very well. Since you are bent upon it, very well
Tom, I wonder' - upon which Mr. Gradgrind, who was the person overhearing, stepped forth into the light and said, 'Louisa, never wonder
I am sick of my life, Loo. I, hate it altogether, and I hate everybody except you
You don't hate Sissy, Tom
I hate to be obliged to call her Jupe. And she hates me
No, she does not, Tom, I am sure
She must
She must just hate and detest the whole set-out of us. They'll bother her head off, I think, before they have done with her. Already she's getting as pale as wax, and as heavy as - I am
As to me
I am a Donkey, that's what I am. I am as obstinate as one, I am more stupid than one, I get as much pleasure as one, and I should like to kick like one
Not me, I hope, Tom
No, Loo; I wouldn't hurt you. I made an exception of you at first. I don't know what this - jolly old - Jaundiced Jail
would be without you
Indeed, Tom? Do you really and truly say so
Why, of course I do. What's the use of talking about it
Because, Tom
as I get older, and nearer growing up, I often sit wondering here, and think how unfortunate it is for me that I can't reconcile you to home better than I am able to do. I don't know what other girls know. I can't play to you, or sing to you. I can't talk to you so as to lighten your mind, for I never see any amusing sights or read any amusing books that it would be a pleasure or a relief to you to talk about, when you are tired
Well, no more do I. I am as bad as you in that respect; and I am a Mule too, which you're not. If father was determined to make me either a Prig or a Mule, and I am not a Prig, why, it stands to reason, I must be a Mule. And so I am
It's a great pity
it's a great pity, Tom. It's very unfortunate for both of us
Oh! You
you are a girl, Loo, and a girl comes out of it better than a boy does. I don't miss anything in you. You are the only pleasure I have - you can brighten even this place - and you can always lead me as you like
You are a dear brother, Tom; and while you think I can do such things, I don't so much mind knowing better. Though I do know better, Tom, and am very sorry for it
I wish I could collect all the Facts we hear so much about
and all the Figures, and all the people who found them out: and I wish I could put a thousand barrels of gunpowder under them, and blow them all up together! However, when I go to live with old Bounderby, I'll have my revenge
Your revenge, Tom
I mean, I'll enjoy myself a little, and go about and see something, and hear something. I'll recompense myself for the way in which I have been brought up
But don't disappoint yourself beforehand, Tom. Mr. Bounderby thinks as father thinks, and is a great deal rougher, and not half so kind
Oh
I don't mind that. I shall very well know how to manage and smooth old Bounderby
What is your great mode of smoothing and managing, Tom? Is it a secret
Oh
if it is a secret, it's not far off. It's you. You are his little pet, you are his favourite; he'll do anything for you. When he says to me what I don't like, I shall say to him, "My sister Loo will be hurt and disappointed, Mr. Bounderby. She always used to tell me she was sure you would be easier with me than this." That'll bring him about, or nothing will
Have you gone to sleep, Loo
No, Tom. I am looking at the fire
You seem to find more to look at in it than ever I could find
Another of the advantages, I suppose, of being a girl
Tom
do you look forward with any satisfaction to this change to Mr. Bounderby's
Why, there's one thing to be said of it
it will be getting away from home
There is one thing to be said of it
it will be getting away from home. Yes
Not but what I shall be very unwilling, both to leave you, Loo, and to leave you here. But I must go, you know, whether I like it or not; and I had better go where I can take with me some advantage of your influence, than where I should lose it altogether. Don't you see
Yes, Tom
Except that it is a fire
it looks to me as stupid and blank as everything else looks. What do you see in it? Not a circus
I don't see anything in it, Tom, particularly. But since I have been looking at it, I have been wondering about you and me, grown up
Wondering again
I have such unmanageable thoughts
that they will wonder
Then I beg of you, Louisa
to do nothing of that description, for goodness' sake, you inconsiderate girl, or I shall never hear the last of it from your father. And, Thomas, it is really shameful, with my poor head continually wearing me out, that a boy brought up as you have been, and whose education has cost what yours has, should be found encouraging his sister to wonder, when he knows his father has expressly said that she is not to do it
Louisa, don't tell me, in my state of health; for unless you had been encouraged, it is morally and physically impossible that you could have done it
I was encouraged by nothing, mother, but by looking at the red sparks dropping out of the fire, and whitening and dying. It made me think, after all, how short my life would be, and how little I could hope to do in it
Nonsense
Nonsense! Don't stand there and tell me such stuff, Louisa, to my face, when you know very well that if it was ever to reach your father's ears I should never hear the last of it. After all the trouble that has been taken with you! After the lectures you have attended, and the experiments you have seen! After I have heard you myself, when the whole of my right side has been benumbed, going on with your master about combustion, and calcination, and calorification, and I may say every kind of ation that could drive a poor invalid distracted, to hear you talking in this absurd way about sparks and ashes! I wish
yes, I really do wish that I had never had a family, and then you would have known what it was to do without me
What is the first principle of this science
To do unto others as I would that they should do unto me
must be kept to it
It would be a fine thing to be you, Miss Louisa
Do you think so
I should know so much, Miss Louisa. All that is difficult to me now, would be so easy then
You might not be the better for it, Sissy
I should not be the worse, Miss Louisa
I don't know that
You are more useful to my mother, and more pleasant with her than I can ever be
You are pleasanter to yourself, than I am to myself
But, if you please, Miss Louisa
I am - O so stupid
You don't know
O no
They know everything
Tell me some of your mistakes
I am almost ashamed
National, I think it must have been
Yes, it was. - But isn't it the same
You had better say, National, as he said so
What did you say
Miss Louisa, I said I didn't know. I thought I couldn't know whether it was a prosperous nation or not, and whether I was in a thriving state or not, unless I knew who had got the money, and whether any of it was mine. But that had nothing to do with it. It was not in the figures at all
That was a great mistake of yours
Of course it was
Statistics
I said it was nothing
Nothing, Sissy
Nothing, Miss - to the relations and friends of the people who were killed. I shall never learn
And the worst of all is, that although my poor father wished me so much to learn, and although I am so anxious to learn, because he wished me to, I am afraid I don't like it
Did your father know so much himself, that he wished you to be well taught too, Sissy
No one hears us; and if any one did, I am sure no harm could be found in such an innocent question
No, Miss Louisa
father knows very little indeed. It's as much as he can do to write; and it's more than people in general can do to read his writing. Though it's plain to me
Your mother
Father says she was quite a scholar. She died when I was born. She was;' Sissy made the terrible communication nervously; 'she was a dancer
Did your father love her
O yes! As dearly as he loves me. Father loved me, first, for her sake. He carried me about with him when I was quite a baby. We have never been asunder from that time
Yet he leaves you now, Sissy
Only for my good. Nobody understands him as I do; nobody knows him as I do. When he left me for my good - he never would have left me for his own - I know he was almost broken-hearted with the trial. He will not be happy for a single minute, till he comes back
Tell me more about him
I will never ask you again. Where did you live
We travelled about the country, and had no fixed place to live in. Father's a;' Sissy whispered the awful word, 'a clown
To make the people laugh
Yes. But they wouldn't laugh sometimes, and then father cried. Lately, they very often wouldn't laugh, and he used to come home despairing. Father's not like most. Those who didn't know him as well as I do, and didn't love him as dearly as I do, might believe he was not quite right. Sometimes they played tricks upon him; but they never knew how he felt them, and shrunk up, when he was alone with me. He was far, far timider than they thought
And you were his comfort through everything
I hope so, and father said I was. It was because he grew so scared and trembling, and because he felt himself to be a poor, weak, ignorant, helpless man (those used to be his words), that he wanted me so much to know a great deal, and be different from him. I used to read to him to cheer his courage, and he was very fond of that. They were wrong books - I am never to speak of them here - but we didn't know there was any harm in them
And he liked them
O very much! They kept him, many times, from what did him real harm. And often and often of a night, he used to forget all his troubles in wondering whether the Sultan would let the lady go on with the story, or would have her head cut off before it was finished
And your father was always kind? To the last
Always, always
Kinder and kinder than I can tell. He was angry only one night, and that was not to me, but Merrylegs. Merrylegs
is his performing dog
Why was he angry with the dog
Father, soon after they came home from performing, told Merrylegs to jump up on the backs of the two chairs and stand across them - which is one of his tricks. He looked at father, and didn't do it at once. Everything of father's had gone wrong that night, and he hadn't pleased the public at all. He cried out that the very dog knew he was failing, and had no compassion on him. Then he beat the dog, and I was frightened, and said, "Father, father! Pray don't hurt the creature who is so fond of you! O Heaven forgive you, father, stop!" And he stopped, and the dog was bloody, and father lay down crying on the floor with the dog in his arms, and the dog licked his face
Finish by telling me how your father left you, Sissy. Now that I have asked you so much, tell me the end. The blame, if there is any blame, is mine, not yours
Dear Miss Louisa
I came home from the school that afternoon, and found poor father just come home too, from the booth. And he sat rocking himself over the fire, as if he was in pain. And I said, "Have you hurt yourself, father?" (as he did sometimes, like they all did), and he said, "A little, my darling." And when I came to stoop down and look up at his face, I saw that he was crying. The more I spoke to him, the more he hid his face; and at first he shook all over, and said nothing but "My darling;" and "My love
I am asking Sissy a few questions, Tom
You have no occasion to go away; but don't interrupt us for a moment, Tom dear
Oh! very well
Only father has brought old Bounderby home, and I want you to come into the drawing-room. Because if you come, there's a good chance of old Bounderby's asking me to dinner; and if you don't, there's none
I'll come directly
I'll wait for you
to make sure
At last poor father said that he had given no satisfaction again, and never did give any satisfaction now, and that he was a shame and disgrace, and I should have done better without him all along. I said all the affectionate things to him that came into my heart, and presently he was quiet and I sat down by him, and told him all about the school and everything that had been said and done there. When I had no more left to tell, he put his arms round my neck, and kissed me a great many times. Then he asked me to fetch some of the stuff he used, for the little hurt he had had, and to get it at the best place, which was at the other end of town from there; and then, after kissing me again, he let me go. When I had gone down-stairs, I turned back that I might be a little bit more company to him yet, and looked in at the door, and said, "Father dear, shall I take Merrylegs?" Father shook his head and said, "No, Sissy, no; take nothing that's known to be mine, my darling;" and I left him sitting by the fire. Then the thought must have come upon him, poor, poor father! of going away to try something for my sake; for when I came back, he was gone
I say! Look sharp for old Bounderby, Loo
There's no more to tell, Miss Louisa. I keep the nine oils ready for him, and I know he will come back. Every letter that I see in Mr. Gradgrind's hand takes my breath away and blinds my eyes, for I think it comes from father, or from Mr. Sleary about father. Mr. Sleary promised to write as soon as ever father should be heard of, and I trust to him to keep his word
Do look sharp for old Bounderby, Loo
He'll be off if you don't look sharp
I beg your pardon, sir, for being troublesome - but - have you had any letter yet about me
No, Jupe, nothing of the sort
Good gracious bless me, how my poor head is vexed and worried by that girl Jupe's so perseveringly asking, over and over again, about her tiresome letters! Upon my word and honour I seem to be fated, and destined, and ordained, to live in the midst of things that I am never to hear the last of. It really is a most extraordinary circumstance that it appears as if I never was to hear the last of anything
the Hands
Hands
Yet I don't see Rachael, still
Why, then, ha' missed her
Rachael
Ah, lad! 'Tis thou
I thought thou wast ahind me, Rachael
No
Times I'm a little early, Stephen! 'times a little late. I'm never to be counted on, going home
Nor going t'other way, neither, 't seems to me, Rachael
No, Stephen
We are such true friends, lad, and such old friends, and getting to be such old folk, now
No, Rachael, thou'rt as young as ever thou wast
One of us would be puzzled how to get old, Stephen, without 't other getting so too, both being alive
but, anyways, we're such old friends, and t' hide a word of honest truth fro' one another would be a sin and a pity. 'Tis better not to walk too much together. 'Times, yes! 'Twould be hard, indeed, if 'twas not to be at all
'Tis hard, anyways, Rachael
Try to think not; and 'twill seem better
t might mak fok talk, even of thee. Thou hast been that to me, Rachael, through so many year: thou hast done me so much good, and heartened of me in that cheering way, that thy word is a law to me. Ah, lass, and a bright good law! Better than some real ones
Never fret about them, Stephen
Let the laws be
Yes
Let 'em be. Let everything be. Let all sorts alone. 'Tis a muddle, and that's aw
Always a muddle
Ay, Rachael, lass, awlus a muddle. That's where I stick. I come to the muddle many times and agen, and I never get beyond it
Good night, dear lass; good night
Heaven's mercy, woman
Hast thou come back again
Eigh, lad? What, yo'r there
Back agen
Yes! And back agen. Back agen ever and ever so often. Back? Yes, back. Why not
I'll sell thee off again, and I'll sell thee off again, and I'll sell thee off a score of times
Come awa' from th' bed
Now, Stephen
what's the matter with you
Now, you know
we have never had any difficulty with you, and you have never been one of the unreasonable ones. You don't expect to be set up in a coach and six, and to be fed on turtle soup and venison, with a gold spoon, as a good many of 'em do
and therefore I know already that you have not come here to make a complaint. Now, you know, I am certain of that, beforehand
No, sir, sure I ha' not coom for nowt o' th' kind
Very well
You're a steady Hand, and I was not mistaken. Now, let me hear what it's all about. As it's not that, let me hear what it is. What have you got to say? Out with it, lad
I can go, Mr. Bounderby, if you wish it
Now you know, this good lady is a born lady, a high lady. You are not to suppose because she keeps my house for me, that she hasn't been very high up the tree - ah, up at the top of the tree! Now, if you have got anything to say that can't be said before a born lady, this lady will leave the room. If what you have got to say can be said before a born lady, this lady will stay where she is
Very well
Fire away
I ha' coom
to ask yo yor advice. I need 't overmuch. I were married on Eas'r Monday nineteen year sin, long and dree. She were a young lass - pretty enow - wi' good accounts of herseln. Well! She went bad - soon. Not along of me. Gonnows I were not a unkind husband to her
I have heard all this before
She took to drinking, left off working, sold the furniture, pawned the clothes, and played old Gooseberry
I were patient wi' her
The more fool you, I think
I were very patient wi' her. I tried to wean her fra 't ower and ower agen. I tried this, I tried that, I tried t'other. I ha' gone home, many's the time, and found all vanished as I had in the world, and her without a sense left to bless herseln lying on bare ground. I ha' dun 't not once, not twice - twenty time
From bad to worse, from worse to worsen. She left me. She disgraced herseln everyways, bitter and bad. She coom back, she coom back, she coom back. What could I do t' hinder her? I ha' walked the streets nights long, ere ever I'd go home. I ha' gone t' th' brigg, minded to fling myseln ower, and ha' no more on't. I ha' bore that much, that I were owd when I were young
The great know trouble as well as the small. Please to turn your humble eye in My direction
I ha' paid her to keep awa' fra' me. These five year I ha' paid her. I ha' gotten decent fewtrils about me agen. I ha' lived hard and sad, but not ashamed and fearfo' a' the minnits o' my life. Last night, I went home. There she lay upon my har-stone! There she is
I was acquainted with all this, you know
except the last clause, long ago. It's a bad job; that's what it is. You had better have been satisfied as you were, and not have got married. However, it's too late to say that
Was it an unequal marriage, sir, in point of years
You hear what this lady asks. Was it an unequal marriage in point of years, this unlucky job of yours
Not e'en so. I were one-and-twenty myseln; she were twenty nighbut
Indeed, sir
I inferred, from its being so miserable a marriage, that it was probably an unequal one in point of years
Well? Why don't you go on
I ha' coom to ask yo, sir, how I am to be ridded o' this woman
What do you mean
What are you talking about? You took her for better for worse
He wishes to be free, to marry the female of whom he speaks, I fear, sir
'em no hurt!) are not bonded together for better for worst so fast, but that they can be set free fro' their misfortnet marriages, an' marry ower agen. When they dunnot agree, for that their tempers is ill-sorted, they has rooms o' one kind an' another in their houses, above a bit, and they can live asunders. We fok ha' only one room, and we can't. When that won't do, they ha' gowd an' other cash, an' they can say "This for yo' an' that for me," an' they can go their separate ways. We can't. Spite o' all that, they can be set free for smaller wrongs than mine. So, I mun be ridden o' this woman, and I want t' know how
No how
If I do her any hurt, sir, there's a law to punish me
Of course there is
If I flee from her, there's a law to punish me
Of course there is
If I marry t'oother dear lass, there's a law to punish me
Of course there is
If I was to live wi' her an' not marry her - saying such a thing could be, which it never could or would, an' her so good - there's a law to punish me, in every innocent child belonging to me
Of course there is
Now, a' God's name
show me the law to help me
Hem! There's a sanctity in this relation of life
and - and - it must be kept up
Sizes, every Sessions - and you read too - I know it! - with dismay - how th' supposed unpossibility o' ever getting unchained from one another, at any price, on any terms, brings blood upon this land, and brings many common married fok to battle, murder, and sudden death. Let us ha' this, right understood. Mine's a grievous case, an' I want - if yo will be so good - t' know the law that helps me
Now, I tell you what
There is such a law
But it's not for you at all. It costs money. It costs a mint of money
How much might that be
Why, you'd have to go to Doctors' Commons with a suit, and you'd have to go to a court of Common Law with a suit, and you'd have to go to the House of Lords with a suit, and you'd have to get an Act of Parliament to enable you to marry again, and it would cost you (if it was a case of very plain sailing), I suppose from a thousand to fifteen hundred pound
Perhaps twice the money
There's no other law
Certainly not
Why then, sir
'tis a muddle. 'Tis just a muddlea't oogether, an' the sooner I am dead, the better
Pooh, pooh! Don't you talk nonsense, my good fellow
about things you don't understand; and don't you call the Institutions of your country a muddle, or you'll get yourself into a real muddle one of these fine mornings. The institutions of your country are not your piece-work, and the only thing you have got to do, is, to mind your piece-work. You didn't take your wife for fast and for loose; but for better for worse. If she has turned out worse - why, all we have got to say is, she might have turned out better
'Tis a muddle
'Tis a' a muddle
Now, I'll tell you what
With what I shall call your unhallowed opinions, you have been quite shocking this lady: who, as I have already told you, is a born lady, and who, as I have not already told you, has had her own marriage misfortunes to the tune of tens of thousands of pounds - tens of Thousands of Pounds
Now, you have always been a steady Hand hitherto; but my opinion is, and so I tell you plainly, that you are turning into the wrong road. You have been listening to some mischievous stranger or other - they're always about - and the best thing you can do is, to come out of that. Now you know
I can see as far into a grindstone as another man; farther than a good many, perhaps, because I had my nose well kept to it when I was young. I see traces of the turtle soup, and venison, and gold spoon in this. Yes, I do
By the Lord Harry, I do
Thank you, sir, I wish you good day
Pray, sir
didn't I see you come out of that gentleman's house
I believe it was you, unless I have had the bad luck to mistake the person in following
Yes, missus
it were me
Have you - you'll excuse an old woman's curiosity - have you seen the gentleman
Yes, missus
And how did he look, sir? Was he portly, bold, outspoken, and hearty
O yes
he were all that
And healthy
as the fresh wind
Yes
Thank you
Thank you
Eigh sure! Dreadful busy
By Parliamentary, this morning. I came forty mile by Parliamentary this morning, and I'm going back the same forty mile this afternoon. I walked nine mile to the station this morning, and if I find nobody on the road to give me a lift, I shall walk the nine mile back to-night. That's pretty well, sir, at my age
Deed 'tis. Don't do't too often, missus
No, no. Once a year
I spend my savings so, once every year. I come regular, to tramp about the streets, and see the gentlemen
Only to see 'em
That's enough for me
I ask no more! I have been standing about, on this side of the way, to see that gentleman
come out. But, he's late this year, and I have not seen him. You came out instead. Now, if I am obliged to go back without a glimpse of him - I only want a glimpse - well! I have seen you, and you have seen him, and I must make that do
An't you happy
Why - there's awmost nobbody but has their troubles, missus
Ay, ay! You have your troubles at home, you mean
Times. Just now and then
But, working under such a gentleman, they don't follow you to the Factory
A dozen year
I must kiss the hand
that has worked in this fine factory for a dozen year
I am glad you have come at last, Stephen. You are very late
I ha' been walking up an' down
I thought so. But 'tis too bad a night for that. The rain falls very heavy, and the wind has risen
I have been here once before, to-day, Stephen. Landlady came round for me at dinner-time. There was some one here that needed looking to, she said. And 'deed she was right. All wandering and lost, Stephen. Wounded too, and bruised
And next, for that I know your heart, and am right sure and certain that 'tis far too merciful to let her die, or even so much as suffer, for want of aid. Thou knowest who said, "Let him who is without sin among you cast the first stone at her!" There have been plenty to do that. Thou art not the man to cast the last stone, Stephen, when she is brought so low
O Rachael, Rachael
Thou hast been a cruel sufferer, Heaven reward thee
I am thy poor friend, with all my heart and mind
I will stay here, Stephen
till the bells go Three. 'Tis to be done again at three, and then she may be left till morning
But thy rest agen to-morrow's work, my dear
I slept sound last night. I can wake many nights, when I am put to it. 'Tis thou who art in need of rest - so white and tired. Try to sleep in the chair there, while I watch. Thou hadst no sleep last night, I can well believe. To-morrow's work is far harder for thee than for me
She don't know me, Stephen; she just drowsily mutters and stares. I have spoken to her times and again, but she don't notice! 'Tis as well so. When she comes to her right mind once more, I shall have done what I can, and she never the wiser
How long, Rachael, is 't looked for, that she'll be so
Doctor said she would haply come to her mind to-morrow
No
it was not that. He had had a fright
A fright
Ay, ay! coming in. When I were walking. When I were thinking. When I - ' It seized him again; and he stood up, holding by the mantel-shelf, as he pressed his dank cold hair down with a hand that shook as if it were palsied. 'Stephen
No! Don't, please; don't. Let me see thee setten by the bed. Let me see thee, a' so good, and so forgiving. Let me see thee as I see thee when I coom in. I can never see thee better than so. Never, never, never
When she gets better, Stephen, 'tis to be hoped she'll leave thee to thyself again, and do thee no more hurt. Anyways we will hope so now. And now I shall keep silence, for I want thee to sleep
Rachael, am I wakin' or dreamin' this dreadfo' night
'Tis all well, Stephen. I have been asleep, myself. 'Tis near three. Hush! I hear the bells
I thought it must be near three
I am thankful I stayed! 'Tis done now, when I have put this on. There! And now she's quiet again. The few drops in the basin I'll pour away, for 'tis bad stuff to leave about, though ever so little of it
Thou'lt let me walk wi' thee at this hour, Rachael
No, Stephen. 'Tis but a minute, and I'm home
to leave me alone wi' her
Stephen
Thou art an Angel. Bless thee, bless thee
I am, as I have told thee, Stephen, thy poor friend. Angels are not like me. Between them, and a working woman fu' of faults, there is a deep gulf set. My little sister is among them, but she is changed
I coom home desp'rate. I coom home wi'out a hope, and mad wi' thinking that when I said a word o' complaint I was reckoned a unreasonable Hand. I told thee I had had a fright. It were the Poison-bottle on table. I never hurt a livin' creetur; but happenin' so suddenly upon 't, I thowt, "How can I say what I might ha' done to myseln, or her, or both
Louisa is becoming
almost a young woman
Thomas is becoming
almost a young man
Really
the period has arrived when Thomas ought to go to Bounderby
I fear, Jupe
that your continuance at the school any longer would be useless
I am afraid it would, sir
I cannot disguise from you, Jupe
I am sorry, sir
but I know it is quite true. Yet I have tried hard, sir
Yes
yes, I believe you have tried hard; I have observed you, and I can find no fault in that respect
Thank you, sir. I have thought sometimes
No, Jupe, no
No. The course you pursued, you pursued according to the system - the system - and there is no more to be said about it. I can only suppose that the circumstances of your early life were too unfavourable to the development of your reasoning powers, and that we began too late. Still, as I have said already, I am disappointed
I wish I could have made a better acknowledgment, sir, of your kindness to a poor forlorn girl who had no claim upon you, and of your protection of her
Don't shed tears
Don't shed tears. I don't complain of you. You are an affectionate, earnest, good young woman - and - and we must make that do
Thank you, sir, very much
You are useful to Mrs. Gradgrind, and (in a generally pervading way) you are serviceable in the family also; so I understand from Miss Louisa, and, indeed, so I have observed myself. I therefore hope
that you can make yourself happy in those relations
I understand you
you still refer to your father. I have heard from Miss Louisa that you still preserve that bottle. Well! If your training in the science of arriving at exact results had been more successful, you would have been wiser on these points. I will say no more
Quite a young woman
Dear me
My dear Louisa, you are a woman
Yes, father
My dear
I must speak with you alone and seriously. Come to me in my room after breakfast to-morrow, will you
Yes, father
Your hands are rather cold, Louisa. Are you not well
Quite well, father
And cheerful
I am as cheerful, father, as I usually am, or usually have been
That's well
Are you there, Loo
Dear Tom
how long it is since you have been to see me
Why, I have been otherwise engaged, Loo, in the evenings; and in the daytime old Bounderby has been keeping me at it rather. But I touch him up with you when he comes it too strong, and so we preserve an understanding. I say! Has father said anything particular to you to-day or yesterday, Loo
No, Tom. But he told me to-night that he wished to do so in the morning
Ah! That's what I mean
Do you know where he is to- night
No
Then I'll tell you. He's with old Bounderby. They are having a regular confab together up at the Bank. Why at the Bank, do you think? Well, I'll tell you again. To keep Mrs. Sparsit's ears as far off as possible, I expect
You are very fond of me, an't you, Loo
Indeed I am, Tom, though you do let such long intervals go by without coming to see me
Well, sister of mine
when you say that, you are near my thoughts. We might be so much oftener together - mightn't we? Always together, almost - mightn't we? It would do me a great deal of good if you were to make up your mind to I know what, Loo. It would be a splendid thing for me. It would be uncommonly jolly
I say, Loo! I thought I'd come, and just hint to you what was going on: though I supposed you'd most likely guess, even if you didn't know. I can't stay, because I'm engaged to some fellows to- night. You won't forget how fond you are of me
No, dear Tom, I won't forget
That's a capital girl
Good-bye, Loo
My dear Louisa
I prepared you last night to give me your serious attention in the conversation we are now going to have together. You have been so well trained, and you do, I am happy to say, so much justice to the education you have received, that I have perfect confidence in your good sense. You are not impulsive, you are not romantic, you are accustomed to view everything from the strong dispassionate ground of reason and calculation. From that ground alone, I know you will view and consider what I am going to communicate
Louisa, my dear, you are the subject of a proposal of marriage that has been made to me
a proposal of marriage, my dear
I hear you, father. I am attending, I assure you
Well
you are even more dispassionate than I expected, Louisa. Or, perhaps, you are not unprepared for the announcement I have it in charge to make
I cannot say that, father, until I hear it. Prepared or unprepared, I wish to hear it all from you. I wish to hear you state it to me, father
What you say, my dear Louisa, is perfectly reasonable. I have undertaken then to let you know that - in short, that Mr. Bounderby has informed me that he has long watched your progress with particular interest and pleasure, and has long hoped that the time might ultimately arrive when he should offer you his hand in marriage. That time, to which he has so long, and certainly with great constancy, looked forward, is now come. Mr. Bounderby has made his proposal of marriage to me, and has entreated me to make it known to you, and to express his hope that you will take it into your favourable consideration
Father
do you think I love Mr. Bounderby
Well, my child
I - really - cannot take upon myself to say
Father
do you ask me to love Mr. Bounderby
My dear Louisa, no. No. I ask nothing
Father
does Mr. Bounderby ask me to love him
Really, my dear
Certainly, my dear. Because
because the reply depends so materially, Louisa, on the sense in which we use the expression. Now, Mr. Bounderby does not do you the injustice, and does not do himself the injustice, of pretending to anything fanciful, fantastic, or (I am using synonymous terms) sentimental. Mr. Bounderby would have seen you grow up under his eyes, to very little purpose, if he could so far forget what is due to your good sense, not to say to his, as to address you from any such ground. Therefore, perhaps the expression itself - I merely suggest this to you, my dear - may be a little misplaced
What would you advise me to use in its stead, father
Why, my dear Louisa
I would advise you (since you ask me) to consider this question, as you have been accustomed to consider every other question, simply as one of tangible Fact. The ignorant and the giddy may embarrass such subjects with irrelevant fancies, and other absurdities that have no existence, properly viewed - really no existence - but it is no compliment to you to say, that you know better. Now, what are the Facts of this case? You are, we will say in round numbers, twenty years of age; Mr. Bounderby is, we will say in round numbers, fifty. There is some disparity in your respective years, but in your means and positions there is none; on the contrary, there is a great suitability. Then the question arises, Is this one disparity sufficient to operate as a bar to such a marriage? In considering this question, it is not unimportant to take into account the statistics of marriage, so far as they have yet been obtained, in England and Wales. I find, on reference to the figures, that a large proportion of these marriages are contracted between parties of very unequal ages, and that the elder of these contracting parties is, in rather more than three-fourths of these instances, the bridegroom. It is remarkable as showing the wide prevalence of this law, that among the natives of the British possessions in India, also in a considerable part of China, and among the Calmucks of Tartary, the best means of computation yet furnished us by travellers, yield similar results. The disparity I have mentioned, therefore, almost ceases to be disparity, and (virtually) all but disappears
What do you recommend, father
that I should substitute for the term I used just now? For the misplaced expression
Louisa
it appears to me that nothing can be plainer. Confining yourself rigidly to Fact, the question of Fact you state to yourself is: Does Mr. Bounderby ask me to marry him? Yes, he does. The sole remaining question then is: Shall I marry him? I think nothing can be plainer than that
Shall I marry him
Precisely. And it is satisfactory to me, as your father, my dear Louisa, to know that you do not come to the consideration of that question with the previous habits of mind, and habits of life, that belong to many young women
No, father
I do not
I now leave you to judge for yourself
I have stated the case, as such cases are usually stated among practical minds; I have stated it, as the case of your mother and myself was stated in its time. The rest, my dear Louisa, is for you to decide
Are you consulting the chimneys of the Coketown works, Louisa
There seems to be nothing there but languid and monotonous smoke. Yet when the night comes, Fire bursts out, father
Of course I know that, Louisa. I do not see the application of the remark
Father, I have often thought that life is very short
It is short, no doubt, my dear. Still, the average duration of human life is proved to have increased of late years. The calculations of various life assurance and annuity offices, among other figures which cannot go wrong, have established the fact
I speak of my own life, father
O indeed? Still
I need not point out to you, Louisa, that it is governed by the laws which govern lives in the aggregate
While it lasts, I would wish to do the little I can, and the little I am fit for. What does it matter
How, matter? What matter, my dear
Mr. Bounderby
asks me to marry him. The question I have to ask myself is, shall I marry him? That is so, father, is it not? You have told me so, father. Have you not
Certainly, my dear
Let it be so. Since Mr. Bounderby likes to take me thus, I am satisfied to accept his proposal. Tell him, father, as soon as you please, that this was my answer. Repeat it, word for word, if you can, because I should wish him to know what I said
It is quite right, my dear
to be exact. I will observe your very proper request. Have you any wish in reference to the period of your marriage, my child
None, father. What does it matter
Louisa, I have not considered it essential to ask you one question, because the possibility implied in it appeared to me to be too remote. But perhaps I ought to do so. You have never entertained in secret any other proposal
Father
what other proposal can have been made to me? Whom have I seen? Where have I been? What are my heart's experiences
My dear Louisa
You correct me justly. I merely wished to discharge my duty
What do I know, father
of tastes and fancies; of aspirations and affections; of all that part of my nature in which such light things might have been nourished? What escape have I had from problems that could be demonstrated, and realities that could be grasped
My dear
quite true, quite true
Why, father
what a strange question to ask me! The baby-preference that even I have heard of as common among children, has never had its innocent resting-place in my breast. You have been so careful of me, that I never had a child's heart. You have trained me so well, that I never dreamed a child's dream. You have dealt so wisely with me, father, from my cradle to this hour, that I never had a child's belief or a child's fear
My dear Louisa
you abundantly repay my care. Kiss me, my dear girl
I may assure you now, my favourite child, that I am made happy by the sound decision at which you have arrived. Mr. Bounderby is a very remarkable man; and what little disparity can be said to exist between you - if any - is more than counterbalanced by the tone your mind has acquired. It has always been my object so to educate you, as that you might, while still in your early youth, be (if I may so express myself) almost any age. Kiss me once more, Louisa. Now, let us go and find your mother
Mrs. Gradgrind
allow me to present to you Mrs. Bounderby
Oh
so you have settled it! Well, I'm sure I hope your health may be good, Louisa; for if your head begins to split as soon as you are married, which was the case with mine, I cannot consider that you are to be envied, though I have no doubt you think you are, as all girls do. However, I give you joy, my dear - and I hope you may now turn all your ological studies to good account, I am sure I do! I must give you a kiss of congratulation, Louisa; but don't touch my right shoulder, for there's something running down it all day long. And now you see
I shall be worrying myself, morning, noon, and night, to know what I am to call him
Mrs. Gradgrind
what do you mean
Whatever I am to call him, Mr. Gradgrind, when he is married to Louisa! I must call him something. It's impossible
to be constantly addressing him and never giving him a name. I cannot call him Josiah, for the name is insupportable to me. You yourself wouldn't hear of Joe, you very well know. Am I to call my own son- in-law, Mister! Not, I believe, unless the time has arrived when, as an invalid, I am to be trampled upon by my relations. Then, what am I to call him
As to the wedding, all I ask, Louisa, is, - and I ask it with a fluttering in my chest, which actually extends to the soles of my feet, - that it may take place soon. Otherwise, I know it is one of those subjects I shall never hear the last of
By George
if she takes it in the fainting way, I'll have the skin off her nose, at all events
Good evening, Mr. Bounderby
Good evening, ma'am, good evening
Your fireside, sir. I freely admit it. It is for you to occupy it all, if you think proper
Don't go to the North Pole, ma'am
Thank you, sir
Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am
I have no occasion to say to you, that you are not only a lady born and bred, but a devilish sensible woman
Sir
this is indeed not the first time that you have honoured me with similar expressions of your good opinion
Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am
I am going to astonish you
Yes, sir
I am going, ma'am
to marry Tom Gradgrind's daughter
Yes, sir
I hope you may be happy, Mr. Bounderby. Oh, indeed I hope you may be happy, sir
Now confound this woman, who could have even guessed that she would take it in this way
I wish with all my heart, sir
that you may be in all respects very happy
Well, ma'am
I am obliged to you. I hope I shall be
Do you, sir
But naturally you do; of course you do
Well, ma'am
under these circumstances, I imagine it would not be agreeable to a character like yours to remain here, though you would be very welcome here
Oh, dear no, sir, I could on no account think of that
However, ma'am
I beg your pardon, sir. You were so good as to promise that you would always substitute the phrase, annual compliment
Well, ma'am, annual compliment. If the same annual compliment would be acceptable there, why, I see nothing to part us, unless you do
Sir
Why, of course it is
If it was not, ma'am, you don't suppose that I should offer it to a lady who has moved in the society you have moved in. Not that I care for such society, you know! But you do
Mr. Bounderby, you are very considerate
You'll have your own private apartments, and you'll have your coals and your candles, and all the rest of it, and you'll have your maid to attend upon you, and you'll have your light porter to protect you, and you'll be what I take the liberty of considering precious comfortable
Sir
say no more. In yielding up my trust here, I shall not be freed from the necessity of eating the bread of dependence:' she might have said the sweetbread, for that delicate article in a savoury brown sauce was her favourite supper: 'and I would rather receive it from your hand, than from any other. Therefore, sir, I accept your offer gratefully, and with many sincere acknowledgments for past favours. And I hope, sir
I fondly hope that Miss Gradgrind may be all you desire, and deserve
Ladies and gentlemen, I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown. Since you have done my wife and myself the honour of drinking our healths and happiness, I suppose I must acknowledge the same; though, as you all know me, and know what I am, and what my extraction was, you won't expect a speech from a man who, when he sees a Post, says "that's a Post," and when he sees a Pump, says "that's a Pump," and is not to be got to call a Post a Pump, or a Pump a Post, or either of them a Toothpick. If you want a speech this morning, my friend and father-in-law, Tom Gradgrind, is a Member of Parliament, and you know where to get it. I am not your man. However, if I feel a little independent when I look around this table to-day, and reflect how little I thought of marrying Tom Gradgrind's daughter when I was a ragged street-boy, who never washed his face unless it was at a pump, and that not oftener than once a fortnight, I hope I may be excused. So, I hope you like my feeling independent; if you don't, I can't help it. I do feel independent. Now I have mentioned, and you have mentioned, that I am this day married to Tom Gradgrind's daughter. I am very glad to be so. It has long been my wish to be so. I have watched her bringing-up, and I believe she is worthy of me. At the same time - not to deceive you - I believe I am worthy of her. So, I thank you, on both our parts, for the good-will you have shown towards us; and the best wish I can give the unmarried part of the present company, is this: I hope every bachelor may find as good a wife as I have found. And I hope every spinster may find as good a husband as my wife has found
What a game girl you are, to be such a first-rate sister, Loo
Old Bounderby's quite ready
Time's up. Good-bye! I shall be on the look-out for you, when you come back. I say, my dear Loo! AN'T it uncommonly jolly now!' 

END OF THE FIRST BOOK


BOOK THE SECOND - REAPING
sooner pitch his property into the Atlantic
Thank you, Bitzer
Thank you, ma'am
All is shut up, Bitzer
All is shut up, ma'am
And what
is the news of the day? Anything
Well, ma'am, I can't say that I have heard anything particular. Our people are a bad lot, ma'am; but that is no news, unfortunately
What are the restless wretches doing now
Merely going on in the old way, ma'am. Uniting, and leaguing, and engaging to stand by one another
It is much to be regretted
that the united masters allow of any such class- combinations
Yes, ma'am
Being united themselves, they ought one and all to set their faces against employing any man who is united with any other man
They have done that, ma'am
but it rather fell through, ma'am
I do not pretend to understand these things
my lot having been signally cast in a widely different sphere; and Mr. Sparsit, as a Powler, being also quite out of the pale of any such dissensions. I only know that these people must be conquered, and that it's high time it was done, once for all
Yes, ma'am
You couldn't put it clearer, I am sure, ma'am
Has it been a busy day, Bitzer
Not a very busy day, my lady. About an average day
The clerks
are trustworthy, punctual, and industrious, of course
Yes, ma'am, pretty fair, ma'am. With the usual exception
Pretty fair, ma'am. With the usual exception, ma'am
Ah - h
Mr. Thomas, ma'am, I doubt Mr. Thomas very much, ma'am, I don't like his ways at all
Bitzer
do you recollect my having said anything to you respecting names
I beg your pardon, ma'am. It's quite true that you did object to names being used, and they're always best avoided
Please to remember that I have a charge here
I hold a trust here, Bitzer, under Mr. Bounderby. However improbable both Mr. Bounderby and myself might have deemed it years ago, that he would ever become my patron, making me an annual compliment, I cannot but regard him in that light. From Mr. Bounderby I have received every acknowledgment of my social station, and every recognition of my family descent, that I could possibly expect. More, far more. Therefore, to my patron I will be scrupulously true. And I do not consider, I will not consider, I cannot consider
that I should be scrupulously true, if I allowed names to be mentioned under this roof, that are unfortunately - most unfortunately - no doubt of that - connected with his
No, Bitzer
say an individual, and I will hear you; say Mr. Thomas, and you must excuse me
With the usual exception, ma'am
of an individual
Ah - h
An individual, ma'am
has never been what he ought to have been, since he first came into the place. He is a dissipated, extravagant idler. He is not worth his salt, ma'am. He wouldn't get it either, if he hadn't a friend and relation at court, ma'am
Ah - h
I only hope, ma'am
that his friend and relation may not supply him with the means of carrying on. Otherwise, ma'am, we know out of whose pocket that money comes
Ah - h
He is to be pitied, ma'am. The last party I have alluded to, is to be pitied, ma'am
Yes, Bitzer
I have always pitied the delusion, always
As to an individual, ma'am
he is as improvident as any of the people in this town. And you know what their improvidence is, ma'am. No one could wish to know it better than a lady of your eminence does
They would do well
to take example by you, Bitzer
Thank you, ma'am. But, since you do refer to me, now look at me, ma'am. I have put by a little, ma'am, already. That gratuity which I receive at Christmas, ma'am: I never touch it. I don't even go the length of my wages, though they're not high, ma'am. Why can't they do as I have done, ma'am? What one person can do, another can do
As to their wanting recreations, ma'am
it's stuff and nonsense. I don't want recreations. I never did, and I never shall; I don't like 'em. As to their combining together; there are many of them, I have no doubt, that by watching and informing upon one another could earn a trifle now and then, whether in money or good will, and improve their livelihood. Then, why don't they improve it, ma'am! It's the first consideration of a rational creature, and it's what they pretend to want
Pretend indeed
I am sure we are constantly hearing, ma'am, till it becomes quite nauseous, concerning their wives and families
Why look at me, ma'am! I don't want a wife and family. Why should they
Because they are improvident
Yes, ma'am
that's where it is. If they were more provident and less perverse, ma'am, what would they do? They would say, "While my hat covers my family," or "while my bonnet covers my family," - as the case might be, ma'am - "I have only one to feed, and that's the person I most like to feed
To be sure
Thank you, ma'am
Would you wish a little more hot water, ma'am, or is there anything else that I could fetch you
Nothing just now, Bitzer
Thank you, ma'am. I shouldn't wish to disturb you at your meals, ma'am, particularly tea, knowing your partiality for it
but there's a gentleman been looking up here for a minute or so, ma'am, and he has come across as if he was going to knock. That is his knock, ma'am, no doubt
Yes, ma'am. Would you wish the gentleman to be shown in, ma'am
I don't know who it can be
A stranger, ma'am, evidently
What a stranger can want at the Bank at this time of the evening, unless he comes upon some business for which he is too late, I don't know
but I hold a charge in this establishment from Mr. Bounderby, and I will never shrink from it. If to see him is any part of the duty I have accepted, I will see him. Use your own discretion, Bitzer
If you please, ma'am, the gentleman would wish to see you
I believe, sir
you wished to see me
I beg your pardon
pray excuse me
Humph
Five and thirty, good-looking, good figure, good teeth, good voice, good breeding, well-dressed, dark hair, bold eyes
Please to be seated, sir
Thank you. Allow me
I left my servant at the railway looking after the luggage - very heavy train and vast quantity of it in the van - and strolled on, looking about me. Exceedingly odd place. Will you allow me to ask you if it's always as black as this
In general much blacker
Is it possible! Excuse me: you are not a native, I think
No, sir
It was once my good or ill fortune, as it may be - before I became a widow - to move in a very different sphere. My husband was a Powler
Beg your pardon, really
Was
A Powler
Powler Family
You must be very much bored here
I am the servant of circumstances, sir
and I have long adapted myself to the governing power of my life
Very philosophical
May I be permitted to ask, sir
Assuredly
Raw material - where Mr. Bounderby, the banker, might reside. Upon which, misled no doubt by the word Banker, he directed me to the Bank. Fact being, I presume, that Mr. Bounderby the Banker does not reside in the edifice in which I have the honour of offering this explanation
No, sir
he does not
Thank you. I had no intention of delivering my letter at the present moment, nor have I. But strolling on to the Bank to kill time, and having the good fortune to observe at the window
a lady of a very superior and agreeable appearance, I considered that I could not do better than take the liberty of asking that lady where Mr. Bounderby the Banker does live. Which I accordingly venture, with all suitable apologies, to do
Banks, I know, are always suspicious, and officially must be
therefore I may observe that my letter - here it is - is from the member for this place - Gradgrind - whom I have had the pleasure of knowing in London
Thousand thanks
Of course you know the Banker well
Yes, sir
In my dependent relation towards him, I have known him ten years
Quite an eternity! I think he married Gradgrind's daughter
Yes
he had that - honour
The lady is quite a philosopher, I am told
Indeed, sir
Is she
Excuse my impertinent curiosity
but you know the family, and know the world. I am about to know the family, and may have much to do with them. Is the lady so very alarming? Her father gives her such a portentously hard-headed reputation, that I have a burning desire to know. Is she absolutely unapproachable? Repellently and stunningly clever? I see, by your meaning smile, you think not. You have poured balm into my anxious soul. As to age, now. Forty? Five and thirty
A chit
Not twenty when she was married
I give you my honour, Mrs. Powler
that I never was so astonished in my life
I assure you, Mrs. Powler
that the father's manner prepared me for a grim and stony maturity. I am obliged to you, of all things, for correcting so absurd a mistake. Pray excuse my intrusion. Many thanks. Good day
What do you think of the gentleman, Bitzer
Spends a deal of money on his dress, ma'am
It must be admitted
that it's very tasteful
Yes, ma'am
if that's worth the money
Besides which, ma'am
he looks to me as if he gamed
It's immoral to game
It's ridiculous, ma'am
because the chances are against the players
O, you Fool
Jem, there's a good opening among the hard Fact fellows, and they want men. I wonder you don't go in for statistics
If you want to bring in, for any place, a handsome dog who can make you a devilish good speech, look after my brother Jem, for he's your man
Josiah Bounderby, Esquire, Banker, Coketown. Specially to introduce James Harthouse, Esquire. Thomas Gradgrind
My name, sir
is Josiah Bounderby, of Coketown
Coketown, sir
is not the kind of place you have been accustomed to. Therefore, if you will allow me - or whether you will or not, for I am a plain man - I'll tell you something about it before we go any further
Don't be too sure of that
I don't promise it. First of all, you see our smoke. That's meat and drink to us. It's the healthiest thing in the world in all respects, and particularly for the lungs. If you are one of those who want us to consume it, I differ from you. We are not going to wear the bottoms of our boilers out any faster than we wear 'em out now, for all the humbugging sentiment in Great Britain and Ireland
going in' to the fullest extent, Mr. Harthouse rejoined, 'Mr. Bounderby, I assure you I am entirely and completely of your way of thinking. On conviction
I am glad to hear it
Now, you have heard a lot of talk about the work in our mills, no doubt. You have? Very good. I'll state the fact of it to you. It's the pleasantest work there is, and it's the lightest work there is, and it's the best- paid work there is. More than that, we couldn't improve the mills themselves, unless we laid down Turkey carpets on the floors. Which we're not a-going to do
Mr. Bounderby, perfectly right
Lastly
as to our Hands. There's not a Hand in this town, sir, man, woman, or child, but has one ultimate object in life. That object is, to be fed on turtle soup and venison with a gold spoon. Now, they're not a-going - none of 'em - ever to be fed on turtle soup and venison with a gold spoon. And now you know the place
Why, you see
it suits my disposition to have a full understanding with a man, particularly with a public man, when I make his acquaintance. I have only one thing more to say to you, Mr. Harthouse, before assuring you of the pleasure with which I shall respond, to the utmost of my poor ability, to my friend Tom Gradgrind's letter of introduction. You are a man of family. Don't you deceive yourself by supposing for a moment that I am a man of family. I am a bit of dirty riff-raff, and a genuine scrap of tag, rag, and bobtail
So now
we may shake hands on equal terms. I say, equal terms, because although I know what I am, and the exact depth of the gutter I have lifted myself out of, better than any man does, I am as proud as you are. I am just as proud as you are. Having now asserted my independence in a proper manner, I may come to how do you find yourself, and I hope you're pretty well
Perhaps you know
or perhaps you don't know, I married Tom Gradgrind's daughter. If you have nothing better to do than to walk up town with me, I shall be glad to introduce you to Tom Gradgrind's daughter
Mr. Bounderby
you anticipate my dearest wishes
This, sir
is my wife, Mrs. Bounderby: Tom Gradgrind's eldest daughter. Loo, Mr. James Harthouse. Mr. Harthouse has joined your father's muster-roll. If he is not Torn Gradgrind's colleague before long, I believe we shall at least hear of him in connexion with one of our neighbouring towns. You observe, Mr. Harthouse, that my wife is my junior. I don't know what she saw in me to marry me, but she saw something in me, I suppose, or she wouldn't have married me. She has lots of expensive knowledge, sir, political and otherwise. If you want to cram for anything, I should be troubled to recommend you to a better adviser than Loo Bounderby
Come
If you're in the complimentary line, you'll get on here, for you'll meet with no competition. I have never been in the way of learning compliments myself, and I don't profess to understand the art of paying 'em. In fact, despise 'em. But, your bringing-up was different from mine; mine was a real thing, by George! You're a gentleman, and I don't pretend to be one. I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, and that's enough for me. However, though I am not influenced by manners and station, Loo Bounderby may be. She hadn't my advantages - disadvantages you would call 'em, but I call 'em advantages - so you'll not waste your power, I dare say
Mr. Bounderby
is a noble animal in a comparatively natural state, quite free from the harness in which a conventional hack like myself works
You respect Mr. Bounderby very much
It is natural that you should
Now, how am I to take this
You are going to devote yourself, as I gather from what Mr. Bounderby has said, to the service of your country. You have made up your mind
to show the nation the way out of all its difficulties
Mrs. Bounderby
upon my honour, no. I will make no such pretence to you. I have seen a little, here and there, up and down; I have found it all to be very worthless, as everybody has, and as some confess they have, and some do not; and I am going in for your respected father's opinions - really because I have no choice of opinions, and may as well back them as anything else
Have you none of your own
I have not so much as the slightest predilection left. I assure you I attach not the least importance to any opinions. The result of the varieties of boredom I have undergone, is a conviction (unless conviction is too industrious a word for the lazy sentiment I entertain on the subject), that any set of ideas will do just as much good as any other set, and just as much harm as any other set. There's an English family with a charming Italian motto. What will be, will be. It's the only truth going
The side that can prove anything in a line of units, tens, hundreds, and thousands, Mrs. Bounderby, seems to me to afford the most fun, and to give a man the best chance. I am quite as much attached to it as if I believed it. I am quite ready to go in for it, to the same extent as if I believed it. And what more could I possibly do, if I did believe it
You are a singular politician
Pardon me; I have not even that merit. We are the largest party in the state, I assure you, Mrs. Bounderby, if we all fell out of our adopted ranks and were reviewed together
charming
Is there nothing
is there nothing that will move that face
Ay, ay
This whelp is the only creature she cares for. So, so
When I was your age, young Tom
I was punctual, or I got no dinner
When you were my age
you hadn't a wrong balance to get right, and hadn't to dress afterwards
Never mind that now
Well, then
Don't begin with me
Mrs. Bounderby
your brother's face is quite familiar to me. Can I have seen him abroad? Or at some public school, perhaps
No
he has never been abroad yet, and was educated here, at home. Tom, love, I am telling Mr. Harthouse that he never saw you abroad
No such luck, sir
So much the more is this whelp the only creature she has ever cared for
So much the more. So much the more
Do you smoke
I believe you
He don't seem to care about his dress
and yet how capitally he does it. What an easy swell he is
Thank'ee
Thank'ee. Well, Mr. Harthouse, I hope you have had about a dose of old Bounderby to-night
A very good fellow indeed
You think so, don't you
What a comical brother-in-law you are
What a comical brother-in-law old Bounderby is, I think you mean
You are a piece of caustic, Tom
Oh! I don't care for old Bounderby
if you mean that. I have always called old Bounderby by the same name when I have talked about him, and I have always thought of him in the same way. I am not going to begin to be polite now, about old Bounderby. It would be rather late in the day
Don't mind me
but take care when his wife is by, you know
His wife
My sister Loo? O yes
My sister Loo
She never cared for old Bounderby
That's the past tense, Tom
We are in the present tense, now
Verb neuter, not to care. Indicative mood, present tense. First person singular, I do not care; second person singular, thou dost not care; third person singular, she does not care
Good! Very quaint
Though you don't mean it
But I do mean it
Upon my honour! Why, you won't tell me, Mr. Harthouse, that you really suppose my sister Loo does care for old Bounderby
My dear fellow
what am I bound to suppose, when I find two married people living in harmony and happiness
You know our governor, Mr. Harthouse
and therefore, you needn't be surprised that Loo married old Bounderby. She never had a lover, and the governor proposed old Bounderby, and she took him
Very dutiful in your interesting sister
Yes, but she wouldn't have been as dutiful, and it would not have come off as easily
if it hadn't been for me
I persuaded her
I was stuck into old Bounderby's bank (where I never wanted to be), and I knew I should get into scrapes there, if she put old Bounderby's pipe out; so I told her my wishes, and she came into them. She would do anything for me. It was very game of her, wasn't it
It was charming, Tom
Not that it was altogether so important to her as it was to me
because my liberty and comfort, and perhaps my getting on, depended on it; and she had no other lover, and staying at home was like staying in jail - especially when I was gone. It wasn't as if she gave up another lover for old Bounderby; but still it was a good thing in her
Perfectly delightful. And she gets on so placidly
Oh
she's a regular girl. A girl can get on anywhere. She has settled down to the life, and she don't mind. It does just as well as another. Besides, though Loo is a girl, she's not a common sort of girl. She can shut herself up within herself, and think - as I have often known her sit and watch the fire - for an hour at a stretch
Ay, ay? Has resources of her own
Not so much of that as you may suppose
for our governor had her crammed with all sorts of dry bones and sawdust. It's his system
Formed his daughter on his own model
His daughter? Ah! and everybody else. Why, he formed Me that way
Impossible
He did, though
I mean to say, Mr. Harthouse, that when I first left home and went to old Bounderby's, I was as flat as a warming-pan, and knew no more about life, than any oyster does
Come, Tom! I can hardly believe that. A joke's a joke
Upon my soul
I am serious; I am indeed
Oh! I have picked up a little since. I don't deny that. But I have done it myself; no thanks to the governor
And your intelligent sister
My intelligent sister is about where she was. She used to complain to me that she had nothing to fall back upon, that girls usually fall back upon; and I don't see how she is to have got over that since. But she don't mind
Girls can always get on, somehow
Calling at the Bank yesterday evening, for Mr. Bounderby's address, I found an ancient lady there, who seems to entertain great admiration for your sister
Mother Sparsit
What! you have seen her already, have you
Mother Sparsit's feeling for Loo is more than admiration, I should think
Say affection and devotion. Mother Sparsit never set her cap at Bounderby when he was a bachelor. Oh no
Come, it's late. Be off
Well
I must take my leave of you though. I say. Yours is very good tobacco. But it's too mild
Yes, it's too mild
It's - it's ridiculously mild
Where's the door! Good night
OH, my friends, the down-trodden operatives of Coketown! Oh, my friends and fellow-countrymen, the slaves of an iron-handed and a grinding despotism! Oh, my friends and fellow-sufferers, and fellow-workmen, and fellow-men! I tell you that the hour is come, when we must rally round one another as One united power, and crumble into dust the oppressors that too long have battened upon the plunder of our families, upon the sweat of our brows, upon the labour of our hands, upon the strength of our sinews, upon the God- created glorious rights of Humanity, and upon the holy and eternal privileges of Brotherhood
Good
Hear, hear, hear
Hurrah
But oh, my friends and brothers! Oh, men and Englishmen, the down-trodden operatives of Coketown! What shall we say of that man - that working-man, that I should find it necessary so to libel the glorious name - who, being practically and well acquainted with the grievances and wrongs of you, the injured pith and marrow of this land, and having heard you, with a noble and majestic unanimity that will make Tyrants tremble, resolve for to subscribe to the funds of the United Aggregate Tribunal, and to abide by the injunctions issued by that body for your benefit, whatever they may be - what, I ask you, will you say of that working-man, since such I must acknowledge him to be, who, at such a time, deserts his post, and sells his flag; who, at such a time, turns a traitor and a craven and a recreant, who, at such a time, is not ashamed to make to you the dastardly and humiliating avowal that he will hold himself aloof, and will not be one of those associated in the gallant stand for Freedom and for Right
Be sure you're right, Slackbridge
Put him up
Let's hear him
Is the man heer? If the man's heer, Slackbridge, let's hear the man himseln, 'stead o' yo
Oh, my friends and fellow-men
I do not wonder that you, the prostrate sons of labour, are incredulous of the existence of such a man. But he who sold his birthright for a mess of pottage existed, and Judas Iscariot existed, and Castlereagh existed, and this man exists
My friends
My friends
I'm th' one single Hand in Bounderby's mill, o' a' the men theer, as don't coom in wi' th' proposed reg'lations. I canna coom in wi' 'em. My friends, I doubt their doin' yo onny good. Licker they'll do yo hurt
But 't an't sommuch for that as I stands out. If that were aw, I'd coom in wi' th' rest. But I ha' my reasons - mine, yo see - for being hindered; not on'y now, but awlus - awlus - life long
Oh, my friends, what but this did I tell you? Oh, my fellow- countrymen, what warning but this did I give you? And how shows this recreant conduct in a man on whom unequal laws are known to have fallen heavy? Oh, you Englishmen, I ask you how does this subornation show in one of yourselves, who is thus consenting to his own undoing and to yours, and to your children's and your children's children's
'Tis this Delegate's trade for t' speak
Slackbridge, let the man be heern, and howd thee tongue
My brothers
and my fellow-workmen - for that yo are to me, though not, as I knows on, to this delegate here - I ha but a word to sen, and I could sen nommore if I was to speak till Strike o' day. I know weel, aw what's afore me. I know weel that yo aw resolve to ha nommore ado wi' a man who is not wi' yo in this matther. I know weel that if I was a lyin parisht i' th' road, yo'd feel it right to pass me by, as a forrenner and stranger. What I ha getn, I mun mak th' best on
Stephen Blackpool
think on 't agen. Think on 't once agen, lad, afore thou'rt shunned by aw owd friends
I ha thowt on 't, above a bit, sir. I simply canna coom in. I mun go th' way as lays afore me. I mun tak my leave o' aw heer
but 'tis easier to ca' than mak' out. So let be
Haply
'tis that
Your name's Blackpool, ain't it
Yes
You are the Hand they have sent to Coventry, I mean
Yes
I supposed so, from their all appearing to keep away from you. Mr. Bounderby wants to speak to you. You know his house, don't you
Yes
Then go straight up there, will you
You're expected, and have only to tell the servant it's you. I belong to the Bank; so, if you go straight up without me (I was sent to fetch you), you'll save me a walk
WELL, Stephen
what's this I hear? What have these pests of the earth been doing to you? Come in, and speak up
This is the man I was telling you about, Harthouse
Oh really
Now
speak up
What were it, sir
as yo were pleased to want wi' me
Why, I have told you
Speak up like a man, since you are a man, and tell us about yourself and this Combination
Wi' yor pardon, sir
I ha' nowt to sen about it
Now, look here, Harthouse
here's a specimen of 'em. When this man was here once before, I warned this man against the mischievous strangers who are always about - and who ought to be hanged wherever they are found - and I told this man that he was going in the wrong direction. Now, would you believe it, that although they have put this mark upon him, he is such a slave to them still, that he's afraid to open his lips about them
I sed as I had nowt to sen, sir; not as I was fearfo' o' openin' my lips
You said! Ah! I know what you said; more than that, I know what you mean, you see. Not always the same thing, by the Lord Harry! Quite different things. You had better tell us at once, that that fellow Slackbridge is not in the town, stirring up the people to mutiny; and that he is not a regular qualified leader of the people: that is, a most confounded scoundrel. You had better tell us so at once; you can't deceive me. You want to tell us so. Why don't you
I'm as sooary as yo, sir, when the people's leaders is bad
They taks such as offers. Haply 'tis na' the sma'est o' their misfortuns when they can get no better
Now, you'll think this pretty well, Harthouse
You'll think this tolerably strong. You'll say, upon my soul this is a tidy specimen of what my friends have to deal with; but this is nothing, sir! You shall hear me ask this man a question. Pray, Mr. Blackpool' - wind springing up very fast - 'may I take the liberty of asking you how it happens that you refused to be in this Combination
How 't happens
Ah
how it happens
Not to me, you know
O no, sir. Not to yo
As for me, any consideration for me has had just nothing at all to do with it
If only Josiah Bounderby of Coketown had been in question, you would have joined and made no bones about it
Why yes, sir. 'Tis true
Though he knows
that there are a set of rascals and rebels whom transportation is too good for! Now, Mr. Harthouse, you have been knocking about in the world some time. Did you ever meet with anything like that man out of this blessed country
Nay, ma'am
'em, should fail fur to stan by 'em wi' the truth, let 'em ha' doon to me what they may
fectionate to one another, e'en to death. Be poor amoong 'em, be sick amoong 'em, grieve amoong 'em for onny o' th' monny causes that carries grief to the poor man's door, an' they'll be tender wi' yo, gentle wi' yo, comfortable wi' yo, Chrisen wi' yo. Be sure o' that, ma'am. They'd be riven to bits, ere ever they'd be different
In short
it's because they are so full of virtues that they have turned you adrift. Go through with it while you are about it. Out with it
How 'tis, ma'am
'tis so. I know 'tis, as I know the heavens is over me ahint the smoke. We're patient too, an' wants in general to do right. An' I canna think the fawt is aw wi' us
Now, my friend
if you will favour me with your attention for half a minute, I should like to have a word or two with you. You said just now, that you had nothing to tell us about this business. You are quite sure of that before we go any further
Sir, I am sure on 't
Here's a gentleman from London present
a Parliament gentleman. I should like him to hear a short bit of dialogue between you and me, instead of taking the substance of it - for I know precious well, beforehand, what it will be; nobody knows better than I do, take notice! - instead of receiving it on trust from my mouth
Now, what do you complain of
I ha' not coom here, sir
to complain. I coom for that I were sent for
What
do you people, in a general way, complain of
t, sir, and fairly tell a man 'tis not a muddle
Of course
Now perhaps you'll let the gentleman know, how you would set this muddle (as you're so fond of calling it) to rights
I donno, sir. I canna be expecten to 't. 'Tis not me as should be looken to for that, sir. 'Tis them as is put ower me, and ower aw the rest of us. What do they tak upon themseln, sir, if not to do't
I'll tell you something towards it, at any rate
We will make an example of half a dozen Slackbridges. We'll indict the blackguards for felony, and get 'em shipped off to penal settlements
Don't tell me we won't, man
because we will, I tell you
Sir
if yo was t' tak a hundred Slackbridges - aw as there is, and aw the number ten times towd - an' was t' sew 'em up in separate sacks, an' sink 'em in the deepest ocean as were made ere ever dry land coom to be, yo'd leave the muddle just wheer 'tis. Mischeevous strangers
when ha we not heern, I am sure, sin ever we can call to mind, o' th' mischeevous strangers! 'Tis not by them the trouble's made, sir. 'Tis not wi' them 't commences. I ha no favour for 'em - I ha no reason to favour 'em - but 'tis hopeless and useless to dream o' takin them fro their trade, 'stead o' takin their trade fro them! Aw that's now about me in this room were heer afore I coom, an' will be heer when I am gone. Put that clock aboard a ship an' pack it off to Norfolk Island, an' the time will go on just the same. So 'tis wi' Slackbridge every bit
Sir, I canna, wi' my little learning an' my common way, tell the genelman what will better aw this - though some working men o' this town could, above my powers - but I can tell him what I know will never do 't. The strong hand will never do 't. Vict'ry and triumph will never do 't. Agreeing fur to mak one side unnat'rally awlus and for ever right, and toother side unnat'rally awlus and for ever wrong, will never, never do 't. Nor yet lettin alone will never do 't. Let thousands upon thousands alone, aw leading the like lives and aw faw'en into the like muddle, and they will be as one, and yo will be as anoother, wi' a black unpassable world betwixt yo, just as long or short a time as sich-like misery can last. Not drawin nigh to fok, wi' kindness and patience an' cheery ways, that so draws nigh to one another in their monny troubles, and so cherishes one another in their distresses wi' what they need themseln - like, I humbly believe, as no people the genelman ha seen in aw his travels can beat - will never do 't till th' Sun turns t' ice. Most o' aw, rating 'em as so much Power, and reg'latin 'em as if they was figures in a soom, or machines: wi'out loves and likens, wi'out memories and inclinations, wi'out souls to weary and souls to hope - when aw goes quiet, draggin on wi' 'em as if they'd nowt o' th' kind, and when aw goes onquiet, reproachin 'em for their want o' sitch humanly feelins in their dealins wi' yo - this will never do 't, sir, till God's work is onmade
Just stop a moment
I told you, the last time you were here with a grievance, that you had better turn about and come out of that. And I also told you, if you remember, that I was up to the gold spoon look- out
I were not up to 't myseln, sir; I do assure yo
Now it's clear to me
that you are one of those chaps who have always got a grievance. And you go about, sowing it and raising crops. That's the business of your life, my friend
You are such a waspish, raspish, ill-conditioned chap, you see
that even your own Union, the men who know you best, will have nothing to do with you. I never thought those fellows could be right in anything; but I tell you what! I so far go along with them for a novelty, that I'll have nothing to do with you either
You can finish off what you're at
and then go elsewhere
Sir, yo know weel
that if I canna get work wi' yo, I canna get it elsewheer
What I know, I know; and what you know, you know. I have no more to say about it
Heaven help us aw in this world
Ah, Rachael, my dear! Missus, thou wi' her
Well, and now you are surprised to be sure, and with reason I must say
Here I am again, you see
But how wi' Rachael
Why, I come to be with this good lass pretty much as I came to be with you
My visiting time is later this year than usual, for I have been rather troubled with shortness of breath, and so put it off till the weather was fine and warm. For the same reason I don't make all my journey in one day, but divide it into two days, and get a bed to-night at the Travellers' Coffee House down by the railroad (a nice clean house), and go back Parliamentary, at six in the morning. Well, but what has this to do with this good lass, says you? I'm going to tell you. I have heard of Mr. Bounderby being married. I read it in the paper, where it looked grand - oh, it looked fine
and I want to see his wife. I have never seen her yet. Now, if you'll believe me, she hasn't come out of that house since noon to- day. So not to give her up too easily, I was waiting about, a little last bit more, when I passed close to this good lass two or three times; and her face being so friendly I spoke to her, and she spoke to me. There
you can make all the rest out for yourself now, a deal shorter than I can, I dare say
Well, missus
I ha seen the lady, and she were young and hansom. Wi' fine dark thinkin eyes, and a still way, Rachael, as I ha never seen the like on
Young and handsome. Yes
As bonny as a rose! And what a happy wife
Aye, missus, I suppose she be
Suppose she be? She must be. She's your master's wife
Though as to master
not master onny more. That's aw enden 'twixt him and me
Have you left his work, Stephen
Why, Rachael
Where will you go, Stephen
Tan't easy overmuch t' know wheer t' turn, but a good heart will coom to me
Come to my poor place, missus
and tak a coop o' tea. Rachael will coom then; and arterwards I'll see thee safe t' thy Travellers' lodgin. 'T may be long, Rachael, ere ever I ha th' chance o' thy coompany agen
I ha never thowt yet, missus
o' askin thy name
Mrs. Pegler
A widder, I think
Oh, many long years
Twere a bad job, too, to lose so good a one
Onny children
No
Not now, not now
Dead, Stephen
t
I ought t' hadn in my mind as I might touch a sore place. I - I blame myseln
I had a son
and he did well, wonderfully well. But he is not to be spoken of if you please. He is - ' Putting down her cup, she moved her hands as if she would have added, by her action, 'dead
I have lost him
Bounderby
Oh hide me! Don't let me be seen for the world. Don't let him come up till I've got away. Pray, pray
But hearken, missus, hearken
'tis his wife. Yo'r not fearfo' o' her. Yo was hey-go-mad about her, but an hour sin
But are you sure it's the lady, and not the gentleman
Certain sure
Well then, pray don't speak to me, nor yet take any notice of me
Let me be quite to myself in this corner
I have come to speak to you, in consequence of what passed just now. I should like to be serviceable to you, if you will let me. Is this your wife
I remember
I recollect, now, to have heard your domestic misfortunes spoken of, though I was not attending to the particulars at the time. It was not my meaning to ask a question that would give pain to any one here. If I should ask any other question that may happen to have that result, give me credit, if you please, for being in ignorance how to speak to you as I ought
He has told you what has passed between himself and my husband? You would be his first resource, I think
I have heard the end of it, young lady
Did I understand, that, being rejected by one employer, he would probably be rejected by all? I thought he said as much
The chances are very small, young lady - next to nothing - for a man who gets a bad name among them
What shall I understand that you mean by a bad name
The name of being troublesome
Then, by the prejudices of his own class, and by the prejudices of the other, he is sacrificed alike? Are the two so deeply separated in this town, that there is no place whatever for an honest workman between them
He fell into suspicion
with his fellow-weavers, because - he had made a promise not to be one of them. I think it must have been to you that he made that promise. Might I ask you why he made it
I didn't seek it of him, poor lad. I prayed him to avoid trouble for his own good, little thinking he'd come to it through me. But I know he'd die a hundred deaths, ere ever he'd break his word. I know that of him well
No one, excepting myseln, can ever know what honour, an' what love, an' respect, I bear to Rachael, or wi' what cause. When I passed that promess, I towd her true, she were th' Angel o' my life. 'Twere a solemn promess. 'Tis gone fro' me, for ever
What will you do
Weel, ma'am
when I ha finished off, I mun quit this part, and try another. Fortnet or misfortnet, a man can but try; there's nowt to be done wi'out tryin' - cept laying down and dying
How will you travel
Afoot, my kind ledy, afoot
Rachael, will you tell him - for you know how, without offence - that this is freely his, to help him on his way? Will you entreat him to take it
I canna do that, young lady
Bless you for thinking o' the poor lad wi' such tenderness. But 'tis for him to know his heart, and what is right according to it
Not e'en Rachael
could mak sitch a kind offerin, by onny words, kinder. T' show that I'm not a man wi'out reason and gratitude, I'll tak two pound. I'll borrow 't for t' pay 't back. 'Twill be the sweetest work as ever I ha done, that puts it in my power t' acknowledge once more my lastin thankfulness for this present action
Just wait a moment, Loo! Before we go, I should like to speak to him a moment. Something comes into my head. If you'll step out on the stairs, Blackpool, I'll mention it. Never mind a light, man
It don't want a light
I say
I think I can do you a good turn. Don't ask me what it is, because it may not come to anything. But there's no harm in my trying
That was our light porter at the Bank
who brought you the message to-night. I call him our light porter, because I belong to the Bank too
What a hurry he is in
Well
Now look here! When are you off
T' day's Monday
bout
Friday or Saturday
Now look here! I am not sure that I can do you the good turn I want to do you - that's my sister, you know, in your room - but I may be able to, and if I should not be able to, there's no harm done. So I tell you what. You'll know our light porter again
Yes, sure
Very well
When you leave work of a night, between this and your going away, just hang about the Bank an hour or so, will you? Don't take on, as if you meant anything, if he should see you hanging about there; because I shan't put him up to speak to you, unless I find I can do you the service I want to do you. In that case he'll have a note or a message for you, but not else. Now look here! You are sure you understand
I understand, sir
Now look here
Be sure you don't make any mistake then, and don't forget. I shall tell my sister as we go home, what I have in view, and she'll approve, I know. Now look here! You're all right, are you? You understand all about it? Very well then. Come along, Loo
because she was such a pretty dear
I shall strive t' see thee agen, Rachael, afore I go, but if not - 'Thou wilt not, Stephen, I know. 'Tis better that we make up our minds to be open wi' one another
Thou'rt awlus right. 'Tis bolder and better. I ha been thinkin then, Rachael, that as 'tis but a day or two that remains, 'twere better for thee, my dear, not t' be seen wi' me. 'T might bring thee into trouble, fur no good
'Tis not for that, Stephen, that I mind. But thouknow's t our old agreement. 'Tis for that
Well, well
Thou'lt write to me, and tell me all that happens, Stephen
Yes. What can I say now, but Heaven be wi' thee, Heaven bless thee, Heaven thank thee and reward thee
May it bless thee, Stephen, too, in all thy wanderings, and send thee peace and rest at last
I towd thee, my dear
that night - that I would never see or think o' onnything that angered me, but thou, so much better than me, should'st be beside it. Thou'rt beside it now. Thoumak's t me see it wi' a better eye. Bless thee. Good night. Good-bye
Whom none of us believe, my dear Mrs. Bounderby, and who do not believe themselves. The only difference between us and the professors of virtue or benevolence, or philanthropy - never mind the name - is, that we know it is all meaningless, and say so; while they know it equally and will never say so
great fun
Why, sir
I am told that Nickits
gave seven hundred pound for that Seabeach. Now, to be plain with you, if I ever, in the whole course of my life, take seven looks at it, at a hundred pound a look, it will be as much as I shall do. No, by George! I don't forget that I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown. For years upon years, the only pictures in my possession, or that I could have got into my possession, by any means, unless I stole 'em, were the engravings of a man shaving himself in a boot, on the blacking bottles that I was overjoyed to use in cleaning boots with, and that I sold when they were empty for a farthing a-piece, and glad to get it
Harthouse, you have a couple of horses down here. Bring half a dozen more if you like, and we'll find room for 'em. There's stabling in this place for a dozen horses; and unless Nickits is belied, he kept the full number. A round dozen of 'em, sir. When that man was a boy, he went to Westminster School. Went to Westminster School as a King's Scholar, when I was principally living on garbage, and sleeping in market baskets. Why, if I wanted to keep a dozen horses - which I don't, for one's enough for me - I couldn't bear to see 'em in their stalls here, and think what my own lodging used to be. I couldn't look at 'em, sir, and not order 'em out. Yet so things come round. You see this place; you know what sort of a place it is; you are aware that there's not a completer place of its size in this kingdom or elsewhere - I don't care where - and here, got into the middle of it, like a maggot into a nut, is Josiah Bounderby. While Nickits (as a man came into my office, and told me yesterday), Nickits, who used to act in Latin, in the Westminster School plays, with the chief- justices and nobility of this country applauding him till they were black in the face, is drivelling at this minute - drivelling, sir! - in a fifth floor, up a narrow dark back street in Antwerp
Mrs. Bounderby, I esteem it a most fortunate accident that I find you alone here. I have for some time had a particular wish to speak to you
I never in my life
saw anything so remarkable and so captivating as the lighting of those features
Pardon me. The expression of your sisterly interest is so beautiful - Tom should be so proud of it - I know this is inexcusable, but I am so compelled to admire
Being so impulsive
Mrs. Bounderby, no: you know I make no pretence with you. You know I am a sordid piece of human nature, ready to sell myself at any time for any reasonable sum, and altogether incapable of any Arcadian proceeding whatever
I am waiting
for your further reference to my brother
You are rigid with me, and I deserve it. I am as worthless a dog as you will find, except that I am not false - not false. But you surprised and started me from my subject, which was your brother. I have an interest in him
Have you an interest in anything, Mr. Harthouse
If you had asked me when I first came here, I should have said no. I must say now - even at the hazard of appearing to make a pretence, and of justly awakening your incredulity - yes
Mr. Harthouse, I give you credit for being interested in my brother
Thank you. I claim to deserve it. You know how little I do claim, but I will go that length. You have done so much for him, you are so fond of him; your whole life, Mrs. Bounderby, expresses such charming self-forgetfulness on his account - pardon me again - I am running wide of the subject. I am interested in him for his own sake
Mrs. Bounderby
it is no irrevocable offence in a young fellow of your brother's years, if he is heedless, inconsiderate, and expensive - a little dissipated, in the common phrase. Is he
Yes
Allow me to be frank. Do you think he games at all
I think he makes bets
I know he does
Of course he loses
Yes
Everybody does lose who bets. May I hint at the probability of your sometimes supplying him with money for these purposes
Acquit me of impertinent curiosity, my dear Mrs. Bounderby. I think Tom may be gradually falling into trouble, and I wish to stretch out a helping hand to him from the depths of my wicked experience. - Shall I say again, for his sake? Is that necessary
Candidly to confess everything that has occurred to me
I will confide to you my doubt whether he has had many advantages. Whether - forgive my plainness - whether any great amount of confidence is likely to have been established between himself and his most worthy father
I do not
think it likely
Or, between himself, and - I may trust to your perfect understanding of my meaning, I am sure - and his highly esteemed brother-in-law
I do not think that likely, either
Mrs. Bounderby
may there be a better confidence between yourself and me? Tom has borrowed a considerable sum of you
You will understand, Mr. Harthouse
you will understand that if I tell you what you press to know, it is not by way of complaint or regret. I would never complain of anything, and what I have done I do not in the least regret
So spirited, too
When I married, I found that my brother was even at that time heavily in debt. Heavily for him, I mean. Heavily enough to oblige me to sell some trinkets. They were no sacrifice. I sold them very willingly. I attached no value to them. They, were quite worthless to me
Since then, I have given my brother, at various times, what money I could spare: in short, what money I have had. Confiding in you at all, on the faith of the interest you profess for him, I will not do so by halves. Since you have been in the habit of visiting here, he has wanted in one sum as much as a hundred pounds. I have not been able to give it to him. I have felt uneasy for the consequences of his being so involved, but I have kept these secrets until now, when I trust them to your honour. I have held no confidence with any one, because - you anticipated my reason just now
Mrs. Bounderby, though a graceless person, of the world worldly, I feel the utmost interest, I assure you, in what you tell me. I cannot possibly be hard upon your brother. I understand and share the wise consideration with which you regard his errors. With all possible respect both for Mr. Gradgrind and for Mr. Bounderby, I think I perceive that he has not been fortunate in his training. Bred at a disadvantage towards the society in which he has his part to play, he rushes into these extremes for himself, from opposite extremes that have long been forced - with the very best intentions we have no doubt - upon him. Mr. Bounderby's fine bluff English independence, though a most charming characteristic, does not - as we have agreed - invite confidence. If I might venture to remark that it is the least in the world deficient in that delicacy to which a youth mistaken, a character misconceived, and abilities misdirected, would turn for relief and guidance, I should express what it presents to my own view
All allowance
must be made. I have one great fault to find with Tom, however, which I cannot forgive, and for which I take him heavily to account
Perhaps
I have said enough. Perhaps it would have been better, on the whole, if no allusion to it had escaped me
You alarm me, Mr. Harthouse. Pray let me know it
To relieve you from needless apprehension - and as this confidence regarding your brother, which I prize I am sure above all possible things, has been established between us - I obey. I cannot forgive him for not being more sensible in every word, look, and act of his life, of the affection of his best friend; of the devotion of his best friend; of her unselfishness; of her sacrifice. The return he makes her, within my observation, is a very poor one. What she has done for him demands his constant love and gratitude, not his ill- humour and caprice. Careless fellow as I am, I am not so indifferent, Mrs. Bounderby, as to be regardless of this vice in your brother, or inclined to consider it a venial offence
In a word, it is to correct your brother in this, Mrs. Bounderby, that I must aspire. My better knowledge of his circumstances, and my direction and advice in extricating them - rather valuable, I hope, as coming from a scapegrace on a much larger scale - will give me some influence over him, and all I gain I shall certainly use towards this end. I have said enough, and more than enough. I seem to be protesting that I am a sort of good fellow, when, upon my honour, I have not the least intention to make any protestation to that effect, and openly announce that I am nothing of the sort. Yonder, among the trees
is your brother himself; no doubt, just come down. As he seems to be loitering in this direction, it may be as well, perhaps, to walk towards him, and throw ourselves in his way. He has been very silent and doleful of late. Perhaps, his brotherly conscience is touched - if there are such things as consciences. Though, upon my honour, I hear of them much too often to believe in them
Halloa
I didn't know you were here
Whose name, Tom
have you been carving on the trees
Whose name
Oh! You mean what girl's name
You have a suspicious appearance of inscribing some fair creature's on the bark, Tom
Not much of that, Mr. Harthouse, unless some fair creature with a slashing fortune at her own disposal would take a fancy to me. Or she might be as ugly as she was rich, without any fear of losing me. I'd carve her name as often as she liked
I am afraid you are mercenary, Tom
Mercenary
Who is not mercenary? Ask my sister
Have you so proved it to be a failing of mine, Tom
You know whether the cap fits you, Loo
If it does, you can wear it
Tom is misanthropical to-day, as all bored people are now and then
Don't believe him, Mrs. Bounderby. He knows much better. I shall disclose some of his opinions of you, privately expressed to me, unless he relents a little
At all events, Mr. Harthouse
you can't tell her that I ever praised her for being mercenary. I may have praised her for being the contrary, and I should do it again, if I had as good reason. However, never mind this now; it's not very interesting to you, and I am sick of the subject
Tom, my fine fellow, I want to have a word with you
Tom, what's the matter
Oh! Mr. Harthouse
I am hard up, and bothered out of my life
My good fellow, so am I
You
You are the picture of independence. Mr. Harthouse, I am in a horrible mess. You have no idea what a state I have got myself into - what a state my sister might have got me out of, if she would only have done it
Tom, you are inconsiderate: you expect too much of your sister. You have had money of her, you dog, you know you have
Well, Mr. Harthouse, I know I have. How else was I to get it? Here's old Bounderby always boasting that at my age he lived upon twopence a month, or something of that sort. Here's my father drawing what he calls a line, and tying me down to it from a baby, neck and heels. Here's my mother who never has anything of her own, except her complaints. What is a fellow to do for money, and where am I to look for it, if not to my sister
Not got it, Mr. Harthouse? I don't say she has got it. I may have wanted more than she was likely to have got. But then she ought to get it. She could get it. It's of no use pretending to make a secret of matters now, after what I have told you already; you know she didn't marry old Bounderby for her own sake, or for his sake, but for my sake. Then why doesn't she get what I want, out of him, for my sake? She is not obliged to say what she is going to do with it; she is sharp enough; she could manage to coax it out of him, if she chose. Then why doesn't she choose, when I tell her of what consequence it is? But no. There she sits in his company like a stone, instead of making herself agreeable and getting it easily. I don't know what you may call this, but I call it unnatural conduct
My dear Tom
let me try to be your banker
For God's sake
don't talk about bankers
What is the present need, Tom? Three figures? Out with them. Say what they are
Mr. Harthouse
it's too late; the money is of no use to me at present. I should have had it before to be of use to me. But I am very much obliged to you; you're a true friend
Whelp, whelp
what an Ass you are
And I take your offer as a great kindness
As a great kindness, Mr. Harthouse
Well
it may be of more use by and by. And, my good fellow, if you will open your bedevilments to me when they come thick upon you, I may show you better ways out of them than you can find for yourself
Thank you
I wish I had known you sooner, Mr. Harthouse
Now, you see, Tom
every man is selfish in everything he does, and I am exactly like the rest of my fellow-creatures. I am desperately intent;' the languor of his desperation being quite tropical; 'on your softening towards your sister - which you ought to do; and on your being a more loving and agreeable sort of brother - which you ought to be
I will be, Mr. Harthouse
No time like the present, Tom. Begin at once
Certainly I will. And my sister Loo shall say so
Having made which bargain, Tom
we will tear ourselves asunder until dinner-time
I didn't mean to be cross, Loo
I know you are fond of me, and you know I am fond of you
So much the less is the whelp the only creature that she cares for
So much the less, so much the less
Harthouse
Have you heard
Heard what
Then you haven't heard
I have heard you, and so has this brute. I have heard nothing else
The Bank's robbed
You don't mean it
Robbed last night, sir. Robbed in an extraordinary manner. Robbed with a false key
Of much
Why, no; not of very much. But it might have been
Of how much
Oh! as a sum - if you stick to a sum - of not more than a hundred and fifty pound
But it's not the sum; it's the fact. It's the fact of the Bank being robbed, that's the important circumstance. I am surprised you don't see it
My dear Bounderby
I do see it; and am as overcome as you can possibly desire me to be, by the spectacle afforded to my mental view. Nevertheless, I may be allowed, I hope, to congratulate you - which I do with all my soul, I assure you - on your not having sustained a greater loss
Thank'ee
But I tell you what. It might have been twenty thousand pound
I suppose it might
Suppose it might! By the Lord, you may suppose so. By George
It might have been twice twenty. There's no knowing what it would have been, or wouldn't have been, as it was, but for the fellows' being disturbed
Here's Tom Gradgrind's daughter knows pretty well what it might have been, if you don't
Dropped, sir, as if she was shot when I told her! Never knew her do such a thing before. Does her credit, under the circumstances, in my opinion
Why, I am going to tell you
If you hadn't been so mighty particular about the sum, I should have begun to tell you before. You know this lady (for she is a lady), Mrs. Sparsit
Very well. And this young man, Bitzer, you saw him too on the same occasion
Very well. They live at the Bank. You know they live at the Bank, perhaps? Very well. Yesterday afternoon, at the close of business hours, everything was put away as usual. In the iron room that this young fellow sleeps outside of, there was never mind how much. In the little safe in young Tom's closet, the safe used for petty purposes, there was a hundred and fifty odd pound
A hundred and fifty-four, seven, one
Come
let's have none of your interruptions. It's enough to be robbed while you're snoring because you're too comfortable, without being put right with your four seven ones. I didn't snore, myself, when I was your age, let me tell you. I hadn't victuals enough to snore. And I didn't four seven one. Not if I knew it
A hundred and fifty odd pound
That sum of money, young Tom locked in his safe, not a very strong safe, but that's no matter now. Everything was left, all right. Some time in the night, while this young fellow snored - Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am, you say you have heard him snore
Sir
I cannot say that I have heard him precisely snore, and therefore must not make that statement. But on winter evenings, when he has fallen asleep at his table, I have heard him, what I should prefer to describe as partially choke. I have heard him on such occasions produce sounds of a nature similar to what may be sometimes heard in Dutch clocks. Not
that I would convey any imputation on his moral character. Far from it. I have always considered Bitzer a young man of the most upright principle; and to that I beg to bear my testimony
Well
Where is Tom, by the by
He has been helping the police
and stays behind at the Bank. I wish these fellows had tried to rob me when I was at his time of life. They would have been out of pocket if they had invested eighteenpence in the job; I can tell 'em that
Is anybody suspected
Suspected? I should think there was somebody suspected. Egod
Josiah Bounderby of Coketown is not to be plundered and nobody suspected. No, thank you
Well
I'll tell you. It's not to be mentioned everywhere; it's not to be mentioned anywhere: in order that the scoundrels concerned (there's a gang of 'em) may be thrown off their guard. So take this in confidence. Now wait a bit
What should you say to;' here he violently exploded: 'to a Hand being in it
I hope
not our friend Blackpot
Say Pool instead of Pot, sir
and that's the man
O yes! I know
I know! I am used to that. I know all about it. They are the finest people in the world, these fellows are. They have got the gift of the gab, they have. They only want to have their rights explained to them, they do. But I tell you what. Show me a dissatisfied Hand, and I'll show you a man that's fit for anything bad, I don't care what it is
But I am acquainted with these chaps
I can read 'em off, like books. Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am, I appeal to you. What warning did I give that fellow, the first time he set foot in the house, when the express object of his visit was to know how he could knock Religion over, and floor the Established Church? Mrs. Sparsit, in point of high connexions, you are on a level with the aristocracy, - did I say, or did I not say, to that fellow, "you can't hide the truth from me: you are not the kind of fellow I like; you'll come to no good
Assuredly, sir
you did, in a highly impressive manner, give him such an admonition
When he shocked you, ma'am
when he shocked your feelings
Yes, sir
he certainly did so. Though I do not mean to say but that my feelings may be weaker on such points - more foolish if the term is preferred - than they might have been, if I had always occupied my present position
I am the proprietor of this female, and she's worth your attention, I think
You can recall for yourself, Harthouse, what I said to him when you saw him. I didn't mince the matter with him. I am never mealy with 'em. I KNOW 'em. Very well, sir. Three days after that, he bolted. Went off, nobody knows where: as my mother did in my infancy - only with this difference, that he is a worse subject than my mother, if possible. What did he do before he went? What do you say;' Mr. Bounderby, with his hat in his hand, gave a beat upon the crown at every little division of his sentences, as if it were a tambourine; 'to his being seen - night after night - watching the Bank? - to his lurking about there - after dark? - To its striking Mrs. Sparsit - that he could be lurking for no good - To her calling Bitzer's attention to him, and their both taking notice of him - And to its appearing on inquiry to-day - that he was also noticed by the neighbours
Suspicious
certainly
I think so, sir
I think so. But there are more of 'em in it. There's an old woman. One never hears of these things till the mischief's done; all sorts of defects are found out in the stable door after the horse is stolen; there's an old woman turns up now. An old woman who seems to have been flying into town on a broomstick, every now and then. She watches the place a whole day before this fellow begins, and on the night when you saw him, she steals away with him and holds a council with him - I suppose, to make her report on going off duty, and be damned to her
This is not all of 'em, even as we already know 'em
But I have said enough for the present. You'll have the goodness to keep it quiet, and mention it to no one. It may take time, but we shall have 'em. It's policy to give 'em line enough, and there's no objection to that
Of course, they will be punished with the utmost rigour of the law, as notice-boards observe
and serve them right. Fellows who go in for Banks must take the consequences. If there were no consequences, we should all go in for Banks
For the present, Loo Bounderby
here's Mrs. Sparsit to look after. Mrs. Sparsit's nerves have been acted upon by this business, and she'll stay here a day or two. So make her comfortable
Thank you very much, sir
but pray do not let My comfort be a consideration. Anything will do for Me
but it is my duty to remember
that what I was, I am no longer. Indeed
if I could altogether cancel the remembrance that Mr. Sparsit was a Powler, or that I myself am related to the Scadgers family; or if I could even revoke the fact, and make myself a person of common descent and ordinary connexions; I would gladly do so. I should think it, under existing circumstances, right to do so
Indeed you are very good, sir
wait for the simple mutton
Alas, poor Yorick
You have still good spirits, sir, I am thankful to find;' and would appear to hail it as a blessed dispensation that Mr. Bounderby bore up as he did. One idiosyncrasy for which she often apologized, she found it excessively difficult to conquer. She had a curious propensity to call Mrs. Bounderby 'Miss Gradgrind
the differences
being such
Don't be low, sir. Pray let me see you cheerful, sir, as I used to do
I cannot bear to see you so, sir
Try a hand at backgammon, sir, as you used to do when I had the honour of living under your roof
I haven't played backgammon, ma'am
since that time
No, sir
I am aware that you have not. I remember that Miss Gradgrind takes no interest in the game. But I shall be happy, sir, if you will condescend
What's the matter, ma'am? ' said Mr. Bounderby; 'you don't see a Fire, do you
Oh dear no, sir
I was thinking of the dew
What have you got to do with the dew, ma'am
It's not myself, sir
I am fearful of Miss Gradgrind's taking cold
She never takes cold
Really, sir
Oh, sir
Not your sherry warm, with lemon-peel and nutmeg
Why, I have got out of the habit of taking it now, ma'am
The more's the pity, sir
you are losing all your good old habits. Cheer up, sir! If Miss Gradgrind will permit me, I will offer to make it for you, as I have often done
It will do you good, sir. It will warm your heart. It is the sort of thing you want, and ought to take, sir
Your health, ma'am
Thank you, sir. The same to you, and happiness also
Tom, have you anything to tell me? If ever you loved me in your life, and have anything concealed from every one besides, tell it to me
I don't know what you mean, Loo. You have been dreaming
My dear brother
is there nothing that you have to tell me? Is there nothing you can tell me if you will? You can tell me nothing that will change me. O Tom, tell me the truth
I don't know what you mean, Loo
As you lie here alone, my dear, in the melancholy night, so you must lie somewhere one night, when even I, if I am living then, shall have left you. As I am here beside you, barefoot, unclothed, undistinguishable in darkness, so must I lie through all the night of my decay, until I am dust. In the name of that time, Tom, tell me the truth now
What is it you want to know
You may be certain;' in the energy of her love she took him to her bosom as if he were a child; 'that I will not reproach you. You may be certain that I will be compassionate and true to you. You may be certain that I will save you at whatever cost. O Tom, have you nothing to tell me? Whisper very softly. Say only "yes," and I shall understand you
Not a word, Tom
How can I say Yes, or how can I say No, when I don't know what you mean? Loo, you are a brave, kind girl, worthy I begin to think of a better brother than I am. But I have nothing more to say. Go to bed, go to bed
You are tired
Yes, I am quite tired out
You have been so hurried and disturbed to-day. Have any fresh discoveries been made
Only those you have heard of, from - him
Tom, have you said to any one that we made a visit to those people, and that we saw those three together
No. Didn't you yourself particularly ask me to keep it quiet when you asked me to go there with you
Yes. But I did not know then what was going to happen
Nor I neither. How could I
Ought I to say, after what has happened
that I made that visit? Should I say so? Must I say so
Good Heavens, Loo
you are not in the habit of asking my advice. say what you like. If you keep it to yourself, I shall keep it to myself. If you disclose it, there's an end of it
Tom, do you believe the man I gave the money to, is really implicated in this crime
I don't know. I don't see why he shouldn't be
He seemed to me an honest man
Another person may seem to you dishonest, and yet not be so
In short
if you come to that, perhaps I was so far from being altogether in his favour, that I took him outside the door to tell him quietly, that I thought he might consider himself very well off to get such a windfall as he had got from my sister, and that I hoped he would make good use of it. You remember whether I took him out or not. I say nothing against the man; he may be a very good fellow, for anything I know; I hope he is
Was he offended by what you said
No, he took it pretty well; he was civil enough. Where are you, Loo
Good night, my dear, good night
You have nothing more to tell me
No. What should I have? You wouldn't have me tell you a lie
I wouldn't have you do that to-night, Tom, of all the nights in your life; many and much happier as I hope they will be
Thank you, my dear Loo. I am so tired, that I am sure I wonder I don't say anything to get to sleep. Go to bed, go to bed
It appears but yesterday, sir
that I had the honour of receiving you at the Bank, when you were so good as to wish to be made acquainted with Mr. Bounderby's address
An occasion, I am sure, not to be forgotten by myself in the course of Ages
We live in a singular world, sir
I have had the honour, by a coincidence of which I am proud, to have made a remark, similar in effect, though not so epigrammatically expressed
A singular world, I would say, sir
as regards the intimacies we form at one time, with individuals we were quite ignorant of, at another. I recall, sir, that on that occasion you went so far as to say you were actually apprehensive of Miss Gradgrind
Your memory does me more honour than my insignificance deserves. I availed myself of your obliging hints to correct my timidity, and it is unnecessary to add that they were perfectly accurate. Mrs. Sparsit's talent for - in fact for anything requiring accuracy - with a combination of strength of mind - and Family - is too habitually developed to admit of any question
You found Miss Gradgrind - I really cannot call her Mrs. Bounderby; it's very absurd of me - as youthful as I described her
You drew her portrait perfectly
Presented her dead image
Very engaging, sir
Highly so
It used to be considered
that Miss Gradgrind was wanting in animation, but I confess she appears to me considerably and strikingly improved in that respect. Ay, and indeed here is Mr. Bounderby
How do you find yourself this morning, sir? Pray let us see you cheerful, sir
You want your breakfast, sir, but I dare say Miss Gradgrind will soon be here to preside at the table
If I waited to be taken care of by my wife, ma'am, I believe you know pretty well I should wait till Doomsday, so I'll trouble you to take charge of the teapot
There! Stop where you are, ma'am
stop where you are! Mrs. Bounderby will be very glad to be relieved of the trouble, I believe
Don't say that, sir
because that is very unkind to Mrs. Bounderby. And to be unkind is not to be you, sir
You may set your mind at rest, ma'am. - You can take it very quietly, can't you, Loo
Of course. It is of no moment. Why should it be of any importance to me
Why should it be of any importance to any one, Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am
You attach too much importance to these things, ma'am. By George, you'll be corrupted in some of your notions here. You are old- fashioned, ma'am. You are behind Tom Gradgrind's children's time
What is the matter with you
What has given you offence
Offence
Do you suppose if there was any offence given me, I shouldn't name it, and request to have it corrected? I am a straightforward man, I believe. I don't go beating about for side-winds
I suppose no one ever had occasion to think you too diffident, or too delicate
I have never made that objection to you, either as a child or as a woman. I don't understand what you would have
Have
Nothing. Otherwise, don't you, Loo Bounderby, know thoroughly well that I, Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, would have it
You are incomprehensible this morning
Pray take no further trouble to explain yourself. I am not curious to know your meaning. What does it matter
My benefactor
Serve you right, you Noodle, and I am glad of it
Well, my dear
and I hope you are going on satisfactorily to yourself. It was all your father's doing. He set his heart upon it. And he ought to know
I want to hear of you, mother; not of myself
You want to hear of me, my dear? That's something new, I am sure, when anybody wants to hear of me. Not at all well, Louisa. Very faint and giddy
Are you in pain, dear mother
I think there's a pain somewhere in the room
but I couldn't positively say that I have got it
You very seldom see your sister
She grows like you. I wish you would look at her. Sissy, bring her here
Do you see the likeness, Louisa
Eh! Yes, I always say so
And that reminds me. I - I want to speak to you, my dear. Sissy, my good girl, leave us alone a minute
You were going to speak to me, mother
Eh? Yes, to be sure, my dear. You know your father is almost always away now, and therefore I must write to him about it
About what, mother? Don't be troubled. About what
You must remember, my dear, that whenever I have said anything, on any subject, I have never heard the last of it: and consequently, that I have long left off saying anything
I can hear you, mother
You learnt a great deal, Louisa, and so did your brother. Ologies of all kinds from morning to night. If there is any Ology left, of any description, that has not been worn to rags in this house, all I can say is, I hope I shall never hear its name
I can hear you, mother, when you have strength to go on
But there is something - not an Ology at all - that your father has missed, or forgotten, Louisa. I don't know what it is. I have often sat with Sissy near me, and thought about it. I shall never get its name now. But your father may. It makes me restless. I want to write to him, to find out for God's sake, what it is. Give me a pen, give me a pen
I tell you what, ma'am; you shall come down here of a Saturday, while the fine weather lasts, and stay till Monday
To hear is to obey
And pray, sir
if I may venture to ask a question appertaining to any subject on which you show reserve - which is indeed hardy in me, for I well know you have a reason for everything you do - have you received intelligence respecting the robbery
Why, ma'am, no; not yet. Under the circumstances, I didn't expect it yet. Rome wasn't built in a day, ma'am
Very true, sir
Nor yet in a week, ma'am
No, indeed, sir
In a similar manner, ma'am
I can wait, you know. If Romulus and Remus could wait, Josiah Bounderby can wait. They were better off in their youth than I was, however. They had a she-wolf for a nurse; I had only a she-wolf for a grandmother. She didn't give any milk, ma'am; she gave bruises. She was a regular Alderney at that
Ah
No, ma'am
I have not heard anything more about it. It's in hand, though; and young Tom, who rather sticks to business at present - something new for him; he hadn't the schooling I had - is helping. My injunction is, Keep it quiet, and let it seem to blow over. Do what you like under the rose, but don't give a sign of what you're about; or half a hundred of 'em will combine together and get this fellow who has bolted, out of reach for good. Keep it quiet, and the thieves will grow in confidence by little and little, and we shall have 'em
Very sagacious indeed, sir
The old woman I mentioned, ma'am
is not laid hold of; but, she may take her oath she will be, if that is any satisfaction to her villainous old mind. In the mean time, ma'am, I am of opinion, if you ask me my opinion, that the less she is talked about, the better
If not quite
You recollect the man, Mr. Harthouse
Oh, perfectly
His face, and his manner, and what he said
Perfectly. And an infinitely dreary person he appeared to me to be. Lengthy and prosy in the extreme. It was knowing to hold forth, in the humble-virtue school of eloquence; but, I assure you I thought at the time, "My good fellow, you are over-doing this
It has been very difficult to me to think ill of that man
My dear Louisa - as Tom says
You know no good of the fellow
No, certainly
Nor of any other such person
How can I
when I know nothing of them, men or women
My dear Louisa, then consent to receive the submissive representation of your devoted friend, who knows something of several varieties of his excellent fellow-creatures - for excellent they are, I am quite ready to believe, in spite of such little foibles as always helping themselves to what they can get hold of. This fellow talks. Well; every fellow talks. He professes morality. Well; all sorts of humbugs profess morality. From the House of Commons to the House of Correction, there is a general profession of morality, except among our people; it really is that exception which makes our people quite reviving. You saw and heard the case. Here was one of the fluffy classes pulled up extremely short by my esteemed friend Mr. Bounderby - who, as we know, is not possessed of that delicacy which would soften so tight a hand. The member of the fluffy classes was injured, exasperated, left the house grumbling, met somebody who proposed to him to go in for some share in this Bank business, went in, put something in his pocket which had nothing in it before, and relieved his mind extremely. Really he would have been an uncommon, instead of a common, fellow, if he had not availed himself of such an opportunity. Or he may have originated it altogether, if he had the cleverness
I almost feel as though it must be bad in me
to be so ready to agree with you, and to be so lightened in my heart by what you say
I only say what is reasonable; nothing worse. I have talked it over with my friend Tom more than once - of course I remain on terms of perfect confidence with Tom - and he is quite of my opinion, and I am quite of his. Will you walk
Your foot on the last step, my lady
and all your art shall never blind me
But you'll go down to-morrow, ma'am, all the same. You'll go down just as if I was there. It will make no difference to you
Pray, sir
let me beg you not to say that. Your absence will make a vast difference to me, sir, as I think you very well know
Well, ma'am, then you must get on in my absence as well as you can
Mr. Bounderby
your will is to me a law, sir; otherwise, it might be my inclination to dispute your kind commands, not feeling sure that it will be quite so agreeable to Miss Gradgrind to receive me, as it ever is to your own munificent hospitality. But you shall say no more, sir. I will go, upon your invitation
Why, when I invite you to my house, ma'am
I should hope you want no other invitation
No, indeed, sir
I should hope not. Say no more, sir. I would, sir, I could see you gay again
What do you mean, ma'am
Sir
there was wont to be an elasticity in you which I sadly miss. Be buoyant, sir
Bitzer
present my compliments to young Mr. Thomas, and ask him if he would step up and partake of a lamb chop and walnut ketchup, with a glass of India ale
Mr. Thomas
these plain viands being on table, I thought you might be tempted
Thank'ee, Mrs. Sparsit
How is Mr. Harthouse, Mr. Tom
Oh, he's all right
Where may he be at present
He is shooting in Yorkshire
Sent Loo a basket half as big as a church, yesterday
The kind of gentleman, now
whom one might wager to be a good shot
Crack
Mr. Harthouse is a great favourite of mine
as indeed he is of most people. May we expect to see him again shortly, Mr. Tom
Why, I expect to see him to-morrow
Good news
I have got an appointment with him to meet him in the evening at the station here
and I am going to dine with him afterwards, I believe. He is not coming down to the country house for a week or so, being due somewhere else. At least, he says so; but I shouldn't wonder if he was to stop here over Sunday, and stray that way
Which reminds me
Would you remember a message to your sister, Mr. Tom, if I was to charge you with one
Well? I'll try
if it isn't a long un
It is merely my respectful compliments
and I fear I may not trouble her with my society this week; being still a little nervous, and better perhaps by my poor self
Oh! If that's all
it wouldn't much matter, even if I was to forget it, for Loo's not likely to think of you unless she sees you
Well, Mrs. Sparsit, I must be off
This is a device to keep him out of the way
Harthouse is with his sister now
My dearest love
what could I do? Knowing you were alone, was it possible that I could stay away
You may hang your head, to make yourself the more attractive; I don't know what they see in you when you hold it up
but you little think, my dearest love, whose eyes are on you
My dear child
will you not bear with my society for a little while
Not here
Where, Louisa? 'Not here
But we have so little time to make so much of, and I have come so far, and am altogether so devoted, and distracted. There never was a slave at once so devoted and ill-used by his mistress. To look for your sunny welcome that has warmed me into life, and to be received in your frozen manner, is heart-rending
Am I to say again, that I must be left to myself here
But we must meet, my dear Louisa. Where shall we meet
Shall I ride up to the house a few minutes hence, innocently supposing that its master is at home and will be charmed to receive me
No
Your cruel commands are implicitly to be obeyed; though I am the most unfortunate fellow in the world, I believe, to have been insensible to all other women, and to have fallen prostrate at last under the foot of the most beautiful, and the most engaging, and the most imperious. My dearest Louisa, I cannot go myself, or let you go, in this hard abuse of your power
Oh, my dearest love
you little think how well attended you are
She will be at Coketown long before him
though his horse is never so good. Where will she wait for him? And where will they go together? Patience. We shall see
She will get into one
and will be away before I can follow in another. At all risks of being run over, I must see the number, and hear the order given to the coachman
I have lost her
Louisa
Father, I want to speak to you
What is the matter? How strange you look! And good Heaven
have you come here exposed to this storm
Yes
What is it? I conjure you, Louisa, tell me what is the matter
Father, you have trained me from my cradle
Yes, Louisa
I curse the hour in which I was born to such a destiny
Curse the hour? Curse the hour
How could you give me life, and take from me all the inappreciable things that raise it from the state of conscious death? Where are the graces of my soul? Where are the sentiments of my heart? What have you done, O father, what have you done, with the garden that should have bloomed once, in this great wilderness here
If it had ever been here, its ashes alone would save me from the void in which my whole life sinks. I did not mean to say this; but, father, you remember the last time we conversed in this room
Yes, Louisa
What has risen to my lips now, would have risen to my lips then, if you had given me a moment's help. I don't reproach you, father. What you have never nurtured in me, you have never nurtured in yourself; but O! if you had only done so long ago, or if you had only neglected me, what a much better and much happier creature I should have been this day
Father, if you had known, when we were last together here, what even I feared while I strove against it - as it has been my task from infancy to strive against every natural prompting that has arisen in my heart; if you had known that there lingered in my breast, sensibilities, affections, weaknesses capable of being cherished into strength, defying all the calculations ever made by man, and no more known to his arithmetic than his Creator is, - would you have given me to the husband whom I am now sure that I hate
No. No, my poor child
Would you have doomed me, at any time, to the frost and blight that have hardened and spoiled me? Would you have robbed me - for no one's enrichment - only for the greater desolation of this world - of the immaterial part of my life, the spring and summer of my belief, my refuge from what is sordid and bad in the real things around me, my school in which I should have learned to be more humble and more trusting with them, and to hope in my little sphere to make them better
O no, no. No, Louisa
Yet, father, if I had been stone blind; if I had groped my way by my sense of touch, and had been free, while I knew the shapes and surfaces of things, to exercise my fancy somewhat, in regard to them; I should have been a million times wiser, happier, more loving, more contented, more innocent and human in all good respects, than I am with the eyes I have. Now, hear what I have come to say
With a hunger and thirst upon me, father, which have never been for a moment appeased; with an ardent impulse towards some region where rules, and figures, and definitions were not quite absolute; I have grown up, battling every inch of my way
I never knew you were unhappy, my child
Father, I always knew it. In this strife I have almost repulsed and crushed my better angel into a demon. What I have learned has left me doubting, misbelieving, despising, regretting, what I have not learned; and my dismal resource has been to think that life would soon go by, and that nothing in it could be worth the pain and trouble of a contest
And you so young, Louisa
And I so young. In this condition, father - for I show you now, without fear or favour, the ordinary deadened state of my mind as I know it - you proposed my husband to me. I took him. I never made a pretence to him or you that I loved him. I knew, and, father, you knew, and he knew, that I never did. I was not wholly indifferent, for I had a hope of being pleasant and useful to Tom. I made that wild escape into something visionary, and have slowly found out how wild it was. But Tom had been the subject of all the little tenderness of my life; perhaps he became so because I knew so well how to pity him. It matters little now, except as it may dispose you to think more leniently of his errors
When I was irrevocably married, there rose up into rebellion against the tie, the old strife, made fiercer by all those causes of disparity which arise out of our two individual natures, and which no general laws shall ever rule or state for me, father, until they shall be able to direct the anatomist where to strike his knife into the secrets of my soul
Louisa
I do not reproach you, father, I make no complaint. I am here with another object
What can I do, child? Ask me what you will
I am coming to it. Father, chance then threw into my way a new acquaintance; a man such as I had had no experience of; used to the world; light, polished, easy; making no pretences; avowing the low estimate of everything, that I was half afraid to form in secret; conveying to me almost immediately, though I don't know how or by what degrees, that he understood me, and read my thoughts. I could not find that he was worse than I. There seemed to be a near affinity between us. I only wondered it should be worth his while, who cared for nothing else, to care so much for me
For you, Louisa
I say nothing of his plea for claiming my confidence. It matters very little how he gained it. Father, he did gain it. What you know of the story of my marriage, he soon knew, just as well
I have done no worse, I have not disgraced you. But if you ask me whether I have loved him, or do love him, I tell you plainly, father, that it may be so. I don't know
This night, my husband being away, he has been with me, declaring himself my lover. This minute he expects me, for I could release myself of his presence by no other means. I do not know that I am sorry, I do not know that I am ashamed, I do not know that I am degraded in my own esteem. All that I know is, your philosophy and your teaching will not save me. Now, father, you have brought me to this. Save me by some other means
I shall die if you hold me! Let me fall upon the ground
When was I brought to this room
Last night, Louisa
Who brought me here
Sissy, I believe
Why do you believe so
Because I found her here this morning. She didn't come to my bedside to wake me, as she always does; and I went to look for her. She was not in her own room either; and I went looking for her all over the house, until I found her here taking care of you and cooling your head. Will you see father? Sissy said I was to tell him when you woke
What a beaming face you have, Jane
Have I? I am very glad you think so. I am sure it must be Sissy's doing
You can tell father if you will
It was you who made my room so cheerful, and gave it this look of welcome
My dear Louisa. My poor daughter
My unfortunate child
It would be hopeless for me, Louisa, to endeavour to tell you how overwhelmed I have been, and still am, by what broke upon me last night. The ground on which I stand has ceased to be solid under my feet. The only support on which I leaned, and the strength of which it seemed, and still does seem, impossible to question, has given way in an instant. I am stunned by these discoveries. I have no selfish meaning in what I say; but I find the shock of what broke upon me last night, to be very heavy indeed
I will not say, Louisa, that if you had by any happy chance undeceived me some time ago, it would have been better for us both; better for your peace, and better for mine. For I am sensible that it may not have been a part of my system to invite any confidence of that kind. I had proved my - my system to myself, and I have rigidly administered it; and I must bear the responsibility of its failures. I only entreat you to believe, my favourite child, that I have meant to do right
I am well assured of what you say, father. I know I have been your favourite child. I know you have intended to make me happy. I have never blamed you, and I never shall
My dear, I have remained all night at my table, pondering again and again on what has so painfully passed between us. When I consider your character; when I consider that what has been known to me for hours, has been concealed by you for years; when I consider under what immediate pressure it has been forced from you at last; I come to the conclusion that I cannot but mistrust myself
But
if I see reason to mistrust myself for the past, Louisa, I should also mistrust myself for the present and the future. To speak unreservedly to you, I do. I am far from feeling convinced now, however differently I might have felt only this time yesterday, that I am fit for the trust you repose in me; that I know how to respond to the appeal you have come home to make to me; that I have the right instinct - supposing it for the moment to be some quality of that nature - how to help you, and to set you right, my child
Some persons hold
Louisa
I have been absent from here, my dear, a good deal of late; and though your sister's training has been pursued according to - the system
it has necessarily been modified by daily associations begun, in her case, at an early age. I ask you - ignorantly and humbly, my daughter - for the better, do you think
Father
if any harmony has been awakened in her young breast that was mute in mine until it turned to discord, let her thank Heaven for it, and go upon her happier way, taking it as her greatest blessing that she has avoided my way
O my child, my child
I am an unhappy man to see you thus! What avails it to me that you do not reproach me, if I so bitterly reproach myself
Louisa, I have a misgiving that some change may have been slowly working about me in this house, by mere love and gratitude: that what the Head had left undone and could not do, the Heart may have been doing silently. Can it be so
I am not too proud to believe it, Louisa. How could I be arrogant, and you before me! Can it be so? Is it so, my dear
I hope I have not disturbed you. I have come to ask if you would let me stay with you
Why should you stay with me? My sister will miss you. You are everything to her
Am I
I would be something to you, if I might
What
Whatever you want most, if I could be that. At all events, I would like to try to be as near it as I can. And however far off that may be, I will never tire of trying. Will you let me
My father sent you to ask me
No indeed
At least, what
I thought it best myself that I should be sent away, for I felt very uncertain whether you would like to find me here
Have I always hated you so much
I hope not, for I have always loved you, and have always wished that you should know it. But you changed to me a little, shortly before you left home. Not that I wondered at it. You knew so much, and I knew so little, and it was so natural in many ways, going as you were among other friends, that I had nothing to complain of, and was not at all hurt
May I try
First, Sissy, do you know what I am? I am so proud and so hardened, so confused and troubled, so resentful and unjust to every one and to myself, that everything is stormy, dark, and wicked to me. Does not that repel you
No
I am so unhappy, and all that should have made me otherwise is so laid waste, that if I had been bereft of sense to this hour, and instead of being as learned as you think me, had to begin to acquire the simplest truths, I could not want a guide to peace, contentment, honour, all the good of which I am quite devoid, more abjectly than I do. Does not that repel you
No
Forgive me, pity me, help me! Have compassion on my great need, and let me lay this head of mine upon a loving heart
O lay it here
Lay it here, my dear
Well! I don't know
She was off somewhere at daybreak this morning. She's always full of mystery; I hate her. So I do that white chap; he's always got his blinking eyes upon a fellow
Where were you last night, Tom
Where was I last night
Come! I like that. I was waiting for you, Mr. Harthouse, till it came down as I never saw it come down before. Where was I too! Where were you, you mean
I was prevented from coming - detained
Detained
Two of us were detained. I was detained looking for you, till I lost every train but the mail. It would have been a pleasant job to go down by that on such a night, and have to walk home through a pond. I was obliged to sleep in town after all
Where
Where? Why, in my own bed at Bounderby's
Did you see your sister
How the deuce
could I see my sister when she was fifteen miles off
So, whether I am waiting for a hostile message, or an assignation, or a penitent remonstrance, or an impromptu wrestle with my friend Bounderby in the Lancashire manner - which would seem as likely as anything else in the present state of affairs - I'll dine
Bounderby has the advantage in point of weight; and if anything of a British nature is to come off between us, it may be as well to be in training
Some dinner at six - with a beefsteak in it
It wouldn't be bad
to give the waiter five shillings, and throw him
Or a fellow of about thirteen or fourteen stone might be hired by the hour
like the Holy Office and slow torture
Beg your pardon, sir. You're wanted, sir, if you please
Beg your pardon, sir. Young lady outside, sir, wishes to see you
Outside? Where
Outside this door, sir
I speak to Mr. Harthouse
To Mr. Harthouse
And you speak to him with the most confiding eyes I ever saw, and the most earnest voice (though so quiet) I ever heard
what your honour as a gentleman binds you to, in other matters
You may, I assure you
I am young, as you see; I am alone, as you see. In coming to you, sir, I have no advice or encouragement beyond my own hope
But that is very strong
This is a very odd beginning. I don't see where we are going
I think
you have already guessed whom I left just now
I have been in the greatest concern and uneasiness during the last four-and-twenty hours (which have appeared as many years
on a lady's account. The hopes I have been encouraged to form that you come from that lady, do not deceive me, I trust
I left her within an hour
At
At her father's
Then I certainly
do not see where we are going
She hurried there last night. She arrived there in great agitation, and was insensible all through the night. I live at her father's, and was with her. You may be sure, sir, you will never see her again as long as you live
So startling an announcement, so confidently made, and by such lips, is really disconcerting in the last degree. May I be permitted to inquire, if you are charged to convey that information to me in those hopeless words, by the lady of whom we speak
I have no charge from her
The drowning man catches at the straw. With no disrespect for your judgment, and with no doubt of your sincerity, excuse my saying that I cling to the belief that there is yet hope that I am not condemned to perpetual exile from that lady's presence
There is not the least hope. The first object of my coming here, sir, is to assure you that you must believe that there is no more hope of your ever speaking with her again, than there would be if she had died when she came home last night
It is still true. There is no hope
Well! If it should unhappily appear
after due pains and duty on my part, that I am brought to a position so desolate as this banishment, I shall not become the lady's persecutor. But you said you had no commission from her
I have only the commission of my love for her, and her love for me. I have no other trust, than that I have been with her since she came home, and that she has given me her confidence. I have no further trust, than that I know something of her character and her marriage. O Mr. Harthouse, I think you had that trust too
I am not a moral sort of fellow
and I never make any pretensions to the character of a moral sort of fellow. I am as immoral as need be. At the same time, in bringing any distress upon the lady who is the subject of the present conversation, or in unfortunately compromising her in any way, or in committing myself by any expression of sentiments towards her, not perfectly reconcilable with - in fact with - the domestic hearth; or in taking any advantage of her father's being a machine, or of her brother's being a whelp, or of her husband's being a bear; I beg to be allowed to assure you that I have had no particularly evil intentions, but have glided on from one step to another with a smoothness so perfectly diabolical, that I had not the slightest idea the catalogue was half so long until I began to turn it over. Whereas I find
that it is really in several volumes
After what has been just now represented to me, in a manner I find it impossible to doubt - I know of hardly any other source from which I could have accepted it so readily - I feel bound to say to you, in whom the confidence you have mentioned has been reposed, that I cannot refuse to contemplate the possibility (however unexpected) of my seeing the lady no more. I am solely to blame for the thing having come to this - and - and, I cannot say
that I have any sanguine expectation of ever becoming a moral sort of fellow, or that I have any belief in any moral sort of fellow whatever
You spoke
of your first object. I may assume that there is a second to be mentioned
Yes
Will you oblige me by confiding it
Mr. Harthouse
the only reparation that remains with you, is to leave here immediately and finally. I am quite sure that you can mitigate in no other way the wrong and harm you have done. I am quite sure that it is the only compensation you have left it in your power to make. I do not say that it is much, or that it is enough; but it is something, and it is necessary. Therefore, though without any other authority than I have given you, and even without the knowledge of any other person than yourself and myself, I ask you to depart from this place to-night, under an obligation never to return to it
But do you know
the extent of what you ask? You probably are not aware that I am here on a public kind of business, preposterous enough in itself, but which I have gone in for, and sworn by, and am supposed to be devoted to in quite a desperate manner? You probably are not aware of that, but I assure you it's the fact
Besides which
it's so alarmingly absurd. It would make a man so ridiculous, after going in for these fellows, to back out in such an incomprehensible way
I am quite sure
that it is the only reparation in your power, sir. I am quite sure, or I would not have come here
Upon my soul, I don't know what to say. So immensely absurd
If I were to do such a very ridiculous thing
it could only be in the most inviolable confidence
I will trust to you, sir
and you will trust to me
I suppose a man never was placed in a more ridiculous position
But I see no way out of it. What will be, will be. This will be, I suppose. I must take off myself, I imagine - in short, I engage to do it
You will permit me to say
that I doubt if any other ambassador, or ambassadress, could have addressed me with the same success. I must not only regard myself as being in a very ridiculous position, but as being vanquished at all points. Will you allow me the privilege of remembering my enemy's name
My name
The only name I could possibly care to know, to-night
Sissy Jupe
Pardon my curiosity at parting. Related to the family
I am only a poor girl
I was separated from my father - he was only a stroller - and taken pity on by Mr. Gradgrind. I have lived in the house ever since
It wanted this to complete the defeat
The defeat may now be considered perfectly accomplished. Only a poor girl - only a stroller - only James Harthouse made nothing of - only James Harthouse a Great Pyramid of failure
Send my fellow here
Gone to bed, sir
Tell him to get up, and pack up
Now, Tom Gradgrind
here's a lady here - Mrs. Sparsit - you know Mrs. Sparsit - who has something to say to you that will strike you dumb
You have missed my letter
Missed your letter, sir
The present time is no time for letters. No man shall talk to Josiah Bounderby of Coketown about letters, with his mind in the state it's in now
Bounderby
I speak of a very special letter I have written to you, in reference to Louisa
Tom Gradgrind
I speak of a very special messenger that has come to me, in reference to Louisa. Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am, stand forward
If you can't get it out, ma'am
leave me to get it out. This is not a time for a lady, however highly connected, to be totally inaudible, and seemingly swallowing marbles. Tom Gradgrind, Mrs. Sparsit latterly found herself, by accident, in a situation to overhear a conversation out of doors between your daughter and your precious gentleman-friend, Mr. James Harthouse
Indeed
Ah! Indeed
It is not necessary to repeat its tenor, Bounderby. I know what passed
You do? Perhaps
you know where your daughter is at the present time
Undoubtedly. She is here
Here
My dear Bounderby, let me beg you to restrain these loud out- breaks, on all accounts. Louisa is here. The moment she could detach herself from that interview with the person of whom you speak, and whom I deeply regret to have been the means of introducing to you, Louisa hurried here, for protection. I myself had not been at home many hours, when I received her - here, in this room. She hurried by the train to town, she ran from town to this house, through a raging storm, and presented herself before me in a state of distraction. Of course, she has remained here ever since. Let me entreat you, for your own sake and for hers, to be more quiet
Now, ma'am! We shall be happy to hear any little apology you may think proper to offer, for going about the country at express pace, with no other luggage than a Cock-and-a-Bull, ma'am
Sir
my nerves are at present too much shaken, and my health is at present too much impaired, in your service, to admit of my doing more than taking refuge in tears
Well, ma'am
without making any observation to you that may not be made with propriety to a woman of good family, what I have got to add to that, is that there is something else in which it appears to me you may take refuge, namely, a coach. And the coach in which we came here being at the door, you'll allow me to hand you down to it, and pack you home to the Bank: where the best course for you to pursue, will be to put your feet into the hottest water you can bear, and take a glass of scalding rum and butter after you get into bed
Now, as you showed me in your face, Tom Gradgrind, that you wanted to speak to me
here I am. But, I am not in a very agreeable state, I tell you plainly: not relishing this business, even as it is, and not considering that I am at any time as dutifully and submissively treated by your daughter, as Josiah Bounderby of Coketown ought to be treated by his wife. You have your opinion, I dare say; and I have mine, I know. If you mean to say anything to me to-night, that goes against this candid remark, you had better let it alone
My dear Bounderby
Now, you'll excuse me
but I don't want to be too dear. That, to start with. When I begin to be dear to a man, I generally find that his intention is to come over me. I am not speaking to you politely; but, as you are aware, I am not polite. If you like politeness, you know where to get it. You have your gentleman-friends, you know, and they'll serve you with as much of the article as you want. I don't keep it myself
Bounderby
I thought you couldn't make 'em
Perhaps I thought so. But, I say we are all liable to mistakes and I should feel sensible of your delicacy, and grateful for it, if you would spare me these references to Harthouse. I shall not associate him in our conversation with your intimacy and encouragement; pray do not persist in connecting him with mine
I never mentioned his name
Well, well
Bounderby, I see reason to doubt whether we have ever quite understood Louisa
Who do you mean by We
Let me say I, then
I doubt whether I have understood Louisa. I doubt whether I have been quite right in the manner of her education
There you hit it
There I agree with you. You have found it out at last, have you? Education! I'll tell you what education is - To be tumbled out of doors, neck and crop, and put upon the shortest allowance of everything except blows. That's what I call education
I think your good sense will perceive
that whatever the merits of such a system may be, it would be difficult of general application to girls
I don't see it at all, sir
Well
we will not enter into the question. I assure you I have no desire to be controversial. I seek to repair what is amiss, if I possibly can; and I hope you will assist me in a good spirit, Bounderby, for I have been very much distressed
I don't understand you, yet
and therefore I won't make any promises
In the course of a few hours, my dear Bounderby
I appear to myself to have become better informed as to Louisa's character, than in previous years. The enlightenment has been painfully forced upon me, and the discovery is not mine. I think there are - Bounderby, you will be surprised to hear me say this - I think there are qualities in Louisa, which - which have been harshly neglected, and - and a little perverted. And - and I would suggest to you, that - that if you would kindly meet me in a timely endeavour to leave her to her better nature for a while - and to encourage it to develop itself by tenderness and consideration - it - it would be the better for the happiness of all of us. Louisa
has always been my favourite child
You'd like to keep her here for a time
I - I had intended to recommend, my dear Bounderby, that you should allow Louisa to remain here on a visit, and be attended by Sissy (I mean of course Cecilia Jupe), who understands her, and in whom she trusts
I gather from all this, Tom Gradgrind
that you are of opinion that there's what people call some incompatibility between Loo Bounderby and myself
I fear there is at present a general incompatibility between Louisa, and - and - and almost all the relations in which I have placed her
Now, look you here, Tom Gradgrind
You have said your say; I am going to say mine. I am a Coketown man. I am Josiah Bounderby of Coketown. I know the bricks of this town, and I know the works of this town, and I know the chimneys of this town, and I know the smoke of this town, and I know the Hands of this town. I know 'em all pretty well. They're real. When a man tells me anything about imaginative qualities, I always tell that man, whoever he is, that I know what he means. He means turtle soup and venison, with a gold spoon, and that he wants to be set up with a coach and six. That's what your daughter wants. Since you are of opinion that she ought to have what she wants, I recommend you to provide it for her. Because, Tom Gradgrind, she will never have it from me
Bounderby
I hoped, after my entreaty, you would have taken a different tone
Just wait a bit
you have said your say, I believe. I heard you out; hear me out, if you please. Don't make yourself a spectacle of unfairness as well as inconsistency, because, although I am sorry to see Tom Gradgrind reduced to his present position, I should be doubly sorry to see him brought so low as that. Now, there's an incompatibility of some sort or another, I am given to understand by you, between your daughter and me. I'll give you to understand, in reply to that, that there unquestionably is an incompatibility of the first magnitude - to be summed up in this - that your daughter don't properly know her husband's merits, and is not impressed with such a sense as would become her, by George! of the honour of his alliance. That's plain speaking, I hope
Bounderby
this is unreasonable
Is it
I am glad to hear you say so. Because when Tom Gradgrind, with his new lights, tells me that what I say is unreasonable, I am convinced at once it must be devilish sensible. With your permission I am going on. You know my origin; and you know that for a good many years of my life I didn't want a shoeing-horn, in consequence of not having a shoe. Yet you may believe or not, as you think proper, that there are ladies - born ladies - belonging to families - Families! - who next to worship the ground I walk on
Whereas your daughter
is far from being a born lady. That you know, yourself. Not that I care a pinch of candle-snuff about such things, for you are very well aware I don't; but that such is the fact, and you, Tom Gradgrind, can't change it. Why do I say this
Not, I fear
to spare me
Hear me out
and refrain from cutting in till your turn comes round. I say this, because highly connected females have been astonished to see the way in which your daughter has conducted herself, and to witness her insensibility. They have wondered how I have suffered it. And I wonder myself now, and I won't suffer it
Bounderby
the less we say to- night the better, I think
On the contrary, Tom Gradgrind, the more we say to-night, the better, I think. That is
till I have said all I mean to say, and then I don't care how soon we stop. I come to a question that may shorten the business. What do you mean by the proposal you made just now
What do I mean, Bounderby
By your visiting proposition
I mean that I hope you may be induced to arrange in a friendly manner, for allowing Louisa a period of repose and reflection here, which may tend to a gradual alteration for the better in many respects
To a softening down of your ideas of the incompatibility
If you put it in those terms
What made you think of this
Come
I don't want to be told about that. I know what I took her for, as well as you do. Never you mind what I took her for; that's my look out
I was merely going on to remark, Bounderby, that we may all be more or less in the wrong, not even excepting you; and that some yielding on your part, remembering the trust you have accepted, may not only be an act of true kindness, but perhaps a debt incurred towards Louisa
I think differently
Let me seriously entreat you to reconsider this, Bounderby
before you commit yourself to such a decision
I always come to a decision
and whatever I do, I do at once. I should be surprised at Tom Gradgrind's addressing such a remark to Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, knowing what he knows of him, if I could be surprised by anything Tom Gradgrind did, after his making himself a party to sentimental humbug. I have given you my decision, and I have got no more to say. Good night
that damning document
Oh, my fellow-men, behold of what a traitor in the camp of those great spirits who are enrolled upon the holy scroll of Justice and of Union, is appropriately capable! Oh, my prostrate friends, with the galling yoke of tyrants on your necks and the iron foot of despotism treading down your fallen forms into the dust of the earth, upon which right glad would your oppressors be to see you creeping on your bellies all the days of your lives, like the serpent in the garden - oh, my brothers, and shall I as a man not add, my sisters too, what do you say, now, of Stephen Blackpool, with a slight stoop in his shoulders and about five foot seven in height, as set forth in this degrading and disgusting document, this blighting bill, this pernicious placard, this abominable advertisement; and with what majesty of denouncement will you crush the viper, who would bring this stain and shame upon the God-like race that happily has cast him out for ever! Yes, my compatriots, happily cast him out and sent him forth! For you remember how he stood here before you on this platform; you remember how, face to face and foot to foot, I pursued him through all his intricate windings; you remember how he sneaked and slunk, and sidled, and splitted of straws, until, with not an inch of ground to which to cling, I hurled him out from amongst us: an object for the undying finger of scorn to point at, and for the avenging fire of every free and thinking mind to scorch and scar! And now, my friends - my labouring friends, for I rejoice and triumph in that stigma - my friends whose hard but honest beds are made in toil, and whose scanty but independent pots are boiled in hardship; and now, I say, my friends, what appellation has that dastard craven taken to himself, when, with the mask torn from his features, he stands before us in all his native deformity, a What? A thief! A plunderer! A proscribed fugitive, with a price upon his head; a fester and a wound upon the noble character of the Coketown operative! Therefore, my band of brothers in a sacred bond, to which your children and your children's children yet unborn have set their infant hands and seals, I propose to you on the part of the United Aggregate Tribunal, ever watchful for your welfare, ever zealous for your benefit, that this meeting does Resolve: That Stephen Blackpool, weaver, referred to in this placard, having been already solemnly disowned by the community of Coketown Hands, the same are free from the shame of his misdeeds, and cannot as a class be reproached with his dishonest actions
No
Hear, hear
Slackbridge, y'or over hetter in't; y'or a goen too fast
Who is it
It is Mr. Bounderby
and your brother Mr. Tom, and a young woman who says her name is Rachael, and that you know her
What do they want, Sissy dear
They want to see you. Rachael has been crying, and seems angry
Father
I cannot refuse to see them, for a reason that will explain itself. Shall they come in here
Mrs. Bounderby
I don't disturb you, I hope. This is an unseasonable hour, but here is a young woman who has been making statements which render my visit necessary. Tom Gradgrind, as your son, young Tom, refuses for some obstinate reason or other to say anything at all about those statements, good or bad, I am obliged to confront her with your daughter
You have seen me once before, young lady
You have seen me, young lady
once before
I have
Will you make it known, young lady, where, and who was there
I went to the house where Stephen Blackpool lodged, on the night of his discharge from his work, and I saw you there. He was there too; and an old woman who did not speak, and whom I could scarcely see, stood in a dark corner. My brother was with me
Why couldn't you say so, young Tom
I promised my sister I wouldn't
And besides
she tells her own story so precious well - and so full - that what business had I to take it out of her mouth
Say, young lady, if you please
why, in an evil hour, you ever came to Stephen's that night
I felt compassion for him
and I wished to know what he was going to do, and wished to offer him assistance
Thank you, ma'am
Much flattered and obliged
Did you offer him
a bank-note
Yes; but he refused it, and would only take two pounds in gold
Oh, certainly
If you put the question whether your ridiculous and improbable account was true or not, I am bound to say it's confirmed
Young lady
Stephen Blackpool is now named as a thief in public print all over this town, and where else! There have been a meeting to-night where he have been spoken of in the same shameful way. Stephen! The honestest lad, the truest lad, the best
I am very, very sorry
Oh, young lady, young lady
I hope you may be, but I don't know! I can't say what you may ha' done! The like of you don't know us, don't care for us, don't belong to us. I am not sure why you may ha' come that night. I can't tell but what you may ha' come wi' some aim of your own, not mindin to what trouble you brought such as the poor lad. I said then, Bless you for coming; and I said it of my heart, you seemed to take so pitifully to him; but I don't know now, I don't know
And when I think
that the poor lad was so grateful, thinkin you so good to him - when I mind that he put his hand over his hard-worken face to hide the tears that you brought up there - Oh, I hope you may be sorry, and ha' no bad cause to be it; but I don't know, I don't know
You're a pretty article
to come here with these precious imputations! You ought to be bundled out for not knowing how to behave yourself, and you would be by rights
Come
you know what you have engaged to do. You had better give your mind to that; not this
Deed, I am loath
that any here should see me like this; but I won't be seen so again. Young lady, when I had read what's put in print of Stephen - and what has just as much truth in it as if it had been put in print of you - I went straight to the Bank to say I knew where Stephen was, and to give a sure and certain promise that he should be here in two days. I couldn't meet wi' Mr. Bounderby then, and your brother sent me away, and I tried to find you, but you was not to be found, and I went back to work. Soon as I come out of the Mill to-night, I hastened to hear what was said of Stephen - for I know wi' pride he will come back to shame it! - and then I went again to seek Mr. Bounderby, and I found him, and I told him every word I knew; and he believed no word I said, and brought me here
So far, that's true enough
But I have known you people before to-day, you'll observe, and I know you never die for want of talking. Now, I recommend you not so much to mind talking just now, as doing. You have undertaken to do something; all I remark upon that at present is, do it
I have written to Stephen by the post that went out this afternoon, as I have written to him once before sin' he went away
and he will be here, at furthest, in two days
Then, I'll tell you something. You are not aware perhaps
that you yourself have been looked after now and then, not being considered quite free from suspicion in this business, on account of most people being judged according to the company they keep. The post-office hasn't been forgotten either. What I'll tell you is, that no letter to Stephen Blackpool has ever got into it. Therefore, what has become of yours, I leave you to guess. Perhaps you're mistaken, and never wrote any
He hadn't been gone from here, young lady
as much as a week, when he sent me the only letter I have had from him, saying that he was forced to seek work in another name
Oh, by George
he changes his name, does he! That's rather unlucky, too, for such an immaculate chap. It's considered a little suspicious in Courts of Justice, I believe, when an Innocent happens to have many names
What
what, young lady, in the name of Mercy, was left the poor lad to do! The masters against him on one hand, the men against him on the other, he only wantin to work hard in peace, and do what he felt right. Can a man have no soul of his own, no mind of his own? Must he go wrong all through wi' this side, or must he go wrong all through wi' that, or else be hunted like a hare
Indeed, indeed, I pity him from my heart
and I hope that he will clear himself
You need have no fear of that, young lady. He is sure
All the surer, I suppose
for your refusing to tell where he is? Eh
He shall not, through any act of mine, come back wi' the unmerited reproach of being brought back. He shall come back of his own accord to clear himself, and put all those that have injured his good character, and he not here for its defence, to shame. I have told him what has been done against him
and he will be here, at furthest, in two days
Notwithstanding which
if he can be laid hold of any sooner, he shall have an earlier opportunity of clearing himself. As to you, I have nothing against you; what you came and told me turns out to be true, and I have given you the means of proving it to be true, and there's an end of it. I wish you good night all! I must be off to look a little further into this
Good night, father
Rachael, you will not distrust me one day, when you know me better
It goes against me
to mistrust any one; but when I am so mistrusted - when we all are - I cannot keep such things quite out of my mind. I ask your pardon for having done you an injury. I don't think what I said now. Yet I might come to think it again, wi' the poor lad so wronged
Did you tell him in your letter
that suspicion seemed to have fallen upon him, because he had been seen about the Bank at night? He would then know what he would have to explain on coming back, and would be ready
Yes, dear
but I can't guess what can have ever taken him there. He never used to go there. It was never in his way. His way was the same as mine, and not near it
I doubt
if he can be here till next day
Then I will come next night too
Louisa, my dear, I have never, that I know of, seen this man. Do you believe him to be implicated
I think I have believed it, father, though with great difficulty. I do not believe it now
That is to say, you once persuaded yourself to believe it, from knowing him to be suspected. His appearance and manner; are they so honest
Very honest
And her confidence not to be shaken! I ask myself
does the real culprit know of these accusations? Where is he? Who is he
Was the suspected fellow the thief? A pretty question! If not, where was the man, and why did he not come back
I misdoubt
if there is as many as twenty left in all this place, who have any trust in the poor dear lad now
If it hadn't been mercifully brought about, that I was to have you to speak to
times are, when I think my mind would not have kept right. But I get hope and strength through you; and you believe that though appearances may rise against him, he will be proved clear
I do believe so
with my whole heart. I feel so certain, Rachael, that the confidence you hold in yours against all discouragement, is not like to be wrong, that I have no more doubt of him than if I had known him through as many years of trial as you have
And I, my dear
have known him through them all, to be, according to his quiet ways, so faithful to everything honest and good, that if he was never to be heard of more, and I was to live to be a hundred years old, I could say with my last breath, God knows my heart. I have never once left trusting Stephen Blackpool
We all believe, up at the Lodge, Rachael, that he will be freed from suspicion, sooner or later
The better I know it to be so believed there, my dear
You don't mistrust her now, Rachael
I can't at all times keep out of my mind, mistrustings of some one. I can't think who 'tis, I can't think how or why it may be done, but I mistrust that some one has put Stephen out of the way. I mistrust that by his coming back of his own accord, and showing himself innocent before them all, some one would be confounded, who - to prevent that - has stopped him, and put him out of the way
That is a dreadful thought
It is a dreadful thought to think he may be murdered
When it makes its way into my mind, dear
and it will come sometimes, though I do all I can to keep it out, wi' counting on to high numbers as I work, and saying over and over again pieces that I knew when I were a child - I fall into such a wild, hot hurry, that, however tired I am, I want to walk fast, miles and miles. I must get the better of this before bed-time. I'll walk home wi' you
He might fall ill upon the journey back
and in such a case, there are many places on the road where he might stop
But he is in none of them. He has been sought for in all, and he's not there
True
He'd walk the journey in two days. If he was footsore and couldn't walk, I sent him, in the letter he got, the money to ride, lest he should have none of his own to spare
Let us hope that to-morrow will bring something better, Rachael. Come into the air
You're not so hurried now, Rachael, and your hand is cooler
I get better, dear, if I can only walk, and breathe a little fresh. 'Times when I can't, I turn weak and confused
But you must not begin to fail, Rachael, for you may be wanted at any time to stand by Stephen. To-morrow is Saturday. If no news comes to-morrow, let us walk in the country on Sunday morning, and strengthen you for another week. Will you go
Yes, dear
It's a coincidence
It's a Providence! Come out, ma'am
come out, or we'll have you dragged out
Leave her alone, everybody
Let nobody touch her. She belongs to me. Come in, ma'am
Come in, ma'am, or we'll have you dragged in
Fetch Mr. Bounderby down
Rachael, young woman; you know who this is
It's Mrs. Pegler
I should think it is
Fetch Mr. Bounderby. Stand away, everybody
Don't tell me
I have told you twenty times, coming along, that I will not leave you till I have handed you over to him myself
Why, what's the matter now
Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am
Sir
I trust it is my good fortune to produce a person you have much desired to find. Stimulated by my wish to relieve your mind, sir, and connecting together such imperfect clues to the part of the country in which that person might be supposed to reside, as have been afforded by the young woman, Rachael, fortunately now present to identify, I have had the happiness to succeed, and to bring that person with me - I need not say most unwillingly on her part. It has not been, sir, without some trouble that I have effected this; but trouble in your service is to me a pleasure, and hunger, thirst, and cold a real gratification
Why, what do you mean by this
I ask you, what do you mean by this, Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am
Sir
Why don't you mind your own business, ma'am
How dare you go and poke your officious nose into my family affairs
My dear Josiah
My darling boy! I am not to blame. It's not my fault, Josiah. I told this lady over and over again, that I knew she was doing what would not be agreeable to you, but she would do it
What did you let her bring you for? Couldn't you knock her cap off, or her tooth out, or scratch her, or do something or other to her
My own boy! She threatened me that if I resisted her, I should be brought by constables, and it was better to come quietly than make that stir in such a' - Mrs. Pegler glanced timidly but proudly round the walls - 'such a fine house as this. Indeed, indeed, it is not my fault! My dear, noble, stately boy! I have always lived quiet, and secret, Josiah, my dear. I have never broken the condition once. I have never said I was your mother. I have admired you at a distance; and if I have come to town sometimes, with long times between, to take a proud peep at you, I have done it unbeknown, my love, and gone away again
I am surprised, madam
that in your old age you have the face to claim Mr. Bounderby for your son, after your unnatural and inhuman treatment of him
Me unnatural
Me inhuman! To my dear boy
Dear
Yes; dear in his self-made prosperity, madam, I dare say. Not very dear, however, when you deserted him in his infancy, and left him to the brutality of a drunken grandmother
I deserted my Josiah
Now, Lord forgive you, sir, for your wicked imaginations, and for your scandal against the memory of my poor mother, who died in my arms before Josiah was born. May you repent of it, sir, and live to know better
Do you deny, then, madam, that you left your son to - to be brought up in the gutter
Josiah in the gutter
No such a thing, sir. Never! For shame on you! My dear boy knows, and will give you to know, that though he come of humble parents, he come of parents that loved him as dear as the best could, and never thought it hardship on themselves to pinch a bit that he might write and cipher beautiful, and I've his books at home to show it! Aye, have I
prentice. And a steady lad he was, and a kind master he had to lend him a hand, and well he worked his own way forward to be rich and thriving. And I'll give you to know, sir - for this my dear boy won't - that though his mother kept but a little village shop, he never forgot her, but pensioned me on thirty pound a year - more than I want, for I put by out of it - only making the condition that I was to keep down in my own part, and make no boasts about him, and not trouble him. And I never have, except with looking at him once a year, when he has never knowed it. And it's right
that I should keep down in my own part, and I have no doubts that if I was here I should do a many unbefitting things, and I am well contented, and I can keep my pride in my Josiah to myself, and I can love for love's own sake! And I am ashamed of you, sir
for your slanders and suspicions. And I never stood here before, nor never wanted to stand here when my dear son said no. And I shouldn't be here now, if it hadn't been for being brought here. And for shame upon you, Oh, for shame, to accuse me of being a bad mother to my son, with my son standing here to tell you so different
I don't exactly know
how I come to be favoured with the attendance of the present company, but I don't inquire. When they're quite satisfied, perhaps they'll be so good as to disperse; whether they're satisfied or not, perhaps they'll be so good as to disperse. I'm not bound to deliver a lecture on my family affairs, I have not undertaken to do it, and I'm not a going to do it. Therefore those who expect any explanation whatever upon that branch of the subject, will be disappointed - particularly Tom Gradgrind, and he can't know it too soon. In reference to the Bank robbery, there has been a mistake made, concerning my mother. If there hadn't been over-officiousness it wouldn't have been made, and I hate over-officiousness at all times, whether or no. Good evening
It is so still here, Rachael, and the way is so untrodden, that I think we must be the first who have been here all the summer
And yet I don't know. This has not been broken very long. The wood is quite fresh where it gave way. Here are footsteps too. - O Rachael
What is the matter
I don't know. There is a hat lying in the grass
O the poor lad, the poor lad! He has been made away with. He is lying murdered here
Is there - has the hat any blood upon it
Rachael
I will go on a little by myself
O, my good Lord! He's down there! Down there
Rachael, dear Rachael, good Rachael, for the love of Heaven, not these dreadful cries! Think of Stephen, think of Stephen, think of Stephen
Rachael, Stephen may be living. You wouldn't leave him lying maimed at the bottom of this dreadful place, a moment, if you could bring help to him
No, no, no
Don't stir from here, for his sake! Let me go and listen
Rachael, we must lose not a moment. We must go in different directions, seeking aid. You shall go by the way we have come, and I will go forward by the path. Tell any one you see, and every one what has happened. Think of Stephen, think of Stephen
Lower away
Alive or dead
Alive
But he's hurt very bad
Where's doctor? He's hurt so very bad, sir, that we donno how to get him up
Rachael
Rachael, my dear
Don't let 't go
Thou'rt in great pain, my own dear Stephen
I ha' been, but not now. I ha' been - dreadful, and dree, and long, my dear - but 'tis ower now. Ah, Rachael, aw a muddle! Fro' first to last, a muddle
'em, but to spare 'em for th' wives and children that they loves as well as gentlefok loves theirs. When it were in work, it killed wi'out need; when 'tis let alone, it kills wi'out need. See how we die an' no need, one way an' another - in a muddle - every day
It ha' shined upon me
t my own weak seln
You ha' heard
I ha' not forgot you, ledy
Yes, Stephen, I have heard you. And your prayer is mine
You ha' a father. Will yo tak' a message to him
He is here
Shall I bring him to you
If yo please
Sir, yo will clear me an' mak my name good wi' aw men. This I leave to yo
Sir
t
Often as I coom to myseln, and found it shinin' on me down there in my trouble, I thowt it were the star as guided to Our Saviour's home. I awmust think it be the very star
I will hold thy hand, and keep beside thee, Stephen, all the way
Bless thee! Will soombody be pleased to coover my face
I believe, father
he will not come back to town to-night
Not now, my dears; in the evening
I am not able yet - to-morrow
Dear father
you have three young children left. They will be different, I will be different yet, with Heaven's help
Your wretched brother
Do you think he had planned this robbery, when he went with you to the lodging
I fear so, father. I know he had wanted money very much, and had spent a great deal
The poor man being about to leave the town, it came into his evil brain to cast suspicion on him
I think it must have flashed upon him while he sat there, father. For I asked him to go there with me. The visit did not originate with him
He had some conversation with the poor man. Did he take him aside
He took him out of the room. I asked him afterwards, why he had done so, and he made a plausible excuse; but since last night, father, and when I remember the circumstances by its light, I am afraid I can imagine too truly what passed between them
Let me know
if your thoughts present your guilty brother in the same dark view as mine
I fear, father
that he must have made some representation to Stephen Blackpool - perhaps in my name, perhaps in his own - which induced him to do in good faith and honesty, what he had never done before, and to wait about the Bank those two or three nights before he left the town
Too plain
Too plain
And now, how is he to be found? How is he to be saved from justice? In the few hours that I can possibly allow to elapse before I publish the truth, how is he to be found by us, and only by us? Ten thousand pounds could not effect it
Sissy has effected it, father
It is always you, my child
We had our fears
before yesterday; and when I saw you brought to the side of the litter last night, and heard what passed (being close to Rachael all the time), I went to him when no one saw, and said to him, "Don't look at me. See where your father is. Escape at once, for his sake and your own!" He was in a tremble before I whispered to him, and he started and trembled more then, and said, "Where can I go? I have very little money, and I don't know who will hide me!" I thought of father's old circus. I have not forgotten where Mr. Sleary goes at this time of year, and I read of him in a paper only the other day. I told him to hurry there, and tell his name, and ask Mr. Sleary to hide him till I came. "I'll get to him before the morning," he said. And I saw him shrink away among the people
Thank Heaven
He may be got abroad yet
If you do it again, I'll throw the horse at you
Indeed, sir
Now I'll have a turn
Thethilia
it doth me good to thee you. You wath alwayth a favourite with uth, and you've done uth credith thinth the old timeth I'm thure. You mutht thee our people, my dear, afore we thpeak of bithnith, or they'll break their hearth - ethpethially the women. Here'th Jothphine hath been and got married to E. W. B. Childerth, and thee hath got a boy, and thoughhe't h only three yearth old, he thtickth on to any pony you can bring againtht him. He'th named The Little Wonder of Thcolathtic Equitation; and if you don't hear of that boy atAthley't h, you'll hear of him at Parith. And you recollect Kidderminthter, that wath thought to be rather thweet upon yourthelf? Well. He'th married too. Married a widder. Old enough to be hith mother. Thee wath Tightrope, thee wath, and nowthee't h nothing - on accounth of fat. They've got two children, tho we're thtrong in the Fairy bithnith and the Nurthery dodge. If you wath to thee our Children in the Wood, with their father and mother both a dyin' on a horthe - their uncle a retheiving of 'em ath hith wardth, upon a horthe - themthelvth both a goin' a black- berryin' on a horthe - and the Robinth a coming in to cover 'em with leavth, upon a horthe - you'd thay it wath the completetht thing ath ever you thet your eyeth on! And you remember Emma Gordon, my dear, ath wath a'motht a mother to you? Of courthe you do; I needn't athk. Well! Emma, thee lotht her huthband. He wath throw'd a heavy back-fall off a Elephant in a thort of a Pagoda thing ath the Thultan of the Indieth, and he never got the better of it; and thee married a thecond time - married a Cheethemonger ath fell in love with her from the front - andhe't h a Overtheer and makin' a fortun
There! Now Thethilia hath kithd all the children, and hugged all the women, and thaken handth all round with all the men, clear, every one of you, and ring in the band for the thecond part
Now, Thethilia, I don't athk to know any thecreth, but I thuppothe I may conthider thith to be Mith Thquire
This is his sister. Yes
My father will be here soon
Is my brother safe
Thafe and thound
I want you jutht to take a peep at the Ring, mith, through here. Thethilia, you know the dodgeth; find a thpy-hole for yourthelf
said Sleary. There't'h a property-houthe, you thee, for Jack to hide inthere't; h my Clown with a thauthepan-lid and a thpit, forJack't h thervantthere't; h little Jack himthelf in a thplendid thoot of armourthere't; h two comic black thervanth twithe ath big ath the houthe, to thtand by it and to bring it in and clear it; and the Giant (a very ecthpenthive bathket one), he an't on yet. Now, do you thee 'em all
Yes
Look at 'em again
look at 'em well. You thee em all? Very good. Now, mith
I have my opinionth, and the Thquire your father hath hith. I don't want to know what yourbrother't h been up to; ith better for me not to know. All I thay ith, the Thquire hath thtood by Thethilia, and I'll thtand by the Thquire. Your brother ith one them black thervanth
Ith a fact
and even knowin' it, you couldn't put your finger on him. Let the Thquire come. I thall keep your brother here after the performanth. I thant undreth him, nor yet wath hith paint off. Let the Thquire come here after the performanth, or come here yourthelf after the performanth, and you thall find your brother, and have the whole plathe to talk to him in. Never mind the lookth of him, ath long athhe't h well hid
Your thervant, Thquire
If you want me you'll find me here. You muthn't mind your thon having a comic livery on
How was this done
How was what done
This robbery
I forced the safe myself over night, and shut it up ajar before I went away. I had had the key that was found, made long before. I dropped it that morning, that it might be supposed to have been used. I didn't take the money all at once. I pretended to put my balance away every night, but I didn't. Now you know all about it
If a thunderbolt had fallen on me
it would have shocked me less than this
I don't see why
So many people are employed in situations of trust; so many people, out of so many, will be dishonest. I have heard you talk, a hundred times, of its being a law. How can I help laws? You have comforted others with such things, father. Comfort yourself
You must be got to Liverpool, and sent abroad
I suppose I must. I can't be more miserable anywhere
than I have been here, ever since I can remember. That's one thing
purpothe to cath the mail train. That train will take him right to Liverpool
But look at him
I don't mean that he thould go in the comic livery
Thay the word, and I'll make a Jothkin of him, out of the wardrobe, in five minutes
I don't understand
A Jothkin - a Carter. Make up your mind quick, Thquire. There'll be beer to feth. I've never met with nothing but beer ath'll ever clean a comic blackamoor
Now
come along to the coath, and jump up behind; I'll go with you there, and they'll thuppothe you one of my people. Thay farewell to your family, andtharp't h the word
Here is your letter
All necessary means will be provided for you. Atone, by repentance and better conduct, for the shocking action you have committed, and the dreadful consequences to which it has led. Give me your hand, my poor boy, and may God forgive you as I do
Not you. I don't want to have anything to say to you
O Tom, Tom, do we end so, after all my love
After all your love
Pretty love! Leaving old Bounderby to himself, and packing my best friend Mr. Harthouse off, and going home just when I was in the greatest danger. Pretty love that! Coming out with every word about our having gone to that place, when you saw the net was gathering round me. Pretty love that! You have regularly given me up. You never cared for me
Tharp'th the word
I'm sorry to interfere with your plans
but I can't allow myself to be done by horse-riders. I must have young Mr. Tom; he mustn't be got away by horse-riders; here he is in a smock frock, and I must have him
Bitzer
have you a heart
The circulation, sir
couldn't be carried on without one. No man, sir, acquainted with the facts established by Harvey relating to the circulation of the blood, can doubt that I have a heart
Is it accessible
to any compassionate influence
It is accessible to Reason, sir
And to nothing else
What motive - even what motive in reason - can you have for preventing the escape of this wretched youth
and crushing his miserable father? See his sister here. Pity us
Sir
since you ask me what motive I have in reason, for taking young Mr. Tom back to Coketown, it is only reasonable to let you know. I have suspected young Mr. Tom of this bank-robbery from the first. I had had my eye upon him before that time, for I knew his ways. I have kept my observations to myself, but I have made them; and I have got ample proofs against him now, besides his running away, and besides his own confession, which I was just in time to overhear. I had the pleasure of watching your house yesterday morning, and following you here. I am going to take young Mr. Tom back to Coketown, in order to deliver him over to Mr. Bounderby. Sir, I have no doubt whatever that Mr. Bounderby will then promote me to young Mr. Tom's situation. And I wish to have his situation, sir, for it will be a rise to me, and will do me good
I beg your pardon for interrupting you, sir
but I am sure you know that the whole social system is a question of self-interest. What you must always appeal to, is a person's self-interest. It's your only hold. We are so constituted. I was brought up in that catechism when I was very young, sir, as you are aware
What sum of money
will you set against your expected promotion
Thank you, sir
for hinting at the proposal; but I will not set any sum against it. Knowing that your clear head would propose that alternative, I have gone over the calculations in my mind; and I find that to compound a felony, even on very high terms indeed, would not be as safe and good for me as my improved prospects in the Bank
Bitzer
Bitzer, I have but one chance left to soften you. You were many years at my school. If, in remembrance of the pains bestowed upon you there, you can persuade yourself in any degree to disregard your present interest and release my son, I entreat and pray you to give him the benefit of that remembrance
I really wonder, sir
to find you taking a position so untenable. My schooling was paid for; it was a bargain; and when I came away, the bargain ended
I don't deny
that my schooling was cheap. But that comes right, sir. I was made in the cheapest market, and have to dispose of myself in the dearest
Pray don't do that
it's of no use doing that: it only worries. You seem to think that I have some animosity against young Mr. Tom; whereas I have none at all. I am only going, on the reasonable grounds I have mentioned, to take him back to Coketown. If he was to resist, I should set up the cry of Stop thief! But, he won't resist, you may depend upon it
The Thquire thtood by you, Thethilia, and I'll thtand by the Thquire. More than that: thith ith a prethiouth rathcal, and belongth to that bluthtering Cove that my people nearly pitht out o' winder. It'll be a dark night; I've got a horthe that'll do anything but thpeak; I've got a pony that'll go fifteen mile an hour with Childerth driving of him; I've got a dog that'll keep a man to one plathe four-and-twenty hourth. Get a word with the young Thquire. Tell him, when he theeth our horthe begin to danthe, not to be afraid of being thpilt, but to look out for a pony-gig coming up. Tell him, when he theeth that gig clothe by, to jump down, and it'll take him off at a rattling pathe. If my dog leth thith young man thtir a peg on foot, I give him leave to go. And if my horthe ever thtirth from that thpot where he beginth a danthing, till the morning - I don't know him? Tharp't- h the word
All right, Thquire
your thon may be aboard-a- thip by thith time. Childerth took him off, an hour and a half after we left there latht night. The horthe danthed the polka till he wath dead beat (he would have walthed if he hadn't been in harneth), and then I gave him the word and he went to thleep comfortable. When that prethiouth young Rathcal thed he'd go for'ard afoot, the dog hung on to hith neck-hankercher with all four legth in the air and pulled him down and rolled him over. Tho he come back into the drag, and there he that, 'till I turned thehorthe't h head, at half-patht thixth thith morning
I don't want money mythelf, Thquire; but Childerth ith a family man, and if you wath to like to offer him a five-pound note, it mightn't be unactheptable. Likewithe if you wath to thtand a collar for the dog, or a thet of bellth for the horthe, I thould be very glad to take 'em. Brandy and water I alwayth take
If you wouldn't think it going too far, Thquire, to make a little thpread for the company at about three and thixth ahead, not reckoning Luth, it would make 'em happy
Very well, Thquire; then, if you'll only give a Horthe-riding, a bethpeak, whenever you can, you'll more than balanthe the account. Now, Thquire, if your daughter will ethcuthe me, I thould like one parting word with you
Thquire, - you don't need to be told that dogth ith wonderful animalth
Their instinct
is surprising
it ith athtonithing. The way in whith a dog'll find you - the dithtanthe he'll come
His scent
being so fine
I'm bletht if I know what to call it
but I have had dogth find me, Thquire, in a way that made me think whether that dog hadn't gone to another dog, and thed, "You don't happen to know a perthon of the name of Thleary, do you? Perthon of the name of Thleary, in the Horthe-Riding way - thtout man - game eye?" And whether that dog mightn't have thed, "Well, I can't thay I know him mythelf, but I know a dog that I think would be likely to be acquainted with him." And whether that dog mightn't have thought it over, and thed, "Thleary, Thleary! O yeth, to be thure! A friend of mine menthioned him to me at one time. I can get you hith addreth directly." In conthequenth of my being afore the public, and going about tho muth, you thee, there mutht be a number of dogth acquainted with me, Thquire, that I don't know
Any way
ith fourteen month ago, Thquire, thinthe we wath at Chethter. We wath getting up our Children in the Wood one morning, when there cometh into our Ring, by the thtage door, a dog. He had travelled a long way, he wath in a very bad condithon, he wath lame, and pretty well blind. He went round to our children, one after another, as if he wath a theeking for a child he know'd; and then he come to me, and throwd hithelf up behind, and thtood on hith two forelegth, weak ath he wath, and then he wagged hith tail and died. Thquire, that dog wath Merrylegth
Sissy's father's dog
She keeps the bottle that he sent her for, to this hour; and she will believe in his affection to the last moment of her life
It theemth to prethent two thingth to a perthon, don't it, Thquire
one, that there ith a love in the world, not all Thelf-interetht after all, but thomething very different; t'other, that it bath a way of ith own of calculating or not calculating, whith thomehow or another ith at leatht ath hard to give a name to, ath the wayth of the dogth ith
Thethilia my dear, kith me and good-bye! Mith Thquire, to thee you treating of her like a thithter, and a thithter that you trutht and honour with all your heart and more, ith a very pretty thight to me. I hope your brother may live to be better detherving of you, and a greater comfort to you. Thquire, thake handth, firtht and latht! Don't be croth with uth poor vagabondth. People mutht be amuthed. They can't be alwayth a learning, nor yet they can't be alwayth a working, they an't made for it. You mutht have uth, Thquire. Do the withe thing and the kind thing too, and make the betht of uth; not the wurtht
And I never thought before
that I wath tho muth of a Cackler
What's the matter now, ma'am
Pray, sir
do not bite my nose off
Bite your nose off, ma'am
Your nose
Mr. Bounderby, sir
Well, ma'am
What are you staring at
May I ask, sir
have you been ruffled this morning
Yes, ma'am
May I inquire, sir
whether I am the unfortunate cause of your having lost your temper
Now, I'll tell you what, ma'am
I am not come here to be bullied. A female may be highly connected, but she can't be permitted to bother and badger a man in my position, and I am not going to put up with it
Sir
It is apparent to me that I am in your way at present. I will retire to my own apartment
Allow me to open the door, ma'am
Thank you, sir; I can do it for myself
You had better allow me, ma'am
because I can take the opportunity of saying a word to you, before you go. Mrs. Sparsit, ma'am, I rather think you are cramped here, do you know? It appears to me, that, under my humble roof, there's hardly opening enough for a lady of your genius in other people's affairs
Really, sir
I have been thinking it over, you see, since the late affairs have happened, ma'am
Oh! Pray, sir
don't disparage your judgment. Everybody knows how unerring Mr. Bounderby's judgment is. Everybody has had proofs of it. It must be the theme of general conversation. Disparage anything in yourself but your judgment, sir
It appears to me, ma'am, I say, that a different sort of establishment altogether would bring out a lady of your powers. Such an establishment as your relation, Lady Scadgers's, now. Don't you think you might find some affairs there, ma'am, to interfere with
It never occurred to me before, sir
but now you mention it, should think it highly probable
Then suppose you try, ma'am
You can take your own time for going, ma'am; but perhaps in the meanwhile, it will be more agreeable to a lady of your powers of mind, to eat her meals by herself, and not to be intruded upon. I really ought to apologise to you - being only Josiah Bounderby of Coketown - for having stood in your light so long
Pray don't name it, sir
If that portrait could speak, sir - but it has the advantage over the original of not possessing the power of committing itself and disgusting others, - it would testify, that a long period has elapsed since I first habitually addressed it as the picture of a Noodle. Nothing that a Noodle does, can awaken surprise or indignation; the proceedings of a Noodle can only inspire contempt
</text>
