<text>
To the devil with this Brigand of a Sun that never shines in here
Get up, pig
Don't sleep when I am hungry
It's all one, master
I can wake when I will, I can sleep when I will. It's all the same
Say what the hour is
The mid-day bells will ring -- in forty minutes
You are a clock. How is it that you always know
How can I say? I always know what the hour is, and where I am. I was brought in here at night, and out of a boat, but I know where I am. See here! Marseilles harbour;' on his knees on the pavement, mapping it all out with a swarthy forefinger; 'Toulon (where the galleys are), Spain over there, Algiers over there. Creeping away to the left here, Nice. Round by the Cornice to Genoa. Genoa Mole and Harbour. Quarantine Ground. City there; terrace gardens blushing with the bella donna. Here, Porto Fino. Stand out for Leghorn. Out again for Civita Vecchia. so away to -- hey! there's no room for Naples
but it's all one; it's in there
Judge if I come back from Naples as I went! See here, my master! Civita Vecchia, Leghorn, Porto Fino, Genoa, Cornice, Off Nice (which is in there), Marseilles, you and me. The apartment of the jailer and his keys is where I put this thumb; and here at my wrist they keep the national razor in its case -- the guillotine locked up
How goes the world this forenoon, gentlemen? My little one, you see, going round with me to have a peep at her father's birds. Fie, then! Look at the birds, my pretty, look at the birds
I have brought your bread, Signor John Baptist
and if I might recommend you not to game
You don't recommend the master
Oh! but the master wins
and you lose. It's quite another thing. You get husky bread and sour drink by it; and he gets sausage of Lyons, veal in savoury jelly, white bread, strachino cheese, and good wine by it. Look at the birds, my pretty
Poor birds
Stay
she shall feed the birds. This big loaf is for Signor John Baptist. We must break it to get it through into the cage. So, there's a tame bird to kiss the little hand! This sausage in a vine leaf is for Monsieur Rigaud. Again -- this veal in savoury jelly is for Monsieur Rigaud. Again -- these three white little loaves are for Monsieur Rigaud. Again, this cheese -- again, this wine -- again, this tobacco -- all for Monsieur Rigaud. Lucky bird
There
I have expended all the money I received; here is the note of it, and that's a thing accomplished. Monsieur Rigaud, as I expected yesterday, the President will look for the pleasure of your society at an hour after mid-day, to-day
To try me, eh
You have said it. To try you
There is no news for me
Lady of mine! Am I to lie here all my life, my father
What do I know
My friend, how is it possible for me to tell how long you are to lie here? What do I know, John Baptist Cavalletto? Death of my life! There are prisoners here sometimes, who are not in such a devil of a hurry to be tried
Adieu, my birds
Adieu, my birds
Who passes by this road so late? Compagnon de la Majolaine! Who passes by this road so late? Always gay
Of all the king's knights 'tis the flower, Compagnon de la Majolaine! Of all the king's knights 'tis the flower, Always gay
How do you find the bread
A little dry, but I have my old sauce here
How sauce
I can cut my bread so -- like a melon. Or so -- like an omelette. Or so -- like a fried fish. Or so -- like Lyons sausage
Here
You may drink. You may finish this
Put the bottle by with the rest
Here! You may have one
A thousand thanks, my master
What an infernal hole this is
Look at the light of day. Day? the light of yesterday week, the light of six months ago, the light of six years ago. So slack and dead
Cavalletto
you know me for a gentleman
Surely, surely
How long have we been here
I, eleven weeks, to-morrow night at midnight. You, nine weeks and three days, at five this afternoon
Have I ever done anything here? Ever touched the broom, or spread the mats, or rolled them up, or found the draughts, or collected the dominoes, or put my hand to any kind of work
Never
Have you ever thought of looking to me to do any kind of work
No! You knew from the first moment when you saw me here, that I was a gentleman
ALTRO
I believe you
Haha! You are right! A gentleman I am! And a gentleman I'll live, and a gentleman I'll die! It's my intent to be a gentleman. It's my game. Death of my soul, I play it out wherever I go
Here I am! See me! Shaken out of destiny's dice-box into the company of a mere smuggler;-- shut up with a poor little contraband trader, whose papers are wrong, and whom the police lay hold of besides, for placing his boat (as a means of getting beyond the frontier) at the disposition of other little people whose papers are wrong; and he instinctively recognises my position, even by this light and in this place. It's well done! By Heaven! I win, however the game goes
What's the hour now
A little half-hour after mid-day
I am a
I am a cosmopolitan gentleman. I own no particular country. My father was Swiss -- Canton de Vaud. My mother was French by blood, English by birth. I myself was born in Belgium. I am a citizen of the world
Call me five-and-thirty years of age. I have seen the world. I have lived here, and lived there, and lived like a gentleman everywhere. I have been treated and respected as a gentleman universally. If you try to prejudice me by making out that I have lived by my wits -- how do your lawyers live -- your politicians -- your intriguers -- your men of the Exchange
Two years ago I came to Marseilles. I admit that I was poor; I had been ill. When your lawyers, your politicians, your intriguers, your men of the Exchange fall ill, and have not scraped money together, they become poor. I put up at the Cross of Gold,-- kept then by Monsieur Henri Barronneau -- sixty-five at least, and in a failing state of health. I had lived in the house some four months when Monsieur Henri Barronneau had the misfortune to die;-- at any rate, not a rare misfortune, that. It happens without any aid of mine, pretty often
Monsieur Barronneau left a widow. She was two-and-twenty. She had gained a reputation for beauty, and (which is often another thing) was beautiful. I continued to live at the Cross of Gold. I married Madame Barronneau. It is not for me to say whether there was any great disparity in such a match. Here I stand, with the contamination of a jail upon me; but it is possible that you may think me better suited to her than her former husband was
Be it as it may, Madame Barronneau approved of me. That is not to prejudice me, I hope
Now came the difficulties of our position. I am proud. I say nothing in defence of pride, but I am proud. It is also my character to govern. I can't submit; I must govern. Unfortunately, the property of Madame Rigaud was settled upon herself. Such was the insane act of her late husband. More unfortunately still, she had relations. When a wife's relations interpose against a husband who is a gentleman, who is proud, and who must govern, the consequences are inimical to peace. There was yet another source of difference between us. Madame Rigaud was unfortunately a little vulgar. I sought to improve her manners and ameliorate her general tone; she (supported in this likewise by her relations) resented my endeavours. Quarrels began to arise between us; and, propagated and exaggerated by the slanders of the relations of Madame Rigaud, to become notorious to the neighbours. It has been said that I treated Madame Rigaud with cruelty. I may have been seen to slap her face -- nothing more. I have a light hand; and if I have been seen apparently to correct Madame Rigaud in that manner, I have done it almost playfully
I am sensitive and brave. I do not advance it as a merit to be sensitive and brave, but it is my character. If the male relations of Madame Rigaud had put themselves forward openly, I should have known how to deal with them. They knew that, and their machinations were conducted in secret; consequently, Madame Rigaud and I were brought into frequent and unfortunate collision. Even when I wanted any little sum of money for my personal expenses, I could not obtain it without collision -- and I, too, a man whose character it is to govern! One night, Madame Rigaud and myself were walking amicably -- I may say like lovers -- on a height overhanging the sea. An evil star occasioned Madame Rigaud to advert to her relations; I reasoned with her on that subject, and remonstrated on the want of duty and devotion manifested in her allowing herself to be influenced by their jealous animosity towards her husband. Madame Rigaud retorted; I retorted; Madame Rigaud grew warm; I grew warm, and provoked her. I admit it. Frankness is a part of my character. At length, Madame Rigaud, in an access of fury that I must ever deplore, threw herself upon me with screams of passion (no doubt those that were overheard at some distance), tore my clothes, tore my hair, lacerated my hands, trampled and trod the dust, and finally leaped over, dashing herself to death upon the rocks below. Such is the train of incidents which malice has perverted into my endeavouring to force from Madame Rigaud a relinquishment of her rights; and, on her persistence in a refusal to make the concession I required, struggling with her -- assassinating her
Well
have you nothing to say to all that
It's ugly
What do you mean
Do you mean that I have not represented the case correctly
Al-tro
Oh, by no means
What then
Presidents and tribunals are so prejudiced
Well
let them do their worst
Truly I think they will
Now, Monsieur Rigaud
have the goodness to come out
I am to depart in state, I see
Why, unless you did
you might depart in so many pieces that it would be difficult to get you together again. There's a crowd, Monsieur Rigaud, and it doesn't love you
Now
come out
march
No more of yesterday's howling over yonder to-day, Sir; is there
I have heard none
Then you may be sure there is none. When these people howl, they howl to be heard
Most people do, I suppose
Ah! but these people are always howling. Never happy otherwise
Do you mean the Marseilles people
I mean the French people. They're always at it. As to Marseilles, we know what Marseilles is. It sent the most insurrectionary tune into the world that was ever composed. It couldn't exist without allonging and marshonging to something or other -- victory or death, or blazes, or something
Allong and marshong, indeed. It would be more creditable to you, I think, to let other people allong and marshong about their lawful business, instead of shutting 'em up in quarantine
Tiresome enough
But we shall be out to-day
Out to-day
It's almost an aggravation of the enormity, that we shall be out to-day. Out! What have we ever been in for
For no very strong reason, I must say. But as we come from the East, and as the East is the country of the plague
The plague
That's my grievance. I have had the plague continually, ever since I have been here. I am like a sane man shut up in a madhouse; I can't stand the suspicion of the thing. I came here as well as ever I was in my life; but to suspect me of the plague is to give me the plague. And I have had it -- and I have got it
You bear it very well, Mr Meagles
No. If you knew the real state of the case, that's the last observation you would think of making. I have been waking up night after night, and saying, NOW I have got it, NOW it has developed itself, NOW I am in for it, NOW these fellows are making out their case for their precautions. Why, I'd as soon have a spit put through me, and be stuck upon a card in a collection of beetles, as lead the life I have been leading here
Well, Mr Meagles, say no more about it now it's over
Over
Over! and why should I say no more about it because it's over
There! Never mind, Father, never mind
For goodness sake content yourself with Pet
With Pet
Now, I ask you
I ask you simply, as between man and man, you know, DID you ever hear of such damned nonsense as putting Pet in quarantine
It has had the result of making even quarantine enjoyable
Come
that's something to be sure. I am obliged to you for that remark. Now, Pet, my darling, you had better go along with Mother and get ready for the boat. The officer of health, and a variety of humbugs in cocked hats, are coming off to let us out of this at last: and all we jail-birds are to breakfast together in something approaching to a Christian style again, before we take wing for our different destinations. Tattycoram, stick you close to your young mistress
I beg your pardon
Not at all
May I ask you
what is the name of
Tattycoram
I have not the least idea
I thought
that
Tattycoram
Thank you -- that Tattycoram was a name; and I have several times wondered at the oddity of it
Why, the fact is
Mrs Meagles and myself are, you see, practical people
That you have frequently mentioned in the course of the agreeable and interesting conversations we have had together, walking up and down on these stones
Practical people. So one day, five or six years ago now, when we took Pet to church at the Foundling -- you have heard of the Foundling Hospital in London? Similar to the Institution for the Found Children in Paris
I have seen it
Well! One day when we took Pet to church there to hear the music -- because, as practical people, it is the business of our lives to show her everything that we think can please her -- Mother (my usual name for Mrs Meagles) began to cry so, that it was necessary to take her out. "What's the matter, Mother?" said I, when we had brought her a little round: "you are frightening Pet, my dear." "Yes, I know that, Father," says Mother, "but I think it's through my loving her so much, that it ever came into my head." "That ever what came into your head, Mother?" "O dear, dear!" cried Mother, breaking out again, "when I saw all those children ranged tier above tier, and appealing from the father none of them has ever known on earth, to the great Father of us all in Heaven, I thought, does any wretched mother ever come here, and look among those young faces, wondering which is the poor child she brought into this forlorn world, never through all its life to know her love, her kiss, her face, her voice, even her name!" Now that was practical in Mother, and I told her so. I said, "Mother, that's what I call practical in you, my dear
So I said next day: Now, Mother, I have a proposition to make that I think you'll approve of. Let us take one of those same little children to be a little maid to Pet. We are practical people. So if we should find her temper a little defective, or any of her ways a little wide of ours, we shall know what we have to take into account. We shall know what an immense deduction must be made from all the influences and experiences that have formed us -- no parents, no child-brother or sister, no individuality of home, no Glass Slipper, or Fairy Godmother. And that's the way we came by Tattycoram
And the name itself
By George
I was forgetting the name itself. Why, she was called in the Institution, Harriet Beadle -- an arbitrary name, of course. Now, Harriet we changed into Hattey, and then into Tatty, because, as practical people, we thought even a playful name might be a new thing to her, and might have a softening and affectionate kind of effect, don't you see? As to Beadle, that I needn't say was wholly out of the question. If there is anything that is not to be tolerated on any terms, anything that is a type of Jack-in-office insolence and absurdity, anything that represents in coats, waistcoats, and big sticks our English holding on by nonsense after every one has found it out, it is a beadle. You haven't seen a beadle lately
As an Englishman who has been more than twenty years in China, no
Then
don't you see a beadle, now, if you can help it. Whenever I see a beadle in full fig, coming down a street on a Sunday at the head of a charity school, I am obliged to turn and run away, or I should hit him. The name of Beadle being out of the question, and the originator of the Institution for these poor foundlings having been a blessed creature of the name of Coram, we gave that name to Pet's little maid. At one time she was Tatty, and at one time she was Coram, until we got into a way of mixing the two names together, and now she is always Tattycoram
Your daughter
is your only child, I know, Mr Meagles. May I ask you -- in no impertinent curiosity, but because I have had so much pleasure in your society, may never in this labyrinth of a world exchange a quiet word with you again, and wish to preserve an accurate remembrance of you and yours -- may I ask you, if I have not gathered from your good wife that you have had other children
No. No
Not exactly other children. One other child
I am afraid I have inadvertently touched upon a tender theme
Never mind
If I am grave about it, I am not at all sorrowful. It quiets me for a moment, but does not make me unhappy. Pet had a twin sister who died when we could just see her eyes -- exactly like Pet's -- above the table, as she stood on tiptoe holding by it
Ah! indeed, indeed
Yes, and being practical people, a result has gradually sprung up in the minds of Mrs Meagles and myself which perhaps you may -- or perhaps you may not -- understand. Pet and her baby sister were so exactly alike, and so completely one, that in our thoughts we have never been able to separate them since. It would be of no use to tell us that our dead child was a mere infant. We have changed that child according to the changes in the child spared to us and always with us. As Pet has grown, that child has grown; as Pet has become more sensible and womanly, her sister has become more sensible and womanly by just the same degrees. It would be as hard to convince me that if I was to pass into the other world to- morrow, I should not, through the mercy of God, be received there by a daughter, just like Pet, as to persuade me that Pet herself is not a reality at my side
I understand you
As to her
the sudden loss of her little picture and playfellow, and her early association with that mystery in which we all have our equal share, but which is not often so forcibly presented to a child, has necessarily had some influence on her character. Then, her mother and I were not young when we married, and Pet has always had a sort of grown-up life with us, though we have tried to adapt ourselves to her. We have been advised more than once when she has been a little ailing, to change climate and air for her as often as we could -- especially at about this time of her life -- and to keep her amused. So, as I have no need to stick at a bank-desk now (though I have been poor enough in my time I assure you, or I should have married Mrs Meagles long before), we go trotting about the world. This is how you found us staring at the Nile, and the Pyramids, and the Sphinxes, and the Desert, and all the rest of it; and this is how Tattycoram will be a greater traveller in course of time than Captain Cook
I thank you
very heartily for your confidence
Don't mention it
I am sure you are quite welcome. And now, Mr Clennam, perhaps I may ask you whether you have yet come to a decision where to go next
Indeed, no. I am such a waif and stray everywhere, that I am liable to be drifted where any current may set
It's extraordinary to me -- if you'll excuse my freedom in saying so -- that you don't go straight to London
Perhaps I shall
Ay! But I mean with a will
I have no will. That is to say
next to none that I can put in action now. Trained by main force; broken, not bent; heavily ironed with an object on which I was never consulted and which was never mine; shipped away to the other end of the world before I was of age, and exiled there until my father's death there, a year ago; always grinding in a mill I always hated; what is to be expected from me in middle life? Will, purpose, hope? All those lights were extinguished before I could sound the words
Light 'em up again
Ah! Easily said. I am the son, Mr Meagles, of a hard father and mother. I am the only child of parents who weighed, measured, and priced everything; for whom what could not be weighed, measured, and priced, had no existence. Strict people as the phrase is, professors of a stern religion, their very religion was a gloomy sacrifice of tastes and sympathies that were never their own, offered up as a part of a bargain for the security of their possessions. Austere faces, inexorable discipline, penance in this world and terror in the next -- nothing graceful or gentle anywhere, and the void in my cowed heart everywhere -- this was my childhood, if I may so misuse the word as to apply it to such a beginning of life
Really though
That was a tough commencement. But come! You must now study, and profit by, all that lies beyond it, like a practical man
If the people who are usually called practical, were practical in your direction
Why, so they are
Are they indeed
Well, I suppose so
My unknown course is easier and more helpful than I had expected to find it, then
Enough of me. Here is the boat
But I bear those monotonous walls no ill-will now
One always begins to forgive a place as soon as it's left behind; I dare say a prisoner begins to relent towards his prison, after he is let out
Do you mean that a prisoner forgives his prison
That was my speculation, Miss Wade. I don't pretend to know positively how a prisoner might feel. I never was one before
Mademoiselle doubts
it's being so easy to forgive
I do
Oh
Dear me! But that's a pity, isn't it
That I am not credulous
Not exactly that. Put it another way. That you can't believe it easy to forgive
My experience
has been correcting my belief in many respects, for some years. It is our natural progress, I have heard
Well, well! But it's not natural to bear malice, I hope
If I had been shut up in any place to pine and suffer, I should always hate that place and wish to burn it down, or raze it to the ground. I know no more
Strong, sir
Rather forcible in our fair friend, you'll agree with me, I think
Plait-il
You are right. My opinion
I am self-contained and self- reliant; your opinion is nothing to me; I have no interest in you, care nothing for you, and see and hear you with indifference
Are you
expecting any one to meet you here, Miss Wade
I? No
Father is sending to the Poste Restante. Shall he have the pleasure of directing the messenger to ask if there are any letters for you
I thank him, but I know there can be none
We are afraid
that you will feel quite deserted when we are all gone
Indeed
Not
not, of course, that we are any company to you, or that we have been able to be so, or that we thought you wished it
I have not intended to make it understood that I did wish it
No. Of course. But -- in short
will you not allow Father to tender you any slight assistance or service? He will be very glad
Very glad
Anything short of speaking the language, I shall be delighted to undertake, I am sure
I am obliged to you
but my arrangements are made, and I prefer to go my own way in my own manner
Do you
Well! There's character in that, too
I am not much used to the society of young ladies, and I am afraid I may not show my appreciation of it as others might. A pleasant journey to you. Good-bye
Good-bye
This is the last good-bye upon the list, for Mother and I have just said it to Mr Clennam here, and he only waits to say it to Pet. Good-bye! We may never meet again
In our course through life we shall meet the people who are coming to meet us, from many strange places and by many strange roads
and what it is set to us to do to them, and what it is set to them to do to us, will all be done
O Father
Your pretty daughter
starts to think of such things. Yet
you may be sure that there are men and women already on their road, who have their business to do with YOU, and who will do it. Of a certainty they will do it. They may be coming hundreds, thousands, of miles over the sea there; they may be close at hand now; they may be coming, for anything you know or anything you can do to prevent it, from the vilest sweepings of this very town
Selfish brutes
Not caring what becomes of me! Leaving me here hungry and thirsty and tired, to starve, for anything they care! Beasts! Devils! Wretches
My poor girl, what is the matter
It's nothing to you what's the matter. It don't signify to any one
O yes it does; I am sorry to see you so
You are not sorry
You are glad. You know you are glad. I never was like this but twice over in the quarantine yonder; and both times you found me. I am afraid of you
Afraid of me
Yes. You seem to come like my own anger, my own malice, my own -- whatever it is -- I don't know what it is. But I am ill-used, I am ill-used, I am ill-used
I am younger than she is by two or three years, and yet it's me that looks after her, as if I was old, and it's she that's always petted and called Baby! I detest the name. I hate her! They make a fool of her, they spoil her. She thinks of nothing but herself, she thinks no more of me than if I was a stock and a stone
You must have patience
I WON'T have patience
If they take much care of themselves, and little or none of you, you must not mind it
Hush! Be more prudent. You forget your dependent position
I don't care for that. I'll run away. I'll do some mischief. I won't bear it; I can't bear it; I shall die if I try to bear it
Thank Heaven
Heaven forgive me
and those who trained me. How I have hated this day
Beg pardon, sir
Wish see bed-room
Yes. I have just made up my mind to do it
Chaymaid
Gelen box num seven wish see room
Stay
I was not thinking of what I said; I answered mechanically. I am not going to sleep here. I am going home
Deed, sir? Chaymaid! Gelen box num seven, not go sleep here, gome
Nothing changed
Dark and miserable as ever. A light in my mother's window, which seems never to have been extinguished since I came home twice a year from school, and dragged my box over this pavement. Well, well, well
Ah, Mr Arthur
you are come at last? Step in
Your figure is filled out, and set
but you don't come up to your father in my opinion. Nor yet your mother
How is my mother
She is as she always is now. Keeps her room when not actually bedridden, and hasn't been out of it fifteen times in as many years, Arthur
I doubt if your mother will approve of your coming home on the Sabbath, Arthur
You wouldn't have me go away again
Oh! I? I? I am not the master. It's not what _I_ would have. I have stood between your father and mother for a number of years. I don't pretend to stand between your mother and you
Will you tell her that I have come home
Yes, Arthur, yes. Oh, to be sure! I'll tell her that you have come home. Please to wait here. You won't find the room changed
How weak am I
that I could shed tears at this reception! I, who have never experienced anything else; who have never expected anything else
Arthur, I'll go before and light you
Mother, this is a change from your old active habits
The world has narrowed to these dimensions, Arthur
It is well for me that I never set my heart upon its hollow vanities
Do you never leave your room, mother
What with my rheumatic affection, and what with its attendant debility or nervous weakness -- names are of no matter now -- I have lost the use of my limbs. I never leave my room. I have not been outside this door for -- tell him for how long
A dozen year next Christmas
Is that Affery
I am able
I am able to attend to my business duties, and I am thankful for the privilege. It is a great privilege. But no more of business on this day. It is a bad night, is it not
Yes, mother
Does it snow
Snow, mother? And we only yet in September
All seasons are alike to me
I see that you received the packet I sent you on my father's death, safely, mother
You see
I never knew my father to show so much anxiety on any subject, as that his watch should be sent straight to you
I keep it here as a remembrance of your father
It was not until the last, that he expressed the wish; when he could only put his hand upon it, and very indistinctly say to me "your mother." A moment before, I thought him wandering in his mind, as he had been for many hours -- I think he had no consciousness of pain in his short illness -- when I saw him turn himself in his bed and try to open it
Was your father, then, not wandering in his mind when he tried to open it
No. He was quite sensible at that time
After my father's death I opened it myself, thinking there might be, for anything I knew, some memorandum there. However, as I need not tell you, mother, there was nothing but the old silk watch- paper worked in beads, which you found (no doubt) in its place between the cases, where I found and left it
No more of business on this day
Good night, Arthur. Affery will see to your accommodation. Only touch me, for my hand is tender
No, Affery, no supper
You shall if you like
There's her tomorrow's partridge in the larder -- her first this year; say the word and I'll cook it
Have something to drink, then
you shall have some of her bottle of port, if you like. I'll tell Jeremiah that you ordered me to bring it you
It's no reason, Arthur
that because I am afeared of my life of 'em, you should be. You've got half the property, haven't you
Yes, yes
Well then, don't you be cowed. You're clever, Arthur, an't you? He nodded, as she seemed to expect an answer in the affirmative. 'Then stand up against them! She's awful clever, and none but a clever one durst say a word to her. HE'S a clever one -- oh, he's a clever one!-- and he gives it her when he has a mind to't, he does
Your husband does
Does? It makes me shake from head to foot, to hear him give it her. My husband, Jeremiah Flintwinch, can conquer even your mother. What can he be but a clever one to do that
Now, Affery
now, woman, what are you doing? Can't you find Master Arthur something or another to pick at
Very well, then
make his bed. Stir yourself
You'll have bitter words together to-morrow, Arthur; you and your mother
Your having given up the business on your father's death -- which she suspects, though we have left it to you to tell her -- won't go off smoothly
I have given up everything in life for the business, and the time came for me to give up that
Good
Very good! only don't expect me to stand between your mother and you, Arthur. I stood between your mother and your father, fending off this, and fending off that, and getting crushed and pounded betwixt em; and I've done with such work
You will never be asked to begin it again for me, Jeremiah
Good. I'm glad to hear it; because I should have had to decline it, if I had been. That's enough -- as your mother says -- and more than enough of such matters on a Sabbath night. Affery, woman, have you found what you want yet
Yes, Jeremiah
Affery, you were not married when I went away
No
How did it happen
Why, Jeremiah, o' course
Of course he proposed it, but how did it all come about? I should have thought that neither of you would have married; least of all should I have thought of your marrying each other
No more should I
That's what I mean. When did you begin to think otherwise
Never begun to think otherwise at all
How could I help myself
How could you help yourself from being married
O' course
It was no doing o' mine. I'D never thought of it. I'd got something to do, without thinking, indeed! She kept me to it (as well as he) when she could go about, and she could go about then
Well
Well
That's what I said myself. Well! What's the use of considering? If them two clever ones have made up their minds to it, what's left for me to do? Nothing
Was it my mother's project, then
The Lord bless you, Arthur, and forgive me the wish
If they hadn't been both of a mind in it, how could it ever have been? Jeremiah never courted me; t'ant likely that he would, after living in the house with me and ordering me about for as many years as he'd done. He said to me one day, he said, "Affery," he said, "now I am going to tell you something. What do you think of the name of Flintwinch?" "What do I think of it?" I says. "Yes," he said, "because you're going to take it," he said. "Take it?" I says. "Jere-MI-ah?" Oh! he's a clever one
Well
Well
How could I help myself? He said to me, "Affery, you and me must be married, and I'll tell you why. She's failing in health, and she'll want pretty constant attendance up in her room, and we shall have to be much with her, and there'll be nobody about now but ourselves when we're away from her, and altogether it will be more convenient. She's of my opinion," he said, "so if you'll put your bonnet on next Monday morning at eight, we'll get it over
Well
Well
I think so! I sits me down and says it. Well!-- Jeremiah then says to me, "As to banns, next Sunday being the third time of asking (for I've put 'em up a fortnight), is my reason for naming Monday. She'll speak to you about it herself, and now she'll find you prepared, Affery." That same day she spoke to me, and she said, "So, Affery, I understand that you and Jeremiah are going to be married. I am glad of it, and so are you, with reason. It is a very good thing for you, and very welcome under the circumstances to me. He is a sensible man, and a trustworthy man, and a persevering man, and a pious man." What could I say when it had come to that? Why, if it had been -- a smothering instead of a wedding
I couldn't have said a word upon it, against them two clever ones
In good faith, I believe so
And so you may, Arthur
Affery, what girl was that in my mother's room just now
Girl
It was a girl, surely, whom I saw near you -- almost hidden in the dark corner
Oh! She? Little Dorrit? She's nothing; she's a whim of -- hers
But there's another sort of girls than that about. Have you forgot your old sweetheart? Long and long ago, I'll be bound
Have you got another
No
Here's news for you, then. She's well to do now, and a widow. And if you like to have her, why you can
And how do you know that, Affery
Them two clever ones have been speaking about it.-- There's Jeremiah on the stairs
Who's that? What's the matter
I forgot where I was
You have been asleep
two hours. You said you would be rested enough if you had a short nap
I have had a short nap
Where's your hat? Where's your coat? Where's the box
All here
Stop a minute. Now give me the sleeve -- not that sleeve, the other one. Ha! I'm not as young as I was
You promised me a second glass after I was rested
Drink it
and -- choke yourself, I was going to say -- but go, I mean
Her port-wine, I believe
Her health
Your health
His health
And all friends round St Paul's
Why, Affery, woman -- Affery
What have you been dreaming of? Wake up, wake up! What's the matter
The -- the matter, Jeremiah
Why, Affery, woman -- Affery! You have been getting out of bed in your sleep, my dear! I come up, after having fallen asleep myself, below, and find you in your wrapper here, with the nightmare. Affery, woman
if you ever have a dream of this sort again, it'll be a sign of your being in want of physic. And I'll give you such a dose, old woman -- such a dose
Are you any better this morning, mother
I shall never be better any more. It is well for me, Arthur, that I know it and can bear it
Shall I speak of our affairs, mother? Are you inclined to enter upon business
Am I inclined, Arthur? Rather, are you? Your father has been dead a year and more. I have been at your disposal, and waiting your pleasure, ever since
There was much to arrange before I could leave; and when I did leave, I travelled a little for rest and relief
For rest and relief
Besides, mother, you being sole executrix, and having the direction and management of the estate, there remained little business, or I might say none, that I could transact, until you had had time to arrange matters to your satisfaction
The accounts are made out
I have them here. The vouchers have all been examined and passed. You can inspect them when you like, Arthur; now, if you please
It is quite enough, mother, to know that the business is completed. Shall I proceed then
Why not
Mother, our House has done less and less for some years past, and our dealings have been progressively on the decline. We have never shown much confidence, or invited much; we have attached no people to us; the track we have kept is not the track of the time; and we have been left far behind. I need not dwell on this to you, mother. You know it necessarily
I know what you mean
Even this old house in which we speak
is an instance of what I say. In my father's earlier time, and in his uncle's time before him, it was a place of business -- really a place of business, and business resort. Now, it is a mere anomaly and incongruity here, out of date and out of purpose. All our consignments have long been made to Rovinghams' the commission- merchants; and although, as a check upon them, and in the stewardship of my father's resources, your judgment and watchfulness have been actively exerted, still those qualities would have influenced my father's fortunes equally, if you had lived in any private dwelling: would they not
Do you consider
that a house serves no purpose, Arthur, in sheltering your infirm and afflicted -- justly infirm and righteously afflicted -- mother
I was speaking only of business purposes
With what object
I am coming to it
I foresee
what it is. But the Lord forbid that I should repine under any visitation. In my sinfulness I merit bitter disappointment, and I accept it
Mother, I grieve to hear you speak like this, though I have had my apprehensions that you would
You knew I would. You knew ME
Well
Go on. Let me hear
You have anticipated, mother, that I decide for my part, to abandon the business. I have done with it. I will not take upon myself to advise you; you will continue it, I see. If I had any influence with you, I would simply use it to soften your judgment of me in causing you this disappointment: to represent to you that I have lived the half of a long term of life, and have never before set my own will against yours. I cannot say that I have been able to conform myself, in heart and spirit, to your rules; I cannot say that I believe my forty years have been profitable or pleasant to myself, or any one; but I have habitually submitted, and I only ask you to remember it
Mother, I have yet something more to say. It has been upon my mind, night and day, this long time. It is far more difficult to say than what I have said. That concerned myself; this concerns us all
Us all! Who are us all
Yourself, myself, my dead father
You knew my father infinitely better than I ever knew him; and his reserve with me yielded to you. You were much the stronger, mother, and directed him. As a child, I knew it as well as I know it now. I knew that your ascendancy over him was the cause of his going to China to take care of the business there, while you took care of it here (though I do not even now know whether these were really terms of separation that you agreed upon); and that it was your will that I should remain with you until I was twenty, and then go to him as I did. You will not be offended by my recalling this, after twenty years
I am waiting to hear why you recall it
I want to ask you, mother, whether it ever occurred to you to suspect
that he had any secret remembrance which caused him trouble of mind -- remorse? Whether you ever observed anything in his conduct suggesting that; or ever spoke to him upon it, or ever heard him hint at such a thing
I do not understand what kind of secret remembrance you mean to infer that your father was a prey to
You speak so mysteriously
Is it possible, mother
is it possible, mother, that he had unhappily wronged any one, and made no reparation
In grasping at money and in driving hard bargains -- I have begun, and I must speak of such things now, mother -- some one may have been grievously deceived, injured, ruined. You were the moving power of all this machinery before my birth; your stronger spirit has been infused into all my father's dealings for more than two score years. You can set these doubts at rest, I think, if you will really help me to discover the truth. Will you, mother
If reparation can be made to any one, if restitution can be made to any one, let us know it and make it. Nay, mother, if within my means, let ME make it. I have seen so little happiness come of money; it has brought within my knowledge so little peace to this house, or to any one belonging to it, that it is worth less to me than to another. It can buy me nothing that will not be a reproach and misery to me, if I am haunted by a suspicion that it darkened my father's last hours with remorse, and that it is not honestly and justly mine
Send Flintwinch here
What! You're hammer and tongs, already, you two
I thought you would be. I was pretty sure of it
Flintwinch
look at my son. Look at him
Well, I AM looking at him
In the very hour of his return almost -- before the shoe upon his foot is dry -- he asperses his father's memory to his mother! Asks his mother to become, with him, a spy upon his father's transactions through a lifetime! Has misgivings that the goods of this world which we have painfully got together early and late, with wear and tear and toil and self-denial, are so much plunder; and asks to whom they shall be given up, as reparation and restitution
Reparation
Yes, truly! It is easy for him to talk of reparation, fresh from journeying and junketing in foreign lands, and living a life of vanity and pleasure. But let him look at me, in prison, and in bonds here. I endure without murmuring, because it is appointed that I shall so make reparation for my sins. Reparation! Is there none in this room? Has there been none here this fifteen years
Flintwinch, give me that book
In the days of old, Arthur, treated of in this commentary, there were pious men, beloved of the Lord, who would have cursed their sons for less than this: who would have sent them forth, and sent whole nations forth, if such had supported them, to be avoided of God and man, and perish, down to the baby at the breast. But I only tell you that if you ever renew that theme with me, I will renounce you; I will so dismiss you through that doorway, that you had better have been motherless from your cradle. I will never see or know you more. And if, after all, you were to come into this darkened room to look upon me lying dead, my body should bleed, if I could make it, when you came near me
Now
premising that I'm not going to stand between you two, will you let me ask (as I have been called in, and made a third) what is all this about
Take your version of it
from my mother. Let it rest there. What I have said, was said to my mother only
Oh
From your mother? Take it from your mother? Well! But your mother mentioned that you had been suspecting your father. That's not dutiful, Mr Arthur. Who will you be suspecting next
Enough
Let no more be said about this
Yes, but stop a bit, stop a bit
Let us see how we stand. Have you told Mr Arthur that he mustn't lay offences at his father's door? That he has no right to do it? That he has no ground to go upon
I tell him so now
Ah! Exactly
You tell him so now. You hadn't told him so before, and you tell him so now. Ay, ay! That's right! You know I stood between you and his father so long, that it seems as if death had made no difference, and I was still standing between you. So I will, and so in fairness I require to have that plainly put forward. Arthur, you please to hear that you have no right to mistrust your father, and have no ground to go upon
Now
in case I should go away leaving things half done, and so should be wanted again when you come to the other half and get into one of your flights, has Arthur told you what he means to do about the business
He has relinquished it
In favour of nobody, I suppose
To my mother, of course. She does what she pleases
And if any pleasure
could arise for me out of the disappointment of my expectations that my son, in the prime of his life, would infuse new youth and strength into it, and make it of great profit and power, it would be in advancing an old and faithful servant. Jeremiah, the captain deserts the ship, but you and I will sink or float with it
I owe YOU no thanks for this; YOU have done nothing towards it
Eleven. Time for your oysters
them two clever
And don't you lay offences at your father's door, Mr Arthur
once for all, don't do it! Now, we have done with the subject
Now, Affery, woman
You hadn't made Mr Arthur's bed when I was up there last. Stir yourself. Bustle
Do you think, sir
that she will be very much shocked, if she should come to the gate to-morrow morning
What like is she, you see
that's what it hinges on
She is very delicate and inexperienced indeed
That
is agen her
She is so little used to go out alone
that I am at a loss to think how she will ever make her way here, if she walks
P'raps
she'll take a ackney coach
Perhaps
I hope she will. She may not think of it
Or p'raps
p'raps she'll get her brother, or her sister, to come along with her
She has no brother or sister
'em
I fear -- I hope it is not against the rules -- that she will bring the children
The children
And the rules? Why, lord set you up like a corner pin, we've a reg'lar playground o' children here. Children! Why we swarm with 'em. How many a you got
Two
And you another
which makes three on you. And your wife another, I'll lay a crown. Which makes four on you. And another coming, I'll lay half-a-crown. Which'll make five on you. And I'll go another seven and sixpence to name which is the helplessest, the unborn baby or you
Got a room now; haven't you
Yes, I have got a very good room
Any little sticks a coming to furnish it
I expect a few necessary articles of furniture to be delivered by the carrier, this afternoon
uns a coming to keep you company
Why, yes, we think it better that we should not be scattered, even for a few weeks
Even for a few weeks, OF course
Out
he'll never get out, unless his creditors take him by the shoulders and shove him out
As anybody might a known she would be
We intended
that she should go to a country lodging only to-morrow. What am I to do! Oh, good heaven, what am I to do
Don't waste your time in clasping your hands and biting your fingers
but come along with me
Come in
Doctor
here's a gentleman's wife in want of you without a minute's loss of time
Childbed
I'm the boy
The flies trouble you, don't they, my dear
But p'raps they'll take your mind off of it, and do you good. What between the buryin ground, the grocer's, the waggon-stables, and the paunch trade, the Marshalsea flies gets very large. P'raps they're sent as a consolation, if we only know'd it. How are you now, my dear? No better? No, my dear, it ain't to be expected; you'll be worse before you're better, and you know it, don't you? Yes. That's right! And to think of a sweet little cherub being born inside the lock! Now ain't it pretty, ain't THAT something to carry you through it pleasant? Why, we ain't had such a thing happen here, my dear, not for I couldn't name the time when. And you a crying too
You! Making yourself so famous! With the flies a falling into the gallipots by fifties! And everything a going on so well! And here if there ain't
if there ain't your dear gentleman along with Dr Haggage! And now indeed we ARE complete, I THINK
We are as right as we can be, Mrs Bangham, and we shall come out of this like a house afire
Mrs Bangham
go outside and fetch a little brandy, or we shall have you giving in
Thank you, sir. But none on my accounts
Mrs Bangham
I am in professional attendance on this lady, and don't choose to allow any discussion on your part. Go outside and fetch a little brandy, or I foresee that you'll break down
You're to be obeyed, sir
If you was to put your own lips to it, I think you wouldn't be the worse, for you look but poorly, sir
Mrs Bangham
I am not your business, thank you, but you are mine. Never you mind ME, if you please. What you have got to do, is, to do as you are told, and to go and get what I bid you
A very nice little girl indeed
little, but well-formed. Halloa, Mrs Bangham! You're looking queer! You be off, ma'am, this minute, and fetch a little more brandy, or we shall have you in hysterics
Thank you
thank you. Your good lady is quite composed. Doing charmingly
I am very happy and very thankful to know it
though I little thought once, that
That a child would be born to you in a place like this
Bah, bah, sir, what does it signify? A little more elbow-room is all we want here. We are quiet here; we don't get badgered here; there's no knocker here, sir, to be hammered at by creditors and bring a man's heart into his mouth. Nobody comes here to ask if a man's at home, and to say he'll stand on the door mat till he is. Nobody writes threatening letters about money to this place. It's freedom, sir, it's freedom! I have had to-day's practice at home and abroad, on a march, and aboard ship, and I'll tell you this: I don't know that I have ever pursued it under such quiet circumstances as here this day. Elsewhere, people are restless, worried, hurried about, anxious respecting one thing, anxious respecting another. Nothing of the kind here, sir. We have done all that -- we know the worst of it; we have got to the bottom, we can't fall, and what have we found? Peace. That's the word for it. Peace
Why, I'm getting proud of you
You'll be the oldest inhabitant soon. The Marshalsea wouldn't be like the Marshalsea now, without you and your family
You took notice of him
that went out of the lodge just now
beyond him
You and me
is the oldest inhabitants. I wasn't here myself above seven year before you. I shan't last long. When I'm off the lock for good and all, you'll be the Father of the Marshalsea
With the compliments of a collegian taking leave
Hi
What have you forgotten? What can I do for you
I forgot to leave this
for the Father of the Marshalsea
My good sir
he is infinitely obliged to you
God bless you, sir
And you
I say!-- sir
It ain't much
but it's well meant
How dare you
I know you meant it kindly. Say no more
Bless your soul, sir
I did indeed. I'd do more by you than the rest of 'em do, I fancy
What would you do
I'd come back to see you, after I was let out
Give me the money again
and I'll keep it, and never spend it. Thank you for it, thank you! I shall see you again
If I live a week you shall
By rights
I ought to be her godfather
Perhaps you wouldn't object to really being her godfather
Oh! _I_ don't object
if you don't
un
No, on the whole it was enough to see other people's children there
Home
Thinking of the fields
ain't you
Where are they
Why, they're -- over there, my dear
Just about there
Does anybody open them, and shut them? Are they locked
Well
Not in general
Are they very pretty, Bob
Lovely. Full of flowers. There's buttercups, and there's daisies, and
there's dandelions, and all manner of games
Is it very pleasant to be there, Bob
Prime
Was father ever there
Hem
O yes, he was there, sometimes
Is he sorry not to be there now
N-not particular
Nor any of the people
O are you quite sure and certain, Bob
Supposing
supposing a man wanted to leave his property to a young female, and wanted to tie it up so that nobody else should ever be able to make a grab at it; how would you tie up that property
Settle it strictly on herself
But look here
Supposing she had, say a brother, say a father, say a husband, who would be likely to make a grab at that property when she came into it -- how about that
It would be settled on herself, and they would have no more legal claim on it than you
Stop a bit
Supposing she was tender-hearted, and they came over her. Where's your law for tying it up then
If you please, I was born here, sir
Oh! You are the young lady, are you
Yes, sir
And what can I do for you
Nothing for me, sir, thank you
but if, while you stay here, you could be so kind as to teach my sister cheap
My child, I'll teach her for nothing
I beg your pardon, ma'am
but I was born here
Oh! You are the child, are you
Yes, ma'am
I am sorry I haven't got anything for you
It's not that, ma'am. If you please I want to learn needle-work
Why should you do that
with me before you? It has not done me much good
Nothing -- whatever it is -- seems to have done anybody much good who comes here
but I want to learn just the same
I am afraid you are so weak, you see
I don't think I am weak, ma'am
And you are so very, very little, you see
Yes, I am afraid I am very little indeed
Fanny is not going to live with us just now, father. She will be here a good deal in the day, but she is going to live outside with uncle
You surprise me. Why
I think uncle wants a companion, father. He should be attended to, and looked after
A companion? He passes much of his time here. And you attend to him and look after him, Amy, a great deal more than ever your sister will. You all go out so much; you all go out so much
But we are always glad to come home, father; now, are we not? And as to Fanny, perhaps besides keeping uncle company and taking care of him, it may be as well for her not quite to live here, always. She was not born here as I was, you know, father
Well, Amy, well. I don't quite follow you, but it's natural I suppose that Fanny should prefer to be outside, and even that you often should, too. So, you and Fanny and your uncle, my dear, shall have your own way. Good, good. I'll not meddle; don't mind me
Dear Bob
what is to become of poor Tip
Well, my dear
something ought to be done with him. Suppose I try and get him into the law
That would be so good of you, Bob
Not going back again
I am so tired of it
that I have cut it
God bless you, dear Tip. Don't be too proud to come and see us, when you have made your fortune
All right
Amy, I have got a situation
Have you really and truly, Tip
All right. I shall do now. You needn't look anxious about me any more, old girl
What is it, Tip
Why, you know Slingo by sight
Not the man they call the dealer
That's the chap. He'll be out on Monday, and he's going to give me a berth
What is he a dealer in, Tip
Horses. All right! I shall do now, Amy
I am afraid, Amy, you'll be vexed this time. Upon my life I am
I am very sorry to hear you say so, Tip. Have you come back
Why -- yes
Not expecting this time that what you had found would answer very well, I am less surprised and sorry than I might have been, Tip
Ah! But that's not the worst of it
Not the worst of it
Don't look so startled. No, Amy, not the worst of it. I have come back, you see; but -- DON'T look so startled -- I have come back in what I may call a new way. I am off the volunteer list altogether. I am in now, as one of the regulars
Oh! Don't say you are a prisoner, Tip! Don't, don't
Well, I don't want to say it
but if you can't understand me without my saying it, what am I to do? I am in for forty pound odd
Pray, sir
what is this place
Ay! This place
This is the Marshalsea, sir
The debtors' prison
Sir
the debtors' prison
I beg your pardon
but will you allow me to ask you another question? Can any one go in here
Any one can go IN
but it is not every one who can go out
Pardon me once more. Are you familiar with the place
Sir
I am
I beg you to excuse me. I am not impertinently curious, but have a good object. Do you know the name of Dorrit here
My name, sir
is Dorrit
Grant me the favour of half-a- dozen words. I was wholly unprepared for your announcement, and hope that assurance is my sufficient apology for having taken the liberty of addressing you. I have recently come home to England after a long absence. I have seen at my mother's -- Mrs Clennam in the city -- a young woman working at her needle, whom I have only heard addressed or spoken of as Little Dorrit. I have felt sincerely interested in her, and have had a great desire to know something more about her. I saw her, not a minute before you came up, pass in at that door
Are you a sailor, sir
Not a sailor? I judged from your sunburnt face that you might be. Are you in earnest, sir
I do assure you that I am, and do entreat you to believe that I am, in plain earnest
I know very little of the world, sir
I am merely passing on, like the shadow over the sun-dial. It would be worth no man's while to mislead me; it would really be too easy -- too poor a success, to yield any satisfaction. The young woman whom you saw go in here is my brother's child. My brother is William Dorrit; I am Frederick. You say you have seen her at your mother's (I know your mother befriends her), you have felt an interest in her, and you wish to know what she does here. Come and see
My brother
has been here many years; and much that happens even among ourselves, out of doors, is kept from him for reasons that I needn't enter upon now. Be so good as to say nothing of my niece's working at her needle. Be so good as to say nothing that goes beyond what is said among us. If you keep within our bounds, you cannot well be wrong. Now! Come and see
They are rather dark, sir, but you will not find anything in the way
I found this gentleman
Mr Clennam, William, son of Amy's friend -- at the outer gate, wishful, as he was going by, of paying his respects, but hesitating whether to come in or not. This is my brother William, sir
I hope
that my respect for your daughter may explain and justify my desire to be presented to you, sir
Mr Clennam
you do me honour. You are welcome, sir
Frederick, a chair. Pray sit down, Mr Clennam
You are welcome to the Marshalsea, sir. I have welcomed many gentlemen to these walls. Perhaps you are aware -- my daughter Amy may have mentioned that I am the Father of this place
I -- so I have understood
You know, I dare say, that my daughter Amy was born here. A good girl, sir, a dear girl, and long a comfort and support to me. Amy, my dear, put this dish on; Mr Clennam will excuse the primitive customs to which we are reduced here. Is it a compliment to ask you if you would do me the honour, sir, to
Thank you
Not a morsel
Frederick
you and Fanny sup at your lodgings to-night, I know. What have you done with Fanny, Frederick
She is walking with Tip
Tip -- as you may know -- is my son, Mr Clennam. He has been a little wild, and difficult to settle, but his introduction to the world was rather
a little adverse. Your first visit here, sir
my first
You could hardly have been here since your boyhood without my knowledge. It very seldom happens that anybody -- of any pretensions-any pretensions -- comes here without being presented to me
As many as forty or fifty in a day have been introduced to my brother
Yes
We have even exceeded that number. On a fine Sunday in term time, it is quite a Levee -- quite a Levee. Amy, my dear, I have been trying half the day to remember the name of the gentleman from Camberwell who was introduced to me last Christmas week by that agreeable coal- merchant who was remanded for six months
I don't remember his name, father
Frederick, do you remember his name
I mean
the gentleman who did that handsome action with so much delicacy. Ha! Tush! The name has quite escaped me. Mr Clennam, as I have happened to mention handsome and delicate action, you may like, perhaps, to know what it was
Very much
It is so generous, and shows so much fine feeling, that it is almost a duty to mention it. I said at the time that I always would mention it on every suitable occasion, without regard to personal sensitiveness. A -- well -- a -- it's of no use to disguise the fact -- you must know, Mr Clennam, that it does sometimes occur that people who come here desire to offer some little -- Testimonial -- to the Father of the place
Sometimes
sometimes -- hem -- it takes one shape and sometimes another; but it is generally -- ha -- Money. And it is, I cannot but confess it, it is too often -- hem -- acceptable. This gentleman that I refer to, was presented to me, Mr Clennam, in a manner highly gratifying to my feelings, and conversed not only with great politeness, but with great -- ahem -- information
It appeared from his conversation that he had a garden, though he was delicate of mentioning it at first, as gardens are -- hem -- are not accessible to me. But it came out, through my admiring a very fine cluster of geranium -- beautiful cluster of geranium to be sure -- which he had brought from his conservatory. On my taking notice of its rich colour, he showed me a piece of paper round it, on which was written, "For the Father of the Marshalsea," and presented it to me. But this was -- hem -- not all. He made a particular request, on taking leave, that I would remove the paper in half an hour. I -- ha -- I did so; and I found that it contained -- ahem -- two guineas. I assure you, Mr Clennam, I have received -- hem -- Testimonials in many ways, and of many degrees of value, and they have always been -- ha -- unfortunately acceptable; but I never was more pleased than with this -- ahem -- this particular Testimonial
Mr Clennam, Fanny. My eldest daughter and my son, Mr Clennam. The bell is a signal for visitors to retire, and so they have come to say good night; but there is plenty of time, plenty of time. Girls, Mr Clennam will excuse any household business you may have together. He knows, I dare say, that I have but one room here
I only want my clean dress from Amy, father
And I my clothes
Mended and made up
Yes
Come, Fanny, come, Fanny
the lock, child, the lock
Now, Mr Clennam
the lock, sir, the lock
Allow me
to see you down-stairs
Not on any account
Pray allow me to
Mr Clennam
I am deeply, deeply
Pray forgive me
for speaking to you here; pray forgive me for coming here at all! I followed you to-night. I did so, that I might endeavour to render you and your family some service. You know the terms on which I and my mother are, and may not be surprised that I have preserved our distant relations at her house, lest I should unintentionally make her jealous, or resentful, or do you any injury in her estimation. What I have seen here, in this short time, has greatly increased my heartfelt wish to be a friend to you. It would recompense me for much disappointment if I could hope to gain your confidence
You are very good, sir. You speak very earnestly to me. But I -- but I wish you had not watched me
Mrs Clennam has been of great service to me; I don't know what we should have done without the employment she has given me; I am afraid it may not be a good return to become secret with her; I can say no more to-night, sir. I am sure you mean to be kind to us. Thank you, thank you
Let me ask you one question before I leave. Have you known my mother long
I think two years, sir,-- The bell has stopped
How did you know her first? Did she send here for you
No. She does not even know that I live here. We have a friend, father and I -- a poor labouring man, but the best of friends -- and I wrote out that I wished to do needlework, and gave his address. And he got what I wrote out displayed at a few places where it cost nothing, and Mrs Clennam found me that way, and sent for me. The gate will be locked, sir
Caught, eh
You won't go home till morning. Oh! It's you, is it, Mr Clennam
You've done it
you must be sharper than that next time
But you are locked in too
I believe I am
About! But not in your way. I belong to the shop, only my sister has a theory that our governor must never know it. I don't see why, myself
Can I get any shelter
What had I better do
We had better get hold of Amy first of all
I would rather walk about all night -- it's not much to do -- than give that trouble
You needn't do that, if you don't mind paying for a bed. If you don't mind paying, they'll make you up one on the Snuggery table, under the circumstances. If you'll come along, I'll introduce you there
Yes, sir
That's the governor's. She'll sit with him for another hour reading yesterday's paper to him, or something of that sort; and then she'll come out like a little ghost, and vanish away without a sound
I don't understand you
The governor sleeps up in the room, and she has a lodging at the turnkey's. First house there
First house, sky parlour. She pays twice as much for it as she would for one twice as good outside. But she stands by the governor, poor dear girl, day and night
Fund
I admit that I was accessory to that man's captivity. I have suffered for it in kind. He has decayed in his prison: I in mine. I have paid the penalty
He withers away in his prison; I wither away in mine; inexorable justice is done; what do I owe on this score
Do you know Miss Dorrit
Dorrit
Mr Dorrit? Third bell and one knock
Old Dorrit
Dirty Dick
Ha
you were shut in last night
Yes, Mr Dorrit. I hope to meet your niece here presently
Oh
Out of my brother's way? True. Would you come up-stairs and wait for her
Thank you
Don't, stupid
What did you think of my brother, sir
I was glad
to find him so well and cheerful
Ha
yes, yes, yes, yes, yes
Amy, Mr Clennam. What do you think of her
I am much impressed, Mr Dorrit, by all that I have seen of her and thought of her
My brother would have been quite lost without Amy
We should all have been lost without Amy. She is a very good girl, Amy. She does her duty
Mr Clennam, Amy
has been expecting you some time
I took the liberty of sending you a message
I received the message, sir
Are you going to my mother's this morning? I think not, for it is past your usual hour
Not to-day, sir. I am not wanted to-day
Will you allow Me to walk a little way in whatever direction you may be going? I can then speak to you as we walk, both without detaining you here, and without intruding longer here myself
Will you go by the Iron Bridge
where there is an escape from the noise of the street
I am sorry to hear you were so inconvenienced last night, sir, as to be locked in. It was very unfortunate
Oh yes
she believed there were excellent beds at the coffee-house
I believe it is very expensive
but MY father has told me that quite beautiful dinners may be got there. And wine
Were you ever there
Oh no! Only into the kitchen to fetch hot water
I asked you last night
how you had become acquainted with my mother. Did you ever hear her name before she sent for you
No, sir
Do you think your father ever did
No, sir
I have a reason for asking, which I cannot very well explain; but you must, on no account, suppose it to be of a nature to cause you the least alarm or anxiety. Quite the reverse. And you think that at no time of your father's life was my name of Clennam ever familiar to him
No, sir
Let me put you in a coach
my poor child
You spoke so feelingly to me last night, sir, and I found afterwards that you had been so generous to my father, that I could not resist your message, if it was only to thank you; especially as I wished very much to say to you
To say to me
That I hope you will not misunderstand my father. Don't judge him, sir, as you would judge others outside the gates. He has been there so long! I never saw him outside, but I can understand that he must have grown different in some things since
My thoughts will never be unjust or harsh towards him, believe me
Not
not that he has anything to be ashamed of for himself, or that I have anything to be ashamed of for him. He only requires to be understood. I only ask for him that his life may be fairly remembered. All that he said was quite true. It all happened just as he related it. He is very much respected. Everybody who comes in, is glad to know him. He is more courted than anyone else. He is far more thought of than the Marshal is
It is often said that his manners are a true gentleman's, and quite a study. I see none like them in that place, but he is admitted to be superior to all the rest. This is quite as much why they make him presents, as because they know him to be needy. He is not to be blamed for being in need, poor love. Who could be in prison a quarter of a century, and be prosperous
If I have found it best to conceal where my home is, it is not because I am ashamed of him. God forbid! Nor am I so much ashamed of the place itself as might be supposed. People are not bad because they come there. I have known numbers of good, persevering, honest people come there through misfortune. They are almost all kind-hearted to one another. And it would be ungrateful indeed in me, to forget that I have had many quiet, comfortable hours there; that I had an excellent friend there when I was quite a baby, who was very very fond of me; that I have been taught there, and have worked there, and have slept soundly there. I think it would be almost cowardly and cruel not to have some little attachment for it, after all this
I did not mean to say so much, nor have I ever but once spoken about this before. But it seems to set it more right than it was last night. I said I wished you had not followed me, sir. I don't wish it so much now, unless you should think -- indeed I don't wish it at all, unless I should have spoken so confusedly, that -- that you can scarcely understand me, which I am afraid may be the case
I feel permitted now
to ask you a little more concerning your father. Has he many creditors
Oh! a great number
I mean detaining creditors, who keep him where he is
Oh yes! a great number
Can you tell me -- I can get the information, no doubt, elsewhere, if you cannot -- who is the most influential of them
or something
It can do no harm
if I see this Mr Tite Barnacle
Ah
Many people used to think once of getting my poor father out, but you don't know how hopeless it is
Even if it could be done
and it never can be done now -- where could father live, or how could he live? I have often thought that if such a change could come, it might be anything but a service to him now. People might not think so well of him outside as they do there. He might not be so gently dealt with outside as he is there. He might not be so fit himself for the life outside as he is for that
It would be a new distress to him even to know that I earn a little money, and that Fanny earns a little money. He is so anxious about us, you see, feeling helplessly shut up there. Such a good, good father
You would be glad to have your brother set at liberty
Oh very, very glad, sir
Well, we will hope for him at least. You told me last night of a friend you had
only a plasterer
There is one friend
As I take you back -- you are going back
Oh yes! going straight home
As I take you back
let me ask you to persuade yourself that you have another friend. I make no professions, and say no more
You are truly kind to me, sir. I am sure I need no more
Little mother, little mother
Oh, Maggy
what a clumsy child you are
May I ask who this is
This is Maggy, sir
Maggy, sir
Little mother
She is the grand-daughter
Grand-daughter
Of my old nurse, who has been dead a long time. Maggy, how old are you
Ten, mother
You can't think how good she is, sir
Good SHE is
Or how clever
She goes on errands as well as any one
And is as trustworthy as the Bank of England
She earns her own living entirely. Entirely, sir
Really does
What is her history
Think of that, Maggy
A gentleman from thousands of miles away, wanting to know your history
My history
Little mother
She means me
she is very much attached to me. Her old grandmother was not so kind to her as she should have been; was she, Maggy
Gin
Broom-handles and pokers
When Maggy was ten years old
she had a bad fever, sir, and she has never grown any older ever since
Ten years old
She had never been at peace before, sir
and she always runs off upon that
Such beds there is there
Such lemonades! Such oranges! Such d'licious broth and wine! Such Chicking! Oh, AIN'T it a delightful place to go and stop at
So Maggy stopped there as long as she could
and at last, when she could stop there no longer, she came out. Then, because she was never to be more than ten years old, however long she lived
However long she lived
And because she was very weak; indeed was so weak that when she began to laugh she couldn't stop herself -- which was a great pity
Her grandmother did not know what to do with her, and for some years was very unkind to her indeed. At length, in course of time, Maggy began to take pains to improve herself, and to be very attentive and very industrious; and by degrees was allowed to come in and out as often as she liked, and got enough to do to support herself, and does support herself. And that
is Maggy's history, as Maggy knows
Oh, I say. Look here! My father's not in the way, and won't be in the way to-day
Is this anything that I can do
You are very good
I wish however to see Mr Barnacle
But I say. Look here! You haven't got any appointment, you know
No
That is what I wish to have
But I say. Look here! Is this public business
Is it
anything about -- Tonnage -- or that sort of thing
No
it is nothing about tonnage
Then look here. Is it private business
I really am not sure. It relates to a Mr Dorrit
Look here, I tell you what! You had better call at our house, if you are going that way. Twenty-four, Mews Street, Grosvenor Square. My father's got a slight touch of the gout, and is kept at home by it
Thank you. I will call there now. Good morning
You are quite sure
that it's nothing about Tonnage
Quite sure
Be so good as to give that card to Mr Tite Barnacle, and to say that I have just now seen the younger Mr Barnacle, who recommended me to call here
Walk in
Walk in
Mr Clennam
Be seated
You have called on me, I believe
at the Circumlocution --' giving it the air of a word of about five-and- twenty syllables --'Office
I have taken that liberty
I do not deny that it is a liberty; proceed to take another liberty, and let me know your business
Allow me to observe that I have been for some years in China, am quite a stranger at home, and have no personal motive or interest in the inquiry I am about to make
If you will be good enough to take me with my present lofty expression, I shall feel obliged
I have found a debtor in the Marshalsea Prison of the name of Dorrit, who has been there many years. I wish to investigate his confused affairs so far as to ascertain whether it may not be possible, after this lapse of time, to ameliorate his unhappy condition. The name of Mr Tite Barnacle has been mentioned to me as representing some highly influential interest among his creditors. Am I correctly informed
Possibly
On behalf of the Crown, may I ask, or as private individual
The Circumlocution Department, sir
may have possibly recommended -- possibly -- I cannot say -- that some public claim against the insolvent estate of a firm or copartnership to which this person may have belonged, should be enforced. The question may have been, in the course of official business, referred to the Circumlocution Department for its consideration. The Department may have either originated, or confirmed, a Minute making that recommendation
I assume this to be the case, then
The Circumlocution Department
is not responsible for any gentleman's assumptions
May I inquire how I can obtain official information as to the real state of the case
It is competent
to any member of the -- Public
to memorialise the Circumlocution Department. Such formalities as are required to be observed in so doing, may be known on application to the proper branch of that Department
Which is the proper branch
I must refer you
to the Department itself for a formal answer to that inquiry
Excuse my mentioning
The Department is accessible to the -- Public
if the -- Public approaches it according to the official forms; if the -- Public does not approach it according to the official forms, the -- Public has itself to blame
I say. Look here. You stick to us in a devil of a manner
I want to know
Look here. Upon my soul you mustn't come into the place saying you want to know, you know
I want to know
the precise nature of the claim of the Crown against a prisoner for debt, named Dorrit
I say. Look here. You really are going it at a great pace, you know. Egad, you haven't got an appointment
I want to know
You have no right to come this sort of move
Look here. What do you mean? You told me you didn't know whether it was public business or not
I have now ascertained that it is public business
and I want to know
Look here! Upon my SOUL you mustn't come into the place saying you want to know, you know
Well, I tell you what. Look here. You had better try the Secretarial Department
Jenkinson
Mr Wobbler
Mr Wobbler
So he went
down to his cousin's place, and took the Dog with him by rail. Inestimable Dog. Flew at the porter fellow when he was put into the dog-box, and flew at the guard when he was taken out. He got half-a-dozen fellows into a Barn, and a good supply of Rats, and timed the Dog. Finding the Dog able to do it immensely, made the match, and heavily backed the Dog. When the match came off, some devil of a fellow was bought over, Sir, Dog was made drunk, Dog's master was cleaned out
Mr Wobbler
What did he call the Dog
Called him Lovely
Said the Dog was the perfect picture of the old aunt from whom he had expectations. Found him particularly like her when hocussed
Mr Wobbler
Mr Wobbler
What's the matter
I want to know
Can't inform you
Never heard of it. Nothing at all to do with it. Better try Mr Clive, second door on the left in the next passage
Perhaps he will give me the same answer
Very likely. Don't know anything about it
Mister! Hallo
Shut the door after you. You're letting in a devil of a draught here
I want to know
Oh! you had better not bother yourself about it, I think
Not bother myself about it
No! I recommend you not to bother yourself about it
You can if you like. I can give you plenty of forms to fill up. Lots of 'em here. You can have a dozen if you like. But you'll never go on with it
Would it be such hopeless work? Excuse me; I am a stranger in England
I don't say it would be hopeless
I don't express an opinion about that; I only express an opinion about you. I don't think you'd go on with it. However, of course, you can do as you like. I suppose there was a failure in the performance of a contract, or something of that kind, was there
I really don't know
Well! That you can find out. Then you'll find out what Department the contract was in, and then you'll find out all about it there
I beg your pardon. How shall I find out
Why, you'll -- you'll ask till they tell you. Then you'll memorialise that Department (according to regular forms which you'll find out) for leave to memorialise this Department. If you get it (which you may after a time), that memorial must be entered in that Department, sent to be registered in this Department, sent back to be signed by that Department, sent back to be countersigned by this Department, and then it will begin to be regularly before that Department. You'll find out when the business passes through each of these stages by asking at both Departments till they tell you
But surely this is not the way to do the business
When the business is regularly before that Department, whatever it is
then you can watch it from time to time through that Department. When it comes regularly before this Department, then you must watch it from time to time through this Department. We shall have to refer it right and left; and when we refer it anywhere, then you'll have to look it up. When it comes back to us at any time, then you had better look US up. When it sticks anywhere, you'll have to try to give it a jog. When you write to another Department about it, and then to this Department about it, and don't hear anything satisfactory about it, why then you had better -- keep on writing
But I am obliged to you at any rate
for your politeness
Not at all
Try the thing, and see how you like it. It will be in your power to give it up at any time, if you don't like it. You had better take a lot of forms away with you. Give him a lot of forms
come out, you rascal, come Out
How are you
How d'ye do? I have only just come over from abroad. I am glad to see you
And I am rejoiced to see you
Thank'ee. Thank'ee
Mrs Meagles and your daughter
Are as well as possible
I only wish you had come upon me in a more prepossessing condition as to coolness
Whew
That's comfortable. Now I am cooler
You have been ruffled, Mr Meagles. What is the matter
Wait a bit, and I'll tell you. Have you leisure for a turn in the Park
As much as you please
Come along then. Ah! you may well look at him
He's something to look at, that fellow is
You keep with us
and I'll introduce you presently. Now then
Mr Clennam, will you do me the favour to look at this man? His name is Doyce, Daniel Doyce. You wouldn't suppose this man to be a notorious rascal; would you
I certainly should not
No. You would not. I know you would not. You wouldn't suppose him to be a public offender; would you
No
No. But he is. He is a public offender. What has he been guilty of? Murder, manslaughter, arson, forgery, swindling, house- breaking, highway robbery, larceny, conspiracy, fraud? Which should you say, now
I should say
not one of them
You are right
But he has been ingenious, and he has been trying to turn his ingenuity to his country's service. That makes him a public offender directly, sir
This Doyce
is a smith and engineer. He is not in a large way, but he is well known as a very ingenious man. A dozen years ago, he perfects an invention (involving a very curious secret process) of great importance to his country and his fellow- creatures. I won't say how much money it cost him, or how many years of his life he had been about it, but he brought it to perfection a dozen years ago. Wasn't it a dozen
He is the most exasperating man in the world; he never complains
Yes. Rather better than twelve years ago
Rather better
you mean rather worse. Well, Mr Clennam, he addresses himself to the Government. The moment he addresses himself to the Government, he becomes a public offender! Sir
Don't stand there, Doyce, turning your spectacle-case over and over
but tell Mr Clennam what you confessed to me
I undoubtedly was made to feel
as if I had committed an offence. In dancing attendance at the various offices, I was always treated, more or less, as if it was a very bad offence. I have frequently found it necessary to reflect, for my own self-support, that I really had not done anything to bring myself into the Newgate Calendar, but only wanted to effect a great saving and a great improvement
There
Judge whether I exaggerate. Now you'll be able to believe me when I tell you the rest of the case
saw no reason to reverse the decision at which my lords had arrived
Upon which
as a practical man, I then and there, in that presence, took Doyce by the collar, and told him it was plain to me that he was an infamous rascal and treasonable disturber of the government peace, and took him away. I brought him out of the office door by the collar, that the very porter might know I was a practical man who appreciated the official estimate of such characters; and here we are
There
now you know all about Doyce. Except, which I own does not improve my state of mind, that even now you don't hear him complain
You must have great patience
great forbearance
No
I don't know that I have more than another man
By the Lord, you have more than I have, though
You see, my experience of these things does not begin with myself. It has been in my way to know a little about them from time to time. Mine is not a particular case. I am not worse used than a hundred others who have put themselves in the same position -- than all the others, I was going to say
I don't know that I should find that a consolation, if it were my case; but I am very glad that you do
Understand me! I don't say
that it's recompense for a man's toil and hope; but it's a certain sort of relief to know that I might have counted on this
Disappointed
Yes. No doubt I am disappointed. Hurt? Yes. No doubt I am hurt. That's only natural. But what I mean when I say that people who put themselves in the same position are mostly used in the same way
In England
Oh! of course I mean in England. When they take their inventions into foreign countries, that's quite different. And that's the reason why so many go there
What I mean is, that however this comes to be the regular way of our government, it is its regular way. Have you ever heard of any projector or inventor who failed to find it all but inaccessible, and whom it did not discourage and ill-treat
I cannot say that I ever have
Have you ever known it to be beforehand in the adoption of any useful thing? Ever known it to set an example of any useful kind
I am a good deal older than my friend here
and I'll answer that. Never
But we all three have known, I expect
a pretty many cases of its fixed determination to be miles upon miles, and years upon years, behind the rest of us; and of its being found out persisting in the use of things long superseded, even after the better things were well known and generally taken up
Well then
If I don't complain, Mr Clennam, I can feel gratitude; and I assure you that I feel it towards our mutual friend. Many's the day, and many's the way in which he has backed me
Stuff and nonsense
Come, come
We shall not make this the better by being grim. Where do you think of going, Dan
I shall go back to the factory
Why then, we'll all go back to the factory, or walk in that direction
Mr Clennam won't be deterred by its being in Bleeding Heart Yard
Bleeding Heart Yard
I want to go there
So much the better
Come along
To the devil with this plain that has no end! To the devil with these stones that cut like knives! To the devil with this dismal darkness, wrapping itself about one with a chill! I hate you
I, hungry, thirsty, weary. You, imbeciles, where the lights are yonder, eating and drinking, and warming yourselves at fires! I wish I had the sacking of your town; I would repay you, my children
One can lodge here to-night, madame
Perfectly
Good. One can dine -- sup -- what you please to call it
Ah, perfectly
Dispatch then, madame, if you please. Something to eat, as quickly as you can; and some wine at once. I am exhausted
It is very bad weather, monsieur
Cursed weather
And a very long road
A cursed road
That's the true reason
that's the true reason why they said that the devil was let loose
Ah Heaven, then
When the boat came up from Lyons, and brought the news that the devil was actually let loose at Marseilles, some fly-catchers swallowed it. But I? No, not I
Madame, you are always right
Doubtless you were enraged against that man, madame
Ay, yes, then
Naturally, yes
He was a bad subject
He was a wicked wretch
and well merited what he had the good fortune to escape. So much the worse
Stay, madame! Let us see
It may have been his unfortunate destiny. He may have been the child of circumstances. It is always possible that he had, and has, good in him if one did but know how to find it out. Philosophical philanthropy teaches
Hold there, you and your philanthropy
Listen then. I am a woman, I. I know nothing of philosophical philanthropy. But I know what I have seen, and what I have looked in the face in this world here, where I find myself. And I tell you this, my friend, that there are people (men and women both, unfortunately) who have no good in them -- none. That there are people whom it is necessary to detest without compromise. That there are people who must be dealt with as enemies of the human race. That there are people who have no human heart, and who must be crushed like savage beasts and cleared out of the way. They are but few, I hope; but I have seen (in this world here where I find myself, and even at the little Break of Day) that there are such people. And I do not doubt that this man -- whatever they call him, I forget his name -- is one of them
My faith! If your philosophical philanthropy
puts anybody at the mercy of such people by holding terms with them at all, in words or deeds, or both, take it away from the Break of Day, for it isn't worth a sou
Well
let us come back to our subject. Leaving all that aside, gentlemen, it was because the man was acquitted on his trial that people said at Marseilles that the devil was let loose. That was how the phrase began to circulate, and what it meant; nothing more
How do they call him
Biraud, is it not
Rigaud, madame
Rigaud! To be sure
Pardon me, madame -- that Biraud
Rigaud, monsieur
Rigaud. Pardon me again -- has contracted your displeasure, how
Ay, ay? Death of my life, that's a criminal indeed. But how do you know it
All the world knows it
Hah! And yet he escaped justice
Monsieur, the law could not prove it against him to its satisfaction. So the law says. Nevertheless, all the world knows he did it. The people knew it so well, that they tried to tear him to pieces
Being all in perfect accord with their own wives
Haha
Did you mention, madame -- or was it mentioned among the gentlemen -- what became of him
May one ask to be shown to bed, madame
Hola, my husband
It is I, my wife
my husband' put down the candle he carried, and with a sidelong look at his guest stooping over his knapsack, gruffly gave him the instruction, 'The bed to the right
One must eat
but by Heaven I must eat at the cost of some other man to-morrow
Death of my soul
here's Cavalletto
Hush! What's the matter? Keep quiet! It's I. You know me
Cavalletto! Wake, boy! Rub your eyes and look at me. Not the name you used to call me -- don't use that -- Lagnier, say Lagnier
Cavalletto! Give me your hand. You know Lagnier, the gentleman. Touch the hand of a gentleman
Then you were
Not shaved? No. See here
as tight on as your own
Look
That's a poor trim for a gentleman, you'll say. No matter, you shall see how Soon I'll mend it. Come and sit down. Take your old place
That's well
Now we might be in the old infernal hole again, hey? How long have you been out
Two days after you, my master
How do you come here
I was cautioned not to stay there, and so I left the town at once, and since then I have changed about. I have been doing odds and ends at Avignon, at Pont Esprit, at Lyons; upon the Rhone, upon the Saone
And where are you going
Going, my master
Ay
By Bacchus
I have sometimes had a thought of going to Paris, and perhaps to England
Cavalletto. This is in confidence. I also am going to Paris and perhaps to England. We'll go together
We'll go together
You shall see how soon I will force myself to be recognised as a gentleman, and you shall profit by it. It is agreed? Are we one
Oh, surely, surely
Then you shall hear before I sleep -- and in six words, for I want sleep -- how I appear before you, I, Lagnier. Remember that. Not the other
Altro, altro! Not Ri
Death! what are you doing? Do you want me to be trampled upon and stoned? Do YOU want to be trampled upon and stoned? You would be. You don't imagine that they would set upon me, and let my prison chum go? Don't think it
I am a man
whom society has deeply wronged since you last saw me. You know that I am sensitive and brave, and that it is my character to govern. How has society respected those qualities in me? I have been shrieked at through the streets. I have been guarded through the streets against men, and especially women, running at me armed with any weapons they could lay their hands on. I have lain in prison for security, with the place of my confinement kept a secret, lest I should be torn out of it and felled by a hundred blows. I have been carted out of Marseilles in the dead of night, and carried leagues away from it packed in straw. It has not been safe for me to go near my house; and, with a beggar's pittance in my pocket, I have walked through vile mud and weather ever since, until my feet are crippled -- look at them! Such are the humiliations that society has inflicted upon me, possessing the qualities I have mentioned, and which you know me to possess. But society shall pay for it
Even here
even in this mean drinking-shop, society pursues me. Madame defames me, and her guests defame me. I, too, a gentleman with manners and accomplishments to strike them dead! But the wrongs society has heaped upon me are treasured in this breast
Surely, surely
Put my shoes there
Hang my cloak to dry there by the door. Take my hat
And this is the bed to which society consigns me, is it? Hah. Very well
Shaken out of destiny's dice-box again into your company, eh? By Heaven! So much the better for you. You'll profit by it. I shall need a long rest. Let me sleep in the morning
Bleeding Heart, Bleeding Heart, bleeding away
Well, sir
not to deceive you, he's gone to look for a job
Not to deceive you' was a method of speech with Mrs Plornish. She would deceive you, under any circumstances, as little as might be; but she had a trick of answering in this provisional form. 'Do you think he will be back soon, if I wait for him
I have been expecting him
this half an hour, at any minute of time. Walk in, sir
Not to deceive you, sir, I notice it
and I take it kind of you
It ain't many that comes into a poor place, that deems it worth their while to move their hats
But people think more of it than people think
Four year just turned, sir
He IS a fine little fellow, ain't he, sir? But this one is rather sickly
You wouldn't mind my asking if it happened to be a job as you was come about, sir, would you
All such things as jobs
seems to me to have gone underground, they do indeed
Is it so difficult to get work
Plornish finds it so
He is quite unfortunate. Really he is
It's not for want of looking after jobs, I am sure
nor yet for want of working at them when they are to be got. No one ever heard my husband complain of work
This is Plornish, sir
I came
to beg the favour of a little conversation with you on the subject of the Dorrit family
Ah, yes. Well. He didn't know what satisfaction he could give any gentleman, respecting that family. What might it be about, now
I know you better
than you suppose
No
I know your kind offices at second hand, but on the best authority; through Little Dorrit.-- I mean
Miss Dorrit
Mr Clennam, is it? Oh! I've heard of you, Sir
And I of you
Please to sit down again, Sir, and consider yourself welcome.-- Why, yes
I have been on the wrong side of the Lock myself, and in that way we come to know Miss Dorrit. Me and my wife, we are well acquainted with Miss Dorrit
Intimate
It was her father that I got acquainted with first. And through getting acquainted with him, you see -- why -- I got acquainted with her
I see
Ah! And there's manners! There's polish! There's a gentleman to have run to seed in the Marshalsea jail! Why, perhaps you are not aware
not aware that Miss Dorrit and her sister dursn't let him know that they work for a living. No
Dursn't let him know it, they dursn't
Without admiring him for that
I am very sorry for him
As to me
certainly Mr Dorrit is as affable with me, I am sure, as I can possibly expect. Considering the differences and distances betwixt us, more so. But it's Miss Dorrit that we were speaking of
True. Pray how did you introduce her at my mother's
Sally, you may as well mention how it was, old woman
Miss Dorrit
came here one afternoon with a bit of writing, telling that how she wished for needlework, and asked if it would be considered any ill-conwenience in case she was to give her address here
Me and Plornish says, No, Miss Dorrit, no ill-conwenience
and she wrote it in, according. Which then me and Plornish says, Ho Miss Dorrit
Have you thought of copying it three or four times, as the way to make it known in more places than one? No, says Miss Dorrit, I have not, but I will. She copied it out according, on this table, in a sweet writing, and Plornish, he took it where he worked, having a job just then
and likewise to the landlord of the Yard; through which it was that Mrs Clennam first happened to employ Miss Dorrit
The landlord of the Yard
is
He is Mr Casby, by name, he is
and Pancks, he collects the rents. That
that is about what they are, you may believe me or not, as you think proper
Ay
Mr Casby, too! An old acquaintance of mine, long ago
Chaunter
would settle handsome
Now, how much time do you want to make the other twenty in? Now, I'll give you a month
Now, I'll tell what I'll do with you. You shall get me a good bill at four months, made payable at a banking-house, for the other twenty
Now, come; Here's the last I've got to say to you. You shall give me another ten down, and I'll run my pen clean through it
Now, I'll tell you what it is, and this shuts it up; he has used me bad, but I'll let him off for another five down and a bottle of wine; and if you mean done, say done, and if you don't like it, leave it
Hand over, then
Mr Plornish
I trust to you, if you please, to keep my secret. If you will undertake to let the young man know that he is free, and to tell him that you were employed to compound for the debt by some one whom you are not at liberty to name, you will not only do me a service, but may do him one, and his sister also
The last reason, sir
would be quite sufficient. Your wishes shall be attended to
A Friend has obtained his discharge, you can say if you please. A Friend who hopes that for his sister's sake, if for no one else's, he will make good use of his liberty
Your wishes, sir, shall be attended to
And if you will be so good, in your better knowledge of the family, as to communicate freely with me, and to point out to me any means by which you think I may be delicately and really useful to Little Dorrit, I shall feel under an obligation to you
Don't name it, sir
it'll be ekally a pleasure an a -- it'l be ekally a pleasure and a
Hallo! I thought you was poor, my improvident friend
The house
is as little changed as my mother's, and looks almost as gloomy. But the likeness ends outside. I know its staid repose within. The smell of its jars of old rose-leaves and lavender seems to come upon me even here
Old Christopher Casby, formerly Town-agent to Lord Decimus Tite Barnacle
Oh! why, with that head, is he not a benefactor to his species! Oh! why, with that head, is he not a father to the orphan and a friend to the friendless
I beg your pardon
I fear you did not hear me announced
No, sir, I did not. Did you wish to see me, sir
I wished to pay my respects
Have I the pleasure, sir
take a chair, if you please -- have I the pleasure of knowing --? Ah! truly, yes, I think I have! I believe I am not mistaken in supposing that I am acquainted with those features? I think I address a gentleman of whose return to this country I was informed by Mr Flintwinch
That is your present visitor
Really! Mr Clennam
No other, Mr Casby
Mr Clennam, I am glad to see you. How have you been since we met
We are older, Mr Clennam
We are -- not younger
And your respected father
is no more! I was grieved to hear it, Mr Clennam, I was grieved
There was a time
when your parents and myself were not on friendly terms. There was a little family misunderstanding among us. Your respected mother was rather jealous of her son, maybe; when I say her son, I mean your worthy self, your worthy self
Those times, however
are past and gone, past and gone. I do myself the pleasure of making a visit to your respected mother occasionally, and of admiring the fortitude and strength of mind with which she bears her trials, bears her trials
I have heard that you were kind enough on one of those occasions
to mention Little Dorrit to my mother
Little -- Dorrit? That's the seamstress who was mentioned to me by a small tenant of mine? Yes, yes. Dorrit? That's the name. Ah, yes, yes! You call her Little Dorrit
My daughter Flora
as you may have heard probably, Mr Clennam, was married and established in life, several years ago. She had the misfortune to lose her husband when she had been married a few months. She resides with me again. She will be glad to see you, if you will permit me to let her know that you are here
By all means
I should have preferred the request, if your kindness had not anticipated me
Halloa
Halloa
What's the matter
I have not heard that anything is the matter
Where's Mr Casby
He will be here directly, if you want him
_I_ want him
Don't you
Oh
Very well. That's right. If he should ask for Pancks, will you be so good as to say that Pancks is come in
that head
Be good enough to throw it down and dance upon it. This is Flora
I am sure
I am ashamed to see Mr Clennam, I am a mere fright, I know he'll find me fearfully changed, I am actually an old woman, it's shocking to be found out, it's really shocking
Oh! But with a gentleman it's so different and really you look so amazingly well that you have no right to say anything of the kind, while, as to me, you know -- oh
I am dreadful
But if we talk of not having changed
look at Papa, is not Papa precisely what he was when you went away, isn't it cruel and unnatural of Papa to be such a reproach to his own child, if we go on in this way much longer people who don't know us will begin to suppose that I am Papa's Mama
Oh Mr Clennam you insincerest of creatures
I perceive already you have not lost your old way of paying compliments, your old way when you used to pretend to be so sentimentally struck you know -- at least I don't mean that, I -- oh I don't know what I mean
You mustn't think of going yet
you could never be so unkind as to think of going, Arthur -- I mean Mr Arthur -- or I suppose Mr Clennam would be far more proper -- but I am sure I don't know what I am saying -- without a word about the dear old days gone for ever, when I come to think of it I dare say it would be much better not to speak of them and it's highly probable that you have some much more agreeable engagement and pray let Me be the last person in the world to interfere with it though there was a time, but I am running into nonsense again
Indeed I have little doubt
that you are married to some Chinese lady, being in China so long and being in business and naturally desirous to settle and extend your connection nothing was more likely than that you should propose to a Chinese lady and nothing was more natural I am sure than that the Chinese lady should accept you and think herself very well off too, I only hope she's not a Pagodian dissenter
I am not
married to any lady, Flora
Oh good gracious me I hope you never kept yourself a bachelor so long on my account
but of course you never did why should you, pray don't answer, I don't know where I'm running to, oh do tell me something about the Chinese ladies whether their eyes are really so long and narrow always putting me in mind of mother-of-pearl fish at cards and do they really wear tails down their back and plaited too or is it only the men, and when they pull their hair so very tight off their foreheads don't they hurt themselves, and why do they stick little bells all over their bridges and temples and hats and things or don't they really do it
Then it's all true and they really do! good gracious Arthur!-- pray excuse me -- old habit -- Mr Clennam far more proper -- what a country to live in for so long a time, and with so many lanterns and umbrellas too how very dark and wet the climate ought to be and no doubt actually is, and the sums of money that must be made by those two trades where everybody carries them and hangs them everywhere, the little shoes too and the feet screwed back in infancy is quite surprising, what a traveller you are
Dear dear
only to think of the changes at home Arthur -- cannot overcome it, and seems so natural, Mr Clennam far more proper -- since you became familiar with the Chinese customs and language which I am persuaded you speak like a Native if not better for you were always quick and clever though immensely difficult no doubt, I am sure the tea chests alone would kill me if I tried, such changes Arthur -- I am doing it again, seems so natural, most improper -- as no one could have believed, who could have ever imagined Mrs Finching when I can't imagine it myself
Is that your married name
Finching
Finching oh yes isn't it a dreadful name, but as Mr F. said when he proposed to me which he did seven times and handsomely consented I must say to be what he used to call on liking twelve months, after all, he wasn't answerable for it and couldn't help it could he, Excellent man, not at all like you but excellent man
No one could dispute, Arthur -- Mr Clennam -- that it's quite right you should be formally friendly to me under the altered circumstances and indeed you couldn't be anything else, at least I suppose not you ought to know, but I can't help recalling that there was a time when things were very different
My dear Mrs Finching
Oh not that nasty ugly name, say Flora
Flora. I assure you, Flora, I am happy in seeing you once more, and in finding that, like me, you have not forgotten the old foolish dreams, when we saw all before us in the light of our youth and hope
You don't seem so
you take it very coolly, but however I know you are disappointed in me, I suppose the Chinese ladies -- Mandarinesses if you call them so -- are the cause or perhaps I am the cause myself, it's just as likely
No, no
don't say that
Oh I must you know
what nonsense not to, I know I am not what you expected, I know that very well
One remark
I wish to make, one explanation I wish to offer, when your Mama came and made a scene of it with my Papa and when I was called down into the little breakfast-room where they were looking at one another with your Mama's parasol between them seated on two chairs like mad bulls what was I to do
My dear Mrs Finching
all so long ago and so long concluded, is it worth while seriously to
I can't Arthur
be denounced as heartless by the whole society of China without setting myself right when I have the opportunity of doing so, and you must be very well aware that there was Paul and Virginia which had to be returned and which was returned without note or comment, not that I mean to say you could have written to me watched as I was but if it had only come back with a red wafer on the cover I should have known that it meant Come to Pekin Nankeen and What's the third place, barefoot
My dear Mrs Finching, you were not to blame, and I never blamed you. We were both too young, too dependent and helpless, to do anything but accept our separation.-- Pray think how long ago
One more remark
I wish to make, one more explanation I wish to offer, for five days I had a cold in the head from crying which I passed entirely in the back drawing-room -- there is the back drawing-room still on the first floor and still at the back of the house to confirm my words -- when that dreary period had passed a lull succeeded years rolled on and Mr F. became acquainted with us at a mutual friend's, he was all attention he called next day he soon began to call three evenings a week and to send in little things for supper it was not love on Mr F
Nothing whatever
but what you did. Let an old friend assure you of his full conviction that you did quite right
One last remark
I wish to make, one last explanation I wish to offer, there was a time ere Mr F. first paid attentions incapable of being mistaken, but that is past and was not to be, dear Mr Clennam you no longer wear a golden chain you are free I trust you may be happy, here is Papa who is always tiresome and putting in his nose everywhere where he is not wanted
Yes
Bleeding Heart Yard
It's a troublesome property. Don't pay you badly, but rents are very hard to get there. You have more trouble with that one place than with all the places belonging to you
Indeed
The people are so poor there
You can't say, you know
whether they're poor or not. They say they are, but they all say that. When a man says he's rich, you're generally sure he isn't. Besides, if they ARE poor, you can't help it. You'd be poor yourself if you didn't get your rents
True enough
You're not going to keep open house for all the poor of London
You're not going to lodge 'em for nothing. You're not going to open your gates wide and let 'em come free. Not if you know it, you ain't
If a man takes a room of you at half-a-crown a week, and when the week comes round hasn't got the half-crown, you say to that man, Why have you got the room, then? If you haven't got the one thing, why have you got the other? What have you been and done with your money? What do you mean by it? What are you up to? That's what YOU say to a man of that sort; and if you didn't say it, more shame for you
You have some extent of such property about the east and north- east here, I believe
Oh, pretty well
You're not particular to east or north-east, any point of the compass will do for you. What you want is a good investment and a quick return. You take it where you can find it. You ain't nice as to situation -- not you
Mr F
When we lived at Henley, Barnes's gander was stole by tinkers
All right, ma'am
Mr F
Mr Clennam, will you give me a glass of port for Mr F
The Monument near London Bridge
was put up arter the Great Fire of London; and the Great Fire of London was not the fire in which your uncle George's workshops was burned down
Indeed, ma'am? All right
I hate a fool
What he come there for, then
took
Citywards, sir
Shall we walk together
Quite agreeable
A fresh night
Yes, it's pretty fresh
As a stranger you feel the climate more than I do, I dare say. Indeed I haven't got time to feel it
You lead such a busy life
Yes, I have always some of 'em to look up, or something to look after. But I like business
What's a man made for
For nothing else
What else
That's what I ask our weekly tenants
Ah dear, dear, dear
Here am I
Have you no taste for anything, Mr Pancks
What's taste
Let us say inclination
I have an inclination to get money, sir
if you will show me how
You are no great reader, I suppose
Never read anything but letters and accounts. Never collect anything but advertisements relative to next of kin. If that's a taste, I have got that. You're not of the Clennams of Cornwall, Mr Clennam
Not that I ever heard of
I know you're not. I asked your mother, sir. She has too much character to let a chance escape her
Supposing I had been of the Clennams of Cornwall
You'd have heard of something to your advantage
Indeed! I have heard of little enough to my advantage for some time
There's a Cornish property going a begging, sir, and not a Cornish Clennam to have it for the asking
I turn off here. I wish you good night
Good night
An accident going to the Hospital
Yes
along of them Mails. They ought to be prosecuted and fined, them Mails. They come a racing out of Lad Lane and Wood Street at twelve or fourteen mile a hour, them Mails do. The only wonder is, that people ain't killed oftener by them Mails
This person is not killed, I hope
I don't know
it an't for the want of a will in them Mails, if he an't
They're a public nuisance, them Mails, sir
I see one on 'em pull up within half a inch of a boy, last night
I see one on 'em go over a cat, sir -- and it might have been your own mother
Why, a native Englishman is put to it every night of his life, to save his life from them Mails
and he knows when they're a coming round the corner, to tear him limb from limb. What can you expect from a poor foreigner who don't know nothing about 'em
Is this a foreigner
Frenchman, sir
Dutchman, sir
and other conflicting testimony, he now heard a feeble voice asking, both in Italian and in French, for water. A general remark going round, in reply, of 'Ah, poor fellow, he says he'll never get over it; and no wonder
First, he wants some water
Are you badly hurt, my friend
Yes, sir; yes, yes, yes. It's my leg, it's my leg. But it pleases me to hear the old music, though I am very bad
You are a traveller! Stay! See, the water! Let me give you some
That's well. You are a traveller
Surely, sir
A stranger in this city
Surely, surely, altogether. I am arrived this unhappy evening
From what country
Marseilles
Why, see there! I also! Almost as much a stranger here as you, though born here, I came from Marseilles a little while ago. Don't be cast down
I won't leave you till you shall be well taken care of. Courage! You will be very much better half an hour hence
Ah! Altro, Altro
He hardly knows an English word
is he badly hurt
Let us know all about it first
before we pronounce
He won't hurt. He'll do very well. It's difficult enough, but we shall not want him to part with his leg this time
It's a serious injury, I suppose
Ye-es
Yes, it's enough. There's a compound fracture above the knee, and a dislocation below. They are both of a beautiful kind
He speaks French
Oh yes, he speaks French
He'll be at no loss here, then.-- You have only to bear a little pain like a brave fellow, my friend, and to be thankful that all goes as well as it does
and you'll walk again to a marvel. Now, let us see whether there's anything else the matter, and how our ribs are
How soon I too shall pass through such changes, and be gone
From the unhappy suppression of my youngest days, through the rigid and unloving home that followed them, through my departure, my long exile, my return, my mother's welcome, my intercourse with her since, down to the afternoon of this day with poor Flora
what have I found
Little Dorrit
My poor child! Here at midnight
I said Little Dorrit, sir, on purpose to prepare you. I knew you must be very much surprised
Are you alone
No sir, I have got Maggy with me
And I have no fire
And you are --' He was going to say so lightly clad, but stopped himself in what would have been a reference to her poverty, saying instead, 'And it is so cold
Your foot is like marble, my child
put it nearer the warmth
why did he dine to-day, and leave this little creature to the mercy of the cold stones
Before I say anything else
may I tell you something, sir
Yes, my child
I wanted a tender word, and could think of no other. As you just now gave yourself the name they give you at my mother's, and as that is the name by which I always think of you, let me call you Little Dorrit
Thank you, sir, I should like it better than any name
Little Dorrit
Little mother
It's all the same, MaggY
all the same
Is it all the same, mother
Just the same
What I was going to tell you, sir
is, that MY brother is at large
And what I was going to tell you, sir
is, that I am not to know whose generosity released him -- am never to ask, and am never to be told, and am never to thank that gentleman with all MY grateful heart
And what I was going to say, sir, is
that if I knew him, and I might, I would tell him that he can never, never know how I feel his goodness, and how my good father would feel it. And what I was going to say, sir, is, that if I knew him, and I might -- but I don't know him and I must not -- I know that!-- I would tell him that I shall never any more lie down to sleep without having prayed to Heaven to bless him and reward him. And if I knew him, and I might, I would go down on my knees to him, and take his hand and kiss it and ask him not to draw it away, but to leave it -- O to leave it for a moment -- and let my thankful tears fall on it; for I have no other thanks to give him
There, Little Dorrit, there, there, there! We will suppose that you did know this person, and that you might do all this, and that it was all done. And now tell me, Who am quite another person -- who am nothing more than the friend who begged you to trust him -- why you are out at midnight, and what it is that brings you so far through the streets at this late hour, my slight, delicate
Little Dorrit
Maggy and I have been to-night
to the theatre where my sister is engaged
suddenly interrupted Maggy, who seemed to have the power of going to sleep and waking up whenever she chose. 'Almost as good as a hospital. Only there ain't no Chicking in it
We went there
because I like sometimes to know, of my own knowledge, that my sister is doing well; and like to see her there, with my own eyes, when neither she nor Uncle is aware. It is very seldom indeed that I can do that, because when I am not out at work, I am with my father, and even when I am out at work, I hurry home to him. But I pretend to-night that I am at a party
Oh no, certainly! I never was at a party in my life
I hope there is no harm in it. I could never have been of any use, if I had not pretended a little
It is the first night
that I have ever been away from home. And London looks so large, so barren, and so wild
But this is not
what I have come to trouble you with, sir. My sister's having found a friend, a lady she has told me of and made me rather anxious about, was the first cause of my coming away from home. And being away, and coming (on purpose) round by where you lived and seeing a light in the window
There were three things
that I thought I would like to say, if you were alone and I might come up-stairs. First, what I have tried to say, but never can -- never shall
Hush, hush! That is done with, and disposed of. Let us pass to the second
I think
this is the second thing, sir -- I think Mrs Clennam must have found out my secret, and must know where I come from and where I go to. Where I live, I mean
Indeed
I think
that Mr Flintwinch must have watched me
I have met him twice. Both times near home. Both times at night, when I was going back. Both times I thought (though that may easily be my mistake), that he hardly looked as if he had met me by accident
Did he say anything
No; he only nodded and put his head on one side
The devil take his head
it's always on one side
Is my mother at all changed to you
Oh, not at all. She is just the same. I wondered whether I had better tell her my history. I wondered whether I might -- I mean, whether you would like me to tell her. I wondered
whether you would advise me what I ought to do
Little Dorrit
do nothing. I will have some talk with my old friend, Mrs Affery. Do nothing, Little Dorrit -- except refresh yourself with such means as there are here. I entreat you to do that
Thank you, I am not hungry. Nor
nor thirsty.-- I think Maggy might like something, perhaps
We will make her find pockets presently for all there is here
but before we awake her, there was a third thing to say
Yes. You will not be offended, sir
I promise that, unreservedly
It will sound strange. I hardly know how to say it. Don't think it unreasonable or ungrateful in me
No, no, no. I am sure it will be natural and right. I am not afraid that I shall put a wrong construction on it, whatever it is
Thank you. You are coming back to see my father again
Yes
You have been so good and thoughtful as to write him a note, saying that you are coming to-morrow
Oh, that was nothing! Yes
Can you guess
what I am going to ask you not to do
I think I can. But I may be wrong
No, you are not wrong
If we should want it so very, very badly that we cannot do without it, let me ask you for it
I Will,-- I Will
Don't encourage him to ask. Don't understand him if he does ask. Don't give it to him. Save him and spare him that, and you will be able to think better of him
You don't know what he is
you don't know what he really is. How can you, seeing him there all at once, dear love, and not gradually, as I have done! You have been so good to us, so delicately and truly good, that I want him to be better in your eyes than in anybody's. And I cannot bear to think
I cannot bear to think that you of all the world should see him in his only moments of degradation
Pray
do not be so distressed. Pray, pray, Little Dorrit! This is quite understood now
Thank you, sir. Thank you! I have tried very much to keep myself from saying this; I have thought about it, days and nights; but when I knew for certain you were coming again, I made up my mind to speak to you. Not because I am ashamed of him
but because I know him better than any one does, and love him, and am proud of him
Oh, ain't it d'licious! Ain't it hospitally
But the gates will have been locked long ago
Where are you going
I am going to Maggy's lodging
I shall be quite safe, quite well taken care of
I must accompany you there
I cannot let you go alone
Yes, pray leave us to go there by ourselves. Pray do
Come, Maggy
we shall do very well; we know the way by this time, Maggy
Yes, yes, little mother; we know the way
God bless you
Now, this is a good lodging for you, Maggy, and we must not give offence. Consequently, we will only knock twice, and not very loud; and if we cannot wake them so, we must walk about till day
Maggy, we must do the best we can, my dear. We must be patient, and wait for day
In only five hours and a half
we shall be able to go home
I hope he is sound asleep
and does not miss me
Maggy, I see some one. Come away
It will soon be over, dear
Oh it's all very fine for you, little mother
but I'm a poor thing, only ten years old
If it really was a party
let the woman and the child go by
What are you doing with the child
What are you doing with yourself
Can't you see, without my telling you
I don't know as I can
Killing myself! Now I have answered you, answer me. What are you doing with the child
Poor thing
Have you no feeling, that you keep her out in the cruel streets at such a time as this? Have you no eyes, that you don't see how delicate and slender she is? Have you no sense (you don't look as if you had much) that you don't take more pity on this cold and trembling little hand
Kiss a poor lost creature, dear
and tell me where's she taking you
Why, my God
you're a woman
Don't mind that
I am not afraid of you
Then you had better be
Have you no mother
No
No father
Yes, a very dear one
Go home to him, and be afraid of me. Let me go. Good night
I must thank you first; let me speak to you as if I really were a child
You can't do it
You are kind and innocent; but you can't look at me out of a child's eyes. I never should have touched you, but I thought that you were a child
Who's that
It's no one particular, sir
Stop
Let's have a look at you
I thought so
I know YOU
We have often seen each other
when I have been at church here
More than that, we've got your birth in our Register, you know; you're one of our curiosities
Indeed
To be sure. As the child of the -- by-the-bye, how did you get out so early
We were shut out last night, and are waiting to get in
You don't mean it? And there's another hour good yet! Come into the vestry. You'll find a fire in the vestry, on account of the painters. I'm waiting for the painters, or I shouldn't be here, you may depend upon it. One of our curiosities mustn't be cold when we have it in our power to warm her up comfortable. Come along
Here you are, you see
Here you'll find yourself, as large as life. Amy, daughter of William and Fanny Dorrit. Born, Marshalsea Prison, Parish of St George. And we tell people that you have lived there, without so much as a day's or a night's absence, ever since. Is it true
Quite true, till last night
Lord
There you are, you see. Again as large as life. Oh, never mind thanking. I've daughters of my own. And though they weren't born in the Marshalsea Prison, they might have been, if I had been, in my ways of carrying on, of your father's breed. Stop a bit. I must put something under the cushion for your head. Here's a burial volume. just the thing! We have got Mrs Bangham in this book. But what makes these books interesting to most people is -- not who's in 'em, but who isn't -- who's coming, you know, and when. That's the interesting question
None of your nonsense with me
I won't take it from you
Flintwinch
there is a demon of anger in you. Guard against it
I don't care whether there's one or a dozen
If there was fifty, they should all say, None of your nonsense with me, I won't take it from you -- I'd make 'em say it, whether they liked it or not
What have I done, you wrathful man
Done
Dropped down upon me
If you mean, remonstrated with you
Don't put words into my mouth that I don't mean
I mean dropped down upon me
I remonstrated with you
because
I won't have it
You dropped down upon me
I dropped down upon you, then, you ill-conditioned man
for having been needlessly significant to Arthur that morning. I have a right to complain of it as almost a breach of confidence. You did not mean it
I won't have it
I did mean it
I suppose I must leave you to speak in soliloquy if you choose
It is useless my addressing myself to a rash and headstrong old man who has a set purpose not to hear me
Now, I won't take that from you either
I have no such purpose. I have told you I did mean it. Do you wish to know why I meant it, you rash and headstrong old woman
After all, you only restore me my own words
Yes
This is why, then. Because you hadn't cleared his father to him, and you ought to have done it. Because, before you went into any tantrum about yourself, who are
Hold there, Flintwinch
you may go a word too far
I was going to tell you why it was. Because, before you took your own part, I thought you ought to have taken the part of Arthur's father. Arthur's father! I had no particular love for Arthur's father. I served Arthur's father's uncle, in this house, when Arthur's father was not much above me -- was poorer as far as his pocket went -- and when his uncle might as soon have left me his heir as have left him. He starved in the parlour, and I starved in the kitchen; that was the principal difference in our positions; there was not much more than a flight of breakneck stairs between us. I never took to him in those times; I don't know that I ever took to him greatly at any time. He was an undecided, irresolute chap, who had everything but his orphan life scared out of him when he was young. And when he brought you home here, the wife his uncle had named for him, I didn't need to look at you twice (you were a good- looking woman at that time) to know who'd be master. You have stood of your own strength ever since. Stand of your own strength now. Don't lean against the dead
I do not -- as you call it -- lean against the dead
But you had a mind to do it, if I had submitted
Nothing will turn me from it, Flintwinch, when I have justified it to myself. Add that
Justified it to yourself? I said you were the most determined woman on the face of the earth (or I meant to say so), and if you are determined to justify any object you entertain, of course you'll do it
Man! I justify myself by the authority of these Books
Never mind that
we won't enter into that question at present. However that may be, you carry out your purposes, and you make everything go down before them. Now, I won't go down before them. I have been faithful to you, and useful to you, and I am attached to you. But I can't consent, and I won't consent, and I never did consent, and I never will consent to be lost in you. Swallow up everybody else, and welcome. The peculiarity of my temper is, ma'am, that I won't be swallowed up alive
Enough and more than enough of the subject
Unless you drop down upon me again
and then you must expect to hear of it again
Please to light the candle, Flintwinch
It is nearly time for tea. Little Dorrit is coming, and will find me in the dark
What are you going to do with Little Dorrit? Is she to come to work here for ever? To come to tea here for ever? To come backwards and forwards here, in the same way, for ever
How can you talk about "for ever" to a maimed creature like me? Are we not all cut down like the grass of the field, and was not I shorn by the scythe many years ago: since when I have been lying here, waiting to be gathered into the barn
Ay, ay! But since you have been lying here -- not near dead -- nothing like it -- numbers of children and young people, blooming women, strong men, and what not, have been cut down and carried; and still here are you, you see, not much changed after all. Your time and mine may be a long one yet. When I say for ever, I mean (though I am not poetical) through all our time
So long as Little Dorrit is quiet and industrious, and stands in need of the slight help I can give her, and deserves it; so long, I suppose, unless she withdraws of her own act, she will continue to come here, I being spared
Nothing more than that
What should there be more than that! What could there be more than that
Do you happen to know, Mrs Clennam
where she lives
No
Would you -- now, would you like to know
If I cared to know, I should know already. Could I not have asked her any day
Then you don't care to know
I do not
For I have accidentally -- mind!-- found out
Wherever she lives
she has made a secret of it, and she shall always keep her secret from me
After all, perhaps you would rather not have known the fact, any how
Flintwinch
why do you goad me? Look round this room. If it is any compensation for my long confinement within these narrow limits -- not that I complain of being afflicted; you know I never complain of that -- if it is any compensation to me for long confinement to this room, that while I am shut up from all pleasant change I am also shut up from the knowledge of some things that I may prefer to avoid knowing, why should you, of all men, grudge me that belief
I don't grudge it to you
Then say no more. Say no more. Let Little Dorrit keep her secret from me, and do you keep it from me also. Let her come and go, unobserved and unquestioned. Let me suffer, and let me have what alleviation belongs to my condition. Is it so much, that you torment me like an evil spirit
I asked you a question. That's all
I have answered it. So, say no more. Say no more
Affery woman
Oh Jeremiah
What a start you gave me
What have you been doing, woman
You've been rung for fifty times
Oh Jeremiah
I have been a-dreaming
Don't you know it's her tea-time
Jeremiah? Tea-time? I don't know what's come to me. But I got such a dreadful turn, Jeremiah, before I went -- off a-dreaming, that I think it must be that
Yoogh! Sleepy-Head
what are you talking about
Such a strange noise, Jeremiah, and such a curious movement. In the kitchen here -- just here
Rats, cats, water, drains
No, Jeremiah; I have felt it before. I have felt it up-stairs, and once on the staircase as I was going from her room to ours in the night -- a rustle and a sort of trembling touch behind me
Affery, my woman
if you don't get tea pretty quick, old woman, you'll become sensible of a rustle and a touch that'll send you flying to the other end of the kitchen
Affery, I am glad it's you. I want to ask you a question
For goodness sake don't ask me nothing, Arthur! I am frightened out of one half of my life, and dreamed out of the other. Don't ask me nothing! I don't know which is which, or what is what
There, jeremiah! Now! What's that noise
Affery, old woman, you shall have a dose, old woman, such a dose! You have been dreaming again
How do you do, Mr Doyce
I am glad to see you again, and in a healthier place than the Circumlocution Office
Ha! Mr Meagles's friend
I am glad to see you, sir. Will you excuse me if I forget your name
Readily. It's not a celebrated name. It's not Barnacle
No, no
And now I know what it is. It's Clennam. How do you do, Mr Clennam
I have some hope
that we may be going to the same place, Mr Doyce
Meaning Twickenham
I am glad to hear it
it is much to be regretted
that you ever turned your thoughts that way, Mr Doyce
True, sir, true to a certain extent. But what is a man to do? if he has the misfortune to strike out something serviceable to the nation, he must follow where it leads him
Hadn't he better let it go
He can't do it
It's not put into his head to be buried. It's put into his head to be made useful. You hold your life on the condition that to the last you shall struggle hard for it. Every man holds a discovery on the same terms
That is to say
you are not finally discouraged even now
I have no right to be, if I am
The thing is as true as it ever was
No
not at present. I had when I first entered on it, and a good man he was. But he has been dead some years; and as I could not easily take to the notion of another when I lost him, I bought his share for myself and have gone on by myself ever since. And here's another thing
no inventor can be a man of business, you know
No
Why, so the men of business say
I don't know why we unfortunate creatures should be supposed to want common sense, but it is generally taken for granted that we do. Even the best friend I have in the world, our excellent friend over yonder
extends a sort of protection to me, don't you know, as a man not quite able to take care of himself
So I find that I must have a partner who is a man of business and not guilty of any inventions
if it's only in deference to the current opinion, and to uphold the credit of the Works. I don't think he'll find that I have been very remiss or confused in my way of conducting them; but that's for him to say -- whoever he is -- not for me
You have not chosen him yet, then
No, sir, no. I have only just come to a decision to take one. The fact is, there's more to do than there used to be, and the Works are enough for me as I grow older. What with the books and correspondence, and foreign journeys for which a Principal is necessary, I can't do all. I am going to talk over the best way of negotiating the matter, if I find a spare half-hour between this and Monday morning, with my -- my Nurse and protector
He is a sagacious man in business, and has had a good apprenticeship to it
Here we are, you see
boxed up, Mr Clennam, within our own home-limits, as if we were never going to expand -- that is, travel -- again. Not like Marseilles, eh? No allonging and marshonging here
A different kind of beauty, indeed
But, Lord bless me
it was an uncommonly pleasant thing being in quarantine, wasn't it? Do you know, I have often wished myself back again? We were a capital party
If it was summer-time
which I wish it was on your account, and in order that you might see the place at its best, you would hardly be able to hear yourself speak for birds. Being practical people, we never allow anybody to scare the birds; and the birds, being practical people too, come about us in myriads. We are delighted to see you, Clennam (if you'll allow me, I shall drop the Mister); I heartily assure you, we are delighted
I have not had so pleasant a greeting
except once -- since we last walked to and fro, looking down at the Mediterranean
Ah
Something like a look out, that was, wasn't it? I don't want a military government, but I shouldn't mind a little allonging and marshonging -- just a dash of it -- in this neighbourhood sometimes. It's Devilish still
Here they are, you see
Yes, Clennam
There they both are. It was taken some seventeen years ago. As I often say to Mother, they were babies then
Their names
Ah, to be sure! You have never heard any name but Pet. Pet's name is Minnie; her sister's Lillie
Should you have known, Mr Clennam, that one of them was meant for me
I might have thought that both of them were meant for you, both are still so like you. Indeed
I cannot even now say which is not your portrait
D'ye hear that, Mother
It's always the same, Clennam; nobody can decide. The child to your left is Pet
But come
You have had a long walk, and will be glad to get your boots off. As to Daniel here, I suppose he'd never think of taking his boots off, unless we showed him a boot- jack
Why not
Oh! You have so many things to think about
Figures, and wheels, and cogs, and levers, and screws, and cylinders, and a thousand things
In my calling
the greater usually includes the less. But never mind, never mind! Whatever pleases you, pleases me
And Miss Wade
Has anybody seen Miss Wade
I have
Tatty
You seen Miss Wade?-- where
Here, miss
How
With my eyes
I met her near the church
What was she doing there I wonder
Not going to it, I should think
She had written to me first
Oh, Tatty
take your hands away. I feel as if some one else was touching me
Did you wish to know, sir
what Miss Wade wrote to me about
Well, Tattycoram
since you ask the question, and we are all friends here, perhaps you may as well mention it, if you are so inclined
She knew, when we were travelling, where you lived
and she had seen me not quite -- not quite
Not quite in a good temper, Tattycoram
Take a little time -- count five-and-twenty, Tattycoram
So she wrote to me to say that if I ever felt myself hurt
or found myself worried
I might go to her, and be considerately treated. I was to think of it, and could speak to her by the church. So I went there to thank her
Tatty
Miss Wade almost frightened me when we parted, and I scarcely like to think of her just now as having been so near me without my knowing it. Tatty dear
Hey
Count another five-and-twenty, Tattycoram
Now there
There's a girl who might be lost and ruined, if she wasn't among practical people. Mother and I know, solely from being practical, that there are times when that girl's whole nature seems to roughen itself against seeing us so bound up in Pet. No father and mother were bound up in her, poor soul. I don't like to think of the way in which that unfortunate child, with all that passion and protest in her, feels when she hears the Fifth Commandment on a Sunday. I am always inclined to call out, Church, Count five-and-twenty, Tattycoram
And why not, you see
As I always say to Mother, why not have something pretty to look at, if you have anything at all
Why, what are you thinking of, my good sir
I beg your pardon. Nothing
Think of something, next time; that's a dear fellow
Why of Miss Wade, Pet
Why, indeed
Mr Meagles
do you remember when you advised me to go straight to London
Perfectly well
And when you gave me some other good advice which I needed at that time
I won't say what it was worth
but of course I remember our being very pleasant and confidential together
I have acted on your advice; and having disembarrassed myself of an occupation that was painful to me for many reasons, wish to devote myself and what means I have, to another pursuit
Right! You can't do it too soon
Now, as I came down to-day, I found that your friend, Mr Doyce, is looking for a partner in his business -- not a partner in his mechanical knowledge, but in the ways and means of turning the business arising from it to the best account
Just so
Mr Doyce mentioned incidentally, in the course of our conversation, that he was going to take your valuable advice on the subject of finding such a partner. If you should think our views and opportunities at all likely to coincide, perhaps you will let him know my available position. I speak, of course, in ignorance of the details, and they may be unsuitable on both sides
No doubt, no doubt
But they will be a question of figures and accounts
Just so, just so
And I shall be glad to enter into the subject, provided Mr Doyce responds, and you think well of it. If you will at present, therefore, allow me to place it in your hands, you will much oblige me
Clennam, I accept the trust with readiness
And without anticipating any of the points which you, as a man of business, have of course reserved, I am free to say to you that I think something may come of this. Of one thing you may be perfectly certain. Daniel is an honest man
I am so sure of it that I have promptly made up my mind to speak to you
You must guide him, you know; you must steer him; you must direct him; he is one of a crotchety sort
but he is as honest as the sun, and so good night
Suppose that a man
who had been of age some twenty years or so; who was a diffident man, from the circumstances of his youth; who was rather a grave man, from the tenor of his life; who knew himself to be deficient in many little engaging qualities which he admired in others, from having been long in a distant region, with nothing softening near him; who had no kind sisters to present to her; who had no congenial home to make her known in; who was a stranger in the land; who had not a fortune to compensate, in any measure, for these defects; who had nothing in his favour but his honest love and his general wish to do right -- suppose such a man were to come to this house, and were to yield to the captivation of this charming girl, and were to persuade himself that he could hope to win her; what a weakness it would be
Not this morning
You won't do for ladies' company, dripping wet. Lie down
I heard no dog last night
Miss Minnie is not down yet, gentlemen
Mr Clennam, sir
Odd enough, Mr Clennam, that we should have met just now
Allow me to introduce myself -- Henry Gowan. A pretty place this, and looks wonderfully well this morning
It's new to you, I believe
Quite new. I made acquaintance with it only yesterday afternoon
Ah! Of course this is not its best aspect. It used to look charming in the spring, before they went away last time. I should like you to have seen it then
I have had the pleasure of seeing it under many circumstances during the last three years, and it's -- a Paradise
Well, Gowan
how goes the world with you this morning
Much as usual, sir. Lion and I being determined not to waste anything of our weekly visit, turned out early, and came over from Kingston, my present headquarters, where I am making a sketch or two
Mrs Gowan is well, Henry
My mother is quite well, thank you
I have taken the liberty of making an addition to your family dinner-party to-day, which I hope will not be inconvenient to you or to Mr Meagles. I couldn't very well get out of it
The young fellow wrote to propose himself to me; and as he is well connected, I thought you would not object to my transferring him here
Who is the young fellow
He is one of the Barnacles. Tite Barnacle's son, Clarence Barnacle, who is in his father's Department. I can at least guarantee that the river shall not suffer from his visit. He won't set it on fire
Aye, aye
That's easily stated. His father is nephew to Lord Decimus
Nephew -- to -- Lord -- Decimus
By George, you are right, Gowan. So he is
Consequently, Lord Decimus is his great uncle
But stop a bit
Then on the mother's side, Lady Stiltstalking is his great aunt
Of course she is
Aye, aye, aye
Indeed, indeed? We shall be glad to see him. We'll entertain him as well as we can, in our humble way; and we shall not starve him, I hope, at all events
I am much obliged to you
Clarence is a great ass, but he is one of the dearest and best fellows that ever lived
I claim to be always book-keeping, with a peculiar nicety, in every man's case, and posting up a careful little account of Good and Evil with him. I do this so conscientiously, that I am happy to tell you I find the most worthless of men to be the dearest old fellow too: and am in a condition to make the gratifying report, that there is much less difference than you are inclined to suppose between an honest man and a scoundrel
You know Mr Gowan
I have seen him here. Comes here every Sunday when they are at home
An artist, I infer from what he says
A sort of a one
What sort of a one
Why, he has sauntered into the Arts at a leisurely Pall-Mall pace
and I doubt if they care to be taken quite so coolly
Do you know, there appears to me to be really immense merit in that work
Look here! upon my soul, you know
I want to speak to you, Gowan. I say. Look here. Who is that fellow
A friend of our host's. None of mine
He's a most ferocious Radical, you know
Is he? How do you know
Ecod, sir, he was Pitching into our people the other day in the most tremendous manner. Went up to our place and Pitched into my father to that extent that it was necessary to order him out. Came back to our Department, and Pitched into me. Look here. You never saw such a fellow
What did he want
Ecod, sir
he said he wanted to know, you know! Pervaded our Department -- without an appointment -- and said he wanted to know
Those are not good prospects for a painter
No
I thought our good friend a little changed, and out of spirits, after he came this morning
Yes
But not his daughter
No
The truth is, he has twice taken his daughter abroad in the hope of separating her from Mr Gowan. He rather thinks she is disposed to like him, and he has painful doubts (I quite agree with him, as I dare say you do) of the hopefulness of such a marriage
There
Yes, you have taken cold
There is an engagement between them, of course
No. As I am told, certainly not. It has been solicited on the gentleman's part, but none has been made. Since their recent return, our friend has yielded to a weekly visit, but that is the utmost. Minnie would not deceive her father and mother. You have travelled with them, and I believe you know what a bond there is among them, extending even beyond this present life. All that there is between Miss Minnie and Mr Gowan, I have no doubt we see
Ah! We see enough
Welcome sweet nursling of the Fairies
Sacred to the Memory Of JOHN CHIVERY, Sixty years Turnkey, and fifty years Head Turnkey, Of the neighbouring Marshalsea, Who departed this life, universally respected, on the thirty-first of December, One thousand eight hundred and eighty- six, Aged eighty-three years. Also of his truly beloved and truly loving wife, AMY, whose maiden name was DORRIT, Who survived his loss not quite forty-eight hours, And who breathed her last in the Marshalsea aforesaid. There she was born, There she lived, There she died
a lucky touch
Extremely civil person, Chivery; very attentive man and very respectful. Young Chivery, too; really almost with a delicate perception of one's position here. A very well conducted family indeed, the Chiveries. Their behaviour gratifies me
Come in, come in
Ah, Young John! How do you do, how do you do
Pretty well, I thank you, sir. I hope you are the same
Yes, John Chivery; yes. Nothing to complain of
I have taken the liberty, sir, of
Eh
A few cigars, sir
Oh
Thank you, Young John, thank you. But really, I am afraid I am too -- No? Well then, I will say no more about it. Put them on the mantelshelf, if you please, Young John. And sit down, sit down. You are not a stranger, John
Thank you, sir, I am sure -- Miss;' here Young John turned the great hat round and round upon his left-hand, like a slowly twirling mouse-cage; 'Miss Amy quite well, sir
Yes, John, yes; very well. She is out
Indeed, sir
Yes, John. Miss Amy is gone for an airing. My young people all go out a good deal. But at their time of life, it's natural, John
Very much so, I am sure, sir
An airing. An airing. Yes
Amy has gone for an airing on the Iron Bridge. She has become quite partial to the Iron Bridge of late, and seems to like to walk there better than anywhere
Your father is not on duty at present, I think, John
No, sir, he comes on later in the afternoon
I am afraid I must wish you good day, sir
So soon? Good day, Young John. Nay, nay
never mind your glove, John. Shake hands with it on. You are no stranger here, you know
Much obliged to you for your little testimonial, John
Miss Dorrit
You, of all people! I would rather have seen any one on earth than you
Oh, Mr John! Is it you
Miss Amy, I am afraid I disturbed you by speaking to you
Yes, rather. I -- I came here to be alone, and I thought I was
Miss Amy, I took the liberty of walking this way, because Mr Dorrit chanced to mention, when I called upon him just now, that you
O father, father
Miss Amy, I hope I don't give you any uneasiness by naming Mr Dorrit. I assure you I found him very well and in the best of Spirits, and he showed me even more than his usual kindness; being so very kind as to say that I was not a stranger there, and in all ways gratifying me very much
O father, how can you! O dear, dear father, how can you, can you, do it
Miss Amy, pray! Will you have the goodness to stop a moment? Miss Amy, if it comes to that, let ME go. I shall go out of my senses, if I have to think that I have driven you away like this
Oh, I don't know what to do
I don't know what to do
Miss Amy, I know very well that your family is far above mine. It were vain to conceal it. There never was a Chivery a gentleman that ever I heard of, and I will not commit the meanness of making a false representation on a subject so momentous. Miss Amy, I know very well that your high-souled brother, and likewise your spirited sister, spurn me from a height. What I have to do is to respect them, to wish to be admitted to their friendship, to look up at the eminence on which they are placed from my lowlier station -- for, whether viewed as tobacco or viewed as the lock, I well know it is lowly -- and ever wish them well and happy
Miss Amy
I have had for a long time -- ages they seem to me -- Revolving ages -- a heart-cherished wish to say something to you. May I say it
May I -- Miss Amy, I but ask the question humbly -- may I say it? I have been so unlucky already in giving you pain without having any such intentions, before the holy Heavens! that there is no fear of my saying it unless I have your leave. I can be miserable alone, I can be cut up by myself, why should I also make miserable and cut up one that I would fling myself off that parapet to give half a moment's joy to! Not that that's much to do, for I'd do it for twopence
If you please, John Chivery
since you are so considerate as to ask me whether you shall say any more -- if you please, no
Never, Miss Amy
No, if you please. Never
O Lord
But perhaps you will let me, instead, say something to you. I want to say it earnestly, and with as plain a meaning as it is possible to express. When you think of us, John -- I mean my brother, and sister, and me -- don't think of us as being any different from the rest; for, whatever we once were (which I hardly know) we ceased to be long ago, and never can be any more. It will be much better for you, and much better for others, if you will do that instead of what you are doing now
As to me
think as little of me as you can; the less, the better. When you think of me at all, John, let it only be as the child you have seen grow up in the prison with one set of duties always occupying her; as a weak, retired, contented, unprotected girl. I particularly want you to remember, that when I come outside the gate, I am unprotected and solitary
Because
I know I can then quite trust you not to forget to-day, and not to say any more to me. You are so generous that I know I can trust to you for that; and I do and I always will. I am going to show you, at once, that I fully trust you. I like this place where we are speaking better than any place I know;' her slight colour had faded, but her lover thought he saw it coming back just then; 'and I may be often here. I know it is only necessary for me to tell you so, to be quite sure that you will never come here again in search of me. And I am -- quite sure
And good-bye, John
And I hope you will have a good wife one day, and be a happy man. I am sure you will deserve to be happy, and you will be, John
Oh, don't cry
Don't, don't! Good-bye, John. God bless you
Good-bye, Miss Amy. Good-bye
Here lie the mortal remains Of JOHN CHIVERY, Never anything worth mentioning, Who died about the end of the year one thousand eight hundred and twenty-six, Of a broken heart, Requesting with his last breath that the word AMY might be inscribed over his ashes, which was accordingly directed to be done, By his afflicted Parents
You are a little low this evening, Frederick
Anything the matter
The matter
No, William, no. Nothing is the matter
If you could be persuaded to smarten yourself up a little, Frederick
Aye, aye
But I can't be. I can't be. Don't talk so. That's all over
An enfeebled old man, this; but he is my brother, sir, my brother, and the voice of Nature is potent
I think, William
that I am tired, and will go home to bed
My dear Frederick
don't let me detain you; don't sacrifice your inclination to me
Late hours, and a heated atmosphere, and years, I suppose
weaken me
My dear Frederick
do you think you are sufficiently careful of yourself? Do you think your habits are as precise and methodical as -- shall I say as mine are? Not to revert again to that little eccentricity which I mentioned just now, I doubt if you take air and exercise enough, Frederick. Here is the parade, always at your service. Why not use it more regularly than you do
Hah
Yes, yes, yes, yes
But it is of no use saying yes, yes, my dear Frederick
unless you act on that assent. Consider my case, Frederick. I am a kind of example. Necessity and time have taught me what to do. At certain stated hours of the day, you will find me on the parade, in my room, in the Lodge, reading the paper, receiving company, eating and drinking. I have impressed upon Amy during many years, that I must have my meals (for instance) punctually. Amy has grown up in a sense of the importance of these arrangements, and you know what a good girl she is
Hah! Yes, yes, yes, yes
My dear fellow
you said that before, and it does not express much, Frederick, even if it means much. I wish I could rouse you, my good Frederick; you want to be roused
Yes, William, yes. No doubt
But I am not like you
Oh! You might be like me, my dear Frederick; you might be, if you chose
Thank you, Chivery, quite well. And you
Oh! he was all right
I had a visit from Young John to-day, Chivery. And very smart he looked, I assure you
How vexation, Chivery
No odds
Never mind. Mr Frederick going out
Yes, Chivery, my brother is going home to bed. He is tired, and not quite well. Take care, Frederick, take care. Good night, my dear Frederick
Be so kind as to keep the door open a moment, Chivery, that I may see him go along the passage and down the steps. Take care, Frederick! (He is very infirm.) Mind the steps! (He is so very absent.) Be careful how you cross, Frederick. (I really don't like the notion of his going wandering at large, he is so extremely liable to be run over
Something, I -- hem!-- I don't know what, has gone wrong with Chivery. He is not -- ha!-- not nearly so obliging and attentive as usual to-night. It -- hem!-- it's a little thing, but it puts me out, my love. It's impossible to forget
that -- hem!-- that in such a life as mine, I am unfortunately dependent on these men for something every hour in the day
I -- hem!-- I can't think, Amy, what has given Chivery offence. He is generally so -- so very attentive and respectful. And to-night he was quite -- quite short with me. Other people there too! Why, good Heaven! if I was to lose the support and recognition of Chivery and his brother officers, I might starve to death here
I -- ha!-- I can't think what it's owing to. I am sure I cannot imagine what the cause of it is. There was a certain Jackson here once, a turnkey of the name of Jackson (I don't think you can remember him, my dear, you were very young), and -- hem!-- and he had a -- brother, and this -- young brother paid his addresses to -- at least, did not go so far as to pay his addresses to -- but admired -- respectfully admired -- the -- not daughter, the sister -- of one of us; a rather distinguished Collegian; I may say, very much so. His name was Captain Martin; and he consulted me on the question whether It was necessary that his daughter -- sister -- should hazard offending the turnkey brother by being too -- ha!-- too plain with the other brother. Captain Martin was a gentleman and a man of honour, and I put it to him first to give me his -- his own opinion. Captain Martin (highly respected in the army) then unhesitatingly said that it appeared to him that his -- hem!-- sister was not called upon to understand the young man too distinctly, and that she might lead him on -- I am doubtful whether "lead him on" was Captain Martin's exact expression: indeed I think he said tolerate him -- on her father's -- I should say, brother's -- account. I hardly know how I have strayed into this story. I suppose it has been through being unable to account for Chivery; but as to the connection between the two, I don't see
What does it matter whether I eat or starve? What does it matter whether such a blighted life as mine comes to an end, now, next week, or next year? What am I worth to anyone? A poor prisoner, fed on alms and broken victuals; a squalid, disgraced wretch
Father, father
Amy
I tell you, if you could see me as your mother saw me, you wouldn't believe it to be the creature you have only looked at through the bars of this cage. I was young, I was accomplished, I was good-looking, I was independent -- by God I was, child!-- and people sought me out, and envied me. Envied me
Dear father
If I had but a picture of myself in those days, though it was ever so ill done, you would be proud of it, you would be proud of it. But I have no such thing. Now, let me be a warning! Let no man
fail to preserve at least that little of the times of his prosperity and respect. Let his children have that clue to what he was. Unless my face, when I am dead, subsides into the long departed look -- they say such things happen, I don't know -- my children will have never seen me
Father, father
O despise me, despise me! Look away from me, don't listen to me, stop me, blush for me, cry for me -- even you, Amy! Do it, do it! I do it to myself! I am hardened now, I have sunk too low to care long even for that
Dear father, loved father, darling of my heart
Let it lie there, father. Look at me, father, kiss me, father! Only think of me, father, for one little moment
And yet I have some respect here. I have made some stand against it. I am not quite trodden down. Go out and ask who is the chief person in the place. They'll tell you it's your father. Go out and ask who is never trifled with, and who is always treated with some delicacy. They'll say, your father. Go out and ask what funeral here (it must be here, I know it can be nowhere else) will make more talk, and perhaps more grief, than any that has ever gone out at the gate. They'll say your father's. Well then. Amy! Amy! Is your father so universally despised? Is there nothing to redeem him? Will you have nothing to remember him by but his ruin and decay? Will you be able to have no affection for him when he is gone, poor castaway, gone
Bless you, my love. Good night, MY dear
Father, dear, I am not tired; let me come back presently, when you are in bed, and sit by you
Yes, father
Then come back by all means, my love
I shall be very quiet, father
Don't think of me, my dear
Come back by all means
Only Amy, father
Amy, my child, come here. I want to say a word to you
My love, you have had a life of hardship here. No companions, no recreations, many cares I am afraid
Don't think of that, dear. I never do
You know my position, Amy. I have not been able to do much for you; but all I have been able to do, I have done
Yes, my dear father
I know, I know
I am in the twenty-third year of my life here
It is all I could do for my children -- I have done it. Amy, my love, you are by far the best loved of the three; I have had you principally in my mind -- whatever I have done for your sake, my dear child, I have done freely and without murmuring
O spare his life! O save him to me! O look down upon my dear, long-suffering, unfortunate, much- changed, dear dear father
No, no, I have never seen him in my life
Look out. Here she is
Come with me; I'll soon find Miss Dorrit for you
Why, good gracious, Amy, what ever brought you here
I wanted to see you, Fanny dear; and as I am going out all day to- morrow, and knew you might be engaged all day to-day, I thought
But the idea, Amy, of YOU coming behind! I never did
Less noise there, ladies
Less noise there, darlings
The notion of you among professionals, Amy, is really the last thing I could have conceived
Why, how did you ever get here
I don't know. The lady who told you I was here, was so good as to bring me in
Like you quiet little things! You can make your way anywhere, I believe. I couldn't have managed it, Amy, though I know so much more of the world
Well! And what have you got on your mind, Amy? Of course you have got something on your mind about me
It is not much; but since you told me of the lady who gave you the bracelet, Fanny
Look out there, ladies
Look out there, darlings
Well, Amy
what were you going to say
Since you told me a lady had given you the bracelet you showed me, Fanny, I have not been quite easy on your account, and indeed want to know a little more if you will confide more to me
Now, ladies
Now, darlings
One, two, three, four, five, six -- go! One, two, three, four, five, six -- go! Steady, darlings! One, two, three, four, five, six -- go
Stop a moment, Amy, and let them get away before us
Everybody at eleven to-morrow, ladies
Everybody at eleven to-morrow, darlings
Now, uncle
I am coming, I am coming
And so, Amy
so, Amy, you are curious about me
I am interested, Fanny, and concerned in anything that concerns you
So you are, so you are, and you are the best of Amys. If I am ever a little provoking, I am sure you'll consider what a thing it is to occupy my position and feel a consciousness of being superior to it. I shouldn't care
if the others were not so common. None of them have come down in the world as we have. They are all on their own level. Common
I was not born where you were, you know, Amy, and perhaps that makes a difference. My dear child, when we get rid of Uncle, you shall know all about it. We'll drop him at the cook's shop where he is going to dine
Dinner? Ha! Yes, yes, yes
Now, Amy
come with me, if you are not too tired to walk to Harley Street, Cavendish Square
Mrs Merdle
My sister, ma'am
I am glad to see your sister, Miss Dorrit. I did not remember that you had a sister
I did not mention that I had
Ah
I have caught you. I know you didn't
Sit down
Also professional
No
Has not a professional air. Very pleasant; but not professional
My sister, ma'am
has been asking me to tell her, as between sisters, how I came to have the honour of knowing you. And as I had engaged to call upon you once more, I thought I might take the liberty of bringing her with me, when perhaps you would tell her. I wish her to know, and perhaps you will tell her
Do you think, at your sister's age
She is much older than she looks
almost as old as I am
Society
But
we must take it as we find it. We know it is hollow and conventional and worldly and very shocking, but unless we are Savages in the Tropical seas (I should have been charmed to be one myself -- most delightful life and perfect climate, I am told), we must consult it. It is the common lot. Mr Merdle is a most extensive merchant, his transactions are on the vastest scale, his wealth and influence are very great, but even he -- Bird, be quiet
Since your sister begs that I would terminate our personal acquaintance
by relating the circumstances that are much to her credit, I cannot object to comply with her request, I am sure. I have a son (I was first married extremely young) of two or three-and-twenty
A son of two or three-and-twenty. He is a little gay, a thing Society is accustomed to in young men, and he is very impressible. Perhaps he inherits that misfortune. I am very impressible myself, by nature. The weakest of creatures -- my feelings are touched in a moment
So he is very impressible. Not a misfortune in our natural state I dare say, but we are not in a natural state. Much to be lamented, no doubt, particularly by myself, who am a child of nature if I could but show it; but so it is. Society suppresses us and dominates us -- Bird, be quiet
It is quite unnecessary to say to a person of your good sense, wide range of experience, and cultivated feeling
that the stage sometimes has a fascination for young men of that class of character. In saying the stage, I mean the people on it of the female sex. Therefore, when I heard that my son was supposed to be fascinated by a dancer, I knew what that usually meant in Society, and confided in her being a dancer at the Opera, where young men moving in Society are usually fascinated
As your sister will tell you, when I found what the theatre was I was much surprised and much distressed. But when I found that your sister, by rejecting my son's advances (I must add, in an unexpected manner), had brought him to the point of proposing marriage, my feelings were of the profoundest anguish -- acute
In a distracted condition, which only a mother -- moving in Society -- can be susceptible of, I determined to go myself to the theatre, and represent my state of mind to the dancer. I made myself known to your sister. I found her, to my surprise, in many respects different from my expectations; and certainly in none more so, than in meeting me with -- what shall I say -- a sort of family assertion on her own part
I told you, ma'am
that although you found me in that situation, I was so far above the rest, that I considered my family as good as your son's; and that I had a brother who, knowing the circumstances, would be of the same opinion, and would not consider such a connection any honour
Miss Dorrit
precisely what I was on the point of telling your sister, in pursuance of your request. Much obliged to you for recalling it so accurately and anticipating me. I immediately
for I am the creature of impulse), took a bracelet from my arm, and begged your sister to let me clasp it on hers, in token of the delight I had in our being able to approach the subject so far on a common footing
And I told you, Mrs Merdle
that we might be unfortunate, but we are not common
I think, the very words, Miss Dorrit
And I told you, Mrs Merdle
that if you spoke to me of the superiority of your son's standing in Society, it was barely possible that you rather deceived yourself in your suppositions about my origin; and that my father's standing, even in the Society in which he now moved (what that was, was best known to myself), was eminently superior, and was acknowledged by every one
Quite accurate
A most admirable memory
Thank you, ma'am. Perhaps you will be so kind as to tell my sister the rest
There is very little to tell
but it is to your sister's credit. I pointed out to your sister the plain state of the case; the impossibility of the Society in which we moved recognising the Society in which she moved -- though charming, I have no doubt; the immense disadvantage at which she would consequently place the family she had so high an opinion of, upon which we should find ourselves compelled to look down with contempt, and from which (socially speaking) we should feel obliged to recoil with abhorrence. In short, I made an appeal to that laudable pride in your sister
Let my sister know, if you please, Mrs Merdle
that I had already had the honour of telling your son that I wished to have nothing whatever to say to him
Well, Miss Dorrit
Also
as to promise to give me the present pleasure of a closing interview, and of parting with her on the best of terms. On which occasion
Miss Dorrit will permit me to say Farewell with best wishes in my own dull manner
Adieu, Miss Dorrit, with best wishes
If we could only come to a Millennium, or something of that sort, I for one might have the pleasure of knowing a number of charming and talented persons from whom I am at present excluded. A more primitive state of society would be delicious to me. There used to be a poem when I learnt lessons, something about Lo the poor Indians whose something mind! If a few thousand persons moving in Society, could only go and be Indians, I would put my name down directly; but as, moving in Society, we can't be Indians, unfortunately -- Good morning
Well
Have you nothing to say, Amy
Oh, I don't know what to say
You didn't like this young man, Fanny
Like him? He is almost an idiot
I am so sorry -- don't be hurt -- but, since you ask me what I have to say, I am so very sorry, Fanny, that you suffered this lady to give you anything
You little Fool
Have you no spirit at all? But that's just the way! You have no self-respect, you have no becoming pride. just as you allow yourself to be followed about by a contemptible little Chivery of a thing
you would let your family be trodden on, and never turn
Don't say that, dear Fanny. I do what I can for them
You do what you can for them
Would you let a woman like this, whom you could see, if you had any experience of anything, to be as false and insolent as a woman can be -- would you let her put her foot upon your family, and thank her for it
No, Fanny, I am sure
Then make her pay for it, you mean little thing. What else can you make her do? Make her pay for it, you stupid child; and do your family some credit with the money
If you despise me
O Fanny
And Tip, too, poor fellow. She is to disparage him just as much as she likes, without any check -- I suppose because he has been in the law, and the docks, and different things. Why, it was your doing, Amy. You might at least approve of his being defended
And your father, your poor father, Amy. Because he is not free to show himself and to speak for himself, you would let such people insult him with impunity. If you don't feel for yourself because you go out to work, you might at least feel for him, I should think, knowing what he has undergone so long
I beg your pardon, Amy
Forgive me, Amy
But indeed, indeed, Amy
I hope and I think you would have seen this differently, if you had known a little more of Society
Perhaps I might, Fanny
You see, while you have been domestic and resignedly shut up there, Amy
I have been out, moving more in Society, and may have been getting proud and spirited -- more than I ought to be, perhaps
Yes. O yes
And while you have been thinking of the dinner or the clothes, I may have been thinking, you know, of the family. Now, may it not be so, Amy
Yes
Especially as we know
that there certainly is a tone in the place to which you have been so true, which does belong to it, and which does make it different from other aspects of Society. So kiss me once again, Amy dear, and we will agree that we may both be right, and that you are a tranquil, domestic, home- loving, good girl
Why not upon me too
It was not unreasonable in Fanny
Let us license them; let us know them
Now, what name have you got? Have you got Merdle
Then I won't look at you
a doosed fine gal -- well educated too -- with no biggodd nonsense about her
I am told
that Mr Merdle has made another enormous hit. They say a hundred thousand pounds
Thank you, my lord
thank you. I accept your congratulations with pride, and I am glad you approve
Why, I don't unreservedly approve, my dear Mr Merdle. Because
it never can be worth your while to come among us and help us
No, no
that is not the light in which one so distinguished for practical knowledge and great foresight, can be expected to regard it. If we should ever be happily enabled, by accidentally possessing the control over circumstances, to propose to one so eminent to -- to come among us, and give us the weight of his influence, knowledge, and character, we could only propose it to him as a duty. In fact, as a duty that he owed to Society
I shall have the honour of dining with my esteemed friend Mr Merdle this evening, and, strictly between ourselves, I will mention the opportunity
don't mind the apron; a mere form
Oh! It's you
Any better to-day
No
I am no better
Well
I will come to-morrow as I drive by
Yes
yes, you are both right. But I may as well tell you that I can find nothing the matter with Mr Merdle. He has the constitution of a rhinoceros, the digestion of an ostrich, and the concentration of an oyster. As to nerves, Mr Merdle is of a cool temperament, and not a sensitive man: is about as invulnerable, I should say, as Achilles. How such a man should suppose himself unwell without reason, you may think strange. But I have found nothing the matter with him. He may have some deep- seated recondite complaint. I can't say. I only say, that at present I have not found it out
Private) I ask your pardon, sir
but which way might you be going
I am going over the Bridge
Private) I ask your pardon again
but could you go round by Horsemonger Lane? Could you by any means find time to look in at that address
Private) It an't tobacco business
The truth is, it's my wife. She's wishful to say a word to you, sir, upon a point respecting -- yes
respecting her
I will make a point of seeing your wife directly
Thank you, sir. Much obliged. It an't above ten minutes out of your way. Please to ask for Mrs Chivery
You may see him now
if you'll condescend to take a peep
Our John
It's the only change he takes
He won't go out, even in the back-yard, when there's no linen; but when there's linen to keep the neighbours' eyes off, he'll sit there, hours. Hours he will. Says he feels as if it was groves
Please to take a seat, sir
Miss Dorrit is the matter with Our John, sir; he's a breaking his heart for her, and I would wish to take the liberty to ask how it's to be made good to his parents when bust
Sir
you are acquainted with the family, and have interested yourself with the family, and are influential with the family. If you can promote views calculated to make two young people happy, let me, for Our john's sake, and for both their sakes, implore you so to do
I have been so habituated
during the short time I have known her, to consider Little -- I have been so habituated to consider Miss Dorrit in a light altogether removed from that in which you present her to me, that you quite take me by surprise. Does she know your son
Brought up together, sir
Played together
Does she know your son as her admirer
Oh! bless you, sir
she never could have seen him on a Sunday without knowing he was that. His cane alone would have told it long ago, if nothing else had. Young men like John don't take to ivory hands a pinting, for nothing. How did I first know it myself? Similarly
Perhaps Miss Dorrit may not be so ready as you, you see
Then she knows it, sir
by word of mouth
Are you sure
Sir
sure and certain as in this house I am. I see my son go out with my own eyes when in this house I was, and I see my son come in with my own eyes when in this house I was, and I know he done it
May I ask you how he came to fall into the desponding state which causes you so much uneasiness
That
took place on that same day when to this house I see that John with these eyes return. Never been himself in this house since. Never was like what he has been since, not from the hour when to this house seven year ago me and his father, as tenants by the quarter, came
May I venture to inquire what is your version of the matter
You may
and I will give it to you in honour and in word as true as in this shop I stand. Our John has every one's good word and every one's good wish. He played with her as a child when in that yard a child she played. He has known her ever since. He went out upon the Sunday afternoon when in this very parlour he had dined, and met her, with appointment or without appointment; which, I do not pretend to say. He made his offer to her. Her brother and sister is high in their views, and against Our John. Her father is all for himself in his views and against sharing her with any one. Under which circumstances she has answered Our John, "No, John, I cannot have you, I cannot have any husband, it is not my intentions ever to become a wife, it is my intentions to be always a sacrifice, farewell, find another worthy of you, and forget me!" This is the way in which she is doomed to be a constant slave to them that are not worthy that a constant slave she unto them should be. This is the way in which Our John has come to find no pleasure but in taking cold among the linen, and in showing in that yard, as in that yard I have myself shown you, a broken-down ruin that goes home to his mother's heart
Have I startled you
I thought I knew the step
And did you know it, Little Dorrit? You could hardly have expected mine
I did not expect any. But when I heard a step, I thought it -- sounded like yours
Are you going further
No, sir, I am only walking her for a little change
It is so strange. Perhaps you can hardly understand it. I sometimes have a sensation as if it was almost unfeeling to walk here
Unfeeling
To see the river, and so much sky, and so many objects, and such change and motion. Then to go back, you know, and find him in the same cramped place
Ah yes! But going back, you must remember that you take with you the spirit and influence of such things to cheer him
Do I? I hope I may! I am afraid you fancy too much, sir, and make me out too powerful. If you were in prison, could I bring such comfort to you
Yes, Little Dorrit, I am sure of it
Maggy, you promised me to stop near father
un I'll give you a shilling," it ain't my fault, mother
I'm a going So and So. There! That's where I am a going to
I'm a going So and So. It ain't you, Little Mother, that's got anything to do with it -- it's you, you know
You'd better come, So and So, and let me take and give 'em to you
We will not be so particular as that, Maggy. Give them me here
Well, then, come across the road
Little Mother wasn't to know nothing of it, and she would never have known nothing of it if you had only gone So and So, instead of bothering and loitering about. It ain't my fault. I must do what I am told. They ought to be ashamed of themselves for telling me
I think I had better go. I had better go home
Don't be distressed
I have answered the letters. They were nothing. You know what they were. They were nothing
But I am afraid
to leave him, I am afraid to leave any of them. When I am gone, they pervert -- but they don't mean it -- even Maggy
It was a very innocent commission that she undertook, poor thing. And in keeping it secret from you, she supposed, no doubt, that she was only saving you uneasiness
Yes, I hope so, I hope so. But I had better go home! It was but the other day that my sister told me I had become so used to the prison that I had its tone and character. It must be so. I am sure it must be when I see these things. My place is there. I am better there. it is unfeeling in me to be here, when I can do the least thing there. Good-bye. I had far better stay at home
Don't call it home, my child
It is always painful to me to hear you call it home
But it is home! What else can I call home? Why should I ever forget it for a single moment
You never do, dear Little Dorrit, in any good and true service
I hope not, O I hope not! But it is better for me to stay there; much better, much more dutiful, much happier. Please don't go with me, let me go by myself. Good-bye, God bless you. Thank you, thank you
Doyce is highly gratified by your good opinion
and desires nothing so much as that you should examine the affairs of the Works for yourself, and entirely understand them. He has handed me the keys of all his books and papers -- here they are jingling in this pocket -- and the only charge he has given me is "Let Mr Clennam have the means of putting himself on a perfect equality with me as to knowing whatever I know. If it should come to nothing after all, he will respect my confidence. Unless I was sure of that to begin with, I should have nothing to do with him." And there, you see
you have Daniel Doyce all over
A very honourable character
Oh, yes, to be sure. Not a doubt of it. Odd, but very honourable. Very odd though. Now, would you believe, Clennam
Bleeding Heart
A whole morning in Bleeding Heart Yard, before I could induce him to pursue the subject at all
How was that
How was that, my friend? I no sooner mentioned your name in connection with it than he declared off
Declared off on my account
I no sooner mentioned your name, Clennam, than he said, "That will never do!" What did he mean by that? I asked him. No matter, Meagles; that would never do. Why would it never do? You'll hardly believe it, Clennam
I should as soon suspect
Of course you would
and so I told him. But it took a morning to scale that wall; and I doubt if any other man than myself (he likes me of old) could have got his leg over it. Well, Clennam. This business-like obstacle surmounted, he then stipulated that before resuming with you I should look over the books and form my own opinion. I looked over the books, and formed my own opinion. "Is it, on the whole, for, or against?" says he. "For," says I. "Then," says he, "you may now, my good friend, give Mr Clennam the means of forming his opinion. To enable him to do which, without bias and with perfect freedom, I shall go out of town for a week." And he's gone
Leaving me
with a high sense, I must say, of his candour and his
Oddity
I should think so
And now
you can begin to look into matters as soon as you think proper. I have undertaken to explain where you may want explanation, but to be strictly impartial, and to do nothing more
And I may now avow, Mr Clennam
that if I had looked high and low for a partner, I believe I could not have found one more to my mind
I say the same
And I say of both of you
that you are well matched. You keep him in check, Clennam, with your common sense, and you stick to the Works, Dan, with your
Uncommon sense
You may call it so, if you like -- and each of you will be a right hand to the other. Here's my own right hand upon it, as a practical man, to both of you
Good gracious, Arthur,-- I should say Mr Clennam, far more proper -- the climb we have had to get up here and how ever to get down again without a fire-escape and Mr F
Most unkind never to have come back to see us since that day, though naturally it was not to be expected that there should be any attraction at our house and you were much more pleasantly engaged, that's pretty certain, and is she fair or dark blue eyes or black I wonder, not that I expect that she should be anything but a perfect contrast to me in all particulars for I am a disappointment as I very well know and you are quite right to be devoted no doubt though what I am saying Arthur never mind I hardly know myself Good gracious
And to think of Doyce and Clennam, and who Doyce can be
delightful man no doubt and married perhaps or perhaps a daughter, now has he really? then one understands the partnership and sees it all, don't tell me anything about it for I know I have no claim to ask the question the golden chain that once was forged being snapped and very proper
Dear Arthur -- force of habit, Mr Clennam every way more delicate and adapted to existing circumstances -- I must beg to be excused for taking the liberty of this intrusion but I thought I might so far presume upon old times for ever faded never more to bloom as to call with Mr F
I am very happy to see you
and I thank you, Flora, very much for your kind remembrance
More than I can say myself at any rate
for I might have been dead and buried twenty distinct times over and no doubt whatever should have been before you had genuinely remembered Me or anything like it in spite of which one last remark I wish to make, one last explanation I wish to offer
My dear Mrs Finching
Oh not that disagreeable name, say Flora
Flora, is it worth troubling yourself afresh to enter into explanations? I assure you none are needed. I am satisfied -- I am perfectly satisfied
There's mile-stones on the Dover road
Let him meet it if he can
One last remark
I was going to say I wish to make one last explanation I wish to offer, Mr F
Pray say nothing in the way of apology
You are always welcome
Very polite of you to say so Arthur -- cannot remember Mr Clennam until the word is out, such is the habit of times for ever fled, and so true it is that oft in the stilly night ere slumber's chain has bound people, fond memory brings the light of other days around people -- very polite but more polite than true I am afraid, for to go into the machinery business without so much as sending a line or a card to papa -- I don't say me though there was a time but that is past and stern reality has now my gracious never mind -- does not look like it you must confess
Though indeed
nothing else is to be expected and why should it be expected and if it's not to be expected why should it be, and I am far from blaming you or any one, When your mama and my papa worried us to death and severed the golden bowl -- I mean bond but I dare say you know what I mean and if you don't you don't lose much and care just as little I will venture to add -- when they severed the golden bond that bound us and threw us into fits of crying on the sofa nearly choked at least myself everything was changed and in giving my hand to Mr F. I know I did so with my eyes open but he was so very unsettled and in such low spirits that he had distractedly alluded to the river if not oil of something from the chemist's and I did it for the best
My good Flora, we settled that before. It was all quite right
It's perfectly clear you think so
for you take it very coolly, if I hadn't known it to be China I should have guessed myself the Polar regions, dear Mr Clennam you are right however and I cannot blame you but as to Doyce and Clennam papa's property being about here we heard it from Pancks and but for him we never should have heard one word about it I am satisfied
No, no, don't say that
What nonsense not to say it Arthur -- Doyce and Clennam -- easier and less trying to me than Mr Clennam -- when I know it and you know it too and can't deny it
But I do deny it, Flora. I should soon have made you a friendly visit
Ah
I dare say
However when Pancks told us I made up my mind that Mr F
When you say Her
do you mean Mr F
My goodness, Arthur -- Doyce and Clennam really easier to me with old remembrances -- who ever heard of Mr F
Going out by the day! Do you speak of Little Dorrit
Why yes of course
and of all the strangest names I ever heard the strangest, like a place down in the country with a turnpike, or a favourite pony or a puppy or a bird or something from a seed-shop to be put in a garden or a flower-pot and come up speckled
Then, Flora
Mr Casby was so kind as to mention Little Dorrit to you, was he? What did he say
Oh you know what papa is
and how aggravatingly he sits looking beautiful and turning his thumbs over and over one another till he makes one giddy if one keeps one's eyes upon him, he said when we were talking of you -- I don't know who began the subject Arthur (Doyce and Clennam) but I am sure it wasn't me, at least I hope not but you really must excuse my confessing more on that point
Certainly
By all means
You are very ready
that I must admit, Papa said you had spoken of her in an earnest way and I said what I have told you and that's all
That's all
Except that when Pancks told us of your having embarked in this business and with difficulty persuaded us that it was really you I said to Mr F
It was very kind of you, Flora, to think of this
I think, Flora
that the employment you can give Little Dorrit, and the kindness you can show her
Yes and I will
I am sure of it -- will be a great assistance and support to her. I do not feel that I have the right to tell you what I know of her, for I acquired the knowledge confidentially, and under circumstances that bind me to silence. But I have an interest in the little creature, and a respect for her that I cannot express to you. Her life has been one of such trial and devotion, and such quiet goodness, as you can scarcely imagine. I can hardly think of her, far less speak of her, without feeling moved. Let that feeling represent what I could tell you, and commit her to your friendliness with my thanks
Papa! Hush, Arthur, for Mercy's sake
I heard from Flora
that she was coming to call, coming to call. And being out, I thought I'd come also, thought I'd come also
And you are in a new business, Mr Clennam? I wish you well, sir, I wish you well
Mrs Finching has been telling me, sir
that she hopes occasionally to employ the young needlewoman you recommended to my mother. For which I have been thanking her
You didn't recommend her, you know
how could you? You knew nothing about her, you didn't. The name was mentioned to you, and you passed it on. That's what YOU did
Well
As she justifies any recommendation, it is much the same thing
You are glad she turns out well
but it wouldn't have been your fault if she had turned out ill. The credit's not yours as it is, and the blame wouldn't have been yours as it might have been. You gave no guarantee. You knew nothing about her
You are not acquainted, then
with any of her family
Acquainted with any of her family
How should you be acquainted with any of her family? You never heard of 'em. You can't be acquainted with people you never heard of, can you? You should think not
As to being a reference
you know, in a general way, what being a reference means. It's all your eye, that is! Look at your tenants down the Yard here. They'd all be references for one another, if you'd let 'em. What would be the good of letting 'em? It's no satisfaction to be done by two men instead of one. One's enough. A person who can't pay, gets another person who can't pay, to guarantee that he can pay. Like a person with two wooden legs getting another person with two wooden legs, to guarantee that he has got two natural legs. It don't make either of them able to do a walking match. And four wooden legs are more troublesome to you than two, when you don't want any
You can't make a head and brains out of a brass knob with nothing in it. You couldn't do it when your Uncle George was living; much less when he's dead
Indeed, ma'am! Bless my soul! I'm surprised to hear it
very lively to-day, and she thought they had better go
He
let him chuck her out of winder
Why, bless my heart, ma'am
Mr F
All right, sir
I am so unfortunate as to have awakened a strong animosity in the breast of that lady
Do you know why
Does SHE know why
I suppose not
_I_ suppose not
Mr Clennam
I am in want of information, sir
Connected with this firm
No
With what then, Mr Pancks? That is to say, assuming that you want it of me
Yes, sir; yes, I want it of you
I don't understand you, Mr Pancks
That's the name that I want to know about
And what do you want to know
Whatever you can and will tell me
This is a singular visit, Mr Pancks. It strikes me as rather extraordinary that you should come, with such an object, to me
It may be all extraordinary together
It may be out of the ordinary course, and yet be business. In short, it is business. I am a man of business. What business have I in this present world, except to stick to business? No business
Now
to put this business on its own footing, it's not my proprietor's
Do you refer to Mr Casby as your proprietor
My proprietor. Put a case. Say, at my proprietor's I hear name -- name of young person Mr Clennam wants to serve. Say, name first mentioned to my proprietor by Plornish in the Yard. Say, I go to Plornish. Say, I ask Plornish as a matter of business for information. Say, Plornish, though six weeks in arrear to my proprietor, declines. Say, Mrs Plornish declines. Say, both refer to Mr Clennam. Put the case
Well
Well, sir
say, I come to him. Say, here I am
Mr Pancks, not to trespass on your grounds of mystery, I will be as plain with you as I can. Let me ask two questions. First
All right
I see! "What's your motive
Exactly
Motive
Better admit motive to be good
Secondly, and lastly, what do you want to know
I want supplementary information of any sort
In conclusion, Mr Pancks
I have but to say this. I have reasons beyond a personal regard for speaking as little as I can of the Dorrit family, particularly at my mother's house' (Mr Pancks nodded), 'and for knowing as much as I can. So devoted a man of business as you are -- eh
It's nothing
So devoted a man of business as yourself has a perfect understanding of a fair bargain. I wish to make a fair bargain with you, that you shall enlighten me concerning the Dorrit family when you have it in your power, as I have enlightened you. It may not give you a very flattering idea of my business habits, that I failed to make my terms beforehand
but I prefer to make them a point of honour. I have seen so much business done on sharp principles that, to tell you the truth, Mr Pancks, I am tired of them
It's a bargain, sir
You shall find me stick to it
It's all right
and now I'll wish you good day, as it's collecting day in the Yard. By-the-bye, though. A lame foreigner with a stick
Ay, ay. You do take a reference sometimes, I see
When he can pay, sir
Take all you can get, and keep back all you can't be forced to give up. That's business. The lame foreigner with the stick wants a top room down the Yard. Is he good for it
I am
and I will answer for him
That's enough. What I must have of Bleeding Heart Yard
is my bond. I want my bond, you see. Pay up, or produce your property! That's the watchword down the Yard. The lame foreigner with the stick represented that you sent him; but he could represent (as far as that goes) that the Great Mogul sent him. He has been in the hospital, I believe
Yes. Through having met with an accident. He is only just now discharged
It's pauperising a man, sir, I have been shown, to let him into a hospital
I have been shown so too
A very bad day's work, Pancks, very bad day's work. It seems to me, sir, and I must insist on making this observation forcibly in justice to myself, that you ought to have got much more money, much more money
There's been a lady at our place to-day, Miss Dorrit
and another one along with her as is a old wixen if ever I met with such. The way she snapped a person's head off, dear me
For
she is, I do assure you, the winegariest party
But she's neither here nor there just at present. The other lady, she's Mr Casby's daughter; and if Mr Casby an't well off, none better, it an't through any fault of Pancks. For, as to Pancks, he does, he really does, he does indeed
And what she come to our place for
was to leave word that if Miss Dorrit would step up to that card -- which it's Mr Casby's house that is, and Pancks he has a office at the back, where he really does, beyond belief -- she would be glad for to engage her. She was a old and a dear friend, she said particular, of Mr Clennam, and hoped for to prove herself a useful friend to his friend. Them was her words. Wishing to know whether Miss Dorrit could come to-morrow morning, I said I would see you, Miss, and inquire, and look round there to-night, to say yes, or, if you was engaged to-morrow, when
I can go to-morrow, thank you
This is very kind of you, but you are always kind
Miss Flora
Why, what a good little thing you are, my dear
Really so sorry that I should happen to be late on this morning of all mornings because my intention and my wish was to be ready to meet you when you came in and to say that any one that interested Arthur Clennam half so much must interest me and that I gave you the heartiest welcome and was so glad, instead of which they never called me and there I still am snoring I dare say if the truth was known and if you don't like either cold fowl or hot boiled ham which many people don't I dare say besides Jews and theirs are scruples of conscience which we must all respect though I must say I wish they had them equally strong when they sell us false articles for real that certainly ain't worth the money I shall be quite vexed
Oh nonsense my dear child I can never hear of that
You are coming here on the footing of a friend and companion you know if you will let me take that liberty and I should be ashamed of myself indeed if you could come here upon any other, besides which Arthur Clennam spoke in such terms -- you are tired my dear
No, ma'am
You turn so pale you have walked too far before breakfast and I dare say live a great way off and ought to have had a ride
dear dear is there anything that would do you good
Indeed I am quite well, ma'am. I thank you again and again, but I am quite well
Then take your tea at once I beg
and this wing of fowl and bit of ham, don't mind me or wait for me, because I always carry in this tray myself to Mr F
Mr F. was so devoted to me that he never could bear me out of his sight
though of course I am unable to say how long that might have lasted if he hadn't been cut short while I was a new broom, worthy man but not poetical manly prose but not romance
Romance, however
as I openly said to Mr F. when he proposed to me and you will be surprised to hear that he proposed seven times once in a hackney-coach once in a boat once in a pew once on a donkey at Tunbridge Wells and the rest on his knees, Romance was fled with the early days of Arthur Clennam, our parents tore us asunder we became marble and stern reality usurped the throne, Mr F. said very much to his credit that he was perfectly aware of it and even preferred that state of things accordingly the word was spoken the fiat went forth and such is life you see my dear and yet we do not break but bend, pray make a good breakfast while I go in with the tray
You see, my dear
I am obliged to be careful to follow the directions of my medical man though the flavour is anything but agreeable being a poor creature and it may be have never recovered the shock received in youth from too much giving way to crying in the next room when separated from Arthur, have you known him long
To be sure you couldn't have known him before unless you had been in China or had corresponded neither of which is likely
Mrs Clennam has been kind to me
Really? I am sure I am glad to hear it because as Arthur's mother it's naturally pleasant to my feelings to have a better opinion of her than I had before, though what she thinks of me when I run on as I am certain to do and she sits glowering at me like Fate in a go-cart -- shocking comparison really -- invalid and not her fault -- I never know or can imagine
Shall I find my work anywhere, ma'am
can I get it
You industrious little fairy
there's not the slightest hurry and it's better that we should begin by being confidential about our mutual friend -- too cold a word for me at least I don't mean that, very proper expression mutual friend -- than become through mere formalities not you but me like the Spartan boy with the fox biting him, which I hope you'll excuse my bringing up for of all the tiresome boys that will go tumbling into every sort of company that boy's the tiresomest
Hadn't I better work the while
I can work and attend too. I would rather, if I may
Well my dear whatever you like best
What nimble fingers you have
but are you sure you are well
Oh yes, indeed
You must know my dear
but that I have no doubt you know already not only because I have already thrown it out in a general way but because I feel I carry it stamped in burning what's his names upon my brow that before I was introduced to the late Mr F. I had been engaged to Arthur Clennam -- Mr Clennam in public where reserve is necessary Arthur here -- we were all in all to one another it was the morning of life it was bliss it was frenzy it was everything else of that sort in the highest degree, when rent asunder we turned to stone in which capacity Arthur went to China and I became the statue bride of the late Mr F
To paint
the emotions of that morning when all was marble within and Mr F
I will draw a veil over that dreamy life, Mr F. was in good spirits his appetite was good he liked the cookery he considered the wine weak but palatable and all was well, we returned to the immediate neighbourhood of Number Thirty Little Gosling Street London Docks and settled down, ere we had yet fully detected the housemaid in selling the feathers out of the spare bed Gout flying upwards soared with Mr F. to another sphere
I revere the memory of Mr F. as an estimable man and most indulgent husband, only necessary to mention Asparagus and it appeared or to hint at any little delicate thing to drink and it came like magic in a pint bottle it was not ecstasy but it was comfort, I returned to papa's roof and lived secluded if not happy during some years until one day papa came smoothly blundering in and said that Arthur Clennam awaited me below, I went below and found him ask me not what I found him except that he was still unmarried still unchanged
Ask me not
if I love him still or if he still loves me or what the end is to be or when, we are surrounded by watchful eyes and it may be that we are destined to pine asunder it may be never more to be reunited not a word not a breath not a look to betray us all must be secret as the tomb wonder not therefore that even if I should seem comparatively cold to Arthur or Arthur should seem comparatively cold to me we have fatal reasons it is enough if we understand them hush
Hush
I have now told you all, confidence is established between us hush, for Arthur's sake I will always be a friend to you my dear girl and in Arthur's name you may always rely upon me
You are very cold
Don't work to-day. I am sure you are not well I am sure you are not strong
It is only that I feel a little overcome by your kindness, and by Mr Clennam's kindness in confiding me to one he has known and loved so long
Well really my dear
it's as well to leave that alone now, for I couldn't undertake to say after all, but it doesn't signify lie down a little
I have always been strong enough to do what I want to do, and I shall be quite well directly
You have overpowered me with gratitude, that's all. If I keep near the window for a moment I shall be quite myself
Find it a little dull, Miss Dorrit
No, thank you, sir
Busy, I see
What are those now, Miss Dorrit
Handkerchiefs
Are they, though
I shouldn't have thought it
Perhaps you wonder who I am. Shall I tell you? I am a fortune- teller
I belong body and soul to my proprietor
you saw my proprietor having his dinner below. But I do a little in the other way, sometimes; privately, very privately, Miss Dorrit
I wish you'd show me the palm of your hand
I should like to have a look at it. Don't let me be troublesome
Years of toil, eh
But what else are we made for? Nothing. Hallo
What's this with bars? It's a College! And what's this with a grey gown and a black velvet cap? it's a father! And what's this with a clarionet? It's an uncle! And what's this in dancing-shoes? It's a sister! And what's this straggling about in an idle sort of a way? It's a brother! And what's this thinking for 'em all? Why, this is you, Miss Dorrit
Now, the deuce is in it
if this isn't me in the corner here! What do I want here? What's behind me
Is it any harm
Deuce a bit
What do you think it's worth
I ought to ask you that. I am not the fortune-teller
True
What's it worth? You shall live to see, Miss Dorrit
Remember what I say, Miss Dorrit. You shall live to see
Ah! That's it
Miss Dorrit, not that, ever
Not that
Don't do that. Never on seeing me, no matter when, no matter where. I am nobody. Don't take on to mind me. Don't mention me. Take no notice. Will you agree, Miss Dorrit
I hardly know what to say
Why
Because I am a fortune-teller. Pancks the gipsy. I haven't told you so much of your fortune yet, Miss Dorrit, as to tell you what's behind me on that little hand. I have told you you shall live to see. Is it agreed, Miss Dorrit
Agreed that I -- am -- to
To take no notice of me away from here, unless I take on first. Not to mind me when I come and go. It's very easy. I am no loss, I am not handsome, I am not good company, I am only my proprietors grubber. You need do no more than think, "Ah! Pancks the gipsy at his fortune-telling -- he'll tell the rest of my fortune one day -- I shall live to know it." Is it agreed, Miss Dorrit
Ye-es
I suppose so, while you do no harm
Good
Honest creature, woman of capital points, but heedless and a loose talker, Miss Dorrit
Pancks the gipsy -- fortune-telling
Please, Little Mother
you must come down and see him. He's here
Who, Maggy
Who, o' course Mr Clennam. He's in your father's room, and he says to me, Maggy, will you be so kind and go and say it's only me
I am not very well, Maggy. I had better not go. I am going to lie down. See! I lie down now, to ease my head. Say, with my grateful regard, that you left me so, or I would have come
Well, it an't very polite though, Little Mother
to turn your face away, neither
Putting both your hands afore your face too
If you can't bear the looks of a poor thing, it would be better to tell her so at once, and not go and shut her out like that, hurting her feelings and breaking her heart at ten year old, poor thing
It's to ease my head, Maggy
Well, and if you cry to ease your head, Little Mother, let me cry too. Don't go and have all the crying to yourself
that an't not being greedy
He was very sorry, I can tell you
and wanted to send a doctor. And he's coming again to-morrow he is and I don't think he'll have a good sleep to-night along o' hearing about your head, Little Mother. Oh my! Ain't you been a-crying
I think I have, a little, Maggy
A little! Oh
But it's all over now -- all over for good, Maggy. And my head is much better and cooler, and I am quite comfortable. I am very glad I did not go down
un
What shall it be about, Maggy
Oh, let's have a princess
and let her be a reg'lar one. Beyond all belief, you know
Maggy, there was once upon a time a fine King, and he had everything he could wish for, and a great deal more. He had gold and silver, diamonds and rubies, riches of every kind. He had palaces, and he had
Hospitals
Let him have hospitals, because they're so comfortable. Hospitals with lots of Chicking
Yes, he had plenty of them, and he had plenty of everything
Plenty of baked potatoes, for instance
Plenty of everything
Lor
Wasn't it prime
This King had a daughter, who was the wisest and most beautiful Princess that ever was seen. When she was a child she understood all her lessons before her masters taught them to her; and when she was grown up, she was the wonder of the world. Now, near the Palace where this Princess lived, there was a cottage in which there was a poor little tiny woman, who lived all alone by herself
An old woman
No, not an old woman. Quite a young one
I wonder she warn't afraid
Go on, please
The Princess passed the cottage nearly every day, and whenever she went by in her beautiful carriage, she saw the poor tiny woman spinning at her wheel, and she looked at the tiny woman, and the tiny woman looked at her. So, one day she stopped the coachman a little way from the cottage, and got out and walked on and peeped in at the door, and there, as usual, was the tiny woman spinning at her wheel, and she looked at the Princess, and the Princess looked at her
Like trying to stare one another out
Please go on, Little Mother
The Princess was such a wonderful Princess that she had the power of knowing secrets, and she said to the tiny woman, Why do you keep it there? This showed her directly that the Princess knew why she lived all alone by herself spinning at her wheel, and she kneeled down at the Princess's feet, and asked her never to betray her. So the Princess said, I never will betray you. Let me see it. So the tiny woman closed the shutter of the cottage window and fastened the door, and trembling from head to foot for fear that any one should suspect her, opened a very secret place and showed the Princess a shadow
Lor
It was the shadow of Some one who had gone by long before: of Some one who had gone on far away quite out of reach, never, never to come back. It was bright to look at; and when the tiny woman showed it to the Princess, she was proud of it with all her heart, as a great, great treasure. When the Princess had considered it a little while, she said to the tiny woman, And you keep watch over this every day? And she cast down her eyes, and whispered, Yes. Then the Princess said, Remind me why. To which the other replied, that no one so good and kind had ever passed that way, and that was why in the beginning. She said, too, that nobody missed it, that nobody was the worse for it, that Some one had gone on, to those who were expecting him
Some one was a man then
Had gone on to those who were expecting him, and that this remembrance was stolen or kept back from nobody. The Princess made answer, Ah! But when the cottager died it would be discovered there. The tiny woman told her No; when that time came, it would sink quietly into her own grave, and would never be found
Well, to be sure
Go on, please
The Princess was very much astonished to hear this, as you may suppose, Maggy
And well she might be
So she resolved to watch the tiny woman, and see what came of it. Every day she drove in her beautiful carriage by the cottage-door, and there she saw the tiny woman always alone by herself spinning at her wheel, and she looked at the tiny woman, and the tiny woman looked at her. At last one day the wheel was still, and the tiny woman was not to be seen. When the Princess made inquiries why the wheel had stopped, and where the tiny woman was, she was informed that the wheel had stopped because there was nobody to turn it, the tiny woman being dead
They ought to have took her to the Hospital
The Princess, after crying a very little for the loss of the tiny woman, dried her eyes and got out of her carriage at the place where she had stopped it before, and went to the cottage and peeped in at the door. There was nobody to look at her now, and nobody for her to look at, so she went in at once to search for the treasured shadow. But there was no sign of it to be found anywhere; and then she knew that the tiny woman had told her the truth, and that it would never give anybody any trouble, and that it had sunk quietly into her own grave, and that she and it were at rest together. 'That's all, Maggy
Had she got to be old
The tiny woman
Ah
I don't know
But it would have been just the same if she had been ever so old
Would it raly
Well, I suppose it would though
Who's he, Little Mother
I see him come in and out often
I have heard him called a fortune-teller
But I doubt if he could tell many people even their past or present fortunes
Couldn't have told the Princess hers
Nor the tiny woman hers
No
But let us come away from the window
that it wouldn't do twice
that he wasn't worth it
If your John is weak enough, ma'am, not to take it, that is no reason why you should be, don't you see? So, quite between ourselves, ma'am, business being business, here it is
I am glad
to have the distinguished gratification of making your acquaintance, sir. Your feelings do you honour. You are young; may you never outlive your feelings! If I was to outlive my own feelings, sir
if I was to outlive my own feelings, I'd leave fifty pound in my will to the man who would put me out of existence
My daughter, sir
Anastatia, you are no stranger to the state of this young man's affections. My daughter has had her trials, sir
and she can feel for you
What I envy you, sir, is
allow me to take your hat -- we are rather short of pegs -- I'll put it in the corner, nobody will tread on it there -- What I envy you, sir, is the luxury of your own feelings. I belong to a profession in which that luxury is sometimes denied us
Sir
you are a young man that it does one good to come across. You are a young man that I should like to put in the witness-box, to humanise the minds of the legal profession. I hope you have brought your appetite with you, and intend to play a good knife and fork
Thank you, sir
I don't eat much at present
My daughter's case, sir
at the time when, in vindication of her outraged feelings and her sex, she became the plaintiff in Rugg and Bawkins. I suppose I could have put it in evidence, Mr Chivery, if I had thought it worth my while, that the amount of solid sustenance my daughter consumed at that period did not exceed ten ounces per week
I think I go a little beyond that, sir
But in your case there's no fiend in human form
No, sir, certainly
I should be very sorry if there was
The sentiment
is what I should have expected from your known principles. It would affect my daughter greatly, sir, if she heard it. As I perceive the mutton, I am glad she didn't hear it. Mr Pancks, on this occasion, pray face me. My dear, face Mr Chivery. For what we are going to receive, may we (and Miss Dorrit) be truly thankful
Now, there's a churchyard in Bedfordshire
Who takes it
I'll take it, sir
if no one bids
Now, there's an Enquiry in York
Who takes it
I'm not good for York
Then perhaps
you'll be so obliging, John Chivery
There's a Church in London; I may as well take that. And a Family Bible; I may as well take that, too. That's two to me. Two to me
Here's a Clerk at Durham for you, John, and an old seafaring gentleman at Dunstable for you, Mr Rugg. Two to me, was it? Yes, two to me. Here's a Stone; three to me. And a Still-born Baby; four to me. And all, for the present, told
Cash goes out fast
very fast
I can only assure you, Mr Pancks
that I deeply regret my circumstances being such that I can't afford to pay my own charges, or that it's not advisable to allow me the time necessary for my doing the distances on foot; because nothing would give me greater satisfaction than to walk myself off my legs without fee or reward
Mr Baptist
Me ope you leg well soon
Mr Baptist -- tea-pot
Mr Baptist -- dust-pan
Mr Baptist -- flour-dredger
Mr Baptist -- coffee-biggin
Now, old chap
pay up
Oh
That's it, is it? You're a quick customer. It's all right. I didn't expect to receive it, though
E please. E glad get money
How's he getting on in his limb
Oh, he's a deal better, sir
We expect next week he'll be able to leave off his stick entirely
E ope you leg well soon
He's a merry fellow, too
How does he live
Why, sir
he turns out to have quite a power of carving them flowers that you see him at now
E please. Double good
Can he live by that
He can live on very little, sir, and it is expected as he will be able, in time, to make a very good living. Mr Clennam got it him to do, and gives him odd jobs besides in at the Works next door -- makes 'em for him, in short, when he knows he wants 'em
And what does he do with himself, now, when he ain't hard at it
Why, not much as yet, sir, on accounts I suppose of not being able to walk much; but he goes about the Yard, and he chats without particular understanding or being understood, and he plays with the children, and he sits in the sun -- he'll sit down anywhere, as if it was an arm-chair -- and he'll sing, and he'll laugh
Laugh
He looks to me as if every tooth in his head was always laughing
But whenever he gets to the top of the steps at t'other end of the Yard
he'll peep out in the curiousest way! So that some of us thinks he's peeping out towards where his own country is, and some of us thinks he's looking for somebody he don't want to see, and some of us don't know what to think
What's Altro
Hem! It's a sort of a general kind of expression, sir
Is it
Why, then Altro to you, old chap. Good afternoon. Altro
Hallo, old chap! Altro
Altro, signore, altro, altro, altro
Come in, come in
I saw you were reading
and thought you might not care to be disturbed
Are they well
Yes
they are well. They are all well
They are all well. Miss Minnie looking particularly well, I thought
Any company at the cottage
No, no company
And how did you get on, you four
There were five of us
There was What's- his-name. He was there
Who is he
Mr Henry Gowan
Ah, to be sure
Yes!-- I forgot him
As I mentioned, you may remember
he is always there on Sunday
Yes, yes
I remember now
Yes. He was there, he was there. Oh yes, he was there. And his dog. He was there too
Miss Meagles is quite attached to -- the -- dog
Quite so
More attached to the dog than I am to the man
You mean Mr
I mean Mr Gowan, most decidedly
Perhaps you are a little hasty in your judgment
Our judgments -- I am supposing a general case
Of course
Are so liable to be influenced by many considerations, which, almost without our knowing it, are unfair, that it is necessary to keep a guard upon them. For instance, Mr
Gowan
Is young and handsome, easy and quick, has talent, and has seen a good deal of various kinds of life. It might be difficult to give an unselfish reason for being prepossessed against him
Not difficult for me, I think, Clennam
I see him bringing present anxiety, and, I fear, future sorrow, into my old friend's house. I see him wearing deeper lines into my old friend's face, the nearer he draws to, and the oftener he looks at, the face of his daughter. In short, I see him with a net about the pretty and affectionate creature whom he will never make happy
We don't know
that he will not make her happy
We don't know
that the earth will last another hundred years, but we think it highly probable
Well, well
we must be hopeful, and we must at least try to be, if not generous (which, in this case, we have no opportunity of being), just. We will not disparage this gentleman, because he is successful in his addresses to the beautiful object of his ambition; and we will not question her natural right to bestow her love on one whom she finds worthy of it
Maybe, my friend
Maybe also, that she is too young and petted, too confiding and inexperienced, to discriminate well
That
would be far beyond our power of correction
I fear so
Therefore, in a word
we should make up our minds that it is not worthy of us to say any ill of Mr Gowan. It would be a poor thing to gratify a prejudice against him. And I resolve, for my part, not to depreciate him
I am not quite so sure of myself, and therefore I reserve my privilege of objecting to him
But, if I am not sure of myself, I am sure of you, Clennam, and I know what an upright man you are, and how much to be respected. Good night, MY friend and partner
I quite regret you were not with us yesterday
We had an agreeable day up the river there
From your partner
What a dear old fellow he is
I have a great regard for him
By Jove, he is the finest creature
So fresh, so green, trusts in such wonderful things
He is charming! To see him mooning along to that time of life, laying down nothing by the way and picking up nothing by the way, is delightful. It warms a man. So unspoilt, so simple, such a good soul! Upon my life Mr Clennam, one feels desperately worldly and wicked in comparison with such an innocent creature. I speak for myself, let me add, without including you. You are genuine also
Thank you for the compliment
you are too, I hope
So so
To be candid with you, tolerably. I am not a great impostor. Buy one of my pictures, and I assure you, in confidence, it will not be worth the money. Buy one of another man's -- any great professor who beats me hollow -- and the chances are that the more you give him, the more he'll impose upon you. They all do it
All painters
Painters, writers, patriots, all the rest who have stands in the market. Give almost any man I know ten pounds, and he will impose upon you to a corresponding extent; a thousand pounds -- to a corresponding extent; ten thousand pounds -- to a corresponding extent. So great the success, so great the imposition. But what a capital world it is
What a jolly, excellent, lovable world it is
I had rather thought
that the principle you mention was chiefly acted on by
By the Barnacles
By the political gentlemen who condescend to keep the Circumlocution Office
Ah! Don't be hard upon the Barnacles
they are darling fellows! Even poor little Clarence, the born idiot of the family, is the most agreeable and most endearing blockhead! And by Jupiter, with a kind of cleverness in him too that would astonish you
It would. Very much
And after all
though I can't deny that the Circumlocution Office may ultimately shipwreck everybody and everything, still, that will probably not be in our time -- and it's a school for gentlemen
It's a very dangerous, unsatisfactory, and expensive school to the people who pay to keep the pupils there, I am afraid
Ah! You are a terrible fellow
I can understand how you have frightened that little donkey, Clarence, the most estimable of moon-calves (I really love him) nearly out of his wits. But enough of him, and of all the rest of them. I want to present you to my mother, Mr Clennam. Pray do me the favour to give me the opportunity
My mother lives in a most primitive manner down in that dreary red-brick dungeon at Hampton Court
If you would make your own appointment, suggest your own day for permitting me to take you there to dinner, you would be bored and she would be charmed. Really that's the state of the case
If John Barnacle
if John Barnacle had but abandoned his most unfortunate idea of conciliating the mob, all would have been well, and I think the country would have been preserved
Mr Clennam
apart from the happiness I have in becoming known to you, though in this odiously inconvenient place -- a mere barrack -- there is a subject on which I am dying to speak to you. It is the subject in connection with which my son first had, I believe, the pleasure of cultivating your acquaintance
First
now, is she really pretty
Who
Oh! You know
This flame of Henry's. This unfortunate fancy. There! If it is a point of honour that I should originate the name -- Miss Mickles -- Miggles
Miss Meagles
is very beautiful
Men are so often mistaken on those points
that I candidly confess to you I feel anything but sure of it, even now; though it is something to have Henry corroborated with so much gravity and emphasis. He picked the people up at Rome, I think
Excuse me, I doubt if I understand your expression
Picked the people up
Came upon them. Found them out. Stumbled UP against them
The people
Yes. The Miggles people
I really cannot say
where my friend Mr Meagles first presented Mr Henry Gowan to his daughter
I am pretty sure he picked her up at Rome; but never mind where -- somewhere. Now (this is entirely between ourselves), is she very plebeian
Really, ma'am
I am so undoubtedly plebeian myself, that I do not feel qualified to judge
Very neat
Very happy! From which I infer that you secretly think her manner equal to her looks
That's comforting, and I hope you may be right. Did Henry tell me you had travelled with them
I travelled with my friend Mr Meagles, and his wife and daughter, during some months
Really comforting, because you must have had a large experience of them. You see, Mr Clennam, this thing has been going on for a long time, and I find no improvement in it. Therefore to have the opportunity of speaking to one so well informed about it as yourself, is an immense relief to me. Quite a boon. Quite a blessing, I am sure
Pardon me
but I am not in Mr Henry Gowan's confidence. I am far from being so well informed as you suppose me to be. Your mistake makes my position a very delicate one. No word on this topic has ever passed between Mr Henry Gowan and myself
Not in his confidence? No
No word has passed between you? No. That I can imagine. But there are unexpressed confidences, Mr Clennam; and as you have been together intimately among these people, I cannot doubt that a confidence of that sort exists in the present case. Perhaps you have heard that I have suffered the keenest distress of mind from Henry's having taken to a pursuit which -- well
a very respectable pursuit, I dare say, and some artists are, as artists, quite superior persons; still, we never yet in our family have gone beyond an Amateur, and it is a pardonable weakness to feel a little
Henry
is self-willed and resolute; and as these people naturally strain every nerve to catch him, I can entertain very little hope, Mr Clennam, that the thing will be broken off. I apprehend the girl's fortune will be very small; Henry might have done much better; there is scarcely anything to compensate for the connection: still, he acts for himself; and if I find no improvement within a short time, I see no other course than to resign myself and make the best of these people. I am infinitely obliged to you for what you have told me
Mrs Gowan, I scarcely know how to acquit myself of what I feel to be a duty, and yet I must ask you for your kind consideration in attempting to discharge it. A misconception on your part, a very great misconception if I may venture to call it so, seems to require setting right. You have supposed Mr Meagles and his family to strain every nerve, I think you said
Every nerve
To secure Mr Henry Gowan
Now that is so far
from being the case, that I know Mr Meagles to be unhappy in this matter; and to have interposed all reasonable obstacles with the hope of putting an end to it
Why, of course
Just what I mean
Are you really serious, Mr Clennam? Don't you see
Why, don't I know my son, and don't I know that this is exactly the way to hold him
and do not these Miggles people know it, at least as well as I? Oh, shrewd people, Mr Clennam: evidently people of business! I believe Miggles belonged to a Bank. It ought to have been a very profitable Bank, if he had much to do with its management. This is very well done, indeed
I beg and entreat you, ma'am
Oh, Mr Clennam, can you really be so credulous
Believe me, ma'am, this is unjust, a perfectly groundless suspicion
Suspicion
Not suspicion, Mr Clennam, Certainty. It is very knowingly done indeed, and seems to have taken YOU in completely
Don't tell me. I know such people will do anything for the honour of such an alliance
Mother, if you can spare Mr Clennam for this time, we have a long way to go, and it's getting late
You have had a portentously long audience of my mother
I fervently hope she has not bored you
Not at all
I am very much afraid my mother has bored you
Not at all
Does he jerk me out of the path in the same careless, cruel way
Where are we driving, he and I, I wonder, on the darker road of life? How will it be with us, and with her, in the obscure distance
You are evidently out of spirits
I am very much afraid my mother must have bored you dreadfully
Believe me, not at all
It's nothing -- nothing
Clennam!-- Tattycoram
What's the matter
Lost
Why, bless my heart alive
What do you mean
Wouldn't count five-and-twenty, sir; couldn't be got to do it; stopped at eight, and took herself off
Left your house
Never to come back
You don't know that girl's passionate and proud character. A team of horses couldn't draw her back now; the bolts and bars of the old Bastille couldn't keep her
How did it happen? Pray sit down and tell me
As to how it happened, it's not so easy to relate: because you must have the unfortunate temperament of the poor impetuous girl herself, before you can fully understand it. But it came about in this way. Pet and Mother and I have been having a good deal of talk together of late. I'll not disguise from you, Clennam, that those conversations have not been of as bright a kind as I could wish; they have referred to our going away again. In proposing to do which, I have had, in fact, an object
An object
that I will not disguise from you, either, Clennam. There's an inclination on the part of my dear child which I am sorry for. Perhaps you guess the person. Henry Gowan
I was not unprepared to hear it
Well
I wish to God you had never had to hear it. However, so it is. Mother and I have done all we could to get the better of it, Clennam. We have tried tender advice, we have tried time, we have tried absence. As yet, of no use. Our late conversations have been upon the subject of going away for another year at least, in order that there might be an entire separation and breaking off for that term. Upon that question, Pet has been unhappy, and therefore Mother and I have been unhappy
Well
I do indeed think so
No, sir
Five-and-twenty, Tattycoram, five-and-twenty!" I heartily wish she could have gone on counting five-and-twenty day and night, and then it wouldn't have happened
I said to Mother (not that it was necessary, for she would have thought it all for herself), we are practical people, my dear, and we know her story; we see in this unhappy girl some reflection of what was raging in her mother's heart before ever such a creature as this poor thing was in the world; we'll gloss her temper over, Mother, we won't notice it at present, my dear, we'll take advantage of some better disposition in her another time. So we said nothing. But, do what we would, it seems as if it was to be; she broke out violently one night
How, and why
If you ask me Why
I can only refer you to what I have just repeated as having been pretty near my words to Mother. As to How, we had said Good night to Pet in her presence (very affectionately, I must allow), and she had attended Pet up-stairs -- you remember she was her maid. Perhaps Pet, having been out of sorts, may have been a little more inconsiderate than usual in requiring services of her: but I don't know that I have any right to say so; she was always thoughtful and gentle
The gentlest mistress in the world
Thank you, Clennam
you have often seen them together. Well! We presently heard this unfortunate Tattycoram loud and angry, and before we could ask what was the matter, Pet came back in a tremble, saying she was frightened of her. Close after her came Tattycoram in a flaming rage. "I hate you all three," says she, stamping her foot at us. "I am bursting with hate of the whole house
Upon which you
I
I said, count five- and-twenty, Tattycoram
She was so used to do it, Clennam, that even then, such a picture of passion as you never saw, she stopped short, looked me full in the face, and counted (as I made out) to eight. But she couldn't control herself to go any further. There she broke down, poor thing, and gave the other seventeen to the four winds. Then it all burst out. She detested us, she was miserable with us, she couldn't bear it, she wouldn't bear it, she was determined to go away. She was younger than her young mistress, and would she remain to see her always held up as the only creature who was young and interesting, and to be cherished and loved? No. She wouldn't, she wouldn't, she wouldn't! What did we think she, Tattycoram, might have been if she had been caressed and cared for in her childhood, like her young mistress? As good as her? Ah! Perhaps fifty times as good. When we pretended to be so fond of one another, we exulted over her; that was what we did; we exulted over her and shamed her. And all in the house did the same. They talked about their fathers and mothers, and brothers and sisters; they liked to drag them up before her face. There was Mrs Tickit, only yesterday, when her little grandchild was with her, had been amused by the child's trying to call her (Tattycoram) by the wretched name we gave her; and had laughed at the name. Why, who didn't; and who were we that we should have a right to name her like a dog or a cat? But she didn't care. She would take no more benefits from us; she would fling us her name back again, and she would go. She would leave us that minute, nobody should stop her, and we should never hear of her again
Ah, well
It was of no use trying reason then, with that vehement panting creature (Heaven knows what her mother's story must have been); so I quietly told her that she should not go at that late hour of night, and I gave her MY hand and took her to her room, and locked the house doors. But she was gone this morning
And you know no more of her
No more
I have been hunting about all day. She must have gone very early and very silently. I have found no trace of her down about us
Stay! You want
to see her? I assume that
Yes, assuredly; I want to give her another chance; Mother and Pet want to give her another chance; come! You yourself
want to give the poor passionate girl another chance, I know, Clennam
It would be strange and hard indeed if I did not
when you are all so forgiving. What I was going to ask you was, have you thought of that Miss Wade
I have. I did not think of her until I had pervaded the whole of our neighbourhood, and I don't know that I should have done so then but for finding Mother and Pet, when I went home, full of the idea that Tattycoram must have gone to her. Then, of course, I recalled what she said that day at dinner when you were first with US
Have you any idea where Miss Wade is to be found
To tell you the truth
it's because I have an addled jumble of a notion on that subject that you found me waiting here. There is one of those odd impressions in my house, which do mysteriously get into houses sometimes, which nobody seems to have picked up in a distinct form from anybody, and yet which everybody seems to have got hold of loosely from somebody and let go again, that she lives, or was living, thereabouts
Here is no number
No number, my dear Clennam
No anything! The very name of the street may have been floating in the air; for, as I tell you, none of my people can say where they got it from. However, it's worth an inquiry; and as I would rather make it in company than alone, and as you too were a fellow-traveller of that immovable woman's, I thought perhaps
It is clear she don't live there
Empty
Once more
Excuse our troubling you
Pray can you tell us where Miss Wade lives
Lives here
Is she at home
Pray is she at home
I suppose she is
you had better come in, and I'll ask
Come up, if you please; you can't tumble over anything
This is odd, Clennam
Odd enough
but we have succeeded; that's the main point. Here's a light coming
She's at home
she'll come directly
I apprehend
that I know the cause of your favouring me with this visit. We may come to it at once
The cause then, ma'am
is Tattycoram
So I supposed
Miss Wade
will you be so kind as to say whether you know anything of her
Surely. I know she is here with me
Then, ma'am
allow me to make known to you that I shall be happy to have her back, and that my wife and daughter will be happy to have her back. She has been with us a long time: we don't forget her claims upon us, and I hope we know how to make allowances
You hope to know how to make allowances
For what
I think my friend would say, Miss Wade
for the passionate sense that sometimes comes upon the poor girl, of being at a disadvantage. Which occasionally gets the better of better remembrances
Indeed
Perhaps it would be well if Mr Meagles could see her, Miss Wade
That is easily done
Come here, child
See here
Here is your patron, your master. He is willing to take you back, my dear, if you are sensible of the favour and choose to go. You can be, again, a foil to his pretty daughter, a slave to her pleasant wilfulness, and a toy in the house showing the goodness of the family. You can have your droll name again, playfully pointing you out and setting you apart, as it is right that you should be pointed out and set apart. (Your birth, you know; you must not forget your birth.) You can again be shown to this gentleman's daughter, Harriet, and kept before her, as a living reminder of her own superiority and her gracious condescension. You can recover all these advantages and many more of the same kind which I dare say start up in your memory while I speak, and which you lose in taking refuge with me -- you can recover them all by telling these gentlemen how humbled and penitent you are, and by going back to them to be forgiven. What do you say, Harriet? Will you go
I'd die sooner
Gentlemen! What do you do upon that
Tattycoram
for I'll call you by that name still, my good girl, conscious that I meant nothing but kindness when I gave it to you, and conscious that you know it
I don't
No, not now, perhaps
not with that lady's eyes so intent upon you, Tattycoram
and that power over you, which we see she exercises; not now, perhaps, but at another time. Tattycoram, I'll not ask that lady whether she believes what she has said, even in the anger and ill blood in which I and my friend here equally know she has spoken, though she subdues herself, with a determination that any one who has once seen her is not likely to forget. I'll not ask you, with your remembrance of my house and all belonging to it, whether you believe it. I'll only say that you have no profession to make to me or mine, and no forgiveness to entreat; and that all in the world that I ask you to do, is, to count five-and-twenty, Tattycoram
I won't. Miss Wade, take me away, please
I won't. I won't. I won't
I'd be torn to pieces first. I'd tear myself to pieces first
Gentlemen! What do you do upon that
Oh, Tattycoram, Tattycoram
Hear that lady's voice, look at that lady's face, consider what is in that lady's heart, and think what a future lies before you. My child, whatever you may think, that lady's influence over you -- astonishing to us, and I should hardly go too far in saying terrible to us to see -- is founded in passion fiercer than yours, and temper more violent than yours. What can you two be together? What can come of it
I am alone here, gentlemen
Say anything you will
Politeness must yield to this misguided girl, ma'am
at her present pass; though I hope not altogether to dismiss it, even with the injury you do her so strongly before me. Excuse me for reminding you in her hearing -- I must say it -- that you were a mystery to all of us, and had nothing in common with any of us when she unfortunately fell in your way. I don't know what you are, but you don't hide, can't hide, what a dark spirit you have within you. If it should happen that you are a woman, who, from whatever cause, has a perverted delight in making a sister-woman as wretched as she is (I am old enough to have heard of such), I warn her against you, and I warn you against yourself
Gentlemen
When you have concluded -- Mr Clennam, perhaps you will induce your friend
Not without another effort
Tattycoram, my poor dear girl, count five-and-twenty
Do not reject the hope, the certainty, this kind man offers you
Turn to the friends you have not forgotten. Think once more
I won't! Miss Wade
take me away
Tattycoram
Once more yet! The only thing I ask of you in the world, my child! Count five-and-twenty
As it is the last time I shall have the honour
and as you have spoken of not knowing what I am, and also of the foundation of my influence here, you may now know that it is founded in a common cause. What your broken plaything is as to birth, I am. She has no name, I have no name. Her wrong is my wrong. I have nothing more to say to you
I hope the wife of your dear friend Mr Gowan, may be happy in the contrast of her extraction to this girl's and mine, and in the high good fortune that awaits her
You wonder to see me here by myself? But the evening is so lovely, I have strolled further than I meant at first. I thought it likely I might meet you, and that made me more confident. You always come this way, do you not
Will you let me give you one, Mr Clennam? I gathered them as I came out of the garden. Indeed, I almost gathered them for you, thinking it so likely I might meet you. Mr Doyce arrived more than an hour ago, and told us you were walking down
It is very grave here
but very pleasant at this hour. Passing along this deep shade, and out at that arch of light at the other end, we come upon the ferry and the cottage by the best approach, I think
they are to be married
Mr Clennam
I should very much like to give you my confidence, if you would not mind having the goodness to receive it. I should have very much liked to have given it to you long ago, because -- I felt that you were becoming so much our friend
How can I be otherwise than proud of it at any time! Pray give it to me. Pray trust me
I could never have been afraid of trusting you
I think I would have done so some time ago, if I had known how. But I scarcely know how, even now
Mr Gowan
has reason to be very happy. God bless his wife and him
O Mr Clennam! Good, generous, Mr Clennam, pray tell me you do not blame me
I blame you
My dearest girl! I blame you? No
And, now, Minnie Gowan
will you ask me nothing
Oh! I have very much to ask of you
That's well! I hope so; I am not disappointed
You know how I am loved at home, and how I love home. You can hardly think it perhaps, dear Mr Clennam
seeing me going from it of my own free will and choice, but I do so dearly love it
I am sure of that
Can you suppose I doubt it
No, no. But it is strange, even to me, that loving it so much and being so much beloved in it, I can bear to cast it away. It seems so neglectful of it, so unthankful
My dear girl
it is in the natural progress and change of time. All homes are left so
Yes, I know; but all homes are not left with such a blank in them as there will be in mine when I am gone. Not that there is any scarcity of far better and more endearing and more accomplished girls than I am; not that I am much, but that they have made so much of me
I know what a change papa will feel at first, and I know that at first I cannot be to him anything like what I have been these many years. And it is then, Mr Clennam, then more than at any time, that I beg and entreat you to remember him, and sometimes to keep him company when you can spare a little while; and to tell him that you know I was fonder of him when I left him, than I ever was in all my life. For there is nobody -- he told me so himself when he talked to me this very day -- there is nobody he likes so well as you, or trusts so much
If I do not speak of mama
it is because mama will understand me better in this action, and will feel my loss in a different way, and will look forward in a different manner. But you know what a dear, devoted mother she is, and you will remember her too; will you not
And, dear Mr Clennam
because papa and one whom I need not name, do not fully appreciate and understand one another yet, as they will by-and-by; and because it will be the duty, and the pride, and pleasure of my new life, to draw them to a better knowledge of one another, and to be a happiness to one another, and to be proud of one another, and to love one another, both loving me so dearly; oh, as you are a kind, true man! when I am first separated from home (I am going a long distance away), try to reconcile papa to him a little more, and use your great influence to keep him before papa's mind free from prejudice and in his real form. Will you do this for me, as you are a noble-hearted friend
Dear Mr Clennam, in my happiness -- for I am happy, though you have seen me crying -- I cannot bear to leave any cloud between us. If you have anything to forgive me (not anything that I have wilfully done, but any trouble I may have caused you without meaning it, or having it in my power to help it), forgive me to-night out of your noble heart
Good-bye
She is here, with me
Arthur
do you remember my telling you, as we walked up and down one hot morning, looking over the harbour at Marseilles, that Pet's baby sister who was dead seemed to Mother and me to have grown as she had grown, and changed as she had changed
Very well
You remember my saying that our thoughts had never been able to separate those twin sisters, and that, in our fancy, whatever Pet was, the other was
Yes, very well
Arthur
I carry that fancy further to-night. I feel to-night, my dear fellow, as if you had loved my dead child very tenderly, and had lost her when she was like what Pet is now
Thank you
thank you
Will you come in
In a little while
happening to find himself in that direction
Mr Casby knows
that I am not subject to changes. The change that I await here is the great change
Indeed, ma'am
You look nicely, ma'am
I bear what I have to bear
Do you what you have to do
Thank you, ma'am
such is my endeavour
You are often in this direction, are you not
Why, yes, ma'am
rather so lately; I have lately been round this way a good deal, owing to one thing and another
Beg Mr Casby and his daughter not to trouble themselves, by deputy, about me. When they wish to see me, they know I am here to see them. They have no need to trouble themselves to send. You have no need to trouble yourself to come
Not the least trouble, ma'am
You really are looking uncommonly nicely, ma'am
Thank you. Good evening
Good evening, ma 'am; don't come down, Mrs Affery, I know the road to the door
Little Dorrit
what do you know of that man
I don't know anything of him, ma'am, except that I have seen him about, and that he has spoken to me
What has he said to you
I don't understand what he has said, he is so strange. But nothing rough or disagreeable
Why does he come here to see you
I don't know, ma'am
You know that he does come here to see you
I have fancied so
But why he should come here or anywhere for that, ma'am, I can't think
Good night, ma'am
Tell me, Little Dorrit
have you many friends now
Very few, ma'am. Besides you, only Miss Flora and -- one more
Meaning
that man
Oh no, ma'am
Some friend of his, perhaps
No ma'am
Oh no! No one at all like him, or belonging to him
Well
It is no affair of mine. I ask, because I take an interest in you; and because I believe I was your friend when you had no other who could serve you. Is that so
Yes, ma'am; indeed it is. I have been here many a time when, but for you and the work you gave me, we should have wanted everything
We
Are there many of you
Only father and I, now. I mean, only father and I to keep regularly out of what we get
Have you undergone many privations? You and your father and who else there may be of you
Sometimes it has been rather hard to live
but I think not harder -- as to that -- than many people find it
That's well said
That's the truth! You are a good, thoughtful girl. You are a grateful girl too, or I much mistake you
It is only natural to be that. There is no merit in being that
I am indeed
Now go, Little Dorrit
or you will be late, poor child
Pancks the gipsy, fortune-telling
Lord save us, here's a gipsy and a fortune-teller in it now
What next! She stood at the open door, staggering herself with this enigma, on a rainy, thundery evening. The clouds were flying fast, and the wind was coming up in gusts, banging some neighbouring shutters that had broken loose, twirling the rusty chimney-cowls and weather-cocks, and rushing round and round a confined adjacent churchyard as if it had a mind to blow the dead citizens out of their graves. The low thunder, muttering in all quarters of the sky at once, seemed to threaten vengeance for this attempted desecration, and to mutter, 'Let them rest! Let them rest
What's to be done now, what's to be done now
when she's all alone by herself inside, and can no more come down to open it than the churchyard dead themselves
What's the matter
What are you frightened at
At you
Me, madam
And the dismal evening, and -- and everything
And here! The wind has been and blown the door to, and I can't get in
Hah
Indeed! Do you know such a name as Clennam about here
Lord bless us, I should think I did, I should think I did
Where about here
Where
Where but here in this house? And she's all alone in her room, and lost the use of her limbs and can't stir to help herself or me, and t'other clever one's out, and Lord forgive me
if I ain't a-going headlong out of my mind
Where may the lady be who has lost the use of her limbs, madam
Up there
Them two windows
Hah! I am of a fair size, but could not have the honour of presenting myself in that room without a ladder. Now, madam, frankly -- frankness is a part of my character -- shall I open the door for you
Yes, bless you, sir, for a dear creetur, and do it at once
for she may be a-calling to me at this very present minute, or may be setting herself a fire and burning herself to death, or there's no knowing what may be happening to her, and me a-going out of my mind at thinking of it
Stay, my good madam
Business-hours, I apprehend, are over for the day
Yes, yes, yes
Long ago
Let me make, then, a fair proposal. Fairness is a part of my character. I am just landed from the packet-boat, as you may see
I am just landed from the packet-boat, madam, and have been delayed by the weather: the infernal weather! In consequence of this, madam, some necessary business that I should otherwise have transacted here within the regular hours (necessary business because money- business), still remains to be done. Now, if you will fetch any authorised neighbouring somebody to do it in return for my opening the door, I'll open the door. If this arrangement should be objectionable, I'll
Now, my dear madam
if you have the goodness to -- what the Devil's that
What the Devil is it
I don't know what it is, but I've heard the like of it over and over again
Bah! Nothing! Now, my dear madam, I think you spoke of some clever personage. Will you be so good as to confront me with that genius
Don't you say anything about the door and me, then
Not a word
And don't you stir from here, or speak if she calls, while I run round the corner
Madam, I am a statue
Who is it? What is it? Why does no one answer? Who is that, down there
Death of my soul
Why, how did you get here
Affery, my woman, you must have a dose, my woman! This is some of your tricks! You have been dreaming again, mistress. What's it about? Who is it? What does it mean! Speak out or be choked! It's the only choice I'll give you
Permit me
Thank you. Excuse me. Husband and wife I know, from this playfulness. Haha! Always agreeable to see that relation playfully maintained. Listen! May I suggest that somebody up-stairs, in the dark, is becoming energetically curious to know what is going on here
It's all right, I am here, Affery is coming with your light
Get out with you, and get up-stairs
Now, sir, what might you please to want
I am afraid
I must be so troublesome as to propose a candle
True
I was going to do so. Please to stand where you are while I get one
Be so good
as to step into my counting-house.-- It's all right, I tell you
Don't I tell you it's all right? Preserve the woman, has she no reason at all in her
Timorous
Timorous
More courageous than ninety men in a hundred, sir, let me tell you
Though an invalid
Many years an invalid. Mrs Clennam. The only one of that name left in the House now. My partner
Your commands
MY name is Blandois
Blandois. I don't know it
I thought it possible
that you might have been advised from Paris
We have had no advice from Paris respecting anybody of the name of Blandois
No
No
You are so like a friend of mine! Not so identically the same as I supposed when I really did for the moment take you to be the same in the dusk -- for which I ought to apologise; permit me to do so; a readiness to confess my errors is, I hope, a part of the frankness of my character -- still, however, uncommonly like
Indeed
But I have not received any letter of advice from anywhere respecting anybody of the name of Blandois
Just so
JUST so
No doubt you are well acquainted with the writing. Perhaps the letter speaks for itself, and requires no advice. You are a far more competent judge of such affairs than I am. It is my misfortune to be, not so much a man of business, as what the world calls (arbitrarily) a gentleman
We have to present to you, on behalf of a highly esteemed correspondent of our Firm, M. Blandois, of this city
Such facilities as he may require and such attentions as may lie in your power
Also have to add that if you will honour M. Blandois' drafts at sight to the extent of, say Fifty Pounds sterling (l50
Very good, sir
Take a chair. To the extent of anything that our House can do -- we are in a retired, old- fashioned, steady way of business, sir -- we shall be happy to render you our best assistance. I observe, from the date of this, that we could not yet be advised of it. Probably you came over with the delayed mail that brings the advice
That I came over with the delayed mail, sir
I know to the cost of my head and stomach: the detestable and intolerable weather having racked them both. You see me in the plight in which I came out of the packet within this half-hour. I ought to have been here hours ago, and then I should not have to apologise -- permit me to apologise -- for presenting myself so unreasonably, and frightening -- no, by-the-bye, you said not frightening; permit me to apologise again -- the esteemed lady, Mrs Clennam, in her invalid chamber above stairs
Faith
I must change, and eat and drink, and be lodged somewhere. Have the kindness to advise me, a total stranger, where, and money is a matter of perfect indifference until to-morrow. The nearer the place, the better. Next door, if that's all
For a gentleman of your habits, there is not in this immediate neighbourhood any hotel
So much for my habits! my dear sir
A citizen of the world has no habits. That I am, in my poor way, a gentleman, by Heaven! I will not deny, but I have no unaccommodating prejudiced habits. A clean room, a hot dish for dinner, and a bottle of not absolutely poisonous wine, are all I want tonight. But I want that much without the trouble of going one unnecessary inch to get it
There is
there is a coffee-house and tavern close here, which, so far, I can recommend; but there's no style about it
I dispense with style
Do me the honour to show me the house, and introduce me there (if I am not too troublesome), and I shall be infinitely obliged
Oblige me
by presenting my card of visit. Do me the favour to add that I shall be happy to wait on Mrs Clennam, to offer my personal compliments, and to apologise for having occasioned any agitation in this tranquil corner, if it should suit her convenience to endure the presence of a stranger for a few minutes, after he shall have changed his wet clothes and fortified himself with something to eat and drink
She'll be glad to see you, sir; but, being conscious that her sick room has no attractions, wishes me to say that she won't hold you to your offer, in case you should think better of it
To think better of it
would be to slight a lady; to slight a lady would be to be deficient in chivalry towards the sex; and chivalry towards the sex is a part of my character
Blandois, you shall turn the tables on society, my little child. Haha! Holy blue, you have begun well, Blandois! At a pinch, an excellent master in English or French; a man for the bosom of families! You have a quick perception, you have humour, you have ease, you have insinuating manners, you have a good appearance; in effect, you are a gentleman! A gentleman you shall live, my small boy, and a gentleman you shall die. You shall win, however the game goes. They shall all confess your merit, Blandois. You shall subdue the society which has grievously wronged you, to your own high spirit. Death of my soul! You are high spirited by right and by nature, my Blandois
Hold, then! Blandois, you ingenious one, have all your wits about you
Mr Flintwinch has been connected with the House many years
My husband being dead
What do you call yourself
You have the head of two men
My sex disqualifies me
from taking a responsible part in the business, even if I had the ability; and therefore Mr Flintwinch combines my interest with his own, and conducts it. It is not what it used to be; but some of our old friends (principally the writers of this letter) have the kindness not to forget us, and we retain the power of doing what they entrust to us as efficiently as we ever did. This however is not interesting to you. You are English, sir
Faith, madam, no; I am neither born nor bred in England. In effect, I am of no country
I descend from half-a-dozen countries
You have been much about the world
It is true. By Heaven, madam, I have been here and there and everywhere
You have no ties, probably. Are not married
Madam
I adore your sex, but I am not married -- never was
Affery
what is the matter with you
I don't know
It ain't me. It's him
What does this good woman mean
How is it possible to understand this good creature
It's NOT possible
She don't know what she means. She's an idiot, a wanderer in her mind. She shall have a dose, she shall have such a dose! Get along with you, my woman
get along with you, while you know you're Affery, and before you're shaken to yeast
You'll excuse her, Mr Blandois
Thank you, no tea for me.-- Pardon my observing it, but that's a very remarkable watch
May I be permitted? Thank you. A fine old-fashioned watch
Heavy for use, but massive and genuine. I have a partiality for everything genuine. Such as I am, I am genuine myself. Hah! A gentleman's watch with two cases in the old fashion. May I remove it from the outer case? Thank you. Aye? An old silk watch-lining, worked with beads! I have often seen these among old Dutch people and Belgians. Quaint things
They are old-fashioned, too
Very. But this is not so old as the watch, I think
I think not
Extraordinary how they used to complicate these cyphers
Now is this D. N. F.? It might be almost anything
Those are the letters
D. N. F. was some tender, lovely, fascinating fair-creature, I make no doubt
I adore her memory on the assumption. Unfortunately for my peace of mind, I adore but too readily. It may be a vice, it may be a virtue, but adoration of female beauty and merit constitutes three parts of my character, madam
You may be heart-free here, sir
Those letters are not intended, I believe, for the initials of any name
Of a motto, perhaps
Of a sentence. They have always stood, I believe, for Do Not Forget
And naturally
you do not forget
No, sir, I do not forget. To lead a life as monotonous as mine has been during many years, is not the way to forget. To lead a life of self-correction is not the way to forget. To be sensible of having (as we all have, every one of us, all the children of Adam!) offences to expiate and peace to make, does not justify the desire to forget. Therefore I have long dismissed it, and I neither forget nor wish to forget
All expressed, madam
by the word "naturally," which I am proud to have had sufficient apprehension and appreciation (but without appreciation I could not be Blandois) to employ
Pardon me, sir
if I doubt the likelihood of a gentleman of pleasure, and change, and politeness, accustomed to court and to be courted
Oh madam! By Heaven
If I doubt the likelihood of such a character quite comprehending what belongs to mine in my circumstances. Not to obtrude doctrine upon you
for you go your own way, and the consequences are on your own head), I will say this much: that I shape my course by pilots, strictly by proved and tried pilots, under whom I cannot be shipwrecked -- can not be -- and that if I were unmindful of the admonition conveyed in those three letters, I should not be half as chastened as I am
If I forgot my ignorances in my life of health and freedom, I might complain of the life to which I am now condemned. I never do; I never have done. If I forgot that this scene, the Earth, is expressly meant to be a scene of gloom, and hardship, and dark trial, for the creatures who are made out of its dust, I might have some tenderness for its vanities. But I have no such tenderness. If I did not know that we are, every one, the subject (most justly the subject) of a wrath that must be satisfied, and against which mere actions are nothing, I might repine at the difference between me, imprisoned here, and the people who pass that gateway yonder. But I take it as a grace and favour to be elected to make the satisfaction I am making here, to know what I know for certain here, and to work out what I have worked out here. My affliction might otherwise have had no meaning to me. Hence I would forget, and I do forget, nothing. Hence I am contented, and say it is better with me than with millions
There, there, there
That is quite understood, Mrs Clennam, and you have spoken piously and well. Mr Blandois, I suspect, is not of a pious cast
On the contrary, sir
Your pardon! It's a part of my character. I am sensitive, ardent, conscientious, and imaginative. A sensitive, ardent, conscientious, and imaginative man, Mr Flintwinch, must be that, or nothing
With what will appear to you the egotism of a sick old woman, sir
though really through your accidental allusion, I have been led away into the subject of myself and my infirmities. Being so considerate as to visit me, I hope you will be likewise so considerate as to overlook that. Don't compliment me, if you please
Mr Flintwinch will be happy to render you any service, and I hope your stay in this city may prove agreeable
This is an old room
I have been so interested that I have not observed it. But it's a genuine old room
It is a genuine old house
A place of no pretensions, but a piece of antiquity
Faith
If Mr Flintwinch would do me the favour to take me through the rooms on my way out, he could hardly oblige me more. An old house is a weakness with me. I have many weaknesses, but none greater. I love and study the picturesque in all its varieties. I have been called picturesque myself. It is no merit to be picturesque -- I have greater merits, perhaps -- but I may be, by an accident. Sympathy, sympathy
I tell you beforehand, Mr Blandois, that you'll find it very dingy and very bare
It's not worth your looking at
You don't care to go up-stairs
On the contrary, Mr Flintwinch; if not tiresome to you, I shall be ravished
There, Mr Blandois
I hope you may think that worth coming so high to see. I confess I don't
A most admirable old house
So mysterious. Do you never hear any haunted noises here
Noises
No
Nor see any devils
Not
not any that introduce themselves under that name and in that capacity
Haha! A portrait here, I see
It's a portrait, sir, as you observe
May I ask the subject, Mr Flintwinch
Mr Clennam, deceased. Her husband
Former owner of the remarkable watch, perhaps
Yes, Mr Blandois
It was his, and his uncle's before him, and Lord knows who before him; and that's all I can tell you of its pedigree
That's a strongly marked character, Mr Flintwinch, our friend up- stairs
Yes, sir
She is a remarkable woman. Great fortitude -- great strength of mind
They must have been very happy
Who
As happy as most other married people, I suppose
I can't say. I don't know. There are secrets in all families
Secrets
Say it again, my son
I say
I say there are secrets in all families
So there are
Haha! you are right. So there are! Secrets! Holy Blue! There are the devil's own secrets in some families, Mr Flintwinch
But, favour me with the candle a moment
Let us have a look at the husband of the remarkable lady. Hah
I am glad you are so well satisfied, sir
I didn't expect it. You seem to be quite in good spirits
In admirable spirits
Word of honour! never more refreshed in spirits. Do you ever have presentiments, Mr Flintwinch
I am not sure that I know what you mean by the term, sir
Say, in this case, Mr Flintwinch, undefined anticipations of pleasure to come
I can't say I'm sensible of such a sensation at present
If I should find it coming on, I'll mention it
Now I
I, my son, have a presentiment to-night that we shall be well acquainted. Do you find it coming on
N-no
I can't say I do
I have a strong presentiment that we shall become intimately acquainted.-- You have no feeling of that sort yet
Not yet
You will draw upon us to-morrow, sir
My Cabbage
I'll draw upon you; have no fear. Adieu, my Flintwinch. Receive at parting;' here he gave him a southern embrace, and kissed him soundly on both cheeks; 'the word of a gentleman! By a thousand Thunders, you shall see me again
days out
it was at once Mrs Plornish's delight and sorrow, when he was strong with meat, and had taken his full halfpenny-worth of porter, to say, 'Sing us a song, Father
Here's Father
Father will soon be home with us for good, now. Ain't Father looking well? Father's a sweeter singer than ever; you'd never have forgotten it, if you'd aheard him just now
For why
why go a-binding music when you've got it in yourself? That's where it is, I consider
In the Workhouse, sir, the Union; no privacy, no visitors, no station, no respect, no speciality. Most deplorable
Miss Dorrit
here's Father! Ain't he looking nice? And such voice he's in
No, they're rather hard on poor Father
and don't let him have half as much change and fresh air as would benefit him. But he'll soon be home for good, now. Won't you, Father
Yes, my dear, I hope so. In good time, please God
I thank you kindly, Thomas, and I know your intentions well, which is the same I thank you kindly for. But no, Thomas. Until such times as it's not to take it out of your children's mouths, which take it is, and call it by what name you will it do remain and equally deprive, though may they come, and too soon they can not come, no Thomas, no
I am going straight home, and if he will come with me I shall be so glad to take care of him -- so glad
of his company
There, Father
Ain't you a gay young man to be going for a walk along with Miss Dorrit! Let me tie your neck- handkerchief into a regular good bow, for you're a regular beau yourself, Father, if ever there was one
Why, good gracious me, Amy
You never mean it
Mean what, Fanny dear
Well! I could have believed a great deal of you
but I don't think even I could have believed this, of even you
Fanny
Oh! Don't Fanny me, you mean little thing, don't! The idea of coming along the open streets, in the broad light of day, with a Pauper
O Fanny
I tell you not to Fanny me, for I'll not submit to it! I never knew such a thing. The way in which you are resolved and determined to disgrace us on all occasions, is really infamous. You bad little thing
Does it disgrace anybody
to take care of this poor old man
Yes, miss
and you ought to know it does. And you do know it does, and you do it because you know it does. The principal pleasure of your life is to remind your family of their misfortunes. And the next great pleasure of your existence is to keep low company. But, however, if you have no sense of decency, I have. You'll please to allow me to go on the other side of the way, unmolested
I hope nothing's wrong with your honoured father, Miss? I hope there's nothing the matter in the honoured family
No, no
No, thank you. Give me your arm again, Mr Nandy. We shall soon be there now
Of course
Very proper. Poor, afflicted Pa! Now, I hope you believe me, Miss
What is it, father
Have I made you unhappy, father? Not I, I hope
You hope, indeed! I dare say! Oh, you
you Common-minded little Amy! You complete prison-child
Amy, I know that you are innocent in intention. But you have cut me to the soul
Innocent in intention
Stuff in intention! Low in intention! Lowering of the family in intention
Father
I am very sorry. Pray forgive me. Tell me how it is, that I may not do it again
How it is, you prevaricating little piece of goods
You know how it is. I have told you already, so don't fly in the face of Providence by attempting to deny it
Hush! Amy
I have done what I could to keep you select here; I have done what I could to retain you a position here. I may have succeeded; I may not. You may know it; you may not. I give no opinion. I have endured everything here but humiliation. That I have happily been spared -- until this day
Humiliation I have happily been spared until this day. Through all my troubles there has been that -- Spirit in myself, and that -- that submission to it, if I may use the term, in those about me, which has spared me -- ha -- humiliation. But this day, this minute, I have keenly felt it
Of course! How could it be otherwise
Careering and prancing about with a Pauper
But, dear father
I don't justify myself for having wounded your dear heart -- no! Heaven knows I don't
I do nothing but beg and pray you to be comforted and overlook it. But if I had not known that you were kind to the old man yourself, and took much notice of him, and were always glad to see him, I would not have come here with him, father, I would not, indeed. What I have been so unhappy as to do, I have done in mistake. I would not wilfully bring a tear to your eyes, dear love
for anything the world could give me, or anything it could take away
There, there! Say no more, Amy, say no more, my child. I will forget it as soon as I can. I
I -- shall soon be able to dismiss it. It is perfectly true, my dear, that I am always glad to see my old pensioner -- as such, as such -- and that I do -- ha -- extend as much protection and kindness to the -- hum -- the bruised reed -- I trust I may so call him without impropriety -- as in my circumstances, I can. It is quite true that this is the case, my dear child. At the same time, I preserve in doing this, if I may -- ha -- if I may use the expression -- Spirit. Becoming Spirit. And there are some things which are
Come in
Ah, Young John
What is it, Young John
A letter for you, sir, being left in the Lodge just this minute, and a message with it, I thought, happening to be there myself, sir, I would bring it to your room
Indeed, John? Thank you
The letter is from Mr Clennam, sir -- it's the answer -- and the message was, sir, that Mr Clennam also sent his compliments, and word that he would do himself the pleasure of calling this afternoon, hoping to see you, and likewise
Miss Amy
Oh
Thank you, Young John. Quite right. Much obliged to you for your attention. No one waiting
No, sir, no one waiting
Thank you, John. How is your mother, Young John
Thank you, sir, she's not quite as well as we could wish -- in fact, we none of us are, except father -- but she's pretty well, sir
Say we sent our remembrances, will you? Say kind remembrances, if you please, Young John
Thank you, sir, I will
There, there, Amy
let us say no more about it
Where is my old pensioner all this while? We must not leave him by himself any longer, or he will begin to suppose he is not welcome, and that would pain me. Will you fetch him, my child, or shall I
If you wouldn't mind, father
I would rather stay in my own room, Father
I would far rather not see Mr Clennam
Oh, fie, fie, my dear, that's folly. Mr Clennam is a very gentlemanly man -- very gentlemanly. A little reserved at times; but I will say extremely gentlemanly. I couldn't think of your not being here to receive Mr Clennam, my dear, especially this afternoon. So go and freshen yourself up, Amy; go and freshen yourself up, like a good girl
Come, Nandy
Come up-stairs, Nandy; you know the way; why don't you come up-stairs
How are you, Nandy? Are you pretty well
I thank you, honoured sir, I am all the better for seeing your honour
An old acquaintance of mine, sir, an old pensioner
Be covered, my good Nandy; put your hat on
Amy, my love, you know Mr Clennam even better than I have the happiness of doing. Fanny, my dear, you are acquainted with Mr Clennam
This, Mr Clennam, you must know, is an old pensioner of mine, Old Nandy, a very faithful old man
Let me see. You know Plornish, I think? I think my daughter Amy has mentioned to me that you know poor Plornish
O yes
Well, sir, this is Mrs Plornish's father
Indeed? I am glad to see him
You would be more glad if you knew his many good qualities, Mr Clennam
I hope I shall come to know them through knowing him
It is a holiday with him, and he comes to see his old friends, who are always glad to see him
Union, poor old fellow. Out for the day
If Maggy will spread that newspaper on the window- sill, my dear
my old pensioner can have his tea there, while we are having ours
Not ready for more ham yet, Nandy? Why, how slow you are! (His last teeth
are going, poor old boy
No shrimps, Nandy
His hearing is becoming very defective. He'll be deaf directly
Do you walk much, Nandy, about the yard within the walls of that place of yours
No, sir; no. I haven't any great liking for that
No, to be sure
Very natural
Legs going
John Edward
How old, sir? Let me think now
Memory weak
John Edward, sir? Well, I really forget. I couldn't say at this minute, sir, whether it's two and two months, or whether it's two and five months. It's one or the other
Don't distress yourself by worrying your mind about it
Faculties evidently decaying -- old man rusts in the life he leads
We don't call this a shilling, Nandy, you know
We call it tobacco
Honoured sir, I thank you. It shall buy tobacco. My thanks and duty to Miss Amy and Miss Fanny. I wish you good night, Mr Clennam
And mind you don't forget us, you know, Nandy
You must come again, mind, whenever you have an afternoon. You must not come out without seeing us, or we shall be jealous. Good night, Nandy. Be very careful how you descend the stairs, Nandy; they are rather uneven and worn
A melancholy sight that, Mr Clennam, though one has the consolation of knowing that he doesn't feel it himself. The poor old fellow is a dismal wreck. Spirit broken and gone -- pulverised -- crushed out of him, sir, completely
Tip, dear
don't you see
Yes, I see, Amy. If you refer to the presence of any visitor you have here -- I say, if you refer to that
I see
Is that all you say
That's all I say. And I suppose
that visitor will understand me, when I say that's all I say. In short, I suppose the visitor will understand that he hasn't used me like a gentleman
I do not understand that
No? Why, then, to make it clearer to you, sir, I beg to let you know that when I address what I call a properly-worded appeal, and an urgent appeal, and a delicate appeal, to an individual, for a small temporary accommodation, easily within his power -- easily within his power, mind!-- and when that individual writes back word to me that he begs to be excused, I consider that he doesn't treat me like a gentleman
How dare you
Now, don't ask me how I dare, father, because that's bosh. As to the fact of the line of conduct I choose to adopt towards the individual present, you ought to be proud of my showing a proper spirit
I should think so
A proper spirit
Yes, a proper spirit; a becoming spirit. Is it come to this that my son teaches me -- ME -- spirit
Now, don't let us bother about it, father, or have any row on the subject. I have fully made up my mind that the individual present has not treated me like a gentleman. And there's an end of it
But there is not an end of it, sir
But there shall not be an end of it. You have made up your mind? You have made up your mind
Yes, I have. What's the good of keeping on like that
Because
you had no right to make up your mind to what is monstrous, to what is -- ha -- immoral, to what is -- hum -- parricidal. No, Mr Clennam, I beg, sir. Don't ask me to desist; there is a -- hum -- a general principle involved here, which rises even above considerations of -- ha -- hospitality. I object to the assertion made by my son. I -- ha -- I personally repel it
Why, what is it to you, father
What is it to me, sir? I have a -- hum -- a spirit, sir, that will not endure it. I
I am outraged and insulted by it. Let me suppose the case that I myself may at a certain time -- ha -- or times, have made a -- hum -- an appeal, and a properly-worded appeal, and a delicate appeal, and an urgent appeal to some individual for a small temporary accommodation. Let me suppose that that accommodation could have been easily extended, and was not extended, and that that individual informed me that he begged to be excused. Am I to be told by my own son, that I therefore received treatment not due to a gentleman, and that I -- ha -- I submitted to it
You are putting it on yourself, father, and getting into all this injury of your own accord
What I have made up my mind about has nothing to do with you. What I said had nothing to do with you. Why need you go trying on other people's hats
I reply it has everything to do with me
I point out to you, sir, with indignation, that -- hum -- the -- ha -- delicacy and peculiarity of your father's position should strike you dumb, sir, if nothing else should, in laying down such -- ha -- such unnatural principles. Besides; if you are not filial, sir, if you discard that duty, you are at least -- hum -- not a Christian? Are you -- ha -- an Atheist? And is it Christian, let me ask you, to stigmatise and denounce an individual for begging to be excused this time, when the same individual may -- ha -- respond with the required accommodation next time? Is it the part of a Christian not to -- hum -- not to try him again
I see precious well
that I shall get no sensible or fair argument here to-night, and so the best thing I can do is to cut. Good night, Amy. Don't be vexed. I am very sorry it happens here, and you here, upon my soul I am; but I can't altogether part with my spirit, even for your sake, old girl
Such, you see, Mr Clennam
are the incongruities of my position here. But a public duty! No man, I am sure, would more readily recognise a public duty than yourself
Amy, my dear, if you can persuade Mr Clennam to stay longer, I can leave the honours of our poor apology for an establishment with confidence in your hands, and perhaps you may do something towards erasing from Mr Clennam's mind the -- ha -- untoward and unpleasant circumstance which has occurred since tea-time
My dear sir
Heaven ever bless you
Dear Little Dorrit, let me lay it down
How seldom I have seen you lately, Little Dorrit
I have been busy, sir
But I heard only to-day
by mere accident, of your having been with those good people close by me. Why not come to me, then
I -- I don't know. Or rather, I thought you might be busy too. You generally are now, are you not
My child, your manner is so changed
My own Little Dorrit
I cannot bear
to see you weep; but I hope this is a relief to an overcharged heart
Yes it is, sir. Nothing but that
Well, well! I feared you would think too much of what passed here just now. It is of no moment; not the least. I am only unfortunate to have come in the way. Let it go by with these tears. It is not worth one of them. One of them? Such an idle thing should be repeated, with my glad consent, fifty times a day, to save you a moment's heart-ache, Little Dorrit
You are so good! But even if there was nothing else in it to be sorry for and ashamed of, it is such a bad return to you
Hush
Forgetfulness in you who remember so many and so much, would be new indeed. Shall I remind you that I am not, and that I never was, anything but the friend whom you agreed to trust? No. You remember it, don't you
I try to do so, or I should have broken the promise just now, when my mistaken brother was here. You will consider his bringing-up in this place, and will not judge him hardly, poor fellow, I know
You have not been ill, Mr Clennam
No
Nor tried? Nor hurt
But it brings me to something that I wish to say
and therefore I will not quarrel even with my own face for telling tales and being unfaithful to me. Besides, it is a privilege and pleasure to confide in my Little Dorrit. Let me confess then, that, forgetting how grave I was, and how old I was, and how the time for such things had gone by me with the many years of sameness and little happiness that made up my long life far away, without marking it -- that, forgetting all this, I fancied I loved some one
Do I know her, sir
No, my child
Not the lady who has been kind to me for your sake
Flora. No, no. Do you think
I never quite thought so
I did wonder at it a little
Well
I found out my mistake, and I thought about it a little -- in short, a good deal -- and got wiser. Being wiser, I counted up my years and considered what I am, and looked back, and looked forward, and found that I should soon be grey. I found that I had climbed the hill, and passed the level ground upon the top, and was descending quickly
I found that the day when any such thing would have been graceful in me, or good in me, or hopeful or happy for me or any one in connection with me, was gone, and would never shine again
All that is over, and I have turned my face from it. Why do I speak of this to Little Dorrit? Why do I show you, my child, the space of years that there is between us, and recall to you that I have passed, by the amount of your whole life, the time that is present to you
Because you trust me, I hope. Because you know that nothing can touch you without touching me; that nothing can make you happy or unhappy, but it must make me, who am so grateful to you, the same
I love him
For those reasons assuredly, Little Dorrit, but for another too. So far removed, so different, and so much older, I am the better fitted for your friend and adviser. I mean, I am the more easily to be trusted; and any little constraint that you might feel with another, may vanish before me. Why have you kept so retired from me? Tell me
I am better here. My place and use are here. I am much better here
So you said that day upon the bridge. I thought of it much afterwards. Have you no secret you could entrust to me, with hope and comfort, if you would
Secret? No, I have no secret
I say! Little Mother
Yes, Maggy
If you an't got no secret of your own to tell him, tell him that about the Princess. She had a secret, you know
The Princess had a secret
What Princess was that, Maggy
Lor! How you do go and bother a gal of ten
catching the poor thing up in that way. Whoever said the Princess had a secret? _I_ never said so
I beg your pardon. I thought you did
Little Dorrit
another word. I have wanted very much to say this to you; I have tried for opportunities. Don't mind me, who, for the matter of years, might be your father or your uncle. Always think of me as quite an old man. I know that all your devotion centres in this room, and that nothing to the last will ever tempt you away from the duties you discharge here. If I were not sure of it, I should, before now, have implored you, and implored your father, to let me make some provision for you in a more suitable place. But you may have an interest -- I will not say, now, though even that might be -- may have, at another time, an interest in some one else; an interest not incompatible with your affection here
It may be, dear Little Dorrit
No. No. No
But, if it ever should be, tell me so, my dear child. Entrust the truth to me, point out the object of such an interest to me, and I will try with all the zeal, and honour, and friendship and respect that I feel for you, good Little Dorrit of my heart, to do you a lasting service
O thank you, thank you! But, O no, O no, O no
I press for no confidence now. I only ask you to repose unhesitating trust in me
Can I do less than that, when you are so good
Then you will trust me fully? Will have no secret unhappiness, or anxiety, concealed from me
Almost none
And you have none now
When I lie down to-night, and my thoughts come back -- as they will, for they do every night, even when I have not seen you -- to this sad place, I may believe that there is no grief beyond this room, now, and its usual occupants, which preys on Little Dorrit's mind
Yes, Mr Clennam; yes, you may
Pancks the gipsy
fortune-telling
Pa-ancks the gi-ipsy, fortune-telling
I am spending the evening with the rest of 'em
I've been singing. I've been taking a part in White sand and grey sand. I don't know anything about it. Never mind. I'll take any part in anything. It's all the same, if you're loud enough
How d'ye do, Miss Dorrit
I thought you wouldn't mind my running round, and looking in for a moment. Mr Clennam I heard was here, from Mr Dorrit. How are you, Sir
Gay
I'm in wonderful feather, sir. I can't stop a minute, or I shall be missed, and I don't want 'em to miss me.-- Eh, Miss Dorrit
I haven't been here half an hour. I knew Mr Dorrit was in the chair, and I said, "I'll go and support him!" I ought to be down in Bleeding Heart Yard by rights; but I can worry them to-morrow.-- Eh, Miss Dorrit
Capital company here
Eh, Miss Dorrit
Don't mind him, Miss Dorrit. He's one of us. We agreed that you shouldn't take on to mind me before people, but we didn't mean Mr Clennam. He's one of us. He's in it. An't you, Mr Clennam?-- Eh, Miss Dorrit
I was making a remark
but I declare I forget what it was. Oh, I know! Capital company here. I've been treating 'em all round.-- Eh, Miss Dorrit
Very generous of you
Not at all
Don't mention it. I'm coming into my property, that's the fact. I can afford to be liberal. I think I'll give 'em a treat here. Tables laid in the yard. Bread in stacks. Pipes in faggots. Tobacco in hayloads. Roast beef and plum-pudding for every one. Quart of double stout a head. Pint of wine too, if they like it, and the authorities give permission.-- Eh, Miss Dorrit
And oh, by-the-bye
you were to live to know what was behind us on that little hand of yours. And so you shall, you shall, my darling.-- Eh, Miss Dorrit
But I shall be missed;' he came back to that; 'and I don't want 'em to miss me. Mr Clennam, you and I made a bargain. I said you should find me stick to it. You shall find me stick to it now, sir, if you'll step out of the room a moment. Miss Dorrit, I wish you good night. Miss Dorrit, I wish you good fortune
What is it, for Heaven's sake
Stop a moment, sir. Mr Rugg. Let me introduce him
Mr Clennam, Mr Rugg
Stop a moment. Come to the pump
I am the clearer for that
But upon my soul, to hear her father making speeches in that chair, knowing what we know, and to see her up in that room in that dress, knowing what we know, is enough to -- give me a back, Mr Rugg -- a little higher, sir,-- that'll do
Stay
We rather think so
Does it implicate any one
How implicate, sir
In any suppression or wrong dealing of any kind
Not a bit of it
Thank God
Now show me
You are to understand
My dear, what have you done to Henry that has bewitched him so
My dear soul
you are my only comfort. That affair of Henry's that I told you of, is to take place. Now, how does it strike you? I am dying to know, because you represent and express Society so well
As to marriage on the part of a man, my dear, Society requires that he should retrieve his fortunes by marriage. Society requires that he should gain by marriage. Society requires that he should found a handsome establishment by marriage. Society does not see, otherwise, what he has to do with marriage. Bird, be quiet
Cases there are
cases there are where a man is not young or elegant, and is rich, and has a handsome establishment already. Those are of a different kind. In such cases
why, a man looks out for this sort of thing, my dear
Bird! Do be quiet
But, young men
and by young men you know what I mean, my love -- I mean people's sons who have the world before them -- they must place themselves in a better position towards Society by marriage, or Society really will not have any patience with their making fools of themselves. Dreadfully worldly all this sounds
does it not
But it is true
My dear, it is not to be disputed for a moment
because Society has made up its mind on the subject, and there is nothing more to be said. If we were in a more primitive state, if we lived under roofs of leaves, and kept cows and sheep and creatures instead of banker's accounts (which would be delicious; my dear, I am pastoral to a degree, by nature), well and good. But we don't live under leaves, and keep cows and sheep and creatures. I perfectly exhaust myself sometimes, in pointing out the distinction to Edmund Sparkler
My love, you know the wretched state of the country -- those unfortunate concessions of John Barnacle's!-- and you therefore know the reasons for my being as poor as Thingummy
A church mouse
I was thinking of the other proverbial church person -- Job
Either will do. It would be idle to disguise, consequently, that there is a wide difference between the position of your son and mine. I may add, too, that Henry has talent
Which Edmund certainly has not
and that his talent, combined with disappointment
has led him into a pursuit which -- ah dear me! You know, my dear. Such being Henry's different position, the question is what is the most inferior class of marriage to which I can reconcile myself
Ye-es? And then
And then, my dear
I should be glad to hear what you have to say to it
Sounds mercenary to ask what the gentleman is to get with the lady
but Society is perhaps a little mercenary, you know, my dear
From what I can make out
I believe I may say that Henry will be relieved from debt
Much in debt
Why tolerably, I should think
Meaning the usual thing; I understand; just so
And that the father will make them an allowance of three hundred a-year, or perhaps altogether something more, which, in Italy
Oh! Going to Italy
And that
that's all. That
that's all! On the death of the old people, I suppose there will be more to come; but how it may be restricted or locked up, I don't know. And as to that, they may live for ever. My dear, they are just the kind of people to do it
And that is all, my dear
Well, well! The fault is not yours. You have nothing to reproach yourself with. You must exercise the strength of mind for which you are renowned, and make the best of it
The girl's family have made
of course, the most strenuous endeavours to -- as the lawyers say -- to have and to hold Henry
Of course they have, my dear
I have persisted in every possible objection, and have worried myself morning, noon, and night, for means to detach Henry from the connection
No doubt you have, my dear
And all of no use. All has broken down beneath me. Now tell me, my love. Am I justified in at last yielding my most reluctant consent to Henry's marrying among people not in Society; or, have I acted with inexcusable weakness
I beg your pardon
I didn't know there was anybody here but the parrot
You can come in
Eh? Yes
What is it
What is it
It is, I suppose, that you have not heard a word of my complaint
Your complaint, Mrs Merdle
I didn't know that you were suffering from a complaint. What complaint
A complaint of you
Oh! A complaint of me
What is the -- what have I -- what may you have to complain of in me, Mrs Merdle
You were saying, Mrs Merdle
that you had a complaint against me
A complaint which I could scarcely show the justice of more emphatically, than by having to repeat it
I might as well have stated it to the wall. I had far better have stated it to the bird. He would at least have screamed
You don't want me to scream, Mrs Merdle, I suppose
Indeed I don't know
but that you had better do that, than be so moody and distraught. One would at least know that you were sensible of what was going on around you
A man might scream, and yet not be that, Mrs Merdle
And might be dogged, as you are at present, without screaming
That's very true. If you wish to know the complaint I make against you, it is, in so many plain words, that you really ought not to go into Society unless you can accommodate yourself to Society
Pray, don't be violent, Mr Merdle
Violent
You are enough to make me desperate. You don't know half of what I do to accommodate Society. You don't know anything of the sacrifices I make for it
I know
that you receive the best in the land. I know that you move in the whole Society of the country. And I believe I know (indeed, not to make any ridiculous pretence about it, I know I know) who sustains you in it, Mr Merdle
Mrs Merdle
I know that as well as you do. If you were not an ornament to Society, and if I was not a benefactor to Society, you and I would never have come together. When I say a benefactor to it, I mean a person who provides it with all sorts of expensive things to eat and drink and look at. But, to tell me that I am not fit for it after all I have done for it -- after all I have done for it
after all -- all!-- to tell me I have no right to mix with it after all, is a pretty reward
I say
that you ought to make yourself fit for it by being more degage, and less preoccupied. There is a positive vulgarity in carrying your business affairs about with you as you do
How do I carry them about, Mrs Merdle
How do you carry them about
Look at yourself in the glass
You have a physician
He does me no good
Besides
your digestion is nonsense. I don't speak of your digestion. I speak of your manner
Mrs Merdle
I look to you for that. You supply manner, and I supply money
I don't expect you
to captivate people. I don't want you to take any trouble upon yourself, or to try to be fascinating. I simply request you to care about nothing -- or seem to care about nothing -- as everybody else does
Do I ever say I care about anything
Say? No! Nobody would attend to you if you did. But you show it
Show what? What do I show
I have already told you. You show that you carry your business cares an projects about, instead of leaving them in the City, or wherever else they belong to
Or seeming to. Seeming would be quite enough: I ask no more. Whereas you couldn't be more occupied with your day's calculations and combinations than you habitually show yourself to be, if you were a carpenter
A carpenter
I shouldn't so much mind being a carpenter, Mrs Merdle
And my complaint is
that it is not the tone of Society, and that you ought to correct it, Mr Merdle. If you have any doubt of my judgment, ask even Edmund Sparkler
Edmund; we want you here
That he had heard it noticed by fellers
Edmund Sparkler has heard it noticed
Why, no doubt everybody has heard it noticed
And Edmund Sparkler will tell you, I dare say
how he has heard it noticed
I couldn't
couldn't undertake to say what led to it
There! Never mind the sister
What did the brother say
Didn't say a word, ma'am
As silent a feller as myself. Equally hard up for a remark
Somebody said something
Never mind who it was
Assure you I don't in the least
But tell us what it was
Fellers referring to my Governor -- expression not my own -- occasionally compliment my Governor in a very handsome way on being immensely rich and knowing -- perfect phenomenon of Buyer and Banker and that -- but say the Shop sits heavily on him. Say he carried the Shop about, on his back rather -- like Jew clothesmen with too much business
Which
is exactly my complaint. Edmund, give me your arm up- stairs
I shall come, of course
For
as my business with this set of gentlemen was to do a public duty and a public service, and as their business with me was to prevent it by wearing my soul out, I think we had better not eat and drink together with a show of being of one mind
Well, well, Dan, you shall have your own crotchety way
You see, Clennam
I am a disappointed man. That you know already
Upon my word
I scarcely know how
Why
I belong to a clan, or a clique, or a family, or a connection, or whatever you like to call it, that might have provided for me in any one of fifty ways, and that took it into its head not to do it at all. So here I am, a poor devil of an artist
But on the other hand
Yes, yes, I know. I have the good fortune of being beloved by a beautiful and charming girl whom I love with all my heart
Is there much of it
And of finding a father-in-law who is a capital fellow and a liberal good old boy. Still, I had other prospects washed and combed into my childish head when it was washed and combed for me, and I took them to a public school when I washed and combed it for myself, and I am here without them, and thus I am a disappointed man
Not bitterly disappointed, I think
Hang it, no; not bitterly
My people are not worth that -- though they are charming fellows, and I have the greatest affection for them. Besides, it's pleasant to show them that I can do without them, and that they may all go to the Devil. And besides, again, most men are disappointed in life, somehow or other, and influenced by their disappointment. But it's a dear good world, and I love it
It lies fair before you now
Fair as this summer river
and by Jove I glow with admiration of it, and with ardour to run a race in it. It's the best of old worlds! And my calling! The best of old callings, isn't it
Full of interest and ambition, I conceive
And imposition
we won't leave out the imposition. I hope I may not break down in that; but there, my being a disappointed man may show itself. I may not be able to face it out gravely enough. Between you and me, I think there is some danger of my being just enough soured not to be able to do that
To do what
To keep it up. To help myself in my turn, as the man before me helps himself in his, and pass the bottle of smoke. To keep up the pretence as to labour, and study, and patience, and being devoted to my art, and giving up many solitary days to it, and abandoning many pleasures for it, and living in it, and all the rest of it -- in short, to pass the bottle of smoke according to rule
But it is well for a man to respect his own vocation, whatever it is; and to think himself bound to uphold it, and to claim for it the respect it deserves; is it not
And your vocation, Gowan, may really demand this suit and service. I confess I should have thought that all Art did
What a good fellow you are, Clennam
What a capital fellow! You have never been disappointed. That's easy to see
First, I will beg you, sir, to inform the House what Precedent we have for the course into which the honourable gentleman would precipitate us
O Gowan, take care of her, take care of her
Don't be so broken-hearted, sir. By Heaven I will
It's very gratifying, Arthur
after all, to look back upon
The past
Yes -- but I mean the company
It's very gratifying
Such high company
I little thought, sir
when you and I crossed Smithfield that night, and I told you what sort of a Collector I was, that this would come of it. I little thought, sir, when I told you you were not of the Clennams of Cornwall, that I was ever going to tell you who were of the Dorrits of Dorsetshire
Moled it out, sir' (that was Mr Pancks's expression), grain by grain. How, in the beginning of the labour described by this new verb, and to render which the more expressive Mr Pancks shut his eyes in pronouncing it and shook his hair over them, he had alternated from sudden lights and hopes to sudden darkness and no hopes, and back again, and back again. How he had made acquaintances in the Prison, expressly that he might come and go there as all other comers and goers did; and how his first ray of light was unconsciously given him by Mr Dorrit himself and by his son; to both of whom he easily became known; with both of whom he talked much, casually
So if the whole thing had broken down, sir
at the very last, say the day before the other day when I showed you our papers in the Prison yard, or say that very day, nobody but ourselves would have been cruelly disappointed, or a penny the worse
My dear Mr Pancks, this must have cost you a great sum of money
Pretty well, sir
No trifle, though we did it as cheap as it could be done. And the outlay was a difficulty, let me tell you
A difficulty
But the difficulties you have so wonderfully conquered in the whole business
I'll tell you how I did it
First, I spent all I had of my own. That wasn't much
I am sorry for it
not that it matters now, though. Then, what did you do
Then
I borrowed a sum of my proprietor
Of Mr Casby
He's a fine old fellow
Noble old boy; an't he
Generous old buck. Confiding old boy. Philanthropic old buck. Benevolent old boy! Twenty per cent. I engaged to pay him, sir. But we never do business for less at our shop
I said to that boiling-over old Christian
that I had got a little project on hand; a hopeful one; I told him a hopeful one; which wanted a certain small capital. I proposed to him to lend me the money on my note. Which he did, at twenty; sticking the twenty on in a business-like way, and putting it into the note, to look like a part of the principal. If I had broken down after that, I should have been his grubber for the next seven years at half wages and double grind. But he's a perfect Patriarch; and it would do a man good to serve him on such terms -- on any terms
When that was gone, sir
and it did go, though I dribbled it out like so much blood, I had taken Mr Rugg into the secret. I proposed to borrow of Mr Rugg (or of Miss Rugg; it's the same thing; she made a little money by a speculation in the Common Pleas once). He lent it at ten, and thought that pretty high. But Mr Rugg's a red-haired man, sir, and gets his hair cut. And as to the crown of his hat, it's high. And as to the brim of his hat, it's narrow. And there's no more benevolence bubbling out of him, than out of a ninepin
Your own recompense for all this, Mr Pancks
ought to be a large one
I don't mistrust getting it, sir
I have made no bargain. I owed you one on that score; now I have paid it. Money out of pocket made good, time fairly allowed for, and Mr Rugg's bill settled, a thousand pounds would be a fortune to me. That matter I place in your hands. I authorize you now to break all this to the family in any way you think best. Miss Amy Dorrit will be with Mrs Finching this morning. The sooner done the better. Can't be done too soon
Good gracious, Arthur -- Doyce and Clennam
who would have ever thought of seeing such a sight as this and pray excuse a wrapper for upon my word I really never and a faded check too which is worse but our little friend is making me a, not that I need mind mentioning it to you for you must know that there are such things a skirt, and having arranged that a trying on should take place after breakfast is the reason though I wish not so badly starched
I ought to make an apology
for so early and abrupt a visit; but you will excuse it when I tell you the cause
In times for ever fled Arthur
pray excuse me Doyce and Clennam infinitely more correct and though unquestionably distant still 'tis distance lends enchantment to the view, at least I don't mean that and if I did I suppose it would depend considerably on the nature of the view, but I'm running on again and you put it all out of my head
In times for ever fled I was going to say it would have sounded strange indeed for Arthur Clennam -- Doyce and Clennam naturally quite different -- to make apologies for coming here at any time, but that is past and what is past can never be recalled except in his own case as poor Mr F. said when he was in spirits Cucumber and therefore never ate it
Papa
is sitting prosingly breaking his new laid egg in the back parlour over the City article exactly like the Woodpecker Tapping and need never know that you are here, and our little friend you are well aware may be fully trusted when she comes down from cutting out on the large table overhead
For goodness sake let me get out of the way first
or I know I shall go off dead and screaming and make everybody worse, and the dear little thing only this morning looking so nice and neat and good and yet so poor and now a fortune is she really and deserves it too! and might I mention it to Mr F
Mr Clennam! What's the matter
Nothing, nothing. That is, no misfortune has happened. I have come to tell you something, but it is a piece of great good- fortune
Good-fortune
Wonderful fortune
Wonderful fortune
Dear Little Dorrit! Your father
Your father can be free within this week. He does not know it; we must go to him from here, to tell him of it. Your father will be free within a few days. Your father will be free within a few hours. Remember we must go to him from here, to tell him of it
This is not all the good-fortune. This is not all the wonderful good-fortune, my dear Little Dorrit. Shall I tell you more
Yes
Your father will be no beggar when he is free. He will want for nothing. Shall I tell you more? Remember! He knows nothing of it; we must go to him, from here, to tell him of it
Did you ask me to go on
Yes
He will be a rich man. He is a rich man. A great sum of money is waiting to be paid over to him as his inheritance; you are all henceforth very wealthy. Bravest and best of children, I thank Heaven that you are rewarded
Father! Father! Father
Don't believe it's his doing
He needn't take no credit to himself for it
It'll be long enough, I expect, afore he'll give up any of his own money
Come with me to my dear father. Pray come and tell my dear father
I declare
I never was so cut up since your mama and my papa not Doyce and Clennam for this once but give the precious little thing a cup of tea and make her put it to her lips at least pray Arthur do, not even Mr F
Father! I have been made so happy this morning
You have been made so happy, my dear
By Mr Clennam, father. He brought me such joyful and wonderful intelligence about you! If he had not with his great kindness and gentleness, prepared me for it, father -- prepared me for it, father -- I think I could not have borne it
Compose yourself, sir
and take a little time to think. To think of the brightest and most fortunate accidents of life. We have all heard of great surprises of joy. They are not at an end, sir. They are rare, but not at an end
Mr Clennam? Not at an end? Not at an end for --' He touched himself upon the breast, instead of saying 'me
No
What surprise
what such surprise can be in store for me
Let me answer with another question. Tell me, Mr Dorrit, what surprise would be the most unlooked for and the most acceptable to you. Do not be afraid to imagine it, or to say what it would be
It is down
Gone
And in its place
are the means to possess and enjoy the utmost that they have so long shut out. Mr Dorrit, there is not the smallest doubt that within a few days you will be free, and highly prosperous. I congratulate you with all my soul on this change of fortune, and on the happy future into which you are soon to carry the treasure you have been blest with here -- the best of all the riches you can have elsewhere -- the treasure at your side
I shall see him as I never saw him yet. I shall see my dear love, with the dark cloud cleared away. I shall see him, as my poor mother saw him long ago. O my dear, my dear! O father, father! O thank God, thank God
He shall be -- ha -- he shall be handsomely recompensed, sir
Assure yourself, Mr Clennam, that everybody concerned shall be -- ha -- shall be nobly rewarded. No one, my dear sir, shall say that he has an unsatisfied claim against me. I shall repay the -- hum -- the advances I have had from you, sir, with peculiar pleasure. I beg to be informed at your earliest convenience, what advances you have made my son
Everybody
shall be remembered. I will not go away from here in anybody's debt. All the people who have been -- ha -- well behaved towards myself and my family, shall be rewarded. Chivery shall be rewarded. Young John shall be rewarded. I particularly wish, and intend, to act munificently, Mr Clennam
Will you allow me
to supply any present contingencies, Mr Dorrit? I thought it best to bring a sum of money for the purpose
Thank you, sir, thank you. I accept with readiness, at the present moment, what I could not an hour ago have conscientiously taken. I am obliged to you for the temporary accommodation. Exceedingly temporary, but well timed -- well timed
Be so kind, sir, as to add the amount to those former advances to which I have already referred; being careful, if you please, not to omit advances made to my son. A mere verbal statement of the gross amount is all I shall -- ha -- all I shall require
It will be necessary to find a milliner, my love, and to make a speedy and complete change in your very plain dress. Something must be done with Maggy too, who at present is -- ha -- barely respectable, barely respectable. And your sister, Amy, and your brother. And my brother, your uncle -- poor soul, I trust this will rouse him -- messengers must be despatched to fetch them. They must be informed of this. We must break it to them cautiously, but they must be informed directly. We owe it as a duty to them and to ourselves, from this moment, not to let them -- hum -- not to let them do anything
The news has spread already
Will you show yourself to them, Mr Dorrit? They are very earnest, and they evidently wish it
I -- hum -- ha -- I confess I could have desired, Amy my dear
to have made some change in my dress first, and to have bought a -- hum -- a watch and chain. But if it must be done as it is, it -- ha -- it must be done. Fasten the collar of my shirt, my dear. Mr Clennam, would you oblige me -- hum -- with a blue neckcloth you will find in that drawer at your elbow. Button my coat across at the chest, my love. It looks -- ha -- it looks broader, buttoned
Poor creatures
Mr Clennam, I beg your pardon. Am I to understand, my dear sir, that I could -- ha -- could pass through the Lodge at this moment, and -- hum -- take a walk
I think not, Mr Dorrit
There are certain forms to be completed; and although your detention here is now in itself a form, I fear it is one that for a little longer has to be observed too
It is but a few hours, sir
A few hours, sir
You talk very easily of hours, sir! How long do you suppose, sir, that an hour is to a man who is choking for want of air
Mr Clennam, will he pay all his debts before he leaves here
No doubt. All
All the debts for which he had been imprisoned here, all my life and longer
No doubt
You are glad that he should do so
Are you
Am I? Most heartily glad
Then I know I ought to be
And are you not
It seems to me hard
that he should have lost so many years and suffered so much, and at last pay all the debts as well. It seems to me hard that he should pay in life and money both
My dear child
Yes, I know I am wrong
don't think any worse of me; it has grown up with me here
Mr Chivery and his brother officers
My dear Frederick
if you will give me your arm we will pass among our friends together. I think it is right that we should go out arm in arm, my dear Frederick
Hah
Yes, yes, yes, yes
And if, my dear Frederick -- if you could, without putting any great constraint upon yourself, throw a little (pray excuse me, Frederick), a little Polish into your usual demeanour
William, William
it's for you to do all that. I don't know how. All forgotten, forgotten
But, my dear fellow
for that very reason, if for no other, you must positively try to rouse yourself. What you have forgotten you must now begin to recall, my dear Frederick. Your position
Eh
Your position, my dear Frederick
Mine
Hah, to be sure! Yes, yes, yes
Your position, my dear Frederick, is now a fine one. Your position, as my brother, is a very fine one. And I know that it belongs to your conscientious nature to try to become worthy of it, my dear Frederick, and to try to adorn it. To be no discredit to it, but to adorn it
William
I will do anything you wish, my brother, provided it lies in my power. Pray be so kind as to recollect what a limited power mine is. What would you wish me to do to-day, brother? Say what it is, only say what it is
My dearest Frederick, nothing. It is not worth troubling so good a heart as yours with
Pray trouble it
It finds it no trouble, William, to do anything it can for you
Blessings on your attachment, my poor dear fellow
Well, my dear Frederick, if you will only try, as we walk out, to show that you are alive to the occasion -- that you think about it
What would you advise me to think about it
Oh! my dear Frederick, how can I answer you? I can only say what, in leaving these good people, I think myself
That's it
That will help me
I find that I think, my dear Frederick, and with mixed emotions in which a softened compassion predominates, What will they do without me
True
Yes, yes, yes, yes. I'll think that as we go, What will they do without my brother! Poor things! What will they do without him
Be comforted, my people! Bear it
Good Gracious
Where's Amy
somewhere or other
Now I do say, Pa
that this is disgraceful
What is disgraceful, Fanny
I do say
this is perfectly infamous! Really almost enough, even at such a time as this, to make one wish one was dead! Here is that child Amy, in her ugly old shabby dress, which she was so obstinate about, Pa, which I over and over again begged and prayed her to change, and which she over and over again objected to, and promised to change to-day, saying she wished to wear it as long as ever she remained in there with you -- which was absolutely romantic nonsense of the lowest kind -- here is that child Amy disgracing us to the last moment and at the last moment, by being carried out in that dress after all. And by that Mr Clennam too
She has been forgotten
I ran up to her room (which Mr Chivery showed me) and found the door open, and that she had fainted on the floor, dear child. She appeared to have gone to change her dress, and to have sunk down overpowered. It may have been the cheering, or it may have happened sooner. Take care of this poor cold hand, Miss Dorrit. Don't let it fall
Thank you, sir
I believe I know what to do, if you will give me leave. Dear Amy, open your eyes, that's a love! Oh, Amy, Amy, I really am so vexed and ashamed! Do rouse yourself, darling! Oh, why are they not driving on! Pray, Pa, do drive on
By your leave, sir
Surrounded by so many and such companions upon whom I never looked, and never shall look, I and my child will dwell together inseparable, on the Great Saint Bernard, outlasting generations who will come to see us, and will never know our name, or one word of our story but the end
My daughter, I am obliged to you, sir
is quite restored, and has been greatly interested
New to mountains, perhaps
New to -- ha -- to mountains
But you are familiar with them, sir
I am -- hum -- tolerably familiar. Not of late years. Not of late years
Incommoded, certainly
but not tired
We have had, of course
to leave the carriages and fourgon at Martigny. And the impossibility of bringing anything that one wants to this inaccessible place, and the necessity of leaving every comfort behind, is not convenient
A savage place indeed
But, like other inconvenient places
it must be seen. As a place much spoken of, it is necessary to see it
O! I have not the least objection to seeing it, I assure you, Mrs General
You, madam
have visited this spot before
Yes
I have been here before. Let me commend you, my dear
to shade your face from the hot wood, after exposure to the mountain air and snow. You, too, my dear
Thank you, Mrs General, I am Perfectly comfortable, and prefer remaining as I am
These fellows are an immense time with supper
I wonder what they'll give us! Has anybody any idea
Not roast man, I believe
I suppose not. What d'ye mean
That, as you are not to be served for the general supper, perhaps you will do us the favour of not cooking yourself at the general fire
I think
I had best carry her straight to her room. Will you call to some one to bring a light
and to show the way? In this strange rambling place I don't know that I could find it
Pray, let me call my maid
Pray, let me put this water to her lips
Your friend, sir
is -- ha -- is a little impatient; and, in his impatience, is not perhaps fully sensible of what he owes to -- hum -- to -- but we will waive that, we will waive that. Your friend is a little impatient, sir
It may be so, sir
But having had the honour of making that gentleman's acquaintance at the hotel at Geneva, where we and much good company met some time ago, and having had the honour of exchanging company and conversation with that gentleman on several subsequent excursions, I can hear nothing -- no, not even from one of your appearance and station, sir -- detrimental to that gentleman
You are in no danger, sir, of hearing any such thing from me. In remarking that your friend has shown impatience, I say no such thing. I make that remark, because it is not to be doubted that my son, being by birth and by -- ha -- by education a -- hum -- a gentleman, would have readily adapted himself to any obligingly expressed wish on the subject of the fire being equally accessible to the whole of the present circle. Which, in principle, I -- ha -- for all are -- hum -- equal on these occasions -- I consider right
Good
And there it ends! I am your son's obedient servant. I beg your son to receive the assurance of my profound consideration. And now, sir, I may admit, freely admit, that my friend is sometimes of a sarcastic temper
The lady is your friend's wife, sir
The lady is my friend's wife, sir
She is very handsome
Sir, she is peerless. They are still in the first year of their marriage. They are still partly on a marriage, and partly on an artistic, tour
Your friend is an artist, sir
But he is a man of family
His connections are of the best. He is more than an artist: he is highly connected. He may, in effect, have repudiated his connections, proudly, impatiently, sarcastically (I make the concession of both words); but he has them. Sparks that have been struck out during our intercourse have shown me this
Well! I hope
that the lady's indisposition may be only temporary
Sir, I hope so
Mere fatigue, I dare say
Not altogether mere fatigue, sir, for her mule stumbled to-day, and she fell from the saddle. She fell lightly, and was up again without assistance, and rode from us laughing; but she complained towards evening of a slight bruise in the side. She spoke of it more than once, as we followed your party up the mountain
Pray
has your convent many of its famous dogs now
Monsieur, it has three
I saw three in the gallery below. Doubtless the three in question
And I think
I have seen one of them before
Which is done in its regular season of the year, I think
And never without a dog. The dog is very important
Ask him if he has saved many lives
No. Not this one
Why not
Pardon
give him the opportunity and he will do it without doubt. For example, I am well convinced
that if you, Monsieur, would give him the opportunity, he would hasten with great ardour to fulfil his duty
It is becoming late in the year, my Father
for tourist-travellers, is it not
Yes, it is late. Yet two or three weeks, at most, and we shall be left to the winter snows
And then
for the scratching dogs and the buried children, according to the pictures
Pardon
How, then the scratching dogs and the buried children according to the pictures
Don't you know
that none but smugglers come this way in the winter or can have any possible business this way
Holy blue! No; never heard of it
So it is, I believe. And as they know the signs of the weather tolerably well, they don't give much employment to the dogs -- who have consequently died out rather -- though this house of entertainment is conveniently situated for themselves. Their young families, I am told, they usually leave at home. But it's a grand idea
It's a sublime idea. It's the finest idea in the world, and brings tears into a man's eyes, by Jupiter
Look
at this gentleman our host, not yet in the prime of life, who in so graceful a way and with such courtly urbanity and modesty presides over us! Manners fit for a crown! Dine with the Lord Mayor of London (if you can get an invitation) and observe the contrast. This dear fellow, with the finest cut face I ever saw, a face in perfect drawing, leaves some laborious life and comes up here I don't know how many feet above the level of the sea, for no other purpose on earth (except enjoying himself, I hope, in a capital refectory) than to keep an hotel for idle poor devils like you and me, and leave the bill to our consciences! Why, isn't it a beautiful sacrifice? What do we want more to touch us? Because rescued people of interesting appearance are not, for eight or nine months out of every twelve, holding on here round the necks of the most sagacious of dogs carrying wooden bottles, shall we disparage the place? No! Bless the place. It's a great place, a glorious place
But the confinement
But the space
So small. So -- ha -- very limited
I -- ha -- yes, very true
Perfectly, perfectly. Without doubt
It is true
Are you better
She is very pretty
I never saw so beautiful a face. O how unlike me
I know I must be right. I know he spoke of her that evening. I could very easily be wrong on any other subject, but not on this, not on this
I like to look at her
I like to see what has affected him so much
Pray don't be alarmed. I am only one of the travellers from down- stairs. I came to ask if you were better, and if I could do anything for you
I think you have already been so kind as to send your servants to my assistance
No, not I; that was my sister. Are you better
Much better. It is only a slight bruise, and has been well looked to, and is almost easy now. It made me giddy and faint in a moment. It had hurt me before; but at last it overpowered me all at once
May I stay with you until some one comes? Would you like it
I should like it, for it is lonely here; but I am afraid you will feel the cold too much
I don't mind cold. I am not delicate, if I look so
You have so much the air of a kind nurse
that you seem as if you had come to me from home
I am very glad of it
I was dreaming of home when I woke just now. Of my old home, I mean, before I was married
And before you were so far away from it
I have been much farther away from it than this; but then I took the best part of it with me, and missed nothing. I felt solitary as I dropped asleep here, and, missing it a little, wandered back to it
It is a curious chance which at last brings us together, under this covering in which you have wrapped me
Looking for me
I believe I have a little note here, which I was to give to you whenever I found you. This is it. Unless I greatly mistake, it is addressed to you? Is it not
The dear young friend to whom he presents me, may be a comfort to me at some time, he says. She is truly a comfort to me the first time I see her
Perhaps you don't
perhaps you don't know my story? Perhaps he never told you my story
No
Oh no, why should he! I have scarcely the right to tell it myself at present, because I have been entreated not to do so. There is not much in it, but it might account to you for my asking you not to say anything about the letter here. You saw my family with me, perhaps? Some of them -- I only say this to you -- are a little proud, a little prejudiced
You shall take it back again
and then my husband is sure not to see it. He might see it and speak of it, otherwise, by some accident. Will you put it in your bosom again, to be certain
I promised
that I would write to him after seeing you (I could hardly fail to see you sooner or later), and tell him if you were well and happy. I had better say you were well and happy
Yes, yes, yes! Say I was very well and very happy. And that I thanked him affectionately, and would never forget him
I shall see you in the morning. After that we are sure to meet again before very long. Good night
Good night. Thank you, thank you. Good night, my dear
May I ask, sir, if you are on your way to Italy
I also
I shall hope to have the honour of offering my compliments in fairer scenes, and under softer circumstances, than on this dismal mountain
We poor gentlemen, sir
we poor gentlemen do not travel like princes, but the courtesies and graces of life are precious to us. To your health, sir
Sir, I thank you
To the health of your distinguished family -- of the fair ladies, your daughters
Sir, I thank you again, I wish you good night. My dear, are our -- ha -- our people in attendance
They are close by, father
Permit me
Good repose! To the pleasure of seeing you once more! To to-morrow
Humph
If they all go to bed, why I must go. They are in a devil of a hurry. One would think the night would be long enough, in this freezing silence and solitude, if one went to bed two hours hence
form the mind
Mrs General
Might I be excused
if I inquired -- ha -- what remune
Why, indeed
it is a subject on which I prefer to avoid entering. I have never entered on it with my friends here; and I cannot overcome the delicacy, Mr Dorrit, with which I have always regarded it. I am not, as I hope you are aware, a governess
O dear no
Pray, madam, do not imagine for a moment that I think so
I cannot, therefore, put a price upon services which it is a pleasure to me to render if I can render them spontaneously, but which I could not render in mere return for any consideration. Neither do I know how, or where, to find a case parallel to my own. It is peculiar
I cannot object
Permit me to add
that beyond this, I can never resume the topic. Also that I can accept no second or inferior position. If the honour were proposed to me of becoming known to Mr Dorrit's family -- I think two daughters were mentioned
Two daughters
I could only accept it on terms of perfect equality, as a companion, protector, Mentor, and friend
I think
two daughters were mentioned
Two daughters
It would therefore
Gowan, eh
She is better, Edward. But they are not going to-day
Oh! They are not going to-day! Fortunately for that fellow too
or he and I might have come into collision
It is thought better here that she should lie quiet to-day, and not be fatigued and shaken by the ride down until to-morrow
With all my heart. But you talk as if you had been nursing her. You haven't been relapsing into (Mrs General is not here) into old habits, have you, Amy
I have only been in to ask her if I could do anything for her, Tip
You needn't call me Tip, Amy child
because that's an old habit, and one you may as well lay aside
I didn't mean to say so, Edward dear. I forgot. It was so natural once, that it seemed at the moment the right word
Oh yes
Natural, and right word, and once, and all the rest of it! Nonsense, you little thing! I know perfectly well why you have been taking such an interest in this Mrs Gowan. You can't blind me
I will not try to, Fanny. Don't be angry
Oh! angry
Pray, Fanny
what do you mean? Explain yourself
Oh! Never mind, Pa
it's no great matter. Amy will understand me. She knew, or knew of, this Mrs Gowan before yesterday, and she may as well admit that she did
My child
has your sister -- any -- ha -- authority for this curious statement
However meek we are
we don't go creeping into people's rooms on the tops of cold mountains, and sitting perishing in the frost with people, unless we know something about them beforehand. It's not very hard to divine whose friend Mrs Gowan is
Whose friend
Pa, I am sorry to say
that I believe her to be a friend of that very objectionable and unpleasant person, who, with a total absence of all delicacy, which our experience might have led us to expect from him, insulted us and outraged our feelings in so public and wilful a manner on an occasion to which it is understood among us that we will not more pointedly allude
Amy, my child
is this the case
Yes it is
Of course! I said so! And now, Pa, I do declare once for all
that this is shameful! I do declare once for all that it ought to be put a stop to. Is it not enough that we have gone through what is only known to ourselves, but are we to have it thrown in our faces, perseveringly and systematically, by the very person who should spare our feelings most? Are we to be exposed to this unnatural conduct every moment of our lives? Are we never to be permitted to forget? I say again, it is absolutely infamous
Well, Amy
you know I stand by you whenever I can, and on most occasions. But I must say, that, upon my soul, I do consider it rather an unaccountable mode of showing your sisterly affection, that you should back up a man who treated me in the most ungentlemanly way in which one man can treat another. And who
And see
see what is involved in this! Can we ever hope to be respected by our servants? Never. Here are our two women, and Pa's valet, and a footman, and a courier, and all sorts of dependents, and yet in the midst of these, we are to have one of ourselves rushing about with tumblers of cold water, like a menial! Why, a policeman
if a beggar had a fit in the street, could but go plunging about with tumblers, as this very Amy did in this very room before our very eyes last night
I don't so much mind that, once in a way
but your Clennam, as he thinks proper to call himself, is another thing
He is part of the same thing
Father -- Edward -- no indeed
Neither Mr nor Mrs Gowan had ever heard our name. They were, and they are, quite ignorant of our history
So much the worse
for then you have no excuse. If they had known about us, you might have felt yourself called upon to conciliate them. That would have been a weak and ridiculous mistake, but I can respect a mistake, whereas I can't respect a wilful and deliberate abasing of those who should be nearest and dearest to us. No. I can't respect that. I can do nothing but denounce that
I never offend you wilfully, Fanny
though you are so hard with me
Then you should be more careful, Amy
If you do such things by accident, you should be more careful. If I happened to have been born in a peculiar place, and under peculiar circumstances that blunted my knowledge of propriety, I fancy I should think myself bound to consider at every step, "Am I going, ignorantly, to compromise any near and dear relations?" That is what I fancy I should do, if it was my case
My dear
I beg you to -- ha -- to say no more. Your sister Fanny expresses herself strongly, but not without considerable reason. You have now a -- hum -- a great position to support. That great position is not occupied by yourself alone, but by -- ha -- by me, and -- ha hum -- by us. Us. Now, it is incumbent upon all people in an exalted position, but it is particularly so on this family, for reasons which I -- ha -- will not dwell upon, to make themselves respected. To be vigilant in making themselves respected. Dependants, to respect us, must be -- ha -- kept at a distance and -- hum -- kept down. Down. Therefore, your not exposing yourself to the remarks of our attendants by appearing to have at any time dispensed with their services and performed them for yourself, is -- ha -- highly important
Why, who can doubt it
It's the essence of everything
Fanny
give me leave, my dear. We then come to -- ha -- to Mr Clennam. I am free to say that I do not, Amy, share your sister's sentiments -- that is to say altogether -- hum -- altogether -- in reference to Mr Clennam. I am content to regard that individual in the light of -- ha -- generally -- a well-behaved person. Hum. A well-behaved person. Nor will I inquire whether Mr Clennam did, at any time, obtrude himself on -- ha -- my society. He knew my society to be -- hum -- sought, and his plea might be that he regarded me in the light of a public character. But there were circumstances attending my -- ha -- slight knowledge of Mr Clennam (it was very slight), which
would render it highly indelicate in Mr Clennam to -- ha -- to seek to renew communication with me or with any member of my family under existing circumstances. If Mr Clennam has sufficient delicacy to perceive the impropriety of any such attempt, I am bound as a responsible gentleman to -- ha -- defer to that delicacy on his part. If, on the other hand, Mr Clennam has not that delicacy, I cannot for a moment -- ha -- hold any correspondence with so -- hum -- coarse a mind. In either case, it would appear that Mr Clennam is put altogether out of the question, and that we have nothing to do with him or he with us. Ha -- Mrs General
Is it possible, sir
that you have -- ha -- had the audacity to place one of my rooms at the disposition of any other person
No, sir
Don't tell me so, sir
You have affronted me. You have heaped insults upon me. How dare you? Explain yourself
I tell you, sir
that you separate me -- ha -- from other gentlemen; that you make distinctions between me and other gentlemen of fortune and station. I demand of you, why? I wish to know on -- ha -- what authority, on whose authority. Reply sir. Explain. Answer why
Silence
Hold your tongue! I will hear no more of the very genteel lady; I will hear no more of you. Look at this family -- my family -- a family more genteel than any lady. You have treated this family with disrespect; you have been insolent to this family. I'll ruin you. Ha -- send for the horses, pack the carriages, I'll not set foot in this man's house again
Beg your pardon
I am a man of few words and a bad hand at an explanation -- but lady here is extremely anxious that there should be no Row. Lady -- a mother of mine, in point of fact -- wishes me to say that she hopes no Row
No, but really -- here, old feller; you
Let you and I try to make this all right. Lady so very much wishes no Row
Why you must confess, that when you bespeak a lot of rooms beforehand, and they belong to you, it's not pleasant to find other people in 'em
No
I know it isn't. I admit it. Still, let you and I try to make it all right, and avoid Row. The fault is not this chap's at all, but my mother's. Being a remarkably fine woman with no bigodd nonsense about her -- well educated, too -- she was too many for this chap. Regularly pocketed him
If that's the case
pon my soul 'tis the case. Consequently
why Row
Edmund
I hope you have explained, or are explaining, to the satisfaction of this gentleman and his family that the civil landlord is not to blame
Assure you, ma'am
perfectly paralysing myself with trying it on
Old feller! Is it all right
I don't know, after all
but that I had better say myself, at once, that I assured this good man I took all the consequences on myself of occupying one of a stranger's suite of rooms during his absence, for just as much (or as little) time as I could dine in. I had no idea the rightful owner would come back so soon, nor had I any idea that he had come back, or I should have hastened to make restoration of my ill-gotten chamber, and to have offered my explanation and apology. I trust in saying this
Edmund, we are quite ready; will you give me your arm
very well and very happy
Very well and very happy
Mrs General
I took the liberty
By no means
I was quite at your disposition. I had had my coffee
I took the liberty
to solicit the favour of a little private conversation with you, because I feel rather worried respecting my -- ha -- my younger daughter. You will have observed a great difference of temperament, madam, between my two daughters
There is a great difference
May I ask to be favoured with your view of it
Fanny
has force of character and self- reliance. Amy, none
True, madam
I would not
be understood to say, observe, that there is nothing to improve in Fanny. But there is material there -- perhaps, indeed, a little too much
Will you be kind enough, madam
to be -- ha -- more explicit? I do not quite understand my elder daughter's having -- hum -- too much material. What material
Fanny
Unquestionably, madam, you are right
I believe so
But you are aware, my dear madam
that my daughters had the misfortune to lose their lamented mother when they were very young; and that, in consequence of my not having been until lately the recognised heir to my property, they have lived with me as a comparatively poor, though always proud, gentleman, in -- ha hum -- retirement
I do not
lose sight of the circumstance
Madam
of my daughter Fanny, under her present guidance and with such an example constantly before her
I have no misgivings. There is adaptability of character in Fanny. But my younger daughter, Mrs General, rather worries and vexes my thoughts. I must inform you that she has always been my favourite
There is no accounting
for these partialities
Ha -- no
No. Now, madam, I am troubled by noticing that Amy is not, so to speak, one of ourselves. She does not Care to go about with us; she is lost in the society we have here; our tastes are evidently not her tastes. Which
is to say, in other words, that there is something wrong in -- ha -- Amy
May we incline to the supposition
that something is referable to the novelty of the position
Excuse me, madam
The daughter of a gentleman, though -- ha -- himself at one time comparatively far from affluent -- comparatively -- and herself reared in -- hum -- retirement, need not of necessity find this position so very novel
True
true
Therefore, madam
I took the liberty of requesting this interview, in order that I might mention the topic to you, and inquire how you would advise me
Mr Dorrit
I have conversed with Amy several times since we have been residing here, on the general subject of the formation of a demeanour. She has expressed herself to me as wondering exceedingly at Venice. I have mentioned to her that it is better not to wonder. I have pointed out to her that the celebrated Mr Eustace, the classical tourist, did not think much of it; and that he compared the Rialto, greatly to its disadvantage, with Westminster and Blackfriars Bridges. I need not add, after what you have said, that I have not yet found my arguments successful. You do me the honour to ask me what to advise. It always appears to me (if this should prove to be a baseless assumption, I shall be pardoned), that Mr Dorrit has been accustomed to exercise influence over the minds of others
Hum -- madam
I have been at the head of -- ha of a considerable community. You are right in supposing that I am not unaccustomed to -- an influential position
I am happy
to be so corroborated. I would therefore the more confidently recommend that Mr Dorrit should speak to Amy himself, and make his observations and wishes known to her. Being his favourite, besides, and no doubt attached to him, she is all the more likely to yield to his influence
I had anticipated your suggestion, madam
but -- ha -- was not sure that I might -- hum -- not encroach on
On my province, Mr Dorrit
Do not mention it
Then, with your leave, madam
I will send for her at once
Does Mr Dorrit wish me to remain
Perhaps, if you have no other engagement, you would not object for a minute or two
Not at all
Amy
you have just now been the subject of some conversation between myself and Mrs General. We agree that you scarcely seem at home here. Ha -- how is this
I think, father, I require a little time
Papa is a preferable mode of address
Father is rather vulgar, my dear. The word Papa, besides, gives a pretty form to the lips. Papa, potatoes, poultry, prunes, and prism are all very good words for the lips: especially prunes and prism. You will find it serviceable, in the formation of a demeanour, if you sometimes say to yourself in company -- on entering a room, for instance -- Papa, potatoes, poultry, prunes and prism, prunes and prism
Pray, my child
attend to the -- hum -- precepts of Mrs General
You say, Amy
that you think you require time. Time for what
To become accustomed to the novelty of my life, was all I meant
Amy
it appears to me, I must say, that you have had abundance of time for that. Ha -- you surprise me. You disappoint me. Fanny has conquered any such little difficulties, and -- hum -- why not you
I hope I shall do better soon
I hope so
I -- ha -- I most devoutly hope so, Amy. I sent for you, in order that I might say -- hum -- impressively say, in the presence of Mrs General, to whom we are all so much indebted for obligingly being present among us, on -- ha -- on this or any other occasion
that I -- ha hum -- am not pleased with you. You make Mrs General's a thankless task. You -- ha -- embarrass me very much. You have always (as I have informed Mrs General) been my favourite child; I have always made you a -- hum -- a friend and companion; in return, I beg -- I -- ha -- I do beg, that you accommodate yourself better to -- hum -- circumstances, and dutifully do what becomes your -- your station
I do beg
that this may be attended to, and that you will seriously take pains and try to conduct yourself in a manner both becoming your position as -- ha -- Miss Amy Dorrit, and satisfactory to myself and Mrs General
If Miss Amy Dorrit will direct her own attention to, and will accept of my poor assistance in, the formation of a surface, Mr. Dorrit will have no further cause of anxiety. May I take this opportunity of remarking, as an instance in point, that it is scarcely delicate to look at vagrants with the attention which I have seen bestowed upon them by a very dear young friend of mine? They should not be looked at. Nothing disagreeable should ever be looked at. Apart from such a habit standing in the way of that graceful equanimity of surface which is so expressive of good breeding, it hardly seems compatible with refinement of mind. A truly refined mind will seem to be ignorant of the existence of anything that is not perfectly proper, placid, and pleasant
Is there anything else you wish to say to me, dear father
No, no. Nothing else
I am sorry you have not been pleased with me, dear. I hope you will not think of me with displeasure now. I am going to try, more than ever, to adapt myself as you wish to what surrounds me -- for indeed I have tried all along, though I have failed, I know
Amy
You -- ha -- habitually hurt me
Hurt you, father! I
There is a -- hum -- a topic
a painful topic, a series of events which I wish -- ha -- altogether to obliterate. This is understood by your sister, who has already remonstrated with you in my presence; it is understood by your brother; it is understood by -- ha hum -- by every one of delicacy and sensitiveness except yourself -- ha -- I am sorry to say, except yourself. You, Amy -- hum -- you alone and only you -- constantly revive the topic, though not in words
Think of me, think how I have worked, think of my many cares
I was there all those years. I was -- ha -- universally acknowledged as the head of the place. I -- hum -- I caused you to be respected there, Amy. I -- ha hum -- I gave my family a position there. I deserve a return. I claim a return. I say, sweep it off the face of the earth and begin afresh. Is that much? I ask, is that much
I have suffered. Probably I know how much I have suffered better than any one -- ha -- I say than any one! If I can put that aside, if I can eradicate the marks of what I have endured, and can emerge before the world -- a -- ha -- gentleman unspoiled, unspotted -- is it a great deal to expect -- I say again, is it a great deal to expect -- that my children should -- hum -- do the same and sweep that accursed experience off the face of the earth
I am careful to appeal to that lady for confirmation, before I express any displeasure at all. I -- hum -- I necessarily make that appeal within limited bounds, or I -- ha -- should render legible, by that lady, what I desire to be blotted out. Am I selfish? Do I complain for my own sake? No. No. Principally for -- ha hum -- your sake, Amy
I said I was hurt. So I am. So I -- ha -- am determined to be, whatever is advanced to the contrary. I am hurt that my daughter, seated in the -- hum -- lap of fortune, should mope and retire and proclaim herself unequal to her destiny. I am hurt that she should -- ha -- systematically reproduce what the rest of us blot out; and seem -- hum -- I had almost said positively anxious -- to announce to wealthy and distinguished society that she was born and bred in -- ha hum -- a place that I myself decline to name. But there is no inconsistency -- ha -- not the least, in my feeling hurt, and yet complaining principally for your sake, Amy. I do; I say again, I do. It is for your sake that I wish you, under the auspices of Mrs General, to form a -- hum -- a surface. It is for your sake that I wish you to have a -- ha -- truly refined mind, and (in the striking words of Mrs General) to be ignorant of everything that is not perfectly proper, placid, and pleasant
Hush, hush, my own dear! Kiss me
going into society
I forget the name
_I_ remember 'em well enough
I should think so
But they would not have been recalled to our remembrance, I suspect, if Uncle hadn't tumbled over the subject
My dear, what a curious phrase
Would not inadvertently lighted upon, or accidentally referred to, be better
Thank you very much, Mrs General
I should have mentioned our having met Mr and Mrs Gowan, Fanny
even if Uncle had not. I have scarcely seen you since, you know. I meant to have spoken of it at breakfast; because I should like to pay a visit to Mrs Gowan, and to become better acquainted with her, if Papa and Mrs General do not object
Well, Amy
I am sure I am glad to find you at last expressing a wish to become better acquainted with anybody in Venice. Though whether Mr and Mrs Gowan are desirable acquaintances, remains to be determined
Mrs Gowan I spoke of, dear
No doubt
But you can't separate her from her husband, I believe, without an Act of Parliament
Do you think, Papa
there is any objection to my making this visit
Really
I -- ha -- what is Mrs General's view
I say -- you there! Go out, will you
Perhaps it's a matter of policy to let you all know that these Gowans -- in whose favour, or at least the gentleman's, I can't be supposed to be much prepossessed myself -- are known to people of importance, if that makes any difference
That, I would say
Makes the greatest difference. The connection in question, being really people of importance and consideration
As to that
I'll give you the means of judging for yourself. You are acquainted, perhaps, with the famous name of Merdle
The great Merdle
THE Merdle
If so, a more undeniable guarantee could not be given
I beg to ask my son, from motives of -- ah -- curiosity
how he becomes possessed of this -- hum -- timely information
It's not a long story, sir
and you shall have it out of hand. To begin with, Mrs Merdle is the lady you had the parley with at what's-his-name place
Martigny
Martigny
How can that be, Edward
You informed me that the name of the gentleman with whom you conferred was -- ha -- Sparkler. Indeed, you showed me his card. Hum. Sparkler
No doubt of it, father; but it doesn't follow that his mother's name must be the same. Mrs Merdle was married before, and he is her son. She is in Rome now; where probably we shall know more of her, as you decide to winter there. Sparkler is just come here. I passed last evening in company with Sparkler. Sparkler is a very good fellow on the whole, though rather a bore on one subject, in consequence of being tremendously smitten with a certain young lady
We happened last night to compare notes about our travels, and I had the information I have given you from Sparkler himself
Under these circumstances
I believe I express the sentiments of -- ha -- Mrs General, no less than my own, when I say that there is no objection, but -- ha hum -- quite the contrary -- to your gratifying your desire, Amy. I trust I may -- ha -- hail -- this desire
as an auspicious omen. It is quite right to know these people. It is a very proper thing. Mr Merdle's is a name of -- ha -- world- wide repute. Mr Merdle's undertakings are immense. They bring him in such vast sums of money that they are regarded as -- hum -- national benefits. Mr Merdle is the man of this time. The name of Merdle is the name of the age. Pray do everything on my behalf that is civil to Mr and Mrs Gowan, for we will -- ha -- we will certainly notice them
Brother! I protest against it
Brother
I protest against it! I love you; you know I love you dearly. In these many years I have never been untrue to you in a single thought. Weak as I am, I would at any time have struck any man who spoke ill of you. But, brother, brother, brother, I protest against it
My dear Frederick
What is wrong? What is the matter
How dare you
how dare you do it? Have you no memory? Have you no heart
Uncle
why do you attack me in this cruel manner? What have I done
Done
I love Amy
as well as I love my life -- better than I love my life. I don't deserve to be so treated. I am as grateful to Amy, and as fond of Amy, as it's possible for any human being to be. I wish I was dead. I never was so wickedly wronged. And only because I am anxious for the family credit
To the winds with the family credit
Brother, I protest against pride. I protest against ingratitude. I protest against any one of us here who have known what we have known, and have seen what we have seen, setting up any pretension that puts Amy at a moment's disadvantage, or to the cost of a moment's pain. We may know that it's a base pretension by its having that effect. It ought to bring a judgment on us. Brother, I protest against it in the sight of God
William, my dear, I felt obliged to say it; forgive me, for I felt obliged to say it
I never, never, never was so used
There never was anything so harsh and unjustifiable, so disgracefully violent and cruel! Dear, kind, quiet little Amy, too, what would she feel if she could know that she had been innocently the means of exposing me to such treatment! But I'll never tell her! No, good darling, I'll never tell her
My dear
I -- ha -- approve of your resolution. It will be -- ha hum -- much better not to speak of this to Amy. It might -- hum -- it might distress her. Ha. No doubt it would distress her greatly. It is considerate and right to avoid doing so. We will -- ha -- keep this to ourselves
But the cruelty of Uncle
O, I never can forgive the wanton cruelty of Uncle
My dear
I must request you not to say so. You must remember that your uncle is -- ha -- not what he formerly was. You must remember that your uncle's state requires -- hum -- great forbearance from us, great forbearance
I am sure
it is only charitable to suppose that there Must be something wrong in him somewhere, or he never could have so attacked Me, of all the people in the world
Fanny
you know, with his innumerable good points, what a -- hum -- wreck your uncle is; an(&rsqb; I entreat you by the fondness that I have for him, and by the fidelity that you know I have always shown him, to -- ha -- to draw your own conclusions, and to spare my brotherly feelings
My good fellow, what do we all turn out but trash? I turn out nothing else, and I make you a present of the confession
Tails, kick; heads, encourage
fearfully out of the way
mere ditches
Papa was extremely sorry
to be engaged to-day (he is so much engaged here, our acquaintance being so wretchedly large!); and particularly requested me to bring his card for Mr Gowan. That I may be sure to acquit myself of a commission which he impressed upon me at least a dozen times, allow me to relieve my conscience by placing it on the table at once
We have been
charmed to understand that you know the Merdles. We hope it may be another means of bringing us together
They are friends
of Mr Gowan's family. I have not yet had the pleasure of a personal introduction to Mrs Merdle, but I suppose I shall be presented to her at Rome
Indeed
I think you'll like her
You know her very well
Why, you see
You have been quite well
since that night
Quite, my dear. And you
Oh! I am always well
I -- yes, thank you
You don't know that you are a favourite of my husband's, and that I am almost bound to be jealous of you
He will tell you, if he tells you what he tells me, that you are quieter and quicker of resource than any one he ever saw
He speaks far too well of me
I doubt that; but I don't at all doubt that I must tell him you are here. I should never be forgiven, if I were to let you -- and Miss Dorrit -- go, without doing so. May I? You can excuse the disorder and discomfort of a painter's studio
Do Henry the favour to come in
I knew he would be pleased
Don't be alarmed
It's only Blandois. He is doing duty as a model to-day. I am making a study of him. It saves me money to turn him to some use. We poor painters have none to spare
A thousand pardons
But the Professore here is so inexorable with me, that I am afraid to stir
Don't stir, then
Let the ladies at least see the original of the daub, that they may know what it's meant for. There he stands, you see. A bravo waiting for his prey, a distinguished noble waiting to save his country, the common enemy waiting to do somebody a bad turn, an angelic messenger waiting to do somebody a good turn -- whatever you think he looks most like
Say, Professore Mio, a poor gentleman waiting to do homage to elegance and beauty
Or say, Cattivo Soggetto Mio
a murderer after the fact. Show that white hand of yours, Blandois. Put it outside the cloak. Keep it still
He was formerly in some scuffle with another murderer, or with a victim, you observe
and these are the tokens of it. Outside the cloak, man!-- Corpo di San Marco, what are you thinking of
He won't hurt you, Miss Dorrit
I am not afraid of him
but will you look at him
Lion! Lion
Get back! Down, Lion! Get out of his sight, Blandois! What devil have you conjured into the dog
I have done nothing to him
Get out of his sight or I can't hold the wild beast! Get out of the room! By my soul, he'll kill you
Now get you into that corner and lie down
or I'll take you out and shoot you
Come, come, Minnie! You know he is always good-humoured and tractable. Blandois must have irritated him,-- made faces at him. The dog has his likings and dislikings, and Blandois is no great favourite of his; but I am sure you will give him a character, Minnie, for never having been like this before
You furious brute
You shall do penance for this
O, pray don't punish him any more
Don't hurt him. See how gentle he is
That gaby
Who
My dear child
how slow you are! Young Sparkler
Did you ever see such a fool, my love
Do you think he means to follow you all the way
My precious child
I can't possibly answer for what an idiot in a state of desperation may do, but I should think it highly probable. It's not such an enormous distance. All Venice would scarcely be that, I imagine, if he's dying for a glimpse of me
And is he
Well, my love, that really is an awkward question for me to answer
I believe he is. You had better ask Edward. He tells Edward he is, I believe. I understand he makes a perfect spectacle of himself at the Casino, and that sort of places, by going on about me. But you had better ask Edward if you want to know
I wonder he doesn't call
My dear Amy, your wonder will soon cease, if I am rightly informed. I should not be at all surprised if he called to-day. The creature has only been waiting to get his courage up, I suspect
Will you see him
Indeed, my darling
that's just as it may happen. Here he is again. Look at him. O, you simpleton
When you asked me if I will see him, my dear
what do you mean
I mean
I think I rather mean what do you mean, dear Fanny
Now tell me, my little pet. When we saw that woman at Martigny, how did you think she carried it off? Did you see what she decided on in a moment
No, Fanny
Then I'll tell you, Amy. She settled with herself, now I'll never refer to that meeting under such different circumstances, and I'll never pretend to have any idea that these are the same girls. That's her way out of a difficulty. What did I tell you when we came away from Harley Street that time? She is as insolent and false as any woman in the world. But in the first capacity, my love, she may find people who can match her
Not only that
but she gives the same charge to Young Sparkler; and doesn't let him come after me until she has got it thoroughly into his most ridiculous of all ridiculous noddles (for one really can't call it a head), that he is to pretend to have been first struck with me in that Inn Yard
Why
Why? Good gracious, my love
how can you ask? Don't you see that I may have become a rather desirable match for a noddle? And don't you see that she puts the deception upon us, and makes a pretence, while she shifts it from her own shoulders (very good shoulders they are too, I must say
of considering our feelings
But we can always go back to the plain truth
Yes, but if you please we won't
No; I am not going to have that done, Amy. The pretext is none of mine; it's hers, and she shall have enough of it
No
She shall find me go her way. She took it, and I'll follow it. And, with the blessing of fate and fortune, I'll go on improving that woman's acquaintance until I have given her maid, before her eyes, things from my dressmaker's ten times as handsome and expensive as she once gave me from hers
Do you mean to encourage Mr Sparkler, Fanny
Encourage him, my dear
that depends upon what you call encourage. No, I don't mean to encourage him. But I'll make a slave of him
I shall make him fetch and carry, my dear, and I shall make him subject to me. And if I don't make his mother subject to me, too, it shall not be my fault
Do you think -- dear Fanny, don't be offended, we are so comfortable together now -- that you can quite see the end of that course
I can't say I have so much as looked for it yet, my dear
all in good time. Such are my intentions. And really they have taken me so long to develop, that here we are at home. And Young Sparkler at the door, inquiring who is within. By the merest accident, of course
Not at all so
Thank you
she's uncommonly well -- at least, poorly
In Venice
In Rome
I am here by myself, myself. I came to call upon Mr Edward Dorrit myself. Indeed, upon Mr Dorrit likewise. In fact, upon the family
I hear you are acquainted, Mr Sparkler
with -- ha -- Mr Gowan. Mr Henry Gowan
Perfectly, sir
His mother and my mother are cronies in fact
If I had thought of it, Amy
you should have despatched a note to them, asking them to dine to-day. Some of our people could have -- ha -- fetched them, and taken them home. We could have spared a -- hum -- gondola for that purpose. I am sorry to have forgotten this. Pray remind me of them to-morrow
Pray, does Mr Henry Gowan paint -- ha -- Portraits
He has no particular walk
No speciality
No, thank you. I seldom take it
Well
It would be very agreeable to me to present a gentleman so connected, with some -- ha -- Testimonial of my desire to further his interests, and develop the -- hum -- germs of his genius. I think I must engage Mr Gowan to paint my picture. If the result should be -- ha -- mutually satisfactory, I might afterwards engage him to try his hand upon my family
Gowan has had a loss
since he was made happy to-day by a visit from fair ladies
A loss
A loss
His dog Lion
He is dead
Dead
That noble dog
Faith, dear ladies
somebody has poisoned that noble dog. He is as dead as the Doges
Amy
I am going to put something into your little head. You won't guess what it is, I suspect
I don't think that's likely, dear
Come, I'll give you a clue, child
Mrs General
Now, can you guess, Amy
No, dear. Unless I have done anything
Oh, our Amy, our Amy
What a timid little goose our Amy is! But this is nothing to laugh at. On the contrary, I am very cross, my dear
As it is not with me, Fanny, I don't mind
Ah! But I do mind
and so will you, Pet, when I enlighten you. Amy, has it never struck you that somebody is monstrously polite to Mrs General
Everybody is polite to Mrs General
Because
Because she freezes them into it
I don't mean that; quite different from that. Come! Has it never struck you, Amy, that Pa is monstrously polite to Mrs General
No
No; I dare say not. But he is
He is, Amy. And remember my words. Mrs General has designs on Pa
Dear Fanny, do you think it possible that Mrs General has designs on any one
Do I think it possible
My love, I know it. I tell you she has designs on Pa. And more than that, I tell you Pa considers her such a wonder, such a paragon of accomplishment, and such an acquisition to our family, that he is ready to get himself into a state of perfect infatuation with her at any moment. And that opens a pretty picture of things, I hope? Think of me with Mrs General for a Mama
Think of me with Mrs General for a Mama
Lord, my darling
You might as well ask me how I know when a man is struck with myself! But, of course I do know. It happens pretty often: but I always know it. I know this in much the same way, I suppose. At all events, I know it
You never heard Papa say anything
Say anything
My dearest, darling child, what necessity has he had, yet awhile, to say anything
And you have never heard Mrs General say anything
My goodness me, Amy
is she the sort of woman to say anything? Isn't it perfectly plain and clear that she has nothing to do at present but to hold herself upright, keep her aggravating gloves on, and go sweeping about? Say anything! If she had the ace of trumps in her hand at whist, she wouldn't say anything, child. It would come out when she played it
At least, you may be mistaken, Fanny. Now, may you not
O yes, I MAY be
O, you would never marry him, Fanny, under any circumstances
Upon my word, my dear
I wouldn't positively answer even for that. There's no knowing what might happen. Especially as I should have many opportunities, afterwards, of treating that woman, his mother, in her own style. Which I most decidedly should not be slow to avail myself of, Amy
It may be a defect in my mental vision, Blandois
but may I die if I see what you have to do with this
Death of my life
nor I neither, except that I thought I was serving my friend
By putting an upstart's hire in his pocket
Do you mean that? Tell your other friend to get his head painted for the sign of some public-house, and to get it done by a sign- painter. Who am I, and who is he
Professore
and who is Blandois
When you will
as you please. What have I to do with it? What is it to me
I can tell you what it is to me
Bread and cheese. One must eat! So come along, my Blandois
How are you, Sparkler
When you have to live by your mother wit, old boy, I hope you may get on better than I do
Sir
I am new to the trade, and not expert at its mysteries. I believe I ought to look at you in various lights, tell you you are a capital subject, and consider when I shall be sufficiently disengaged to devote myself with the necessary enthusiasm to the fine picture I mean to make of you. I assure you
I feel quite a traitor in the camp of those dear, gifted, good, noble fellows, my brother artists, by not doing the hocus-pocus better. But I have not been brought up to it, and it's too late to learn it. Now, the fact is, I am a very bad painter, but not much worse than the generality. If you are going to throw away a hundred guineas or so, I am as poor as a poor relation of great people usually is, and I shall be very much obliged to you, if you'll throw them away upon me. I'll do the best I can for the money; and if the best should be bad, why even then, you may probably have a bad picture with a small name to it, instead of a bad picture with a large name to it
You are very good
I have not forsworn society since I joined the brotherhood of the brush (the most delightful fellows on the face of the earth), and am glad enough to smell the old fine gunpowder now and then, though it did blow me into mid-air and my present calling. You'll not think, Mr Dorrit
that I am lapsing into the freemasonry of the craft -- for it's not so; upon my life I can't help betraying it wherever I go, though, by Jupiter, I love and honour the craft with all my might -- if I propose a stipulation as to time and place
Again you are very good
Mr Dorrit, I hear you are going to Rome. I am going to Rome, having friends there. Let me begin to do you the injustice I have conspired to do you, there -- not here. We shall all be hurried during the rest of our stay here; and though there's not a poorer man with whole elbows in Venice, than myself, I have not quite got all the Amateur out of me yet -- comprising the trade again, you see!-- and can't fall on to order, in a hurry, for the mere sake of the sixpences
I have a secret power in this quarter. I know what I know
You were going to talk about me. Ha! Behold me here to prevent it
Gowan is coming here
Not coming
Permit your devoted servant, when you leave here, to escort you home
Thank you: I am not going home
Not going home
Then I am forlorn
No, no, no, dear ladies. Behold me here expressly to prevent it
No, thank you. But, if you will please to see if my boatman is there, I shall be obliged to you
He killed the dog
Does Mr Gowan know it
No one knows it. Don't look towards me; look towards him. He will turn his face in a moment. No one knows it, but I am sure he did. You are
I -- I think so
So delighted
to resume an acquaintance so inauspiciously begun at Martigny
At Martigny, of course
Charmed, I am sure
I understand
from my son Edmund Sparkler, that he has already improved that chance occasion. He has returned quite transported with Venice
Indeed
Was he there long
I might refer that question to Mr Dorrit
Edmund having been so much indebted to him for rendering his stay agreeable
Oh, pray don't speak of it
I believe Papa had the pleasure of inviting Mr Sparkler twice or thrice,-- but it was nothing. We had so many people about us, and kept such open house, that if he had that pleasure, it was less than nothing
Except, my dear
except -- ha -- as it afforded me unusual gratification to -- hum -- show by any means, however slight and worthless, the -- ha, hum -- high estimation in which, in -- ha -- common with the rest of the world, I hold so distinguished and princely a character as Mr Merdle's
Mr Merdle
is quite a theme of Papa's, you must know, Mrs Merdle
I have been -- ha -- disappointed, madam
to understand from Mr Sparkler that there is no great -- hum -- probability of Mr Merdle's coming abroad
Why, indeed
he is so much engaged and in such request, that I fear not. He has not been able to get abroad for years. You, Miss Dorrit, I believe have been almost continually abroad for a long time
Oh dear yes
An immense number of years
So I should have inferred
Exactly
I trust, however
that if I have not the -- hum -- great advantage of becoming known to Mr Merdle on this side of the Alps or Mediterranean, I shall have that honour on returning to England. It is an honour I particularly desire and shall particularly esteem
Mr Merdle
will esteem it, I am sure, no less
having a lenient consideration
for my being no workman, Doyce
No workman
You would have been a thorough workman if you had given yourself to it. You have as good a head for understanding such things as I have met with
A totally uneducated one, I am sorry to add
I don't know that
and I wouldn't have you say that. No man of sense who has been generally improved, and has improved himself, can be called quite uneducated as to anything. I don't particularly favour mysteries. I would as soon, on a fair and clear explanation, be judged by one class of man as another, provided he had the qualification I have named
At all events
this sounds as if we were exchanging compliments, but we know we are not -- I shall have the advantage of as plain an explanation as can be given
Well
I'll try to make it so
Doyce, it came to this at last -- that the business was to be sunk with Heaven knows how many more wrecks, or begun all over again
Yes
that's what the noblemen and gentlemen made of it after a dozen years
And pretty fellows too
The usual thing
I must not make a martyr of myself, when I am one of so large a company
Relinquish it, or begin it all over again
That was exactly the long and the short of it
Then, my friend
it shall be begun all over again
No, no. Better put it by. Far better put it by. It will be heard of, one day. I can put it by. You forget, my good Clennam; I HAVE put it by. It's all at an end
Yes, Doyce
at an end as far as your efforts and rebuffs are concerned, I admit, but not as far as mine are. I am younger than you: I have only once set foot in that precious office, and I am fresh game for them. Come! I'll try them. You shall do exactly as you have been doing since we have been together. I will add (as I easily can) to what I have been doing, the attempt to get public justice done to you; and, unless I have some success to report, you shall hear no more of it
Hear, Hear, Hear
Read
And how do you both do, Papa and Mama Meagles
And when did you last hear from or about my poor fellow
And the dear pretty one
Have you later news of her than I have
I am sure
it's an unspeakable comfort to know they continue happy. My poor fellow is of such a restless disposition, and has been so used to roving about, and to being inconstant and popular among all manner of people, that it's the greatest comfort in life. I suppose they're as poor as mice, Papa Meagles
I hope not, ma'am. I hope they will manage their little income
Oh! my dearest Meagles
how can you, as a man of the world and one of the most business-like of human beings -- for you know you are business-like, and a great deal too much for us who are not
How can you talk about their managing their little means? My poor dear fellow! The idea of his managing hundreds! And the sweet pretty creature too. The notion of her managing! Papa Meagles! Don't
Well, ma'am
I am sorry to admit, then, that Henry certainly does anticipate his means
My dear good man -- I use no ceremony with you, because we are a kind of relations;-- positively, Mama Meagles
a kind of relations! My dear good man, in this world none of us can have everything our own way
Not everything. No, no; in this world we must not expect everything, Papa Meagles
And may I ask, ma'am
who does expect everything
Oh, nobody, nobody
I was going to say -- but you put me out. You interrupting Papa, what was I going to say
Ah! Yes, to be sure
You must remember that my poor fellow has always been accustomed to expectations. They may have been realised, or they may not have been realised
Let us say, then, may not have been realised
And now here's my poor fellow
receiving notice that he is to hold himself in expectation of a baby, and all the expenses attendant on such an addition to his family! Poor Henry! But it can't be helped now; it's too late to help it now. Only don't talk of anticipating means, Papa Meagles, as a discovery; because that would be too much
Too much, ma'am
There, there
Too much for my poor fellow's mother to bear at this time of day. They are fast married, and can't be unmarried. There, there! I know that! You needn't tell me that, Papa Meagles. I know it very well. What was it I said just now? That it was a great comfort they continued happy. It is to be hoped they will still continue happy. It is to be hoped Pretty One will do everything she can to make my poor fellow happy, and keep him contented. Papa and Mama Meagles, we had better say no more about it. We never did look at this subject from the same side, and we never shall. There, there! Now I am good
Mrs Gowan, ma'am
I have been a plain man all my life. If I was to try -- no matter whether on myself, on somebody else, or both -- any genteel mystifications, I should probably not succeed in them
Papa Meagles
probably not
Therefore, my good madam
I hope I may, without offence, ask to have no such mystification played off upon me
Mama Meagles
your good man is incomprehensible
Mother
you are inexpert, my dear, and it is not a fair match. Let me beg of you to remain quiet. Come, Mrs Gowan, come! Let us try to be sensible; let us try to be good-natured; let us try to be fair. Don't you pity Henry, and I won't pity Pet. And don't be one-sided, my dear madam; it's not considerate, it's not kind. Don't let us say that we hope Pet will make Henry happy, or even that we hope Henry will make Pet happy
but let us hope they will make each other happy
Yes, sure, and there leave it, father
Why, mother, no
not exactly there. I can't quite leave it there; I must say just half-a-dozen words more. Mrs Gowan, I hope I am not over-sensitive. I believe I don't look it
Indeed you do not
Thank you, ma'am; that's well. Notwithstanding which, I feel a little -- I don't want to use a strong word -- now shall I say hurt
Say what you like
It is perfectly indifferent to me
No, no, don't say that
because that's not responding amiably. I feel a little hurt when I hear references made to consequences having been foreseen, and to its being too late now, and so forth
Do you, Papa Meagles
I am not surprised
Well, ma'am
I was in hopes you would have been at least surprised, because to hurt me wilfully on so tender a subject is surely not generous
I am not responsible
for your conscience, you know
If I am unluckily obliged to carry a cap about with me, which is yours and fits you
don't blame me for its pattern, Papa Meagles, I beg
Why, good Lord, ma'am
that's as much as to state
Now, Papa Meagles, Papa Meagles
Mother
Do you hear this! Arthur! Do you hear this
The room being of a convenient size
and quite charmingly adapted in all respects to conversation, I should imagine I am audible in any part of it
Ma'am, I am very unwilling to revive them, but I must remind you what my opinions and my course were, all along, on that unfortunate subject
O, my dear sir
they were well understood by me, I assure you
I never, ma'am
knew unhappiness before that time, I never knew anxiety before that time. It was a time of such distress to me that
I understood the whole affair
As you have appealed to Mr Clennam, I may appeal to Mr Clennam, too. He knows whether I did or not
I am very unwilling
to take any share in this discussion, more especially because I wish to preserve the best understanding and the clearest relations with Mr Henry Gowan. I have very strong reasons indeed, for entertaining that wish. Mrs Gowan attributed certain views of furthering the marriage to my friend here, in conversation with me before it took place; and I endeavoured to undeceive her. I represented that I knew him (as I did and do) to be strenuously opposed to it, both in opinion and action
You see
You see? Very good! Now Papa and Mama Meagles both
allow me to take the liberty of putting an end to this rather formidable controversy. I will not say another word upon its merits. I will only say that it is an additional proof of what one knows from all experience; that this kind of thing never answers -- as my poor fellow himself would say, that it never pays -- in one word, that it never does
It is in vain
for people to attempt to get on together who have such extremely different antecedents; who are jumbled against each other in this accidental, matrimonial sort of way; and who cannot look at the untoward circumstance which has shaken them together in the same light. It never does
Permit me to say, ma'am
No, don't
Why should you! It is an ascertained fact. It never does. I will therefore, if you please, go my way, leaving you to yours. I shall at all times be happy to receive my poor fellow's pretty wife, and I shall always make a point of being on the most affectionate terms with her. But as to these terms, semi-family and semi-stranger, semi-goring and semi- boring, they form a state of things quite amusing in its impracticability. I assure you it never does
Arthur, my dear boy
Mother and I have been talking this over, and we don't feel comfortable in remaining as we are. That elegant connection of ours -- that dear lady who was here yesterday
I understand
Even that affable and condescending ornament of society
may misrepresent us, we are afraid. We could bear a great deal, Arthur, for her sake; but we think we would rather not bear that, if it was all the same to her
Good
Go on
You see
it might put us wrong with our son-in-law, it might even put us wrong with our daughter, and it might lead to a great deal of domestic trouble. You see, don't you
Yes, indeed
there is much reason in what you say
So we are very much disposed, are Mother and I
to pack up bags and baggage and go among the Allongers and Marshongers once more. I mean, we are very much disposed to be off, strike right through France into Italy, and see our Pet
And I don't think
that you could do better. And if you ask me for my advice, it is that you set off to-morrow
Is it really, though
Mother, this is being backed in an idea
The fact is, besides, Arthur
that my son-in-law is already in debt again, and that I suppose I must clear him again. It may be as well, even on this account, that I should step over there, and look him up in a friendly way. Then again, here's Mother foolishly anxious (and yet naturally too) about Pet's state of health, and that she should not be left to feel lonesome at the present time. It's undeniably a long way off, Arthur, and a strange place for the poor love under all the circumstances. Let her be as well cared for as any lady in that land, still it is a long way off. just as Home is Home though it's never so Homely, why you see
Rome is Rome, though it's never so Romely
All perfectly true
and all sufficient reasons for going
said Mr Meagles, shaking his head, 'a deal of pulling through. I stick at everything beyond a noun-substantive -- and I stick at him, if he's at all a tight one
Now I think of it
there's Cavalletto. He shall go with you, if you like. I could not afford to lose him, but you will bring him safe back
Well! I am much obliged to you, my boy
but I think not. No, I think I'll be pulled through by Mother. Cavallooro (I stick at his very name to start with, and it sounds like the chorus to a comic song) is so necessary to you, that I don't like the thought of taking him away. More than that, there's no saying when we may come home again; and it would never do to take him away for an indefinite time. The cottage is not what it was. It only holds two little people less than it ever did, Pet, and her poor unfortunate maid Tattycoram; but it seems empty now. Once out of it, there's no knowing when we may come back to it. No, Arthur, I'll be pulled through by Mother
If you would come down and stay here for a change, when it wouldn't trouble you
I should be glad to think -- and so would Mother too, I know -- that you were brightening up the old place with a bit of life it was used to when it was full, and that the Babies on the wall there had a kind eye upon them sometimes. You so belong to the spot, and to them, Arthur, and we should every one of us have been so happy if it had fallen out -- but, let us see -- how's the weather for travelling now
I have something to tell you, Mr Clennam, that will surprise you
What is it, Mrs Tickit
Sir
if ever I saw the led away and deluded child in my life, I saw her identically in the dusk of yesterday evening
You don't mean Tatty
Coram yes I do
Where
Mr Clennam
I was a little heavy in my eyes, being that I was waiting longer than customary for my cup of tea which was then preparing by Mary Jane. I was not sleeping, nor what a person would term correctly, dozing. I was more what a person would strictly call watching with my eyes closed
Exactly. Well
Well, sir
I was thinking of one thing and thinking of another. just as you yourself might. just as anybody might
Precisely so
Well
And when I do think of one thing and do think of another
I hardly need to tell you, Mr Clennam, that I think of the family. Because, dear me! a person's thoughts
however they may stray, will go more or less on what is uppermost in their minds. They will do it, sir, and a person can't prevent them
You find it so yourself, sir, I'll be bold to say
and we all find it so. It an't our stations in life that changes us, Mr Clennam; thoughts is free!-- As I was saying, I was thinking of one thing and thinking of another, and thinking very much of the family. Not of the family in the present times only, but in the past times too. For when a person does begin thinking of one thing and thinking of another in that manner, as it's getting dark, what I say is, that all times seem to be present, and a person must get out of that state and consider before they can say which is which
In consequence of which
when I quivered my eyes and saw her actual form and figure looking in at the gate, I let them close again without so much as starting, for that actual form and figure came so pat to the time when it belonged to the house as much as mine or your own, that I never thought at the moment of its having gone away. But, sir, when I quivered my eyes again, and saw that it wasn't there, then it all flooded upon me with a fright, and I jumped up
You ran out directly
I ran out
as fast as ever my feet would carry me; and if you'll credit it, Mr Clennam, there wasn't in the whole shining Heavens, no not so much as a finger of that young woman
Went to and fro, and high and low
and saw no sign of her
If I pinch myself for it, sir, that is my business. Confine yourself to yours, and ask me no question
By Heaven, ma'am
It was my profound respect for the strength of your character, and my admiration of your beauty
I want neither the one nor the other from any one
and certainly not from you of all creatures. Go on with your report
Am I pardoned
You are paid
and that is all you want
You must wait until to-morrow
A thousand pardons
My faith! Then it's not convenient to-night
No. I tell you I must get it before I can give it to you
It's a little inconvenient
A little. But, Holy Blue! that's nothing in such a service. I am without money to- night, by chance. I have a good banker in this city, but I would not wish to draw upon the house until the time when I shall draw for a round sum
Harriet
arrange with him -- this gentleman here -- for sending him some money to-morrow
Drat him, if he an't come back again
My goodness Arthur
Doyce and Clennam what a start and a surprise for though not far from the machinery and foundry business and surely might be taken sometimes if at no other time about mid-day when a glass of sherry and a humble sandwich of whatever cold meat in the larder might not come amiss nor taste the worse for being friendly for you know you buy it somewhere and wherever bought a profit must be made or they would never keep the place it stands to reason without a motive still never seen and learnt now not to be expected, for as Mr F. himself said if seeing is believing not seeing is believing too and when you don't see you may fully believe you're not remembered not that I expect you Arthur Doyce and Clennam to remember me why should I for the days are gone but bring another teacup here directly and tell her fresh toast and pray sit near the fire
And now pray tell me something all you know
about the good dear quiet little thing and all the changes of her fortunes carriage people now no doubt and horses without number most romantic, a coat of arms of course and wild beasts on their hind legs showing it as if it was a copy they had done with mouths from ear to ear good gracious, and has she her health which is the first consideration after all for what is wealth without it Mr F. himself so often saying when his twinges came that sixpence a day and find yourself and no gout so much preferable, not that he could have lived on anything like it being the last man or that the previous little thing though far too familiar an expression now had any tendency of that sort much too slight and small but looked so fragile bless her
She is in Italy, with all her family, Flora
In Italy is she really
with the grapes growing everywhere and lava necklaces and bracelets too that land of poetry with burning mountains picturesque beyond belief though if the organ-boys come away from the neighbourhood not to be scorched nobody can wonder being so young and bringing their white mice with them most humane, and is she really in that favoured land with nothing but blue about her and dying gladiators and Belvederes though Mr F. himself did not believe for his objection when in spirits was that the images could not be true there being no medium between expensive quantities of linen badly got up and all in creases and none whatever, which certainly does not seem probable though perhaps in consequence of the extremes of rich and poor which may account for it
Venice Preserved too
I think you have been there is it well or ill preserved for people differ so and Maccaroni if they really eat it like the conjurors why not cut it shorter, you are acquainted Arthur -- dear Doyce and Clennam at least not dear and most assuredly not Doyce for I have not the pleasure but pray excuse me -- acquainted I believe with Mantua what has it got to do with Mantua-making for I never have been able to conceive
I believe there is no connection, Flora, between the two
Upon your word no isn't there I never did but that's like me I run away with an idea and having none to spare I keep it, alas there was a time dear Arthur that is to say decidedly not dear nor Arthur neither but you understand me when one bright idea gilded the what's-his-name horizon of et cetera but it is darkly clouded now and all is over
I have the greatest desire, Flora, to speak to some one who is now in this house -- with Mr Casby no doubt. Some one whom I saw come in, and who, in a misguided and deplorable way, has deserted the house of a friend of mine
Papa sees so many and such odd people
that I shouldn't venture to go down for any one but you Arthur but for you I would willingly go down in a diving-bell much more a dining- room and will come back directly if you'll mind and at the same time not mind Mr F
None of your eyes at me
Take that
That' was the crust of the piece of toast. Clennam accepted the boon with a look of gratitude, and held it in his hand under the pressure of a little embarrassment, which was not relieved when Mr F
He has a proud stomach, this chap! He's too proud a chap to eat it
He has a proud stomach, this chap
Give him a meal of chaff
Oh! I don't think he would like that, aunt
Give him a meal of chaff, I tell you
It's the only thing for a proud stomach. Let him eat up every morsel. Drat him, give him a meal of chaff
a chap
proud stomach
Such an inconvenient staircase and so many corner-stairs Arthur
would you object to putting your arm round me under my pelerine
Arthur, for mercy's sake, don't breathe it to papa
Mr Clennam, I am glad to see you. I hope you are well, sir, I hope you are well. Please to sit down, please to sit down
I had hoped, sir
not to find you alone
Ah, indeed
Ah, indeed
I told you so you know papa
Ah, to be sure
Yes, just so. Ah, to be sure
Pray, sir
is Miss Wade gone
Miss --? Oh, you call her Wade
Highly proper
What do you call her
Wade
Oh, always Wade
I beg your pardon, Mr Casby
Not so, not so
not so
But, Miss Wade had an attendant with her -- a young woman brought up by friends of mine, over whom her influence is not considered very salutary, and to whom I should be glad to have the opportunity of giving the assurance that she has not yet forfeited the interest of those protectors
Really, really
Will you therefore be so good as to give me the address of Miss Wade
Dear, dear, dear
how very unfortunate! If you had only sent in to me when they were here! I observed the young woman, Mr Clennam. A fine full-coloured young woman, Mr Clennam, with very dark hair and very dark eyes. If I mistake not, if I mistake not
If you would be so good as to give me the address
Dear, dear, dear
Tut, tut, tut! what a pity, what a pity! I have no address, sir. Miss Wade mostly lives abroad, Mr Clennam. She has done so for some years, and she is (if I may say so of a fellow-creature and a lady) fitful and uncertain to a fault, Mr Clennam. I may not see her again for a long, long time. I may never see her again. What a pity, what a pity
Mr Casby, could you, for the satisfaction of the friends I have mentioned, and under any obligation of secrecy that you may consider it your duty to impose, give me any information at all touching Miss Wade? I have seen her abroad, and I have seen her at home, but I know nothing of her. Could you give me any account of her whatever
None
None at all. Dear, dear, dear! What a real pity that she stayed so short a time, and you delayed! As confidential agency business, agency business, I have occasionally paid this lady money; but what satisfaction is it to you, sir, to know that
Truly, none at all
Truly
none at all, sir. You hit the wise answer, Mr Clennam. Truly, none at all, sir
I suppose they were really gone, Pancks
Yes
They were really gone
Does he know where to find that lady
Can't say. I should think so
I expect
'em. She knows nothing about any relative whatever. Never did. Never will
Mr Casby could enlighten her, perhaps
May be
I expect so, but don't know. He has long had money (not overmuch as I make out) in trust to dole out to her when she can't do without it. Sometimes she's proud and won't touch it for a length of time; sometimes she's so poor that she must have it. She writhes under her life. A woman more angry, passionate, reckless, and revengeful never lived. She came for money to-night. Said she had peculiar occasion for it
I think
I by chance know what occasion -- I mean into whose pocket the money is to go
Indeed
If it's a compact, I recommend that party to be exact in it. I wouldn't trust myself to that woman, young and handsome as she is, if I had wronged her; no, not for twice my proprietor's money! Unless
I had a lingering illness on me, and wanted to get it over
The wonder is to me
that she has never done for my proprietor, as the only person connected with her story she can lay hold of. Mentioning that, I may tell you, between ourselves, that I am sometimes tempted to do for him myself
Dear me, Pancks, don't say that
Understand me
I don't mean, cut his throat. But by all that's precious, if he goes too far, I'll cut his hair
Pardon! Not my fault
Who passes by this road so late? Compagnon de la Majolaine; Who passes by this road so late? Always gay
You are impatient, sir
I am, sir. Death of my life, sir
it's my character to be impatient
Why, Arthur
Not you sure? Ah, Lord save us! No
Him again
It's true! Him again, dear Mrs Flintwinch
Open the door, and let me take my dear friend Jeremiah to my arms! Open the door, and let me hasten myself to embrace my Flintwinch
He's not at home
Fetch him
Despatch then! Achieve then! Bring my Flintwinch! Announce me to my lady
Pray tell me, Affery
who is this gentleman
Pray tell me, Affery
who -- ha, ha, ha!-- who is this gentleman
Affery, let them both come up. Arthur, come straight to me
Arthur
The son of my lady? I am the all-devoted of the son of my lady
Madame
do me the honour to present me to Monsieur, your son. It appears to me, madame, that Monsieur, your son, is disposed to complain of me. He is not polite
Sir
whoever you are, and however you come to be here, if I were the master of this house I would lose no time in placing you on the outside of it
But you are not
Unfortunately for the gratification of your unreasonable temper, you are not the master, Arthur
I make no claim to be, mother. If I object to this person's manner of conducting himself here, and object to it so much, that if I had any authority here I certainly would not suffer him to remain a minute, I object on your account
In the case of objection being necessary
I could object for myself. And of course I should
You have no right
to speak to the prejudice of any gentleman (least of all a gentleman from another country), because he does not conform to your standard, or square his behaviour by your rules. It is possible that the gentleman may, on similar grounds, object to you
I hope so
The gentleman
on a former occasion brought a letter of recommendation to us from highly esteemed and responsible correspondents. I am perfectly unacquainted with the gentleman's object in coming here at present. I am entirely ignorant of it, and cannot be supposed likely to be able to form the remotest guess at its nature
but, when the gentleman proceeds to explain his object, as I shall beg him to have the goodness to do to myself and Flintwinch, when Flintwinch returns, it will prove, no doubt, to be one more or less in the usual way of our business, which it will be both our business and our pleasure to advance. It can be nothing else
We shall see, madame
We shall see
The gentleman is acquainted with Flintwinch; and when the gentleman was in London last, I remember to have heard that he and Flintwinch had some entertainment or good-fellowship together. I am not in the way of knowing much that passes outside this room, and the jingle of little worldly things beyond it does not much interest me; but I remember to have heard that
Right, madame. It is true
Therefore, Arthur
the gentleman comes here as an acquaintance, and no stranger; and it is much to be regretted that your unreasonable temper should have found offence in him. I regret it. I say so to the gentleman. You will not say so, I know; therefore I say it for myself and Flintwinch, since with us two the gentleman's business lies
How goes it, my cherished friend
How goes the world, my Flintwinch? Rose-coloured? So much the better, so much the better! Ah, but you look charming! Ah, but you look young and fresh as the flowers of Spring! Ah, good little boy! Brave child, brave child
I had a presentiment, last time, that we should be better and more intimately acquainted. Is it coming on you, Flintwinch? Is it yet coming on
Why, no, sir
Not unusually. Hadn't you better be seated? You have been calling for some more of that port, sir, I guess
Ah, Little joker! Little pig
Ha ha ha ha
Please to leave us to our business, Arthur
Mother, I do so with reluctance
Never mind with what
or with what not. Please to leave us. Come back at any other time when you may consider it a duty to bury half an hour wearily here. Good night
I leave your -- your business acquaintance in my mother's room, Mr Flintwinch
with a great deal of surprise and a great deal of unwillingness
Good night, mother
Good night
I had a friend once, my good comrade Flintwinch
I had a friend once, who had heard so much of the dark side of this city and its ways, that he wouldn't have confided himself alone by night with two people who had an interest in getting him under the ground -- my faith! not even in a respectable house like this -- unless he was bodily too strong for them. Bah! What a poltroon, my Flintwinch! Eh
A cur, sir
Agreed! A cur. But he wouldn't have done it, my Flintwinch, unless he had known them to have the will to silence him, without the power. He wouldn't have drunk from a glass of water under such circumstances -- not even in a respectable house like this, my Flintwinch -- unless he had seen one of them drink first, and swallow too
For Heaven's sake, Affery
what is going on here
Don't ask me anything, Arthur. I've been in a dream for ever so long. Go away
Don't ask me anything. Go away
because he had a daughter of his own, though she was not so pretty
O how many times when the shadow of the wall was falling on our room, and when that weary tread of feet was going up and down the yard -- O how many times this place was just as quiet and lovely as it is to-day
Are such the signs you trust, and love to honour; this head, these eyes, this mode of speech, the tone and manner of this man? You are the levers of the Circumlocution Office, and the rulers of men. When half-a-dozen of you fall out by the ears, it seems that mother earth can give birth to no other rulers. Does your qualification lie in the superior knowledge of men which accepts, courts, and puffs this man? Or, if you are competent to judge aright the signs I never fail to show you when he appears among you, is your superior honesty your qualification
Let us dine at our dear Merdle's next Thursday. Whom shall we have
I have accepted office to look at this which is now before me, and to look at nothing less than this
Indeed
how so
Nay
If you don't know, how can I know? You are in the innermost sanctuary of the temple; I am one of the admiring concourse on the plain without
Our illustrious host and friend
our shining mercantile star;-- going into politics
Going? He has been in Parliament some time, you know
True
he has been in Parliament for some time. Yet hitherto our star has been a vacillating and wavering star? Humph
Just so, just so
and therefore I spoke of our sitting in Banco to take a special argument -- meaning this to be a high and solemn occasion, when, as Captain Macheath says, "the judges are met: a terrible show!" We lawyers are sufficiently liberal, you see, to quote the Captain, though the Captain is severe upon us. Nevertheless, I think I could put in evidence an admission of the Captain's
an admission of the Captain's that Law, in the gross, is at least intended to be impartial. For what says the Captain, if I quote him correctly -- and if not
Assuredly not one of our Westminster Hall authorities
but still no despicable one to a man possessing the largely-practical Mr Merdle's knowledge of the world
As to pears, now
Your mentioning pears recalls to my remembrance a pear-tree
And so we pass, through the various changes of life, from Eton pears to Parliamentary pairs
He is away with Mrs Merdle
It is not indispensable for him to be on the spot
The magic name of Merdle
no doubt will suffice for all
Why -- yes -- I believe so
I believe the people in my interest down there will not make any difficulty
Model people
I am glad you approve of them
And the people of those other two places, now
we lawyers are always curious, always inquisitive, always picking up odds and ends for our patchwork minds, since there is no knowing when and where they may fit into some corner;-- the people of those other two places now? Do they yield so laudably to the vast and cumulative influence of such enterprise and such renown; do those little rills become absorbed so quietly and easily, and, as it were by the influence of natural laws, so beautifully, in the swoop of the majestic stream as it flows upon its wondrous way enriching the surrounding lands; that their course is perfectly to be calculated, and distinctly to be predicated
They are perfectly aware, sir, of their duty to Society. They will return anybody I send to them for that purpose
Cheering to know
Cheering to know
Pray
what is this story I have heard of a gentleman long confined in a debtors' prison proving to be of a wealthy family, and having come into the inheritance of a large sum of money? I have met with a variety of allusions to it. Do you know anything of it, Ferdinand
I only know this much
that he has given the Department with which I have the honour to be associated
no end of trouble, and has put us into innumerable fixes
Fixes
Fixes
A very perplexing business indeed
What
was the character of his business; what was the nature of these -- a -- Fixes, Ferdinand
Oh, it's a good story, as a story
as good a thing of its kind as need be. This Mr Dorrit (his name is Dorrit) had incurred a responsibility to us, ages before the fairy came out of the Bank and gave him his fortune, under a bond he had signed for the performance of a contract which was not at all performed. He was a partner in a house in some large way -- spirits, or buttons, or wine, or blacking, or oatmeal, or woollen, or pork, or hooks and eyes, or iron, or treacle, or shoes, or something or other that was wanted for troops, or seamen, or somebody -- and the house burst, and we being among the creditors, detainees were lodged on the part of the Crown in a scientific manner, and all the rest Of it. When the fairy had appeared and he wanted to pay us off, Egad we had got into such an exemplary state of checking and counter-checking, signing and counter-signing, that it was six months before we knew how to take the money, or how to give a receipt for it. It was a triumph of public business
You never saw such a lot of forms in your life. "Why," the attorney said to me one day, "if I wanted this office to give me two or three thousand pounds instead of take it, I couldn't have more trouble about it." "You are right, old fellow," I told him, "and in future you'll know that we have something to do here
May I ask
if Mr Darrit -- or Dorrit -- has any family
He has two daughters, my lord
Oh! you are acquainted with him
Mrs Merdle is. Mr Sparkler is, too. In fact
I rather believe that one of the young ladies has made an impression on Edmund Sparkler. He is susceptible, and -- I -- think -- the conquest
Your health sir
Did you ever see such a thing as this
Often
Unless I butt one of them into an appointed corner, and you butt the other
it will not come off after all
Very good
I'll butt Merdle, if you like; but not my lord
Confound them both
I want to get away. Why the deuce can't they come together! They both know what they want and mean to do. Look at them
I must get Merdle's doctor to catch and secure him, I suppose
and then I must lay hold of my illustrious kinsman, and decoy him if I can -- drag him if I can't -- to the conference
Since you do me the honour
Done
Done
Ferdinand
I hope you were not bored by my pears
Eton, my lord, or Parliamentary
Now, then
I haven't got it, Mr Pancks
I tell you the truth, sir, when I say I haven't got so much as a single sixpence of it to bless myself with
This won't do, you know
You don't expect it will do; do you
No, sir
My proprietor isn't going to stand this, you know
He don't send me here for this. Pay up! Come
Ah, Mr Pancks. If I was the rich gentleman whose name is in everybody's mouth -- if my name was Merdle, sir -- I'd soon pay up, and be glad to do it
If I was Mr Merdle, sir, you wouldn't have cause to complain of me then. No, believe me
I'd pay up so quick then, Mr Pancks, that you shouldn't have to ask me
Well! You'll have the broker in, and be turned out; that's what'll happen to you. It's no use talking to me about Mr Merdle. You are not Mr Merdle, any more than I am
No, sir
I only wish you were him, sir
Only wish you were him, sir
You'd be easier with us if you were Mr Merdle, sir
and it would be better for all parties. Better for our sakes, and better for yours, too. You wouldn't have to worry no one, then, sir. You wouldn't have to worry us, and you wouldn't have to worry yourself. You'd be easier in your own mind, sir, and you'd leave others easier, too, you would, if you were Mr Merdle
I guessed it was you, Mr Pancks
for it's quite your regular night; ain't it? Here's father, you see, come out to serve at the sound of the bell, like a brisk young shopman. Ain't he looking well? Father's more pleased to see you than if you was a customer, for he dearly loves a gossip; and when it turns upon Miss Dorrit, he loves it all the more. You never heard father in such voice as he is at present
He gave us Strephon last night to that degree that Plornish gets up and makes him this speech across the table. "John Edward Nandy," says Plornish to father, "I never heard you come the warbles as I have heard you come the warbles this night." An't it gratifying, Mr Pancks, though; really
Merdle, Millions
And how are you getting on, Mrs Plornish
since we're mentioning millions
Very steady, indeed, sir
Father, dear, would you go into the shop and tidy the window a little bit before tea, your taste being so beautiful
It's quite true that the business is very steady indeed
and has a excellent connection. The only thing that stands in its way, sir, is the Credit
Hallo, old chap
Altro, old boy! What's the matter
E ask know
What go wrong
Come into the happy little cottage, Padrona
Come there
E ope you no fright
What appen? Peaka Padrona
I have seen some one
I have rincontrato him
Im? Oo him
A bad man. A baddest man. I have hoped that I should never see him again
Ow you know him bad
It does not matter, Padrona. I know it too well
E see you
No. I hope not. I believe not
He says
that he has met a bad man, but he hopes the bad man didn't see him -- Why
why ope bad man no see
Padrona, dearest
do not ask, I pray. Once again I say it matters not. I have fear of this man. I do not wish to see him, I do not wish to be known of him -- never again! Enough, most beautiful. Leave it
But you are tired, sir. Let me make you a cup of tea
if you'd condescend to take such a thing in the cottage; and many thanks to you, too, I am sure, for bearing us in mind so kindly
John Edward Nandy
Sir. It's not too often that you see unpretending actions without a spark of pride, and therefore when you see them give grateful honour unto the same, being that if you don't, and live to want 'em, it follows serve you right
I am heartily of your opinion, Thomas, and which your opinion is the same as mine, and therefore no more words and not being backwards with that opinion, which opinion giving it as yes, Thomas, yes, is the opinion in which yourself and me must ever be unanimously jined by all, and where there is not difference of opinion there can be none but one opinion, which fully no, Thomas, Thomas, no
If you will come home with me, Pancks
and will share what dinner or supper there is, it will be next door to an act of charity; for I am weary and out of sorts to-night
Ask me to do a greater thing than that
when you want it done, and I'll do it
I am quite alone
My partner is away, busily engaged at a distance on his branch of our business, and you shall do just as you like
Thank you. You didn't take particular notice of little Altro just now; did you
No. Why
He's a bright fellow, and I like him
Something has gone amiss with him to-day. Have you any idea of any cause that can have overset him
You surprise me! None whatever
Perhaps you'll ask him
as he's a stranger
Ask him what
What he has on his mind
I ought first to see for myself that he has something on his mind, I think
I have found him in every way so diligent, so grateful (for little enough), and so trustworthy, that it might look like suspecting him. And that would be very unjust
True
But, I say! You oughtn't to be anybody's proprietor, Mr Clennam. You're much too delicate
For the matter of that
I have not a large proprietary share in Cavalletto. His carving is his livelihood. He keeps the keys of the Factory, watches it every alternate night, and acts as a sort of housekeeper to it generally; but we have little work in the way of his ingenuity, though we give him what we have. No! I am rather his adviser than his proprietor. To call me his standing counsel and his banker would be nearer the fact. Speaking of being his banker, is it not curious, Pancks, that the ventures which run just now in so many people's heads, should run even in little Cavalletto's
Ventures
What ventures
These Merdle enterprises
Oh! Investments
Ay, ay! I didn't know you were speaking of investments
Yes. Investments is the word
Ah
I am going back to it, you see
Yes. I see you are going back to it
Wasn't it a curious thing that they should run in little Altro's head? Eh
Wasn't that how you put it
That was what I said
Ay! But think of the whole Yard having got it. Think of their all meeting me with it, on my collecting days, here and there and everywhere. Whether they pay, or whether they don't pay. Merdle, Merdle, Merdle. Always Merdle
Very strange how these runs on an infatuation prevail
An't it
Because you see these people don't understand the subject
Not a bit
Not a bit
Know nothing of figures. Know nothing of money questions. Never made a calculation. Never worked it, sir
If they had
If they had
I thought you -- spoke
Not at all
Not yet. I may in a minute. If they had
If they had
why, I suppose they would have known better
How so, Mr Clennam
They're right, you know. They don't mean to be, but they're right
Right in sharing Cavalletto's inclination to speculate with Mr Merdle
Per-fectly, sir
I've gone into it. I've made the calculations. I've worked it. They're safe and genuine
Do you mean, my good Pancks
that you would put that thousand pounds of yours, let us say, for instance, out at this kind of interest
Certainly
Already done it, sir
I tell you, Mr Clennam, I've gone into it
He's a man of immense resources -- enormous capital -- government influence. They're the best schemes afloat. They're safe. They're certain
Well
You surprise me
Bah
Don't say that, sir. It's what you ought to do yourself! Why don't you do as I do
And you have really invested
your thousand pounds, Pancks
To be sure, sir
And only wish it ten
A hard case it has been, and a hard case it is on Doyce
Hard indeed
But you manage for him, Mr Clennam
How do you mean
Manage the money part of the business
Yes. As well as I can
Manage it better, sir
Recompense him for his toils and disappointments. Give him the chances of the time. He'll never benefit himself in that way, patient and preoccupied workman. He looks to you, sir
I do my best, Pancks
As to duly weighing and considering these new enterprises of which I have had no experience, I doubt if I am fit for it, I am growing old
Growing old
Ha, ha
Growing old
Hear, hear, hear! Old? Hear him, hear him
Young, old, or middle-aged, Pancks
I am in a very anxious and uncertain state; a state that even leads me to doubt whether anything now seeming to belong to me, may be really mine. Shall I tell you how this is? Shall I put a great trust in you
You shall, sir
if you believe me worthy of it
I do
You may
Brings me back, sir
brings me back, sir, to the Investments! I don't say anything of your making yourself poor to repair a wrong you never committed. That's you. A man must be himself. But I say this, fearing you may want money to save your own blood from exposure and disgrace -- make as much as you can
Be as rich as you can, sir
Be as rich as you honestly can. It's your duty. Not for your sake, but for the sake of others. Take time by the forelock. Poor Mr Doyce (who really is growing old) depends upon you. Your relative depends upon you. You don't know what depends upon you
Well, well, well
Enough for to-night
One word more, Mr Clennam
and then enough for to-night. Why should you leave all the gains to the gluttons, knaves, and impostors? Why should you leave all the gains that are to be got to my proprietor and the like of him? Yet you're always doing it. When I say you, I mean such men as you. You know you are. Why, I see it every day of my life. I see nothing else. It's my business to see it. Therefore I say
Go in and win
But what of Go in and lose
Can't be done, sir
I have looked into it. Name up everywhere -- immense resources -- enormous capital -- great position -- high connection -- government influence. Can't be done
looked into it
ought to take it up
Dear Fanny, what is the matter? Tell me
Matter, you little Mole
If you were not the blindest of the blind, you would have no occasion to ask me. The idea of daring to pretend to assert that you have eyes in your head, and yet ask me what's the matter
Is it Mr Sparkler, dear
Mis-ter Spark-ler
No, Miss Bat, it is not
I don't think you are well to-night, dear Fanny
Stuff and nonsense
I am as well as you are. Perhaps I might say better, and yet make no boast of it
Amy, you're an Angel
But, I tell you what, my Pet
it now comes to this; that things cannot and shall not go on as they are at present going on, and that there must be an end of this, one way or another
Let us talk about it
Quite so, my dear
Let us talk about it. I am rational again now, and you shall advise me. Will you advise me, my sweet child
I will, Fanny, as well as I can
Thank you, dearest Amy
You are my anchor
My love
our characters and points of view are sufficiently different (kiss me again, my darling), to make it very probable that I shall surprise you by what I am going to say. What I am going to say, my dear, is, that notwithstanding our property, we labour, socially speaking, under disadvantages. You don't quite understand what I mean, Amy
I have no doubt I shall
after a few words more
Well, my dear, what I mean is, that we are, after all, newcomers into fashionable life
I am sure, Fanny
no one need find that out in you
Well, my dear child, perhaps not
though it's most kind and most affectionate in you, you precious girl, to say so
But you are
as is well known, the dearest little thing that ever was! To resume, my child. Pa is extremely gentlemanly and extremely well informed, but he is, in some trifling respects, a little different from other gentlemen of his fortune: partly on account of what he has gone through, poor dear: partly, I fancy, on account of its often running in his mind that other people are thinking about that, while he is talking to them. Uncle, my love, is altogether unpresentable. Though a dear creature to whom I am tenderly attached, he is, socially speaking, shocking. Edward is frightfully expensive and dissipated. I don't mean that there is anything ungenteel in that itself -- far from it -- but I do mean that he doesn't do it well, and that he doesn't, if I may so express myself, get the money's-worth in the sort of dissipated reputation that attaches to him
Poor Edward
Yes. And poor you and me, too
Very true! Then, my dear, we have no mother, and we have a Mrs General. And I tell you again, darling, that Mrs General, if I may reverse a common proverb and adapt it to her, is a cat in gloves who WILL catch mice. That woman, I am quite sure and confident, will be our mother-in-law
I can hardly think, Fanny
Now, don't argue with me about it, Amy
because I know better
To resume once more, my dear. It then becomes a question with me (I am proud and spirited, Amy, as you very well know: too much so, I dare say) whether I shall make up my mind to take it upon myself to carry the family through
How
I will not
submit to be mother-in-lawed by Mrs General; and I will not submit to be, in any respect whatever, either patronised or tormented by Mrs Merdle
That he has somehow or other, and how is of no consequence, attained a very good position, no one can deny. That it is a very good connection, no one can deny. And as to the question of clever or not clever, I doubt very much whether a clever husband would be suitable to me. I cannot submit. I should not be able to defer to him enough
O, my dear Fanny
If you loved any one, all this feeling would change. If you loved any one, you would no more be yourself, but you would quite lose and forget yourself in your devotion to him. If you loved him, Fanny
O, indeed
Really? Bless me, how much some people know of some subjects! They say every one has a subject, and I certainly seem to have hit upon yours, Amy. There, you little thing, I was only in fun
but don't you be a silly puss, and don't you think flightily and eloquently about degenerate impossibilities. There! Now, I'll go back to myself
Dear Fanny, let me say first, that I would far rather we worked for a scanty living again than I would see you rich and married to Mr Sparkler
Let you say, my dear
Why, of course, I will let you say anything. There is no constraint upon you, I hope. We are together to talk it over. And as to marrying Mr Sparkler, I have not the slightest intention of doing so to-night, my dear, or to-morrow morning either
But at some time
At no time, for anything I know at present
You talk about the clever men, you little thing! It's all very fine and easy to talk about the clever men; but where are they? I don't see them anywhere near me
My dear Fanny, so short a time
Short time or long time
I am impatient of our situation. I don't like our situation, and very little would induce me to change it. Other girls, differently reared and differently circumstanced altogether, might wonder at what I say or may do. Let them. They are driven by their lives and characters; I am driven by mine
Fanny, my dear Fanny, you know that you have qualities to make you the wife of one very superior to Mr Sparkler
Amy, my dear Amy
I know that I wish to have a more defined and distinct position, in which I can assert myself with greater effect against that insolent woman
Would you therefore -- forgive my asking, Fanny -- therefore marry her son
Why, perhaps
One thing I could certainly do, my child: I could make her older. And I would
I would talk of her as an old woman. I would pretend to know -- if I didn't, but I should from her son -- all about her age. And she should hear me say, Amy: affectionately, quite dutifully and affectionately: how well she looked, considering her time of life. I could make her seem older at once, by being myself so much younger. I may not be as handsome as she is; I am not a fair judge of that question, I suppose; but I know I am handsome enough to be a thorn in her side. And I would be
My dear sister, would you condemn yourself to an unhappy life for this
It wouldn't be an unhappy life, Amy. It would be the life I am fitted for. Whether by disposition, or whether by circumstances, is no matter; I am better fitted for such a life than for almost any other
Figure! Figure, Amy! Well. The woman has a good figure. I will give her her due, and not deny it. But is it so far beyond all others that it is altogether unapproachable? Upon my word, I am not so sure of it. Give some much younger woman the latitude as to dress that she has, being married; and we would see about that, my dear
And the dancer, Amy, that she has quite forgotten -- the dancer who bore no sort of resemblance to me, and of whom I never remind her, oh dear no!-- should dance through her life, and dance in her way, to such a tune as would disturb her insolent placidity a little. just a little, my dear Amy, just a little
Now, don't argue with me, child
because it is of no use. I understand these subjects much better than you do. I have not nearly made up my mind, but it may be. Now we have talked this over comfortably, and may go to bed. You best and dearest little mouse, Good night
A spoilt beauty -- but with that face and shape, who could wonder
Well, Amy dear
Well, Amy
what are you thinking of, little one
I was thinking of you, Fanny
No? What a coincidence! I declare here's some one else. You were not thinking of this some one else too; were you, Amy
Well, my little sister
I suppose you know what this means
She's as beautiful as she's doated on
and there's no nonsense about her -- it's arranged
You needn't explain, Edmund
No, my love
In short, pet
on the whole, we are engaged. We must tell papa about it either to-night or to-morrow, according to the opportunities. Then it's done, and very little more need be said
My dear Fanny
I should like to say a word to Amy
Well, well! Say it for goodness' sake
I am convinced, my dear Amy
that if ever there was a girl, next to your highly endowed and beautiful sister, who had no nonsense about her
We know all about that, Edmund
Never mind that. Pray go on to something else besides our having no nonsense about us
Yes, my love
And I assure you, Amy, that nothing can be a greater happiness to myself, myself -- next to the happiness of being so highly honoured with the choice of a glorious girl who hasn't an atom of
Pray, Edmund, pray
My love, you're quite right
and I know I have a habit of it. What I wished to declare was, that nothing can be a greater happiness to myself, myself-next to the happiness of being united to pre-eminently the most glorious of girls -- than to have the happiness of cultivating the affectionate acquaintance of Amy. I may not myself
be up to the mark on some other subjects at a short notice, and I am aware that if you were to poll Society the general opinion would be that I am not; but on the subject of Amy I am up to the mark
A knife and fork and an apartment
will ever be at Amy's disposal. My Governor, I am sure, will always be proud to entertain one whom I so much esteem. And regarding my mother
who is a remarkably fine woman, with
Edmund, Edmund
With submission, my soul
I know I have a habit of it, and I thank you very much, my adorable girl, for taking the trouble to correct it; but my mother is admitted on all sides to be a remarkably fine woman, and she really hasn't any
That may be, or may not be
but pray don't mention it any more
I will not, my love
Then, in fact, you have nothing more to say, Edmund; have you
So far from it, my adorable girl
I apologise for having said so much
O Fanny, Fanny
Have I the honour to conclude, madam
that the direction which Mr Sparkler's affections have taken, is -- ha- approved of by you
I assure you, Mr Dorrit
that, personally, I am charmed
Personally
charmed
personally
I cannot
take upon myself to answer positively for Mr Merdle; gentlemen, especially gentlemen who are what Society calls capitalists, having their own ideas of these matters. But I should think -- merely giving an opinion, Mr Dorrit -- I should think Mr Merdle would be upon the whole
quite charmed
Though, indeed, Mr Dorrit, it is scarcely necessary for me to make that remark, except in the mere openness of saying what is uppermost to one whom I so highly regard, and with whom I hope I may have the pleasure of being brought into still more agreeable relations. For one cannot but see the great probability of your considering such things from Mr Merdle's own point of view, except indeed that circumstances have made it Mr Merdle's accidental fortune, or misfortune, to be engaged in business transactions, and that they, however vast, may a little cramp his horizons. I am a very child as to having any notion of business
but I am afraid, Mr Dorrit, it may have that tendency
You are generosity itself
let us hope so. But I confess I am almost superstitious in my ideas about business
I say so much
merely because Mr Merdle has always taken the greatest interest in Edmund, and has always expressed the strongest desire to advance his prospects. Edmund's public position, I think you know. His private position rests solely with Mr Merdle. In my foolish incapacity for business, I assure you I know no more
The preliminaries being so satisfactorily arranged, I think I will now, my dear
announce -- ha -- formally, to Mrs General
Papa
I don't see what Mrs General has got to do with it
My dear
it will be an act of courtesy to -- hum -- a lady, well bred and refined
Oh! I am sick of Mrs General's good breeding and refinement, papa
I am tired of Mrs General
Tired
of -- ha -- Mrs General
Quite disgusted with her, papa
I really don't see what she has to do with my marriage. Let her keep to her own matrimonial projects -- if she has any
Fanny
I beg the favour of your explaining -- ha -- what it is you mean
I mean, papa
that if Mrs General should happen to have any matrimonial projects of her own, I dare say they are quite enough to occupy her spare time. And that if she has not, so much the better; but still I don't wish to have the honour of making announcements to her
Permit me to ask you, Fanny
why not
Because she can find my engagement out for herself, papa
She is watchful enough, I dare say. I think I have seen her so. Let her find it out for herself. If she should not find it out for herself, she will know it when I am married. And I hope you will not consider me wanting in affection for you, papa, if I say it strikes me that will be quite enough for Mrs General
Fanny
I am amazed, I am displeased by this -- hum -- this capricious and unintelligible display of animosity towards -- ha -- Mrs General
Do not, if you please, papa
call it animosity, because I assure you I do not consider Mrs General worth my animosity
Very well, papa. I am truly sorry if you don't like it; but I can't help it. I am not a child, and I am not Amy, and I must speak
Fanny
if I request you to remain here, while I formally announce to Mrs General, as an exemplary lady, who is -- hum -- a trusted member of this family, the -- ha -- the change that is contemplated among us; if I -- ha -- not only request it, but -- hum -- insist upon it
Oh, papa
if you make so much of it as that, I have in duty nothing to do but comply. I hope I may have my thoughts upon the subject, however, for I really cannot help it under the circumstances
Mrs General
How dare you, sir? What do you mean
I beg your pardon, sir
I was wishful to know --' 'You wished to know nothing, sir
Don't tell me you did. Ha. You didn't. You are guilty of mockery, sir
I assure you, sir
Don't assure me
I will not be assured by a domestic. You are guilty of mockery. You shall leave me -- hum -- the whole establishment shall leave me. What are you waiting for
Only for my orders, sir
It's false
you have your orders. Ha -- hum. MY compliments to Mrs General, and I beg the favour of her coming to me, if quite convenient, for a few minutes. Those are your orders
Mrs General
take a chair
Madam
as you have had the kindness to undertake the -- hum -- formation of my daughters, and as I am persuaded that nothing nearly affecting them can -- ha -- be indifferent to you
Wholly impossible
I therefore wish to announce to you, madam, that my daughter now present
That my daughter Fanny is -- ha -- contracted to be married to Mr Sparkler, with whom you are acquainted. Hence, madam, you will be relieved of half your difficult charge -- ha -- difficult charge
But not, I hope, to the -- hum -- diminution of any other portion, direct or indirect, of the footing you have at present the kindness to occupy in my family
Mr Dorrit
is ever considerate, and ever but too appreciative of my friendly services
You are right
Miss Dorrit has no doubt exercised the soundest discretion of which the circumstances admitted, and I trust will allow me to offer her my sincere congratulations. When free from the trammels of passion
Papa, potatoes, poultry, Prunes, and prism
Mr Dorrit
is ever most obliging; and for the attention, and I will add distinction, of having this confidence imparted to me by himself and Miss Dorrit at this early time, I beg to offer the tribute of my thanks. My thanks, and my congratulations, are equally the meed of Mr Dorrit and of Miss Dorrit
To me
they are excessively gratifying -- inexpressibly so. The relief of finding that you have no objection to make, Mrs General, quite takes a load off my mind, I am sure. I hardly know what I should have done
if you had interposed any objection, Mrs General
To preserve your approbation, Mrs General
will of course be the highest object of my married life; to lose it, would of course be perfect wretchedness. I am sure your great kindness will not object, and I hope papa will not object, to my correcting a small mistake you have made, however. The best of us are so liable to mistakes, that even you, Mrs General, have fallen into a little error. The attention and distinction you have so impressively mentioned, Mrs General, as attaching to this confidence, are, I have no doubt, of the most complimentary and gratifying description; but they don't at all proceed from me. The merit of having consulted you on the subject would have been so great in me, that I feel I must not lay claim to it when it really is not mine. It is wholly papa's. I am deeply obliged to you for your encouragement and patronage, but it was papa who asked for it. I have to thank you, Mrs General, for relieving my breast of a great weight by so handsomely giving your consent to my engagement, but you have really nothing to thank me for. I hope you will always approve of my proceedings after I have left home and that my sister also may long remain the favoured object of your condescension, Mrs General
If I think proper to march among you in triumphal procession attended by this weak captive in bonds, rather than a stronger one, that is my business. Enough that I choose to do it
Now, my child
I am going to tell you something. It is only this moment broached; and naturally I hurry to you the moment it IS broached
Your marriage, Fanny
My precious child
don't anticipate me. Let me impart my confidence to you, you flurried little thing, in my own way. As to your guess, if I answered it literally, I should answer no. For really it is not my marriage that is in question, half as much as it is Edmund's
I am in no difficulty
It is far more Edmund's question, therefore, than mine. However, we need say no more about that. That is self-evident on the face of it. Well, my dearest Amy! The point arising, is he to go by himself, or is he not to go by himself, this other point arises, are we to be married here and shortly, or are we to be married at home months hence
I see I am going to lose you, Fanny
What a little thing you are
for anticipating one! Pray, my darling, hear me out. That woman
remains here until after Easter; so, in the case of my being married here and going to London with Edmund, I should have the start of her. That is something. Further, Amy. That woman being out of the way, I don't know that I greatly object to Mr Merdle's proposal to Pa that Edmund and I should take up our abode in that house -.you know -- where you once went with a dancer, my dear, until our own house can be chosen and fitted up. Further still, Amy. Papa having always intended to go to town himself, in the spring,-- you see, if Edmund and I were married here, we might go off to Florence, where papa might join us, and we might all three travel home together. Mr Merdle has entreated Pa to stay with him in that same mansion I have mentioned, and I suppose he will. But he is master of his own actions; and upon that point (which is not at all material) I can't speak positively
And these are the arrangements, Fanny dear
Arrangements
Now, really, child, you are a little trying. You know I particularly guarded myself against laying my words open to any such construction. What I said was, that certain questions present themselves; and these are the questions
Now, my own sweet girl
it's no use staring. A little owl could stare. I look to you for advice, Amy. What do you advise me to do
Do you think
do you think, Fanny, that if you were to put it off for a few months, it might be, considering all things, best
No, little Tortoise
I don't think anything of the kind
Don't suppose I am hasty or unkind, darling, because I really am not. But you are such a little oddity! You make one bite your head off, when one wants to be soothing beyond everything. Didn't I tell you, you dearest baby, that Edmund can't be trusted by himself? And don't you know that he can't
Yes, yes, Fanny. You said so, I know
And you know it, I know
Well, my precious child! If he is not to be trusted by himself, it follows, I suppose, that I should go with him
It -- seems so, love
Therefore, having heard the arrangements that are feasible to carry out that object, am I to understand, dearest Amy, that on the whole you advise me to make them
It -- seems so, love
Very well
then I suppose it must be done! I came to you, my sweet, the moment I saw the doubt, and the necessity of deciding. I have now decided. So let it be
After all, my Amy
you are the best of small creatures, and full of good sense; and I don't know what I shall ever do without you
Not that I contemplate doing without You, Amy, by any means, for I hope we shall ever be next to inseparable. And now, my pet, I am going to give you a word of advice. When you are left alone here with Mrs General
I am to be left alone here with Mrs General
Why, of course, my precious, till papa comes back! Unless you call Edward company, which he certainly is not, even when he is here, and still more certainly is not when he is away at Naples or in Sicily. I was going to say -- but you are such a beloved little Marplot for putting one out -- when you are left alone here with Mrs General, Amy, don't you let her slide into any sort of artful understanding with you that she is looking after Pa, or that Pa is looking after her. She will if she can. I know her sly manner of feeling her way with those gloves of hers. But don't you comprehend her on any account. And if Pa should tell you when he comes back, that he has it in contemplation to make Mrs General your mama (which is not the less likely because I am going away), my advice to you is, that you say at once, " Papa, I beg to object most strongly. Fanny cautioned me about this, and she objected, and I object." I don't mean to say that any objection from you, Amy, is likely to be of the smallest effect, or that I think you likely to make it with any degree of firmness. But there is a principle involved -- a filial principle -- and I implore you not to submit to be mother-in-lawed by Mrs General, without asserting it in making every one about you as uncomfortable as possible. I don't expect you to stand by it -- indeed, I know you won't, Pa being concerned -- but I wish to rouse you to a sense of duty. As to any help from me, or as to any opposition that I can offer to such a match, you shall not be left in the lurch , my love. Whatever weight I may derive from my position as a married girl not wholly devoid of attractions -- used, as that position always shall be, to oppose that woman -- I will bring to bear, you May depend upon it, on the head and false hair (for I am confident it's not all real, ugly as it is and unlikely as it appears that any One in their Senses would go to the expense of buying it) of Mrs General
Amy, my dear
this is the close of a day, that has -- ha -- greatly impressed and gratified me
A little tired you, dear, too
No
no: I am not sensible of fatigue when it arises from an occasion so -- hum -- replete with gratification of the purest kind
My dear
this is an occasion -- ha -- teeming with a good example. With a good example, my favourite and attached child -- hum -- to you
Amy
your dear sister, our Fanny, has contracted ha hum -- a marriage, eminently calculated to extend the basis of our -- ha -- connection, and to -- hum -- consolidate our social relations. My love, I trust that the time is not far distant when some -- ha -- eligible partner may be found for you
Oh no! Let me stay with you. I beg and pray that I may stay with you! I want nothing but to stay and take care of you
Nay, Amy, Amy
This is weak and foolish, weak and foolish. You have a -- ha -- responsibility imposed upon you by your position. It is to develop that position, and be -- hum -- worthy of that position. As to taking care of me; I can -- ha -- take care of myself. Or
if I should need to be taken care of, I -- hum -- can, with the -- ha -- blessing of Providence, be taken care of, I -- ha hum -- I cannot, my dear child, think of engrossing, and -- ha -- as it were, sacrificing you
Don't speak, Amy. I positively say I cannot do it. I -- ha -- must not do it. My -- hum -- conscience would not allow it. I therefore, my love, take the opportunity afforded by this gratifying and impressive occasion of -- ha -- solemnly remarking, that it is now a cherished wish and purpose of mine to see you -- ha -- eligibly (I repeat eligibly) married
Oh no, dear! Pray
Amy
Thomas, help with the luggage
Now, none of that! Come! I've got you, you know, and you go quietly along with me
There he goes
Miss Mairdale
Mr Merdle, this is -- ha -- indeed an honour. Permit me to express the -- hum -- sense, the high sense, I entertain of this -- ha hum -- highly gratifying act of attention. I am well aware, sir, of the many demands upon your time, and its -- ha -- enormous value
That you should -- ha -- at this early hour, bestow any of your priceless time upon me, is -- ha -- a compliment that I acknowledge with the greatest esteem
I am glad to see you, sir
You are very kind
Truly kind
You are well, I hope, Mr Merdle
I am as well as I -- yes, I am as well as I usually am
Your occupations must be immense
Tolerably so. But -- Oh dear no, there's not much the matter with me
A little dyspeptic
Very likely. But I -- Oh, I am well enough
Mrs Merdle
I left, as you will be prepared to hear, the -- ha -- observed of all observers, the -- hum -- admired of all admirers, the leading fascination and charm of Society in Rome. She was looking wonderfully well when I quitted it
Mrs Merdle
is generally considered a very attractive woman. And she is, no doubt. I am sensible of her being SO
Who can be otherwise
But
if we speak of attractions, your daughter ought to be the subject of our conversation. She is extremely beautiful. Both in face and figure, she is quite uncommon. When the young people arrived last night, I was really surprised to see such charms
I thought I would drive round the first thing
to offer my services, in case I can do anything for you; and to say that I hope you will at least do me the honour of dining with me to-day, and every day when you are not better engaged during your stay in town
Do you stay long, sir
I have not at present the intention
of -- ha -- exceeding a fortnight
That's a very short stay, after so long a journey
Hum. Yes
But the truth is -- ha -- my dear Mr Merdle, that I find a foreign life so well suited to my health and taste, that I -- hum -- have but two objects in my present visit to London. First, the -- ha -- the distinguished happiness and -- ha -- privilege which I now enjoy and appreciate; secondly, the arrangement -- hum -- the laying out, that is to say, in the best way, of -- ha, hum -- my money
Well, sir
if I can be of any use to you in that respect, you may command me
I scarcely -- ha -- dared
I assure you, to hope for so -- hum -- vast an advantage as your direct advice and assistance. Though of course I should, under any circumstances, like the -- ha, hum -- rest of the civilised world, have followed in Mr Merdle's train
You know we may almost say we are related, sir
and, therefore, you may consider me at your service
Ha. Very handsome, indeed
Ha. Most handsome
it would not
be at the present moment easy for what I may call a mere outsider to come into any of the good things -- of course I speak of my own good things
Of course, of course
Unless at a high price. At what we are accustomed to term a very long figure
However
I do generally retain in my own hands the power of exercising some preference -- people in general would be pleased to call it favour -- as a sort of compliment for my care and trouble
And public spirit and genius
As a sort of return for it. I will see, if you please, how I can exert this limited power (for people are jealous, and it is limited), to your advantage
You are very good
You are very good
Of course
there must be the strictest integrity and uprightness in these transactions; there must be the purest faith between man and man; there must be unimpeached and unimpeachable confidence; or business could not be carried on
Therefore
I can only give you a preference to a certain extent
I perceive. To a defined extent
Defined extent. And perfectly above-board. As to my advice, however
that is another matter. That, such as it is
That, there is nothing in the bonds of spotless honour between myself and my fellow-man to prevent my parting with, if I choose. And that
shall be at your command whenever you think proper
My time being rather precious
I must be moving towards the City. Can I take you anywhere, sir? I shall be happy to set you down, or send you on. My carriage is at your disposal
Allow me, sir. Take my arm
A wonderful man to be Mr Merdle's friend
Mrs Finching
Man, man
explain your motive in bringing me this ridiculous name. I am wholly unacquainted with it. Finching, sir
ha! What do you mean by Finching
A lady, sir
I know no such lady, sir
Take this card away. I know no Finching of either sex
Ask your pardon, sir. The lady said she was aware she might be unknown by name. But she begged me to say, sir, that she had formerly the honour of being acquainted with Miss Dorrit. The lady said, sir, the youngest Miss Dorrit
Inform Mrs Finching, sir
that she can come up
I have not the pleasure
of knowing either this name, or yourself, madam. Place a chair, sir
I beg Mr Dorrit to offer a thousand apologies and indeed they would be far too few for such an intrusion which I know must appear extremely bold in a lady and alone too, but I thought it best upon the whole however difficult and even apparently improper though Mr F
I must openly admit that I have no pretensions
but having known the dear little thing which under altered circumstances appears a liberty but is not so intended and Goodness knows there was no favour in half-a-crown a-day to such a needle as herself but quite the other way and as to anything lowering in it far from it the labourer is worthy of his hire and I am sure I only wish he got it oftener and more animal food and less rheumatism in the back and legs poor soul
Madam
madam
if I understand you to refer to -- ha -- to anything in the antecedents of -- hum -- a daughter of mine, involving -- ha hum -- daily compensation, madam, I beg to observe that the -- ha -- fact, assuming it -- ha -- to be fact, never was within my knowledge. Hum. I should not have permitted it. Ha. Never! Never
Unnecessary to pursue the subject
and would not have mentioned it on any account except as supposing it a favourable and only letter of introduction but as to being fact no doubt whatever and you may set your mind at rest for the very dress I have on now can prove it and sweetly made though there is no denying that it would tell better on a better figure for my own is much too fat though how to bring it down I know not, pray excuse me I am roving off again
The dear little thing
having gone off perfectly limp and white and cold in my own house or at least papa's for though not a freehold still a long lease at a peppercorn on the morning when Arthur -- foolish habit of our youthful days and Mr Clennam far more adapted to existing circumstances particularly addressing a stranger and that stranger a gentleman in an elevated station -- communicated the glad tidings imparted by a person of name of Pancks emboldens me
Do me the favour to -- ha -- state your pleasure, madam
Mr Dorrit
you are very kind in giving me permission and highly natural it seems to me that you should be kind for though more stately I perceive a likeness filled out of course but a likeness still, the object of my intruding is my own without the slightest consultation with any human being and most decidedly not with Arthur -- pray excuse me Doyce and Clennam I don't know what I am saying Mr Clennam solus -- for to put that individual linked by a golden chain to a purple time when all was ethereal out of any anxiety would be worth to me the ransom of a monarch not that I have the least idea how much that would come to but using it as the total of all I have in the world and more
State your pleasure, madam
It's not likely I well know
but it's possible and being possible when I had the gratification of reading in the papers that you had arrived from Italy and were going back I made up my mind to try it for you might come across him or hear something of him and if so what a blessing and relief to all
Allow me to ask, madam
to whom -- ha -- To whom
you at present allude
To the foreigner from Italy who disappeared in the City as no doubt you have read in the papers equally with myself
not referring to private sources by the name of Pancks from which one gathers what dreadfully ill-natured things some people are wicked enough to whisper most likely judging others by themselves and what the uneasiness and indignation of Arthur -- quite unable to overcome it Doyce and Clennam -- cannot fail to be
Blandois
Venice! And this description! I know this gentleman. He has been in my house. He is intimately acquainted with a gentleman of good family (but in indifferent circumstances), of whom I am a -- hum -- patron
Then my humble and pressing entreaty is the more
that in travelling back you will have the kindness to look for this foreign gentleman along all the roads and up and down all the turnings and to make inquiries for him at all the hotels and orange-trees and vineyards and volcanoes and places for he must be somewhere and why doesn't he come forward and say he's there and clear all parties up
Pray, madam
who is Clennam and Co.? Ha. I see the name mentioned here, in connection with the occupation of the house which Monsieur Blandois was seen to enter: who is Clennam and Co.? Is it the individual of whom I had formerly -- hum -- some -- ha -- slight transitory knowledge, and to whom I believe you have referred? Is it -- ha -- that person
It's a very different person indeed
with no limbs and wheels instead and the grimmest of women though his mother
Clennam and Co. a -- hum -- a mother
And an old man besides
But I would not detain you one moment longer
if you would have the goodness to give your promise as a gentleman that both in going back to Italy and in Italy too you would look for this Mr Blandois high and low and if you found or heard of him make him come forward for the clearing of all parties
With a million thanks
and my address upon my card in case of anything to be communicated personally, I will not send my love to the dear little thing for it might not be acceptable, and indeed there is no dear little thing left in the transformation so why do it but both myself and Mr F
Who is it
Hi
Jeremiah
Open the door, you fool
and let the gentleman in
Now, sir
you can ask anything here you think proper; there are no secrets here, sir
Who is it
Who is it
More inquiries. A gentleman from Italy
Bring him up here
Mrs Clennam. She will do as she likes. I'll show you the way
Oh
You are from Italy, sir, are you. Well
Ha -- well
Where is this missing man? Have you come to give us information where he is? I hope you have
So far from it, I -- hum -- have come to seek information
Unfortunately for us, there is none to be got here. Flintwinch, show the gentleman the handbill. Give him several to take away. Hold the light for him to read it
Now you know as much
as we know, sir. Is Mr Blandois a friend of yours
No -- a -- hum -- an acquaintance
You have no commission from him, perhaps
I? Ha. Certainly not
I am -- ha -- a gentleman of property, at present residing in Italy with my family, my servants, and -- hum -- my rather large establishment. Being in London for a short time on affairs connected with -- ha -- my estate, and hearing of this strange disappearance, I wished to make myself acquainted with the circumstances at first-hand, because there is -- ha hum -- an English gentleman in Italy whom I shall no doubt see on my return, who has been in habits of close and daily intimacy with Monsieur Blandois. Mr Henry Gowan. You may know the name
Never heard of it
Wishing to -- ha -- make the narrative coherent and consecutive to him
may I ask -- say, three questions
Thirty, if you choose
Have you known Monsieur Blandois long
Not a twelvemonth. Mr Flintwinch here, will refer to the books and tell you when, and by whom at Paris he was introduced to us. If that
should be any satisfaction to you. It is poor satisfaction to us
Have you seen him often
No. Twice. Once before, and --' 'That once
And that once
Pray, madam
pray, madam, may I inquire, for the greater satisfaction of the gentleman whom I have the honour to -- ha -- retain, or protect or let me say to -- hum -- know -- to know -- Was Monsieur Blandois here on business on the night indicated in this present sheet
On what he called business
Is -- ha -- excuse me -- is its nature to be communicated
No
The question has been asked before
and the answer has been, No. We don't choose to publish our transactions, however unimportant, to all the town. We say, No
I mean, he took away no money with him, for example
He took away none of ours, sir, and got none here
I suppose
you have no way of accounting to yourself for this mystery
Why do you suppose so
I account for it, sir
by having no doubt that he is travelling somewhere, or hiding somewhere
Do you know -- ha -- why he should hide anywhere
No
You asked me if I accounted for the disappearance to myself
not if I accounted for it to you. I do not pretend to account for it to you, sir. I understand it to be no more my business to do that, than it is yours to require that
There! O good Lord! there it is again. Hark, Jeremiah! Now
Affery, my woman
you are at your old tricks. You'll be walking in your sleep next, my woman, and playing the whole round of your distempered antics. You must have some physic. When I have shown this gentleman out, I'll make you up such a comfortable dose, my woman; such a comfortable dose
Now, sir; shall I light you down
My dear
our family looks to you to -- ha -- assert its dignity and -- hum -- maintain its importance. I know you will never disappoint it
No, papa
you may rely upon that, I think. My best love to dearest Amy, and I will write to her very soon
Shall I convey any message to -- ha -- anybody else
Papa
no, I thank you. You are very kind, Pa, but I must beg to be excused. There is no other message to send, I thank you, dear papa, that it would be at all agreeable to you to take
Now, young man
This is the gentleman. This young man has persisted in waiting, sir, saying you would be glad to see him
Ah! Young John! It is Young John, I think; is it not
Yes, sir
I -- ha -- thought it was Young john
The young man may come up
oh yes, he may come up. Let Young John follow. I will speak to him above
Now, sir
What do you mean by this
How dare you do this
How do you presume to come here? How dare you insult me
I insult you, sir
Oh
Yes, sir
I thought, sir
I thought, sir, you mightn't object to have the goodness to accept a bundle
Damn your bundle, sir
I -- hum -- don't smoke
I humbly beg your pardon, sir. You used to
Tell me that again
and I'll take the poker to you
Stop, sir
What else did you come for, Sir
Nothing else in the world, sir. Oh dear me! Only to say, Sir, that I hoped you was well, and only to ask if Miss Amy was Well
What's that to you, sir
It's nothing to me, sir, by rights. I never thought of lessening the distance betwixt us, I am sure. I know it's a liberty, sir, but I never thought you'd have taken it ill. Upon my word and honour, sir
in my poor way, I am too proud to have come, I assure you, if I had thought so
Young John, I am very sorry to have been hasty with you, but -- ha -- some remembrances are not happy remembrances, and -- hum -- you shouldn't have come
I feel that now, sir
but I didn't before, and Heaven knows I meant no harm, sir
No. No
I am -- hum -- sure of that. Ha. Give me your hand, Young John, give me your hand
There
Sit down again, Young John
Thank you, sir -- but I'd rather stand
And how is your father, Young John? How -- ha -- how are they all, Young John
Thank you, sir, They're all pretty well, sir. They're not any ways complaining
Hum. You are in your -- ha -- old business I see, John
Partly, sir. I am in my
father's business likewise
Oh indeed
Do you -- ha hum -- go upon the ha
Lock, sir? Yes, sir
Much to do, John
Yes, sir; we're pretty heavy at present. I don't know how it is, but we generally ARE pretty heavy
At this time of the year, Young John
Mostly at all times of the year, sir. I don't know the time that makes much difference to us. I wish you good night, sir
Stay a moment, John -- ha -- stay a moment. Hum. Leave me the cigars, John, I -- ha -- beg
Certainly, sir
Not in any ways, sir. There's many of them, I'm sure, that would be the better for it
Thank you, John. I -- ha -- I'll write it, John
I hope you'll -- ha -- overlook -- hum -- what has passed, John
Don't speak of it, sir, on any accounts. I don't in any ways bear malice, I'm sure
And, John
I hope we -- ha -- agree that we have spoken together in confidence; and that you will abstain, in going out, from saying anything to any one that might -- hum -- suggest that -- ha -- once I
Oh! I assure you, sir
in my poor humble way, sir, I'm too proud and honourable to do it, sir
You can take that bundle of cigars to smoke on the journey, if you like
Ha -- brought by -- hum -- little offering from -- ha -- son of old tenant of mine
Do you know, uncle, I think you are growing young again
Since when, my dear; since when
I think
that you have been growing younger for weeks past. So cheerful, uncle, and so ready, and so interested
My dear child -- all you
All me, uncle
Yes, yes. You have done me a world of good. You have been so considerate of me, and so tender with me, and so delicate in trying to hide your attentions from me, that I -- well, well, well! It's treasured up, my darling, treasured up
There is nothing in it but your own fresh fancy, uncle
Well, well, well
Thank God
I have been freer with you, you see, my dove
since we have been alone. I say, alone, for I don't count Mrs General; I don't care for her; she has nothing to do with me. But I know Fanny was impatient of me. And I don't wonder at it, or complain of it, for I am sensible that I must be in the way, though I try to keep out of it as well as I can. I know I am not fit company for our company. My brother William
is fit company for monarchs; but not so your uncle, my dear. Frederick Dorrit is no credit to William Dorrit, and he knows it quite well. Ah! Why, here's your father, Amy! My dear William, welcome back! My beloved brother, I am rejoiced to see you
I am glad to find you at last, Amy
Ha. Really I am glad to find -- hum -- any one to receive me at last. I appear to have been -- ha -- so little expected, that upon my word I began -- ha hum -- to think it might be right to offer an apology for -- ha -- taking the liberty of coming back at all
It was so late, my dear William
that we had given you up for to-night
I am stronger than you, dear Frederick
and I hope I can travel without detriment at -- ha -- any hour I choose
Surely, surely
Surely, William
Thank you, Amy
I can do it without assistance. I -- ha -- need not trouble you, Amy. Could I have a morsel of bread and a glass of wine, or -- hum -- would it cause too much inconvenience
Dear father, you shall have supper in a very few minutes
Thank you, my love
I -- ha -- am afraid I am causing inconvenience. Hum. Mrs General pretty well
Mrs General complained of a headache, and of being fatigued; and so, when we gave you up, she went to bed, dear
Extremely sorry to hear that Mrs General is not well
Amy, what are you looking at? What do you see in me that causes you to -- ha -- concentrate your solicitude on me in that -- hum -- very particular manner
I did not know it, father; I beg your pardon. It gladdens my eyes to see you again; that's all
Don't say that's all, because -- ha -- that's not all. You -- hum -- you think
that I am not looking well
I thought you looked a little tired, love
Then you are mistaken
Ha, I am not tired. Ha, hum. I am very much fresher than I was when I went away
Frederick
I recommend you to go to bed immediately
No, William. I'll wait and see you sup
Frederick
I beg you to go to bed. I -- ha -- make it a personal request that you go to bed. You ought to have been in bed long ago. You are very feeble
Hah
Well, well, well! I dare say I am
My dear Frederick
there can be no doubt of it. It is painful to me to see you so weak. Ha. It distresses me. Hum. I don't find you looking at all well. You are not fit for this sort of thing. You should be more careful, you should be very careful
Shall I go to bed
Dear Frederick
do, I adjure you! Good night, brother. I hope you will be stronger to-morrow. I am not at all pleased with your looks. Good night, dear fellow
Your uncle wanders very much, Amy
He is less -- ha -- coherent, and his conversation is more -- hum -- broken, than I have -- ha, hum -- ever known. Has he had any illness since I have been gone
No, father
You -- ha -- see a great change in him, Amy
I have not observed it, dear
Greatly broken
Greatly broken. My poor, affectionate, failing Frederick! Ha. Even taking into account what he was before, he is -- hum -- sadly broken
She is very well. She is going away next week
Home
After a few weeks' stay upon the road
She will be a vast loss here
A vast -- ha -- acquisition at home. To Fanny, and to -- hum -- the rest of the -- ha -- great world
Mrs Merdle is going to have a great farewell Assembly, dear, and a dinner before it. She has been expressing her anxiety that you should return in time. She has invited both you and me to her dinner
She is -- ha -- very kind. When is the day
The day after to-morrow
Write round in the morning, and say that I have returned, and shall -- hum -- be delighted
May I walk with you up the stairs to your room, dear
No
You may not, Amy. I want no help. I am your father, not your infirm uncle
You have not kissed me, Amy. Good night, my dear! We must marry -- ha -- we must marry YOU, now
The most estimable and affectionate of brothers
but -- ha, hum -- broken up altogether. Unhappily, declining fast
Mr Frederick, sir
is habitually absent and drooping, but let us hope it is not so bad as that
Fast declining, madam. A wreck. A ruin. Mouldering away before our eyes. Hum. Good Frederick
You left Mrs Sparkler quite well and happy, I trust
Surrounded
by -- ha -- all that can charm the taste, and -- hum -- elevate the mind. Happy, my dear madam, in a -- hum -- husband
Fanny
Fanny, Mrs General, has high qualities. Ha. Ambition -- hum -- purpose, consciousness of -- ha -- position, determination to support that position -- ha, hum -- grace, beauty, and native nobility
No doubt
Combined with these qualities, madam
Fanny has -- ha -- manifested one blemish which has made me -- hum -- made me uneasy, and -- ha -- I must add, angry; but which I trust may now be considered at an end, even as to herself, and which is undoubtedly at an end as to -- ha -- others
To what, Mr Dorrit
can you allude? I am at a loss to
Do not say that, my dear madam
at a loss to imagine
I refer, Mrs General, to that -- ha -- strong spirit of opposition, or -- hum -- I might say -- ha -- jealousy in Fanny, which has occasionally risen against the -- ha -- sense I entertain of -- hum -- the claims of -- ha -- the lady with whom I have now the honour of communing
Mr Dorrit
is ever but too obliging, ever but too appreciative. If there have been moments when I have imagined that Miss Dorrit has indeed resented the favourable opinion Mr Dorrit has formed of my services, I have found, in that only too high opinion, my consolation and recompense
Opinion of your services, madam
Of
my services
Of your services alone, dear madam
I presume
of my services alone. For, to what else
could I impute
To -- ha -- yourself, Mrs General. Ha, hum. To yourself and your merits
Mr Dorrit will pardon me
if I remark that this is not a time or place for the pursuit of the present conversation. Mr Dorrit will excuse me if I remind him that Miss Dorrit is in the adjoining room, and is visible to myself while I utter her name. Mr Dorrit will forgive me if I observe that I am agitated, and that I find there are moments when weaknesses I supposed myself to have subdued, return with redoubled power. Mr Dorrit will allow me to withdraw
Hum. Perhaps we may resume this -- ha -- interesting conversation
at another time; unless it should be, what I hope it is not -- hum -- in any way disagreeable to -- ah -- Mrs General
Mr Dorrit
must ever claim my homage and obedience
Pray come and speak to Mr Dorrit, I doubt if he is well
Amy, Amy, my child
Amy, my dear
Will you go and see if Bob is on the lock
Amy, Amy. I don't feel quite myself. Ha. I don't know what's the matter with me. I particularly wish to see Bob. Ha. Of all the turnkeys, he's as much my friend as yours. See if Bob is in the lodge, and beg him to come to me
Dear father, I am not there; I am here, by you
Oh! You are here, Amy! Good. Hum. Good. Ha. Call Bob. If he has been relieved, and is not on the lock, tell Mrs Bangham to go and fetch him
I tell you, child
I can't be got up the narrow stairs without Bob. Ha. Send for Bob. Hum. Send for Bob -- best of all the turnkeys -- send for Bob
Ladies and gentlemen, the duty -- ha -- devolves upon me of -- hum -- welcoming you to the Marshalsea! Welcome to the Marshalsea! The space is -- ha -- limited -- limited -- the parade might be wider; but you will find it apparently grow larger after a time -- a time, ladies and gentlemen -- and the air is, all things considered, very good. It blows over the -- ha -- Surrey hills. Blows over the Surrey hills. This is the Snuggery. Hum. Supported by a small subscription of the -- ha -- Collegiate body. In return for which -- hot water -- general kitchen -- and little domestic advantages. Those who are habituated to the -- ha -- Marshalsea, are pleased to call me its father. I am accustomed to be complimented by strangers as the -- ha -- Father of the Marshalsea. Certainly, if years of residence may establish a claim to so -- ha -- honourable a title, I may accept the -- hum -- conferred distinction. My child, ladies and gentlemen. My daughter. Born here
Born here
Bred here. Ladies and gentlemen, my daughter. Child of an unfortunate father, but -- ha -- always a gentleman. Poor, no doubt, but -- hum -- proud. Always proud. It has become a -- hum -- not infrequent custom for my -- ha -- personal admirers -- personal admirers solely -- to be pleased to express their desire to acknowledge my semi-official position here, by offering -- ha -- little tributes, which usually take the form of -- ha -- voluntary recognitions of my humble endeavours to -- hum -- to uphold a Tone here -- a Tone -- I beg it to be understood that I do not consider myself compromised. Ha. Not compromised. Ha. Not a beggar. No; I repudiate the title! At the same time far be it from me to -- hum -- to put upon the fine feelings by which my partial friends are actuated, the slight of scrupling to admit that those offerings are -- hum -- highly acceptable. On the contrary, they are most acceptable. In my child's name, if not in my own, I make the admission in the fullest manner, at the same time reserving -- ha -- shall I say my personal dignity? Ladies and gentlemen, God bless you all
My good Frederick, sit down. You are very feeble indeed
if Tip had gone outside
O my brother! O William, William! You to go before me; you to go alone; you to go, and I to remain! You, so far superior, so distinguished, so noble; I, a poor useless creature fit for nothing, and whom no one would have missed
Uncle, dear uncle, spare yourself, spare me
O God
Thou seest this daughter of my dear dead brother! All that I have looked upon, with my half-blind and sinful eyes, Thou hast discerned clearly, brightly. Not a hair of her head shall be harmed before Thee. Thou wilt uphold her here to her last hour. And I know Thou wilt reward her hereafter
Hi! Ice-say! You! Seer! Ice-say! Nice Oatel
So Pancks said
I suppose his information to be correct and his discovery, among Mr Casby's loose papers, indisputable; but, without it, I should hardly have supposed this to be a likely place
Ice-say! Seer! Who
Enter then and ascend, if you please
Monsieur Blandois
With pleasure, Monsieur
Pardon me, Miss Wade. I am alone
It was not your name that was brought to me
No; I know that. Excuse me. I have already had experience that my name does not predispose you to an interview; and I ventured to mention the name of one I am in search of
Pray
what name was it that you gave
I mentioned the name of Blandois
Blandois
A name you are acquainted with
It is strange
that you should still press an undesired interest in me and my acquaintances, in me and my affairs, Mr Clennam. I don't know what you mean
Pardon me. You know the name
What can you have to do with the name? What can I have to do with the name? What can you have to do with my knowing or not knowing any name? I know many names and I have forgotten many more. This may be in the one class, or it may be in the other, or I may never have heard it. I am acquainted with no reason for examining myself, or for being examined, about it
If you will allow me
I will tell you my reason for pressing the subject. I admit that I do press it, and I must beg you to forgive me if I do so, very earnestly. The reason is all mine, I do not insinuate that it is in any way yours
Well, sir
I am at least glad to know that this is not another bondswoman of some friend of yours, who is bereft of free choice, and whom I have spirited away. I will hear your reason, if you please
First, to identify the person of whom we speak
let me observe that it is the person you met in London some time back. You will remember meeting him near the river -- in the Adelphi
You mix yourself most unaccountably with my business
How do you know that
I entreat you not to take it ill. By mere accident
What accident
Solely the accident of coming upon you in the street and seeing the meeting
Do you speak of yourself, or of some one else
Of myself. I saw it
To be sure it was in the open street
Fifty people might have seen it. It would have signified nothing if they had
Nor do I make my having seen it of any moment, nor (otherwise than as an explanation of my coming here) do I connect my visit with it or the favour that I have to ask
Oh! You have to ask a favour! It occurred to me
that your manner was softened, Mr Clennam
You have not yet told me, sir, what I have to do with it, or what the favour is? Will you be so good as come to that
I assume
that being in communication -- may I say, confidential communication?-- with this person
You may say, of course, whatever you like
but I do not subscribe to your assumptions, Mr Clennam, or to any one's
that being, at least in personal communication with him
you can tell me something of his antecedents, pursuits, habits, usual place of residence. Can give me some little clue by which to seek him out in the likeliest manner, and either produce him, or establish what has become of him. This is the favour I ask, and I ask it in a distress of mind for which I hope you will feel some consideration. If you should have any reason for imposing conditions upon me, I will respect it without asking what it is
You chanced to see me in the street with the man
Then you knew the man before
Not before; afterwards. I never saw him before, but I saw him again on this very night of his disappearance. In my mother's room, in fact. I left him there. You will read in this paper all that is known of him
This is more than I knew of him
You don't believe it. Still, it is so. As to personal communication: it seems that there was personal communication between him and your mother. And yet you say you believe her declaration that she knows no more of him
Come, sir
I will be as open with you as you can desire. I will confess that if I cared for my credit (which I do not), or had a good name to preserve (which I have not, for I am utterly indifferent to its being considered good or bad), I should regard myself as heavily compromised by having had anything to do with this fellow. Yet he never passed in at MY door -- never sat in colloquy with ME until midnight
That he is a low, mercenary wretch; that I first saw him prowling about Italy (where I was, not long ago), and that I hired him there, as the suitable instrument of a purpose I happened to have; I have no objection to tell you. In short, it was worth my while, for my own pleasure -- the gratification of a strong feeling -- to pay a spy who would fetch and carry for money. I paid this creature. And I dare say that if I had wanted to make such a bargain, and if I could have paid him enough, and if he could have done it in the dark, free from all risk, he would have taken any life with as little scruple as he took my money. That, at least, is my opinion of him; and I see it is not very far removed from yours. Your mother's opinion of him, I am to assume (following your example of assuming this and that), was vastly different
My mother, let me remind you
was first brought into communication with him in the unlucky course of business
It appears to have been an unlucky course of business that last brought her into communication with him
and business hours on that occasion were late
You imply
that there was something
Mr Clennam
recollect that I do not speak by implication about the man. He is, I say again without disguise, a low mercenary wretch. I suppose such a creature goes where there is occasion for him. If I had not had occasion for him, you would not have seen him and me together
I have spoken of him as still living
but he may have been put out of the way for anything I know. For anything I care, also. I have no further occasion for him
He was the chosen associate of your dear friend, Mr Gowan, was he not? Why don't you ask your dear friend to help you
Further than that he has never seen Blandois since Blandois set out for England, Mr Gowan knows nothing additional about him. He was a chance acquaintance, made abroad
A chance acquaintance made abroad
Yes. Your dear friend has need to divert himself with all the acquaintances he can make, seeing what a wife he has. I hate his wife, sir
All I will say is, Miss Wade
that you can have received no provocation to a feeling in which I believe you have no sharer
You may ask your dear friend, if you choose
for his opinion upon that subject
I am scarcely on those intimate terms with my dear friend
that would render my approaching the subject very probable, Miss Wade
I hate him
Worse than his wife, because I was once dupe enough, and false enough to myself, almost to love him. You have seen me, sir, only on common-place occasions, when I dare say you have thought me a common-place woman, a little more self- willed than the generality. You don't know what I mean by hating, if you know me no better than that; you can't know, without knowing with what care I have studied myself and people about me. For this reason I have for some time inclined to tell you what my life has been -- not to propitiate your opinion, for I set no value on it; but that you may comprehend, when you think of your dear friend and his dear wife, what I mean by hating. Shall I give you something I have written and put by for your perusal, or shall I hold my hand
Now you may know what I mean by hating! No more of that. Sir, whether you find me temporarily and cheaply lodging in an empty London house, or in a Calais apartment, you find Harriet with me. You may like to see her before you leave. Harriet, come in
Here is Mr Clennam
not come for you; he has given you up,-- I suppose you have, by this time
Having no authority, or influence -- yes
Not come in search of you, you see; but still seeking some one. He wants that Blandois man
With whom I saw you in the Strand in London
If you know anything of him, Harriet, except that he came from Venice -- which we all know -- tell it to Mr Clennam freely
I know nothing more about him
Are you satisfied
I must seek for intelligence elsewhere
Are they well, sir
Who
all of them;' glanced at Miss Wade; and said 'Mr and Mrs Meagles
They were, when I last heard of them. They are not at home. By the way, let me ask you. Is it true that you were seen there
Where? Where does any one say I was seen
Looking in at the garden gate of the cottage
No
She has never been near it
You are wrong, then
I went down there the last time we were in London. I went one afternoon when you left me alone. And I did look in
You poor-spirited girl
does all our companionship, do all our conversations, do all your old complainings, tell for so little as that
There was no harm in looking in at the gate for an instant
I saw by the windows that the family were not there
Why should you go near the place
Because I wanted to see it. Because I felt that I should like to look at it again
Oh
if you had any desire to see the place where you led the life from which I rescued you because you had found out what it was, that is another thing. But is that your truth to me? Is that your fidelity to me? Is that the common cause I make with you? You are not worth the confidence I have placed in you. You are not worth the favour I have shown you. You are no higher than a spaniel, and had better go back to the people who did worse than whip you
If you speak so of them with any one else by to hear, you'll provoke me to take their part
Go back to them
Go back to them
You know very well
that I won't go back to them. You know very well that I have thrown them off, and never can, never shall, never will, go back to them. Let them alone, then, Miss Wade
You prefer their plenty to your less fat living here
You exalt them, and slight me. What else should I have expected? I ought to have known it
It's not so
and you don't say what you mean. I know what you mean. You are reproaching me, underhanded, with having nobody but you to look to. And because I have nobody but you to look to, you think you are to make me do, or not do, everything you please, and are to put any affront upon me. You are as bad as they were, every bit. But I will not be quite tamed, and made submissive. I will say again that I went to look at the house, because I had often thought that I should like to see it once more. I will ask again how they are, because I once liked them and at times thought they were kind to me
Never
I shall never do that. Nobody knows that better than Miss Wade, though she taunts me because she has made me her dependent. And I know I am so; and I know she is overjoyed when she can bring it to my mind
A good pretence
but too threadbare to cover what I plainly see in this. My poverty will not bear competition with their money. Better go back at once, better go back at once, and have done with it
trying her
Charlotte, Miss Wade is wearing you to death, and this must not continue
It is I who am wearing her to death, I who am keeping her on a rack and am the executioner, yet she tells me every night that she loves me devotedly, though she knows what I make her undergo
Dear aunt, she has an unhappy temper; other girls at school, besides I, try hard to make it better; we all try hard
But there are reasonable limits, my dear love, to everything, and I see that this poor miserable girl causes you more constant and useless distress than even so good an effort justifies
Send me home
Send me home, or I will walk home alone, night and day
Come to good Miss Wade, come to dear Miss Wade, come to pretty Miss Wade. She loves you very much. Miss Wade is a clever lady, who has read heaps of books, and can tell you far better and more interesting stories than I know. Come and hear Miss Wade
They'll come round soon, Miss Wade; they're very simple and loving, ma'am; don't be at all cast down about it, ma'am
Hush! Poor Miss Wade is not well. Don't make a noise, my dears, her head aches. Come and comfort her. Come and ask her if she is better; come and ask her to lie down. I hope you have nothing on your mind, ma'am. Don't take on, ma'am, and be sorry
Miss Wade! Poor Dawes is devoted to you; would do anything for you
I hope, Miss Wade
that nothing I have ever said or done since we have been together, has justified your use of that disagreeable word, "Mistress." It must have been wholly inadvertent on my part. Pray tell me what it is
Miss Wade, I fear you are unhappy, through causes over which I have no influence
I have an unhappy temper, I suppose
I did not say that
It is an easy way of accounting for anything
It may be; but I did not say so. What I wish to approach is something very different. My husband and I have exchanged some remarks upon the subject, when we have observed with pain that you have not been easy with us
Easy? Oh! You are such great people, my lady
I am unfortunate in using a word which may convey a meaning -- and evidently does -- quite opposite to my intention
faithful swain' to be 'the most loving young fellow in the world, with the tenderest heart that ever beat
an unhappy temper
It's all beautiful, Clennam, in its regularity and order. Nothing can be plainer. Nothing can be better
I am glad you approve, Doyce. Now, as to the management of your capital while you are away, and as to the conversion of so much of it as the business may need from time to time
As to that, and as to everything else of that kind, all rests with you. You will continue in all such matters to act for both of us, as you have done hitherto, and to lighten my mind of a load it is much relieved from
Though, as I often tell you
you unreasonably depreciate your business qualities
Perhaps so
And perhaps not. Anyhow, I have a calling that I have studied more than such matters, and that I am better fitted for. I have perfect confidence in my partner, and I am satisfied that he will do what is best. If I have a prejudice connected with money and money figures
it is against speculating. I don't think I have any other. I dare say I entertain that prejudice, only because I have never given my mind fully to the subject
But you shouldn't call it a prejudice
My dear Doyce, it is the soundest sense
I am glad you think so
It so happens
that just now, not half an hour before you came down, I was saying the same thing to Pancks, who looked in here. We both agreed that to travel out of safe investments is one of the most dangerous, as it is one of the most common, of those follies which often deserve the name of vices
Pancks
Aye, aye, aye! That's a cautious fellow
He is a very cautious fellow indeed
Quite a specimen of caution
And now
as time and tide wait for no man, my trusty partner, and as I am ready for starting, bag and baggage, at the gate below, let me say a last word. I want you to grant a request of mine
Any request you can make -- Except
except that I will abandon your invention
That's the request, and you know it is
I say, No, then. I say positively, No. Now that I have begun, I will have some definite reason, some responsible statement, something in the nature of a real answer, from those people
You will not
Take my word for it, you never will
At least, I'll try
It will do me no harm to try
I am not certain of that
It has done me harm, my friend. It has aged me, tired me, vexed me, disappointed me. It does no man any good to have his patience worn out, and to think himself ill- used. I fancy, even already, that unavailing attendance on delays and evasions has made you something less elastic than you used to be
Private anxieties may have done that for the moment
but not official harrying. Not yet. I am not hurt yet
Then you won't grant my request
Decidedly, No
I should be ashamed if I submitted to be so soon driven out of the field, where a much older and a much more sensitively interested man contended with fortitude so long
Good luck to you, Mr Doyce
Wherever you go, they'll find as they've got a man among 'em) a man as knows his tools and as his tools knows, a man as is willing and a man as is able, and if that's not a man, where is a man
Good Bye, Men
Who passes by this road so late? Compagnon de la Majolaine; Who passes by this road so late? Always gay
Of all the king's knights 'tis the flower, Compagnon de la Majolaine; Of all the king's knights 'tis the flower, Always gay
Ah! You know the song, Cavalletto
By Bacchus, yes, sir! They all know it in France. I have heard it many times, sung by the little children. The last time when it I have heard
is from a sweet little voice. A little voice, very pretty, very innocent. Altro
The last time I heard it
was in a voice quite the reverse of pretty, and quite the reverse of innocent
Death of my life, sir, it's my character to be impatient
EH
What is the matter
Sir! You know where I have heard that song the last time
In the name of Fate and wonder
what do you mean? Do you know a man of the name of Blandois
No
You have just now described a man who was by when you heard that song; have you not
Yes
And was he not called Blandois
No
Altro, Altro, Altro, Altro
Stay
Was this the man? You can understand what I read aloud
Altogether. Perfectly
But look at it, too. Come here and look over me, while I read
It is the man! Behold him
This is of far greater moment to me' said Clennam, in great agitation, 'than you can imagine. Tell me where you knew the man
At Marsiglia -- Marseilles
What was he
A prisoner, and -- Altro! I believe yes!-- an
Assassin
assassin
Behold the same assassin! Here he is
Listen
This man, as we have read here, has wholly disappeared
Of it I am well content
A thousand thanks to Heaven! Accursed assassin
Not so
for until something more is heard of him, I can never know an hour's peace
Enough, Benefactor; that is quite another thing. A million of excuses
Now, Cavalletto
I am certain that for the little I have been able to do for you, you are the most sincerely grateful of men
I swear it
I know it. If you could find this man, or discover what has become of him, or gain any later intelligence whatever of him, you would render me a service above any other service I could receive in the world, and would make me (with far greater reason) as grateful to you as you are to me
I know not where to look
I know not where to begin. I know not where to go. But, courage! Enough! It matters not! I go, in this instant of time
Not a word to any one but me, Cavalletto
Al-tro
Good evening
Good evening
Have you any news
We have no news
I mean of the foreign man
You'll be able to take my likeness, the next time you call, Arthur, I should think
But my mind runs so much upon this matter
that I lose myself
Hah! Yet I don't see
why it should trouble YOU, Arthur
No
No
Is it nothing to see those placards about? Is it nothing to me to see my mother's name and residence hawked up and down in such an association
I don't see
that it need signify much to you. But I'll tell you what I do see, Arthur
I see the light of fire and candle in your mother's room
And what has that to do with it
Why, sir, I read by it
that if it's advisable (as the proverb says it is) to let sleeping dogs lie, it's just as advisable, perhaps, to let missing dogs lie. Let 'em be. They generally turn up soon enough
Now, sir
will it be agreeable to walk up-stairs
My mother is alone, I suppose
Not alone
Mr Casby and his daughter are with her. They came in while I was smoking, and I stayed behind to have my smoke out
Mother, I have heard something to-day which I feel persuaded you don't know, and which I think you should know, of the antecedents of that man I saw here
I know nothing of the antecedents of the man you saw here, Arthur
I have received it on no circuitous information; it has come to me direct
I thought it right that you should know it
And what is it
He has been a prisoner in a French gaol
I should think that very likely
But in a gaol for criminals, mother. On an accusation of murder
Who told you so
A man who was his fellow-prisoner
That man's antecedents, I suppose, were not known to you, before he told you
No
Though the man himself was
Yes
My case and Flintwinch's, in respect of this other man! I dare say the resemblance is not so exact, though, as that your informant became known to you through a letter from a correspondent with whom he had deposited money? How does that part of the parallel stand
Take care how you judge others, then. I say to you, Arthur, for your good, take care how you judge
Mother, shall I do nothing to assist you
Nothing
How can you ask me? You separated yourself from my affairs. It was not my act; it was yours. How can you consistently ask me such a question? You know that you left me to Flintwinch, and that he occupies your place
A prisoner, in a French gaol, on an accusation of murder
That is all you know of him from the fellow-prisoner
In substance, all
And was the fellow-prisoner his accomplice and a murderer, too? But, of course, he gives a better account of himself than of his friend; it is needless to ask. This will supply the rest of them here with something new to talk about. Casby, Arthur tells me
Stay, mother! Stay, stay
What now
What more
I beg you to excuse me, Mr Casby -- and you, too, Mrs Finching -- for one other moment with my mother
What now
What is it
I did not mean, mother, that you should repeat what I have communicated. I think you had better not repeat it
Do you make that a condition with me
Well! Yes
Observe, then! It is you who make this a secret
and not I. It is you, Arthur, who bring here doubts and suspicions and entreaties for explanations, and it is you, Arthur, who bring secrets here. What is it to me, do you think, where the man has been, or what he has been? What can it be to me? The whole world may know it, if they care to know it; it is nothing to me. Now, let me go
Could you say you would like to go through the house
Ah dear me the poor old room
looks just as ever Mrs Clennam I am touched to see except for being smokier which was to be expected with time and which we must all expect and reconcile ourselves to being whether we like it or not as I am sure I have had to do myself if not exactly smokier dreadfully stouter which is the same or worse, to think of the days when papa used to bring me here the least of girls a perfect mass of chilblains to be stuck upon a chair with my feet on the rails and stare at Arthur -- pray excuse me -- Mr Clennam -- the least of boys in the frightfullest of frills and jackets ere yet Mr F. appeared a misty shadow on the horizon paying attentions like the well-known spectre of some place in Germany beginning with a B is a moral lesson inculcating that all the paths in life are similar to the paths down in the North of England where they get the coals and make the iron and things gravelled with ashes
Not that at any time
its worst enemy could have said it was a cheerful house for that it was never made to be but always highly impressive, fond memory recalls an occasion in youth ere yet the judgment was mature when Arthur -- confirmed habit -- Mr Clennam -- took me down into an unused kitchen eminent for mouldiness and proposed to secrete me there for life and feed me on what he could hide from his meals when he was not at home for the holidays and on dry bread in disgrace which at that halcyon period too frequently occurred, would it be inconvenient or asking too much to beg to be permitted to revive those scenes and walk through the house
Certainly
and Affery will light us, I dare say
Don't ask nothing of me, Arthur
Why not? Affery, what's the matter with you, woman? Why not, jade
Go before, you fool
Are you going up, or down, Mrs Finching
Down
Then go before, and down, you Affery
And do it properly, or I'll come rolling down the banisters, and tumbling over you
Is there no getting rid of him
Why though not exactly proper Arthur and a thing I couldn't think of before a younger man or a stranger still I don't mind him if you so particularly wish it and provided you'll have the goodness not to take me too tight
Oh my goodness me
You are very obedient indeed really and it's extremely honourable and gentlemanly in you I am sure but still at the same time if you would like to be a little tighter than that I shouldn't consider it intruding
Affery! I want to speak to you
What? You want another dose
You shall have it, my woman, you shall have a good one! Oh! You shall have a sneezer, you shall have a teaser
In the meantime is anybody going to the door
In the meantime, I am going to the door, sir
Stay here the while, all! Affery, my woman, move an inch, or speak a word in your foolishness, and I'll treble your dose
Affery, speak to me now
Don't touch me, Arthur
Don't come near me. He'll see you. Jeremiah will. Don't
He can't see me
if I blow the candle out
He'll hear you
He can't hear me
Because I am afraid of seeing something
You can't be afraid of seeing anything in this darkness, Affery
Yes I am. Much more than if it was light
Why are you afraid
Because the house is full of mysteries and secrets; because it's full of whisperings and counsellings; because it's full of noises. There never was such a house for noises. I shall die of 'em, if Jeremiah don't strangle me first. As I expect he will
I have never heard any noises here, worth speaking of
Ah! But you would, though, if you lived in the house, and was obliged to go about it as I am
and you'd feel that they was so well worth speaking of, that you'd feel you was nigh bursting through not being allowed to speak of 'em. Here's Jeremiah! You'll get me killed
My good Affery, I solemnly declare to you that I can see the light of the open door on the pavement of the hall, and so could you if you would uncover your face and look
I durstn't do it
I durstn't never, Arthur. I'm always blind-folded when Jeremiah an't a looking, and sometimes even when he is
He cannot shut the door without my seeing him
You are as safe with me as if he was fifty miles away
I wish he was
Affery, I want to know what is amiss here; I want some light thrown on the secrets of this house
I tell you, Arthur
noises is the secrets, rustlings and stealings about, tremblings, treads overhead and treads underneath
But those are not all the secrets
I don't know
Don't ask me no more. Your old sweetheart an't far off, and she's a blabber
if on no other account on Arthur's -- sensible of intruding in being too familiar Doyce and Clennam's
I make an imploring appeal to you, Affery, to you, one of the few agreeable early remembrances I have, for my mother's sake, for your husband's sake, for my own, for all our sakes. I am sure you can tell me something connected with the coming here of this man, if you will
Why, then I'll tell you, Arthur
Jeremiah's coming
No, indeed he is not. The door is open, and he is standing outside, talking
I'll tell you then
that the first time he ever come he heard the noises his own self. "What's that?" he said to me. "I don't know what it is," I says to him, catching hold of him, "but I have heard it over and over again." While I says it, he stands a looking at me, all of a shake, he do
Has he been here often
Only that night, and the last night
What did you see of him on the last night, after I was gone
Them two clever ones had him all alone to themselves. Jeremiah come a dancing at me sideways, after I had let you out (he always comes a dancing at me sideways when he's going to hurt me), and he said to me, "Now, Affery," he said, "I am a coming behind you, my woman, and a going to run you up." So he took and squeezed the back of my neck in his hand, till it made me open MY mouth, and then he pushed me before him to bed, squeezing all the way. That's what he calls running me up, he do. Oh, he's a wicked one
And did you hear or see no more, Affery
Don't I tell you I was sent to bed, Arthur! Here he is
I assure you he is still at the door. Those whisperings and counsellings, Affery, that you have spoken of. What are they
How should I know? Don't ask me nothing about 'em, Arthur. Get away
But my dear Affery; unless I can gain some insight into these hidden things, in spite of your husband and in spite of my mother, ruin will come of it
Don't ask me nothing
I have been in a dream for ever so long. Go away, go away
You said that before
You used the same expression that night, at the door, when I asked you what was going on here. What do you mean by being in a dream
I an't a going to tell you. Get away! I shouldn't tell you, if you was by yourself; much less with your old sweetheart here
I'd sooner scream to Jeremiah than say another word! I'll call out to him, Arthur, if you don't give over speaking to me. Now here's the very last word I'll say afore I call to him -- If ever you begin to get the better of them two clever ones your own self (you ought to it, as I told you when you first come home, for you haven't been a living here long years, to be made afeared of your life as I have), then do you get the better of 'em afore my face; and then do you say to me, Affery tell your dreams! Maybe, then I'll tell 'em
So you have been seeing the premises, seeing the premises -- premises -- seeing the premises
No -- a Peerage, or plain Merdle
It's like lying in a well
Dear me, Edmund, if you have anything to say, why don't you say it
My life, I have nothing to say
Good gracious, Edmund
I ask your pardon, my dear
You make my head ache by remaining in that position, Edmund
you look so aggravatingly large by this light. Do sit down
Certainly, my dear
If I didn't know that the longest day was past
I should have felt certain this was the longest day. I never did experience such a day
Is that your fan, my love
Edmund
don't ask weak questions, I entreat you not. Whose can it be but mine
Yes, I thought it was yours
Then you shouldn't ask
Dear me, dear me, there never was such a long day as this
My dear
I think you must have got the fidgets
Oh, Fidgets
Don't
My adorable girl
Good Gracious
It's beyond all patience! This is the most wearisome day that ever did dawn upon the world, I am certain
Now Edmund, come here! Come a little nearer, because I want to be able to touch you with my fan, that I may impress you very much with what I am going to say. That will do. Quite close enough. Oh, you do look so big
our fellows
You ought to have told me so before
My dear
I didn't know It would interest you, or I would have made a point of telling you
There! For goodness sake, don't talk
I want to talk, myself. Edmund, we must not be alone any more. I must take such precautions as will prevent my being ever again reduced to the state of dreadful depression in which I am this evening
My dear
being as you are well known to be, a remarkably fine woman with no
Oh, good GRACIOUS
I mean, my dear, that everybody knows you are calculated to shine in society
Calculated to shine in society
yes, indeed! And then what happens? I no sooner recover, in a visiting point of view, the shock of poor dear papa's death, and my poor uncle's -- though I do not disguise from myself that the last was a happy release, for, if you are not presentable you had much better die
You are not referring to me, my love, I hope
Edmund, Edmund, you would wear out a Saint. Am I not expressly speaking of my poor uncle
You looked with so much expression at myself, my dear girl
that I felt a little uncomfortable. Thank you, my love
Now you have put me out
and I had better go to bed
Don't do that, my love
Take time
What happens then, I ask! What happens? Why, I find myself at the very period when I might shine most in society, and should most like for very momentous reasons to shine in society -- I find myself in a situation which to a certain extent disqualifies me for going into society. it's too bad, really
My dear
I don't think it need keep you at home
Edmund, you ridiculous creature
do you suppose that a woman in the bloom of youth and not wholly devoid of personal attractions, can put herself, at such a time, in competition as to figure with a woman in every other way her inferior? If you do suppose such a thing, your folly is boundless
it might be got over
Got over
For a time
However
provoking as it is, and cruel as it seems, I suppose it must be submitted to
Especially as it was to be expected
Edmund
if you have nothing more becoming to do than to attempt to insult the woman who has honoured you with her hand, when she finds herself in adversity, I think YOU had better go to bed
Now, Edmund
what I was going to say to you when you began as usual to prose and worry, is, that I shall guard against our being alone any more, and that when circumstances prevent my going out to my own satisfaction, I must arrange to have some people or other always here; for I really cannot, and will not, have another such day as this has been
And besides, you know it's likely that you'll soon have your sister
Dearest Amy, yes
Darling little thing! Not, however, that Amy would do here alone
No
No, Oh dear no; she wouldn't do here alone
No, Edmund. For not only are the virtues of the precious child of that still character that they require a contrast -- require life and movement around them to bring them out in their right colours and make one love them of all things; but she will require to be roused, on more accounts than one
That's it
Roused
Pray don't, Edmund! Your habit of interrupting without having the least thing in the world to say, distracts one. You must be broken of it. Speaking of Amy;-- my poor little pet was devotedly attached to poor papa, and no doubt will have lamented his loss exceedingly, and grieved very much. I have done so myself. I have felt it dreadfully. But Amy will no doubt have felt it even more, from having been on the spot the whole time, and having been with poor dear papa at the last; which I unhappily was not
Dear, dear, beloved papa! How truly gentlemanly he was! What a contrast to poor uncle
From the effects of that trying time
my good little Mouse will have to be roused. Also, from the effects of this long attendance upon Edward in his illness; an attendance which is not yet over, which may even go on for some time longer, and which in the meanwhile unsettles us all by keeping poor dear papa's affairs from being wound up. Fortunately, however, the papers with his agents here being all sealed up and locked up, as he left them when he providentially came to England, the affairs are in that state of order that they can wait until my brother Edward recovers his health in Sicily, sufficiently to come over, and administer, or execute, or whatever it may be that will have to be done
He couldn't have a better nurse to bring him round
For a wonder, I can agree with you
and can adopt your words. He couldn't have a better nurse to bring him round. There are times when my dear child is a little wearing to an active mind; but, as a nurse, she is Perfection. Best of Amys
If Bout, Edmund
is the slang term for indisposition, he has. If it is not, I am unable to give an opinion on the barbarous language you address to Edward's sister. That he contracted Malaria Fever somewhere, either by travelling day and night to Rome, where, after all, he arrived too late to see poor dear papa before his death -- or under some other unwholesome circumstances -- is indubitable, if that is what you mean. Likewise that his extremely careless life has made him a very bad subject for it indeed
So, Amy
will require to be roused from the effects of many tedious and anxious weeks. And lastly, she will require to be roused from a low tendency which I know very well to be at the bottom of her heart. Don't ask me what it is, Edmund, because I must decline to tell you
I am not going to, my dear
I shall thus have much improvement to effect in my sweet child
and cannot have her near me too soon. Amiable and dear little Twoshoes! As to the settlement of poor papa's affairs, my interest in that is not very selfish. Papa behaved very generously to me when I was married, and I have little or nothing to expect. Provided he had made no will that can come into force, leaving a legacy to Mrs General, I am contented. Dear papa, dear papa
It is a highly encouraging circumstance in Edward's illness, I am thankful to think, and gives one the greatest confidence in his sense not being impaired, or his proper spirit weakened -- down to the time of poor dear papa's death at all events -- that he paid off Mrs General instantly, and sent her out of the house. I applaud him for it. I could forgive him a great deal for doing, with such promptitude, so exactly what I would have done myself
Halloa
Who's this
Not Amy and Edward without notice and without a carriage
Look out
It's one fellow
I can't see who -- stop though
his governor's tile
Candles
It's light enough for me
I thought I'd give you a call
I am rather particularly occupied just now; and, as I happened to be out for a stroll, I thought I'd give you a call
Well
I haven't been dining anywhere, particularly
Of course you have dined
Why -- no, I haven't exactly dined
No, thank you
I don't feel inclined for it. I was to have dined out along with Mrs Merdle. But as I didn't feel inclined for dinner, I let Mrs Merdle go by herself just as we were getting into the carriage, and thought I'd take a stroll instead
No, thank you
I looked in at the Club, and got a bottle of wine
You see I thought I'd give you a call
Flattering to us
for you are not a calling man
No -- no
No, I am not a calling man
You have too much to do for that
Having so much to do, Mr Merdle, loss of appetite is a serious thing with you, and you must have it seen to. You must not be ill
Oh! I am very well
I am as well as I usually am. I am well enough. I am as well as I want to be
I was speaking of poor papa when you came in, sir
Aye! Quite a coincidence
I was saying
that my brother's illness has occasioned a delay in examining and arranging papa's property
Yes
yes. There has been a delay
Not that it is of consequence
Not
not that it is of any consequence
My only anxiety is
that Mrs General should not get anything
She won't get anything
Oh dear no. No. Not she. Not likely
No
I shall go by the shortest way, and leave Mrs Merdle to --' here he looked all over the palms of both his hands as if he were telling his own fortune --'to take care of herself. I dare say she'll manage to do it
Probably
But, however
I am equally detaining you and myself. I thought I'd give you a call, you know
Charmed, I am sure
So I am off
Could you lend me a penknife
Isn't it
but I want one; and I know you have got several little wedding keepsakes about, with scissors and tweezers and such things in them. You shall have it back to-morrow
Edmund
open (now, very carefully, I beg and beseech, for you are so very awkward) the mother of pearl box on my little table there, and give Mr Merdle the mother of pearl penknife
Thank you
but if you have got one with a darker handle, I think I should prefer one with a darker handle
Tortoise-shell
Thank you
yes. I think I should prefer tortoise-shell
I will forgive you, if you ink it
I'll undertake not to ink it
Come and see what I see
Here is a man who really has an acquaintance with us as we are, who is admitted to some of us every day with our wigs and paint off, who hears the wanderings of our minds, and sees the undisguised expression of our faces, when both are past our control; we may as well make an approach to reality with him, for the man has got the better of us and is too strong for us
A certain bird
has been whispering among us lawyers lately, that there is to be an addition to the titled personages of this realm
Really
Yes
Has not the bird been whispering in very different ears from ours -- in lovely ears
Do you mean mine
When I say lovely
I always mean you
You never mean anything, I think
Oh, cruelly unjust
But, the bird
I am the last person in the world to hear news
Who is it
What an admirable witness you would make
No jury (unless we could empanel one of blind men) could resist you, if you were ever so bad a one; but you would be such a good one
Why, you ridiculous man
What am I to call the most elegant, accomplished and charming of women, a few weeks, or it may be a few days, hence
Didn't your bird tell you what to call her
Do ask it to-morrow, and tell me the next time you see me what it says
May I ask
is this true about Merdle
My dear doctor
you ask me the very question that I was half disposed to ask you
To ask me! Why me
Upon my honour, I think Mr Merdle reposes greater confidence in you than in any one
On the contrary, he tells me absolutely nothing, even professionally. You have heard the talk, of course
Of course I have. But you know what Mr Merdle is; you know how taciturn and reserved he is. I assure you I have no idea what foundation for it there may be. I should like it to be true; why should I deny that to you? You would know better, if I did
Just so
But whether it is all true, or partly true, or entirely false, I am wholly unable to say. It is a most provoking situation, a most absurd situation; but you know Mr Merdle, and are not surprised
I come from the warm-baths, sir, round in the neighbouring street
And what is the matter at the warm-baths
Would you please to come directly, sir. We found that, lying on the table
Request everybody else to keep back, if you please
and do you take me straight to the place, my friend
Separation of jugular vein -- death rapid -- been dead at least half an hour
This is addressed to me
What's the matter
You asked me once what Merdle's complaint was
Extraordinary answer! I know I did
I told you I had not found out
Yes. I know you did
I have found it out
My God
And so have I! I see it in your face
Mrs Merdle's maid must be called, and told to get Mrs Merdle up, and prepare her as gently as she can to see me. I have dreadful news to break to her
Mr Merdle is dead
I should wish
to give a month's notice
Mr Merdle has destroyed himself
Sir
that is very unpleasant to the feelings of one in my position, as calculated to awaken prejudice; and I should wish to leave immediately
If you are not shocked, are you not surprised, man
Sir, Mr Merdle never was the gentleman, and no ungentlemanly act on Mr Merdle's part would surprise me. Is there anybody else I can send to you, or any other directions I can give before I leave, respecting what you would wish to be done
You must expect to go out, some day, like the snuff of a candle;' and that they knew Mr Merdle to have said to Physician, 'A man can die but once
Pressure
O, Pancks, Pancks
don't speak of deserving. What do I myself deserve
Better luck
I
who have ruined my partner! Pancks, Pancks, I have ruined Doyce! The honest, self- helpful, indefatigable old man who has worked his way all through his life; the man who has contended against so much disappointment, and who has brought out of it such a good and hopeful nature; the man I have felt so much for, and meant to be so true and useful to; I have ruined him -- brought him to shame and disgrace -- ruined him, ruined him
Reproach me
If you had never yielded to this fatal mania, Pancks
it would have been how much better for you, and how much better for me
At me again, sir
At me again
If you had never gone into those accursed calculations, and brought out your results with such abominable clearness
it would have been how much better for you, Pancks, and how much better for me
At me again, sir
at me again, and again
Blind leaders of the blind, Pancks! Blind leaders of the blind! But Doyce, Doyce, Doyce; my injured partner
Not been to bed, sir, since it began to get about. Been high and low, on the chance of finding some hope of saving any cinders from the fire. All in vain. All gone. All vanished
I know it
too well
Only yesterday, Pancks
only yesterday, Monday, I had the fixed intention of selling, realising, and making an end of it
I can't say as much for myself, sir
Though it's wonderful how many people I've heard of, who were going to realise yesterday, of all days in the three hundred and sixty-five, if it hadn't been too late
Mr Clennam, had you laid out -- everything
Everything
My course
must be taken at once. What wretched amends I can make must be made. I must clear my unfortunate partner's reputation. I must retain nothing for myself. I must resign to our creditors the power of management I have so much abused, and I must work out as much of my fault -- or crime -- as is susceptible of being worked out in the rest of my days
Is it impossible, sir, to tide over the present
Out of the question. Nothing can be tided over now, Pancks. The sooner the business can pass out of my hands, the better for it. There are engagements to be met, this week, which would bring the catastrophe before many days were over, even if I would postpone it for a single day by going on for that space, secretly knowing what I know. All last night I thought of what I would do; what remains is to do it
Not entirely of yourself
Have some legal help
Perhaps I had better
Have Rugg
There is not much to do. He will do it as well as another
Shall I fetch Rugg, Mr Clennam
If you could spare the time, I should be much obliged to you
He is not unlike what my daughter was, sir, when we began the Breach of Promise action of Rugg and Bawkins, in which she was Plaintiff
He takes too strong and direct an interest in the case. His feelings are worked upon. There is no getting on, in our profession, with feelings worked upon, sir
I am sorry to perceive, sir
that you have been allowing your own feelings to be worked upon. Now, pray don't, pray don't. These losses are much to be deplored, sir, but we must look 'em in the face
If the money I have sacrificed had been all my own, Mr Rugg
I should have cared far less
Indeed, sir
You surprise me. That's singular, sir. I have generally found, in my experience, that it's their own money people are most particular about. I have seen people get rid of a good deal of other people's money, and bear it very well: very well indeed
Now, Mr Clennam, by your leave, let us go into the matter. Let us see the state of the case. The question is simple. The question is the usual plain, straightforward, common-sense question. What can we do for ourself? What can we do for ourself
This is not the question with me, Mr Rugg
You mistake it in the beginning. It is, what can I do for my partner, how can I best make reparation to him
I am afraid, sir, do you know
that you are still allowing your feeling to be worked upon. I don't like the term "reparation," sir, except as a lever in the hands of counsel. Will you excuse my saying that I feel it my duty to offer you the caution, that you really must not allow your feelings to be worked upon
Mr Rugg
you give me the impression that you will not be much disposed to adopt the course I have made up my mind to take. If your disapproval of it should render you unwilling to discharge such business as it necessitates, I am sorry for it, and must seek other aid. But I will represent to you at once, that to argue against it with me is useless
Good, sir
I offer no objection, sir
I argue no point with you. I will carry out your views, sir; but, under protest
I must take the consequences of what I have done
The writs will find me here
I thought I'd wait for you here. I wouldn't go on to the Counting-house this morning if I was you, sir
Why not, Mr Rugg
There are as many as five out, to my knowledge
It cannot be too soon over
Let them take me at once
Yes, but
hear reason, hear reason. They'll take you soon enough, Mr Clennam, I don't doubt; but, hear reason. It almost always happens, in these cases, that some insignificant matter pushes itself in front and makes much of itself. Now, I find there's a little one out -- a mere Palace Court jurisdiction -- and I have reason to believe that a caption may be made upon that. I wouldn't be taken upon that
Why not
I'd be taken on a full-grown one, sir
It's as well to keep up appearances. As your professional adviser, I should prefer your being taken on a writ from one of the Superior Courts, if you have no objection to do me that favour. It looks better
Mr Rugg
my only wish is, that it should be over. I will go on, and take my chance
Another word of reason, sir
Now, this is reason. The other may be taste; but this is reason. If you should be taken on a little one, sir, you would go to the Marshalsea. Now, you know what the Marshalsea is. Very close. Excessively confined. Whereas in the King's Bench
I would rather
be taken to the Marshalsea than to any other prison
Do you say so indeed, sir
Then this is taste, too, and we may be walking
pulled down by it
Oh
How do you do? Step in -- Mr Clennam, I think this is the gentleman I was mentioning
a tyfling madder ob bithznithz
Shall I accompany you, Mr Clennam
I would rather go alone, thank you. Be so good as send me my clothes
Where I little thought, Heaven forgive me
that I should ever enter thus
I don't call to mind, sir, as I was ever less glad to see you
You can come now
You want a room. I have got you one
I thank you heartily
I don't know as I can. No, I find I can't. But I thought you'd like the room, and here it is for you
O my Little Dorrit
When I first gathered myself together
and set something like purpose before my jaded eyes, whom had I before me, toiling on, for a good object's sake, without encouragement, without notice, against ignoble obstacles that would have turned an army of received heroes and heroines? One weak girl! When I tried to conquer my misplaced love, and to be generous to the man who was more fortunate than I, though he should never know it or repay me with a gracious word, in whom had I watched patience, self-denial, self-subdual, charitable construction, the noblest generosity of the affections? In the same poor girl! If I, a man, with a man's advantages and means and energies, had slighted the whisper in my heart, that if my father had erred, it was my first duty to conceal the fault and to repair it, what youthful figure with tender feet going almost bare on the damp ground, with spare hands ever working, with its slight shape but half protected from the sharp weather, would have stood before me to put me to shame? Little Dorrit's
I am off the Lock, Mr Clennam, and going out. Can I do anything for you
Many thanks. Nothing
You'll excuse me opening the door
but I couldn't make you hear
Did you knock
Half-a-dozen times
Your things is come
and my son is going to carry 'em up. I should have sent 'em up but for his wishing to carry 'em himself. Indeed he would have 'em himself, and so I couldn't send 'em up. Mr Clennam, could I say a word to you
Pray come in
Thank you, sir
it's no odds me coming in. Mr Clennam, don't you take no notice of my son (if you'll be so good) in case you find him cut up anyways difficult. My son has a 'art, and my son's 'art is in the right place. Me and his mother knows where to find it, and we find it sitiwated correct
Here's your portmanteau
It's very kind of you. I am ashamed that you should have the trouble
Here's your black box
I am very sensible of this attention. I hope we may shake hands now, Mr John
I don't know as I can. No; I find I can't
Why are you angry with me
and yet so ready to do me these kind services? There must be some mistake between us. If I have done anything to occasion it I am sorry
No mistake, sir
No mistake, sir, in the feelings with which my eyes behold you at the present moment! If I was at all fairly equal to your weight, Mr Clennam -- which I am not; and if you weren't under a cloud -- which you are; and if it wasn't against all rules of the Marshalsea -- which it is; those feelings are such, that they would stimulate me, more to having it out with you in a Round on the present spot than to anything else I could name
Well, well
A mistake, a mistake
I beg your pardon
Freely granted
Say no more. I am not worth it
This furniture, sir
belongs to me. I am in the habit of letting it out to parties without furniture, that have the room. It an't much, but it's at your service. Free, I mean. I could not think of letting you have it on any other terms. You're welcome to it for nothing
What is the matter between us
I decline to name it, sir
Nothing's the matter
The little round table, sir, that's nigh your elbow, was -- you know whose -- I needn't mention him -- he died a great gentleman. I bought it of an individual that he gave it to, and that lived here after him. But the individual wasn't any ways equal to him. Most individuals would find it hard to come up to his level
Perhaps you may not be aware, sir
that I intruded upon him when he was over here in London. On the whole he was of opinion that it WAS an intrusion, though he was so good as to ask me to sit down and to inquire after father and all other old friends. Leastways humblest acquaintances. He looked, to me, a good deal changed, and I said so when I came back. I asked him if Miss Amy was well
And she was
I should have thought you would have known without putting the question to such as me
Since you do put me the question, I am sorry I can't answer it. But the truth is, he looked upon the inquiry as a liberty, and said, "What was that to me?" It was then I became quite aware I was intruding: of which I had been fearful before. However, he spoke very handsome afterwards; very handsome
He both spoke and acted very handsome
If it's not a liberty, how long may it be your intentions, sir, to go without eating and drinking
I have not felt the want of anything yet
I have no appetite just now
The more reason why you should take some support, sir
If you find yourself going on sitting here for hours and hours partaking of no refreshment because you have no appetite, why then you should and must partake of refreshment without an appetite. I'm going to have tea in my own apartment. If it's not a liberty, please to come and take a cup. Or I can bring a tray here in two minutes
I see you recollect the room, Mr Clennam
I recollect it well, Heaven bless her
Try a little something green
Try a little more something green, sir
It was very kind of you to think of putting this between the wires; but I cannot even get this down to-day
I wonder
that if it's not worth your while to take care of yourself for your own sake, it's not worth doing for some one else's
Truly
I don't know for whose
Mr Clennam
I am surprised that a gentleman who is capable of the straightforwardness that you are capable of, should be capable of the mean action of making me such an answer. Mr Clennam, I am surprised that a gentleman who is capable of having a heart of his own, should be capable of the heartlessness of treating mine in that way. I am astonished at it, sir. Really and truly I am astonished
I had got over it, sir
I had conquered it, knowing that it must be conquered, and had come to the resolution to think no more about it. I shouldn't have given my mind to it again, I hope, if to this prison you had not been brought, and in an hour unfortunate for me, this day
When you first came upon me, sir, in the Lodge, this day, more as if a Upas tree had been made a capture of than a private defendant, such mingled streams of feelings broke loose again within me, that everything was for the first few minutes swept away before them, and I was going round and round in a vortex. I got out of it. I struggled, and got out of it. If it was the last word I had to speak, against that vortex with my utmost powers I strove, and out of it I came. I argued that if I had been rude, apologies was due, and those apologies without a question of demeaning, I did make. And now, when I've been so wishful to show that one thought is next to being a holy one with me and goes before all others -- now, after all, you dodge me when I ever so gently hint at it, and throw me back upon myself. For, do not, sir
do not be so base as to deny that dodge you do, and thrown me back upon myself you have
What is it? What do you mean, John
I hadn't
no, I hadn't, and I never had the audaciousness to think, I am sure, that all was anything but lost. I hadn't, no, why should I say I hadn't if I ever had, any hope that it was possible to be so blest, not after the words that passed, not even if barriers insurmountable had not been raised! But is that a reason why I am to have no memory, why I am to have no thoughts, why I am to have no sacred spots, nor anything
What can you mean
It's all very well to trample on it, sir
if a person can make up his mind to be guilty of the action. It's all very well to trample on it, but it's there. It may be that it couldn't be trampled upon if it wasn't there. But that doesn't make it gentlemanly, that doesn't make it honourable, that doesn't justify throwing a person back upon himself after he has struggled and strived out of himself like a butterfly. The world may sneer at a turnkey, but he's a man -- when he isn't a woman, which among female criminals he's expected to be
It seems to me just possible
that you have made some reference to Miss Dorrit
It is just possible, sir
I don't understand it. I hope I may not be so unlucky as to make you think I mean to offend you again, for I never have meant to offend you yet, when I say I don't understand it
Sir
will you have the perfidy to deny that you know and long have known that I felt towards Miss Dorrit, call it not the presumption of love, but adoration and sacrifice
Indeed, John, I will not have any perfidy if I know it; why you should suspect me of it I am at a loss to think. Did you ever hear from Mrs Chivery, your mother, that I went to see her once
No, sir
Never heard of such a thing
But I did. Can you imagine why
No, sir
I can't imagine why
I will tell you. I was solicitous to promote Miss Dorrit's happiness; and if I could have supposed that Miss Dorrit returned your affection
Miss Dorrit never did, sir. I wish to be honourable and true, so far as in my humble way I can, and I would scorn to pretend for a moment that she ever did, or that she ever led me to believe she did; no, nor even that it was ever to be expected in any cool reason that she would or could. She was far above me in all respects at all times. As likewise
similarly was her gen-teel family
You speak, john
like a Man
Well, sir
then I wish you'd do the same
Leastways
'em heavy; I don't mention 'em on that accounts; far from it. Why have I cultivated you in the manner I have done since the morning? On the ground of your own merits? No. They're very great, I've no doubt at all; but not on the ground of them. Another's merits have had their weight, and have had far more weight with Me. Then why not speak free
Unaffectedly, John
you are so good a fellow and I have so true a respect for your character, that if I have appeared to be less sensible than I really am of the fact that the kind services you have rendered me to-day are attributable to my having been trusted by Miss Dorrit as her friend -- I confess it to be a fault, and I ask your forgiveness
Oh! why not
why not speak free
I declare to you
Mr Clennam, do you mean to say that you don't know
What, John
Lord
He says, What
He says What! And what is more
he appears to mean it! Do you see this window, sir
Of course I see this window
See this room
Why, of course I see this room
That wall opposite, and that yard down below? They have all been witnesses of it, from day to day, from night to night, from week to week, from month to month. For how often have I seen Miss Dorrit here when she has not seen me
Witnesses of what
Of Miss Dorrit's love
For whom
You
Me
Me
Ah
You
Your fancy. You are completely mistaken
I mistaken, sir
_I_ completely mistaken on that subject! No, Mr Clennam, don't tell me so. On any other, if you like, for I don't set up to be a penetrating character, and am well aware of my own deficiencies. But, _I_ mistaken on a point that has caused me more smart in my breast than a flight of savages' arrows could have done! _I_ mistaken on a point that almost sent me into my grave, as I sometimes wished it would, if the grave could only have been made compatible with the tobacco- business and father and mother's feelings! I mistaken on a point that, even at the present moment, makes me take out my pocket- handkercher like a great girl, as people say: though I am sure I don't know why a great girl should be a term of reproach, for every rightly constituted male mind loves 'em great and small. Don't tell me so, don't tell me so
No impression! Certainty
un
No, No, No
The way father has been talking about you, Mr Clennam
you hardly would believe. It's made him quite poorly. As to his voice, this misfortune has took it away. You know what a sweet singer father is; but he couldn't get a note out for the children at tea, if you'll credit what I tell you
As to Mr Baptist
whatever he'll do when he comes to know of it, I can't conceive nor yet imagine. He'd have been here before now, you may be sure, but that he's away on confidential business of your own. The persevering manner in which he follows up that business, and gives himself no rest from it -- it really do
as I say to him, Mooshattonisha padrona
But what I say is, Mr Clennam
there's always something to be thankful for, as I am sure you will yourself admit. Speaking in this room, it's not hard to think what the present something is. It's a thing to be thankful for, indeed, that Miss Dorrit is not here to know it
It's a thing
to be thankful for, indeed, that Miss Dorrit is far away. It's to be hoped she is not likely to hear of it. If she had been here to see it, sir, it's not to be doubted that the sight of you
not to be doubted, that the sight of you -- in misfortune and trouble, would have been almost too much for her affectionate heart. There's nothing I can think of, that would have touched Miss Dorrit so bad as that
Yes
And it shows what notice father takes, though at his time of life, that he says to me this afternoon, which Happy Cottage knows I neither make it up nor any ways enlarge, "Mary, it's much to be rejoiced in that Miss Dorrit is not on the spot to behold it." Those were father's words. Father's own words was, "Much to be rejoiced in, Mary, that Miss Dorrit is not on the spot to behold it." I says to father then, I says to him, "Father, you are right!" That
is what passed betwixt father and me. And I tell you nothing but what did pass betwixt me and father
For, you see
I know what it is, old gal
How do you do, Mr Clennam? I hope I am not unwelcome in calling to see you
You are surprised to see me, Mr Clennam
I must confess to being much surprised
Not disagreeably, I hope
By no means
Thank you. Frankly
I have been excessively sorry to hear that you were under the necessity of a temporary retirement here, and I hope (of course as between two private gentlemen) that our place has had nothing to do with it
Your office
Our Circumlocution place
I cannot charge any part of my reverses upon that remarkable establishment
I am heartily glad to know it. It is quite a relief to me to hear you say it. I should have so exceedingly regretted our place having had anything to do with your difficulties
That's right
I am very happy to hear it. I was rather afraid in my own mind that we might have helped to floor you, because there is no doubt that it is our misfortune to do that kind of thing now and then. We don't want to do it; but if men will be gravelled, why -- we can't help it
Without giving an unqualified assent to what you say
I am much obliged to you for your interest in me
No, but really! Our place is
the most inoffensive place possible. You'll say we are a humbug. I won't say we are not; but all that sort of thing is intended to be, and must be. Don't you see
I do not
You don't regard it from the right point of view. It is the point of view that is the essential thing. Regard our place from the point of view that we only ask you to leave us alone, and we are as capital a Department as you'll find anywhere
Is your place there to be left alone
You exactly hit it
It is there with the express intention that everything shall be left alone. That is what it means. That is what it's for. No doubt there's a certain form to be kept up that it's for something else, but it's only a form. Why, good Heaven, we are nothing but forms! Think what a lot of our forms you have gone through. And you have never got any nearer to an end
Never
Look at it from the right point of view, and there you have us -- official and effectual. It's like a limited game of cricket. A field of outsiders are always going in to bowl at the Public Service, and we block the balls
And this occasions me to congratulate myself again
on the circumstance that our place has had nothing to do with your temporary retirement. It very easily might have had a hand in it; because it is undeniable that we are sometimes a most unlucky place, in our effects upon people who will not leave us alone. Mr Clennam, I am quite unreserved with you. As between yourself and myself, I know I may be. I was so, when I first saw you making the mistake of not leaving us alone; because I perceived that you were inexperienced and sanguine, and had -- I hope you'll not object to my saying -- some simplicity
Not at all
Some simplicity. Therefore I felt what a pity it was, and I went out of my way to hint to you (which really was not official, but I never am official when I can help it) something to the effect that if I were you, I wouldn't bother myself. However, you did bother yourself, and you have since bothered yourself. Now, don't do it any more
I am not likely to have the opportunity
Oh yes, you are! You'll leave here. Everybody leaves here. There are no ends of ways of leaving here. Now, don't come back to us. That entreaty is the second object of my call. Pray, don't come back to us. Upon my honour
I shall be greatly vexed if you don't take warning by the past and keep away from us
And the invention
My good fellow
if you'll excuse the freedom of that form of address, nobody wants to know of the invention, and nobody cares twopence-halfpenny about it
Nobody in the Office, that is to say
said the sprightly young Barnacle in his pleasantest manner, 'our place is not a wicked Giant to be charged at full tilt; but only a windmill showing you, as it grinds immense quantities of chaff, which way the country wind blows
If I could believe that
it would be a dismal prospect for all of us
Oh! Don't say so
Is it fair to ask
whether it is true that our late lamented Merdle is the cause of this passing inconvenience
I am one of the many he has ruined. Yes
He must have been an exceedingly clever fellow
A consummate rascal, of course
but remarkably clever! One cannot help admiring the fellow. Must have been such a master of humbug. Knew people so well -- got over them so completely -- did so much with them
I hope
that he and his dupes may be a warning to people not to have so much done with them again
My dear Mr Clennam
have you really such a verdant hope? The next man who has as large a capacity and as genuine a taste for swindling, will succeed as well. Pardon me, but I think you really have no idea how the human bees will swarm to the beating of any old tin kettle; in that fact lies the complete manual of governing them. When they can be got to believe that the kettle is made of the precious metals, in that fact lies the whole power of men like our late lamented. No doubt there are here and there
exceptional cases, where people have been taken in for what appeared to them to be much better reasons; and I need not go far to find such a case; but they don't invalidate the rule. Good day! I hope that when I have the pleasure of seeing you, next, this passing cloud will have given place to sunshine. Don't come a step beyond the door. I know the way out perfectly. Good day
How do you do to-day, sir
Is there any little thing I can do for you to-day, sir
No, I thank you
I still look round, from time to time, sir
to see whether any lingering Detainers are accumulating at the gate. They have fallen in pretty thick, sir; as thick as we could have expected
As thick
as we could reasonably have expected. Quite a shower-bath of 'em. I don't often intrude upon you now, when I look round, because I know you are not inclined for company, and that if you wished to see me, you would leave word in the Lodge. But I am here pretty well every day, sir. Would this be an unseasonable time, sir
for me to offer an observation
As seasonable a time as any other
Hum! Public opinion, sir
has been busy with you
I don't doubt it
Might it not be advisable, sir
now to make, at last and after all, a trifling concession to public opinion? We all do it in one way or another. The fact is, we must do it
I cannot set myself right with it, Mr Rugg, and have no business to expect that I ever shall
Don't say that, sir, don't say that. The cost of being moved to the Bench is almost insignificant, and if the general feeling is strong that you ought to be there, why -- really
I thought you had settled, Mr Rugg
that my determination to remain here was a matter of taste
Well, sir, well! But is it good taste, is it good taste? That's the Question
I will put it on the lowest ground of argument, and say, amiable
As to myself, sir
I am unchanged, and unchangeable, in my decision. Pray, let it be; let it be
Oh! Beyond a doubt, sir. I have travelled out of the record, sir, I am aware, in putting the point to you. But really, when I herd it remarked in several companies, and in very good company, that however worthy of a foreigner, it is not worthy of the spirit of an Englishman to remain in the Marshalsea when the glorious liberties of his island home admit of his removal to the Bench, I thought I would depart from the narrow professional line marked out to me, and mention it. Personally
I have no opinion on the topic
That's well
Oh! None at all, sir
Who is waiting to see me, did you say
I did take that unprofessional liberty, sir. Hearing that I was your professional adviser, he declined to interpose before my very limited function was performed. Happily
I did not so far travel out of the record as to ask the gentleman for his name
I suppose I have no resource but to see him
Then it IS your good pleasure, sir
Am I honoured by your instructions to mention as much to the gentleman, as I pass out? I am? Thank you, sir. I take my leave
Salve, fellow jail-bird
You want me, it seems. Here I am
I have it on the witnessing of these two madmen
that you want me, brother-bird. Here I am
You villain of ill-omen
Hear this noble gentleman! Listen, all the world, to this creature of Virtue! But take care, take care. It is possible, my friend, that your ardour is a little compromising. Holy Blue! It is possible
Signore
for to commence, hear me! I received your instructions to find him, Rigaud; is it not
It is the truth
I go, consequentementally
first among my countrymen. I ask them what news in Londra, of foreigners arrived. Then I go among the French. Then I go among the Germans. They all tell me. The great part of us know well the other, and they all tell me. But!-- no person can tell me nothing of him, Rigaud. Fifteen times
I ask of him in every place where go the foreigners; and fifteen times
they know nothing. But
But
But!-- After a long time when I have not been able to find that he is here in Londra, some one tells me of a soldier with white hair -- hey?-- not hair like this that he carries -- white -- who lives retired secrettementally, in a certain place. But
who sometimes in the after-dinner, walks, and smokes. It is necessary, as they say in Italy (and as they know, poor people), to have patience. I have patience. I ask where is this certain place. One. believes it is here, one believes it is there. Eh well! It is not here, it is not there. I wait patientissamentally. At last I find it. Then I watch; then I hide, until he walks and smokes. He is a soldier with grey hair -- But!--' a very decided rest indeed, and a very vigorous play from side to side of the back-handed forefinger
Eh well, Signore
I waited for a good opportunity. I writed some words to Signor Panco
to come and help. I showed him, Rigaud, at his window, to Signor Panco, who was often the spy in the day. I slept at night near the door of the house. At last we entered, only this to-day, and now you see him! As he would not come up in presence of the illustrious Advocate
we waited down below there, together, and Signor Panco guarded the street
Now, Philosopher
I want to know
how you dare direct a suspicion of murder against my mother's house
Dare
Ho, ho! Hear him! Dare? Is it dare? By Heaven, my small boy, but you are a little imprudent
I want that suspicion to be cleared away
You shall be taken there, and be publicly seen. I want to know, moreover, what business you had there when I had a burning desire to fling you down-stairs. Don't frown at me, man! I have seen enough of you to know that you are a bully and coward. I need no revival of my spirits from the effects of this wretched place to tell you so plain a fact, and one that you know so well
By Heaven, my small boy, but you are a little compromising of my lady, your respectable mother
Give me a bottle of wine. You can buy wine here. Send one of your madmen to get me a bottle of wine. I won't talk to you without wine. Come! Yes or no
Fetch him what he wants, Cavalletto
Contraband beast
bring Port wine! I'll drink nothing but Porto-Porto
Madman! A large glass
Haha
Hah
Not a very old prisoner that! I judge by your looks, brave sir, that imprisonment will subdue your blood much sooner than it softens this hot wine. You are mellowing -- losing body and colour already. I salute you
To business
To conversation. You have shown yourself more free of speech than body, sir
I have used the freedom of telling you what you know yourself to be. You know yourself, as we all know you, to be far worse than that
Add, always a gentleman, and it's no matter. Except in that regard, we are all alike. For example: you couldn't for your life be a gentleman; I couldn't for my life be otherwise. How great the difference! Let us go on. Words, sir, never influence the course of the cards, or the course of the dice. Do you know that? You do? I also play a game, and words are without power over it
No, my son
I play my game to the end in spite of words; and Death of my Body and Death of my Soul! I'll win it. You want to know why I played this little trick that you have interrupted? Know then that I had, and that I have -- do you understand me? have -- a commodity to sell to my lady your respectable mother. I described my precious commodity, and fixed my price. Touching the bargain, your admirable mother was a little too calm, too stolid, too immovable and statue-like. In fine, your admirable mother vexed me. To make variety in my position, and to amuse myself -- what! a gentleman must be amused at somebody's expense!-- I conceived the happy idea of disappearing. An idea, see you, that your characteristic mother and my Flintwinch would have been well enough pleased to execute. Ah! Bah, bah, bah, don't look as from high to low at me! I repeat it. Well enough pleased, excessively enchanted, and with all their hearts ravished. How strongly will you have it
I'll not fill it. What! I am born to be served. Come then, you Cavalletto, and fill
This happy idea, brave sir
was a happy idea for several reasons. It amused me, it worried your dear mama and my Flintwinch, it caused you agonies (my terms for a lesson in politeness towards a gentleman), and it suggested to all the amiable persons interested that your entirely devoted is a man to fear. By Heaven, he is a man to fear! Beyond this; it might have restored her wit to my lady your mother -- might, under the pressing little suspicion your wisdom has recognised, have persuaded her at last to announce, covertly, in the journals, that the difficulties of a certain contract would be removed by the appearance of a certain important party to it. Perhaps yes, perhaps no. But that, you have interrupted. Now, what is it you say? What is it you want
Perhaps, my friend, philosopher, man of virtue, Imbecile, what you will; perhaps
you would have done better to leave me alone
No! At least
you are known to be alive and unharmed. At least you cannot escape from these two witnesses; and they can produce you before any public authorities, or before hundreds of people
But will not produce me before one
To MRS CLENNAM. 'Wait answer. 

'Prison of the Marshalsea. 'At the apartment of your son. 

'Dear Madam,-- I am in despair to be informed to-day by our prisoner here (who has had the goodness to employ spies to seek me, living for politic reasons in retirement), that you have had fears for my safety. 

'Reassure yourself, dear madam. I am well, I am strong and constant. 

'With the greatest impatience I should fly to your house, but that I foresee it to be possible, under the circumstances, that you will not yet have quite definitively arranged the little proposition I have had the honour to submit to you. I name one week from this day, for a last final visit on my part; when you will unconditionally accept it or reject it, with its train of consequences. 

'I suppress my ardour to embrace you and achieve this interesting business, in order that you may have leisure to adjust its details to our perfect mutual satisfaction. 

'In the meanwhile, it is not too much to propose (our prisoner having deranged my housekeeping), that my expenses of lodging and nourishment at an hotel shall be paid by you. 

'Receive, dear madam, the assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration, 

'RIGAUD BLANDOIS. 

'A thousand friendships to that dear Flintwinch. 

'I kiss the hands of Madame F
Hola you! Apropos of producing, let somebody produce that at its address, and produce the answer here
Cavalletto
Will you take this fellow's letter
Touch me with a finger, touch me with an epithet, question my superiority as I sit here drinking my wine at my pleasure
and I follow the letter and cancel my week's grace. You wanted me? You have got me! How do you like me
You know
that when I sought you, I was not a prisoner
To the Devil with you and your prison
I care for neither of you. Contrabandist! A light
Hola, Pig
What! The infernal old jail was a respectable one to this. There was dignity in the bars and stones of that place. It was a prison for men. But this? Bah! A hospital for imbeciles
One must pass the time in the madman's absence. One must talk. One can't drink strong wine all day long, or I would have another bottle. She's handsome, sir. Though not exactly to my taste, still, by the Thunder and the Lightning! handsome. I felicitate you on your admiration
I neither know nor ask
of whom you speak
Della bella Gowana, sir, as they say in Italy. Of the Gowan, the fair Gowan
Of whose husband you were the -- follower, I think
Sir? Follower? You are insolent. The friend
Do you sell all your friends
I sell anything that commands a price. How do your lawyers live, your politicians, your intriguers, your men of the Exchange? How do you live? How do you come here? Have you sold no friend? Lady of mine! I rather think, yes
Effectively, sir
Society sells itself and sells me: and I sell Society. I perceive you have acquaintance with another lady. Also handsome. A strong spirit. Let us see. How do they call her? Wade
Yes
that handsome lady and strong spirit addresses me in the street, and I am not insensible. I respond. That handsome lady and strong spirit does me the favour to remark, in full confidence, "I have my curiosity, and I have my chagrins. You are not more than ordinarily honourable, perhaps?" I announce myself, "Madame, a gentleman from the birth, and a gentleman to the death; but NOT more than ordinarily honourable. I despise such a weak fantasy." Thereupon she is pleased to compliment. "The difference between you and the rest is," she answers, "that you say so." For she knows Society. I accept her congratulations with gallantry and politeness. Politeness and little gallantries are inseparable from my character. She then makes a proposition, which is, in effect, that she has seen us much together; that it appears to her that I am for the passing time the cat of the house, the friend of the family; that her curiosity and her chagrins awaken the fancy to be acquainted with their movements, to know the manner of their life, how the fair Gowana is beloved, how the fair Gowana is cherished, and so on. She is not rich, but offers such and such little recompenses for the little cares and derangements of such services; and I graciously -- to do everything graciously is a part of my character -- consent to accept them. O yes! So goes the world. It is the mode
Whoof! The fair Gowana
Charming, but imprudent! For it was not well of the fair Gowana to make mysteries of letters from old lovers, in her bedchamber on the mountain, that her husband might not see them. No, no. That was not well. Whoof! The Gowana was mistaken there
I earnestly hope
that Pancks may not be long gone, for this man's presence pollutes the room
Ah! But he'll flourish here, and everywhere
He always has; he always will
Who passes by this road so late? Compagnon de la Majolaine! Who passes by this road so late? Always gay! 'Sing the Refrain, pig! You could sing it once, in another jail. Sing it! Or, by every Saint who was stoned to death, I'll be affronted and compromising; and then some people who are not dead yet, had better have been stoned along with them
Of all the king's knights 'tis the flower, Compagnon de la Majolaine! Of all the king's knights 'tis the flower, Always gay
How do you find yourself, sir
Thank you, no; I don't want any more
Well, Arthur. You remember what I said to you about sleeping dogs and missing ones. It's come true, you see
And this is the Marshalsea prison for debt
Hah! you have brought your pigs to a very indifferent market, Arthur
To the Devil with the Market, to the Devil with the Pigs, and to the Devil with the Pig-Driver! Now! Give me the answer to my letter
If you can make it convenient to let go a moment, sir
I'll first hand Mr Arthur a little note that I have for him
I hope it is enough that you have ruined yourself. Rest contented without more ruin. Jeremiah Flintwinch is my messenger and representative. Your affectionate M. C
Now, Beau Flintwinch
the answer to my letter
Mrs Clennam did not write, Mr Blandois, her hands being cramped, and she thinking it as well to send it verbally by me
She sends her compliments, and says she doesn't on the whole wish to term you unreasonable, and that she agrees. But without prejudicing the appointment that stands for this day week
Good! I go to seek an hotel
Come, Pig
I have had you for a follower against my will; now, I'll have you against yours. I tell you, my little reptiles, I am born to be served. I demand the service of this contrabandist as my domestic until this day week
unless you are afraid of him
Afraid of him
Of all the king's knights he's the flower, And he's always gay
O, my best friend! Dear Mr Clennam, don't let me see you weep! Unless you weep with pleasure to see me. I hope you do. Your own poor child come back
They never told me you were ill
Is it possible that you have come to me? And in this dress
I hoped you would like me better in this dress than any other. I have always kept it by me, to remind me: though I wanted no reminding. I am not alone, you see. I have brought an old friend with me
It was only yesterday evening that I came to London with my brother. I sent round to Mrs Plornish almost as soon as we arrived, that I might hear of you and let you know I had come. Then I heard that you were here. Did you happen to think of me in the night? I almost believe you must have thought of me a little. I thought of you so anxiously, and it appeared so long to morning
I have thought of you
You have not spoken to me by my right name yet. You know what my right name always is with you
I have thought of you, Little Dorrit, every day, every hour, every minute, since I have been here
Have you? Have you
I was here before the gates were opened, but I was afraid to come straight to you. I should have done you more harm than good, at first; for the prison was so familiar and yet so strange, and it brought back so many remembrances of my poor father, and of you too, that at first it overpowered me. But we went to Mr Chivery before we came to the gate, and he brought us in, and got john's room for us -- my poor old room, you know -- and we waited there a little. I brought the flowers to the door, but you didn't hear me
Dear Mr Clennam, I must say something to you before I go. I have put it off from hour to hour, but I must say it
I too, dear Little Dorrit. I have put off what I must say
I am not going abroad again. My brother is, but I am not. He was always attached to me, and he is so grateful to me now -- so much too grateful, for it is only because I happened to be with him in his illness -- that he says I shall be free to stay where I like best, and to do what I like best. He only wishes me to be happy, he says
You will understand, I dare say, without my telling you, that my brother has come home to find my dear father's will, and to take possession of his property. He says, if there is a will, he is sure i shall be left rich; and if there is none, that he will make me so
I have no use for money, I have no wish for it. It would be of no value at all to me but for your sake. I could not be rich, and you here. I must always be much worse than poor, with you distressed. Will you let me lend you all I have? Will you let me give it you? Will you let me show you that I have never forgotten, that I never can forget, your protection of me when this was my home? Dear Mr Clennam, make me of all the world the happiest, by saying Yes. Make me as happy as I can be in leaving you here, by saying nothing to-night, and letting me go away with the hope that you will think of it kindly; and that for my sake -- not for yours, for mine, for nobody's but mine!-- you will give me the greatest joy I can experience on earth, the joy of knowing that I have been serviceable to you, and that I have paid some little of the great debt of my affection and gratitude. I can't say what I wish to say. I can't visit you here where I have lived so long, I can't think of you here where I have seen so much, and be as calm and comforting as I ought. My tears will make their way. I cannot keep them back. But pray, pray, pray, do not turn from your Little Dorrit, now, in your affliction! Pray, pray, pray, I beg you and implore you with all my grieving heart, my friend -- my dear!-- take all I have, and make it a Blessing to me
No, darling Little Dorrit. No, my child. I must not hear of such a sacrifice. Liberty and hope would be so dear, bought at such a price, that I could never support their weight, never bear the reproach of possessing them. But with what ardent thankfulness and love I say this, I may call Heaven to witness
And yet you will not let me be faithful to you in your affliction
Say, dearest Little Dorrit, and yet I will try to be faithful to you. If, in the bygone days when this was your home and when this was your dress, I had understood myself (I speak only of myself) better, and had read the secrets of my own breast more distinctly; if, through my reserve and self-mistrust, I had discerned a light that I see brightly now when it has passed far away, and my weak footsteps can never overtake it; if I had then known, and told you that I loved and honoured you, not as the poor child I used to call you, but as a woman whose true hand would raise me high above myself and make me a far happier and better man; if I had so used the opportunity there is no recalling -- as I wish I had, O I wish I had!-- and if something had kept us apart then, when I was moderately thriving, and when you were poor; I might have met your noble offer of your fortune, dearest girl, with other words than these, and still have blushed to touch it. But, as it is, I must never touch it, never
I am disgraced enough, my Little Dorrit. I must not descend so low as that, and carry you -- so dear, so generous, so good -- down with me. GOD bless you, GOD reward you! It is past
Always so much older, so much rougher, and so much less worthy, even what I was must be dismissed by both of us, and you must see me only as I am. I put this parting kiss upon your cheek, my child -- who might have been more near to me, who never could have been more dear -- a ruined man far removed from you, for ever separated from you, whose course is run while yours is but beginning. I have not the courage to ask to be forgotten by you in my humiliation; but I ask to be remembered only as I am
One other word, my Little Dorrit. A hard one to me, but it is a necessary one. The time when you and this prison had anything in common has long gone by. Do you understand
O! you will never say to me
that I am not to come back any more! You will surely not desert me so
I would say it, if I could; but I have not the courage quite to shut out this dear face, and abandon all hope of its return. But do not come soon, do not come often! This is now a tainted place, and I well know the taint of it clings to me. You belong to much brighter and better scenes. You are not to look back here, my Little Dorrit; you are to look away to very different and much happier paths. Again, GOD bless you in them! GOD reward you
Oh get him into a hospital; do get him into a hospital, Mother! He'll never look like hisself again, if he an't got into a hospital. And then the little woman as was always a spinning at her wheel, she can go to the cupboard with the Princess, and say, what do you keep the Chicking there for? and then they can take it out and give it to him, and then all be happy
It's against all rules, but I don't mind. I was determined to come through, and come to you
What is the matter
Nothing's the matter, sir. I was waiting in the court-yard for Miss Dorrit when she came out. I thought you'd like some one to see that she was safe
Thank you, thank you! You took her home, John
I saw her to her hotel. The same that Mr Dorrit was at. Miss Dorrit walked all the way, and talked to me so kind, it quite knocked me over. Why do you think she walked instead of riding
I don't know, John
To talk about you. She said to me, "John, you was always honourable, and if you'll promise me that you will take care of him, and never let him want for help and comfort when I am not there, my mind will be at rest so far." I promised her. And I'll stand by you
for ever
Before I take it
guess what message Miss Dorrit gave me
Tell him
that his Little Dorrit sent him her undying love." Now it's delivered. Have I been honourable, sir
Very, very
Will you tell Miss Dorrit I've been honourable, sir
I will indeed
There's my hand, sir
and I'll stand by you forever
You pair of madmen
Don't go yet
We don't mean to
Who are these
What do these people want here
Who are these, dear madame, is it
Faith, they are friends of your son the prisoner. And what do they want here, is it? Death, madame, I don't know. You will do well to ask them
You know you told us at the door, not to go yet
And you know you told me at the door, you didn't mean to go
In a word, madame, permit me to present two spies of the prisoner's -- madmen, but spies. If you wish them to remain here during our little conversation, say the word. It is nothing to me
Why should I wish them to remain here
What have I to do with them
Then, dearest madame
you will do well to dismiss them. It is your affair. They are not my spies, not my rascals
Hark! You Pancks
you Casby's clerk! Attend to your employer's business and your own. Go. And take that other man with you
Thank you, ma'am
I am glad to say I see no objection to our both retiring. We have done all we undertook to do for Mr Clennam. His constant anxiety has been (and it grew worse upon him when he became a prisoner), that this agreeable gentleman should be brought back here to the place from which he slipped away. Here he is -- brought back. And I will say
to his ill-looking face, that in my opinion the world would be no worse for his slipping out of it altogether
Your opinion is not asked
Go
I am sorry not to leave you in better company, ma'am
and sorry, too, that Mr Clennam can't be present. It's my fault, that is
You mean his own
No, I mean mine, ma'am
for it was my misfortune to lead him into a ruinous investment
Though I can prove by figures
that it ought to have been a good investment. I have gone over it since it failed, every day of my life, and it comes out -- regarded as a question of figures -- triumphant. The present is not a time or place
for entering upon the figures; but the figures are not to be disputed. Mr Clennam ought to have been at this moment in his carriage and pair, and I ought to have been worth from three to five thousand pound
However
enough of that. Altro, old boy, you have seen the figures, and you know how they come out
Oh! it's you, is it? I thought I remembered your face, but I wasn't certain till I saw your teeth. Ah! yes, to be sure. It was this officious refugee
who came knocking at the door on the night when Arthur and Chatterbox were here, and who asked me a whole Catechism of questions about Mr Blandois
It is true
And behold him, padrone! I have found him consequentementally
I shouldn't have objected
to your having broken your neck consequentementally
And now
I've only one other word to say before I go. If Mr Clennam was here -- but unfortunately, though he has so far got the better of this fine gentleman as to return him to this place against his will, he is ill and in prison -- ill and in prison, poor fellow -- if he was here
he would say, "Affery, tell your dreams
Come
Whatever has to be said among us had better be begun to be said without more loss of time.-- So, Affery, my woman, take yourself away
No, I won't, Jeremiah -- no, I won't -- no, I won't! I won't go! I'll stay here. I'll hear all I don't know, and say all I know. I will, at last, if I die for it. I will, I will, I will, I will
Such a dose
Not a bit nearer, Jeremiah
Don't come a bit nearer to me, or I'll rouse the neighbourhood! I'll throw myself out of window. I'll scream Fire and Murder! I'll wake the dead! Stop where you are, or I'll make shrieks enough to wake the dead
Stop
It is closing in, Flintwinch. Let her alone. Affery, do you turn against me after these many years
I do, if it's turning against you to hear what I don't know, and say what I know. I have broke out now, and I can't go back. I am determined to do it. I will do it, I will, I will, I will! If that's turning against you, yes, I turn against both of you two clever ones. I told Arthur when he first come home to stand up against you. I told him it was no reason, because I was afeard of my life of you, that he should be. All manner of things have been a-going on since then, and I won't be run up by Jeremiah, nor yet I won't be dazed and scared, nor made a party to I don't know what, no more. I won't, I won't, I won't! I'll up for Arthur when he has nothing left, and is ill, and in prison, and can't up for himself. I will, I will, I will, I will
How do you know, you heap of confusion
that in doing what you are doing now, you are even serving Arthur
I don't know nothing rightly about anything
and if ever you said a true word in your life, it's when you call me a heap of confusion, for you two clever ones have done your most to make me such. You married me whether I liked it or not, and you've led me, pretty well ever since, such a life of dreaming and frightening as never was known, and what do you expect me to be but a heap of confusion? You wanted to make me such, and I am such; but I won't submit no longer; no, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't
You see and hear this foolish creature. Do you object to such a piece of distraction remaining where she is
I, madame
do I? That's a question for you
I do not
There is little left to choose now. Flintwinch, it is closing in
Madame, I am a gentleman
Of whom
I have heard disparagement, in connection with a French jail and an accusation of murder
Perfectly. Exactly. Of a lady too! What absurdity! How incredible! I had the honour of making a great success then; I hope to have the honour of making a great success now. I kiss your hands. Madame, I am a gentleman (I was going to observe), who when he says, "I will definitely finish this or that affair at the present sitting," does definitely finish it. I announce to you that we are arrived at our last sitting on our little business. You do me the favour to follow, and to comprehend
Yes
Further, I am a gentleman to whom mere mercenary trade-bargains are unknown, but to whom money is always acceptable as the means of pursuing his pleasures. You do me the favour to follow, and to comprehend
Scarcely necessary to ask, one would say. Yes
Further, I am a gentleman of the softest and sweetest disposition, but who, if trifled with, becomes enraged. Noble natures under such circumstances become enraged. I possess a noble nature. When the lion is awakened -- that is to say, when I enrage -- the satisfaction of my animosity is as acceptable to me as money. You always do me the favour to follow, and to comprehend
Yes
Do not let me derange you; pray be tranquil. I have said we are now arrived at our last sitting. Allow me to recall the two sittings we have held
It is not necessary
Death, madame
it's my fancy! Besides, it clears the way. The first sitting was limited. I had the honour of making your acquaintance -- of presenting my letter; I am a Knight of Industry, at your service, madame, but my polished manners had won me so much of success, as a master of languages, among your compatriots who are as stiff as their own starch is to one another, but are ready to relax to a foreign gentleman of polished manners -- and of observing one or two little things
about this honourable house, to know which was necessary to assure me, and to convince me that I had the distinguished pleasure of making the acquaintance of the lady I sought. I achieved this. I gave my word of honour to our dear Flintwinch that I would return. I gracefully departed
I say, gracefully departed, because it was graceful to retire without alarming a lady. To be morally graceful, not less than physically, is a part of the character of Rigaud Blandois. It was also politic, as leaving you with something overhanging you, to expect me again with a little anxiety on a day not named. But your slave is politic. By Heaven, madame, politic! Let us return. On the day not named, I have again the honour to render myself at your house. I intimate that I have something to sell, which, if not bought, will compromise madame whom I highly esteem. I explain myself generally. I demand -- I think it was a thousand pounds. Will you correct me
You demanded as much as a thousand pounds
I demand at present, Two. Such are the evils of delay. But to return once more. We are not accordant; we differ on that occasion. I am playful; playfulness is a part of my amiable character. Playfully, I become as one slain and hidden. For, it may alone be worth half the sum to madame, to be freed from the suspicions that my droll idea awakens. Accident and spies intermix themselves against my playfulness, and spoil the fruit, perhaps -- who knows? only you and Flintwinch -- when it is just ripe. Thus, madame, I am here for the last time. Listen! Definitely the last
Bah! Stop an instant! Let us advance by steps. Here is my Hotel-note to be paid, according to contract. Five minutes hence we may be at daggers' points. I'll not leave it till then, or you'll cheat me. Pay it! Count me the money
Take it from his hand and pay it, Flintwinch
Pay it! Count it out! Good money
The sound of it, to the bold Rigaud Blandois, is like the taste of fresh meat to the tiger. Say, then, madame. How much
I tell you again, as I told you before, that we are not rich here, as you suppose us to be, and that your demand is excessive. I have not the present means of complying with such a demand, if I had ever so great an inclination
If
Hear this lady with her If! Will you say that you have not the inclination
I will say what presents itself to me, and not what presents itself to you
Say it then. As to the inclination. Quick! Come to the inclination, and I know what to do
It would seem that you have obtained possession of a paper -- or of papers -- which I assuredly have the inclination to recover
I think so! I believe you there
The paper might be worth, to me, a sum of money. I cannot say how much, or how little
What the Devil
No! I will not out of my scanty means -- for I tell you again, we are poor here, and not rich -- I will not offer any price for a power that I do not know the worst and the fullest extent of. This is the third time of your hinting and threatening. You must speak explicitly, or you may go where you will, and do what you will. It is better to be torn to pieces at a spring, than to be a mouse at the caprice of such a cat
You are a bold woman
I am a resolved woman
You always were. What? She always was; is it not so, my little Flintwinch
Flintwinch, say nothing to him. It is for him to say, here and now, all he can; or to go hence, and do all he can. You know this to be our determination. Leave him to his action on it
It is your pleasure then, madame, that I shall relate a morsel of family history in this little family society
I am something of a doctor. Let me touch your pulse
A history of a strange marriage, and a strange mother, and a revenge, and a suppression.-- Aye, aye, aye? this pulse is beating curiously! It appears to me that it doubles while I touch it. Are these the usual changes of your malady, madame
I have lived an adventurous life. I am an adventurous character. I have known many adventurers; interesting spirits -- amiable society! To one of them I owe my knowledge and my proofs -- I repeat it, estimable lady -- proofs -- of the ravishing little family history I go to commence. You will be charmed with it. But, bah! I forget. One should name a history. Shall I name it the history of a house? But, bah, again. There are so many houses. Shall I name it the history of this house
In fine, then, I name it the history of this house. I commence it. There live here, let us suppose, an uncle and nephew. The uncle, a rigid old gentleman of strong force of character; the nephew, habitually timid, repressed, and under constraint
Jeremiah, keep off from me! I've heerd, in my dreams, of Arthur's father and his uncle. He's a talking of them. It was before my time here; but I've heerd in my dreams that Arthur's father was a poor, irresolute, frightened chap, who had had everything but his orphan life scared out of him when he was young, and that he had no voice in the choice of his wife even, but his uncle chose her. There she sits! I heerd it in my dreams, and you said it to her own self
Perfectly right, dear Madame Flintwinch. You have a genius for dreaming
I don't want none of your praises
I don't want to have nothing at all to say to you. But Jeremiah said they was dreams, and I'll tell 'em as such
Our beloved Madame Flintwinch
Madame, madame
I perceive I interest you. I perceive I awaken your sympathy. Let us go on
The nephew, being, as the lucid Madame Flintwinch has remarked, a poor devil who has had everything but his orphan life frightened and famished out of him -- the nephew abases his head, and makes response: "My uncle, it is to you to command. Do as you will!" Monsieur, the uncle, does as he will. It is what he always does. The auspicious nuptials take place; the newly married come home to this charming mansion; the lady is received, let us suppose, by Flintwinch. Hey, old intriguer
Soon the lady makes a singular and exciting discovery. Thereupon, full of anger, full of jealousy, full of vengeance, she forms -- see you, madame!-- a scheme of retribution, the weight of which she ingeniously forces her crushed husband to bear himself, as well as execute upon her enemy. What superior intelligence
Keep off, Jeremiah
But it was one of my dreams, that you told her, when you quarrelled with her one winter evening at dusk -- there she sits and you looking at her -- that she oughtn't to have let Arthur when he come home, suspect his father only; that she had always had the strength and the power; and that she ought to have stood up more to Arthur, for his father. It was in the same dream where you said to her that she was not -- not something, but I don't know what, for she burst out tremendous and stopped you. You know the dream as well as I do. When you come down-stairs into the kitchen with the candle in your hand, and hitched my apron off my head. When you told me I had been dreaming. When you wouldn't believe the noises
Haha
Assuredly, Madame Flintwinch is an oracle! How shall we interpret the oracle, you and I and the old intriguer? He said that you were not --? And you burst out and stopped him! What was it you were not? What is it you are not? Say then, madame
Come then, madame! Speak, then! Our old intriguer said that you were not -- and you stopped him. He was going to say that you were not -- what? I know already, but I want a little confidence from you. How, then? You are not what
Not Arthur's mother
Good
You are amenable
I will tell it myself! I will not hear it from your lips, and with the taint of your wickedness upon it. Since it must be seen, I will have it seen by the light I stood in. Not another word. Hear me
Unless you are a more obstinate and more persisting woman than even I know you to be
you had better leave Mr Rigaud, Mr Blandois, Mr Beelzebub, to tell it in his own way. What does it signify when he knows all about it
He does not know all about it
He knows all he cares about it
He does not know me
What do you suppose he cares for you, you conceited woman
I tell you, Flintwinch, I will speak. I tell you when it has come to this, I will tell it with my own lips, and will express myself throughout it. What! Have I suffered nothing in this room, no deprivation, no imprisonment, that I should condescend at last to contemplate myself in such a glass as that. Can you see him? Can you hear him? If your wife were a hundred times the ingrate that she is, and if I were a thousand times more hopeless than I am of inducing her to be silent if this man is silenced, I would tell it myself, before I would bear the torment of the hearing it from him
You do not know what it is
to be brought up strictly and straitly. I was so brought up. Mine was no light youth of sinful gaiety and pleasure. Mine were days of wholesome repression, punishment, and fear. The corruption of our hearts, the evil of our ways, the curse that is upon us, the terrors that surround us -- these were the themes of my childhood. They formed my character, and filled me with an abhorrence of evil- doers. When old Mr Gilbert Clennam proposed his orphan nephew to my father for my husband, my father impressed upon me that his bringing-up had been, like mine, one of severe restraint. He told me, that besides the discipline his spirit had undergone, he had lived in a starved house, where rioting and gaiety were unknown, and where every day was a day of toil and trial like the last. He told me that he had been a man in years long before his uncle had acknowledged him as one; and that from his school-days to that hour, his uncle's roof has been a sanctuary to him from the contagion of the irreligious and dissolute. When, within a twelvemonth of our marriage, I found my husband, at that time when my father spoke of him, to have sinned against the Lord and outraged me by holding a guilty creature in my place, was I to doubt that it had been appointed to me to make the discovery, and that it was appointed to me to lay the hand of punishment upon that creature of perdition? Was I to dismiss in a moment -- not my own wrongs -- what was I! but all the rejection of sin, and all the war against it, in which I had been bred
No! "Do not forget." The initials of those words are within here now, and were within here then. I was appointed to find the old letter that referred to them, and that told me what they meant, and whose work they were, and why they were worked, lying with this watch in his secret drawer. But for that appointment there would have been no discovery. "Do not forget." It spoke to me like a voice from an angry cloud. Do not forget the deadly sin, do not forget the appointed discovery, do not forget the appointed suffering. I did not forget. Was it my own wrong I remembered? Mine! I was but a servant and a minister. What power could I have over them, but that they were bound in the bonds of their sin, and delivered to me
When I forced him to give her up to me, by her name and place of abode
when I accused her, and she fell hiding her face at my feet, was it my injury that I asserted, were they my reproaches that I poured upon her? Those who were appointed of old to go to wicked kings and accuse them -- were they not ministers and servants? And had not I, unworthy and far-removed from them, sin to denounce? When she pleaded to me her youth, and his wretched and hard life (that was her phrase for the virtuous training he had belied), and the desecrated ceremony of marriage there had secretly been between them, and the terrors of want and shame that had overwhelmed them both when I was first appointed to be the instrument of their punishment, and the love (for she said the word to me, down at my feet) in which she had abandoned him and left him to me, was it my enemy that became my footstool, were they the words of my wrath that made her shrink and quiver! Not unto me the strength be ascribed; not unto me the wringing of the expiation
And what was the repentance that was extorted from the hardness of her heart and the blackness of her depravity? I, vindictive and implacable? It may be so, to such as you who know no righteousness, and no appointment except Satan's. Laugh; but I will be known as I know myself, and as Flintwinch knows me, though it is only to you and this half-witted woman
Add, to yourself, madame
I have my little suspicions that madame is rather solicitous to be justified to herself
It is false. It is not so. I have no need to be
Truly
Hah
They did not forget. It is appointed against such offences that the offenders shall not be able to forget. If the presence of Arthur was a daily reproach to his father, and if the absence of Arthur was a daily agony to his mother, that was the just dispensation of Jehovah. As well might it be charged upon me, that the stings of an awakened conscience drove her mad, and that it was the will of the Disposer of all things that she should live so, many years. I devoted myself to reclaim the otherwise predestined and lost boy; to give him the reputation of an honest origin; to bring him up in fear and trembling, and in a life of practical contrition for the sins that were heavy on his head before his entrance into this condemned world. Was that a cruelty? Was I, too, not visited with consequences of the original offence in which I had no complicity? Arthur's father and I lived no further apart, with half the globe between us, than when we were together in this house. He died, and sent this watch back to me, with its Do not forget. I do NOT forget, though I do not read it as he did. I read in it, that I was appointed to do these things. I have so read these three letters since I have had them lying on this table, and I did so read them, with equal distinctness, when they were thousands of miles away
Come, madame! Time runs out. Come, lady of piety, it must be! You can tell nothing I don't know. Come to the money stolen, or I will! Death of my soul, I have had enough of your other jargon. Come straight to the stolen money
Wretch that you are
through what fatal error of Flintwinch's, through what incompleteness on his part, who was the only other person helping in these things and trusted with them, through whose and what bringing together of the ashes of a burnt paper, you have become possessed of that codicil, I know no more than how you acquired the rest of your power here
And yet
it is my odd fortune to have by me, in a convenient place that I know of, that same short little addition to the will of Monsieur Gilbert Clennam, written by a lady and witnessed by the same lady and our old intriguer! Ah, bah, old intriguer, crooked little puppet! Madame, let us go on. Time presses. You or I to finish
I
I, because I will not endure to be shown myself, and have myself shown to any one, with your horrible distortion upon me. You, with your practices of infamous foreign prisons and galleys would make it the money that impelled me. It was not the money
Bah, bah, bah! I repudiate, for the moment, my politeness, and say, Lies, lies, lies. You know you suppressed the deed and kept the money
Not for the money's sake, wretch
If Gilbert Clennam, reduced to imbecility, at the point of death, and labouring under the delusion of some imaginary relenting towards a girl of whom he had heard that his nephew had once had a fancy for her which he had crushed out of him, and that she afterwards drooped away into melancholy and withdrawal from all who knew her -- if, in that state of weakness, he dictated to me, whose life she had darkened with her sin, and who had been appointed to know her wickedness from her own hand and her own lips, a bequest meant as a recompense to her for supposed unmerited suffering; was there no difference between my spurning that injustice, and coveting mere money -- a thing which you, and your comrades in the prisons, may steal from anyone
Time presses, madame. Take care
If this house was blazing from the roof to the ground
I would stay in it to justify myself against my righteous motives being classed with those of stabbers and thieves
One thousand guineas to the little beauty you slowly hunted to death. One thousand guineas to the youngest daughter her patron might have at fifty, or (if he had none) brother's youngest daughter, on her coming of age, "as the remembrance his disinterestedness may like best, of his protection of a friendless young orphan girl." Two thousand guineas. What! You will never come to the money
That patron
Names! Call him Mr Frederick Dorrit. No more evasions
That Frederick Dorrit was the beginning of it all. If he had not been a player of music, and had not kept, in those days of his youth and prosperity, an idle house where singers, and players, and such-like children of Evil turned their backs on the Light and their faces to the Darkness, she might have remained in her lowly station, and might not have been raised out of it to be cast down. But, no. Satan entered into that Frederick Dorrit, and counselled him that he was a man of innocent and laudable tastes who did kind actions, and that here was a poor girl with a voice for singing music with. Then he is to have her taught. Then Arthur's father, who has all along been secretly pining in the ways of virtuous ruggedness for those accursed snares which are called the Arts, becomes acquainted with her. And so, a graceless orphan, training to be a singing girl, carries it, by that Frederick Dorrit's agency, against me, and I am humbled and deceived!-- Not I, that is to say
a greater than I. What am I
Lastly
for I am at the end of these things, and I will say no more of them, and you shall say no more of them, and all that remains will be to determine whether the knowledge of them can be kept among us who are here present; lastly, when I suppressed that paper, with the knowledge of Arthur's father
But not with his consent, you know
Who said with his consent
You were often enough between us when he would have had me produce it and I would not, to have contradicted me if I had said, with his consent. I say, when I suppressed that paper, I made no effort to destroy it, but kept it by me, here in this house, many years. The rest of the Gilbert property being left to Arthur's father, I could at any time, without unsettling more than the two sums, have made a pretence of finding it. But, besides that I must have supported such pretence by a direct falsehood (a great responsibility), I have seen no new reason, in all the time I have been tried here, to bring it to light. It was a rewarding of sin; the wrong result of a delusion. I did what I was appointed to do, and I have undergone, within these four walls, what I was appointed to undergo. When the paper was at last destroyed -- as I thought -- in my presence, she had long been dead, and her patron, Frederick Dorrit, had long been deservedly ruined and imbecile. He had no daughter. I had found the niece before then; and what I did for her, was better for her far than the money of which she would have had no good
She herself was innocent, and I might not have forgotten to relinquish it to her at my death
Shall I recall something to you, worthy madame
The little paper was in this house on the night when our friend the prisoner -- jail-comrade of my soul -- came home from foreign countries. Shall I recall yet something more to you? The little singing-bird that never was fledged, was long kept in a cage by a guardian of your appointing, well enough known to our old intriguer here. Shall we coax our old intriguer to tell us when he saw him last
I'll tell you
I dreamed it, first of all my dreams. Jeremiah, if you come a-nigh me now, I'll scream to be heard at St Paul's! The person as this man has spoken of, was jeremiah's own twin brother; and he was here in the dead of the night, on the night when Arthur come home, and Jeremiah with his own hands give him this paper, along with I don't know what more, and he took it away in an iron box -- Help! Murder! Save me from Jere-mi-ah
What
assault a lady with such a genius for dreaming! Ha, ha, ha! Why, she'll be a fortune to you as an exhibition. All that she dreams comes true. Ha, ha, ha! You're so like him, Little Flintwinch. So like him, as I knew him (when I first spoke English for him to the host) in the Cabaret of the Three Billiard Tables, in the little street of the high roofs, by the wharf at Antwerp! Ah, but he was a brave boy to drink. Ah, but he was a brave boy to smoke! Ah, but he lived in a sweet bachelor- apartment -- furnished, on the fifth floor, above the wood and charcoal merchant's, and the dress-maker's, and the chair-maker's, and the maker of tubs -- where I knew him too, and wherewith his cognac and tobacco, he had twelve sleeps a day and one fit, until he had a fit too much, and ascended to the skies. Ha, ha, ha! What does it matter how I took possession of the papers in his iron box? Perhaps he confided it to my hands for you, perhaps it was locked and my curiosity was piqued, perhaps I suppressed it. Ha, ha, ha! What does it matter, so that I have it safe? We are not particular here; hey, Flintwinch? We are not particular here; is it not so, madame
Ha, ha, ha! But what's this
It appears as if you don't know, one the other. Permit me, Madame Clennam who suppresses, to present Monsieur Flintwinch who intrigues
I have been rasped -- rasped these forty years -- by your taking such high ground even with me, who knows better; the effect of it being coolly to put me on low ground. I admire you very much; you are a woman of strong head and great talent; but the strongest head, and the greatest talent, can't rasp a man for forty years without making him sore. So I don't care for your present eyes. Now, I am coming to the paper, and mark what I say. You put it away somewhere, and you kept your own counsel where. You're an active woman at that time, and if you want to get that paper, you can get it. But, mark. There comes a time when you are struck into what you are now, and then if you want to get that paper, you can't get it. So it lies, long years, in its hiding-place. At last, when we are expecting Arthur home every day, and when any day may bring him home, and it's impossible to say what rummaging he may make about the house, I recommend you five thousand times, if you can't get at it, to let me get at it, that it may be put in the fire. But no -- no one but you knows where it is, and that's power; and, call yourself whatever humble names you will, I call you a female Lucifer in appetite for power! On a Sunday night, Arthur comes home. He has not been in this room ten minutes, when he speaks of his father's watch. You know very well that the Do Not Forget, at the time when his father sent that watch to you, could only mean, the rest of the story being then all dead and over, Do Not Forget the suppression. Make restitution! Arthur's ways have frightened you a bit, and the paper shall be burnt after all. So, before that jumping jade and Jezebel
keep your eyes open at somebody else, for it's no use keeping 'em open at me
My angel
I have said what I will take, and time presses. Before coming here, I placed copies of the most important of these papers in another hand. Put off the time till the Marshalsea gate shall be shut for the night, and it will be too late to treat. The prisoner will have read them
Say what you mean. Say what you mean, man
Miss Dorrit
the little niece of Monsieur Frederick, whom I have known across the water, is attached to the prisoner. Miss Dorrit, little niece of Monsieur Frederick, watches at this moment over the prisoner, who is ill. For her I with my own hands left a packet at the prison, on my way here, with a letter of instructions, "FOR HIS SAKE"-- she will do anything for his sake -- to keep it without breaking the seal, in case of its being reclaimed before the hour of shutting up to-night -- if it should not be reclaimed before the ringing of the prison bell, to give it to him; and it encloses a second copy for herself, which he must give to her. What! I don't trust myself among you, now we have got so far, without giving my secret a second life. And as to its not bringing me, elsewhere, the price it will bring here, say then, madame, have you limited and settled the price the little niece will give -- for his sake -- to hush it up? Once more I say, time presses. The packet not reclaimed before the ringing of the bell to-night, you cannot buy. I sell, then, to the little girl
Don't, don't, don't! What are you doing? Where are you going? You're a fearful woman, but I don't bear you no ill-will. I can do poor Arthur no good now, that I see; and you needn't be afraid of me. I'll keep your secret. Don't go out, you'll fall dead in the street. Only promise me, that, if it's the poor thing that's kept here secretly, you'll let me take charge of her and be her nurse. Only promise me that, and never be afraid of me
Kept here? She has been dead a score of years or more. Ask Flintwinch -- ask HIM. They can both tell you that she died when Arthur went abroad
So much the worse
for she haunts the house, then. Who else rustles about it, making signals by dropping dust so softly? Who else comes and goes, and marks the walls with long crooked touches when we are all a-bed? Who else holds the door sometimes? But don't go out -- don't go out! Mistress, you'll die in the street
Wait here till I come back
Whoof! Almost as dull as the infernal old jail. Warmer, but almost as dismal. Wait till she comes back? Yes, certainly; but where is she gone, and how long will she be gone? No matter! Rigaud Lagnier Blandois, my amiable subject, you will get your money. You will enrich yourself. You have lived a gentleman; you will die a gentleman. You triumph, my little boy; but it is your character to triumph. Whoof
Why are you encircling me
I am sure as sane as any one here. I want to find the Marshalsea prison
cause it's right opposite
Was it the Marshalsea you wanted? I'm going on duty there. Come across with me
Why, John
What is it
Nothing, father; only this lady not knowing her way, and being badgered by the boys. Who did you want, ma'am
Miss Dorrit. Is she here
Yes, she is here. What might your name be
Mrs Clennam
Mr Clennam's mother
Yes. She had better be told it is his mother
You see
the Marshal's family living in the country at present, the Marshal has given Miss Dorrit one of the rooms in his house to use when she likes. Don't you think you had better come up there, and let me bring Miss Dorrit
Is it possible, Mrs Clennam, that you are so happily recovered as
This is not recovery; it is not strength; I don't know what it is
You have a packet left with you which you were to give to Arthur, if it was not reclaimed before this place closed to-night
Yes
I reclaim it
Have you any idea of its contents
No
Read them
You know, now, what I have done
I think so. I am afraid so; though my mind is so hurried, and so sorry, and has so much to pity that it has not been able to follow all I have read
I will restore to you what I have withheld from you. Forgive me. Can you forgive me
I can, and Heaven knows I do! Do not kiss my dress and kneel to me; you are too old to kneel to me; I forgive you freely without that
I have more yet to ask
Not in that posture
It is unnatural to see your grey hair lower than mine. Pray rise; let me help you
The great petition that I make to you (there is another which grows out of it), the great supplication that I address to your merciful and gentle heart, is, that you will not disclose this to Arthur until I am dead. If you think, when you have had time for consideration, that it can do him any good to know it while I am yet alive, then tell him. But you will not think that; and in such case, will you promise me to spare me until I am dead
I am so sorry, and what I have read has so confused my thoughts
that I can scarcely give you a steady answer. If I should be quite sure that to be acquainted with it will do Mr Clennam no good
I know you are attached to him, and will make him the first consideration. It is right that he should be the first consideration. I ask that. But, having regarded him, and still finding that you may spare me for the little time I shall remain on earth, will you do it
I will
GOD bless you
You will wonder, perhaps
that I can better bear to be known to you whom I have wronged, than to the son of my enemy who wronged me.-- For she did wrong me! She not only sinned grievously against the Lord, but she wronged me. What Arthur's father was to me, she made him. From our marriage day I was his dread, and that she made me. I was the scourge of both, and that is referable to her. You love Arthur (I can see the blush upon your face; may it be the dawn of happier days to both of you!), and you will have thought already that he is as merciful and kind as you, and why do I not trust myself to him as soon as to you. Have you not thought so
No thought
can be quite a stranger to my heart, that springs out of the knowledge that Mr Clennam is always to be relied upon for being kind and generous and good
I do not doubt it. Yet Arthur is, of the whole world, the one person from whom I would conceal this, while I am in it. I kept over him as a child, in the days of his first remembrance, my restraining and correcting hand. I was stern with him, knowing that the transgressions of the parents are visited on their offspring, and that there was an angry mark upon him at his birth. I have sat with him and his father, seeing the weakness of his father yearning to unbend to him; and forcing it back, that the child might work out his release in bondage and hardship. I have seen him, with his mother's face, looking up at me in awe from his little books, and trying to soften me with his mother's ways that hardened me
For his good. Not for the satisfaction of my injury. What was I, and what was the worth of that, before the curse of Heaven! I have seen that child grow up; not to be pious in a chosen way (his mother's influence lay too heavy on him for that), but still to be just and upright, and to be submissive to me. He never loved me, as I once half-hoped he might -- so frail we are, and so do the corrupt affections of the flesh war with our trusts and tasks; but he always respected me and ordered himself dutifully to me. He does to this hour. With an empty place in his heart that he has never known the meaning of, he has turned away from me and gone his separate road; but even that he has done considerately and with deference. These have been his relations towards me. Yours have been of a much slighter kind, spread over a much shorter time. When you have sat at your needle in my room, you have been in fear of me, but you have supposed me to have been doing you a kindness; you are better informed now, and know me to have done you an injury. Your misconstruction and misunderstanding of the cause in which, and the motives with which, I have worked out this work, is lighter to endure than his would be. I would not, for any worldly recompense I can imagine, have him in a moment, however blindly, throw me down from the station I have held before him all his life, and change me altogether into something he would cast out of his respect, and think detected and exposed. Let him do it, if it must be done, when I am not here to see it. Let me never feel, while I am still alive, that I die before his face, and utterly perish away from him, like one consumed by lightning and swallowed by an earthquake
Even now, I see YOU shrink from me, as if I had been cruel
I have done
what it was given to me to do. I have set myself against evil; not against good. I have been an instrument of severity against sin. Have not mere sinners like myself been commissioned to lay it low in all time
In all time
Even if my own wrong had prevailed with me, and my own vengeance had moved me, could I have found no justification? None in the old days when the innocent perished with the guilty 2 a thousand to one? When the wrath of the hater of the unrighteous was not slaked even in blood, and yet found favour
O, Mrs Clennam, Mrs Clennam
angry feelings and unforgiving deeds are no comfort and no guide to you and me. My life has been passed in this poor prison, and my teaching has been very defective; but let me implore you to remember later and better days. Be guided only by the healer of the sick, the raiser of the dead, the friend of all who were afflicted and forlorn, the patient Master who shed tears of compassion for our infirmities. We cannot but be right if we put all the rest away, and do everything in remembrance of Him. There is no vengeance and no infliction of suffering in His life, I am sure. There can be no confusion in following Him, and seeking for no other footsteps, I am certain
Hark
What was that! Let us make haste in
Here I am
everything had been satisfactory to all parties -- all parties -- satisfactory, sir, to all parties
Mr Pancks
you have been remiss, you have been remiss, sir
What do you mean by that
What do you mean by that
I mean, Mr Pancks, that you must be sharper with the people, sharper with the people, much sharper with the people, sir. You don't squeeze them. You don't squeeze them. Your receipts are not up to the mark. You must squeeze them, sir, or our connection will not continue to be as satisfactory as I could wish it to be to all parties. All parties
Don't I squeeze 'em
What else am I made for
You are made for nothing else, Mr Pancks. You are made to do your duty, but you don't do your duty. You are paid to squeeze, and you must squeeze to pay
Paid to squeeze, sir, and must squeeze to pay
Oh
Anything more
Oh
Ain't that too soon? I squeezed it dry to- day
Nonsense, sir. Not near the mark, not near the mark
Oh
Anything more
Yes, sir, yes, sir, something more. I am not at all pleased, Mr Pancks, with my daughter; not at all pleased. Besides calling much too often to inquire for Mrs Clennam, Mrs Clennam, who is not just now in circumstances that are by any means calculated to -- to be satisfactory to all parties, she goes, Mr Pancks, unless I am much deceived, to inquire for Mr Clennam in jail. In jail
He's laid up, you know
Perhaps it's kind
Pooh, pooh, Mr Pancks. She has nothing to do with that, nothing to do with that. I can't allow it. Let him pay his debts and come out, come out; pay his debts, and come out
You will please to mention to my daughter, Mr Pancks, that I can't allow it, can't allow it
Oh
You couldn't mention it yourself
No, sir, no; you are paid to mention it
and you must mention it to pay, mention it to pay
Oh
Anything more
Yes, sir. It appears to me, Mr Pancks, that you yourself are too often and too much in that direction, that direction. I recommend you, Mr Pancks, to dismiss from your attention both your own losses and other people's losses, and to mind your business, mind your business
Oh
Anything more
Not at present, sir, not at present. I am going
to take a little stroll, a little stroll. Perhaps I shall find you here when I come back. If not, sir, duty, duty; squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, on Monday; squeeze on Monday
I thought so
I knew where you were bound to. Good
Good-bye
Now, you sugary swindler, I mean to have it out with you
What do you pretend to be
What's your moral game? What do you go in for? Benevolence, an't it? You benevolent
I have discharged myself from your service
that I may tell you what you are. You're one of a lot of impostors that are the worst lot of all the lots to be met with. Speaking as a sufferer by both, I don't know that I wouldn't as soon have the Merdle lot as your lot. You're a driver in disguise, a screwer by deputy, a wringer, and squeezer, and shaver by substitute. You're a philanthropic sneak. You're a shabby deceiver
Ask these good people who's the hard man here. They'll tell you Pancks, I believe
Certainly
Hear
But I tell you, good people -- Casby! This mound of meekness, this lump of love, this bottle-green smiler, this is your driver
If you want to see the man who would flay you alive -- here he is! Don't look for him in me, at thirty shillings a week, but look for him in Casby, at I don't know how much a year
Good
Hear Mr Pancks
Hear Mr Pancks
Yes, I should think so! It's almost time to hear Mr Pancks. Mr Pancks has come down into the Yard to-night on purpose that you should hear him. Pancks is only the Works; but here's the Winder
Here's the Stop
that sets the tune to be ground. And there is but one tune, and its name is Grind, Grind, Grind! Here's the Proprietor, and here's his Grubber. Why, good people, when he comes smoothly spinning through the Yard to-night, like a slow-going benevolent Humming-Top, and when you come about him with your complaints of the Grubber, you don't know what a cheat the Proprietor is! What do you think of his showing himself to-night, that I may have all the blame on Monday? What do you think of his having had me over the coals this very evening, because I don't squeeze you enough? What do you think of my being, at the present moment, under special orders to squeeze you dry on Monday
Shame
Shabby
Shabby
Yes, I should think so! The lot that your Casby belongs to, is the shabbiest of all the lots. Setting their Grubbers on, at a wretched pittance, to do what they're ashamed and afraid to do and pretend not to do, but what they will have done, or give a man no rest! Imposing on you to give their Grubbers nothing but blame, and to give them nothing but credit! Why, the worst-looking cheat in all this town who gets the value of eighteenpence under false pretences, an't half such a cheat as this sign-post of The Casby's Head here
That's true
No more he an't
And see what you get of these fellows, besides
See what more you get of these precious Humming-Tops, revolving among you with such smoothness that you've no idea of the pattern painted on 'em, or the little window in 'em. I wish to call your attention to myself for a moment. I an't an agreeable style of chap, I know that very well
No, you are not
Yes, you are
I am, in general
a dry, uncomfortable, dreary Plodder and Grubber. That's your humble servant. There's his full-length portrait, painted by himself and presented to you, warranted a likeness! But what's a man to be, with such a man as this for his Proprietor? What can be expected of him? Did anybody ever find boiled mutton and caper-sauce growing in a cocoa-nut
Well
and neither will you find in Grubbers like myself, under Proprietors like this, pleasant qualities. I've been a Grubber from a boy. What has my life been? Fag and grind, fag and grind, turn the wheel, turn the wheel! I haven't been agreeable to myself, and I haven't been likely to be agreeable to anybody else. If I was a shilling a week less useful in ten years' time, this impostor would give me a shilling a week less; if as useful a man could be got at sixpence cheaper, he would be taken in my place at sixpence cheaper. Bargain and sale, bless you! Fixed principles! It's a mighty fine sign-post, is The Casby's Head
but the real name of the House is the Sham's Arms. Its motto is, Keep the Grubber always at it. Is any gentleman present
acquainted with the English Grammar
It's no matter
I merely wish to remark that the task this Proprietor has set me, has been never to leave off conjugating the Imperative Mood Present Tense of the verb To keep always at it. Keep thou always at it. Let him keep always at it. Keep we or do we keep always at it. Keep ye or do ye or you keep always at it. Let them keep always at it. Here is your benevolent Patriarch of a Casby, and there is his golden rule. He is uncommonly improving to look at, and I am not at all so. He is as sweet as honey, and I am as dull as ditch-water. He provides the pitch, and I handle it, and it sticks to me. Now
as I am not accustomed to speak in public, and as I have made a rather lengthy speech, all circumstances considered, I shall bring my observations to a close by requesting you to get out of this
without making some attempt to trace them out
Good, Henry! You are my Pet's husband; you have displaced me, in the course of nature; if you wish it, good
all bosh
worked round
The nearer to England I follow him, you see, Mother
the nearer I am likely to come to the papers, whether they turn up or no. Because it is only reasonable to conclude that he would deposit them somewhere where they would be safe from people over in England, and where they would yet be accessible to himself, don't you see
Oho
Ice-say! Seer! Who
Miss Wade, my dear
It's some time since we met
I hope you have been pretty well, Miss Wade
Why, the truth is, Miss Wade
it is possible that you may be able to throw a light upon a little something that is at present dark. Any unpleasant bygones between us are bygones, I hope. Can't be helped now. You recollect my daughter? Time changes so! A mother
That is not the subject you wished to enter on
No, no
No. I thought your good nature might
I thought you knew
that my good nature is not to be calculated upon
Don't say so
you do yourself an injustice. However, to come to the point
I have heard from my friend Clennam, who, you will be sorry to hear, has been and still is very ill
that you had some knowledge of one Blandois, lately killed in London by a violent accident. Now, don't mistake me! I know it was a slight knowledge
I am fully aware of that. It was a slight knowledge, I know. But the question is
did he, on his way to England last time, leave a box of papers, or a bundle of papers, or some papers or other in some receptacle or other -- any papers -- with you: begging you to allow him to leave them here for a short time, until he wanted them
The question is
Whose question is
Mine
And not only mine but Clennam's question, and other people's question. Now, I am sure
that you can't have any unkind feeling towards my daughter; it's impossible. Well! It's her question, too; being one in which a particular friend of hers is nearly interested. So here I am, frankly to say that is the question, and to ask, Now, did he
Upon my word
I seem to be a mark for everybody who knew anything of a man I once in my life hired, and paid, and dismissed, to aim their questions at
Now, don't
don't! Don't take offence, because it's the plainest question in the world, and might be asked of any one. The documents I refer to were not his own, were wrongfully obtained, might at some time or other be troublesome to an innocent person to have in keeping, and are sought by the people to whom they really belong. He passed through Calais going to London, and there were reasons why he should not take them with him then, why he should wish to be able to put his hand upon them readily, and why he should distrust leaving them with people of his own sort. Did he leave them here? I declare if I knew how to avoid giving you offence, I would take any pains to do it. I put the question personally, but there's nothing personal in it. I might put it to any one; I have put it already to many people. Did he leave them here? Did he leave anything here
No
Then unfortunately, Miss Wade, you know nothing about them
I know nothing about them. I have now answered your unaccountable question. He did not leave them here, and I know nothing about them
There
I am sorry for it; that's over; and I hope there is not much harm done.-- Tattycoram well, Miss Wade
Harriet well? O yes
I have put my foot in it again
I can't keep my foot out of it here, it seems. Perhaps, if I had thought twice about it, I might never have given her the jingling name. But, when one means to be good-natured and sportive with young people, one doesn't think twice. Her old friend leaves a kind word for her, Miss Wade, if you should think proper to deliver it
Beaten, Mother; no effects
Eh? Good gracious
this is not Miss Dorrit! Why, Mother, look! Tattycoram
Pardon, dear Master; take me back, dear Mistress; here it is
Tatty
What you wanted
Here it is! I was put in the next room not to see you. I heard you ask her about it, I heard her say she hadn't got it, I was there when he left it, and I took it at bedtime and brought it away. Here it is
Why, my girl
how did you come over
I came in the boat with you. I was sitting wrapped up at the other end. When you took a coach at the wharf, I took another coach and followed you here. She never would have given it up after what you had said to her about its being wanted; she would sooner have sunk it in the sea, or burnt it. But, here it is
Here it is
She never wanted it to be left, I must say that for her; but he left it, and I knew well that after what you said, and after her denying it, she never would have given it up. But here it is! Dear Master, dear Mistress, take me back again, and give me back the dear old name! Let this intercede for me. Here it is
Oh! I have been so wretched
always so unhappy, and so repentant! I was afraid of her from the first time I saw her. I knew she had got a power over me through understanding what was bad in me so well. It was a madness in me, and she could raise it whenever she liked. I used to think, when I got into that state, that people were all against me because of my first beginning; and the kinder they were to me, the worse fault I found in them. I made it out that they triumphed above me, and that they wanted to make me envy them, when I know -- when I even knew then -- that they never thought of such a thing. And my beautiful young mistress not so happy as she ought to have been, and I gone away from her! Such a brute and a wretch as she must think me! But you'll say a word to her for me, and ask her to be as forgiving as you two are? For I am not so bad as I was
I am bad enough, but not so bad as I was, indeed. I have had Miss Wade before me all this time, as if it was my own self grown ripe -- turning everything the wrong way, and twisting all good into evil. I have had her before me all this time, finding no pleasure in anything but keeping me as miserable, suspicious, and tormenting as herself. Not that she had much to do, to do that
for I was as bad as bad could be. I only mean to say, that, after what I have gone through, I hope I shall never be quite so bad again, and that I shall get better by very slow degrees. I'll try very hard. I won't stop at five-and-twenty, sir, I'll count five-and-twenty hundred, five-and-twenty thousand
Now, my dear Miss Dorrit
I am a man of business -- or at least was -- and I am going to take my measures promptly, in that character. Had I better see Arthur to-night
I think not to-night. I will go to his room and ascertain how he is. But I think it will be better not to see him to-night
I am much of your opinion, my dear
and therefore I have not been any nearer to him than this dismal room. Then I shall probably not see him for some little time to come. But I'll explain what I mean when you come back
Tattycoram, come to me a moment, my good girl
You see that young lady who was here just now -- that little, quiet, fragile figure passing along there, Tatty? Look. The people stand out of the way to let her go by. The men -- see the poor, shabby fellows -- pull off their hats to her quite politely, and now she glides in at that doorway. See her, Tattycoram
Yes, sir
Yes indeed, sir
If she had constantly thought of herself, and settled with herself that everybody visited this place upon her, turned it against her, and cast it at her, she would have led an irritable and probably an useless existence. Yet I have heard tell, Tattycoram, that her young life has been one of active resignation, goodness, and noble service. Shall I tell you what I consider those eyes of hers, that were here just now, to have always looked at, to get that expression
Yes, if you please, sir
Duty, Tattycoram. Begin it early, and do it well; and there is no antecedent to it, in any origin or station, that will tell against us with the Almighty, or with ourselves
Good
I have not a doubt that's best. I shall trust my remembrances then, my sweet nurse, in your hands, and I well know they couldn't be in better. I am off again to-morrow morning
My dear
I can't live without breathing. This place has taken my breath away, and I shall never get it back again until Arthur is out of this place
How is that a reason for going off again to-morrow morning
You shall understand
To-night we three will put up at a City Hotel. To-morrow morning, Mother and Tattycoram will go down to Twickenham, where Mrs Tickit, sitting attended by Dr Buchan in the parlour-window, will think them a couple of ghosts; and I shall go abroad again for Doyce. We must have Dan here. Now, I tell you, my love, it's of no use writing and planning and conditionally speculating upon this and that and the other, at uncertain intervals and distances; we must have Doyce here. I devote myself at daybreak to-morrow morning, to bringing Doyce here. It's nothing to me to go and find him. I'm an old traveller, and all foreign languages and customs are alike to me -- I never understand anything about any of 'em. Therefore I can't be put to any inconvenience. Go at once I must, it stands to reason; because I can't live without breathing freely; and I can't breathe freely until Arthur is out of this Marshalsea. I am stifled at the present moment, and have scarcely breath enough to say this much, and to carry this precious box down-stairs for you
I don't like that, my dear
It goes against my feeling of what's right, that YOU should do homage to ME -- at the Marshalsea Gate
You remind me of the days
but she's very fond of him, and hides his faults, and thinks that no one sees them -- and he certainly is well connected and of a very good family
This will soon be over now, dear Mr Clennam. Not only are Mr Doyce's letters to you so full of friendship and encouragement, but Mr Rugg says his letters to him are so full of help, and that everybody (now a little anger is past) is so considerate, and speaks so well of you, that it will soon be over now
Dear girl. Dear heart. Good angel
You praise me far too much. And yet it is such an exquisite pleasure to me to hear you speak so feelingly, and to -- and to see
how deeply you mean it, that I cannot say Don't
You have been here many, many times, when I have not seen you, Little Dorrit
Yes, I have been here sometimes when I have not come into the room
Very often
Rather often
Every day
I think
that I have been here at least twice every day
Dear Little Dorrit, it is not my imprisonment only that will soon be over. This sacrifice of you must be ended. We must learn to part again, and to take our different ways so wide asunder. You have not forgotten what we said together, when you came back
O no, I have not forgotten it. But something has been -- You feel quite strong to-day, don't you
Quite strong
Do you feel quite strong enough to know what a great fortune I have got
I shall be very glad to be told. No fortune can be too great or good for Little Dorrit
I have been anxiously waiting to tell you. I have been longing and longing to tell you. You are sure you will not take it
Never
You are quite sure you will not take half of it
Never, dear Little Dorrit
You will be sorry to hear what I have to tell you about Fanny. Poor Fanny has lost everything. She has nothing left but her husband's income. All that papa gave her when she married was lost as your money was lost. It was in the same hands, and it is all gone
I had hoped it might not be so bad
but I had feared a heavy loss there, knowing the connection between her husband and the defaulter
Yes. It is all gone. I am very sorry for Fanny; very, very, very sorry for poor Fanny. My poor brother too
Had he property in the same hands
Yes! And it's all gone.-- How much do you think my own great fortune is
I have nothing in the world. I am as poor as when I lived here. When papa came over to England, he confided everything he had to the same hands, and it is all swept away. O my dearest and best, are you quite sure you will not share my fortune with me now
Painfully aware, Miss Dorrit, I am sure
that to propose an adjournment to any place to one so far removed by fortune and so courted and caressed by the best society must ever appear intruding even if not a pie-shop far below your present sphere and a back-parlour though a civil man but if for the sake of Arthur -- cannot overcome it more improper now than ever late Doyce and Clennam -- one last remark I might wish to make one last explanation I might wish to offer perhaps your good nature might excuse under pretence of three kidney ones the humble place of conversation
three kidney ones
If Fancy's fair dreams
have ever pictured that when Arthur -- cannot overcome it pray excuse me -- was restored to freedom even a pie as far from flaky as the present and so deficient in kidney as to be in that respect like a minced nutmeg might not prove unacceptable if offered by the hand of true regard such visions have for ever fled and all is cancelled but being aware that tender relations are in contemplation beg to state that I heartily wish well to both and find no fault with either not the least, it may be withering to know that ere the hand of Time had made me much less slim than formerly and dreadfully red on the slightest exertion particularly after eating I well know when it takes the form of a rash, it might have been and was not through the interruption of parents and mental torpor succeeded until the mysterious clue was held by Mr F. still I would not be ungenerous to either and I heartily wish well to both
Call it not kindness
for you always were the best and dearest little thing that ever was if I may take the liberty and even in a money point of view a saving being Conscience itself though I must add much more agreeable than mine ever was to me for though not I hope more burdened than other people's yet I have always found it far readier to make one uncomfortable than comfortable and evidently taking a greater pleasure in doing it but I am wandering, one hope I wish to express ere yet the closing scene draws in and it is that I do trust for the sake of old times and old sincerity that Arthur will know that I didn't desert him in his misfortunes but that I came backwards and forwards constantly to ask if I could do anything for him and that I sat in the pie-shop where they very civilly fetched something warm in a tumbler from the hotel and really very nice hours after hours to keep him company over the way without his knowing it
Over and above which
I earnestly beg you as the dearest thing that ever was if you'll still excuse the familiarity from one who moves in very different circles to let Arthur understand that I don't know after all whether it wasn't all nonsense between us though pleasant at the time and trying too and certainly Mr F. did work a change and the spell being broken nothing could be expected to take place without weaving it afresh which various circumstances have combined to prevent of which perhaps not the least powerful was that it was not to be, I am not prepared to say that if it had been agreeable to Arthur and had brought itself about naturally in the first instance I should not have been very glad being of a lively disposition and moped at home where papa undoubtedly is the most aggravating of his sex and not improved since having been cut down by the hand of the Incendiary into something of which I never saw the counterpart in all my life but jealousy is not my character nor ill-will though many faults
The withered chaplet my dear
is then perished the column is crumbled and the pyramid is standing upside down upon its what's-his-name call it not giddiness call it not weakness call it not folly I must now retire into privacy and look upon the ashes of departed joys no more but taking a further liberty of paying for the pastry which has formed the humble pretext of our interview will for ever say Adieu
Bring him for'ard, and I'll chuck him out o' winder
Bring him for'ard and I'll chuck him out o' winder
brought for'ard
hours perhaps
him
Dear Arthur
I have some one here. May I bring some one in
Yes
Now I am all right
Now it's over. Arthur, my dear fellow, confess at once that you expected me before
I did
but Amy told me --' 'Little Dorrit. Never any other name
But my Little Dorrit told me that, without asking for any further explanation, I was not to expect you until I saw you
And now you see me, my boy
and now you shall have any explanation and every explanation. The fact is, I was here -- came straight to you from the Allongers and Marshongers, or I should be ashamed to look you in the face this day,-- but you were not in company trim at the moment, and I had to start off again to catch Doyce
Poor Doyce
Don't call him names that he don't deserve
He's not poor; he's doing well enough. Doyce is a wonderful fellow over there. I assure you he is making out his case like a house a-fire. He has fallen on his legs, has Dan. Where they don't want things done and find a man to do 'em, that man's off his legs; but where they do want things done and find a man to do 'em, that man's on his legs. You won't have occasion to trouble the Circumlocution Office any more. Let me tell you, Dan has done without 'em
What a load you take from my mind
What happiness you give me
Happiness
Don't talk about happiness till you see Dan. I assure you Dan is directing works and executing labours over yonder, that it would make your hair stand on end to look at. He's no public offender, bless you, now! He's medalled and ribboned, and starred and crossed, and I don't-know-what all'd, like a born nobleman. But we mustn't talk about that over here
Why not
Oh, egad
he must hide all those things under lock and key when he comes over here. They won't do over here. In that particular, Britannia is a Britannia in the Manger -- won't give her children such distinctions herself, and won't allow them to be seen when they are given by other countries. No, no, Dan
That won't do here
If you had brought me (except for Doyce's sake) twice what I have lost
you would not have given me the pleasure that you give me in this news
Why, of course, of course
Of course I know that, my good fellow, and therefore I come out with it in the first burst. Now, to go back, about catching Doyce. I caught Doyce. Ran against him among a lot of those dirty brown dogs in women's nightcaps a great deal too big for 'em, calling themselves Arabs and all sorts of incoherent races. YOU know 'em! Well! He was coming straight to me, and I was going to him, and so we came back together
Doyce in England
There
I am the worst man in the world to manage a thing of this sort. I don't know what I should have done if I had been in the diplomatic line -- right, perhaps! The long and short of it is, Arthur, we have both been in England this fortnight. And if you go on to ask where Doyce is at the present moment, why, my plain answer is -- here he is! And now I can breathe again at last
There are only three branches of my subject, my dear Clennam
and they're soon disposed of. First, not a word more from you about the past. There was an error in your calculations. I know what that is. It affects the whole machine, and failure is the consequence. You will profit by the failure, and will avoid it another time. I have done a similar thing myself, in construction, often. Every failure teaches a man something, if he will learn; and you are too sensible a man not to learn from this failure. So much for firstly. Secondly. I was sorry you should have taken it so heavily to heart, and reproached yourself so severely; I was travelling home night and day to put matters right, with the assistance of our friend, when I fell in with our friend as he has informed you. Thirdly. We two agreed, that, after what you had undergone, after your distress of mind, and after your illness, it would be a pleasant surprise if we could so far keep quiet as to get things perfectly arranged without your knowledge, and then come and say that all the affairs were smooth, that everything was right, that the business stood in greater want of you than ever it did, and that a new and prosperous career was opened before you and me as partners. That's thirdly. But you know we always make an allowance for friction, and so I have reserved space to close in. My dear Clennam, I thoroughly confide in you; you have it in your power to be quite as useful to me as I have, or have had, it in my power to be useful to you; your old place awaits you, and wants you very much; there is nothing to detain you here one half-hour longer
I made a remark a little while ago
which I am inclined to think was an incorrect one. I said there was nothing to detain you here, Clennam, half an hour longer. Am I mistaken in supposing that you would rather not leave here till to-morrow morning? Do I know, without being very wise, where you would like to go, direct from these walls and from this room
You do
It has been our cherished purpose
Very well
Then, if this young lady will do me the honour of regarding me for four-and-twenty hours in the light of a father, and will take a ride with me now towards Saint Paul's Churchyard, I dare say I know what we want to get there
I think, Arthur, you will not want Mother and me in the morning and we will keep away. It might set Mother thinking about Pet; she's a soft-hearted woman. She's best at the Cottage, and I'll stay there and keep her company
My dear love
Why does Maggy light the fire? We shall be gone directly
I asked her to do it. I have taken such an odd fancy. I want you to burn something for me
What
Only this folded paper. If you will put it in the fire with your own hand, just as it is, my fancy will be gratified
Superstitious, darling Little Dorrit? Is it a charm
It is anything you like best, my own
if you will only humour me when the fire burns up
Is it bright enough now
Quite bright enough now
Does the charm want any words to be said
You can say (if you don't mind) "I love you
Good-bye, good John! I hope you will live very happy, dear
For, you see
this young lady is one of our curiosities, and has come now to the third volume of our Registers. Her birth is in what I call the first volume; she lay asleep, on this very floor, with her pretty head on what I call the second volume; and she's now a-writing her little name as a bride in what I call the third volume
</text>
