<text>
The Match Maker
Aye, aye! This was carried by my fourth son on the fifth of November, when he was a Guy Fawkes
Aye, aye
Aye, aye! This lantern was carried by my forefather
on the fifth of November. And HE was Guy Fawkes
Toby Chuzzlewit, who was your grandfather
The Lord No Zoo
Do not be angry, I have parted with it -- to my uncle
I have bestowed upon that irresistible uncle of mine everything I ever possessed
With the exception of the suit of clothes I carry about with me, the whole of my wearing apparel is at present at my uncle's
His interest is too high
It is
Golden Balls
I see you
You'll catch it, sir
You're round the corner now
That voice
My parent
Pa
Pa! Speak, Pa! Do not look so wild my dearest Pa
That'll do
I'm better
He's come to himself
He speaks again
There is no deception, ladies and gentlemen, all is peace, a holy calm pervades me
Behold the moral Pecksniff
PECKSNIFF, ARCHITECT
Even the worldly goods of which we have just disposed
even cream, sugar, tea, toast, ham
And eggs
And eggs
even they have their moral. See how they come and go! Every pleasure is transitory. We can't even eat, long. If we indulge in harmless fluids, we get the dropsy; if in exciting liquids, we get drunk. What a soothing reflection is that
Don't say WE get drunk, Pa
When I say we, my dear
I mean mankind in general; the human race, considered as a body, and not as individuals. There is nothing personal in morality, my love. Even such a thing as this
slight casual baldness though it be, reminds us that we are but
worms
flesh and blood
Which
which is also very soothing. Mercy, my dear, stir the fire and throw up the cinders
Yes
I have again been fortunate in the attainment of my object. A new inmate will very shortly come among us
A youth, papa
Ye-es, a youth
He will avail himself of the eligible opportunity which now offers, for uniting the advantages of the best practical architectural education with the comforts of a home, and the constant association with some who (however humble their sphere, and limited their capacity) are not unmindful of their moral responsibilities
Oh Pa
See advertisement
Playful -- playful warbler
warbler
Is he handsome, Pa
Silly Merry
What is the premium, Pa? tell us that
Oh, good gracious, Cherry
what a mercenary girl you are! oh you naughty, thoughtful, prudent thing
He is well looking
well looking enough. I do not positively expect any immediate premium with him
But what of that
There is disinterestedness in the world, I hope? We are not all arrayed in two opposite ranks; the OFfensive and the DEfensive. Some few there are who walk between; who help the needy as they go; and take no part with either side. Umph
Oh! let us not be for ever calculating, devising, and plotting for the future
I am weary of such arts. If our inclinations are but good and open- hearted, let us gratify them boldly, though they bring upon us Loss instead of Profit. Eh, Charity
Tut, tut
What folly is this! Let us take heed how we laugh without reason lest we cry with it. What is the domestic news since yesterday? John Westlock is gone, I hope
Indeed, no
And why not
His term expired yesterday. And his box was packed, I know; for I saw it, in the morning, standing in the hall
He slept last night at the Dragon
and had Mr Pinch to dine with him. They spent the evening together, and Mr Pinch was not home till very late
And when I saw him on the stairs this morning, Pa
he looked, oh goodness, SUCH a monster! with his face all manner of colours, and his eyes as dull as if they had been boiled, and his head aching dreadfully, I am sure from the look of it, and his clothes smelling, oh it's impossible to say how strong, oh
of smoke and punch
Now I think
I think Mr Pinch might have done better than choose for his companion one who, at the close of a long intercourse, had endeavoured, as he knew, to wound my feelings. I am not quite sure that this was delicate in Mr Pinch. I am not quite sure that this was kind in Mr Pinch. I will go further and say, I am not quite sure that this was even ordinarily grateful in Mr Pinch
But what can anyone expect from Mr Pinch
Aye, aye
it is very well to say what can we expect from Mr Pinch, but Mr Pinch is a fellow-creature, my dear; Mr Pinch is an item in the vast total of humanity, my love; and we have a right, it is our duty, to expect in Mr Pinch some development of those better qualities, the possession of which in our own persons inspires our humble self-respect. No
No! Heaven forbid that I should say, nothing can be expected from Mr Pinch; or that I should say, nothing can be expected from any man alive (even the most degraded, which Mr Pinch is not, no, really); but Mr Pinch has disappointed me; he has hurt me; I think a little the worse of him on this account, but not if human nature. Oh, no, no
Hark
There is the creature! Now mark my words, he has come back with John Westlock for his box, and is going to help him to take it to the mail. Only mark my words, if that isn't his intention
Come in
Come in
Oh! I beg your pardon, Mr Pecksniff: I beg your pardon for intruding; but
No intrusion, Mr Pinch
Pray be seated, Mr Pinch. Have the goodness to shut the door, Mr Pinch, if you please
Certainly, sir
Mr Westlock, sir, hearing that you were come home
Mr Pinch, Mr Pinch
I did not expect this from you. I have not deserved this from you
No, but upon my word, sir
The less you say, Mr Pinch
the better. I utter no complaint. Make no defence
No, but do have the goodness, sir
if you please. Mr Westlock, sir, going away for good and all, wishes to leave none but friends behind him. Mr Westlock and you, sir, had a little difference the other day; you have had many little differences
Little differences
Little differences
My loves
My dears
Proceed
Come, Mr Pecksniff
don't let there be any ill-blood between us, pray. I am sorry we have ever differed, and extremely sorry I have ever given you offence. Bear me no ill-will at parting, sir
I bear
no ill-will to any man on earth
I told you he didn't
I knew he didn't! He always says he don't
Then you will shake hands, sir
Umph
You will shake hands, sir
No, John
no, I will not shake hands, John. I have forgiven you. I had already forgiven you, even before you ceased to reproach and taunt me. I have embraced you in the spirit, John, which is better than shaking hands
Pinch
what did I tell you
As to your forgiveness, Mr Pecksniff
I'll not have it upon such terms. I won't be forgiven
Won't you, John
You must. You can't help it. Forgiveness is a high quality; an exalted virtue; far above YOUR control or influence, John. I WILL forgive you. You cannot move me to remember any wrong you have ever done me, John
Wrong
Here's a pretty fellow! Wrong! Wrong I have done him! He'll not even remember the five hundred pounds he had with me under false pretences; or the seventy pounds a year for board and lodging that would have been dear at seventeen! Here's a martyr
Money, John
is the root of all evil. I grieve to see that it is already bearing evil fruit in you. But I will not remember its existence. I will not even remember the conduct of that misguided person
that misguided person who has brought you here to-night, seeking to disturb (it is a happiness to say, in vain) the heart's repose and peace of one who would have shed his dearest blood to serve him
Beast
Savage
Forgiveness
entire and pure forgiveness is not incompatible with a wounded heart; perchance when the heart is wounded, it becomes a greater virtue. With my breast still wrung and grieved to its inmost core by the ingratitude of that person, I am proud and glad to say that I forgive him. Nay! I beg
I beg that individual not to offer a remark; he will truly oblige me by not uttering one word, just now. I am not sure that I am equal to the trial. In a very short space of time, I shall have sufficient fortitude, I trust to converse with him as if these events had never happened. But not
not now
Bah
Ladies, good evening. Come, Pinch, it's not worth thinking of. I was right and you were wrong. That's small matter; you'll be wiser another time
I'll tell you what, Pinch
You haven't half enough of the devil in you. Half enough! You haven't any
Well
I don't know, I'm sure. It's compliment to say so. If I haven't, I suppose, I'm all the better for it
All the better
All the worse, you mean to say
And yet
I must have a good deal of what you call the devil in me, too, or how could I make Pecksniff so uncomfortable? I wouldn't have occasioned him so much distress -- don't laugh, please -- for a mine of money; and Heaven knows I could find good use for it too, John. How grieved he was
HE grieved
Why didn't you observe that the tears were almost starting out of his eyes
Bless my soul, John, is it nothing to see a man moved to that extent and know one's self to be the cause! And did you hear him say that he could have shed his blood for me
Do you WANT any blood shed for you
Does he shed anything for you that you DO want? Does he shed employment for you, instruction for you, pocket money for you? Does he shed even legs of mutton for you in any decent proportion to potatoes and garden stuff
I am afraid
that I am a great eater; I can't disguise from myself that I'm a great eater. Now, you know that, John
You a great eater
How do you know you are
Besides, whether I am or no
that has little or nothing to do with his thinking me ungrateful. John, there is scarcely a sin in the world that is in my eyes such a crying one as ingratitude; and when he taxes me with that, and believes me to be guilty of it, he makes me miserable and wretched
Do you think he don't know that
But come, Pinch, before I say anything more to you, just run over the reasons you have for being grateful to him at all, will you? Change hands first, for the box is heavy. That'll do. Now, go on
In the first place
he took me as his pupil for much less than he asked
Well
What in the second place
What in the second place
why, everything in the second place. My poor old grandmother died happy to think that she had put me with such an excellent man. I have grown up in his house, I am in his confidence, I am his assistant, he allows me a salary; when his business improves, my prospects are to improve too. All this, and a great deal more, is in the second place. And in the very prologue and preface to the first place, John, you must consider this, which nobody knows better than I: that I was born for much plainer and poorer things, that I am not a good hand for his kind of business, and have no talent for it, or indeed for anything else but odds and ends that are of no use or service to anybody
I believe you are one of the best fellows in the world
Tom Pinch
Not at all
If you only knew Pecksniff as well as I do, you might say it of him, indeed, and say it truly
I'll say anything of him, you like
and not another word to his disparagement
It's for my sake, then; not his, I am afraid
For whose you please, Tom, so that it does please you. Oh! He's a famous fellow! HE never scraped and clawed into his pouch all your poor grandmother's hard savings -- she was a housekeeper, wasn't she, Tom
Yes
a gentleman's housekeeper
HE never scraped and clawed into his pouch all her hard savings; dazzling her with prospects of your happiness and advancement, which he knew (and no man better) never would be realised! HE never speculated and traded on her pride in you, and her having educated you, and on her desire that you at least should live to be a gentleman. Not he, Tom
No
Of course not
So I say
of course he never did. HE didn't take less than he had asked, because that less was all she had, and more than he expected; not he, Tom! He doesn't keep you as his assistant because you are of any use to him; because your wonderful faith in his pretensions is of inestimable service in all his mean disputes; because your honesty reflects honesty on him; because your wandering about this little place all your spare hours, reading in ancient books and foreign tongues, gets noised abroad, even as far as Salisbury, making of him, Pecksniff the master, a man of learning and of vast importance. HE gets no credit from you, Tom, not he
Why, of course he don't
Pecksniff get credit from me! Well
Don't I say that it's ridiculous
even to think of such a thing
Why, it's madness
Madness
Certainly it's madness. Who but a madman would suppose he cares to hear it said on Sundays, that the volunteer who plays the organ in the church, and practises on summer evenings in the dark, is Mr Pecksniff's young man, eh, Tom? Who but a madman would suppose it is the game of such a man as he, to have his name in everybody's mouth, connected with the thousand useless odds and ends you do (and which, of course, he taught you), eh, Tom? Who but a madman would suppose you advertised him hereabouts, much cheaper and much better than a chalker on the walls could, eh, Tom? As well might one suppose that he doesn't on all occasions pour out his whole heart and soul to you; that he doesn't make you a very liberal and indeed rather an extravagant allowance; or, to be more wild and monstrous still, if that be possible, as well might one suppose
that Pecksniff traded in your nature, and that your nature was to be timid and distrustful of yourself, and trustful of all other men, but most of all, of him who least deserves it. There would be madness, Tom
Both hands, Tom. I shall write to you from London, mind
Yes
Yes. Do, please. Good-bye. Good-bye. I can hardly believe you're going. It seems, now, but yesterday that you came. Good-bye! my dear old fellow
Go your ways
I can hardly persuade myself but you're alive, and are some great monster who visits this place at certain intervals, to bear my friends away into the world. You're more exulting and rampant than usual tonight, I think; and you may well crow over your prize; for he is a fine lad, an ingenuous lad, and has but one fault that I know of; he don't mean it, but he is most cruelly unjust to Pecksniff
Don't mind me -- it's only my fun
You have seen the gentleman in this way before, miss? Is he used to these attacks
I have seen him very ill before, but not so ill as he has been tonight
What a Providence
that you had the prescriptions and the medicines with you, miss
They are intended for such an emergency. We never travel without them
Oh
then we are in the habit of travelling, and of travelling together
The gentleman -- your grandpapa
being so bent on having no assistance, must terrify you very much, miss
I have been very much alarmed to-night. He -- he is not my grandfather
Father, I should have said
Nor
Nor my uncle. We are not related
Oh dear me
how could I be so very much mistaken; knowing, as anybody in their proper senses might that when a gentleman is ill, he looks so much older than he really is? That I should have called you "Miss," too, ma'am
When I told you we were not related
I meant not in any way. Not even by marriage. Did you call me, Martin
Call you
No
No
Why do you ask me? If I had called you, what need for such a question
It was the creaking of the sign outside, sir, I dare say
No matter what, ma'am
it wasn't I. Why how you stand there, Mary, as if I had the plague! But they're all afraid of me
even she! There is a curse upon me. What else have I to look for
Oh dear, no. Oh no, I'm sure
Be of better cheer, sir. These are only sick fancies
What are only sick fancies
What do you know about fancies? Who told you about fancies? The old story! Fancies
Only see again there, how you take one up
Dear heart alive, there is no harm in the word, sir, if it is an old one. Folks in good health have their fancies, too, and strange ones, every day
Ah! you begin too soon
But you lose no time. You do your errand, and you earn your fee. Now, who may be your client
Come
tell me who is it? Being here, it is not very hard for me to guess, you may suppose
Martin
reflect how short a time we have been in this house, and that even your name is unknown here
Unless
you
There
Now, you will be well again, sir. You forgot, for the moment, that there were none but friends here
Oh
why do you talk to me of friends! Can you or anybody teach me to know who are my friends, and who my enemies
At least
this young lady is your friend, I am sure
She has no temptation to be otherwise
I suppose she is. Heaven knows. There, let me try to sleep. Leave the candle where it is
Good evening, Mrs Lupin
Oh dear me, sir
I am so very glad you have come
And I am very glad I have come
if I can be of service. I am very glad I have come. What is the matter, Mrs Lupin
A gentleman taken ill upon the road, has been so very bad upstairs, sir
A gentleman taken ill upon the road, has been so very bad upstairs, has he
Well, well
a verb must agree with its nominative case in number and person, my good friend
eight times eight are sixty-four, my worthy soul
And how
and how is he now
He is better, and quite tranquil
He is better, and quite tranquil
Very well! Ve-ry well
I observe
and through me, morality in general remarks, that he is better and quite tranquil
There must be weighty matters on his mind, though
for he talks, sir, in the strangest way you ever heard. He is far from easy in his thoughts, and wants some proper advice from those whose goodness makes it worth his having
Then
he is the sort of customer for me
I am afraid, sir
I am very much afraid, sir, that his conscience is troubled by his not being related to -- or -- or even married to -- a very young lady
Mrs Lupin
Person! young person
A very young person
I beg your pardon, sir, but I have been so hurried to-night, that I don't know what I say -- who is with him now
Who is with him now
Oh dear me, dear me
At the same time I am bound to say, and I do say with all my heart
that her looks and manner almost disarm suspicion
Your suspicion, Mrs Lupin
is very natural
Your suspicion, Mrs Lupin
is very natural, and I have no doubt correct. I will wait upon these travellers
Shall I knock
No
enter if you please
I am afraid
I am afraid that this looks artful. I am afraid, Mrs Lupin, do you know, that this looks very artful
Yes, ma'am
it is a good book. I was fearful of that beforehand. I am apprehensive that this is a very deep thing indeed
What gentleman is this
Hush! don't trouble yourself, ma'am
This young
this young stranger, Mrs Lupin, will excuse me for replying briefly, that I reside in this village; it may be in an influential manner, however, undeserved; and that I have been summoned here by you. I am here, as I am everywhere, I hope, in sympathy for the sick and sorry
You ARE Martin Chuzzlewit
I am Martin Chuzzlewit
and Martin Chuzzlewit wishes you had been hanged, before you had come here to disturb him in his sleep. Why, I dreamed of this fellow
before I knew that he was near me
My good cousin
There! His very first words
In his very first words he asserts his relationship! I knew he would; they all do it! Near or distant, blood or water, it's all one. Ugh! What a calendar of deceit, and lying, and false-witnessing, the sound of any word of kindred opens before me
Pray do not be hasty, Mr Chuzzlewit
You will regret being hasty, I know you will
You know
Yes
Aye, aye, Mr Chuzzlewit; and don't imagine that I mean to court or flatter you; for nothing is further from my intention. Neither, sir, need you entertain the least misgiving that I shall repeat that obnoxious word which has given you so much offence already. Why should I? What do I expect or want from you? There is nothing in your possession that I know of, Mr Chuzzlewit, which is much to be coveted for the happiness it brings you
That's true enough
Apart from that consideration
it must be plain to you (I am sure) by this time, that if I had wished to insinuate myself into your good opinion, I should have been, of all things, careful not to address you as a relative; knowing your humour, and being quite certain beforehand that I could not have a worse letter of recommendation
No
I came here to offer my services to a stranger. I make no offer of them to you, because I know you would distrust me if I did. But lying on that bed, sir, I regard you as a stranger, and I have just that amount of interest in you which I hope I should feel in any stranger, circumstanced as you are. Beyond that, I am quite as indifferent to you, Mr Chuzzlewit, as you are to me
Eh
I beg your pardon. I thought you spoke. Mrs Lupin
I am not aware that I can be of any service to you here. The gentleman is better, and you are as good a nurse as he can have. Eh
If you desire to speak to me before I go, sir
you may command my leisure; but I must stipulate, in justice to myself, that you do so as to a stranger, strictly as to a stranger
You wish me to speak to you as to a total stranger
do you
You shall be gratified
Sir, I am a rich man. Not so rich as some suppose, perhaps, but yet wealthy. I am not a miser sir, though even that charge is made against me, as I hear, and currently believed. I have no pleasure in hoarding. I have no pleasure in the possession of money, The devil that we call by that name can give me nothing but unhappiness
For the same reason that I am not a hoarder of money
I am not lavish of it. Some people find their gratification in storing it up; and others theirs in parting with it; but I have no gratification connected with the thing. Pain and bitterness are the only goods it ever could procure for me. I hate it. It is a spectre walking before me through the world, and making every social pleasure hideous
You would advise me for my peace of mind, to get rid of this source of misery, and transfer it to some one who could bear it better. Even you, perhaps, would rid me of a burden under which I suffer so grievously. But, kind stranger
good Christian stranger, that is a main part of my trouble. In other hands, I have known money do good; in other hands I have known it triumphed in, and boasted of with reason, as the master-key to all the brazen gates that close upon the paths to worldly honour, fortune, and enjoyment. To what man or woman; to what worthy, honest, incorruptible creature; shall I confide such a talisman, either now or when I die? Do you know any such person? YOUR virtues are of course inestimable, but can you tell me of any other living creature who will bear the test of contact with myself
Of contact with yourself, sir
Aye
the test of contact with me -- with me. You have heard of him whose misery (the gratification of his own foolish wish) was, that he turned every thing he touched into gold. The curse of my existence, and the realisation of my own mad desire is that by the golden standard which I bear about me, I am doomed to try the metal of all other men, and find it false and hollow
You think so
Oh yes
I think so! and in your telling me "I think so," I recognize the true unworldly ring of YOUR metal. I tell you, man
that I have gone, a rich man, among people of all grades and kinds; relatives, friends, and strangers; among people in whom, when I was poor, I had confidence, and justly, for they never once deceived me then, or, to me, wronged each other. But I have never found one nature, no, not one, in which, being wealthy and alone, I was not forced to detect the latent corruption that lay hid within it waiting for such as I to bring it forth. Treachery, deceit, and low design; hatred of competitors, real or fancied, for my favour; meanness, falsehood, baseness, and servility; or
or an assumption of honest independence, almost worse than all; these are the beauties which my wealth has brought to light. Brother against brother, child against parent, friends treading on the faces of friends, this is the social company by whom my way has been attended. There are stories told -- they may be true or false -- of rich men who, in the garb of poverty, have found out virtue and rewarded it. They were dolts and idiots for their pains. They should have made the search in their own characters. They should have shown themselves fit objects to be robbed and preyed upon and plotted against and adulated by any knaves, who, but for joy, would have spat upon their coffins when they died their dupes; and then their search would have ended as mine has done, and they would be what I am
Hear me to an end; judge what profit you are like to gain from any repetition of this visit; and leave me. I have so corrupted and changed the nature of all those who have ever attended on me, by breeding avaricious plots and hopes within them; I have engendered such domestic strife and discord, by tarrying even with members of my own family; I have been such a lighted torch in peaceful homes, kindling up all the inflammable gases and vapours in their moral atmosphere, which, but for me, might have proved harmless to the end, that I have, I may say, fled from all who knew me, and taking refuge in secret places have lived, of late, the life of one who is hunted. The young girl whom you just now saw -- what! your eye lightens when I talk of her! You hate her already, do you
Upon my word, sir
I forgot
I ask your pardon. I forgot you were a stranger. For the moment you reminded me of one Pecksniff, a cousin of mine. As I was saying -- the young girl whom you just now saw, is an orphan child, whom, with one steady purpose, I have bred and educated, or, if you prefer the word, adopted. For a year or more she has been my constant companion, and she is my only one. I have taken, as she knows, a solemn oath never to leave her sixpence when I die, but while I live I make her an annual allowance; not extravagant in its amount and yet not stinted. There is a compact between us that no term of affectionate cajolery shall ever be addressed by either to the other, but that she shall call me always by my Christian name; I her, by hers. She is bound to me in life by ties of interest, and losing by my death, and having no expectation disappointed, will mourn it, perhaps; though for that I care little. This is the only kind of friend I have or will have. Judge from such premises what a profitable hour you have spent in coming here, and leave me, to return no more
Mr Chuzzlewit
There. Go
Enough of this. I am weary of you
I am sorry for that, sir
because I have a duty to discharge, from which, depend upon it, I shall not shrink. No, sir, I shall not shrink
Thank you
I am aware of that. I am going. But before I go, I crave your leave to speak, and more than that, Mr Chuzzlewit, I must and will -- yes indeed, I repeat it, must and will -- be heard. I am not surprised, sir, at anything you have told me tonight. It is natural, very natural, and the greater part of it was known to me before. I will not say
I will not say that you are mistaken in me. While you are in your present mood I would not say so for the world. I almost wish, indeed, that I had a different nature, that I might repress even this slight confession of weakness; which I cannot disguise from you; which I feel is humiliating; but which you will have the goodness to excuse. We will say, if you please
that it arises from a cold in the head, or is attributable to snuff, or smelling-salts, or onions, or anything but the real cause
But, Mr Chuzzlewit, while I am forgetful of myself, I owe it to myself, and to my character -- aye, sir, and I HAVE a character which is very dear to me, and will be the best inheritance of my two daughters -- to tell you, on behalf of another, that your conduct is wrong, unnatural, indefensible, monstrous. And I tell you, sir
I tell you without fear or favour, that it will not do for you to be unmindful of your grandson, young Martin, who has the strongest natural claim upon you. It will not do, sir
You may think it will do, but it won't. You must provide for that young man; you shall provide for him; you WILL provide for him. I believe
that in secret you have already done so. Bless you for doing so. Bless you for doing right, sir. Bless you for hating me. And good night
What does this mean? Can the false-hearted boy have chosen such a tool as yonder fellow who has just gone out? Why not! He has conspired against me, like the rest, and they are but birds of one feather. A new plot; a new plot! Oh self, self, self! At every turn nothing but self
Another will made and destroyed
nothing determined on, nothing done, and I might have died to-night! I plainly see to what foul uses all this money will be put at last
after filling me with cares and miseries all my life, it will perpetuate discord and bad passions when I am dead. So it always is. What lawsuits grow out of the graves of rich men, every day; sowing perjury, hatred, and lies among near kindred, where there should be nothing but love! Heaven help us, we have much to answer for! Oh self, self, self! Every man for himself, and no creature for me
Oh
You were eaves-dropping at that door, you vagabond
Where is Mrs Lupin, I wonder! can the good woman possibly be aware that there is a person here who
Stay
Wait a bit. She DOES know. What then
What then, sir
What then? Do you know, sir, that I am the friend and relative of that sick gentleman? That I am his protector, his guardian, his
Not his niece's husband
I'll be sworn; for he was there before you
What do you mean
What do you tell me, sir
Wait a bit
Perhaps you are a cousin -- the cousin who lives in this place
I AM the cousin who lives in this place
Your name is Pecksniff
It is
I am proud to know you, and I ask your pardon
You behold in me, sir, one who has also an interest in that gentleman upstairs. Wait a bit
Read that
This is addressed to Chevy Slyme, Esquire
You know Chevy Slyme, Esquire, I believe
I know there is such a person, and I am sorry for it
Very good
That is my interest and business here
Now, this is very distressing, my friend
It is very distressing to me, to be compelled to say that you are not the person you claim to be. I know Mr Slyme, my friend; this will not do; honesty is the best policy you had better not; you had indeed
Wait a bit
I understand your mistake, and I am not offended. Why? Because it's complimentary. You suppose I would set myself up for Chevy Slyme. Sir, if there is a man on earth whom a gentleman would feel proud and honoured to be mistaken for, that man is my friend Slyme. For he is, without an exception, the highest-minded, the most independent-spirited, most original, spiritual, classical, talented, the most thoroughly Shakspearian, if not Miltonic, and at the same time the most disgustingly-unappreciated dog I know. But, sir, I have not the vanity to attempt to pass for Slyme. Any other man in the wide world, I am equal to; but Slyme is, I frankly confess, a great many cuts above me. Therefore you are wrong
I judged from this
No doubt you did
But, Mr Pecksniff, the whole thing resolves itself into an instance of the peculiarities of genius. Every man of true genius has his peculiarity. Sir, the peculiarity of my friend Slyme is, that he is always waiting round the corner. He is perpetually round the corner, sir. He is round the corner at this instant. Now
that is a remarkably curious and interesting trait in Mr Slyme's character; and whenever Slyme's life comes to be written, that trait must be thoroughly worked out by his biographer or society will not be satisfied. Observe me, society will not be satisfied
Slyme's biographer, sir, whoever he may be
must apply to me; or, if I am gone to that what's-his-name from which no thingumbob comes back, he must apply to my executors for leave to search among my papers. I have taken a few notes in my poor way, of some of that man's proceedings -- my adopted brother, sir,-- which would amaze you. He made use of an expression, sir, only on the fifteenth of last month when he couldn't meet a little bill and the other party wouldn't renew, which would have done honour to Napoleon Bonaparte in addressing the French army
And pray
what may be Mr Slyme's business here, if I may be permitted to inquire, who am compelled by a regard for my own character to disavow all interest in his proceedings
In the first place
you will permit me to say, that I object to that remark, and that I strongly and indignantly protest against it on behalf of my friend Slyme. In the next place, you will give me leave to introduce myself. My name, sir, is Tigg. The name of Montague Tigg will perhaps be familiar to you, in connection with the most remarkable events of the Peninsular War
No matter
That man was my father, and I bear his name. I am consequently proud -- proud as Lucifer. Excuse me one moment. I desire my friend Slyme to be present at the remainder of this conference
Now
you two are related; and relations never did agree, and never will; which is a wise dispensation and an inevitable thing, or there would be none but family parties, and everybody in the world would bore everybody else to death. If you were on good terms, I should consider you a most confoundedly unnatural pair; but standing towards each other as you do, I took upon you as a couple of devilish deep-thoughted fellows, who may be reasoned with to any extent
Chiv
I shall come to that presently. I act upon my own responsibility, or not at all. To the extent of such a trifling loan as a crownpiece to a man of your talents, I look upon Mr Pecksniff as certain
Oh, Chiv, Chiv
You are, upon my life, a strange instance of the little frailties that beset a mighty mind. If there had never been a telescope in the world, I should have been quite certain from my observation of you, Chiv, that there were spots on the sun! I wish I may die, if this isn't the queerest state of existence that we find ourselves forced into without knowing why or wherefore, Mr Pecksniff! Well, never mind! Moralise as we will, the world goes on. As Hamlet says, Hercules may lay about him with his club in every possible direction, but he can't prevent the cats from making a most intolerable row on the roofs of the houses, or the dogs from being shot in the hot weather if they run about the streets unmuzzled. Life's a riddle; a most infernally hard riddle to guess, Mr Pecksniff. My own opinions, that like that celebrated conundrum, "Why's a man in jail like a man out of jail?" there's no answer to it. Upon my soul and body, it's the queerest sort of thing altogether -- but there's no use in talking about it. Ha! Ha
Every man
has a right, an undoubted right, (which I, for one, would not call in question for any earthly consideration; oh no!) to regulate his own proceedings by his own likings and dislikings, supposing they are not immoral and not irreligious. I may feel in my own breast, that Mr Chuzzlewit does not regard -- me, for instance; say me -- with exactly that amount of Christian love which should subsist between us. I may feel grieved and hurt at the circumstance; still I may not rush to the conclusion that Mr Chuzzlewit is wholly without a justification in all his coldnesses. Heaven forbid! Besides; how, Mr Tigg
how could Mr Chuzzlewit be prevented from having these peculiar and most extraordinary confidences of which you speak; the existence of which I must admit; and which I cannot but deplore -- for his sake? Consider, my good sir
how very much at random you are talking
Why, as to that
it certainly is a difficult question
Undoubtedly it is a difficult question
Undoubtedly it is a very difficult question. And I am far from feeling sure that it is a question any one is authorized to discuss. Good evening to you
You don't know that the Spottletoes are here, I suppose
What do you mean, sir? what Spottletoes
Mr and Mrs Spottletoe
Spottletoe married my father's brother's child, didn't he? And Mrs Spottletoe is Chuzzlewit's own niece, isn't she? She was his favourite once. You may well ask what Spottletoes
Now upon my sacred word
This is dreadful. The rapacity of these people is absolutely frightful
It's not only the Spottletoes either, Tigg
Anthony Chuzzlewit and his son have got wind of it, and have come down this afternoon. I saw 'em not five minutes ago, when I was waiting round the corner
Oh, Mammon, Mammon
So there
are his brother and another nephew for you, already
This is the whole thing, sir
this is the point and purpose at which I was gradually arriving when my friend Slyme here, with six words, hit it full. Mr Pecksniff, now that your cousin (and Chiv's uncle) has turned up, some steps must be taken to prevent his disappearing again; and, if possible, to counteract the influence which is exercised over him now, by this designing favourite. Everybody who is interested feels it, sir. The whole family is pouring down to this place. The time has come when individual jealousies and interests must be forgotten for a time, sir, and union must be made against the common enemy. When the common enemy is routed, you will all set up for yourselves again; every lady and gentleman who has a part in the game, will go in on their own account and bowl away, to the best of their ability, at the testator's wicket, and nobody will be in a worse position than before. Think of it. Don't commit yourself now. You'll find us at the Half Moon and Seven Stars in this village, at any time, and open to any reasonable proposition. Hem! Chiv, my dear fellow, go out and see what sort of a night it is
We must not be too hard
upon the little eccentricities of our friend Slyme. You saw him whisper me
You heard my answer, I think
Five shillings, eh
Ah! what an extraordinary fellow! Very moderate too
Five shillings
and to be punctually repaid next week; that's the best of it. You heard that
No! You surprise me
That's the cream of the thing sir. I never knew that man fail to redeem a promise, in my life. You're not in want of change, are you
No
thank you. Not at all
Just so
If you had been, I'd have got it for you
Perhaps you'd rather not lend Slyme five shillings
I would much rather not
Egad
it's very possible you may be right. Would you entertain the same sort of objection to lending me five shillings now
Yes, I couldn't do it, indeed
Not even half-a-crown, perhaps
Not even half-a-crown
Why, then we come
to the ridiculously small amount of eighteen pence. Ha! ha
And that
would be equally objectionable
I am a messenger of peace
I know that all my family have injured me beyond the possibility of reparation, but I forgive them, for it is my duty so to do
the lodestar of her existence
This
does me good. It does my daughters good. We thank you for assembling here. We are grateful to you with our whole hearts. It is a blessed distinction that you have conferred upon us, and believe me
we shall not easily forget it
I am sorry to interrupt you, Pecksniff
but you are assuming too much to yourself, sir. Who do you imagine has it in contemplation to confer a distinction upon YOU, sir
If you are about to pursue the course with which you have begun, sir
the sooner you desist, and this assembly separates, the better. I am no stranger, sir, to your preposterous desire to be regarded as the head of this family, but I can tell YOU, sir
I am not sorry
I am really not sorry that this little incident has happened. It is good to feel that we are met here without disguise. It is good to know that we have no reserve before each other, but are appearing freely in our own characters
Those the cap fits, let them wear it
It is to be lamented
that our friend should have withdrawn himself so very hastily, though we have cause for mutual congratulation even in that, since we are assured that he is not distrustful of us in regard to anything we may say or do while he is absent. Now, that is very soothing, is it not
Pecksniff
don't you be a hypocrite
A what, my good sir
A hypocrite
Charity, my dear
when I take my chamber candlestick to-night, remind me to be more than usually particular in praying for Mr Anthony Chuzzlewit; who has done me an injustice
All our thoughts centring in our very dear but unkind relative, and he being as it were beyond our reach, we are met to-day, really as if we were a funeral party, except -- a blessed exception -- that there is no body in the house
Well, my dear madam
Be that as it may, here we are; and being here, we are to consider whether it is possible by any justifiable means
Why, you know as well as I
that any means are justifiable in such a case, don't you
Very good, my dear madam, very good; whether it is possible by ANY means, we will say by ANY means, to open the eyes of our valued relative to his present infatuation. Whether it is possible to make him acquainted by any means with the real character and purpose of that young female whose strange, whose very strange position, in reference to himself
really casts a shadow of disgrace and shame upon this family; and who, we know
else why is she his companion? harbours the very basest designs upon his weakness and his property
You are positively down upon her to too great an extent, my sweet creatures, upon my soul you are
Now
I will not, upon the one hand, go so far as to say that she deserves all the inflictions which have been so very forcibly and hilariously suggested
nor will I, upon the other, on any account compromise my common understanding as a man, by making the assertion that she does not. What I would observe is, that I think some practical means might be devised of inducing our respected, shall I say our revered
No
Then I will not
You are quite right, my dear madam, and I appreciate and thank you for your discriminating objection -- our respected relative, to dispose himself to listen to the promptings of nature, and not to the
Go on, Pa
Why, the truth is, my dear
that I am at a loss for a word. The name of those fabulous animals (pagan, I regret to say) who used to sing in the water, has quite escaped me
swans
No
Not swans. Very like swans, too. Thank you
Oysters
No
nor oysters. But by no means unlike oysters; a very excellent idea; thank you, my dear sir, very much. Wait! Sirens. Dear me! sirens, of course. I think, I say, that means might be devised of disposing our respected relative to listen to the promptings of nature, and not to the siren-like delusions of art. Now we must not lose sight of the fact that our esteemed friend has a grandson, to whom he was, until lately, very much attached, and whom I could have wished to see here to-day, for I have a real and deep regard for him. A fine young man. a very fine young man! I would submit to you, whether we might not remove Mr Chuzzlewit's distrust of us, and vindicate our own disinterestedness by
If Mr George Chuzzlewit has anything to say to ME
I beg him to speak out like a man; and not to look at me and my daughters as if he could eat us
As to looking, I have heard it said, Mrs Ned
that a cat is free to contemplate a monarch; and therefore I hope I have some right, having been born a member of this family, to look at a person who only came into it by marriage. As to eating, I beg to say, whatever bitterness your jealousies and disappointed expectations may suggest to you, that I am not a cannibal, ma'am
I don't know that
At all events, if I was a cannibal
I think it would occur to me that a lady who had outlived three husbands, and suffered so very little from their loss, must be most uncommonly tough
And I will further add
naming no names, and therefore hurting nobody but those whose consciences tell them they are alluded to, that I think it would be much more decent and becoming, if those who hooked and crooked themselves into this family by getting on the blind side of some of its members before marriage, and manslaughtering them afterwards by crowing over them to that strong pitch that they were glad to die, would refrain from acting the part of vultures in regard to other members of this family who are living. I think it would be full as well, if not better, if those individuals would keep at home, contenting themselves with what they have got (luckily for them) already; instead of hovering about, and thrusting their fingers into, a family pie, which they flavour much more than enough, I can tell them, when they are fifty miles away
I might have been prepared for this
Indeed I was fully prepared for it from the first. What else could I expect in such an atmosphere as this
Don't direct your halfpay-officers' gaze at me, ma'am, if you please
for I won't bear it
I passed from the memory of a grateful country, you very miserable minx
when I entered this family; and I feel now, though I did not feel then, that it served me right, and that I lost my claim upon the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland when I so degraded myself. Now, my dears, if you're quite ready, and have sufficiently improved yourselves by taking to heart the genteel example of these two young ladies, I think we'll go. Mr Pecksniff, we are very much obliged to you, really. We came to be entertained, and you have far surpassed our utmost expectations, in the amusement you have provided for us. Thank you. Good-bye
My good sir
Oh yes
oh yes, certainly! Oh to be sure! Oh, of course! You hear him? You hear him? all of you
What's the matter
Oh nothing
Nothing at all! It's of no consequence! Ask him! HE'll tell you
I do not understand our friend
I assure you that he is quite unintelligible to me
Unintelligible, sir
Unintelligible! Do you mean to say, sir, that you don't know what has happened! That you haven't decoyed us here, and laid a plot and a plan against us! Will you venture to say that you didn't know Mr Chuzzlewit was going, sir, and that you don't know he's gone, sir
Gone
Gone
Gone while we were sitting here. Gone. Nobody knows where he's gone. Oh, of course not! Nobody knew he was going. Oh, of course not! The landlady thought up to the very last moment that they were merely going for a ride; she had no other suspicion. Oh, of course not! She's not this fellow's creature. Oh, of course not
not to let him go yet
Heaven speed thee, Tom, and send that thou wert going off for ever to some quiet home where thou mightst live at peace, and sorrow should not touch thee
Mr Pinch
I can't stand it any longer; I must have a look
Why, Mark
Who'd have thought of seeing you here? Well! this is surprising
And how spruce you are, too
Really, I didn't think you were half such a tight- made fellow, Mark
Thankee, Mr Pinch. Pretty well for that, I believe. It's not my fault, you know. With regard to being spruce, sir, that's where it is, you see
Where what is
Where the aggravation of it is. Any man may be in good spirits and good temper when he's well dressed. There an't much credit in that. If I was very ragged and very jolly, then I should begin to feel I had gained a point, Mr Pinch
So you were singing just now, to bear up, as it were, against being well dressed, eh, Mark
Your conversation's always equal to print, sir
That was it
Well
you are the strangest young man, Mark, I ever knew in my life. I always thought so; but now I am quite certain of it. I am going to Salisbury, too. Will you get in? I shall be very glad of your company
I more than half believed, just now, seeing you so very smart
that you must be going to be married, Mark
Well, sir, I've thought of that, too
There might be some credit in being jolly with a wife, 'specially if the children had the measles and that, and was very fractious indeed. But I'm a'most afraid to try it. I don't see my way clear
You're not very fond of anybody, perhaps
Not particular, sir, I think
But the way would be, you know, Mark, according to your views of things
to marry somebody you didn't like, and who was very disagreeable
So it would, sir; but that might be carrying out a principle a little too far, mightn't it
Perhaps it might
Lord bless you, sir
you don't half know me, though. I don't believe there ever was a man as could come out so strong under circumstances that would make other men miserable, as I could, if I could only get a chance. But I can't get a chance. It's my opinion that nobody never will know half of what's in me, unless something very unexpected turns up. And I don't see any prospect of that. I'm a-going to leave the Dragon, sir
Going to leave the Dragon
Why, Mark, you take my breath away
Yes, sir
What's the use of my stopping at the Dragon? It an't at all the sort of place for ME. When I left London (I'm a Kentish man by birth, though), and took that situation here, I quite made up my mind that it was the dullest little out-of-the-way corner in England, and that there would be some credit in being jolly under such circumstances. But, Lord, there's no dullness at the Dragon! Skittles, cricket, quoits, nine-pins, comic songs, choruses, company round the chimney corner every winter's evening. Any man could be jolly at the Dragon. There's no credit in THAT
But if common report be true for once, Mark, as I think it is, being able to confirm it by what I know myself
you are the cause of half this merriment, and set it going
There may be something in that, too, sir
But that's no consolation
Well
I can hardly think enough of what you tell me. Why, what will become of Mrs Lupin, Mark
That's probable enough
but I am not at all sure that Mrs Lupin would be glad of them. Why, I always supposed that Mrs Lupin and you would make a match of it, Mark; and so did every one, as far as I know
I never
said nothing as was in a direct way courting-like to her, nor she to me, but I don't know what I mightn't do one of these odd times, and what she mightn't say in answer. Well, sir, THAT wouldn't suit
Not to be landlord of the Dragon, Mark
No, sir, certainly not
Why that would be the ruin of a man like me. I go and sit down comfortably for life, and no man never finds me out. What would be the credit of the landlord of the Dragon's being jolly? Why, he couldn't help it, if he tried
Does Mrs Lupin know you are going to leave her
I haven't broke it to her yet, sir, but I must. I'm looking out this morning for something new and suitable
What kind of thing now
I was thinking
of something in the grave-digging. way
Good gracious, Mark
It's a good damp, wormy sort of business, sir
and there might be some credit in being jolly, with one's mind in that pursuit, unless grave-diggers is usually given that way; which would be a drawback. You don't happen to know how that is in general, do you, sir
No
I don't indeed. I never thought upon the subject
In case of that not turning out as well as one could wish, you know
there's other businesses. Undertaking now. That's gloomy. There might be credit to be gained there. A broker's man in a poor neighbourhood wouldn't be bad perhaps. A jailor sees a deal of misery. A doctor's man is in the very midst of murder. A bailiff's an't a lively office nat'rally. Even a tax-gatherer must find his feelings rather worked upon, at times. There's lots of trades in which I should have an opportunity, I think
But bless my soul, Mark
why don't you wear a waistcoat
What's the good of one, sir
Good of one
Why, to keep your chest warm
Lord love you, sir
you don't know me. My chest don't want no warming. Even if it did, what would no waistcoat bring it to? Inflammation of the lungs, perhaps? Well, there'd be some credit in being jolly, with a inflammation of the lungs
Master Pinch, Grove House Academy
Very hard frost to-night, sir
Don't disturb yourself, I beg
My feet are quite numbed. Ah! Bitter cold to be sure
You have been in the air some considerable time, I dare say
All day. Outside a coach, too
That accounts for his making the room so cool
Poor fellow! How thoroughly chilled he must be
We both appear to be rather particular about the time. The fact is, I have an engagement to meet a gentleman here
So have I
At half-past six
At half-past six
The young gentleman, I expect
was to inquire at that time for a person by the name of Pinch
Dear me
And I have been keeping the fire from you all this while! I had no idea you were Mr Pinch. I am the Mr Martin for whom you were to inquire. Pray excuse me. How do you do? Oh, do draw nearer, pray
Thank you
thank you. I am not at all cold, and you are; and we have a cold ride before us. Well, if you wish it, I will. I -- I am very glad
I am very glad indeed that you turn out to be the party I expected. I was thinking, but a minute ago, that I could wish him to be like you
I am very glad to hear it
for I assure you, I was thinking there could be no such luck as Mr Pinch's turning out like you
No, really
Are you serious
Upon my word I am
You and I will get on excellently well, I know; which it's no small relief to me to feel, for to tell you the truth, I am not at all the sort of fellow who could get on with everybody, and that's the point on which I had the greatest doubts. But they're quite relieved now.-- Do me the favour to ring the bell, will you
If you like punch, you'll allow me to order a glass apiece, as hot as it can be made, that we may usher in our friendship in a becoming manner. To let you into a secret, Mr Pinch, I never was so much in want of something warm and cheering in my life; but I didn't like to run the chance of being found drinking it, without knowing what kind of person you were; for first impressions, you know, often go a long way, and last a long time
I'm a sort of relation of Pecksniff's, you know
Indeed
Yes. My grandfather is his cousin, so he's kith and kin to me, somehow, if you can make that out. I can't
Then Martin is your Christian name
Oh
Of course it is
I wish it was my surname for my own is not a very pretty one, and it takes a long time to sign Chuzzlewit is my name
Dear me
You're not surprised at my having two names, I suppose
Most people have
Oh, no
not at all. Oh dear no! Well
I told them in the stable to be ready for us ten minutes ago
Shall we go
If you please
Would you like to drive
You shall, if you wish
Why, that depends, Mr Pinch
upon what sort of a horse you have. Because if he's a bad one, I would rather keep my hands warm by holding them comfortably in my greatcoat pockets
I won't drive, thank you, Mr Pinch
By the bye, there's a box of mine. Can we manage to take it
Oh, certainly
Put it in, Dick, anywhere
Not at all
A pretty church
Is it not
There's the sweetest little organ there you ever heard. I play it for them
Indeed
It is hardly worth the trouble, I should think. What do you get for that, now
Nothing
Well
you ARE a very strange fellow
When I say nothing
I am wrong, and don't say what I mean, because I get a great deal of pleasure from it, and the means of passing some of the happiest hours I know. It led to something else the other day; but you will not care to hear about that I dare say
Oh yes I shall. What
It led to my seeing
one of the loveliest and most beautiful faces you can possibly picture to yourself
And yet I am able to picture a beautiful one
or should be, if I have any memory
for the first time very early in the morning, when it was hardly light; and when I saw her, over my shoulder, standing just within the porch, I turned quite cold, almost believing her to be a spirit. A moment's reflection got the better of that, of course, and fortunately it came to my relief so soon, that I didn't leave off playing
Why fortunately
Why? Because she stood there, listening. I had my spectacles on, and saw her through the chinks in the curtains as plainly as I see you; and she was beautiful. After a while she glided off, and I continued to play until she was out of hearing
Why did you do that
Don't you see
Because she might suppose I hadn't seen her; and might return
And did she
Certainly she did. Next morning, and next evening too; but always when there were no people about, and always alone. I rose earlier and sat there later, that when she came, she might find the church door open, and the organ playing, and might not be disappointed. She strolled that way for some days, and always stayed to listen. But she is gone now, and of all unlikely things in this wide world, it is perhaps the most improbable that I shall ever look upon her face again
You don't know anything more about her
No
And you never followed her when she went away
Why should I distress her by doing that
Is it likely that she wanted my company? She came to hear the organ, not to see me; and would you have had me scare her from a place she seemed to grow quite fond of? Now, Heaven bless her
to have given her but a minute's pleasure every day, I would have gone on playing the organ at those times until I was an old man; quite contented if she sometimes thought of a poor fellow like me, as a part of the music; and more than recompensed if she ever mixed me up with anything she liked as well as she liked that
Here already! Martin, my dear boy, I am delighted to welcome you to my poor house
But here
are my daughters, Martin; my two only children, whom (if you ever saw them) you have not beheld -- ah, these sad family divisions!-- since you were infants together. Nay, my dears, why blush at being detected in your everyday pursuits? We had prepared to give you the reception of a visitor, Martin, in our little room of state
but I like this better, I like this better
And how
how has our friend used you, Martin
Very well indeed, sir. We are on the best terms, I assure you
Old Tom Pinch
Ah! It seems but yesterday that Thomas was a boy fresh from a scholastic course. Yet years have passed, I think, since Thomas Pinch and I first walked the world together
And Thomas Pinch and I
will walk it yet, in mutual faithfulness and friendship! And if it comes to pass that either of us be run over in any of those busy crossings which divide the streets of life, the other will convey him to the hospital in Hope, and sit beside his bed in Bounty
Well, well, well
No more of this! Martin, my dear friend, that you may be at home within these walls, let me show you how we live, and where. Come
You'll bear us company, Tom Pinch
This
is the little room of state, I mentioned to you. My girls have pride in it, Martin! This
is the little chamber in which my works (slight things at best) have been concocted. Portrait of myself by Spiller. Bust by Spoker. The latter is considered a good likeness. I seem to recognize something about the left-hand corner of the nose, myself
Various books you observe
connected with our pursuit. I have scribbled myself, but have not yet published. Be careful how you come upstairs. This
is my chamber. I read here when the family suppose I have retired to rest. Sometimes I injure my health rather more than I can quite justify to myself, by doing so; but art is long and time is short. Every facility you see for jotting down crude notions, even here
Why not
My daughters' room. A poor first-floor to us, but a bower to them. Very neat. Very airy. Plants you observe; hyacinths; books again; birds
Such trifles as girls love are here. Nothing more. Those who seek heartless splendour, would seek here in vain
This
is a room where some talent has been developed I believe. This is a room in which an idea for a steeple occurred to me that I may one day give to the world. We work here, my dear Martin. Some architects have been bred in this room; a few, I think, Mr Pinch
You see
he added, having by this time reached another large chamber on the same story, with four little beds in it, 'this is your room, of which Mr Pinch here is the quiet sharer. A southern aspect; a charming prospect; Mr Pinch's little library, you perceive; everything agreeable and appropriate. If there is any additional comfort you would desire to have here at anytime, pray mention it. Even to strangers, far less to you, my dear Martin, there is no restriction on that point
The domestic assistants
sleep above; and that is all
Martin
will seat himself between you two, my dears, and Mr Pinch will come by me. Let us drink to our new inmate, and may we be happy together! Martin, my dear friend, my love to you! Mr Pinch, if you spare the bottle we shall quarrel
This
is a mingling that repays one for much disappointment and vexation. Let us be merry
It is a poor heart that never rejoices; and our hearts are not poor. No
Mr Pinch
I don't see any snuffers in that candlestick. Will you oblige me by going down, and asking for a pair
You will excuse Thomas Pinch's want of polish, Martin
He means well
He is a very good fellow, sir
Oh, yes
Yes. Thomas Pinch means well. He is very grateful. I have never regretted having befriended Thomas Pinch
I should think you never would, sir
No
No. I hope not. Poor fellow, he is always disposed to do his best; but he is not gifted. You will make him useful to you, Martin, if you please. If Thomas has a fault, it is that he is sometimes a little apt to forget his position. But that is soon checked. Worthy soul! You will find him easy to manage. Good night
Good night, sir
And good night to YOU, Mr Pinch
And sound sleep to you both. Bless you! Bless you
It is not often
Martin, that my daughters and I desert our quiet home to pursue the giddy round of pleasures that revolves abroad. But we think of doing so to-day
Indeed, sir
Yes
I have a summons here to repair to London; on professional business, my dear Martin; strictly on professional business; and I promised my girls, long ago, that whenever that happened again, they should accompany me. We shall go forth to- night by the heavy coach -- like the dove of old, my dear Martin -- and it will be a week before we again deposit our olive-branches in the passage. When I say olive-branches
I mean, our unpretending luggage
I hope the young ladies will enjoy their trip
Oh! that I'm sure we shall
Good gracious, Cherry, my darling, the idea of London
Ardent child
And yet there is a melancholy sweetness in these youthful hopes! It is pleasant to know that they never can be realised. I remember thinking once myself, in the days of my childhood, that pickled onions grew on trees, and that every elephant was born with an impregnable castle on his back. I have not found the fact to be so; far from it; and yet those visions have comforted me under circumstances of trial. Even when I have had the anguish of discovering that I have nourished in my breast on ostrich, and not a human pupil -- even in that hour of agony, they have soothed me
You will take care, my dear Martin
that the house does not run away in our absence. We leave you in charge of everything. There is no mystery; all is free and open. Unlike the young man in the Eastern tale -- who is described as a one-eyed almanac, if I am not mistaken, Mr Pinch
A one-eyed calender, I think, sir
They are pretty nearly the same thing, I believe
or they used to be in my time. Unlike that young man, my dear Martin, you are forbidden to enter no corner of this house; but are requested to make yourself perfectly at home in every part of it. You will be jovial, my dear Martin, and will kill the fatted calf if you please
Let me see
how you can best employ yourself, Martin, while I am absent. Suppose you were to give me your idea of a monument to a Lord Mayor of London; or a tomb for a sheriff; or your notion of a cow-house to be erected in a nobleman's park. Do you know, now
that I should very much like to see your notion of a cow-house
A pump
is very chaste practice. I have found that a lamp post is calculated to refine the mind and give it a classical tendency. An ornamental turnpike has a remarkable effect upon the imagination. What do you say to beginning with an ornamental turnpike
Whatever Mr Pecksniff pleased
Stay
Come! as you're ambitious, and are a very neat draughtsman, you shall -- ha ha!-- you shall try your hand on these proposals for a grammar-school; regulating your plan, of course, by the printed particulars. Upon my word, now
I shall be very curious to see what you make of the grammar-school. Who knows but a young man of your taste might hit upon something, impracticable and unlikely in itself, but which I could put into shape? For it really is, my dear Martin, it really is in the finishing touches alone, that great experience and long study in these matters tell. Ha, ha, ha! Now it really will be
an amusement to me, to see what you make of the grammar-school
When your mind requires to be refreshed by change of occupation
Thomas Pinch will instruct you in the art of surveying the back garden, or in ascertaining the dead level of the road between this house and the finger-post, or in any other practical and pleasing pursuit. There are a cart-load of loose bricks, and a score or two of old flower-pots, in the back yard. If you could pile them up my dear Martin, into any form which would remind me on my return say of St. Peter's at Rome, or the Mosque of St. Sophia at Constantinople, it would be at once improving to you and agreeable to my feelings. And now
to drop, for the present, our professional relations and advert to private matters, I shall be glad to talk with you in my own room, while I pack up my portmanteau
I was almost afraid
that I shouldn't have had time to write it, and that would have been a thousand pities; postage from such a distance being a serious consideration, when one's not rich. She will be glad to see my hand, poor girl, and to hear that Pecksniff is as kind as ever. I would have asked John Westlock to call and see her, and tell her all about me by word of mouth, but I was afraid he might speak against Pecksniff to her, and make her uneasy. Besides, they are particular people where she is, and it might have rendered her situation uncomfortable if she had had a visit from a young man like John. Poor Ruth
walking down the lane as if the lane belonged to him
Oh
For your sister, Thomas. Yes, oh yes, it shall be delivered, Mr Pinch. Make your mind easy upon that score. She shall certainly have it, Mr Pinch
How melancholy you are
what is the matter
Nothing worth speaking of
Very little more than was the matter yesterday, and much more, I hope, than will be the matter to-morrow. I'm out of spirits, Pinch
Well
now do you know I am in capital spirits today, and scarcely ever felt more disposed to be good company. It was a very kind thing in your predecessor, John, to write to me, was it not
Why, yes
I should have thought he would have had enough to do to enjoy himself, without thinking of you, Pinch
Just what I felt to be so very likely
but no, he keeps his word, and says, "My dear Pinch, I often think of you," and all sorts of kind and considerate things of that description
He must be a devilish good-natured fellow
because he can't mean that, you know
I don't suppose he can, eh
He says so to please me, you think
Why, is it likely
that a young man newly escaped from this kennel of a place, and fresh to all the delights of being his own master in London, can have much leisure or inclination to think favourably of anything or anybody he has left behind him here? I put it to you, Pinch, is it natural
Of course I know best
Yes, I feel that
I said so
That's right
Cheer up! That's capital
I never saw such a fellow as you are, Pinch
Didn't you though
Well, it's very likely you do find me strange, because I have hardly seen anything of the world, and you have seen a good deal I dare say
Pretty well for my time of life
Deuce take it, I must talk openly to somebody. I'll talk openly to you, Pinch
Do
I shall take it as being very friendly of you
I'm not in your way, am I
Not at all
You must know then, to make short of a long story
that I have been bred up from childhood with great expectations, and have always been taught to believe that I should be, one day, very rich. So I should have been, but for certain brief reasons which I am going to tell you, and which have led to my being disinherited
By your father
By my grandfather. I have had no parents these many years. Scarcely within my remembrance
Neither have I
Dear me
Why, as to that, you know, Pinch
it's all very right and proper to be fond of parents when we have them, and to bear them in remembrance after they're dead, if you have ever known anything of them. But as I never did know anything about mine personally, you know, why, I can't be expected to be very sentimental about 'em. And I am not; that's the truth
Oh! of course
In a word
I have been bred and reared all my life by this grandfather of whom I have just spoken. Now, he has a great many good points -- there is no doubt about that; I'll not disguise the fact from you -- but he has two very great faults, which are the staple of his bad side. In the first place, he has the most confirmed obstinacy of character you ever met with in any human creature. In the second, he is most abominably selfish
Is he indeed
In those two respects
there never was such a man. I have often heard from those who know, that they have been, time out of mind, the failings of our family; and I believe there's some truth in it. But I can't say of my own knowledge. All I have to do, you know, is to be very thankful that they haven't descended to me, and, to be very careful that I don't contract 'em
To be sure
Very proper
Well, sir
his selfishness makes him exacting, you see; and his obstinacy makes him resolute in his exactions. The consequence is that he has always exacted a great deal from me in the way of respect, and submission, and self-denial when his wishes were in question, and so forth. I have borne a great deal from him, because I have been under obligations to him (if one can ever be said to be under obligations to one's own grandfather), and because I have been really attached to him; but we have had a great many quarrels for all that, for I could not accommodate myself to his ways very often -- not out of the least reference to myself, you understand, but because
Well! as you understand me
I needn't hunt for the precise expression I want. Now I come to the cream of my story, and the occasion of my being here. I am in love, Pinch
I say I am in love. I am in love with one of the most beautiful girls the sun ever shone upon. But she is wholly and entirely dependent upon the pleasure of my grandfather; and if he were to know that she favoured my passion, she would lose her home and everything she possesses in the world. There is nothing very selfish in THAT love, I think
Selfish
You have acted nobly. To love her as I am sure you do, and yet in consideration for her state of dependence, not even to disclose
What are you talking about, Pinch
don't make yourself ridiculous, my good fellow! What do you mean by not disclosing
I beg your pardon
I thought you meant that, or I wouldn't have said it
If I didn't tell her I loved her, where would be the use of my being in love
unless to keep myself in a perpetual state of worry and vexation
That's true
Well! I can guess what SHE said when you told her
Why, not exactly, Pinch
because she has some girlish notions about duty and gratitude, and all the rest of it, which are rather hard to fathom; but in the main you are right. Her heart was mine, I found
Just what I supposed
Quite natural
Although I had conducted myself from the first with the utmost circumspection
I had not managed matters so well but that my grandfather, who is full of jealousy and distrust, suspected me of loving her. He said nothing to her, but straightway attacked me in private, and charged me with designing to corrupt the fidelity to himself (there you observe his selfishness), of a young creature whom he had trained and educated to be his only disinterested and faithful companion, when he should have disposed of me in marriage to his heart's content. Upon that, I took fire immediately, and told him that with his good leave I would dispose of myself in marriage, and would rather not be knocked down by him or any other auctioneer to any bidder whomsoever
You may be sure
that this nettled him, and that he began to be the very reverse of complimentary to myself. Interview succeeded interview; words engendered words, as they always do; and the upshot of it was, that I was to renounce her, or be renounced by him. Now you must bear in mind, Pinch, that I am not only desperately fond of her (for though she is poor, her beauty and intellect would reflect great credit on anybody, I don't care of what pretensions who might become her husband), but that a chief ingredient in my composition is a most determined
Obstinacy
What a fellow you are, Pinch
I beg your pardon
I thought you wanted a word
I didn't want that word
I told you obstinacy was no part of my character, did I not? I was going to say, if you had given me leave, that a chief ingredient in my composition is a most determined firmness
Oh
Yes, yes; I see
And being firm
of course I was not going to yield to him, or give way by so much as the thousandth part of an inch
No, no
On the contrary, the more he urged, the more I was determined to oppose him
To be sure
Very well
There is an end of the matter, and here am I
Pecksniff, of course, you had known before
Only by name. No, I had never seen him, for my grandfather kept not only himself but me, aloof from all his relations. But our separation took place in a town in the adjoining country. From that place I came to Salisbury, and there I saw Pecksniff's advertisement, which I answered, having always had some natural taste, I believe, in the matters to which it referred, and thinking it might suit me. As soon as I found it to be his, I was doubly bent on coming to him if possible, on account of his being
Such an excellent man
so he is. You were quite right
Why, not so much on that account, if the truth must be spoken
as because my grandfather has an inveterate dislike to him, and after the old man's arbitrary treatment of me, I had a natural desire to run as directly counter to all his opinions as I could. Well! As I said before, here I am. My engagement with the young lady I have been telling you about is likely to be a tolerably long one; for neither her prospects nor mine are very bright; and of course I shall not think of marrying until I am well able to do so. It would never do, you know, for me to be plunging myself into poverty and shabbiness and love in one room up three pair of stairs, and all that sort of thing
To say nothing of her
Exactly so
To say nothing of her. At the same time, of course it's not very hard upon her to be obliged to yield to the necessity of the case; first, because she loves me very much; and secondly, because I have sacrificed a great deal on her account, and might have done much better, you know
Certainly
Now, there is one odd coincidence connected with this love-story
which brings it to an end. You remember what you told me last night as we were coming here, about your pretty visitor in the church
Surely I do
Undoubtedly
That was she
I knew what you were going to say
You don't tell me so
That was she
After what I have heard from Pecksniff, I have no doubt that she came and went with my grandfather.-- Don't you drink too much of that sour wine, or you'll have a fit of some sort, Pinch, I see
It is not very wholesome, I am afraid
So that was she, was it
All will be well in time
I have no doubt; and some trial and adversity just now will only serve to make you more attached to each other in better days. I have always read that the truth is so, and I have a feeling within me, which tells me how natural and right it is that it should be. That never ran smooth yet
what never ran smooth yet, can hardly be expected to change its character for us; so we must take it as we find it, and fashion it into the very best shape we can, by patience and good-humour. I have no power at all; I needn't tell you that; but I have an excellent will; and if I could ever be of use to you, in any way whatever, how very glad I should be
Thank you
You're a good fellow, upon my word, and speak very kindly. Of course you know
I should not hesitate to avail myself of your services if you could help me at all; but mercy on us
you might as well be a toasting- fork or a frying-pan, Pinch, for any help you can render me
Except in the inclination
Oh! to be sure. I meant that, of course. If inclination went for anything, I shouldn't want help. I tell you what you may do, though, if you will, and at the present moment too
What is that
Read to me
I shall be delighted
Excuse my leaving you in the dark a moment, and I'll fetch a book directly. What will you like? Shakespeare
Aye
He'll do. I am tired with the bustle of to-day, and the novelty of everything about me; and in such a case, there's no greater luxury in the world, I think, than being read to sleep. You won't mind my going to sleep, if I can
Not at all
Then begin as soon as you like. You needn't leave off when you see me getting drowsy (unless you feel tired), for it's pleasant to wake gradually to the sounds again. Did you ever try that
No, I never tried that
Well! You can, you know, one of these days when we're both in the right humour. Don't mind leaving me in the dark. Look sharp
Don't be too loud, please
No, no
Not at all
I am quite ready, then
Poor fellow
He is very young to have so much trouble. How trustful and generous in him to bestow all this confidence in me. And that was she, was it
Why, it's nearly out, I declare! No wonder I dreamed of being frozen. Do call for some coals. What a fellow you are, Pinch
I am not industrious myself, gents both
but I know how to appreciate that quality in others. I wish I may turn grey and ugly, if it isn't in my opinion, next to genius, one of the very charmingest qualities of the human mind. Upon my soul, I am grateful to my friend Pecksniff for helping me to the contemplation of such a delicious picture as you present. You remind me of Whittington, afterwards thrice Lord Mayor of London. I give you my unsullied word of honour, that you very strongly remind me of that historical character. You are a pair of Whittingtons, gents, without the cat; which is a most agreeable and blessed exception to me, for I am not attached to the feline species. My name is Tigg; how do you do
Chevy Slyme
You will understand me when I say that I am the accredited agent of Chevy Slyme; that I am the ambassador from the court of Chiv? Ha ha
Heyday
Pray, what does he want with me
If your name is Pinch
It is not' said Martin, checking himself. 'That is Mr Pinch
If that is Mr Pinch
he will permit me to say that I greatly esteem and respect his character, which has been most highly commended to me by my friend Pecksniff; and that I deeply appreciate his talent for the organ, notwithstanding that I do not, if I may use the expression, grind myself. If that is Mr Pinch, I will venture to express a hope that I see him well, and that he is suffering no inconvenience from the easterly wind
Thank you
I am very well
That is a comfort
Then
I have come for the letter
For the letter
What letter
The letter
which my friend Pecksniff addressed to Chevy Slyme, Esquire, and left with you
He didn't leave any letter with me
Hush
It's all the same thing, though not so delicately done by my friend Pecksniff as I could have wished. The money
The money
Exactly so
Then I tell you what it is, gents both. There is at this present moment in this very place, a perfect constellation of talent and genius, who is involved, through what I cannot but designate as the culpable negligence of my friend Pecksniff, in a situation as tremendous, perhaps, as the social intercourse of the nineteenth century will readily admit of. There is actually at this instant, at the Blue Dragon in this village -- an ale-house, observe; a common, paltry, low-minded, clodhopping, pipe-smoking ale-house -- an individual, of whom it may be said, in the language of the Poet, that nobody but himself can in any way come up to him; who is detained there for his bill. Ha! ha! For his bill. I repeat it -- for his bill. Now
we have heard of Fox's Book of Martyrs, I believe, and we have heard of the Court of Requests, and the Star Chamber; but I fear the contradiction of no man alive or dead, when I assert that my friend Chevy Slyme being held in pawn for a bill, beats any amount of cockfighting with which I am acquainted
Don't mistake me, gents both
If it had been for anything but a bill, I could have borne it, and could still have looked upon mankind with some feeling of respect; but when such a man as my friend Slyme is detained for a score -- a thing in itself essentially mean; a low performance on a slate, or possibly chalked upon the back of a door -- I do feel that there is a screw of such magnitude loose somewhere, that the whole framework of society is shaken, and the very first principles of things can no longer be trusted. In short, gents both
when a man like Slyme is detained for such a thing as a bill, I reject the superstitions of ages, and believe nothing. I don't even believe that I DON'T believe, curse me if I do
I am very sorry, I am sure
but Mr Pecksniff said nothing to me about it, and I couldn't act without his instructions. Wouldn't it be better, sir, if you were to go to -- to wherever you came from -- yourself, and remit the money to your friend
How can that be done, when I am detained also
and when moreover, owing to the astounding, and I must add, guilty negligence of my friend Pecksniff, I have no money for coach-hire
Did you say, sir, that you were detained also
Come here
You have no objection to my opening this window for a moment
Certainly not
Very good
You see a fellow down there in a red neckcloth and no waistcoat
Of course I do
That's Mark Tapley
Mark Tapley is it
Then Mark Tapley had not only the great politeness to follow me to this house, but is waiting now, to see me home again. And for that attention, sir
I can tell you, that Mark Tapley had better in his infancy have been fed to suffocation by Mrs Tapley, than preserved to this time
Come here, Mark
Good gracious me! what's the matter between Mrs Lupin and this gentleman
What gentleman, sir
I don't see no gentleman here sir, excepting you and the new gentleman
and there's nothing wrong between Mrs Lupin and either of you, Mr Pinch, I am sure
Nonsense, Mark
You see Mr
Tigg
Wait a bit. I shall crush him soon. All in good time
Oh HIM
Yes, I see HIM. I could see him a little better, if he'd shave himself, and get his hair cut
It's no use
If you knock ever so much in that quarter, you'll get no answer. I know better. There's nothing there but padding; and a greasy sort it is
Nay, Mark
tell me what I ask you. You're not out of temper, I hope
Out of temper, sir
why no, sir. There's a little credit -- not much -- in being jolly, when such fellows as him is a-going about like roaring lions; if there is any breed of lions, at least, as is all roar and mane. What is there between him and Mrs Lupin, sir? Why, there's a score between him and Mrs Lupin. And I think Mrs Lupin lets him and his friend off very easy in not charging 'em double prices for being a disgrace to the Dragon. That's my opinion. I wouldn't have any such Peter the Wild Boy as him in my house, sir, not if I was paid race-week prices for it. He's enough to turn the very beer in the casks sour with his looks; he is! So he would, if it had judgment enough
You're not answering my question, you know, Mark
Well, sir
I don't know as there's much to answer further than that. Him and his friend goes and stops at the Moon and Stars till they've run a bill there; and then comes and stops with us and does the same. The running of bills is common enough Mr Pinch; it an't that as we object to; it's the ways of this chap. Nothing's good enough for him; all the women is dying for him he thinks, and is overpaid if he winks at 'em; and all the men was made to be ordered about by him. This not being aggravation enough, he says this morning to me, in his usual captivating way, "We're going to-night, my man." "Are you, sir?" says I. "Perhaps you'd like the bill got ready, sir?" "Oh no, my man," he says; "you needn't mind that. I'll give Pecksniff orders to see to that." In reply to which, the Dragon makes answer, "Thankee, sir, you're very kind to honour us so far, but as we don't know any particular good of you, and you don't travel with luggage, and Mr Pecksniff an't at home (which perhaps you mayn't happen to be aware of, sir), we should prefer something more satisfactory;" and that's where the matter stands. And I ask
any lady or gentleman, possessing ordinary strength of mind, to say whether he's a disagreeable-looking chap or not
Let me inquire
what the amount of this debt may be
In point of money, sir, very little
Only just turned of three pounds. But it an't that; it's the
Yes, yes, you told us so before
Pinch, a word with you
What is it
Why, simply -- I am ashamed to say -- that this Mr Slyme is a relation of mine, of whom I never heard anything pleasant; and that I don't want him here just now, and think he would be cheaply got rid of, perhaps, for three or four pounds. You haven't enough money to pay this bill, I suppose
That's unfortunate, for I am poor too; and in case you had had it, I'd have borrowed it of you. But if we told this landlady we would see her paid, I suppose that would answer the same purpose
Oh dear, yes
She knows me, bless you
Then let us go down at once and tell her so; for the sooner we are rid of their company the better. As you have conducted the conversation with this gentleman hitherto, perhaps you'll tell him what we purpose doing; will you
Chiv
my friend Pecksniff not being at home, I have arranged our trifling piece of business with Mr Pinch and friend. Mr Pinch and friend, Mr Chevy Slyme! Chiv, Mr Pinch and friend
These are agreeable circumstances in which to be introduced to strangers
I am the most miserable man in the world, I believe
I swear
that I am the wretchedest creature on record. Society is in a conspiracy against me. I'm the most literary man alive. I'm full of scholarship. I'm full of genius; I'm full of information; I'm full of novel views on every subject; yet look at my condition! I'm at this moment obliged to two strangers for a tavern bill
Obliged to two strangers for a tavern bill, eh
Very pretty! And crowds of impostors, the while, becoming famous; men who are no more on a level with me than -- Tigg, I take you to witness that I am the most persecuted hound on the face of the earth
Ha, ha, ha
Obliged to two strangers for a tavern bill! Yet I think I've a rich uncle, Tigg, who could buy up the uncles of fifty strangers! Have I, or have I not? I come of a good family, I believe! Do I, or do I not? I'm not a man of common capacity or accomplishments, I think! Am I, or am I not
You are the American aloe of the human race, my dear Chiv
which only blooms once in a hundred years
Ha, ha, ha
Obliged to two strangers for a tavern bill! I obliged to two architect's apprentices. Fellows who measure earth with iron chains, and build houses like bricklayers. Give me the names of those two apprentices. How dare they oblige me
I'll let 'em know, and I'll let all men know
that I'm none of the mean, grovelling, tame characters they meet with commonly. I have an independent spirit. I have a heart that swells in my bosom. I have a soul that rises superior to base considerations
Oh Chiv, Chiv
you have a nobly independent nature, Chiv
You go and do your duty, sir
and borrow money for travelling expenses; and whoever you borrow it of, let 'em know that I possess a haughty spirit, and a proud spirit, and have infernally finely-touched chords in my nature, which won't brook patronage. Do you hear? Tell 'em I hate 'em, and that that's the way I preserve my self-respect; and tell 'em that no man ever respected himself more than I do
Was there ever
such an independent spirit as is possessed by that extraordinary creature? Was there ever such a Roman as our friend Chiv? Was there ever a man of such a purely classical turn of thought, and of such a toga-like simplicity of nature? Was there ever a man with such a flow of eloquence? Might he not, gents both, I ask, have sat upon a tripod in the ancient times, and prophesied to a perfectly unlimited extent, if previously supplied with gin-and-water at the public cost
You are not going, Mr Pinch
Thank you
Yes. Don't come down
Do you know that I should like one little word in private with you Mr Pinch
One minute of your company in the skittle-ground would very much relieve my mind. Might I beseech that favour
Oh, certainly
if you really wish it
You have not beheld me this day
in a favourable light
Don't mention that
I beg
But you have NOT
I must persist in that opinion. If you could have seen me, Mr Pinch, at the head of my regiment on the coast of Africa, charging in the form of a hollow square, with the women and children and the regimental plate-chest in the centre, you would not have known me for the same man. You would have respected me, sir
But no matter
The school-boy writing home to his parents and describing the milk-and-water, said "This is indeed weakness." I repeat that assertion in reference to myself at the present moment; and I ask your pardon. Sir, you have seen my friend Slyme
No doubt
Sir, you have been impressed by my friend Slyme
Not very pleasantly, I must say
I am grieved but not surprised
to hear that you have come to that conclusion; for it is my own. But, Mr Pinch, though I am a rough and thoughtless man, I can honour Mind. I honour Mind in following my friend. To you of all men, Mr Pinch, I have a right to make appeal on Mind's behalf, when it has not the art to push its fortune in the world. And so, sir -- not for myself, who have no claim upon you, but for my crushed, my sensitive and independent friend, who has -- I ask the loan of three half-crowns. I ask you for the loan of three half-crowns, distinctly, and without a blush. I ask it, almost as a right. And when I add that they will be returned by post, this week, I feel that you will blame me for that sordid stipulation
Stay
I was just about to say, that for the convenience of posting you had better make it gold. Thank you. A general direction, I suppose, to Mr Pinch at Mr Pecksniff's -- will that find you
That'll find me
You had better put Esquire to Mr Pecksniff's name, if you please. Direct to me, you know, at Seth Pecksniff's, Esquire
At Seth Pecksniff's, Esquire
We said this week, I believe
Yes; or Monday will do
No, no, I beg your pardon. Monday will NOT do
If we stipulated for this week, Saturday is the latest day. Did we stipulate for this week
Since you are so particular about it
I think we did
I was just a-saying, sir, that if one could live by it
that would be the sort of service for me. Waiting on such individuals as them would be better than grave-digging, sir
And staying here would be better than either, Mark
So take my advice, and continue to swim easily in smooth water
It's too late to take it now, sir
I have broke it to her, sir. I am off to-morrow morning
Off
where to
I shall go up to London, sir
What to be
Well! I don't know yet, sir. Nothing turned up that day I opened my mind to you, as was at all likely to suit me. All them trades I thought of was a deal too jolly; there was no credit at all to be got in any of 'em. I must look for a private service, I suppose, sir. I might be brought out strong, perhaps, in a serious family, Mr Pinch
Perhaps you might come out rather too strong for a serious family's taste, Mark
That's possible, sir. If I could get into a wicked family, I might do myself justice; but the difficulty is to make sure of one's ground, because a young man can't very well advertise that he wants a place, and wages an't so much an object as a wicked sitivation; can he, sir
Why, no
I don't think he can
An envious family
or a quarrelsome family, or a malicious family, or even a good out-and- out mean family, would open a field of action as I might do something in. The man as would have suited me of all other men was that old gentleman as was took ill here, for he really was a trying customer. Howsever, I must wait and see what turns up, sir; and hope for the worst
You are determined to go then
My box is gone already, sir, by the waggon, and I'm going to walk on to-morrow morning, and get a lift by the day coach when it overtakes me. So I wish you good-bye, Mr Pinch -- and you too, sir -- and all good luck and happiness
If I look at her
I'm done. I feel that I'm a-going fast
You have come at last
And you are determined to leave us, Mark
Why, yes; I am
I thought
that you had been -- fond -- of the Dragon
So I am
Then
why do you desert it
Why, I tell you what
if I took what I liked most, I should take you. If I only thought what was best for me, I should take you. If I took what nineteen young fellows in twenty would be glad to take, and would take at any price, I should take you. Yes, I should
And no man wouldn't wonder if I did
Why, I never thought if of myself till now
I always expected we should part, and never have no explanation; I meant to do it when I come in here just now; but there's something about you, as makes a man sensible. Then let us have a word or two together; letting it be understood beforehand
that I'm not a-going to make no love, you know
Oh, very good
if there is to be no love-making, you had better take your arm away
Lord, why should I
It's quite innocent
Of course it's innocent
or I shouldn't allow it
Very well
Then let it be
Ha ha! I almost think I am
though I never thought so before. Why, I can say anything to-night
Say what you're going to say if you please, and be quick
for I want to get to bed
Why, then, my dear good soul
and a kinder woman than you are never drawed breath -- let me see the man as says she did!-- what would be the likely consequence of us two being
Oh nonsense
Don't talk about that any more
No, no, but it an't nonsense
and I wish you'd attend. What would be the likely consequence of us two being married? If I can't be content and comfortable in this here lively Dragon now, is it to be looked for as I should be then? By no means. Very good. Then you, even with your good humour, would be always on the fret and worrit, always uncomfortable in your own mind, always a-thinking as you was getting too old for my taste, always a-picturing me to yourself as being chained up to the Dragon door, and wanting to break away. I don't know that it would be so
but I don't know that it mightn't be. I am a roving sort of chap, I know. I'm fond of change. I'm always a-thinking that with my good health and spirits it would be more creditable in me to be jolly where there's things a-going on to make one dismal. It may be a mistake of mine you see, but nothing short of trying how it acts will set it right. Then an't it best that I should go; particular when your free way has helped me out to say all this, and we can part as good friends as we have ever been since first I entered this here noble Dragon, which
has my good word and my good wish to the day of my death
For you are a good man
And I do believe have been a better friend to me to-night than ever I have had in all my life
Oh! as to that, you know
that's nonsense. But love my heart alive
if you ARE that way disposed, what a lot of suitable husbands there is as you may drive distracted
Humming a tune as she goes
in case I should think she's at all put out, and should be made down-hearted. Come, here's some credit in being jolly, at last
Good-b'ye, Mark
Good-b'ye one, good-b'ye all
Hearty chaps them wheelwrights -- hurrah! Here's the butcher's dog a-coming out of the garden -- down, old fellow! And Mr Pinch a-going to his organ -- good-b'ye, sir! And the terrier-bitch from over the way -- hie, then, lass! And children enough to hand down human natur to the latest posterity -- good-b'ye, boys and girls! There's some credit in it now. I'm a-coming out strong at last. These are the circumstances that would try a ordinary mind; but I'm uncommon jolly. Not quite as jolly as I could wish to be, but very near. Good-b'ye! good-b'ye
if every one were warm and well-fed, we should lose the satisfaction of admiring the fortitude with which certain conditions of men bear cold and hunger. And if we were no better off than anybody else, what would become of our sense of gratitude; which
is one of the holiest feelings of our common nature
What are we
but coaches? Some of us are slow coaches'
Goodness, Pa
Some of us, I say
are slow coaches; some of us are fast coaches. Our passions are the horses; and rampant animals too
Really, Pa
How very unpleasant
And rampant animals too' repeated Mr Pecksniff with so much determination, that he may be said to have exhibited, at the moment a sort of moral rampancy himself
Now mind
I and my son go inside, because the roof is full, but you agree only to charge us outside prices. It's quite understood that we won't pay more. Is it
All right, sir
Is there anybody inside now
Three passengers
Then I ask the three passengers to witness this bargain, if they will be so good
My boy, I think we may safely get in
That was lucky
And a great stroke of policy in you to observe it. He, he, he! We couldn't have gone outside. I should have died of the rheumatism
There is no room! There is really no room in this coach for any gentleman with a cold in his head
Mine
is upon my chest, Pecksniff
Hem! I thought
that I addressed a stranger. I find that I address a relative, Mr Anthony Chuzzlewit and his son Mr Jonas -- for they, my dear children, are our travelling companions -- will excuse me for an apparently harsh remark. It is not MY desire to wound the feelings of any person with whom I am connected in family bonds. I may be a Hypocrite
but I am not a Brute
Pooh, pooh
What signifies that word, Pecksniff? Hypocrite! why, we are all hypocrites. We were all hypocrites t'other day. I am sure I felt that to be agreed upon among us, or I shouldn't have called you one. We should not have been there at all, if we had not been hypocrites. The only difference between you and the rest was -- shall I tell you the difference between you and the rest now, Pecksniff
If you please, my good sir; if you please
Why, the annoying quality in YOU, is
that you never have a confederate or partner in YOUR juggling; you would deceive everybody, even those who practise the same art; and have a way with you, as if you -- he, he, he!-- as if you really believed yourself. I'd lay a handsome wager now
if I laid wagers, which I don't and never did, that you keep up appearances by a tacit understanding, even before your own daughters here. Now I, when I have a business scheme in hand, tell Jonas what it is, and we discuss it openly. You're not offended, Pecksniff
Offended, my good sir
Are you travelling to London, Mr Pecksniff
Yes, Mr Jonas, we are travelling to London. We shall have the pleasure of your company all the way, I trust
Oh! ecod, you had better ask father that
I am not a-going to commit myself
That if it was all the same to him, he would turn him over to father, and have a chat with the gals
gain
money
Well, cousin
Because we ARE cousins, you know, a few times removed -- so you're going to London
Lots of beaux in London, cousin
Indeed, sir
They won't hurt us, sir, I dare say
Merry
really I am ashamed of you. How can you go on so? You wild thing
I saw a wildness in her eye, t'other day
But you're the one to sit solemn! I say -- You were regularly prim, cousin
Cherry my dear, upon my word you must sit next him. I shall die outright if he talks to me any more; I shall, positively
Don't mind crowding me
I like to be crowded by gals. Come a little closer, cousin
No, thank you, sir
There's that other one a-laughing again
she's a- laughing at my father, I shouldn't wonder. If he puts on that old flannel nightcap of his, I don't know what she'll do! Is that my father a-snoring, Pecksniff
Yes, Mr Jonas
Tread upon his foot, will you be so good
The foot next you's the gouty one
Come, wake up, father, or you'll be having the nightmare, and screeching out, I know.-- Do you ever have the nightmare, cousin
Sometimes
Not often
The other one
Does SHE ever have the nightmare
I don't know
You had better ask her
She laughs so
there's no talking to her. Only hark how she's a-going on now! You're the sensible one, cousin
Tut, tut
Oh! But you are! You know you are
Mercy is a little giddy
It'll be a very long time, then, if she does at all
Take a little more room
I am afraid of crowding you
The process of digestion, as I have been informed by anatomical friends, is one of the most wonderful works of nature. I do not know how it may be with others, but it is a great satisfaction to me to know, when regaling on my humble fare, that I am putting in motion the most beautiful machinery with which we have any acquaintance. I really feel at such times as if I was doing a public service. When I have wound myself up, if I may employ such a term
and know that I am Going, I feel that in the lesson afforded by the works within me, I am a Benefactor to my Kind
Commercial Boarding- House: M. Todgers
Still a-bed my man
Still a-bed
I wish they wos still a-bed. They're very noisy a-bed; all calling for their boots at once. I thought you was the Paper, and wondered why you didn't shove yourself through the grating as usual. What do you want
Or if there's one in the eating parlour
I can find it myself
Jinkins's Particular
wouldn't be driven away
Mr Pecksniff
Welcome to London! Who would have thought of such a visit as this, after so -- dear, dear!-- so many years! How do you DO, Mr Pecksniff
As well as ever; and as glad to see you, as ever
Why, you are younger than you used to be
YOU are, I am sure
You're not a bit changed
What do you say to this
Does this make me no older
Not your daughters
Oh, no, Mr Pecksniff! Your second, and her bridesmaid
My daughters, Mrs Todgers. Merely my daughters
Ah
I must believe you, for now I look at 'em I think I should have known 'em anywhere. My dear Miss Pecksniffs, how happy your Pa has made me
Now, my good madam
I know the rules of your establishment, and that you only receive gentlemen boarders. But it occurred to me, when I left home, that perhaps you would give my daughters house room, and make an exception in their favour
Perhaps
Perhaps
I may say then, that I was sure you would
I know that you have a little room of your own, and that they can be comfortable there, without appearing at the general table
Dear girls
I must take that liberty once more
I think I know how to arrange it
A sofa bedstead in the little third room which opens from my own parlour.-- Oh, you dear girls
Not the damp side
THAT is Mr Jinkins's
I won't ask you yet, my dears
how you like London. Shall I
We haven't seen much of it, Pa
Nothing, I hope
Indeed
that's true. We have our pleasure, and our business too, before us. All in good time. All in good time
all in good time
Your pa was once a little particular in his attentions, my dears
but to be your ma was too much happiness denied me. You'd hardly know who this was done for, perhaps
It's a speaking likeness
It was considered so once
but I hardly thought you would have known it, my loves
Good gracious! Mrs Todgers
Presiding over an establishment like this, makes sad havoc with the features, my dear Miss Pecksniffs
The gravy alone, is enough to add twenty years to one's age, I do assure you
The anxiety of that one item, my dears
keeps the mind continually upon the stretch. There is no such passion in human nature, as the passion for gravy among commercial gentlemen. It's nothing to say a joint won't yield -- a whole animal wouldn't yield -- the amount of gravy they expect each day at dinner. And what I have undergone in consequence
no one would believe
Just like Mr Pinch, Merry
We have always noticed it in him, you remember
Yes, my dear
but we have never given it him, you know
You, my dears, having to deal with your pa's pupils who can't help themselves, are able to take your own way
but in a commercial establishment, where any gentleman may say any Saturday evening, "Mrs Todgers, this day week we part, in consequence of the cheese," it is not so easy to preserve a pleasant understanding. Your pa was kind enough
to invite me to take a ride with you to-day; and I think he mentioned that you were going to call upon Miss Pinch. Any relation to the gentleman you were speaking of just now, Miss Pecksniff
For goodness sake, Mrs Todgers
don't call him a gentleman. My dear Cherry, Pinch a gentleman! The idea
What a wicked girl you are
You are quite a quiz, I do declare! My dear Miss Pecksniff, what a happiness your sister's spirits must be to your pa and self
He's the most hideous, goggle-eyed creature, Mrs Todgers, in existence
quite an ogre. The ugliest, awkwardest frightfullest being, you can imagine. This is his sister, so I leave you to suppose what SHE is. I shall be obliged to laugh outright, I know I shall
I never shall be able to keep my countenance. The notion of a Miss Pinch presuming to exist at all is sufficient to kill one, but to see her -- oh my stars
Who is severe
There is no such thing as severity in our family, I hope
May I come in, Mrs Todgers
Oh yes, Mr Pecksniff, you can come in, if you please
How are we to-day
and what are our plans? Are we ready to go and see Tom Pinch's sister? Ha, ha, ha! Poor Thomas Pinch
Are we ready
to send a favourable reply to Mr Jinkins's round-robin? That's the first question, Mr Pecksniff
Why Mr Jinkins's robin, my dear madam
Why Mr Jinkins's
Because he began to get it up, and indeed always takes the lead in the house
That's why, sir
Jinkins is a man of superior talents
I have conceived a great regard for Jinkins. I take Jinkins's desire to pay polite attention to my daughters, as an additional proof of the friendly feeling of Jinkins, Mrs Todgers
Well now
having said so much, you must say the rest, Mr Pecksniff; so tell the dear young ladies all about it
Visitors for Miss Pinch
Visitors for Miss Pinch
Don't be alarmed, Miss Pinch
I have called to see you, in pursuance of a promise given to your brother, Thomas Pinch. My name -- compose yourself, Miss Pinch -- is Pecksniff
You see in me, young person, the benefactor of your race; the patron of your house; the preserver of your brother, who is fed with manna daily from my table; and in right of whom there is a considerable balance in my favour at present standing in the books beyond the sky. But I have no pride, for I can afford to do without it
Oh very well, Miss Pinch
crying before strangers, as if you didn't like the situation
Thomas is well
and sends his love and this letter. I cannot say, poor fellow, that he will ever be distinguished in our profession; but he has the will to do well, which is the next thing to having the power; and, therefore, we must bear with him. Eh
I know he has the will, sir
and I know how kindly and considerately you cherish it, for which neither he nor I can ever be grateful enough, as we very often say in writing to each other. The young ladies too
I know how much we owe to them
My dears
Thomas's sister is saying something you will be glad to hear, I think
We can't take any merit to ourselves, papa
Mr Pinch's being so well provided for is owing to you alone, and we can only say how glad we are to hear that he is as grateful as he ought to be
Oh very well, Miss Pinch
Got a grateful brother, living on other people's kindness
It was very kind of you
to come here; very kind indeed; though how great a kindness you have done me in gratifying my wish to see you, and to thank you with my own lips, you, who make so light of benefits conferred, can scarcely think
Very grateful; very pleasant; very proper
It makes me happy too
very happy to think that you will be able to tell him how more than comfortably I am situated here, and how unnecessary it is that he should ever waste a regret on my being cast upon my own resources. Dear me! So long as I heard that he was happy, and he heard that I was
we could both bear, without one impatient or complaining thought, a great deal more than ever we have had to endure, I am very certain
Ah
certainly. And how do YOU do, my very interesting child
Quite well, I thank you, sir
A sweet face this, my dears
A charming manner
She wanted but a pair of wings, a dear
to be a young syrup
If you will give that to your distinguished parents, my amiable little friend
and will say that I and my daughters
And Mrs Todgers, pa
And Mrs Todgers, of London
that I, and my daughters, and Mrs Todgers, of London, did not intrude upon them, as our object simply was to take some notice of Miss Pinch, whose brother is a young man in my employment; but that I could not leave this very chaste mansion, without adding my humble tribute, as an Architect, to the correctness and elegance of the owner's taste, and to his just appreciation of that beautiful art to the cultivation of which I have devoted a life, and to the promotion of whose glory and advancement I have sacrified a -- a fortune -- I shall be very much obliged to you
Missis's compliments to Miss Pinch
and begs to know wot my young lady is a-learning of just now
Oh
Here is the young man. HE will take the card. With my compliments, if you please, young man. My dears, we are interrupting the studies. Let us go
Good morning. Good-bye. God bless you! You may depend upon my continued protection of your brother Thomas. Keep your mind quite at ease, Miss Pinch
Thank you
a thousand times
Not at all
Don't mention it. You will make me angry if you do. My sweet child
farewell! That fairy creature
has shed a vision on my path, refulgent in its nature, and not easily to be obliterated. My dears, are you ready
If you look
If you look, my dears, at the cornice which supports the roof, and observe the airiness of its construction, especially where it sweeps the southern angle of the building, you will feel with me -- How do you do, sir? I hope you're well
I have no doubt, my dears
that this is the proprietor. I should be glad to know him. It might lead to something. Is he looking this way, Charity
He is opening the window pa
Ha, ha
All right! He has found I'm professional. He heard me inside just now, I have no doubt. Don't look! With regard to the fluted pillars in the portico, my dears
Hallo
Sir, your servant
I am proud to make your acquaintance
Come off the grass, will you
I beg your pardon, sir
Did you
Come off the grass
We are unwilling to intrude, sir
But you ARE intruding
unwarrantably intruding. Trespassing. You see a gravel walk, don't you? What do you think it's meant for? Open the gate there! Show that party out
There you are agin
An't it nice
I say
young ladies, there's soup to-morrow. She's a-making it now. An't she a-putting in the water? Oh! not at all neither
I say! There's fowls to-morrow. Not skinny ones. Oh no
There's a fish to-morrow. Just come. Don't eat none of him
rather a spicy sort
Will it be long, before it's ready, Bailey
No
it IS cooked. When I come up, she was dodging among the tender pieces with a fork, and eating of 'em
Oh you little villain
Oh you bad, false boy
No worse than yerself
Ah! Come now! Do that again, will yer
He's the most dreadful child
I ever had to deal with. The gentlemen spoil him to that extent, and teach him such things, that I'm afraid nothing but hanging will ever do him any good
Won't it
Oh! Yes! Wot do you go a-lowerin the table-beer for then, and destroying my constitooshun
Go downstairs, you vicious boy
Do you hear me? Go along
Hear, hear
Bravo Jink
coming out
collars
The wittles is up
In short
they felt now, indeed, that they were in London, and for the first time too
No
Miss Pecksniff
will you
Oh dear, no more, Mrs Todgers
Gentlemen, let us drink the ladies
Father
Mr Pecksniff, and God bless him
And how have they used you downstairs, sir
Their conduct has been such, my dear madam
as I can never think of without emotion, or remember without a tear. Oh, Mrs Todgers
My goodness
How low you are in your spirits, sir
I am a man, my dear madam
but I am also a father. I am also a widower. My feelings, Mrs Todgers, will not consent to be entirely smothered, like the young children in the Tower. They are grown up, and the more I press the bolster on them, the more they look round the corner of it
She was beautiful, Mrs Todgers
She had a small property
So I have heard
Those are her daughters
Mercy and Charity
Charity and Mercy. Not unholy names, I hope
Mr Pecksniff
What a ghastly smile! Are you ill, sir
Chronic
Cholic
Chron-ic
Chron-ic. A chronic disorder. I have been its victim from childhood. It is carrying me to my grave
Heaven forbid
Yes, it is
I am rather glad of it, upon the whole. You are like her, Mrs Todgers
Don't squeeze me so tight, pray, Mr Pecksniff. If any of the gentlemen should notice us
For her sake
Permit me -- in honour of her memory. For the sake of a voice from the tomb. You are VERY like her Mrs Todgers! What a world this is
Ah! Indeed you may say that
I'm afraid it is a vain and thoughtless world
These young people about us. Oh! what sense have they of their responsibilities? None. Give me your other hand, Mrs Todgers
she didn't like
Has a voice from the grave no influence
This is irreligious! My dear creature
Hush
Really you mustn't
It's not me
Don't suppose it's me; it's the voice; it's her voice
It has been a day of enjoyment, Mrs Todgers, but still it has been a day of torture. It has reminded me of my loneliness. What am I in the world
An excellent gentleman, Mr Pecksniff
There is consolation in that too
Am I
There is no better man living
I am sure
You are very good
thank you. It is a great happiness to me, Mrs Todgers, to make young people happy. The happiness of my pupils is my chief object. I dote upon 'em. They dote upon me too -- sometimes
Always
When they say they haven't improved, ma'am
When they say they haven't improved, ma'am, and the premium was too high, they lie! I shouldn't wish it to be mentioned; you will understand me; but I say to you as to an old friend, they lie
Base wretches they must be
Madam
you are right. I respect you for that observation. A word in your ear. To Parents and Guardians. This is in confidence, Mrs Todgers
The strictest, of course
To Parents and Guardians
An eligible opportunity now offers, which unites the advantages of the best practical architectural education with the comforts of a home, and the constant association with some, who, however humble their sphere and limited their capacity -- observe!-- are not unmindful of their moral responsibilities
Do you know any parent or guardian, Mrs Todgers
who desires to avail himself of such an opportunity for a young gentleman? An orphan would be preferred. Do you know of any orphan with three or four hundred pound
When you hear of an orphan with three or four hundred pound
let that dear orphan's friends apply, by letter post- paid, to S. P., Post Office, Salisbury. I don't know who he is exactly. Don't be alarmed, Mrs Todgers
Chronic -- chronic! Let's have a little drop of something to drink
Bless my life, Miss Pecksniffs
your dear pa's took very poorly
Do not repine, my friends
Do not weep for me. It is chronic
My friends
let us improve our minds by mutual inquiry and discussion. Let us be moral. Let us contemplate existence. Where is Jinkins
Here
To bed
Bed! 'Tis the voice of the sluggard, I hear him complain, you have woke me too soon, I must slumber again. If any young orphan will repeat the remainder of that simple piece from Doctor Watts's collection, an eligible opportunity now offers
This is very soothing
Extremely so. Cool and refreshing; particularly to the legs! The legs of the human subject, my friends, are a beautiful production. Compare them with wooden legs, and observe the difference between the anatomy of nature and the anatomy of art. Do you know
that I should very much like to see Mrs Todgers's notion of a wooden leg, if perfectly agreeable to herself
How he has come to change so very much (if it should turn out as I expect, that he has), we needn't stop to inquire. My dears, I have my thoughts upon the subject, but I will not impart them. It is enough that we will not be proud, resentful, or unforgiving. If he wants our friendship he shall have it. We know our duty, I hope
with Mr Pecksniff's respectful, and (not withstanding what has passed) sincerely affectionate regards
Your daughters are well
In the first place, let me thank you for coming to London so promptly, at my almost unexplained request; I need scarcely add, at my cost
At YOUR cost, my good sir
It is not
my habit to put my -- well! my relatives -- to any personal expense to gratify my caprices
Caprices, my good sir
That is scarcely the proper word either, in this instance
No. You are right
You are right
It is not a caprice. It is built up on reason, proof, and cool comparison. Caprices never are. Moreover, I am not a capricious man. I never was
Most assuredly not
How do you know
You are to begin to know it now. You are to test and prove it, in time to come. You and yours are to find that I can be constant, and am not to be diverted from my end. Do you hear
Perfectly
I very much regret
I very much regret that you and I held such a conversation together, as that which passed between us at our last meeting. I very much regret that I laid open to you what were then my thoughts of you, so freely as I did. The intentions that I bear towards you now are of another kind; deserted by all in whom I have ever trusted; hoodwinked and beset by all who should help and sustain me; I fly to you for refuge. I confide in you to be my ally; to attach yourself to me by ties of Interest and Expectation
and to help me to visit the consequences of the very worst species of meanness, dissimulation, and subtlety, on the right heads
My noble sir
And YOU regret the having harboured unjust thoughts of me! YOU with those grey hairs
Regrets
are the natural property of grey hairs; and I enjoy, in common with all other men, at least my share of such inheritance. And so enough of that. I regret having been severed from you so long. If I had known you sooner, and sooner used you as you well deserve, I might have been a happier man
Your daughters
I don't know them. Are they like you
In the nose of my eldest and the chin of my youngest, Mr Chuzzlewit
their sainted parent (not myself, their mother) lives again
I don't mean in person
Morally, morally
'Tis not for me to say
I have done my best, sir
I could wish to see them
are they near at hand
My own darlings, where are you
Here, my dear pa
Come down into the back parlour, if you please, my love
and bring your sister with you
Yes, my dear pa
My children, Mr Chuzzlewit
Thank Heaven for this
What
What are their names
Perhaps, my dears, you had better write them down. Your humble autographs are of no value in themselves, but affection may prize them
Affection
will expend itself on the living originals. Do not trouble yourselves, my girls, I shall not so easily forget you, Charity and Mercy, as to need such tokens of remembrance. Cousin
Sir
Do you never sit down
Why -- yes -- occasionally, sir
Will you do so now
Can you ask me
whether I will do anything that you desire
You talk confidently
and you mean well; but I fear you don't know what an old man's humours are. You don't know what it is to be required to court his likings and dislikings; to adapt yourself to his prejudices; to do his bidding, be it what it may; to bear with his distrusts and jealousies; and always still be zealous in his service. When I remember how numerous these failings are in me, and judge of their occasional enormity by the injurious thoughts I lately entertained of you, I hardly dare to claim you for my friend
My worthy sir
how CAN you talk in such a painful strain! What was more natural than that you should make one slight mistake, when in all other respects you were so very correct, and have had such reason -- such very sad and undeniable reason -- to judge of every one about you in the worst light
True
You are very lenient with me
We always said, my girls and I
that while we mourned the heaviness of our misfortune in being confounded with the base and mercenary, still we could not wonder at it. My dears, you remember
We uttered no complaint
Occasionally we had the presumption to console ourselves with the remark that Truth would in the end prevail, and Virtue be triumphant; but not often. My loves, you recollect
And when I saw you
in the little, unassuming village where we take the liberty of dwelling, I said you were mistaken in me, my dear sir; that was all, I think
No -- not all
you said much more, which, added to other circumstances that have come to my knowledge, opened my eyes. You spoke to me, disinterestedly, on behalf of -- I needn't name him. You know whom I mean
Quite disinterestedly, sir, I assure you
I know it
I am sure of it. I said so. It was disinterested too, in you, to draw that herd of harpies off from me, and be their victim yourself; most other men would have suffered them to display themselves in all their rapacity, and would have striven to rise, by contrast, in my estimation. You felt for me, and drew them off, for which I owe you many thanks. Although I left the place, I know what passed behind my back, you see
You amaze me, sir
My knowledge of your proceedings
Yes, sir
I have
For -- for yours
For any shelter he can find
He has deceived you
I trust not. I have been extremely well disposed towards that young man. I hope it cannot be shown that he has forfeited all claim to my protection. Deceit -- deceit, my dear Mr Chuzzlewit, would be final. I should hold myself bound, on proof of deceit, to renounce him instantly
Of course you know that he has made his matrimonial choice
Oh dear
This is becoming tremendous
You know the fact
Surely not without his grandfather's consent and approbation my dear sir
Don't tell me that. For the honour of human nature, say you're not about to tell me that
I thought he had suppressed it
I am glad to find you second me so warmly
I will not deny that it is a pleasure to me to find you so full of zeal. We will consider that topic as disposed of
No, my dear sir
not as disposed of, until I have purged my house of this pollution
That will follow
in its own time. I look upon that as done
You are very good, sir
You do me honour. You MAY look upon it as done, I assure you
There is another topic
on which I hope you will assist me. You remember Mary, cousin
The young lady that I mentioned to you, my dears, as having interested me so very much
Excuse my interrupting you, sir
I told you her history
Which I also mentioned, you will recollect, my dears
Why, look now
I feared I should have had to urge her case upon you, and ask you to regard her favourably for my sake. But I find you have no jealousies! Well! You have no cause for any, to be sure. She has nothing to gain from me, my dears, and she knows it
If I could have anticipated what has come to pass between us four
but it is too late to think of that. You would receive her courteously, young ladies, and be kind to her, if need were
You know what will be said of this? Have you reflected
Said of what, my dear sir
Of this new understanding between us
A great many
Some will say that I dote in my old age; that illness has shaken me; that I have lost all strength of mind, and have grown childish. You can bear that
Others will say -- I speak of disappointed, angry people only -- that you have lied and fawned, and wormed yourself through dirty ways into my favour; by such concessions and such crooked deeds, such meannesses and vile endurances, as nothing could repay; no, not the legacy of half the world we live in. You can bear that
With the great mass of slanderers
the tale, as I clearly foresee, will run thus: That to mark my contempt for the rabble whom I despised, I chose from among them the very worst, and made him do my will, and pampered and enriched him at the cost of all the rest. That, after casting about for the means of a punishment which should rankle in the bosoms of these kites the most, and strike into their gall, I devised this scheme at a time when the last link in the chain of grateful love and duty, that held me to my race, was roughly snapped asunder; roughly, for I loved him well; roughly, for I had ever put my trust in his affection; roughly, for that he broke it when I loved him most -- God help me!-- and he without a pang could throw me off, while I clung about his heart! Now
is your mind made up to bear this likewise? Lay your account with having it to bear, and put no trust in being set right by me
My dear Mr Chuzzlewit
for such a man as you have shown yourself to be this day; for a man so injured, yet so very humane; for a man so -- I am at a loss what precise term to use -- yet at the same time so remarkably -- I don't know how to express my meaning; for such a man as I have described, I hope it is no presumption to say that I, and I am sure I may add my children also (my dears, we perfectly agree in this, I think?), would bear anything whatever
Enough
You can charge no consequences on me. When do you retire home
Whenever you please, my dear sir. To-night if you desire it
I desire nothing
that is unreasonable. Such a request would be. Will you be ready to return at the end of this week
Let us be at home on Saturday, dear pa
Your expenses, cousin
may possibly exceed that amount. If so, let me know the balance that I owe you, when we next meet. It would be useless if I told you where I live just now; indeed, I have no fixed abode. When I have, you shall know it. You and your daughters may expect to see me before long; in the meantime I need not tell you that we keep our own confidence. What you will do when you get home is understood between us. Give me no account of it at any time; and never refer to it in any way. I ask that as a favour. I am commonly a man of few words, cousin; and all that need be said just now is said, I think
One glass of wine -- one morsel of this homely cake
My dears
Poor girls
You will excuse their agitation, my dear sir. They are made up of feeling. A bad commodity to go through the world with, Mr Chuzzlewit! My youngest daughter is almost as much of a woman as my eldest, is she not, sir
Which IS the youngest
Mercy, by five years
We sometimes venture to consider her rather a fine figure, sir. Speaking as an artist, I may perhaps be permitted to suggest that its outline is graceful and correct. I am naturally
proud, if I may use the expression, to have a daughter who is constructed on the best models
She seems to have a lively disposition
Dear me
That is quite remarkable. You have defined her character, my dear sir, as correctly as if you had known her from her birth. She HAS a lively disposition. I assure you, my dear sir, that in our unpretending home her gaiety is delightful
No doubt
Charity, upon the other hand
is remarkable for strong sense, and for rather a deep tone of sentiment, if the partiality of a father may be excused in saying so. A wonderful affection between them, my dear sir! Allow me to drink your health. Bless you
I little thought
but a month ago, that I should be breaking bread and pouring wine with you. I drink to you
Now let me go
My dears, good morning
If it was possible to divine any cause for this merriment, even the most remote
I should not reprove you. But when you can have none whatever -- oh, really, really
I don't care that! Mrs Todgers
I don't care THAT, ma'am
for Jinkins. Don't suppose I do
I am quite certain you don't, sir
You have too independent a spirit, I know, to yield to anybody. And quite right. There is no reason why you should give way to any gentleman. Everybody must be well aware of that
I should think no more of admitting daylight into the fellow
than if he was a bulldog
Let him be careful
I give him warning. No man shall step between me and the current of my vengeance. I know a Cove --' he used that familiar epithet in his agitation but corrected himself by adding, 'a gentleman of property, I mean -- who practices with a pair of pistols (fellows too) of his own. If I am driven to borrow 'em, and to send at friend to Jinkins, a tragedy will get into the papers. That's all
I have borne this long enough
It is very wrong in Mr Jinkins; I know it is perfectly inexcusable in Mr Jinkins, if he intends it
If he intends it
Don't he interrupt and contradict me on every occasion? Does he ever fail to interpose himself between me and anything or anybody that he sees I have set my mind upon? Does he make a point of always pretending to forget me, when he's pouring out the beer? Does he make bragging remarks about his razors, and insulting allusions to people who have no necessity to shave more than once a week? But let him look out! He'll find himself shaved, pretty close, before long, and so I tell him
However
these are not proper subjects for ladies' ears. All I've got to say to you, Mrs Todgers, is, a week's notice from next Saturday. The same house can't contain that miscreant and me any longer. If we get over the intermediate time without bloodshed, you may think yourself pretty fortunate. I don't myself expect we shall
Dear, dear
what would I have given to have prevented this? To lose you, sir, would be like losing the house's right-hand. So popular as you are among the gentlemen; so generally looked up to; and so much liked! I do hope you'll think better of it; if on nobody else's account, on mine
There's Jinkins
Your favourite. He'll console you, and the gentlemen too, for the loss of twenty such as me. I'm not understood in this house. I never have been
Don't run away with that opinion, sir
Don't make such a charge as that against the establishment, I must beg of you. It is not so bad as that comes to, sir. Make any remark you please against the gentlemen, or against me; but don't say you're not understood in this house
I'm not treated as if I was
There you make a great mistake, sir
As many of the gentlemen and I have often said, you are too sensitive. That's where it is. You are of too susceptible a nature; it's in your spirit
And as
as to Mr Jinkins, I must beg of you, if we ARE to part, to understand that I don't abet Mr Jinkins by any means. Far from it. I could wish that Mr Jinkins would take a lower tone in this establishment, and would not be the means of raising differences between me and gentlemen that I can much less bear to part with than I could with Mr Jinkins. Mr Jinkins is not such a boarder, sir
that all considerations of private feeling and respect give way before him. Quite the contrary, I assure you
Goodness me, Miss Pecksniffs
what a trial of temper it is to keep a house like this! You must have heard most of what has just passed. Now did you ever hear the like
Never
Of all the ridiculous young fellows that ever I had to deal with
that is the most ridiculous and unreasonable. Mr Jinkins is hard upon him sometimes, but not half as hard as he deserves. To mention such a gentleman as Mr Jinkins in the same breath with HIM -- you know it's too much! And yet he's as jealous of him, bless you, as if he was his equal
Pray, Mrs Todgers, if I may inquire, what does that young gentleman contribute towards the support of these premises
Why, sir, for what HE has, he pays about eighteen shillings a week
Eighteen shillings a week
Taking one week with another; as near that as possible
And do you mean to say, ma'am -- is it possible, Mrs Todgers -- that for such a miserable consideration as eighteen shillings a week, a female of your understanding can so far demean herself as to wear a double face, even for an instant
I am forced to keep things on the square if I can, sir
I must preserve peace among them, and keep my connection together, if possible, Mr Pecksniff. The profit is very small
The profit
The profit, Mrs Todgers! You amaze me
The profit
The profit of dissimulation! To worship the golden calf of Baal, for eighteen shillings a week
Don't in your own goodness be too hard upon me, Mr Pecksniff
Oh Calf, Calf
Oh, Baal, Baal! oh my friend, Mrs Todgers! To barter away that precious jewel, self- esteem, and cringe to any mortal creature -- for eighteen shillings a week
A gentleman for me
my gracious, Bailey
Ah
It IS my gracious, an't it? Wouldn't I be gracious neither, not if I wos him
But I don't know any gentlemen, Bailey
I think you must have made a mistake
My dear Merry
who CAN it be? Isn't it odd? I have a great mind not to go to him really. So very strange, you know
Quite impossible to divine
though still, at the same time, you needn't be angry, my dear
Thank you
I am quite aware of that, my love
I am afraid your head is turned, you silly thing
Do you know, my dear
that I have been afraid of that, myself, all along! So much incense and nonsense, and all the rest of it, is enough to turn a stronger head than mine. What a relief it must be to you, my dear, to be so very comfortable in that respect, and not to be worried by those odious men! How do you do it, Cherry
Keep up appearances whatever you do
Ah, cousin
Here I am, you see. You thought I was lost, I'll be bound. Well! how do you find yourself by this time
That's right
and you've got over the fatigues of the journey have you? I say. How's the other one
My sister is very well, I believe
I have not heard her complain of any indisposition, sir. Perhaps you would like to see her, and ask her yourself
No, no cousin
Don't be in a hurry. There's no occasion for that, you know. What a cruel girl you are
It's impossible for YOU to know
whether I am or not
Well, perhaps it is
I say -- Did you think I was lost? You haven't told me that
I didn't think at all about it
Didn't you though
Did the other one
I am sure it's impossible for me to say what my sister may, or may not have thought on such a subject
She never said anything to me about it, one way or other
Didn't she laugh about it
No. She didn't even laugh about it
She's a terrible one to laugh, an't she
She is very lively
Liveliness is a pleasant thing -- when it don't lead to spending money. An't it
Very much so, indeed
Such liveliness as yours I mean, you know
I should have come to see you before, but I didn't know where you was. How quick you hurried off, that morning
I was amenable to my papa's directions
I wish he had given me his direction
and then I should have found you out before. Why, I shouldn't have found you even now, if I hadn't met him in the street this morning. What a sleek, sly chap he is! Just like a tomcat, an't he
I must trouble you to have the goodness to speak more respectfully of my papa, Mr Jonas
I can't allow such a tone as that, even in jest
Ecod, you may say what you like of MY father, then, and so I give you leave
I think it's liquid aggravation that circulates through his veins, and not regular blood. How old should you think my father was, cousin
Old, no doubt
but a fine old gentleman
A fine old gentleman
Ah! It's time he was thinking of being drawn out a little finer too. Why, he's eighty
Is he, indeed
And ecod
now he's gone so far without giving in, I don't see much to prevent his being ninety; no, nor even a hundred. Why, a man with any feeling ought to be ashamed of being eighty, let alone more. Where's his religion, I should like to know, when he goes flying in the face of the Bible like that? Threescore-and- ten's the mark, and no man with a conscience, and a proper sense of what's expected of him, has any business to live longer
But there's enough of my father
it's of no use to go putting one's self out of the way by talking about HIM. I called to ask you to come and take a walk, cousin, and see some of the sights; and to come to our house afterwards, and have a bit of something. Pecksniff will most likely look in in the evening, he says, and bring you home. See, here's his writing; I made him put it down this morning when he told me he shouldn't be back before I came here; in case you wouldn't believe me. There's nothing like proof, is there? Ha, ha! I say -- you'll bring the other one, you know
Go, my children, with your cousin. Let there be union among us when it is possible
Aha
There you are, are you
Yes, fright
here I am; and I would much rather be anywhere else, I assure you
You don't mean that
You can't, you know. It isn't possible
You can have what opinion you like, fright
I am content to keep mine; and mine is that you are a very unpleasant, odious, disagreeable person
Oh, you're a sharp gal
She's a regular teaser, an't she, cousin
whatever
whatever her real nature may be
Well, my dear
the only observation I have to make is, that if we don't go out at once, I shall certainly take my bonnet off again, and stay at home
Yes
where the orders came from
they must be nice flats, certainly
Well, ghost
Is dinner nearly ready
I should think it was
What's the good of that
I should think it was. I want to know
Ah! I don't know for certain
You don't know for certain
No. You don't know anything for certain, YOU don't. Give me your candle here. I want it for the gals
Bachelor's Hall, you know, cousin
I say -- the other one will be having a laugh at this when she gets home, won't she? Here; you sit on the right side of me, and I'll have her upon the left. Other one, will you come here
You're such a fright
that I know I shall have no appetite if I sit so near you; but I suppose I must
An't she lively
Oh I really don't know
I am tired of being asked such ridiculous questions
What's that precious old father of mine about now
What are you looking for
I've lost my glasses, Jonas
Sit down without your glasses, can't you
You don't eat or drink out of 'em, I think; and where's that sleepy- headed old Chuffey got to! Now, stupid. Oh! you know your name, do you
Our clerk
Old Chuffey
Is he deaf
No, I don't know that he is. He an't deaf, is he, father
I never heard him say he was
Blind
N -- no. I never understood that he was at all blind
You don't consider him so, do you, father
Certainly not
What is he, then
Why, I'll tell you what he is
he's precious old, for one thing; and I an't best pleased with him for that, for I think my father must have caught it of him. He's a strange old chap, for another
and don't understand any one hardly, but HIM
How very strange
Why, you see
he's been addling his old brains with figures and book-keeping all his life; and twenty years ago or so he went and took a fever. All the time he was out of his head (which was three weeks) he never left off casting up; and he got to so many million at last that I don't believe he's ever been quite right since. We don't do much business now though, and he an't a bad clerk
A very good one
Well! He an't a dear one at all events
and he earns his salt, which is enough for our look-out. I was telling you that he hardly understands any one except my father; he always understands him, though, and wakes up quite wonderful. He's been used to his ways so long, you see! Why, I've seen him play whist, with my father for a partner; and a good rubber too; when he had no more notion what sort of people he was playing against, than you have
Has he no appetite
Oh, yes
He eats -- when he's helped. But he don't care whether he waits a minute or an hour, as long as father's here; so when I'm at all sharp set, as I am to-day, I come to him after I've taken the edge off my own hunger, you know. Now, Chuffey, stupid, are you ready
Always a perverse old file, he was
Ask him, father
Are you ready for your dinner, Chuffey
Yes, yes
Yes, yes. Quite ready, Mr Chuzzlewit. Quite ready, sir. All ready, all ready, all ready
He'll be very disagreeable, mind
He always chokes himself when it an't broth. Look at him, now! Did you ever see a horse with such a wall-eyed expression as he's got? If it hadn't been for the joke of it I wouldn't have let him come in to-day; but I thought he'd amuse you
I taught him. I trained him. This is the heir of my bringing-up. Sly, cunning, and covetous, he'll not squander my money. I worked for this; I hoped for this; it has been the great end and aim of my life
peg away at his bread
Aye, aye
quite right, quite right. He's your own son, Mr Chuzzlewit! Bless him for a sharp lad! Bless him, bless him
I shall drink
to Pecksniff. Your father, my dears. A clever man, Pecksniff. A wary man! A hypocrite, though, eh? A hypocrite, girls, eh? Ha, ha, ha! Well, so he is. Now, among friends, he is. I don't think the worse of him for that, unless it is that he overdoes it. You may overdo anything, my darlings. You may overdo even hypocrisy. Ask Jonas
You can't overdo taking care of yourself
Do you hear that, my dears
Wisdom, wisdom! A good exception, Jonas. No. It's not easy to overdo that
Except
except when one lives too long. Ha, ha! Tell the other one that -- I say
Good gracious me
You can tell her yourself, if you wish, can't you
She seems to make such game of one
Then why need you trouble yourself about her
I am sure she doesn't trouble herself much about you
Don't she though
Good gracious me, need I tell you that she don't
come a little closer
There's another thing that's not easily overdone, father
What's that
A bargain
Here's the rule for bargains --"Do other men, for they would do you." That's the true business precept. All others are counterfeits
Good night
Good night; remember me to -- ha, ha, ha!-- to Pecksniff. Take care of your cousin, my dears; beware of Jonas; he's a dangerous fellow. Don't quarrel for him, in any case
Oh, the creature
The idea of quarrelling for HIM! You may take him, Cherry, my love, all to yourself. I make you a present of my share
What! I'm a sour grape, am I, cousin
It was pretty clear what was going on THERE, and she was glad of it, for it really was high time that Miss Pecksniff thought of settling
Never, my dear Miss Pecksniffs
never have I seen an establishment so perfectly broken-hearted as mine is at this present moment of time. I don't believe the gentlemen will be the gentlemen they were, or anything like it -- no, not for weeks to come. You have a great deal to answer for, both of you
Your pious pa, too
There's a loss! My dear Miss Pecksniffs, your pa is a perfect missionary of peace and love
If I dared
to violate a confidence which has been reposed in me, and to tell you why I must beg of you to leave the little door between your room and mine open tonight, I think you would be interested. But I mustn't do it, for I promised Mr Jinkins faithfully, that I would be as silent as the tomb
Dear Mrs Todgers! What can you mean
Why, then, my sweet Miss Pecksniffs
my own loves, if you will allow me the privilege of taking that freedom on the eve of our separation, Mr Jinkins and the gentlemen have made up a little musical party among themselves, and DO intend, in the dead of this night, to perform a serenade upon the stairs outside the door. I could have wished, I own
that it had been fixed to take place an hour or two earlier; because when gentlemen sit up late they drink, and when they drink they're not so musical, perhaps, as when they don't. But this is the arrangement; and I know you will be gratified, my dear Miss Pecksniffs, by such a mark of their attention
Go where glory waits thee
All hail to the vessel of Pecksniff the sire! And favouring breezes to fan; While Tritons flock round it, and proudly admire The architect, artist, and man
Well, young ladies
so you're a-going home, are you, worse luck
Yes, Bailey, we're going home
An't you a-going to leave none of 'em a lock of your hair
It's real, an't it
Oh, is it of course, though
I know better than that. Hers an't. Why, I see it hanging up once, on that nail by the winder. Besides, I have gone behind her at dinner-time and pulled it; and she never know'd. I say, young ladies, I'm a-going to leave. I an't a-going to stand being called names by her, no longer
Into the army
Ah
why not? There's a many drummers in the Tower. I'm acquainted with 'em. Don't their country set a valley on 'em, mind you! Not at all
You'll be shot, I see
Well
wot if I am? There's something gamey in it, young ladies, an't there? I'd sooner be hit with a cannon-ball than a rolling-pin, and she's always a-catching up something of that sort, and throwing it at me, when the gentlemans' appetites is good. Wot
wot, if they DO consume the per-vishuns. It an't MY fault, is it
Surely no one says it is
Don't they though
No. Yes. Ah! oh! No one mayn't say it is! but some one knows it is. But I an't a-going to have every rise in prices wisited on me. I an't a-going to be killed because the markets is dear. I won't stop. And therefore
wotever you mean to give me, you'd better give me all at once, becos if ever you come back agin, I shan't be here; and as to the other boy, HE won't deserve nothing, I know
Come to say good-bye, you see
Where's the use of a division between you and me? We are the two halves of a pair of scissors, when apart, Pecksniff; but together we are something. Eh
Unanimity, my good sir
is always delightful
I don't know about that
for there are some people I would rather differ from than agree with. But you know my opinion of you
Complimentary
Complimentary, upon my word. It was an involuntary tribute to your abilities, even at the time; and it was not a time to suggest compliments either. But we agreed in the coach, you know, that we quite understood each other
Oh, quite
Jonas is a shrewd lad
He appears
to be very shrewd
And careful
And careful, I have no doubt
Look ye
I think he is sweet upon you daughter
Tut, my good sir
young people -- young people -- a kind of cousins, too -- no more sweetness than is in that, sir
Why, there is very little sweetness in that, according to our experience
Isn't there a trifle more here
Impossible to say
Quite impossible! You surprise me
Yes, I know that
It may last; I mean the sweetness, not the surprise; and it may die off. Supposing it should last, perhaps (you having feathered your nest pretty well, and I having done the same), we might have a mutual interest in the matter
I know what you are going to say. It's quite unnecessary. You have never thought of this for a moment; and in a point so nearly affecting the happiness of your dear child, you couldn't, as a tender father, express an opinion; and so forth. Yes, quite right. And like you! But it seems to me, my dear Pecksniff
that if you and I kept up the joke of pretending not to see this, one of us might possibly be placed in a position of disadvantage; and as I am very unwilling to be that party myself, you will excuse my taking the liberty of putting the matter beyond a doubt thus early; and having it distinctly understood, as it is now, that we do see it, and do know it. Thank you for your attention. We are now upon an equal footing; which is agreeable to us both, I am sure
If I should turn out a great architect, Tom
I'll tell you what should be one of the things I'd build
Aye
What
Why, your fortune
No
Would you though? How kind of you to say so
I'd build it up, Tom
on such a strong foundation, that it should last your life -- aye, and your children's lives too, and their children's after them. I'd be your patron, Tom. I'd take you under my protection. Let me see the man who should give the cold shoulder to anybody I chose to protect and patronise, if I were at the top of the tree, Tom
Now, I don't think
upon my word, that I was ever more gratified than by this. I really don't
Oh! I mean what I say
I'd do it. I'd provide for you
I am afraid
that I should be a mighty awkward person to provide for
Pooh, pooh
Never mind that. If I took it in my head to say, "Pinch is a clever fellow; I approve of Pinch;" I should like to know the man who would venture to put himself in opposition to me. Besides, confound it, Tom, you could be useful to me in a hundred ways
If I were not useful in one or two, it shouldn't be for want of trying
For instance
you'd be a capital fellow, now, to see that my ideas were properly carried out; and to overlook the works in their progress before they were sufficiently advanced to be very interesting to ME; and to take all that sort of plain sailing. Then you'd be a splendid fellow to show people over my studio, and to talk about Art to 'em, when I couldn't be bored myself, and all that kind of thing. For it would be devilish creditable, Tom (I'm quite in earnest, I give you my word), to have a man of your information about one, instead of some ordinary blockhead. Oh, I'd take care of you. You'd be useful, rely upon it
I should be married to her then, Tom, of course
I should be married to her then
and we should have, I hope, children about us. They'd be very fond of you, Tom
All the children hereabouts are fond of you, Tom, and mine would be, of course
Perhaps I might name one of 'em after you. Tom, eh? Well, I don't know. Tom's not a bad name. Thomas Pinch Chuzzlewit. T. P. C. on his pinafores -- no objection to that, I should say
SHE would like you, Tom, I know
Aye
I can tell exactly what she would think of you
I know her so well. She would smile, Tom, often at first when you spoke to her, or when she looked at you -- merrily too -- but you wouldn't mind that. A brighter smile you never saw
No, no
I wouldn't mind that
She would be as tender with you, Tom
as if you were a child yourself. So you are almost, in some things, an't you, Tom
She would always be kind and good-humoured, and glad to see you
and when she found out exactly what sort of fellow you were (which she'd do very soon), she would pretend to give you little commissions to execute, and to ask little services of you, which she knew you were burning to render; so that when she really pleased you most, she would try to make you think you most pleased her. She would take to you uncommonly, Tom; and would understand you far more delicately than I ever shall; and would often say, I know, that you were a harmless, gentle, well-intentioned, good fellow
In honour of old time
and of her having heard you play the organ in this damp little church down here -- for nothing too -- we will have one in the house. I shall build an architectural music-room on a plan of my own, and it'll look rather knowing in a recess at one end. There you shall play away, Tom, till you tire yourself; and, as you like to do so in the dark, it shall BE dark; and many's the summer evening she and I will sit and listen to you, Tom; be sure of that
It's a proof of the kindness of human nature
that everybody who comes here, as you have done, is more considerate and affectionate to me than I should have any right to hope, if I were the most sanguine creature in the world; or should have any power to express, if I were the most eloquent. It really overpowers me. But trust me
that I am not ungrateful -- that I never forget -- and that if I can ever prove the truth of my words to you, I will
That's all right
Very fine talking, Tom; but I'm at Pecksniff's, I remember, and perhaps a mile or so out of the high-road to fortune just at this minute. So you've heard again this morning from what's his name, eh
Who may that be
YOU know. What is it? Northkey
Westlock
Ah! to be sure
Westlock. I knew it was something connected with a point of the compass and a door. Well! and what says Westlock
Oh! he has come into his property
He's a lucky dog
I wish it were mine instead. Is that all the mystery you were to tell me
No
not all
What's the rest
For the matter of that
it's no mystery, and you won't think much of it; but it's very pleasant to me. John always used to say when he was here, "Mark my words, Pinch. When my father's executors cash up" -- he used strange expressions now and then, but that was his way
Cash-up's a very good expression
when other people don't apply it to you. Well!-- What a slow fellow you are, Pinch
Yes, I am I know
but you'll make me nervous if you tell me so. I'm afraid you have put me out a little now, for I forget what I was going to say
When John's father's executors cashed up
Oh yes, to be sure
yes. "Then," says John, "I'll give you a dinner, Pinch, and come down to Salisbury on purpose." Now, when John wrote the other day -- the morning Pecksniff left, you know -- he said his business was on the point of being immediately settled, and as he was to receive his money directly, when could I meet him at Salisbury? I wrote and said, any day this week; and I told him besides, that there was a new pupil here, and what a fine fellow you were, and what friends we had become. Upon which John writes back this letter
fixes to-morrow; sends his compliments to you; and begs that we three may have the pleasure of dining together; not at the house where you and I were, either; but at the very first hotel in the town. Read what he says
Very well
much obliged to him. I'm agreeable
And this
is Mr Chuzzlewit. I am very glad to see him
Stand off a moment, Tom
Let me look at you! Just the same! Not a bit changed
Why, it's not so very long ago, you know
after all
It seems an age to me
and so it ought to seem to you, you dog
I have ordered everything for dinner, that we used to say we'd have, Tom
No
Have you
Everything. Don't laugh, if you can help it, before the waiters. I couldn't when I was ordering it. It's like a dream
Yes
It's impossible to like Pinch better than I do, or to do greater justice to his good qualities. He is the most willing fellow I ever saw
He's rather too willing
It's quite a fault in him
So it is
Very true. There was a fellow only a week or so ago -- a Mr Tigg -- who borrowed all the money he had, on a promise to repay it in a few days. It was but half a sovereign, to be sure; but it's well it was no more, for he'll never see it again
Poor fellow
Perhaps you have not had an opportunity of observing that, in his own pecuniary transactions, Tom's proud
You don't say so! No, I haven't. What do you mean? Won't he borrow
That's very odd
He's a strange compound, to be sure
As to receiving money as a gift
I think he'd die first
He's made up of simplicity
Help yourself
You, however
who are older than the majority of Mr Pecksniff's assistants, and have evidently had much more experience, understand him, I have no doubt, and see how liable he is to be imposed upon
Certainly
Mr Pecksniff knows that too. So do his daughters. Eh
By the bye
that reminds me. What's your opinion of Pecksniff? How did he use you? What do you think of him now?-- Coolly, you know, when it's all over
Ask Pinch
He knows what my sentiments used to be upon the subject. They are not changed, I assure you
No, no
I'd rather have them from you
But Pinch says they are unjust
Oh! well! Then I know what course they take beforehand
and, therefore, you can have no delicacy in speaking plainly. Don't mind me, I beg. I don't like him I tell you frankly. I am with him because it happens from particular circumstances to suit my convenience. I have some ability, I believe, in that way; and the obligation, if any, will most likely be on his side and not mine. At the lowest mark, the balance will be even, and there'll be no obligation at all. So you may talk to me, as if I had no connection with him
If you press me to give my opinion
Yes, I do
You'll oblige me
I should say
that he is the most consummate scoundrel on the face of the earth
Oh
That's rather strong
Not stronger than he deserves
and if he called upon me to express my opinion of him to his face, I would do so in the very same terms, without the least qualification. His treatment of Pinch is in itself enough to justify them; but when I look back upon the five years I passed in that house, and remember the hyprocrisy, the knavery, the meannesses, the false pretences, the lip service of that fellow, and his trading in saintly semblances for the very worst realities; when I remember how often I was the witness of all this and how often I was made a kind of party to it, by the fact of being there, with him for my teacher; I swear to you that I almost despise myself
I don't mean to say that is a right feeling
because it was no fault of mine; and I can quite understand -- you for instance, fully appreciating him, and yet being forced by circumstances to remain there. I tell you simply what my feeling is; and even now, when, as you say, it's all over; and when I have the satisfaction of knowing that he always hated me, and we always quarrelled, and I always told him my mind; even now, I feel sorry that I didn't yield to an impulse I often had, as a boy, of running away from him and going abroad
Why abroad
In search
of the livelihood I couldn't have earned at home. There would have been something spirited in that. But, come! Fill your glass, and let us forget him
As soon as you please
In reference to myself and my connection with him, I have only to repeat what I said before. I have taken my own way with him so far, and shall continue to do so, even more than ever; for the fact is, to tell you the truth, that I believe he looks to me to supply his defects, and couldn't afford to lose me. I had a notion of that in first going there. Your health
Thank you
Yours. And may the new pupil turn out as well as you can desire
What new pupil
The fortunate youth, born under an auspicious star
whose parents, or guardians, are destined to be hooked by the advertisement. What! Don't you know that he has advertised again
No
Oh, yes. I read it just before dinner in the old newspaper. I know it to be his; having some reason to remember the style. Hush! Here's Pinch. Strange, is it not, that the more he likes Pecksniff (if he can like him better than he does), the greater reason one has to like HIM? Not a word more, or we shall spoil his whole enjoyment
And so
so you really are a gentleman at last, John. Well, to be sure
Trying to be, Tom; trying to be
There is no saying what I may turn out, in time
I suppose you wouldn't carry your own box to the mail now
although you lost it altogether by not taking it
Wouldn't I
That's all you know about it, Pinch. It must be a very heavy box that I wouldn't carry to get away from Pecksniff's, Tom
There
I told you so. The great fault in his character is his injustice to Pecksniff. You mustn't mind a word he says on that subject. His prejudice is most extraordinary
The absence of anything like prejudice on Tom's part, you know
is perfectly wonderful. If one man ever had a profound knowledge of another, and saw him in a true light, and in his own proper colours, Tom has that knowledge of Mr Pecksniff
Why, of course I have
That's exactly what I have so often said to you. If you knew him as well as I do -- John, I'd give almost any money to bring that about -- you'd admire, respect, and reverence him. You couldn't help it. Oh, how you wounded his feelings when you went away
If I had known whereabout his feelings lay
I'd have done my best, Tom, with that end in view, you may depend upon it. But as I couldn't wound him in what he has not, and in what he knows nothing of, except in his ability to probe them to the quick in other people, I am afraid I can lay no claim to your compliment
HIS feelings! Oh, he's a tender-hearted man. HIS feelings! Oh, he's a considerate, conscientious, self-examining, moral vagabond, he is! HIS feelings! Oh!-- what's the matter, Tom
I can't bear it
No. I really cannot. You must excuse me, John. I have a great esteem and friendship for you; I love you very much; and have been perfectly charmed and overjoyed to-day, to find you just the same as ever; but I cannot listen to this
Why, it's my old way, Tom; and you say yourself that you are glad to find me unchanged
Not in this respect
You must excuse me, John. I cannot, really; I will not. It's very wrong; you should be more guarded in your expressions. It was bad enough when you and I used to be alone together, but under existing circumstances, I can't endure it, really. No. I cannot, indeed
You are quite right
and I am quite wrong, Tom. I don't know how the deuce we fell on this unlucky theme. I beg your pardon with all my heart
You have a free and manly temper, I know
and therefore, your being so ungenerous in this one solitary instance, only grieves me the more. It's not my pardon you have to ask, John. You have done ME nothing but kindnesses
Well! Pecksniff's pardon then
Anything Tom, or anybody. Pecksniff's pardon -- will that do? Here! let us drink Pecksniff's health
Thank you
Thank you; I'll drink it with all my heart, John. Mr Pecksniff's health, and prosperity to him
You're not asleep yet, are you, Tom
Bless you, no! not I. I was thinking of you
Come in
I am not going to detail you
but I have forgotten all the evening a little commission I took upon myself; and I am afraid I may forget it again, if I fail to discharge it at once. You know a Mr Tigg, Tom, I believe
Tigg
Tigg! The gentleman who borrowed some money of me
Exactly
He begged me to present his compliments, and to return it with many thanks. Here it is. I suppose it's a good one, but he is rather a doubtful kind of customer, Tom
Why, to tell you the truth, Tom
he is not always so. If you'll take my advice, you'll avoid him as much as you can, in the event of your encountering him again. And by no means, Tom -- pray bear this in mind, for I am very serious -- by no means lend him money any more
Aye, aye
He is very far from being a reputable acquaintance
and the more you let him know you think so, the better for you, Tom
I say, John
I hope you are not getting into bad company
No, no
Don't be uneasy on that score
Oh, but I AM uneasy
I can't help it, when I hear you talking in that way. If Mr Tigg is what you describe him to be, you have no business to know him, John. You may laugh, but I don't consider it by any means a laughing matter, I assure you
No, no
Quite right. It is not, certainly
You know, John
your very good nature and kindness of heart make you thoughtless, and you can't be too careful on such a point as this. Upon my word, if I thought you were falling among bad companions, I should be quite wretched, for I know how difficult you would find it to shake them off. I would much rather have lost this money, John, than I would have had it back again on such terms
I tell you, my dear good old fellow
I tell you there is no danger
Well
I am glad to hear it; I am overjoyed to hear it. I am sure there is not, when you say so in that manner. You won't take it ill, John, that I said what I did just now
Ill
why what do you think I am made of? Mr Tigg and I are not on such an intimate footing that you need be at all uneasy, I give you my solemn assurance of that, Tom. You are quite comfortable now
Quite
Then once more, good night
Good night
and such pleasant dreams to you as should attend the sleep of the best fellow in the world
Except Pecksniff
Except Pecksniff
of course
I really do wish, for all that, though, that he wasn't acquainted with Mr Tigg
Dear me, Mr Pinch! Is it possible that you are out upon this very inclement morning
Yes, sir
Mr Chuzzlewit and I, sir
Oh
Oh! Indeed. Do me the favour to see to the trunks, if you please, Mr Pinch
Now will you have the goodness to tell me what THIS portends
What
This fellow's behaviour. Mr Pecksniff's, I mean. You saw it
No. Indeed I did not
I was busy with the trunks
It is no matter
Come! Let us make haste back
Take some tea, Mr Pinch -- take some tea
You must be very cold and damp. Pray take some tea, and come into a warm place, Mr Pinch
Take a chair, Pinch
Take a chair, if you please. How have things gone on in our absence, Mr Pinch
You -- you will be very much pleased with the grammar-school, sir
It's nearly finished
If you will have the goodness, Mr Pinch
we will not discuss anything connected with that question at present. What have YOU been doing, Thomas, humph
Now, Mr Pecksniff
if you have sufficiently refreshed and recovered yourself, I shall be glad to hear what you mean by this treatment of me
And what
what have YOU been doing, Thomas, humph
Mr Pecksniff
you heard what I said just now. Do me the favour to reply, if you please. I ask you
what you mean by this
I will talk to you, sir
presently
You are very obliging
presently will not do. I must trouble you to talk to me at once
Now
Now. Presently will not do. Now
Do you threaten me, sir
I lament to be obliged to say, sir
that it would be quite in keeping with your character if you did threaten me. You have deceived me. You have imposed upon a nature which you knew to be confiding and unsuspicious. You have obtained admission, sir
to this house, on perverted statements and on false pretences
Go on
I understand you now. What more
Thus much more, sir
Thus much more, if you force me to publish your shame before a third party, which I was unwilling and indisposed to do. This lowly roof, sir, must not be contaminated by the presence of one who has deceived, and cruelly deceived, an honourable, beloved, venerated, and venerable gentleman; and who wisely suppressed that deceit from me when he sought my protection and favour, knowing that, humble as I am, I am an honest man, seeking to do my duty in this carnal universe, and setting my face against all vice and treachery. I weep for your depravity, sir
I mourn over your corruption, I pity your voluntary withdrawal of yourself from the flowery paths of purity and peace
but I cannot have a leper and a serpent for an inmate. Go forth
go forth, young man! Like all who know you, I renounce you
Let me go, Pinch
Why do you hold me? Do you think a blow could make him a more abject creature than he is? Do you think that if I spat upon him, I could degrade him to a lower level than his own? Look at him. Look at him, Pinch
Aye, Mr Pinch, look at me! Here I am! You know what the Poet says about an honest man; and an honest man is one of the few great works that can be seen for nothing! Look at me
I tell you
that as he lies there, disgraced, bought, used; a cloth for dirty hands, a mat for dirty feet, a lying, fawning, servile hound, he is the very last and worst among the vermin of the world. And mark me, Pinch! The day will come -- he knows it; see it written on his face, while I speak!-- when even you will find him out, and will know him as I do, and as he knows I do. HE renounce ME! Cast your eyes on the Renouncer, Pinch, and be the wiser for the recollection
Well! what now
Dear, dear
are you going
Going
Going
I didn't so much mean that, as were you going now at once -- in this bad weather -- on foot -- without your clothes -- with no money
Yes
I am
And where
Oh where will you go
I don't know
Yes, I do. I'll go to America
No, no
Don't go there. Pray don't. Think better of it. Don't be so dreadfully regardless of yourself. Don't go to America
My mind is made up
Your friend was right. I'll go to America. God bless you, Pinch
Take this
I must make haste back, and can't say anything I would. Heaven be with you. Look at the leaf I have turned down. Good-bye, good-bye
Bachelor of Salamanca
I don't want it indeed. I should not know what to do with it if I had it
Good entertainment for Travellers
Very wet
I don't know as ever I see a wetter
I never felt one
You have been caught in it, sir
Yes
Out riding, maybe
I should have been, if I owned a horse; but I don't
That's bad
And may be worse
That's bad
Up or down
Which IS up
London, of course
Up then
Now you know all about it
I'm going up
Hounslow, ten miles this side London
Are you
Aye, to be sure he was
Why, then
I'll be plain with you. You may suppose from my dress that I have money to spare. I have not. All I can afford for coach-hire is a crown, for I have but two. If you can take me for that, and my waistcoat, or this silk handkerchief, do. If you can't, leave it alone
Short and sweet
You want more
Then I haven't got more, and I can't get it, so there's an end of that
I didn't say I wanted more, did I
You didn't say my offer was enough
Why, how could I, when you wouldn't let me? In regard to the waistcoat, I wouldn't have a man's waistcoat, much less a gentleman's waistcoat, on my mind, for no consideration; but the silk handkerchief's another thing; and if you was satisfied when we got to Hounslow, I shouldn't object to that as a gift
Is it a bargain, then
Yes, it is
Then finish this beer
and let us be off as soon as you like
Ah
Lummy Ned of the Light Salisbury, HE was the one for musical talents. He WAS a guard. What you may call a Guard'an Angel, was Ned
Is he dead
Dead
Not he. You won't catch Ned a-dying easy. No, no. He knows better than that
You spoke of him in the past tense
He's no more in England
if that's what you mean. He went to the U-nited States
Did he
When
Five year ago, or then about
He had set up in the public line here, and couldn't meet his engagements, so he cut off to Liverpool one day, without saying anything about it, and went and shipped himself for the U-nited States
Well
Well! as he landed there without a penny to bless himself with, of course they wos very glad to see him in the U-nited States
What do you mean
What do I mean
Why, THAT. All men are alike in the U-nited States, an't they? It makes no odds whether a man has a thousand pound, or nothing, there. Particular in New York, I'm told, where Ned landed
New York, was it
Yes
New York. I know that, because he sent word home that it brought Old York to his mind, quite vivid, in consequence of being so exactly unlike it in every respect. I don't understand what particular business Ned turned his mind to, when he got there; but he wrote home that him and his friends was always a- singing, Ale Columbia, and blowing up the President, so I suppose it was something in the public line; or free-and-easy way again. Anyhow, he made his fortune
No
Yes, he did
I know that, because he lost it all the day after, in six-and-twenty banks as broke. He settled a lot of the notes on his father, when it was ascertained that they was really stopped and sent 'em over with a dutiful letter. I know that, because they was shown down our yard for the old gentleman's benefit, that he might treat himself with tobacco in the workus
He was a foolish fellow not to take care of his money when he had it
There you're right
especially as it was all in paper, and he might have took care of it so very easy, by folding it up in a small parcel
Money Lent
Upon my life and soul
you must make it more; you must make it a trifle more, you must indeed! You must dispense with one half-quarter of an ounce in weighing out your pound of flesh, my best of friends, and make it two-and-six
You're always full of your chaff
I shall never be full of my wheat
as long as I come here. Ha, ha! Not bad! Make it two-and-six, my dear friend, positively for this occasion only. Half-a-crown is a delightful coin. Two-and-six. Going at two-and-six! For the last time at two-and-six
It'll never be the last time till it's quite worn out
It's grown yellow in the service as it is
Its master has grown yellow in the service, if you mean that, my friend
in the patriotic service of an ungrateful country. You are making it two-and-six, I think
I'm making it
what it always has been -- two shillings. Same name as usual, I suppose
Still the same name
my claim to the dormant peerage not being yet established by the House of Lords
The old address
Not at all
I have removed my town establishment from thirty-eight, Mayfair, to number fifteen-hundred-and-forty-two, Park Lane
Come, I'm not going to put down that, you know
You may put down what you please, my friend
The fact is still the same. The apartments for the under-butler and the fifth footman being of a most confounded low and vulgar kind at thirty-eight, Mayfair, I have been compelled, in my regard for the feelings which do them so much honour, to take on lease for seven, fourteen, or twenty-one years, renewable at the option of the tenant, the elegant and commodious family mansion, number fifteen- hundred-and-forty-two Park Lane. Make it two-and-six, and come and see me
I wish I may die
but this is one of the most tremendous meetings in Ancient or Modern History! How are you? What is the news from the agricultural districts? How are our friends the P
Here! Please to give me the most you can for this
I want money sorely
He wants money, sorely
David, will you have the goodness to do your very utmost for my friend, who wants money sorely. You will deal with my friend as if he were myself. A gold hunting-watch, David, engine-turned, capped and jewelled in four holes, escape movement, horizontal lever, and warranted to perform correctly, upon my personal reputation, who have observed it narrowly for many years, under the most trying
what do you say, David, to my friend? Be very particular to deserve my custom and recommendation, David
It is very old-fashioned. I couldn't say more
And devilish handsome, too
Two-twelve-six for the watch, and seven-and-six for personal regard. I am gratified; it may be weakness, but I am. Three pounds will do. We take it. The name of my friend is Smivey: Chicken Smivey, of Holborn, twenty- six-and-a-half B: lodger
As for my part in the same
don't mention it. Don't compliment me, for I can't bear it
I have no such intention, I assure you
You oblige me very much' said Mr Tigg. 'Thank you
Now, sir
this is a large town, and we can easily find different ways in it. If you will show me which is your way, I will take another
I need scarcely tell you, after what you have just seen, that I have nothing to bestow upon your friend Mr Slyme. And it is quite as unnecessary for me to tell you that I don't desire the honour of your company
Hold! There is a most remarkably long-headed, flowing-bearded, and patriarchal proverb, which observes that it is the duty of a man to be just before he is generous. Be just now, and you can be generous presently. Do not confuse me with the man Slyme. Do not distinguish the man Slyme as a friend of mine, for he is no such thing. I have been compelled, sir, to abandon the party whom you call Slyme. I have no knowledge of the party whom you call Slyme. I am, sir
a premium tulip, of a very different growth and cultivation from the cabbage Slyme, sir
It matters very little to me
will you go one way or other
You will allow me to remind you, sir
that you -- not I -- that you -- I say emphatically, YOU -- have reduced the proceedings of this evening to a cold and distant matter of business, when I was disposed to place them on a friendly footing. It being made a matter of business, sir, I beg to say that I expect a trifle (which I shall bestow in charity) as commission upon the pecuniary advance, in which I have rendered you my humble services. After the terms in which you have addressed me, sir
you will not insult me, if you please, by offering more than half-a-crown
it was only a letter
A letter
For Mr Martin Chuzzlewit
Noon. Chief office. Paid
More coals, I suppose
Come in
It an't a liberty, sir, though it seems so
Your servant, sir. Hope you're pretty well, sir
Tapley, sir
Him as formerly lived at the Dragon, sir, and was forced to leave in consequence of a want of jollity, sir
To be sure
Why, how did you come here
Right through the passage, and up the stairs, sir
How did you find me out, I mean
Why, sir
I've passed you once or twice in the street, if I'm not mistaken; and when I was a-looking in at the beef-and-ham shop just now, along with a hungry sweep, as was very much calculated to make a man jolly, sir -- I see you a-buying that
Well! What then
Why, then, sir
I made bold to foller; and as I told 'em downstairs that you expected me, I was let up
Are you charged with any message, that you told them you were expected
No, sir, I an't
That was what you may call a pious fraud, sir, that was
Tapley
I'll deal openly with you. From all I can judge and from all I have heard of you through Pinch, you are not a likely kind of fellow to have been brought here by impertinent curiosity or any other offensive motive. Sit down. I'm glad to see you
Thankee, sir
I'd as lieve stand
I'll not talk to you
Very good, sir
Your will's a law, sir. Down it is
Help yourself
Thankee, sir
After you've done
If you don't take it now, you'll not have any
Very good, sir
That being your desire -- now it is
What are you doing in London
Nothing at all, sir
How's that
I want a place
I'm sorry for you
To attend upon a single gentleman
If from the country the more desirable. Makeshifts would be preferred. Wages no object
If you mean me
Yes, I do, sir
Then you may judge from my style of living here, of my means of keeping a man-servant. Besides, I am going to America immediately
Well, sir
from all that ever I heard about it, I should say America is a very likely sort of place for me to be jolly in
Lord bless you, sir
what is the use of us a-going round and round, and hiding behind the corner, and dodging up and down, when we can come straight to the point in six words? I've had my eye upon you any time this fortnight. I see well enough there's a screw loose in your affairs. I know'd well enough the first time I see you down at the Dragon that it must be so, sooner or later. Now, sir here am I, without a sitiwation; without any want of wages for a year to come; for I saved up (I didn't mean to do it, but I couldn't help it) at the Dragon -- here am I with a liking for what's wentersome, and a liking for you, and a wish to come out strong under circumstances as would keep other men down; and will you take me, or will you leave me
How can I take you
When I say take
I mean will you let me go? and when I say will you let me go, I mean will you let me go along with you? for go I will, somehow or another. Now that you've said America, I see clear at once, that that's the place for me to be jolly in. Therefore, if I don't pay my own passage in the ship you go in, sir, I'll pay my own passage in another. And mark my words, if I go alone it shall be, to carry out the principle, in the rottenest, craziest, leakingest tub of a wessel that a place can be got in for love or money. So if I'm lost upon the way, sir, there'll be a drowned man at your door -- and always a-knocking double knocks at it, too, or never trust me
This is mere folly
Very good, sir
I'm glad to hear it, because if you don't mean to let me go, you'll be more comfortable, perhaps, on account of thinking so. Therefore I contradict no gentleman. But all I say is, that if I don't emigrate to America in that case, in the beastliest old cockle-shell as goes out of port, I'm
You don't mean what you say, I'm sure
Yes I do
I tell you I know better
Very good, sir
Let it stand that way at present, sir, and wait and see how it turns out. Why, love my heart alive! the only doubt I have is, whether there's any credit in going with a gentleman like you, that's as certain to make his way there as a gimlet is to go through soft deal
Why, certainly, Mark
I have hopes of doing well there, or I shouldn't go. I may have the qualifications for doing well, perhaps
Of course you have, sir
Everybody knows that
You see
ornamental architecture applied to domestic purposes, can hardly fail to be in great request in that country; for men are constantly changing their residences there, and moving further off; and it's clear they must have houses to live in
I should say, sir
that that's a state of things as opens one of the jolliest look-outs for domestic architecture that ever I heerd tell on
Now tell me the truth. Do you know anything about that
No, I see you don't. How should you! Though, indeed, your knowing about it would not be more extraordinary than its being here. Come, Tapley
I'll trust you with my history, such as it is, and then you'll see more clearly what sort of fortunes you would link yourself to, if you followed me
I beg your pardon, sir
but afore you enter upon it will you take me if I choose to go? Will you turn off me -- Mark Tapley -- formerly of the Blue Dragon, as can be well recommended by Mr Pinch, and as wants a gentleman of your strength of mind to look up to; or will you, in climbing the ladder as you're certain to get to the top of, take me along with you at a respectful dutance? Now, sir
it's of very little importance to you, I know. there's the difficulty; but it's of very great importance to me, and will you be so good as to consider of it
We'll see about it, Tapley. You shall tell me in what disposition you find yourself to-morrow
Then, sir
the job's done. Go on, sir, if you please. I'm all attention
And a young lady as any gentleman ought to feel more proud of being in love with
don't draw breath
Aye! You saw her when she was not happy
If you had seen her in the old times, indeed
Why, she certainly was a little down-hearted, sir, and something paler in her colour than I could have wished
but none the worse in her looks for that. I think she seemed better, sir, after she come to London
No offence intended, sir
I don't mean to say she was any the happier without you; but I thought she was a-looking better, sir
Do you mean to tell me she has been in London
Of course I do
Do you mean to tell me she is in London now
Most likely, sir. I mean to say she was a week ago
And you know where
Yes
What! Don't you
My good fellow
I have never seen her since I left my grandfather's house
Why, then
if I an't your nat'ral born servant, hired by Fate, there an't such a thing in natur' as a Blue Dragon. What! when I was a-rambling up and down a old churchyard in the City, getting myself into a jolly state, didn't I see your grandfather a-toddling to and fro for pretty nigh a mortal hour! Didn't I watch him into Todgers's commercial boarding-house, and watch him out, and watch him home to his hotel, and go and tell him as his was the service for my money, and I had said so, afore I left the Dragon! Wasn't the young lady a-sitting with him then, and didn't she fall a-laughing in a manner as was beautiful to see! Didn't your grandfather say, "Come back again next week," and didn't I go next week; and didn't he say that he couldn't make up his mind to trust nobody no more; and therefore wouldn't engage me, but at the same time stood something to drink as was handsome! Why
where's the credit of a man's being jolly under such circumstances! Who could help it, when things come about like this
Do I think I can
THINK I can? Here, sit down, sir. Write it out, sir
Cut away, sir
Make it strong, sir. Let it be wery pinted, sir. Do I think so? I should think so. Go to work, sir
Jolly sort of lodgings
that's a comfort. The rain's come through the roof too. That an't bad. A lively old bedstead, I'll be bound; popilated by lots of wampires, no doubt. Come! my spirits is a-getting up again. An uncommon ragged nightcap this. A very good sign. We shall do yet! Here, Jane, my dear
bring up that there hot tumbler for my master as was a-mixing when I come in. That's right, sir
Go at it as if you meant it, sir. Be very tender, sir, if you please. You can't make it too strong, sir
Fine weather indeed
to be wandering up and down here in, like a thief! Fine weather indeed, for a meeting of lovers in the open air, and in a public walk! I need be departing, with all speed, for another country; for I have come to a pretty pass in this
My dear Martin
My dear Mary
If you have changed at all, my love, since we parted
it is only to be more beautiful than ever
What change is there in YOU, Martin
for that concerns me nearest? You look more anxious and more thoughtful than you used
Why, as to that, my love
it would be strange if I did not; for my life -- especially of late -- has been a hard one
I know it must have been
When have I forgotten to think of it and you
Not often, I hope
Not often, I am sure. Not often, I have some right to expect, Mary; for I have undergone a great deal of vexation and privation, and I naturally look for that return, you know
A very, very poor return
But you have it, and will have it always. You have paid a dear price for a poor heart, Martin; but it is at least your own, and a true one
Of course I feel quite certain of that
or I shouldn't have put myself in my present position. And don't say a poor heart, Mary, for I say a rich one. Now, I am about to break a design to you, dearest, which will startle you at first, but which is undertaken for your sake. I am going
abroad
Abroad, Martin
Only to America. See now. How you droop directly
If I do, or, I hope I may say, if I did
it was for grief to think of what you are resolved to undergo for me. I would not venture to dissuade you, Martin; but it is a long, long distance; there is a wide ocean to be crossed; illness and want are sad calamities in any place, but in a foreign country dreadful to endure. Have you thought of all this
Thought of it
What am I to do? It's very well to say, "Have I thought of it?" my love; but you should ask me in the same breath, have I thought of starving at home; have I thought of doing porter's work for a living; have I thought of holding horses in the streets to earn my roll of bread from day to day? Come, come
do not hang down your head, my dear, for I need the encouragement that your sweet face alone can give me. Why, that's well! Now you are brave again
I am endeavouring to be
Endeavouring to be anything that's good, and being it, is, with you, all one. Don't I know that of old
So! That's famous! Now I can tell you all my plans as cheerfully as if you were my little wife already, Mary
You see
that my attempts to advance myself at home have been baffled and rendered abortive. I will not say by whom, Mary, for that would give pain to us both. But so it is. Have you heard him speak of late of any relative of mine or his, called Pecksniff? Only tell me what I ask you, no more
I have heard, to my surprise, that he is a better man than was supposed
I thought so
And that it is likely we may come to know him, if not to visit and reside with him and -- I think -- his daughters. He HAS daughters, has he, love
A pair of them
A precious pair! Gems of the first water
Ah! You are jesting
There is a sort of jesting which is very much in earnest, and includes some pretty serious disgust
I jest in reference to Mr Pecksniff (at whose house I have been living as his assistant, and at whose hands I have received insult and injury), in that vein. Whatever betides, or however closely you may be brought into communication with this family, never forget that, Mary; and never for an instant, whatever appearances may seem to contradict me, lose sight of this assurance -- Pecksniff is a scoundrel
Indeed
In thought, and in deed, and in everything else. A scoundrel from the topmost hair of his head, to the nethermost atom of his heel. Of his daughters I will only say that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, they are dutiful young ladies, and take after their father closely. This is a digression from the main point, and yet it brings me to what I was going to say
Now I am going to America, with great prospects of doing well, and of returning home myself very soon; it may be to take you there for a few years, but, at all events, to claim you for my wife; which, after such trials, I should do with no fear of your still thinking it a duty to cleave to him who will not suffer me to live (for this is true), if he can help it, in my own land. How long I may be absent is, of course, uncertain; but it shall not be very long. Trust me for that
In the meantime, dear Martin
That's the very thing I am coming to. In the meantime you shall hear, constantly, of all my goings-on. Thus
In this fellow's employment, and living in this fellow's house (by fellow, I mean Mr Pecksniff, of course), there is a certain person of the name of Pinch. Don't forget; a poor, strange, simple oddity, Mary; but thoroughly honest and sincere; full of zeal; and with a cordial regard for me. Which I mean to return one of these days, by setting him up in life in some way or other
Your old kind nature, Martin
Oh
that's not worth speaking of, my love. He's very grateful and desirous to serve me; and I am more than repaid. Now one night I told this Pinch my history, and all about myself and you; in which he was not a little interested, I can tell you, for he knows you! Aye, you may look surprised -- and the longer the better for it becomes you -- but you have heard him play the organ in the church of that village before now; and he has seen you listening to his music; and has caught his inspiration from you, too
Was HE the organist
I thank him from my heart
Yes, he was
and is, and gets nothing for it either. There never was such a simple fellow! Quite an infant! But a very good sort of creature, I assure you
I am sure of that
He must be
Oh, yes, no doubt at all about it
He is. Well! It has occurred to me -- but stay. If I read you what I have written and intend sending to him by post to- night it will explain itself. "My dear Tom Pinch." That's rather familiar perhaps
but I call him my dear Tom Pinch because he likes it, and it pleases him
Very right, and very kind
Exactly so
It's as well to be kind whenever one can; and, as I said before, he really is an excellent fellow. "My dear Tom Pinch -- I address this under cover to Mrs Lupin, at the Blue Dragon, and have begged her in a short note to deliver it to you without saying anything about it elsewhere; and to do the same with all future letters she may receive from me. My reason for so doing will be at once apparent to you" -- I don't know that it will be, by the bye
for he's slow of comprehension, poor fellow; but he'll find it out in time. My reason simply is, that I don't want my letters to be read by other people; and particularly by the scoundrel whom he thinks an angel
Mr Pecksniff again
The same
will be at once apparent to you. I have completed my arrangements for going to America; and you will be surprised to hear that I am to be accompanied by Mark Tapley, upon whom I have stumbled strangely in London, and who insists on putting himself under my protection
said Martin, breaking off again, 'our friend in the rear, of course
Now, my dear Pinch
I am going to repose great trust in you, knowing that I may do so with perfect reliance on your honour and secrecy, and having nobody else just now to trust in
I don't think I would say that, Martin
Wouldn't you? Well! I'll take that out. It's perfectly true, though
But it might seem ungracious, perhaps
Oh, I don't mind Pinch
There's no occasion to stand on any ceremony with HIM. However, I'll take it out, as you wish it, and make the full stop at "secrecy." Very well! "I shall not only"-- this is the letter again, you know
I understand
I shall not only enclose my letters to the young lady of whom I have told you, to your charge, to be forwarded as she may request; but I most earnestly commit her, the young lady herself, to your care and regard, in the event of your meeting in my absence. I have reason to think that the probabilities of your encountering each other -- perhaps very frequently -- are now neither remote nor few; and although in our position you can do very little to lessen the uneasiness of hers, I trust to you implicitly to do that much, and so deserve the confidence I have reposed in you." You see, my dear Mary
it will be a great consolation to you to have anybody, no matter how simple, with whom you can speak about ME; and the very first time you talk to Pinch, you'll feel at once that there is no more occasion for any embarrassment or hesitation in talking to him, than if he were an old woman
However that may be
he is your friend, and that is enough
Oh, yes, he's my friend
certainly. In fact, I have told him in so many words that we'll always take notice of him, and protect him; and it's a good trait in his character that he's grateful -- very grateful indeed. You'll like him of all things, my love, I know. You'll observe very much that's comical and old- fashioned about Pinch, but you needn't mind laughing at him; for he'll not care about it. He'll rather like it indeed
I don't think I shall put that to the test, Martin
You won't if you can help it, of course
but I think you'll find him a little too much for your gravity. However, that's neither here nor there, and it certainly is not the letter; which ends thus: "Knowing that I need not impress the nature and extent of that confidence upon you at any greater length, as it is already sufficiently established in your mind, I will only say, in bidding you farewell and looking forward to our next meeting, that I shall charge myself from this time, through all changes for the better, with your advancement and happiness, as if they were my own. You may rely upon that. And always believe me, my dear Tom Pinch, faithfully your friend, Martin Chuzzlewit. P.S.-- I enclose the amount which you so kindly" -- Oh
that's nothing
Which I shouldn't have said nothing about, sir
if the young lady hadn't begged me to be particular in mentioning it
I did
Thank you. You are quite right. In another minute I shall be ready to return. We have time for a very few words more, dear Martin, and although I had much to say, it must remain unsaid until the happy time of our next meeting. Heaven send it may come speedily and prosperously! But I have no fear of that
Fear
Why, who has? What are a few months? What is a whole year? When I come gayly back, with a road through life hewn out before me, then indeed, looking back upon this parting, it may seem a dismal one. But now! I swear I wouldn't have it happen under more favourable auspices, if I could; for then I should be less inclined to go, and less impressed with the necessity
Yes, yes. I feel that too. When do you go
To-night. We leave for Liverpool to-night. A vessel sails from that port, as I hear, in three days. In a month, or less, we shall be there. Why, what's a month! How many months have flown by, since our last parting
Long to look back upon
but nothing in their course
Nothing at all
I shall have change of scene and change of place; change of people, change of manners, change of cares and hopes! Time will wear wings indeed! I can bear anything, so that I have swift action, Mary
The quarter's gone
I shall be ready to return immediately
One thing, dear Martin, I am bound to tell you. You entreated me a few minutes since only to answer what you asked me in reference to one theme, but you should and must know (otherwise I could not be at ease) that since that separation of which I was the unhappy occasion, he has never once uttered your name; has never coupled it, or any faint allusion to it, with passion or reproach; and has never abated in his kindness to me
I thank him for that last act
and for nothing else. Though on consideration I may thank him for his other forbearance also, inasmuch as I neither expect nor desire that he will mention my name again. He may once, perhaps -- to couple it with reproach -- in his will. Let him, if he please! By the time it reaches me, he will be in his grave; a satire on his own anger, God help him
Martin! If you would but sometimes, in some quiet hour; beside the winter fire; in the summer air; when you hear gentle music, or think of Death, or Home, or Childhood; if you would at such a season resolve to think, but once a month, or even once a year, of him, or any one who ever wronged you, you would forgive him in your heart, I know
If I believed that to be true, Mary
I would resolve at no such time to bear him in my mind; wishing to spare myself the shame of such a weakness. I was not born to be the toy and puppet of any man, far less his; to whose pleasure and caprice, in return for any good he did me, my whole youth was sacrificed. It became between us two a fair exchange -- a barter -- and no more; and there is no such balance against me that I need throw in a mawkish forgiveness to poise the scale. He has forbidden all mention of me to you, I know
Come! Has he not
That was long ago
immediately after your parting; before you had left the house. He has never done so since
He has never done so since because he has seen no occasion
but that is of little consequence, one way or other. Let all allusion to him between you and me be interdicted from this time forth. And therefore, love
in the first letter that you write to me through the Post Office, addressed to New York; and in all the others that you send through Pinch; remember he has no existence, but has become to us as one who is dead. Now, God bless you! This is a strange place for such a meeting and such a parting; but our next meeting shall be in a better, and our next and last parting in a worse
One other question, Martin, I must ask. Have you provided money for this journey
Have I
Have I provided money? Why, there's a question for an emigrant's wife! How could I move on land or sea without it, love
I mean, enough
Enough! More than enough. Twenty times more than enough. A pocket-full. Mark and I, for all essential ends, are quite as rich as if we had the purse of Fortunatus in our baggage
The half-hour's a-going
Good-bye a hundred times
Well, Mark
Well, sir
I see the young lady safe home, and I feel pretty comfortable after it. She sent a lot of kind words, sir, and this
for a parting keepsake
Diamonds
Splendid diamonds! My grandfather is a singular character, Mark. He must have given her this now
She is worthy of the sacrifices I have made
Well worthy of them. No
could have compensated for the loss of such a nature. Not to mention that in gaining her affection I have followed the bent of my own wishes, and baulked the selfish schemes of others who had no right to form them. She is quite worthy -- more than worthy -- of the sacrifices I have made. Yes, she is. No doubt of it
Jolly
One
A ship
A ship
Well
This is the first time as ever I stood on my head all night
You shouldn't go to sleep upon the ground with your head to leeward then
With my head to WHERE
No, I won't another time
when I know whereabouts on the map that country is. In the meanwhile I can give you a better piece of advice. Don't you nor any other friend of mine never go to sleep with his head in a ship any more
For
the sea is as nonsensical a thing as any going. It never knows what to do with itself. It hasn't got no employment for its mind, and is always in a state of vacancy. Like them Polar bears in the wild-beast shows as is constantly a-nodding their heads from side to side, it never CAN be quiet. Which is entirely owing to its uncommon stupidity
Is that you, Mark
It's as much of me as is left, sir, after a fortnight of this work
What with leading the life of a fly, ever since I've been aboard -- for I've been perpetually holding-on to something or other in a upside-down position -- what with that, sir, and putting a very little into myself, and taking a good deal out of myself, there an't too much of me to swear by. How do you find yourself this morning, sir
Very miserable
Ugh. This is wretched, indeed
Creditable
That's the great comfort. It IS creditable to keep up one's spirits here. Virtue's its own reward. So's jollity
THE SCREW
Now, then
uns according to custom
I wish you'd get breakfast, Mark, instead of worrying with people who don't belong to you
All right
SHE'll do that. It's a fair division of labour, sir. I wash her boys, and she makes our tea. I never COULD make tea, but any one can wash a boy
So it is, certainly
What are you talking about, now
What you said
or what you meant, when you gave that there dismal vent to your feelings. I quite go along with it, sir. It IS very hard upon her
What is
Making the voyage by herself along with these young impediments here, and going such a way at such a time of the year to join her husband. If you don't want to be driven mad with yellow soap in your eye, young man
you'd better shut it
Where does she join her husband
Why, I'm very much afraid
that she don't know. I hope she mayn't miss him. But she sent her last letter by hand, and it don't seem to have been very clearly understood between 'em without it, and if she don't see him a-waving his pocket-handkerchief on the shore, like a pictur out of a song- book, my opinion is, she'll break her heart
Why, how, in Folly's name, does the woman come to be on board ship on such a wild-goose venture
Ah! How indeed! I can't think! He's been away from her for two year; she's been very poor and lonely in her own country; and has always been a-looking forward to meeting him. It's very strange she should be here. Quite amazing! A little mad perhaps! There can't be no other way of accounting for it
If this was going to last
there'd be no great difference as I can perceive, between the Screw and the Dragon. I never am to get credit, I think. I begin to be afraid that the Fates is determined to make the world easy to me
Well, Mark
When will this be over
Another week, they say, sir
will most likely bring us into port. The ship's a-going along at present, as sensible as a ship can, sir; though I don't mean to say as that's any very high praise
I don't think it is, indeed
You'd feel all the better for it, sir, if you was to turn out
And be seen by the ladies and gentlemen on the after-deck
mingling with the beggarly crowd that are stowed away in this vile hole. I should be greatly the better for that, no doubt
I'm thankful that I can't say from my own experience what the feelings of a gentleman may be
but I should have thought, sir, as a gentleman would feel a deal more uncomfortable down here than up in the fresh air, especially when the ladies and gentlemen in the after-cabin know just as much about him as he does about them, and are likely to trouble their heads about him in the same proportion. I should have thought that, certainly
I tell you, then
you would have thought wrong, and do think wrong
Very likely, sir
I often do
As to lying here
Do you suppose it's a pleasure to lie here
All the madhouses in the world
couldn't produce such a maniac as the man must be who could think that
Then why are you forever goading and urging me to get up
I lie here because I don't wish to be recognized, in the better days to which I aspire, by any purse-proud citizen, as the man who came over with him among the steerage passengers. I lie here because I wish to conceal my circumstances and myself, and not to arrive in a new world badged and ticketed as an utterly poverty- stricken man. If I could have afforded a passage in the after-cabin I should have held up my head with the rest. As I couldn't I hide it. Do you understand that
I am very sorry, sir
I didn't know you took it so much to heart as this comes to
Of course you didn't know
How should you know, unless I told you? It's no trial to you, Mark, to make yourself comfortable and to bustle about. It's as natural for you to do so under the circumstances as it is for me not to do so. Why, you don't suppose there is a living creature in this ship who can by possibility have half so much to undergo on board of her as I have? Do you
But what is the use of my putting such a case to you, when the very essence of what I have been saying is, that you cannot by possibility understand it! Make me a little brandy-and-water -- cold and very weak -- and give me a biscuit, and tell your friend, who is a nearer neighbour of ours than I could wish, to try and keep her children a little quieter to-night than she did last night; that's a good fellow
And this
is the Land of Liberty, is it? Very well. I'm agreeable. Any land will do for me, after so much water
Here's this morning's New York Sewer
Here's this morning's New York Stabber! Here's the New York Family Spy! Here's the New York Private Listener! Here's the New York Peeper! Here's the New York Plunderer! Here's the New York Keyhole Reporter! Here's the New York Rowdy Journal! Here's all the New York papers! Here's full particulars of the patriotic locofoco movement yesterday, in which the whigs was so chawed up; and the last Alabama gouging case; and the interesting Arkansas dooel with Bowie knives; and all the Political, Commercial, and Fashionable News. Here they are! Here they are! Here's the papers, here's the papers
Here's the Sewer
Here's the New York Sewer! Here's some of the twelfth thousand of to-day's Sewer, with the best accounts of the markets, and all the shipping news, and four whole columns of country correspondence, and a full account of the Ball at Mrs White's last night, where all the beauty and fashion of New York was assembled; with the Sewer's own particulars of the private lives of all the ladies that was there! Here's the Sewer! Here's some of the twelfth thousand of the New York Sewer! Here's the Sewer's exposure of the Wall Street Gang, and the Sewer's exposure of the Washington Gang, and the Sewer's exclusive account of a flagrant act of dishonesty committed by the Secretary of State when he was eight years old; now communicated, at a great expense, by his own nurse. Here's the Sewer! Here's the New York Sewer, in its twelfth thousand, with a whole column of New Yorkers to be shown up, and all their names printed! Here's the Sewer's article upon the Judge that tried him, day afore yesterday, for libel, and the Sewer's tribute to the independent Jury that didn't convict him, and the Sewer's account of what they might have expected if they had! Here's the Sewer, here's the Sewer! Here's the wide-awake Sewer; always on the lookout; the leading Journal of the United States, now in its twelfth thousand, and still a-printing off:-- Here's the New York Sewer
It is in such enlightened means
that the bubbling passions of my country find a vent
It is in such enlightened means that the bubbling passions of my country find a vent
You allude to
To the Palladium of rational Liberty at home, sir, and the dread of Foreign oppression abroad
To the Envy of the world, sir, and the leaders of Human Civilization. Let me ask you sir
how do you like my Country
I am hardly prepared to answer that question yet
seeing that I have not been ashore
Well, I should expect you were not prepared, sir
to behold such signs of National Prosperity as those
Really
I don't know. Yes. I think I was
You have brought, I see, sir
the usual amount of misery and poverty and ignorance and crime, to be located in the bosom of the great Republic. Well, sir! let 'em come on in shiploads from the old country. When vessels are about to founder, the rats are said to leave 'em. There is considerable of truth, I find, in that remark
The old ship will keep afloat a year or two longer yet, perhaps
Hope is said by the poet, sir
to be the nurse of young Desire
She will not rear her infant in the present instance, sir, you'll find
Time will show
What is your name, sir
How old are you, sir
What is your profession, sir
What is your destination, sir
Really
I can't satisfy you in that particular, for I don't know it myself
Yes
No
My name is Colonel Diver, sir. I am the Editor of the New York Rowdy Journal
The New York Rowdy Journal, sir
is, as I expect you know, the organ of our aristocracy in this city
Oh! there IS an aristocracy here, then
Of what is it composed
Of intelligence, sir
of intelligence and virtue. And of their necessary consequence in this republic -- dollars, sir
Well cap'en
Well colonel
You're looking most uncommon bright, sir. I can hardly realise its being you, and that's a fact
A good passage, cap'en
Well now! It was a pretty spanking run, sir
con-siderin' the weather
Yes
Well! It was, sir
I've just now sent a boy up to your office with the passenger-list, colonel
You haven't got another boy to spare, p'raps, cap'en
I guess there air a dozen if you want 'em, colonel
un could convey a dozen champagne, perhaps
to my office. You said a spanking run, I think
Well, so I did
It's very nigh, you know
I'm glad it was a spanking run, cap'en. Don't mind about quarts if you're short of 'em. The boy can as well bring four-and-twenty pints, and travel twice as once.-- A first-rate spanker, cap'en, was it? Yes
A most e -- tarnal spanker
I admire at your good fortun, cap'en. You might loan me a corkscrew at the same time, and half-a-dozen glasses if you liked. However bad the elements combine against my country's noble packet-ship, the Screw, sir
her passage either way is almost certain to eventuate a spanker
ROWDY JOURNAL
snub
My War Correspondent, sir -- Mr Jefferson Brick
You have heard of Jefferson Brick, I see, sir
England has heard of Jefferson Brick. Europe has heard of Jefferson Brick. Let me see. When did you leave England, sir
Five weeks ago
Five weeks ago
Now let me ask you, sir which of Mr Brick's articles had become at that time the most obnoxious to the British Parliament and the Court of Saint James's
Upon my word
I
I have reason to know, sir
that the aristocratic circles of your country quail before the name of Jefferson Brick. I should like to be informed, sir, from your lips, which of his sentiments has struck the deadliest blow
At the hundred heads of the Hydra of Corruption now grovelling in the dust beneath the lance of Reason, and spouting up to the universal arch above us, its sanguinary gore
The libation of freedom, Brick
Must sometimes be quaffed in blood, colonel
blood
Upon my life
I can't give you any satisfactory information about it; for the truth is that I
Stop
That you never heard of Jefferson Brick, sir. That you never read Jefferson Brick, sir. That you never saw the Rowdy Journal, sir. That you never knew, sir, of its mighty influence upon the cabinets of Europe. Yes
That's what I was about to observe, certainly
Keep cool, Jefferson
Don't bust! oh you Europeans! After that, let's have a glass of wine
Mr Jefferson Brick, sir
will give us a sentiment
Well, sir
Since you have concluded to call upon me, I will respond. I will give you, sir, The Rowdy Journal and its brethren; the well of Truth, whose waters are black from being composed of printers' ink, but are quite clear enough for my country to behold the shadow of her Destiny reflected in
Hear, hear
There are flowery components, sir, in the language of my friend
Very much so, indeed
There is to-day's Rowdy, sir
You'll find Jefferson Brick at his usual post in the van of human civilization and moral purity
Why, it's horribly personal
We are independent here, sir
We do as we like
If I may judge from this specimen
there must be a few thousands here, rather the reverse of independent, who do as they don't like
Well! They yield to the popular mind of the Popular Instructor, sir
They rile up, sometimes; but in general we have a hold upon our citizens, both in public and in private life, which is as much one of the ennobling institutions of our happy country as
As nigger slavery itself
En -- tirely so
Pray
may I venture to ask, with reference to a case I observe in this paper of yours, whether the Popular Instructor often deals in -- I am at a loss to express it without giving you offence -- in forgery? In forged letters, for instance
solemnly purporting to have been written at recent periods by living men
Well, sir
It does, now and then
And the popular instructed -- what do they do
Buy 'em
Buy 'em by hundreds of thousands
We are a smart people here, and can appreciate smartness
Is smartness American for forgery
Well
I expect it's American for a good many things that you call by other names. But you can't help yourself in Europe. We can
And do, sometimes
You help yourselves with very little ceremony, too
At all events, whatever name we choose to employ
I suppose the art of forgery was not invented here sir
I suppose not
Nor any other kind of smartness I reckon
Invented! No, I presume not
Well
un. There's an end of THAT. Now, if Mr Jefferson Brick and you will be so good as to clear, I'll come out last, and lock the door
whipped the universe
Is the major indoors
Is it the master, sir
The master
Oh! The depressing institutions of that British empire, colonel
Master
What's the matter with the word
I should hope it was never heard in our country, sir; that's all
except when it is used by some degraded Help, as new to the blessings of our form of government, as this Help is. There are no masters here
All "owners," are they
Well, colonel
Here is a gentleman from England, major
who has concluded to locate himself here if the amount of compensation suits him
I am glad to see you, sir
You are pretty bright, I hope
Never better
You are never likely to be
You will see the sun shine HERE
I think I remember to have seen it shine at home sometimes
I think not
One of the most remarkable men in our country, sir
run a moist pen slick through everything, and start fresh
You have come to visit our country, sir, at a season of great commercial depression
At an alarming crisis
At a period of unprecedented stagnation
I am sorry to hear that
It's not likely to last, I hope
It's not likely to last, I hope
Well
I expect we shall get along somehow, and come right in the end
We are an elastic country
We are a young lion
We have revivifying and vigorous principles within ourselves
Shall we drink a bitter afore dinner, colonel
only in the next block
Good Heaven
The premises are on fire! It was an alarm bell
Where is it
In a eatin room, sa. Kernell, sa, him kep a seat 'side himself, sa
A seat
For a dinnar, sa
You're the pleasantest fellow I have seen yet
and give me a better appetite than bitters
Pray
who is that sickly little girl opposite, with the tight round eyes? I don't see anybody here, who looks like her mother, or who seems to have charge of her
Do you mean the matron in blue, sir
That is Mrs Jefferson Brick, sir
No, no
I mean the little girl, like a doll; directly opposite
Well, sir
THAT is Mrs Jefferson Brick
Bless my soul! I suppose there will be a young Brick then, one of these days
There are two young Bricks already, sir
Yes, sir
but some institutions develop human natur; others re -- tard it
Jefferson Brick
is one of the most remarkable men in our country, sir
Pray, Mr Brick
who is that;' he was going to say 'young' but thought it prudent to eschew the word --'that very short gentleman yonder, with the red nose
That is Pro -- fessor Mullit, sir
May I ask what he is professor of
Of education, sir
A sort of schoolmaster, possibly
He is a man of fine moral elements, sir, and not commonly endowed
He felt it necessary, at the last election for President, to repudiate and denounce his father, who voted on the wrong interest. He has since written some powerful pamphlets, under the signature of "Suturb," or Brutus reversed. He is one of the most remarkable men in our country, sir
There seem to be plenty of 'em
at any rate
Where are they going
To their bedrooms, sir
Is there no dessert, or other interval of conversation
We are a busy people here, sir, and have no time for that
a screamer
We are a busy people, sir
and have no time for reading mere notions. We don't mind 'em if they come to us in newspapers along with almighty strong stuff of another sort, but darn your books
if any gentleman would drink some
Which would seem
to be the principal recreation they enjoy in common
I will not ask you
how you like my country, for I can quite anticipate your feeling on that point. But, as I am an American, and consequently bound to begin with a question, I'll ask you how you like the colonel
You are so very frank
that I have no hesitation in saying I don't like him at all. Though I must add that I am beholden to him for his civility in bringing me here -- and arranging for my stay, on pretty reasonable terms, by the way
Not much beholden
The colonel occasionally boards packet-ships, I have heard, to glean the latest information for his journal; and he occasionally brings strangers to board here, I believe, with a view to the little percentage which attaches to those good offices; and which the hostess deducts from his weekly bill. I don't offend you, I hope
My dear sir
how is that possible! to tell you the truth, I -- am
Yes
I am rather at a loss, since I must speak plainly
to know how this colonel escapes being beaten
Well! He has been beaten once or twice
He is one of a class of men, in whom our own Franklin, so long ago as ten years before the close of the last century, foresaw our danger and disgrace. Perhaps you don't know that Franklin, in very severe terms, published his opinion that those who were slandered by such fellows as this colonel, having no sufficient remedy in the administration of this country's laws or in the decent and right-minded feeling of its people, were justified in retorting on such public nuisances by means of a stout cudgel
I was not aware of that
but I am very glad to know it, and I think it worthy of his memory; especially
Go on
Especially
as I can already understand that it may have required great courage, even in his time, to write freely on any question which was not a party one in this very free country
Some courage, no doubt
Do you think it would require any to do so, now
Indeed I think it would; and not a little
You are right. So very right, that I believe no satirist could breathe this air. If another Juvenal or Swift could rise up among us to-morrow, he would be hunted down. If you have any knowledge of our literature, and can give me the name of any man, American born and bred, who has anatomized our follies as a people, and not as this or that party; and who has escaped the foulest and most brutal slander, the most inveterate hatred and intolerant pursuit; it will be a strange name in my ears, believe me. In some cases I could name to you, where a native writer has ventured on the most harmless and good-humoured illustrations of our vices or defects, it has been found necessary to announce, that in a second edition the passage has been expunged, or altered, or explained away, or patched into praise
And how has this been brought about
Think of what you have seen and heard to-day, beginning with the colonel
and ask yourself. How THEY came about, is another question. Heaven forbid that they should be samples of the intelligence and virtue of America, but they come uppermost, and in great numbers, and too often represent it. Will you walk
Oh, but for such, Columbia's days were done; Rank without ripeness, quickened without sun, Crude at the surface, rotten at the core, Her fruits would fall before her spring were o'er
And speaking of business
may I ask, in order that I may not be behind-hand with questions either, whether your occupation holds you to this city, or like myself, you are a visitor here
A visitor
I was "raised" in the State of Massachusetts, and reside there still. My home is in a quiet country town. I am not often in these busy places; and my inclination to visit them does not increase with our better acquaintance, I assure you
You have been abroad
Oh yes
And, like most people who travel, have become more than ever attached to your home and native country
To my home -- yes
To my native country AS my home -- yes, also
You imply some reservation
Well
if you ask me whether I came back here with a greater relish for my country's faults; with a greater fondness for those who claim (at the rate of so many dollars a day) to be her friends; with a cooler indifference to the growth of principles among us in respect of public matters and of private dealings between man and man, the advocacy of which, beyond the foul atmosphere of a criminal trial, would disgrace your own old Bailey lawyers; why, then I answer plainly, No
Oh
If you ask me
whether I came back here better satisfied with a state of things which broadly divides society into two classes -- whereof one, the great mass, asserts a spurious independence, most miserably dependent for its mean existence on the disregard of humanizing conventionalities of manner and social custom, so that the coarser a man is, the more distinctly it shall appeal to his taste; while the other, disgusted with the low standard thus set up and made adaptable to everything, takes refuge among the graces and refinements it can bring to bear on private life, and leaves the public weal to such fortune as may betide it in the press and uproar of a general scramble -- then again I answer, No
Oh
In a word
I do not find and cannot believe and therefore will not allow, that we are a model of wisdom, and an example to the world, and the perfection of human reason, and a great deal more to the same purpose, which you may hear any hour in the day; simply because we began our political life with two inestimable advantages
What were they
One, that our history commenced at so late a period as to escape the ages of bloodshed and cruelty through which other nations have passed; and so had all the light of their probation, and none of its darkness. The other, that we have a vast territory, and not -- as yet -- too many people on it. These facts considered, we have done little enough, I think
Education
Pretty well on that head
still no mighty matter to boast of; for old countries, and despotic countries too, have done as much, if not more, and made less noise about it. We shine out brightly in comparison with England, certainly; but hers is a very extreme case. You complimented me on my frankness, you know
Oh! I am not at all astonished at your speaking thus openly when my country is in question
It is your plain- speaking in reference to your own that surprises me
You will not find it a scarce quality here, I assure you, saving among the Colonel Divers, and Jefferson Bricks, and Major Pawkinses; though the best of us are something like the man in Goldsmith's comedy, who wouldn't suffer anybody but himself to abuse his master. Come
Let us talk of something else. You have come here on some design of improving your fortune, I dare say; and I should grieve to put you out of heart. I am some years older than you, besides; and may, on a few trivial points, advise you, perhaps
No go
I was a'most afraid you was lost, sir
Nothing gone wrong, I hope, sir
No, Mark. Where's your friend
The mad woman, sir
Oh! she's all right, sir
Did she find her husband
Yes, sir. Leastways she's found his remains
The man's not dead, I hope
Not altogether dead, sir
but he's had more fevers and agues than is quite reconcilable with being alive. When she didn't see him a-waiting for her, I thought she'd have died herself, I did
Was he not here, then
HE wasn't here. There was a feeble old shadow come a-creeping down at last, as much like his substance when she know'd him, as your shadow when it's drawn out to its very finest and longest by the sun, is like you. But it was his remains, there's no doubt about that. She took on with joy, poor thing, as much as if it had been all of him
Had he bought land
Ah! He'd bought land
and paid for it too. Every sort of nateral advantage was connected with it, the agents said; and there certainly was ONE, quite unlimited. No end to the water
It's a thing he couldn't have done without, I suppose
Certainly not, sir. There it was, any way; always turned on, and no water-rate. Independent of three or four slimy old rivers close by, it varied on the farm from four to six foot deep in the dry season. He couldn't say how deep it was in the rainy time, for he never had anything long enough to sound it with
Is this true
Extremely probable
Some Mississippi or Missouri lot, I dare say
However
he came from I-don't-know-where-and-all, down to New York here, to meet his wife and children; and they started off again in a steamboat this blessed afternoon, as happy to be along with each other as if they were going to Heaven. I should think they was, pretty straight, if I may judge from the poor man's looks
And may I ask
who this gentleman is? Another friend of yours
Why sir
he's a man of colour, sir
Do you take me for a blind man
that you think it necessary to tell me that, when his face is the blackest that ever was seen
No, no; when I say a man of colour
I mean that he's been one of them as there's picters of in the shops. A man and a brother, you know, sir
A slave
Ah
Nothing else. A slave. Why, when that there man was young -- don't look at him while I'm a-telling it -- he was shot in the leg; gashed in the arm; scored in his live limbs, like crimped fish; beaten out of shape; had his neck galled with an iron collar, and wore iron rings upon his wrists and ankles. The marks are on him to this day. When I was having my dinner just now, he stripped off his coat, and took away my appetite
Is THIS true
I have no reason to doubt it
It very often is
Bless you
I know it is, from hearing his whole story. That master died; so did his second master from having his head cut open with a hatchet by another slave, who, when he'd done it, went and drowned himself; then he got a better one; in years and years he saved up a little money, and bought his freedom, which he got pretty cheap at last, on account of his strength being nearly gone, and he being ill. Then he come here. And now he's a-saving up to treat himself, afore he dies, to one small purchase -- it's nothing to speak of. Only his own daughter; that's all
Liberty for ever! Hurrah! Hail, Columbia
Hush
and don't be an idiot. What is he doing here
Waiting to take our luggage off upon a truck
He'd have come for it by-and-bye, but I engaged him for a very reasonable charge (out of my own pocket) to sit along with me and make me jolly; and I am jolly; and if I was rich enough to contract with him to wait upon me once a day, to be looked at, I'd never be anything else
Lord love you, sir
they're so fond of Liberty in this part of the globe, that they buy her and sell her and carry her to market with 'em. They've such a passion for Liberty, that they can't help taking liberties with her. That's what it's owing to
Very well
Having come to that conclusion, Mark, perhaps you'll attend to me. The place to which the luggage is to go is printed on this card. Mrs Pawkins's Boarding House
Mrs Pawkins's boarding-house
Now, Cicero
Is that his name
That's his name, sir
Mark! oh certainly! with anything
You don't understand me -- I think he had better go with us. He is an honest fellow, and speaks his mind so very plainly
Why, the fact is
that being unaccustomed to a free republic, he is used to do so
I think he had better go with us
He may get into some trouble otherwise. This is not a slave State; but I am ashamed to say that a spirit of Tolerance is not so common anywhere in these latitudes as the form. We are not remarkable for behaving very temperately to each other when we differ; but to strangers! no, I really think he had better go with us
Was he quite well
Yes, oh yes. Never better
his lordship's mother, the duchess, was she much changed
Oh dear no, they would know her anywhere, if they saw her to-morrow;' and so got on pretty well. In like manner when the young ladies questioned him touching the Gold Fish in that Grecian fountain in such and such a nobleman's conservatory, and whether there were as many as there used to be, he gravely reported, after mature consideration, that there must be at least twice as many; and as to the exotics, 'Oh! well! it was of no use talking about THEM; they must be seen to be believed
that person entertained religious opinions of which he couldn't approve; and therefore he hadn't the honour of knowing the gentleman
In short
there is a natural antipathy between the races
Extending
to the cruellest of tortures, and the bargain and sale of unborn generations
Jiniral Fladdock
My
The general come back
And do I then
once again behold the choicest spirits of my country
Yes
Here we are, general
Well, then, don't ask me
I was among 'em all the time, and have got public journals in my trunk with my name printed
among the fashionable news. But, oh, the conventionalities of that a-mazing Europe
Ah
I can't deny it, sir. I would if I could
The limited diffusion of a moral sense in that country
The absence of a moral dignity in man
Ah
I couldn't have realised it
without being located on the spot. Norris, your imagination is the imagination of a strong man, but YOU couldn't have realised it, without being located on the spot
Never
The ex-clusiveness, the pride, the form, the ceremony
The artificial barriers set up between man and man; the division of the human race into court cards and plain cards, of every denomination -- into clubs, diamonds, spades -- anything but heart
Ah
Too true, general
But stay
Surely you crossed in the Screw, general
Well! so I did
Possible
Only think
A fellow-passenger of yours, I think
Of mine
No
I came over in the same ship as the general
but not in the same cabin. It being necessary for me to observe strict economy, I took my passage in the steerage
You will allow me
to take my leave. I feel that I am the cause of at least as much embarrassment here, as I have brought upon myself. But I am bound, before I go, to exonerate this gentleman, who, in introducing me to such society, was quite ignorant of my unworthiness, I assure you
Come, come
the young man has this night beheld a refinement of social manner, and an easy magnificence of social decoration, to which he is a stranger in his own country. Let us hope it may awake a moral sense within him
I hope you exonerate me in another sense
How do you mean
I hope you acquit me of intending or foreseeing the termination of our visit. But I scarcely need ask you that
Scarcely indeed
I am the more beholden to you for your kindness, when I find what kind of stuff the good citizens here are made of
I reckon
that they are made of pretty much the same stuff as other folks, if they would but own it, and not set up on false pretences
In good faith, that's true
I dare say
you might have such a scene as that in an English comedy, and not detect any gross improbability or anomaly in the matter of it
Yes, indeed
Doubtless it is more ridiculous here than anywhere else
but our professions are to blame for that. So far as I myself am concerned, I may add that I was perfectly aware from the first that you came over in the steerage, for I had seen the list of passengers, and knew it did not comprise your name
I feel more obliged to you than before
Norris is a very good fellow in his way
Is he
Oh yes! there are a hundred good points about him. If you or anybody else addressed him as another order of being, and sued to him IN FORMA PAUPERIS, he would be all kindness and consideration
I needn't have travelled three thousand miles from home to find such a character as THAT
Have you been to meeting, Mrs Brick
To lecture, sir
I beg your pardon. I forgot. You don't go to meeting, I think
I do
A good discourse, ma'am
Yes
What course of lectures are you attending now, ma'am
The Philosophy of the Soul, on Wednesdays
On Mondays
The Philosophy of Crime
On Fridays
The Philosophy of Vegetables
You have forgotten Thursdays; the Philosophy of Government, my dear
No
That's Tuesdays
So it is
The Philosophy of Matter on Thursdays, of course
You see, Mr Chuzzlewit, our ladies are fully employed
Indeed you have reason to say so
Between these very grave pursuits abroad, and family duties at home, their time must be pretty well engrossed
Though whether they might not be better employed with such blunt instruments as knitting-needles than with these edge-tools
is another question; but I can answer for one thing -- they don't often cut themselves. Devotions and lectures are our balls and concerts. They go to these places of resort, as an escape from monotony; look at each other's clothes; and come home again
When you say "home," do you mean a house like this
Very often. But I see you are tired to death, and will wish you good night. We will discuss your projects in the morning. You cannot but feel already that it is useless staying here, with any hope of advancing them. You will have to go further
And to fare worse
Mark
All right, sir
I feel as if the house were on the sea' said Martin, staggering when he rose; 'and am utterly wretched
I'm as jolly as a sandboy, myself, sir
But, Lord, I have reason to be! I ought to have been born here; that's my opinion. Take care how you go
You recollect the gentleman aboard the Screw as had the very small trunk, sir
The valise? Yes
Well, sir, there's been a delivery of clean clothes from the wash to-night, and they're put outside the bedroom doors here. If you take notice as we go up, what a very few shirts there are, and what a many fronts, you'll penetrate the mystery of his packing
I suppose they polish themselves with a dry cloth in this country
phoby, sir
I wish you would pull off my boots for me
I am quite knocked up -- dead beat, Mark
You won't say that to-morrow morning, sir
nor even to-night, sir, when you've made a trial of this
What do you call this
There, sir
if ever you should happen to be dead beat again, when I ain't in the way, all you've got to do is to ask the nearest man to go and fetch a cobbler
To go and fetch a cobbler
This wonderful invention, sir
is called a cobbler. Sherry cobbler when you name it long; cobbler, when you name it short. Now you're equal to having your boots took off, and are, in every particular worth mentioning, another man
Mind! I am not going to relapse, Mark
but, good Heaven, if we should be left in some wild part of this country without goods or money
Well, sir
from what we've seen already, I don't know whether, under those circumstances, we shouldn't do better in the wild parts than in the tame ones
Oh, Tom Pinch, Tom Pinch
what would I give to be again beside you, and able to hear your voice, though it were even in the old bedroom at Pecksniff's
Oh, Dragon, Dragon
if there warn't any water between you and me, and nothing faint-hearted-like in going back, I don't know that I mightn't say the same. But here am I, Dragon, in New York, America; and there are you in Wiltshire, Europe; and there's a fortune to make, Dragon, and a beautiful young lady to make it for; and whenever you go to see the Monument, Dragon, you mustn't give in on the doorsteps, or you'll never get up to the top
Wisely said, Mark
We must look forward
In all the story-books as ever I read, sir, the people as looked backward was turned into stones
and my opinion always was, that they brought it on themselves, and it served 'em right. I wish you good night, sir, and pleasant dreams
They must be of home, then
So I say, too
for if there don't come a time afore we're well out of this, when there'll be a little more credit in keeping up one's jollity, I'm a United Statesman
What a cold spring it is
It was a warmer season, sure, when I was young
You needn't go scorching your clothes into holes, whether it was or not
Broadcloth ain't so cheap as that comes to
A good lad
A prudent lad! He never delivered himself up to the vanities of dress. No, no
I don't know but I would, though, mind you, if I could do it for nothing
Ah
IF, indeed!-- But it's very cold
Let the fire be
Do you mean to come to want in your old age, that you take to wasting now
There's not time for that, Jonas
Not time for what
For me to come to want. I wish there was
You always were as selfish an old blade as need be
You act up to your character. You wouldn't mind coming to want, wouldn't you! I dare say you wouldn't. And your own flesh and blood might come to want too, might they, for anything you cared? Oh you precious old flint
Want, indeed! You're a nice old man to be talking of want at this time of day. Beginning to talk of want, are you? Well, I declare! There isn't time? No, I should hope not. But you'd live to be a couple of hundred if you could; and after all be discontented. I know you
If you're in such a state of mind as that
why don't you make over your property? Buy an annuity cheap, and make your life interesting to yourself and everybody else that watches the speculation. But no, that wouldn't suit YOU. That would be natural conduct to your own son, and you like to be unnatural, and to keep him out of his rights. Why, I should be ashamed of myself if I was you, and glad to hide my head in the what you may call it
He is your own son, Mr Chuzzlewit. Your own son, sir
Yes, yes, Chuffey, Jonas is a chip of the old block. It is a very old block, now, Chuffey
Precious old
No, no, no
No, Mr Chuzzlewit. Not old at all, sir
Oh! He's worse than ever, you know
Upon my soul, father, he's getting too bad. Hold your tongue, will you
He says you're wrong
Tut, tut
I know better. I say HE'S wrong. I say HE'S wrong. He's a boy. That's what he is. So are you, Mr Chuzzlewit -- a kind of boy. Ha! ha! ha! You're quite a boy to many I have known; you're a boy to me; you're a boy to hundreds of us. Don't mind him
I grow deafer every day, Chuff
No, no
No, you don't. What if you did? I've been deaf this twenty year
I grow blinder, too
That's a good sign
Ha! ha! The best sign in the world! You saw too well before
punch his head
They've been carrying on this game
for the last two or three weeks. I never saw my father take so much notice of him as he has in that time. What! You're legacy hunting, are you, Mister Chuff? Eh
All as right as ever
Here's the will, Mister Chuff. Thirty pound a year for your maintenance, old boy, and all the rest to his only son, Jonas. You needn't trouble yourself to be too affectionate. You won't get anything by it. What's that
What's the matter
Who is it? Where do you come from? What do you want
Matter
The matter, Mr Jonas
What are you prying and peering about here for
What do you mean by coming up to town in this way, and taking one unawares? It's precious odd a man can't read the -- the newspaper -- in his own office without being startled out of his wits by people coming in without notice. Why didn't you knock at the door
So I did, Mr Jonas
but no one heard me. I was curious
to find out what part of the newspaper interested you so much; but the glass was too dim and dirty
Was it poetry now
Or was it politics? Or was it the price of stock? The main chance, Mr Jonas, the main chance, I suspect
You ain't far from the truth
but how the deuce do you come to be in London again? Ecod! it's enough to make a man stare, to see a fellow looking at him all of a sudden, who he thought was sixty or seventy mile away
So it is
No doubt of it, my dear Mr Jonas. For while the human mind is constituted as it is
Oh, bother the human mind
what have you come up for
A little matter of business
which has arisen quite unexpectedly
Oh
is that all? Well. Here's father in the next room. Hallo father, here's Pecksniff! He gets more addle-pated every day he lives, I do believe
Don't I tell you Pecksniff's here, stupid-head
And now, my good sir
now that we are alone, pray tell me what I can do for you. I say alone, because I believe that our dear friend Mr Chuffey is, metaphysically speaking, a -- shall I say a dummy
He neither hears us
nor sees us
Why, then
I will be bold to say, with the utmost sympathy for his afflictions, and the greatest admiration of those excellent qualities which do equal honour to his head and to his heart, that he is what is playfully termed a dummy. You were going to observe, my dear sir
I was not going to make any observation that I know of
I was
Oh! YOU were? What was it
That I never
that I never in my life was so astonished as by the receipt of your letter yesterday. That you should do me the honour to wish to take counsel with me on any matter, amazed me; but that you should desire to do so, to the exclusion even of Mr Jonas, showed an amount of confidence in one to whom you had done a verbal injury -- merely a verbal injury, you were anxious to repair -- which gratified, which moved, which overcame me
Will you hold your tongue, sir, and let me speak
I knew his hand was changed, and that his writing staggered. I said so yesterday. Ahem! Dear me
Jonas is sweet upon your daughter, Pecksniff
We spoke of that, if you remember, sir, at Mrs Todgers's
You needn't speak so loud
I'm not so deaf as that
I have said
that Jonas is sweet upon your daughter
A charming girl, sir
A dear girl, Mr Chuzzlewit, though I say it, who should not
You know better
You lie! What, you WILL be a hypocrite, will you
My good sir
Don't call me a good sir
and don't claim to be one yourself. If your daughter was what you would have me believe, she wouldn't do for Jonas. Being what she is, I think she will. He might be deceived in a wife. She might run riot, contract debts, and waste his substance. Now when I am dead
It will be worse for me to know of such doings, than if I was alive; for to be tormented for getting that together, which even while I suffer for its acquisition, is flung into the very kennels of the streets, would be insupportable torture. No
let that be saved at least; let there be something gained, and kept fast hold of, when so much is lost
My dear Mr Chuzzlewit
these are unwholesome fancies; quite unnecessary, sir, quite uncalled for, I am sure. The truth is, my dear sir, that you are not well
Not dying though
Not yet! There are years of life in me. Why, look at him
Death has no right to leave him standing, and to mow me down
Come here
Jonas will be my heir, Jonas will be rich, and a great catch for you. You know that. Jonas is sweet upon your daughter
I know that too
for you have said it often enough
He might get more money than with her
but she will help him to take care of what they have. She is not too young or heedless, and comes of a good hard griping stock. But don't you play too fine a game. She only holds him by a thread; and if you draw it too tight (I know his temper) it'll snap. Bind him when he's in the mood, Pecksniff; bind him. You're too deep. In your way of leading him on, you'll leave him miles behind. Bah, you man of oil, have I no eyes to see how you have angled with him from the first
Now I wonder
whether this is all he has to say
What! My father asleep again
Ah! and snoring. Only hear
He snores very deep
Snores deep
Yes; let him alone for that. He'll snore for six, at any time
Do you know, Mr Jonas
that I think your father is -- don't let me alarm you -- breaking
Oh, is he though
Ecod, you don't know how tough he is. He ain't upon the move yet
It struck me that he was changed, both in his appearance and manner
That's all you know about it
He never was better than he is now. How are they all at home? How's Charity
Blooming, Mr Jonas, blooming
And the other one; how's she
Volatile trifler
She is well, she is well. Roving from parlour to bedroom, Mr Jonas, like a bee, skimming from post to pillar, like the butterfly; dipping her young beak into our currant wine, like the humming-bird! Ah! were she a little less giddy than she is; and had she but the sterling qualities of Cherry, my young friend
Is she so very giddy, then
Well, well
let me not be hard upon my child. Beside her sister Cherry she appears so. A strange noise that, Mr Jonas
Something wrong in the clock, I suppose
So the other one ain't your favourite, ain't she
Upon my word, Mr Jonas, that is a very extraordinary clock
Don't go
It was a mercy you were present when he was taken ill. Some one might have said it was my doing
YOUR doing
I don't know but they might
People say such things. How does he look now
I used to joke, you know
but I -- I never wished him dead. Do you think he's very bad
The doctor said he was. You heard
Ah! but he might say that to charge us more, in case of his getting well' said Jonas. 'You mustn't go away, Pecksniff. Now it's come to this, I wouldn't be without a witness for a thousand pound
If anything happens Pecksniff
you must promise me to stop here till it's all over. You shall see that I do what's right
I know that you will do what's right, Mr Jonas
Yes, yes, but I won't be doubted. No one shall have it in his power to say a syllable against me
I know how people will talk. Just as if he wasn't old, or I had the secret of keeping him alive
He's better now
Better now. Let him sit in his old chair, and he'll be well again. I told him not to mind. I said so, yesterday
Spare no expense
Spend, and spare not
Midwife
Knock at the winder, sir, knock at the winder. Lord bless you, don't lose no more time than you can help -- knock at the winder
I'm coming
He's as pale as a muffin
So he ought to be, if he's the feelings of a man
Is it Mrs Perkins
No
Nothing of the sort
What, Mr Whilks
Don't say it's you, Mr Whilks, and that poor creetur Mrs Whilks with not even a pincushion ready. Don't say it's you, Mr Whilks
It isn't Mr Whilks
I don't know the man. Nothing of the kind. A gentleman is dead; and some person being wanted in the house, you have been recommended by Mr Mould the undertaker
with his corpses
put it in the boot
And so the gentleman's dead, sir! Ah! The more's the pity
But it's what we must all come to. It's as certain as being born, except that we can't make our calculations as exact. Ah! Poor dear
Ah
Ah dear! When Gamp was summoned to his long home, and I see him a-lying in Guy's Hospital with a penny-piece on each eye, and his wooden leg under his left arm, I thought I should have fainted away. But I bore up
You have become indifferent since then, I suppose
Use is second nature, Mrs Gamp
You may well say second nater, sir
One's first ways is to find sich things a trial to the feelings, and so is one's lasting custom. If it wasn't for the nerve a little sip of liquor gives me (I never was able to do more than taste it), I never could go through with what I sometimes has to do. "Mrs Harris," I says, at the very last case as ever I acted in, which it was but a young person, "Mrs Harris," I says, "leave the bottle on the chimley-piece, and don't ask me to take none, but let me put my lips to it when I am so dispoged, and then I will do what I'm engaged to do, according to the best of my ability." "Mrs Gamp," she says, in answer, "if ever there was a sober creetur to be got at eighteen pence a day for working people, and three and six for gentlefolks -- night watching
being a extra charge -- you are that inwallable person." "Mrs Harris," I says to her, "don't name the charge, for if I could afford to lay all my feller creeturs out for nothink, I would gladly do it, sich is the love I bears 'em. But what I always says to them as has the management of matters, Mrs Harris
be they gents or be they ladies, is, don't ask me whether I won't take none, or whether I will, but leave the bottle on the chimley-piece, and let me put my lips to it when I am so dispoged
Well, Mrs Gamp, and how are YOU, Mrs Gamp
Pretty well, I thank you, sir
You'll be very particular here, Mrs Gamp. This is not a common case, Mrs Gamp. Let everything be very nice and comfortable, Mrs Gamp, if you please
It shall be, sir
You knows me of old, sir, I hope
I hope so, too, Mrs Gamp
and I think so also
This is one of the most impressive cases, sir
that I have seen in the whole course of my professional experience
Indeed, Mr Mould
Such affectionate regret, sir, I never saw. There is no limitation, there is positively NO limitation
in point of expense! I have orders, sir, to put on my whole establishment of mutes; and mutes come very dear, Mr Pecksniff; not to mention their drink. To provide silver- plated handles of the very best description, ornamented with angels' heads from the most expensive dies. To be perfectly profuse in feathers. In short, sir, to turn out something absolutely gorgeous
My friend Mr Jonas is an excellent man
I have seen a good deal of what is filial in my time, sir
and what is unfilial too. It is our lot. We come into the knowledge of those secrets. But anything so filial as this; anything so honourable to human nature; so calculated to reconcile all of us to the world we live in; never yet came under my observation. It only proves, sir, what was so forcibly observed by the lamented theatrical poet -- buried at Stratford -- that there is good in everything
It is very pleasant to hear you say so, Mr Mould
You are very kind, sir. And what a man Mr Chuzzlewit was, sir! Ah! what a man he was. You may talk of your lord mayors
your sheriffs, your common councilmen, your trumpery; but show me a man in this city who is worthy to walk in the shoes of the departed Mr Chuzzlewit. No, no
Hang 'em up, hang 'em up; sole 'em and heel 'em, and have 'em ready for his son against he's old enough to wear 'em; but don't try 'em on yourselves, for they won't fit you. We knew him
we knew him, and are not to be caught with chaff. Mr Pecksniff, sir, good morning
Pecksniff
you shall have the regulation of it all, mind! You shall be able to tell anybody who talks about it that everything was correctly and nicely done. There isn't any one you'd like to ask to the funeral, is there
No, Mr Jonas, I think not
Because if there is, you know
ask him. We don't want to make a secret of it
No
I am not the less obliged to you on that account, Mr Jonas, for your liberal hospitality; but there really is no one
Very well
then you, and I, and Chuffey, and the doctor, will be just a coachful. We'll have the doctor, Pecksniff, because he knows what was the matter with him, and that it couldn't be helped
Where is our dear friend, Mr Chuffey
You may say whatever you wish to say here, Mrs Gamp
It is not much as I have to say when people is a-mourning for the dead and gone
but what I have to say is TO the pint and purpose, and no offence intended, must be so considered. I have been at a many places in my time, gentlemen, and I hope I knows what my duties is, and how the same should be performed; in course, if I did not, it would be very strange, and very wrong in sich a gentleman as Mr Mould, which has undertook the highest families in this land, and given every satisfaction, so to recommend me as he does. I have seen a deal of trouble my own self
and I can feel for them as has their feelings tried, but I am not a Rooshan or a Prooshan, and consequently cannot suffer Spies to be set over me
It is not a easy matter, gentlemen, to live when you are left a widder woman; particular when your feelings works upon you to that extent that you often find yourself a-going out on terms which is a certain loss, and never can repay. But in whatever way you earns your bread, you may have rules and regulations of your own which cannot be broke through. Some people
may be Rooshans, and others may be Prooshans; they are born so, and will please themselves. Them which is of other naturs thinks different
If I understand this good lady
Mr Chuffey is troublesome to her. Shall I fetch him down
Do
I was going to tell you he was up there, when she came in. I'd go myself and bring him down, only -- only I'd rather you went, if you don't mind
I am sure
that if it wasn't for his own happiness, I should no more mind him being there, poor dear, than if he was a fly. But them as isn't used to these things, thinks so much of 'em afterwards, that it's a kindness to 'em not to let 'em have their wish. And even
even if one calls 'em names, it's only done to rouse 'em
Three score and ten
ought and carry seven. Some men are so strong that they live to four score -- four times ought's an ought, four times two's an eight -- eighty. Oh! why -- why -- why didn't he live to four times ought's an ought, and four times two's an eight, eighty
Ah! what a wale of grief
Why did he die before his poor old crazy servant
Take him from me, and what remains
Mr Jonas
Mr Jonas, my good friend
I loved him
He was good to me. We learnt Tare and Tret together at school. I took him down once, six boys in the arithmetic class. God forgive me! Had I the heart to take him down
Come, Mr Chuffey
Come with me. Summon up your fortitude, Mr Chuffey
Yes, I will
Yes. I'll sum up my forty -- How many times forty -- Oh, Chuzzlewit and Son -- Your own son Mr Chuzzlewit; your own son, sir
Everything that money could do was done
And what can do more, Mrs Gamp
Nothing in the world, sir
Nothing in the world
You are right, Mrs.Gamp. Why do people spend more money
upon a death, Mrs Gamp, than upon a birth? Come, that's in your way; you ought to know. How do you account for that now
Perhaps it is because an undertaker's charges comes dearer than a nurse's charges, sir
Ha, ha
You have been breakfasting at somebody's expense this morning, Mrs Gamp
Many's the time that I've not breakfasted at my own expense along of your recommending, sir; and many's the time I hope to do the same in time to come
So be it
please Providence. No, Mrs Gamp; I'll tell you why it is. It's because the laying out of money with a well-conducted establishment, where the thing is performed upon the very best scale, binds the broken heart, and sheds balm upon the wounded spirit. Hearts want binding, and spirits want balming when people die; not when people are born. Look at this gentleman to- day; look at him
An open-handed gentleman
No, no
not an open-handed gentleman in general, by any means. There you mistake him; but an afflicted gentleman, an affectionate gentleman, who knows what it is in the power of money to do, in giving him relief, and in testifying his love and veneration for the departed. It can give him
it can give him four horses to each vehicle; it can give him velvet trappings; it can give him drivers in cloth cloaks and top-boots; it can give him the plumage of the ostrich, dyed black; it can give him any number of walking attendants, dressed in the first style of funeral fashion, and carrying batons tipped with brass; it can give him a handsome tomb; it can give him a place in Westminster Abbey itself, if he choose to invest it in such a purchase. Oh! do not let us say that gold is dross, when it can buy such things as these, Mrs Gamp
But what a blessing, sir
that there are such as you, to sell or let 'em out on hire
Aye, Mrs Gamp, you are right
We should be an honoured calling. We do good by stealth, and blush to have it mentioned in our little bills. How much consolation may I -- even I
have diffused among my fellow-creatures by means of my four long-tailed prancers, never harnessed under ten pund ten
Well, Tacker
is all ready below
A beautiful show, sir
The horses are prouder and fresher than ever I see 'em; and toss their heads, they do, as if they knowed how much their plumes cost. One, two, three, four
Is Tom there, with the cake and wine
Ready to come in at a moment's notice, sir
Then
then I think we may proceed to business. Give me the paper of gloves, Tacker. Ah, what a man he was! Ah, Tacker, Tacker, what a man he was
Gloves, eh
Mr Pecksniff after you
I couldn't think of it
You are very good
I was called up to attend that case. At the first pull of the night-bell I turned out, threw up the window, and put out my head. Cloak, eh? Don't tie it too tight. That'll do
And put out my head -- hat, eh? My good friend, that is not mine. Mr Pecksniff, I beg your pardon, but I think we have unintentionally made an exchange. Thank you. Well, sir, I was going to tell you
We are quite ready
Ready, eh
Very good, Mr Pecksniff, I'll take an opportunity of relating the rest in the coach. It's rather curious. Ready, eh? No rain, I hope
Quite fair, sir
I was afraid the ground would have been wet
for my glass fell yesterday. We may congratulate ourselves upon our good fortune
They break us, drive us, ride us; ill-treat, abuse, and maim us for their pleasure -- But they die; Hurrah, they die
I loved him
He was very good to me. Oh, my dear old friend and master
Come, come, Mr Chuffey
this won't do; it's a clayey soil, Mr Chuffey. You mustn't, really
If it had been the commonest thing we do, and Mr Chuffey had been a Bearer, gentlemen
he couldn't have gone on worse than this
Be a man, Mr Chuffey
Be a gentleman, Mr Chuffey
Upon my word, my good friend
this is worse than weakness. This is bad, selfish, very wrong, Mr Chuffey. You should take example from others, my good sir. You forget that you were not connected by ties of blood with our deceased friend; and that he had a very near and very dear relation, Mr Chuffey
Aye, his own son
His own, own, only son
He's not right in his head, you know
You're not to mind anything he says. I shouldn't wonder if he was to talk some precious nonsense. But don't you mind him, any of you. I don't. My father left him to my charge; and whatever he says or does, that's enough. I'll take care of him
Pecksniff
what do you mean to give your daughters when they marry
My dear Mr Jonas
what a very singular inquiry
Now, don't you mind whether it's a singular inquiry or a plural one
but answer it, or let it alone. One or the other
Hum! The question, my dear friend
is involved with many considerations. What would I give them? Eh
Ah! what would you give 'em
would naturally depend in a great measure upon the kind of husbands they might choose, my dear young friend
My standard for the merits I would require in a son-in-law
is a high one. Forgive me, my dear Mr Jonas
if I say that you have spoiled me, and made it a fanciful one; an imaginative one; a prismatically tinged one, if I may be permitted to call it so
What do you mean by that
Indeed, my dear friend
you may well inquire. The heart is not always a royal mint, with patent machinery to work its metal into current coin. Sometimes it throws it out in strange forms, not easily recognized as coin at all. But it is sterling gold. It has at least that merit. It is sterling gold
Is it
Aye
it is. To be plain with you, Mr Jonas, if I could find two such sons-in-law as you will one day make to some deserving man, capable of appreciating a nature such as yours, I would -- forgetful of myself -- bestow upon my daughters portions reaching to the very utmost limit of my means
Well
suppose you got one such son-in-law as me, what then
Then well I know whose husband he would be
Whose
My eldest girl's, Mr Jonas
My dear Cherry's; my staff, my scrip, my treasure, Mr Jonas. A hard struggle, but it is in the nature of things! I must one day part with her to a husband. I know it, my dear friend. I am prepared for it
Ecod! you've been prepared for that a pretty long time, I should think
Many have sought to bear her from me
All have failed. "I never will give my hand, papa"-- those were her words --"unless my heart is won." She has not been quite so happy as she used to be, of late. I don't know why
I suppose you'll have to part with the other one, some of these days
Probably
Years will tame down the wildness of my foolish bird, and then it will be caged. But Cherry, Mr Jonas, Cherry
Oh, ah
Years have made her all right enough. Nobody doubts that. But you haven't answered what I asked you. Of course, you're not obliged to do it, you know, if you don't like. You're the best judge
I should sadly pinch and cramp myself to do so
but that would be my duty, and my conscience would reward me. For myself, my conscience is my bank. I have a trifle invested there -- a mere trifle, Mr Jonas -- but I prize it as a store of value, I assure you
It would sadly pinch and cramp me, my dear friend
but Providence -- perhaps I may be permitted to say a special Providence -- has blessed my endeavours, and I could guarantee to make the sacrifice
Come, old Pecksniff
let's have something
With all my heart
Let's treat the driver
If you think it won't hurt the man, or render him discontented with his station -- certainly
I've been standing treat for a whole week and more, and letting you have all the delicacies of the season. YOU shall pay for this Pecksniff
Precious dull
It's enough to make a man go melancholy mad
We shall have lights and a fire soon
We shall need 'em by the time we get there
Why the devil don't you talk? What are you thinking of
To tell you the truth, Mr Jonas
my mind was running at that moment on our late dear friend, your departed father
Drop that, Pecksniff
Drop it, I say
Do you hear? Drop it, now and for ever. You had better, I give you notice
It was quite a mistake
though I admit it was foolish. I might have known it was a tender string
Don't talk to me about tender strings
I'm not going to be crowed over by you, because I don't like dead company
Crowed over, Mr Jonas
Mind
I won't have it. I advise you not to revive the subject, neither to me nor anybody else. You can take a hint, if you choose as well as another man. There's enough said about it. Come along
Pretty nearly there, ain't we
Close, my dear friend
What'll they be doing, do you suppose
Impossible to say
Giddy truants! They may be away from home, perhaps. I was going to -- he! he! he!-- I was going to propose
that we should enter by the back way, and come upon them like a clap of thunder, Mr Jonas
Pleasant
pleasant to a father's feelings! My dear girl! Shall we let her know we are here, Mr Jonas
Why, I suppose you don't mean to spend the evening in the stable, or the coach-house
That, indeed, is not such hospitality as I would show to YOU, my friend
Boh
Who are you? What do you want? Speak! or I will call my Pa
It was thoughtless of us, Mr Jonas, it was very thoughtless
My darling, do you see that I am not alone
But call her down
Call her down, my love
Oh my goodness me
YOU here, fright! Well, I'm very thankful that you won't trouble ME much
What! you're as lively as ever, are you
Oh! You're a wicked one
There, go along
I'm sure I don't know what I shall ever do, if I have to see much of you. Go along, for gracious' sake
Hallo
Don't go
Oh, I dare say
You're very anxious I should stay, fright, ain't you
Yes, I am
Upon my word I am. I want to speak to you
Upon my word, Merry
I wonder at you! There are bounds even to absurdity, my dear
Thank you, my sweet
Much obliged to it for its advice. Oh! do leave me alone, you monster, do
Now
I have got both arms full, haven't I
One of them will be black and blue to-morrow, if you don't let me go
Ah! I don't mind YOUR pinching
a bit
Pinch him for me, Cherry, pray
I never did hate anybody so much as I hate this creature, I declare
No, no, don't say that
and don't pinch either, because I want to be serious. I say -- Cousin Charity
Well! what
I want to have some sober talk
I want to prevent any mistakes, you know, and to put everything upon a pleasant understanding. That's desirable and proper, ain't it
She'll not believe what I am going to say, will she, cousin
Really, Mr Jonas, I don't know, until I hear what it is. It's quite impossible
Why, you see
her way always being to make game of people, I know she'll laugh, or pretend to -- I know that, beforehand. But you can tell her I'm in earnest, cousin; can't you? You'll confess you know, won't you? You'll be honourable, I'm sure
You see, Cousin Charity
nobody but you can tell her what pains I took to get into her company when you were both at the boarding-house in the city, because nobody's so well aware of it, you know. Nobody else can tell her how hard I tried to get to know you better, in order that I might get to know her without seeming to wish it; can they? I always asked you about her, and said where had she gone, and when would she come, and how lively she was, and all that; didn't I, cousin? I know you'll tell her so, if you haven't told her so already, and -- and -- I dare say you have, because I'm sure you're honourable, ain't you
Even if you kept it to yourself, and haven't told her
it don't much matter, because you'll bear honest witness now; won't you? We've been very good friends from the first; haven't we? and of course we shall be quite friends in future, and so I don't mind speaking before you a bit. Cousin Mercy, you've heard what I've been saying. She'll confirm it, every word; she must. Will you have me for your husband? Eh
Let me go away. Let me go after her
Not till you say yes. You haven't told me. Will you have me for your husband
No, I won't. I can't bear the sight of you. I have told you so a hundred times. You are a fright. Besides, I always thought you liked my sister best. We all thought so
But that wasn't my fault
Yes it was; you know it was
Any trick is fair in love
She may have thought I liked her best, but you didn't
I did
No, you didn't. You never could have thought I liked her best, when you were by
There's no accounting for tastes
at least I didn't mean to say that. I don't know what I mean. Let me go to her
Say "Yes," and then I will
If I ever brought myself to say so, it should only be that I might hate and tease you all my life
That's as good
as saying it right out. It's a bargain, cousin. We're a pair, if ever there was one
Children
Girls! Daughters! What is this
The wretch; the apostate; the false, mean, odious villain; has before my very face proposed to Mercy
Who has proposed to Mercy
HE has. That thing, Jonas, downstairs
Jonas proposed to Mercy
Aye, aye! Indeed
Have you nothing else to say
Am I to be driven mad, papa? He has proposed to Mercy, not to me
Oh, fie! For shame
Oh, for shame! Can the triumph of a sister move you to this terrible display, my child? Oh, really this is very sad! I am sorry; I am surprised and hurt to see you so. Mercy, my girl, bless you! See to her. Ah, envy, envy, what a passion you are
Jonas
Jonas! the dearest wish of my heart is now fulfilled
Very well; I'm glad to hear it
That'll do. I say! As it ain't the one you're so fond of, you must come down with another thousand, Pecksniff. You must make it up five. It's worth that, to keep your treasure to yourself, you know. You get off very cheap that way, and haven't a sacrifice to make
Mr Pinch
this is hardly decent. You will excuse my saying that I think your conduct scarcely decent, Mr Pinch
I beg your pardon, sir
for not knocking at the door
Rather beg this gentleman's pardon, Mr Pinch
I know you; he does not.-- My young man, Mr Jonas
Could I speak a word with you, sir, if you please
It's rather pressing
It should be very pressing to justify this strange behaviour, Mr Pinch
Excuse me for one moment, my dear friend. Now, sir, what is the reason of this rough intrusion
I am very sorry, sir, I am sure
and I know it must have a very rude appearance
It HAS a very rude appearance, Mr Pinch
Yes, I feel that, sir; but the truth is, I was so surprised to see them, and knew you would be too, that I ran home very fast indeed, and really hadn't enough command over myself to know what I was doing very well. I was in the church just now, sir, touching the organ for my own amusement, when I happened to look round, and saw a gentleman and lady standing in the aisle listening. They seemed to be strangers, sir, as well as I could make out in the dusk; and I thought I didn't know them; so presently I left off, and said, would they walk up into the organ-loft, or take a seat? No, they said, they wouldn't do that; but they thanked me for the music they had heard. In fact
they said, "Delicious music!" at least, SHE did; and I am sure that was a greater pleasure and honour to me than any compliment I could have had. I -- I -- beg your pardon sir
but I -- I'm rather flurried, and I fear I've wandered from the point
If you will come back to it, Thomas
I shall feel obliged
Yes, sir
certainly. They had a posting carriage at the porch, sir, and had stopped to hear the organ, they said. And then they said -- SHE said, I mean, "I believe you live with Mr Pecksniff, sir?" I said I had that honour, and I took the liberty, sir
of saying, as I always will and must, with your permission, that I was under great obligations to you, and never could express my sense of them sufficiently
That
was very, very wrong. Take your time, Mr Pinch
Thank you, sir
On that they asked me -- she asked, I mean --"Wasn't there a bridle road to Mr Pecksniff's house
Without going by the Dragon?" When I said there was, and said how happy I should be to show it 'em, they sent the carriage on by the road, and came with me across the meadows. I left 'em at the turnstile to run forward and tell you they were coming, and they'll be here, sir, in -- in less than a minute's time, I should say
Now, who
who may these people be
Bless my soul, sir
I meant to mention that at first, I thought I had. I knew them -- her, I mean -- directly. The gentleman who was ill at the Dragon, sir, last winter; and the young lady who attended him
Dear, dear
what have I done? I hoped it would be a pleasant surprise, sir. I thought you would like to know
And so, Mark
and so you are glad we have left New York far behind us, are you
Yes, sir
I am. Precious glad
Were you not "jolly" there
On the contrairy, sir
The jolliest week as ever I spent in my life, was that there week at Pawkins's
What do you think of our prospects
Uncommon bright, sir
Impossible for a place to have a better name, sir, than the Walley of Eden. No man couldn't think of settling in a better place than the Walley of Eden. And I'm told
as there's lots of serpents there, so we shall come out, quite complete and reg'lar
Who told you that
A military officer
Confound you for a ridiculous fellow
What military officer? You know they spring up in every field
As thick as scarecrows in England, sir
which is a sort of milita themselves, being entirely coat and wescoat, with a stick inside. Ha, ha!-- Don't mind me, sir; it's my way sometimes. I can't help being jolly. Why it was one of them inwading conquerors at Pawkins's, as told me. "Am I rightly informed," he says -- not exactly through his nose, but as if he'd got a stoppage in it, very high up --"that you're a-going to the Walley of Eden?" "I heard some talk on it," I told him. "Oh!" says he, "if you should ever happen to go to bed there -- you MAY, you know," he says, "in course of time as civilisation progresses -- don't forget to take a axe with you." I looks at him tolerable hard. "Fleas?" says I. "And more," says he. "Wampires?" says I. "And more," says he. "Musquitoes, perhaps?" says I. "And more," says he. "What more?" says I. "Snakes more," says he; "rattle-snakes. You're right to a certain extent, stranger. There air some catawampous chawers in the small way too, as graze upon a human pretty strong; but don't mind THEM -- they're company. It's snakes," he says, "as you'll object to; and whenever you wake and see one in a upright poster on your bed," he says, "like a corkscrew with the handle off a-sittin' on its bottom ring, cut him down, for he means wenom
Why didn't you tell me this before
I never thought on it, sir
There's some probability in that
I can honestly say that I hope so, with all my heart
I've not a doubt about it, sir
anyhow, we must live, you know, sir
Live
Yes, it's easy to say live; but if we should happen not to wake when rattlesnakes are making corkscrews of themselves upon our beds, it may be not so easy to do it
And that's a fact
That's dreadful true
Now you won't overreach me; you want to, but you won't
That
is dreadful true. Darn all manner of vermin
used up considerable
What do you call this now
I don't know what it's called
It'll cost a dollar or more a yard, I reckon
I really don't know
In my country
we know the cost of our own pro-duce
Well
how's the unnat'ral old parent by this time
How's your mother
You mean the old country
Ah
How's she? Progressing back'ards, I expect, as usual? Well! How's Queen Victoria
In good health, I believe
Queen Victoria won't shake in her royal shoes at all, when she hears to-morrow named
No
Not that I am aware of. Why should she
She won't be taken with a cold chill, when she realises what is being done in these diggings
No
No
I think I could take my oath of that
Well, sir, I tell you this -- there ain't a engine with its biler bust, in God A'mighty's free U-nited States, so fixed, and nipped, and frizzled to a most e-tarnal smash, as that young critter, in her luxurious location in the Tower of London will be, when she reads the next double-extra Watertoast Gazette
Hem! Mr La Fayette Kettle
Hush
Mr La Fayette Kettle! Sir
In the name of this company, sir, and in the name of our common country, and in the name of that righteous cause of holy sympathy in which we are engaged, I thank you. I thank you, sir, in the name of the Watertoast Sympathisers; and I thank you, sir, in the name of the Watertoast Gazette; and I thank you, sir, in the name of the star-spangled banner of the Great United States, for your eloquent and categorical exposition. And if, sir
if, sir, in such a place, and at such a time, I might venture to con-clude with a sentiment, glancing -- however slantin'dicularly -- at the subject in hand, I would say, sir, may the British Lion have his talons eradicated by the noble bill of the American Eagle, and be taught to play upon the Irish Harp and the Scotch Fiddle that music which is breathed in every empty shell that lies upon the shores of green Co-lumbia
General Choke
you warm my heart; sir, you warm my heart. But the British Lion is not unrepresented here, sir; and I should be glad to hear his answer to those remarks
Upon my word
since you do me the honour to consider me his representative, I have only to say that I never heard of Queen Victoria reading the What's-his-name Gazette and that I should scarcely think it probable
It is sent to her, sir. It is sent to her. Her mail
But if it is addressed to the Tower of London, it would hardly come to hand, I fear
for she don't live there
The Queen of England, gentlemen
usually lives in the Mint to take care of the money. She HAS lodgings, in virtue of her office, with the Lord Mayor at the Mansion House; but don't often occupy them, in consequence of the parlour chimney smoking
Mark
I shall be very much obliged to you if you'll have the goodness not to interfere with preposterous statements, however jocose they may appear to you. I was merely remarking gentlemen -- though it's a point of very little import -- that the Queen of England does not happen to live in the Tower of London
General
You hear
General
General
Hush! Pray, silence
I have always remarked it as a very extraordinary circumstance, which I impute to the natur' of British Institutions and their tendency to suppress that popular inquiry and information which air so widely diffused even in the trackless forests of this vast Continent of the Western Ocean; that the knowledge of Britishers themselves on such points is not to be compared with that possessed by our intelligent and locomotive citizens. This is interesting, and confirms my observation. When you say, sir
that your Queen does not reside in the Tower of London, you fall into an error, not uncommon to your countrymen, even when their abilities and moral elements air such as to command respect. But, sir, you air wrong. She DOES live there
When she is at the Court of Saint James's
When she is at the Court of Saint James's, of course
for if her location was in Windsor Pavilion it couldn't be in London at the same time. Your Tower of London, sir
is nat'rally your royal residence. Being located in the immediate neighbourhood of your Parks, your Drives, your Triumphant Arches, your Opera, and your Royal Almacks, it nat'rally suggests itself as the place for holding a luxurious and thoughtless court. And, consequently
consequently, the court is held there
Have you been in England
In print I have, sir
not otherwise. We air a reading people here, sir. You will meet with much information among us that will surprise you, sir
I have not the least doubt of it
You know General Choke
No
You know what he is considered
One of the most remarkable men in the country
That's a fact
I was sure you must have heard of him
I think
that I have the pleasure of being the bearer of a letter of introduction to you, sir. From Mr Bevan, of Massachusetts
Well
and you think of settling in Eden
Subject to your opinion, and the agent's advice
I am told there is nothing to be done in the old towns
I can introduce you to the agent, sir
I know him. In fact, I am a member of the Eden Land Corporation myself
We have very little to venture
only a few pounds -- but it is our all. Now, do you think that for one of my profession, this would be a speculation with any hope or chance in it
Well
if there wasn't any hope or chance in the speculation, it wouldn't have engaged my dollars, I opinionate
I don't mean for the sellers
For the buyers -- for the buyers
For the buyers, sir
Well! you come from an old country; from a country, sir, that has piled up golden calves as high as Babel, and worshipped 'em for ages. We are a new country, sir; man is in a more primeval state here, sir; we have not the excuse of having lapsed in the slow course of time into degenerate practices; we have no false gods; man, sir, here, is man in all his dignity. We fought for that or nothing. Here am I, sir
here am I with grey hairs sir, and a moral sense. Would I, with my principles, invest capital in this speculation if I didn't think it full of hopes and chances for my brother man
What are the Great United States for, sir
if not for the regeneration of man? But it is nat'ral in you to make such an enquerry, for you come from England, and you do not know my country
Then you think
that allowing for the hardships we are prepared to undergo, there is a reasonable -- Heaven knows we don't expect much -- a reasonable opening in this place
A reasonable opening in Eden, sir! But see the agent, see the agent; see the maps and plans, sir; and conclude to go or stay, according to the natur' of the settlement. Eden hadn't need to go a-begging yet, sir
It is an awful lovely place, sure-ly. And frightful wholesome, likewise
concluded' to see that officer next morning. He then begged the General to inform him who the Watertoast Sympathisers were, of whom he had spoken in addressing Mr La Fayette Kettle, and on what grievances they bestowed their Sympathy. To which the General, looking very serious, made answer, that he might fully enlighten himself on those points to-morrow by attending a Great Meeting of the Body, which would then be held at the town to which they were travelling; 'over which, sir
my fellow-citizens have called on me to preside
NATIONAL HOTEL
we must hold a solemn council, for our fate is decided to-morrow morning. You are determined to invest these savings of yours in the common stock, are you
If I hadn't been determined to make that wentur, sir
I shouldn't have come
Thirty-seven pound ten and sixpence. The Savings' Bank said so at least. I never counted it. But THEY know, bless you
The money we brought with us
is reduced to a few shillings less than eight pounds
Upon the ring -- HER ring, Mark
Ah
Beg your pardon, sir
We raised, in English money, fourteen pounds. So, even with that, your share of the stock is still very much the larger of the two you see. Now, Mark
I have thought of a means of making this up to you -- more than making it up to you, I hope -- and very materially elevating your prospects in life
Oh! don't talk of that, you know, sir
I don't want no elevating, sir. I'm all right enough, sir, I am
No, but hear me
because this is very important to you, and a great satisfaction to me. Mark, you shall be a partner in the business; an equal partner with myself. I will put in, as my additional capital, my professional knowledge and ability; and half the annual profits, as long as it is carried on, shall be yours
I don't know, sir
what I can say to this, in the way of thanking you. I'll stand by you, sir, to the best of my ability, and to the last. That's all
We quite understand each other, my good fellow
We are no longer master and servant, but friends and partners; and are mutually gratified. If we determine on Eden, the business shall be commenced as soon as we get there. Under the name
under the name of Chuzzlewit and Tapley
Lord love you, sir
don't have my name in it. I ain't acquainted with the business, sir. I must be Co., I must. I've often thought
as I should like to know a Co.; but I little thought as ever I should live to be one
You shall have your own way, Mark
Against any architect in the States
Get a couple of sherry-cobblers, Mark, and we'll drink success to the firm
Well, Gen'ral
and how are you
Ac-tive and spry, sir, in my country's service and the sympathetic cause. Two gentlemen on business, Mr Scadder
Well, sir. I expect you may
You air a tongue-y person, Gen'ral. For you talk too much, and that's fact
You speak a-larming well in public, but you didn't ought to go ahead so fast in private. Now
If I can realise your meaning, ride me on a rail
You know we didn't wish to sell the lots off right away to any loafer as might bid
And they are here, sir
They are here, sir
If they air here
that's enough. But you didn't ought to have your dander ris with ME, Gen'ral
I do my duty; and I raise the dander of my feller critters, as I wish to serve
Mr Scadder
Sir! Here is my hand, and here my heart. I esteem you, sir, and ask your pardon. These gentlemen air friends of mine, or I would not have brought 'em here, sir, being well aware, sir, that the lots at present go entirely too cheap. But these air friends, sir; these air partick'ler friends
Heyday
Heyday! what's that
That's Eden
Why, I had no idea it was a city
Hadn't you? Oh, it's a city
Dear me! It's really a most important place
Oh! it's very important
But, I am afraid
that there's nothing left for me to do
Well! it ain't all built
Not quite
The market-place, now
Is that built
That
Let me see. No; that ain't built
Rather a good job to begin with -- eh, Mark
Uncommon
I suppose
I suppose there are -- several architects there
There ain't a single one
Mark
do you hear that? But whose work is all this before us, then
The soil being very fruitful, public buildings grows spontaneous, perhaps
Feel of my hands, young man
What for
Air they dirty, or air they clean, sir
I entreat, Mark
that you will not obtrude remarks of that nature, which, however harmless and well-intentioned, are quite out of place, and cannot be expected to be very agreeable to strangers. I am quite surprised
The Co
He must be a sleeping partner -- fast asleep and snoring -- Co. must; I see
You haven't said whose work it is
Well, never mind whose work it is, or isn't
No matter how it did eventuate. P'raps he cleared off, handsome, with a heap of dollars; p'raps he wasn't worth a cent. P'raps he was a loafin' rowdy; p'raps a ring-tailed roarer. Now
All your doing, Mark
P'raps
them ain't plants of Eden's raising. No! P'raps that desk and stool ain't made from Eden lumber. No! P'raps no end of squatters ain't gone out there. No! P'raps there ain't no such location in the territoary of the Great U-nited States. Oh, no
I hope you're satisfied with the success of your joke, Mark
You air a deal too open-handed, Gen'ral
It is a lot as should be rose in price. It is
Now where upon the plan may this place be
Upon the plan
Yes
There
that's where it is
If it shouldn't happen to fit
don't blame me
No, no
We'll not blame you. General, are you going
I am at your service, sir; and I wish you
joy of your po-ssession. You air now, sir, a denizen of the most powerful and highly- civilised dominion that has ever graced the world; a do-minion, sir, where man is bound to man in one vast bond of equal love and truth. May you, sir, be worthy of your a-dopted country
Well, sir
here is a spectacle calc'lated to make the British Lion put his tail between his legs, and howl with anguish, I expect
Lion! (cried that young Columbian) where is he? Who is he? What is he? Show him to me. Let me have him here. Here
upon this sacred altar. Here
upon ancestral ashes, cemented with the glorious blood poured out like water on our native plains of Chickabiddy Lick! Bring forth that Lion
Alone, I dare him! I taunt that Lion. I tell that Lion, that Freedom's hand once twisted in his mane, he rolls a corse before me, and the Eagles of the Great Republic laugh ha, ha
Who is this
Perhaps as remarkable a man as any in our country
Thus
SIR -- I address you on behalf of the Watertoast Association of United Sympathisers. It is founded, sir, in the great republic of America! and now holds its breath, and swells the blue veins in its forehead nigh to bursting, as it watches, sir, with feverish intensity and sympathetic ardour, your noble efforts in the cause of Freedom
In Freedom's name, sir -- holy Freedom -- I address you. In Freedom's name, I send herewith a contribution to the funds of your society. In Freedom's name, sir, I advert with indignation and disgust to that accursed animal, with gore-stained whiskers, whose rampant cruelty and fiery lust have ever been a scourge, a torment to the world. The naked visitors to Crusoe's Island, sir; the flying wives of Peter Wilkins; the fruit-smeared children of the tangled bush; nay, even the men of large stature, anciently bred in the mining districts of Cornwall; alike bear witness to its savage nature. Where, sir, are the Cormorans, the Blunderbores, the Great Feefofums, named in History? All, all, exterminated by its destroying hand. '"I allude, sir, to the British Lion. 

'"Devoted, mind and body, heart and soul, to Freedom, sir -- to Freedom, blessed solace to the snail upon the cellar-door, the oyster in his pearly bed, the still mite in his home of cheese, the very winkle of your country in his shelly lair -- in her unsullied name, we offer you our sympathy. Oh, sir, in this our cherished and our happy land, her fires burn bright and clear and smokeless; once lighted up in yours, the lion shall be roasted whole. 

'"I am, sir, in Freedom's name, 

'"Your affectionate friend and faithful Sympathiser, 

'"CYRUS CHOKE, 

'"General, U.S.M
My friends
my friends and fellow citizens, we have been mistaken in this man
In what man
In this
I find that he has been, and is, the advocate -- consistent in it always too -- of Nigger emancipation
I shall move
that the Watertoast Association of United Sympathisers be immediately dissolved
But, my fellow-countrymen
the contributions. We have funds. What is to be done with the funds
Tut
You're a gay flag in the distance. But let a man be near enough to get the light upon the other side and see through you; and you are but sorry fustian
Dear Sir
As secretary to the Young Men's Watertoast Association of this town, I am requested to inform you that the Society will be proud to hear you deliver a lecture upon the Tower of London, at their Hall to-morrow evening, at seven o'clock; and as a large issue of quarter-dollar tickets may be expected, your answer and consent by bearer will be considered obliging. 'Dear Sir, 

'Yours truly, 

'LA FAYETTE KETTLE. 

'The Honourable M. Chuzzlewit. 

'P.S.-- The Society would not be particular in limiting you to the Tower of London. Permit me to suggest that any remarks upon the Elements of Geology, or (if more convenient) upon the Writings of your talented and witty countryman, the honourable Mr Miller, would be well received
No. 47, Bunker Hill Street, 'Monday Morning. 

'(Private). 

'Sir -- I was raised in those interminable solitudes where our mighty Mississippi (or Father of Waters) rolls his turbid flood. 

'I am young, and ardent. For there is a poetry in wildness, and every alligator basking in the slime is in himself an Epic, self- contained. I aspirate for fame. It is my yearning and my thirst. 

'Are you, sir, aware of any member of Congress in England, who would undertake to pay my expenses to that country, and for six months after my arrival? 

'There is something within me which gives me the assurance that this enlightened patronage would not be thrown away. In literature or art; the bar, the pulpit, or the stage; in one or other, if not all, I feel that I am certain to succeed. 

'If too much engaged to write to any such yourself, please let me have a list of three or four of those most likely to respond, and I will address them through the Post Office. May I also ask you to favour me with any critical observations that have ever presented themselves to your reflective faculties, on "Cain, a Mystery," by the Right Honourable Lord Byron? 

'I am, Sir, 

'Yours (forgive me if I add, soaringly), 

'PUTNAM SMIF 

'P.S.-- Address your answer to America Junior, Messrs. Hancock &amp; Floby, Dry Goods Store, as above
Well, sir
You're quite a public man I calc'late
So it seems
Our citizens, sir
intend to pay their respects to you. You will have to hold a sort of le-vee, sir, while you're here
Powers above
I couldn't do that, my good fellow
I reckon you MUST then
Must is not a pleasant word, Captain
Well! I didn't fix the mother language, and I can't unfix it
else I'd make it pleasant. You must re-ceive. That's all
But why should I receive people who care as much for me as I care for them
Well! because I have had a muniment put up in the bar
A what
A muniment
You wouldn't be unpop'lar, I know
Our citizens an't long of riling up, I tell you; and our Gazette could flay you like a wild cat
In Heaven's name let them come, then
Oh, THEY'll come
But will you
will you at least tell me this? What do they want to see me for? what have I done? and how do they happen to have such a sudden interest in me
Upon my life, now
such a perfectly unaccountable fellow as that, I never saw. Mark, what do you say to this
Why, sir
my opinion is that we must have got to the MOST remarkable man in the country at last. So I hope there's an end to the breed, sir
receiving
There's more below! there's more below. Now, gentlemen you that have been introduced to Mr Chuzzlewit, will you clear gentlemen? Will you clear? Will you be so good as clear, gentlemen, and make a little room for more
Gentlemen, you that have been introduced to Mr Chuzzlewit, WILL you clear
Mr Chuzzlewit, I believe
That is my name
Sir
I am pressed for time
Thank God
I go back Toe my home, sir
by the return train, which starts immediate. Start is not a word you use in your country, sir
Oh yes, it is
You air mistaken, sir
but we will not pursue the subject, lest it should awake your preju -- dice. Sir, Mrs Hominy
Mrs Hominy, sir, is the lady of Major Hominy, one of our chicest spirits; and belongs Toe one of our most aristocratic families. You air, p'raps, acquainted, sir, with Mrs Hominy's writings
You have much Toe learn, and Toe enjoy, sir
Mrs Hominy is going Toe stay until the end of the Fall, sir, with her married daughter at the settlement of New Thermopylae, three days this side of Eden. Any attention, sir, that you can show Toe Mrs Hominy upon the journey, will be very grateful Toe the Major and our fellow-citizens. Mrs Hominy, I wish you good night, ma'am, and a pleasant pro-gress on your route
A'most used-up I am, I do declare
The jolting in the cars is pretty nigh as bad as if the rail was full of snags and sawyers
Snags and sawyers, ma'am
Well, then, I do suppose you'll hardly realise my meaning, sir
My! Only think! DO tell
Mark
Touch me, will you. Am I awake
Hominy is, sir
Broad awake! Just the sort of woman, sir, as would be discovered with her eyes wide open, and her mind a-working for her country's good, at any hour of the day or night
Pray, sir
where do you hail from
I am afraid I am dull of comprehension
being extremely tired; but upon my word I don't understand you
They corrupt even the language in that old country
Where was you rose
Oh
I was born in Kent
And how do you like our country, sir
Very much indeed
At least -- that is -- pretty well, ma'am
Most strangers -- and partick'larly Britishers -- are much surprised by what they see in the U-nited States
They have excellent reason to be so, ma'am
I never was so much surprised in all my life
Our institutions make our people smart much, sir
The most short-sighted man could see that at a glance, with his naked eye
My ever dearest blank
We are no worse than you
Why, what the 'Tarnal brings you here
I'll tell you plainly what it is, Captain
I want to ask you a question
A man may ASK a question, so he may
What have they been making so much of him for, now
Come
Our people like ex-citement
But how has he excited 'em
You air a-going
Going
Ain't every moment precious
Our people like ex-citement
He ain't like emigrants in gin'ral; and he excited 'em along of this;' he winked and burst into a smothered laugh; 'along of this. Scadder is a smart man, and -- and -- nobody as goes to Eden ever comes back alive
Mark! Mark
Here am I, sir
Never was half so jolly, sir. All right. Haul in! Go ahead
If this were a republic of Intellect and Worth
instead of vapouring and jobbing, they would not want the levers to keep it in motion
Having good tools, and using bad ones
would look as if they was rather a poor sort of carpenters, sir, wouldn't it
As if their work were infinitely above their powers and purpose, Mark; and they botched it in consequence
The best on it is
that when they do happen to make a decent stroke; such as better workmen, with no such opportunities, make every day of their lives and think nothing of -- they begin to sing out so surprising loud. Take notice of my words, sir. If ever the defaulting part of this here country pays its debts -- along of finding that not paying 'em won't do in a commercial point of view, you see, and is inconvenient in its consequences -- they'll take such a shine out of it, and make such bragging speeches, that a man might suppose no borrowed money had ever been paid afore, since the world was first begun. That's the way they gammon each other, sir. Bless you, I know 'em. Take notice of my words, now
You seem to be growing profoundly sagacious
Whether that is
because I'm a day's journey nearer Eden, and am brightening up afore I die, I can't say. P'rhaps by the time I get there I shall have growed into a prophet
You sleep here to-night, and go on in the morning, I suppose, ma'am
Where should I go on to
To New Thermopylae
My! ain't I there
Why that's it
THAT
Ah! that; and work it which way you will, it whips Eden
Mark
are there really none but ourselves on board this boat who are bound for Eden
None at all, sir. Most of 'em, as you know, have stopped short; and the few that are left are going further on. What matters that! More room there for us, sir
Oh, to be sure
But I was thinking
Yes, sir
How odd it was that the people should have arranged to try their fortune at a wretched hole like that, for instance, when there is such a much better, and such a very different kind of place, near at hand, as one may say
Why, you know, sir
we must guard against being too sanguine. There's no occasion for it, either, because we're determined to make the best of everything, after we know the worst of it. Ain't we, sir
Even Eden, you know, ain't all built
In the name of Heaven, man
don't talk of Eden in the same breath with that place. Are you mad? There -- God forgive me!-- don't think harshly of me for my temper
Good night
Here comes an Edener
He'll get us help to carry these things up. Keep a good heart, sir. Hallo there
Strangers
The very same
How are you, sir
I've had the fever very bad
I haven't stood upright these many weeks. Those are your notions I see
Yes, sir
they are. You couldn't recommend us some one as would lend a hand to help carry 'em up to the -- to the town, could you, sir
My eldest son would do it if he could
but today he has his chill upon him, and is lying wrapped up in the blankets. My youngest died last week
I'm sorry for it, governor, with all my heart
Don't mind us. Come along with me, and I'll give you an arm back. The goods is safe enough, sir
there ain't many people about, to make away with 'em. What a comfort that is
No
You must look for such folk here
or yonder in the bush, towards the north. We've buried most of 'em. The rest have gone away. Them that we have here, don't come out at night
The night air ain't quite wholesome, I suppose
It's deadly poison
looked quite comfortable
Lord love you, sir
Don't do that! Don't do that, sir! Anything but that! It never helped man, woman, or child, over the lowest fence yet, sir, and it never will. Besides its being of no use to you, it's worse than of no use to me, for the least sound of it will knock me flat down. I can't stand up agin it, sir. Anything but that
I ask your forgiveness a thousand times, my dear fellow
I couldn't have helped it, if death had been the penalty
Ask my forgiveness
The head partner a-asking forgiveness of Co., eh? There must be something wrong in the firm when that happens. I must have the books inspected and the accounts gone over immediate. Here we are. Everything in its proper place. Here's the salt pork. Here's the biscuit. Here's the whiskey. Uncommon good it smells too. Here's the tin pot. This tin pot's a small fortun' in itself! Here's the blankets. Here's the axe. Who says we ain't got a first-rate fit out? I feel as if I was a cadet gone out to Indy, and my noble father was chairman of the Board of Directors. Now, when I've got some water from the stream afore the door and mixed the grog
there's a supper ready, comprising every delicacy of the season. Here we are, sir, all complete. For what we are going to receive, et cetrer. Lord bless you, sir, it's very like a gipsy party
Now you see
with your knife and mine, I sticks this blanket right afore the door. Or where, in a state of high civilization, the door would be. And very neat it looks. Then I stops the aperture below, by putting the chest agin it. And very neat THAT looks. Then there's your blanket, sir. Then here's mine. And what's to hinder our passing a good night
These here tools
shall be set out in the open air to show that we come provided. And now, if any gentleman wants a house built, he'd better give his orders, afore we're other ways bespoke
Here's ugly old tree in the way, sir
which'll be all the better down. We can build the oven in the afternoon. There never was such a handy spot for clay as Eden is. That's convenient, anyhow
Don't give in, sir
Oh, Mark
what have I done in all my life that has deserved this heavy fate
Why, sir
for the matter of that, everybody as is here might say the same thing; many of 'em with better reason p'raps than you or me. Hold up, sir. Do something. Couldn't you ease your mind, now, don't you think, by making some personal obserwations in a letter to Scadder
No
I am past that
But if you're past that already
you must be ill, and ought to be attended to
Don't mind me
Do the best you can for yourself. You'll soon have only yourself to consider. And then God speed you home, and forgive me for bringing you here! I am destined to die in this place. I felt it the instant I set foot upon the shore. Sleeping or waking, Mark, I dreamed it all last night
I said you must be ill
and now I'm sure of it. A touch of fever and ague caught on these rivers, I dare say; but bless you, THAT'S nothing. It's only a seasoning, and we must all be seasoned, one way or another. That's religion that is, you know
Wait half a minute
till I run up to one of our neighbours and ask what's best to be took, and borrow a little of it to give you; and to-morrow you'll find yourself as strong as ever again. I won't be gone a minute. Don't give in while I'm away, whatever you do
Now, Mr Tapley
just you attend to what I've got to say. Things is looking about as bad as they CAN look, young man. You'll not have such another opportunity for showing your jolly disposition, my fine fellow, as long as you live. And therefore, Tapley, Now's your time to come out strong; or Never
Hallo, Pecksniff
Isn't somebody a-going to open that precious old door of yours
Immediately, Mr Jonas. Immediately
Ecod
not before it's time neither. Whoever it is, has knocked three times, and each one loud enough to wake the --' he had such a repugnance to the idea of waking the Dead, that he stopped even then with the words upon his tongue, and said, instead, 'the Seven Sleepers
Immediately, Mr Jonas; immediately
Thomas Pinch
You'll -- ha, ha, ha!-- you'll excuse me, Mr Jonas, if I close this door a moment, will you
This may be a professional call. Indeed I am pretty sure it is. Thank you
Mr Chuzzlewit! Can I believe my eyes! My dear sir; my good sir! A joyful hour, a happy hour indeed. Pray, my dear sir, walk in. You find me in my garden-dress. You will excuse it, I know. It is an ancient pursuit, gardening. Primitive, my dear sir. Or, if I am not mistaken, Adam was the first of our calling. MY Eve, I grieve to say is no more, sir; but
but I do a little bit of Adam still
My daughters
will be overjoyed. If I could feel weary upon such a theme, I should have been worn out long ago, my dear sir, by their constant anticipation of this happiness and their repeated allusions to our meeting at Mrs Todgers's. Their fair young friend, too
whom they so desire to know and love -- indeed to know her, is to love -- I hope I see her well. I hope in saying, "Welcome to my humble roof!" I find some echo in her own sentiments. If features are an index to the heart, I have no fears of that. An extremely engaging expression of countenance, Mr Chuzzlewit, my dear sir -- very much so
Mary
Mr Pecksniff flatters you. But flattery from him is worth the having. He is not a dealer in it, and it comes from his heart. We thought Mr
Pinch
Mr Pinch would have arrived before us, Pecksniff
He did arrive before you, my dear sir
and was about, I dare say, to tell me of your coming, when I begged him first to knock at my daughters' chamber, and inquire after Charity, my dear child, who is not so well as I could wish. No
I am sorry to say, she is not. It is merely an hysterical affection; nothing more, I am not uneasy. Mr Pinch! Thomas
Pray come in. I shall make no stranger of you. Thomas is a friend of mine, of rather long-standing, Mr Chuzzlewit, you must know
Thank you, sir
Old Thomas
God bless you
Pecksniff
I was much shocked on hearing of my brother's death. We had been strangers for many years. My only comfort is that he must have lived the happier and better man for having associated no hopes or schemes with me. Peace to his memory! We were play-fellows once; and it would have been better for us both if we had died then
That any man, my dear sir, could possibly be the happier for not knowing you
you will excuse my doubting. But that Mr Anthony, in the evening of his life, was happier in the affection of his excellent son -- a pattern, my dear sir, a pattern to all sons -- and in the care of a distant relation who, however lowly in his means of serving him, had no bounds to his inclination; I can inform you
How's this
You are not a legatee
You don't
quite understand my nature yet, I find. No, sir, I am not a legatee. I am proud to say I am not a legatee. I am proud to say that neither of my children is a legatee. And yet, sir, I was with him at his own request. HE understood me somewhat better, sir. He wrote and said, "I am sick. I am sinking. Come to me!" I went to him. I sat beside his bed, sir, and I stood beside his grave. Yes, at the risk of offending even you, I did it, sir. Though the avowal should lead to our instant separation, and to the severing of those tender ties between us which have recently been formed, I make it. But I am not a legatee
and I never expected to be a legatee. I knew better
His son a pattern
How can you tell me that? My brother had in his wealth the usual doom of wealth, and root of misery. He carried his corrupting influence with him, go where he would; and shed it round him, even on his hearth. It made of his own child a greedy expectant, who measured every day and hour the lessening distance between his father and the grave, and cursed his tardy progress on that dismal road
No
Not at all, sir
But I saw that shadow in his house
the last time we met, and warned him of its presence. I know it when I see it, do I not? I, who have lived within it all these years
I deny it
I deny it altogether. That bereaved young man is now in this house, sir, seeking in change of scene the peace of mind he has lost. Shall I be backward in doing justice to that young man, when even undertakers and coffin-makers have been moved by the conduct he has exhibited; when even mutes have spoken in his praise, and the medical man hasn't known what to do with himself in the excitement of his feelings! There is a person of the name of Gamp, sir -- Mrs Gamp -- ask her. She saw Mr Jonas in a trying time. Ask HER, sir. She is respectable, but not sentimental, and will state the fact. A line addressed to Mrs Gamp, at the BirdShop, Kingsgate Street, High Holborn, London, will meet with every attention, I have no doubt. Let her be examined, my good sir. Strike, but hear! Leap, Mr Chuzzlewit, but look! Forgive me, my dear sir
if I am warm; but I am honest, and must state the truth
Here now! In this house
Let me see him
In a friendly spirit, I hope
Forgive me, sir but he is in the receipt of my humble hospitality
I said
let me see him. If I were disposed to regard him in any other than a friendly spirit, I should have said keep us apart
Certainly, my dear sir. So you would. You are frankness itself, I know. I will break this happiness to him
if you will excuse me for a minute -- gently
Nephew
You have been a dutiful son, I hear
As dutiful as sons in general, I suppose
I don't brag to have been any better than other sons; but I haven't been any worse, I dare say
A pattern to all sons, I am told
Ecod
I've been as good a son as ever you were a brother. It's the pot and the kettle, if you come to that
You speak bitterly, in the violence of your regret
Give me your hand
Pecksniff
I gave him as good as he brought, eh? He had better look at home, before he looks out of window, I think
We have rooms
at the Dragon, for the present. I have a fancy for the evening walk. The nights are dark just now; perhaps Mr Pinch would not object to light us home
My dear sir
I shall be delighted. Merry, my child, the lantern
The lantern, if you please, my dear
but I couldn't think of taking your father out of doors to-night; and, to be brief, I won't
I take Mr Pinch, or go alone
Which shall it be
It shall be Thomas, sir
since you are so resolute upon it. Thomas, my friend, be very careful, if you please
And so, Mr Pinch
you are very comfortably situated here; are you
How long have you known my nephew
Your nephew, sir
Mr Jonas Chuzzlewit
Oh dear, yes
Certainly. I never spoke to him before to- night, sir
Perhaps half a lifetime will suffice for the acknowledgment of HIS kindness
You're like the rest
You had nearly imposed upon me, but you have lost your labour. You are too zealous a toad-eater, and betray yourself, Mr Pinch
Good gracious me
who would have thought of its being you! You followed us, then
What's that to you
Go to the devil
You are not very civil, I think
Civil enough for YOU
Who are you
One who has as good a right to common consideration as another
You're a liar
You haven't a right to any consideration. You haven't a right to anything. You're a pretty sort of fellow to talk about your rights, upon my soul! Ha, ha!-- Rights, too
If you proceed in this way
you will oblige me to talk about my wrongs. But I hope your joke is over
It's the way with you curs
that when you know a man's in real earnest, you pretend to think he's joking, so that you may turn it off. But that won't do with me. It's too stale. Now just attend to me for a bit, Mr Pitch, or Witch, or Stitch, or whatever your name is
My name is Pinch
Have the goodness to call me by it
What! You mustn't even be called out of your name, mustn't you
Pauper' prentices are looking up, I think. Ecod, we manage 'em a little better in the city
Never mind what you do in the city
What have you got to say to me
Just this, Mister Pinch
I advise you to keep your own counsel, and to avoid title-tattle, and not to cut in where you're not wanted. I've heard something of you, my friend, and your meek ways; and I recommend you to forget 'em till I am married to one of Pecksniff's gals, and not to curry favour among my relations, but to leave the course clear. You know, when curs won't leave the course clear, they're whipped off; so this is kind advice. Do you understand? Eh? Damme, who are you
that you should walk home with THEM, unless it was behind 'em, like any other servant out of livery
Come
I see that you had better get off the stile, and let me pursue my way home. Make room for me, if you please
Don't think it
Not till I choose. And I don't choose now. What! You're afraid of my making you split upon some of your babbling just now, are you, Sneak
I am not afraid of many things, I hope
and certainly not of anything that you will do. I am not a tale-bearer, and I despise all meanness. You quite mistake me. Ah
Is this manly from one in your position to one in mine? Please to make room for me to pass. The less I say, the better
The less you say
You say very little, don't you? Ecod, I should like to know what goes on between you and a vagabond member of my family. There's very little in that too, I dare say
I know no vagabond member of your family
You do
I don't
Your uncle's namesake, if you mean him, is no vagabond. Any comparison between you and him
is immeasurably to your disadvantage
Oh indeed
And what do you think of his deary -- his beggarly leavings, eh, Mister Pinch
I don't mean to say another word, or stay here another instant
As I told you before, you're a liar
You'll stay here till I give you leave to go. Now, keep where you are, will you
Are you hurt
I am very sorry. Lean on me for a moment. You can do that without forgiving me, if you still bear me malice. But I don't know why; for I never offended you before we met on this spot
Don't make a noise about it
It's nothing worth mentioning. I didn't know the road; the night's very dark; and just as I came up with Mr Pinch
I ran against a tree. It's only skin deep
Cold water, Merry, my child
Brown paper! Scissors! A piece of old linen! Charity, my dear, make a bandage. Bless me, Mr Jonas
Oh, bother YOUR nonsense
Be of some use if you can. If you can't, get out
Mr Pinch
Dear Mr Pinch! Tell me the truth! You did that? There was some quarrel between you, and you struck him? I am sure of it
Was it so, or not
I was very much provoked
Then it was
Ye-yes. We had a struggle for the path
But I didn't mean to hurt him so much
Not so much
Don't say that. It was brave of you. I honour you for it. If you should ever quarrel again, don't spare him for the world, but beat him down and set your shoe upon him. Not a word of this to anybody. Dear Mr Pinch, I am your friend from tonight. I am always your friend from this time
When are you to be married
Oh! dear Mr Chuzzlewit, my goodness me! I'm sure I don't know. Not yet awhile, I hope
You hope
Come
you are young, good-looking, and I think good-natured! Frivolous you are, and love to be, undoubtedly; but you must have some heart
I have not given it all away, I can tell you
Have you parted with any of it
Lor, my dear Mr Chuzzlewit! really you must excuse me! How very odd you are
If it be odd in me to desire to know whether you love the young man whom I understand you are to marry, I AM very odd
For that is certainly my wish
He's such a monster, you know
Then you don't love him
Is that your meaning
Why, my dear Mr Chuzzlewit, I'm sure I tell him a hundred times a day that I hate him. You must have heard me tell him that
Often
And so I do
I do positively
Being at the same time engaged to marry him
Oh yes
But I told the wretch -- my dear Mr Chuzzlewit, I told him when he asked me -- that if I ever did marry him, it should only be that I might hate and tease him all my life
Look about you
and remember that from your bridal hour to the day which sees you brought as low as these, and laid in such a bed, there will be no appeal against him. Think, and speak, and act, for once, like an accountable creature. Is any control put upon your inclinations? Are you forced into this match? Are you insidiously advised or tempted to contract it, by any one? I will not ask by whom; by any one
No
I don't know that I am
Don't know that you are! Are you
No
Nobody ever said anything to me about it. If any one had tried to make me have him, I wouldn't have had him at all
I am told that he was at first supposed to be your sister's admirer
Oh, good gracious! My dear Mr Chuzzlewit, it would be very hard to make him, though he IS a monster, accountable for other people's vanity
And poor dear Cherry is the vainest darling
It was her mistake, then
I hope it was
but, all along, the dear child has been so dreadfully jealous, and SO cross, that, upon my word and honour, it's impossible to please her, and it's of no use trying
Not forced, persuaded, or controlled
And that's true, I see. There is one chance yet. You may have lapsed into this engagement in very giddiness. It may have been the wanton act of a light head. Is that so
My dear Mr Chuzzlewit
as to light-headedness, there never was such a feather of a head as mine. It's perfect balloon, I declare! You never DID, you know
Have you any wish -- or is there anything within your breast that whispers you may form the wish, if you have time to think -- to be released from this engagement
didn't mind it
Has it ever occurred to you
that your married life may perhaps be miserable, full of bitterness, and most unhappy
My dear Mr Chuzzlewit, what shocking words! Of course, I shall quarrel with him. I should quarrel with any husband. Married people always quarrel, I believe. But as to being miserable, and bitter, and all those dreadful things, you know, why I couldn't be absolutely that, unless he always had the best of it; and I mean to have the best of it myself. I always do now
for I make a perfect slave of the creature
Let it go on
Let it go on! I sought to know your mind, my dear, and you have shown it me. I wish you joy. Joy
Oh, you terrible old man
What a perfectly hideous monster to be wandering about churchyards in the broad daylight, frightening people out of their wits! Don't come here, Griffin, or I'll go away directly
What's my uncle been a-talking about
About you
He says you're not half good enough for me
Oh, yes, I dare say! We all know that. He means to give you some present worth having, I hope. Did he say anything that looked like it
THAT he didn't
A stingy old dog he is
Well
Griffin
what are you doing, Griffin
Only giving you a squeeze
There's no harm in that, I suppose
But there is great deal of harm in it, if I don't consider it agreeable
Do go along, will you? You make me so hot
I say, Mel
What do you say, you vulgar thing -- you low savage
When is it to be? I can't afford to go on dawdling about here half my life, I needn't tell you, and Pecksniff says that father's being so lately dead makes very little odds; for we can be married as quiet as we please down here, and my being lonely is a good reason to the neighbours for taking a wife home so soon, especially one that he knew. As to crossbones (my uncle, I mean), he's sure not to put a spoke in the wheel, whatever we settle on, for he told Pecksniff only this morning, that if YOU liked it he'd nothing at all to say. So, Mel
when shall it be
Upon my word
Upon my soul, if you like
What do you say to next week, now
To next week! If you had said next quarter, I should have wondered at your impudence
But I didn't say next quarter
I said next week
Then, Griffin
I say no! not next week. It shan't be till I choose, and I may not choose it to be for months. There
No fright of a Griffin with a patch over his eye shall dictate to me or have a voice in the matter
There
If it's next month, that shall be the very earliest; but I won't say when it shall be till to-morrow; and if you don't like that, it shall never be at all
and if you follow me about and won't leave me alone, it shall never be at all. There!v And if you don't do everything I order you to do, it shall never be at all. So don't follow me. There, Griffin
Ecod, my lady
you'll catch it for this, when you ARE married. It's all very well now -- it keeps one on, somehow, and you know it -- but I'll pay you off scot and lot by-and-bye. This is a plaguey dull sort of a place for a man to be sitting by himself in. I never could abide a mouldy old churchyard
Ah
Make the most of it while it lasts. Get in your hay while the sun shines. Take your own way as long as it's in your power, my lady
We understand each other
Quite the buzz of insects
It puts one in mind of the sound of animated nature in the agricultural districts. It's exactly like the woodpecker tapping
The woodpecker tapping the hollow ELM tree
Ha, ha
Not at all bad, my dear. We shall be glad to hear from you again, Mrs M. Hollow elm tree, eh! Ha, ha! Very good indeed. I've seen worse than that in the Sunday papers, my love
Hollow ELM tree, eh
It's beech in the song. Elm, eh? Yes, to be sure. Ha, ha, ha! Upon my soul, that's one of the best things I know
Elm, eh? Yes, to be sure. Elm, of course. Ha, ha, ha! Upon my life, you know, that ought to be sent to somebody who could make use of it. It's one of the smartest things that ever was said. Hollow ELM tree, eh? of course. Very hollow. Ha, ha, ha
That's Tacker, I know
by the wheezing he makes. Who that hears him now, would suppose he'd ever had wind enough to carry the feathers on his head! Come in, Tacker
Beg your pardon, ma'am
I thought our Governor was here
Well! so he is
Oh! I didn't see you, I'm sure
You wouldn't be inclined to take a walking one of two, with the plain wood and a tin plate, I suppose
Certainly not
much too common. Nothing to say to it
I told 'em it was precious low
Tell 'em to go somewhere else. We don't do that style of business here
Like their impudence to propose it. Who is it
Why
that's where it is, you see. It's the beadle's son-in-law
The beadle's son-in-law, eh
Well! I'll do it if the beadle follows in his cocked hat; not else. We carry it off that way, by looking official, but it'll be low enough, then. His cocked hat, mind
I'll take care, sir
Oh! Mrs Gamp's below, and wants to speak to you
Tell Mrs Gamp to come upstairs
Now Mrs Gamp, what's YOUR news
There are some happy creeturs
as time runs back'ards with, and you are one, Mrs Mould; not that he need do nothing except use you in his most owldacious way for years to come, I'm sure; for young you are and will be. I says to Mrs Harris
only t'other day; the last Monday evening fortnight as ever dawned upon this Piljian's Projiss of a mortal wale; I says to Mrs Harris when she says to me, "Years and our trials, Mrs Gamp, sets marks upon us all."--"Say not the words, Mrs Harris, if you and me is to be continual friends, for sech is not the case. Mrs Mould, " I says, making so free, I will confess, as use the name
is one of them that goes agen the obserwation straight; and never, Mrs Harris, whilst I've a drop of breath to draw, will I set by, and not stand up, don't think it."-- "I ast your pardon, ma'am," says Mrs Harris, "and I humbly grant your grace; for if ever a woman lived as would see her feller creeturs into fits to serve her friends, well do I know that woman's name is Sairey Gamp
And likeways what a pleasure
to see them two young ladies as I know'd afore a tooth in their pretty heads was cut, and have many a day seen -- ah, the sweet creeturs!-- playing at berryins down in the shop, and follerin' the order-book to its long home in the iron safe! But that's all past and over, Mr Mould;' as she thus got in a carefully regulated routine to that gentleman, she shook her head waggishly; 'That's all past and over now, sir, an't it
Changes, Mrs Gamp, changes
More changes too, to come, afore we've done with changes, sir
Young ladies with such faces thinks of something else besides berryins, don't they, sir
I am sure I don't know, Mrs Gamp
Not bad in Mrs Gamp, my dear
Oh yes, you do know, sir
and so does Mrs Mould, your 'ansome pardner too, sir; and so do I, although the blessing of a daughter was deniged me; which, if we had had one, Gamp would certainly have drunk its little shoes right off its feet, as with our precious boy he did, and arterward send the child a errand to sell his wooden leg for any money it would fetch as matches in the rough, and bring it home in liquor; which was truly done beyond his years, for ev'ry individgle penny that child lost at toss or buy for kidney ones; and come home arterwards quite bold, to break the news, and offering to drown himself if sech would be a satisfaction to his parents.-- Oh yes, you do know, sir
There's something besides births and berryins in the newspapers, an't there, Mr Mould
No doubt. A good deal more, Mrs Gamp. Upon my life, Mrs Gamp is very far from bad, my dear
There's marryings, an't there, sir
Bless their precious hearts, and well they knows it! Well you know'd it too, and well did Mrs Mould, when you was at their time of life! But my opinion is, you're all of one age now. For as to you and Mrs Mould, sir, ever having grandchildren
Oh! Fie, fie! Nonsense, Mrs Gamp
Devilish smart, though. Ca-pi-tal
My dear
Mrs Gamp can drink a glass of rum, I dare say. Sit down, Mrs Gamp, sit down
A thing
The best of lucks to all
And what's your news, Mrs Gamp
How's Mr Chuffey
Mr Chuffey, sir
is jest as usual; he an't no better and he an't no worse. I take it very kind in the gentleman to have wrote up to you and said, "let Mrs Gamp take care of him till I come home;" but ev'rythink he does is kind. There an't a many like him. If there was, we shouldn't want no churches
What do you want to speak to me about, Mrs Gamp
Jest this, sir
with thanks to you for asking. There IS a gent, sir, at the Bull in Holborn, as has been took ill there, and is bad abed. They have a day nurse as was recommended from Bartholomew's; and well I knows her, Mr Mould, her name bein' Mrs Prig, the best of creeturs. But she is otherways engaged at night, and they are in wants of night-watching; consequent she says to them, having reposed the greatest friendliness in me for twenty year, "The soberest person going, and the best of blessings in a sick room, is Mrs Gamp. Send a boy to Kingsgate Street," she says, "and snap her up at any price, for Mrs Gamp is worth her weight and more in goldian guineas." My landlord brings the message down to me, and says, "bein' in a light place where you are, and this job promising so well, why not unite the two?" "No, sir," I says, "not unbeknown to Mr Mould, and therefore do not think it. But I will go to Mr Mould," I says, "and ast him, if you like
Night-watching, eh
And then go back, eh
Quite free, then, sir, to attend to Mr Chuffey. His ways bein' quiet, and his hours early, he'd be abed, sir, nearly all the time. I will not deny
that I am but a poor woman, and that the money is a object; but do not let that act upon you, Mr Mould. Rich folks may ride on camels, but it an't so easy for 'em to see out of a needle's eye. That is my comfort, and I hope I knows it
Well, Mrs Gamp
I don't see any particular objection to your earning an honest penny under such circumstances. I should keep it quiet, I think, Mrs Gamp. I wouldn't mention it to Mr Chuzzlewit on his return, for instance, unless it were necessary, or he asked you pointblank
The very words was on my lips, sir
Suppoging that the gent should die, I hope I might take the liberty of saying as I know'd some one in the undertaking line, and yet give no offence to you, sir
Certainly, Mrs Gamp
You may casually remark, in such a case, that we do the thing pleasantly and in a great variety of styles, and are generally considered to make it as agreeable as possible to the feelings of the survivors. But don't obtrude it, don't obtrude it. Easy, easy! My dear, you may as well give Mrs Gamp a card or two, if you please
Wishing ev'ry happiness to this happy family
with all my heart. Good arternoon, Mrs Mould! If I was Mr would I should be jealous of you, ma'am; and I'm sure, if I was you, I should be jealous of Mr Mould
Tut, tut! Bah, bah! Go along, Mrs Gamp
As to the young ladies
bless their sweet looks -- how they can ever reconsize it with their duties to be so grown up with such young parents, it an't for sech as me to give a guess at
Nonsense, nonsense. Be off, Mrs Gamp
I'll tell you what, my dear
that's a ve-ry shrewd woman. That's a woman whose intellect is immensely superior to her station in life. That's a woman who observes and reflects in an uncommon manner. She's the sort of woman now
one would almost feel disposed to bury for nothing; and do it neatly, too
only a little screwed
No better, then
Worse
Much worse
Oh! a deal badder
Poor fellow
I am sorry to hear it. The worst of it is, that I have no idea what friends or relations he has, or where they live, except that it certainly is not in London
that of all the many wague directions she had ever seen or heerd of (and they wasn't few in an hotel), THAT was the waguest
The fact is, you see
as I told you yesterday when you sent to me, I really know very little about him. We were school-fellows together; but since that time I have only met him twice. On both occasions I was in London for a boy's holiday (having come up for a week or so from Wiltshire), and lost sight of him again directly. The letter bearing my name and address which you found upon his table, and which led to your applying to me, is in answer, you will observe, to one he wrote from this house the very day he was taken ill, making an appointment with him at his own request. Here is his letter, if you wish to see it
He has very little luggage, you say
Nothing but a portmanteau
and very little in it
A few pounds in his purse, though
Yes. It's sealed up, and in the cash-box. I made a memorandum of the amount, which you're welcome to see
Well
as the medical gentleman says the fever must take its course, and nothing can be done just now beyond giving him his drinks regularly and having him carefully attended to, nothing more can be said that I know of, until he is in a condition to give us some information. Can you suggest anything else
N-no
except
Except, who's to pay, I suppose
Why
it would be as well
Quite as well
Not forgetting to remember the servants
It is but reasonable, I fully admit
At all events, you have the stock in hand to go upon for the present; and I will readily undertake to pay the doctor and the nurses
Ah
A rayal gentleman
The night-nurse
from Kingsgate Street, well beknown to Mrs Prig the day-nurse, and the best of creeturs. How is the poor dear gentleman to-night? If he an't no better yet, still that is what must be expected and prepared for. It an't the fust time by a many score, ma'am
that Mrs Prig and me has nussed together, turn and turn about, one off, one on. We knows each other's ways, and often gives relief when others fail. Our charges is but low, sir
considerin' the nater of our painful dooty. If they wos made accordin' to our wishes, they would be easy paid
I began to think you warn't a-coming
It shall be made good to-morrow night
Honorable. I had to go and fetch my things
Oh
he's quiet, but his wits is gone. It an't no matter wot you say
Anythin' to tell afore you goes, my dear
The pickled salmon
is quite delicious. I can partlck'ler recommend it. Don't have nothink to say to the cold meat, for it tastes of the stable. The drinks is all good
The physic and them things is on the drawers and mankleshelf
He took his last slime draught at seven. The easy-chair an't soft enough. You'll want his piller
A little dull, but not so bad as might be
I'm glad to see a parapidge, in case of fire, and lots of roofs and chimley-pots to walk upon
harder than a brickbadge
Ah
he'd make a lovely corpse
a little bit of fire
I think, young woman
that I could pick a little bit of pickled salmon, with a nice little sprig of fennel, and a sprinkling of white pepper. I takes new bread, my dear, with just a little pat of fresh butter, and a mossel of cheese. In case there should be such a thing as a cowcumber in the 'ouse, will you be so kind as bring it, for I'm rather partial to 'em, and they does a world of good in a sick room. If they draws the Brighton Old Tipper here, I takes THAT ale at night, my love, it bein' considered wakeful by the doctors. And whatever you do, young woman, don't bring more than a shilling's-worth of gin and water-warm when I rings the bell a second time; for that is always my allowance, and I never takes a drop beyond
look sharp
Ah
what a blessed thing it is -- living in a wale -- to be contented! What a blessed thing it is to make sick people happy in their beds, and never mind one's self as long as one can do a service! I don't believe a finer cowcumber was ever grow'd. I'm sure I never see one
I a'most forgot the piller, I declare
There! Now he's comfortable as he can be, I'm sure! I must try to make myself as much so as I can
Come! Hold your tongue
Don't make none of that noise here
Ah
I thought I was a-sleepin' too pleasant to last! The devil's in the night, I think, it's turned so chilly
Don't drink so much
You'll ruin us all. Don't you see how the fountain sinks? Look at the mark where the sparkling water was just now
Sparkling water, indeed
I'll have a sparkling cup o' tea, I think. I wish you'd hold your noise
One -- two -- three -- four -- five -- six
That makes five hundred and twenty-one men, all dressed alike, and with the same distortion on their faces, that have passed in at the window, and out at the door
Look there! Five hundred and twenty-two -- twenty-three -- twenty-four. Do you see them
Ah! I see 'em
all the whole kit of 'em numbered like hackney-coaches, an't they
Touch me! Let me be sure of this. Touch me
You'll take your next draught when I've made the kettle bile
and you'll be touched then. You'll be touched up, too, if you don't take it quiet
Five hundred and twenty-eight, five hundred and twenty-nine, five hundred and thirty.-- Look here
What's the matter now
They're coming four abreast, each man with his arm entwined in the next man's, and his hand upon his shoulder. What's that upon the arm of every man, and on the flag
Spiders, p'raps
Crape! Black crape! Good God! why do they wear it outside
Would you have 'em carry black crape in their insides
Hold your noise, hold your noise
Chuzzlewit
It seemed to make the wery bottles ring
What could I have been a-dreaming of? That dratted Chuffey, I'll be bound
Chuzzlewit! Jonas! No
What sort of a night, nurse
Restless, sir
Talk much
Middling, sir
Nothing to the purpose, I suppose
Oh bless you, no, sir. Only jargon
Well
we must keep him quiet; keep the room cool; give him his draughts regularly; and see that he's carefully looked to. That's all
And as long as Mrs Prig and me waits upon him, sir, no fear of that
I suppose
there's nothin' new
Nothin' at all, my dear
He's rather wearin' in his talk from making up a lot of names; elseways you needn't mind him
Oh, I shan't mind him
I have somethin' else to think of
I pays my debts to-night, you know, my dear, and comes afore my time
But, Betsy Prig
try the cowcumbers, God bless you
It's the greediest little bell to ring
that ever was. But it's quiet at last
Now, STOO-PID
Can't you look where you're a-going to -- eh? Can't you mind where you're a-coming to -- eh? What do you think your eyes was made for -- eh? Ah! Yes. Oh! Now then
What! Polly
Why, it an't you, sure
It can't be you
No. It an't me
It's my son, my oldest one. He's a credit to his father, an't he, Polly
I wouldn't have believed it
What! You've left your old place, then? Have you
Have I
D'ye know a pair of top- boots when you see 'em, Polly?-- look here
D'ye know a slap-up sort of button, when you see it
Don't look at mine, if you ain't a judge, because these lions' heads was made for men of taste; not snobs
Beau-ti-ful
A grass-green frock-coat, too, bound with gold; and a cockade in your hat
I should hope so
Blow the cockade, though; for, except that it don't turn round, it's like the wentilator that used to be in the kitchen winder at Todgers's. You ain't seen the old lady's name in the Gazette, have you
No
Is she a bankrupt
If she ain't, she will be
Oh! I'm pretty well
'em. That's a gentleman ain't it? You wouldn't like a ride in a cab, would you? Why, it wouldn't be safe to offer it. You'd faint away, only to see me a-comin' at a mild trot round the corner
Why, he's own uncle to Capricorn
and brother to Cauliflower. He's been through the winders of two chaney shops since we've had him, and was sold for killin' his missis. That's a horse, I hope
Ah! you'll never want to buy any more red polls, now
You'll never want to buy any more red polls now, to hang up over the sink, will you
I should think not
Reether so. I wouldn't have nothin' to say to any bird below a Peacock; and HE'd be wulgar. Well, how are you
Oh! I'm pretty well
Wot are you up to, old feller
Why, I am going to fetch my lodger home
A woman
for a twenty-pun' note
He's newly married, and he brings his young wife home to-night
So I'm going to fetch my lodger away -- Mr Chuzzlewit's, close behind the Post Office -- and carry her box for her
Jonas Chuzzlewit's
Ah
that's the name sure enough. Do you know him
Oh, no
not at all. And I don't know her! Not neither! Why, they first kept company through me, a'most
Ah
Ah
and she ain't bad looking mind you. But her sister was the best. SHE was the merry one. I often used to have a bit of fun with her, in the hold times
It's very good, I'm sure, of you to come
as well as bring so nice a friend. But I'm afraid that I must trouble you so far as to step in, for the young couple has not yet made appearance
They're late, ain't they
Well, sir, considern' the Wings of Love, they are
He knows Mrs Chuzzlewit
There's nothin' he don't know; that's my opinion
All the wickedness of the world is Print to him
reether so
As you knows Mrs Chuzzlewit, you knows, p'raps, what her chris'en name is
Charity
That it ain't
Cherry, then
Cherry's short for it. It's all the same
It don't begin with a C at all
It begins with a M
Whew
then he's been and married the merry one
Wishing you appiness and joy with all my art
and you, too, sir. Your lady looks a little tired with the journey, Mr Chuzzlewit, a pretty dear
She has bothered enough about it
Now, show a light, will you
This way, ma'am, if you please
Things has been made as comfortable as they could be, but there's many things you'll have to alter your own self when you gets time to look about you! Ah! sweet thing! But you don't
you don't look much like a merry one, I must say
So there you are, Mr Chuff
still in the land of the living, eh
Still in the land of the living, sir
And Mr Chuffey may thank you for it, as many and many a time I've told him
We don't want you any more, you know, Mrs Gamp
I'm a-going immediate, sir
unless there's nothink I can do for you, ma'am. Ain't there
ain't there nothink I can do for you, my little bird
No
You had better go away, please
Would you be so good, my darling dovey of a dear young married lady
as put that somewheres where you can keep it in your mind? I'm well beknown to many ladies, and it's my card. Gamp is my name, and Gamp my nater. Livin' quite handy, I will make so bold as call in now and then, and make inquiry how your health and spirits is, my precious chick
But I will say, and I would if I was led a Martha to the Stakes for it
that she don't look much like a merry one at this present moment of time
Ah! wait till you hear her laugh
Hem
I will, child
It ain't good enough for you, I suppose
Why, it IS dull
It'll be duller before you're done with it
if you give me any of your airs. You're a nice article, to turn sulky on first coming home! Ecod, you used to have life enough, when you could plague me with it. The gal's downstairs. Ring the bell for supper, while I take my boots off
You are not married
Not married
Yes. A month ago. Good Heaven, what is the matter
Oh! woe, woe, woe, upon this wicked house
Governor
A barrow, good people, a mere barrow; nothing to what we could do, if we chose
Ah! would you
Did you think it, then
Where are you going to now
No, you won't, my lad
un, who trusted YOU with a cart
Why they didn't go to the workhouse and get an order to be buried
The secretary's salary, David
the office being now established, is eight hundred pounds per annum, with his house- rent, coals, and candles free. His five-and-twenty shares he holds, of course. Is that enough
If that's enough
I will propose it at the Board to-day, in my capacity as chairman
It was a capital thought, wasn't it
What was a capital thought, David
The Anglo-Bengalee
The Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Assurance Company is rather a capital concern, I hope, David
Capital indeed
in one sense
In the only important one
which is number one, David
What
what will be the paid up capital, according to the next prospectus
A figure of two, and as many oughts after it as the printer can get into the same line
Ha, ha
What a chap you are
Say, genius, David, genius
Well, upon my soul, you ARE a genius then
I always knew you had the gift of the gab, of course; but I never believed you were half the man you are. How could I
I rise with circumstances, David. That's a point of genius in itself
If you were to lose a hundred pound wager to me at this minute David, and were to pay it (which is most confoundedly improbable), I should rise, in a mental point of view, directly
Ha, ha
When I look at you, and think of your property in Bengal being -- ha, ha, ha
Being
being amenable -- your property in Bengal being amenable -- to all claims upon the company; when I look at you and think of that, you might tickle me into fits by waving the feather of a pen at me. Upon my soul you might
It a devilish fine property
to be amenable to any claims. The preserve of tigers alone is worth a mint of money, David
Oh, what a chap you are
A capital idea
no doubt it was a capital idea. It was my idea
No, no. It was my idea
Hang it, let a man have some credit. Didn't I say to you that I'd saved a few pounds
You said! Didn't I say to you
that I had come into a few pounds
Certainly you did
but that's not the idea. Who said, that if we put the money together we could furnish an office, and make a show
And who said
that, provided we did it on a sufficiently large scale, we could furnish an office and make a show, without any money at all? Be rational, and just, and calm, and tell me whose idea was that
Why, there
you had the advantage of me, I admit. But I don't put myself on a level with you. I only want a little credit in the business
All the credit you deserve to have
The plain work of the company, David -- figures, books, circulars, advertisements, pen, ink, and paper, sealing-wax and wafers -- is admirably done by you. You are a first-rate groveller. I don't dispute it. But the ornamental department, David; the inventive and poetical department
Is entirely yours
No question of it. But with such a swell turnout as this, and all the handsome things you've got about you, and the life you lead, I mean to say it's a precious comfortable department too
Does it gain the purpose? Is it Anglo-Bengalee
Yes
Could you undertake it yourself
No
Ha, ha
Then be contented with your station and your profits, David, my fine fellow, and bless the day that made us acquainted across the counter of our common uncle, for it was a golden day to you
branch' in a first floor over a tailor's at the west-end of the town, and main offices in a new street in the City, comprising the upper part of a spacious house resplendent in stucco and plate-glass, with wire-blinds in all the windows, and 'Anglo-Bengalee' worked into the pattern of every one of them. On the doorpost was painted again in large letters, 'offices of the Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Assurance Company
Be a Beadle
Room for the chairman, room for the chairman, if you please
Bullamy
Sir
Let the Medical Officer know, with my compliments, that I wish to see him
The Chairman of the Board wishes to see the Medical Officer. By your leave there! By your leave
Jobling, my dear friend
how are you? Bullamy, wait outside. Crimple, don't leave us. Jobling, my good fellow, I am glad to see you
And how are you, Mr Montague, eh
How are you? A little worn with business, eh? If so, rest. A little feverish from wine, humph? If so, water. Nothing at all the matter, and quite comfortable? Then take some lunch. A very wholesome thing at this time of day to strengthen the gastric juices with lunch, Mr Montague
I always take it myself about this time of day, do you know
Bullamy
Sir
Lunch
Not on my account, I hope
You are very good. Thank you. I'm quite ashamed. Ha, ha! if I had been a sharp practitioner, Mr Montague, I shouldn't have mentioned it without a fee; for you may depend upon it, my dear sir, that if you don't make a point of taking lunch, you'll very soon come under my hands. Allow me to illustrate this. In Mr Crimple's leg
In Mr Crimple's leg, you'll observe
where Mr Crimple's knee fits into the socket, here, there is -- that is to say, between the bone and the socket -- a certain quantity of animal oil
What do you pick MY leg out for
It's the same with other legs, ain't it
Never you mind, my good sir
whether it is the same with other legs, or not the same
But I do mind
I take a particular case, Mr Montague
as illustrating my remark, you observe. In this portion of Mr Crimple's leg, sir, there is a certain amount of animal oil. In every one of Mr Crimple's joints, sir, there is more or less of the same deposit. Very good. If Mr Crimple neglects his meals, or fails to take his proper quantity of rest, that oil wanes, and becomes exhausted. What is the consequence? Mr Crimple's bones sink down into their sockets, sir, and Mr Crimple becomes a weazen, puny, stunted, miserable man
We know a few secrets of nature in our profession, sir
Of course we do. We study for that; we pass the Hall and the College for that; and we take our station in society BY that. It's extraordinary how little is known on these subjects generally. Where do you suppose, now
where do you suppose Mr Crimple's stomach is
Not at all
not at all. Quite a popular mistake! My good sir, you're altogether deceived
I feel it there, when it's out of order; that's all I know
You think you do
but science knows better. There was a patient of mine once
a gentleman who did me the honour to make a very handsome mention of me in his will --"in testimony," as he was pleased to say, "of the unremitting zeal, talent, and attention of my friend and medical attendant, John Jobling, Esquire, M.R.C.S.,"-- who was so overcome by the idea of having all his life laboured under an erroneous view of the locality of this important organ, that when I assured him on my professional reputation, he was mistaken, he burst into tears, put out his hand, and said, "Jobling, God bless you!" Immediately afterwards he became speechless, and was ultimately buried at Brixton
By your leave there
By your leave! Refreshment for the Board-room
Ha
The true Life Assurance, Mr Montague. The best Policy in the world, my dear sir. We should be provident, and eat and drink whenever we can. Eh, Mr Crimple
Ah
I know what you're going to say better than you do; but go on, go on
full of anecdote;' and his experience and profit from it were considered, for the same reason, to be something much too extensive for description. His female patients could never praise him too highly; and the coldest of his male admirers would always say this for him to their friends, 'that whatever Jobling's professional skill might be (and it could not be denied that he had a very high reputation), he was one of the most comfortable fellows you ever saw in your life
Why, my dear sir, with regard to the Anglo-Bengalee, my information, you see, is limited; very limited. I am the medical officer, in consideration of a certain monthly payment. The labourer is worthy of his hire; BIS DAT QUI CITO DAT
classical scholar, Jobling
well-read man
and I receive it regularly. Therefore I am bound, so far as my own knowledge goes, to speak well of the establishment
Nothing can be fairer than Jobling's conduct
If you put any question to me, my dear friend
touching the responsibility or capital of the company, there I am at fault; for I have no head for figures, and not being a shareholder, am delicate of showing any curiosity whatever on the subject. Delicacy -- your amiable lady will agree with me I am sure -- should be one of the first characteristics of a medical man
Nothing can be finer or more gentlemanly than Jobling's feeling
Very good, my dear sir, so the matter stands. You don't know Mr Montague? I'm sorry for it. A remarkably handsome man, and quite the gentleman in every respect. Property, I am told, in India. House and everything belonging to him, beautiful. Costly furniture on the most elegant and lavish scale. And pictures, which, even in an anatomical point of view, are per-fection. In case you should ever think of doing anything with the company, I'll pass you, you may depend upon it. I can conscientiously report you a healthy subject. If I understand any man's constitution, it is yours; and this little indisposition has done him more good, ma'am
than if he had swallowed the contents of half the nonsensical bottles in my surgery. For they ARE nonsense -- to tell the honest truth, one half of them are nonsense -- compared with such a constitution as his
Jobling is the most friendly creature I ever met with in my life
and upon my word and honour, I'll consider of it
Commission to you, doctor, on four new policies, and a loan this morning, eh
Well done
Jobling, my dear friend
long life to you
No, no. Nonsense. Upon my word I've no right to draw the commission
I haven't really. It's picking your pocket. I don't recommend anybody here. I only say what I know. My patients ask me what I know, and I tell 'em what I know. Nothing else. Caution is my weak side, that's the truth; and always was from a boy. That is
caution in behalf of other people. Whether I would repose confidence in this company myself, if I had not been paying money elsewhere for many years -- that's quite another question
Talking of wine
reminds me of one of the finest glasses of light old port I ever drank in my life; and that was at a funeral. You have not seen anything of -- of THAT party, Mr Montague, have you
He is not buried, I hope
The honour of his company is not requested if he is
Ha, ha
No; not quite. He was honourably connected with that very occasion though
Oh
I recollect. No. He has not been here
Talk of the what's his name
And he's sure to appear, eh
Why, no, Mr Montague, no
We will not say that in the present case, for this gentleman is very far from it
So much the better
So much the more adaptable to the Anglo-Bengalee. Bullamy, clear the table and take the things out by the other door. Mr Crimple, business
Shall I introduce him
I shall be eternally delighted
Mr Montague
Allow me. My friend Mr Chuzzlewit. My dear friend -- our chairman. Now do you know
that's a very singular instance of the force of example. It really is a very remarkable instance of the force of example. I say OUR chairman. Why do I say our chairman? Because he is not MY chairman, you know. I have no connection with the company, farther than giving them, for a certain fee and reward, my poor opinion as a medical man, precisely as I may give it any day to Jack Noakes or Tom Styles. Then why do I say our chairman? Simply because I hear the phrase constantly repeated about me. Such is the involuntary operation of the mental faculty in the imitative biped man. Mr Crimple, I believe you never take snuff? Injudicious. You should
Now you two gentlemen have business to discuss, I know
and your time is precious. So is mine; for several lives are waiting for me in the next room, and I have a round of visits to make after -- after I have taken 'em. Having had the happiness to introduce you to each other, I may go about my business. Good-bye. But allow me, Mr Montague, before I go, to say this of my friend who sits beside you: That gentleman has done more, sir
to reconcile me to human nature, than any man alive or dead. Good-bye
I learn from our friend
that you have been thinking
Oh! Ecod then he'd no right to say so
I didn't tell HIM my thoughts. If he took it into his head that I was coming here for such or such a purpose, why, that's his lookout. I don't stand committed by that
If I come here to ask a question or two, and get a document or two to consider of, I don't bind myself to anything. Let's understand that, you know
My dear fellow
I applaud your frankness. If men like you and I speak openly at first, all possible misunderstanding is avoided. Why should I disguise what you know so well, but what the crowd never dream of? We companies are all birds of prey; mere birds of prey. The only question is, whether in serving our own turn, we can serve yours too; whether in double-lining our own nest, we can put a single living into yours. Oh, you're in our secret. You're behind the scenes. We'll make a merit of dealing plainly with you, when we know we can't help it
You an't a bad man of business, Mr Montague. You know how to set about it, I WILL say
Tut, tut
we are not children, Mr Chuzzlewit; we are grown men, I hope
The truth is
Don't say, the truth
It's so like humbug
The long and the short of it is
Better
Much better
That I didn't consider myself very well used by one or two of the old companies in some negotiations I have had with 'em -- once had, I mean. They started objections they had no right to start, and put questions they had no right to put, and carried things much too high for my taste
Take a glass of wine
No, no
none of that, thankee. No wine over business. All very well for you, but it wouldn't do for me
What an old hand you are, Mr Chuzzlewit
You're right there
Not such an old hand, either, but that I've been and got married. That's rather green, you'll say. Perhaps it is, especially as she's young. But one never knows what may happen to these women, so I'm thinking of insuring her life. It is but fair, you know, that a man should secure some consolation in case of meeting with such a loss
If anything can console him under such heart-breaking circumstances
Exactly
if anything can. Now, supposing I did it here, I should do it cheap, I know, and easy, without bothering her about it; which I'd much rather not do, for it's just in a woman's way to take it into her head, if you talk to her about such things, that she's going to die directly
So it is
You're quite right. Sweet, silly, fluttering little simpletons
Well
on that account, you know, and because offence has been given me in other quarters, I wouldn't mind patronizing this Company. But I want to know what sort of security there is for the Company's going on. That's the
Not the truth
Don't use that Sunday School expression, please
The long and the short of it
The long and the short of it is, what's the security
The paid-up capital, my dear sir
is, at this present moment
Oh! I understand all about paid-up capitals, you know
You do
I should hope so
I know you do. I know you do. Look at me
You know me
You recollect? You've seen me before
Why, I thought I remembered your face when I first came in
but I couldn't call to mind where I had seen it. No. I don't remember, even now. Was it in the street
Was it in Pecksniff's parlour
In Pecksniff's parlour
You don't mean when
Yes
when there was a very charming and delightful little family party, at which yourself and your respected father assisted
Well, never mind HIM
He's dead, and there's no help for it
Dead, is he
Venerable old gentleman, is he dead! You're very like him
Do you find me at all changed since that time
Speak plainly
Rather, ecod
Was I at all seedy in those days
Precious seedy
Neat; perhaps dashing. Do you know whose it is
No
Mine. Do you like this room
It must have cost a lot of money
You're right. Mine too. Why don't you
why don't you take premiums, instead of paying 'em? That's what a man like you should do. Join us
Is that a crowded street
Very
There are printed calculations
which will tell you pretty nearly how many people will pass up and down that thoroughfare in the course of a day. I can tell you how many of 'em will come in here, merely because they find this office here; knowing no more about it than they do of the Pyramids. Ha, ha! Join us. You shall come in cheap
I can tell you
how many of 'em will buy annuities, effect insurances, bring us their money in a hundred shapes and ways, force it upon us, trust us as if we were the Mint; yet know no more about us than you do of that crossing-sweeper at the corner. Not so much. Ha, ha
Yah
you're too deep for us, you dog, or I wouldn't have told you. Dine with me to-morrow, in Pall Mall
Done
Wait a bit. Take these papers with you and look 'em over. See
B is a little tradesman, clerk, parson, artist, author, any common thing you like
Yes
Well
B wants a loan. Say fifty or a hundred pound; perhaps more; no matter. B proposes self and two securities. B is accepted. Two securities give a bond. B assures his own life for double the amount, and brings two friends' lives also -- just to patronize the office. Ha ha, ha! Is that a good notion
Ecod, that's a capital notion
But does he really do it
Do it
B's hard up, my good fellow, and will do anything. Don't you see? It's my idea
It does you honour. I'm blest if it don't
I think it does
and I'm proud to hear you say so. B pays the highest lawful interest
That an't much
Right! quite right
And hard it is upon the part of the law that it should be so confoundedly down upon us unfortunate victims; when it takes such amazing good interest for itself from all its clients. But charity begins at home, and justice begins next door. Well! The law being hard upon us, we're not exactly soft upon B; for besides charging B the regular interest, we get B's premium, and B's friends' premiums, and we charge B for the bond, and, whether we accept him or not, we charge B for "inquiries" (we keep a man, at a pound a week, to make 'em), and we charge B a trifle for the secretary; and in short, my good fellow, we stick it into B, up hill and down dale, and make a devilish comfortable little property out of him. Ha, ha, ha! I drive B, in point of fact
and a thoroughbred horse he is. Ha, ha, ha
Then
we grant annuities on the very lowest and most advantageous terms known in the money market; and the old ladies and gentlemen down in the country buy 'em. Ha, ha, ha! And we pay 'em too -- perhaps. Ha, ha, ha
But there's responsibility in that
I take it all myself
Here I am responsible for everything. The only responsible person in the establishment! Ha, ha, ha! Then there are the Life Assurances without loans; the common policies. Very profitable, very comfortable. Money down, you know; repeated every year; capital fun
But when they begin to fall in
It's all very well, while the office is young, but when the policies begin to die -- that's what I am thinking of
At the first start, my dear fellow
to show you how correct your judgment is, we had a couple of unlucky deaths that brought us down to a grand piano
Brought you down where
I give you my sacred word of honour
that I raised money on every other individual piece of property, and was left alone in the world with a grand piano. And it was an upright- grand too, so that I couldn't even sit upon it. But, my dear fellow, we got over it. We granted a great many new policies that week (liberal allowance to solicitors, by the bye), and got over it in no time. Whenever they should chance to fall in heavily, as you very justly observe they may, one of these days; then
Bolt
Why, you're as bold as brass
A man can well afford to be as bold as brass, my good fellow, when he gets gold in exchange
You'll dine with me to-morrow
At what time
Seven. Here's my card. Take the documents. I see you'll join us
I don't know about that
There's a good deal to be looked into first
You shall look
into anything and everything you please. But you'll join us, I am convinced. You were made for it. Bullamy
By your leave there, by your leave! Gentleman from the board-room, by your leave
Is Nadgett in the office there
Here he is, sir
Mr Nadgett
any information about this name, I shall be glad to have myself. Don't you mind what it is. Any you can scrape together, bring me. Bring it to me, Mr Nadgett
To make a swingeing profit, have a lot of chaps to order about, and get into regular good society by one and the same means, and them so easy to one's hand, ain't such a bad look-out
Mr Montague at home
I should hope he wos at home, and waiting dinner, too
Will you take your hat up along with you, or leave it here
The hold name, I suppose
What, don't you remember hold mother Todgers's
Don't you remember my taking your name up to the young ladies, when you came a-courting there? A reg'lar scaly old shop, warn't it? Times is changed ain't they. I say how you've growed
My dear friend, I am delighted to see you. Jobling you know, I believe
I think so
I trust I have the honour. I hope so. My dear sir, I see you well. Quite well? THAT'S well
Mr Wolf
Mr Chuzzlewit. Mr Pip, Mr Chuzzlewit
Men of the world, my dear sir -- men of the world. Hem! Mr Wolf -- literary character -- you needn't mention it -- remarkably clever weekly paper -- oh, remarkably clever! Mr Pip -- theatrical man -- capital man to know -- oh, capital man
Well
And what did Lord Nobley say to that
Why
He didn't know what to say. Same, sir, if he wasn't as mute as a poker. But you know what a good fellow Nobley is
The best fellow in the world
It as only last week that Nobley said to me, "By Gad, Wolf, I've got a living to bestow, and if you had but been brought up at the University, strike me blind if I wouldn't have made a parson of you
Just like him
And he'd have done it
Not a doubt of it
But you were going to tell us
Oh, yes
To be sure. So I was. At first he was dumb -- sewn up, dead, sir -- but after a minute he said to the Duke, "Here's Pip. Ask Pip. Pip's our mutual friend. Ask Pip. He knows." "Damme!" said the Duke, "I appeal to Pip then. Come, Pip. Bandy or not bandy? Speak out!" "Bandy, your Grace, by the Lord Harry!" said I. "Ha, ha!" laughed the Duke. "To be sure she is. Bravo, Pip. Well said Pip. I wish I may die if you're not a trump, Pip. Pop me down among your fashionable visitors whenever I'm in town, Pip." And so I do, to this day
A glass of wine
Oh
As much of that as you like! It's too good to refuse
Well said, Mr Chuzzlewit
Tom Gag, upon my soul
Positively, you know, that's -- ha, ha, ha
that's epigrammatic; quite
You're tolerably comfortable, I hope
Oh! You needn't trouble your head about ME
Famous
I thought it best not to have a party
You feel that
Why, what do you call this
You don't mean to say you do this every day, do you
My dear fellow
And pretty smooth, too, ecod
This don't cost a trifle
Why, to be candid with you, it does not
But I like this sort of thing. It's the way I spend my money
Was it
When you join us, you won't get rid of your share of the profits in the same way
Quite different
Well, and you're right
You needn't. It's not necessary. One of a Company must do it to hold the connection together; but, as I take a pleasure in it, that's my department. You don't mind dining expensively at another man's expense, I hope
Not a bit
Then I hope you'll often dine with me
Ah
I don't mind. On the contrary
And I'll never attempt to talk business to you over wine, I take my oath
Oh deep, deep, deep of you this morning! I must tell 'em that. They're the very men to enjoy it. Pip, my good fellow, I've a splendid little trait to tell you of my friend Chuzzlewit who is the deepest dog I know; I give you my sacred word of honour he is the deepest dog I know, Pip
a warm complexion
Men of the world, my dear sir
thorough men of the world! To a professional person like myself it's quite refreshing to come into this kind of society. It's not only agreeable -- and nothing CAN be more agreeable -- but it's philosophically improving. It's character, my dear sir; character
Mr Chuzzlewit didn't know him, I'm afraid
No
But we must bring him into contact with this sort of fellows
He was very fond of literature
Was he
Oh, yes; he took my paper regularly for many years. Do you know he said some good things now and then? He asked a certain Viscount, who's a friend of mine -- Pip knows him -- "What's the editor's name, what's the editor's name?" "Wolf." "Wolf, eh? Sharp biter, Wolf. We must keep the Wolf from the door, as the proverb says. It was very well. And being complimentary, I printed it
But the Viscount's the boy
The Viscount's the boy! He came into our place one night to take Her home; rather slued, but not much; and said, "Where's Pip? I want to see Pip. Produce Pip!" --"What's the row, my lord?"--"Shakspeare's an infernal humbug, Pip! What's the good of Shakspeare, Pip? I never read him. What the devil is it all about, Pip? There's a lot of feet in Shakspeare's verse, but there an't any legs worth mentioning in Shakspeare's plays, are there, Pip? Juliet, Desdemona, Lady Macbeth, and all the rest of 'em, whatever their names are, might as well have no legs at all, for anything the audience know about it, Pip. Why, in that respect they're all Miss Biffins to the audience, Pip. I'll tell you what it is. What the people call dramatic poetry is a collection of sermons. Do I go to the theatre to be lectured? No, Pip. If I wanted that, I'd go to church. What's the legitimate object of the drama, Pip? Human nature. What are legs? Human nature. Then let us have plenty of leg pieces, Pip, and I'll stand by you, my buck!" and I am proud to say
that he DID stand by me, handsomely
Be one of us
stood treat
Is he hooked, do you think
Aye
With a strong iron, perhaps. Has Nadgett been here to-night
Yes. I went out to him. Hearing you had company, he went away
Why did he do that
He said he would come back early in the morning, before you were out of bed
Tell them to be sure and send him up to my bedside. Hush! Here's the boy! Now Mr Bailey, take this gentleman home, and see him safely in. Hallo, here! Why Chuzzlewit, halloa
Aha
There you are, are you? What's the matter? Ain't you well, though
Don't be frightened
There ain't nothing the matter. I've brought home Mr Chuzzlewit. He ain't ill. He's only a little swipey, you know
Have you come from Mrs Todgers's
Todgers's, bless you! No
I haven't got nothin, to do with Todgers's. I cut that connection long ago. He's been a- dining with my governor at the west-end. Didn't you know he was a- coming to see us
No
Oh yes! We're heavy swells too, and so I tell you. Don't you come out, a-catching cold in your head. I'll wake him
We've got home, my flower! Tumble up, then
You go up first with the light
and we'll foller. Don't tremble so. He won't hurt you. When I've had a drop too much, I'm full of good natur myself
There
He's all right now. You ain't got nothing to cry for, bless you! He's righter than a trivet
Ah
What, you're wicious, are you? Would you though! You'd better not
Pray, go away
Bailey, my good boy, go home. Jonas
Jonas
Look at her
Look here! Look at her! Here's a bargain for a man
Dear Jonas
Dear Devil
You're a pretty clog to be tied to a man for life, you mewling, white-faced cat! Get out of my sight
I know you don't mean it, Jonas. You wouldn't say it if you were sober
I wouldn't say it if I was sober
You know better. Have I never said it when I was sober
Often, indeed
Hark ye
You made me bear your pretty humours once, and ecod I'll make you bear mine now. I always promised myself I would. I married you that I might. I'll know who's master, and who's slave
Heaven knows I am obedient
Much more so than I ever thought to be
What! you're finding it out, are you! Patience, and you will in time! Griffins have claws, my girl. There's not a pretty slight you ever put upon me, nor a pretty trick you ever played me, nor a pretty insolence you ever showed me, that I won't pay back a hundred-fold. What else did I marry you for? YOU, too
Oho
you're deaf, are you? You don't hear me, eh? So much the better for you. I hate you. I hate myself, for having, been fool enough to strap a pack upon my back for the pleasure of treading on it whenever I choose. Why, things have opened to me, now, so that I might marry almost where I liked. But I wouldn't; I'd keep single. I ought to be single, among the friends I know. Instead of that, here I am, tied like a log to you. Pah! Why do you show your pale face when I come home? Am I never to forget you
How late it is
Broad day, Jonas
Broad day or black night, what do I care
The night passed quickly, too. I don't mind sitting up, at all
Sit up for me again, if you dare
I was reading
all night long. I began when you went out, and read till you came home again. The strangest story, Jonas! And true, the book says. I'll tell it you to-morrow
True, was it
So the book says
Was there anything in it, about a man's being determined to conquer his wife, break her spirit, bend her temper, crush all her humours like so many nut-shells -- kill her, for aught I know
No. Not a word
Oh
That'll be a true story though, before long; for all the book says nothing about it. It's a lying book, I see. A fit book for a lying reader. But you're deaf. I forgot that
Why, you look smarter by day
than you do by candle- light. I never see such a tight young dasher
Reether so, Polly. How's our fair friend, Sairah
Oh, she's pretty well
She's at home
There's the remains of a fine woman about Sairah, Poll
Oh
he's old. He must be very old
Too much crumb, you know
The very owl's a-opening his eyes
I don't wonder at it in a bird of his opinions
Poll
I ain't as neat as I could wish about the gills. Being here, I may as well have a shave, and get trimmed close
Go WITH the grain, Poll, all round, please
You may do wot you like with the bits of whisker. I don't care for 'em
Go in and win
Gently over the stones, Poll. Go a tip-toe over the pimples
Reether redder than I could wish, Poll
that arter late hours nothing freshened up a man so much as a easy shave
Hallo
Sairah! I needn't ask you how you've been this long time, for you're in full bloom. All a-blowin and a-growin; ain't she, Polly
Why, drat the Bragian boldness of that boy
What a imperent young sparrow it is! I wouldn't be that creetur's mother not for fifty pound
Ah, dear
that there blessed Bull, Mr Sweedlepipe, has done his wery best to conker me. Of all the trying inwalieges in this walley of the shadder, that one beats 'em black and blue
Talk of constitooshun
A person's constitooshun need be made of bricks to stand it. Mrs Harris jestly says to me, but t'other day, "Oh! Sairey Gamp," she says, "how is it done?" "Mrs Harris, ma'am," I says to her, "we gives no trust ourselves, and puts a deal o'trust elsevere; these is our religious feelins, and we finds 'em answer." "Sairey," says Mrs Harris, "sech is life. Vich likeways is the hend of all things
And here
and here am I a-goin twenty mile in distant, on as wentersome a chance as ever any one as monthlied ever run, I do believe. Says Mrs Harris, with a woman's and a mother's art a-beatin in her human breast, she says to me, "You're not a- goin, Sairey, Lord forgive you!" "Why am I not a-goin, Mrs Harris?" I replies. "Mrs Gill," I says, "wos never wrong with six; and is it likely, ma'am -- I ast you as a mother -- that she will begin to be unreg'lar now? Often and often have I heerd him say," I says to Mrs Harris, meaning Mr Gill, "that he would back his wife agen Moore's almanack, to name the very day and hour, for ninepence farden. IS it likely, ma'am," I says, "as she will fail this once?" Says Mrs Harris "No, ma'am, not in the course of natur. But," she says, the tears a-fillin in her eyes, "you knows much betterer than me, with your experienge, how little puts us out. A Punch's show," she says, "a chimbley sweep, a newfundlan dog, or a drunkin man a-comin round the corner sharp may do it." So it may, Mr Sweedlepipes
there's no deniging of it; and though my books is clear for a full week, I takes a anxious art along with me, I do assure you, sir
You're so full of zeal, you see
You worrit yourself so
Worrit myself
You speak truth in that, sir, if you never speaks no more 'twixt this and when two Sundays jines together. I feels the sufferins of other people more than I feels my own, though no one mayn't suppoge it. The families I've had
if all was knowd and credit done where credit's doo, would take a week to chris'en at Saint Polge's fontin
Where's the patient goin
won't bring HIM round
So bad as that
Indeed
There's fevers of the mind
as well as body. You may take your slime drafts till you files into the air with efferwescence; but you won't cure that
Ah
Lor
No. You may make yourself as light as any gash balloon
But talk, when you're wrong in your head and when you're in your sleep, of certain things; and you'll be heavy in your mind
Of what kind of things now
Ghosts
I'm a-goin down with my patient in the coach this arternoon
You ain't been in the City, I suppose, sir, since we was all three there together
at Mr Chuzzlewit's
Yes, I have, Sairah. I was there last night
Last night
Yes, Poll, reether so. You can call it this morning, if you like to be particular. He dined with us
Who does that young Limb mean by "hus
not to chatter
She was sitting up, expecting him
And all things considered
she might have know'd better than to go a-tirin herself out, by doin' anythink of the sort. Did they seem pretty pleasant together, sir
Oh, yes
pleasant enough
I'm glad on it
They haven't been married so long
that they need be anything but pleasant yet awhile
No
Especially
when the gentleman bears such a character as you gave him
I speak; as I find, Mr Sweedlepipes
Forbid it should be otherways! But we never knows wot's hidden in each other's hearts; and if we had glass winders there, we'd need keep the shetters up, some on us, I do assure you
But you don't mean to say
No
I don't. Don't think I do. The torters of the Imposition shouldn't make me own I did. All I says is
that the Bull's a-waitin, and the precious moments is a-flyin' fast
And how are we by this time
We looks charming
We looks a deal charminger than we are, then
We got out of bed back'ards, I think, for we're as cross as two sticks. I never see sich a man. He wouldn't have been washed, if he'd had his own way
She put the soap in my mouth
Couldn't you keep it shut then
Oh dear me
oh dear, dear
There
that's the way he's been a-conductin of himself, Sarah, ever since I got him out of bed, if you'll believe it
Instead of being grateful
for all our little ways. Oh, fie for shame, sir, fie for shame
I suppose you don't like that, neither
she know'd as much
I don't think it's right
I feel as if I was in somebody else's clothes. I'm all on one side; and you've made one of my legs shorter than the other. There's a bottle in my pocket too. What do you make me sit upon a bottle for
Deuce take the man
If he ain't been and got my night-bottle here. I made a little cupboard of his coat when it hung behind the door, and quite forgot it, Betsey. You'll find a ingun or two, and a little tea and sugar in his t'other pocket, my dear, if you'll just be good enough to take 'em out
Up and dressed
That's brave. How do you feel
Much better. But very weak
No wonder. You have had a hard bout of it. But country air, and change of scene
will make another man of you! Why, Mrs Gamp
you have odd notions of a gentleman's dress
Mr Lewsome an't a easy gent to get into his clothes, sir
as me and Betsey Prig can certify afore the Lord Mayor and Uncommon Counsellors, if needful
Mr Westlock! I don't wish to be overheard. I have something very particular and strange to say to you; something that has been a dreadful weight on my mind, through this long illness
Not now. I've not the strength. I've not the courage. May I tell it when I have? May I write it, if I find that easier and better
May you
Why, Lewsome, what is this
Don't ask me what it is. It's unnatural and cruel. Frightful to think of. Frightful to tell. Frightful to know. Frightful to have helped in. Let me kiss your hand for all your goodness to me. Be kinder still, and don't ask me what it is
Oh bless you, no
He hates his nusses to this hour. They always does it, sir. It's a certain sign. If you could have heerd the poor dear soul a-findin fault with me and Betsey Prig, not half an hour ago, you would have wondered how it is we don't get fretted to the tomb
made good
Wishin you lots of sickness, my darlin creetur
and good places. It won't be long, I hope, afore we works together, off and on, again, Betsey; and may our next meetin' be at a large family's, where they all takes it reg'lar, one from another, turn and turn about, and has it business-like
I don't care how soon it is
nor how many weeks it lasts
Take care, take care here
Halloo! My dear! Why, it's Mrs Gamp
What, Mr Mould
And Mrs Mould! who would have thought as we should ever have a meetin' here, I'm sure
Going out of town, Mrs Gamp
That's unusual, isn't it
It IS unusual, sir
But only for a day or two at most. The gent
as I spoke about
What, in the coach
The one you thought of recommending? Very odd. My dear, this will interest you. The gentleman that Mrs Gamp thought likely to suit us is in the coach, my love
Here, my dear. You can stand upon the door-step
and take a look at him. Ha! There he is. Where's my glass? Oh! all right. I've got it. Do you see him, my dear
Quite plain
Upon my life, you know, this is a very singular circumstance
This is the sort of thing, my dear, I wouldn't have missed on any account. It tickles one. It's interesting. It's almost a little play, you know. Ah! There he is! To be sure. Looks poorly, Mrs M., don't he
He's coming our way, perhaps, after all
Who knows! I feel as if I ought to show him some little attention, really. He don't seem a stranger to me. I'm very much inclined to move my hat, my dear
He's looking hard this way
Then I will
How d'ye do, sir! I wish you good day. Ha! He bows too. Very gentlemanly. Mrs Gamp has the cards in her pocket, I have no doubt. This is very singular, my dear -- and very pleasant. I am not superstitious, but it really seems as if one was destined to pay him those little melancholy civilities which belong to our peculiar line of business. There can be no kind of objection to your kissing your hand to him, my dear
Ha
He's evidently gratified. Poor fellow! I am quite glad you did it, my love. Bye bye, Mrs Gamp
There he goes; there he goes
Cherry
what is amiss between us? My child, why are we disunited
Bother, Pa
Bother
Oh! 'tis too late, Pa
to talk to me like this. I know what it means, and what its value is
This is hard
This is very hard! She is my child. I carried her in my arms when she wore shapeless worsted shoes -- I might say, mufflers -- many years ago
You needn't taunt me with that, Pa
I am not so many years older than my sister, either, though she IS married to your friend
Ah, human nature, human nature! Poor human nature
To think that this discord should arise from such a cause! oh dear, oh dear
From such a cause indeed
State the real cause, Pa, or I'll state it myself. Mind! I will
You will! you have. You did yesterday. You do always. You have no decency; you make no secret of your temper; you have exposed yourself to Mr Chuzzlewit a hundred times
Myself
Oh indeed! I don't mind that
Me, too, then
And since we have come to an explanation, Charity
let me tell you that I won't allow it. None of your nonsense, Miss! I won't permit it to be done
I shall do
I shall do, Pa, what I please and what I have done. I am not going to be crushed in everything, depend upon it. I've been more shamefully used than anybody ever was in this world
and may expect the worse treatment from you, I know. But I don't care for that. No, I don't
I'll do it again
if you dare to talk in that loud manner. How do you mean about being shamefully used? If Mr Jonas chose your sister in preference to you, who could help it, I should wish to know? What have I to do with it
Wasn't I made a convenience of? Weren't my feelings trifled with? Didn't he address himself to me first
and oh, good gracious, that I should live to be shook
You'll live to be shaken again
if you drive me to that means of maintaining the decorum of this humble roof. You surprise me. I wonder you have not more spirit. If Mr Jonas didn't care for you, how could you wish to have him
I wish to have him
I wish to have him, Pa
Then what are you making all this piece of work for
if you didn't wish to have him
Because I was treated with duplicity
and because my own sister and my own father conspired against me. I am not angry with HER
I pity her. I'm sorry for her. I know the fate that's in store for her, with that Wretch
Mr Jonas will survive your calling him a wretch, my child, I dare say
but call him what you like and make an end of it
Not an end, Pa
No, not an end. That's not the only point on which we're not agreed. I won't submit to it. It's better you should know that at once. No; I won't submit to it indeed, Pa! I am not quite a fool, and I am not blind. All I have got to say is, I won't submit to it
My dear
if in the short excitement of an angry moment I resorted to an unjustifiable means of suppressing a little outbreak calculated to injure you as well as myself -- it's possible I may have done so; perhaps I did -- I ask your pardon. A father asking pardon of his child
is, I believe, a spectacle to soften the most rugged nature
You labour under some mistake, my child
but I will not ask you what it is; I don't desire to know. No, pray
let us avoid the subject, my dear, whatever it is
It's quite right that the subject should be avoided between us, sir
But I wish to be able to avoid it altogether, and consequently must beg you to provide me with a home
A home, my child
Another home, papa
Place me at Mrs Todgers's or somewhere, on an independent footing; but I will not live here, if such is to be the case
One of my birds
has left me for the stranger's breast; the other would take wing to Todgers's! Well, well, what am I? I don't know what I am, exactly. Never mind
But I have ever
sacrificed my children's happiness to my own -- I mean my own happiness to my children's -- and I will not begin to regulate my life by other rules of conduct now. If you can be happier at Mrs Todgers's than in your father's house, my dear, go to Mrs Todgers's! Do not think of me, my girl
I shall get on pretty well, no doubt
Then
what if I married her! What
what if, making sure of his approval first -- he is nearly imbecile, poor gentleman -- I married her
Well, my good sir
and how is my dear friend this delicious morning
Do you mean me
Ah
one of his deaf days, I see. Could I mean any one else, my dear sir
You might have meant Mary
Indeed I might. Quite true. I might speak of her as a dear, dear friend, I hope
I hope so
I think she deserves it
Think
think, Mr Chuzzlewit
You are speaking, I know
but I don't catch what you say. Speak up
He's getting deafer than a flint
I was saying, my dear sir, that I am afraid I must make up my mind to part with Cherry
What has SHE been doing
He puts the most ridiculous questions I ever heard
He's a child to-day
She hasn't been doing anything, my dear friend
What are you going to part with her for
She hasn't her health by any means
She misses her sister, my dear sir; they doted on each other from the cradle. And I think of giving her a run in London for a change. A good long run, sir, if I find she likes it
Quite right
It's judicious
I am glad to hear you say so. I hope you mean to bear me company in this dull part, while she's away
I have no intention of removing from it
Then why
Why, my good sir, can't you come and stay with me? I am sure I could surround you with more comforts -- lowly as is my Cot -- than you can obtain at a village house of entertainment. And pardon me, Mr Chuzzlewit, pardon me if I say that such a place as the Dragon, however well-conducted (and, as far as I know, Mrs Lupin is one of the worthiest creatures in this county), is hardly a home for Miss Graham
No. You're quite right; it is not
The very sight of skittles
is far from being congenial to a delicate mind
It's an amusement of the vulgar
certainly
Of the very vulgar
Then why not bring Miss Graham here, sir? Here is the house. Here am I alone in it, for Thomas Pinch I do not count as any one. Our lovely friend shall occupy my daughter's chamber; you shall choose your own; we shall not quarrel, I hope
We are not likely to do that
We understand each other, my dear sir, I see!-- I can wind him
round my little finger
You leave the recompense to me
Oh! do not speak of recompense
I say
you leave the recompense to me. Do you
Since you desire it, my good sir
I always desire it
You know I always desire it. I wish to pay as I go, even when I buy of you. Not that I do not leave a balance to be settled one day, Pecksniff
May that day be very distant
Ah, sir! If I could say how deep an interest I have in you and yours! I allude to our beautiful young friend
True
True. She need have some one interested in her. I did her wrong to train her as I did. Orphan though she was, she would have found some one to protect her whom she might have loved again. When she was a child, I pleased myself with the thought that in gratifying my whim of placing her between me and false-hearted knaves, I had done her a kindness. Now she is a woman, I have no such comfort. She has no protector but herself. I have put her at such odds with the world, that any dog may bark or fawn upon her at his pleasure. Indeed she stands in need of delicate consideration. Yes; indeed she does
If her position could be altered and defined, sir
How can that be done? Should I make a seamstress of her, or a governess
Heaven forbid
My dear sir, there are other ways. There are indeed. But I am much excited and embarrassed at present, and would rather not pursue the subject. I scarcely know what I mean. Permit me to resume it at another time
You are not unwell
No, no
No. Permit me to resume it at another time. I'll walk a little. Bless you
And I can wind him round my little finger! Only think
Why, the time was
and not long ago, when he wouldn't look at me! How soothing is this change. Such is the delicate texture of the human heart; so complicated is the process of its being softened! Externally he looks the same, and I can wind him round my little finger. Only think
Communing with nature
So am I
Take my arm, sweet girl
You were loitering when I came upon you
Why be so cruel as to hurry now? You would not shun me, would you
Yes, I would
you know I would. Release me, Mr Pecksniff. Your touch is disagreeable to me
If you have not observed
that it is so, pray take assurance from my lips, and do not, as you are a gentleman, continue to offend me
Well, well
I feel that I might consider this becoming in a daughter of my own, and why should I object to it in one so beautiful! It's harsh. It cuts me to the soul
but I cannot quarrel with you, Mary
I am glad we met. I am very glad we met. I am able now to ease my bosom of a heavy load, and speak to you in confidence. Mary
My soul! I love you
I love you
my gentle life, with a devotion which is quite surprising, even to myself. I did suppose that the sensation was buried in the silent tomb of a lady, only second to you in qualities of the mind and form; but I find I am mistaken
Although I am a widower
a widower with two daughters, still I am not encumbered, my love. One of them, as you know, is married. The other, by her own desire, but with a view, I will confess -- why not? -- to my altering my condition, is about to leave her father's house. I have a character, I hope. People are pleased to speak well of me, I think. My person and manner are not absolutely those of a monster, I trust. Ah! naughty Hand
why did you take me prisoner? Go, go
Blessed in each other, and in the society of our venerable friend, my darling
we shall be happy. When he is wafted to a haven of rest, we will console each other. My pretty primrose, what do you say
It is possible
that I ought to feel grateful for this mark of your confidence. I cannot say that I do, but I am willing to suppose you may deserve my thanks. Take them; and pray leave me, Mr Pecksniff
Pray, pray release me, Mr Pecksniff. I cannot listen to your proposal. I cannot receive it. There are many to whom it may be acceptable, but it is not so to me. As an act of kindness and an act of pity, leave me
If you force me by your superior strength
if you force me by your superior strength to accompany you back, and to be the subject of your insolence upon the way, you cannot constrain the expression of my thoughts. I hold you in the deepest abhorrence. I know your real nature and despise it
No, no
No, no, no
By what arts or unhappy chances you have gained your influence over Mr Chuzzlewit, I do not know
it may be strong enough to soften even this, but he shall know of this, trust me, sir
Aye, aye! Indeed
Is it not enough
that you warp and change his nature, adapt his every prejudice to your bad ends, and harden a heart naturally kind by shutting out the truth and allowing none but false and distorted views to reach it; is it not enough that you have the power of doing this, and that you exercise it, but must you also be so coarse, so cruel, and so cowardly to me
Will nothing move you, sir
My dear
a habit of self-examination, and the practice of -- shall I say of virtue
Of hypocrisy
No, no
of virtue -- have enabled me to set such guards upon myself, that it is really difficult to ruffle me. It is a curious fact, but it is difficult, do you know, for any one to ruffle me. And did she think
that SHE could! How little did she know his heart
Come, come
a word or two will set this matter right, and establish a pleasant understanding between us. I am not angry, my love
YOU angry
No
I am not. I say so. Neither are you
I am sure you are not
and I will tell you why. There are two Martin Chuzzlewits, my dear; and your carrying your anger to one might have a serious effect -- who knows!-- upon the other. You wouldn't wish to hurt him, would you
A passive quarrel, my love
may be changed into an active one, remember. It would be sad to blight even a disinherited young man in his already blighted prospects; but how easy to do it. Ah, how easy! HAVE I influence with our venerable friend, do you think? Well, perhaps I have. Perhaps I have
No
Upon the whole, my sweet, if I were you I'd keep my secret to myself. I am not at all sure -- very far from it -- that it would surprise our friend in any way, for he and I have had some conversation together only this morning, and he is anxious, very anxious, to establish you in some more settled manner. But whether he was surprised or not surprised, the consequence of your imparting it might be the same. Martin junior might suffer severely. I'd have compassion on Martin junior, do you know
Yes. He don't deserve it, but I would
As to our own share in the precious little mystery
we will keep it to ourselves, and talk of it between ourselves, and you shall think it over. You will consent, my love; you will consent, I know. Whatever you may think; you will. I seem to remember to have heard -- I really don't know where, or how
that you and Martin junior, when you were children, had a sort of childish fondness for each other. When we are married, you shall have the satisfaction of thinking that it didn't last to ruin him, but passed away to do him good; for we'll see then what we can do to put some trifling help in Martin junior's way. HAVE I any influence with our venerable friend? Well! Perhaps I have. Perhaps I have
Shall I bite it
I have arranged to go, Papa
to-morrow
So soon, my child
I can't go too soon
under the circumstances. I have written to Mrs Todgers to propose an arrangement, and have requested her to meet me at the coach, at all events. You'll be quite your own master now, Mr Pinch
My own master
Yes, you'll have nobody to interfere with you
At least I hope you won't. Hem! It's a changing world
What! are YOU going to be married, Miss Pecksniff
Not exactly
I haven't made up my mind to be. I believe I could be, if I chose, Mr Pinch
Of course you could
No
I am not going to be married. Nobody is, that I know of. Hem! But I am not going to live with Papa. I have my reasons, but it's all a secret. I shall always feel very kindly towards you, I assure you, for the boldness you showed that night. As to you and me, Mr Pinch, WE part the best friends possible
No
No letters have ever reached me, except that one from New York. But don't be uneasy on that account, for it's very likely they have gone away to some far-off place, where the posts are neither regular nor frequent. He said in that very letter that it might be so, even in that city to which they thought of travelling -- Eden, you know
It is a great weight upon my mind
Oh, but you mustn't let it be
There's a true saying that nothing travels so fast as ill news; and if the slightest harm had happened to Martin, you may be sure you would have heard of it long ago. I have often wished to say this to you
but you have never given me an opportunity
I have sometimes been almost afraid
that you might suppose I hesitated to confide in you, Mr Pinch
No
I -- I am not aware that I ever supposed that. I am sure that if I have, I have checked the thought directly, as an injustice to you. I feel the delicacy of your situation in having to confide in me at all
but I would risk my life to save you from one day's uneasiness; indeed I would
I have dreaded sometimes
that I might have displeased you by -- by having the boldness to try and anticipate your wishes now and then. At other times I have fancied that your kindness prompted you to keep aloof from me
Indeed
It was very foolish; very presumptuous and ridiculous, to think so
but I feared you might suppose it possible that I -- I -- should admire you too much for my own peace; and so denied yourself the slight assistance you would otherwise have accepted from me. If such an idea has ever presented itself to you
pray dismiss it. I am easily made happy; and I shall live contented here long after you and Martin have forgotten me. I am a poor, shy, awkward creature; not at all a man of the world; and you should think no more of me, bless you, than if I were an old friar
Dear Mr Pinch
I cannot tell you how your kindness moves me. I have never wronged you by the lightest doubt, and have never for an instant ceased to feel that you were all -- much more than all -- that Martin found you. Without the silent care and friendship I have experienced from you, my life here would have been unhappy. But you have been a good angel to me; filling me with gratitude of heart, hope, and courage
I am as little like an angel, I am afraid
as any stone cherubim among the grave-stones; and I don't think there are many real angels of THAT pattern. But I should like to know (if you will tell me) why you have been so very silent about Martin
Because I have been afraid
of injuring you
Of injuring me
Of doing you an injury with your employer
With Pecksniff
Oh dear, he'd never think of us! He's the best of men. The more at ease you were, the happier he would be. Oh dear, you needn't be afraid of Pecksniff. He is not a spy
Well, I don't know how it is, but it always happens, whenever I express myself in this way to anybody almost, that I find they won't do justice to Pecksniff. It is one of the most extraordinary circumstances that ever came within my knowledge, but it is so. There's John Westlock, who used to be a pupil here, one of the best- hearted young men in the world, in all other matters -- I really believe John would have Pecksniff flogged at the cart's tail if he could. And John is not a solitary case, for every pupil we have had in my time has gone away with the same inveterate hatred of him. There was Mark Tapley, too, quite in another station of life
the mockery he used to make of Pecksniff when he was at the Dragon was shocking. Martin too: Martin was worse than any of 'em. But I forgot. He prepared you to dislike Pecksniff, of course. So you came with a prejudice, you know, Miss Graham, and are not a fair witness
Mr Pinch
you mistake him
No, no
YOU mistake him. But
what is the matter? Miss Graham, what is the matter
What is the matter
Have I said anything to hurt you? Has any one said anything to hurt you? Don't cry. Pray tell me what it is. I cannot bear to see you so distressed. Mercy on us, I never was so surprised and grieved in all my life
I wouldn't have told you, Mr Pinch
if I could have helped it; but your delusion is so absorbing, and it is so necessary that we should be upon our guard; that you should not be compromised; and to that end that you should know by whom I am beset; that no alternative is left me. I came here purposely to tell you, but I think I should have wanted courage if you had not chanced to lead me so directly to the object of my coming
What else
That person whom you think the best of men
Lord bless me
Wait a moment. That person whom I think the best of men! You mean Pecksniff, of course. Yes, I see you mean Pecksniff. Good gracious me, don't speak without authority. What has he done? If he is not the best of men, what is he
The worst. The falsest, craftiest, meanest, cruellest, most sordid, most shameless
What is he
who receiving me in his house as his guest; his unwilling guest; knowing my history, and how defenceless and alone I am, presumes before his daughters to affront me so, that if I had a brother but a child, who saw it, he would instinctively have helped me
He is a scoundrel
Whoever he may be, he is a scoundrel
What is he
who, when my only friend -- a dear and kind one, too -- was in full health of mind, humbled himself before him, but was spurned away (for he knew him then) like a dog. Who, in his forgiving spirit, now that that friend is sunk into a failing state, can crawl about him again, and use the influence he basely gains for every base and wicked purpose, and not for one -- not one -- that's true or good
I say he is a scoundrel
But what is he -- oh, Mr Pinch, what IS he -- who, thinking he could compass these designs the better if I were his wife, assails me with the coward's argument that if I marry him, Martin, on whom I have brought so much misfortune, shall be restored to something of his former hopes; and if I do not, shall be plunged in deeper ruin? What is he who makes my very constancy to one I love with all my heart a torture to myself and wrong to him; who makes me, do what I will, the instrument to hurt a head I would heap blessings on! What is he who, winding all these cruel snares about me, explains their purpose to me, with a smooth tongue and a smiling face, in the broad light of day; dragging me on, the while, in his embrace, and holding to his lips a hand
which I would have struck off, if with it I could lose the shame and degradation of his touch
I say
he is a scoundrel and a villain! I don't care who he is, I say he is a double-dyed and most intolerable villain
I wouldn't have cared
I wouldn't have cared for anything he might have done to Me, for I have tried his patience often, and have lived upon his sufferance and have never been the help to him that others could have been. I wouldn't have minded, Pecksniff
if you had done Me any wrong; I could have found plenty of excuses for that; and though you might have hurt me, could have still gone on respecting you. But why did you ever fall so low as this in my esteem! Oh Pecksniff, Pecksniff, there is nothing I would not have given, to have had you deserve my old opinion of you; nothing
Is Mr Pinch indoors
Just come in, sir
Just come in, eh
And gone upstairs, I suppose
Yes sir. Gone upstairs. Shall I call him, sir
No
no. You needn't call him, Jane. Thank you, Jane. How are your relations, Jane
Pretty well, I thank you, sir
I am glad to hear it. Let them know I asked about them, Jane. Is Mr Chuzzlewit in the way, Jane
Yes, sir. He's in the parlour, reading
He's in the parlour, reading, is he, Jane
Very well. Then I think I'll go and see him, Jane
What is the matter
Pecksniff, what ails you, man
I am sorry to interrupt you, my dear sir, and I am still more sorry for the cause. My good, my worthy friend, I am deceived
You are deceived
Ah
deceived in the tenderest point. Cruelly deceived in that quarter, sir, in which I placed the most unbounded confidence. Deceived, Mr Chuzzlewit, by Thomas Pinch
Oh! bad, bad, bad
Very bad! I hope not. Are you certain
Certain, my good sir! My eyes and ears are witnesses. I wouldn't have believed it otherwise. I wouldn't have believed it, Mr Chuzzlewit, if a Fiery Serpent had proclaimed it from the top of Salisbury Cathedral. I would have said
that the Serpent lied. Such was my faith in Thomas Pinch, that I would have cast the falsehood back into the Serpent's teeth, and would have taken Thomas to my heart. But I am not a Serpent, sir, myself, I grieve to say, and no excuse or hope is left me
That is almost the worst of all, sir
on a subject nearly concerning YOU. Oh! is it not enough
that these blows must fall on me, but must they also hit my friends
You alarm me
I am not so strong as I was. You terrify me, Pecksniff
Cheer up, my noble sir
and we will do what is required of us. You shall know all, sir, and shall be righted. But first excuse me, sir, excuse me. I have a duty to discharge, which I owe to society
Send Mr Pinch here, if you please, Jane
You see
Mr Pinch, I have left the vestry-window unfastened. Will you do me the favour to go and secure it; then bring the keys of the sacred edifice to me
The vestry-window, sir
You understand me, Mr Pinch, I think
Yes, Mr Pinch, the vestry-window. I grieve to say that sleeping in the church after a fatiguing ramble, I overheard just now some fragments
of a dialogue between two parties; and one of them locking the church when he went out, I was obliged to leave it myself by the vestry-window. Do me the favour to secure that vestry-window, Mr Pinch, and then come back to me
Pecksniff
what does all this mean? You are not going to do anything in haste, you may regret
No, my good sir
No. But I have a duty to discharge which I owe to society; and it shall be discharged, my friend, at any cost
Have you fastened the vestry-window, Mr Pinch
Yes, sir
Thank you. Put down the keys if you please, Mr Pinch
Mr Pinch
oh, Mr Pinch! I wonder you can look me in the face
Mr Pinch
I will not dwell upon the past. I will spare you, and I will spare myself, that pain at least
Thank you, sir. I am very glad you will not refer to the past
The present is enough
and the sooner THAT is past, the better. Mr Pinch, I will not dismiss you without a word of explanation. Even such a course would be quite justifiable under the circumstances; but it might wear an appearance of hurry, and I will not do it; for I am
perfectly self-possessed. Therefore I will say to you, what I have already said to Mr Chuzzlewit
From fragments of a conversation which I overheard in the church, just now, Mr Pinch
between yourself and Miss Graham -- I say fragments, because I was slumbering at a considerable distance from you, when I was roused by your voices -- and from what I saw, I ascertained (I would have given a great deal not to have ascertained, Mr Pinch) that you, forgetful of all ties of duty and of honour, sir; regardless of the sacred laws of hospitality, to which you were pledged as an inmate of this house; have presumed to address Miss Graham with unreturned professions of attachment and proposals of love
Do you deny it, sir
No, sir
I do not
You do not
Oblige me by counting this money, Mr Pinch, and putting your name to this receipt. You do not
fragments
You find the amount correct, do you, Mr Pinch
Quite correct, sir
A person is waiting in the kitchen
to carry your luggage wherever you please. We part, Mr Pinch, at once, and are strangers from this time
I will not say
what a blow this is. I will not say how much it tries me; how it works upon my nature; how it grates upon my feelings. I do not care for that. I can endure as well as another man. But what I have to hope, and what you have to hope, Mr Pinch (otherwise a great responsibility rests upon you), is, that this deception may not alter my ideas of humanity; that it may not impair my freshness, or contract, if I may use the expression, my Pinions. I hope it will not; I don't think it will. It may be a comfort to you, if not now, at some future time, to know that I shall endeavour not to think the worse of my fellow-creatures in general, for what has passed between us. Farewell
I think you left something in the church, sir
Thank you, Mr Pinch
I am not aware that I did
This is your double eye-glass, I believe
Oh
I am obliged to you. Put it down, if you please
I found it
when I went to bolt the vestry- window -- in the pew
I am glad he's gone
It IS a relief
It is a great relief. But having discharged -- I hope with tolerable firmness -- the duty which I owed to society, I will now, my dear sir, if you will give me leave, retire to shed a few tears in the back garden, as an humble individual
Tom's Corner
You're coming to the Dragon, Mr Pinch
No
no. I shall walk to Salisbury to-night. I couldn't stay here. For goodness' sake, don't make me so unhappy, Mrs Lupin
But you'll come to the Dragon, Mr Pinch. If it's only for tonight. To see me, you know; not as a traveller
God bless my soul
The kindness of people is enough to break one's heart! I mean to go to Salisbury to-night, my dear good creature. If you'll take care of my box for me till I write for it, I shall consider it the greatest kindness you can do me
I wish
there were twenty boxes, Mr Pinch, that I might have 'em all
Thank'ee
It's like you. Good-bye. Good-bye
Go forth
Mr Pinch
Why, deary Mr Pinch! oh, deary sir
What an unlikely time for you to be a-going this way with a bag
I am going to Salisbury
Why, goodness, where's the gig, then
I haven't got it
I
I have left Mr Pecksniff
Left Mr Pecksniff
Yes
left him
You left Mr Pecksniff
I should as soon have thought of his head leaving him
Aye
so should I, yesterday. Good night
What news
You've heerd of Mr Pecksniff down yonder
Ah! sure-ly
And of his young man Mr Pinch, p'raps
Ah
They've parted
And how, my sweet Miss Pecksniff
how is your princely pa
Your real darling sister, I have not seen her more than once since her marriage
and then I thought her looking poorly. My sweet Miss Pecksniff, I always thought that you was to be the lady
Oh dear no
Oh no, Mrs Todgers. Thank you. No! not for any consideration he could offer
I dare say you are right
I feared it all along. But the misery we have had from that match, here among ourselves, in this house, my dear Miss Pecksniff, nobody would believe
Lor, Mrs Todgers
Awful, awful
You recollect our youngest gentleman, my dear
Of course I do
You might have observed
how he used to watch your sister; and that a kind of stony dumbness came over him whenever she was in company
I am sure I never saw anything of the sort
What nonsense, Mrs Todgers
My dear
I have seen him again and again, sitting over his pie at dinner, with his spoon a perfect fixture in his mouth, looking at your sister. I have seen him standing in a corner of our drawing-room, gazing at her, in such a lonely, melancholy state, that he was more like a Pump than a man, and might have drawed tears
I never saw it
that's all I can say
But when the marriage took place
when it was in the paper, and was read out here at breakfast, I thought he had taken leave of his senses, I did indeed. The violence of that young man, my dear Miss Pecksniff; the frightful opinions he expressed upon the subject of self- destruction; the extraordinary actions he performed with his tea; the clenching way in which he bit his bread and butter; the manner in which he taunted Mr Jinkins; all combined to form a picture never to be forgotten
It's a pity he didn't destroy himself, I think
Himself
it took another turn at night. He was for destroying other people then. There was a little chaffing going on -- I hope you don't consider that a low expression, Miss Pecksniff; it is always in our gentlemen's mouths -- a little chaffing going on, my dear, among 'em, all in good nature, when suddenly he rose up, foaming with his fury, and but for being held by three would have had Mr Jinkins's life with a bootjack
And now
now he is the meekest of men. You can almost bring the tears into his eyes by looking at him. He sits with me the whole day long on Sundays, talking in such a dismal way that I find it next to impossible to keep my spirits up equal to the accommodation of the boarders. His only comfort is in female society. He takes me half-price to the play, to an extent which I sometimes fear is beyond his means; and I see the tears a-standing in his eyes during the whole performance -- particularly if it is anything of a comic nature. The turn I experienced only yesterday
when the house-maid threw his bedside carpet out of the window of his room, while I was sitting here, no one can imagine. I thought it was him, and that he had done it at last
Even she turns from me, Mrs Todgers
Then why don't you try and be a little bit more cheerful, sir
Cheerful, Mrs Todgers! cheerful
when she reminds me of days for ever fled, Mrs Todgers
Then you had better avoid her for a short time, if she does
and come to know her again, by degrees. That's my advice
But I can't avoid her
I haven't strength of mind to do it. Oh, Mrs Todgers, if you knew what a comfort her nose is to me
Her nose, sir
Her profile, in general
but particularly her nose. It's so like
it's so like hers who is Another's, Mrs Todgers
Well, sir
You held up your head last night. You're coming round, I think
Only because she's so like her who is Another's, Mrs Todgers
When she talks, and when she smiles, I think I'm looking on HER brow again, Mrs Todgers
love
in his dinner-times
My dear Miss Pecksniff, you may depend upon it
that he is burning to propose
My goodness me, why don't he then
Men are so much more timid than we think 'em, my dear
They baulk themselves continually. I saw the words on Todgers's lips for months and months and months, before he said 'em
Oh yes, he was. Oh bless you, yes, my dear. I was very particular in those days, I assure you
No, no. You give Mr Moddle a little encouragement, Miss Pecksniff, if you wish him to speak; and he'll speak fast enough, depend upon it
I am sure I don't know what encouragement he would have, Mrs Todgers
He walks with me, and plays cards with me, and he comes and sits alone with me
Quite right
That's indispensable, my dear
And he sits very close to me
Also quite correct
And he looks at me
To be sure he does
And he has his arm upon the back of the chair or sofa, or whatever it is -- behind me, you know
I should think so
And then he begins to cry
Oh! what a day this has been! I can't go back to the office this afternoon. Oh, what a trying day this has been! Good Gracious
I used to think, sometimes
as a desolate island would suit me, but I should only have had myself to provide for there, and being naturally a easy man to manage, there wouldn't have been much credit in THAT. Now here I've got my partner to take care on, and he's something like the sort of man for the purpose. I want a man as is always a-sliding off his legs when he ought to be on 'em. I want a man as is so low down in the school of life that he's always a-making figures of one in his copy-book, and can't get no further. I want a man as is his own great coat and cloak, and is always a-wrapping himself up in himself. And I have got him too
What a happiness
I don't know which to take
Neighbour
for I AM a neighbour, though you don't know me; I've come a-begging. Hallo! hal -- lo! Am I a-bed, and dreaming
My eyes is wrong
I don't believe 'em. That ain't my fellow-passenger younder, a-nursing her little girl, who, I am sorry to see, is so delicate; and that ain't her husband as come to New York to fetch her. Nor these
ain't them two young shavers as was so familiar to me; though they are uncommon like 'em. That I must confess
This is a new sort of a morning call
It strikes one all of a heap. Wait a little bit! I'm a- coming round fast. That'll do! These gentlemen ain't my friends. Are they on the visiting list of the house
I ain't superstitious about toads
but if you could prevail upon the two or three I see in company, to step out at the same time, my young friends, I think they'd find the open air refreshing. Not that I at all object to 'em. A very handsome animal is a toad
very spotted; very like a partickler style of old gentleman about the throat; very bright-eyed, very cool, and very slippy. But one sees 'em to the best advantage out of doors perhaps
How is it that you have come here
Why, we come by the steamer last night
Our intention is to make our fortuns with punctuality and dispatch; and to retire upon our property as soon as ever it's realised. But how are you all? You're looking noble
We are but sickly now
But we shall do better when we are seasoned to the place
There are some here
whose seasoning will last for ever
Do better! To be sure you will. We shall all do better. What we've got to do is, to keep up our spirits, and be neighbourly. We shall come all right in the end, never fear. That reminds me, by the bye, that my partner's all wrong just at present; and that I looked in to beg for him. I wish you'd come and give me your opinion of him, master
And with not too much of that
Eden for ever
As to coming out as strong as I could wish, sir
that I give up. It's a piece of good fortune as never is to happen to me, I see
Would you wish for circumstances stronger than these
Why, only see how easy they might have been stronger, sir
if it wasn't for the envy of that uncommon fortun of mine, which is always after me, and tripping me up. The night we landed here, I thought things did look pretty jolly. I won't deny it. I thought they did look pretty jolly
How do they look now
Ah
Ah, to be sure. That's the question. How do they look now? On the very first morning of my going out, what do I do? Stumble on a family I know, who are constantly assisting of us in all sorts of ways, from that time to this! That won't do, you know; that ain't what I'd a right to expect. If I had stumbled on a serpent and got bit; or stumbled on a first-rate patriot, and got bowie-knifed, or stumbled on a lot of Sympathisers with inverted shirt-collars, and got made a lion of; I might have distinguished myself, and earned some credit. As it is, the great object of my voyage is knocked on the head. So it would be, wherever I went. How do you feel to-night, sir
Worse than ever
That's something
but not enough. Nothing but being very bad myself, and jolly to the last, will ever do me justice
In Heaven's name, don't talk of that
What should I do, Mark, if you were taken ill
that his glass was arising
There's one good thing in this place, sir
as disposes me to be jolly; and that is that it's a reg'lar little United States in itself. There's two or three American settlers left; and they coolly comes over one, even here, sir, as if it was the wholesomest and loveliest spot in the world. But they're like the cock that went and hid himself to save his life, and was found out by the noise he made. They can't help crowing. They was born to do it, and do it they must, whatever comes of it
Here's one on 'em
Hannibal Chollop
Don't let him in
He won't want any letting in
He'll come in, sir
Well, Mr Co.! and how do you git along, sir
Pretty well, sir; pretty well
If this ain't Mr Chuzzlewit, ain't it
How do YOU git along, sir
You need not regard me, sir
I am fever-proof, and likewise agur
Mine was a more selfish motive
I was afraid you were going to
I can calc'late my distance, sir
to an inch
I re-quire, sir
two foot clear in a circ'lar di- rection, and can engage my-self toe keep within it. I HAVE gone ten foot, in a circ'lar di-rection, but that was for a wager
I hope you won it, sir
Well, sir, I realised the stakes
Yes, sir
How do you like our country, sir
Not at all
I am not surprised to hear you say so. It re-quires An elevation, and A preparation of the intellect. The mind of man must be prepared for Freedom, Mr Co
A little bodily preparation wouldn't be amiss, either, would it, sir
in the case of a blessed old swamp like this
Do you con-sider this a swamp, sir
Why yes, sir
I haven't a doubt about it myself
The sentiment is quite Europian
and does not surprise me; what would your English millions say to such a swamp in England, sir
They'd say it was an uncommon nasty one, I should think, said Mark; 'and that they would rather be inoculated for fever in some other way
Europian
Quite Europian
a splendid sample of our na-tive raw material, sir
Tickler
Ripper
planting the standard of civilization in the wilder gardens of My country
It ain't long since I shot a man down with that, sir, in the State of IllinOY
Did you, indeed
Very free of you. And very independent
I shot him down, sir
for asserting in the Spartan Portico, a tri-weekly journal, that the ancient Athenians went a-head of the present Locofoco Ticket
And what's that
Europian not to know
Europian quite
You won't half feel yourself at home in Eden, now
No
I don't
You miss the imposts of your country. You miss the house dues
And the houses -- rather
No window dues here, sir
And no windows to put 'em on
No stakes, no dungeons, no blocks, no racks, no scaffolds, no thumbscrews, no pikes, no pillories
Nothing but rewolwers and bowie-knives
And what are they? Not worth mentioning
Well, sir
How do YOU git along
Mr Co. And me, sir
are disputating a piece. He ought to be slicked up pretty smart to disputate between the Old World and the New, I do expect
Well
So he had
I was merely observing, sir
that I looked upon the city in which we have the honour to live, as being swampy. What's your sentiments
I opinionate it's moist perhaps, at certain times
But not as moist as England, sir
Oh! Not as moist as England; let alone its Institutions
I should hope there ain't a swamp in all Americay, as don't whip THAT small island into mush and molasses
You bought slick, straight, and right away, of Scadder, sir
Scadder is a smart man, sir? He is a rising man? He is a man as will come up'ards, right side up, sir
He should have his right side very high up, if I had my way
As high up as the top of a good tall gallows, perhaps
that Scadder was a smart man, and had draw'd a lot of British capital that way, as sure as sun-up
I am a-going easy
Afore I go
cute, you are
cute to last. I can't con-ceive of any spotted Painter in the bush, as ever was so riddled through and through as you will be, I bet
What for
We must be cracked up, sir
You are not now in A despotic land. We are a model to the airth, and must be jist cracked-up, I tell you
What! I speak too free, do I
I have draw'd upon A man, and fired upon A man for less
Come out from under the blanket, sir
he's gone. What's this
What's come of all that chattering and swaggering? He's wandering in his mind to-night, and don't know me
Floored for the present, sir
but jolly
I'm jolly
My guardian takes so much thought of himself, that unless I do the like by MYself, I shall be forgotten
jolly
Ours is a desperate case
Plainly. The place is deserted; its failure must have become known; and selling what we have bought to any one, for anything, is hopeless, even if it were honest. We left home on a mad enterprise, and have failed. The only hope left us, the only one end for which we have now to try, is to quit this settlement for ever, and get back to England. Anyhow! by any means! only to get back there, Mark
That's all, sir
only that
Now, upon this side of the water
we have but one friend who can help us, and that is Mr Bevan
I thought of him when you was ill
But for the time that would be lost, I would even write to my grandfather
and implore him for money to free us from this trap into which we were so cruelly decoyed. Shall I try Mr Bevan first
He's a very pleasant sort of a gentleman
I think so
The few goods we brought here, and in which we spent our money, would produce something if sold
and whatever they realise shall be paid him instantly. But they can't be sold here
There's nobody but corpses to buy 'em
and pigs
Shall I tell him so, and only ask him for money enough to enable us by the cheapest means to reach New York, or any port from which we may hope to get a passage home, by serving in any capacity? Explaining to him at the same time how I am connected, and that I will endeavour to repay him, even through my grandfather, immediately on our arrival in England
Why to be sure
he can only say no, and he may say yes. If you don't mind trying him, sir
Mind
I am to blame for coming here, and I would do anything to get away. I grieve to think of the past. If I had taken your opinion sooner, Mark, we never should have been here, I am certain
Esau Slodge
wish he might be sifted fine as flour, and whittled small as chips; that if they didn't come off that there fixing right smart too, he'd spill 'em in the drink
I don't know what to make of him
he ain't what I supposed. He don't think of himself half as much. I'll try him again. Asleep, sir
No, Mark
Thinking of home, sir
Yes, Mark
So was I, sir. I was wondering how Mr Pinch and Mr Pecksniff gets on now
Poor Tom
Weak-minded man, sir
Plays the organ for nothing, sir. Takes no care of himself
I wish he took a little more, indeed
Though I don't know why I should. We shouldn't like him half as well, perhaps
He gets put upon, sir
Yes
I know that, Mark
Ah, sir
Dear me! You've ventured a good deal for a young lady's love
I tell you what. I'm not so sure of that, Mark
I begin to be far from clear upon it. You may depend upon it she is very unhappy. She has sacrificed her peace of mind; she has endangered her interests very much; she can't run away from those who are jealous of her, and opposed to her, as I have done. She has to endure, Mark; to endure without the possibility of action, poor girl! I begin to think that she has more to bear than ever I had. Upon my soul I do
And I'll tell you a secret, Mark
since we ARE upon this subject. That ring
Which ring, sir
That ring she gave me when we parted, Mark. She bought it; bought it; knowing I was poor and proud (Heaven help me! Proud!) and wanted money
Who says so, sir
I say so. I know it. I thought of it, my good fellow, hundreds of times, while you were lying ill. And like a beast, I took it from her hand, and wore it on my own, and never dreamed of this even at the moment when I parted with it, when some faint glimmering of the truth might surely have possessed me! But it's late
and you are weak and tired, I know. You only talk to cheer me up. Good night! God bless you, Mark
God bless you, sir! But I'm reg'larly defrauded
It's a swindle. I never entered for this sort of service. There'll be no credit in being jolly with HIM
It feels heavy
Courage! We shall meet again
In the Old World
Or in the next one
To see them standing side by side, so quiet, is a'most the worst of all
How do you do sir
How do you do sir
You air from Europe, sir
I am
You air fortunate, sir
You air fortunate, sir, in having an opportunity of beholding our Elijah Pogram, sir
Your Elijahpogram
Yes sir
Yes, sir
our Elijah Pogram, sir, is, at this minute, identically settin' by the en-gine biler
That is Elijah Pogram, is it
Yes, sir
That is Elijah Pogram
Dear me
I am astonished
If the biler of this vessel was Toe bust, sir
Quite remarkable
Yes, sir. Our own immortal Chiggle, sir, is said to have observed, when he made the celebrated Pogram statter in marble, which rose so much con-test and preju-dice in Europe, that the brow was more than mortal. This was before the Pogram Defiance, and was, therefore, a pre-diction, cruel smart
What is the Pogram Defiance
An o-ration, sir
Oh! to be sure
What am I thinking of! It defied
It defied the world, sir
Defied the world in general to com-pete with our country upon any hook; and devellop'd our internal resources for making war upon the universal airth. You would like to know Elijah Pogram, sir
If you please
Mr Pogram
this is a gentleman from Europe, sir; from England, sir. But gen'rous ene-mies may meet upon the neutral sile of private life, I think
Mr Pogram
is a public servant, sir. When Congress is recessed, he makes himself acquainted with those free United States, of which he is the gifted son
How do you like
The country, I presume
Yes, sir
Pogram will smash him into sky-blue fits, I know
Why
I have learned by experience, that you take an unfair advantage of a stranger, when you ask that question. You don't mean it to be answered, except in one way. Now, I don't choose to answer it in that way, for I cannot honestly answer it in that way. And therefore, I would rather not answer it at all
You are from Eden, sir? How did you like Eden
It is strange
this hatred of our country, and her Institutions! This national antipathy is deeply rooted in the British mind
Good Heaven, sir
Is the Eden Land Corporation, with Mr Scadder at its head, and all the misery it has worked, at its door, an Institution of America? A part of any form of government that ever was known or heard of
I con-sider the cause of this to be
partly jealousy and pre-judice, and partly the nat'ral unfitness of the British people to appreciate the ex-alted Institutions of our native land. I expect, sir
that a gentleman named Chollop happened in upon you during your lo-cation in the town of Eden
Yes
but my friend can answer this better than I can, for I was very ill at the time. Mark! The gentleman is speaking of Mr Chollop
Oh. Yes, sir. Yes. I see him
A splendid example of our na-tive raw material, sir
Indeed, sir
Observe this! See what follows
Our fellow-countryman is a model of a man, quite fresh from Natur's mould
that he guessed he had now seen something of the eloquential aspect of our country, and was chawed up pritty small
You do not seem to coincide, sir
Why
I didn't like him much; and that's the truth, sir. I thought he was a bully; and I didn't admire his carryin' them murderous little persuaders, and being so ready to use 'em
It's singler
It's strange! You observe the settled opposition to our Institutions which pervades the British mind
What an extraordinary people you are
Are Mr Chollop and the class he represents, an Institution here? Are pistols with revolving barrels, sword-sticks, bowie-knives, and such things, Institutions on which you pride yourselves? Are bloody duels, brutal combats, savage assaults, shooting down and stabbing in the streets, your Institutions! Why, I shall hear next that Dishonour and Fraud are among the Institutions of the great republic
This morbid hatred of our Institutions
is quite a study for the psychological observer. He's alludin' to Repudiation now
Oh! you may make anything an Institution if you like
and I confess you had me there, for you certainly have made that one. But the greater part of these things are one Institution with us, and we call it by the generic name of Old Bailey
What do you think of my countrymen who are present, sir
Oh! very pleasant
You don't mean that, I know
Well! The morbid hatred of you British to the Institutions of our country is as-TONishing
Upon my life
This is the most wonderful community that ever existed. A man deliberately makes a hog of himself, and THAT'S an Institution
We have no time to ac-quire forms, sir
Acquire
But it's not a question of acquiring anything. It's a question of losing the natural politeness of a savage, and that instinctive good breeding which admonishes one man not to offend and disgust another. Don't you think that man over the way, for instance, naturally knows better, but considers it a very fine and independent thing to be a brute in small matters
He is a na-tive of our country, and is nat'rally bright and spry, of course
Now, observe what this comes to, Mr Pogram
The mass of your countrymen begin by stubbornly neglecting little social observances, which have nothing to do with gentility, custom, usage, government, or country, but are acts of common, decent, natural, human politeness. You abet them in this, by resenting all attacks upon their social offences as if they were a beautiful national feature. From disregarding small obligations they come in regular course to disregard great ones; and so refuse to pay their debts. What they may do, or what they may refuse to do next, I don't know; but any man may see if he will, that it will be something following in natural succession, and a part of one great growth, which is rotten at the root
Why, what the 'tarnal
Well! I do admire at this, I do
We can stay at your house until to-morrow, Captain, I suppose
I reckon you can stay there for a twelvemonth if you like
But our people won't best like your coming back
Won't like it, Captain Kedgick
They did ex-pect you was a-going to settle
They've been took in, you can't deny
What do you mean
You didn't ought to have received 'em
No you didn't
My good friend
did I want to receive them? Was it any act of mine? Didn't you tell me they would rile up, and that I should be flayed like a wild cat -- and threaten all kinds of vengeance, if I didn't receive them
I don't know about that
But when our people's frills is out, they're starched up pretty stiff, I tell you
We've come back alive, you see
It ain't the thing I did expect
A man ain't got no right to be a public man, unless he meets the public views. Our fashionable people wouldn't have attended his le-vee, if they had know'd it
Sir
Mr Pogram
Doctor Ginery Dunkle, sir. A gentleman of great poetical elements. He has recently jined us here, sir, and is an acquisition to us, sir, I do assure you. Yes, sir. Mr Jodd, sir. Mr Izzard, sir. Mr Julius Bib, sir
Julius Washington Merryweather Bib
I beg your pardon, sir. Excuse me. Mr Julius Washington Merryweather Bib, sir; a gentleman in the lumber line, sir, and much esteemed. Colonel Groper, sir. Pro-fessor Piper, sir. My own name, sir, is Oscar Buffum
Sir
Mr Pogram
Perhaps
you will be so good, Dr. Ginery Dunkle, as to charge yourself with the execution of our little office, sir
Mr Pogram! Sir! A handful of your fellow-citizens, sir, hearing of your arrival at the National Hotel, and feeling the patriotic character of your public services, wish, sir, to have the gratification of beholding you, and mixing with you, sir; and unbending with you, sir, in those moments which
Air
Which air so peculiarly the lot, sir, of our great and happy country
Hear
Good! Hear him! Good
And therefore, sir
Fellow countrymen
Good
Hear, him! Good
Your approbation of My labours in the common cause goes to My heart. At all times and in all places; in the ladies' ordinary, My friends, and in the Battle Field
Good, very good! Hear him! Hear him
The name of Pogram will be proud to jine you. And may it, My friends, be written on My tomb, "He was a member of the Congress of our common country, and was ac-Tive in his trust
The Com-mittee, sir
will wait upon you at five minutes afore eight. I take My leave, sir
How do you do, sir
There he is! as he delivered the Defiance
Pogram! Pogram
We will re-quest you, sir, if you please
to stand up with your back agin the wall right in the furthest corner, that there may be more room for our fellow cit-izens. If you could set your back right slap agin that curtain-peg, sir, keeping your left leg everlastingly behind the stove, we should be fixed quite slick
I wish he'd speak. Why don't he speak? Oh, do ask him to speak
Sir, Mrs Hominy
Lord bless that woman, Mark. She has turned up again
Here she comes, sir
Pogram knows her. A public character! Always got her eye upon her country, sir! If that there lady's husband is of my opinion, what a jolly old gentleman he must be
My! what is this
Do tell! oh, well, now! on'y think
Two literary ladies present their compliments to the mother of the modern Gracchi, and claim her kind introduction, as their talented countrywoman, to the honourable (and distinguished) Elijah Pogram, whom the two L. L
Miss Toppit, and Miss Codger
Codger's the lady so often mentioned in the English newspapers I should think, sir
The oldest inhabitant as never remembers anything
To be presented to a Pogram
by a Hominy, indeed, a thrilling moment is it in its impressiveness on what we call our feelings. But why we call them so, or why impressed they are, or if impressed they are at all, or if at all we are, or if there really is, oh gasping one! a Pogram or a Hominy, or any active principle to which we give those titles, is a topic, Spirit searching, light abandoned, much too vast to enter on, at this unlooked-for crisis
Mind and matter
glide swift into the vortex of immensity. Howls the sublime, and softly sleeps the calm Ideal, in the whispering chambers of Imagination. To hear it, sweet it is. But then, outlaughs the stern philosopher, and saith to the Grotesque, "What ho! arrest for me that Agency. Go, bring it here!" And so the vision fadeth
Which
must have vent, or it will bust. Toe you, Mr Pogram, I am grateful. Toe-wards you, sir, I am inspired with lofty veneration, and with deep e-mo-tion. The sentiment Toe which I would propose to give ex-pression, sir, is this: "May you ever be as firm, sir, as your marble statter! May it ever be as great a terror Toe its ene-mies as you
A Fragment. Suggested by witnessing the Honourable Elijah Pogram engaged in a philosophical disputation with three of Columbia's fairest daughters. By Doctor Ginery Dunkle. Of Troy
We air going to part, sir
Pray don't distress yourself
we must bear it
It ain't that, sir
not at all. But I should wish you to accept a copy of My oration
Thank you
you are very good. I shall be most happy
It ain't quite that, sir, neither
air you bold enough to introduce a copy into your country
Certainly
Why not
Its sentiments air strong, sir
That makes no difference
I'll take a dozen if you like
No, sir
Not A dozen. That is more than I require. If you are content to run the hazard, sir, here is one for your Lord Chancellor
and one for Your principal Secretary of State. I should wish them to see it, sir, as expressing what my opinions air. That they may not plead ignorance at a future time. But don't get into danger, sir, on my account
There is not the least danger, I assure you
I am truly sorry and ashamed
to have begged of you. But look at us. See what we are, and judge to what we are reduced
So far from claiming to have done you any service
I reproach myself with having been, unwittingly, the original cause of your misfortunes. I no more supposed you would go to Eden on such representations as you received; or, indeed, that you would do anything but be dispossessed, by the readiest means, of your idea that fortunes were so easily made here; than I thought of going to Eden myself
The fact is, I closed with the thing in a mad and sanguine manner
and the less said about it the better for me. Mark, here, hadn't a voice in the matter
Well! but he hadn't a voice in any other matter, had he
Not a very powerful one, I am afraid
But live and learn, Mr Bevan! Nearly die and learn; we learn the quicker
Now
about your plans. You mean to return home at once
Oh, I think so
That is your opinion too, I hope
Unquestionably. For I don't know why you ever came here; though it's not such an unusual case, I am sorry to say, that we need go any farther into that. You don't know that the ship in which you came over with our friend General Fladdock, is in port, of course
Indeed
Yes. And is advertised to sail to-morrow
Why, that's as wild as Eden every bit
You must take your passage like a Christian; at least, as like a Christian as a fore-cabin passenger can; and owe me a few more dollars than you intend. If Mark will go down to the ship and see what passengers there are, and finds that you can go in her without being actually suffocated, my advice is, go! You and I will look about us in the meantime (we won't call at the Norris's unless you like), and we will all three dine together in the afternoon
I've done Mr Bevan, sir
Done Mr Bevan
The cook of the Screw went and got married yesterday, sir
And when I got on board, and the word was passed that it was me
the mate he comes and asks me whether I'd engage to take this said cook's place upon the passage home. "For you're used to it," he says; "you were always a-cooking for everybody on your passage out." And so I was
although I never cooked before, I'll take my oath
What did you say
Say
That I'd take anything I could get. "If that's so," says the mate, "why, bring a glass of rum;" which they brought according. And my wages, sir
pays your passage; and I've put the rolling-pin in your berth to take it (it's the easy one up in the corner); and there we are, Rule Britannia, and Britons strike home
There never was such a good fellow as you are
But what do you mean by "doing" Mr Bevan, Mark
Why, don't you see
We don't tell him, you know. We take his money, but we don't spend it, and we don't keep it. What we do is, write him a little note, explaining this engagement, and roll it up, and leave it at the bar, to be given to him after we are gone. Don't you see
Good-bye! a hundred thousand times good-bye
How shall I remember all your kindness! How shall I ever thank you
If you ever become a rich man, or a powerful one
you shall try to make your Government more careful of its subjects when they roam abroad to live. Tell it what you know of emigration in your own case, and impress upon it how much suffering may be prevented with a little pains
Why, Cook! what are you thinking of so steadily
Why, I was a-thinking, sir
that if I was a painter and was called upon to paint the American Eagle, how should I do it
Paint it as like an Eagle as you could, I suppose
No
That wouldn't do for me, sir. I should want to draw it like a Bat, for its short-sightedness; like a Bantam, for its bragging; like a Magpie, for its honesty; like a Peacock, for its vanity; like a ostrich, for its putting its head in the mud, and thinking nobody sees it
And like a Phoenix, for its power of springing from the ashes of its faults and vices, and soaring up anew into the sky
Well, Mark. Let us hope so
We want to see Miss Mary, of course
Of course
But I don't know where she is. Not having had the heart to write in our distress -- you yourself thought silence most advisable -- and consequently, never having heard from her since we left New York the first time, I don't know where she is, my good fellow
My opinion is, sir
that what we've got to do is to travel straight to the Dragon. There's no need for you to go there, where you're known, unless you like. You may stop ten mile short of it. I'll go on. Mrs Lupin will tell me all the news. Mr Pinch will give me every information that we want; and right glad Mr Pinch will be to do it. My proposal is: To set off walking this afternoon. To stop when we are tired. To get a lift when we can. To walk when we can't. To do it at once, and do it cheap
Unless we do it cheap, we shall have some difficulty in doing it at all
The greater reason for losing no time, sir
Whereas, when you've seen the young lady; and know what state of mind the old gentleman's in, and all about it; then you'll know what to do next
No doubt
You are quite right
We must inquire into this
Ask the landlord in, Mark
Pray, landlord
who is that gentleman who passed just now, and whom you were looking after
That, gentlemen, is the great Mr Pecksniff! The celebrated architect, gentlemen
The great Mr Pecksniff, the celebrated architect, gentlemen
has come down here, to help to lay the first stone of a new and splendid public building
Is it to be built from his designs
The great Mr Pecksniff, the celebrated architect, gentlemen
carried off the First Premium, and will erect the building
Who lays the stone
Our member has come down express
No scrubs would do for no such a purpose. Nothing less would satisfy our Directors than our member in the House of Commons, who is returned upon the Gentlemanly Interest
Which interest is that
What, don't you know
When does the ceremony take place
This day
almost this minute
Perhaps he has Tom Pinch with him
It would be rather too much of a treat for him, wouldn't it, sir
Why, what's the matter, sir
Matter! This is MY building
Your building, sir
My grammar-school. I invented it. I did it all. He has only put four windows in, the villain, and spoilt it
The present occasion
will ever be memorable to me; not only for the reasons I have assigned, but because it has afforded me an opportunity of becoming personally known to a gentleman
To a gentleman who, I am happy to believe, will reap both distinction and profit from this field; whose fame had previously penetrated to me -- as to whose ears has it not!-- but whose intellectual countenance I never had the distinguished honour to behold until this day, and whose intellectual conversation I had never before the improving pleasure to enjoy
But I hope my Honourable Friend
will give me many opportunities of cultivating the knowledge of him; and that I may have the extraordinary gratification of reflecting in after-time that I laid on this day two first stones, both belonging to structures which shall last my life
My friends
My duty is to build, not speak; to act, not talk; to deal with marble, stone, and brick; not language. I am very much affected. God bless you
Compare the fellow's situation to-day with ours
Lord bless you, sir
what's the use? Some architects are clever at making foundations, and some architects are clever at building on 'em when they're made. But it'll all come right in the end, sir; it'll all come right
And in the meantime
In the meantime, as you say, sir, we have a deal to do, and far to go. So sharp's the word, and Jolly
You are the best master in the world, Mark
and I will not be a bad scholar if I can help it, I am resolved! So come! Best foot foremost, old fellow
So
it's very nearly as broad as it's long
This is kind indeed
I didn't mean to give you this trouble
Trouble, Mr Pinch
Well! It's a pleasure to you, I know
Is there any news
Say you saw me
and that I was very bold and cheerful, and not a bit down-hearted; and that I entreated her to be the same, for all is certain to come right at last. Good-bye
You'll write when you get settled, Mr Pinch
When I get settled
Oh, yes, I'll write when I get settled. Perhaps I had better write before, because I may find that it takes a little time to settle myself; not having too much money, and having only one friend. I shall give your love to the friend, by the way. You were always great with Mr Westlock, you know. Good-bye
Good-bye
Take this. Good-bye
Do you want me to carry it to London for you
No, no
It's only a little something for refreshment on the road. Sit fast, Jack. Drive on, sir. All right! Good-bye
And that's the last of the old finger-post
where I have so often stood to see this very coach go by, and where I have parted with so many companions! I used to compare this coach to some great monster that appeared at certain times to bear my friends away into the world. And now it's bearing me away, to seek my fortune, Heaven knows where and how
She is the kindest and most considerate creature in the world
Now I KNOW that she particularly told that man of hers not to look at me, on purpose to prevent my throwing him a shilling! I had it ready for him all the time, and he never once looked towards me; whereas that man naturally, (for I know him very well,) would have done nothing but grin and stare. Upon my word, the kindness of people perfectly melts me
Remarkable fine woman for her time of life
I quite agree with you
So she is
un, I mean to say
Eh
Than many a young one
I don't care for 'em myself when they're too young
You'll seldom find 'em possessing correct opinions about refreshment, for instance, when they're too young, you know
a woman must have arrived at maturity, before her mind's equal to coming provided with a basket like that
Perhaps you would like to know what it contains
that rum as the box-seat looked, he was as good a one to go, in pint of conversation, as ever he'd wish to sit by
Five minutes before the time, too
Upon my word
I should not have minded very much, if we had been five hours after it; for at this early hour I don't know where to go, or what to do with myself
Don't they expect you then
Who
Why them
But it must be made
sooner or later; and I had better get it over
I am afraid that's not a London knock
It didn't sound bold. Perhaps that's the reason why nobody answers the door
Come in
Bless my soul
Perhaps he lives here, and is calling to me. I never thought of that. Can I open the door from the outside, I wonder. Yes, to be sure I can
Why don't you come in? Come in, do you hear? What are you standing there for
Why, Tom, my boy
Tom
How glad I am to see you, Mr Westlock
How kind you are
Mr Westlock
what do you mean by that, Pinch? You have not forgotten my Christian name, I suppose
No, John, no. I have not forgotten
Good gracious me, how kind you are
I never saw such a fellow in all my life
What do you mean by saying THAT over and over again? What did you expect me to be, I wonder! Here, sit down, Tom, and be a reasonable creature. How are you, my boy? I am delighted to see you
And I am delighted to see YOU
It's mutual, of course
It always was, I hope. If I had known you had been coming, Tom, I would have had something for breakfast. I would rather have such a surprise than the best breakfast in the world, myself; but yours is another case, and I have no doubt you are as hungry as a hunter. You must make out as well as you can, Tom, and we'll recompense ourselves at dinner-time. You take sugar, I know; I recollect the sugar at Pecksniff's. Ha, ha, ha! How IS Pecksniff? When did you come to town? DO begin at something or other, Tom. There are only scraps here, but they are not at all bad. Boar's Head potted. Try it, Tom. Make a beginning whatever you do. What an old Blade you are! I am delighted to see you
There
Now we are as well off as we are likely to be till dinner. And now let us have the news, Tom. Imprimis, how's Pecksniff
I don't know how he is
I don't know how he is
and, saving that I wish him no ill, I don't care. I have left him, John. I have left him for ever
Voluntarily
Why, no, for he dismissed me. But I had first found out that I was mistaken in him; and I could not have remained with him under any circumstances. I grieve to say that you were right in your estimate of his character. It may be a ridiculous weakness, John, but it has been very painful and bitter to me to find this out, I do assure you
It was all a dream of mine
and it is over. I'll tell you how it happened, at some other time. Bear with my folly, John. I do not, just now, like to think or speak about it
I swear to you, Tom
that when I see, as I do now, how deeply you feel this, I don't know whether to be glad or sorry that you have made the discovery at last. I reproach myself with the thought that I ever jested on the subject; I ought to have known better
My dear friend
it is very generous and gallant in you to receive me and my disclosure in this spirit; it makes me blush to think that I should have felt a moment's uneasiness as I came along. You can't think what a weight is lifted off my mind
I shall punish the Boar's Head dreadfully
That's all right
Now, about our plans. You are going to stay with me, of course. Where's your box
It's at the Inn
I didn't intend
Never mind what you didn't intend
What you DID intend is more to the purpose. You intended, in coming here, to ask my advice, did you not, Tom
Certainly
And to take it when I gave it to you
Yes
if it were good advice, which, being yours, I have no doubt it will be
Very well. Then don't be an obstinate old humbug in the outset, Tom, or I shall shut up shop and dispense none of that invaluable commodity. You are on a visit to me. I wish I had an organ for you, Tom
So do the gentlemen downstairs, and the gentlemen overhead I have no doubt
Let me see. In the first place, you will wish to see your sister this morning
and of course you will like to go there alone. I'll walk part of the way with you; and see about a little business of my own, and meet you here again in the afternoon. Put that in your pocket, Tom. It's only the key of the door. If you come home first you'll want it
Really
quartering one's self upon a friend in this way
Why, there are two keys
I can't open the door with them both at once, can I? What a ridiculous fellow you are, Tom? Nothing particular you'd like for dinner, is there
Oh dear no
Very well, then you may as well leave it to me. Have a glass of cherry brandy, Tom
Not a drop! What remarkable chambers these are
there's everything in 'em
Bless your soul, Tom, nothing but a few little bachelor contrivances! the sort of impromptu arrangements that might have suggested themselves to Philip Quarll or Robinson Crusoe, that's all. What do you say? Shall we walk
By all means
As soon as you like
Dreaming, Tom
No
No. I have been looking over the advertising sheet, thinking there might be something in it which would be likely to suit me. But, as I often think, the strange thing seems to be that nobody is suited. Here are all kinds of employers wanting all sorts of servants, and all sorts of servants wanting all kinds of employers, and they never seem to come together. Here is a gentleman in a public office in a position of temporary difficulty, who wants to borrow five hundred pounds; and in the very next advertisement here is another gentleman who has got exactly that sum to lend. But he'll never lend it to him, John, you'll find! Here is a lady possessing a moderate independence, who wants to board and lodge with a quiet, cheerful family; and here is a family describing themselves in those very words, "a quiet, cheerful family," who want exactly such a lady to come and live with them. But she'll never go, John! Neither do any of these single gentlemen who want an airy bedroom, with the occasional use of a parlour, ever appear to come to terms with these other people who live in a rural situation remarkable for its bracing atmosphere, within five minutes' walk of the Royal Exchange. Even those letters of the alphabet who are always running away from their friends and being entreated at the tops of columns to come back, never DO come back, if we may judge from the number of times they are asked to do it and don't. It really seems
as if people had the same gratification in printing their complaints as in making them known by word of mouth; as if they found it a comfort and consolation to proclaim "I want such and such a thing, and I can't get it, and I don't expect I ever shall
Pray does Miss Pinch live here
Miss Pinch is governess here
You are a nice man, YOU are; where did YOU come from
It's the same young lady
It's quite right. Is she at home
I don't know, I'm sure
Do you think you could have the goodness to ascertain
Hollo, there! wot are you up to? This way, young man
Oh
I didn't observe that there was anybody else. Pray is Miss Pinch at home
She's IN
But if you think she has anything to do with the proprietorship of this place you had better abandon that idea
I wish to see her, if you please
Hany neem
Say her brother, if you please
Mother
Brother
And if you will say, in the first instance, a gentleman, and then say her brother, I shall be obliged to you, as she does not expect me or know I am in London, and I do not wish to startle her
Dear me
This is very disrespectful and uncivil behaviour. I hope these are new servants here, and that Ruth is very differently treated
Why, bless my soul
how altered you are Ruth! I should scarcely have known you, my love, if I had seen you anywhere else, I declare! You are so improved
you are so womanly; you are so -- positively, you know, you are so handsome
If YOU think so Tom
Oh, but everybody must think so, you know
It's matter of fact; not opinion. But what's the matter
how flushed you are! and you have been crying
No, I have not, Tom
Nonsense
That's a story. Don't tell me! I know better. What is it, dear? I'm not with Mr Pecksniff now. I am going to try and settle myself in London; and if you are not happy here (as I very much fear you are not, for I begin to think you have been deceiving me with the kindest and most affectionate intention) you shall not remain here
there are more Pecksniffs than one, perhaps
We will talk about it, Tom
I am afraid I cannot stay here
Cannot
Why then, you shall not, my love. Heyday! You are not an object of charity! Upon my word
Show the way
I'll wait upon him at once
My brother, sir
Oh
You really are Miss Pinch's brother, I presume? You will excuse my asking. I don't observe any resemblance
Miss Pinch has a brother, I know
Miss Pinch is always talking about her brother, when she ought to be engaged upon my education
Sophia! Hold your tongue
Sit down, if you please
Remain here, if you please, Miss Pinch
I am glad you chance to have called to see your sister to-day, sir
For although I do not approve, as a principle, of any young person engaged in my family in the capacity of a governess, receiving visitors, it happens in this case to be well timed. I am sorry to inform you that we are not at all satisfied with your sister
We are very much DISsatisfied with her
I'd never say another lesson to Miss Pinch if I was to be beat to death for it
Sophia
Hold your tongue
Will you allow me to inquire what your ground of dissatisfaction is
Yes
I will. I don't recognize it as a right; but I will. Your sister has not the slightest innate power of commanding respect. It has been a constant source of difference between us. Although she has been in this family for some time, and although the young lady who is now present has almost, as it were, grown up under her tuition, that young lady has no respect for her. Miss Pinch has been perfectly unable to command my daughter's respect, or to win my daughter's confidence. Now
I maintain that there is something radically wrong in that! You, as her brother, may be disposed to deny it
I beg your pardon, sir
I am not at all disposed to deny it. I am sure that there is something radically wrong; radically monstrous, in that
Good Heavens
what do I find to be the case! what results obtrude themselves upon me as flowing from this weakness of character on the part of Miss Pinch! What are my feelings as a father, when, after my desire (repeatedly expressed to Miss Pinch, as I think she will not venture to deny) that my daughter should be choice in her expressions, genteel in her deportment, as becomes her station in life, and politely distant to her inferiors in society, I find her, only this very morning, addressing Miss Pinch herself as a beggar
A beggarly thing
Which is worse
which is worse. A beggarly thing. A low, coarse, despicable expression
Most despicable
I am glad to find that there is a just appreciation of it here
So just, sir
So just, that, but for my knowing Miss Pinch to be an unprotected young person, an orphan, and without friends, I would, as I assured Miss Pinch, upon my veracity and personal character, a few minutes ago, I would have severed the connection between us at that moment and from that time
Bless my soul, sir
don't allow such considerations as those to influence you, pray. They don't exist, sir. She is not unprotected. She is ready to depart this instant. Ruth, my dear, get your bonnet on
Oh, a pretty family
Oh, he's her brother! There's no doubt about that
As little doubt, madam
as that the young lady yonder is the child of your teaching, and not my sister's. Ruth, my dear, get your bonnet on
When you say, young man
with that impertinence which is natural to you, and which I therefore do not condescend to notice further, that the young lady, my eldest daughter, has been educated by any one but Miss Pinch, you -- I needn't proceed. You comprehend me fully. I have no doubt you are used to it
Sir
If you do not understand what I mean, I will tell you. If you do understand what I mean, I beg you not to repeat that mode of expressing yourself in answer to it. My meaning is, that no man can expect his children to respect what he degrades
Ha, ha, ha
Cant! cant! The common cant
The common story, sir
the story of a common mind. Your governess cannot win the confidence and respect of your children, forsooth! Let her begin by winning yours, and see what happens then
Miss Pinch is getting her bonnet on, I trust, my dear
I trust she is
I have no doubt she is. In the meantime I address myself to you, sir. You made your statement to me, sir; you required to see me for that purpose; and I have a right to answer it. I am not loud or turbulent
though I can scarcely say as much for you, in your manner of addressing yourself to me. And I wish, on my sister's behalf, to state the simple truth
You may state anything you like, young man
My dear, Miss Pinch's money
When you tell me
that my sister has no innate power of commanding the respect of your children, I must tell you it is not so; and that she has. She is as well bred, as well taught, as well qualified by nature to command respect, as any hirer of a governess you know. But when you place her at a disadvantage in reference to every servant in your house, how can you suppose, if you have the gift of common sense, that she is not in a tenfold worse position in reference to your daughters
Pretty well! Upon my word
this is pretty well
It is very ill, sir
It is very bad and mean, and wrong and cruel. Respect! I believe young people are quick enough to observe and imitate; and why or how should they respect whom no one else respects, and everybody slights? And very partial they must grow -- oh, very partial!-- to their studies, when they see to what a pass proficiency in those same tasks has brought their governess! Respect! Put anything the most deserving of respect before your daughters in the light in which you place her, and you will bring it down as low, no matter what it is
You speak with extreme impertinence, young man
I speak without passion, but with extreme indignation and contempt for such a course of treatment, and for all who practice it
Why, how can you, as an honest gentleman, profess displeasure or surprise at your daughter telling my sister she is something beggarly and humble, when you are for ever telling her the same thing yourself in fifty plain, outspeaking ways, though not in words; and when your very porter and footman make the same delicate announcement to all comers? As to your suspicion and distrust of her; even of her word; if she is not above their reach, you have no right to employ her
No right
Distinctly not
If you imagine that the payment of an annual sum of money gives it to you, you immensely exaggerate its power and value. Your money is the least part of your bargain in such a case. You may be punctual in that to half a second on the clock, and yet be Bankrupt. I have nothing more to say
except to crave permission to stand in your garden until my sister is ready
They will think you are sorry to go
You are not sorry to go
No, Tom, no. I have been anxious to go for a very long time
Very well, then! Don't cry
I am so sorry for YOU, dear
But you ought to be glad on my account
I shall be twice as happy with you for a companion. Hold up your head. There! Now we go out as we ought. Not blustering, you know, but firm and confident in ourselves
Where are we going, Tom
Dear me
I don't know
Don't you -- don't you live anywhere, dear
No
Not at present. Not exactly. I only arrived this morning. We must have some lodgings
We must have some lodgings, of course
Where shall we go and look for 'em
What do you think
It ought to be a cheap neighbourhood
and not too far from London. Let me see. Should you think Islington a good place
I should think it was an excellent place, Tom
It used to be called Merry Islington, once upon a time
Perhaps it's merry now; if so, it's all the better. Eh
If it's not too dear
Of course, if it's not too dear
Well, where IS Islington? We can't do better than go there, I should think. Let's go
Now
we must first look out for some very unpretending streets, and then look out for bills in the windows
I am quite a family man all at once
If I can only get something to do, how comfortable Ruth and I may be! Ah, that if! But it's of no use to despond. I can but do that, when I have tried everything and failed; and even then it won't serve me much. Upon my word
I don't know what John will think has become of me. He'll begin to be afraid I have strayed into one of those streets where the countrymen are murdered; and that I have been made meat pies of, or some such horrible thing
How much a-piece
A Tanner
They don't know what a many steps there is
It's worth twice the money to stop here. Oh, my eye
My gracious
Why, to be sure it is
Miss Pecksniff
Why, my goodness, Mr Pinch
What are you doing here
I have rather wandered from my way
I
I hope you have run away
It would be quite spirited and proper if you had, when my Papa so far forgets himself
I have left him
But it was perfectly understood on both sides. It was not done clandestinely
Is he married
No, not yet
to tell you the truth, I don't think he is likely to be, if -- if Miss Graham is the object of his passion
Tcha, Mr Pinch
you're very easily deceived. You don't know the arts of which such a creature is capable. Oh! it's a wicked world
You are not married
N -- no
I -- but really it's quite impossible to explain. Won't you walk in
You live here, then
Yes
I reside with this lady, AT PRESENT
Only at present! Are you going home again soon
No, Mr Pinch
No, thank you. No! A mother-in- law who is younger than -- I mean to say, who is as nearly as possible about the same age as one's self, would not quite suit my spirit. Not quite
I thought from your saying "at present
Really, upon my word! I had no idea you would press me so very closely on the subject, Mr Pinch
or I should not have been so foolish as to allude to -- oh really!-- won't you walk in
A gentleman who is a friend of mine, or at least who is not exactly a friend so much as a sort of acquaintance -- Oh upon my word, I hardly know what I say, Mr Pinch; you mustn't suppose there is any engagement between us; or at least if there is, that it is at all a settled thing as yet -- is going to Furnival's Inn immediately, I believe upon a little business, and I am sure he would be very glad to accompany you, so as to prevent your going wrong again. You had better walk in. You will very likely find my sister Merry here
Then, I think, I'll endeavour to find my way alone
for I fear she would not be very glad to see me. That unfortunate occurrence, in relation to which you and I had some amicable words together, in private, is not likely to have impressed her with any friendly feeling towards me. Though it really was not my fault
She has never heard of that, you may depend
I am far from sure that she would bear you any mighty ill will for it, if she had
You don't say so
I say nothing
If I had not already known what shocking things treachery and deceit are in themselves, Mr Pinch, I might perhaps have learnt it from the success they meet with -- from the success they meet with
But I don't say anything. On the contrary, I should scorn it. You had better walk in
Oh, Merry
I am so glad you have not gone home. Who do you think I have met in the street, and brought to see you! Mr Pinch! There. Now you ARE surprised, I am sure
Mr Pinch has left Papa, my dear
and his prospects are quite flourishing. I have promised that Augustus, who is going that way, shall escort him to the place he wants. Augustus, my child, where are you
My gracious me! You are really the last person in the world I should have thought of seeing, I am sure
I wonder you find any gratification in coming to see me. I can't think what put it in your head. I never had much in seeing you. There was no love lost between us, Mr Pinch, at any time, I think
We never quarrelled
I hoped you would be glad to shake hands with an old friend. Don't let us rake up bygones
If I ever offended you, forgive me
Oh, Mr Pinch
although I never used you well, I did believe your nature was forgiving. I did not think you could be cruel
I seldom showed it -- never -- I know that. But I had that belief in you, that if I had been asked to name the person in the world least likely to retort upon me, I would have named you, confidently
Would have named me
Yes
and I have often thought so
Do you believe
oh, can you think, that what I said just now, I said with any but the true and plain intention which my words professed? I mean it, in the spirit and the letter. If I ever offended you, forgive me; I may have done so, many times. You never injured or offended me. How, then, could I possibly retort, if even I were stern and bad enough to wish to do it
Come, come
you used to be as cheerful as the day was long
Ah! used
And will be again
No, never more. No, never, never more. If you should talk with old Mr Chuzzlewit, at any time
I sometimes thought he liked you, but suppressed it -- will you promise me to tell him that you saw me here, and that I said I bore in mind the time we talked together in the churchyard
Many times since then, when I have wished I had been carried there before that day, I have recalled his words. I wish that he should know how true they were, although the least acknowledgment to that effect has never passed my lips and never will
If he should ever know this, through your means, dear Mr Pinch
tell him that I sent the message, not for myself, but that he might be more forbearing and more patient, and more trustful to some other person, in some other time of need. Tell him that if he could know how my heart trembled in the balance that day, and what a very little would have turned the scale, his own would bleed with pity for me
Yes, yes
I will
When I appeared to him the most unworthy of his help, I was -- I know I was, for I have often, often, thought about it since -- the most inclined to yield to what he showed me. Oh! if he had relented but a little more; if he had thrown himself in my way for but one other quarter of an hour; if he had extended his compassion for a vain, unthinking, miserable girl, in but the least degree; he might, and I believe he would, have saved her! Tell him that I don't blame him, but am grateful for the effort that he made; but ask him for the love of God, and youth, and in merciful consideration for the struggle which an ill-advised and unwakened nature makes to hide the strength it thinks its weakness -- ask him never, never, to forget this, when he deals with one again
Ah, sir! You are an old friend, I see
Yes
And yet
she hasn't told you what her troubles are, I'm certain
Indeed
she has not
And never would
if you saw her daily. She never makes the least complaint to me, or utters a single word of explanation or reproach. But I know
I know
So do I
I fully believe
that nobody can tell one half of what that poor young creature has to undergo. But though she comes here, constantly, to ease her poor full heart without his knowing it; and saying, "Mrs Todgers, I am very low to-day; I think that I shall soon be dead," sits crying in my room until the fit is past; I know no more from her. And, I believe
that she considers me a good friend too
Mr Thomas Pinch
Mr Moddle. Where's my sister
Gone, Miss Pecksniff
She had appointed to be home
Ah
Oh, dear me
She's greatly altered since she's been Anoth -- since she's been married, Mrs Todgers
My dear Augustus
I verily believe you have said that fifty thousand times, in my hearing. What a Prose you are
Joy
Ha, ha
What an extraordinary young man
The Scorner has not set his seal upon you. YOU care what becomes of you
I don't
The Elements may have me when they please. I'm ready
Why, Tom, old boy, where on earth have you been? Your box is here. Get your boots off instantly, and sit down
I am sorry to say I can't stay, John
Can't stay
If you'll go on with your dinner
I'll tell you my reason the while. I mustn't eat myself, or I shall have no appetite for the chops
There are no chops here, my food fellow
No. But there are at Islington
And now Tom
I have a question to ask you to which I expect a manly and straightforward answer. Do you want any money? I am pretty sure you do
I don't indeed
I believe you are deceiving me
No. With many thanks to you, I am quite in earnest
My sister has some money, and so have I. If I had nothing else, John, I have a five-pound note, which that good creature, Mrs Lupin, of the Dragon, handed up to me outside the coach, in a letter begging me to borrow it; and then drove off as hard as she could go
And a blessing on every dimple in her handsome face, say I
though why you should give her the preference over me, I don't know. Never mind. I bide my time, Tom
And I hope you'll continue to bide it
For I owe you more, already, in a hundred other ways, than I can ever hope to pay
Well, Mr Nadgett
Any news, Mr Nadgett
I think we have some news at last, sir
I am happy to hear it. I began to fear you were off the scent, Mr Nadgett
No, sir. It grows cold occasionally. It will sometimes. We can't help that
You are truth itself, Mr Nadgett. Do you report a great success
That depends upon your judgment and construction of it
What do you think of it yourself? Have you pleased yourself
Yes, yes, I think it's a good case. I am disposed to think it's a good case. Will you go into it at once
By all means
I wish you wouldn't be so fond of making notes, my excellent friend
I wish you would consent to give me their purport by word of mouth
I don't like word of mouth
We never know who's listening
We'll begin at the beginning, and take that one first, if you please, sir
Number Two
Read Number Two, sir, if you please. There is more interest as you go on
And this is the last, Mr Nadgett
That, sir, is the last
You are a wonderful man, Mr Nadgett
I think it is a pretty good case
It cost some trouble, sir
The trouble shall be well rewarded, Mr Nadgett
There is a deeper impression of Somebody's Hoof here, than I had expected, Mr Nadgett. I may congratulate myself upon your being such a good hand at a secret
Oh! nothing has an interest to me that's not a secret
It always takes away any pleasure I may have had in this inquiry even to make it known to you
A most invaluable constitution
A great gift for a gentleman employed as you are, Mr Nadgett. Much better than discretion; though you possess that quality also in an eminent degree. I think I heard a double knock. Will you put your head out of window, and tell me whether there is anybody at the door
Mr Jonas Chuzzlewit
I thought so
Shall I go
I think you had better. Stay though! No! remain here, Mr Nadgett, if you please
Show him up directly. Nadgett! don't you leave us alone together. Mind you don't, now! By the Lord
We don't know what may happen
My dear Chuzzlewit
You rise with the lark. Though you go to bed with the nightingale, you rise with the lark. You have superhuman energy, my dear Chuzzlewit
Ecod
I should be very glad not to get up with the lark, if I could help it. But I am a light sleeper; and it's better to be up than lying awake, counting the dismal old church-clocks, in bed
A light sleeper
Now, what is a light sleeper? I often hear the expression, but upon my life I have not the least conception what a light sleeper is
Hallo
Who's that? Oh, old what's-his-name: looking (as usual) as if he wanted to skulk up the chimney
Ha, ha! I have no doubt he does
Well! He's not wanted here, I suppose
He may go, mayn't he
Oh, let him stay, let him stay
He's a mere piece of furniture. He has been making his report, and is waiting for further orders. He has been told
not to lose sight of certain friends of ours, or to think that he has done with them by any means. He understands his business
He need
for of all the precious old dummies in appearance that I ever saw, he's about the worst. He's afraid of me, I think
It's my belief
that you are Poison to him. Nadgett! give me that towel
You see, my dear fellow
you are too -- what's the matter with your lips? How white they are
I took some vinegar just now
I had oysters for my breakfast. Where are they white
I don't believe they ARE white
Now I look again, they are not
They are coming right again
Say what you were going to say
and let my face be! As long as I can show my teeth when I want to (and I can do that pretty well), the colour of my lips is not material
Quite true
I was only going to say that you are too quick and active for our friend. He is too shy to cope with such a man as you, but does his duty well. Oh, very well! But what is a light sleeper
Hang a light sleeper
No, no
No. We'll not do that
A light sleeper ain't a heavy one
don't sleep much, and don't sleep well, and don't sleep sound
And dreams
and cries out in an ugly manner; and when the candle burns down in the night, is in an agony; and all that sort of thing. I see
Now we've done with child's talk, I want to have a word with you. I want to have a word with you before we meet up yonder to-day. I am not satisfied with the state of affairs
Not satisfied
The money comes in well
The money comes in well enough
but it don't come out well enough. It can't be got at easily enough. I haven't sufficient power; it is all in your hands. Ecod! what with one of your by-laws, and another of your by-laws, and your votes in this capacity, and your votes in that capacity, and your official rights, and your individual rights, and other people's rights who are only you again, there are no rights left for me. Everybody else's rights are my wrongs. What's the use of my having a voice if it's always drowned? I might as well be dumb, and it would be much less aggravating. I'm not a-going to stand that, you know
No
No
I'm not indeed. I'll play old Gooseberry with the office, and make you glad to buy me out at a good high figure, if you try any of your tricks with me
I give you my honour
Oh! confound your honour
I want a little more control over the money. You may have all the honour, if you like; I'll never bring you to book for that. But I'm not a-going to stand it, as it is now. If you should take it into your honourable head to go abroad with the bank, I don't see much to prevent you. Well! That won't do. I've had some very good dinners here, but they'd come too dear on such terms; and therefore, that won't do
I am unfortunate to find you in this humour
for I was going to propose to you -- for your own advantage; solely for your own advantage -- that you should venture a little more with us
Was you, by G
Yes. And to suggest
that surely you have friends; indeed, I know you have; who would answer our purpose admirably, and whom we should be delighted to receive
How kind of you! You'd be delighted to receive 'em, would you
I give you my sacred honour, quite transported. As your friends, observe
Exactly
as my friends, of course. You'll be very much delighted when you get 'em, I have no doubt. And it'll be all to my advantage, won't it
It will be very much to your advantage
It will be very much to your advantage, I assure you
And you can tell me how
can't you
SHALL I tell you how
I think you had better
Strange things have been done in the Assurance way before now, by strange sorts of men, and I mean to take care of myself
Chuzzlewit
Strange things have been done, and are done every day; not only in our way, but in a variety of other ways; and no one suspects them. But ours, as you say, my good friend, is a strange way; and we strangely happen, sometimes, to come into the knowledge of very strange events
You'll not object
to venture further with us, Chuzzlewit, my friend
No
Well said! That's like yourself. Do you know I was thinking yesterday that your father-in-law, relying on your advice as a man of great sagacity in money matters, as no doubt you are, would join us, if the thing were well presented to him. He has money
Yes, he has money
Shall I leave Mr Pecksniff to you? Will you undertake for Mr Pecksniff
I'll try. I'll do my best
A thousand thanks
Shall we walk downstairs? Mr Nadgett! Follow us, if you please
I don't know, Tom
I am not quite confident, but I think I could make a beef-steak pudding, if I tried, Tom
In the whole catalogue of cookery, there is nothing I should like so much as a beef-steak pudding
Yes, dear, that's excellent! But if it should happen not to come quite right the first time
if it should happen not to be a pudding exactly, but should turn out a stew, or a soup, or something of that sort, you'll not be vexed, Tom, will you
Why
this is capital. It gives us a new, and quite an uncommon interest in the dinner. We put into a lottery for a beefsteak pudding, and it is impossible to say what we may get. We may make some wonderful discovery, perhaps, and produce such a dish as never was known before
I shall not be at all surprised if we do, Tom
or if it should prove to be such a dish as we shall not feel very anxious to produce again; but the meat must come out of the saucepan at last, somehow or other, you know. We can't cook it into nothing at all; that's a great comfort. So if you like to venture, I will
I have not the least doubt
that it will come out an excellent pudding, or at all events, I am sure that I shall think it so. There is naturally something so handy and brisk about you, Ruth, that if you said you could make a bowl of faultless turtle soup, I should believe you
for meat
must be humoured, not drove
What are you writing, Tom
Why, you see, my dear
I am very anxious, of course, to obtain some suitable employment; and before Mr Westlock comes this afternoon, I think I may as well prepare a little description of myself and my qualifications; such as he could show to any friend of his
You had better do the same for me, Tom, also
I should dearly like to keep house for you and take care of you always, Tom; but we are not rich enough for that
We are not rich
certainly; and we may be much poorer. But we will not part if we can help it. No, no; we will make up our minds Ruth, that unless we are so very unfortunate as to render me quite sure that you would be better off away from me than with me, we will battle it out together. I am certain we shall be happier if we can battle it out together. Don't you think we shall
Think, Tom
Oh, tut, tut
You mustn't cry
No, no; I won't, Tom. But you can't afford it, dear. You can't, indeed
We don't know that
How are we to know that, yet awhile, and without trying? Lord bless my soul
there is no knowing what may happen, if we try hard. And I am sure we can live contentedly upon a very little -- if we can only get it
Yes; that I am sure we can, Tom
Why, then
we must try for it. My friend, John Westlock, is a capital fellow, and very shrewd and intelligent. I'll take his advice. We'll talk it over with him -- both of us together. You'll like John very much, when you come to know him, I am certain. Don't cry, don't cry. YOU make a beef-steak pudding, indeed
Why, you haven't boldness enough for a dumpling
You WILL call it a pudding, Tom. Mind! I told you not
I may as well call it that, till it proves to be something else
Oh, you are going to work in earnest, are you
A respectable young man, aged thirty-five
Tom
Tom
What now
aged thirty-five
Will you look here a moment, please
I am going to begin, Tom. Don't you wonder why I butter the inside of the basin
Not more than you do, I dare say
For I believe you don't know anything about it
What an infidel you are, Tom! How else do you think it would turn out easily when it was done! For a civil-engineer and land-surveyor not to know that! My goodness, Tom
respectable young man, aged thirty-five
Where's the pudding
Where
Look at it
THAT a pudding
It WILL be, you stupid fellow, when it's covered in
Why, my goodness, John! How did YOU come in
I beg pardon
your sister's pardon especially -- but I met an old lady at the street door, who requested me to enter here; and as you didn't hear me knock, and the door was open, I made bold to do so. I hardly know
why any of us should be disconcerted at my having accidentally intruded upon such an agreeable domestic occupation, so very agreeably and skillfully pursued; but I must confess that I am. Tom, will you kindly come to my relief
Mr John Westlock
My sister
I hope that, as the sister of so old a friend
you will have the goodness to detach your first impressions of me from my unfortunate entrance
My sister is not indisposed perhaps to say the same to you on her own behalf
I am delighted to see you
Sit down
I can only think of sitting down on one condition
and that is, that your sister goes on with the pudding, as if you were still alone
That I am sure she will
On one other condition, and that is, that you stay and help us to eat it
I am here much earlier than I intended, Tom; but I will tell you, what brings me, and I think I can answer for your being glad to hear it. Is that anything you wish to show me
Oh dear no
A respectable young man, aged thirty-five"-- The beginning of a description of myself. That's all
I don't think you will have occasion to finish it, Tom. But how is it you never told me you had friends in London
Friends in London
Ah
to be sure
Have YOU any friends in London, Ruth, my dear
No, Tom
I am very happy to hear that I have
but it's news to me. I never knew it. They must be capital people to keep a secret, John
You shall judge for yourself
Seriously, Tom, here is the plain state of the case. As I was sitting at breakfast this morning, there comes a knock at my door
On which you cried out, very loud, "Come in
So I did. And the person who knocked, not being a respectable young man, aged thirty-five, from the country, came in when he was invited, instead of standing gaping and staring about him on the landing. Well! When he came in, I found he was a stranger; a grave, business-like, sedate-looking, stranger. "Mr Westlock?" said he. "That is my name," said I. "The favour of a few words with you?" said he. "Pray be seated, sir," said I
The pudding having taken a chair, Tom
What
Having taken a chair
You said a pudding
No, no
No
His very words, I assure you. I told him I was. Did I know where you were at present residing? Yes. In London? Yes. He had casually heard, in a roundabout way, that you had left your situation with Mr Pecksniff. Was that the fact? Yes, it was. Did you want another? Yes, you did
Certainly
Just what I impressed upon him. You may rest assured that I set that point beyond the possibility of any mistake, and gave him distinctly to understand that he might make up his mind about it. Very well
Lord bless me
Ruth, my dear, "think I can accommodate him
Of course I begged him
to proceed, and said that I would undertake to see you immediately. He replied that he had very little to say, being a man of few words, but such as it was, it was to the purpose -- and so, indeed, it turned out -- for he immediately went on to tell me that a friend of his was in want of a kind of secretary and librarian; and that although the salary was small, being only a hundred pounds a year, with neither board nor lodging, still the duties were not heavy, and there the post was. Vacant, and ready for your acceptance
Good gracious me
a hundred pounds a year! My dear John! Ruth, my love! A hundred pounds a year
But the strangest part of the story
the strangest part of the story, Miss Pinch, is this. I don't know this man from Adam; neither does this man know Tom
He can't
if he's a Londoner. I don't know any one in London
And on my observing
that I had no doubt he would excuse the freedom I took in inquiring who directed him to me; how he came to know of the change which had taken place in my friend's position; and how he came to be acquainted with my friend's peculiar fitness for such an office as he had described; he drily said that he was not at liberty to enter into any explanations
Not at liberty to enter into any explanations
I must be perfectly aware," he said
that to any person who had ever been in Mr Pecksniff's neighbourhood, Mr Thomas Pinch and his acquirements were as well known as the Church steeple, or the Blue Dragon
The Blue Dragon
Aye, think of that! He spoke as familiarly of the Blue Dragon, I give you my word, as if he had been Mark Tapley. I opened my eyes, I can tell you, when he did so; but I could not fancy I had ever seen the man before, although he said with a smile, "You know the Blue Dragon, Mr Westlock; you kept it up there, once or twice, yourself." Kept it up there! So I did. You remember, Tom
Unaccountable
I became afraid of the man. Though it was broad day, and bright sunshine, I was positively afraid of him. I declare I half suspected him to be a supernatural visitor, and not a mortal, until he took out a common-place description of pocket-book, and handed me this card
Mr Fips
Austin Friars. Austin Friars sounds ghostly, John
Fips don't, I think
But there he lives, Tom, and there he expects us to call this morning. And now you know as much of this strange incident as I do, upon my honour
Tom
perhaps Mr Westlock, in his friendship for you, knows more of this than he chooses to tell
No, indeed
It is not so, I assure you. I wish it were. I cannot take credit to myself, Miss Pinch, for any such thing. All that I know, or, so far as I can judge, am likely to know, I have told you
Couldn't you know more, if you thought proper
No
Indeed, no. It is very ungenerous in you to be so suspicious of me when I repose implicit faith in you. I have unbounded confidence in the pudding, Miss Pinch
Tom
I begin to think you must be somebody's son
I suppose I am
But I mean somebody's of consequence
Bless your heart
my poor father was of no consequence, nor my mother either
You remember them perfectly, then
Remember them? oh dear yes. My poor mother was the last. She died when Ruth was a mere baby, and then we both became a charge upon the savings of that good old grandmother I used to tell you of. You remember! Oh! There's nothing romantic in our history, John
Very well
Then there is no way of accounting for my visitor of this morning. So we'll not try, Tom
rather dark
Dark indeed
Not a bad place to dispose of a countryman in, I should think, Tom
Walk in
I have brought my friend Mr Pinch, sir
Be pleased to sit
And you think it worth your while, sir, do you
I think it a piece of great good fortune, sir
I am exceedingly obliged to you for the offer
Not to me
I act upon instructions
To your friend, sir, then
To the gentleman with whom I am to engage, and whose confidence I shall endeavour to deserve. When he knows me better, sir, I hope he will not lose his good opinion of me. He will find me punctual and vigilant, and anxious to do what is right. That I think I can answer for, and so
can Mr Westlock
Most assuredly
The fact is
that my friend is not, at this present moment, in town
When do you think he will be in town, sir
I can't say; it's impossible to tell. I really have no idea. But
I don't know that it's a matter of much consequence
I say
that I don't know it's a matter of much consequence. The business lies entirely between yourself and me, Mr Pinch. With reference to your duties, I can set you going; and with reference to your salary, I can pay it. Weekly
You are very good
and nothing can be more satisfactory or straightforward. My attendance will be required
interrupted Mr Fips. 'About that
I did not mean the hours of attendance
which are light and easy, I am sure; but the place
Oh, the place! The place is in the Temple
Perhaps
you would like to see the place
Oh, dear
I shall only be too glad to consider myself engaged, if you will allow me; without any further reference to the place
You may consider yourself engaged, by all means
you couldn't meet me at the Temple Gate in Fleet Street, in an hour from this time, I suppose, could you
Good
Then I will show you the place; and you can begin your attendance to-morrow morning. In an hour, therefore, I shall see you. You too, Mr Westlock? Very good. Take care how you go. It's rather dark
You had better have a little plug made
It's the only way of preventing them from getting stopped up. You'll find the lock go the better, too, I dare say, for a little oil
Aye, aye
The dust lies rather thick here
Before anything else can be done, we must have them put in order, catalogued, and ranged upon the book-shelves, Mr Pinch. That will do to begin with, I think, sir
An occupation full of interest for me, I assure you. It will occupy me, perhaps, until Mr
Until Mr
I forgot that you had not mentioned the gentleman's name
Oh
didn't I? No, by-the- bye, I don't think I did. Ah! I dare say he'll be here soon. You will get on very well together, I have no doubt. I wish you success I am sure. You won't forget to shut the door? It'll lock of itself if you slam it. Half-past nine, you know. Let us say from half- past nine to four, or half-past four, or thereabouts; one day, perhaps, a little earlier, another day, perhaps, a little later, according as you feel disposed, and as you arrange your work. Mr Fips, Austin Friars of course you'll remember? And you won't forget to slam the door, if you please
Why, he's gone
And what's more, Tom
he is evidently not coming back again; so here you are, installed. Under rather singular circumstances, Tom
Mr Fips, of Austin Friars
After all, Tom, I begin to think it lies no deeper than this. Fips is an eccentric man; has some knowledge of Pecksniff; despises him, of course; has heard or seen enough of you to know that you are the man he wants; and engages you in his own whimsical manner
But why in his own whimsical manner
Oh! why does any man entertain his own whimsical taste? Why does Mr Fips wear shorts and powder, and Mr Fips's next-door neighbour boots and a wig
Oh! indeed
Now I am coming face to face with him at last
I shouldn't wonder, now, if that were he
Oh! by the bye, Mr Pinch, you needn't mention it, if you please
Very good
Not on any account
Very good
You were going to say
Oh dear no
Not at all
I mean that you needn't mention any particulars about your place of employment, to people generally. You'll find it better not
I have not had the pleasure of seeing my employer yet, sir
Haven't you
No, I don't suppose you have though
I should like to thank him, and to know that what I have done so far, is done to his satisfaction
Quite right
Highly creditable. Very proper
I shall soon have finished with the books
I hope that will not terminate my engagement, sir, or render me useless
Oh dear no
Plenty to do; plen-ty to do! Be careful how you go. It's rather dark
Come along do make haste I'm very nervous come along oh good gracious we shall never get there how late you are do make haste I'm off directly come along
oh here's a stoppage what's the matter do go on there I'm in a hurry it's done on purpose did you ever oh my goodness DO go on here
What a very ill-natured person you must be
Where's the pelisse
If they greased their whiskers less, and minded the duties which they're paid so heavy for, a little more
no one needn't be drove mad by scrouding so
I suppose
as nobody but yourself can want to look at a steam package, without wanting to go a-boarding of it, can they! Booby
Which one do you want to look at then
We'll make room for you if we can. Don't be so ill-tempered
No blessed creetur as ever I was with in trying times
and they're a many in their numbers, ever brought it as a charge again myself that I was anythin' but mild and equal in my spirits. Never mind a contradicting of me, if you seem to feel it does you good, ma'am, I often says, for well you know that Sairey may be trusted not to give it back again. But I will not denige that I am worrited and wexed this day, and with good reagion, Lord forbid
And which of all them smoking monsters is the Ankworks boat, I wonder. Goodness me
What boat did you want
The Ankworks package
I will not deceive you, my sweet. Why should I
That is the Antwerp packet in the middle
And I wish it was in Jonadge's belly, I do
Which shows
what a little way you've travelled into this wale of life, my dear young creetur! As a good friend of mine has frequent made remark to me, which her name, my love, is Harris, Mrs Harris through the square and up the steps a-turnin' round by the tobacker shop, "Oh Sairey, Sairey, little do we know wot lays afore us!" "Mrs Harris, ma'am," I says, "not much, it's true, but more than you suppoge. Our calcilations, ma'am," I says, "respectin' wot the number of a family will be, comes most times within one, and oftener than you would suppoge, exact." "Sairey," says Mrs Harris, in a awful way, "Tell me wot is my indiwidgle number." "No, Mrs Harris," I says to her, "ex-cuge me, if you please. My own," I says, "has fallen out of three-pair backs, and had damp doorsteps settled on their lungs, and one was turned up smilin' in a bedstead unbeknown. Therefore, ma'am," I says, "seek not to proticipate, but take 'em as they come and as they go." Mine
mine is all gone, my dear young chick. And as to husbands, there's a wooden leg gone likeways home to its account, which in its constancy of walkin' into wine vaults, and never comin' out again 'till fetched by force, was quite as weak as flesh, if not weaker
I wouldn't
I wouldn't be a man and have such a think upon my mind!-- but nobody as owned the name of man, could do it
My dear
you are single, ain't you
Yes
Worse luck
for all parties! But others is married, and in the marriage state; and there is a dear young creetur a-comin' down this mornin' to that very package, which is no more fit to trust herself to sea, than nothin' is
Oh, drat you
you're a nice spluttering nisy monster for a delicate young creetur to go and be a passinger by; ain't you! YOU never do no harm in that way, do you? With your hammering, and roaring, and hissing, and lamp-iling, you brute! Them Confugion steamers
um named after the Ingeines as was the cause. Ugh
one might easy know you was a man's inwention, from your disregardlessness of the weakness of our naturs, so one might, you brute
There she identically goes! Poor sweet young creetur, there she goes, like a lamb to the sacrifige! If there's any illness when that wessel gets to sea
it's murder, and I'm the witness for the persecution
Pray, which is the lady
in whom you are so much interested
There
There she goes! A-crossin' the little wooden bridge at this minute. She's a-slippin' on a bit of orangepeel
What a turn it give me
Do you mean the lady who is with that man wrapped up from head to foot in a large cloak, so that his face is almost hidden
Well he may hide it
He's good call to be ashamed of himself. Did you see him a-jerking of her wrist, then
He seems to be hasty with her, indeed
Now he's a-taking of her down into the close cabin
What's the man about! The deuce is in him, I think. Why can't he leave her in the open air
I beg your pardon, Mr Pinch
I am rather infirm, and out of breath, and my eyes are not very good. I am not as young as I was, sir. You don't see a gentleman in a large cloak down yonder, with a lady on his arm; a lady in a veil and a black shawl; do you
A gentleman in a large cloak
and a lady in a black shawl! Let me see
Yes, yes
A gentleman muffled up from head to foot -- strangely muffled up for such a morning as this -- like an invalid, with his hand to his face at this minute, perhaps. No, no, no! not there
the other way; in that direction; down yonder
There are so many people, and so much motion, and so many objects
that I find it difficult to -- no, I really don't see a gentleman in a large cloak, and a lady in a black shawl. There's a lady in a red shawl over there
No, no, no
not there. The other way; the other way. Look at the cabin steps. To the left. They must be near the cabin steps. Do you see the cabin steps? There's the bell ringing already! DO you see the steps
Stay
you're right. Look! there they go now. Is that the gentleman you mean? Descending at this minute, with the folds of a great cloak trailing down after him
The very man
Will you do me a kindness, sir, a great kindness? Will you put that letter in his hand? Only give him that! He expects it. I am charged to do it by my employers, but I am late in finding him, and, not being as young as I have been, should never be able to make my way on board and off the deck again in time. Will you pardon my boldness, and do me that great kindness
I want nothing with you for myself
I was asked, a moment since, to give you this letter. You were pointed out to me, but I didn't know you in your strange dress. Take it
Yes
I -- I am coming. Give me time. Where's that woman! Come back; come back here
Where are we going? What is the matter
We are going back
I have changed my mind. I can't go. Don't question me, or I shall be the death of you, or some one else. Stop there! Stop! We're for the shore. Do you hear? We're for the shore
Where is he
Chuzzlewit, my good fellow
I ask your pardon twenty thousand times. I am most unwilling to interfere between you and a domestic trip of this nature (always so very charming and refreshing, I know, although I have not the happiness to be a domestic man myself, which is the great infelicity of my existence); but the beehive, my dear friend, the beehive -- will you introduce me
This is Mr Montague
The most unhappy and most penitent of men, Mrs Chuzzlewit
for having been the means of spoiling this excursion; but as I tell my friend, the beehive, the beehive. You projected a short little continental trip, my dear friend, of course
May I die
but I am shocked! Upon my soul I am shocked. But that confounded beehive of ours in the city must be paramount to every other consideration, when there is honey to be made; and that is my best excuse. Here is a very singular old female dropping curtseys on my right
who is not a friend of mine. Does anybody know her
Ah! Well they knows me, bless their precious hearts
here she stopped short in her merriment, for she had until now affected to be vastly entertained, 'you're too pale by half
YOU are here too, are you
Ecod, there are enough of you
I hope, sir
as no bones is broke by me and Mrs Harris a-walkin' down upon a public wharf. Which was the very words she says to me (although they was the last I ever had to speak) was these: "Sairey," she says, "is it a public wharf?" Mrs Harris," I makes answer, "can you doubt it? You have know'd me now, ma'am, eight and thirty year; and did you ever know me go, or wish to go, where I was not made welcome, say the words." "No, Sairey," Mrs Harris says, "contrairy quite." And well she knows it too. I am but a poor woman, but I've been sought after, sir, though you may not think it. I've been knocked up at all hours of the night, and warned out by a many landlords, in consequence of being mistook for Fire. I goes out workin' for my bread, 'tis true, but I maintains my independency, with your kind leave, and which I will till death. I has my feelins as a woman, sir, and I have been a mother likeways; but touch a pipkin as belongs to me, or make the least remarks on what I eats or drinks, and though you was the favouritest young for'ard hussy of a servant- gal as ever come into a house, either you leaves the place, or me. My earnins is not great, sir, but I will not be impoged upon. Bless the babe, and save the mother, is my mortar, sir; but I makes so free as add to that, Don't try no impogician with the Nuss, for she will not abear it
As you ARE here
you had better see to her, and take her home. I am otherwise engaged
I am sorry to take you away
I am, upon my life
Why did you make it necessary
The necessity is none of my making. You have brought it about yourself
What is it
Good heaven, what is it? Why did he tell me last night to prepare for a long journey, and why have you brought us back like criminals? Dear Mr Pinch
be merciful to us. Whatever this dreadful secret is, be merciful, and God will bless you
If any power of mercy lay with me
trust me, you shouldn't ask in vain. But I am far more ignorant and weak than you
This is not handsome, Chuzzlewit
Not handsome upon my soul
What would you have me do
What do you expect
Confidence, my good fellow. Some confidence
Ecod! You show great confidence in me
Don't you
Do I not
Do I not? Have I not confided to you the easy schemes I have formed for our advantage; OUR advantage, mind; not mine alone; and what is my return? Attempted flight
How do you know that? Who said I meant to fly
Who said? Come, come. A foreign boat, my friend, an early hour, a figure wrapped up for disguise! Who said? If you didn't mean to jilt me, why were you there? If you didn't mean to jilt me, why did you come back
I came back
to avoid disturbance
You were wise
Now, Chuzzlewit
notwithstanding what has passed I will be plain with you. Are you attending to me there? I only see your back
I hear you. Go on
I say that notwithstanding what has passed, I will be plain with you
You said that before. And I have told you once I heard you say it. Go on
You are a little chafed, but I can make allowance for that, and am, fortunately, myself in the very best of tempers. Now, let us see how circumstances stand. A day or two ago, I mentioned to you, my dear fellow, that I thought I had discovered
Will you hold your tongue
Well, well
Judicious! Quite correct! My discoveries being published, would be like many other men's discoveries in this honest world; of no further use to me. You see, Chuzzlewit, how ingenuous and frank I am in showing you the weakness of my own position! To return. I make, or think I make, a certain discovery which I take an early opportunity of mentioning in your ear, in that spirit of confidence which I really hoped did prevail between us, and was reciprocated by you. Perhaps there is something in it; perhaps there is nothing. I have my knowledge and opinion on the subject. You have yours. We will not discuss the question. But, my good fellow, you have been weak; what I wish to point out to you is, that you have been weak. I may desire to turn this little incident to my account (indeed, I do -- I'll not deny it), but my account does not lie in probing it, or using it against you
What do you call using it against me
Oh
We'll not enter into that
Using it to make a beggar of me. Is that the use you mean
No
Ecod
That's the use in which your account DOES lie. You speak the truth there
I wish you to venture (it's a very safe venture) a little more with us, certainly, and to keep quiet
You promised me you would; and you must. I say it plainly, Chuzzlewit, you MUST. Reason the matter. If you don't, my secret is worthless to me: and being so, it may as well become the public property as mine; better, for I shall gain some credit, bringing it to light. I want you, besides, to act as a decoy in a case I have already told you of. You don't mind that, I know. You care nothing for the man (you care nothing for any man; you are too sharp; so am I, I hope); and could bear any loss of his with pious fortitude. Ha, ha, ha! You have tried to escape from the first consequence. You cannot escape it, I assure you. I have shown you that to-day. Now, I am not a moral man, you know. I am not the least in the world affected by anything you may have done; by any little indiscretion you may have committed; but I wish to profit by it if I can; and to a man of your intelligence I make that free confession. I am not at all singular in that infirmity. Everybody profits by the indiscretion of his neighbour; and the people in the best repute, the most. Why do you give me this trouble? It must come to a friendly agreement, or an unfriendly crash. It must. If the former, you are very little hurt. If the latter -- well! you know best what is likely to happen then
Lying is of no use now
I DID think of getting away this morning, and making better terms with you from a distance
To be sure! to be sure
Nothing more natural. I foresaw that, and provided against it. But I am afraid I am interrupting you
How the devil
you made choice of your messenger, and where you found him, I'll not ask you. I owed him one good turn before to-day. If you are so careless of men in general, as you said you were just now, you are quite indifferent to what becomes of such a crop-tailed cur as that, and will leave me to settle my account with him in my own manner
Your great discovery
may be true, and may be false. Whichever it is, I dare say I'm no worse than other men
Not a bit
Not a bit. We're all alike -- or nearly so
I want to know this
is it your own? You'll not wonder at my asking the question
My own
Aye
Is it known to anybody else? Come! Don't waver about that
No
What would it be worth, do you think, unless I had the keeping of it
Come! make things easy to me, and I'm yours. I don't know that I may not be better off here, after all, than if I had gone away this morning. But here I am, and here I'll stay now. Take your oath
Shall I go to Pecksniff? When? Say when
Immediately
He cannot be enticed too soon
Ecod
There's some fun in catching that old hypocrite. I hate him. Shall I go to-night
Aye! This
is like business! We understand each other now! To-night, my good fellow, by all means
Come with me
We must make a dash; go down in state, and carry documents, for he's a deep file to deal with, and must be drawn on with an artful hand, or he'll not follow. I know him. As I can't take your lodgings or your dinners down, I must take you. Will you come to-night
We can concert our plans upon the road
We must not go direct to him, but cross over from some other place, and turn out of our way to see him. I may not want to introduce you, but I must have you on the spot. I know the man, I tell you
But what if the man knows me
He know
Don't you run that risk with fifty men a day! Would your father know you? Did I know you? Ecod! You were another figure when I saw you first. Ha, ha, ha! I see the rents and patches now! No false hair then, no black dye! You were another sort of joker in those days, you were! You even spoke different then. You've acted the gentleman so seriously since, that you've taken in yourself. If he should know you, what does it matter? Such a change is a proof of your success. You know that, or you would not have made yourself known to me. Will you come
My good fellow
I can trust you alone
Trust me! Ecod, you may trust me now, far enough. I'll try to go away no more -- no more
I can't get on without you. Will you come
I will
if that's your opinion
she had better
No, but he believed it must be his way as he had been charged with much the same kind of thing before
Who gave him my letter this morning
My lodger, sir
How came that about
I found him on the wharf, sir. Being so much hurried, and you not arrived, it was necessary to do something. It fortunately occurred to me, that if I gave it him myself I could be of no further use. I should have been blown upon immediately
Mr Nadgett, you are a jewel
What's your lodger's name
Pinch, sir. Thomas Pinch
From the country, do you know
From Wiltshire, sir, he told me
And you are bound for all our sakes to take particular care of your digestion, Mr Chuzzlewit, my dear sir
for depend upon it, it is worth preserving. It must be in admirable condition, sir; perfect chronometer-work. Otherwise your spirits could not be so remarkable. Your bosom's lord sits lightly on its throne, Mr Chuzzlewit, as what's-his-name says in the play. I wish he said it in a play which did anything like common justice to our profession, by the bye. There is an apothecary in that drama, sir, which is a low thing; vulgar, sir; out of nature altogether
This is what I call nature in a medical man, sir
Ah
I always take 'em out of my pocket before I eat. My pockets are rather tight. Ha, ha, ha
Good steel, doctor. Good steel! Eh
Ye-es
One might open a vein pretty dexterously with that, Mr Chuzzlewit
It has opened a good many in its time, I suppose
Not a few, my dear sir, not a few. It has been engaged in a -- in a pretty good practice, I believe I may say
In a pretty good practice
Now, could you cut a man's throat with such a thing as this
Oh certainly, certainly, if you took him in the right place
It all depends upon that
Where you have your hand now, hey
Yes
that's the jugular
No, no
edge tools, edge tools; never play with 'em. A very remarkable instance of the skillful use of edge-tools, by the way, occurs to me at this moment. It was a case of murder. I am afraid it was a case of murder, committed by a member of our profession; it was so artistically done
Aye
How was that
Why, sir
the thing lies in a nutshell. A certain gentleman was found, one morning, in an obscure street, lying in an angle of a doorway -- I should rather say, leaning, in an upright position, in the angle of a doorway, and supported consequently by the doorway. Upon his waistcoat there was one solitary drop of blood. He was dead and cold; and had been murdered, sir
Only one drop of blood
Sir, that man
had been stabbed to the heart. Had been stabbed to the heart with such dexterity, sir, that he had died instantly, and had bled internally. It was supposed that a medical friend of his (to whom suspicion attached) had engaged him in conversation on some pretence; had taken him, very likely, by the button in a conversational manner; had examined his ground at leisure with his other hand; had marked the exact spot; drawn out the instrument, whatever it was, when he was quite prepared; and
And done the trick
Exactly so
It was quite an operation in its way, and very neat. The medical friend never turned up; and, as I tell you, he had the credit of it. Whether he did it or not I can't say. But, having had the honour to be called in with two or three of my professional brethren on the occasion, and having assisted to make a careful examination of the wound, I have no hesitation in saying that it would have reflected credit on any medical man; and that in an unprofessional person it could not but be considered, either as an extraordinary work of art, or the result of a still more extraordinary, happy, and favourable conjunction of circumstances
Out of the way, Tom Thumb, and get to bed
To bed, sir! I'm a-going, too
You are not a-going to take this monkey of a boy, are you
Yes
It will be a stormy night
What's the matter
Is that your general way of waking out of your sleep
I could swear
that I have not closed my eyes
When you have sworn it
we had better go on again, if you have only stopped for that
I wish we had never started on this journey. This is not
this is not a night to travel in
Ecod! you're right there
and we shouldn't be out in it but for you. If you hadn't kept me waiting all day, we might have been at Salisbury by this time; snug abed and fast asleep. What are we stopping for
Serve him right
I'm glad of it. What the devil are we stopping for? Are you going to spread him out to dry
I have half a mind to take him inside
Oh! thankee
We don't want any damp boys here; especially a young imp like him. Let him be where he is. He ain't afraid of a little thunder and lightning, I dare say; whoever else is. Go on, driver. We had better have HIM inside perhaps
and the horses
Don't go too fast
and take care how you go. You were nearly in the ditch when I called to you
You're the best company in the world, my good fellow
and in general irresistible; but to-night -- do you hear it
Ecod! I hear and see it too
I haven't heard it since I was a boy, and how it comes into my head now, unless the lightning put it there, I don't know. "Can't hurt the dead"! No, no. "And won't save the head"! No, no. No! Ha, ha, ha
If he could kill me with a wish
I should not live long
for when all is got that can be got
I shall decamp across the water, and have the laugh on my side -- and the gains
Whoop
Whoop! again! another! A little more, a little more! Up, ye devils! Hillo
Hiilo! Hillo
For God's sake
The gentleman -- in the road -- he'll be killed
Presence of mind, presence of mind
What would you have done without me
The other gentleman would have done badly without ME
You should have moved him first. I gave him up for dead
Was he struck, do you think
What's the matter
Is anybody hurt
Ecod
it don't seem so. There are no bones broken, after all
Cuts and bruises, eh
We've all got them. Only cuts and bruises, eh
I wouldn't have given sixpence for the gentleman's head in half-a- dozen seconds more, for all he's only cut and bruised
If ever you're in an accident of this sort again, sir; which I hope you won't be; never you pull at the bridle of a horse that's down, when there's a man's head in the way. That can't be done twice without there being a dead man in the case; it would have ended in that, this time, as sure as ever you were born, if I hadn't come up just when I did
Where's the boy
Ecod! I forgot that monkey
What's become of him
When I said to-night, that I wished I had never started on this journey
I knew it was an ill-fated one. Look at this boy
Is that all
If you call THAT a sign of it
Why, what should I call a sign of it
What do you mean
I mean
that I never heard you were his father, or had any particular reason to care much about him. Halloa. Hold up there
You'd get there in a few minutes, and be able to send assistance to meet us, if you went forward, post-boy
Trot on
No, no
we'll keep together
Why, what a chicken you are! You are not afraid of being robbed; are you
I am not afraid of anything
But we'll keep together
You were mighty anxious about the boy, a minute ago
I suppose you know that he may die in the meantime
Aye, aye. I know. But we'll keep together
I would rather have lost
a thousand pounds than lost the boy just now. But I'll return home alone. I am resolved upon that. Chuzzlewit shall go forward first, and I will follow in my own time. I'll have no more of this
Twenty-four hours of this would turn my hair grey
Heyday
You're all alive this morning
Alive
What are you doing here
It's your room to be sure
but I'm almost inclined to ask you what YOU are doing here? My room is on the other side of that door. No one told me last night not to open it. I thought it led into a passage, and was coming out to order breakfast. There's -- there's no bell in my room
I couldn't find it, then
it's all the same. Shall I order breakfast
An evil journey
An evil journey. But I'll travel home alone. I'll have no more of this
I'll travel home alone
Dear me! Oh, dear, dear me
Dear me! Ah, dear, dear me
A pint of the best old beer here
A bad night
There's a fire in the kitchen
and very good company there. Hadn't you better go and dry yourself
No, thankee
It's enough to give you your death of cold
I don't take my death easy
or I should most likely have took it afore to-night. Your health, ma'am
What do you call this house? Not the Dragon, do you
Yes, the Dragon
Why, then, you've got a sort of a relation of mine here, ma'am
a young man of the name of Tapley. What! Mark, my boy
have I come upon you at last, old buck
Nobody should be made more welcome at the Dragon, master, than any one who brought me news of Mark. But it's many and many a long day and month since he left here and England. And whether he's alive or dead, poor fellow, Heaven above us only knows
Where did he go, ma'am
He went
to America. He was always tender-hearted and kind, and perhaps at this moment may be lying in prison under sentence of death, for taking pity on some miserable black, and helping the poor runaway creetur to escape. How could he ever go to America! Why didn't he go to some of those countries where the savages eat each other fairly, and give an equal chance to every one
Yes, I will
another -- one more -- twenty more! You didn't know me in that hat and coat? I thought you would have known me anywheres! Ten more
So I should have known you, if I could have seen you; but I couldn't, and you spoke so gruff. I didn't think you could speak gruff to me, Mark, at first coming back
Fifteen more
How handsome and how young you look! Six more! The last half-dozen warn't a fair one, and must be done over again. Lord bless you, what a treat it is to see you! One more! Well, I never was so jolly. Just a few more, on account of there not being any credit in it
Mr Martin Chuzzlewit's outside
I left him under the cartshed, while I came on to see if there was anybody here. We want to keep quiet to-night, till we know the news from you, and what it's best for us to do
There's not a soul in the house, except the kitchen company
If they were to know you had come back, Mark, they'd have a bonfire in the street, late as it is
But they mustn't know it to-night, my precious soul
so have the house shut, and the kitchen fire made up; and when it's all ready, put a light in the winder, and we'll come in. One more! I long to hear about old friends. You'll tell me all about 'em, won't you; Mr Pinch, and the butcher's dog down the street, and the terrier over the way, and the wheelwright's, and every one of 'em. When I first caught sight of the church to-night, I thought the steeple would have choked me, I did. One more! Won't you? Not a very little one to finish off with
You have had plenty, I am sure
Go along with your foreign manners
That ain't foreign, bless you
Native as oysters, that is! One more, because it's native! As a mark of respect for the land we live in! This don't count as between you and me, you understand
I ain't a-kissing you now, you'll observe. I have been among the patriots; I'm a-kissin' my country
There's the old tailor, Mark
There he goes, sir! A little bandier than he was, I think, sir, ain't he? His figure's so far altered, as it seems to me, that you might wheel a rather larger barrow between his legs as he walks, than you could have done conveniently when we know'd him. There's Sam a-coming out, sir
Ah, to be sure
Sam, the hostler. I wonder whether that horse of Pecksniff's is alive still
Not a doubt on it, sir
That's a description of animal, sir, as will go on in a bony way peculiar to himself for a long time, and get into the newspapers at last under the title of "Sing'lar Tenacity of Life in a Quadruped." As if he had ever been alive in all his life, worth mentioning! There's the clerk, sir -- wery drunk, as usual
I see him
But, my life, how wet you are, Mark
I am! What do you consider yourself, sir
Oh, not half as bad
I told you not to keep on the windy side, Mark, but to let us change and change about. The rain has been beating on you ever since it began
You don't know how it pleases me, sir
if I may make so bold as say so, to hear you a-going on in that there uncommon considerate way of yours; which I don't mean to attend to, never, but which, ever since that time when I was floored in Eden, you have showed
Ah, Mark
the less we say of that the better. Do I see the light yonder
That's the light
Lord bless her, what briskness she possesses! Now for it, sir. Neat wines, good beds, and first-rate entertainment for man or beast
Little did I ever think
often as I have said that Mr Pecksniff's young gentlemen were the life and soul of the Dragon, and that without them it would be too dull to live in -- little did I ever think I am sure, that any one of them would ever make so free as you, Mr Martin! And still less that I shouldn't be angry with him, but should be glad with all my heart to be the first to welcome him home from America, with Mark Tapley for his
For his friend, Mrs Lupin
For his friend
Little did I ever think that! But still less, that I should ever have the changes to relate that I shall have to tell you of, when you have done your supper
Good Heaven
what changes
SHE
is quite well, and now at Mr Pecksniff's. Don't be at all alarmed about her. She is everything you could wish. It's of no use mincing matters, or making secrets, is it
I know all about it, you see
My good creature
you are exactly the person who ought to know all about it. I am delighted to think you DO know about that! But what changes do you hint at? Has any death occurred
No, no
Not as bad as that. But I declare now that I will not be drawn into saying another word till you have had your supper. If you ask me fifty questions in the meantime, I won't answer one
He
smooth-tongued villain that he is! He! Give me that other boot, Mark
Where was you a-thinking of going to, sir
Where
You don't suppose I am going to remain here, do you
I am much obliged to you. What do you take me for
I take you for what you are, sir
and, consequently, am quite sure that whatever you do will be right and sensible. The boot, sir
Pecksniff too! That fellow! Upon my soul! In-deed! What next
As to Mr Pecksniff himself
I don't know what to say. Somebody must have poisoned his mind, or influenced him in some extraordinary way. I cannot believe that such a noble-spoken gentleman would go and do wrong of his own accord
As to Mr Pinch
if ever there was a dear, good, pleasant, worthy soul alive, Pinch, and no other, is his name. But how do we know that old Mr Chuzzlewit himself was not the cause of difference arising between him and Mr Pecksniff? No one but themselves can tell; for Mr Pinch has a proud spirit, though he has such a quiet way; and when he left us, and was so sorry to go, he scorned to make his story good, even to me
Poor old Tom
It's a comfort to know
that he has his sister living with him, and is doing well. Only yesterday he sent me back, by post, a little
a little trifle I was bold enough to lend him when he went away; saying, with many thanks, that he had good employment, and didn't want it. It was the same note; he hadn't broken it. I never thought I could have been so little pleased to see a bank-note come back to me as I was to see that
Kindly said, and heartily
Is it not, Mark
She can't say anything as does not possess them qualities
which as much belongs to the Dragon as its licence. And now that we have got quite cool and fresh, to the subject again, sir; what will you do? If you're not proud, and can make up your mind to go through with what you spoke of, coming along, that's the course for you to take. If you started wrong with your grandfather (which, you'll excuse my taking the liberty of saying, appears to have been the case), up with you, sir, and tell him so, and make an appeal to his affections. Don't stand out. He's a great deal older than you, and if he was hasty, you was hasty too. Give way, sir, give way
That's all very true, and perfectly correct, Mark; and if it were a mere question of humbling myself before HIM, I would not consider it twice. But don't you see, that being wholly under this hypocrite's government, and having (if what we hear be true) no mind or will of his own, I throw myself, in fact, not at his feet, but at the feet of Mr Pecksniff? And when I am rejected and spurned away
it is not by him; my own blood stirred against me; but by Pecksniff -- Pecksniff, Mark
Well, but we know beforehand
that Pecksniff is a wagabond, a scoundrel, and a willain
A most pernicious villain
A most pernicious willain. We know that beforehand, sir; and, consequently, it's no shame to be defeated by Pecksniff. Blow Pecksniff
Who's he! It's not in the natur of Pecksniff to shame US, unless he agreed with us, or done us a service; and, in case he offered any audacity of that description, we could express our sentiments in the English language, I hope. Pecksniff
What's Pecksniff, who's Pecksniff, where's Pecksniff, that he's to be so much considered? We're not a- calculating for ourselves
we're making a effort for a young lady likewise as has undergone her share; and whatever little hope we have, this here Pecksniff is not to stand in its way, I expect. I never heard of any act of Parliament, as was made by Pecksniff. Pecksniff! Why, I wouldn't see the man myself; I wouldn't hear him; I wouldn't choose to know he was in company. I'd scrape my shoes on the scraper of the door, and call that Pecksniff, if you liked; but I wouldn't condescend no further
You are right, Mark. Right or wrong, it shall be done. I'll do it
One word more, sir
Only think of him so far as not to give him a handle against you. Don't you do anything secret that he can report before you get there. Don't you even see Miss Mary in the morning, but let this here dear friend of
prepare her for what's a- going to happen, and carry any little message as may be agreeable. She knows how. Don't you
Then you go in, bold and free as a gentleman should. "I haven't done nothing under-handed," says you. "I haven't been skulking about the premises, here I am, for-give me, I ask your pardon, God Bless You
How d'ye do, sir
Oh
Tapley, I believe? The Prodigal returned! We don't want any beer, my friend
Thankee, sir
I couldn't accommodate you if you did. A letter, sir. Wait for an answer
For me
And an answer, eh
Not for you, I think, sir
Chuzzlewit, I believe the name is, sir
Oh
Thank you. Yes. Who's it from, my good young man
The gentleman it comes from wrote his name inside, sir
And he said he wanted an answer, did he
He shall have an answer. Certainly
Have the goodness to give him that, with my compliments, if you please. Good morning
No, young man
No, sir. None of that. Strike here, sir, here! Launch your arrows at me, sir, if you'll have the goodness; not at Him
Grandfather
Hear me! I implore you, let me speak
Would you, sir? Would you
Is it not enough, sir, that you come into my house like a thief in the night, or I should rather say, for we can never be too particular on the subject of Truth, like a thief in the day-time; bringing your dissolute companions with you, to plant themselves with their backs against the insides of parlour doors, and prevent the entrance or issuing forth of any of my household
but would you also strike at venerable Virtue? Would you? Know that it is not defenceless. I will be its shield, young man. Assail me. Come on, sir. Fire away
Pecksniff
Calm yourself. Be quiet
I can't be calm
and I won't be quiet. My benefactor and my friend! Shall even my house be no refuge for your hoary pillow
Stand aside
and let me see what it is I used to love so dearly
It is right that you should see it, my friend
It is well that you should see it, my noble sir. It is desirable that you should contemplate it in its true proportions. Behold it! There it is, sir. There it is
And that
is he. Ah! that is he! Say what you wish to say. But come no nearer
His sense of justice is so fine
that he will hear even him, although he knows beforehand that nothing can come of it. Ingenuous mind
Grandfather
From a painful journey, from a hard life, from a sick-bed, from privation and distress, from gloom and disappointment, from almost hopelessness and despair, I have come back to you
Rovers of this sort
very commonly come back when they find they don't meet with the success they expected in their marauding ravages
But for this faithful man
whom I first knew in this place, and who went away with me voluntarily, as a servant, but has been, throughout, my zealous and devoted friend; but for him, I must have died abroad. Far from home, far from any help or consolation; far from the probability even of my wretched fate being ever known to any one who cared to hear it -- oh, that you would let me say, of being known to you
Did you speak, my worthy sir
I know what you thought
Let him go on my friend. The development of self-interest in the human mind is always a curious study. Let him go on, sir
Go on
I have been so wretched and so poor
that I am indebted to the charitable help of a stranger, in a land of strangers, for the means of returning here. All this tells against me in your mind, I know. I have given you cause to think I have been driven here wholly by want, and have not been led on, in any degree, by affection or regret. When I parted from you, Grandfather, I deserved that suspicion, but I do not now. I do not now
Let him go on, my worthy sir
I know what you are thinking of, but don't express it prematurely
Go on
I have little more to say
And as I say it now, with little or no hope, Grandfather; whatever dawn of hope I had on entering the room; believe it to be true. At least, believe it to be true
Beautiful Truth
How is your name profaned by vicious persons! You don't live in a well, my holy principle, but on the lips of false mankind. It is hard to bear with mankind, dear sir
but let us do so meekly. It is our duty so to do. Let us be among the Few who do their duty. If
as the poet informs us, England expects Every man to do his duty, England is the most sanguine country on the face of the earth, and will find itself continually disappointed
Upon that subject
upon that subject which first occasioned a division between us, my mind and heart are incapable of change. Whatever influence they have undergone, since that unhappy time, has not been one to weaken but to strengthen me. I cannot profess sorrow for that, nor irresolution in that, nor shame in that. Nor would you wish me, I know. But that I might have trusted to your love, if I had thrown myself manfully upon it; that I might have won you over with ease, if I had been more yielding and more considerate; that I should have best remembered myself in forgetting myself, and recollecting you; reflection, solitude, and misery, have taught me. I came resolved to say this, and to ask your forgiveness; not so much in hope for the future, as in regret for the past; for all that I would ask of you is, that you would aid me to live. Help me to get honest work to do, and I would do it. My condition places me at the disadvantage of seeming to have only my selfish ends to serve, but try if that be so or not. Try if I be self-willed, obdurate, and haughty, as I was; or have been disciplined in a rough school. Let the voice of nature and association plead between us, Grandfather; and do not, for one fault, however thankless, quite reject me
My dear sir
you must not give way to this. It is very natural, and very amiable, but you must not allow the shameless conduct of one whom you long ago cast off, to move you so far. Rouse yourself. Think
think of Me, my friend
I will
You recall me to myself. I will
Why, what
what is the matter with my strong-minded compatriot, if I may venture to take the liberty of calling him by that endearing expression? Shall I have to scold my coadjutor, or to reason with an intellect like this? I think not
No, no. There is no occasion
A momentary feeling. Nothing more
Indignation
WILL bring the scalding tear into the honest eye, I know
But we have highest duties to perform than that. Rouse yourself, Mr Chuzzlewit. Shall I give expression to your thoughts, my friend
Yes
Speak for me, Pecksniff, Thank you. You are true to me. Thank you
Do not unman me, sir
or I shall be unequal to the task. It is not agreeable to my feelings, my good sir, to address the person who is now before us, for when I ejected him from this house, after hearing of his unnatural conduct from your lips, I renounced communication with him for ever. But you desire it; and that is sufficient. Young man! The door is immediately behind the companion of your infamy. Blush if you can; begone without a blush, if you can't
When I ordered you to leave this house upon the last occasion of your being dismissed from it with disgrace
when, stung and stimulated beyond endurance by your shameless conduct to this extraordinarily noble-minded individual, I exclaimed "Go forth!" I told you that I wept for your depravity. Do not suppose that the tear which stands in my eye at this moment, is shed for you. It is shed for him, sir. It is shed for him
It is shed for him, sir, whom you seek to make the victim of your arts
whom you seek to plunder, to deceive, and to mislead. It is shed in sympathy with him, and admiration of him; not in pity for him, for happily he knows what you are. You shall not wrong him further, sir, in any way
while I have life. You may bestride my senseless corse, sir. That is very likely. I can imagine a mind like yours deriving great satisfaction from any measure of that kind. But while I continue to be called upon to exist, sir, you must strike at him through me. Awe
and in such a cause you will find me, my young sir, an Ugly Customer
Will you give me no answer
not a word
You hear what has been said
I have not heard your voice. I have not heard your spirit
Tell him again
I only hear
I only hear what you say to me, grandfather
Not a word
I remember that I have a word to say, Pecksniff
But a word. You spoke of being indebted to the charitable help of some stranger for the means of returning to England. Who is he? And what help in money did he render you
It would be a poor pride and a false humility
to say, I do not wish that to be paid, or that I have any present hope of being able to pay it. But I never felt my poverty so deeply as I feel it now
Read it to me, Pecksniff
I think, Pecksniff
I could wish that to be discharged. I should not like the lender, who was abroad, who had no opportunity of making inquiry, and who did (as he thought) a kind action, to suffer
An honourable sentiment, my dear sir. Your own entirely. But a dangerous precedent
permit me to suggest
It shall not be a precedent
It is the only recognition of him. But we will talk of it again. You shall advise me. There is nothing else
Nothing else
but for you to recover this intrusion -- this cowardly and indefensible outrage on your feelings -- with all possible dispatch, and smile again
You have nothing more to say
You have nothing at all to urge? You are sure of that! If you have, no matter what it is, speak freely. I will oppose nothing that you ask of me
You have heard him. Go away. It is all over. Go
Dear girl
He has not changed you. Why, what an impotent and harmless knave the fellow is
You have restrained yourself so nobly! You have borne so much
Restrained myself
You were by, and were unchanged, I knew. What more advantage did I want? The sight of me was such a bitterness to the dog, that I had my triumph in his being forced to endure it. But tell me, love -- for the few hasty words we can exchange now are precious -- what is this which has been rumoured to me? Is it true that you are persecuted by this knave's addresses
I was, dear Martin, and to some extent am now; but my chief source of unhappiness has been anxiety for you. Why did you leave us in such terrible suspense
Sickness, distance; the dread of hinting at our real condition, the impossibility of concealing it except in perfect silence; the knowledge that the truth would have pained you infinitely more than uncertainty and doubt
were the causes of my writing only once. But Pecksniff? You needn't fear to tell me the whole tale; for you saw me with him face to face, hearing him speak, and not taking him by the throat; what is the history of his pursuit of you? Is it known to my grandfather
Yes
And he assists him in it
No
Thank Heaven
that it leaves his mind unclouded in that one respect
I do not think
it was known to him at first. When this man had sufficiently prepared his mind, he revealed it to him by degrees. I think so, but I only know it from my own impression: now from anything they told me. Then he spoke to me alone
My grandfather did
Yes -- spoke to me alone, and told me
What the hound had said
Don't repeat it
And said I knew well what qualities he possessed; that he was moderately rich; in good repute; and high in his favour and confidence. But seeing me very much distressed, he said that he would not control or force my inclinations, but would content himself with telling me the fact. He would not pain me by dwelling on it, or reverting to it; nor has he ever done so since, but has truly kept his word
The man himself
He has had few opportunities of pursuing his suit. I have never walked out alone, or remained alone an instant in his presence. Dear Martin, I must tell you
that the kindness of your grandfather to me remains unchanged. I am his companion still. An indescribable tenderness and compassion seem to have mingled themselves with his old regard; and if I were his only child, I could not have a gentler father. What former fancy or old habit survives in this, when his heart has turned so cold to you, is a mystery I cannot penetrate; but it has been, and it is, a happiness to me, that I remained true to him; that if he should wake from his delusion, even at the point of death, I am here, love, to recall you to his thoughts
I have sometimes heard, and read
that those whose powers had been enfeebled long ago, and whose lives had faded, as it were, into a dream, have been known to rouse themselves before death, and inquire for familiar faces once very dear to them; but forgotten, unrecognized, hated even, in the meantime. Think, if with his old impressions of this man, he should suddenly resume his former self, and find in him his only friend
I would not urge you to abandon him, dearest
though I could count the years we are to wear out asunder. But the influence this fellow exercises over him has steadily increased, I fear
Does the influence extend to fear
Is he timid of asserting his own opinion in the presence of this infatuation? I fancied so just now
I have thought so, often. Often when we are sitting alone, almost as we used to do, and I have been reading a favourite book to him or he has been talking quite cheerfully, I have observed that the entrance of Mr Pecksniff has changed his whole demeanour. He has broken off immediately, and become what you have seen to-day. When we first came here he had his impetuous outbreaks, in which it was not easy for Mr Pecksniff with his utmost plausibility to appease him. But these have long since dwindled away. He defers to him in everything, and has no opinion upon any question, but that which is forced upon him by this treacherous man
A short interview after such an absence
But we are well out of the house. We might have placed ourselves in a false position by remaining there, even so long, Mark
I don't know about ourselves, sir
but somebody else would have got into a false position, if he had happened to come back again, while we was there. I had the door all ready, sir. If Pecksniff had showed his head, or had only so much as listened behind it, I would have caught him like a walnut. He's the sort of man
as would squeeze soft, I know
Who may that be, I wonder
The face seems familiar to me, but I don't know the man
He seems to have a amiable desire that his face should be tolerable familiar to us
for he's a-staring pretty hard. He'd better not waste his beauty, for he ain't got much to spare
And a Salisbury carriage, eh
That's what he came in depend upon it. What's in the wind now? A new pupil, I shouldn't wonder. P'raps it's a order for another grammar-school, of the same pattern as the last
Miss Pecksniff's husband that was
I didn't know what terms you might be on, and was quite in a worry till you came back
He and I have never interchanged a word yet
and as I have no wish to be better or worse acquainted with him, I will not put myself in his way. We passed him on the road, I have no doubt. I am glad he timed his coming as he did. Upon my word! Miss Pecksniff's husband travels gayly
A very fine-looking gentleman with him -- in the best room now
He has ordered everything that can be got for dinner; and has the glossiest moustaches and whiskers ever you saw
Has he
why then we'll endeavour to avoid him too, in the hope that our self-denial may be strong enough for the sacrifice. It is only for a few hours
Our visit has met with no success, my dear Mrs Lupin, and I must go to London
Dear, dear
Yes, one foul wind no more makes a winter, than one swallow makes a summer. I'll try it again. Tom Pinch has succeeded. With his advice to guide me, I may do the same. I took Tom under my protection once, God save the mark
and promised I would make his fortune. Perhaps Tom will take me under HIS protection now, and teach me how to earn my bread
Jonas. My child -- she is well! There is nothing the matter
What, you're at it again, are you
Even with me? Get away with you, will you
Tell me she is well then
Tell me she is well my boy
She's well enough
There's nothing the matter with HER
There is nothing the matter with her
Fie upon my weakness! I cannot help it, Jonas. Thank you. I am better now. How is my other child; my eldest; my Cherrywerrychigo
She's much about the same as usual
She sticks pretty close to the vinegar-bottle. You know she's got a sweetheart, I suppose
I have heard of it
from headquarters; from my child herself I will not deny that it moved me to contemplate the loss of my remaining daughter, Jonas -- I am afraid we parents are selfish, I am afraid we are -- but it has ever been the study of my life to qualify them for the domestic hearth; and it is a sphere which Cherry will adorn
She need adorn some sphere or other
My girls are now provided for
They are now happily provided for, and I have not laboured in vain
Suppose we talk about something else, now
just for a change. Are you quite agreeable
Quite
Ah, you wag, you naughty wag! You laugh at poor old fond papa. Well! He deserves it. And he don't mind it either, for his feelings are their own reward. You have come to stay with me, Jonas
No. I've got a friend with me
Bring your friend
Bring any number of your friends
This ain't the sort of man to be brought
I think I see myself "bringing" him to your house, for a treat! Thank'ee all the same; but he's a little too near the top of the tree for that, Pecksniff
I'll tell you what you may do, if you like
you may come and dine with us at the Dragon. We were forced to come down to Salisbury last night, on some business, and I got him to bring me over here this morning, in his carriage; at least, not his own carriage, for we had a breakdown in the night, but one we hired instead; it's all the same. Mind what you're about, you know. He's not used to all sorts; he only mixes with the best
Some young nobleman who has been borrowing money of you at good interest, eh
I shall be delighted to know the gay sprig
Borrowing
Borrowing! When you're a twentieth part as rich as he is, you may shut up shop! We should be pretty well off if we could buy his furniture, and plate, and pictures, by clubbing together. A likely man to borrow: Mr Montague! Why since I was lucky enough (come! and I'll say, sharp enough, too) to get a share in the Assurance office that he's President of, I've made -- never mind what I've made
You know me pretty well, and I don't blab about such things. But, Ecod, I've made a trifle
Really, my dear Jonas
a gentleman like this should receive some attention. Would he like to see the church? or if he has a taste for the fine arts -- which I have no doubt he has, from the description you give of his circumstances -- I can send him down a few portfolios. Salisbury Cathedral, my dear Jonas
Ecod
Pecksniff if I knew how you meant to leave your money, I could put you in the way of doubling it in no time. It wouldn't be bad to keep a chance like this snug in the family. But you're such a deep one
Jonas
I am not a diplomatical character; my heart is in my hand. By far the greater part of the inconsiderable savings I have accumulated in the course of -- I hope -- a not dishonourable or useless career, is already given, devised, and bequeathed (correct me, my dear Jonas, if I am technically wrong), with expressions of confidence, which I will not repeat; and in securities which it is unnecessary to mention to a person whom I cannot, whom I will not, whom I need not, name
God bless you; be very careful of it when you get it
No. He would keep his own counsel
if this young man wanted anything of me for his own ends, he would be polite and deferential
All is but dust
far enough off
Welcome, respected sir
to our humble village! We are a simple people; primitive clods, Mr Montague; but we can appreciate the honour of your visit, as my dear son-in-law can testify. It is very strange
but I seem to know you. That towering forehead, my dear Jonas
and those clustering masses of rich hair -- I must have seen you, my dear sir, in the sparkling throng
I could have wished
to have had the honour of introducing you to an elderly inmate of our house: to the uncle of our friend. Mr Chuzzlewit, sir, would have been proud indeed to have taken you by the hand
Is the gentleman here now
He is
You said nothing about that, Chuzzlewit
I didn't suppose you'd care to hear of it
You wouldn't care to know him, I can promise you
Jonas! my dear Jonas
Really
Oh! it's all very well for you to speak up for him
You have nailed him. You'll get a fortune by him
Oho! Is the wind in that quarter
Ha, ha, ha
No, no
You must not believe all that my young relative says, Mr Montague. You may believe him in official business, and trust him in official business, but you must not attach importance to his flights of fancy
Upon my life, Mr Pecksniff
I attach the greatest importance to that last observation of his. I trust and hope it's true. Money cannot be turned and turned again quickly enough in the ordinary course, Mr Pecksniff. There is nothing like building our fortune on the weaknesses of mankind
Oh fie! oh fie, for shame
I give you my honour that WE do it
Oh fie, fie
You are very pleasant. That I am sure you don't! That I am sure you don't! How CAN you, you know
WE do it
Oh fie! oh fie, for shame! I am sure you don't. How CAN you, you know
Oh fie
Ah, my good friend
not a-bed yet! Contemplating the stars, Mrs Lupin
It's a beautiful starlight night, sir
A beautiful starlight night
Behold the planets, how they shine! Behold the -- those two persons who were here this morning have left your house, I hope, Mrs Lupin
Yes, sir. They are gone
I am glad to hear it
Behold the wonders of the firmament, Mrs Lupin! how glorious is the scene! When I look up at those shining orbs, I think that each of them is winking to the other to take notice of the vanity of men's pursuits. My fellowmen
you are much mistaken; my wormy relatives, you are much deceived! The stars are perfectly contented (I suppose so) in their several spheres. Why are not you? Oh! do not strive and struggle to enrich yourselves, or to get the better of each other, my deluded friends, but look up there, with me
Look up there, with me
With me, a humble individual who is also an insect like yourselves. Can silver, gold, or precious stones, sparkle like those constellations! I think not. Then do not thirst for silver, gold, or precious stones; but look up there, with me
think of this, my good woman
You mean to wait at Salisbury over the day after to-morrow, do you, then
You heard our appointment
In any case I should have waited to see after the boy
You don't want me, I suppose
I want you to put your name here
as soon as I have filled up the stamp. I may as well have your note of hand for that extra capital. That's all I want. If you wish to go home, I can manage Mr Pecksniff now, alone. There is a perfect understanding between us
What, not a day's grace, not a day's trust, eh
Not after the pains I have taken with to-night's work
To night's work was a part of our bargain
and so was this
You drive a hard bargain
You know best. Give it here
Why, what the devil's this
It's bloody
Black enough, this time
Good-bye
Going now! how do you mean to get away from here
I shall cross early in the morning to the high road, before you are out of bed; and catch the day-coach, going up. Good-bye
You are in a hurry
I have something to do
Good-bye
It happens all the better. It brings about what I wanted, without any difficulty. I shall travel home alone
I felt sure it was you
I knew I couldn't be mistaken
You are waiting for your brother
Let me bear you company
What an extraordinary meeting
I should never have dreamed of seeing you two together here
Quite accidental
Exactly
that's what I mean, you know. If it wasn't accidental, there would be nothing remarkable in it
To be sure
Such an out-of-the-way place for you to have met in
Such an unlikely spot
Are you going to stop here all day, you dear, old, blundering Tom
John
if you'll give my sister your arm, we'll take her between us, and walk on. I have a curious circumstance to relate to you. Our meeting could not have happened better
Tom
I have a proposition to make. It is, that you and your sister -- if she will so far honour a poor bachelor's dwelling -- give me a great pleasure, and come and dine with me
What, to-day
Yes, to-day. It's close by, you know. Pray, Miss Pinch, insist upon it. It will be very disinterested, for I have nothing to give you
Oh! you must not believe that, Ruth
He is the most tremendous fellow, in his housekeeping, that I ever heard of, for a single man. He ought to be Lord Mayor. Well! what do you say? Shall we go
If you please, Tom
But I mean
is there anything you ought to wear, and haven't got? I am sure I don't know, John; she may not be able to take her bonnet off, for anything I can tell
If I had known it a little sooner
I would have tried another pudding. Not in rivalry; but merely to exalt that famous one. I wouldn't on any account have had it made with suet
Why not
Because that cookery-book advises suet
and ours was made with flour and eggs
Oh good gracious
Ours was made with flour and eggs, was it? Ha, ha, ha! A beefsteak pudding made with flour and eggs! Why anybody knows better than that. I know better than that! Ha, ha, ha
flour and eggs! A beefsteak pudding made with flour and eggs
Didn't I say he was a tremendous fellow in his housekeeping
Bless my soul! It's wonderful
Ah, Miss Pinch
Don't believe a word he says
He lives here like a monarch, and wouldn't change his mode of life for any consideration. He only pretends to grumble
I don't know where you can go, John, to be more comfortable. That's all I can say. What do YOU say, Ruth
But you are forgetting what you had to tell, Tom; what occurred this morning
So I am
We have been so talkative on other topics that I declare I have not had time to think of it. I'll tell it you at once, John, in case I should forget it altogether
I shall remonstrate with my landlord, of course
though he is a very singular secret sort of man, and not likely to afford me much satisfaction; even if he knew what was in the letter
Which you may swear he did
You think so
I am certain of it
Well
I shall remonstrate with him when I see him (he goes in and out in a strange way, but I will try to catch him tomorrow morning), on his having asked me to execute such an unpleasant commission. And I have been thinking, John, that if I went down to Mrs What's-her-name's in the City, where I was before, you know -- Mrs Todgers's -- to-morrow morning, I might find poor Mercy Pecksniff there, perhaps, and be able to explain to her how I came to have any hand in the business
You are perfectly right, Tom
You cannot do better. It is quite clear to me that whatever the business is, there is little good in it; and it is so desirable for you to disentangle yourself from any appearance of willful connection with it, that I would counsel you to see her husband, if you can, and wash your hands of it by a plain statement of the facts. I have a misgiving that there is something dark at work here, Tom. I will tell you why, at another time; when I have made an inquiry or two myself
Dear me
I am afraid I have been very inconsiderate and unpolite
Sing something to us, my dear
let us hear your voice. Come
Good night
A memorable and delightful visit, John! Good night
No, no. Don't
What nonsense! We can get home very well alone. I couldn't think of taking you out
Are you sure you would rather
I am afraid you only say so out of politeness
She was so glad to see me
that I am sure she will be glad to see you. Your sympathy is certain to be much more delicate and acceptable than mine
I am very far from being certain of that, Tom
and indeed you do yourself an injustice. Indeed you do. But I hope she may like me, Tom
Oh, she is sure to do that
What a number of friends I should have, if everybody was of your way of thinking. Shouldn't I, Tom, dear
For you women
you women, my dear, are so kind, and in your kindness have such nice perception; you know so well how to be affectionate and full of solicitude without appearing to be; your gentleness of feeling is like your touch so light and easy, that the one enables you to deal with wounds of the mind as tenderly as the other enables you to deal with wounds of the body. You are such
My goodness, Tom
You ought to fall in love immediately
Hush
Miss Pecksniff, and the young gentleman to whom she is going to be married
Why does he look as if he was going to be buried, Tom
Why, he is naturally a dismal young gentleman, I believe
but he is very civil and inoffensive
I suppose they are furnishing their house
Yes, I suppose they are
We had better avoid speaking to them
Augustus, my love
ask the price of the eight rosewood chairs, and the loo table
Perhaps they are ordered already
Perhaps they are Another's
They can make more like them, if they are
No, no, they can't
It's impossible
Twenty-four pound ten
Oh, really
Upon my word, I -- there never was such a -- to think that one should be so very -- Mr Augustus Moddle, Miss Pinch
Augustus -- Mr Pinch, you know. My dear girl
I never was so ashamed in my life
I mind your brother less than anybody else
But the indelicacy of meeting any gentleman under such circumstances! Augustus, my child, did you
Twenty-four pound ten
Oh, you silly man! I don't mean them
I am speaking of the
If it's the same patterned chintz as that in the window; thirty- two, twelve, six
And very dear
I was going to see if I could find your sister
to whom I wished to say a few words. We were going to Mrs Todgers's, where I had the pleasure of seeing her before
It's of no use your going on, then
for we have not long left there; and I know she is not at home. But I'll take you to my sister's house, if you please. Augustus -- Mr Moddle, I mean -- and myself, are on our way to tea there, now. You needn't think of HIM
He is not at home
Are you sure
Oh, I am quite sure of that. I don't want any MORE revenge
But, really, I must beg you two gentlemen to walk on, and allow me to follow with Miss Pinch. My dear, I never was so taken by surprise
Of course, my love
it would be useless for me to disguise, after what you have seen, that I am about to be united to the gentleman who is walking with your brother. It would be in vain to conceal it. What do you think of him? Pray, let me have your candid opinion
I am curious to know
whether you have observed, or fancied, in this very short space of time, that he is of a rather melancholy turn
So very short a time
No, no; but don't let that interfere with your answer
I am curious to hear what you say
rather low
No, really
Well! that is quite remarkable! Everybody says the same. Mrs Todgers says the same; and Augustus informs me that it is quite a joke among the gentlemen in the house. Indeed, but for the positive commands I have laid upon him, I believe it would have been the occasion of loaded fire-arms being resorted to more than once. What do you think is the cause of his appearance of depression
My dear
I shouldn't wish it to be known, but I don't mind mentioning it to you, having known your brother for so many years -- I refused Augustus three times. He is of a most amiable and sensitive nature, always ready to shed tears if you look at him, which is extremely charming; and he has never recovered the effect of that cruelty. For it WAS cruel
There is no doubt of it. I look back upon my conduct now with blushes. I always liked him. I felt that he was not to me what the crowd of young men who had made proposals had been, but something very different. Then what right had I to refuse him three times
It was a severe trial of his fidelity, no doubt
My dear
It was wrong. But such is the caprice and thoughtlessness of our sex! Let me be a warning to you. Don't try the feelings of any one who makes you an offer, as I have tried the feelings of Augustus; but if you ever feel towards a person as I really felt towards him, at the very time when I was driving him to distraction, let that feeling find expression, if that person throws himself at your feet, as Augustus Moddle did at mine. Think
what my feelings would have been, if I had goaded him to suicide, and it had got into the papers
Remorse
What my remorse is at this moment, even after making reparation by accepting him, it would be impossible to tell you! Looking back upon my giddy self, my dear, now that I am sobered down and made thoughtful, by treading on the very brink of matrimony; and contemplating myself as I was when I was like what you are now; I shudder. I shudder. What is the consequence of my past conduct? Until Augustus leads me to the altar he is not sure of me. I have blighted and withered the affections of his heart to that extent that he is not sure of me. I see that preying on his mind and feeding on his vitals. What are the reproaches of my conscience, when I see this in the man I love
Very soon indeed
As soon as our house is ready. We are furnishing now as fast as we can
I wonder
that in these crowded streets the foot- passengers are not oftener run over
The drivers won't do it
Do you mean
That there are some men
who can't get run over. They live a charmed life. Coal waggons recoil from them, and even cabs refuse to run them down. Ah
There are such men. One of 'em is a friend of mine
Upon my word and honour
this young gentleman is in a state of mind which is very serious indeed
Walk up, pray, Mr Pinch
I am doubtful whether I should be welcome
or, I ought rather to say, I have no doubt about it. I will send up a message, I think
But what nonsense that is
He is not at home, I am certain. I know he is not; and Merry hasn't the least idea that you ever
No
Nor would I have her know it, on any account. I am not so proud of that scuffle, I assure you
Ah, but then you are so modest, you see
But pray walk up. If you don't wish her to know it, and do wish to speak to her, pray walk up. Pray walk up, Miss Pinch. Don't stand here
Merry, my darling
Here are Mr Pinch and his sister come to see you! I thought we should find you here, Mrs Todgers! How do you do, Mrs Gamp? And how do you do, Mr Chuffey, though it's of no use asking you the question, I am well aware
Mr Moddle
I believe you have seen HIM before
Augustus, my sweet child, bring me a chair
little pet
Oh, good gracious! look here! Won't some kind Christian help me
Why, goodness me
Now, ain't we rich in beauty this here joyful arternoon, I'm sure. I knows a lady, which her name, I'll not deceive you, Mrs Chuzzlewit, is Harris, her husband's brother bein' six foot three, and marked with a mad bull in Wellington boots upon his left arm, on account of his precious mother havin' been worrited by one into a shoemaker's shop, when in a sitiwation which blessed is the man as has his quiver full of sech, as many times I've said to Gamp when words has roge betwixt us on account of the expense -- and often have I said to Mrs Harris, "Oh, Mrs Harris, ma'am! your countenance is quite a angel's!" Which, but for Pimples, it would be. "No, Sairey Gamp," says she, "you best of hard-working and industrious creeturs as ever was underpaid at any price, which underpaid you are, quite diff'rent. Harris had it done afore marriage at ten and six," she says, "and wore it faithful next his heart "till the colour run, when the money was declined to be give back, and no arrangement could be come to. But he never said it was a angel's, Sairey, wotever he might have thought." If Mrs Harris's husband was here now
Rouge yourself, and look up! Come
Here's company, Mr Chuffey
I am sorry for it
I know I'm in the way. I ask pardon, but I've nowhere else to go to. Where is she
Ah
Here she is. Here she is! She's never hard on poor old Chuffey. Poor old Chuff
You see how misery has changed me. I can feel for a dependant NOW, and set some value on his attachment
Aye, aye
Aye, aye, aye! Never mind him. It's hard to hear, but never mind him. He'll die one day. There are three hundred and sixty-five days in the year -- three hundred and sixty-six in leap year -- and he may die on any one of 'em
You're a wearing old soul, and that's the sacred truth
It's a pity that you don't know wot you say, for you'd tire your own patience out if you did, and fret yourself into a happy releage for all as knows you
His son
His son
Well, I'm sure
you're a-settlin' of it, Mr Chuffey. To your satigefaction, sir, I hope. But I wouldn't lay a new pincushion on it myself, sir, though you ARE so well informed. Drat the old creetur, he's a-layin' down the law tolerable confident, too! A deal he knows of sons! or darters either! Suppose you was to favour us with some remarks on twins, sir, WOULD you be so good
And quite a family it is to make tea for
and wot a happiness to do it! My good young 'ooman
p'raps somebody would like to try a new-laid egg or two, not biled too hard. Likeways, a few rounds o' buttered toast, first cuttin' off the crust, in consequence of tender teeth, and not too many of 'em; which Gamp himself, Mrs Chuzzlewit, at one blow, being in liquor, struck out four, two single, and two double, as was took by Mrs Harris for a keepsake, and is carried in her pocket at this present hour, along with two cramp-bones, a bit o' ginger, and a grater like a blessed infant's shoe, in tin, with a little heel to put the nutmeg in; as many times I've seen and said, and used for candle when required, within the month
Who's lying dead upstairs
No one
What is the matter? We are all here
All here
All here! Where is he then -- my old master, Mr Chuzzlewit, who had the only son? Where is he
Hush! Hush
That happened long ago. Don't you recollect
Recollect
As if I could forget! As if I ever could forget
Who's lying dead upstairs
No one
You think not. But they don't tell you. No, no, poor thing! They don't tell you. Who are these, and why are they merry-making here, if there is no one dead? Foul play! Go see who it is
There's some one dead
or dying; and I want to knows who it is. Go see, go see! Where's Jonas
In the country
Foul play
They don't tell you
They don't tell me either; but I'll watch, I'll watch. They shall not hurt you; don't be frightened. When you have sat up watching, I have sat up watching too. Aye, aye, I have
Many a night I have been ready
Why, highty tighty, sir
Who's dead, indeed! It wouldn't be no grievous loss if some one was, I think
He's quiet now, Mrs Gamp
Don't disturb him
Oh, bother the old wictim, Mrs Chuzzlewit
I ain't no patience with him. You give him his own way too much by half. A worritin' wexagious creetur
There
Now, I hope, you're easy in your mind. If you should turn at all faint we can soon rewive you, sir, I promige you. Bite a person's thumbs, or turn their fingers the wrong way
and they comes to, wonderful, Lord bless you
Ah, Mr Pinch
It all comes of this unfortunate marriage. If my sister had not been so precipitate, and had not united herself to a Wretch, there would have been no Mr Chuffey in the house
Hush
She'll hear you
I should be very sorry if she did hear me, Mr Pinch
for it is not in my nature to add to the uneasiness of any person; far less of my own sister. I know what a sister's duties are, Mr Pinch, and I hope I always showed it in my practice. Augustus, my dear child, find my pocket- handkerchief, and give it to me
I am sure, Mr Pinch
that I ought to be very grateful for the blessings I enjoy, and those which are yet in store for me. When I contrast
who, I don't mind saying to you, is all softness, mildness, and devotion, with the detestable man who is my sister's husband; and when I think, Mr Pinch, that in the dispensations of this world, our cases might have been reversed; I have much to be thankful for, indeed, and much to make me humble and contented
I will write to your husband
and explain to him, as I would have done if I had met him here, that if he has sustained any inconvenience through my means, it is not my fault; a postman not being more innocent of the news he brings, than I was when I handed him that letter
I thank you
It may do some good
I had better not meet him on the stairs, perhaps
I'll wait for him here, a moment
I didn't know you'd got a party
Oh dear
Pray don't let us intrude upon your domestic happiness! That would be a pity. We have taken tea here, sir, in your absence; but if you will have the goodness to send us a note of the expense, receipted, we shall be happy to pay it. Augustus, my love, we will go, if you please. Mrs Todgers, unless you wish to remain here, we shall be happy to take you with us. It would be a pity, indeed, to spoil the bliss which this gentleman always brings with him, especially into his own home
Charity! Charity
Merry, my dear, I am much obliged to you for your advice
but I am not his slave
No, nor wouldn't have been if you could
We know all about it
WHAT did you say, sir
Didn't you hear
I am not a-going to say it again. If you like to stay, you may stay. If you like to go, you may go. But if you stay, please to be civil
Beast
Augustus! He is beneath your notice
Come away, child
I command you
You have no cause to be violent, sir
Though what I wish to say relates to your own affairs, I know nothing of them, and desire to know nothing of them
As you cannot suppose
that I am here with any view of conciliating you or pleasing myself, I am quite indifferent to your reception of me, or your dismissal of me. Hear what I have to say, if you are not a madman! I gave you a letter the other day, when you were about to go abroad
You Thief, you did
I'll pay you for the carriage of it one day, and settle an old score besides. I will
Tut, tut
you needn't waste words or threats. I wish you to understand -- plainly because I would rather keep clear of you and everything that concerns you: not because I have the least apprehension of your doing me any injury: which would be weak indeed -- that I am no party to the contents of that letter. That I know nothing of it. That I was not even aware that it was to be delivered to you; and that I had it from
By the Lord
I'll knock your brains out, if you speak another word
So, so
These are your friends, are they, when I am away? You plot and tamper with this sort of people, do you
No, indeed! I have no knowledge of these secrets, and no clue to their meaning. I have never seen him since I left home but once -- but twice -- before to-day
Oh
But once, but twice, eh? Which do you mean? Twice and once, perhaps. Three times! How many more, you lying jade
How many more times
No more. The other morning, and to-day, and once besides
Don't lie there! Get up
Listen to me, young lady; and don't whine when you have no occasion, or I may make some for you. If I find him in my house again, or find that you have seen him in anybody else's house, you'll repent it. If you are not deaf and dumb to everything that concerns me, unless you have my leave to hear and speak, you'll repent it. If you don't obey exactly what I order, you'll repent it. Now, attend. What's the time
It struck eight a minute ago
I have been travelling day and night, and am tired. I have lost some money, and that don't improve me. Put my supper in the little off-room below, and have the truckle-bed made. I shall sleep there to-night, and maybe to-morrow night; and if I can sleep all day to- morrow, so much the better, for I've got trouble to sleep off, if I can. Keep the house quiet, and don't call me. Mind! Don't call me. Don't let anybody call me. Let me lie there
All what? You must be prying and questioning
What more do you want to know
I want to know nothing, Jonas, but what you tell me. All hope of confidence between us has long deserted me
Ecod, I should hope so
But if you will tell me what you wish, I will be obedient and will try to please you. I make no merit of that, for I have no friend in my father or my sister, but am quite alone. I am very humble and submissive. You told me you would break my spirit, and you have done so. Do not break my heart too
How is he now, sir
Who
To be sure
What am I thinking of! You wasn't here, sir, when he was took so strange. I never see a poor dear creetur took so strange in all my life, except a patient much about the same age, as I once nussed, which his calling was the custom
Chuffey, eh
Ha
The creetur's head's so hot
that you might heat a flat-iron at it. And no wonder I am sure, considerin' the things he said
Said
What did he say
The awfulest things, Mr Chuzzlewit, as ever I heerd! Which Mrs Harris's father never spoke a word when took so, some does and some don't, except sayin' when he come round, "Where is Sairey Gamp?" But raly, sir, when Mr Chuffey comes to ask who's lyin' dead upstairs, and
Who's lying dead upstairs
Who's lying dead upstairs; sech was his Bible language; and where was Mr Chuzzlewit as had the only son; and when he goes upstairs a- looking in the beds and wandering about the rooms, and comes down again a-whisperin' softly to his-self about foul play and that; it gives me sech a turn, I don't deny it, Mr Chuzzlewit, that I never could have kep myself up but for a little drain o' spirits, which I seldom touches, but could always wish to know where to find, if so dispoged, never knowin' wot may happen next, the world bein' so uncertain
Why, the old fool's mad
That's my opinion, sir
and I will not deceive you. I believe as Mr Chuffey, sir, rekwires attention (if I may make so bold), and should not have his liberty to wex and worrit your sweet lady as he does
Why, who minds what he says
Still he is worritin' sir
No one don't mind him, but he IS a ill conwenience
Ecod you're right
I have half a mind to shut him up
Could you -- could you take care of such an idiot, now, in some spare room upstairs
Me and a friend of mine, one off, one on, could do it, Mr Chuzzlewit
our charges not bein' high, but wishin' they was lower, and allowance made considerin' not strangers. Me and Betsey Prig, sir, would undertake Mr Chuffey reasonable
and give every satigefaction. Betsey Prig has nussed a many lunacies, and well she knows their ways, which puttin' 'em right close afore the fire, when fractious, is the certainest and most compoging
I must look after him, I suppose, or I may have him doing some mischief. What say you
Nothin' more likely
As well I have experienged, I do assure you, sir
Madder
A deal madder
See to him, then; take care that he does no harm; and recollect what I have told you
Mr Chuff
it'll be pretty easy to be even with YOU. It's of no use doing things by halves, and as long as I stop here, I'll take good care of you. When I'm off you may say what you please. But it's a d -- d strange thing
that his drivellings should have taken this turn just now
I say just now, but for anything I know, he may have been carrying on the same game all along. Old dog! He shall be gagged
So murder is not always found out, you see
Short of the town, eh
I may get down where I please, I suppose
You got up to please yourself, and may get down to please yourself. It won't break our hearts to lose you, and it wouldn't have broken 'em if we'd never found you. Be a little quicker. That's all
What are you staring at
Not at a handsome man
If you want your fortune told, I'll tell you a bit of it. You won't be drowned. That's a consolation for you
It's too soon. Much too soon
But this is the place, my dear sir. Keep the path, and go straight through the little wood you'll come to. The path is narrower there, but you can't miss it. When shall I see you again? Soon I hope
I hope so
Good night
Good night. And a pleasant ride
A fine night, master
And a rare sunset
I didn't see it
Didn't see it
How the devil could I see it, if I was asleep
Asleep! Aye, aye
What's that
Can't say, I'm sure
Who's there
Did -- did no one knock at my door yesterday
Something disturbed me; but unless you had knocked the door down, you would have got no notice from me
No one
Mr Nadgett wanted to see you
but I told him you were tired, and had requested not to be disturbed. He said it was of little consequence, and went away. As I was opening my window to let in the cool air, I saw him passing through the street this morning, very early; but he hasn't been again
how are you, my dears; I came all this way on purpose to salute you
My dear girl
what a queer fellow our landlord is! I don't believe he has been home once since he got me into that unsatisfactory scrape. I begin to think he will never come home again. What a mysterious life that man does lead, to be sure
Very strange. Is it not, Tom
Really
I hope it is only strange. I hope there may be nothing wrong in it. Sometimes I begin to be doubtful of that. I must have an explanation with him
when I can catch him
Heyday
An early hour for visitors! It must be John, I suppose
I -- I -- don't think it was his knock, Tom
No
It surely can't be my employer suddenly arrived in town; directed here by Mr Fips; and come for the key of the office. It's somebody inquiring for me, I declare! Come in, if you please
Did you wish to speak with me, sir
My name is Pinch, sir; what is your business, may I ask
Good gracious Heaven
Mark Tapley, too
My dear Mark, come in. How are you, Mark? He don't look a day older than he used to do at the Dragon. How ARE you, Mark
Uncommonly jolly, sir, thank'ee
I hope I see you well, sir
Good gracious me
How delightful it is to hear his old voice again! My dear Martin, sit down. My sister, Martin. Mr Chuzzlewit, my love. Mark Tapley from the Dragon, my dear. Good gracious me, what a surprise this is! Sit down. Lord, bless me
I remember the day we parted, Martin, as well as if it were yesterday
What a day it was! and what a passion you were in! And don't you remember my overtaking you in the road that morning, Mark, when I was going to Salisbury in the gig to fetch him, and you were looking out for a situation? And don't you recollect the dinner we had at Salisbury, Martin, with John Westlock, eh! Good gracious me! Ruth, my dear, Mr Chuzzlewit. Mark Tapley, my love, from the Dragon. More cups and saucers, if you please. Bless my soul, how glad I am to see you both
Sit down, and take your breakfast, Mark
Make him sit down and take his breakfast, Martin
Oh! I gave him up, long ago, as incorrigible
He takes his own way, Tom. You would excuse him, Miss Pinch, if you knew his value
She knows it, bless you
I have told her all about Mark Tapley. Have I not, Ruth
Yes, Tom
Not all
The best of Mark Tapley is only known to one man, Tom; and but for Mark he would hardly be alive to tell it
Mark
if you don't sit down this minute, I'll swear at you
Well, sir
Not jolly yet
Why, I was rather so, over the water, sir
and not entirely without credit. But Human Natur' is in a conspiracy again' me; I can't get on. I shall have to leave it in my will, sir, to be wrote upon my tomb: "He was a man as might have come out strong if he could have got a chance. But it was denied him
For your faithful stewardship in the trust I left with you, Tom
and for all your goodness and disinterestedness, I can never thank you enough. When I add Mary's thanks to mine
When I add Mary's thanks to mine
I have made the only poor acknowledgment it is in our power to offer; but if you knew how much we feel, Tom, you would set some store by it, I am sure
No longer to make your fortune, Tom
but to try to live. I tried that once in London, Tom; and failed. If you will give me the benefit of your advice and friendly counsel, I may succeed better under your guidance. I will do anything Tom, anything, to gain a livelihood by my own exertions. My hopes do not soar above that, now
Your hopes do not soar above that
Yes they do. How can you talk so! They soar up to the time when you will be happy with her, Martin. They soar up to the time when you will be able to claim her, Martin. They soar up to the time when you will not be able to believe that you were ever cast down in spirit, or poor in pocket, Martin. Advice, and friendly counsel! Why, of course. But you shall have better advice and counsel (though you cannot have more friendly) than mine. You shall consult John Westlock. We'll go there immediately. It is yet so early that I shall have time to take you to his chambers before I go to business; they are in my way; and I can leave you there, to talk over your affairs with him. So come along. Come along. I am a man of occupation now, you know
and have no time to lose. Your hopes don't soar higher than that? I dare say they don't. I know you, pretty well. They'll be soaring out of sight soon, Martin, and leaving all the rest of us leagues behind
Aye! But I may be a little changed
since you knew me pretty well, Tom
What nonsense
Why should you be changed? You talk as if you were an old man. I never heard such a fellow! Come to John Westlock's, come. Come along, Mark Tapley. It's Mark's doing, I have no doubt; and it serves you right for having such a grumbler for your companion
There's no credit to be got through being jolly with YOU, Mr Pinch, anyways
A parish doctor might be jolly with you. There's nothing short of goin' to the U-nited States for a second trip, as would make it at all creditable to be jolly, arter seein' you again
I apprehend you are engaged
If you will allow me to come again at your own time, I shall be glad to do so
I AM engaged
but the matter on which I am engaged is one, to say the truth, more immediately demanding your knowledge than mine
Indeed
It relates to a member of your family, and is of a serious nature. If you will have the kindness to remain here, it will be a satisfaction to me to have it privately communicated to you, in order that you may judge of its importance for yourself
And in the meantime
I must really take myself off, without any further ceremony
Is your business so very particular
that you cannot remain with us for half an hour? I wish you could. What IS your business, Tom
Why, I am not at liberty to say what it is, Martin; though I hope soon to be in a condition to do so, and am aware of no other reason to prevent my doing so now, than the request of my employer. It's an awkward position to be placed in
as I feel every day; but I really cannot help it, can I, John
And what do you mean to do, Mark
Mean to do, sir
Aye. What course of life do you mean to pursue
Well, sir
The fact is, that I have been a-thinking rather of the matrimonial line, sir
You don't say so, Mark
Yes, sir. I've been a-turnin' of it over
And who is the lady, Mark
The which, sir
The lady. Come! You know what I said
as well as I do
You couldn't guess, I suppose, Mr Pinch
How is it possible
I don't know any of your flames, Mark. Except Mrs Lupin, indeed
Well, sir
And supposing it was her
Why I thought such a connection wouldn't suit you, Mark, on any terms
Well, sir! I used to think so myself, once
But I ain't so clear about it now. A dear, sweet creetur, sir
A dear, sweet creature? To be sure she is
But she always was a dear, sweet creature, was she not
WAS she not
Then why on earth didn't you marry her at first, Mark, instead of wandering abroad, and losing all this time, and leaving her alone by herself, liable to be courted by other people
Why, sir
I'll tell you how it come about. You know me, Mr Pinch, sir; there ain't a gentleman alive as knows me better. You're acquainted with my constitution, and you're acquainted with my weakness. My constitution is, to be jolly; and my weakness is, to wish to find a credit in it. Wery good, sir. In this state of mind, I gets a notion in my head that she looks on me with a eye of -- with what you may call a favourable sort of a eye in fact
No doubt
We knew that perfectly well when we spoke on this subject long ago; before you left the Dragon
Well, sir! But bein' at that time full of hopeful wisions, I arrives at the conclusion that no credit is to be got out of such a way of life as that, where everything agreeable would be ready to one's hand. Lookin' on the bright side of human life in short, one of my hopeful wisions is, that there's a deal of misery awaitin' for me; in the midst of which I may come out tolerable strong, and be jolly under circumstances as reflects some credit. I goes into the world, sir, wery boyant, and I tries this. I goes aboard ship first, and wery soon discovers (by the ease with which I'm jolly, mind you) as there's no credit to be got THERE. I might have took warning by this, and gave it up; but I didn't. I gets to the U-nited States; and then I DO begin, I won't deny it, to feel some little credit in sustaining my spirits. What follows? Jest as I'm a-beginning to come out, and am a-treadin' on the werge, my master deceives me
Deceives you
Swindles me
If your philosophy, Mark
be the oddest I ever heard of, it is not the least wise. Mrs Lupin has said "yes," of course
Why, no, sir
she hasn't gone so far as that yet. Which I attribute principally to my not havin' asked her. But we was wery agreeable together -- comfortable, I may say -- the night I come home. It's all right, sir
Well
I wish you joy, Mark, with all my heart. I shall see you again to-day, I dare say. Good-bye for the present
Good-bye, sir! Good-bye, Mr Pinch
Although you ARE a damper to a honourable ambition. You little think it, but you was the first to dash my hopes. Pecksniff would have built me up for life, but your sweet temper pulled me down. Good-bye, Mr Pinch
Mr Westlock, we have met only once before, but you have known Tom a long while, and that seems to render you familiar to me. I cannot talk freely with you on any subject unless I relieve my mind of what oppresses it just now. I see with pain that you so far mistrust me that you think me likely to impose on Tom's regardlessness of himself, or on his kind nature, or some of his good qualities
I had no intention
of conveying any such impression to you, and am exceedingly sorry to have done so
But you entertain it
You ask me so pointedly and directly
that I cannot deny the having accustomed myself to regard you as one who, not in wantonness but in mere thoughtlessness of character, did not sufficiently consider his nature and did not quite treat it as it deserves to be treated. It is much easier to slight than to appreciate Tom Pinch
I grew into the knowledge of Tom
as I grew towards manhood; and I have learned to love him as something, infinitely better than myself. I did not think that you understood him when we met before. I did not think that you greatly cared to understand him. The instances of this which I observed in you were, like my opportunities for observation, very trivial -- and were very harmless, I dare say. But they were not agreeable to me, and they forced themselves upon me; for I was not upon the watch for them, believe me. You will say
that I am not by any means agreeable to you. I can only assure you, in reply, that I would not have originated this topic on any account
I originated it
and so far from having any complaint to make against you, highly esteem the friendship you entertain for Tom, and the very many proofs you have given him of it. Why should I endeavour to conceal from you
that I neither understood him nor cared to understand him when I was his companion; and that I am very truly sorry for it now
Now pray
when I tire your patience very much in what I am going to say, recollect that it has an end to it, and that the end is the point of the story
If you will excuse me for one moment
I will beg you almost immediately to come into the next room
This person's name is Lewsome
whom I have mentioned to you as having been seized with an illness at the inn near here, and undergone so much. He has had a very hard time of it, ever since he began to recover; but, as you see, he is now doing well
The short statement that I wish you to hear from his own lips, Mr Chuzzlewit
he made to me for the first time yesterday, and repeated to me this morning, without the least variation of any essential particular. I have already told you that he informed me before he was removed from the Inn, that he had a secret to disclose to me which lay heavy on his mind. But, fluctuating between sickness and health and between his desire to relieve himself of it, and his dread of involving himself by revealing it, he has, until yesterday, avoided the disclosure. I never pressed him for it (having no idea of its weight or import, or of my right to do so), until within a few days past; when, understanding from him, on his own voluntary avowal, in a letter from the country, that it related to a person whose name was Jonas Chuzzlewit; and thinking that it might throw some light on that little mystery which made Tom anxious now and then; I urged the point upon him, and heard his statement, as you will now, from his own lips. It is due to him to say, that in the apprehension of death, he committed it to writing sometime since, and folded it in a sealed paper, addressed to me; which he could not resolve, however, to place of his own act in my hands. He has the paper in his breast, I believe, at this moment
It will be well to leave that in our charge, perhaps
But do not mind it now
What relation was Mr Anthony Chuzzlewit, who
Who died -- to me
He was my grandfather's brother
I fear he was made away with. Murdered
My God
By whom
I fear, by me
By you
Not by my act, but I fear by my means
Speak out
and speak the truth
I fear this IS the truth
Let him tell his story in his own way
I have been bred a surgeon, and for the last few years have served a general practitioner in the City, as his assistant. While I was in his employment I became acquainted with Jonas Chuzzlewit. He is the principal in this deed
What do you mean
Do you know he is the son of the old man of whom you have spoken
I do
I have reason to know it; for I have often heard him wish his old father dead, and complain of his being wearisome to him, and a drag upon him. He was in the habit of doing so, at a place of meeting we had -- three or four of us -- at night. There was no good in the place you may suppose, when you hear that he was the chief of the party. I wish I had died myself, and never seen it
We met to drink and game; not for large sums, but for sums that were large to us. He generally won. Whether or no, he lent money at interest to those who lost; and in this way, though I think we all secretly hated him, he came to be the master of us. To propitiate him we made a jest of his father; it began with his debtors; I was one; and we used to toast a quicker journey to the old man, and a swift inheritance to the young one
One night he came there in a very bad humour. He had been greatly tried, he said, by the old man that day. He and I were alone together; and he angrily told me, that the old man was in his second childhood; that he was weak, imbecile, and drivelling; as unbearable to himself as he was to other people; and that it would be a charity to put him out of the way. He swore that he had often thought of mixing something with the stuff he took for his cough, which should help him to die easily. People were sometimes smothered who were bitten by mad dogs, he said; and why not help these lingering old men out of their troubles too? He looked full at me as he said so, and I looked full at him; but it went no farther that night
Go on
It may have been a week after that, or it may have been less or more -- the matter was in my mind all the time, but I cannot recollect the time, as I should any other period -- when he spoke to me again. We were alone then, too; being there before the usual hour of assembling. There was no appointment between us; but I think I went there to meet him, and I know he came there to meet me. He was there first. He was reading a newspaper when I went in, and nodded to me without looking up, or leaving off reading. I sat down opposite and close to him. He said, immediately, that he wanted me to get him some of two sorts of drugs. One that was instantaneous in its effect; of which he wanted very little. One that was slow and not suspicious in appearance; of which he wanted more. While he was speaking to me he still read the newspaper. He said "Drugs," and never used any other word. Neither did I
This all agrees with what I have heard before
can paint my misery! It is well deserved, but nothing can paint it
Let him remain at hand
but out of sight, in Heaven's name
He will remain here
Come with me
watching of her in her sleep
was his first
There! Now drat you, Betsey, don't be long
For I can't abear to wait, I do assure you. To wotever place I goes, I sticks to this one mortar, "I'm easy pleased; it is but little as I wants; but I must have that little of the best, and to the minute when the clock strikes, else we do not part as I could wish, but bearin' malice in our arts
There's the little bell a-ringing now
Betsey Prig, my -- why it's that there disapintin' Sweedlepipes, I do believe
Yes, it's me
I've just come in
You're always a-comin' in, I think
Mrs Gamp
I say! Mrs Gamp
Well
What is it? Is the Thames a-fire, and cooking its own fish, Mr Sweedlepipes? Why wot's the man gone and been a-doin' of to himself? He's as white as chalk
You recollect
You recollect young
Not young Wilkins
Don't say young Wilkins, wotever you do. If young Wilkins's wife is took
It isn't anybody's wife
Bailey, young Bailey
Why, wot do you mean to say that chit's been a-doin' of
Stuff and nonsense, Mrs Sweedlepipes
He hasn't been a-doing anything
What do you catch me up so short for, when you see me put out to that extent that I can hardly speak? He'll never do anything again. He's done for. He's killed. The first time I ever see that boy
And what a clever boy he was
What a surprising young chap he was! How he talked! and what a deal he know'd! Shaved in this very chair he was; only for fun; it was all his fun; he was full of it. Ah! to think that he'll never be shaved in earnest! The birds might every one have died, and welcome
sooner than I'd have heard this news
How did you ever come to hear it
who told you
I went out
into the City, to meet a sporting gent upon the Stock Exchange, that wanted a few slow pigeons to practice at; and when I'd done with him, I went to get a little drop of beer, and there I heard everybody a-talking about it. It's in the papers
You are in a nice state of confugion, Mr Sweedlepipes, you are
and my opinion is, as half- a-dudgeon fresh young lively leeches on your temples, wouldn't be too much to clear your mind, which so I tell you. Wot were they a- talkin' on, and wot was in the papers
All about it
What else do you suppose? Him and his master were upset on a journey, and he was carried to Salisbury, and was breathing his last when the account came away. He never spoke afterwards. Not a single word. That's the worst of it to me; but that ain't all. His master can't be found. The other manager of their office in the city, Crimple, David Crimple, has gone off with the money, and is advertised for, with a reward, upon the walls. Mr Montague, poor young Bailey's master (what a boy he was!) is advertised for, too. Some say he's slipped off, to join his friend abroad; some say he mayn't have got away yet; and they're looking for him high and low. Their office is a smash; a swindle altogether. But what's a Life Assurance office to a Life! And what a Life Young Bailey's was
He was born into a wale
and he lived in a wale; and he must take the consequences of sech a sitiwation. But don't you hear nothink of Mr Chuzzlewit in all this
No
nothing to speak of. His name wasn't printed as one of the board, though some people say it was just going to be. Some believe he was took in, and some believe he was one of the takers-in; but however that may be, they can't prove nothing against him. This morning he went up of his own accord afore the Lord Mayor or some of them City big-wigs, and complained that he'd been swindled, and that these two persons had gone off and cheated him, and that he had just found out that Montague's name wasn't even Montague, but something else. And they do say that he looked like Death, owing to his losses. But, Lord forgive me
what's his looks to me! He might have died and welcome, fifty times, and not been such a loss as Bailey
Oh! You're a-talkin' about it, are you
Well, I hope you've got it over, for I ain't interested in it myself
My precious Betsey
how late you are
that it was quite aggrawation enough to be made late when one was dropping for one's tea, without hearing on it again
I know'd she wouldn't have a cowcumber
Lord bless you, Betsey Prig, your words is true. I quite forgot it
And don't go a-droppin' none of your snuff in it
In gruel, barley-water, apple-tea, mutton-broth, and that, it don't signify. It stimulates a patient. But I don't relish it myself
Why, Betsey Prig
how CAN you talk so
Why, ain't your patients, wotever their diseases is, always asneezin' their wery heads off, along of your snuff
And wot if they are
Nothing if they are
But don't deny it, Sairah
Who deniges of it
WHO deniges of it, Betsey
Betsey, who deniges of it
Nobody, if you don't, Sairah
Betsey
I will now propoge a toast. My frequent pardner, Betsey Prig
Which, altering the name to Sairah Gamp; I drink
with love and tenderness
Now, Sairah
joining business with pleasure, wot is this case in which you wants me
IS it Mrs Harris
No, Betsey Prig, it ain't
Well
I'm glad of that, at any rate
Why should you be glad of that, Betsey
She is unbeknown to you except by hearsay, why should you be glad? If you have anythink to say contrairy to the character of Mrs Harris, which well I knows behind her back, afore her face, or anywheres, is not to be impeaged, out with it, Betsey. I have know'd that sweetest and best of women
ever since afore her First, which Mr Harris who was dreadful timid went and stopped his ears in a empty dog-kennel, and never took his hands away or come out once till he was showed the baby, wen bein' took with fits, the doctor collared him and laid him on his back upon the airy stones, and she was told to ease her mind, his owls was organs. And I have know'd her, Betsey Prig, when he has hurt her feelin' art by sayin' of his Ninth that it was one too many, if not two, while that dear innocent was cooin' in his face, which thrive it did though bandy, but I have never know'd as you had occagion to be glad, Betsey, on accounts of Mrs Harris not requiring you. Require she never will, depend upon it, for her constant words in sickness is, and will be, "Send for Sairey
Well, it ain't her, it seems
who is it then
You have heerd me mention, Betsey
a person as I took care on at the time as you and me was pardners off and on, in that there fever at the Bull
Old Snuffey
Chuffey
Mr Chuffey, Betsey
is weak in his mind. Excuge me if I makes remark, that he may neither be so weak as people thinks, nor people may not think he is so weak as they pretends, and what I knows, I knows; and what you don't, you don't; so do not ask me, Betsey. But Mr Chuffey's friends has made propojals for his bein' took care on, and has said to me, "Mrs Gamp, WILL you undertake it? We couldn't think," they says, "of trusting him to nobody but you, for, Sairey, you are gold as has passed the furnage. Will you undertake it, at your own price, day and night, and by your own self?" "No," I says, "I will not. Do not reckon on it. There is," I says, but one creetur in the world as I would undertake on sech terms, and her name is Harris. But," I says, "I am acquainted with a friend, whose name is Betsey Prig, that I can recommend, and will assist me. Betsey," I says, "is always to be trusted under me, and will be guided as I could desire
No, Betsey! Drink fair, wotever you do
Mrs Harris, Betsey
Bother Mrs Harris
I don't believe there's no sich a person
What
You had better, ma'am
Do you know who you're talking to, ma'am
Aperiently
to Betsey Prig. Aperiently so. I know her. No one better. Go along with you
And YOU was a-goin' to take me under you
YOU was, was you? Oh, how kind! Why, deuce take your imperence
what do you mean
Go along with you
I blush for you
You had better blush a little for yourself, while you ARE about it
You and your Chuffeys! What, the poor old creetur isn't mad enough, isn't he? Aha
He'd very soon be mad enough, if you had anything to do with him
And that's what I was wanted for, is it
Yes. But you'll find yourself deceived. I won't go near him. We shall see how you get on without me. I won't have nothink to do with him
You never spoke a truer word than that
Go along with you
Why, bless my life
what's amiss? The noise you ladies have been making, Mrs Gamp! Why, these two gentlemen have been standing on the stairs, outside the door, nearly all the time, trying to make you hear, while you were pelting away, hammer and tongs! It'll be the death of the little bullfinch in the shop, that draws his own water. In his fright, he's been a- straining himself all to bits, drawing more water than he could drink in a twelvemonth. He must have thought it was Fire
Oh, Mr Sweedlepipes, which Mr Westlock also, if my eyes do not deceive, and a friend not havin' the pleasure of bein' beknown, wot I have took from Betsey Prig this blessed night, no mortial creetur knows! If she had abuged me, bein' in liquor, which I thought I smelt her wen she come, but could not so believe, not bein' used myself
I could have bore it with a thankful art. But the words she spoke of Mrs Harris, lambs could not forgive. No, Betsey
nor worms forget
You wonder what we want, I daresay
I'll tell you presently, when you have recovered. It's not pressing, for a few minutes or so. How do you find yourself? Better
Have a little
Tea
It ain't tea
Physic of some sort, I suppose
Have a little
On condition
as Betsey never has another stroke of work from me
Certainly not
She shall never help to nurse ME
To think
as she should ever have helped to nuss that friend of yourn, and been so near of hearing things that -- Ah
Yes
That was a narrow escape, Mrs Gamp
Narrer, in-deed
It was only my having the night, and hearin' of him in his wanderins; and her the day, that saved it. Wot would she have said and done, if she had know'd what I know; that perfeejus wretch! Yet, oh good gracious me
that I should hear from that same woman's lips what I have heerd her speak of Mrs Harris
Never mind
You know it is not true
Isn't true
True! Don't I know as that dear woman is expecting of me at this minnit, Mr Westlock, and is a- lookin' out of window down the street, with little Tommy Harris in her arms, as calls me his own Gammy, and truly calls, for bless the mottled little legs of that there precious child (like Canterbury Brawn his own dear father says, which so they are) his own I have been, ever since I found him, Mr Westlock, with his small red worsted shoe a-gurglin' in his throat, where he had put it in his play, a chick, wile they was leavin' of him on the floor a-lookin' for it through the ouse and him a-choakin' sweetly in the parlour! Oh, Betsey Prig, what wickedness you've showed this night, but never shall you darken Sairey's doors agen, you twining serpiant
You were always so kind to her, too
That's the cutting part. That's where it hurts me, Mr Westlock
Chosen to help you with Mr Lewsome
Chosen to help you with Mr Chuffey
Chose once, but chose no more
No pardnership with Betsey Prig agen, sir
No, no
That would never do
I don't know as it ever would have done, sir
Now that the marks
is off that creetur's face, I do not think it ever would have done. There are reagions in families for keeping things a secret, Mr Westlock, and havin' only them about you as you knows you can repoge in. Who could repoge in Betsey Prig, arter her words of Mrs Harris, setting in that chair afore my eyes
Quite true
quite. I hope you have time to find another assistant, Mrs Gamp
I hope
that you have time to find another assistant
Which short it is, indeed
From nine to ten
and then Mr Chuffey retires into safe keeping, does he
He needs to be kep safe, I do assure you
Other people besides me has had a happy deliverance from Betsey Prig. I little know'd that woman. She'd have let it out
Let HIM out, you mean
Do I
Oh
But I am a-keepin' of you gentlemen, and time is precious
It's a 'appiness to know as one can benefit the poor sweet creetur
I'm sure. It isn't all as can. The torters Betsey Prig inflicts is frightful
What shall we do now
Stay here
Rely upon it
that you shall question this old clerk, though you go as Mrs Harris herself. We know quite enough to carry her our own way now, at all events; thanks to this quarrel, which confirms the old saying that when rogues fall out, honest people get what they want. Let Jonas Chuzzlewit look to himself; and let her sleep as long as she likes. We shall gain our end in good time
And I wouldn't, Tom
I wouldn't have a shadow on her happy face, or an uneasy thought in her gentle heart, for all the wealth and honours of the universe
What has happened, Martin
My dear fellow, what bad news do you bring
Oh, Tom
To hear you feign that interest in anything that happens to me, hurts me even more than your ungenerous dealing
My ungenerous dealing! Martin! My
How could you, Tom, how could you suffer me to thank you so fervently and sincerely for your friendship; and not tell me, like a man, that you had deserted me! Was it true, Tom! Was it honest! Was it worthy of what you used to be -- of what I am sure you used to be -- to tempt me, when you had turned against me, into pouring out my heart! Oh, Tom
I protest, as I must die
that I grieve over the loss of what I thought you; and have no anger in the recollection of my own injuries. It is only at such a time, and after such a discovery, that we know the full measure of our old regard for the subject of it. I swear, little as I showed it -- little as I know I showed it -- that when I had the least consideration for you, Tom, I loved you like a brother
Martin
I don't know what is in your mind, or who has abused it, or by what extraordinary means. But the means are false. There is no truth whatever in the impression under which you labour. It is a delusion from first to last; and I warn you that you will deeply regret the wrong you do me. I can honestly say that I have been true to you, and to myself. You will be very sorry for this. Indeed, you will be very sorry for it, Martin
I AM sorry
I think I never knew what it was to be sorry in my heart, until now
At least
if I had always been what you charge me with being now, and had never had a place in your regard, but had always been despised by you, and had always deserved it, you should tell me in what you have found me to be treacherous; and on what grounds you proceed. I do not intreat you, therefore, to give me that satisfaction as a favour, Martin, but I ask it of you as a right
My own eyes are my witnesses
Am I to believe them
No
Not if they accuse me
Your own words. Your own manner
Am I to believe THEM
No
Not if they accuse me. But they never have accused me. Whoever has perverted them to such a purpose, has wronged me almost as cruelly
as you have done
I came here
and I appeal to your good sister to hear me
Not to her
Pray, do not appeal to her. She will never believe you
I believe it, Tom
No, no
of course not. I said so. Why, tut, tut, tut. What a silly little thing you are
I never meant
to appeal to you against your brother. Do not think me so unmanly and unkind. I merely appealed to you to hear my declaration, that I came here for no purpose of reproach -- I have not one reproach to vent -- but in deep regret. You could not know in what bitterness of regret, unless you knew how often I have thought of Tom; how long in almost hopeless circumstances, I have looked forward to the better estimation of his friendship; and how steadfastly I have believed and trusted in him
Tut, tut
He is mistaken. He is deceived. Why should you mind? He is sure to be set right at last
Heaven bless the day that sets me right
if it could ever come
Amen
And it will
You have chosen for yourself, Tom, and will be relieved by our parting. It is not an angry one. There is no anger on my side
There is none on mine
It is merely what you have brought about, and worked to bring about. I say again, you have chosen for yourself. You have made the choice that might have been expected in most people situated as you are, but which I did not expect in you. For that, perhaps, I should blame my own judgment more than you. There is wealth and favour worth having, on one side; and there is the worthless friendship of an abandoned, struggling fellow, on the other. You were free to make your election, and you made it; and the choice was not difficult. But those who have not the courage to resist such temptations, should have the courage to avow what they have yielded to them; and I DO blame you for this, Tom: that you received me with a show of warmth, encouraged me to be frank and plain-spoken, tempted me to confide in you, and professed that you were able to be mine; when you had sold yourself to others. I do not believe
hear me say it from my heart -- I CANNOT believe, Tom, now that I am standing face to face with you, that it would have been in your nature to do me any serious harm, even though I had not discovered, by chance, in whose employment you were. But I should have encumbered you; I should have led you into more double-dealing; I should have hazarded your retaining the favour for which you have paid so high a price, bartering away your former self; and it is best for both of us that I have found out what you so much desired to keep secret
Be just
be just even in your injustice, Martin. You forget. You have not yet told me what your accusation is
Why should I
You could not know it the better for my dwelling on it, and though it would be really none the worse, it might seem to me to be. No, Tom. Bygones shall be bygones between us. I can take leave of you at this moment, and in this place -- in which you are so amiable and so good -- as heartily, if not as cheerfully, as ever I have done since we first met. All good go with you, Tom!-- I
You leave me so? You can leave me so, can you
I -- you -- you have chosen for yourself, Tom! I -- I hope it was a rash choice
I think it was. I am sure it was! Good- bye
He will be very sorry for this
No, Tom! No, no! Be comforted! Dear Tom
I am quite -- comforted
It will be set right
Such a cruel, bad return
No, no
He believes it. I cannot imagine why. But it will be set right
Don't. Don't
Why do you hide your face, my dear
Oh Tom, dear Tom, I know your secret heart. I have found it out; you couldn't hide the truth from me. Why didn't you tell me? I am sure I could have made you happier, if you had! You love her, Tom, so dearly
In spite of that
you have been so faithful and so good, dear; in spite of that, you have been so true and self- denying, and have struggled with yourself; in spite of that, you have been so gentle, and so kind, and even-tempered, that I have never seen you give a hasty look, or heard you say one irritable word. In spite of all, you have been so cruelly mistaken. Oh Tom, dear Tom, will THIS be set right too! Will it, Tom? Will you always have this sorrow in your breast; you who deserve to be so happy; or is there any hope
I am very glad, my dear, that this has passed between us. Not because it assures me of your tender affection (for I was well assured of that before), but because it relieves my mind of a great weight
My dear girl
with whatever feeling I regard her
I have long ago -- I am sure I may say from the very first -- looked upon it as a dream. As something that might possibly have happened under very different circumstances, but which can never be. Now, tell me. What would you have set right
By her own choice and free consent, my love, she is betrothed to Martin; and was, long before either of them knew of my existence. You would have her betrothed to me
Yes
Yes
but that might be setting it wrong, instead of right. Do you think
that even if she had never seen him, it is very likely she would have fallen in love with Me
Why not, dear Tom
You think of me, Ruth
and it is very natural that you should, as if I were a character in a book; and you make it a sort of poetical justice that I should, by some impossible means or other, come, at last, to marry the person I love. But there is a much higher justice than poetical justice, my dear, and it does not order events upon the same principle. Accordingly, people who read about heroes in books, and choose to make heroes of themselves out of books, consider it a very fine thing to be discontented and gloomy, and misanthropical, and perhaps a little blasphemous, because they cannot have everything ordered for their individual accommodation. Would you like me to become one of that sort of people
No, Tom. But still I know
that this is a sorrow to you in your own better way
My dear
I will repay your affection with the Truth and all the Truth. It is a sorrow to me. I have proved it to be so sometimes, though I have always striven against it. But somebody who is precious to you may die, and you may dream that you are in heaven with the departed spirit, and you may find it a sorrow to wake to the life on earth, which is no harder to be borne than when you fell asleep. It is sorrowful to me to contemplate my dream which I always knew was a dream, even when it first presented itself; but the realities about me are not to blame. They are the same as they were. My sister, my sweet companion, who makes this place so dear, is she less devoted to me, Ruth, than she would have been, if this vision had never troubled me? My old friend John, who might so easily have treated me with coldness and neglect, is he less cordial to me? The world about me, is there less good in that? Are my words to be harsh and my looks to be sour, and is my heart to grow cold, because there has fallen in my way a good and beautiful creature, who but for the selfish regret that I cannot call her my own, would, like all other good and beautiful creatures, make me happier and better! No, my dear sister. No
Remembering all my means of happiness, I hardly dare to call this lurking something a sorrow; but whatever name it may justly bear, I thank Heaven that it renders me more sensible of affection and attachment, and softens me in fifty ways. Not less happy. Not less happy, Ruth
She will open Martin's eyes
and that (which is indeed wrong) will be set right. Nothing will persuade her, I know, that I have betrayed him. It will be set right through her, and he will be very sorry for it. Our secret, Ruth, is our own, and lives and dies with us. I don't believe I ever could have told it you
but how glad I am to think you have found it out
Because
I have been so very careful. It was foolish and unnecessary in me, as I clearly see now, when I am so relieved by her knowing it; but I have been so very careful to conceal it from her. Of course I knew that she was intelligent and quick, and for that reason was more upon my guard; but I was not in the least prepared for this. I am sure her discovery has been sudden too. Dear me
It's a most singular instance of penetration
How she trembled when she began to tell me she knew it
and how her face flushed! But that was natural! Oh, quite natural! That needs no accounting for
No Mr Fips's friend to-day, I suppose
So I'll keep it to myself
I'll keep it to myself
Ah
time was, not long ago either, when that would have set me wondering and expecting. But I have left off now
Thirty-six, thirty-seven, thirty-eight
Now you'll stop. Nobody ever comes past the thirty-eighth stair
You have expected me
a long time
I was told that my employer would arrive soon
but
I know. You were ignorant who he was. It was my desire. I am glad it has been so well observed. I intended to have been with you much sooner. I thought the time had come. I thought I could know no more, and no worse, of him, than I did on that day when I saw you last. But I was wrong
I have lived in his house, Pinch, and had him fawning on me days and weeks and months. You know it. I have suffered him to treat me like his tool and instrument. You know it; you have seen me there. I have undergone ten thousand times as much as I could have endured if I had been the miserable weak old man he took me for. You know it. I have seen him offer love to Mary. You know it; who better -- who better, my true heart! I have had his base soul bare before me, day by day, and have not betrayed myself once. I never could have undergone such torture but for looking forward to this time
Close the door, close the door. He will not be long after me, but may come too soon. The time now drawing on
will make amends for all. I wouldn't have him die or hang himself, for millions of golden pieces! Close the door
He shall be gagged if he speaks, and pinioned if he writes
He is mad enough for that; I'll go through with it
Look here! Do you know of this? Is it found? Do you suspect ME
She went to her good friend, Mrs Todgers
Left there! Alone
Curse you for a fool. Bring candles
Give her up
Come! Give her up to me! Tell me what you have done with her. Quick! I have made no promises on that score. Tell me what you have done with her
You shall not leave me
I am strong enough to cry out to the neighbours, and I will, unless you give her up. Give her up to me
I will know what you have done with her
If you hurt a hair of her head, you shall answer it. Poor thing! Poor thing! Where is she
Why, you old madman
What Bedlam fit has come upon you now
It is enough to make me mad, seeing what I have seen in this house
Where is my dear old master! Where is his only son that I have nursed upon my knee, a child! Where is she, she who was the last; she that I've seen pining day by day, and heard weeping in the dead of night! She was the last, the last of all my friends! Heaven help me, she was the very last
Did you hear me ask for her? Did you hear me send for her? How can I give you up what I haven't got, idiot! Ecod, I'd give her up to you and welcome, if I could; and a precious pair you'd be
If she has come to any harm
mind! I'm old and silly; but I have my memory sometimes; and if she has come to any harm
Devil take you
what harm do you suppose she has come to? I know no more where she is than you do; I wish I did. Wait till she comes home, and see; she can't be long. Will that content you
Mind
Not a hair of her head! not a hair of her head ill-used! I won't bear it. I -- I -- have borne it too long Jonas. I am silent, but I -- I -- I can speak. I -- I -- I can speak
You can speak, can you
So, so, we'll stop your speaking. It's well I knew of this in good time. Prevention is better than cure
Look here! Do you know of this? Is it found? Do you suspect ME
What's that
said the voice of Mrs Gamp, 'though warm, which, bless you, Mr Chuzzlewit, we must expect when cowcumbers is three for twopence. How does Mr Chuffey find his self to-night, sir
Get him to his room
He has been raving to-night -- stark mad. Don't talk while he's here, but come down again
Poor sweet dear
He's all of a tremble
Well he may be
after the mad fit he has had. Get him upstairs
There's my blessed old chick
There's my darlin' Mr Chuffey! Now come up to your own room, sir, and lay down on your bed a bit; for you're a-shakin' all over, as if your precious jints was hung upon wires. That's a good creetur! Come with Sairey
Is she come home
She'll be here directly minit
Come with Sairey, Mr Chuffey. Come with your own Sairey
Mr Chuffey is a-lyin' down
and much good may it do him, Mr Chuzzlewit, which harm it can't and good it may; be joyful
Sit down
and let us get this business done. Where is the other woman
The other person's with him now
That's right
He is not fit to be left to himself. Why, he fastened on me to-night; here, upon my coat; like a savage dog. Old as he is, and feeble as he is usually, I had some trouble to shake him off. You -- Hush!-- It's nothing. You told me the other woman's name. I forget it
I mentioned Betsey Prig
She is to be trusted, is she
That she ain't
nor have I brought her, Mr Chuzzlewit. I've brought another, which engages to give every satigefaction
What is her name
What is her name
Her name
is Harris
Well
You and she have arranged to take care of him, have you
Turn and turn about; one off, one on
which fiddle-strings is weakness to expredge my nerves this night
We shall not quarrel about terms. Let them be the same as they were before. Keep him close, and keep him quiet. He must be restrained. He has got it in his head to-night that my wife's dead, and has been attacking me as if I had killed her. It's -- it's common with mad people to take the worst fancies of those they like best. Isn't it
Keep him close, then, or in one of his fits he'll be doing me a mischief. And don't trust him at any time; for when he seems most rational, he's wildest in his talk. But that you know already. Let me see the other
The t'other person, sir
Aye! Go you to him and send the other. Quick! I'm busy
It is your wishes, Mr Chuzzlewit
to see the t'other person. Is it
Let no one leave the house
This man is my brother's son. Ill-met, ill-trained, ill-begotten. If he moves from the spot on which he stands, or speaks a word above his breath to any person here, open the window, and call for help
What right have you to give such directions in this house
The right of your wrong-doing. Come in there
I know that fellow
He's the greatest liar alive. What's his last tale? Ha, ha! You're rare fellows, too! Why, that uncle of mine is childish; he's even a greater child than his brother, my father, was, in his old age; or than Chuffey is. What the devil do you mean
by coming here, and bringing two idiots and a knave with you to take my house by storm? Hallo, there! Open the door! Turn these strangers out
I tell you what
if it wasn't for your name, I'd drag you through the streets of my own accord, and single-handed I would! Ah, I would! Don't try and look bold at me. You can't do it! Now go on, sir
Bring the murderin' wagabond upon his knees! If he wants noise, he shall have enough of it; for as sure as he's a shiverin' from head to foot I'll raise a uproar at this winder that shall bring half London in. Go on, sir! Let him try me once, and see whether I'm a man of my word or not
This is the man
Is it
You need do no more than look at him to be sure of that, or of the truth of what I have said
He is my witness
Oh, brother
Oh, brother, brother! Were we strangers half our lives that you might breed a wretch like this, and I make life a desert by withering every flower that grew about me! Is it the natural end of your precepts and mine, that this should be the creature of your rearing, training, teaching, hoarding, striving for; and I the means of bringing him to punishment, when nothing can repair the wasted past
But the accursed harvest of our mistaken lives shall be trodden down. It is not too late for that. You are confronted with this man, you monster there; not to be spared, but to be dealt with justly. Hear what he says! Reply, be silent, contradict, repeat, defy, do what you please. My course will be the same. Go on! And you
for the love of your old friend, speak out, good fellow
I have been silent for his love
He urged me to it. He made me promise it upon his dying bed. I never would have spoken, but for your finding out so much. I have thought about it ever since; I couldn't help that; and sometimes I have had it all before me in a dream; but in the day-time, not in sleep. Is there such a kind of dream
Ah, aye
He often spoke to me like that. We were at school together, he and I. I couldn't turn against his son, you know -- his only son, Mr Chuzzlewit
I would to Heaven you had been his son
You speak so like my dear old master
that I almost think I hear him. I can hear you quite as well as I used to hear him. It makes me young again. He never spoke unkindly to me, and I always understood him. I could always see him too, though my sight was dim. Well, well! He's dead, he's dead. He was very good to me, my dear old master
I couldn't turn against his only son, you know
He has nearly driven me to do it sometimes; he very nearly did tonight. Ah
Where is she? She's not come home
Do you mean his wife
Yes
I have removed her. She is in my care, and will be spared the present knowledge of what is passing here. She has known misery enough, without that addition
No, no, no! you're wrong; you're wrong -- all wrong together! Have patience, for the truth is only known to me
How can that be
after what you have heard? Besides, you said just now, above-stairs, when I told you of the accusation against him, that you knew he was his father's murderer
Aye, yes! and so he was
But not as you suppose -- not as you suppose. Stay! Give me a moment's time. I have it all here -- all here! It was foul, foul, cruel, bad; but not as you suppose. Stay, stay
Yes
yes! That's how it was. It's all upon me now. He -- he got up from his bed before he died, to be sure, to say that he forgave him; and he came down with me into this room; and when he saw him -- his only son, the son he loved -- his speech forsook him; he had no speech for what he knew -- and no one understood him except me. But I did -- I did
He bought the stuff
he bought the stuff, no doubt, as you have heard, and brought it home. He mixed the stuff -- look at him!-- with some sweetmeat in a jar, exactly as the medicine for his father's cough was mixed, and put it in a drawer; in that drawer yonder in the desk; he knows which drawer I mean! He kept it there locked up. But his courage failed him or his heart was touched -- my God! I hope it was his heart! He was his only son!-- and he did not put it in the usual place, where my old master would have taken it twenty times a day
I know it every word now
Every word! He put it in that drawer, as I have said. He went so often there, and was so secret, that his father took notice of it; and when he was out, had it opened. We were there together, and we found the mixture -- Mr Chuzzlewit and I. He took it into his possession, and made light of it at the time; but in the night he came to my bedside, weeping, and told me that his own son had it in his mind to poison him. "Oh, Chuff," he said, "oh, dear old Chuff! a voice came into my room to-night, and told me that this crime began with me. It began when I taught him to be too covetous of what I have to leave, and made the expectation of it his great business!" Those were his words; aye, they are his very words! If he was a hard man now and then, it was for his only son. He loved his only son, and he was always good to me
He shall not weary for my death, Chuff;" that was what he said next
that was what he said next, crying like a little child: "He shall not weary for my death, Chuff. He shall have it now; he shall marry where he has a fancy, Chuff, although it don't please me; and you and I will go away and live upon a little. I always loved him; perhaps he'll love me then. It's a dreadful thing to have my own child thirsting for my death. But I might have known it. I have sown, and I must reap. He shall believe that I am taking this; and when I see that he is sorry, and has all he wants, I'll tell him that I found it out, and I'll forgive him. He'll make a better man of his own son, and be a better man himself, perhaps, Chuff
My dear old master made believe next day
that he had opened the drawer by mistake with a key from the bunch, which happened to fit it (we had one made and hung upon it); and that he had been surprised to find his fresh supply of cough medicine in such a place, but supposed it had been put there in a hurry when the drawer stood open. We burnt it; but his son believed that he was taking it -- he knows he did. Once Mr Chuzzlewit, to try him, took heart to say it had a strange taste; and he got up directly, and went out
Mr Chuzzlewit wrote to her father; I mean the father of the poor thing who's his wife
and got him to come up, intending to hasten on the marriage. But his mind, like mine, went a little wrong through grief, and then his heart broke. He sank and altered from the time when he came to me in the night; and never held up his head again. It was only a few days, but he had never changed so much in twice the years. "Spare him, Chuff!" he said, before he died. They were the only words he could speak. "Spare him, Chuff!" I promised him I would. I've tried to do it. He's his only son
Well
Are you satisfied? or have you any more of your plots to broach? Why that fellow, Lewsome, can invent 'em for you by the score. Is this all? Have you nothing else
Whether you are what you seemed to be at Pecksniff's, or are something else and a mountebank, I don't know and I don't care
but I don't want you here. You were here so often when your brother was alive, and were always so fond of him (your dear, dear brother, and you would have been cuffing one another before this, ecod!), that I am not surprised at your being attached to the place; but the place is not attached to you, and you can't leave it too soon, though you may leave it too late. And for my wife, old man, send her home straight, or it will be the worse for her. Ha, ha! You carry it with a high hand, too! But it isn't hanging yet for a man to keep a penn'orth of poison for his own purposes, and have it taken from him by two old crazy jolter-heads who go and act a play about it. Ha, ha! Do you see the door
My good friend
This is no place for you to remain in. Come with me
Just his old way
I almost believe it's Mr Chuzzlewit alive again. Yes! Take me with you! Stay, though, stay
For what
I can't leave her, poor thing
She has been very good to me. I can't leave her, Mr Chuzzlewit. Thank you kindly. I'll remain here. I haven't long to remain; it's no great matter
The mercy as it is
as sech a dear, good, reverend creetur never got into the clutches of Betsey Prig, which but for me he would have done, undoubted; facts bein' stubborn and not easy drove
You heard me speak to you just now, old man
I'll have no more tampering with my people, man or woman. Do you see the door
Do YOU see the door
Look at it
That is the man
By the window
Murder
Let no one interfere
What terrible history is this
Ask HIM
You're his friend, sir. He can tell you, if he will. He knows more of it than I do, though I know much
How do you know much
I have not been watching him so long for nothing
I never watched a man so close as I have watched him
I am not his friend, although I have the honour to be his relative
You may speak to me. Where have you watched, and what have you seen
I have watched in many places
night and day. I have watched him lately, almost without rest or relief
I little thought to what my watching was to lead. As little as he did when he slipped out in the night, dressed in those clothes which he afterwards sunk in a bundle at London Bridge
Steady, kinsman
Don't be violent
Whom do you call kinsman
You
among others
Aye
You may deny your nephews till you die; but Chevy Slyme is Chevy Slyme still, all the world over. Perhaps even you may feel it some disgrace to your own blood to be employed in this way. I'm to be bought off
At every turn
Self, self, self. Every one among them for himself
You had better save one or two among them the trouble then and be for them as well as YOURself
Look here at me! Can you see the man of your family who has more talent in his little finger than all the rest in their united brains, dressed as a police officer without being ashamed? I took up with this trade on purpose to shame you. I didn't think I should have to make a capture in the family, though
If your debauchery, and that of your chosen friends, has really brought you to this level
keep it. You are living honestly, I hope, and that's something
Don't be hard upon my chosen friends
for they were sometimes your chosen friends too. Don't say you never employed my friend Tigg, for I know better. We quarrelled upon it
I hired the fellow
and I paid him
It's well you paid him
for it would be too late to do so now. He has given his receipt in full; or had it forced from him rather
I have always expected that he and I would be brought together again in the course of business
but I thought he would be wanted for some swindling job; it never entered my head that I should hold a warrant for the apprehension of his murderer
HIS murderer
His or Mr Montague's
They are the same, I am told. I accuse him yonder of the murder of Mr Montague, who was found last night, killed, in a wood. You will ask me why I accuse him as you have already asked me how I know so much. I'll tell you. It can't remain a secret long
I told you I had watched him
I was instructed to do so by Mr Montague, in whose employment I have been for some time. We had our suspicions of him; and you know what they pointed at, for you have been discussing it since we have been waiting here, outside the room. If you care to hear, now it's all over, in what our suspicions began, I'll tell you plainly: in a quarrel (it first came to our ears through a hint of his own) between him and another office in which his father's life was insured, and which had so much doubt and distrust upon the subject, that he compounded with them, and took half the money; and was glad to do it. Bit by bit, I ferreted out more circumstances against him, and not a few. It required a little patience, but it's my calling. I found the nurse -- here she is to confirm me; I found the doctor, I found the undertaker, I found the undertaker's man. I found out how the old gentleman there, Mr Chuffey, had behaved at the funeral; and I found out what this man
had talked about in his fever. I found out how he conducted himself before his father's death, and how since and how at the time; and writing it all down, and putting it carefully together, made case enough for Mr Montague to tax him with the crime, which (as he himself believed until to-night) he had committed. I was by when this was done. You see him now. He is only worse than he was then
From that garret-window opposite
I have watched this house and him for days and nights. From that garret-window opposite I saw him return home, alone, from a journey on which he had set out with Mr Montague. That was my token that Mr Montague's end was gained; and I might rest easy on my watch, though I was not to leave it until he dismissed me. But, standing at the door opposite, after dark that same night, I saw a countryman steal out of this house, by a side- door in the court, who had never entered it. I knew his walk, and that it was himself, disguised. I followed him immediately. I lost him on the western road, still travelling westward
I could not comprehend what this meant
but, having seen so much, I resolved to see it out, and through. And I did. Learning, on inquiry at his house from his wife, that he was supposed to be sleeping in the room from which I had seen him go out, and that he had given strict orders not to be disturbed, I knew that he was coming back; and for his coming back I watched. I kept my watch in the street -- in doorways, and such places -- all that night; at the same window, all next day; and when night came on again, in the street once more. For I knew he would come back, as he had gone out, when this part of the town was empty. He did. Early in the morning, the same countryman came creeping, creeping, creeping home
Look sharp
This is quite irregular, Mr Nadgett
I kept at the window all day
I think I never closed my eyes. At night, I saw him come out with a bundle. I followed him again. He went down the steps at London Bridge, and sunk it in the river. I now began to entertain some serious fears, and made a communication to the Police, which caused that bundle to be
To be fished up
Be alive, Mr Nadgett
It contained the dress I had seen him wear
stained with clay, and spotted with blood. Information of the murder was received in town last night. The wearer of that dress is already known to have been seen near the place; to have been lurking in that neighbourhood; and to have alighted from a coach coming from that part of the country, at a time exactly tallying with the very minute when I saw him returning home. The warrant has been out, and these officers have been with me, some hours. We chose our time; and seeing you come in, and seeing this person at the window
Beckoned to him
to open the door; which he did with a deal of pleasure
That's all at present
but there is plenty more to come. You asked me for the facts, so far I have related them, and need not detain these gentlemen any longer. Are you ready, Mr Slyme
And something more
If you walk round to the office, we shall be there as soon as you. Tom! Get a coach
Ha
Upon my soul! As insensible of being disgraced by having such a nephew as myself, in such a situation, as he was of my being an honour and a credit to the family! That's the return I get for having humbled my spirit -- such a spirit as mine -- to earn a livelihood, is it
And such a livelihood too! When there are hundreds of men, not fit to hold a candle to me, rolling in carriages and living on their fortunes. Upon my soul it's a nice world
Eh
Humph
I couldn't hope to disgrace him into anything when you have shot so far ahead of me though. I forgot that
Jack
Hallo
Go down to the door, ready for the coach. Call out when it comes. I'd rather have you there. Now then
What's the matter
Stop a bit
It's not so easy when your wrists are tight together. Now then! Up! What is it
Put your hand in my pocket. Here! The breast pocket, on the left
There's a hundred pound in it
I can't. I daren't. I couldn't if I dared. Those fellows below
Escape's impossible
I know it. One hundred pound for only five minutes in the next room
What to do
I have it about me
How should you know of it? How could you know? A hundred pound for only five minutes in the next room! The time's passing. Speak
It would be more -- more creditable to the family
I wish you hadn't told me half so much. Less would have served your purpose. You might have kept it to yourself
A hundred pound for only five minutes in the next room! Speak
Stop
I don't know about this. Yet it must end so at last. Are you guilty
Yes
Are the proofs as they were told just now
Yes
Will you -- will you engage to say a -- a Prayer, now, or something of that sort
He's getting a few things together
Keep your eye upon the back, one of you, for form's sake
Where is he
Close at hand. I see him
He's booked
Through
I say! He's taking his time
I allowed him five minutes
Time's more than up, though. I'll bring him down
You're too soon
I've not had time. I have not been able to do it. I -- five minutes more -- two minutes more!-- only one
Stop the coach! He has poisoned himself! The smell comes from this bottle in his hand
You are punctual
My wishes, sir
is to love, honour, and obey. The clock's a-striking now, sir
Come in
Thank'ee, sir
what could I do for you first, sir
You gave my message to Martin
I did, sir
and you never see a gentleman more surprised in all your born days than he was
What more did you tell him
Why, sir
I should have liked to tell him a deal more, but not being able, sir, I didn't tell it him
You told him all you knew
But it was precious little, sir
There was very little respectin' you that I was able to tell him, sir. I only mentioned my opinion that Mr Pecksniff would find himself deceived, sir, and that you would find yourself deceived, and that he would find himself deceived, sir
In what
Meaning him, sir
Meaning both him and me
Well, sir
In your old opinions of each other. As to him, sir, and his opinions, I know he's a altered man. I know it. I know'd it long afore he spoke to you t'other day, and I must say it. Nobody don't know half as much of him as I do. Nobody can't. There was always a deal of good in him, but a little of it got crusted over, somehow. I can't say who rolled the paste of that 'ere crust myself, but
Go on
Why do you stop
But it -- well! I beg your pardon, but I think it may have been you, sir. Unintentional I think it may have been you. I don't believe that neither of you gave the other quite a fair chance. There! Now I've got rid on it
I can't go a-carryin' it about in my own mind, bustin' myself with it; yesterday was quite long enough. It's out now. I can't help it. I'm sorry for it. Don't wisit on him, sir, that's all
So you think
that his old faults are, in some degree, of my creation, do you
Well, sir
I'm werry sorry, but I can't unsay it. It's hardly fair of you, sir, to make a ignorant man conwict himself in this way, but I DO think so. I am as respectful disposed to you, sir, as a man can be; but I DO think so
Yet you are an ignorant man, you say
Werry much so
And I a learned, well-instructed man, you think
Likewise wery much so
You have left him this morning
Come straight from him now, sir
For what does he suppose
He don't know what to suppose, sir, no more than myself. I told him jest wot passed yesterday, sir, and that you had said to me, "Can you be here by seven in the morning?" and that you had said to him, through me, "Can you be here by ten in the morning?" and that I had said "Yes" to both. That's all, sir
Perhaps
he may think you are going to desert him, and to serve me
I have served him in that sort of way, sir
and we have been that sort of companions in misfortune, that my opinion is, he don't believe a word on it. No more than you do, sir
Will you help me to dress, and get me some breakfast from the hotel
With pleasure, sir
And by-and-bye
remaining in the room, as I wish you to do, will you attend to the door yonder -- give admission to visitors, I mean, when they knock
Certainly, sir
You will not find it necessary to express surprise at their appearance
Oh dear no, sir
not at all
Set the door open, Mark
and come here
Where is my venerable friend
My venerable friend is well
Quite well
Oh, vermin
Oh, bloodsuckers! Is it not enough that you have embittered the existence of an individual wholly unparalleled in the biographical records of amiable persons, but must you now, even now, when he has made his election, and reposed his trust in a Numble, but at least sincere and disinterested relative; must you now, vermin and swarmers (I regret to make use of these strong expressions, my dear sir, but there are times when honest indignation will not be controlled), must you now, vermin and swarmers (for I WILL repeat it), take advantage of his unprotected state, assemble round him from all quarters, as wolves and vultures, and other animals of the feathered tribe assemble round -- I will not say round carrion or a carcass, for Mr Chuzzlewit is quite the contrary -- but round their prey; their prey; to rifle and despoil; gorging their voracious maws, and staining their offensive beaks, with every description of carnivorous enjoyment
Horde of unnatural plunderers and robbers
leave him! leave him, I say! Begone! Abscond! You had better be off! Wander over the face of the earth, young sirs, like vagabonds as you are, and do not presume to remain in a spot which is hallowed by the grey hairs of the patriarchal gentleman to whose tottering limbs I have the honour to act as an unworthy, but I hope an unassuming, prop and staff. And you, my tender sir
how could you ever leave me, though even for this short period! You have absented yourself, I do not doubt, upon some act of kindness to me; bless you for it; but you must not do it; you must not be so venturesome. I should really be angry with you if I could, my friend
Drag him away! Take him out of my reach
or I can't help it. The strong restraint I have put upon my hands has been enough to palsy them. I am not master of myself while he is within their range. Drag him away
Hear me, rascal
I have summoned you here to witness your own work. I have summoned you here to witness it, because I know it will be gall and wormwood to you! I have summoned you here to witness it, because I know the sight of everybody here must be a dagger in your mean, false heart! What! do you know me as I am, at last
Look there
Look there! And then -- come hither, my dear Martin -- look here! here! here
The passion I felt, Martin, when I dared not do this
was in the blow I struck just now. Why did we ever part! How could we ever part! How could you ever fly from me to him
The fault was mine no less than yours. Mark has told me so today, and I have known it long; though not so long as I might have done. Mary, my love, come here
The curse of our house
has been the love of self; has ever been the love of self. How often have I said so, when I never knew that I had wrought it upon others
You all know how I bred this orphan up, to tend me. None of you can know by what degrees I have come to regard her as a daughter; for she has won upon me, by her self-forgetfulness, her tenderness, her patience, all the goodness of her nature, when Heaven is her witness that I took but little pains to draw it forth. It blossomed without cultivation, and it ripened without heat. I cannot find it in my heart to say that I am sorry for it now, or yonder fellow might be holding up his head
There is a kind of selfishness
I have learned it in my own experience of my own breast -- which is constantly upon the watch for selfishness in others; and holding others at a distance, by suspicions and distrusts, wonders why they don't approach, and don't confide, and calls that selfishness in them. Thus I once doubted those about me -- not without reason in the beginning -- and thus I once doubted you, Martin
Not without reason
either
Listen, hypocrite! Listen, smooth-tongued, servile, crawling knave
Listen, you shallow dog. What! When I was seeking him, you had already spread your nets; you were already fishing for him, were ye? When I lay ill in this good woman's house and your meek spirit pleaded for my grandson, you had already caught him, had ye? Counting on the restoration of the love you knew I bore him, you designed him for one of your two daughters did ye? Or failing that, you traded in him as a speculation which at any rate should blind me with the lustre of your charity, and found a claim upon me! Why, even then I knew you, and I told you so. Did I tell you that I knew you, even then
I am not angry, sir
I can bear a great deal from you. I will never contradict you, Mr Chuzzlewit
Observe
I put myself in that man's hands on terms as mean and base, and as degrading to himself, as I could render them in words. I stated them at length to him, before his own children, syllable by syllable, as coarsely as I could, and with as much offence, and with as plain an exposition of my contempt, as words -- not looks and manner merely -- could convey. If I had only called the angry blood into his face, I would have wavered in my purpose. If I had only stung him into being a man for a minute I would have abandoned it. If he had offered me one word of remonstrance, in favour of the grandson whom he supposed I had disinherited; if he had pleaded with me, though never so faintly, against my appeal to him to abandon him to misery and cast him from his house; I think I could have borne with him for ever afterwards. But not a word, not a word. Pandering to the worst of human passions was the office of his nature; and faithfully he did his work
I am not angry
I am hurt, Mr Chuzzlewit; wounded in my feelings; but I am not angry, my good sir
Once resolved to try him, I was resolute to pursue the trial to the end; but while I was bent on fathoming the depth of his duplicity, I made a sacred compact with myself that I would give him credit on the other side for any latent spark of goodness, honour, forbearance -- any virtue -- that might glimmer in him. For first to last there has been no such thing. Not once. He cannot say I have not given him opportunity. He cannot say I have ever led him on. He cannot say I have not left him freely to himself in all things; or that I have not been a passive instrument in his hands, which he might have used for good as easily as evil. Or if he can, he Lies! And that's his nature, too
Mr Chuzzlewit
I am not angry, sir. I cannot be angry with you. But did you never, my dear sir, express a desire that the unnatural young man who by his wicked arts has estranged your good opinion from me, for the time being; only for the time being; that your grandson, Mr Chuzzlewit, should be dismissed my house? Recollect yourself, my Christian friend
I have said so, have I not
I could not tell how far your specious hypocrisy had deceived him, knave; and knew no better way of opening his eyes than by presenting you before him in your own servile character. Yes. I did express that desire. And you leaped to meet it; and you met it; and turning in an instant on the hand you had licked and beslavered, as only such hounds can, you strengthened, and confirmed, and justified me in my scheme
The wretched man who has been murdered
then passing by the name of
Tigg
Of Tigg; brought begging messages to me on behalf of a friend of his, and an unworthy relative of mine; and finding him a man well enough suited to my purpose, I employed him to glean some news of you, Martin, for me. It was from him I learned that you had taken up your abode with yonder fellow. It was he, who meeting you here in town, one evening -- you remember where
At the pawnbroker's shop
Yes; watched you to your lodging, and enabled me to send you a bank-note
I little thought
that it had come from you; I little thought that you were interested in my fate. If I had
If you had
you would have shown less knowledge of me as I seemed to be, and as I really was. I hoped to bring you back, Martin, penitent and humbled. I hoped to distress you into coming back to me. Much as I loved you, I had that to acknowledge which I could not reconcile it to myself to avow, then, unless you made submission to me first. Thus it was I lost you. If I have had, indirectly, any act or part in the fate of that unhappy man, by putting means, however small, within his reach, Heaven forgive me! I might have known, perhaps, that he would misuse money; that it was ill-bestowed upon him; and that sown by his hands it could engender mischief only. But I never thought of him at that time as having the disposition or ability to be a serious impostor, or otherwise than as a thoughtless, idle-humoured, dissipated spendthrift, sinning more against himself than others, and frequenting low haunts and indulging vicious tastes, to his own ruin only
Beggin' your pardon, sir
if I may make so bold as say so, my opinion is, as you was quite correct, and that he turned out perfectly nat'ral for all that. There's surprisin' number of men sir, who as long as they've only got their own shoes and stockings to depend upon, will walk down hill, along the gutters quiet enough and by themselves, and not do much harm. But set any on 'em up with a coach and horses, sir; and it's wonderful what a knowledge of drivin' he'll show, and how he'll fill his wehicle with passengers, and start off in the middle of the road, neck or nothing, to the Devil! Bless your heart, sir, there's ever so many Tiggs a-passin' this here Temple-gate any hour in the day, that only want a chance to turn out full-blown Montagues every one
Your ignorance, as you call it, Mark
is wiser than some men's enlightenment, and mine among them. You are right; not for the first time to-day. Now hear me out, my dears. And hear me, you, who, if what I have been told be accurately stated, are Bankrupt in pocket no less than in good name! And when you have heard me, leave this place, and poison my sight no more
The penance I have done in this house
has earned this reflection with it constantly, above all others. That if it had pleased Heaven to visit such infirmity on my old age as really had reduced me to the state in which I feigned to be, I should have brought its misery upon myself. Oh, you whose wealth, like mine, has been a source of continual unhappiness, leading you to distrust the nearest and dearest, and to dig yourself a living grave of suspicion and reserve; take heed that, having cast off all whom you might have bound to you, and tenderly, you do not become in your decay the instrument of such a man as this, and waken in another world to the knowledge of such wrong as would embitter Heaven itself, if wrong or you could ever reach it
For which
if the bending of my finger would remove a halter from your neck, I wouldn't bend it
Martin
your rival has not been a dangerous one, but Mrs Lupin here has played duenna for some weeks; not so much to watch your love as to watch her lover. For that Ghoul
would have crawled into her daily walks otherwise, and polluted the fresh air. What's this? Her hand is trembling strangely. See if you can hold it
Oh, Tom! Dear Tom! I saw you, accidentally, coming here. Forgive me
Forgive
I'll never forgive you as long as I live, Martin, if you say another syllable about it. Joy to you both! Joy, my dear fellow, fifty thousand times
I beg your pardon, sir
I was
Yes, sir. It's a pretty name, sir
A very good name
It seems a'most a pity to change such a name into Tapley. Don't it, sir
That depends upon the lady. What is HER opinion
Why, sir
her opinion is as the name ain't a change for the better, but the indiwidual may be, and, therefore, if nobody ain't acquainted with no jest cause or impediment, et cetrer, the Blue Dragon will be con-werted into the Jolly Tapley. A sign of my own inwention, sir. Wery new, conwivial, and expressive
Mr Chuzzlewit, sir! you have partaken of my hospitality
And paid for it
Thank you. That savours
of your old familiar frankness. You have paid for it. I was about to make the remark. You have deceived me, sir. Thank you again. I am glad of it. To see you in the possession of your health and faculties on any terms, is, in itself, a sufficient recompense. To have been deceived implies a trusting nature. Mine is a trusting nature. I am thankful for it. I would rather have a trusting nature, do you know, sir, than a doubting one
There is hardly any person present, Mr Chuzzlewit
by whom I have not been deceived. I have forgiven those persons on the spot. That was my duty; and, of course, I have done it. Whether it was worthy of you to partake of my hospitality, and to act the part you did act in my house, that, sir, is a question which I leave to your own conscience. And your conscience does not acquit you. No, sir, no
I have been struck this day
with a walking stick (which I have every reason to believe has knobs upon it), on that delicate and exquisite portion of the human anatomy -- the brain. Several blows have been inflicted, sir, without a walking-stick, upon that tenderer portion of my frame -- my heart. You have mentioned, sir, my being bankrupt in my purse. Yes, sir, I am. By an unfortunate speculation, combined with treachery, I find myself reduced to poverty; at a time, sir, when the child of my bosom is widowed, and affliction and disgrace are in my family
Cheer up, my boy
I know the human mind, although I trust it. That is my weakness. Do I not know, sir
that my misfortunes bring this treatment on me? Do I not know, sir, that but for them I never should have heard what I have heard to-day? Do I not know that in the silence and the solitude of night, a little voice will whisper in your ear, Mr Chuzzlewit, "This was not well. This was not well, sir!" Think of this, sir (if you will have the goodness), remote from the impulses of passion, and apart from the specialities, if I may use that strong remark, of prejudice. And if you ever contemplate the silent tomb, sir, which you will excuse me for entertaining some doubt of your doing, after the conduct into which you have allowed yourself to be betrayed this day; if you ever contemplate the silent tomb sir, think of me. If you find yourself approaching to the silent tomb, sir, think of me. If you should wish to have anything inscribed upon your silent tomb, sir, let it be, that I -- ah, my remorseful sir! that I -- the humble individual who has now the honour of reproaching you, forgave you. That I forgave you when my injuries were fresh, and when my bosom was newly wrung. It may be bitterness to you to hear it now, sir, but you will live to seek a consolation in it. May you find a consolation in it when you want it, sir! Good morning
Is there anybody here that knows him
Is there anybody here that knows him? Oh, my stars, is there anybody here that knows him
IS there anybody here that knows him
If your brains is not turned topjy turjey, Mr Sweedlepipes
hold that there nige of yourn, I beg you, sir
Excuge the weakness of the man
and well I might expect it, as I should have know'd, and wishin' he was drownded in the Thames afore I had brought him here, which not a blessed hour ago he nearly shaved the noge off from the father of as lovely a family as ever, Mr Chuzzlewit, was born three sets of twins, and would have done it, only he see it a-goin' in the glass, and dodged the rager. And never, Mr Sweedlepipes, I do assure you, sir, did I so well know what a misfortun it was to be acquainted with you, as now I do, which so I say, sir, and I don't deceive you
I ask your pardon, ladies and gentlemen all
and yours too, Mrs Gamp. But -- but
IS there anybody here that knows him
Look at him
Here he is! That'll soon wear off, and then he'll be all right again. He's no more dead than I am. He's all alive and hearty. Aint you, Bailey
R -- r -- reether so, Poll
Look here
When I steady him he comes all right. There! He's all right now. Nothing's the matter with him now, except that he's a little shook and rather giddy; is there, Bailey
R -- r -- reether shook, Poll -- reether so
What, my lovely Sairey! There you air
What a boy he is
Which, Mr Chuzzlewit
is well beknown to Mrs Harris as has one sweet infant (though she DO not wish it known) in her own family by the mother's side, kep in spirits in a bottle; and that sweet babe she see at Greenwich Fair, a-travelling in company with a pink-eyed lady, Prooshan dwarf, and livin' skelinton, which judge her feelings when the barrel organ played, and she was showed her own dear sister's child, the same not bein' expected from the outside picter, where it was painted quite contrairy in a livin' state, a many sizes larger, and performing beautiful upon the Arp, which never did that dear child know or do; since breathe it never did, to speak on in this wale! And Mrs Harris, Mr Chuzzlewit, has knowed me many year, and can give you information that the lady which is widdered can't do better and may do worse, than let me wait upon her, which I hope to do. Permittin' the sweet faces as I see afore me
Oh
Is that your business? Was this good person paid for the trouble we gave her
I paid her, sir
liberal
The young man's words is true
and thank you kindly
Then here we will close our acquaintance, Mrs Gamp
And Mr Sweedlepipe -- is that your name
That is my name, sir
Mr Sweedlepipe, take as much care of your lady-lodger as you can, and give her a word or two of good advice now and then. Such
as hinting at the expediency of a little less liquor, and a little more humanity, and a little less regard for herself, and a little more regard for her patients, and perhaps a trifle of additional honesty. Or when Mrs Gamp gets into trouble, Mr Sweedlepipe, it had better not be at a time when I am near enough to the Old Bailey to volunteer myself as a witness to her character. Endeavour to impress that upon her at your leisure, if you please
Less liquor!-- Sairey Gamp -- Bottle on the chimney-piece, and let me put my lips to it, when I am so dispoged
We will all dine here together
and as you and Mary have enough to talk of, Martin, you shall keep house for us until the afternoon, with Mr and Mrs Tapley. I must see your lodgings in the meanwhile, Tom
Thank you, my love
But I am afraid I must take Tom a little out of the way, on business. Suppose you go on first, my dear
But not alone
not alone. Mr Westlock, I dare say, will escort you
You are sure you have no engagement
A pleasant place indeed
So shady
Martin will be married very soon now, I suppose
Ye -- yes
oh, yes
Rather say already pleased
I have scarcely seen her. I had no care to see her. I had no eyes for HER, this morning
Dear Ruth! Sweet Ruth! If I had loved you less, I could have told you that I loved you, long ago. I have loved you from the first. There never was a creature in the world more truly loved than you, dear Ruth, by me
My dear love! If this is -- I almost dare to hope it is, now -- not painful or distressing to you, you make me happier than I can tell, or you imagine. Darling Ruth! My own good, gentle, winning Ruth! I hope I know the value of your heart, I hope I know the worth of your angel nature. Let me try and show you that I do; and you will make me happier, Ruth
Not happier
than you make me. No one can be happier, John, than you make me
I hope he will be glad to hear of it
I am never to leave him, AM I, dear? I could never leave Tom. I am sure you know that
Do you think I would ask you
I am sure you never would
And I will swear it, Ruth, my darling, if you please. Leave Tom! That would be a strange beginning. Leave Tom, dear! If Tom and we be not inseparable, and Tom (God bless him) have not all honour and all love in our home, my little wife, may that home never be! And that's a strong oath, Ruth
Tom will be so happy, and so proud, and glad
But so surprised! I am sure he had never thought of such a thing
Ah! dear Tom
I suppose I ought to tell you everything now. I should have no secrets from you. Should I, John, love
What shall I do, dear John! I can't bear that he should hear it from any one but me, and I could not tell him, unless we were alone
Do, my love
whatever is natural to you on the impulse of the moment, and I am sure it will be right
Bless me, Tom! My dearest brother
John
John
Dear Tom
give me your hand. We are brothers, Tom
Don't speak to me, John. Heaven is very good to us. I
I am glad you chose to-day
I thought you would. I hoped Tom and I lingered behind a discreet time. It's so long since I had any practical knowledge of these subjects, that I have been anxious, I assure you
Your knowledge is still pretty accurate, sir
if it led you to foresee what would happen to-day
Why, I am not sure, Mr Westlock
that any great spirit of prophecy was needed, after seeing you and Ruth together. Come hither, pretty one. See what Tom and I purchased this morning, while you were dealing in exchange with that young merchant there
See here
what a beautiful necklace. Ah! How it glitters! Earrings, too, and bracelets, and a zone for your waist. This set is yours, and Mary has another like it. Tom couldn't understand why I wanted two. What a short-sighted Tom! Earrings and bracelets, and a zone for your waist! Ah! Beautiful! Let us see how brave they look. Ask Mr Westlock to clasp them on
The set of jewels and the wearer are so well matched
that I don't know which becomes the other most. Mr Westlock could tell me, I have no doubt, but I'll not ask him, for he is bribed. Health to wear them, my dear, and happiness to make you forgetful of them, except as a remembrance from a loving friend
I must play the part of a father here, Tom, also. There are not many fathers who marry two such daughters on the same day; but we will overlook the improbability for the gratification of an old man's fancy. I may claim that much indulgence
for I have gratified few fancies enough in my life tending to the happiness of others, Heaven knows
Where is he
How are you
They like to be by themselves, of course
and I came away so naturally, that I have no doubt they are expecting me, every moment, to return. That's capital
May I come in
Oh, surely
Don't leave us, Tom. Don't sit by yourself. We want to make you merry; not melancholy
My dear friend
Brother, Tom. Brother
My dear brother
there is no danger of my being melancholy, how can I be melancholy, when I know that you and Ruth are so blest in each other! I think I can find my tongue tonight, John
But I never can tell you what unutterable joy this day has given me. It would be unjust to you to speak of your having chosen a portionless girl, for I feel that you know her worth; I am sure you know her worth. Nor will it diminish in your estimation, John, which money might
Which money would, Tom
No, no, John
It's mine, it's mine
Yes, indeed, Tom, he will do it. But then he has a right, you know. Because I AM fond of him, Tom
I have told Tom, love, as we agreed, that we are not going to permit him to run away, and that we cannot possibly allow it. The loss of one person, and such a person as Tom, too, out of our small household of three, is not to be endured; and so I have told him. Whether he is considerate, or whether he is only selfish, I don't know. But he needn't be considerate, for he is not the least restraint upon us. Is he, dearest Ruth
You are dressed, I see, for the wedding
It goes against my wishes to have it in progress just now, I assure you, sir
but Miss Pecksniff's mind was set upon it, and it really is time that Miss Pecksniff was married. That cannot be denied, sir
No
assuredly not. Her sister takes no part in the proceedings
Oh, dear no, sir. Poor thing
Since she has known the worst, she has never left my room; the next room
Is she prepared to see me
Quite prepared, sir
Then let us lose no time
I judged you hastily
I fear I judged you cruelly. Let me know that I have your forgiveness
Tom Pinch
has faithfully related to me all that you desired him to convey; at a time when he deemed it very improbable that he would ever have an opportunity of delivering your message. Believe me, that if I ever deal again with an ill-advised and unawakened nature, hiding the strength it thinks its weakness, I will have long and merciful consideration for it
You had for me; even for me
I quite believe it. I said the words you have repeated, when my distress was very sharp and hard to bear; I say them now for others; but I cannot urge them for myself. You spoke to me after you had seen and watched me day by day. There was great consideration in that. You might have spoken, perhaps, more kindly; you might have tried to invite my confidence by greater gentleness; but the end would have been the same
How can I hope
that your interposition would have prevailed with me, when I know how obdurate I was! I never thought at all; dear Mr Chuzzlewit, I never thought at all; I had no thought, no heart, no care to find one; at that time. It has grown out of my trouble. I have felt it in my trouble. I wouldn't recall my trouble such as it is and has been -- and it is light in comparison with trials which hundreds of good people suffer every day, I know -- I wouldn't recall it to-morrow, if I could. It has been my friend, for without it no one could have changed me; nothing could have changed me. Do not mistrust me because of these tears; I cannot help them. I am grateful for it, in my soul. Indeed I am
Indeed she is
I believe it, sir
And so do I
Now, attend to me, my dear. Your late husband's estate, if not wasted by the confession of a large debt to the broken office (which document, being useless to the runaways, has been sent over to England by them; not so much for the sake of the creditors as for the gratification of their dislike to him, whom they suppose to be still living), will be seized upon by law; for it is not exempt, as I learn, from the claims of those who have suffered by the fraud in which he was engaged. Your father's property was all, or nearly all, embarked in the same transaction. If there be any left, it will be seized on, in like manner. There is no home THERE
I couldn't return to him
I could not return to him
I know it
and I am here because I know it. Come with me! From all who are about me, you are certain (I have ascertained it) of a generous welcome. But until your health is re-established, and you are sufficiently composed to bear that welcome, you shall have your abode in any quiet retreat of your own choosing, near London; not so far removed but that this kind-hearted lady may still visit you as often as she pleases. You have suffered much; but you are young, and have a brighter and a better future stretching out before you. Come with me. Your sister is careless of you, I know. She hurries on and publishes her marriage, in a spirit which (to say no more of it) is barely decent, is unsisterly, and bad. Leave the house before her guests arrive. She means to give you pain. Spare her the offence, and come with me
So, young lady
You are to be married to-day
Yes, sir
I am. I -- my dress is rather -- really, Mrs Todgers
Your delicacy
is troubled, I perceive. I am not surprised to find it so. You have chosen the period of your marriage unfortunately
I beg your pardon, Mr Chuzzlewit
but if you have anything to say on that subject, I must beg to refer you to Augustus. You will scarcely think it manly, I hope, to force an argument on me, when Augustus is at all times ready to discuss it with you. I have nothing to do with any deceptions that may have been practiced on my parent
and as I wish to be on good terms with everybody at such a time, I should have been glad if you would have favoured us with your company at breakfast. But I will not ask you as it is; seeing that you have been prepossessed and set against me in another quarter. I hope I have my natural affections for another quarter, and my natural pity for another quarter; but I cannot always submit to be subservient to it, Mr Chuzzlewit. That would be a little too much. I trust I have more respect for myself, as well as for the man who claims me as his Bride
Your sister, meeting -- as I think; not as she says, for she has said nothing about it -- with little consideration from you, is going away with me
I am very happy to find that she has some good fortune at last
I congratulate her, I am sure. I am not surprised that this event should be painful to her -- painful to her -- but I can't help that, Mr Chuzzlewit. It's not my fault
Come, Miss Pecksniff
I should like to see a better parting between you. I should like to see a better parting on your side, in such circumstances. It would make me your friend. You may want a friend one day or other
Every relation of life, Mr Chuzzlewit, begging your pardon; and every friend in life
is now bound up and cemented in Augustus. So long as Augustus is my own, I cannot want a friend. When you speak of friends, sir, I must beg, once for all, to refer you to Augustus. That is my impression of the religious ceremony in which I am so soon to take a part at that altar to which Augustus will conduct me. I bear no malice at any time, much less in a moment of triumph, towards any one; much less towards my sister. On the contrary, I congratulate her. If you didn't hear me say so, I am not to blame. And as I owe it to Augustus, to be punctual on an occasion when he may naturally be supposed to be -- to be impatient -- really, Mrs Todgers!-- I must beg your leave, sir, to retire
Why, Mark
what's the matter
The wonderfulest ewent, sir
A coincidence as never was equalled! I'm blessed if here ain't two old neighbours of ourn, sir
What neighbours
Where
I was a-walkin' up and down not five yards from this spot
and they come upon me like their own ghosts, as I thought they was! It's the wonderfulest ewent that ever happened. Bring a feather, somebody, and knock me down with it
What do you mean
Neighbours, where
Here, sir
Here in the city of London! Here upon these very stones! Here they are, sir! Don't I know 'em? Lord love their welcome faces, don't I know 'em
Neighbours in America! Neighbours in Eden
Neighbours in the swamp, neighbours in the bush, neighbours in the fever. Didn't she nurse us! Didn't he help us! Shouldn't we both have died without 'em! Haven't they come a-strugglin' back, without a single child for their consolation! And talk to me of neighbours
Get up, behind
Get up in the rumble. Come along with me! Go you on the box, Mark. Home! Home
Home
Exactly my opinion, sir. Home for ever! Excuse the liberty, sir, I can't help it. Success to the Jolly Tapley! There's nothin' in the house they shan't have for the askin' for, except a bill. Home to be sure! Hurrah
Let him come
Let him come! He has ever been my rock ahead through life. 'Tis meet he should be there. Ha, ha! Oh, yes! let Jinkins come
Glad to know you, sir
Give you joy
Not arrived, sir
Not yet
Upon my soul
He begins well! Upon my life and honour this young man begins well! But I should very much like to know how it is that every one who comes into contact with this family is guilty of some gross insult to it. Death! Not arrived yet. Not here to receive us
Don't talk to me of Boots, sir
He is bound to come here in his slippers then; he is bound to come here barefoot. Don't offer such a wretched and evasive plea to me on behalf of your friend, as Boots, sir
He is not MY friend
I never saw him
Very well, sir
Then don't talk to me
How do you do, ma'am
I believe you see Mrs Spottletoe, ma'am
Mrs Spottletoe is at least more easily seen than the bridegroom, ma'am
That is, unless he has confined his attentions to any particular part or branch of this family, which would be quite in keeping with its usual proceedings
If you allude to me, sir
Pray
do not allow Augustus, at this awful moment of his life and mine, to be the means of disturbing that harmony which it is ever Augustus's and my wish to maintain. Augustus has not been introduced to any of my relations now present. He preferred not
Why, then, I venture to assert
that the man who aspires to join this family, and "prefers not" to be introduced to its members, is an impertinent Puppy. That is my opinion of HIM
Shameful
You do not know Augustus
indeed you do not know him. Augustus is all mildness and humility. Wait till you see Augustus, and I am sure he will conciliate your affections
The question arises
How long we are to wait. I am not accustomed to wait; that's the fact. And I want to know how long we are expected to wait
Mrs Todgers
Mr Jinkins! I am afraid there must be some mistake. I think Augustus must have gone straight to the Altar
It was a specimen of what she had to expect. It would do her good. It would dispel the romance of the affair
Perhaps he'd come
OFF GRAVESEND. 'CLIPPER SCHOONER, CUPID 

'Wednesday night 

'EVER INJURED MISS PECKSNIFF -- Ere this reaches you, the undersigned will be -- if not a corpse -- on the way to Van Dieman's Land. Send not in pursuit. I never will be taken alive! 

'The burden -- 300 tons per register -- forgive, if in my distraction, I allude to the ship -- on my mind -- has been truly dreadful. Frequently -- when you have sought to soothe my brow with kisses -- has self- destruction flashed across me. Frequently -- incredible as it may seem -- have I abandoned the idea. 

'I love another. She is Another's. Everything appears to be somebody else's. Nothing in the world is mine -- not even my Situation -- which I have forfeited -- by my rash conduct -- in running away. 

'If you ever loved me, hear my last appeal! The last appeal of a miserable and blighted exile. Forward the inclosed -- it is the key of my desk -- to the office -- by hand. Please address to Bobbs and Cholberry -- I mean to Chobbs and Bolberry -- but my mind is totally unhinged. I left a penknife -- with a buckhorn handle -- in your work-box. It will repay the messenger. May it make him happier than ever it did me! 

'Oh, Miss Pecksniff, why didn't you leave me alone! Was it not cruel, CRUEL! Oh, my goodness, have you not been a witness of my feelings -- have you not seen them flowing from my eyes -- did you not, yourself, reproach me with weeping more than usual on that dreadful night when last we met -- in that house -- where I once was peaceful -- though blighted -- in the society of Mrs Todgers! 

'But it was written -- in the Talmud -- that you should involve yourself in the inscrutable and gloomy Fate which it is my mission to accomplish, and which wreathes itself -- e'en now -- about in temples. I will not reproach, for I have wronged you. May the Furniture make some amends! 

'Farewell! Be the proud bride of a ducal coronet, and forget me! Long may it be before you know the anguish with which I now subscribe myself -- amid the tempestuous howlings of the -- sailors, 

'Unalterably, 

'Never yours, 

'AUGUSTUS
</text>
