<text>
And
if no good came of my uncle's money when he was alive, a great deal of good came of it after he was dead, inasmuch as my father has got it now, and is saving it up for me, which is a highly virtuous purpose; and, going back to the old gentleman, good DID come of it to him too, for he had the pleasure of thinking of it all his life long, and of being envied and courted by all his family besides
two-pence for every half-penny
Speculate with it
Spec -- u -- late, my dear
Why not
Because, my dear, if we SHOULD lose it
if we SHOULD lose it, we shall no longer be able to live, my dear
Fiddle
I am not altogether sure of that, my dear
There's Nicholas
quite a young man -- it's time he was in the way of doing something for himself; and Kate too, poor girl, without a penny in the world. Think of your brother! Would he be what he is, if he hadn't speculated
That's true
Very good, my dear. Yes. I WILL speculate, my dear
The very house I live in
may be taken from me tomorrow. Not an article of my old furniture, but will be sold to strangers
Cheer up, sir
You mustn't let yourself be cast down, sir
Such things happen every day
And it is very sinful to rebel against them
And what no man with a family ought to do
Office
Was that half-past twelve, Noggs
Not more than five-and-twenty minutes by the --' Noggs was going to add public-house clock, but recollecting himself, substituted 'regular time
My watch has stopped
I don't know from what cause
Not wound up
Yes it is
Over-wound then
That can't very well be
Must be
Well
perhaps it is
I am going to the London Tavern this morning
Public meeting
The bell
At home
Yes
To anybody
Yes
To the tax-gatherer
No! Let him call again
I thought so
My dear Nickleby
there's not a moment to lose; I have a cab at the door. Sir Matthew Pupker takes the chair, and three members of Parliament are positively coming. I have seen two of them safely out of bed. The third, who was at Crockford's all night, has just gone home to put a clean shirt on, and take a bottle or two of soda water, and will certainly be with us, in time to address the meeting. He is a little excited by last night, but never mind that; he always speaks the stronger for it
It seems to promise pretty well
Pretty well
It's the finest idea that was ever started. "United Metropolitan Improved Hot Muffin and Crumpet Baking and Punctual Delivery Company. Capital, five millions, in five hundred thousand shares of ten pounds each." Why the very name will get the shares up to a premium in ten days
And when they ARE at a premium
When they are, you know what to do with them as well as any man alive, and how to back quietly out at the right time
By- the-bye, what a VERY remarkable man that clerk of yours is
Yes, poor devil
Though Newman Noggs kept his horses and hounds once
Ay, ay
Yes
and not many years ago either; but he squandered his money, invested it anyhow, borrowed at interest, and in short made first a thorough fool of himself, and then a beggar. He took to drinking, and had a touch of paralysis, and then came here to borrow a pound, as in his better days I had
Done business with him
Just so
I couldn't lend it, you know
Oh, of course not
But as I wanted a clerk just then, to open the door and so forth, I took him out of charity, and he has remained with me ever since. He is a little mad, I think
but he is useful enough, poor creature -- useful enough
Hear
Chair, gentlemen, chair
Hear
Sir Matthew Pupker
That this meeting views with alarm and apprehension, the existing state of the Muffin Trade in this Metropolis and its neighbourhood; that it considers the Muffin Boys, as at present constituted, wholly underserving the confidence of the public; and that it deems the whole Muffin system alike prejudicial to the health and morals of the people, and subversive of the best interests of a great commercial and mercantile community
Snooks
Ferguson
and crumpet' after the word 'muffin
No
all muffin (or crumpet) sellers, all traders in muffins (or crumpets) of whatsoever description, whether male or female, boys or men, ringing hand-bells or otherwise
Ah! Newman
The letter about the mortgage has come, has it? I thought it would
Wrong
What! and nobody called respecting it
What HAS come, then
I have
What else
This
Post-mark, Strand, black wax, black border, woman's hand, C. N. in the corner
Black wax
I know something of that hand, too. Newman, I shouldn't be surprised if my brother were dead
I don't think you would
Why not, sir
You never are surprised
that's all
It is as I expected, Newman
He IS dead. Dear me! Well, that's sudden thing. I shouldn't have thought it, really
Children alive
Why, that's the very thing
They are both alive
Both
And the widow, too
and all three in London, confound them; all three here, Newman
Go home
Reasonable, certainly
very reasonable! My brother never did anything for me, and I never expected it; the breath is no sooner out of his body than I am to be looked to, as the support of a great hearty woman, and a grown boy and girl. What are they to me! I never saw them
Is Mrs Nickleby at home, girl
Her name ain't Nickleby
La Creevy, you mean
Mrs Nickleby
It's the second floor, Hannah
what a stupid thing you are! Is the second floor at home
Somebody went out just now, but I think it was the attic which had been a cleaning of himself
You had better see
Show the gentleman where the bell is, and tell him he mustn't knock double knocks for the second floor; I can't allow a knock except when the bell's broke, and then it must be two single ones
Here
I beg your pardon; is that Mrs La what's-her-name
Creevy -- La Creevy
I'll speak to you a moment, ma'am, with your leave
Hem
A miniature, I presume. A very strongly-marked countenance for the purpose, sir. Have you ever sat before
You mistake my purpose, I see, ma'am
I have no money to throw away on miniatures, ma'am, and nobody to give one to (thank God) if I had. Seeing you on the stairs, I wanted to ask a question of you, about some lodgers here
Oh, indeed
I infer from what you said to your servant, that the floor above belongs to you, ma'am
A widow, ma'am
Yes, she is a widow
A POOR widow, ma'am
Well, I'm afraid she IS poor
I happen to know that she is, ma'am
Now, what business has a poor widow in such a house as this, ma'am
Very true
Exceedingly true
I know her circumstances intimately, ma'am
in fact, I am a relation of the family; and I should recommend you not to keep them here, ma'am
I should hope, if there was any incompatibility to meet the pecuniary obligations
that the lady's family would
No they wouldn't, ma'am
Don't think it
If I am to understand that
the case wears a very different appearance
You may understand it then, ma'am
and make your arrangements accordingly. I am the family, ma'am -- at least, I believe I am the only relation they have, and I think it right that you should know I can't support them in their extravagances. How long have they taken these lodgings for
Only from week to week
Mrs Nickleby paid the first week in advance
Then you had better get them out at the end of it
They can't do better than go back to the country, ma'am; they are in everybody's way here
Certainly
if Mrs Nickleby took the apartments without the means of paying for them, it was very unbecoming a lady
Of course it was, ma'am
And naturally
I who am, AT PRESENT -- hem -- an unprotected female, cannot afford to lose by the apartments
Of course you can't, ma'am
Though at the same time
I have nothing whatever to say against the lady, who is extremely pleasant and affable, though, poor thing, she seems terribly low in her spirits; nor against the young people either, for nicer, or better-behaved young people cannot be
Very well, ma'am
I have done my duty, and perhaps more than I ought: of course nobody will thank me for saying what I have
I am sure I am very much obliged to you at least, sir
Would you do me the favour to look at a few specimens of my portrait painting
You're very good, ma'am
but as I have a visit to pay upstairs, and my time is precious, I really can't
At any other time when you are passing, I shall be most happy
Perhaps you will have the kindness to take a card of terms with you? Thank you -- good-morning
Good-morning, ma'am
Now for my sister-in-law. Bah
What name
Nickleby
Oh! Mrs Nickleby
here's Mr Nickleby
Oh
you are Nicholas, I suppose
That is my name, sir
Put my hat down
Well, ma'am, how do you do? You must bear up against sorrow, ma'am; I always do
Mine was no common loss
It was no UNcommon loss, ma'am
Husbands die every day, ma'am, and wives too
And brothers also, sir
Yes, sir, and puppies, and pug-dogs likewise
You didn't mention in your letter what my brother's complaint was, ma'am
The doctors could attribute it to no particular disease
We have too much reason to fear that he died of a broken heart
Pooh
there's no such thing. I can understand a man's dying of a broken neck, or suffering from a broken arm, or a broken head, or a broken leg, or a broken nose; but a broken heart! -- nonsense, it's the cant of the day. If a man can't pay his debts, he dies of a broken heart, and his widow's a martyr
Some people, I believe, have no hearts to break
How old is this boy, for God's sake
Nicholas is very nearly nineteen
Nineteen, eh
and what do you mean to do for your bread, sir
Not to live upon my mother
You'd have little enough to live upon, if you did
Whatever it be
I shall not look to you to make it more
Nicholas, my dear, recollect yourself
Dear Nicholas, pray
Hold your tongue, sir
Upon my word! Fine beginnings, Mrs Nickleby -- fine beginnings
a boy
Well, ma'am
the creditors have administered, you tell me, and there's nothing left for you
Nothing
And you spent what little money you had, in coming all the way to London, to see what I could do for you
I hoped
that you might have an opportunity of doing something for your brother's children. It was his dying wish that I should appeal to you in their behalf
I don't know how it is
but whenever a man dies without any property of his own, he always seems to think he has a right to dispose of other people's. What is your daughter fit for, ma'am
Kate has been well educated
Tell your uncle, my dear, how far you went in French and extras
We must try and get you apprenticed at some boarding-school
You have not been brought up too delicately for that, I hope
No, indeed, uncle
I will try to do anything that will gain me a home and bread
Well, well
You must try it, and if the life is too hard, perhaps dressmaking or tambour-work will come lighter. Have YOU ever done anything, sir
No
No, I thought not
This is the way my brother brought up his children, ma'am
Nicholas has not long completed such education as his poor father could give him
and he was thinking of
Of making something of him someday
The old story; always thinking, and never doing. If my brother had been a man of activity and prudence, he might have left you a rich woman, ma'am: and if he had turned his son into the world, as my father turned me, when I wasn't as old as that boy by a year and a half, he would have been in a situation to help you, instead of being a burden upon you, and increasing your distress. My brother was a thoughtless, inconsiderate man, Mrs Nickleby, and nobody, I am sure, can have better reason to feel that, than you
Are you willing to work, sir
Of course I am
Then see here, sir
This caught my eye this morning, and you may thank your stars for it
There
Let him get that situation, and his fortune is made
But he is not a Master of Arts
That
that, I think, can be got over
But the salary is so small, and it is such a long way off, uncle
Hush, Kate my dear
your uncle must know best
I say
let him get that situation, and his fortune is made. If he don't like that, let him get one for himself. Without friends, money, recommendation, or knowledge of business of any kind, let him find honest employment in London, which will keep him in shoe leather, and I'll give him a thousand pounds. At least
I would if I had it
Poor fellow
Oh! uncle, must we be separated so soon
Don't tease your uncle with questions when he is thinking only for our good, my love
Nicholas, my dear, I wish you would say something
Yes, mother, yes
If I am fortunate enough to be appointed to this post, sir, for which I am so imperfectly qualified, what will become of those I leave behind
Your mother and sister, sir
will be provided for, in that case (not otherwise), by me, and placed in some sphere of life in which they will be able to be independent. That will be my immediate care; they will not remain as they are, one week after your departure, I will undertake
Then
I am ready to do anything you wish me. Let us try our fortune with Mr Squeers at once; he can but refuse
He won't do that
He will be glad to have you on my recommendation. Make yourself of use to him, and you'll rise to be a partner in the establishment in no time. Bless me, only think! if he were to die, why your fortune's made at once
To be sure, I see it all
Or suppose some young nobleman who is being educated at the Hall, were to take a fancy to me, and get his father to appoint me his travelling tutor when he left, and when we come back from the continent, procured me some handsome appointment. Eh! uncle
Ah, to be sure
And who knows, but when he came to see me when I was settled (as he would of course), he might fall in love with Kate, who would be keeping my house, and -- and marry her, eh! uncle? Who knows
Who, indeed
How happy we should be
The pain of parting is nothing to the joy of meeting again. Kate will be a beautiful woman, and I so proud to hear them say so, and mother so happy to be with us once again, and all these sad times forgotten, and
Half-past three
There will be nobody here today
At Midsummer
Halloa, sir
What's that, sir
Nothing, please sir
Nothing, sir
Please sir, I sneezed
Oh! sneezed, did you
Then what did you say "nothing" for, sir
Wait till I get you down into Yorkshire, my young gentleman
and then I'll give you the rest. Will you hold that noise, sir
Ye -- ye -- yes
Then do so at once, sir
Do you hear
Mr Squeers
here's a gentleman asking for you at the bar
Show the gentleman in, Richard
Put your handkerchief in your pocket, you little scoundrel, or I'll murder you when the gentleman goes
My dear child
all people have their trials. This early trial of yours that is fit to make your little heart burst, and your very eyes come out of your head with crying, what is it? Nothing; less than nothing. You are leaving your friends, but you will have a father in me, my dear, and a mother in Mrs Squeers. At the delightful village of Dotheboys, near Greta Bridge in Yorkshire, where youth are boarded, clothed, booked, washed, furnished with pocket-money, provided with all necessaries
It IS the gentleman
Mr Squeers, I believe, sir
The same, sir
The gentleman
that advertised in the Times newspaper
Morning Post, Chronicle, Herald, and Advertiser, regarding the Academy called Dotheboys Hall at the delightful village of Dotheboys, near Greta Bridge in Yorkshire
You come on business, sir. I see by my young friends. How do you do, my little gentleman? and how do you do, sir
I am in the oil and colour way. My name is Snawley, sir
And a remarkably pretty name, too
I have been thinking, Mr Squeers, of placing my two boys at your school
It is not for me to say so, sir
but I don't think you could possibly do a better thing
Hem
Twenty pounds per annewum, I believe, Mr Squeers
Guineas
Pounds for two, I think, Mr Squeers
I don't think it could be done, sir
Let me see; four fives is twenty, double that, and deduct the -- well, a pound either way shall not stand betwixt us. You must recommend me to your connection, sir, and make it up that way
They are not great eaters
Oh! that doesn't matter at all
We don't consider the boys' appetites at our establishment
Every wholesome luxury, sir, that Yorkshire can afford
every beautiful moral that Mrs Squeers can instil; every -- in short, every comfort of a home that a boy could wish for, will be theirs, Mr Snawley
I should wish their morals to be particularly attended to
I am glad of that, sir
They have come to the right shop for morals, sir
You are a moral man yourself
I rather believe I am, sir
I have the satisfaction to know you are, sir
I asked one of your references, and he said you were pious
Well, sir, I hope I am a little in that line
I hope I am also
Could I say a few words with you in the next box
By all means
My dears, will you speak to your new playfellow a minute or two? That is one of my boys, sir. Belling his name is,-- a Taunton boy that, sir
Is he, indeed
He goes down with me tomorrow, sir
That's his luggage that he is a sitting upon now. Each boy is required to bring, sir, two suits of clothes, six shirts, six pair of stockings, two nightcaps, two pocket-handkerchiefs, two pair of shoes, two hats, and a razor
A razor
What for
To shave with
Up to what age do you keep boys at your school then
Just as long as their friends make the quarterly payments to my agent in town, or until such time as they run away
Let us understand each other; I see we may safely do so. What are these boys;-- natural children
No
They ain't
I thought they might be
We have a good many of them; that boy's one
Him in the next box
He is
But about these boys of yours; you wanted to speak to me
Yes
The fact is, I am not their father, Mr Squeers. I'm only their father-in-law
Oh! Is that it
That explains it at once. I was wondering what the devil you were going to send them to Yorkshire for. Ha! ha! Oh, I understand now
You see I have married the mother
it's expensive keeping boys at home, and as she has a little money in her own right, I am afraid (women are so very foolish, Mr Squeers) that she might be led to squander it on them, which would be their ruin, you know
I see
And this
has made me anxious to put them to some school a good distance off, where there are no holidays -- none of those ill-judged coming home twice a year that unsettle children's minds so -- and where they may rough it a little -- you comprehend
The payments regular, and no questions asked
That's it, exactly
Morals strictly attended to, though
Strictly
Not too much writing home allowed, I suppose
None, except a circular at Christmas, to say they never were so happy, and hope they may never be sent for
Nothing could be better
Then, as we understand each other
will you allow me to ask you whether you consider me a highly virtuous, exemplary, and well-conducted man in private life; and whether, as a person whose business it is to take charge of youth, you place the strongest confidence in my unimpeachable integrity, liberality, religious principles, and ability
Certainly I do
Perhaps you won't object to say that, if I make you a reference
Not the least in the world
That's your sort
this is doing business, and that's what I like
Here he is
what is it
Only a matter of business, sir
There was an advertisement of yours in the papers this morning
There was, sir. This way, if you please
Won't you be seated
Why, I think I will
This is my nephew, sir, Mr Nicholas Nickleby
How do you do, sir
Perhaps you recollect me
You paid me a small account at each of my half-yearly visits to town, for some years, I think, sir
I did
For the parents of a boy named Dorker, who unfortunately
unfortunately died at Dotheboys Hall
I remember very well, sir
Ah! Mrs Squeers, sir, was as partial to that lad as if he had been her own; the attention, sir, that was bestowed upon that boy in his illness! Dry toast and warm tea offered him every night and morning when he couldn't swallow anything -- a candle in his bedroom on the very night he died -- the best dictionary sent up for him to lay his head upon -- I don't regret it though. It is a pleasant thing to reflect that one did one's duty by him
These are only some pupils of mine
This gentleman, sir, is a parent who is kind enough to compliment me upon the course of education adopted at Dotheboys Hall, which is situated, sir, at the delightful village of Dotheboys, near Greta Bridge in Yorkshire, where youth are boarded, clothed, booked, washed, furnished with pocket-money
Yes, we know all about that, sir
It's in the advertisement
You are very right, sir; it IS in the advertisement
And in the matter of fact besides
I feel bound to assure you, sir, and I am proud to have this opportunity OF assuring you, that I consider Mr Squeers a gentleman highly virtuous, exemplary, well conducted, and
I make no doubt of it, sir
no doubt of it at all. Suppose we come to business
With all my heart, sir
Never postpone business," is the very first lesson we instil into our commercial pupils. Master Belling, my dear, always remember that; do you hear
Yes, sir
He recollects what it is, does he
Tell the gentleman
Never
Very good
go on
Never
Very good indeed
Yes
P
Perform -- business
Never -- perform -- business
Very well, sir
You and I will perform a little business on our private account by-and-by
And just now
we had better transact our own, perhaps
If you please
Well
it's brief enough; soon broached; and I hope easily concluded. You have advertised for an able assistant, sir
Precisely so
And you really want one
Certainly
Here he is
My nephew Nicholas, hot from school, with everything he learnt there, fermenting in his head, and nothing fermenting in his pocket, is just the man you want
I am afraid
I am afraid the young man won't suit me
Yes, he will
I know better. Don't be cast down, sir; you will be teaching all the young noblemen in Dotheboys Hall in less than a week's time, unless this gentleman is more obstinate than I take him to be
I fear, sir
that you object to my youth, and to my not being a Master of Arts
The absence of a college degree IS an objection
Look here, sir
I'll put this matter in its true light in two seconds
If you'll have the goodness
This is a boy, or a youth, or a lad, or a young man, or a hobbledehoy, or whatever you like to call him, of eighteen or nineteen, or thereabouts
That I see
So do I
His father is dead, he is wholly ignorant of the world, has no resources whatever, and wants something to do
I recommend him to this splendid establishment of yours, as an opening which will lead him to fortune if he turns it to proper account. Do you see that
Everybody must see that
I do, of course
He does, of course, you observe
If any caprice of temper should induce him to cast aside this golden opportunity before he has brought it to perfection, I consider myself absolved from extending any assistance to his mother and sister. Look at him, and think of the use he may be to you in half-a-dozen ways! Now, the question is, whether, for some time to come at all events, he won't serve your purpose better than twenty of the kind of people you would get under ordinary circumstances. Isn't that a question for consideration
Yes, it is
Good
Let me have two words with you
Your uncle's recommendation has done it, Mr Nickleby
He is an odd-looking man
What of that? Porson was an odd-looking man, and so was Doctor Johnson; all these bookworms are
said Squeers, 'the coach starts. You must be here at a quarter before, as we take these boys with us
Certainly, sir
And your fare down, I have paid
So, you'll have nothing to do but keep yourself warm
I shall be here in the morning to see you fairly off
No skulking
Thank you, sir
I never shall forget this kindness
Take care you don't
You had better go home now, and pack up what you have got to pack. Do you think you could find your way to Golden Square first
Certainly
I can easily inquire
Leave these papers with my clerk, then
and tell him to wait till I come home
What's that
Papers from my uncle
and you're to have the goodness to wait till he comes home, if you please
Uncle
Mr Nickleby
Come in
There is no answer
No answer
But, what's the matter -- are you ill
Is that you, Hannah
It is I, Miss La Creevy
Bless us
You're up very early, Mr Nickleby
So are you
It's the fine arts that bring me out of bed, Mr Nickleby
I'm waiting for the light to carry out an idea
To carry out an idea
and that's the great convenience of living in a thoroughfare like the Strand. When I want a nose or an eye for any particular sitter, I have only to look out of window and wait till I get one
Does it take long to get a nose, now
Why, that depends in a great measure on the pattern
Snubs and Romans are plentiful enough, and there are flats of all sorts and sizes when there's a meeting at Exeter Hall; but perfect aquilines, I am sorry to say, are scarce, and we generally use them for uniforms or public characters
Indeed
If I should meet with any in my travels, I'll endeavour to sketch them for you
You don't mean to say that you are really going all the way down into Yorkshire this cold winter's weather, Mr Nickleby
I heard something of it last night
I do, indeed
Needs must, you know, when somebody drives. Necessity is my driver, and that is only another name for the same gentleman
Well, I am very sorry for it; that's all I can say
as much on your mother's and sister's account as on yours. Your sister is a very pretty young lady, Mr Nickleby, and that is an additional reason why she should have somebody to protect her. I persuaded her to give me a sitting or two, for the street-door case. 'Ah! she'll make a sweet miniature
If you ever have an opportunity of showing Kate some little kindness
I think you will
Depend upon that
and God bless you, Mr Nickleby; and I wish you well
This is twopenn'orth of milk, is it, waiter
That's twopenn'orth, sir
What a rare article milk is, to be sure, in London
Just fill that mug up with lukewarm water, William, will you
To the wery top, sir
Why, the milk will be drownded
Never you mind that
Serve it right for being so dear. You ordered that thick bread and butter for three, did you
Coming directly, sir
You needn't hurry yourself
there's plenty of time. Conquer your passions, boys, and don't be eager after vittles
Sit down, Mr Nickleby
Here we are, a breakfasting you see
Oh! that's the milk and water, is it, William
Very good; don't forget the bread and butter presently
Ah
here's richness! Think of the many beggars and orphans in the streets that would be glad of this, little boys. A shocking thing hunger, isn't it, Mr Nickleby
Very shocking, sir
When I say number one
the boy on the left hand nearest the window may take a drink; and when I say number two, the boy next him will go in, and so till we come to number five, which is the last boy. Are you ready
Yes, sir
That's right
keep ready till I tell you to begin. Subdue your appetites, my dears, and you've conquered human natur. This is the way we inculcate strength of mind, Mr Nickleby
Thank God for a good breakfast
Number one may take a drink
And now
you had better look sharp with your breakfast, for the horn will blow in a minute or two, and then every boy leaves off
I thought it wouldn't be long
put what you haven't had time to eat, in here, boys! You'll want it on the road
Oh! here you are, sir
Here are your mother and sister, sir
Where
Here
Having too much money and nothing at all to do with it, they were paying a hackney coach as I came up, sir
We were afraid of being too late to see him before he went away from us
Very good, ma'am
you're the best judge of course. I merely said that you were paying a hackney coach. I never pay a hackney coach, ma'am; I never hire one. I haven't been in a hackney coach of my own hiring, for thirty years, and I hope I shan't be for thirty more, if I live as long
I should never have forgiven myself if I had not seen him
Poor dear boy -- going away without his breakfast too, because he feared to distress us
Mighty fine certainly
Now, Nickleby
I think you'd better get up behind. I'm afraid of one of them boys falling off and then there's twenty pound a year gone
Dear Nicholas
who is that vulgar man
Eh
Do you wish to be introduced to Mr Squeers, my dear
That the schoolmaster! No, uncle. Oh no
I'm sure I heard you say as much, my dear
Mr Squeers, here's my niece: Nicholas's sister
Very glad to make your acquaintance, miss
I wish Mrs Squeers took gals, and we had you for a teacher. I don't know, though, whether she mightn't grow jealous if we had. Ha! ha! ha
My dear Nicholas
who is this man? What kind of place can it be that you are going to
I hardly know, Kate
I suppose the Yorkshire folks are rather rough and uncultivated; that's all
But this person
Is my employer, or master, or whatever the proper name may be
and I was an ass to take his coarseness ill. They are looking this way, and it is time I was in my place. Bless you, love, and goodbye! Mother, look forward to our meeting again someday! Uncle, farewell! Thank you heartily for all you have done and all you mean to do. Quite ready, sir
What's this
Hush
Take it. Read it. Nobody knows. That's all
Stop
No
If we put some of these youngsters in the middle
they'll be safer in case of their going to sleep; eh
If you'll have the goodness, sir
that'll be the very thing. Mr Nickleby, take three of them boys between you and the gentleman. Belling and the youngest Snawley can sit between me and the guard. Three children
books as two
I have not the least objection I am sure
I have a brother who wouldn't object to book his six children as two at any butcher's or baker's in the kingdom, I dare say. Far from it
Six children, sir
Yes, and all boys
Mr Nickleby
catch hold of that basket. Let me give you a card, sir, of an establishment where those six boys can be brought up in an enlightened, liberal, and moral manner, with no mistake at all about it, for twenty guineas a year each -- twenty guineas, sir -- or I'd take all the boys together upon a average right through, and say a hundred pound a year for the lot
Oh
you are the Mr Squeers mentioned here, I presume
Yes, I am, sir
Mr Wackford Squeers is my name, and I'm very far from being ashamed of it. These are some of my boys, sir; that's one of my assistants, sir -- Mr Nickleby, a gentleman's son, amd a good scholar, mathematical, classical, and commercial. We don't do things by halves at our shop. All manner of learning my boys take down, sir; the expense is never thought of; and they get paternal treatment and washing in
Upon my word
these are advantages indeed
You may say that, sir
The most unexceptionable references are given and required. I wouldn't take a reference with any boy, that wasn't responsible for the payment of five pound five a quarter, no, not if you went down on your knees, and asked me, with the tears running down your face, to do it
Highly considerate
It's my great aim and end to be considerate, sir
Snawley, junior, if you don't leave off chattering your teeth, and shaking with the cold, I'll warm you with a severe thrashing in about half a minute's time
Sit fast here, genelmen
All right behind there, Dick
All right
Off she goes
Wo ho
Is there ony genelmen there as can len' a hond here? Keep quiet, dang ye! Wo ho
What's the matter
Matther mun, matter eneaf for one neight
Here
I'm ready. I'm only a little abroad, that's all
Hoold 'em toight
while ar coot treaces. Hang on tiv'em sumhoo. Well deane, my lod. That's it. Let'em goa noo. Dang 'em, they'll gang whoam fast eneaf
Can you blo' a harn
I dare say I can
un as lies on the grund, fit to wakken the deead, will'ee
Well, Mr Nickleby
you did very right to catch hold of them horses. I should have done it myself if I had come to in time, but I am very glad you did it. You did it very well; very well
So well
that if they had not been firmly checked when they were, you would most probably have had no brains left to teach with
I am very glad to have escaped, of course
every man is glad when he escapes from danger; but if any one of my charges had been hurt -- if I had been prevented from restoring any one of these little boys to his parents whole and sound as I received him -- what would have been my feelings? Why the wheel a-top of my head would have been far preferable to it
Are they all brothers, sir
In one sense they are, ma'am
They are all under the same parental and affectionate treatment. Mrs Squeers and myself are a mother and father to every one of 'em. Mr Nickleby, hand the lady them cards, and offer these to the gentleman. Perhaps they might know of some parents that would be glad to avail themselves of the establishment
I hope you suffer no inconvenience from the overturn, ma'am
No bodily inconvenience
No mental inconvenience, I hope
The subject is a very painful one to my feelings, sir
and I beg you as a gentleman, not to refer to it
Dear me
I merely intended to inquire
I hope no inquiries will be made
or I shall be compelled to throw myself on the protection of the other gentlemen. Landlord, pray direct a boy to keep watch outside the door -- and if a green chariot passes in the direction of Grantham, to stop it instantly
As the guard has gone on horseback to Grantham to get another coach
and as he must be gone a couple of hours at the very least, I propose a bowl of hot punch. What say you, sir
I cannot indeed
That's a pity
Is there nobody here who can sing a song to lighten the time
Perhaps the lady would not object
Some little Italian thing out of the last opera brought out in town, would be most acceptable I am sure
I would if I could
for I hold that in this, as in all other cases where people who are strangers to each other are thrown unexpectedly together, they should endeavour to render themselves as pleasant, for the joint sake of the little community, as possible
I wish the maxim were more generally acted on, in all cases
I'm glad to hear it
Perhaps, as you can't sing, you'll tell us a story
Nay. I should ask you
After you, I will, with pleasure
Indeed
A great many years ago -- for the fifteenth century was scarce two years old at the time, and King Henry the Fourth sat upon the throne of England -- there dwelt, in the ancient city of York, five maiden sisters, the subjects of my tale. 'These five sisters were all of surpassing beauty. The eldest was in her twenty-third year, the second a year younger, the third a year younger than the second, and the fourth a year younger than the third. They were tall stately figures, with dark flashing eyes and hair of jet; dignity and grace were in their every movement; and the fame of their great beauty had spread through all the country round. 

'But, if the four elder sisters were lovely, how beautiful was the youngest, a fair creature of sixteen! The blushing tints in the soft bloom on the fruit, or the delicate painting on the flower, are not more exquisite than was the blending of the rose and lily in her gentle face, or the deep blue of her eye. The vine, in all its elegant luxuriance, is not more graceful than were the clusters of rich brown hair that sported round her brow. 

'If we all had hearts like those which beat so lightly in the bosoms of the young and beautiful, what a heaven this earth would be! If, while our bodies grow old and withered, our hearts could but retain their early youth and freshness, of what avail would be our sorrows and sufferings! But, the faint image of Eden which is stamped upon them in childhood, chafes and rubs in our rough struggles with the world, and soon wears away: too often to leave nothing but a mournful blank remaining. 

'The heart of this fair girl bounded with joy and gladness. Devoted attachment to her sisters, and a fervent love of all beautiful things in nature, were its pure affections. Her gleesome voice and merry laugh were the sweetest music of their home. She was its very light and life. The brightest flowers in the garden were reared by her; the caged birds sang when they heard her voice, and pined when they missed its sweetness. Alice, dear Alice; what living thing within the sphere of her gentle witchery, could fail to love her! 

'You may seek in vain, now, for the spot on which these sisters lived, for their very names have passed away, and dusty antiquaries tell of them as of a fable. But they dwelt in an old wooden house -- old even in those days -- with overhanging gables and balconies of rudely-carved oak, which stood within a pleasant orchard, and was surrounded by a rough stone wall, whence a stout archer might have winged an arrow to St Mary's Abbey. The old abbey flourished then; and the five sisters, living on its fair domains, paid yearly dues to the black monks of St Benedict, to which fraternity it belonged. 

'It was a bright and sunny morning in the pleasant time of summer, when one of those black monks emerged from the abbey portal, and bent his steps towards the house of the fair sisters. Heaven above was blue, and earth beneath was green; the river glistened like a path of diamonds in the sun; the birds poured forth their songs from the shady trees; the lark soared high above the waving corn; and the deep buzz of insects filled the air. Everything looked gay and smiling; but the holy man walked gloomily on, with his eyes bent upon the ground. The beauty of the earth is but a breath, and man is but a shadow. What sympathy should a holy preacher have with either? 

'With eyes bent upon the ground, then, or only raised enough to prevent his stumbling over such obstacles as lay in his way, the religious man moved slowly forward until he reached a small postern in the wall of the sisters' orchard, through which he passed, closing it behind him. The noise of soft voices in conversation, and of merry laughter, fell upon his ears ere he had advanced many paces; and raising his eyes higher than was his humble wont, he descried, at no great distance, the five sisters seated on the grass, with Alice in the centre: all busily plying their customary task of embroidering. 

' "Save you, fair daughters!" said the friar; and fair in truth they were. Even a monk might have loved them as choice masterpieces of his Maker's hand. 

'The sisters saluted the holy man with becoming reverence, and the eldest motioned him to a mossy seat beside them. But the good friar shook his head, and bumped himself down on a very hard stone,-- at which, no doubt, approving angels were gratified. 

' "Ye were merry, daughters," said the monk. 

' "You know how light of heart sweet Alice is," replied the eldest sister, passing her fingers through the tresses of the smiling girl. 

' "And what joy and cheerfulness it wakes up within us, to see all nature beaming in brightness and sunshine, father," added Alice, blushing beneath the stern look of the recluse. 

'The monk answered not, save by a grave inclination of the head, and the sisters pursued their task in silence. 

' "Still wasting the precious hours," said the monk at length, turning to the eldest sister as he spoke, "still wasting the precious hours on this vain trifling. Alas, alas! that the few bubbles on the surface of eternity -- all that Heaven wills we should see of that dark deep stream -- should be so lightly scattered
Father," urged the maiden, pausing, as did each of the others, in her busy task, "we have prayed at matins, our daily alms have been distributed at the gate, the sick peasants have been tended,-- all our morning tasks have been performed. I hope our occupation is a blameless one
See here," said the friar, taking the frame from her hand, "an intricate winding of gaudy colours, without purpose or object, unless it be that one day it is destined for some vain ornament, to minister to the pride of your frail and giddy sex. Day after day has been employed upon this senseless task, and yet it is not half accomplished. The shade of each departed day falls upon our graves, and the worm exults as he beholds it, to know that we are hastening thither. Daughters, is there no better way to pass the fleeting hours?" 'The four elder sisters cast down their eyes as if abashed by the holy man's reproof, but Alice raised hers, and bent them mildly on the friar. 

' "Our dear mother," said the maiden; "Heaven rest her soul!" 

' "Amen!" cried the friar in a deep voice. 

' "Our dear mother," faltered the fair Alice, "was living when these long tasks began, and bade us, when she should be no more, ply them in all discretion and cheerfulness, in our leisure hours; she said that if in harmless mirth and maidenly pursuits we passed those hours together, they would prove the happiest and most peaceful of our lives, and that if, in later times, we went forth into the world, and mingled with its cares and trials -- if, allured by its temptations and dazzled by its glitter, we ever forgot that love and duty which should bind, in holy ties, the children of one loved parent -- a glance at the old work of our common girlhood would awaken good thoughts of bygone days, and soften our hearts to affection and love." 

' "Alice speaks truly, father," said the elder sister, somewhat proudly. And so saying she resumed her work, as did the others. 

'It was a kind of sampler of large size, that each sister had before her; the device was of a complex and intricate description, and the pattern and colours of all five were the same. The sisters bent gracefully over their work; the monk, resting his chin upon his hands, looked from one to the other in silence. 

' "How much better," he said at length, "to shun all such thoughts and chances, and, in the peaceful shelter of the church, devote your lives to Heaven! Infancy, childhood, the prime of life, and old age, wither as rapidly as they crowd upon each other. Think how human dust rolls onward to the tomb, and turning your faces steadily towards that goal, avoid the cloud which takes its rise among the pleasures of the world, and cheats the senses of their votaries. The veil, daughters, the veil!" 

' "Never, sisters," cried Alice. "Barter not the light and air of heaven, and the freshness of earth and all the beautiful things which breathe upon it, for the cold cloister and the cell. Nature's own blessings are the proper goods of life, and we may share them sinlessly together. To die is our heavy portion, but, oh, let us die with life about us; when our cold hearts cease to beat, let warm hearts be beating near; let our last look be upon the bounds which God has set to his own bright skies, and not on stone walls and bars of iron! Dear sisters, let us live and die, if you list, in this green garden's compass; only shun the gloom and sadness of a cloister, and we shall be happy." 

'The tears fell fast from the maiden's eyes as she closed her impassioned appeal, and hid her face in the bosom of her sister. 

' "Take comfort, Alice," said the eldest, kissing her fair forehead. "The veil shall never cast its shadow on thy young brow. How say you, sisters? For yourselves you speak, and not for Alice, or for me." 

'The sisters, as with one accord, cried that their lot was cast together, and that there were dwellings for peace and virtue beyond the convent's walls. 

' "Father," said the eldest lady, rising with dignity, "you hear our final resolve. The same pious care which enriched the abbey of St Mary, and left us, orphans, to its holy guardianship, directed that no constraint should be imposed upon our inclinations, but that we should be free to live according to our choice. Let us hear no more of this, we pray you. Sisters, it is nearly noon. Let us take shelter until evening!" With a reverence to the friar, the lady rose and walked towards the house, hand in hand with Alice; the other sisters followed. 

'The holy man, who had often urged the same point before, but had never met with so direct a repulse, walked some little distance behind, with his eyes bent upon the earth, and his lips moving AS IF in prayer. As the sisters reached the porch, he quickened his pace, and called upon them to stop. 

' "Stay!" said the monk, raising his right hand in the air, and directing an angry glance by turns at Alice and the eldest sister. "Stay, and hear from me what these recollections are, which you would cherish above eternity, and awaken -- if in mercy they slumbered -- by means of idle toys. The memory of earthly things is charged, in after life, with bitter disappointment, affliction, death; with dreary change and wasting sorrow. The time will one day come, when a glance at those unmeaning baubles will tear open deep wounds in the hearts of some among you, and strike to your inmost souls. When that hour arrives -- and, mark me, come it will -- turn from the world to which you clung, to the refuge which you spurned. Find me the cell which shall be colder than the fire of mortals grows, when dimmed by calamity and trial, and there weep for the dreams of youth. These things are Heaven's will, not mine," said the friar, subduing his voice as he looked round upon the shrinking girls. "The Virgin's blessing be upon you, daughters!" 

'With these words he disappeared through the postern; and the sisters hastening into the house were seen no more that day. 

'But nature will smile though priests may frown, and next day the sun shone brightly, and on the next, and the next again. And in the morning's glare, and the evening's soft repose, the five sisters still walked, or worked, or beguiled the time by cheerful conversation, in their quiet orchard. 

'Time passed away as a tale that is told; faster indeed than many tales that are told, of which number I fear this may be one. The house of the five sisters stood where it did, and the same trees cast their pleasant shade upon the orchard grass. The sisters too were there, and lovely as at first, but a change had come over their dwelling. Sometimes, there was the clash of armour, and the gleaming of the moon on caps of steel; and, at others, jaded coursers were spurred up to the gate, and a female form glided hurriedly forth, as if eager to demand tidings of the weary messenger. A goodly train of knights and ladies lodged one night within the abbey walls, and next day rode away, with two of the fair sisters among them. Then, horsemen began to come less frequently, and seemed to bring bad tidings when they did, and at length they ceased to come at all, and footsore peasants slunk to the gate after sunset, and did their errand there, by stealth. Once, a vassal was dispatched in haste to the abbey at dead of night, and when morning came, there were sounds of woe and wailing in the sisters' house; and after this, a mournful silence fell upon it, and knight or lady, horse or armour, was seen about it no more. 

'There was a sullen darkness in the sky, and the sun had gone angrily down, tinting the dull clouds with the last traces of his wrath, when the same black monk walked slowly on, with folded arms, within a stone's-throw of the abbey. A blight had fallen on the trees and shrubs; and the wind, at length beginning to break the unnatural stillness that had prevailed all day, sighed heavily from time to time, as though foretelling in grief the ravages of the coming storm. The bat skimmed in fantastic flights through the heavy air, and the ground was alive with crawling things, whose instinct brought them forth to swell and fatten in the rain. 

'No longer were the friar's eyes directed to the earth; they were cast abroad, and roamed from point to point, as if the gloom and desolation of the scene found a quick response in his own bosom. Again he paused near the sisters' house, and again he entered by the postern. 

'But not again did his ear encounter the sound of laughter, or his eyes rest upon the beautiful figures of the five sisters. All was silent and deserted. The boughs of the trees were bent and broken, and the grass had grown long and rank. No light feet had pressed it for many, many a day. 

'With the indifference or abstraction of one well accustomed to the change, the monk glided into the house, and entered a low, dark room. Four sisters sat there. Their black garments made their pale faces whiter still, and time and sorrow had worked deep ravages. They were stately yet; but the flush and pride of beauty were gone. 

'And Alice -- where was she? In Heaven. 

'The monk -- even the monk -- could bear with some grief here; for it was long since these sisters had met, and there were furrows in their blanched faces which years could never plough. He took his seat in silence, and motioned them to continue their speech. 

' "They are here, sisters," said the elder lady in a trembling voice. "I have never borne to look upon them since, and now I blame myself for my weakness. What is there in her memory that we should dread? To call up our old days shall be a solemn pleasure yet." 

'She glanced at the monk as she spoke, and, opening a cabinet, brought forth the five frames of work, completed long before. Her step was firm, but her hand trembled as she produced the last one; and, when the feelings of the other sisters gushed forth at sight of it, her pent-up tears made way, and she sobbed "God bless her!" 

'The monk rose and advanced towards them. "It was almost the last thing she touched in health," he said in a low voice. 

' "It was," cried the elder lady, weeping bitterly. 

'The monk turned to the second sister. 

' "The gallant youth who looked into thine eyes, and hung upon thy very breath when first he saw thee intent upon this pastime, lies buried on a plain whereof the turf is red with blood. Rusty fragments of armour, once brightly burnished, lie rotting on the ground, and are as little distinguishable for his, as are the bones that crumble in the mould!" 

'The lady groaned, and wrung her hands. 

' "The policy of courts," he continued, turning to the two other sisters, "drew ye from your peaceful home to scenes of revelry and splendour. The same policy, and the restless ambition of -- proud and fiery men, have sent ye back, widowed maidens, and humbled outcasts. Do I speak truly?" 

'The sobs of the two sisters were their only reply. 

' "There is little need," said the monk, with a meaning look, "to fritter away the time in gewgaws which shall raise up the pale ghosts of hopes of early years. Bury them, heap penance and mortification on their heads, keep them down, and let the convent be their grave!" 

'The sisters asked for three days to deliberate; and felt, that night, as though the veil were indeed the fitting shroud for their dead joys. But, morning came again, and though the boughs of the orchard trees drooped and ran wild upon the ground, it was the same orchard still. The grass was coarse and high, but there was yet the spot on which they had so often sat together, when change and sorrow were but names. There was every walk and nook which Alice had made glad; and in the minster nave was one flat stone beneath which she slept in peace. 

'And could they, remembering how her young heart had sickened at the thought of cloistered walls, look upon her grave, in garbs which would chill the very ashes within it? Could they bow down in prayer, and when all Heaven turned to hear them, bring the dark shade of sadness on one angel's face? No. 

'They sent abroad, to artists of great celebrity in those times, and having obtained the church's sanction to their work of piety, caused to be executed, in five large compartments of richly stained glass, a faithful copy of their old embroidery work. These were fitted into a large window until that time bare of ornament; and when the sun shone brightly, as she had so well loved to see it, the familiar patterns were reflected in their original colours, and throwing a stream of brilliant light upon the pavement, fell warmly on the name of Alice. 

'For many hours in every day, the sisters paced slowly up and down the nave, or knelt by the side of the flat broad stone. Only three were seen in the customary place, after many years; then but two, and, for a long time afterwards, but one solitary female bent with age. At length she came no more, and the stone bore five plain Christian names. 

'That stone has worn away and been replaced by others, and many generations have come and gone since then. Time has softened down the colours, but the same stream of light still falls upon the forgotten tomb, of which no trace remains; and, to this day, the stranger is shown in York Cathedral, an old window called the Five Sisters
That's a melancholy tale
It is a tale of life, and life is made up of such sorrows
There are shades in all good pictures, but there are lights too, if we choose to contemplate them
The youngest sister in your tale was always light-hearted
And died early
She would have died earlier, perhaps, had she been less happy
Do you think the sisters who loved her so well, would have grieved the less if her life had been one of gloom and sadness? If anything could soothe the first sharp pain of a heavy loss, it would be -- with me -- the reflection, that those I mourned, by being innocently happy here, and loving all about them, had prepared themselves for a purer and happier world. The sun does not shine upon this fair earth to meet frowning eyes, depend upon it
I believe you are right
Believe
can anybody doubt it? Take any subject of sorrowful regret, and see with how much pleasure it is associated. The recollection of past pleasure may become pain
It does
Well; it does. To remember happiness which cannot be restored, is pain, but of a softened kind. Our recollections are unfortunately mingled with much that we deplore, and with many actions which we bitterly repent; still in the most chequered life I firmly think there are so many little rays of sunshine to look back upon, that I do not believe any mortal (unless he had put himself without the pale of hope) would deliberately drain a goblet of the waters of Lethe, if he had it in his power
Possibly you are correct in that belief
I am inclined to think you are
Why, then
the good in this state of existence preponderates over the bad, let miscalled philosophers tell us what they will. If our affections be tried, our affections are our consolation and comfort; and memory, however sad, is the best and purest link between this world and a better. But come! I'll tell you a story of another kind
I'll brood over miseries no longer, but put a good face on the matter, and try the fresh air and the bears again; and if that don't do, I'll talk to the baroness soundly, and cut the Von Swillenhausens dead
The figure fell back a pace or two, regarding the baron meanwhile with a look of intense terror, and when he had ceased, caught up the stake, plunged it violently into its body, uttered a frightful howl, and disappeared. 'Von Koeldwethout never saw it again. Having once made up his mind to action, he soon brought the baroness and the Von Swillenhausens to reason, and died many years afterwards: not a rich man that I am aware of, but certainly a happy one: leaving behind him a numerous family, who had been carefully educated in bear and boar-hunting under his own personal eye. And my advice to all men is, that if ever they become hipped and melancholy from similar causes (as very many men do), they look at both sides of the question, applying a magnifying-glass to the best one; and if they still feel tempted to retire without leave, that they smoke a large pipe and drink a full bottle first, and profit by the laudable example of the Baron of Grogzwig
The fresh coach is ready, ladies and gentlemen, if you please
Put the boys and the boxes into the cart
and this young man and me will go on in the chaise. Get in, Nickleby
Are you cold, Nickleby
Rather, sir, I must say
Well, I don't find fault with that
it's a long journey this weather
Is it much farther to Dotheboys Hall, sir
About three mile from here
But you needn't call it a Hall down here
The fact is, it ain't a Hall
Oh, indeed
No
We call it a Hall up in London, because it sounds better, but they don't know it by that name in these parts. A man may call his house an island if he likes; there's no act of Parliament against that, I believe
I believe not, sir
Jump out
Hallo there! Come and put this horse up. Be quick, will you
Is that you, Smike
Yes, sir
Then why the devil didn't you come before
Please, sir, I fell asleep over the fire
Fire! what fire? Where's there a fire
Only in the kitchen, sir
Missus said as I was sitting up, I might go in there for a warm
Your missus is a fool
You'd have been a deuced deal more wakeful in the cold, I'll engage
Now then
Where are you, Nickleby
Here, sir
Come in, then
the wind blows in, at this door, fit to knock a man off his legs
How is my Squeery
Quite well, my love
How's the cows
All right, every one of'em
And the pigs
As well as they were when you went away
Come; that's a blessing
The boys are all as they were, I suppose
Oh, yes, they're well enough
That young Pitcher's had a fever
No
Damn that boy, he's always at something of that sort
Never was such a boy, I do believe
whatever he has is always catching too. I say it's obstinacy, and nothing shall ever convince me that it isn't. I'd beat it out of him; and I told you that, six months ago
So you did, my love
We'll try what can be done
This is the new young man, my dear
Oh
He'll take a meal with us tonight
and go among the boys tomorrow morning. You can give him a shake-down here, tonight, can't you
We must manage it somehow
You don't much mind how you sleep, I suppose, sir
I am not particular
That's lucky
What are you bothering about there, Smike
let the things alone, can't you
Eh
Oh! it's you, is it
Yes, sir
Is there
Well
Have you -- did anybody -- has nothing been heard -- about me
Devil a bit
Not a word
and never will be. Now, this is a pretty sort of thing, isn't it, that you should have been left here, all these years, and no money paid after the first six -- nor no notice taken, nor no clue to be got who you belong to? It's a pretty sort of thing that I should have to feed a great fellow like you, and never hope to get one penny for it, isn't it
I'll tell you what, Squeers
I think that young chap's turning silly
I hope not
for he's a handy fellow out of doors, and worth his meat and drink, anyway. I should think he'd have wit enough for us though, if he was. But come; let's have supper, for I am hungry and tired, and want to get to bed
How's the steak, Squeers
Tender as a lamb
Have a bit
I couldn't eat a morsel
What'll the young man take, my dear
Whatever he likes that's present
What do you say, Mr Knuckleboy
I'll take a little of the pie, if you please
A very little, for I'm not hungry
Will you try a bit of the beef
Whatever you please
it's all the same to me
Ale, Squeery
Certainly
A glassful
Uncommon juicy steak that
It's prime meat
I bought a good large piece of it myself on purpose for
For what
Not for the
No, no; not for them
on purpose for you against you came home. Lor! you didn't think I could have made such a mistake as that
Upon my word, my dear, I didn't know what you were going to say
You needn't make yourself uncomfortable
To think that I should be such a noddy! Well
We'll put you into your regular bedroom tomorrow, Nickelby
Let me see! Who sleeps in Brooks's's bed, my dear
In Brooks's
There's Jennings, little Bolder, Graymarsh, and what's his name
So there is
Yes! Brooks is full
Full
I should think he was
There's a place somewhere, I know
I shall be ready, sir
Good-night
I'll come in myself and show you where the well is
You'll always find a little bit of soap in the kitchen window; that belongs to you
I don't know, I am sure
whose towel to put you on; but if you'll make shift with something tomorrow morning, Mrs Squeers will arrange that, in the course of the day. My dear, don't forget
I'll take care
and mind YOU take care, young man, and get first wash. The teacher ought always to have it; but they get the better of him if they can
Dear me
what an extraordinary hand
Past seven, Nickleby
Has morning come already
Ah! that has it
and ready iced too. Now, Nickleby, come; tumble up, will you
Here's a pretty go
the pump's froze
Indeed
Yes
You can't wash yourself this morning
Not wash myself
No, not a bit of it
So you must be content with giving yourself a dry polish till we break the ice in the well, and can get a bucketful out for the boys. Don't stand staring at me, but do look sharp, will you
Come in, my love
Drat the things
I can't find the school spoon anywhere
Never mind it, my dear
it's of no consequence
No consequence, why how you talk
isn't it brimstone morning
I forgot, my dear
yes, it certainly is. We purify the boys' bloods now and then, Nickleby
Purify fiddlesticks' ends
Don't think, young man, that we go to the expense of flower of brimstone and molasses, just to purify them; because if you think we carry on the business in that way, you'll find yourself mistaken, and so I tell you plainly
My dear
Hem
Oh! nonsense
If the young man comes to be a teacher here, let him understand, at once, that we don't want any foolery about the boys. They have the brimstone and treacle, partly because if they hadn't something or other in the way of medicine they'd be always ailing and giving a world of trouble, and partly because it spoils their appetites and comes cheaper than breakfast and dinner. So, it does them good and us good at the same time, and that's fair enough I'm sure
stuff
A most invaluable woman, that, Nickleby
Indeed, sir
I don't know her equal
I do not know her equal. That woman, Nickleby, is always the same -- always the same bustling, lively, active, saving creetur that you see her now
It's my way to say, when I am up in London
that to them boys she is a mother. But she is more than a mother to them; ten times more. She does things for them boys, Nickleby, that I don't believe half the mothers going, would do for their own sons
I should think they would not, sir
But come
let's go to the schoolroom; and lend me a hand with my school-coat, will you
There
this is our shop, Nickleby
Now
is that physicking over
Just over
Here, you Smike; take away now. Look sharp
For what we have received, may the Lord make us truly thankful
This is the first class in English spelling and philosophy, Nickleby
We'll get up a Latin one, and hand that over to you. Now, then, where's the first boy
Please, sir, he's cleaning the back-parlour window
So he is, to be sure
We go upon the practical mode of teaching, Nickleby; the regular education system. C-l-e-a- n, clean, verb active, to make bright, to scour. W-i-n, win, d-e-r, der, winder, a casement. When the boy knows this out of book, he goes and does it. It's just the same principle as the use of the globes. Where's the second boy
Please, sir, he's weeding the garden
To be sure
So he is. B-o-t, bot, t-i-n, tin, bottin, n-e-y, ney, bottinney, noun substantive, a knowledge of plants. When he has learned that bottinney means a knowledge of plants, he goes and knows 'em. That's our system, Nickleby: what do you think of it
It's very useful one, at any rate
I believe you
Third boy, what's horse
A beast, sir
So it is
Ain't it, Nickleby
I believe there is no doubt of that, sir
Of course there isn't
A horse is a quadruped, and quadruped's Latin for beast, as everybody that's gone through the grammar knows, or else where's the use of having grammars at all
Where, indeed
As you're perfect in that
go and look after MY horse, and rub him down well, or I'll rub you down. The rest of the class go and draw water up, till somebody tells you to leave off, for it's washing-day tomorrow, and they want the coppers filled
That's the way we do it, Nickleby
And a very good way it is, too
Now, just take them fourteen little boys and hear them some reading, because, you know, you must begin to be useful. Idling about here won't do
Let any boy speak a word without leave
and I'll take the skin off his back
Boys, I've been to London, and have returned to my family and you, as strong and well as ever
I have seen the parents of some boys
and they're so glad to hear how their sons are getting on, that there's no prospect at all of their going away, which of course is a very pleasant thing to reflect upon, for all parties
I have had diappointments to contend against
Bolder's father was two pound ten short. Where is Bolder
Here he is, please sir
Come here, Bolder
Bolder
Bolder, if you father thinks that because -- why, what's this, sir
What do you call this, sir
I can't help it, indeed, sir
They will come; it's the dirty work I think, sir -- at least I don't know what it is, sir, but it's not my fault
Bolder
you're an incorrigible young scoundrel, and as the last thrashing did you no good, we must see what another will do towards beating it out of you
There
rub away as hard as you like, you won't rub that off in a hurry. Oh! you won't hold that noise, won't you? Put him out, Smike
Now let us see
A letter for Cobbey. Stand up, Cobbey
Oh
Cobbey's grandmother is dead, and his uncle John has took to drinking, which is all the news his sister sends, except eighteenpence, which will just pay for that broken square of glass. Mrs Squeers, my dear, will you take the money
Graymarsh
he's the next. Stand up, Graymarsh
Graymarsh's maternal aunt
is very glad to hear he's so well and happy, and sends her respectful compliments to Mrs Squeers, and thinks she must be an angel. She likewise thinks Mr Squeers is too good for this world; but hopes he may long be spared to carry on the business. Would have sent the two pair of stockings as desired, but is short of money, so forwards a tract instead, and hopes Graymarsh will put his trust in Providence. Hopes, above all, that he will study in everything to please Mr and Mrs Squeers, and look upon them as his only friends; and that he will love Master Squeers; and not object to sleeping five in a bed, which no Christian should. Ah
a delightful letter. Very affecting indeed
Mobbs
Mobbs's step-mother
took to her bed on hearing that he wouldn't eat fat, and has been very ill ever since. She wishes to know, by an early post, where he expects to go to, if he quarrels with his vittles; and with what feelings he could turn up his nose at the cow's-liver broth, after his good master had asked a blessing on it. This was told her in the London newspapers -- not by Mr Squeers, for he is too kind and too good to set anybody against anybody -- and it has vexed her so much, Mobbs can't think. She is sorry to find he is discontented, which is sinful and horrid, and hopes Mr Squeers will flog him into a happier state of mind; with which view, she has also stopped his halfpenny a week pocket-money, and given a double-bladed knife with a corkscrew in it to the Missionaries, which she had bought on purpose for him
A sulky state of feeling
won't do. Cheerfulness and contentment must be kept up. Mobbs, come to me
took care of
You need not fear me
Are you cold
N-n-o
You are shivering
I am not cold
I am used to it
Poor fellow
Oh dear, oh dear
My heart will break. It will, it will
Hush
Be a man; you are nearly one by years, God help you
By years
Oh dear, dear, how many of them! How many of them since I was a little child, younger than any that are here now! Where are they all
Whom do you speak of
Tell me
My friends
myself -- my -- oh! what sufferings mine have been
There is always hope
No
no; none for me. Do you remember the boy that died here
I was not here, you know
but what of him
Why
I was with him at night, and when it was all silent he cried no more for friends he wished to come and sit with him, but began to see faces round his bed that came from home; he said they smiled, and talked to him; and he died at last lifting his head to kiss them. Do you hear
Yes, yes
What faces will smile on me when I die
Who will talk to me in those long nights! They cannot come from home; they would frighten me, if they did, for I don't know what it is, and shouldn't know them. Pain and fear, pain and fear for me, alive or dead. No hope, no hope
Well, my dear
what do you think of him by this time
Think of who
Of the young man -- the new teacher -- who else could I mean
Oh! that Knuckleboy
I hate him
What do you hate him for, my dear
What's that to you
If I hate him, that's enough, ain't it
Quite enough for him, my dear, and a great deal too much I dare say, if he knew it
I only ask from curiosity, my dear
Well, then, if you want to know
I'll tell you. Because he's a proud, haughty, consequential, turned-up-nosed peacock
Hem
He is cheap, my dear; the young man is very cheap
Not a bit of it
Five pound a year
What of that; it's dear if you don't want him, isn't it
But we DO want him
I don't see that you want him any more than the dead
Don't tell me. You can put on the cards and in the advertisements, "Education by Mr Wackford Squeers and able assistants," without having any assistants, can't you? Isn't it done every day by all the masters about? I've no patience with you
Haven't you
Now I'll tell you what, Mrs Squeers. In this matter of having a teacher, I'll take my own way, if you please. A slave driver in the West Indies is allowed a man under him, to see that his blacks don't run away, or get up a rebellion; and I'll have a man under me to do the same with OUR blacks, till such time as little Wackford is able to take charge of the school
Am I to take care of the school when I grow up a man, father
You are, my son
Oh my eye, won't I give it to the boys
Oh, father, won't I make 'em squeak again
He's a nasty stuck-up monkey, that's what I consider him
Supposing he is
he is as well stuck up in our schoolroom as anywhere else, isn't he?-- especially as he don't like it
Well
there's something in that. I hope it'll bring his pride down, and it shall be no fault of mine if it don't
Nickleby
your mother always calls things and people by their wrong names
No matter for that
I see them with right eyes, and that's quite enough for me. I watched him when you were laying on to little Bolder this afternoon. He looked as black as thunder, all the while, and, one time, started up as if he had more than got it in his mind to make a rush at you. I saw him, though he thought I didn't
Never mind that, father
Who is the man
Why, your father has got some nonsense in his head that he's the son of a poor gentleman that died the other day
The son of a gentleman
Yes; but I don't believe a word of it. If he's a gentleman's son at all, he's a fondling, that's my opinion
foundling
He's nothing of the kind
for his father was married to his mother years before he was born, and she is alive now. If he was, it would be no business of ours, for we make a very good friend by having him here; and if he likes to learn the boys anything besides minding them, I have no objection I am sure
I say again, I hate him worse than poison
If you dislike him, my dear
I don't know anybody who can show dislike better than you, and of course there's no occasion, with him, to take the trouble to hide it
I don't intend to, I assure you
That's right
and if he has a touch of pride about him, as I think he has, I don't believe there's woman in all England that can bring anybody's spirit down, as quick as you can, my love
something quite out of the common
I beg your pardon
I thought my father was -- or might be -- dear me, how very awkward
Mr Squeers is out
Do you know will he be long, sir
He said about an hour
I never knew anything happen so cross
Thank you! I am very sorry I intruded, I am sure. If I hadn't thought my father was here, I wouldn't upon any account have -- it is very provoking -- must look so very strange
If that is all you want
perhaps I can supply his place
Shall it be a hard or a soft nib
He HAS a beautiful smile
Which did you say
Dear me, I was thinking of something else for the moment, I declare
Oh! as soft as possible, if you please
Very awkward of me
Not at all, sir
it was my fault. It was all my foolish -- a -- a -- good-morning
Goodbye
The next I make for you, I hope will be made less clumsily. Take care! You are biting the nib off now
Really
so embarrassing that I scarcely know what I -- very sorry to give you so much trouble
Not the least trouble in the world
I never saw such legs in the whole course of my life
Isn't it an extraordinary thing
Most extraordinary
But what has he said to you
Don't ask me what he said, my dear
If you had only seen his looks and smiles! I never was so overcome in all my life
Did he look in this way
Very like that -- only more genteel
Ah
then he means something, depend on it
How I should like to see him
So you shall, 'Tilda
I should consider myself one of the most ungrateful creatures alive, if I denied you. I think mother's going away for two days to fetch some boys; and when she does, I'll ask you and John up to tea, and have him to meet you
Where's John, 'Tilda
Only gone home to clean himself
He will be here by the time the tea's drawn
I do so palpitate
Ah! I know what it is
I have not been used to it, you know, 'Tilda
You'll soon get the better of it, dear
There he is
Oh 'Tilda
Hush
Hem! Say, come in
Come in
Good-evening
I understood from Mr Squeers that
Oh yes; it's all right
Father don't tea with us, but you won't mind that, I dare say
We are only waiting for one more gentleman
But if it's caused by my being here
don't mind me a bit, for I'm quite as bad. You may go on just as you would if you were alone
Tilda
I am ashamed of you
Well
as I am here, and seem expected, for some reason or other, to be amiable, it's of no use looking like a goose. I may as well accommodate myself to the company
Well, John
Weel
I beg your pardon
Mr Nickleby -- Mr John Browdie
Servant, sir
Yours to command, sir
Ye wean't get bread and butther ev'ry neight, I expect, mun
Ecod
they dean't put too much intiv'em. Ye'll be nowt but skeen and boans if you stop here long eneaf. Ho! ho! ho
You are facetious, sir
Na; I dean't know
un, he wur
I don't know whether your perceptions are quite keen enough, Mr Browdie, to enable you to understand that your remarks are offensive
but if they are, have the goodness to
If you say another word, John
only half a word, I'll never forgive you, or speak to you again
un
un gang on
What's the matter, Fanny
Nothing, 'Tilda
There never was any danger
was there, Mr Nickleby
None at all
Absurd
That's right
say something kind to her, and she'll soon come round. Here! Shall John and I go into the little kitchen, and come back presently
Not on any account
What on earth should you do that for
Well
you ARE a one to keep company
What do you mean
I am not a one to keep company at all -- here at all events. I can't make this out
but men are always fickle, and always were, and always will be; that I can make out, very easily
Fickle
what do you suppose? You don't mean to say that you think
Oh no, I think nothing at all
Look at her, dressed so beautiful and looking so well -- really ALMOST handsome. I am ashamed at you
My dear girl, what have I got to do with her dressing beautifully or looking well
Come, don't call me a dear girl
or Fanny will be saying it's my fault. Come; we're going to have a game at cards
There are only four of us, 'Tilda
so we had better go partners, two against two
What do you say, Mr Nickleby
With all the pleasure in life
Mr Browdie
shall we make a bank against them
We intend to win everything
Tilda HAS won something she didn't expect, I think, haven't you, dear
Only a dozen and eight, love
How dull you are tonight
No, indeed
I am in excellent spirits. I was thinking YOU seemed out of sorts
Me
Oh no
That's well
Your hair's coming out of curl, dear
Never mind me
you had better attend to your partner
Thank you for reminding her
So she had
I never had such luck, really
It's all along of you, Mr Nickleby, I think. I should like to have you for a partner always
I wish you had
You'll have a bad wife, though, if you always win at cards
Not if your wish is gratified
I am sure I shall have a good one in that case
We have all the talking to ourselves, it seems
You do it so well
that it would be a pity to interrupt, wouldn't it, Mr Browdie? He! he! he
Nay
we do it in default of having anybody else to talk to
We'll talk to you, you know, if you'll say anything
Thank you, 'Tilda, dear
Or you can talk to each other, if you don't choose to talk to us
John, why don't you say something
Say summat
Ay, and not sit there so silent and glum
Weel, then
what I say's this -- Dang my boans and boddy, if I stan' this ony longer. Do ye gang whoam wi' me, and do yon loight an' toight young whipster look sharp out for a brokken head, next time he cums under my hond
Mercy on us, what's all this
Cum whoam, tell 'e, cum whoam
Why, and here's Fanny in tears now
What can be the matter
Oh! you don't know, miss, of course you don't know. Pray don't trouble yourself to inquire
Well, I'm sure
And who cares whether you are sure or not, ma'am
You are monstrous polite, ma'am
I shall not come to you to take lessons in the art, ma'am
You needn't take the trouble to make yourself plainer than you are, ma'am, however
because that's quite unnecessary
Tilda
I hate you
Ah! There's no love lost between us, I assure you
You'll cry your eyes out, when I'm gone; you know you will
I scorn your words, Minx
You pay me a great compliment when you say so
Wish you a very good- night, ma'am, and pleasant dreams attend your sleep
This is one consequence
of my cursed readiness to adapt myself to any society in which chance carries me. If I had sat mute and motionless, as I might have done, this would not have happened
I was glad
to grasp at any relief from the sight of this dreadful place, or the presence of its vile master. I have set these people by the ears, and made two new enemies, where, Heaven knows, I needed none. Well, it is a just punishment for having forgotten, even for an hour, what is around me now
I think I have caught it now
The very shade! This will be the sweetest portrait I have ever done, certainly
It will be your genius that makes it so, then, I am sure
No, no, I won't allow that, my dear
It's a very nice subject -- a very nice subject, indeed -- though, of course, something depends upon the mode of treatment
And not a little
Why, my dear, you are right there
in the main you are right there; though I don't allow that it is of such very great importance in the present case. Ah! The difficulties of Art, my dear, are great
They must be, I have no doubt
They are beyond anything you can form the faintest conception of
What with bringing out eyes with all one's power, and keeping down noses with all one's force, and adding to heads, and taking away teeth altogether, you have no idea of the trouble one little miniature is
The remuneration can scarcely repay you
Why, it does not, and that's the truth
and then people are so dissatisfied and unreasonable, that, nine times out of ten, there's no pleasure in painting them. Sometimes they say, "Oh, how very serious you have made me look, Miss La Creevy!" and at others, "La, Miss La Creevy, how very smirking!" when the very essence of a good portrait is, that it must be either serious or smirking, or it's no portrait at all
Indeed
Certainly, my dear; because the sitters are always either the one or the other
Look at the Royal Academy! All those beautiful shiny portraits of gentlemen in black velvet waistcoats, with their fists doubled up on round tables, or marble slabs, are serious, you know; and all the ladies who are playing with little parasols, or little dogs, or little children -- it's the same rule in art, only varying the objects -- are smirking. In fact
there are only two styles of portrait painting; the serious and the smirk; and we always use the serious for professional people (except actors sometimes), and the smirk for private ladies and gentlemen who don't care so much about looking clever
What a number of officers you seem to paint
Number of what, child
Character portraits, oh yes -- they're not real military men, you know
No
Bless your heart, of course not; only clerks and that, who hire a uniform coat to be painted in, and send it here in a carpet bag. Some artists
keep a red coat, and charge seven-and-sixpence extra for hire and carmine; but I don't do that myself, for I don't consider it legitimate
not
that you should make it up for painting, my dear, but because it's our custom sometimes to tell sitters what part we are upon, in order that if there's any particular expression they want introduced, they may throw it in, at the time, you know
And when
when do you expect to see your uncle again
I scarcely know; I had expected to have seen him before now
Soon I hope, for this state of uncertainty is worse than anything
I suppose he has money, hasn't he
He is very rich, I have heard
I don't know that he is, but I believe so
Ah, you may depend upon it he is, or he wouldn't be so surly
When a man's a bear, he is generally pretty independent
His manner is rough
Rough
a porcupine's a featherbed to him! I never met with such a cross-grained old savage
It is only his manner, I believe
he was disappointed in early life, I think I have heard, or has had his temper soured by some calamity. I should be sorry to think ill of him until I knew he deserved it
Well; that's very right and proper
and Heaven forbid that I should be the cause of your doing so! But, now, mightn't he, without feeling it himself, make you and your mama some nice little allowance that would keep you both comfortable until you were well married, and be a little fortune to her afterwards? What would a hundred a year for instance, be to him
I don't know what it would be to him
but it would be that to me I would rather die than take
Heyday
A dependence upon him
would embitter my whole life. I should feel begging a far less degradation
Well
This of a relation whom you will not hear an indifferent person speak ill of, my dear, sounds oddly enough, I confess
I dare say it does
indeed I am sure it must. I -- I -- only mean that with the feelings and recollection of better times upon me, I could not bear to live on anybody's bounty -- not his particularly, but anybody's
I only ask of him
that he will move so little out of his way, in my behalf, as to enable me by his recommendation -- only by his recommendation -- to earn, literally, my bread and remain with my mother. Whether we shall ever taste happiness again, depends upon the fortunes of my dear brother; but if he will do this, and Nicholas only tells us that he is well and cheerful, I shall be contented
Come in, whoever it is
Your servant, ladies
You were talking so loud, that I was unable to make you hear
I called in, on my way upstairs, more than half expecting to find you here
Is that my niece's portrait, ma'am
Yes it is, Mr Nickleby
and between you and me and the post, sir, it will be a very nice portrait too, though I say it who am the painter
Don't trouble yourself to show it to me, ma'am
I have no eye for likenesses. Is it nearly finished
Why, yes
Two sittings more will
Have them at once, ma'am
She'll have no time to idle over fooleries after tomorrow. Work, ma'am, work; we must all work. Have you let your lodgings, ma'am
I have not put a bill up yet, sir
Put it up at once, ma'am; they won't want the rooms after this week, or if they do, can't pay for them. Now, my dear, if you're ready, we'll lose no more time
I have found a situation for your daughter, ma'am
Well
Now, I will say that that is only just what I have expected of you. "Depend upon it," I said to Kate, only yesterday morning at breakfast, "that after your uncle has provided, in that most ready manner, for Nicholas, he will not leave us until he has done at least the same for you." These were my very words, as near as I remember. Kate, my dear, why don't you thank your
Let me proceed, ma'am, pray
Kate, my love, let your uncle proceed
I am most anxious that he should, mama
Well, my dear, if you are anxious that he should, you had better allow your uncle to say what he has to say, without interruption
Your uncle's time is very valuable, my dear; and however desirous you may be -- and naturally desirous, as I am sure any affectionate relations who have seen so little of your uncle as we have, must naturally be to protract the pleasure of having him among us, still, we are bound not to be selfish, but to take into consideration the important nature of his occupations in the city
I am very much obliged to you, ma'am
An absence of business habits in this family leads, apparently, to a great waste of words before business -- when it does come under consideration -- is arrived at, at all
I fear it is so indeed
Your poor brother
My poor brother, ma'am
had no idea what business was -- was unacquainted, I verily believe, with the very meaning of the word
I fear he was
If it hadn't been for me, I don't know what would have become of him
Repining is of no use, ma'am
Of all fruitless errands, sending a tear to look after a day that is gone is the most fruitless
So it is
So it is
As you feel so keenly, in your own purse and person, the consequences of inattention to business, ma'am
I am sure you will impress upon your children the necessity of attaching themselves to it early in life
Of course I must see that
Sad experience, you know, brother-in-law.-- Kate, my dear, put that down in the next letter to Nicholas, or remind me to do it if I write
The situation that I have made interest to procure, ma'am, is with -- with a milliner and dressmaker, in short
A milliner
A milliner and dressmaker, ma'am
Dressmakers in London, as I need not remind you, ma'am, who are so well acquainted with all matters in the ordinary routine of life, make large fortunes, keep equipages, and become persons of great wealth and fortune
Very true
What your uncle says is very true, Kate, my dear
I recollect when your poor papa and I came to town after we were married, that a young lady brought me home a chip cottage- bonnet, with white and green trimming, and green persian lining, in her own carriage, which drove up to the door full gallop;-- at least, I am not quite certain whether it was her own carriage or a hackney chariot, but I remember very well that the horse dropped down dead as he was turning round, and that your poor papa said he hadn't had any corn for a fortnight
The lady's name
is Mantalini -- Madame Mantalini. I know her. She lives near Cavendish Square. If your daughter is disposed to try after the situation, I'll take her there directly
Have you nothing to say to your uncle, my love
A great deal
but not now. I would rather speak to him when we are alone;-- it will save his time if I thank him and say what I wish to say to him, as we walk along
Now
walk as fast as you can, and you'll get into the step that you'll have to walk to business with, every morning
I am very much obliged to you, uncle
very
I'm glad to hear it
I hope you'll do your duty
I will try to please, uncle
indeed I
Don't begin to cry
I hate crying
It's very foolish, I know, uncle
It is
and very affected besides. Let me see no more of it
Uncle
I must ask one question of you. I am to live at home
At home
where's that
I mean with my mother -- THE WIDOW
You will live, to all intents and purposes, here
for here you will take your meals, and here you will be from morning till night -- occasionally perhaps till morning again
But at night, I mean
I cannot leave her, uncle. I must have some place that I can call a home; it will be wherever she is, you know, and may be a very humble one
May be
must be, you mean. May be a humble one! Is the girl mad
The word slipped from my lips, I did not mean it indeed
I hope not
But my question, uncle; you have not answered it
Why, I anticipated something of the kind
and -- though I object very strongly, mind -- have provided against it. I spoke of you as an out-of-door worker; so you will go to this home that may be humble, every night
Here. Hollo
Who's that
Demmit. What, Nickleby! oh, demmit
Demmit, you don't mean to say you want me, do you, demmit
Not yet
Ha! ha! demmit
My niece
I remember
Demmit, I remember what you come for. Step this way, Nickleby; my dear, will you follow me? Ha! ha! They all follow me, Nickleby; always did, demmit, always
Sit down, my dear
This cursed high room takes one's breath away. These infernal sky parlours -- I'm afraid I must move, Nickleby
I would, by all means
What a demd rum fellow you are, Nickleby
the demdest, longest-headed, queerest-tempered old coiner of gold and silver ever was -- demmit
My life
what a demd devil of a time you have been
I didn't even know Mr Nickleby was here, my love
Then what a doubly demd infernal rascal that footman must be, my soul
My dear
that is entirely your fault
My fault, my heart's joy
Certainly
what can you expect, dearest, if you will not correct the man
Correct the man, my soul's delight
Yes; I am sure he wants speaking to, badly enough
Then do not vex itself
he shall be horse- whipped till he cries out demnebly
Now, ma'am
this is my niece
Just so, Mr Nickleby
Can you speak French, child
Yes, ma'am
Like a demd native
We keep twenty young women constantly employed in the establishment
Indeed, ma'am
Yes; and some of 'em demd handsome, too
Mantalini
My senses' idol
Do you wish to break my heart
Not for twenty thousand hemispheres populated with -- with -- with little ballet-dancers
Then you will, if you persevere in that mode of speaking
What can Mr Nickleby think when he hears you
Oh! Nothing, ma'am, nothing
I know his amiable nature, and yours,-- mere little remarks that give a zest to your daily intercourse -- lovers' quarrels that add sweetness to those domestic joys which promise to last so long -- that's all; that's all
What a demd horrid croaking
You will pay no attention, if you please, to what Mr Mantalini says
I do not, ma'am
Mr Mantalini knows nothing whatever about any of the young women
If he has seen any of them, he must have seen them in the street, going to, or returning from, their work, and not here. He was never even in the room. I do not allow it. What hours of work have you been accustomed to
I have never yet been accustomed to work at all, ma'am
For which reason she'll work all the better now
I hope so
our hours are from nine to nine, with extra work when we're very full of business, for which I allow payment as overtime
Your meals
that is, dinner and tea, you will take here. I should think your wages would average from five to seven shillings a week; but I can't give you any certain information on that point, until I see what you can do
If you're ready to come
you had better begin on Monday morning at nine exactly, and Miss Knag the forewoman shall then have directions to try you with some easy work at first. Is there anything more, Mr Nickleby
Nothing more, ma'am
Then I believe that's all
There
now you're provided for
I had some idea
of providing for your mother in a pleasant part of the country --(he had a presentation to some almshouses on the borders of Cornwall, which had occurred to him more than once)-- but as you want to be together, I must do something else for her. She has a little money
A very little
A little will go a long way if it's used sparingly
She must see how long she can make it last, living rent free. You leave your lodgings on Saturday
You told us to do so, uncle
Yes; there is a house empty that belongs to me, which I can put you into till it is let, and then, if nothing else turns up, perhaps I shall have another. You must live there
Is it far from here, sir
Pretty well
I am afraid it is an unhealthy occupation
I recollect getting three young milliners to sit to me, when I first began to paint, and I remember that they were all very pale and sickly
Oh! that's not a general rule by any means
for I remember, as well as if it was only yesterday, employing one that I was particularly recommended to, to make me a scarlet cloak at the time when scarlet cloaks were fashionable, and she had a very red face -- a very red face, indeed
Perhaps she drank
I don't know how that may have been
but I know she had a very red face, so your argument goes for nothing
I shall be sorry -- truly sorry to leave you, my kind friend
You shall not shake me off, for all that
I shall see you very often, and come and hear how you get on; and if, in all London, or all the wide world besides, there is no other heart that takes an interest in your welfare, there will be one little lonely woman that prays for it night and day
a real good cry
From Mr Ralph Nickleby
We shall be ready directly
We have not much to carry, but I fear we must have a coach
I'll get one
Indeed you shall not trouble yourself
I will
I can't suffer you to think of such a thing
You can't help it
Not help it
No; I thought of it as I came along; but didn't get one, thinking you mightn't be ready. I think of a great many things. Nobody can prevent that
Oh yes, I understand you, Mr Noggs
Our thoughts are free, of course. Everybody's thoughts are their own, clearly
They wouldn't be, if some people had their way
Well, no more they would, Mr Noggs, and that's very true
Some people to be sure are such -- how's your master
I am sure we are very much obliged to him
Very
I'll tell him so
Excuse my curiosity
but did I not see you in the coachyard, on the morning my brother went away to Yorkshire
No
No
I should have said so anywhere
You'd have said wrong
It's the first time I've been out for three weeks. I've had the gout
This house depresses and chills one
and seems as if some blight had fallen on it. If I were superstitious, I should be almost inclined to believe that some dreadful crime had been perpetrated within these old walls, and that the place had never prospered since. How frowning and how dark it looks
Lord, my dear
don't talk in that way, or you'll frighten me to death
It is only my foolish fancy, mama
Well, then, my love, I wish you would keep your foolish fancy to yourself, and not wake up MY foolish fancy to keep it company
Why didn't you think of all this before -- you are so careless -- we might have asked Miss La Creevy to keep us company or borrowed a dog, or a thousand things -- but it always was the way, and was just the same with your poor dear father. Unless I thought of everything
Well, my dear
now isn't this thoughtful and considerate of your uncle? Why, we should not have had anything but the bed we bought yesterday, to lie down upon, if it hadn't been for his thoughtfulness
Very kind, indeed
We need detain you no longer, I think
Is there nothing I can do
Nothing, thank you
Perhaps, my dear, Mr Noggs would like to drink our healths
I think, mama
you would hurt his feelings if you offered it
How lovely your hair do curl tonight, miss
I declare if it isn't a pity and a shame to brush it out
Hold your tongue
Well, I couldn't help saying, miss, if you was to kill me for it
that I never see nobody look so vulgar as Miss Price this night
I know it's very wrong in me to say so, miss
What do you mean, Phib
How you talk
Talk, miss! It's enough to make a Tom cat talk French grammar, only to see how she tosses her head
She DOES toss her head
So vain, and so very -- very plain
Poor 'Tilda
And always laying herself out so, to get to be admired
Oh, dear! It's positive indelicate
I can't allow you to talk in that way, Phib
Tilda's friends are low people, and if she don't know any better, it's their fault, and not hers
Well, but you know, miss
if she was only to take copy by a friend -- oh! if she only knew how wrong she was, and would but set herself right by you, what a nice young woman she might be in time
Phib
it's not proper for me to hear these comparisons drawn; they make 'Tilda look a coarse improper sort of person, and it seems unfriendly in me to listen to them. I would rather you dropped the subject, Phib; at the same time, I must say, that if 'Tilda Price would take pattern by somebody -- not me particularly
Oh yes; you, miss
Well, me, Phib, if you will have it so
I must say, that if she would, she would be all the better for it
So somebody else thinks, or I am much mistaken
What do you mean
Never mind, miss
I know what I know; that's all
Phib
I insist upon your explaining yourself. What is this dark mystery? Speak
Why, if you will have it, miss, it's this
Mr John Browdie thinks as you think; and if he wasn't too far gone to do it creditable, he'd be very glad to be off with Miss Price, and on with Miss Squeers
Gracious heavens
What is this
Truth, ma'am, and nothing but truth
What a situation
on the brink of unconsciously destroying the peace and happiness of my own 'Tilda. What is the reason that men fall in love with me, whether I like it or not, and desert their chosen intendeds for my sake
Because they can't help it, miss
the reason's plain
Never let me hear of it again
Never! Do you hear? 'Tilda Price has faults -- many faults -- but I wish her well, and above all I wish her married; for I think it highly desirable -- most desirable from the very nature of her failings -- that she should be married as soon as possible. No, Phib. Let her have Mr Browdie. I may pity HIM, poor fellow; but I have a great regard for 'Tilda, and only hope she may make a better wife than I think she will
Well, Fanny
you see I have come to see you, although we HAD some words last night
I pity your bad passions, 'Tilda
but I bear no malice. I am above it
Don't be cross, Fanny
I have come to tell you something that I know will please you
What may that be, 'Tilda
This
After we left here last night John and I had a dreadful quarrel
That doesn't please me
Lor! I wouldn't think so bad of you as to suppose it did
That's not it
Oh
Go on
After a great deal of wrangling, and saying we would never see each other any more
we made it up, and this morning John went and wrote our names down to be put up, for the first time, next Sunday, so we shall be married in three weeks, and I give you notice to get your frock made
But come now, Fanny
I want to have a word or two with you about young Mr Nickleby
He is nothing to me
I despise him too much
Oh, you don't mean that, I am sure
Confess, Fanny; don't you like him now
I hate everybody
and I wish that everybody was dead -- that I do
Dear, dear
You are not serious, I am sure
Yes, I am
And I wish I was dead too. There
Oh! you'll think very differently in another five minutes
How much better to take him into favour again, than to hurt yourself by going on in that way. Wouldn't it be much nicer, now, to have him all to yourself on good terms, in a company- keeping, love-making, pleasant sort of manner
I don't know but what it would
Oh! 'Tilda, how could you have acted so mean and dishonourable! I wouldn't have believed it of you, if anybody had told me
Heyday
One would suppose I had been murdering somebody at least
Very nigh as bad
And all this because I happen to have enough of good looks to make people civil to me
Persons don't make their own faces, and it's no more my fault if mine is a good one than it is other people's fault if theirs is a bad one
Hold your tongue
or you'll make me slap you, 'Tilda, and afterwards I should be sorry for it
felt fit to drop into the earth
Shall we turn back, or run into a cottage
He don't see us yet
No, 'Tilda
it is my duty to go through with it, and I will
Good-morning
He is going
I shall choke, 'Tilda
Come back, Mr Nickleby, do
come back, Mr Nickleby
Don't stop to talk
but support her on the other side. How do you feel now, dear
Better
This foolish faintness
Don't call it foolish, dear
you have no reason to be ashamed of it. It's those who are too proud to come round again, without all this to-do, that ought to be ashamed
You are resolved to fix it upon me, I see
although I told you, last night, it was not my fault
There; he says it was not his fault, my dear
Perhaps you were too jealous, or too hasty with him? He says it was not his fault. You hear; I think that's apology enough
You will not understand me
Pray dispense with this jesting, for I have no time, and really no inclination, to be the subject or promoter of mirth just now
What do you mean
Don't ask him, 'Tilda
I forgive him
Dear me
this is more serious than I supposed. Allow me! Will you have the goodness to hear me speak
I am very sorry -- truly and sincerely sorry -- for having been the cause of any difference among you, last night. I reproach myself, most bitterly, for having been so unfortunate as to cause the dissension that occurred, although I did so, I assure you, most unwittingly and heedlessly
Well; that's not all you have got to say surely
I fear there is something more
it is a most awkward thing to say -- but -- the very mention of such a supposition makes one look like a puppy -- still -- may I ask if that lady supposes that I entertain any -- in short, does she think that I am in love with her
Delightful embarrassment
I have brought him to it, at last. Answer for me, dear
Does she think so
of course she does
She does
Certainly
If Mr Nickleby has doubted that, 'Tilda
he may set his mind at rest. His sentiments are recipro
Stop
pray hear me. This is the grossest and wildest delusion, the completest and most signal mistake, that ever human being laboured under, or committed. I have scarcely seen the young lady half-a-dozen times, but if I had seen her sixty times, or am destined to see her sixty thousand, it would be, and will be, precisely the same. I have not one thought, wish, or hope, connected with her, unless it be -- and I say this, not to hurt her feelings, but to impress her with the real state of my own -- unless it be the one object, dear to my heart as life itself, of being one day able to turn my back upon this accursed place, never to set foot in it again, or think of it -- even think of it -- but with loathing and disgust
Let him see
if I don't set mother against him a little more when she comes back
I can't do it
No, no
Do not try
Do not for God's sake
I cannot bear to see you
They are more hard with me than ever
I know it
They are
But for you
I should die. They would kill me; they would; I know they would
You will do better, poor fellow
when I am gone
Gone
Softly
Yes
Are you going
I cannot say
I was speaking more to my own thoughts, than to you
Tell me
oh do tell me, WILL you go -- WILL you
I shall be driven to that at last
The world is before me, after all
Tell me
is the world as bad and dismal as this place
Heaven forbid
its hardest, coarsest toil, were happiness to this
Should I ever meet you there
Yes
No, no
Should I -- should I -- tell me that again. Say I should be sure to find you
You would
and I would help and aid you, and not bring fresh sorrow on you as I have done here
Now then
are you going to sleep all day, up there
You lazy hounds
We shall be down directly, sir
Down directly
Ah! you had better be down directly, or I'll be down upon some of you in less. Where's that Smike
Smike
Do you want your head broke in a fresh place, Smike
Confound his impudence
Nickleby
Well, sir
Send that obstinate scoundrel down; don't you hear me calling
He is not here, sir
Don't tell me a lie
He is
He is not
don't tell me one
We shall soon see that
I'll find him, I warrant you
What does this mean
Where have you hid him
I have seen nothing of him since last night
Come
you won't save him this way. Where is he
At the bottom of the nearest pond for aught I know
Damn you, what do you mean by that
Please, sir, I think Smike's run away, sir
Ha
Who said that
Tomkins, please sir
You think he has run away, do you, sir
Yes, please sir
And what, sir
what reason have you to suppose that any boy would want to run away from this establishment? Eh, sir
There
Now if any other boy thinks Smike has run away, I shall be glad to have a talk with him
Well, Nickleby
YOU think he has run away, I suppose
I think it extremely likely
Oh, you do, do you
Maybe you know he has
I know nothing of the kind
He didn't tell you he was going, I suppose, did he
He did not
I am very glad he did not, for it would then have been my duty to have warned you in time
Which no doubt you would have been devilish sorry to do
I should indeed
You interpret my feelings with great accuracy
What's all this here to-do
What on earth are you a talking to him for, Squeery
Why, my dear
the fact is, that Smike is not to be found
Well, I know that
and where's the wonder? If you get a parcel of proud-stomached teachers that set the young dogs a rebelling, what else can you look for? Now, young man, you just have the kindness to take yourself off to the schoolroom, and take the boys off with you, and don't you stir out of there till you have leave given you, or you and I may fall out in a way that'll spoil your beauty, handsome as you think yourself, and so I tell you
Indeed
Yes; and indeed and indeed again, Mister Jackanapes
and I wouldn't keep such as you in the house another hour, if I had my way
Nor would you if I had mine
Now, boys
Ah! Now, boys
Follow your leader, boys, and take pattern by Smike if you dare. See what he'll get for himself, when he is brought back; and, mind! I tell you that you shall have as bad, and twice as bad, if you so much as open your mouths about him
If I catch him
I'll only stop short of flaying him alive. I give you notice, boys
IF you catch him
you are sure to; you can't help it, if you go the right way to work. Come! Away with you
He is off
The cow-house and stable are locked up, so he can't be there; and he's not downstairs anywhere, for the girl has looked. He must have gone York way, and by a public road too
Why must he
Stupid
He hadn't any money, had he
Never had a penny of his own in his whole life, that I know of
To be sure
and he didn't take anything to eat with him; that I'll answer for. Ha! ha! ha
Ha! ha! ha
Then, of course
he must beg his way, and he could do that, nowhere, but on the public road
That's true
True! Yes; but you would never have thought of it, for all that, if I hadn't said so
Now, if you take the chaise and go one road, and I borrow Swallow's chaise, and go the other, what with keeping our eyes open, and asking questions, one or other of us is pretty certain to lay hold of him
No news of the scamp
I'll have consolation for this out of somebody, Nickleby, if Mrs Squeers don't hunt him down; so I give you warning
It is not in my power to console you, sir
It is nothing to me
Isn't it
We shall see
We shall
Here's the pony run right off his legs, and me obliged to come home with a hack cob, that'll cost fifteen shillings besides other expenses
who's to pay for that, do you hear
I'll have it out of somebody, I tell you
None of your whining vapourings here, Mr Puppy, but be off to your kennel, for it's past your bedtime! Come! Get out
Lift him out
Bring him in; bring him in
Take care
We tied his legs under the apron and made'em fast to the chaise, to prevent his giving us the slip again
Is every boy here
Each boy keep his place
Nickleby! to your desk, sir
Nothing, I suppose
Have you anything to say
Stand a little out of the way, Mrs Squeers, my dear; I've hardly got room enough
Spare me, sir
Oh! that's all, is it
Yes, I'll flog you within an inch of your life, and spare you that
Ha, ha, ha
un
I was driven to do it
Driven to do it, were you
Oh! it wasn't your fault; it was mine, I suppose -- eh
A nasty, ungrateful, pig-headed, brutish, obstinate, sneaking dog
what does he mean by that
Stand aside, my dear
We'll try and find out
Stop
Who cried stop
I
This must not go on
Must not go on
No
I say must not
shall not. I will prevent it
You have disregarded all my quiet interference in the miserable lad's behalf
you have returned no answer to the letter in which I begged forgiveness for him, and offered to be responsible that he would remain quietly here. Don't blame me for this public interference. You have brought it upon yourself; not I
Sit down, beggar
Wretch
touch him at your peril! I will not stand by, and see it done. My blood is up, and I have the strength of ten such men as you. Look to yourself, for by Heaven I will not spare you, if you drive me on
Stand back
I have a long series of insults to avenge
and my indignation is aggravated by the dastardly cruelties practised on helpless infancy in this foul den. Have a care; for if you do raise the devil within me, the consequences shall fall heavily upon your own head
I am in no mood for more noise and riot
and yet, do what I will, I shall have an altercation with this honest blockhead, and perhaps a blow or two from yonder staff
Servant, young genelman
Yours
Weel; we ha' met at last
Yes
Come
we parted on no very good terms the last time we met; it was my fault, I believe; but I had no intention of offending you, and no idea that I was doing so. I was very sorry for it, afterwards. Will you shake hands
Shake honds
ah! that I weel
but wa'at be the matther wi' thy feace, mun? it be all brokken loike
It is a cut
a blow; but I returned it to the giver, and with good interest too
Noa, did 'ee though
un for thot
The fact is
the fact is, that I have been ill-treated
Noa
dean't say thot
Yes, I have
by that man Squeers, and I have beaten him soundly, and am leaving this place in consequence
What
Beatten the schoolmeasther! Ho! ho! ho! Beatten the schoolmeasther! who ever heard o' the loike o' that noo! Giv' us thee hond agean, yoongster. Beatten the schoolmeasther! Dang it, I loov' thee for't
No, I do not
but it is of no great consequence to me, for I intend walking
Gang awa' to Lunnun afoot
Every step of the way
I should be many steps further on by this time, and so goodbye
Nay noo
stan' still, tellee. Hoo much cash hast thee gotten
Not much
but I can make it enough. Where there's a will, there's a way, you know
Dean't be afeard, mun
tak' eneaf to carry thee whoam. Thee'lt pay me yan day, a' warrant
Cod it's the best thing a've heerd this twonty year
Strange
can this be some lingering creation of the visions that have scarcely left me! It cannot be real -- and yet I -- I am awake! Smike
Why do you kneel to me
To go with you -- anywhere -- everywhere -- to the world's end -- to the churchyard grave
Let me, oh do let me. You are my home -- my kind friend -- take me with you, pray
I am a friend who can do little for you
How came you here
Poor fellow
your hard fate denies you any friend but one, and he is nearly as poor and helpless as yourself
May I -- may I go with you
I will be your faithful hard-working servant, I will, indeed. I want no clothes
these will do very well. I only want to be near you
And you shall
And the world shall deal by you as it does by me, till one or both of us shall quit it for a better. Come
A nasty night, Mr Noggs
Does it rain
Does it
I am wet through
It doesn't take much to wet you and me through, Mr Crowl
Well; and that makes it the more vexatious
You have not turned saving, at this time of day, I hope
To the Kenwigses
Think of that now
If I didn't -- thinking that you were certain not to go, because you said you wouldn't -- tell Kenwigs I couldn't come, and make up my mind to spend the evening with you
I was obliged to go
They would have me
Well; but what's to become of me
It's all your fault. I'll tell you what -- I'll sit by your fire till you come back again
the Kenwigses
My dear
wouldn't it be better to begin a round game
Kenwigs, my dear
I am surprised at you. Would you begin without my uncle
I forgot the collector
oh no, that would never do
He's so particular
that if we began without him, I should be out of his will for ever
Dear
You've no idea what he is
and yet as good a creature as ever breathed
The kindest-hearted man as ever was
It goes to his heart, I believe, to be forced to cut the water off, when the people don't pay
George
none of that, if you please
It was only my joke
George
a joke is a wery good thing -- a wery good thing -- but when that joke is made at the expense of Mrs Kenwigs's feelings, I set my face against it. A man in public life expects to be sneered at -- it is the fault of his elewated sitiwation, and not of himself. Mrs Kenwigs's relation is a public man, and that he knows, George, and that he can bear; but putting Mrs Kenwigs out of the question (if I COULD put Mrs Kenwigs out of the question on such an occasion as this), I have the honour to be connected with the collector by marriage; and I cannot allow these remarks in my
house
That's him
Morleena, my dear, run down and let your uncle in, and kiss him directly you get the door open. Hem! Let's be talking
Oh, uncle, I am SO glad to see you
So glad
Many happy returns of the day, my dear
Where will you sit, uncle
Anywheres, my dear
I am not particular
Mr Lillyvick
some friends here, sir, are very anxious for the honour of -- thank you -- Mr and Mrs Cutler, Mr Lillyvick
Proud to know you, sir
I've heerd of you very often
George, you know, I think, Mr Lillyvick
lady from downstairs -- Mr Lillyvick. Mr Snewkes -- Mr Lillyvick. Miss Green -- Mr Lillyvick. Mr Lillyvick -- Miss Petowker of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. Very glad to make two public characters acquainted! Mrs Kenwigs, my dear, will you sort the counters
They are so beautiful
Oh, dear
so they are! it's very natural you should feel proud of that; but don't give way, don't
I can -- not help it, and it don't signify
oh! they're too beautiful to live, much too beautiful
This day eight year
Dear me -- ah
Ah
dear me
I was younger then
No
Certainly not
I remember my niece
I remember her, on that very afternoon, when she first acknowledged to her mother a partiality for Kenwigs. "Mother," she says, "I love him
Adore him," I said, uncle
Love him," I think, my dear
Perhaps you are right, uncle
I thought it was "adore
Love," my dear
Mother," she says, "I love him!" "What do I hear?" cries her mother; and instantly falls into strong conwulsions
Into strong conwulsions
Kenwigs will excuse my saying, in the presence of friends, that there was a very great objection to him, on the ground that he was beneath the family, and would disgrace it. You remember, Kenwigs
Certainly
I shared in that feeling
perhaps it was natural; perhaps it wasn't
I came round to him in time
After they were married, and there was no help for it, I was one of the first to say that Kenwigs must be taken notice of. The family DID take notice of him, in consequence, and on my representation; and I am bound to say -- and proud to say -- that I have always found him a very honest, well-behaved, upright, respectable sort of man. Kenwigs, shake hands
I am proud to do it, sir
So am I, Kenwigs
A very happy life I have led with your niece, sir
It would have been your own fault if you had not, sir
Morleena Kenwigs
kiss your dear uncle
Oh dear, Mrs Kenwigs
while Mr Noggs is making that punch to drink happy returns in, do let Morleena go through that figure dance before Mr Lillyvick
No, no, my dear
it will only worry my uncle
It can't worry him, I am sure
You will be very much pleased, won't you, sir
Well then, I'll tell you what
Morleena shall do the steps, if uncle can persuade Miss Petowker to recite us the Blood-Drinker's Burial, afterwards
You know
that I dislike doing anything professional in private parties
Oh, but not here
We are all so very friendly and pleasant, that you might as well be going through it in your own room; besides, the occasion
I can't resist that
anything in my humble power I shall be delighted to do
If I was blessed with a -- a child --' said Miss Petowker, blushing, 'of such genius as that, I would have her out at the Opera instantly
Kenwigs is afraid
What of
not of her failing
Oh no
but if she grew up what she is now,-- only think of the young dukes and marquises
Very right
Still
if she took a proper pride in herself, you know
There's a good deal in that
I only know --' faltered Miss Petowker
in death expire
Who is that
Don't be alarmed, it's only me
The baby is very comfortable, for I peeped into the room as I came down, and it's fast asleep, and so is the girl; and I don't think the candle will set fire to the bed-curtain, unless a draught was to get into the room -- it's Mr Noggs that's wanted
Me
Why, it IS a queer hour, isn't it
and they are queer- looking people, too, all covered with rain and mud. Shall I tell them to go away
No
People? How many
Two
Want me? By name
By name
Mr Newman Noggs, as pat as need be
What the deuce is the matter with him
Hark! Is there any noise above
You are wet through
and I -- I -- haven't even a change
I have dry clothes, or at least such as will serve my turn well, in my bundle
If you look so distressed to see me, you will add to the pain I feel already, at being compelled, for one night, to cast myself upon your slender means for aid and shelter
Well
both well
They are living in the city still
They are
And my sister
Is she still engaged in the business which she wrote to tell me she thought she should like so much
Now listen to me
Before I would make an effort to see them, I deemed it expedient to come to you, lest, by gratifying my own selfish desire, I should inflict an injury upon them which I can never repair. What has my uncle heard from Yorkshire
What has he heard
You see that I am prepared to hear the very worst that malice can have suggested. Why should you conceal it from me? I must know it sooner or later; and what purpose can be gained by trifling with the matter for a few minutes, when half the time would put me in possession of all that has occurred? Tell me at once, pray
Tomorrow morning
hear it tomorrow
What purpose would that answer
You would sleep the better
I should sleep the worse
Sleep! Exhausted as I am, and standing in no common need of rest, I cannot hope to close my eyes all night, unless you tell me everything
And if I should tell you everything
Why, then you may rouse my indignation or wound my pride
but you will not break my rest; for if the scene were acted over again, I could take no other part than I have taken; and whatever consequences may accrue to myself from it, I shall never regret doing as I have done -- never, if I starve or beg in consequence. What is a little poverty or suffering, to the disgrace of the basest and most inhuman cowardice! I tell you, if I had stood by, tamely and passively, I should have hated myself, and merited the contempt of every man in existence. The black-hearted scoundrel
My dear young man, you mustn't give way to -- this sort of thing will never do, you know -- as to getting on in the world, if you take everybody's part that's ill-treated -- Damn it, I am proud to hear of it; and would have done it myself
The day before yesterday
your uncle received this letter. I took a hasty copy of it, while he was out. Shall I read it
If you please
DOTHEBOYS HALL, 'THURSDAY MORNING. 'SIR, 

'My pa requests me to write to you, the doctors considering it doubtful whether he will ever recuvver the use of his legs which prevents his holding a pen. 

'We are in a state of mind beyond everything, and my pa is one mask of brooses both blue and green likewise two forms are steepled in his Goar. We were kimpelled to have him carried down into the kitchen where he now lays. You will judge from this that he has been brought very low. 

'When your nevew that you recommended for a teacher had done this to my pa and jumped upon his body with his feet and also langwedge which I will not pollewt my pen with describing, he assaulted my ma with dreadful violence, dashed her to the earth, and drove her back comb several inches into her head. A very little more and it must have entered her skull. We have a medical certifiket that if it had, the tortershell would have affected the brain. 

'Me and my brother were then the victims of his feury since which we have suffered very much which leads us to the arrowing belief that we have received some injury in our insides, especially as no marks of violence are visible externally. I am screaming out loud all the time I write and so is my brother which takes off my attention rather and I hope will excuse mistakes. 

'The monster having sasiated his thirst for blood ran away, taking with him a boy of desperate caracter that he had excited to rebellyon, and a garnet ring belonging to my ma, and not having been apprehended by the constables is supposed to have been took up by some stage-coach. My pa begs that if he comes to you the ring may be returned, and that you will let the thief and assassin go, as if we prosecuted him he would only be transported, and if he is let go he is sure to be hung before long which will save us trouble and be much more satisfactory. Hoping to hear from you when convenient 

'I remain 'Yours and cetrer 'FANNY SQUEERS. 

'P.S. I pity his ignorance and despise him
Mr Noggs
I must go out at once
Go out
Yes
to Golden Square. Nobody who knows me would believe this story of the ring; but it may suit the purpose, or gratify the hatred of Mr Ralph Nickleby to feign to attach credence to it. It is due -- not to him, but to myself -- that I should state the truth; and moreover, I have a word or two to exchange with him, which will not keep cool
They must
They must not, indeed
Hear me speak
He is not there. He is away from town. He will not be back for three days; and I know that letter will not be answered before he returns
Are you sure of this
Quite
He had hardly read it when he was called away. Its contents are known to nobody but himself and us
Are you certain
not even to my mother or sister? If I thought that they -- I will go there -- I must see them. Which is the way? Where is it
Now, be advised by me
make no effort to see even them, till he comes home. I know the man. Do not seem to have been tampering with anybody. When he returns, go straight to him, and speak as boldly as you like. Guessing at the real truth, he knows it as well as you or I. Trust him for that
You mean well to me, and should know him better than I can
Well; let it be so
Lor, I'll tell you what
Suppose it should be an express sent up to say that his property has all come back again
Dear me
it's not impossible. Perhaps, in that case, we'd better send up and ask if he won't take a little more punch
Kenwigs
I'm surprised at you
What's the matter, sir
Making such a remark as that, sir
He has had punch already, has he not, sir? I consider the way in which that punch was cut off, if I may use the expression, highly disrespectful to this company; scandalous, perfectly scandalous. It may be the custom to allow such things in this house, but it's not the kind of behaviour that I've been used to see displayed, and so I don't mind telling you, Kenwigs. A gentleman has a glass of punch before him to which he is just about to set his lips, when another gentleman comes and collars that glass of punch, without a "with your leave", or "by your leave", and carries that glass of punch away. This may be good manners -- I dare say it is -- but I don't understand it, that's all; and what's more, I don't care if I never do. It's my way to speak my mind, Kenwigs, and that is my mind; and if you don't like it, it's past my regular time for going to bed, and I can find my way home without making it later
I am very sorry, sir
Don't tell me you're sorry
You should have prevented it, then
I didn't think of it, I am sure, sir
I didn't suppose that such a little thing as a glass of punch would have put you out of temper
Out of temper! What the devil do you mean by that piece of impertinence, Mr Kenwigs
Morleena, child -- give me my hat
Oh, you're not going, Mr Lillyvick, sir
Morleena, my hat
Why should I stop here, my dears
I'm not wanted here
Oh, do not speak so cruelly, uncle
unless you wish to kill me
I shouldn't wonder if some people were to say I did
Out of temper
Oh! I cannot bear to see him look so, at my husband
It's so dreadful in families. Oh
Mr Lillyvick
I hope, for the sake of your niece, that you won't object to be reconciled
There, Kenwigs
and let me tell you, at the same time, to show you how much out of temper I was, that if I had gone away without another word, it would have made no difference respecting that pound or two which I shall leave among your children when I die
Morleena Kenwigs
Go down upon your knees to your dear uncle, and beg him to love you all his life through, for he's more a angel than a man, and I've always said so
I say! I beg everybody's pardon for intruding again
but what a queer business this is, isn't it? Noggs has lived in this house, now going on for five years, and nobody has ever been to see him before, within the memory of the oldest inhabitant
It's a strange time of night to be called away, sir, certainly
and the behaviour of Mr Noggs himself, is, to say the least of it, mysterious
Well, so it is
and I'll tell you what's more -- I think these two geniuses, whoever they are, have run away from somewhere
What makes you think that, sir
You have no reason to suppose that they have run away from anywhere without paying the rates and taxes due, I hope
Why the fact is
the fact is, that they have been talking so loud, that they quite disturbed me in my room, and so I couldn't help catching a word here, and a word there; and all I heard, certainly seemed to refer to their having bolted from some place or other. I don't wish to alarm Mrs Kenwigs; but I hope they haven't come from any jail or hospital, and brought away a fever or some unpleasantness of that sort, which might be catching for the children
Poor dear
To be sure, it's a very trying thing
Nobody but a mother knows what a mother's feelings is
Mr Kenwigs, see what it is; make haste
Oh don't twist about so, dear, or I can never hold you
My baby, my blessed, blessed, blessed, blessed baby
My own darling, sweet, innocent Lillyvick -- Oh let me go to him. Let me go- o-o-o
Don't be alarmed
here it is; it's all out, it's all over; pray compose yourselves; there's no harm done
It is a mere nothing
the little girl, who was watching the child, being tired I suppose, fell asleep, and set her hair on fire
Oh you malicious little wretch
I heard her cries
and ran down, in time to prevent her setting fire to anything else. You may depend upon it that the child is not hurt; for I took it off the bed myself, and brought it here to convince you
And whatever we are to say to you, sir
I am sure I don't know
You need say nothing at all
I have done nothing to found any very strong claim upon your eloquence, I am sure
He might have been burnt to death, if it hadn't been for you, sir
Not very likely, I think
for there was abundance of assistance here, which must have reached him before he had been in any danger
You will let us drink your health, anyvays, sir
In my absence, by all means
I have had a very fatiguing journey, and should be most indifferent company -- a far greater check upon your merriment, than a promoter of it, even if I kept awake, which I think very doubtful. If you will allow me, I'll return to my friend, Mr Noggs, who went upstairs again, when he found nothing serious had occurred. Good-night
What a delightful young man
Uncommon gentlemanly, really
Don't you think so, Mr Lillyvick
Yes
He is gentlemanly, very gentlemanly -- in appearance
I hope you don't see anything against him, uncle
No, my dear
no. I trust he may not turn out -- well -- no matter -- my love to you, my dear, and long life to the baby
Your namesake
And I hope a worthy namesake
I hope a baby as will never disgrace his godfather, and as may be considered, in arter years, of a piece with the Lillyvicks whose name he bears. I do say -- and Mrs Kenwigs is of the same sentiment, and feels it as strong as I do -- that I consider his being called Lillyvick one of the greatest blessings and Honours of my existence
THE greatest blessing, Kenwigs
THE greatest blessing
A blessing that I hope, one of these days, I may be able to deserve
Who, I don't mind saying
is a good-looking young man enough, with manners that I hope his character may be equal to
He has a very nice face and style, really
He certainly has
There's something in his appearance quite -- dear, dear, what's that word again
What word
Why -- dear me, how stupid I am
What do you call it, when Lords break off door-knockers and beat policemen, and play at coaches with other people's money, and all that sort of thing
Aristocratic
Ah! aristocratic
something very aristocratic about him, isn't there
Well! there's no accounting for tastes
General Agency Office; for places and situations of all kinds inquire within
Cook, Tom
Cook
Well
Read out an easy place or two
Pick out very light ones, if you please, young man
Mrs Marker
Russell Place, Russell Square; offers eighteen guineas; tea and sugar found. Two in family, and see very little company. Five servants kept. No man. No followers
Oh Lor
THAT won't do. Read another, young man, will you
Mrs Wrymug
Pleasant Place, Finsbury. Wages, twelve guineas. No tea, no sugar. Serious family
Ah! you needn't mind reading that
Three serious footmen
Three? did you say
Three serious footmen
Cook, housemaid, and nursemaid; each female servant required to join the Little Bethel Congregation three times every Sunday -- with a serious footman. If the cook is more serious than the footman, she will be expected to improve the footman; if the footman is more serious than the cook, he will be expected to improve the cook
I'll take the address of that place
I don't know but what it mightn't suit me pretty well
Here's another
Family of Mr Gallanbile, MP. Fifteen guineas, tea and sugar, and servants allowed to see male cousins, if godly. Note. Cold dinner in the kitchen on the Sabbath, Mr Gallanbile being devoted to the Observance question. No victuals whatever cooked on the Lord's Day, with the exception of dinner for Mr and Mrs Gallanbile, which, being a work of piety and necessity, is exempted. Mr Gallanbile dines late on the day of rest, in order to prevent the sinfulness of the cook's dressing herself
I don't think that'll answer as well as the other
I'll take the other direction, if you please, young man. I can but come back again, if it don't do
When is she coming again, Tom
Tomorrow morning
Where have you sent her to
Mrs Clark's
She'll have a nice life of it, if she goes there
Now, sir, what can we do for YOU
Any such
a-dozen-such. An't there, Tom
I should think so
I don't know what the terms are, as he said he'd settle them himself with the party
but they must be pretty good ones, because he's a member of parliament
I don't know what the number is
but Manchester Buildings isn't a large place; and if the worst comes to the worst it won't take you very long to knock at all the doors on both sides of the way till you find him out. I say, what a good-looking gal that was, wasn't she
What girl
Oh yes. I know -- what gal, eh
You didn't see her, you didn't -- I say, don't you wish you was me, when she comes tomorrow morning
Mr Gregsbury
Mr Gregsbury lodges here. It's all right. Come in
Now, gentleman, have the goodness to walk up
Gentlemen
you are welcome. I am rejoiced to see you
Now, gentlemen
you are dissatisfied with my conduct, I see by the newspapers
Yes, Mr Gregsbury, we are
Do my eyes deceive me
or is that my old friend Pugstyles
I am that man, and no other, sir
Give me your hand, my worthy friend
Pugstyles, my dear friend, I am very sorry to see you here
I am very sorry to be here, sir
but your conduct, Mr Gregsbury, has rendered this deputation from your constituents imperatively necessary
My conduct, Pugstyles
my conduct has been, and ever will be, regulated by a sincere regard for the true and real interests of this great and happy country. Whether I look at home, or abroad; whether I behold the peaceful industrious communities of our island home: her rivers covered with steamboats, her roads with locomotives, her streets with cabs, her skies with balloons of a power and magnitude hitherto unknown in the history of aeronautics in this or any other nation -- I say, whether I look merely at home, or, stretching my eyes farther, contemplate the boundless prospect of conquest and possession -- achieved by British perseverance and British valour -- which is outspread before me, I clasp my hands, and turning my eyes to the broad expanse above my head, exclaim, "Thank Heaven, I am a Briton
The meaning of that term -- gammon
is unknown to me. If it means that I grow a little too fervid, or perhaps even hyperbolical, in extolling my native land, I admit the full justice of the remark. I AM proud of this free and happy country. My form dilates, my eye glistens, my breast heaves, my heart swells, my bosom burns, when I call to mind her greatness and her glory
We wish, sir
to ask you a few questions
If you please, gentlemen; my time is yours -- and my country's -- and my country's
Question number one.-- Whether, sir, you did not give a voluntary pledge previous to your election, that in event of your being returned, you would immediately put down the practice of coughing and groaning in the House of Commons. And whether you did not submit to be coughed and groaned down in the very first debate of the session, and have since made no effort to effect a reform in this respect? Whether you did not also pledge yourself to astonish the government, and make them shrink in their shoes? And whether you have astonished them, and made them shrink in their shoes, or not
Go on to the next one, my dear Pugstyles
Have you any explanation to offer with reference to that question, sir
Certainly not
Question number two.-- Whether, sir, you did not likewise give a voluntary pledge that you would support your colleague on every occasion; and whether you did not, the night before last, desert him and vote upon the other side, because the wife of a leader on that other side had invited Mrs Gregsbury to an evening party
Go on
Nothing to say on that, either, sir
Nothing whatever
Question number three -- and last
Whether, sir, you did not state upon the hustings, that it was your firm and determined intention to oppose everything proposed; to divide the house upon every question, to move for returns on every subject, to place a motion on the books every day, and, in short, in your own memorable words, to play the very devil with everything and everybody
I deny everything
Resign
I am requested, sir, to express a hope
that on receiving a requisition to that effect from a great majority of your constituents, you will not object at once to resign your seat in favour of some candidate whom they think they can better trust
amp;c.&amp;c
Then you will not resign, under any circumstances
Then, good-morning, sir
Heaven bless you
What's that
What do you do here, sir
a spy upon my privacy! A concealed voter! You have heard my answer, sir. Pray follow the deputation
I should have done so, if I had belonged to it, but I do not
Then how came you here, sir
And where the devil have you come from, sir
I brought this card from the General Agency Office, sir
wishing to offer myself as your secretary, and understanding that you stood in need of one
That's all you have come for, is it
You have no connection with any of those rascally papers have you
You didn't get into the room, to hear what was going forward, and put it in print, eh
I have no connection, I am sorry to say, with anything at present
Oh
How did you find your way up here, then
That was the way, was it
Sit down
You want to be my secretary, do you
I wish to be employed in that capacity, sir
Well
now what can you do
I suppose
that I can do what usually falls to the lot of other secretaries
What's that
What is it
Ah! What is it
A secretary's duties are rather difficult to define, perhaps
They include, I presume, correspondence
Good
The arrangement of papers and documents
Very good
Occasionally, perhaps, the writing from your dictation; and possibly, sir
the copying of your speech for some public journal, when you have made one of more than usual importance
Certainly
What else
Really
I am not able, at this instant, to recapitulate any other duty of a secretary, beyond the general one of making himself as agreeable and useful to his employer as he can, consistently with his own respectability, and without overstepping that line of duties which he undertakes to perform, and which the designation of his office is usually understood to imply
This is all very well, Mr -- what is your name
Nickleby
This is all very well, Mr Nickleby, and very proper, so far as it goes -- so far as it goes, but it doesn't go far enough. There are other duties, Mr Nickleby, which a secretary to a parliamentary gentleman must never lose sight of. I should require to be crammed, sir
I beg your pardon
To be crammed, sir
May I beg your pardon again, if I inquire what you mean, sir
My meaning, sir, is perfectly plain
My secretary would have to make himself master of the foreign policy of the world, as it is mirrored in the newspapers; to run his eye over all accounts of public meetings, all leading articles, and accounts of the proceedings of public bodies; and to make notes of anything which it appeared to him might be made a point of, in any little speech upon the question of some petition lying on the table, or anything of that kind. Do you understand
I think I do, sir
Then
it would be necessary for him to make himself acquainted, from day to day, with newspaper paragraphs on passing events; such as "Mysterious disappearance, and supposed suicide of a potboy," or anything of that sort, upon which I might found a question to the Secretary of State for the Home Department. Then, he would have to copy the question, and as much as I remembered of the answer (including a little compliment about independence and good sense); and to send the manuscript in a frank to the local paper, with perhaps half-a-dozen lines of leader, to the effect, that I was always to be found in my place in parliament, and never shrunk from the responsible and arduous duties, and so forth. You see
Besides which
I should expect him, now and then, to go through a few figures in the printed tables, and to pick out a few results, so that I might come out pretty well on timber duty questions, and finance questions, and so on; and I should like him to get up a few little arguments about the disastrous effects of a return to cash payments and a metallic currency, with a touch now and then about the exportation of bullion, and the Emperor of Russia, and bank notes, and all that kind of thing, which it's only necessary to talk fluently about, because nobody understands it. Do you take me
I think I understand
With regard to such questions as are not political
and which one can't be expected to care a curse about, beyond the natural care of not allowing inferior people to be as well off as ourselves -- else where are our privileges?-- I should wish my secretary to get together a few little flourishing speeches, of a patriotic cast. For instance, if any preposterous bill were brought forward, for giving poor grubbing devils of authors a right to their own property, I should like to say, that I for one would never consent to opposing an insurmountable bar to the diffusion of literature among THE PEOPLE,-- you understand?-- that the creations of the pocket, being man's, might belong to one man, or one family; but that the creations of the brain, being God's, ought as a matter of course to belong to the people at large -- and if I was pleasantly disposed, I should like to make a joke about posterity, and say that those who wrote for posterity should be content to be rewarded by the approbation OF posterity; it might take with the house, and could never do me any harm, because posterity can't be expected to know anything about me or my jokes either -- do you see
I see that, sir
You must always bear in mind, in such cases as this, where our interests are not affected
to put it very strong about the people, because it comes out very well at election- time; and you could be as funny as you liked about the authors; because I believe the greater part of them live in lodgings, and are not voters. This is a hasty outline of the chief things you'd have to do, except waiting in the lobby every night, in case I forgot anything, and should want fresh cramming; and, now and then, during great debates, sitting in the front row of the gallery, and saying to the people about --'You see that gentleman, with his hand to his face, and his arm twisted round the pillar -- that's Mr Gregsbury -- the celebrated Mr Gregsbury
said Mr Gregsbury, winding up with great rapidity; for he was out of breath --'and for salary, I don't mind saying at once in round numbers, to prevent any dissatisfaction -- though it's more than I've been accustomed to give -- fifteen shillings a week, and find yourself. There
Fifteen shillings a week is not much
Not much! Fifteen shillings a week not much, young man
Fifteen shillings a
Pray do not suppose that I quarrel with the sum, sir
for I am not ashamed to confess, that whatever it may be in itself, to me it is a great deal. But the duties and responsibilities make the recompense small, and they are so very heavy that I fear to undertake them
Do you decline to undertake them, sir
I fear they are too great for my powers, however good my will may be, sir
That is as much as to say that you had rather not accept the place, and that you consider fifteen shillings a week too little
Do you decline it, sir
I have no alternative but to do so
Door, Matthews
I am sorry I have troubled you unnecessarily, sir
I am sorry you have
Door, Matthews
Good-morning, sir
Door, Matthews
Come back
Yes
tired to death: and, what is worse, might have remained at home for all the good I have done
Couldn't expect to do much in one morning
Maybe so, but I am sanguine, and did expect
and am proportionately disappointed
If I could do anything
anything, however slight, until Ralph Nickleby returns, and I have eased my mind by confronting him, I should feel happier. I should think it no disgrace to work, Heaven knows. Lying indolently here, like a half- tamed sullen beast, distracts me
I don't know
small things offer -- they would pay the rent, and more -- but you wouldn't like them; no, you could hardly be expected to undergo it -- no, no
What could I hardly be expected to undergo
Show me, in this wide waste of London, any honest means by which I could even defray the weekly hire of this poor room, and see if I shrink from resorting to them! Undergo! I have undergone too much, my friend, to feel pride or squeamishness now. Except --' added Nicholas hastily, after a short silence, 'except such squeamishness as is common honesty, and so much pride as constitutes self-respect. I see little to choose, between assistant to a brutal pedagogue, and toad-eater to a mean and ignorant upstart, be he member or no member
I hardly know whether I should tell you what I heard this morning, or not
Has it reference to what you said just now
It has
Then in Heaven's name, my good friend, tell it me
For God's sake consider my deplorable condition; and, while I promise to take no step without taking counsel with you, give me, at least, a vote in my own behalf
Which, unless I am very much mistaken
will not be very long; for such clever children, Mr Noggs, never were born into this world, I do believe
There
that's all. It's beneath you, I know; but I thought that perhaps you might
Might
of course I shall. I accept the offer at once. Tell the worthy mother so, without delay, my dear fellow; and that I am ready to begin whenever she pleases
How do you do, Mr Johnson
Uncle -- Mr Johnson
How do you do, sir
Mr Johnson is engaged as private master to the children, uncle
So you said just now, my dear
But I hope
that that will not make them proud; but that they will bless their own good fortune, which has born them superior to common people's children. Do you hear, Morleena
Yes, ma
And when you go out in the streets, or elsewhere, I desire that you don't boast of it to the other children
and that if you must say anything about it, you don't say no more than "We've got a private master comes to teach us at home, but we ain't proud, because ma says it's sinful." Do you hear, Morleena
Yes, ma
Then mind you recollect, and do as I tell you
Shall Mr Johnson begin, uncle
I am ready to hear, if Mr Johnson is ready to commence, my dear
What sort of language do you consider French, sir
How do you mean
Do you consider it a good language, sir
a pretty language, a sensible language
A pretty language, certainly
and as it has a name for everything, and admits of elegant conversation about everything, I presume it is a sensible one
I don't know
Do you call it a cheerful language, now
Yes
I should say it was, certainly
It's very much changed since my time, then
very much
Was it a dismal one in your time
Very
It's the war time that I speak of; the last war. It may be a cheerful language. I should be sorry to contradict anybody; but I can only say that I've heard the French prisoners, who were natives, and ought to know how to speak it, talking in such a dismal manner, that it made one miserable to hear them. Ay, that I have, fifty times, sir -- fifty times
What's the water in French, sir
L'EAU
Ah
I thought as much. Lo, eh? I don't think anything of that language -- nothing at all
I suppose the children may begin, uncle
Oh yes; they may begin, my dear
I have no wish to prevent them
Is Madame Mantalini in
Not often out at this time, miss
Can I see her
Eh
Lord, no
I came by her own appointment
I am -- I am -- to be employed here
Oh! you should have rung the worker's bell
Let me see, though, I forgot -- Miss Nickleby, is it
Yes
You're to walk upstairs then, please
Madame Mantalini wants to see you -- this way -- take care of these things on the floor
If you'll wait here a minute
I'll tell her presently
If you will be odiously, demnebly, outrIgeously jealous, my soul
you will be very miserable -- horrid miserable -- demnition miserable
I AM miserable
Then you are an ungrateful, unworthy, demd unthankful little fairy
I am not
Do not put itself out of humour
It is a pretty, bewitching little demd countenance, and it should not be out of humour, for it spoils its loveliness, and makes it cross and gloomy like a frightful, naughty, demd hobgoblin
I am not to be brought round in that way, always
It shall be brought round in any way it likes best, and not brought round at all if it likes that better
It's very easy to talk
Not so easy when one is eating a demnition egg
for the yolk runs down the waistcoat, and yolk of egg does not match any waistcoat but a yellow waistcoat, demmit
You were flirting with her during the whole night
No, no, my life
You were
I had my eye upon you all the time
Bless the little winking twinkling eye; was it on me all the time
Oh, demmit
And I say once more
that you ought not to waltz with anybody but your own wife; and I will not bear it, Mantalini, if I take poison first
She will not take poison and have horrid pains, will she
She will not take poison, because she had a demd fine husband who might have married two countesses and a dowager
Two countesses
You told me one before
Two
Two demd fine women, real countesses and splendid fortunes, demmit
And why didn't you
Why didn't I
Had I not seen, at a morning concert, the demdest little fascinator in all the world, and while that little fascinator is my wife, may not all the countesses and dowagers in England be
And what about the cash, my existence's jewel
How much have we in hand
Very little indeed
We must have some more
we must have some discount out of old Nickleby to carry on the war with, demmit
You can't want any more just now
My life and soul
there is a horse for sale at Scrubbs's, which it would be a sin and a crime to lose -- going, my senses' joy, for nothing
For nothing
I am glad of that
For actually nothing
A hundred guineas down will buy him; mane, and crest, and legs, and tail, all of the demdest beauty. I will ride him in the park before the very chariots of the rejected countesses. The demd old dowager will faint with grief and rage; the other two will say "He is married, he has made away with himself, it is a demd thing, it is all up!" They will hate each other demnebly, and wish you dead and buried. Ha! ha! Demmit
Dear me, child
How came you here
Child
How came -- eh!-- oh -- demmit, how d'ye do
I have been waiting, here some time, ma'am
The servant must have forgotten to let you know that I was here, I think
You really must see to that man
He forgets everything
I will twist his demd nose off his countenance for leaving such a very pretty creature all alone by herself
Mantalini
you forget yourself
I don't forget you, my soul, and never shall, and never can
Oh, Miss Knag
this is the young person I spoke to you about
I think that, for the present at all events, it will be better for Miss Nickleby to come into the show-room with you, and try things on for people
She will not be able for the present to be of much use in any other way; and her appearance will
Suit very well with mine, Madame Mantalini
So it will; and to be sure I might have known that you would not be long in finding that out; for you have so much taste in all those matters, that really, as I often say to the young ladies, I do not know how, when, or where, you possibly could have acquired all you know -- hem -- Miss Nickleby and I are quite a pair, Madame Mantalini, only I am a little darker than Miss Nickleby, and -- hem -- I think my foot may be a little smaller. Miss Nickleby, I am sure, will not be offended at my saying that, when she hears that our family always have been celebrated for small feet ever since -- hem -- ever since our family had any feet at all, indeed, I think. I had an uncle once, Madame Mantalini, who lived in Cheltenham, and had a most excellent business as a tobacconist -- hem -- who had such small feet, that they were no bigger than those which are usually joined to wooden legs -- the most symmetrical feet, Madame Mantalini, that even you can imagine
They must have had something of the appearance of club feet, Miss Knag
Well now, that is so like you
Ha! ha! ha! Of club feet! Oh very good! As I often remark to the young ladies, "Well I must say, and I do not care who knows it, of all the ready humour -- hem -- I ever heard anywhere"-- and I have heard a good deal; for when my dear brother was alive (I kept house for him, Miss Nickleby), we had to supper once a week two or three young men, highly celebrated in those days for their humour, Madame Mantalini -- "Of all the ready humour," I say to the young ladies, "I ever heard, Madame Mantalini's is the most remarkable -- hem. It is so gentle, so sarcastic, and yet so good-natured (as I was observing to Miss Simmonds only this morning), that how, or when, or by what means she acquired it, is to me a mystery indeed
hem
You'll take care that Miss Nickleby understands her hours, and so forth
and so I'll leave her with you. You'll not forget my directions, Miss Knag
Charming creature, isn't she, Miss Nickleby
I have seen very little of her
I hardly know yet
Have you seen Mr Mantalini
Yes; I have seen him twice
Isn't HE a charming creature
Indeed he does not strike me as being so, by any means
No, my dear
Why, goodness gracious mercy, where's your taste? Such a fine tall, full- whiskered dashing gentlemanly man, with such teeth and hair, and -- hem -- well now, you DO astonish me
I dare say I am very foolish
but as my opinion is of very little importance to him or anyone else, I do not regret having formed it, and shall be slow to change it, I think
He is a very fine man, don't you think so
Indeed he may be, for anything I could say to the contrary
And drives very beautiful horses, doesn't he
I dare say he may, but I never saw them
Never saw them
Oh, well! There it is at once you know; how can you possibly pronounce an opinion about a gentleman -- hem -- if you don't see him as he turns out altogether
I do indeed
So dusty and hot
I am very sorry to have wounded you by my thoughtless speech
I did not think of it. You are in mourning for some near relation
For my father
For what relation, Miss Simmonds
Her father
Her father, eh
Ah! A long illness, Miss Simmonds
Hush
I don't know
Our misfortune was very sudden
or I might perhaps, at a time like this, be enabled to support it better
Bless my soul, Kate
I've been thinking all day what a delightful thing it would be for Madame Mantalini to take you into partnership -- such a likely thing too, you know! Why, your poor dear papa's cousin's sister-in-law -- a Miss Browndock -- was taken into partnership by a lady that kept a school at Hammersmith, and made her fortune in no time at all. I forget, by-the-bye, whether that Miss Browndock was the same lady that got the ten thousand pounds prize in the lottery, but I think she was; indeed, now I come to think of it, I am sure she was. "Mantalini and Nickleby", how well it would sound!-- and if Nicholas has any good fortune, you might have Doctor Nickleby, the head-master of Westminster School, living in the same street
Dear Nicholas
In all our misfortunes, how happy it makes me, mama, to hear he is doing well, and to find him writing in such good spirits! It consoles me for all we may undergo, to think that he is comfortable and happy
Well, now, indeed, Madame Mantalini
that Miss Nickleby is a very creditable young person -- a very creditable young person indeed -- hem -- upon my word, Madame Mantalini, it does very extraordinary credit even to your discrimination that you should have found such a very excellent, very well-behaved, very -- hem -- very unassuming young woman to assist in the fitting on. I have seen some young women when they had the opportunity of displaying before their betters, behave in such a -- oh, dear -- well -- but you're always right, Madame Mantalini, always; and as I very often tell the young ladies, how you do contrive to be always right, when so many people are so often wrong, is to me a mystery indeed
Beyond putting a very excellent client out of humour, Miss Nickleby has not done anything very remarkable today -- that I am aware of, at least
Oh, dear
but you must allow a great deal for inexperience, you know
And youth
Oh, I say nothing about that, Madame Mantalini
because if youth were any excuse, you wouldn't have
Quite so good a forewoman as I have, I suppose
Well, I never did know anybody like you, Madame Mantalini
and that's the fact, for you know what one's going to say, before it has time to rise to one's lips. Oh, very good! Ha, ha, ha
For myself
I consider Miss Nickleby the most awkward girl I ever saw in my life
Poor dear thing
it's not her fault. If it was, we might hope to cure it; but as it's her misfortune, Madame Mantalini, why really you know, as the man said about the blind horse, we ought to respect it
Her uncle told me she had been considered pretty
I think her one of the most ordinary girls I ever met with
Ordinary
and awkward! Well, all I can say is, Madame Mantalini, that I quite love the poor girl; and that if she was twice as indifferent- looking, and twice as awkward as she is, I should be only so much the more her friend, and that's the truth of it
But now
I love her -- I quite love her -- I declare I do
I take quite a lively interest in you, my dear soul, upon my word
a sister's interest, actually. It's the most singular circumstance I ever knew
Bless you
how very awkward you have been all day
I fear your kind and open communication, which has rendered me more painfully conscious of my own defects, has not improved me
No, no, I dare say not
But how much better that you should know it at first, and so be able to go on, straight and comfortable! Which way are you walking, my love
Towards the city
The city
Goodness gracious me! now do you really live in the city
Is it so very unusual for anybody to live there
I couldn't have believed it possible that any young woman could have lived there, under any circumstances whatever, for three days together
Reduced -- I should say poor people
must live where they can
Ah! very true, so they must; very proper indeed
and that's what I very often tell my brother, when our servants go away ill, one after another, and he thinks the back-kitchen's rather too damp for 'em to sleep in. These sort of people, I tell him, are glad to sleep anywhere! Heaven suits the back to the burden. What a nice thing it is to think that it should be so, isn't it
Very
I'll walk with you part of the way, my dear
for you must go very near our house; and as it's quite dark, and our last servant went to the hospital a week ago, with St Anthony's fire in her face, I shall be glad of your company
I fear
that mama -- my mother, I mean -- is waiting for me
You needn't make the least apology, my dear
I dare say she is a very respectable old person, and I shall be quite -- hem -- quite pleased to know her
I have taken such a fancy to your daughter, Mrs Nickleby, you can't think
I am delighted to hear it
though it is nothing new to me, that even strangers should like Kate
Hem
You will like her better when you know how good she is
It is a great blessing to me, in my misfortunes, to have a child, who knows neither pride nor vanity, and whose bringing-up might very well have excused a little of both at first. You don't know what it is to lose a husband, Miss Knag
No, indeed I don't
Kate has improved even in this little time, I have no doubt
Oh! of course
And will improve still more
That she will, I'll be bound
She always was clever
always, from a baby. I recollect when she was only two years and a half old, that a gentleman who used to visit very much at our house -- Mr Watkins, you know, Kate, my dear, that your poor papa went bail for, who afterwards ran away to the United States, and sent us a pair of snow shoes, with such an affectionate letter that it made your poor dear father cry for a week. You remember the letter? In which he said that he was very sorry he couldn't repay the fifty pounds just then, because his capital was all out at interest, and he was very busy making his fortune, but that he didn't forget you were his god-daughter, and he should take it very unkind if we didn't buy you a silver coral and put it down to his old account? Dear me, yes, my dear, how stupid you are! and spoke so affectionately of the old port wine that he used to drink a bottle and a half of every time he came. You must remember, Kate
Yes, yes, mama; what of him
Why, that Mr Watkins, my dear
that Mr Watkins -- he wasn't any relation, Miss Knag will understand, to the Watkins who kept the Old Boar in the village; by- the-bye, I don't remember whether it was the Old Boar or the George the Third, but it was one of the two, I know, and it's much the same -- that Mr Watkins said, when you were only two years and a half old, that you were one of the most astonishing children he ever saw. He did indeed, Miss Knag, and he wasn't at all fond of children, and couldn't have had the slightest motive for doing it. I know it was he who said so, because I recollect, as well as if it was only yesterday, his borrowing twenty pounds of her poor dear papa the very moment afterwards
Don't talk of lending money, Mrs Nickleby
or you'll drive me crazy, perfectly crazy. My mama -- hem -- was the most lovely and beautiful creature, with the most striking and exquisite -- hem -- the most exquisite nose that ever was put upon a human face, I do believe, Mrs Nickleby (here Miss Knag rubbed her own nose sympathetically); the most delightful and accomplished woman, perhaps, that ever was seen; but she had that one failing of lending money, and carried it to such an extent that she lent -- hem -- oh! thousands of pounds, all our little fortunes, and what's more, Mrs Nickleby, I don't think, if we were to live till -- till -- hem -- till the very end of time, that we should ever get them back again. I don't indeed
Don't go away, Mortimer
It's only one of our young ladies and her mother. Mrs and Miss Nickleby
Oh, indeed
Ah
Past ten
Thomas, close the warehouse
Ah
Well -- yes -- I believe supper is ready, sister
Mrs Blockson
how very often I have begged you not to come into the room with your bonnet on
I can't help it, Miss Knag
I don't want any remarks if YOU please
Is there any fire downstairs for some hot water presently
No there is not, indeed, Miss Knag
and so I won't tell you no stories about it
Then why isn't there
Because there arn't no coals left out, and if I could make coals I would, but as I can't I won't, and so I make bold to tell you, Mem
Will you hold your tongue -- female
By your leave, Mr Knag
I'm only too glad not to speak in this house, excepting when and where I'm spoke to, sir; and with regard to being a female, sir, I should wish to know what you considered yourself
A miserable wretch
A miserable wretch
I'm very glad to find that you don't call yourself out of your name, sir
and as I had two twin children the day before yesterday was only seven weeks, and my little Charley fell down a airy and put his elber out, last Monday, I shall take it as a favour if you'll send nine shillings, for one week's work, to my house, afore the clock strikes ten tomorrow
warehouse
What is the matter with that gentleman, pray
Is he ill
Hush
a most melancholy history. He was once most devotedly attached to -- hem -- to Madame Mantalini
Bless me
Yes
and received great encouragement too, and confidently hoped to marry her. He has a most romantic heart, Mrs Nickleby, as indeed -- hem -- as indeed all our family have, and the disappointment was a dreadful blow. He is a wonderfully accomplished man -- most extraordinarily accomplished -- reads -- hem -- reads every novel that comes out; I mean every novel that -- hem -- that has any fashion in it, of course. The fact is, that he did find so much in the books he read, applicable to his own misfortunes, and did find himself in every respect so much like the heroes -- because of course he is conscious of his own superiority, as we all are, and very naturally -- that he took to scorning everything, and became a genius; and I am quite sure that he is, at this very present moment, writing another book
Another book
Yes
another book, in three volumes post octavo. Of course it's a great advantage to him, in all his little fashionable descriptions, to have the benefit of my -- hem -- of my experience, because, of course, few authors who write about such things can have such opportunities of knowing them as I have. He's so wrapped up in high life, that the least allusion to business or worldly matters -- like that woman just now, for instance -- quite distracts him; but, as I often say, I think his disappointment a great thing for him, because if he hadn't been disappointed he couldn't have written about blighted hopes and all that; and the fact is, if it hadn't happened as it has, I don't believe his genius would ever have come out at all
A most elegant appearance
I never saw anything so exquisite in all my life
an old thing
great impertinence
Madame Mantalini
Ma'am
Pray have up that pretty young creature we saw yesterday
Oh yes, do
Of all things in the world, Madame Mantalini
I hate being waited upon by frights or elderly persons. Let me always see that young creature, I beg, whenever I come
By all means
the lovely young creature, by all means
Everybody is talking about her
and my lord, being a great admirer of beauty, must positively see her
She IS universally admired
Miss Knag, send up Miss Nickleby. You needn't return
I beg your pardon, Madame Mantalini, what did you say last
You needn't return
Why, how you colour, child
She is not quite so accustomed to her business, as she will be in a week or two
I am afraid you have been giving her some of your wicked looks, my lord
No, no, no
no, no, I'm going to be married, and lead a new life. Ha, ha, ha! a new life, a new life! ha, ha, ha
I hope you don't think good looks a disqualification for the business, my lord
Not by any means
or you would have left it long ago
You naughty creature
I won't have you talk so. How dare you
You will see that those little alterations are made, Madame Mantalini
Nay, you bad man, you positively shall go first; I wouldn't leave you behind with that pretty girl, not for half a second. I know you too well. Jane, my dear, let him go first, and we shall be quite sure of him
Foh
how he ever gets into a carriage without thinking of a hearse, I can't think. There, take the things away, my dear, take them away
Bless me
what is the matter
a shame
What is a shame
What is the matter? What has happened? tell me
Matter
matter! Fie upon you, you nasty creature
Gracious
have I offended you
YOU offended me
YOU! a chit, a child, an upstart nobody! Oh, indeed! Ha, ha
Here she is
here she is -- everybody is talking about her -- the belle, ladies -- the beauty, the -- oh, you bold-faced thing
For fifteen years
for fifteen years have I been the credit and ornament of this room and the one upstairs. Thank God
I have never in all that time, till now, been exposed to the arts, the vile arts, of a creature, who disgraces us with all her proceedings, and makes proper people blush for themselves. But I feel it, I do feel it, although I am disgusted
Have I lived to this day to be called a fright
Oh no, no
pray don't say so; don't now
Have I deserved to be called an elderly person
Don't think of such things, dear
I hate her
I detest and hate her. Never let her speak to me again; never let anybody who is a friend of mine speak to her; a slut, a hussy, an impudent artful hussy
Ah! my dear
we were at that moment talking about you
Indeed
That instant
I was coming to call for you, making sure to catch you before you left; but your mother and I have been talking over family affairs, and the time has slipped away so rapidly
Well, now, hasn't it
Let me see
Your black silk frock will be quite dress enough, my dear, with that pretty little scarf, and a plain band in your hair, and a pair of black silk stock -- Dear, dear
if I had but those unfortunate amethysts of mine -- you recollect them, Kate, my love -- how they used to sparkle, you know -- but your papa, your poor dear papa -- ah! there never was anything so cruelly sacrificed as those jewels were, never
Forget that you ever had them
Lord, Kate, my dear
how like a child you talk! Four-and-twenty silver tea-spoons, brother-in-law, two gravies, four salts, all the amethysts -- necklace, brooch, and ear-rings -- all made away with, at the same time, and I saying, almost on my bended knees, to that poor good soul, "Why don't you do something, Nicholas? Why don't you make some arrangement?" I am sure that anybody who was about us at that time, will do me the justice to own, that if I said that once, I said it fifty times a day. Didn't I, Kate, my dear? Did I ever lose an opportunity of impressing it on your poor papa
No, no, mama, never
Ah
if my advice had been taken at the beginning -- Well, I have always done MY duty, and that's some comfort
Now
to return to the point from which we have strayed. I have a little party of -- of -- gentlemen with whom I am connected in business just now, at my house tomorrow; and your mother has promised that you shall keep house for me. I am not much used to parties; but this is one of business, and such fooleries are an important part of it sometimes. You don't mind obliging me
Mind
My dear Kate, why
Pray
I spoke to my niece
I shall be very glad, of course, uncle
but I am afraid you will find me awkward and embarrassed
Oh no
come when you like, in a hackney coach -- I'll pay for it. Good-night -- a -- a -- God bless you
What a very strongly marked countenance your uncle has
I don't see the slightest resemblance to his poor brother
Mama
To think of such a thing
No
There certainly is none. But it's a very honest face
What has come over you, my dear, in the name of goodness
I was only thinking, mama
Thinking
Ay, and indeed plenty to think about, too. Your uncle has taken a strong fancy to you, that's quite clear; and if some extraordinary good fortune doesn't come to you, after this, I shall be a little surprised, that's all
I couldn't see you before, my dear
I was engaged in receiving them. Now -- shall I take you in
Pray, uncle
are there any ladies here
No
I don't know any
Must I go in immediately
As you please
They are all come, and dinner will be announced directly afterwards -- that's all
Lord Frederick Verisopht, my niece, Miss Nickleby
Eh
What -- the -- deyvle
My niece, my lord
Then my ears did not deceive me, and it's not wa-a-x work
How de do? I'm very happy
deyvlish pitty
Introduce me, Nickleby
Sir Mulberry Hawk
Otherwise the most knowing card in the pa-ack, Miss Nickleby
Don't leave me out, Nickleby
Mr Pyke
Nor me, Nickleby
Mr Pluck
An unexpected playsure, Nickleby
Designed to surprise you, Lord Frederick
Not a bad idea
and one that would almost warrant the addition of an extra two and a half per cent
Nickleby
take the hint, and tack it on the other five-and-twenty, or whatever it is, and give me half for the advice
No, damn it, Verisopht
fair play's a jewel, and Miss Nickleby and I settled the matter with our eyes ten minutes ago
Ha, ha, ha
very good, very good
Oh, you've found your way into our neighbourhood, have you
Of course
how can you a-ask me
Well, you attend to your dinner
and don't mind Miss Nickleby and me, for we shall prove very indifferent company, I dare say
I wish you'd interfere here, Nickleby
What is the matter, my lord
This fellow, Hawk, is monopolising your niece
He has a tolerable share of everything that you lay claim to, my lord
replied the young man; 'deyvle take me if I know which is master in my house, he or I
I know
I think I shall cut him off with a shilling
No, no, curse it
When you come to the shilling -- the last shilling -- I'll cut you fast enough; but till then, I'll never leave you -- you may take your oath of it
Well
if this is a discounting dinner, all I have to say is, deyvle take me, if it wouldn't be a good pla-an to get discount every day
You'll have plenty of it, in your time
Nickleby will tell you that
What do you say, Nickleby
am I to be a good customer
It depends entirely on circumstances, my lord
On your lordship's circumstances
infernal liberty
Here is Miss Nickleby
wondering why the deuce somebody doesn't make love to her
No, indeed
I
I'll hold any man fifty pounds
that Miss Nickleby can't look in my face, and tell me she wasn't thinking so
Done
Within ten minutes
Done
Pray
Pray do not make me the subject of any bets. Uncle, I cannot really
Why not, my dear
It is done in a moment; there is nothing in it. If the gentlemen insist on it
I don't insist on it
That is, I by no means insist upon Miss Nickleby's making the denial, for if she does, I lose; but I shall be glad to see her bright eyes, especially as she favours the mahogany so much
So she does, and it's too ba-a-d of you, Miss Nickleby
Quite cruel
Horrid cruel
I don't care if I do lose
for one tolerable look at Miss Nickleby's eyes is worth double the money
More
Far more
How goes the enemy, Snobb
Four minutes gone
Bravo
Won't you ma-ake one effort for me, Miss Nickleby
You needn't trouble yourself to inquire, my buck
Miss Nickleby and I understand each other; she declares on my side, and shows her taste. You haven't a chance, old fellow. Time, Snobb
Eight minutes gone
Get the money ready
you'll soon hand over
Ha, ha, ha
Capital
That's a girl of spirit, and we'll drink her health
What a delightful studiousness
Was it real, now, or only to display the eyelashes
I have looked at 'em for five minutes
Upon my soul, they're perfect. Why did I speak, and destroy such a pretty little picture
Do me the favour to be silent now, sir
No, don't
upon my life, you oughtn't to. Such a devoted slave of yours, Miss Nickleby -- it's an infernal thing to treat him so harshly, upon my soul it is
I wish you to understand, sir
that your behaviour offends and disgusts me. If you have a spark of gentlemanly feeling remaining, you will leave me
Now why
why will you keep up this appearance of excessive rigour, my sweet creature? Now, be more natural -- my dear Miss Nickleby, be more natural -- do
Let me go, sir
Do you hear? Instantly -- this moment
Sit down, sit down
I want to talk to you
Unhand me, sir, this instant
Not for the world
What is this
It is this, sir
that beneath the roof where I, a helpless girl, your dead brother's child, should most have found protection, I have been exposed to insult which should make you shrink to look upon me. Let me pass you
Your way lies there, sir
What do you mean by that
Do you know me, you old madman
Well
You wanted the lord, did you
Damme, I was in the way, was I
Who brought him to you first
and how, without me, could you ever have wound him in your net as you have
The net is a large one, and rather full
Take care that it chokes nobody in the meshes
You would sell your flesh and blood for money; yourself, if you have not already made a bargain with the devil
Do you mean to tell me that your pretty niece was not brought here as a decoy for the drunken boy downstairs
Do you mean to tell me
that it is not so? Do you mean to say that if he had found his way up here instead of me, you wouldn't have been a little more blind, and a little more deaf, and a little less flourishing, than you have been? Come, Nickleby, answer me that
I tell you this
that if I brought her here, as a matter of business
Ay, that's the word
You're coming to yourself again now
As a matter of business
because I thought she might make some impression on the silly youth you have taken in hand and are lending good help to ruin, I knew -- knowing him -- that it would be long before he outraged her girl's feelings, and that unless he offended by mere puppyism and emptiness, he would, with a little management, respect the sex and conduct even of his usurer's niece. But if I thought to draw him on more gently by this device, I did not think of subjecting the girl to the licentiousness and brutality of so old a hand as you. And now we understand each other
Especially as there was nothing to be got by it -- eh
Exactly so
Hush, my dear
Hush, hush! Don't mind it, now; don't think of it
Oh, for pity's sake, let me go home
Let me leave this house, and go home
Yes, yes
You shall. But you must dry your eyes first, and compose yourself. Let me raise your head. There -- there
Oh, uncle
What have I done -- what have I done -- that you should subject me to this? If I had wronged you in thought, or word, or deed, it would have been most cruel to me, and the memory of one you must have loved in some old time; but
Only listen to me for a moment
I didn't know it would be so; it was impossible for me to foresee it. I did all I could.-- Come, let us walk about. You are faint with the closeness of the room, and the heat of these lamps. You will be better now, if you make the slightest effort
I will do anything
if you will only send me home
Well, well, I will
but you must get back your own looks; for those you have, will frighten them, and nobody must know of this but you and I. Now let us walk the other way. There. You look better even now
I don't know what to make of it
Her eyes were decidedly red last night. She said she had a headache; headaches don't occasion red eyes. She must have been crying
I can't think of anything
Nothing at all, unless it was the behaviour of that old bear. Cross to her, I suppose? Unpleasant brute
So far as I am concerned
I could spare Miss Nickleby for evermore
Oh, indeed, ma'am
But, you see, you are not mistress of the business, and therefore it's of no great consequence
Very good, ma'am
Have you any further commands for me
No, I have not, ma'am
Then good-morning, ma'am
Good-morning to you, ma'am; and many obligations for your extreme politeness and good breeding
I wonder who that is
A nice person to know, I should think! I wish I had the painting of her: I'D do her justice
Here, take 'em away; run with 'em into the bedroom; anywhere
Don't let me put you out of the way
I told the servant not to mention my name, because I wished to surprise you
Mr Nicholas
You have not forgotten me, I see
Why, I think I should even have known you if I had met you in the street
Hannah, another cup and saucer. Now, I'll tell you what, young man; I'll trouble you not to repeat the impertinence you were guilty of, on the morning you went away
You would not be very angry, would you
Wouldn't I
You had better try; that's all
I never saw such a rude creature
You told me to try
Well; but I was speaking ironically
Oh! that's another thing
you should have told me that, too
I dare say you didn't know, indeed
But, now I look at you again, you seem thinner than when I saw you last, and your face is haggard and pale. And how come you to have left Yorkshire
I need look somewhat changed
for I have undergone some suffering, both of mind and body, since I left London. I have been very poor, too, and have even suffered from want
Good Heaven, Mr Nicholas
what are you telling me
Nothing which need distress you quite so much
neither did I come here to bewail my lot, but on matter more to the purpose. I wish to meet my uncle face to face. I should tell you that first
Then all I have to say about that is
that I don't envy you your taste; and that sitting in the same room with his very boots, would put me out of humour for a fortnight
In the main
there may be no great difference of opinion between you and me, so far; but you will understand, that I desire to confront him, to justify myself, and to cast his duplicity and malice in his throat
That's quite another matter
Heaven forgive me; but I shouldn't cry my eyes quite out of my head, if they choked him. Well
To this end, I called upon him this morning
He only returned to town on Saturday, and I knew nothing of his arrival until late last night
And did you see him
No
He had gone out
Hah
on some kind, charitable business, I dare say
I have reason to believe
from what has been told me, by a friend of mine who is acquainted with his movements, that he intends seeing my mother and sister today, and giving them his version of the occurrences that have befallen me. I will meet him there
That's right
And yet, I don't know
there is much to be thought of -- others to be considered
I have considered others
but as honesty and honour are both at issue, nothing shall deter me
You should know best
In this case I hope so
And all I want you to do for me, is, to prepare them for my coming. They think me a long way off, and if I went wholly unexpected, I should frighten them. If you can spare time to tell them that you have seen me, and that I shall be with them in a quarter of an hour afterwards, you will do me a great service
I wish I could do you, or any of you, a greater
but the power to serve, is as seldom joined with the will, as the will is with the power, I think
You are here already, are you, my gentleman
Then he shall announce himself, and see what effect that has on you
This is pretty
very pretty. I recommend him -- against all my previous conviction, for I knew he would never do any good -- to a man with whom, behaving himself properly, he might have remained, in comfort, for years. What is the result? Conduct for which he might hold up his hand at the Old Bailey
I never will believe it
never. It is some base conspiracy, which carries its own falsehood with it
My dear
you wrong the worthy man. These are not inventions. The man is assaulted, your brother is not to be found; this boy, of whom they speak, goes with him -- remember, remember
It is impossible
Nicholas!-- and a thief too! Mama, how can you sit and hear such statements
It would be my duty, if he came in my way, to deliver him up to justice
my bounden duty; I should have no other course, as a man of the world and a man of business, to pursue. And yet
and yet I would not. I would spare the feelings of his -- of his sister. And his mother of course
Everything
everything combines to prove the truth of this letter, if indeed there were any possibility of disputing it. Do innocent men steal away from the sight of honest folks, and skulk in hiding-places, like outlaws? Do innocent men inveigle nameless vagabonds, and prowl with them about the country as idle robbers do? Assault, riot, theft, what do you call these
A lie
Dear Nicholas
Be calm, consider
Consider, Kate
When I consider all, and think of what has passed, I need be made of iron to stand before him
Or bronze
there is not hardihood enough in flesh and blood to face it out
Oh dear, dear
that things should have come to such a pass as this
Who speaks in a tone, as if I had done wrong, and brought disgrace on them
Your mother, sir
Whose ears have been poisoned by you
by you -- who, under pretence of deserving the thanks she poured upon you, heaped every insult, wrong, and indignity upon my head. You, who sent me to a den where sordid cruelty, worthy of yourself, runs wanton, and youthful misery stalks precocious; where the lightness of childhood shrinks into the heaviness of age, and its every promise blights, and withers as it grows. I call Heaven to witness
that I have seen all this, and that he knows it
Refute these calumnies
and be more patient, so that you may give them no advantage. Tell us what you really did, and show that they are untrue
Of what do they -- or of what does he -- accuse me
First, of attacking your master, and being within an ace of qualifying yourself to be tried for murder
I speak plainly, young man, bluster as you will
I interfered
to save a miserable creature from the vilest cruelty. In so doing, I inflicted such punishment upon a wretch as he will not readily forget, though far less than he deserved from me. If the same scene were renewed before me now, I would take the same part; but I would strike harder and heavier, and brand him with such marks as he should carry to his grave, go to it when he would
You hear
Penitence, this
Oh dear me
I don't know what to think, I really don't
Do not speak just now, mama, I entreat you
Dear Nicholas, I only tell you, that you may know what wickedness can prompt, but they accuse you of -- a ring is missing, and they dare to say that
The woman
the wife of the fellow from whom these charges come, dropped -- as I suppose -- a worthless ring among some clothes of mine, early in the morning on which I left the house. At least, I know that she was in the bedroom where they lay, struggling with an unhappy child, and that I found it when I opened my bundle on the road. I returned it, at once, by coach, and they have it now
I knew, I knew
About this boy, love, in whose company they say you left
The boy, a silly, helpless creature, from brutality and hard usage, is with me now
You hear
everything proved, even upon his own confession. Do you choose to restore that boy, sir
No, I do not
You do not
No
not to the man with whom I found him. I would that I knew on whom he has the claim of birth: I might wring something from his sense of shame, if he were dead to every tie of nature
Indeed
Now, sir, will you hear a word or two from me
You can speak when and what you please
I take little heed of what you say or threaten
Mighty well, sir
but perhaps it may concern others, who may think it worth their while to listen, and consider what I tell them. I will address your mother, sir, who knows the world
Ah! and I only too dearly wish I didn't
Of what I have done, or what I meant to do, for you, ma'am, and my niece, I say not one syllable. I held out no promise, and leave you to judge for yourself. I hold out no threat now, but I say that this boy, headstrong, wilful and disorderly as he is, should not have one penny of my money, or one crust of my bread, or one grasp of my hand, to save him from the loftiest gallows in all Europe. I will not meet him, come where he comes, or hear his name. I will not help him, or those who help him. With a full knowledge of what he brought upon you by so doing, he has come back in his selfish sloth, to be an aggravation of your wants, and a burden upon his sister's scanty wages. I regret to leave you, and more to leave her, now, but I will not encourage this compound of meanness and cruelty, and, as I will not ask you to renounce him, I see you no more
I can't help it
I know you have been very good to us, and meant to do a good deal for my dear daughter. I am quite sure of that; I know you did, and it was very kind of you, having her at your house and all -- and of course it would have been a great thing for her and for me too. But I can't, you know, brother- in-law, I can't renounce my own son, even if he has done all you say he has -- it's not possible; I couldn't do it; so we must go to rack and ruin, Kate, my dear. I can bear it, I dare say
Why do you say "IF Nicholas has done what they say he has," mama
You know he has not
I don't know what to think, one way or other, my dear
Nicholas is so violent, and your uncle has so much composure, that I can only hear what he says, and not what Nicholas does. Never mind, don't let us talk any more about it. We can go to the Workhouse, or the Refuge for the Destitute, or the Magdalen Hospital, I dare say; and the sooner we go the better
Stay
You need not leave this place, sir, for it will be relieved of my presence in one minute, and it will be long, very long, before I darken these doors again
Nicholas
do not say so. My dear brother, you will break my heart. Mama, speak to him. Do not mind her, Nicholas; she does not mean it, you should know her better. Uncle, somebody, for Heaven's sake speak to him
I never meant, Kate
I never meant to stay among you; think better of me than to suppose it possible. I may turn my back on this town a few hours sooner than I intended, but what of that? We shall not forget each other apart, and better days will come when we shall part no more. Be a woman, Kate
and do not make me one, while HE looks on
No, no, I will not
but you will not leave us. Oh! think of all the happy days we have had together, before these terrible misfortunes came upon us; of all the comfort and happiness of home, and the trials we have to bear now; of our having no protector under all the slights and wrongs that poverty so much favours, and you cannot leave us to bear them alone, without one hand to help us
You will be helped when I am away
I am no help to you, no protector; I should bring you nothing but sorrow, and want, and suffering. My own mother sees it, and her fondness and fears for you, point to the course that I should take. And so all good angels bless you, Kate, till I can carry you to some home of mine, where we may revive the happiness denied to us now, and talk of these trials as of things gone by. Do not keep me here, but let me go at once. There. Dear girl -- dear girl
I need not entreat your sympathy
for I know your nature. You will never forget them
Whatever step you take, sir
I shall keep a strict account of. I leave them to you, at your desire. There will be a day of reckoning sooner or later, and it will be a heavy one for you if they are wronged
No
I have acted for the best
Well, Smike
let me hear what new acquaintances you have made this morning, or what new wonder you have found out, in the compass of this street and the next one
No
I must talk of something else today
Of what you like
Of this
I know you are unhappy, and have got into great trouble by bringing me away. I ought to have known that, and stopped behind -- I would, indeed, if I had thought it then. You -- you -- are not rich; you have not enough for yourself, and I should not be here. You grow
you grow thinner every day; your cheek is paler, and your eye more sunk. Indeed I cannot bear to see you so, and think how I am burdening you. I tried to go away today, but the thought of your kind face drew me back. I could not leave you without a word
The word which separates us
shall never be said by me, for you are my only comfort and stay. I would not lose you now, Smike, for all the world could give. The thought of you has upheld me through all I have endured today, and shall, through fifty times such trouble. Give me your hand. My heart is linked to yours. We will journey from this place together, before the week is out. What, if I am steeped in poverty? You lighten it, and we will be poor together
Upon my word
I should have thought some people would have had spirit enough to stop away altogether, when they know what an incumbrance their presence is to right-minded persons. But it's a queer world; oh! it's a queer world
Well, Miss Nickleby, child
are you quite well again
A great deal better, thank you
I wish I could say the same
Are you ill
I am very sorry for that
Not exactly ill, but worried, child -- worried
I am still more sorry to hear that
Bodily illness is more easy to bear than mental
Ah! and it's much easier to talk than to bear either
There, get to your work, child, and put the things in order, do
Is my life and soul there
No
How can it say so, when it is blooming in the front room like a little rose in a demnition flower-pot
May its poppet come in and talk
Certainly not
you know I never allow you here. Go along
Why will it vex itself, and twist its little face into bewitching nutcrackers
Oh! I can't bear you
Not -- eh, not bear ME
Fibs, fibs. It couldn't be. There's not a woman alive, that could tell me such a thing to my face -- to my own face
Such destructive extravagance
All in its joy at having gained such a lovely creature, such a little Venus, such a demd, enchanting, bewitching, engrossing, captivating little Venus
See what a situation you have placed me in
No harm will come, no harm shall come, to its own darling
It is all over; there will be nothing the matter; money shall be got in; and if it don't come in fast enough, old Nickleby shall stump up again, or have his jugular separated if he dares to vex and hurt the little
Hush
Don't you see
Don't alarm yourself, miss
I say; this here's the mantie-making consarn, an't it
Yes
What did you want
Wait a minnit
This is a unpleasant bisness. Vere's your govvernor
My what -- did you say
Mister Muntlehiney
Wot's come on him? Is he at home
He is above stairs, I believe
Do you want him
No
I don't ezactly want him, if it's made a favour on. You can jist give him that 'ere card, and tell him if he wants to speak to ME, and save trouble, here I am; that's all
that the rooms was a good high pitch;' to which the friend assented, adding, by way of illustration, 'that there was lots of room for a little boy to grow up a man in either on 'em, vithout much fear of his ever bringing his head into contract vith the ceiling
Scaley
Good plate this here, Tix
Ah
and this here article warn't made for nothing, mind you
Oh! Is this the missis
It is Madame Mantalini
Then
this is a writ of execution, and if it's not conwenient to settle we'll go over the house at wunst, please, and take the inwentory
What's the demd total
The halfpenny be demd
By all means if you vish it
and the ninepence
It don't matter to us if the fifteen hundred and twenty-seven pound went along with it, that I know on
Not a button
Well
wot's to be done -- anything? Is it only a small crack, or a out-and-out smash? A break-up of the constitootion is it?-- werry good. Then Mr Tom Tix, esk-vire, you must inform your angel wife and lovely family as you won't sleep at home for three nights to come, along of being in possession here. Wot's the good of the lady a fretting herself
A good half of wot's here isn't paid for, I des-say, and wot a consolation oughtn't that to be to her feelings
My cup of happiness's sweetener
will you listen to me for two minutes
Oh! don't speak to me
You have ruined me, and that's enough
Miss Nickleby
make haste, for Heaven's sake, he will destroy himself! I spoke unkindly to him, and he cannot bear it from me. Alfred, my darling Alfred
Ah
interrupted
Alfred
I didn't mean to say it, I didn't mean to say it
Ruined
Have I brought ruin upon the best and purest creature that ever blessed a demnition vagabond! Demmit, let me go
Compose yourself, my own angel
It was nobody's fault; it was mine as much as yours, we shall do very well yet. Come, Alfred, come
And I say again
I say again, that a milliner's and dressmaker's is the very last description of business, Kate, that you should have thought of attaching yourself to. I don't make it a reproach to you, my love; but still I will say, that if you had consulted your own mother
Well, well, mama
what would you recommend now
Recommend
isn't it obvious, my dear, that of all occupations in this world for a young lady situated as you are, that of companion to some amiable lady is the very thing for which your education, and manners, and personal appearance, and everything else, exactly qualify you? Did you never hear your poor dear papa speak of the young lady who was the daughter of the old lady who boarded in the same house that he boarded in once, when he was a bachelor -- what was her name again? I know it began with a B, and ended with g, but whether it was Waters or -- no, it couldn't have been that, either; but whatever her name was, don't you know that that young lady went as companion to a married lady who died soon afterwards, and that she married the husband, and had one of the finest little boys that the medical man had ever seen -- all within eighteen months
And I say
that if your uncle don't object, it's well worth the trial
Place chairs
Leave the room, Alphonse
I have ventured to call, ma'am
from having seen your advertisement
Yes
one of my people put it in the paper -- Yes
I thought, perhaps
that if you had not already made a final choice, you would forgive my troubling you with an application
Yes
If you have already made a selection
Oh dear no
I am not so easily suited. I really don't know what to say. You have never been a companion before, have you
Not to any stranger, ma'am
but she has been a companion to me for some years. I am her mother, ma'am
Oh
I apprehend you
I assure you, ma'am
that I very little thought, at one time, that it would be necessary for my daughter to go out into the world at all, for her poor dear papa was an independent gentleman, and would have been at this moment if he had but listened in time to my constant entreaties and
Dear mama
My dear Kate, if you will allow me to speak
I shall take the liberty of explaining to this lady
I think it is almost unnecessary, mama
What are your accomplishments
You are a good temper
I hope so
And have a highly respectable reference for everything, have you
Have the goodness to draw your chair a little nearer, and let me look at you
I am so very nearsighted that I can't quite discern your features
I like your appearance
Alphonse, request your master to come here
Oh
yes. This is a most important matter. Mrs Wititterly is of a very excitable nature; very delicate, very fragile; a hothouse plant, an exotic
Oh! Henry, my dear
You are, my love, you know you are; one breath
Pho! you're gone
Your soul is too large for your body
Your intellect wears you out; all the medical men say so; you know that there is not a physician who is not proud of being called in to you. What is their unanimous declaration? "My dear doctor," said I to Sir Tumley Snuffim, in this very room, the very last time he came. "My dear doctor, what is my wife's complaint? Tell me all. I can bear it. Is it nerves?" "My dear fellow," he said, "be proud of that woman; make much of her; she is an ornament to the fashionable world, and to you. Her complaint is soul. It swells, expands, dilates -- the blood fires, the pulse quickens, the excitement increases -- Whew
You make me out worse than I am, Henry
I do not, Julia, I do not
The society in which you move -- necessarily move, from your station, connection, and endowments -- is one vortex and whirlpool of the most frightful excitement. Bless my heart and body, can I ever forget the night you danced with the baronet's nephew at the election ball, at Exeter! It was tremendous
I always suffer for these triumphs afterwards
And for that very reason
you must have a companion, in whom there is great gentleness, great sweetness, excessive sympathy, and perfect repose
What do you think of all this
Mrs Wititterly
is sought after and courted by glittering crowds and brilliant circles. She is excited by the opera, the drama, the fine arts, the -- the -- the
The nobility, my love
The nobility, of course
And the military. She forms and expresses an immense variety of opinions on an immense variety of subjects. If some people in public life were acquainted with Mrs Wititterly's real opinion of them, they would not hold their heads, perhaps, quite as high as they do
Hush, Henry
this is scarcely fair
I mention no names, Julia
and nobody is injured. I merely mention the circumstance to show that you are no ordinary person, that there is a constant friction perpetually going on between your mind and your body; and that you must be soothed and tended. Now let me hear, dispassionately and calmly, what are this young lady's qualifications for the office
They are very distinguished people, evidently
What a superior person Mrs Wititterly is
Do you think so, mama
Why, who can help thinking so, Kate, my love
She is pale though, and looks much exhausted. I hope she may not be wearing herself out, but I am very much afraid
Poor girl
she little thinks who lingers here
Good God
what a boy I am
It is better as it is
When I left them before, and could have said goodbye a thousand times if I had chosen, I spared them the pain of leave-taking, and why not now
God bless them
Which way
To Kingston first
And where afterwards
Why won't you tell me
Because I scarcely know myself, good friend
and if I did, I have neither plan nor prospect yet, and might shift my quarters a hundred times before you could possibly communicate with me
I am afraid you have some deep scheme in your head
So deep
that even I can't fathom it. Whatever I resolve upon, depend upon it I will write you soon
You won't forget
I am not very likely to
I have not so many friends that I shall grow confused among the number, and forget my best one
Now listen to me, Smike
We are bound for Portsmouth
I don't know much of these matters
but Portsmouth is a seaport town, and if no other employment is to be obtained, I should think we might get on board some ship. I am young and active, and could be useful in many ways. So could you
I hope so
When I was at that -- you know where I mean
Yes, I know
You needn't name the place
Well, when I was there
I could milk a cow, and groom a horse, with anybody
Ha
I am afraid they don't keep many animals of either kind on board ship, Smike, and even when they have horses, that they are not very particular about rubbing them down; still you can learn to do something else, you know. Where there's a will, there's a way
And I am very willing
God knows you are
and if you fail, it shall go hard but I'll do enough for us both
Do we go all the way today
That would be too severe a trial, even for your willing legs
No. Godalming is some thirty and odd miles from London -- as I found from a map I borrowed -- and I purpose to rest there. We must push on again tomorrow, for we are not rich enough to loiter. Let me relieve you of that bundle! Come
No, no
Don't ask me to give it up to you
Why not
Let me do something for you, at least
You will never let me serve you as I ought. You will never know how I think, day and night, of ways to please you
You are a foolish fellow to say it, for I know it well, and see it, or I should be a blind and senseless beast
Let me ask you a question while I think of it, and there is no one by
Have you a good memory
I don't know
I think I had once; but it's all gone now -- all gone
Why do you think you had once
Because I could remember, when I was a child
but that is very, very long ago, or at least it seems so. I was always confused and giddy at that place you took me from; and could never remember, and sometimes couldn't even understand, what they said to me. I -- let me see -- let me see
You are wandering now
No
I was only thinking how
Think no more of that place, for it is all over
What of the first day you went to Yorkshire
Eh
That was before you began to lose your recollection, you know
Was the weather hot or cold
Wet
Very wet. I have always said, when it has rained hard, that it was like the night I came: and they used to crowd round and laugh to see me cry when the rain fell heavily. It was like a child, they said, and that made me think of it more. I turned cold all over sometimes, for I could see myself as I was then, coming in at the very same door
As you were then
how was that
Such a little creature
that they might have had pity and mercy upon me, only to remember it
You didn't find your way there, alone
No
oh no
Who was with you
A man -- a dark, withered man. I have heard them say so, at the school, and I remembered that before. I was glad to leave him, I was afraid of him; but they made me more afraid of them, and used me harder too
Look at me
There; don't turn away. Do you remember no woman, no kind woman, who hung over you once, and kissed your lips, and called you her child
No
no, never
Nor any house but that house in Yorkshire
No
a room -- I remember I slept in a room, a large lonesome room at the top of a house, where there was a trap-door in the ceiling. I have covered my head with the clothes often, not to see it, for it frightened me: a young child with no one near at night: and I used to wonder what was on the other side. There was a clock too, an old clock, in one corner. I remember that. I have never forgotten that room; for when I have terrible dreams, it comes back, just as it was. I see things and people in it that I had never seen then, but there is the room just as it used to be; THAT never changes
Will you let me take the bundle now
No
no. Come, let us walk on
The Devil's Bowl
never held fitter liquor than that
Twelve miles
Twelve long miles
Is it a good road
Very bad
I want to get on
I scarcely know what to do
Don't let me influence you
I wouldn't go on if it was me
Wouldn't you
Not if I knew when I was well off
What can you give us for supper
Why -- what would you like
Then
I must leave it entirely to you, as I would have done, at first, if you had allowed me
Why, then I'll tell you what
There's a gentleman in the parlour that's ordered a hot beef-steak pudding and potatoes, at nine. There's more of it than he can manage, and I have very little doubt that if I ask leave, you can sup with him. I'll do that, in a minute
No, no
I would rather not. I -- at least -- pshaw! why cannot I speak out? Here; you see that I am travelling in a very humble manner, and have made my way hither on foot. It is more than probable, I think, that the gentleman may not relish my company; and although I am the dusty figure you see, I am too proud to thrust myself into his
Lord love you
it's only Mr Crummles; HE isn't particular
Is he not
Not he
He'll like your way of talking, I know. But we'll soon see all about that. Just wait a minute
All right
I knew he would. You'll see something rather worth seeing, in there. Ecod, how they are a-going of it
Mr Vincent Crummles
This is the young gentleman
There's a picture
un doesn't knock under, in three seconds, he's a dead man. Do that again, boys
That'll be a double ENCORE if you take care, boys
You had better get your wind now and change your clothes
What did you think of that, sir
Very good, indeed -- capital
You won't see such boys as those very often, I think
Match
I mean if they were a little more of a size
Size
why, it's the essence of the combat that there should be a foot or two between them. How are you to get up the sympathies of the audience in a legitimate manner, if there isn't a little man contending against a big one?-- unless there's at least five to one, and we haven't hands enough for that business in our company
I see
I beg your pardon. That didn't occur to me, I confess
It's the main point
I open at Portsmouth the day after tomorrow. If you're going there, look into the theatre, and see how that'll tell
You are going that way
Ye-yes
Yes, I am
Do you know the town at all
No
Never there
Never
If you won't be communicative, you won't
Excuse my saying so
but what a capital countenance your friend has got
Poor fellow
I wish it were a little more plump, and less haggard
Plump
you'd spoil it for ever
Do you think so
Think so, sir! Why, as he is now
without a pad upon his body, and hardly a touch of paint upon his face, he'd make such an actor for the starved business as was never seen in this country. Only let him be tolerably well up in the Apothecary in Romeo and Juliet, with the slightest possible dab of red on the tip of his nose, and he'd be certain of three rounds the moment he put his head out of the practicable door in the front grooves O.P
You view him with a professional eye
And well I may
I never saw a young fellow so regularly cut out for that line, since I've been in the profession. And I played the heavy children when I was eighteen months old
Let them go
and we'll have it snugly and cosily together by the fire
Why, so I saw
You're uneasy in your mind. What's the matter
And what's that
Getting something to do which will keep me and my poor fellow- traveller in the common necessaries of life
That's the truth. You guessed it long ago, I dare say, so I may as well have the credit of telling it you with a good grace
What's to be got to do at Portsmouth more than anywhere else
There are many vessels leaving the port, I suppose
I shall try for a berth in some ship or other. There is meat and drink there at all events
Salt meat and new rum; pease-pudding and chaff-biscuits
One may do worse than that
I can rough it, I believe, as well as most young men of my age and previous habits
You need be able to
if you go on board ship; but you won't
Why not
Because there's not a skipper or mate that would think you worth your salt, when he could get a practised hand
and they as plentiful there, as the oysters in the streets
What do you mean
Men are not born able seamen. They must be reared, I suppose
They must; but not at your age, or from young gentlemen like you
Does no other profession occur to you, which a young man of your figure and address could take up easily, and see the world to advantage in
No
Why, then, I'll tell you one
The stage
The stage
The theatrical profession
I am in the theatrical profession myself, my wife is in the theatrical profession, my children are in the theatrical profession. I had a dog that lived and died in it from a puppy; and my chaise-pony goes on, in Timour the Tartar. I'll bring you out, and your friend too. Say the word. I want a novelty
I don't know anything about it
I never acted a part in my life, except at school
There's genteel comedy in your walk and manner, juvenile tragedy in your eye, and touch-and-go farce in your laugh
You'll do as well as if you had thought of nothing else but the lamps, from your birth downwards
You can be useful to us in a hundred ways
Think what capital bills a man of your education could write for the shop-windows
Well, I think I could manage that department
To be sure you could
For further particulars see small hand-bills"-- we might have half a volume in every one of 'em. Pieces too; why, you could write us a piece to bring out the whole strength of the company, whenever we wanted one
I am not quite so confident about that
But I dare say I could scribble something now and then, that would suit you
We'll have a new show-piece out directly
Let me see -- peculiar resources of this establishment -- new and splendid scenery -- you must manage to introduce a real pump and two washing- tubs
Into the piece
Yes
I bought 'em cheap, at a sale the other day, and they'll come in admirably. That's the London plan. They look up some dresses, and properties, and have a piece written to fit 'em. Most of the theatres keep an author on purpose
Indeed
Oh, yes
a common thing. It'll look very well in the bills in separate lines -- Real pump!-- Splendid tubs!-- Great attraction! You don't happen to be anything of an artist, do you
That is not one of my accomplishments
Ah! Then it can't be helped
If you had been, we might have had a large woodcut of the last scene for the posters, showing the whole depth of the stage, with the pump and tubs in the middle; but, however, if you're not, it can't be helped
What should I get for all this
Could I live by it
Live by it
Like a prince! With your own salary, and your friend's, and your writings, you'd make -- ah! you'd make a pound a week
You don't say so
I do indeed, and if we had a run of good houses, nearly double the money
He's a good pony at bottom
Many and many is the circuit this pony has gone
He is quite one of us. His mother was on the stage
Was she
She ate apple-pie at a circus for upwards of fourteen years
fired pistols, and went to bed in a nightcap; and, in short, took the low comedy entirely. His father was a dancer
Was he at all distinguished
Not very
He was rather a low sort of pony. The fact is, he had been originally jobbed out by the day, and he never quite got over his old habits. He was clever in melodrama too, but too broad -- too broad. When the mother died, he took the port-wine business
The port-wine business
Drinking port-wine with the clown
but he was greedy, and one night bit off the bowl of the glass, and choked himself, so his vulgarity was the death of him at last
We'll get down here
and the boys will take him round to the stable, and call at my lodgings with the luggage. You had better let yours be taken there, for the present
Here we are
Is this a theatre
I thought it was a blaze of light and finery
Why, so it is
but not by day, Smike -- not by day
Mr Johnson
let me introduce Mrs Vincent Crummles
I am glad to see you, sir
I am very glad to see you, and still more happy to hail you as a promising member of our corps
And this
and this is the other. You too, are welcome, sir
He'll do, I think, my dear
He is admirable
An acquisition indeed
They are going through the Indian Savage and the Maiden
Oh
the little ballet interlude. Very good, go on. A little this way, if you please, Mr Johnson. That'll do. Now
Very well indeed
bravo
Bravo
Beautiful
This, sir
this is the infant phenomenon -- Miss Ninetta Crummles
Your daughter
My daughter -- my daughter
the idol of every place we go into, sir. We have had complimentary letters about this girl, sir, from the nobility and gentry of almost every town in England
I am not surprised at that
she must be quite a natural genius
Quite a
I'll tell you what, sir
the talent of this child is not to be imagined. She must be seen, sir -- seen -- to be ever so faintly appreciated. There; go to your mother, my dear
May I ask how old she is
You may, sir
She is ten years of age, sir
Not more
Not a day
Dear me
it's extraordinary
Talent there, sir
Ah
she oughtn't to be in the provinces, she oughtn't
What do you mean
I mean to say
that she is too good for country boards, and that she ought to be in one of the large houses in London, or nowhere; and I tell you more, without mincing the matter, that if it wasn't for envy and jealousy in some quarter that you know of, she would be. Perhaps you'll introduce me here, Mr Crummles
Mr Folair
Happy to know you, sir
A recruit, sir, I understand
An unworthy one
Did you ever see such a set-out as that
As what
You don't mean the infant phenomenon
Infant humbug, sir
There isn't a female child of common sharpness in a charity school, that couldn't do better than that. She may thank her stars she was born a manager's daughter
You seem to take it to heart
Yes, by Jove, and well I may
Isn't it enough to make a man crusty to see that little sprawler put up in the best business every night, and actually keeping money out of the house, by being forced down the people's throats, while other people are passed over? Isn't it extraordinary to see a man's confounded family conceit blinding him, even to his own interest? Why I KNOW of fifteen and sixpence that came to Southampton one night last month, to see me dance the Highland Fling; and what's the consequence? I've never been put up in it since -- never once -- while the "infant phenomenon" has been grinning through artificial flowers at five people and a baby in the pit, and two boys in the gallery, every night
If I may judge from what I have seen of you
you must be a valuable member of the company
Oh
I CAN come it pretty well -- nobody better, perhaps, in my own line -- but having such business as one gets here, is like putting lead on one's feet instead of chalk, and dancing in fetters without the credit of it. Holloa, old fellow, how are you
Well, Tommy
what's the news
A new appearance, that's all
Do the honours, Tommy, do the honours
This is Mr Lenville, who does our first tragedy, Mr Johnson
Except when old bricks and mortar takes it into his head to do it himself, you should add, Tommy
You know who bricks and mortar is, I suppose, sir
I do not, indeed
We call Crummles that, because his style of acting is rather in the heavy and ponderous way
I mustn't be cracking jokes though, for I've got a part of twelve lengths here, which I must be up in tomorrow night, and I haven't had time to look at it yet; I'm a confounded quick study, that's one comfort
I beg your pardon
but did you ever play at Canterbury
I never did
I recollect meeting a gentleman at Canterbury
only for a few moments, for I was leaving the company as he joined it, so like you that I felt almost certain it was the same
I see you now for the first time
I am sure I never saw you before; I couldn't have forgotten it
Oh, I'm sure -- it's very flattering of you to say so
Now I look at you again, I see that the gentleman at Canterbury hadn't the same eyes as you -- you'll think me very foolish for taking notice of such things, won't you
Not at all
How can I feel otherwise than flattered by your notice in any way
Oh! you men are such vain creatures
Led, my dear
Well, what is the matter
It's not the same
Not the same what
Canterbury -- you know what I mean. Come here! I want to speak to you
Ladies and gentlemen
we'll call the Mortal Struggle tomorrow at ten; everybody for the procession. Intrigue, and Ways and Means, you're all up in, so we shall only want one rehearsal. Everybody at ten, if you please
Everybody at ten
On Monday morning we shall read a new piece
the name's not known yet, but everybody will have a good part. Mr Johnson will take care of that
Hallo
I
On Monday morning
that'll do, ladies and gentlemen
Upon my word
I don't think I can be ready by Monday
Pooh, pooh
But really I can't
my invention is not accustomed to these demands, or possibly I might produce
Invention! what the devil's that got to do with it
Everything, my dear sir
Nothing, my dear sir
Do you understand French
Perfectly well
Very good
There! Just turn that into English, and put your name on the title-page. Damn me
if I haven't often said that I wouldn't have a man or woman in my company that wasn't master of the language, so that they might learn it from the original, and play it in English, and save all this trouble and expense
What are you going to do about your lodgings
Come home with me then
and my boys shall go with you after dinner, and show you the most likely place
Mr and Mrs Crummles
You are welcome
We have but a shoulder of mutton with onion sauce
but such as our dinner is, we beg you to partake of it
You are very good
I shall do it ample justice
Vincent
what is the hour
Five minutes past dinner-time
Let the mutton and onion sauce appear
Are they very theatrical people here
No
far from it -- far from it
I pity them
So do I
if they have no relish for theatrical entertainments, properly conducted
Then they have none, sir
To the infant's benefit, last year, on which occasion she repeated three of her most popular characters, and also appeared in the Fairy Porcupine, as originally performed by her, there was a house of no more than four pound twelve
Is it possible
And two pound of that was trust, pa
And two pound of that was trust
Mrs Crummles herself has played to mere handfuls
But they are always a taking audience, Vincent
Most audiences are, when they have good acting -- real good acting -- the regular thing
Do you give lessons, ma'am
I do
There is no teaching here, I suppose
There has been
I have received pupils here. I imparted tuition to the daughter of a dealer in ships' provision; but it afterwards appeared that she was insane when she first came to me. It was very extraordinary that she should come, under such circumstances
Let me see
Would you like some nice little part with the infant
You are very good
but I think perhaps it would be better if I had somebody of my own size at first, in case I should turn out awkward. I should feel more at home, perhaps
True
Perhaps you would. And you could play up to the infant, in time, you know
Certainly
Then I'll tell you what we'll do
You shall study Romeo when you've done that piece -- don't forget to throw the pump and tubs in by-the-bye -- Juliet Miss Snevellicci, old Grudden the nurse.-- Yes, that'll do very well. Rover too;-- you might get up Rover while you were about it, and Cassio, and Jeremy Diddler. You can easily knock them off; one part helps the other so much. Here they are, cues and all
There! Lay down our personal property, Smike
We have fallen upon strange times, and Heaven only knows the end of them; but I am tired with the events of these three days, and will postpone reflection till tomorrow -- if I can
House, house, house
Confound these fellows
they have come to breakfast, I suppose. I'll open the door directly, if you'll wait an instant
Here, come in
In the name of all that's horrible, don't make that noise outside
An uncommon snug little box this
Pernicious snug
For a man at all particular in such matters, it might be a trifle too snug
for, although it is, undoubtedly, a great convenience to be able to reach anything you want from the ceiling or the floor, or either side of the room, without having to move from your chair, still these advantages can only be had in an apartment of the most limited size
It isn't a bit too confined for a single man
That reminds me,-- my wife, Mr Johnson,-- I hope she'll have some good part in this piece of yours
I glanced at the French copy last night
It looks very good, I think
What do you mean to do for me, old fellow
Anything in the gruff and grumble way
You turn your wife and child out of doors
and, in a fit of rage and jealousy, stab your eldest son in the library
Do I though
That's very good business
After which
you are troubled with remorse till the last act, and then you make up your mind to destroy yourself. But, just as you are raising the pistol to your head, a clock strikes -- ten
I see
Very good
You pause
you recollect to have heard a clock strike ten in your infancy. The pistol falls from your hand -- you are overcome -- you burst into tears, and become a virtuous and exemplary character for ever afterwards
Capital
that's a sure card, a sure card. Get the curtain down with a touch of nature like that, and it'll be a triumphant success
Is there anything good for me
Let me see
You play the faithful and attached servant; you are turned out of doors with the wife and child
Always coupled with that infernal phenomenon
and we go into poor lodgings, where I won't take any wages, and talk sentiment, I suppose
Why -- yes
that is the course of the piece
I must have a dance of some kind, you know
You'll have to introduce one for the phenomenon, so you'd better make a PAS DE DEUX, and save time
There's nothing easier than that
Upon my word I don't see how it's to be done
Why, isn't it obvious
Gadzooks, who can help seeing the way to do it?-- you astonish me! You get the distressed lady, and the little child, and the attached servant, into the poor lodgings, don't you?-- Well, look here. The distressed lady sinks into a chair, and buries her face in her pocket- handkerchief. "What makes you weep, mama?" says the child. "Don't weep, mama, or you'll make me weep too!"--"And me!" says the favourite servant, rubbing his eyes with his arm. "What can we do to raise your spirits, dear mama?" says the little child. "Ay, what CAN we do?" says the faithful servant. "Oh, Pierre!" says the distressed lady; "would that I could shake off these painful thoughts."--"Try, ma'am, try," says the faithful servant; "rouse yourself, ma'am; be amused."--"I will," says the lady, "I will learn to suffer with fortitude. Do you remember that dance, my honest friend, which, in happier days, you practised with this sweet angel? It never failed to calm my spirits then. Oh! let me see it once again before I die!" -- There it is -- cue for the band, BEFORE I DIE,-- and off they go. That's the regular thing; isn't it, Tommy
That's it
The distressed lady, overpowered by old recollections, faints at the end of the dance, and you close in with a picture
Been in front tonight
No
not yet. I am going to see the play
We've had a pretty good Let
Four front places in the centre, and the whole of the stage-box
Oh, indeed
a family, I suppose
Yes
yes. It's an affecting thing. There are six children, and they never come unless the phenomenon plays
Six
pa and ma eight, aunt nine, governess ten, grandfather and grandmother twelve. Then, there's the footman, who stands outside, with a bag of oranges and a jug of toast-and- water, and sees the play for nothing through the little pane of glass in the box-door -- it's cheap at a guinea; they gain by taking a box
I wonder you allow so many
There's no help for it
it's always expected in the country. If there are six children, six people come to hold them in their laps. A family-box carries double always. Ring in the orchestra, Grudden
Beware
What did you think of that
I think it was very capital indeed
Miss Snevellicci in particular was uncommonly good
She's a genius
quite a genius, that girl. By- the-bye, I've been thinking of bringing out that piece of yours on her bespeak night
When
The night of her bespeak. Her benefit night, when her friends and patrons bespeak the play
Oh! I understand
You see
it's sure to go, on such an occasion, and even if it should not work up quite as well as we expect, why it will be her risk, you know, and not ours
Yours, you mean
I said mine, didn't I
Next Monday week. What do you say? You'll have done it, and are sure to be up in the lover's part, long before that time
I don't know about "long before
but BY that time I think I can undertake to be ready
Very good
then we'll call that settled. Now, I want to ask you something else. There's a little -- what shall I call it?-- a little canvassing takes place on these occasions
Among the patrons, I suppose
Among the patrons; and the fact is, that Snevellicci has had so many bespeaks in this place, that she wants an attraction. She had a bespeak when her mother-in-law died, and a bespeak when her uncle died; and Mrs Crummles and myself have had bespeaks on the anniversary of the phenomenon's birthday, and our wedding-day, and occasions of that description, so that, in fact, there's some difficulty in getting a good one. Now, won't you help this poor girl, Mr Johnson
How do you mean
Don't you think you could spare half an hour tomorrow morning, to call with her at the houses of one or two of the principal people
Oh dear me
I shouldn't like to do that
The infant will accompany her
The moment it was suggested to me, I gave permission for the infant to go. There will not be the smallest impropriety -- Miss Snevellicci, sir, is the very soul of honour. It would be of material service -- the gentleman from London -- author of the new piece -- actor in the new piece -- first appearance on any boards -- it would lead to a great bespeak, Mr Johnson
I am very sorry to throw a damp upon the prospects of anybody, and more especially a lady
but really I must decidedly object to making one of the canvassing party
What does Mr Johnson say, Vincent
He has some objection, my dear
Objection
Can it be possible
Oh, I hope not
You surely are not so cruel -- oh, dear me!-- Well, I -- to think of that now, after all one's looking forward to it
Mr Johnson will not persist, my dear
Think better of him than to suppose it. Gallantry, humanity, all the best feelings of his nature, must be enlisted in this interesting cause
Which moves even a manager
And a manager's wife
Come, come, you will relent, I know you will
It is not in my nature
to resist any entreaty, unless it is to do something positively wrong; and, beyond a feeling of pride, I know nothing which should prevent my doing this. I know nobody here, and nobody knows me. So be it then. I yield
Miss Snevellicci lives here, I believe
Will you have the goodness to let her know that Mr Johnson is here
Oh, if you please, you're to come upstairs
You're to wait, if you please
She won't be long
We observe from an advertisement in another part of our paper of today, that the charming and highly-talented Miss Snevellicci takes her benefit on Wednesday, for which occasion she has put forth a bill of fare that might kindle exhilaration in the breast of a misanthrope. In the confidence that our fellow-townsmen have not lost that high appreciation of public utility and private worth, for which they have long been so pre-eminently distinguished, we predict that this charming actress will be greeted with a bumper
To Correspondents.-- J.S. is misinformed when he supposes that the highly-gifted and beautiful Miss Snevellicci, nightly captivating all hearts at our pretty and commodious little theatre, is NOT the same lady to whom the young gentleman of immense fortune, residing within a hundred miles of the good city of York, lately made honourable proposals. We have reason to know that Miss Snevellicci IS the lady who was implicated in that mysterious and romantic affair, and whose conduct on that occasion did no less honour to her head and heart, than do her histrionic triumphs to her brilliant genius
But really
my darling Led, who lives with me here, was taken so very ill in the night that I thought she would have expired in my arms
Such a fate is almost to be envied
but I am very sorry to hear it nevertheless
What a creature you are to flatter
If it be flattery to admire your charms and accomplishments
you have better specimens of it here
Oh you cruel creature, to read such things as those! I'm almost ashamed to look you in the face afterwards, positively I am
How careless of Led! How could she be so naughty
I thought you had kindly left it here, on purpose for me to read
I wouldn't have had you see it for the world
I never was so vexed -- never! But she is such a careless thing, there's no trusting her
Well, Miss Snevellicci
and how do YOU do
I venture to call, for the purpose of asking whether you would put your name to my bespeak, ma'am
Oh! I really don't know what to say
It's not as if the theatre was in its high and palmy days -- you needn't stand, Miss Snevellicci -- the drama is gone, perfectly gone
As an exquisite embodiment of the poet's visions, and a realisation of human intellectuality, gilding with refulgent light our dreamy moments, and laying open a new and magic world before the mental eye, the drama is gone, perfectly gone
What man is there, now living, who can present before us all those changing and prismatic colours with which the character of Hamlet is invested
What man indeed -- upon the stage
Hamlet! Pooh! ridiculous! Hamlet is gone, perfectly gone
Quite a new one
of which this gentleman is the author, and in which he plays; being his first appearance on any stage. Mr Johnson is the gentleman's name
I hope you have preserved the unities, sir
The original piece is a French one
There is abundance of incident, sprightly dialogue, strongly-marked characters
All unavailing without a strict observance of the unities, sir
The unities of the drama, before everything
Might I ask you
might I ask you what the unities are
The unities, sir
are a completeness -- a kind of universal dovetailedness with regard to place and time -- a sort of a general oneness, if I may be allowed to use so strong an expression. I take those to be the dramatic unities, so far as I have been enabled to bestow attention upon them, and I have read much upon the subject, and thought much. I find, running through the performances of this child
a unity of feeling, a breadth, a light and shade, a warmth of colouring, a tone, a harmony, a glow, an artistical development of original conceptions, which I look for, in vain, among older performers -- I don't know whether I make myself understood
Perfectly
Just so
That is my definition of the unities of the drama
I don't know, my dear; upon my word I don't know
If we do, it must be distinctly understood that we do not pledge ourselves to the quality of the performances. Let it go forth to the world, that we do not give THEM the sanction of our names, but that we confer the distinction merely upon Miss Snevellicci. That being clearly stated, I take it to be, as it were, a duty, that we should extend our patronage to a degraded stage, even for the sake of the associations with which it is entwined. Have you got two- and-sixpence for half-a-crown, Miss Snevellicci
Let me see
twice four's eight -- four shillings a-piece to the boxes, Miss Snevellicci, is exceedingly dear in the present state of the drama -- three half-crowns is seven-and-six; we shall not differ about sixpence, I suppose? Sixpence will not part us, Miss Snevellicci
Odd people those
I assure you
that I think myself very lucky they did not owe all the money instead of being sixpence short. Now, if you were to succeed, they would give people to understand that they had always patronised you; and if you were to fail, they would have been quite certain of that from the very beginning
I shall certainly persuade Mr Borum to take a private box
I shall only take two of the children, and will make up the rest of the party, of gentlemen -- your admirers, Miss Snevellicci. Augustus, you naughty boy, leave the little girl alone
I am sure you must be very tired
I cannot think of allowing you to go, without first taking a glass of wine. Fie, Charlotte, I am ashamed of you! Miss Lane, my dear, pray see to the children
I am sure, where you ever learnt to act as you do
I cannot understand (Emma, don't stare so); laughing in one piece, and crying in the next, and so natural in all -- oh, dear
I am very happy to hear you express so favourable an opinion
It's quite delightful to think you like it
Like it
Who can help liking it? I would go to the play, twice a week if I could: I dote upon it -- only you're too affecting sometimes. You do put me in such a state -- into such fits of crying! Goodness gracious me, Miss Lane, how can you let them torment that poor child so
Bravo
presumptuous boy
I've got another novelty, Johnson
What's that
The pony
No, no, we never come to the pony till everything else has failed
I don't think we shall come to the pony at all, this season. No, no, not the pony
A boy phenomenon, perhaps
There is only one phenomenon, sir
and that's a girl
Very true
I beg your pardon. Then I don't know what it is, I am sure
What should you say to a young lady from London
Miss So-and-so, of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane
I should say she would look very well in the bills
You're about right there
and if you had said she would look very well upon the stage too, you wouldn't have been far out. Look here; what do you think of this
First appearance of the unrivalled Miss Petowker of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane
Dear me
I know that lady
Then you are acquainted with as much talent as was ever compressed into one young person's body
that is, talent of a certain sort -- of a certain sort. "The Blood Drinker
The Blood Drinker" will die with that girl; and she's the only sylph I ever saw, who could stand upon one leg, and play the tambourine on her other knee, LIKE a sylph
When does she come down
We expect her today
She is an old friend of Mrs Crummles's. Mrs Crummles saw what she could do -- always knew it from the first. She taught her, indeed, nearly all she knows. Mrs Crummles was the original Blood Drinker
Was she, indeed
Yes. She was obliged to give it up though
Did it disagree with her
Not so much with her, as with her audiences
Nobody could stand it. It was too tremendous. You don't quite know what Mrs Crummles is yet
No, no, you don't
you don't, indeed. I don't, and that's a fact. I don't think her country will, till she is dead. Some new proof of talent bursts from that astonishing woman every year of her life. Look at her -- mother of six children -- three of 'em alive, and all upon the stage
Extraordinary
Ah! extraordinary indeed
I pledge you my professional word I didn't even know she could dance, till her last benefit, and then she played Juliet, and Helen Macgregor, and did the skipping-rope hornpipe between the pieces. The very first time I saw that admirable woman, Johnson
she stood upon her head on the butt-end of a spear, surrounded with blazing fireworks
You astonish me
SHE astonished ME
Such grace, coupled with such dignity! I adored her from that moment
From Henrietta Petowker, I do declare
Is it
Oh, yes, it's all right
What an excellent thing for her, to be sure
It's the best thing altogether, that I ever heard of, I think
Well, if he does, you must tell him to come up; that's all I know
One of our hungry brethren, I suppose, Smike
It is not anybody who has been here before
for he is tumbling up every stair. Come in, come in. In the name of wonder! Mr Lillyvick
Why, when did you come here
This morning, sir
Oh! I see; then you were at the theatre tonight, and it was your umb
This umbrella
What did you think of that performance
So far as I could judge, being on the stage
I thought it very agreeable
Agreeable
I mean to say, sir, that it was delicious
I say, delicious
Absorbing, fairy-like, toomultuous
Ah
Yes -- she is a clever girl
She is a divinity
I have known divine actresses before now, sir, I used to collect -- at least I used to CALL for -- and very often call for -- the water-rate at the house of a divine actress, who lived in my beat for upwards of four year but never -- no, never, sir of all divine creatures, actresses or no actresses, did I see a diviner one than is Henrietta Petowker
Let me speak a word with you in private
A bachelor is a miserable wretch, sir
Is he
He is
I have lived in the world for nigh sixty year, and I ought to know what it is
You OUGHT to know, certainly
but whether you do or not, is another question
If a bachelor happens to have saved a little matter of money
his sisters and brothers, and nephews and nieces, look TO that money, and not to him; even if, by being a public character, he is the head of the family, or, as it may be, the main from which all the other little branches are turned on, they still wish him dead all the while, and get low-spirited every time they see him looking in good health, because they want to come into his little property. You see that
Oh yes
it's very true, no doubt
The great reason for not being married
is the expense; that's what's kept me off, or else -- Lord
I might have had fifty women
Fine women
Fine women, sir
ay! not so fine as Henrietta Petowker, for she is an uncommon specimen, but such women as don't fall into every man's way, I can tell you. Now suppose a man can get a fortune IN a wife instead of with her -- eh
Why, then, he's a lucky fellow
That's what I say
just what I say. Henrietta Petowker, the talented Henrietta Petowker has a fortune in herself, and I am going to
To make her Mrs Lillyvick
No, sir, not to make her Mrs Lillyvick
Actresses, sir, always keep their maiden names -- that's the regular thing -- but I'm going to marry her; and the day after tomorrow, too
I congratulate you, sir
Thank you, sir
I shall draw her salary, of course, and I hope after all that it's nearly as cheap to keep two as it is to keep one; that's a consolation
Surely you don't want any consolation at such a moment
No
no -- of course not
But how come you both here, if you're going to be married, Mr Lillyvick
Why, that's what I came to explain to you
The fact is, we have thought it best to keep it secret from the family
Family
What family
The Kenwigses of course
If my niece and the children had known a word about it before I came away, they'd have gone into fits at my feet, and never have come out of 'em till I took an oath not to marry anybody -- or they'd have got out a commission of lunacy, or some dreadful thing
To be sure
Yes; they would have been jealous, no doubt
To prevent which
Henrietta Petowker (it was settled between us) should come down here to her friends, the Crummleses, under pretence of this engagement, and I should go down to Guildford the day before, and join her on the coach there, which I did, and we came down from Guildford yesterday together. Now, for fear you should be writing to Mr Noggs, and might say anything about us, we have thought it best to let you into the secret. We shall be married from the Crummleses' lodgings, and shall be delighted to see you -- either before church or at breakfast-time, which you like. It won't be expensive, you know
just muffins and coffee, with perhaps a shrimp or something of that sort for a relish, you know
Yes, yes, I understand
Oh, I shall be most happy to come; it will give me the greatest pleasure. Where's the lady stopping -- with Mrs Crummles
Why, no
they couldn't very well dispose of her at night, and so she is staying with an acquaintance of hers, and another young lady; they both belong to the theatre
Miss Snevellicci, I suppose
Yes, that's the name
And they'll be bridesmaids, I presume
Why
they WILL have four bridesmaids; I'm afraid they'll make it rather theatrical
Oh no, not at all
Who may the four be? Miss Snevellicci of course -- Miss Ledrook
The -- the phenomenon
Ha, ha
I beg your pardon, I don't know what I'm laughing at -- yes, that'll be very pretty -- the phenomenon -- who else
Some young woman or other
some other friend of Henrietta Petowker's. Well, you'll be careful not to say anything about it, will you
You may safely depend upon me
Won't you take anything to eat or drink
No
I haven't any appetite. I should think it was a very pleasant life, the married one, eh
I have not the least doubt of it
Yes
certainly. Oh yes. No doubt. Good night
I never will believe it
I cannot really. It's of no use talking, I never can make up my mind to go through with such a trial
I might feel it was a great blow
to break up old associations and what-do-you-callems of that kind, but I would submit, my dear, I would indeed
So would I
I would rather court the yoke than shun it. I have broken hearts before now, and I'm very sorry for it: for it's a terrible thing to reflect upon
It is indeed
Now Led, my dear, we must positively get her ready, or we shall be too late, we shall indeed
How do you feel now, my love
Oh Lillyvick
If you knew what I am undergoing for you
Of course he knows it, love, and will never forget it
Do you think he won't
Oh, do you think he won't? Do you think Lillyvick will always remember it -- always, always, always
Henrietta Petowker
cheer up, my lovely one
Is the sight of me so dreadful, Henrietta Petowker
Oh no, no, no
but all the friends -- the darling friends -- of my youthful days -- to leave them all -- it is such a shock
Now then
Breakfast, breakfast
It's very soon done, sir, isn't it
What is soon done, sir
The tying up -- the fixing oneself with a wife
It don't take long, does it
No, sir
It does not take long. And what then, sir
Oh! nothing
It don't take a man long to hang himself, either, eh? ha, ha
To hang himself
To hang himself
Is any parallel attempted to be drawn in this company between matrimony and hanging
The noose, you know
The noose, sir
Does any man dare to speak to me of a noose, and Henrietta Pe
Lillyvick
And Henrietta Lillyvick in the same breath
In this house, in the presence of Mr and Mrs Crummles, who have brought up a talented and virtuous family, to be blessings and phenomenons, and what not, are we to hear talk of nooses
Folair
I'm astonished at you
What are you going on in this way at me for
What have I done
Done, sir
aimed a blow at the whole framework of society
And the best and tenderest feelings
And the highest and most estimable of social ties
Noose! As if one was caught, trapped into the married state, pinned by the leg, instead of going into it of one's own accord and glorying in the act
I didn't mean to make it out, that you were caught and trapped, and pinned by the leg
I'm sorry for it; I can't say any more
So you ought to be, sir
and I am glad to hear that you have enough of feeling left to be so
I don't know what's to be done, Smike
I am afraid you can't learn it, my poor fellow
I am afraid not
I think if you -- but that would give you so much trouble
What
Never mind me
I think
if you were to keep saying it to me in little bits, over and over again, I should be able to recollect it from hearing you
Do you think so
Who calls so loud
Who calls so loud
Who calls so loud
Hallo
Are we going to lie here all da-a-y
I don't know that we're fit for anything else
yet awhile, at least. I haven't a grain of life in me this morning
Life
I feel as if there would be nothing so snug and comfortable as to die at once
Then why don't you die
What the devil's the matter
infernal cold
Suppose
suppose we go back to the subject of little Nickleby, eh
Which little Nickleby; the money-lender or the ga-a-l
You take me, I see
The girl, of course
You promised me you'd find her out
So I did
but I have thought further of the matter since then. You distrust me in the business -- you shall find her out yourself
Na-ay
But I say yes
You shall find her out yourself. Don't think that I mean, when you can -- I know as well as you that if I did, you could never get sight of her without me. No. I say you shall find her out -- SHALL -- and I'll put you in the way
Now, curse me, if you ain't a real, deyvlish, downright, thorough- paced friend
I'll tell you how
She was at that dinner as a bait for you
No
What the dey
As a bait for you
old Nickleby told me so himself
What a fine old cock it is
a noble rascal
Yes
he knew she was a smart little creature
Smart
Upon my soul, Hawk, she's a perfect beauty -- a -- a picture, a statue, a -- a -- upon my soul she is
Well
that's a matter of taste; if mine doesn't agree with yours, so much the better
Confound it
you were thick enough with her that day, anyhow. I could hardly get in a word
Well enough for once, well enough for once
but not worth the trouble of being agreeable to again. If you seriously want to follow up the niece, tell the uncle that you must know where she lives and how she lives, and with whom, or you are no longer a customer of his. He'll tell you fast enough
Why didn't you say this before
instead of letting me go on burning, consuming, dragging out a miserable existence for an a-age
I didn't know it, in the first place
and in the second, I didn't believe you were so very much in earnest
Alone, eh
Oh, very good. I'll walk into the next room here. Don't keep me long, that's all
Now, my lord
what is it
Nickleby
what a pretty creature your niece is
Is she, my lord
Maybe -- maybe -- I don't trouble my head with such matters
You know she's a deyvlish fine girl
You must know that, Nickleby. Come, don't deny that
Yes, I believe she is considered so
Indeed, I know she is. If I did not, you are an authority on such points, and your taste, my lord -- on all points, indeed -- is undeniable
Well
p'raps you're a little right, and p'raps you're a little wrong -- a little of both, Nickleby. I want to know where this beauty lives, that I may have another peep at her, Nickleby
Really
Don't talk so loud
I don't want Hawk to hear
You know he is your rival, do you
He always is, d-a-amn him
and I want to steal a march upon him. Ha, ha, ha! He'll cut up so rough, Nickleby, at our talking together without him. Where does she live, Nickleby, that's all? Only tell me where she lives, Nickleby
He bites
He bites
Eh, Nickleby, eh
Where does she live
Really, my lord
I must think before I tell you
No, not a bit of it, Nickleby; you mustn't think at all
Where is it
No good can come of your knowing
She has been virtuously and well brought up; to be sure she is handsome, poor, unprotected! Poor girl, poor girl
I tell you I only want to see her
A ma-an may look at a pretty woman without harm, mayn't he? Now, where DOES she live? You know you're making a fortune out of me, Nickleby, and upon my soul nobody shall ever take me to anybody else, if you only tell me this
As you promise that, my lord
and as I am most anxious to oblige you, and as there's no harm in it -- no harm -- I'll tell you. But you had better keep it to yourself, my lord; strictly to yourself
Your object being only to see her again
you could effect it at any time you chose by that means
I thought you had gone to sleep
Sorry to detain you
but Nickleby has been so ama-azingly funny that I couldn't tear myself away
No, no
it was all his lordship. You know what a witty, humorous, elegant, accomplished man Lord Frederick is. Mind the step, my lord -- Sir Mulberry, pray give way
Mrs Nickleby
Mrs Nickleby
Nobody YOU know
Step into the office, my -- my -- dear. I'll be with you directly
Nobody I know
Is this Mrs Nickleby -- the mother of Miss Nickleby -- the delightful creature that I had the happiness of meeting in this house the very last time I dined here? But no
No, it can't be. There is the same cast of features, the same indescribable air of -- But no; no. This lady is too young for that
I think you can tell the gentleman, brother-in-law, if it concerns him to know
that Kate Nickleby is my daughter
Her daughter, my lord
This lady's daughter, my lord
My lord
Well, I never did
This, then, my lord
is the lady to whose obliging marriage we owe so much happiness. This lady is the mother of sweet Miss Nickleby. Do you observe the extraordinary likeness, my lord? Nickleby -- introduce us
How de do
A -- and how is Miss Nickleby
Well, I hope
She is quite well, I'm obliged to you, my lord
Quite well. She wasn't well for some days after that day she dined here, and I can't help thinking, that she caught cold in that hackney coach coming home. Hackney coaches, my lord, are such nasty things, that it's almost better to walk at any time, for although I believe a hackney coachman can be transported for life, if he has a broken window, still they are so reckless, that they nearly all have broken windows. I once had a swelled face for six weeks, my lord, from riding in a hackney coach -- I think it was a hackney coach
though I'm not quite certain whether it wasn't a chariot; at all events I know it was a dark green, with a very long number, beginning with a nought and ending with a nine -- no, beginning with a nine, and ending with a nought, that was it, and of course the stamp-office people would know at once whether it was a coach or a chariot if any inquiries were made there -- however that was, there it was with a broken window and there was I for six weeks with a swelled face -- I think that was the very same hackney coach, that we found out afterwards, had the top open all the time, and we should never even have known it, if they hadn't charged us a shilling an hour extra for having it open, which it seems is the law, or was then, and a most shameful law it appears to be -- I don't understand the subject, but I should say the Corn Laws could be nothing to THAT act of Parliament
Indeed
I don't think she ever was better, since she had the hooping-cough, scarlet-fever, and measles, all at the same time, and that's the fact
Is that letter for me
For you, brother-in-law
and I walked all the way up here on purpose to give it you
All the way up here
What a confounded distance! How far do you call it now
How far do I call it
Let me see. It's just a mile from our door to the Old Bailey
No, no. Not so much as that
Oh! It is indeed
I appeal to his lordship
I should decidedly say it was a mile
It must be; it can't be a yard less
All down Newgate Street, all down Cheapside, all up Lombard Street, down Gracechurch Street, and along Thames Street, as far as Spigwiffin's Wharf. Oh! It's a mile
Yes, on second thoughts I should say it was
But you don't surely mean to walk all the way back
Oh, no
I shall go back in an omnibus. I didn't travel about in omnibuses, when my poor dear Nicholas was alive, brother-in-law. But as it is, you know
Yes, yes
and you had better get back before dark
Thank you, brother-in-law, so I had
I think I had better say goodbye, at once
Not stop and -- rest
Oh dear me no
Lord Frederick
we are going Mrs Nickleby's way. We'll see her safe to the omnibus
By all means. Ye-es
Oh! I really couldn't think of it
What a delight, what a comfort, what a happiness, this amiable creature must be to you
She is indeed, sir
she is the sweetest- tempered, kindest-hearted creature -- and so clever
She looks clayver
I assure you she is, my lord
When she was at school in Devonshire, she was universally allowed to be beyond all exception the very cleverest girl there, and there were a great many very clever ones too, and that's the truth -- twenty-five young ladies, fifty guineas a year without the et-ceteras, both the Miss Dowdles the most accomplished, elegant, fascinating creatures -- Oh dear me
I never shall forget what pleasure she used to give me and her poor dear papa, when she was at that school, never -- such a delightful letter every half-year, telling us that she was the first pupil in the whole establishment, and had made more progress than anybody else! I can scarcely bear to think of it even now. The girls wrote all the letters themselves
and the writing-master touched them up afterwards with a magnifying glass and a silver pen; at least I think they wrote them, though Kate was never quite certain about that, because she didn't know the handwriting of hers again; but anyway, I know it was a circular which they all copied, and of course it was a very gratifying thing -- very gratifying
completely off
that
argues that she is strongly prepossessed in favour of one of them
I will never put any constraint upon her inclinations
but upon my word I think there's no comparison between his lordship and Sir Mulberry -- Sir Mulberry is such an attentive gentlemanly creature, so much manner, such a fine man, and has so much to say for himself. I hope it's Sir Mulberry -- I think it must be Sir Mulberry
I wish
I had never done this. And yet it will keep this boy to me, while there is money to be made. Selling a girl -- throwing her in the way of temptation, and insult, and coarse speech. Nearly two thousand pounds profit from him already though. Pshaw! match-making mothers do the same thing every day
If I had not put them in the right track today
this foolish woman would have done so. Well. If her daughter is as true to herself as she should be from what I have seen, what harm ensues? A little teasing, a little humbling, a few tears. Yes
She must take her chance. She must take her chance
Upon my word
it sounds very well
Lines on contemplating the Portrait of Lady Mulberry Hawk. By Sir Dingleby Dabber
Bless my heart
if it should be -- dear me, standing in the passage all this time -- why don't you go and ask them to walk up, you stupid thing
How do you DO
HOW do you do
To know us
The loss has been ours, Mrs Nickleby. Has the loss been ours, Pyke
It has, Pluck
We have regretted it very often, I believe, Pyke
Very often, Pluck
But now
now we have the happiness we have pined and languished for. Have we pined and languished for this happiness, Pyke, or have we not
You know we have, Pluck
You hear him, ma'am
you hear the unimpeachable testimony of my friend Pyke -- that reminds me,-- formalities, formalities, must not be neglected in civilised society. Pyke -- Mrs Nickleby
Whether I shall introduce myself with the same formality
whether I shall say myself that my name is Pluck, or whether I shall ask my friend Pyke (who being now regularly introduced, is competent to the office) to state for me, Mrs Nickleby, that my name is Pluck; whether I shall claim your acquaintance on the plain ground of the strong interest I take in your welfare, or whether I shall make myself known to you as the friend of Sir Mulberry Hawk -- these, Mrs Nickleby, are considerations which I leave to you to determine
Any friend of Sir Mulberry Hawk's requires no better introduction to me
It is delightful to hear you say so
It is refreshing to know that you hold my excellent friend, Sir Mulberry, in such high esteem. A word in your ear, Mrs Nickleby. When Sir Mulberry knows it, he will be a happy man -- I say, Mrs Nickleby, a happy man. Pyke, be seated
MY good opinion
my good opinion can be of very little consequence to a gentleman like Sir Mulberry
Of little consequence
Pyke, of what consequence to our friend, Sir Mulberry, is the good opinion of Mrs Nickleby
Of what consequence
Ay
is it of the greatest consequence
Of the very greatest consequence
Mrs Nickleby cannot be ignorant
of the immense impression which that sweet girl has
Pluck
beware
Pyke is right
I was not to mention it. Pyke is very right. Thank you, Pyke
Well now, really
Such delicacy as that, I never saw
But when
when I see so much sweetness and beauty on the one hand, and so much ardour and devotion on the other, I -- pardon me, Pyke, I didn't intend to resume that theme. Change the subject, Pyke
We promised Sir Mulberry and Lord Frederick
that we'd call this morning and inquire whether you took any cold last night
Not the least in the world last night, sir
with many thanks to his lordship and Sir Mulberry for doing me the honour to inquire; not the least -- which is the more singular, as I really am very subject to colds, indeed -- very subject. I had a cold once
I think it was in the year eighteen hundred and seventeen; let me see, four and five are nine, and -- yes, eighteen hundred and seventeen, that I thought I never should get rid of; actually and seriously, that I thought I never should get rid of. I was only cured at last by a remedy that I don't know whether you ever happened to hear of, Mr Pluck. You have a gallon of water as hot as you can possibly bear it, with a pound of salt, and sixpen'orth of the finest bran, and sit with your head in it for twenty minutes every night just before going to bed; at least, I don't mean your head -- your feet. It's a most extraordinary cure -- a most extraordinary cure. I used it for the first time, I recollect, the day after Christmas Day, and by the middle of April following the cold was gone. It seems quite a miracle when you come to think of it, for I had it ever since the beginning of September
What an afflicting calamity
Perfectly horrid
But it's worth the pain of hearing, only to know that Mrs Nickleby recovered it, isn't it, Pluck
That is the circumstance which gives it such a thrilling interest
But come
we must not forget our mission in the pleasure of this interview. We come on a mission, Mrs Nickleby
On a mission
From Sir Mulberry
You must be very dull here
Rather dull, I confess
We bring the compliments of Sir Mulberry Hawk, and a thousand entreaties that you'll take a seat in a private box at the play tonight
Oh dear
I never go out at all, never
And that is the very reason, my dear Mrs Nickleby, why you should go out tonight
Pyke, entreat Mrs Nickleby
Oh, pray do
You positively must
You are very kind
but
There's not a but in the case, my dear Mrs Nickleby
not such a word in the vocabulary. Your brother-in-law joins us, Lord Frederick joins us, Sir Mulberry joins us, Pyke joins us -- a refusal is out of the question. Sir Mulberry sends a carriage for you -- twenty minutes before seven to the moment -- you'll not be so cruel as to disappoint the whole party, Mrs Nickleby
You are so very pressing, that I scarcely know what to say
Say nothing; not a word, not a word, my dearest madam
Mrs Nickleby
there is the most trifling, the most excusable breach of confidence in what I am about to say; and yet if my friend Pyke there overheard it -- such is that man's delicate sense of honour, Mrs Nickleby -- he'd have me out before dinner-time
Your daughter has made a conquest -- a conquest on which I may congratulate you. Sir Mulberry, my dear ma'am, Sir Mulberry is her devoted slave. Hem
Hah
What is this! what do I behold
What DO you behold, my dear fellow
It is the face, the countenance, the expression
feebly portrayed, imperfectly caught, but still THE face, THE countenance, THE expression
I recognise it at this distance
Is it not, my dear madam, the faint similitude of
It is my daughter's portrait
amazing thirsty
And I'll tell you what
if you'll send round to the public-house for a pot of milk half-and-half, positively and actually I'll drink it
At twenty minutes before seven, then
the coach will be here. One more look -- one little look -- at that sweet face. Ah! here it is. Unmoved, unchanged
Oh, Pluck! Pluck
I am quite in love with that dear Mr Pluck, I declare I am
But I don't know
she is a very worthy person, but I am afraid too much beneath Sir Mulberry's station for us to make a companion of. Poor thing
We have been -- we have been -- toasting your lovely daughter, Mrs Nickleby
Oh, ho
wine in, truth out.-- You are very kind, Sir Mulberry
No, no upon my soul
It's you that's kind, upon my soul it is. It was so kind of you to come tonight
So very kind of you to invite me, you mean, Sir Mulberry
I am so anxious to know you, so anxious to cultivate your good opinion, so desirous that there should be a delicious kind of harmonious family understanding between us
that you mustn't think I'm disinterested in what I do. I'm infernal selfish; I am -- upon my soul I am
I am sure you can't be selfish, Sir Mulberry
You have much too open and generous a countenance for that
What an extraordinary observer you are
Oh no, indeed, I don't see very far into things, Sir Mulberry
I am quite afraid of you
Upon my soul
I am afraid of Mrs Nickleby. She is so immensely sharp
But where's my brother-in-law, Sir Mulberry
I shouldn't be here without him. I hope he's coming
Pyke
Where's Ralph Nickleby
Pluck
where's Ralph Nickleby
Why not
What is the matter
Hush
Lord Frederick, do you recognise the tones of that voice
Deyvle take me if I didn't think it was the voice of Miss Nickleby
Lor, my lord
Why actually -- Kate, my dear, Kate
YOU here, mama! Is it possible
Possible, my dear? Yes
Why who -- who on earth is that you have with you, mama
Who do you suppose, my dear
There's Mr Pyke, Mr Pluck, Sir Mulberry Hawk, and Lord Frederick Verisopht
Gracious Heaven
How comes she in such society
My dear Kate
How ill you looked a moment ago! You quite frightened me, I declare
It was mere fancy, mama,-- the -- the -- reflection of the lights perhaps
Don't you see Sir Mulberry Hawk, my dear
Mrs Wititterly is delighted
delighted, my lord, I am sure, with this opportunity of contracting an acquaintance which, I trust, my lord, we shall improve. Julia, my dear, you must not allow yourself to be too much excited, you must not. Indeed you must not. Mrs Wititterly is of a most excitable nature, Sir Mulberry. The snuff of a candle, the wick of a lamp, the bloom on a peach, the down on a butterfly. You might blow her away, my lord; you might blow her away
I take an interest, my lord
such an interest in the drama
Ye -- es. It's very interesting
I'm always ill after Shakespeare
I scarcely exist the next day; I find the reaction so very great after a tragedy, my lord, and Shakespeare is such a delicious creature
Ye -- es
He was a clayver man
Do you know, my lord
I find I take so much more interest in his plays, after having been to that dear little dull house he was born in! Were you ever there, my lord
No, nayver
Then really you ought to go, my lord
I don't know how it is, but after you've seen the place and written your name in the little book, somehow or other you seem to be inspired; it kindles up quite a fire within one
Ye -- es
I shall certainly go there
Julia, my life
you are deceiving his lordship -- unintentionally, my lord, she is deceiving you. It is your poetical temperament, my dear -- your ethereal soul -- your fervid imagination, which throws you into a glow of genius and excitement. There is nothing in the place, my dear -- nothing, nothing
I think there must be something in the place
for, soon after I was married, I went to Stratford with my poor dear Mr Nickleby, in a post-chaise from Birmingham -- was it a post-chaise though
yes, it must have been a post-chaise, because I recollect remarking at the time that the driver had a green shade over his left eye;-- in a post-chaise from Birmingham, and after we had seen Shakespeare's tomb and birthplace, we went back to the inn there, where we slept that night, and I recollect that all night long I dreamt of nothing but a black gentleman, at full length, in plaster-of-Paris, with a lay-down collar tied with two tassels, leaning against a post and thinking; and when I woke in the morning and described him to Mr Nickleby, he said it was Shakespeare just as he had been when he was alive, which was very curious indeed. Stratford -- Stratford
Yes, I am positive about that, because I recollect I was in the family way with my son Nicholas at the time, and I had been very much frightened by an Italian image boy that very morning. In fact, it was quite a mercy, ma'am
that my son didn't turn out to be a Shakespeare, and what a dreadful thing that would have been
Don't hurry, don't hurry
Nay, then
You had best not seek to detain me, sir
And why not
My dear creature, now why do you keep up this show of displeasure
SHOW
How dare you presume to speak to me, sir -- to address me -- to come into my presence
You look prettier in a passion, Miss Nickleby
I hold you in the bitterest detestation and contempt, sir
If you find any attraction in looks of disgust and aversion, you -- let me rejoin my friends, sir, instantly. Whatever considerations may have withheld me thus far, I will disregard them all, and take a course that even YOU might feel, if you do not immediately suffer me to proceed
If no regard for my sex or helpless situation will induce you to desist from this coarse and unmanly persecution
I have a brother who will resent it dearly, one day
Upon my soul
she looks more beautiful, and I like her better in this mood, than when her eyes are cast down, and she is in perfect repose
There
Didn't I tell you last night that if we could find where they were going by bribing a servant through my fellow, and then established ourselves close by with the mother, these people's honour would be our own? Why here it is, done in four-and-twenty hours
Ye -- es
But I have been tied to the old woman all ni-ight
Hear him
Hear this discontented grumbler. Isn't it enough to make a man swear never to help him in his plots and schemes again? Isn't it an infernal shame
Isn't it the truth
Wasn't it so
Wasn't it so
How would you have had it? How could we have got a general invitation at first sight -- come when you like, go when you like, stop as long as you like, do what you like -- if you, the lord, had not made yourself agreeable to the foolish mistress of the house? Do I care for this girl, except as your friend? Haven't I been sounding your praises in her ears, and bearing her pretty sulks and peevishness all night for you? What sort of stuff do you think I'm made of? Would I do this for every man? Don't I deserve even gratitude in return
You're a deyvlish good fellow
Upon my life you're a deyvlish good fellow, Hawk
And I have done right, have I
Quite ri-ght
And like a poor, silly, good-natured, friendly dog as I am, eh
Ye -- es, ye -- es; like a friend
Well then
I'm satisfied. And now let's go and have our revenge on the German baron and the Frenchman, who cleaned you out so handsomely last night
And I never
was more delighted in my life than to observe last night, my dear, that your good sense had already told you this
The Lady Flabella
Cherizette," said the Lady Flabella, inserting her mouse-like feet in the blue satin slippers, which had unwittingly occasioned the half-playful half-angry altercation between herself and the youthful Colonel Befillaire, in the Duke of Mincefenille's SALON DE DANSE on the previous night. "CHERIZETTE, MA CHERE, DONNEZ-MOI DE L'EAU-DE- COLOGNE, S'IL VOUS PLAIT, MON ENFANT." ' "MERCIE -- thank you," said the Lady Flabella, as the lively but devoted Cherizette plentifully besprinkled with the fragrant compound the Lady Flabella's MOUCHOIR of finest cambric, edged with richest lace, and emblazoned at the four corners with the Flabella crest, and gorgeous heraldic bearings of that noble family. "MERCIE -- that will do." 

'At this instant, while the Lady Flabella yet inhaled that delicious fragrance by holding the MOUCHOIR to her exquisite, but thoughtfully-chiselled nose, the door of the BOUDOIR (artfully concealed by rich hangings of silken damask, the hue of Italy's firmament) was thrown open, and with noiseless tread two VALETS-DE- CHAMBRE, clad in sumptuous liveries of peach-blossom and gold, advanced into the room followed by a page in BAS DE SOIE -- silk stockings -- who, while they remained at some distance making the most graceful obeisances, advanced to the feet of his lovely mistress, and dropping on one knee presented, on a golden salver gorgeously chased, a scented BILLET. 

'The Lady Flabella, with an agitation she could not repress, hastily tore off the ENVELOPE and broke the scented seal. It WAS from Befillaire -- the young, the slim, the low-voiced -- HER OWN Befillaire
Oh, charming
Poetic, really. Read that description again, Miss Nickleby
Sweet, indeed
So voluptuous, is it not -- so soft
Yes, I think it is
very soft
Close the book, Miss Nickleby
I can hear nothing more today; I should be sorry to disturb the impression of that sweet description. Close the book
It was the fright of that -- that noise and confusion last night
How very odd
How did you come to know Lord Frederick, and those other delightful creatures, child
I met them at my uncle's
Have you known them long
No
Not long
I was very glad of the opportunity which that respectable person, your mother, gave us of being known to them
Some friends of ours were on the very point of introducing us, which makes it quite remarkable
They asked permission to call
I gave it them of course
Do you expect them today
They are here now
Miss Nickleby
Pray don't think of going
You are very good
But
For goodness' sake, don't agitate me by making me speak so much
Dear me, Miss Nickleby, I beg
The most extraordinary thing in the world
the most extraordinary thing. As Lord Frederick and Sir Mulberry drove up to the door, Pyke and I had that instant knocked
That instant knocked
No matter how you came, so that you are here
I am delighted, I am sure
And how is Miss Nickleby
Why, she complains of suffering from the fright of last night
I am sure I don't wonder at it, for my nerves are quite torn to pieces
And yet you look
and yet you look
Beyond everything
I am afraid Sir Mulberry is a flatterer, my lord
Oh, deyvlish
Neither does Miss Nickleby look the worse
She was always handsome, but upon my soul, ma'am, you seem to have imparted some of your own good looks to her besides
Pyke
Well, Pluck
Is there anybody
anybody you know, that Mrs Wititterly's profile reminds you of
Reminds me of
Of course there is
Who do you mean
The D. of B
The C. of B
The beautiful sister is the countess; not the duchess
True
the C. of B. The resemblance is wonderful
Perfectly startling
My lord
I am delighted -- honoured -- proud. Be seated again, my lord, pray. I am proud, indeed -- most proud
It is an honour, indeed
Julia, my soul, you will suffer for this tomorrow
Suffer
The reaction, my lord, the reaction
This violent strain upon the nervous system over, my lord, what ensues? A sinking, a depression, a lowness, a lassitude, a debility. My lord, if Sir Tumley Snuffim was to see that delicate creature at this moment, he would not give a -- a -- THIS for her life
Not THAT
Sir Tumley Snuffim would not give that for Mrs Wititterly's existence
Mrs Wititterly
is Sir Tumley Snuffim's favourite patient. I believe I may venture to say, that Mrs Wititterly is the first person who took the new medicine which is supposed to have destroyed a family at Kensington Gravel Pits. I believe she was. If I am wrong, Julia, my dear, you will correct me
I believe I was
No, sir, it was not. It had not even that recommendation
Mrs Wititterly is quite a martyr
I THINK I am
I think you are, my dear Julia
If anybody, my lord
will produce to me a greater martyr than Mrs Wititterly, all I can say is, that I shall be glad to see that martyr, whether male or female -- that's all, my lord
Miss Nickleby
I wish to speak to you very gravely. I am sorry to have to do it, upon my word I am very sorry, but you leave me no alternative, Miss Nickleby
Your behaviour, Miss Nickleby
is very far from pleasing me -- very far. I am very anxious indeed that you should do well, but you may depend upon it, Miss Nickleby, you will not, if you go on as you do
Ma'am
Don't agitate me by speaking in that way, Miss Nickleby, don't
or you'll compel me to ring the bell
You needn't suppose
that your looking at me in that way, Miss Nickleby, will prevent my saying what I am going to say, which I feel to be a religious duty. You needn't direct your glances towards me
I am not Sir Mulberry, no, nor Lord Frederick Verisopht, Miss Nickleby, nor am I Mr Pyke, nor Mr Pluck either
If such things had been done when I was a young girl
I don't suppose anybody would have believed it
I don't think they would
I do not think anybody would believe, without actually knowing it, what I seem doomed to undergo
Don't talk to me of being doomed to undergo, Miss Nickleby, if you please
I will not be answered, Miss Nickleby. I am not accustomed to be answered, nor will I permit it for an instant. Do you hear
I do hear you, ma'am
with surprise -- with greater surprise than I can express
I have always considered you a particularly well-behaved young person for your station in life
and as you are a person of healthy appearance, and neat in your dress and so forth, I have taken an interest in you, as I do still, considering that I owe a sort of duty to that respectable old female, your mother. For these reasons, Miss Nickleby, I must tell you once for all, and begging you to mind what I say, that I must insist upon your immediately altering your very forward behaviour to the gentleman who visit at this house. It really is not becoming
Oh
is not this, is not this, too cruel, too hard to bear! Is it not enough that I should have suffered as I have, night and day; that I should almost have sunk in my own estimation from very shame of having been brought into contact with such people; but must I also be exposed to this unjust and most unfounded charge
You will have the goodness to recollect, Miss Nickleby
that when you use such terms as "unjust", and "unfounded", you charge me, in effect, with stating that which is untrue
I do
Whether you make this accusation of yourself, or at the prompting of others, is alike to me. I say it IS vilely, grossly, wilfully untrue. Is it possible
that anyone of my own sex can have sat by, and not have seen the misery these men have caused me? Is it possible that you, ma'am, can have been present, and failed to mark the insulting freedom that their every look bespoke? Is it possible that you can have avoided seeing, that these libertines, in their utter disrespect for you, and utter disregard of all gentlemanly behaviour, and almost of decency, have had but one object in introducing themselves here, and that the furtherance of their designs upon a friendless, helpless girl, who, without this humiliating confession, might have hoped to receive from one so much her senior something like womanly aid and sympathy? I do not -- I cannot believe it
What is the matter
Heavens, what do I see? Julia! Julia! look up, my life, look up
Run for Sir Tumley
I knew it, Miss Nickleby
that society has been too much for her. This is all soul, you know, every bit of it
Very good
He defies the usurer, does he? Well, we shall see. "Honesty is the best policy," is it? We'll try that too
He is content
to set his known character and conduct against the power of money -- dross, as he calls it. Why, what a dull blockhead this fellow must be! Dross to, dross! Who's that
Me
Your niece
What of her
She's here
Here
What does she want
I don't know
Shall I ask
No
Show her in! Stay
There
NOW she may come in
Well
Well, my -- dear. What now
I can guess the cause of this
I can -- I can -- guess the cause. Well! Well
Where is the harm? only a few tears; and it's an excellent lesson for her, an excellent lesson
What is the matter
The matter which brings me to you, sir
is one which should call the blood up into your cheeks, and make you burn to hear, as it does me to tell. I have been wronged; my feelings have been outraged, insulted, wounded past all healing, and by your friends
Friends
I have no friends, girl
By the men I saw here, then
If they were no friends of yours, and you knew what they were,-- oh, the more shame on you, uncle, for bringing me among them. To have subjected me to what I was exposed to here, through any misplaced confidence or imperfect knowledge of your guests, would have required some strong excuse; but if you did it -- as I now believe you did -- knowing them well, it was most dastardly and cruel
There is some of that boy's blood in you, I see
I hope there is
I should be proud to know it. I am young, uncle, and all the difficulties and miseries of my situation have kept it down, but I have been roused today beyond all endurance, and come what may, I WILL NOT, as I am your brother's child, bear these insults longer
What insults, girl
Remember what took place here, and ask yourself
Uncle, you must -- I am sure you will -- release me from such vile and degrading companionship as I am exposed to now. I do not mean
I do not mean to be angry and violent -- I beg your pardon if I have seemed so, dear uncle,-- but you do not know what I have suffered, you do not indeed. You cannot tell what the heart of a young girl is -- I have no right to expect you should; but when I tell you that I am wretched, and that my heart is breaking, I am sure you will help me. I am sure, I am sure you will
I have gone on day after day
in the hope that this persecution would cease; I have gone on day after day, compelled to assume the appearance of cheerfulness, when I was most unhappy. I have had no counsellor, no adviser, no one to protect me. Mama supposes that these are honourable men, rich and distinguished, and how CAN I -- how can I undeceive her -- when she is so happy in these little delusions, which are the only happiness she has? The lady with whom you placed me, is not the person to whom I could confide matters of so much delicacy, and I have come at last to you, the only friend I have at hand -- almost the only friend I have at all -- to entreat and implore you to assist me
How can I assist you, child
You have influence with one of these men, I KNOW
Would not a word from you induce them to desist from this unmanly course
No
at least -- that -- I can't say it, if it would
Can't say it
No
I can't say it
We are connected in business
in business, and I can't afford to offend them. What is it after all? We have all our trials, and this is one of yours. Some girls would be proud to have such gallants at their feet
Proud
I don't say
but that you do right to despise them; no, you show your good sense in that, as indeed I knew from the first you would. Well. In all other respects you are comfortably bestowed. It's not much to bear. If this young lord does dog your footsteps, and whisper his drivelling inanities in your ears, what of it? It's a dishonourable passion. So be it; it won't last long. Some other novelty will spring up one day, and you will be released. In the mean time
In the mean time
I am to be the scorn of my own sex, and the toy of the other; justly condemned by all women of right feeling, and despised by all honest and honourable men; sunken in my own esteem, and degraded in every eye that looks upon me. No, not if I work my fingers to the bone, not if I am driven to the roughest and hardest labour. Do not mistake me. I will not disgrace your recommendation. I will remain in the house in which it placed me, until I am entitled to leave it by the terms of my engagement; though, mind, I see these men no more. When I quit it, I will hide myself from them and you, and, striving to support my mother by hard service, I will live, at least, in peace, and trust in God to help me
Don't
Don't cry, don't cry
I see how it is
You're giving way now. Yes, yes, very good; that's right, I like that. It was right not to give way before him. Yes, yes! Ha, ha, ha! Oh, yes. Poor thing
Don't cry any more
I shall see you soon. Ha! ha! ha! And so shall somebody else too. Yes, yes. Ho! ho
God bless you
God bless you
Same to you
Ha, ha, ha! Ho! ho! ho
Ugh
you shall pay for this. Oh! you shall pay for this
You are out of spirits
Not I
I was thinking about my sister, Smike
Sister
Ay
Is she like you
Why, so they say
only a great deal handsomer
She must be VERY beautiful
Anybody who didn't know you as well as I do, my dear fellow, would say you were an accomplished courtier
I don't even know what that is
Shall I ever see your sister
To be sure
we shall all be together one of these days -- when we are rich, Smike
How is it that you, who are so kind and good to me, have nobody to be kind to you
I cannot make that out
Why, it is a long story
and one you would have some difficulty in comprehending, I fear. I have an enemy -- you understand what that is
Oh, yes, I understand that
Well, it is owing to him
He is rich, and not so easily punished as YOUR old enemy, Mr Squeers. He is my uncle, but he is a villain, and has done me wrong
Has he though
What is his name? Tell me his name
Ralph -- Ralph Nickleby
Ralph Nickleby
Ralph. I'll get that name by heart
Good-evening, sir
I bring a communication. Hem
From whom and what about
You are unusually mysterious tonight
Cold, perhaps
cold, perhaps. That is the fault of my position -- not of myself, Mr Johnson. My position as a mutual friend requires it, sir
Have the goodness to read that, sir
Do you know the contents of this note, sir
Yes
And how dare you bring it here, sir
Had you no fear of being kicked downstairs, sir
No
Then
you had better follow that article of your dress, sir, or you may find yourself very disagreeably deceived, and that within a dozen seconds
I say, Johnson
none of that, you know. No tricks with a gentleman's wardrobe
Leave the room
How could you presume to come here on such an errand, you scoundrel
Pooh! pooh
There -- that's enough
Enough
Take yourself off, sir
Pooh! pooh! I tell you
I wasn't in earnest. I only brought it in joke
You had better be careful how you indulge in such jokes again
or you may find an allusion to pulling noses rather a dangerous reminder for the subject of your facetiousness. Was it written in joke, too, pray
No, no, that's the best of it
right down earnest -- honour bright
Come, sir
Have the goodness to explain
Why, I'll tell you how it is
Since you came here Lenville has done nothing but second business, and, instead of having a reception every night as he used to have, they have let him come on as if he was nobody
What do you mean by a reception
Jupiter
what an unsophisticated shepherd you are, Johnson! Why, applause from the house when you first come on. So he has gone on night after night, never getting a hand, and you getting a couple of rounds at least, and sometimes three, till at length he got quite desperate, and had half a mind last night to play Tybalt with a real sword, and pink you -- not dangerously, but just enough to lay you up for a month or two
Very considerate
Yes, I think it was under the circumstances; his professional reputation being at stake
But his heart failed him, and he cast about for some other way of annoying you, and making himself popular at the same time -- for that's the point. Notoriety, notoriety, is the thing. Bless you, if he had pinked you
it would have been worth -- ah, it would have been worth eight or ten shillings a week to him. All the town would have come to see the actor who nearly killed a man by mistake; I shouldn't wonder if it had got him an engagement in London. However, he was obliged to try some other mode of getting popular, and this one occurred to him. It's clever idea, really. If you had shown the white feather, and let him pull your nose, he'd have got it into the paper; if you had sworn the peace against him, it would have been in the paper too, and he'd have been just as much talked about as you -- don't you see
Oh, certainly
but suppose I were to turn the tables, and pull HIS nose, what then? Would that make his fortune
Why, I don't think it would
because there wouldn't be any romance about it, and he wouldn't be favourably known. To tell you the truth though, he didn't calculate much upon that, for you're always so mild-spoken, and are so popular among the women, that we didn't suspect you of showing fight. If you did, however, he has a way of getting out of it easily, depend upon that
Has he
We will try, tomorrow morning. In the meantime, you can give whatever account of our interview you like best. Good-night
Oh
are you there
Slave
Object of my scorn and hatred
I hold ye in contempt
But they shall not protect ye
They shall not protect ye -- boy
Away with him to the deepest dungeon beneath the castle moat
Do you see this, monster? Do you see THIS
Come
apologise for the insolent note you wrote to me last night, and waste no more time in talking
Never
Yes -- yes -- yes
For my sake -- for mine, Lenville -- forego all idle forms, unless you would see me a blighted corse at your feet
This is affecting
The ties of nature are strong. The weak husband and the father -- the father that is yet to be -- relents. I apologise
Humbly and submissively
Humbly and submissively
But only to save her,-- for a time will come
Very good
I hope Mrs Lenville may have a good one; and when it does come, and you are a father, you shall retract it if you have the courage. There. Be careful, sir, to what lengths your jealousy carries you another time; and be careful, also, before you venture too far, to ascertain your rival's temper
Well, Smike
is there any letter yet
Yes
I got this one from the post-office
From Newman Noggs
it's no easy matter to make his writing out. Let me see -- let me see
At all events I should prepare them here for the possibility of my going away suddenly
I should lose no time in doing that
Well, Mr Johnson
next week for Ryde, then for Winchester, then for
I have some reason to fear
that before you leave here my career with you will have closed
Closed
Closed
Why he don't mean to say he's going
Hoity toity! Nonsense
Going
Let me see
Let me see. This is Wednesday night. We'll have posters out the first thing in the morning, announcing positively your last appearance for tomorrow
But perhaps it may not be my last appearance, you know
Unless I am summoned away, I should be sorry to inconvenience you by leaving before the end of the week
So much the better
We can have positively your last appearance, on Thursday -- re-engagement for one night more, on Friday -- and, yielding to the wishes of numerous influential patrons, who were disappointed in obtaining seats, on Saturday. That ought to bring three very decent houses
Then I am to make three last appearances, am I
Yes
three is not enough, and it's very bungling and irregular not to have more, but if we can't help it we can't, so there's no use in talking. A novelty would be very desirable. You couldn't sing a comic song on the pony's back, could you
No
I couldn't indeed
It has drawn money before now
What do you think of a brilliant display of fireworks
That it would be rather expensive
Eighteen-pence would do it
You on the top of a pair of steps with the phenomenon in an attitude; "Farewell!" on a transparency behind; and nine people at the wings with a squib in each hand -- all the dozen and a half going off at once -- it would be very grand -- awful from the front, quite awful
Heigho
Heigho! I wish all this were over
Over, Mr Johnson
It was an ungallant speech, certainly
I would not have made it if I had known you had been within hearing
What a dear that Mr Digby is
I'll tell him presently, for his gratification, that you said so
Oh you naughty thing
I don't know though, that I should much mind HIS knowing my opinion of him; with some other people, indeed, it might be
How kind it is of you
to sit waiting here for him night after night, night after night, no matter how tired you are; and taking so much pains with him, and doing it all with as much delight and readiness as if you were coining gold by it
He well deserves all the kindness I can show him, and a great deal more
He is the most grateful, single-hearted, affectionate creature that ever breathed
So odd, too
isn't he
God help him, and those who have made him so; he is indeed
He is such a devilish close chap
Nobody can ever get anything out of him
What SHOULD they get out of him
Zooks! what a fire-eater you are, Johnson
I'm only talking of the natural curiosity of the people here, to know what he has been about all his life
Poor fellow! it is pretty plain, I should think, that he has not the intellect to have been about anything of much importance to them or anybody else
Ay
but that involves the whole question, you know
What question
Why, the who he is and what he is, and how you two, who are so different, came to be such close companions
That's in everybody's mouth
The "everybody" of the theatre, I suppose
In it and out of it too
Why, you know, Lenville says
I thought I had silenced him effectually
Perhaps you have
if you have, he said this before he was silenced: Lenville says that you're a regular stick of an actor, and that it's only the mystery about you that has caused you to go down with the people here, and that Crummles keeps it up for his own sake; though Lenville says he don't believe there's anything at all in it, except your having got into a scrape and run away from somewhere, for doing something or other
Oh
That's a part of what he says
I mention it as the friend of both parties, and in strict confidence. I don't agree with him, you know. He says he takes Digby to be more knave than fool; and old Fluggers, who does the heavy business you know, HE says that when he delivered messages at Covent Garden the season before last, there used to be a pickpocket hovering about the coach- stand who had exactly the face of Digby; though, as he very properly says, Digby may not be the same, but only his brother, or some near relation
Oh
Yes
that's what they say. I thought I'd tell you, because really you ought to know. Oh! here's this blessed phenomenon at last. Ugh, you little imposition, I should like to -- quite ready, my darling,-- humbug -- Ring up, Mrs G., and let the favourite wake 'em
So these are some of the stories they invent about us, and bandy from mouth to mouth
If a man would commit an inexpiable offence against any society, large or small, let him be successful. They will forgive him any crime but that
You surely don't mind what that malicious creature says, Mr Johnson
Not I
If I were going to remain here, I might think it worth my while to embroil myself. As it is, let them talk till they are hoarse. But here
here comes the subject of a portion of their good- nature, so let he and I say good night together
No, I will not let either of you say anything of the kind
You must come home and see mama, who only came to Portsmouth today, and is dying to behold you. Led, my dear, persuade Mr Johnson
Oh, I'm sure
if YOU can't persuade him
Mr and Mrs Lillyvick have taken lodgings in our house, and share our sitting-room for the present
Won't that induce you
Surely
I can require no possible inducement beyond your invitation
Oh no! I dare say
Upon my word
Come
it's high time we were there, or we shall have poor Mrs Snevellicci thinking that you have run away with her daughter, Mr Johnson; and then we should have a pretty to-do
My dear Led
how you do talk
Now, here I am, my buck, and what have you got to say to me
Bravo
You have seen him, sir
No, really I never did
You never saw my friend Glavormelly, sir
Then you have never seen acting yet. If he had lived
Oh, he is dead, is he
He is
but he isn't in Westminster Abbey, more's the shame. He was a --. Well, no matter. He is gone to that bourne from whence no traveller returns. I hope he is appreciated THERE
Well, Mr Lillyvick
and how are you
Quite well, sir
There is nothing like the married state, sir, depend upon it
Indeed
Ah! nothing like it, sir
How do you think
how do you think she looks tonight
As handsome as ever
Why, there's air about her, sir
that I never saw in anybody. Look at her, now she moves to put the kettle on. There! Isn't it fascination, sir
You're a lucky man
Ha, ha, ha
No. Do you think I am though, eh? Perhaps I may be, perhaps I may be. I say, I couldn't have done much better if I had been a young man, could I? You couldn't have done much better yourself, could you -- eh -- could you
Hush! Don't take any notice of it
Say, when she comes back, that she exerts herself too much
You needn't alarm yourself a bit, Mr Snevellicci
She is only a little weak and nervous; she has been so ever since the morning
Oh
that's all, is it
Oh yes, that's all. Don't make a fuss about it
Dear me, my dear
Don't call me your dear, ma'am
if you please
Pray, pa, don't
Don't what, my child
Talk in that way
Why not
I hope you don't suppose there's anybody here who is to prevent my talking as I like
Nobody wants to, pa
Nobody would if they did want to
I am not ashamed of myself, Snevellicci is my name; I'm to be found in Broad Court, Bow Street, when I'm in town. If I'm not at home, let any man ask for me at the stage-door. Damme, they know me at the stage- door I suppose. Most men have seen my portrait at the cigar shop round the corner. I've been mentioned in the newspapers before now, haven't I? Talk! I'll tell you what; if I found out that any man had been tampering with the affections of my daughter, I wouldn't talk. I'd astonish him without talking; that's my way
That's my way
The ladies! Bless their hearts
I love 'em
I love 'em, every one
Not every one
Yes, every one
That would include the married ladies, you know
I love them too, sir
This is a nice man
One good turn deserves another
I love them and they love me
What is the matter with the men! Are they mad
What do you mean to do? What do you want to do? What is the matter with you
Look here, sir
here is purity and elegance combined, whose feelings have been outraged -- violated, sir
Lor, what nonsense he talks
Nobody has said anything to me
Said, Henrietta
Didn't I see him
Well
Do you suppose nobody is ever to look at me? A pretty thing to be married indeed, if that was law
You didn't mind it
Mind it
You ought to go down on your knees and beg everybody's pardon, that you ought
Pardon, my dear
Yes, and mine first
Do you suppose I ain't the best judge of what's proper and what's improper
To be sure
Do you suppose WE shouldn't be the first to speak, if there was anything that ought to be taken notice of
Do you suppose THEY don't know, sir
It's the phenomenon, depend upon it, sir
I have not the smallest doubt it's the fame of the phenomenon -- that's the man; him in the great-coat and no shirt-collar. She shall have ten pound a week, Johnson; she shall not appear on the London boards for a farthing less. They shan't engage her either, unless they engage Mrs Crummles too -- twenty pound a week for the pair; or I'll tell you what, I'll throw in myself and the two boys, and they shall have the family for thirty. I can't say fairer than that. They must take us all, if none of us will go without the others. That's the way some of the London people do, and it always answers. Thirty pound a week -- it's too cheap, Johnson. It's dirt cheap
Very good, my fine fellow
you leave this company next Saturday night
But I must dissemble
I will
Heaven knows I have remained here for the best, and sorely against my own will; but even now I may have dallied too long. What can have happened? Smike, my good fellow, here -- take my purse. Put our things together, and pay what little debts we owe -- quick, and we shall be in time for the morning coach. I will only tell them that we are going, and will return to you immediately
So goodbye
goodbye, goodbye
I can't help it
Set whatever I may have earned this week against them, or if that will not repay you, say at once what will. Quick, quick
We'll cry quits about that
But can't we have one last night more
Not an hour -- not a minute
Won't you stop to say something to Mrs Crummles
I couldn't stop if it were to prolong my life a score of years
Here, take my hand, and with it my hearty thanks.-- Oh! that I should have been fooling here
Dear me, dear me
if he only acted like that, what a deal of money he'd draw! He should have kept upon this circuit; he'd have been very useful to me. But he don't know what's good for him. He is an impetuous youth. Young men are rash, very rash
It is he -- my friend, my friend
Bless my heart
what are you about
Farewell, my noble, my lion-hearted boy
I am not a man to be moved by a pretty face
There is a grinning skull beneath it, and men like me who look and work below the surface see that, and not its delicate covering. And yet I almost like the girl, or should if she had been less proudly and squeamishly brought up. If the boy were drowned or hanged, and the mother dead, this house should be her home. I wish they were, with all my soul
How now
Oh
I thought you rang
Stop
I did ring
I knew you did
Then why do you offer to go if you know that
I thought you rang to say you didn't ring" replied Newman. 'You often do
How dare you pry, and peer, and stare at me, sirrah
Stare
at YOU! Ha, ha
Be careful, sir
Let me have no drunken fooling here. Do you see this parcel
It's big enough
Carry it into the city; to Cross, in Broad Street, and leave it there -- quick. Do you hear
Noggs
Walk in if you please
Bless us
what did you want, sir
You have forgotten me
I wonder at that. That nobody should remember me who knew me in other days, is natural enough; but there are few people who, seeing me once, forget me NOW
I did forget you, I declare
and I am ashamed of myself for doing so; for you are a kind, good creature, Mr Noggs. Sit down and tell me all about Miss Nickleby. Poor dear thing! I haven't seen her for this many a week
How's that
Why, the truth is, Mr Noggs
that I have been out on a visit -- the first visit I have made for fifteen years
That is a long time
So it is a very long time to look back upon in years, though, somehow or other, thank Heaven, the solitary days roll away peacefully and happily enough
I have a brother, Mr Noggs -- the only relation I have -- and all that time I never saw him once. Not that we ever quarrelled, but he was apprenticed down in the country, and he got married there; and new ties and affections springing up about him, he forgot a poor little woman like me, as it was very reasonable he should, you know. Don't suppose that I complain about that, because I always said to myself, "It is very natural; poor dear John is making his way in the world, and has a wife to tell his cares and troubles to, and children now to play about him, so God bless him and them, and send we may all meet together one day where we shall part no more." But what do you think, Mr Noggs
of that very same brother coming up to London at last, and never resting till he found me out; what do you think of his coming here and sitting down in that very chair, and crying like a child because he was so glad to see me -- what do you think of his insisting on taking me down all the way into the country to his own house (quite a sumptuous place, Mr Noggs, with a large garden and I don't know how many fields, and a man in livery waiting at table, and cows and horses and pigs and I don't know what besides), and making me stay a whole month, and pressing me to stop there all my life -- yes, all my life -- and so did his wife, and so did the children -- and there were four of them, and one, the eldest girl of all, they -- they had named her after me eight good years before, they had indeed. I never was so happy; in all my life I never was
But bless my life
what a foolish creature I must seem to you, Mr Noggs! I shouldn't have said anything about it, only I wanted to explain to you how it was I hadn't seen Miss Nickleby
Have you seen the old lady
You mean Mrs Nickleby
Then I tell you what, Mr Noggs, if you want to keep in the good books in that quarter, you had better not call her the old lady any more, for I suspect she wouldn't be best pleased to hear you. Yes, I went there the night before last, but she was quite on the high ropes about something, and was so grand and mysterious, that I couldn't make anything of her: so, to tell you the truth, I took it into my head to be grand too, and came away in state. I thought she would have come round again before this, but she hasn't been here
About Miss Nickleby
Why, she was here twice while I was away
I was afraid she mightn't like to have me calling on her among those great folks in what's-its-name Place, so I thought I'd wait a day or two, and if I didn't see her, write
Ah
However, I want to hear all the news about them from you
How is the old rough and tough monster of Golden Square? Well, of course; such people always are. I don't mean how is he in health, but how is he going on: how is he behaving himself
Damn him
like a false hound
Gracious, Mr Noggs, you quite terrify me
I should have spoilt his features yesterday afternoon if I could have afforded it
I was very near it. I was obliged to put my hands in my pockets, and keep 'em there very tight. I shall do it some day in that little back- parlour, I know I shall. I should have done it before now, if I hadn't been afraid of making bad worse. I shall double-lock myself in with him and have it out before I die, I'm quite certain of it
I shall scream if you don't compose yourself, Mr Noggs
I'm sure I shan't be able to help it
Never mind
He's coming up tonight: I wrote to tell him. He little thinks I know; he little thinks I care. Cunning scoundrel! he don't think that. Not he, not he. Never mind, I'll thwart him -- I, Newman Noggs. Ho, ho, the rascal
There
that's done me good. Now I'm better, and I'll tell you all about it
God forgive me for saying so
but I really feel as if I could stick this into him with pleasure
She won't stop where she is after tonight
That's a comfort
Stop
she should have left there, weeks ago
If we had known of this
But we didn't. Nobody could properly interfere but her mother or brother. The mother's weak -- poor thing -- weak. The dear young man will be here tonight
Heart alive
He will do something desperate, Mr Noggs, if you tell him all at once
Depend upon it
if you are not very careful in breaking out the truth to him, he will do some violence upon his uncle or one of these men that will bring some terrible calamity upon his own head, and grief and sorrow to us all
I never thought of that
I came to ask you to receive his sister in case he brought her here, but
But this is a matter of much greater importance
that you might have been sure of before you came, but the end of this, nobody can foresee, unless you are very guarded and careful
What CAN I do
If he was to talk of pistoling 'em all, I should be obliged to say, "Certainly -- serve 'em right
He must have time to cool before he can possibly do anything
That is of the greatest consequence. He must not be told until late at night
But he'll be in town between six and seven this evening
I can't keep it from him when he asks me
Then you must go out, Mr Noggs
You can easily have been kept away by business, and must not return till nearly midnight
Then he will come straight here
So I suppose
but he won't find me at home, for I'll go straight to the city the instant you leave me, make up matters with Mrs Nickleby, and take her away to the theatre, so that he may not even know where his sister lives
London at last
It seemed to me as though we should never reach it
And yet you came along at a tidy pace too
Ay, I know that
but I have been very anxious to be at my journey's end, and that makes the way seem long
Well
if the way seemed long with such cattle as you've sat behind, you MUST have been most uncommon anxious
Do you know what time he will be home
Ah, Mr Johnson
Welcome, sir. How well you're looking! I never could have believed
Pardon me
My question -- I am extremely anxious to know
Why, he has a troublesome affair of business
An expensive place, I dare say
but a pint of wine and a biscuit are no great debauch wherever they are had. And yet I don't know
It must have come from one of them
It is remarkable too
if it had been "Kate" or "Kate Nickleby," I should not have been so much surprised: but "little Kate Nickleby
Little Kate Nickleby
I was right
And it was the man I supposed
As there was a proper objection to drinking her in heel-taps
we'll give her the first glass in the new magnum. Little Kate Nickleby
Little Kate Nickleby
The jade
She's a true Nickleby -- a worthy imitator of her old uncle Ralph -- she hangs back to be more sought after -- so does he; nothing to be got out of Ralph unless you follow him up, and then the money comes doubly welcome, and the bargain doubly hard, for you're impatient and he isn't. Oh! infernal cunning
Infernal cunning
I am afraid
that the old woman has grown jea-a-lous, and locked her up. Upon my soul it looks like it
If they quarrel and little Nickleby goes home to her mother, so much the better
I can do anything with the old lady. She'll believe anything I tell her
Egad that's true
Ha, ha, ha! Poor deyvle
Let me have a word with you, sir
With me, sir
I said with you
A mysterious stranger, upon my soul
Will you step apart with me for a few minutes, or do you refuse
There, sir
my business you will guess
Your name and address
I shall give you neither
If there is a gentleman in this party
he will acquaint me with the name and residence of this man
I am the brother of the young lady who has been the subject of conversation here
I denounce this person as a liar, and impeach him as a coward. If he has a friend here, he will save him the disgrace of the paltry attempt to conceal his name -- and utterly useless one -- for I will find it out, nor leave him until I have
Let the fellow talk, I have nothing serious to say to boys of his station; and his pretty sister shall save him a broken head, if he talks till midnight
You are a base and spiritless scoundrel
and shall be proclaimed so to the world. I WILL know you; I will follow you home if you walk the streets till morning
Do you know that person's name
That gentleman, sir
no, sir, I do not, sir
Here, you sir
do you know THAT person's name
Name, sir? No, sir
Then you'll find it there
and when you have made yourself master of it, put that piece of pasteboard in the fire -- do you hear me
Don't wait
Will you make yourself known to me
No
No
If you trust to your horse's speed, you will find yourself mistaken
I will accompany you. By Heaven I will, if I hang on to the foot-board
You shall be horsewhipped if you do
You are a villain
You are an errand-boy for aught I know
I am the son of a country gentleman
your equal in birth and education, and your superior I trust in everything besides. I tell you again, Miss Nickleby is my sister. Will you or will you not answer for your unmanly and brutal conduct
To a proper champion -- yes. To you -- no
Stand out of the way, dog. William, let go her head
You had better not
He has no command over the horse, mind. You shall not go -- you shall not, I swear -- till you have told me who you are
Leave go, I tell you
Will you unclasp your hand
Will you tell me who you are
No
No
Don't be alarmed
There is no harm done, beyond what a basin of water can repair
No harm
What have you been doing
I know all
I have heard a part, and guessed the rest. But before I remove one jot of these stains, I must hear the whole from you. You see I am collected. My resolution is taken. Now, my good friend, speak out; for the time for any palliation or concealment is past, and nothing will avail Ralph Nickleby now
Your dress is torn in several places; you walk lame, and I am sure you are suffering pain
Let me see to your hurts first
I have no hurts to see to, beyond a little soreness and stiffness that will soon pass off
But if I had fractured every limb, and still preserved my senses, you should not bandage one till you had told me what I have the right to know. Come
You had a sister of your own, you told me once, who died before you fell into misfortune. Now think of her, and tell me, Newman
Yes, I will, I will
I'll tell you the whole truth
Say to Miss Nickleby that her brother is here, and in great haste to see her
My darling girl
How pale you are
I have been so unhappy here, dear brother
so very, very miserable. Do not leave me here, dear Nicholas, or I shall die of a broken heart
I will leave you nowhere
never again, Kate
Tell me that I acted for the best. Tell me that we parted because I feared to bring misfortune on your head; that it was a trial to me no less than to yourself, and that if I did wrong it was in ignorance of the world and unknowingly
Why should I tell you what we know so well
Nicholas -- dear Nicholas -- how can you give way thus
It is such bitter reproach to me to know what you have undergone
to see you so much altered, and yet so kind and patient -- God
it sets my whole blood on fire again. You must leave here with me directly; you should not have slept here last night, but that I knew all this too late. To whom can I speak, before we drive away
The quarter's notice
is not yet half expired. Therefore
Therefore
the quarter's salary must be lost, sir. You will excuse this extreme haste, but circumstances require that I should immediately remove my sister, and I have not a moment's time to lose. Whatever she brought here I will send for, if you will allow me, in the course of the day
With regard to the trifle of salary that is due
I will
I will -- owe it to Miss Nickleby
If you please
Why don't you ask your uncle, my dear Nicholas, what he can possibly mean by it
My dear mother
the time for talking has gone by. There is but one step to take, and that is to cast him off with the scorn and indignation he deserves. Your own honour and good name demand that, after the discovery of his vile proceedings, you should not be beholden to him one hour, even for the shelter of these bare walls
To be sure
he is a brute, a monster; and the walls are very bare, and want painting too, and I have had this ceiling whitewashed at the expense of eighteen-pence, which is a very distressing thing, considering that it is so much gone into your uncle's pocket. I never could have believed it -- never
Nor I, nor anybody else
Lord bless my life
To think that that Sir Mulberry Hawk should be such an abandoned wretch as Miss La Creevy says he is, Nicholas, my dear; when I was congratulating myself every day on his being an admirer of our dear Kate's, and thinking what a thing it would be for the family if he was to become connected with us, and use his interest to get you some profitable government place. There are very good places to be got about the court, I know; for a friend of ours (Miss Cropley, at Exeter, my dear Kate, you recollect), he had one, and I know that it was the chief part of his duty to wear silk stockings, and a bag wig like a black watch-pocket; and to think that it should come to this after all -- oh, dear, dear, it's enough to kill one, that it is
Oh I dare say, Miss La Creevy
it's very easy to say cheer up, but if you had as many occasions to cheer up as I have had -- and there
Think of Mr Pyke and Mr Pluck, two of the most perfect gentlemen that ever lived, what am I too say to them -- what can I say to them? Why, if I was to say to them, "I'm told your friend Sir Mulberry is a base wretch," they'd laugh at me
They will laugh no more at us, I take it
Come, mother, there is a coach at the door, and until Monday, at all events, we will return to our old quarters
Where everything is ready, and a hearty welcome into the bargain
Now, let me go with you downstairs
Here is the letter for Ralph
and here the key. When you come to me this evening, not a word of last night. Ill news travels fast, and they will know it soon enough. Have you heard if he was much hurt
I will ascertain that myself without loss of time
You had better take some rest
You are fevered and ill
Has the post come in
No
Any other letters
One
What's this
Left with the letter;-- a boy brought them -- quarter of an hour ago, or less
You are known to me now. There are no reproaches I could heap upon your head which would carry with them one thousandth part of the grovelling shame that this assurance will awaken even in your breast. 'Your brother's widow and her orphan child spurn the shelter of your roof, and shun you with disgust and loathing. Your kindred renounce you, for they know no shame but the ties of blood which bind them in name with you. 

'You are an old man, and I leave you to the grave. May every recollection of your life cling to your false heart, and cast their darkness on your death-bed
What a demnition long time you have kept me ringing at this confounded old cracked tea-kettle of a bell, every tinkle of which is enough to throw a strong man into blue convulsions, upon my life and soul, oh demmit
I didn't hear the bell more than once
Then you are most immensely and outr-i-geously deaf
as deaf as a demnition post
It is most demnebly particular
It is to melt some scraps of dirty paper into bright, shining, chinking, tinkling, demd mint sauce
There is quite a bloom upon your demd countenance
You look quite juvenile and jolly, demmit
We are alone
What do you want with me
Good
What did I want! Yes. Ha, ha! Very good. WHAT did I want. Ha, ha. Oh dem
What DO you want, man
Demnition discount
Money is scarce
Demd scarce, or I shouldn't want it
The times are bad, and one scarcely knows whom to trust
I don't want to do business just now, in fact I would rather not; but as you are a friend -- how many bills have you there
Two
What is the gross amount
Demd trifling -- five-and-seventy
And the dates
Two months, and four
I'll do them for you -- mind, for YOU; I wouldn't for many people -- for five-and-twenty pounds
Oh demmit
Why, that leaves you fifty
What would you have? Let me see the names
You are so demd hard, Nickleby
Let me see the names
Well! They are not sure, but they are safe enough. Do you consent to the terms, and will you take the money? I don't want you to do so. I would rather you didn't
Demmit, Nickleby, can't you
No
I can't. Will you take the money -- down, mind; no delay, no going into the city and pretending to negotiate with some other party who has no existence, and never had. Is it a bargain, or is it not
Oh, you ARE here
Yes, my life and soul, I am
I am here, my soul's delight, upon Tom Tiddler's ground, picking up the demnition gold and silver
I am ashamed of you
Ashamed -- of ME, my joy? It knows it is talking demd charming sweetness, but naughty fibs
It knows it is not ashamed of its own popolorum tibby
Which is entirely attributable
to the gross misconduct and most improper behaviour of Mr Mantalini
Of me, my essential juice of pineapple
Of you
But I will not allow it. I will not submit to be ruined by the extravagance and profligacy of any man. I call Mr Nickleby to witness the course I intend to pursue with you
Pray don't call me to witness anything, ma'am
Settle it between yourselves, settle it between yourselves
No, but I must beg you as a favour
to hear me give him notice of what it is my fixed intention to do -- my fixed intention, sir
Will she call me "Sir
Me who dote upon her with the demdest ardour! She, who coils her fascinations round me like a pure angelic rattlesnake! It will be all up with my feelings; she will throw me into a demd state
Don't talk of feelings, sir
You don't consider mine
I do not consider yours, my soul
No
His extravagance, Mr Nickleby
his extravagance is beyond all bounds
I should scarcely have supposed it
I assure you, Mr Nickleby, however, that it is
It makes me miserable! I am under constant apprehensions, and in constant difficulty. And even this
is not the worst. He took some papers of value out of my desk this morning without asking my permission
I am obliged
since our late misfortunes, to pay Miss Knag a great deal of money for having her name in the business, and I really cannot afford to encourage him in all his wastefulness. As I have no doubt that he came straight here, Mr Nickleby, to convert the papers I have spoken of, into money, and as you have assisted us very often before, and are very much connected with us in this kind of matters, I wish you to know the determination at which his conduct has compelled me to arrive
I have made up my mind
to allowance him
To do that, my joy
To put him
to put him upon a fixed allowance; and I say that if he has a hundred and twenty pounds a year for his clothes and pocket-money, he may consider himself a very fortunate man
Demnition
But no. It is a demd horrid dream. It is not reality. No
A very judicious arrangement
if your husband will keep within it, ma'am -- as no doubt he will
Demmit
it is a horrid reality. She is sitting there before me. There is the graceful outline of her form; it cannot be mistaken -- there is nothing like it. The two countesses had no outlines at all, and the dowager's was a demd outline. Why is she so excruciatingly beautiful that I cannot be angry with her, even now
You have brought it upon yourself, Alfred
I am a demd villain
I will fill my pockets with change for a sovereign in halfpence and drown myself in the Thames; but I will not be angry with her, even then, for I will put a note in the twopenny-post as I go along, to tell her where the body is. She will be a lovely widow. I shall be a body. Some handsome women will cry; she will laugh demnebly
Alfred, you cruel, cruel creature
She calls me cruel -- me -- me -- who for her sake will become a demd, damp, moist, unpleasant body
You know it almost breaks my heart, even to hear you talk of such a thing
Can I live to be mistrusted
Have I cut my heart into a demd extraordinary number of little pieces, and given them all away, one after another, to the same little engrossing demnition captivater, and can I live to be suspected by her? Demmit, no I can't
Ask Mr Nickleby whether the sum I have mentioned is not a proper one
I don't want any sum
I shall require no demd allowance. I will be a body
But it will come soon enough
all love -- bah! that I should use the cant of boys and girls -- is fleeting enough; though that which has its sole root in the admiration of a whiskered face like that of yonder baboon, perhaps lasts the longest, as it originates in the greater blindness and is fed by vanity. Meantime the fools bring grist to my mill, so let them live out their day, and the longer it is, the better
If you have nothing more to say, my dear, to Mr Nickleby
we will take our leaves. I am sure we have detained him much too long already
Demmit! I have, though
Here's an affair about your friend Sir Mulberry. Such a demd extraordinary out-of-the-way kind of thing as never was -- eh
What do you mean
Don't you know, demmit
I see by the paper that he was thrown from his cabriolet last night, and severely injured, and that his life is in some danger
but I see nothing extraordinary in that -- accidents are not miraculous events, when men live hard, and drive after dinner
Whew
Then don't you know how it was
Not unless it was as I have just supposed
Demmit, you amaze me
Don't you know
that it wasn't an accident at all, but a demd, furious, manslaughtering attack made upon him by your nephew
What
Demmit, Nickleby, you're as great a tiger as he is
Go on
Tell me what you mean. What is this story? Who told you? Speak
Do you hear me
what a demneble fierce old evil genius you are! You're enough to frighten the life and soul out of her little delicious wits -- flying all at once into such a blazing, ravaging, raging passion as never was, demmit
Pshaw
It is but manner
It is a demd uncomfortable, private-madhouse-sort of a manner
From Pyke; and a demd, fine, pleasant, gentlemanly dog it is
Demnition pleasant, and a tip-top sawyer
And what said he
That it happened this way -- that your nephew met him at a coffeehouse, fell upon him with the most demneble ferocity, followed him to his cab, swore he would ride home with him, if he rode upon the horse's back or hooked himself on to the horse's tail; smashed his countenance, which is a demd fine countenance in its natural state; frightened the horse, pitched out Sir Mulberry and himself, and
And was killed
Was he? Is he dead
Ugh
Then he has done nothing. Stay
He broke a leg or an arm, or put his shoulder out, or fractured his collar-bone, or ground a rib or two? His neck was saved for the halter, but he got some painful and slow-healing injury for his trouble? Did he? You must have heard that, at least
No
Unless he was dashed into such little pieces that they blew away, he wasn't hurt, for he went off as quiet and comfortable as -- as -- as demnition
And what
what was the cause of quarrel
You are the demdest, knowing hand
the cunningest, rummest, superlativest old fox -- oh dem!-- to pretend now not to know that it was the little bright-eyed niece -- the softest, sweetest, prettiest
Alfred
She is always right
and when she says it is time to go, it is time, and go she shall; and when she walks along the streets with her own tulip, the women shall say, with envy, she has got a demd fine husband; and the men shall say with rapture, he has got a demd fine wife; and they shall both be right and neither wrong, upon my life and soul -- oh demmit
So, so
this devil is loose again, and thwarting me, as he was born to do, at every turn. He told me once there should be a day of reckoning between us, sooner or later. I'll make him a true prophet, for it shall surely come
Are you at home
No
You're quite sure you're not at home, are you
What does the idiot mean
He has been waiting nearly ever since they first came in, and may have heard your voice -- that's all
Who has
Why, this IS a surprise
I should know your face, Mr Squeers
Ah
and you'd have know'd it better, sir, if it hadn't been for all that I've been a-going through. Just lift that little boy off the tall stool in the back-office, and tell him to come in here, will you, my man
Oh, he's lifted his-self off. My son, sir, little Wackford. What do you think of him, sir, for a specimen of the Dotheboys Hall feeding? Ain't he fit to bust out of his clothes, and start the seams, and make the very buttons fly off with his fatness? Here's flesh
Here's firmness, here's solidness! Why you can hardly get up enough of him between your finger and thumb to pinch him anywheres
Well
I had him there; but that's because we breakfasted early this morning, and he hasn't had his lunch yet. Why you couldn't shut a bit of him in a door, when he's had his dinner. Look at them tears, sir
there's oiliness
He looks well, indeed
But how is Mrs Squeers, and how are you
Mrs Squeers, sir
is as she always is -- a mother to them lads, and a blessing, and a comfort, and a joy to all them as knows her. One of our boys -- gorging his-self with vittles, and then turning in; that's their way -- got a abscess on him last week. To see how she operated upon him with a pen-knife! Oh Lor
what a member of society that woman is
Have you quite recovered that scoundrel's attack
I've only just done it, if I've done it now
I was one blessed bruise, sir
from HERE to THERE. Vinegar and brown paper, vinegar and brown paper, from morning to night. I suppose there was a matter of half a ream of brown paper stuck upon me, from first to last. As I laid all of a heap in our kitchen, plastered all over, you might have thought I was a large brown-paper parcel, chock full of nothing but groans. Did I groan loud, Wackford, or did I groan soft
Loud
Was the boys sorry to see me in such a dreadful condition, Wackford, or was they glad
Gl
Eh
Sorry
Oh
Then take your hands out of your pockets, and don't stammer when you're asked a question. Hold your noise, sir, in a gentleman's office, or I'll run away from my family and never come back any more; and then what would become of all them precious and forlorn lads as would be let loose on the world, without their best friend at their elbers
Were you obliged to have medical attendance
Ay, was I
and a precious bill the medical attendant brought in too; but I paid it though
Yes, I paid it, every farthing
I wasn't out of pocket by it after all, either
No
Not a halfpenny
The fact is, we have only one extra with our boys, and that is for doctors when required -- and not then, unless we're sure of our customers. Do you see
I understand
Very good
Then, after my bill was run up, we picked out five little boys (sons of small tradesmen, as was sure pay) that had never had the scarlet fever, and we sent one to a cottage where they'd got it, and he took it, and then we put the four others to sleep with him, and THEY took it, and then the doctor came and attended 'em once all round, and we divided my total among 'em, and added it on to their little bills, and the parents paid it. Ha! ha! ha
And a good plan too
I believe you
We always do it. Why, when Mrs Squeers was brought to bed with little Wackford here, we ran the hooping-cough through half-a-dozen boys, and charged her expenses among 'em, monthly nurse included. Ha! ha! ha
Some bothering law business
connected with an action, for what they call neglect of a boy. I don't know what they would have. He had as good grazing, that boy had, as there is about us
Grazing
When a boy gets weak and ill and don't relish his meals, we give him a change of diet -- turn him out, for an hour or so every day, into a neighbour's turnip field, or sometimes, if it's a delicate case, a turnip field and a piece of carrots alternately, and let him eat as many as he likes. There an't better land in the country than this perwerse lad grazed on, and yet he goes and catches cold and indigestion and what not, and then his friends brings a lawsuit against ME! Now, you'd hardly suppose
that people's ingratitude would carry them quite as far as that; would you
A hard case, indeed
You don't say more than the truth when you say that
I don't suppose there's a man going, as possesses the fondness for youth that I do. There's youth to the amount of eight hundred pound a year at Dotheboys Hall at this present time. I'd take sixteen hundred pound worth if I could get 'em, and be as fond of every individual twenty pound among 'em as nothing should equal it
Are you stopping at your old quarters
Yes, we are at the Saracen
and as it don't want very long to the end of the half-year, we shall continney to stop there till I've collected the money, and some new boys too, I hope. I've brought little Wackford up, on purpose to show to parents and guardians. I shall put him in the advertisement, this time. Look at that boy -- himself a pupil. Why he's a miracle of high feeding, that boy is
I should like to have a word with you
As many words as you like, sir
Wackford, you go and play in the back office, and don't move about too much or you'll get thin, and that won't do. You haven't got such a thing as twopence, Mr Nickleby, have you
I -- think I have
Thankee
Here! You go and buy a tart -- Mr Nickleby's man will show you where -- and mind you buy a rich one. Pastry
makes his flesh shine a good deal, and parents thinks that a healthy sign
Attend to me
I am not to suppose
that you are dolt enough to forgive or forget, very readily, the violence that was committed upon you, or the exposure which accompanied it
Devil a bit
Or to lose an opportunity of repaying it with interest, if you could get one
Show me one, and try
Some such object it was, that induced you to call on me
N-n-no, I don't know that
I thought that if it was in your power to make me, besides the trifle of money you sent, any compensation
Ah
You needn't go on
Who is this boy that he took with him
Was he young or old, healthy or sickly, tractable or rebellious? Speak out, man
Why, he wasn't young
that is, not young for a boy, you know
That is, he was not a boy at all, I suppose
Well
he might have been nigh twenty. He wouldn't seem so old, though, to them as didn't know him, for he was a little wanting here
nobody at home, you know, if you knocked ever so often
And you DID knock pretty often, I dare say
Pretty well
When you wrote to acknowledge the receipt of this trifle of money as you call it
you told me his friends had deserted him long ago, and that you had not the faintest clue or trace to tell you who he was. Is that the truth
It is, worse luck
It's fourteen years ago, by the entry in my book, since a strange man brought him to my place, one autumn night, and left him there; paying five pound five, for his first quarter in advance. He might have been five or six year old at that time -- not more
What more do you know about him
Devilish little, I'm sorry to say
The money was paid for some six or eight year, and then it stopped. He had given an address in London, had this chap; but when it came to the point, of course nobody knowed anything about him. So I kept the lad out of -- out of
Charity
Charity, to be sure
and when he begins to be useful in a certain sort of way, this young scoundrel of a Nickleby comes and carries him off. But the most vexatious and aggeravating part of the whole affair is
that some questions have been asked about him at last -- not of me, but, in a roundabout kind of way, of people in our village. So, that just when I might have had all arrears paid up, perhaps, and perhaps -- who knows? such things have happened in our business before -- a present besides for putting him out to a farmer, or sending him to sea, so that he might never turn up to disgrace his parents, supposing him to be a natural boy, as many of our boys are -- damme, if that villain of a Nickleby don't collar him in open day, and commit as good as highway robbery upon my pocket
We will both cry quits with him before long
Quits
Ah! and I should like to leave a small balance in his favour, to be settled when he can. I only wish Mrs Squeers could catch hold of him. Bless her heart! She'd murder him, Mr Nickleby -- she would, as soon as eat her dinner
We will talk of this again
I must have time to think of it. To wound him through his own affections and fancies --. If I could strike him through this boy
Strike him how you like, sir
only hit him hard enough, that's all -- and with that, I'll say good-morning. Here!-- just chuck that little boy's hat off that corner peg, and lift him off the stool will you
He's a fine boy, an't he
Very
Pretty well swelled out, an't he
He has the fatness of twenty boys, he has
Ah
he has;-- the fatness of twenty!-- more! He's got it all. God help that others. Ha! ha! Oh Lord
Why, what does the man mean
Is he drunk
Is he mad
When my brother was such as he
the first comparisons were drawn between us -- always in my disfavour. HE was open, liberal, gallant, gay; I a crafty hunks of cold and stagnant blood, with no passion but love of saving, and no spirit beyond a thirst for gain. I recollected it well when I first saw this whipster; but I remember it better now
Recollections like these
flock upon me -- when I resign myself to them -- in crowds, and from countless quarters. As a portion of the world affect to despise the power of money, I must try and show them what it is
As he will be one of our own little household, wherever we live, or whatever fortune is in reserve for us
I must present the poor fellow in due form. They will be kind to him for his own sake, and if not (on that account solely) to the full extent I could wish, they will stretch a point, I am sure, for mine
However
she cannot fail to become attached to him, when she knows what a devoted creature he is, and as she must quickly make the discovery, his probation will be a short one
I was afraid
that you had fallen into some fresh trouble; the time seemed so long, at last, that I almost feared you were lost
Lost
You will not be rid of me so easily, I promise you. I shall rise to the surface many thousand times yet, and the harder the thrust that pushes me down, the more quickly I shall rebound, Smike. But come; my errand here is to take you home
Home
Ay
Why not
I had such hopes once
day and night, day and night, for many years. I longed for home till I was weary, and pined away with grief, but now
And what now
What now, old friend
I could not part from you to go to any home on earth
except one, except one. I shall never be an old man; and if your hand placed me in the grave, and I could think, before I died, that you would come and look upon it sometimes with one of your kind smiles, and in the summer weather, when everything was alive -- not dead like me -- I could go to that home almost without a tear
Why do you talk thus, poor boy, if your life is a happy one with me
Because I should change; not those about me. And if they forgot me, I should never know it
In the churchyard we are all alike, but here there are none like me. I am a poor creature, but I know that
You are a foolish, silly creature
If that is what you mean, I grant you that. Why, here's a dismal face for ladies' company!-- my pretty sister too, whom you have so often asked me about. Is this your Yorkshire gallantry? For shame! for shame
When I talk of home
I talk of mine -- which is yours of course. If it were defined by any particular four walls and a roof, God knows I should be sufficiently puzzled to say whereabouts it lay; but that is not what I mean. When I speak of home, I speak of the place where -- in default of a better -- those I love are gathered together; and if that place were a gypsy's tent, or a barn, I should call it by the same good name notwithstanding. And now, for what is my present home, which, however alarming your expectations may be, will neither terrify you by its extent nor its magnificence
And this, Kate
is the faithful friend and affectionate fellow-traveller whom I prepared you to receive
You are always kind-hearted, and anxious to help the oppressed, my dear mother
so you will be favourably disposed towards him, I know
I am sure, my dear Nicholas
I am sure any friend of yours has, as indeed he naturally ought to have, and must have, of course, you know, a great claim upon me, and of course, it is a very great pleasure to me to be introduced to anybody you take an interest in. There can he no doubt about that; none at all; not the least in the world
At the same time I must say, Nicholas, my dear, as I used to say to your poor dear papa, when he WOULD bring gentlemen home to dinner, and there was nothing in the house, that if he had come the day before yesterday -- no, I don't mean the day before yesterday now; I should have said, perhaps, the year before last -- we should have been better able to entertain him
Because, if he is, Kate, my dear
I don't see that it's possible for him to sleep anywhere, and that's the truth
La, Kate, my dear
how you do tickle one! Of course, I understand THAT, my love, without your telling me; and I said the same to Nicholas, and I AM very much pleased. You didn't tell me, Nicholas, my dear
what your friend's name is
His name, mother
is Smike
What is the matter
It's so like Pyke
so exactly like Pyke. Oh! don't speak to me -- I shall be better presently
It's a weakness in our family
so, of course, I can't be blamed for it. Your grandmama, Kate, was exactly the same -- precisely. The least excitement, the slightest surprise -- she fainted away directly. I have heard her say, often and often, that when she was a young lady, and before she was married, she was turning a corner into Oxford Street one day, when she ran against her own hairdresser, who, it seems, was escaping from a bear;-- the mere suddenness of the encounter made her faint away directly. Wait, though
Let me be sure I'm right. Was it her hairdresser who had escaped from a bear, or was it a bear who had escaped from her hairdresser's? I declare I can't remember just now, but the hairdresser was a very handsome man, I know, and quite a gentleman in his manners; so that it has nothing to do with the point of the story
Mr Smike is from Yorkshire, Nicholas, my dear
Certainly, mother
I see you have not forgotten his melancholy history
O dear no
Ah! melancholy, indeed. You don't happen, Mr Smike, ever to have dined with the Grimbles of Grimble Hall, somewhere in the North Riding, do you
A very proud man, Sir Thomas Grimble, with six grown-up and most lovely daughters, and the finest park in the county
My dear mother
do you suppose that the unfortunate outcast of a Yorkshire school was likely to receive many cards of invitation from the nobility and gentry in the neighbourhood
Really, my dear, I don't know why it should be so very extraordinary
I know that when I was at school, I always went at least twice every half-year to the Hawkinses at Taunton Vale, and they are much richer than the Grimbles, and connected with them in marriage; so you see it's not so very unlikely, after all
It won't do
I must try something else
Egad
I'll try that Register Office again
No offence. Oh no offence
A great many opportunities here, sir
A great many people willing and anxious to be employed have seriously thought so very often, I dare say
Poor fellows, poor fellows
You were about to speak, young gentleman; what were you going to say
Merely that I almost hoped -- I mean to say, thought -- you had some object in consulting those advertisements
Ay, ay? what object now -- what object
Did you think I wanted a situation now -- eh? Did you think I did
Ha! ha
A very natural thought, at all events, after seeing me gazing at those bills. I thought the same of you, at first; upon my word I did
If you had thought so at last, too, sir, you would not have been far from the truth
Eh
What! Dear me! No, no. Well-behaved young gentleman reduced to such a necessity! No no, no no
Stay
What d'ye mean, eh
Merely that your kind face and manner -- both so unlike any I have ever seen -- tempted me into an avowal, which, to any other stranger in this wilderness of London, I should not have dreamt of making
Wilderness! Yes, it is, it is. Good! It IS a wilderness
It was a wilderness to me once. I came here barefoot. I have never forgotten it. Thank God
What's the matter? What is it? How did it all come about
You're -- Eh
Who's it for, eh
My father
Ah
Bad thing for a young man to lose his father. Widowed mother, perhaps
Brothers and sisters too? Eh
One sister
Poor thing, poor thing! You are a scholar too, I dare say
I have been tolerably well educated
Fine thing
education a great thing: a very great thing! I never had any. I admire it the more in others. A very fine thing. Yes, yes. Tell me more of your history. Let me hear it all. No impertinent curiosity -- no, no, no
Come along with me. We mustn't lose a minute
Don't say another word, my dear sir, on any account -- not another word
Cheeryble, Brothers
Is my brother in his room, Tim
Yes, he is, sir
but Mr Trimmers is with him
Ay! And what has he come about, Tim
He is getting up a subscription for the widow and family of a man who was killed in the East India Docks this morning, sir
Smashed, sir, by a cask of sugar
He is a good creature
He is a kind soul. I am very much obliged to Trimmers. Trimmers is one of the best friends we have. He makes a thousand cases known to us that we should never discover of ourselves. I am VERY much obliged to Trimmers
I owe you a thousand thanks, Trimmers, ten thousand thanks. I take it very friendly of you, very friendly indeed
How many children are there, and what has my brother Ned given, Trimmers
There are six children
and your brother has given us twenty pounds
My brother Ned is a good fellow, and you're a good fellow too, Trimmers
Put me down for another twenty -- or -- stop a minute, stop a minute. We mustn't look ostentatious; put me down ten pound, and Tim Linkinwater ten pound. A cheque for twenty pound for Mr Trimmers, Tim. God bless you, Trimmers -- and come and dine with us some day this week; you'll always find a knife and fork, and we shall be delighted. Now, my dear sir -- cheque from Mr Linkinwater, Tim. Smashed by a cask of sugar, and six poor children -- oh dear, dear, dear
Brother Ned
are you busy, my dear brother, or can you spare time for a word or two with me
Brother Charles, my dear fellow
don't ask me such a question, but come in directly
Brother Ned
here is a young friend of mine whom we must assist. We must make proper inquiries into his statements, in justice to him as well as to ourselves, and if they are confirmed -- as I feel assured they will be -- we must assist him, we must assist him, brother Ned
It is enough, my dear brother, that you say we should
When you say that, no further inquiries are needed. He SHALL be assisted. What are his necessities, and what does he require? Where is Tim Linkinwater? Let us have him here
Where is Tim Linkinwater
Stop, stop, stop
I've a plan, my dear brother, I've a plan. Tim is getting old, and Tim has been a faithful servant, brother Ned; and I don't think pensioning Tim's mother and sister, and buying a little tomb for the family when his poor brother died, was a sufficient recompense for his faithful services
No, no, no
Certainly not. Not half enough, not half
If we could lighten Tim's duties
and prevail upon him to go into the country, now and then, and sleep in the fresh air, besides, two or three times a week (which he could, if he began business an hour later in the morning), old Tim Linkinwater would grow young again in time; and he's three good years our senior now. Old Tim Linkinwater young again! Eh, brother Ned, eh? Why, I recollect old Tim Linkinwater quite a little boy, don't you? Ha, ha, ha! Poor Tim, poor Tim
But hear this first -- hear this first, brother Ned
I'll tell it you myself, brother Ned, because the young gentleman is modest, and is a scholar, Ned, and I shouldn't feel it right that he should tell us his story over and over again as if he was a beggar, or as if we doubted him. No, no no
No, no, no
Very right, my dear brother, very right
He will tell me I'm wrong, if I make a mistake
But whether I do or not, you'll be very much affected, brother Ned, remembering the time when we were two friendless lads, and earned our first shilling in this great city
Tim
you understand that we have an intention of taking this young gentleman into the counting-house
I'm not coming an hour later in the morning, you know
I'm not going to sleep in the fresh air; no, nor I'm not going into the country either. A pretty thing at this time of day, certainly. Pho
Damn your obstinacy, Tim Linkinwater
Damn your obstinacy, Tim Linkinwater, what do you mean, sir
It's forty-four year
forty-four year, next May, since I first kept the books of Cheeryble, Brothers. I've opened the safe every morning all that time (Sundays excepted) as the clock struck nine, and gone over the house every night at half-past ten (except on Foreign Post nights, and then twenty minutes before twelve) to see the doors fastened, and the fires out. I've never slept out of the back-attic one single night. There's the same mignonette box in the middle of the window, and the same four flower-pots, two on each side, that I brought with me when I first came. There an't -- I've said it again and again, and I'll maintain it -- there an't such a square as this in the world. I KNOW there an't
Not one. For business or pleasure, in summer-time or winter -- I don't care which -- there's nothing like it. There's not such a spring in England as the pump under the archway. There's not such a view in England as the view out of my window; I've seen it every morning before I shaved, and I ought to know something about it. I have slept in that room
for four-and-forty year; and if it wasn't inconvenient, and didn't interfere with business, I should request leave to die there
Damn you, Tim Linkinwater, how dare you talk about dying
That's what I've got to say, Mr Edwin and Mr Charles
This isn't the first time you've talked about superannuating me; but, if you please, we'll make it the last, and drop the subject for evermore
He must be done something with, brother Ned
we must disregard his old scruples; they can't be tolerated, or borne. He must be made a partner, brother Ned; and if he won't submit to it peaceably, we must have recourse to violence
Quite right
quite right, my dear brother. If he won't listen to reason, we must do it against his will, and show him that we are determined to exert our authority. We must quarrel with him, brother Charles
We must. We certainly must have a quarrel with Tim Linkinwater
But in the meantime, my dear brother, we are keeping our young friend; and the poor lady and her daughter will be anxious for his return. So let us say goodbye for the present, and -- there, there -- take care of that box, my dear sir -- and -- no, no, not a word now; but be careful of the crossings and
And I think, my dear brother
that if we were to let them that little cottage at Bow which is empty, at something under the usual rent, now? Eh, brother Ned
For nothing at all
We are rich, and should be ashamed to touch the rent under such circumstances as these. Where is Tim Linkinwater?-- for nothing at all, my dear brother, for nothing at all
Perhaps it would be better to say something, brother Ned
it would help to preserve habits of frugality, you know, and remove any painful sense of overwhelming obligations. We might say fifteen pound, or twenty pound, and if it was punctually paid, make it up to them in some other way. And I might secretly advance a small loan towards a little furniture, and you might secretly advance another small loan, brother Ned; and if we find them doing well -- as we shall; there's no fear, no fear -- we can change the loans into gifts. Carefully, brother Ned, and by degrees, and without pressing upon them too much; what do you say now, brother
I'm not quite certain neither
whether, as it's a boy, I won't have it in the papers
It's a fine boy, Mr Kenwigs
You consider him a fine boy, do you, sir
It's the finest boy I ever saw in all my life
I never saw such a baby
I ne -- ver saw such a baby
Morleena was a fine baby
They were all fine babies
She will be a treasure to the man she marries, sir
I think she'll marry above her station, Mr Lumbey
I shouldn't wonder at all
You never see her dance, sir, did you
Ay
then you don't know what she's capable of
Well, Mr Kenwigs
this makes six. You'll have a fine family in time, sir
I think six is almost enough, sir
Pooh! pooh
Nonsense! not half enough
They're not altogether dependent upon good fortune, neither
they have expectations
Oh, indeed
And very good ones too, I believe, haven't they
Why, ma'am
it's not exactly for me to say what they may be, or what they may not be. It's not for me to boast of any family with which I have the honour to be connected; at the same time, Mrs Kenwigs's is -- I should say
that my children might come into a matter of a hundred pound apiece, perhaps. Perhaps more, but certainly that
And a very pretty little fortune
There are some relations of Mrs Kenwigs's
that might leave their hundred pound apiece to ten people, and yet not go begging when they had done it
Ah! I know who you mean
I made mention of no names, and I wish to make mention of no names
Many of my friends have met a relation of Mrs Kenwigs's in this very room, as would do honour to any company; that's all
I've met him
It's naterally very gratifying to my feelings as a father, to see such a man as that, a kissing and taking notice of my children
It's naterally very gratifying to my feelings as a man, to know that man. It will be naterally very gratifying to my feelings as a husband, to make that man acquainted with this ewent
That girl grows more like her mother every day
There
What I always say; what I always did say! She's the very picter of her
Yes! there is a likeness
But such a woman as Mrs Kenwigs was, afore she was married! Good gracious, such a woman
Talk of fairies
I never see anybody so light to be alive, never. Such manners too; so playful, and yet so sewerely proper! As for her figure! It isn't generally known
but her figure was such, at that time, that the sign of the Britannia, over in the Holloway Road, was painted from it
But only see what it is now
Does SHE look like the mother of six
Quite ridiculous
She looks a deal more like her own daughter
So she does
A great deal more
most particular
Why, I do declare
it's Mr Johnson! How do you find yourself, sir
I ought to make a hundred apologies to you for calling at such a season
but I was not aware of it until I had rung the bell, and my time is so fully occupied now, that I feared it might be some days before I could possibly come again
No time like the present, sir
The sitiwation of Mrs Kenwigs, sir, is no obstacle to a little conversation between you and me, I hope
You are very good
The fact is
that before I left the country, where I have been for some time past, I undertook to deliver a message to you
Ay, ay
And I have been
already in town for some days, without having had an opportunity of doing so
It's no matter, sir
I dare say it's none the worse for keeping cold. Message from the country
that's curious. I don't know anybody in the country
Miss Petowker
Oh! from her, is it
Oh dear, yes. Ah! Mrs Kenwigs will be glad to hear from her. Henrietta Petowker, eh? How odd things come about, now! That you should have met her in the country! Well
The message relates to family matters
Oh, never mind
All friends here
At Portsmouth, Henrietta Petowker is
Yes
Mr Lillyvick is there
The message is from him
He desired me to give his kindest love
Very much obliged to him, I'm sure. Your great-uncle, Lillyvick, my dears
His kindest love
and to say that he had no time to write, but that he was married to Miss Petowker
My children, my defrauded, swindled infants
Villain, ass, traitor
Drat the man
What does he mean by making that noise here
Silence, woman
I won't be silent
Be silent yourself, you wretch. Have you no regard for your baby
No
More shame for you
Ugh! you unnatural monster
Let him die
Let him die! He has no expectations, no property to come into. We want no babies here
Take 'em away, take 'em away to the Fondling
The attention
the attention that I've shown to that man! The hyseters he has eat, and the pints of ale he has drank, in this house
It's very trying, and very hard to bear, we know
but think of your dear darling wife
Oh yes, and what she's been a undergoing of, only this day
There's a good man, do
The presents that have been made to him
the pipes, the snuff-boxes -- a pair of india-rubber goloshes, that cost six-and-six
Ah! it won't bear thinking of, indeed
but it'll all come home to him, never fear
Is it a boy, is it a boy
what you see him now, sir
Dick
Four-and-forty year, next May
Many new ledgers since then. Four-and-forty year
Come, come
I am all impatience to begin
He'll do
He has done it
His capital B's and D's are exactly like mine; he dots all his small i's and crosses every t as he writes it. There an't such a young man as this in all London
not one. Don't tell me! The city can't produce his equal. I challenge the city to do it
Well said, Tim -- well said, Tim Linkinwater
I knew our young friend would take great pains, and I was quite certain he would succeed, in no time. Didn't I say so, brother Ned
You did, my dear brother; certainly, my dear brother, you said so, and you were quite right
Quite right. Tim Linkinwater is excited, but he is justly excited, properly excited. Tim is a fine fellow. Tim Linkinwater, sir -- you're a fine fellow
Here's a pleasant thing to think of
Here's a pleasant thing. Do you suppose I haven't often thought of what would become of these books when I was gone? Do you suppose I haven't often thought that things might go on irregular and untidy here, after I was taken away? But now
now, when I've shown him a little more, I'm satisfied. The business will go on, when I'm dead, as well as it did when I was alive -- just the same -- and I shall have the satisfaction of knowing that there never were such books -- never were such books! No, nor never will be such books -- as the books of Cheeryble Brothers
Tim Linkinwater, sir
give me your hand, sir. This is your birthday. How dare you talk about anything else till you have been wished many happy returns of the day, Tim Linkinwater? God bless you, Tim! God bless you
My dear brother
Tim Linkinwater looks ten years younger than he did on his last birthday
Brother Ned, my dear boy
I believe that Tim Linkinwater was born a hundred and fifty years old, and is gradually coming down to five-and-twenty; for he's younger every birthday than he was the year before
So he is, brother Charles, so he is
There's not a doubt about it
Remember, Tim
coming
For these and all other blessings, brother Charles
Lord, make us truly thankful, brother Ned
Brother Charles, my dear fellow, there is another association connected with this day which must never be forgotten, and never can be forgotten, by you and me. This day, which brought into the world a most faithful and excellent and exemplary fellow, took from it the kindest and very best of parents, the very best of parents to us both. I wish that she could have seen us in our prosperity, and shared it, and had the happiness of knowing how dearly we loved her in it, as we did when we were two poor boys; but that was not to be. My dear brother -- The Memory of our Mother
Good Lord
and there are scores of people of their own station, knowing all this, and twenty thousand times more, who wouldn't ask these men to dinner because they eat with their knives and never went to school
David
Sir
A magnum of the double-diamond, David, to drink the health of Mr Linkinwater
Ha
this looks well, David
It ought to, sir
You'd be troubled to find such a glass of wine as is our double-diamond, and that Mr Linkinwater knows very well. That was laid down when Mr Linkinwater first come: that wine was, gentlemen
Nay, David, nay
I wrote the entry in the cellar-book myself, sir, if you please
Mr Linkinwater had only been here twenty year, sir, when that pipe of double-diamond was laid down
David is quite right, quite right, brother Charles," said Ned: 'are the people here, David
Outside the door, sir
Show 'em in, David, show 'em in
Seven
and David, eight. There! Now, you're all of you to drink the health of your best friend Mr Timothy Linkinwater, and wish him health and long life and many happy returns of this day, both for his own sake and that of your old masters, who consider him an inestimable treasure. Tim Linkinwater, sir, your health. Devil take you, Tim Linkinwater, sir, God bless you
We're allowed to take a liberty once a year, gen'lemen, and if you please we'll take it now; there being no time like the present, and no two birds in the hand worth one in the bush, as is well known -- leastways in a contrairy sense, which the meaning is the same. (A pause -- the butler unconvinced.) What we mean to say is, that there never was (looking at the butler)-- such --(looking at the cook) noble -- excellent --(looking everywhere and seeing nobody) free, generous-spirited masters as them as has treated us so handsome this day. And here's thanking of 'em for all their goodness as is so constancy a diffusing of itself over everywhere, and wishing they may live long and die happy
After all, I dare say it was my fault
I'll show you a print I have got upstairs, one of these days. It cost me five-and-twenty shillings. I bought it soon after we were cool to each other. Don't mention it, but it's the most extraordinary accidental likeness you ever saw -- her very portrait, sir
A most biddable creature he is, to be sure
I know you'll excuse me, Nicholas, my dear, but I don't like to do this before a third person; indeed, before a young man it would not be quite proper, though really, after all, I don't know what harm there is in it, except that to be sure it's not a very becoming thing, though some people say it is very much so, and really I don't know why it should not be, if it's well got up, and the borders are small-plaited; of course, a good deal depends upon that
People may say what they like
but there's a great deal of comfort in a nightcap, as I'm sure you would confess, Nicholas my dear, if you would only have strings to yours, and wear it like a Christian, instead of sticking it upon the very top of your head like a blue-coat boy. You needn't think it an unmanly or quizzical thing to be particular about your nightcap, for I have often heard your poor dear papa, and the Reverend Mr What's- his-name, who used to read prayers in that old church with the curious little steeple that the weathercock was blown off the night week before you were born,-- I have often heard them say, that the young men at college are uncommonly particular about their nightcaps, and that the Oxford nightcaps are quite celebrated for their strength and goodness; so much so, indeed, that the young men never dream of going to bed without 'em, and I believe it's admitted on all hands that THEY know what's good, and don't coddle themselves
Late as it is
I am almost selfish enough to wish that Kate had been up to hear all this. I was all impatience, as I came along, to tell her
Why, Kate
Kate has been in bed -- oh! a couple of hours -- and I'm very glad, Nicholas my dear, that I prevailed upon her not to sit up, for I wished very much to have an opportunity of saying a few words to you. I am naturally anxious about it, and of course it's a very delightful and consoling thing to have a grown-up son that one can put confidence in, and advise with; indeed I don't know any use there would be in having sons at all, unless people could put confidence in them
There was a lady in our neighbourhood
speaking of sons puts me in mind of it -- a lady in our neighbourhood when we lived near Dawlish, I think her name was Rogers; indeed I am sure it was if it wasn't Murphy, which is the only doubt I have
Is it about her, mother, that you wished to speak to me
About HER
Good gracious, Nicholas, my dear, how CAN you be so ridiculous! But that was always the way with your poor dear papa,-- just his way -- always wandering, never able to fix his thoughts on any one subject for two minutes together. I think I see him now
looking at me while I was talking to him about his affairs, just as if his ideas were in a state of perfect conglomeration! Anybody who had come in upon us suddenly, would have supposed I was confusing and distracting him instead of making things plainer; upon my word they would
I am very sorry, mother, that I should inherit this unfortunate slowness of apprehension
but I'll do my best to understand you, if you'll only go straight on: indeed I will
Your poor pa
He never knew, till it was too late, what I would have had him do
However
this has nothing to do -- certainly nothing whatever to do -- with the gentleman in the next house
I should suppose that the gentleman in the next house has as little to do with us
There can be no doubt
that he IS a gentleman, and has the manners of a gentleman, and the appearance of a gentleman, although he does wear smalls and grey worsted stockings. That may be eccentricity, or he may be proud of his legs. I don't see why he shouldn't be. The Prince Regent was proud of his legs, and so was Daniel Lambert, who was also a fat man; HE was proud of his legs. So was Miss Biffin: she was -- no
I think she had only toes, but the principle is the same
You may well be surprised, Nicholas, my dear
I am sure I was. It came upon me like a flash of fire, and almost froze my blood. The bottom of his garden joins the bottom of ours, and of course I had several times seen him sitting among the scarlet-beans in his little arbour, or working at his little hot-beds. I used to think he stared rather, but I didn't take any particular notice of that, as we were newcomers, and he might be curious to see what we were like. But when he began to throw his cucumbers over our wall
To throw his cucumbers over our wall
Yes, Nicholas, my dear
his cucumbers over our wall. And vegetable marrows likewise
Confound his impudence
What does he mean by that
I don't think he means it impertinently at all
What
cucumbers and vegetable marrows flying at the heads of the family as they walk in their own garden, and not meant impertinently! Why, mother
He must be a very weak, and foolish, and inconsiderate man
blamable indeed -- at least I suppose other people would consider him so; of course I can't be expected to express any opinion on that point, especially after always defending your poor dear papa when other people blamed him for making proposals to me; and to be sure there can be no doubt that he has taken a very singular way of showing it. Still at the same time, his attentions are -- that is, as far as it goes, and to a certain extent of course -- a flattering sort of thing; and although I should never dream of marrying again with a dear girl like Kate still unsettled in life
Surely, mother, such an idea never entered your brain for an instant
Bless my heart, Nicholas my dear
isn't that precisely what I am saying, if you would only let me speak? Of course, I never gave it a second thought, and I am surprised and astonished that you should suppose me capable of such a thing. All I say is, what step is the best to take, so as to reject these advances civilly and delicately, and without hurting his feelings too much, and driving him to despair, or anything of that kind? My goodness me
suppose he was to go doing anything rash to himself. Could I ever be happy again, Nicholas
Now, do you think, mother, that such a result would be likely to ensue from the most cruel repulse
Upon my word, my dear, I don't know," returned Mrs Nickleby; 'really, I don't know. I am sure there was a case in the day before yesterday's paper, extracted from one of the French newspapers, about a journeyman shoemaker who was jealous of a young girl in an adjoining village, because she wouldn't shut herself up in an air- tight three-pair-of-stairs, and charcoal herself to death with him; and who went and hid himself in a wood with a sharp-pointed knife, and rushed out, as she was passing by with a few friends, and killed himself first, and then all the friends, and then her -- no, killed all the friends first, and then herself, and then HIMself -- which it is quite frightful to think of. Somehow or other
they always ARE journeyman shoemakers who do these things in France, according to the papers. I don't know how it is -- something in the leather, I suppose
But this man, who is not a shoemaker -- what has he done, mother, what has he said
You know, there is no language of vegetables, which converts a cucumber into a formal declaration of attachment
My dear
he has done and said all sorts of things
Is there no mistake on your part
Mistake
Lord, Nicholas my dear, do you suppose I don't know when a man's in earnest
Well, well
Every time I go to the window
he kisses one hand, and lays the other upon his heart -- of course it's very foolish of him to do so, and I dare say you'll say it's very wrong, but he does it very respectfully -- very respectfully indeed -- and very tenderly, extremely tenderly. So far, he deserves the greatest credit; there can be no doubt about that. Then, there are the presents which come pouring over the wall every day, and very fine they certainly are, very fine; we had one of the cucumbers at dinner yesterday, and think of pickling the rest for next winter. And last evening
he called gently over the wall, as I was walking in the garden, and proposed marriage, and an elopement. His voice is as clear as a bell or a musical glass -- very like a musical glass indeed -- but of course I didn't listen to it. Then, the question is, Nicholas my dear, what am I to do
Does Kate know of this
I have not said a word about it yet
Then, for Heaven's sake
do not, for it would make her very unhappy. And with regard to what you should do, my dear mother, do what your good sense and feeling, and respect for my father's memory, would prompt. There are a thousand ways in which you can show your dislike of these preposterous and doting attentions. If you act as decidedly as you ought and they are still continued, and to your annoyance, I can speedily put a stop to them. But I should not interfere in a matter so ridiculous, and attach importance to it, until you have vindicated yourself. Most women can do that, but especially one of your age and condition, in circumstances like these, which are unworthy of a serious thought. I would not shame you by seeming to take them to heart, or treat them earnestly for an instant. Absurd old idiot
As to its being preposterous, and doting, and ridiculous
I don't see that, at all. It's hopeless on his part, certainly; but why he should be an absurd old idiot, I confess I don't see. He is not to be supposed to know it's hopeless. Poor fellow! He is to be pitied, I think
It's a bad light to distinguish objects in
and my eyes are not very good -- I was short-sighted from a child -- but, upon my word, I think there's another large vegetable marrow sticking, at this moment, on the broken glass bottles at the top of the wall
thoroughly got to rights, from the chimney- pots to the street-door scraper
Which I declare I haven't had since I first came down here
for I have thought of nothing but hammers, nails, screwdrivers, and gimlets, morning, noon, and night
You never bestowed one thought upon yourself, I believe
Upon my word, my dear, when there are so many pleasanter things to think of, I should be a goose if I did
By-the-bye, I HAVE thought of somebody too. Do you know, that I observe a great change in one of this family -- a very extraordinary change
In whom
Not in
Not in your brother, my dear
for he is always the same affectionate good-natured clever creature, with a spice of the -- I won't say who -- in him when there's any occasion, that he was when I first knew you. No. Smike, as he WILL be called, poor fellow! for he won't hear of a MR before his name, is greatly altered, even in this short time
How
Not in health
N -- n -- o; perhaps not in health exactly
although he is a worn and feeble creature, and has that in his face which it would wring my heart to see in yours. No; not in health
How then
I scarcely know
But I have watched him, and he has brought the tears into my eyes many times. It is not a very difficult matter to do that, certainly, for I am easily melted; still I think these came with good cause and reason. I am sure that since he has been here, he has grown, from some strong cause, more conscious of his weak intellect. He feels it more. It gives him greater pain to know that he wanders sometimes, and cannot understand very simple things. I have watched him when you have not been by, my dear, sit brooding by himself, with such a look of pain as I could scarcely bear to see, and then get up and leave the room: so sorrowfully, and in such dejection, that I cannot tell you how it has hurt me. Not three weeks ago, he was a light-hearted busy creature, overjoyed to be in a bustle, and as happy as the day was long. Now, he is another being -- the same willing, harmless, faithful, loving creature -- but the same in nothing else
Surely this will all pass off
Poor fellow
I hope
it may. I hope, for the sake of that poor lad, it may. However
I have said my say, and a very long say it is, and a very wrong say too, I shouldn't wonder at all. I shall cheer him up tonight, at all events, for if he is to be my squire all the way to the Strand, I shall talk on, and on, and on, and never leave off, till I have roused him into a laugh at something. So the sooner he goes, the better for him, and the sooner I go, the better for me, I am sure, or else I shall have my maid gallivanting with somebody who may rob the house -- though what there is to take away, besides tables and chairs, I don't know, except the miniatures: and he is a clever thief who can dispose of them to any great advantage, for I can't, I know, and that's the honest truth
the omnibus
swore so dreadfully, that it was quite awful to hear it
Curse those hounds
will nothing stop their infernal throats
Damn
Isn't this mattress hard enough, and the room dull enough, and pain bad enough, but THEY must torture me? What's the time
Half-past eight
Here, draw the table nearer, and let us have the cards again
More piquet. Come
Better
Mr Nickleby wishes to know, sir
I tell you, better
It IS inconvenient. I can't see him. I can't see anybody
You know that, you blockhead
I am very sorry, sir
But Mr Nickleby pressed so much, sir
Did he say whether he had any business to speak about
No, sir. He said he wished to see you, sir. Particularly, Mr Nickleby said, sir
Tell him to come up. Here
move that lamp, and put it on the stand behind me. Wheel that table away, and place a chair there -- further off. Leave it so
Well, Nickleby
I have had a bad accident, you see
I see
Bad, indeed! I should not have known you, Sir Mulberry. Dear, dear! This IS bad
Sit down
Am I a sight, that you stand gazing there
I have inquired at the door, Sir Mulberry, every day
twice a day, indeed, at first -- and tonight, presuming upon old acquaintance, and past transactions by which we have mutually benefited in some degree, I could not resist soliciting admission to your chamber. Have you -- have you suffered much
More than enough to please me, and less than enough to please some broken-down hacks that you and I know of, and who lay their ruin between us, I dare say
And what is it in these "past transactions," that brought you here tonight
Nothing
There are some bills of my lord's which need renewal; but let them be till you are well. I -- I -- came
I came to say how grieved I am that any relative of mine, although disowned by me, should have inflicted such punishment on you as
Punishment
I know it has been a severe one
and that has made me the more anxious to tell you that I disown this vagabond -- that I acknowledge him as no kin of mine -- and that I leave him to take his deserts from you, and every man besides. You may wring his neck if you please. I shall not interfere
This story that they tell me here, has got abroad then, has it
Noised in all directions
Every club and gaming-room has rung with it. There has been a good song made about it, as I am told
I have not heard it myself, not being in the way of such things, but I have been told it's even printed -- for private circulation -- but that's all over town, of course
It's a lie
I tell you it's all a lie. The mare took fright
They SAY he frightened her
Some say he frightened you, but THAT'S a lie, I know. I have said that boldly -- oh, a score of times! I am a peaceable man, but I can't hear folks tell that of you. No, no
When I am off this cursed bed
I'll have such revenge as never man had yet. By God, I will. Accident favouring him, he has marked me for a week or two, but I'll put a mark on him that he shall carry to his grave. I'll slit his nose and ears, flog him, maim him for life. I'll do more than that; I'll drag that pattern of chastity, that pink of prudery, the delicate sister, through
It is a galling thing
to think that the man about town, the rake, the ROUE, the rook of twenty seasons should be brought to this pass by a mere boy
A raw, slight stripling
against a man whose very weight might crush him; to say nothing of his skill in -- I am right, I think
you WERE a patron of the ring once, were you not
Ha
I thought so. That was before I knew you, but I was pretty sure I couldn't be mistaken. He is light and active, I suppose. But those were slight advantages compared with yours. Luck, luck! These hang-dog outcasts have it
He'll need the most he has, when I am well again
let him fly where he will
Oh
he doesn't dream of that. He is here, good sir, waiting your pleasure, here in London, walking the streets at noonday; carrying it off jauntily; looking for you, I swear
if we were only citizens of a country where it could be safely done, I'd give good money to have him stabbed to the heart and rolled into the kennel for the dogs to tear
Why what in the deyvle's name, Hawk, have you and Nickleby been talking about
I neyver heard such an insufferable riot. Croak, croak, croak. Bow, wow, wow. What has it all been about
Sir Mulberry has been angry, my Lord
Not about money, I hope? Nothing has gone wrong in business, has it, Nickleby
No, my Lord, no
On that point we always agree. Sir Mulberry has been calling to mind the cause of
Mind that, Hawk
I never will be a party to, or permit, if I can help it, a cowardly attack upon this young fellow
Cowardly
Ye-es
If you had told him who you were; if you had given him your card, and found out, afterwards, that his station or character prevented your fighting him, it would have been bad enough then; upon my soul it would have been bad enough then. As it is, you did wrong. I did wrong too, not to interfere, and I am sorry for it. What happened to you afterwards, was as much the consequence of accident as design, and more your fault than his; and it shall not, with my knowledge, be cruelly visited upon him, it shall not indeed
I do believe, now; upon my honour I do believe, that the sister is as virtuous and modest a young lady as she is a handsome one; and of the brother, I say this, that he acted as her brother should, and in a manly and spirited manner. And I only wish, with all my heart and soul, that any one of us came out of this matter half as well as he does
Is this your pupil
or has he come fresh from some country parson
Green fools take these fits sometimes
Leave him to me
Here he is, father! Hooray
Here's a go
Here's a delicious go! Wackford, my boy, call up one of them coaches
A coach, father
Yes, a coach, sir
Damn the expense. Let's have him in a coach
What's he been a doing of
Everything
Everything -- running away, sir -- joining in bloodthirsty attacks upon his master -- there's nothing that's bad that he hasn't done. Oh, what a delicious go is this here, good Lord
It isn't a dream
That's real flesh and blood! I know the feel of it
Your mother will be fit to jump out of her skin, my boy, when she hears of this
Oh, won't she though, father
To think
that you and me should be turning out of a street, and come upon him at the very nick; and that I should have him tight, at only one cast of the umbrella, as if I had hooked him with a grappling-iron! Ha, ha
Didn't I catch hold of his leg, neither, father
un, my boy
and you shall have the best button-over jacket and waistcoat that the next new boy brings down, as a reward of merit. Mind that. You always keep on in the same path, and do them things that you see your father do, and when you die you'll go right slap to Heaven and no questions asked
I must go home
To be sure you must. You're about right there
You'll go home very soon, you will. You'll find yourself at the peaceful village of Dotheboys, in Yorkshire, in something under a week's time, my young friend; and the next time you get away from there, I give you leave to keep away. Where's the clothes you run off in, you ungrateful robber
Do you know that I could hang you up, outside of the Old Bailey, for making away with them articles of property
Do you know that it's a hanging matter -- and I an't quite certain whether it an't an anatomy one besides -- to walk off with up'ards of the valley of five pound from a dwelling-house? Eh? Do you know that? What do you suppose was the worth of them clothes you had? Do you know that that Wellington boot you wore, cost eight- and-twenty shillings when it was a pair, and the shoe seven-and- six? But you came to the right shop for mercy when you came to me, and thank your stars that it IS me as has got to serve you with the article
I never threshed a boy in a hackney coach before
There's inconveniency in it, but the novelty gives it a sort of relish, too
Stop
What are you pulling a man's arm off for
That's the house
The second of them four little houses, one story high, with the green shutters. There's brass plate on the door, with the name of Snawley
Couldn't you say that without wrenching a man's limbs off his body
No
Say another word, and I'll summons you for having a broken winder. Stop
Here we are
Here's the vagrant -- the felon -- the rebel -- the monster of unthankfulness
What! The boy that run away
If there wasn't a lady present, I'd fetch him such a --: never mind, I'll owe it him
It's clear that there has been a Providence in it, sir
Providence is against him, no doubt
Of course; that was to be expected. Anybody might have known that
Hard-heartedness and evil-doing will never prosper, sir
Never was such a thing known
I have been, Mr Snawley
I have been that chap's benefactor, feeder, teacher, and clother. I have been that chap's classical, commercial, mathematical, philosophical, and trigonomical friend. My son -- my only son, Wackford -- has been his brother; Mrs Squeers has been his mother, grandmother, aunt,-- ah! and I may say uncle too, all in one. She never cottoned to anybody, except them two engaging and delightful boys of yours, as she cottoned to this chap. What's my return? What's come of my milk of human kindness? It turns into curds and whey when I look at him
Well it may, sir
Oh! Well it may, sir
Where has he been all this time
Has he been living with
Ah, sir
Have you been a living with that there devilish Nickleby, sir
See there, lass
un, he be
Goodness, John! I shouldn't have thought it could have been half the size. What a monster
Monsther!-- Ye're aboot right theer, I reckon, Mrs Browdie
gin you thried for twolve moonths. It's na' but a Poast Office! Ho! ho! They need to charge for dooble-latthers. A Poast Office! Wa'at dost thee think o' thot? 'Ecod, if thot's on'y a Poast Office, I'd loike to see where the Lord Mayor o' Lunnun lives
Weel
Dang my bootuns if she bean't asleep agean
She's been asleep all night, and was, all yesterday, except for a minute or two now and then
and I was very sorry when she woke, for she has been SO cross
Hollo
Coom, wakken oop, will 'ee
Oh, 'Tilda
how you have been kicking of me through this blessed night
Well, I do like that
when you have had nearly the whole coach to yourself
Don't deny it, 'Tilda
because you have, and it's no use to go attempting to say you haven't. You mightn't have known it in your sleep, 'Tilda, but I haven't closed my eyes for a single wink, and so I THINK I am to be believed
Noo
gang to the Sarah's Head, mun
To the VERE
Lawk, Mr Browdie
The idea! Saracen's Head
Sure-ly
I know'd it was something aboot Sarah's Son's Head. Dost thou know thot
Oh, ah! I know that
Tilda, dear, really
we shall be taken for I don't know what
Let them tak' us as they foind us
joy oursel, do we
I hope not, Mr Browdie
Well, then
joy himsel noo, when ought he, hey? Drat it all, thot's what I want to know
Is my pa in, do you know
Beg your pardon, miss
My pa
is he in
In where, miss
In here -- in the house
My pa -- Mr Wackford Squeers -- he's stopping here. Is he at home
I didn't know there was any gen'l'man of that name in the house, miss' replied the waiter. 'There may be, in the coffee-room
As if he was a feller
Ye'd betther inquire, mun
An' hond up another pigeon-pie, will 'ee? Dang the chap
does he ca' this a pie -- three yoong pigeons and a troifling matther o' steak, and a crust so loight that you doant know when it's in your mooth and when it's gane? I wonder hoo many pies goes to a breakfast
Why, who'd have thought of this
Who, indeed, pa
But you see 'Tilda IS married at last
And I stond threat for a soight o' Lunnun, schoolmeasther
One of them things that young men do when they get married
and as runs through with their money like nothing at all! How much better wouldn't it be now, to save it up for the eddication of any little boys, for instance! They come on you
before you're aware of it; mine did upon me
Will 'ee pick a bit
I won't myself
but if you'll just let little Wackford tuck into something fat, I'll be obliged to you. Give it him in his fingers, else the waiter charges it on, and there's lot of profit on this sort of vittles without that. If you hear the waiter coming, sir, shove it in your pocket and look out of the window, d'ye hear
I'm awake, father
Well
it's your turn to be married next. You must make haste
Oh, I'm in no hurry
No, Fanny
No, 'Tilda
I can wait
So can the young men, it seems, Fanny
They an't draw'd into it by ME, 'Tilda
No
that's exceedingly true
What do you think
who do you suppose we have laid hands on, Wackford and me
Pa! not Mr
Nickleby
No
But next door to him though
You can't mean Smike
Yes, I can though
I've got him, hard and fast
Wa'at
Got that poor -- dom'd scoondrel? Where
Why, in the top back room, at my lodging
with him on one side, and the key on the other
Yes
thankee. Don't do it again. You mean it kindly, I know, but it hurts rather. Yes, there he is. That's not so bad, is it
Ba'ad
It's eneaf to scare a mun to hear tell on
I thought it would surprise you a bit
It was pretty neatly done, and pretty quick too
Hoo wor it
Tell us all aboot it, mun; coom, quick
For fear he should give me the slip, by any chance
I've taken three outsides for tomorrow morning -- for Wackford and him and me -- and have arranged to leave the accounts and the new boys to the agent, don't you see? So it's very lucky you come today, or you'd have missed us; and as it is, unless you could come and tea with me tonight, we shan't see anything more of you before we go away
Dean't say anoother wurd
We'd coom, if it was twonty mile
No, would you though
Ods-bobs, dost thee not know me, mun
Browdie. Chap as met thee efther schoolmeasther was banged
Yes, yes
Oh! help me
Help thee
Thee didn't need help, if thee warn't as silly yoongster as ever draw'd breath. Wa'at did 'ee come here for, then
He brought me; oh! he brought me
Brout thee
Why didn't 'ee punch his head, or lay theeself doon and kick, and squeal out for the pollis? I'd ha' licked a doozen such as him when I was yoong as thee. But thee be'est a poor broken-doon chap
and God forgi' me for bragging ower yan o' his weakest creeturs
Stan' still
and doant'ee speak a morsel o' talk till I tell'ee
See thot
repeated John, hastily. 'Dost thee know where thee livest? Thee dost? Weel. Are yon thy clothes, or schoolmeasther's
Mine
On wi' 'em
Noo, foller me, and when thee get'st ootside door, turn to the right, and they wean't see thee pass
But -- but -- he'll hear me shut the door
Then dean't shut it at all
Dang it, thee bean't afeard o' schoolmeasther's takkin cold, I hope
N-no
But he brought me back before, and will again. He will, he will indeed
He wull, he wull
un on a wrong scent, I warrant 'ee. But if theekeep's t a good hart, thee'lt be at whoam afore they knowthee's t gotten off. Coom
un now, a powderin' awa' at the thin bread an' butther
Ha! ha
No! I think not
I don't think he could have missed me till I had got quite away
You shall stay here
you're tired -- fagged. I'll tell them you're come back. They have been half mad about you. Mr Nicholas
God bless him
Amen
He hasn't had a minute's rest or peace; no more has the old lady, nor Miss Nickleby
No, no. Has SHE thought about me
Has she though? oh, has she, has she? Don't tell me so if she has not
She has
She is as noble-hearted as she is beautiful
Yes, yes
Well said
So mild and gentle
Yes, yes
And yet with such a true and gallant spirit
Well, well
It has touched ME, more than once, to think such a nature should have been exposed to such trials; this poor fellow -- yes, yes,-- he feels that too -- it softens him -- makes him think of his former misery. Hah! That's it? Yes, that's -- hum
A fine morning, Mr Linkinwater
Ah
talk of the country, indeed! What do you think of this, now, for a day -- a London day -- eh
It's a little clearer out of town
Clearer
You should see it from my bedroom window
You should see it from MINE
Pooh! pooh
don't tell me. Country
Nonsense! What can you get in the country but new-laid eggs and flowers? I can buy new-laid eggs in Leadenhall Market, any morning before breakfast; and as to flowers, it's worth a run upstairs to smell my mignonette, or to see the double wallflower in the back-attic window, at No. 6, in the court
There is a double wallflower at No. 6, in the court, is there
Yes, is there
and planted in a cracked jug, without a spout. There were hyacinths there, this last spring, blossoming, in -- but you'll laugh at that, of course
At what
At their blossoming in old blacking-bottles
Not I, indeed
They belong to a sickly bedridden hump-backed boy, and seem to be the only pleasure, Mr Nickleby, of his sad existence. How many years is it
since I first noticed him, quite a little child, dragging himself about on a pair of tiny crutches? Well! Well! Not many; but though they would appear nothing, if I thought of other things, they seem a long, long time, when I think of him. It is a sad thing
to see a little deformed child sitting apart from other children, who are active and merry, watching the games he is denied the power to share in. He made my heart ache very often
It is a good heart
that disentangles itself from the close avocations of every day, to heed such things. You were saying
That the flowers belonged to this poor boy
that's all. When it is fine weather, and he can crawl out of bed, he draws a chair close to the window, and sits there, looking at them and arranging them, all day long. He used to nod, at first, and then we came to speak. Formerly, when I called to him of a morning, and asked him how he was, he would smile, and say, "Better!" but now he shakes his head, and only bends more closely over his old plants. It must be dull to watch the dark housetops and the flying clouds, for so many months; but he is very patient
Is there nobody in the house to cheer or help him
His father lives there, I believe
The night will not be long coming
when he will sleep, and never wake again on earth. We have never so much as shaken hands in all our lives; and yet I shall miss him like an old friend. Are there any country flowers that could interest me like these, do you think? Or do you suppose that the withering of a hundred kinds of the choicest flowers that blow, called by the hardest Latin names that were ever invented, would give me one fraction of the pain that I shall feel when these old jugs and bottles are swept away as lumber? Country
don't you know that I couldn't have such a court under my bedroom window, anywhere, but in London
I'll take this letter to him at once
if that's the case
He can't be here
I'll lay it on his table
My dear ma'am -- my dear young lady
pray don't -- not another word, I beseech and entreat you! I implore you -- I beg of you -- to rise. We -- we -- are not alone
She has fainted, sir
Poor dear, poor dear
Where is my brother Ned? Ned, my dear brother, come here pray
Brother Charles, my dear fellow
what is the -- ah! what
Hush! hush!-- not a word for your life, brother Ned
Ring for the housekeeper, my dear brother -- call Tim Linkinwater! Here, Tim Linkinwater, sir -- Mr Nickleby, my dear sir, leave the room, I beg and beseech of you
I think she is better now
Poor bird
Brother Ned, my dear fellow, you will be surprised, I know, to witness this, in business hours; but
I should have known her among ten thousand
Is she quite recovered
Who
Who
The young lady
What do you make, Mr Nickleby
what do you make of four hundred and twenty-seven times three thousand two hundred and thirty-eight
Nay
what do you make of my question first? I asked you
About the young lady
To be sure. Yes. Oh! she's very well
Very well, is she
Very well
Will she be able to go home today
She's gone
Gone
Yes
I hope she has not far to go
Ay
I hope she hasn't
Out of sight, out of mind
It's all right
Sit down. Sit down, there's a dear young man, and let me tell you all about it
There's a great deal of news
It's all right. Don't be anxious. I don't know where to begin. Never mind that. Keep up your spirits. It's all right
Well
Yes
Yes
That's it
What's it
The name -- the name, my dear fellow
The name's Bobster
Bobster
That's the name
I remember it by lobster
Bobster
That must be the servant's name
No, it an't
Miss Cecilia Bobster
Cecilia, eh
Well, Cecilia is a pretty name
Very. And a pretty creature too
Who
Miss Bobster
Why, where have you seen her
Never mind, my dear boy
I HAVE seen her. You shall see her. I've managed it all
My dear Newman
are you serious
I am
I mean it all. Every word. You shall see her tomorrow night. She consents to hear you speak for yourself. I persuaded her. She is all affability, goodness, sweetness, and beauty
I know she is; I know she must be, Newman
You are right
Where does she live
What have you learnt of her history? Has she a father -- mother -- any brothers -- sisters? What did she say? How came you to see her? Was she not very much surprised? Did you say how passionately I have longed to speak to her? Did you tell her where I had seen her? Did you tell her how, and when, and where, and how long, and how often, I have thought of that sweet face which came upon me in my bitterest distress like a glimpse of some better world -- did you, Newman -- did you
No
I didn't tell her that
Didn't tell her which
About the glimpse of the better world
I didn't tell her who you were, either, or where you'd seen her. I said you loved her to distraction
That's true, Newman
Heaven knows I do
I said too, that you had admired her for a long time in secret
Yes, yes. What did she say to that
Blushed
To be sure. Of course she would
Things come about very strangely
I never contemplated anything of this kind; never dreamt of the possibility of it. To know something of the life of one in whom I felt such interest; to see her in the street, to pass the house in which she lived, to meet her sometimes in her walks, to hope that a day might come when I might be in a condition to tell her of my love, this was the utmost extent of my thoughts. Now, however -- but I should be a fool, indeed, to repine at my own good fortune
because
it is not as if she knew it was I, but it might have been anybody
The fact is, she's a mystery altogether
Number twelve
Oh
Good street
Yes
Rather dull
Well
All right
All ready; nobody at home. Couldn't be better. Ha! ha
BOBSTER
What the devil
Are we to sneak into the kitchen, as if we came after the forks
Hush
Old Bobster -- ferocious Turk. He'd kill 'em all -- box the young lady's ears -- he does -- often
What
do you mean to tell me that any man would dare to box the ears of such a
Well
this is not all, I suppose, is it
No, no
they'll be here directly. It's all right
I am glad to hear it
I shouldn't have thought it, I confess
Yes
Who is that
Only me, sir
Now if you please, ma'am
Bobster, by the Lord
Leave the house, for Heaven's sake! We have done wrong, we deserve it all
Leave the house, or I am ruined and undone for ever
Will you hear me say but one word
Only one. I will not detain you. Will you hear me say one word, in explanation of this mischance
Let me go, Newman, in the Devil's name
I must speak to her. I will! I will not leave this house without
Reputation -- character -- violence -- consider
Let them open the door. We'll go, as we came, directly it's shut. Come. This way. Here
Never mind
Don't be cast down. It's all right. More fortunate next time. It couldn't be helped. I did MY part
Excellently
Excellently, and like the true and zealous friend you are. Only -- mind, I am not disappointed, Newman, and feel just as much indebted to you -- only IT WAS THE WRONG LADY
Eh
Taken in by the servant
Newman, Newman
it was the wrong servant too
Don't take it to heart
it's of no consequence; you see I don't care about it; you followed the wrong person, that's all
Ah
if Nicholas knew what his poor dear papa suffered before we were engaged, when I used to hate him, he would have a little more feeling. Shall I ever forget the morning I looked scornfully at him when he offered to carry my parasol? Or that night, when I frowned at him? It was a mercy he didn't emigrate. It very nearly drove him to it
Kate, my dear
I don't know how it is, but a fine warm summer day like this, with the birds singing in every direction, always puts me in mind of roast pig, with sage and onion sauce, and made gravy
That's a curious association of ideas, is it not, mama
Upon my word, my dear, I don't know
Roast pig; let me see. On the day five weeks after you were christened, we had a roast -- no, that couldn't have been a pig, either, because I recollect there were a pair of them to carve, and your poor papa and I could never have thought of sitting down to two pigs -- they must have been partridges. Roast pig! I hardly think we ever could have had one, now I come to remember, for your papa could never bear the sight of them in the shops, and used to say that they always put him in mind of very little babies, only the pigs had much fairer complexions; and he had a horror of little babies, to, because he couldn't very well afford any increase to his family, and had a natural dislike to the subject. It's very odd now, what can have put that in my head! I recollect dining once at Mrs Bevan's, in that broad street round the corner by the coachmaker's, where the tipsy man fell through the cellar-flap of an empty house nearly a week before the quarter-day, and wasn't found till the new tenant went in -- and we had roast pig there. It must be that, I think, that reminds me of it, especially as there was a little bird in the room that would keep on singing all the time of dinner -- at least, not a little bird, for it was a parrot, and he didn't sing exactly, for he talked and swore dreadfully: but I think it must be that. Indeed I am sure it must. Shouldn't you say so, my dear
I should say there was not a doubt about it, mama
No; but DO you think so, Kate
If you don't, say so at once, you know; because it's just as well to be correct, particularly on a point of this kind, which is very curious and worth settling while one thinks about it
Well, I will say
that there never was such a good creature as Smike. Upon my word, the pains he has taken in putting this little arbour to rights, and training the sweetest flowers about it, are beyond anything I could have -- I wish he wouldn't put ALL the gravel on your side, Kate, my dear, though, and leave nothing but mould for me
Dear mama
take this seat -- do -- to oblige me, mama
No, indeed, my dear. I shall keep my own side
Well! I declare
If he hasn't been
and got, from somewhere or other, a couple of roots of those flowers that I said I was so fond of, the other night, and asked you if you were not -- no, that YOU said YOU were so fond of, the other night, and asked me if I wasn't -- it's the same thing. Now, upon my word, I take that as very kind and attentive indeed! I don't see
any of them on my side, but I suppose they grow best near the gravel. You may depend upon it they do, Kate, and that's the reason they are all near you, and he has put the gravel there, because it's the sunny side. Upon my word, that's very clever now! I shouldn't have had half as much thought myself
Mama
before you were married
Dear me, Kate
what in the name of goodness graciousness makes you fly off to the time before I was married, when I'm talking to you about his thoughtfulness and attention to me? You don't seem to take the smallest interest in the garden
Oh! mama
you know I do
Well then, my dear, why don't you praise the neatness and prettiness with which it's kept
How very odd you are, Kate
I do praise it, mama
Poor fellow
I scarcely ever hear you, my dear
that's all I've got to say
About what, mama
Lor, Kate, my dear
why, you're asleep or stupid! About the time before I was married
Oh yes
I remember. I was going to ask, mama, before you were married, had you many suitors
Suitors, my dear
First and last, Kate, I must have had a dozen at least
Mama
I had indeed, my dear
not including your poor papa, or a young gentleman who used to go, at that time, to the same dancing school, and who WOULD send gold watches and bracelets to our house in gilt-edged paper, (which were always returned,) and who afterwards unfortunately went out to Botany Bay in a cadet ship -- a convict ship I mean -- and escaped into a bush and killed sheep, (I don't know how they got there,) and was going to be hung, only he accidentally choked himself, and the government pardoned him. Then there was young Lukin
Mogley -- Tipslark -- Cabbery -- Smifser
Hem
Mama! what was that
Upon my word, my dear
unless it was the gentleman belonging to the next house, I don't know what it could possibly
A -- hem
I understand it now, my dear
don't be alarmed, my love, it's not directed to you, and is not intended to frighten anybody. Let us give everybody their due, Kate; I am bound to say that
What do you mean, mama
Don't be flurried, my dear
for you see I'm not, and if it would be excusable in anybody to be flurried, it certainly would -- under all the circumstances -- be excusable in me, but I am not, Kate -- not at all
It seems designed to attract our attention, mama
It is designed to attract our attention, my dear; at least
to attract the attention of one of us. Hem! you needn't be at all uneasy, my dear
Mama
why do you stop, why do you lose an instant? Mama, pray come in
Kate, my dear
how can you be so foolish? I'm ashamed of you. How do you suppose you are ever to get through life, if you're such a coward as this? What do you want, sir
How dare you look into this garden
Queen of my soul
this goblet sip
Nonsense, sir
Kate, my love, pray be quiet
Won't you sip the goblet
Oh, do sip the goblet
I shall not consent to do anything of the kind, sir
Pray, begone
Why is it
why is it that beauty is always obdurate, even when admiration is as honourable and respectful as mine
Is it owing to the bees, who, when the honey season is over, and they are supposed to have been killed with brimstone, in reality fly to Barbary and lull the captive Moors to sleep with their drowsy songs? Or is it
in consequence of the statue at Charing Cross having been lately seen, on the Stock Exchange at midnight, walking arm-in-arm with the Pump from Aldgate, in a riding-habit
Mama
do you hear him
Hush, my dear
he is very polite, and I think that was a quotation from the poets. Pray, don't worry me so -- you'll pinch my arm black and blue. Go away, sir
Quite away
Oh! quite away
Yes
certainly. You have no business here. This is private property, sir; you ought to know that
I do know
that this is a sacred and enchanted spot, where the most divine
waft mellifluousness over the neighbours' gardens, and force the fruit and vegetables into premature existence. That fact I am acquainted with. But will you permit me, fairest creature, to ask you one question, in the absence of the planet Venus, who has gone on business to the Horse Guards, and would otherwise -- jealous of your superior charms -- interpose between us
Kate
it's very awkward, positively. I really don't know what to say to this gentleman. One ought to be civil, you know
Dear mama
don't say a word to him, but let us run away as fast as we can, and shut ourselves up till Nicholas comes home
If you will conduct yourself, sir, like the gentleman I should imagine you to be, from your language and -- and -- appearance, (quite the counterpart of your grandpapa, Kate, my dear, in his best days,) and will put your question to me in plain words, I will answer it
The question is
Are you a princess
You are mocking me, sir
No, but are you
You know I am not, sir
Then are you any relation to the Archbishop of Canterbury
or to the Pope of Rome? Or the Speaker of the House of Commons? Forgive me, if I am wrong, but I was told you were niece to the Commissioners of Paving, and daughter-in-law to the Lord Mayor and Court of Common Council, which would account for your relationship to all three
Whoever has spread such reports, sir
has taken great liberties with my name, and one which I am sure my son Nicholas, if he was aware of it, would not allow for an instant. The idea
niece to the Commissioners of Paving
Pray, mama, come away
Pray mama!" Nonsense, Kate
but that's just the way. If they had said I was niece to a piping bullfinch, what would you care? But I have no sympathy
I don't expect it, that's one thing
Tears
Catch the crystal globules -- catch 'em -- bottle 'em up -- cork 'em tight -- put sealing wax on the top -- seal 'em with a cupid -- label 'em "Best quality"-- and stow 'em away in the fourteen binn, with a bar of iron on the top to keep the thunder off
Beautiful madam
if I have made any mistake with regard to your family or connections, I humbly beseech you to pardon me. If I supposed you to be related to Foreign Powers or Native Boards, it is because you have a manner, a carriage, a dignity, which you will excuse my saying that none but yourself (with the single exception perhaps of the tragic muse, when playing extemporaneously on the barrel organ before the East India Company) can parallel. I am not a youth, ma'am, as you see; and although beings like you can never grow old, I venture to presume that we are fitted for each other
Really, Kate, my love
I have estates, ma'am
jewels, lighthouses, fish-ponds, a whalery of my own in the North Sea, and several oyster-beds of great profit in the Pacific Ocean. If you will have the kindness to step down to the Royal Exchange and to take the cocked-hat off the stoutest beadle's head, you will find my card in the lining of the crown, wrapped up in a piece of blue paper. My walking-stick is also to be seen on application to the chaplain of the House of Commons, who is strictly forbidden to take any money for showing it. I have enemies about me, ma'am
who attack me on all occasions, and wish to secure my property. If you bless me with your hand and heart, you can apply to the Lord Chancellor or call out the military if necessary -- sending my toothpick to the commander-in-chief will be sufficient -- and so clear the house of them before the ceremony is performed. After that, love, bliss and rapture; rapture, love and bliss. Be mine, be mine
Be mine, be mine
Kate, my dear
I have hardly the power to speak; but it is necessary for the happiness of all parties that this matter should be set at rest for ever
Surely there is no necessity for you to say one word, mama
You will allow me, my dear, if you please, to judge for myself
Be mine, be mine
It can scarcely be expected, sir
that I should tell a stranger whether I feel flattered and obliged by such proposals, or not. They certainly are made under very singular circumstances; still at the same time, as far as it goes, and to a certain extent of course' (Mrs Nickleby's customary qualification), 'they must be gratifying and agreeable to one's feelings
Be mine, be mine
Gog and Magog, Gog and Magog. Be mine, be mine
It will be sufficient for me to say, sir
and I'm sure you'll see the propriety of taking an answer and going away -- that I have made up my mind to remain a widow, and to devote myself to my children. You may not suppose I am the mother of two children -- indeed many people have doubted it, and said that nothing on earth could ever make 'em believe it possible -- but it is the case, and they are both grown up. We shall be very glad to have you for a neighbour -- very glad; delighted, I'm sure -- but in any other character it's quite impossible, quite. As to my being young enough to marry again, that perhaps may be so, or it may not be; but I couldn't think of it for an instant, not on any account whatever. I said I never would, and I never will. It's a very painful thing to have to reject proposals, and I would much rather that none were made; at the same time this is the answer that I determined long ago to make, and this is the answer I shall always give
It's you, is it
Yes, it's me
How's the Emperor of Tartary
Oh! he's much the same as usual
No better and no worse
The young Prince of China
Is he reconciled to his father-in-law, the great potato salesman
No
and he says he never will be, that's more
If that's the case
perhaps I'd better come down
Well
I think you had, perhaps
Beg your pardon, ladies
Has he been making love to either of you
Yes
Ah
he always will, you know. Nothing will prevent his making love
I need not ask you if he is out of his mind, poor creature
Why no
That's pretty plain, that is
Has he been long so
A long while
And is there no hope for him
Not a bit, and don't deserve to be
He's a deal pleasanter without his senses than with 'em. He was the cruellest, wickedest, out-and-outerest old flint that ever drawed breath
Indeed
By George
I never come across such a vagabond, and my mate says the same. Broke his poor wife's heart, turned his daughters out of doors, drove his sons into the streets; it was a blessing he went mad at last, through evil tempers, and covetousness, and selfishness, and guzzling, and drinking, or he'd have drove many others so. Hope for HIM, an old rip! There isn't too much hope going' but I'll bet a crown that what there is, is saved for more deserving chaps than him, anyhow
Poor creature
Ah! poor indeed
It's shameful that such things should be allowed. Shameful
How can they be helped, mama
The infirmities of nature
Nature
What! Do YOU suppose this poor gentleman is out of his mind
Can anybody who sees him entertain any other opinion, mama
Why then, I just tell you this, Kate
that, he is nothing of the kind, and I am surprised you can be so imposed upon. It's some plot of these people to possess themselves of his property -- didn't he say so himself? He may be a little odd and flighty, perhaps, many of us are that; but downright mad! and express himself as he does, respectfully, and in quite poetical language, and making offers with so much thought, and care, and prudence -- not as if he ran into the streets, and went down upon his knees to the first chit of a girl he met, as a madman would! No, no, Kate, there's a great deal too much method in HIS madness; depend upon that, my dear
Tilly
Well, John
Well, John
Dost thou feel hoongry, lass
Not very
Not vary
Hear her say not vary, and us dining at three, and loonching off pasthry thot aggravates a mon 'stead of pacifying him! Not vary
Here's a gen'l'man for you, sir
A wa'at for me
A gen'l'man, sir
Stars and garthers, chap
un
Are you at home, sir
At whoam
un. Aha! Thee hond, Misther Nickleby. This is nigh to be the proodest day o' my life, sir. Hoo be all wi' ye? Ding! But, I'm glod o' this
Ah! there she be
There she be -- we shan't quarrel about her noo -- eh? Ecod, when I think o' thot -- but thouwant's t soom'at to eat. Fall to, mun, fall to, and for wa'at we're aboot to receive
I shall take the usual licence, Mr Browdie
Tak' whatever thou like'st
and when a's gane, ca' for more
I say
mak' theeself quite at whoam, will 'ee
You may depend upon that
on one condition
And wa'at may thot be
That you make me a godfather the very first time you have occasion for one
Eh! d'ye hear thot
un -- a godfeyther! Ha! ha! ha
A godfeyther -- a godfeyther, Tilly
You remember the night of our first tea-drinking
Shall I e'er forget it, mun
He was a desperate fellow that night though, was he not, Mrs Browdie
Quite a monster
If you had only heard him as we were going home, Mr Nickleby, you'd have said so indeed
I never was so frightened in all my life
Coom, coom
thou know'st betther than thot, Tilly
So I was
I almost made up my mind never to speak to you again
A'most
Lor, John
How can you talk such nonsense? As if I should have dreamt of such a thing
I dinnot know whether thou'd ever dreamt of it, though I think that's loike eneaf, mind
This is the second time
that we have ever taken a meal together, and only third I have ever seen you; and yet it really seems to me as if I were among old friends
Weel
so I say
And I am sure I do
I have the best reason to be impressed with the feeling, mind
for if it had not been for your kindness of heart, my good friend, when I had no right or reason to expect it, I know not what might have become of me or what plight I should have been in by this time
Talk aboot soom'at else
and dinnot bother
It must be a new song to the same tune then
I told you in my letter that I deeply felt and admired your sympathy with that poor lad, whom you released at the risk of involving yourself in trouble and difficulty; but I can never tell you how greateful he and I, and others whom you don't know, are to you for taking pity on him
Ecod
and I can never tell YOU hoo gratful soom folks that we do know would be loikewise, if THEY know'd I had takken pity on him
Ah
what a state I was in that night
Were they at all disposed to give you credit for assisting in the escape
Not a bit
There I lay, snoog in schoolmeasther's bed long efther it was dark, and nobody coom nigh the pleace. "Weel!" thinks I, "he's got a pretty good start, and if he bean't whoam by noo, he never will be; so you may coom as quick as you loike, and foind us reddy" -- that is, you know, schoolmeasther might coom
I understand
Presently
he DID coom. I heerd door shut doonstairs, and him a warking, oop in the daark. "Slow and steddy
Hallo, there!"--"Yes," thinks I, "you may do thot agean, and not wakken anybody, sir." "Hallo, there," he says, and then he stops. "Thou'd betther not aggravate me," says schoolmeasther, efther a little time. "I'll brak' every boan in your boddy, Smike," he says, efther another little time. Then all of a soodden, he sings oot for a loight, and when it cooms -- ecod, such a hoorly-boorly! "Wa'at's the matter?" says I. "He's gane," says he,-- stark mad wi' vengeance. "Have you heerd nought?" "Ees," says I, "I heerd street-door shut, no time at a' ago. I heerd a person run doon there" (pointing t'other wa
Did you go far
Far
I run him clean off his legs in quarther of an hoor. To see old schoolmeasther wi'out his hat, skimming along oop to his knees in mud and wather, tumbling over fences, and rowling into ditches, and bawling oot like mad, wi' his one eye looking sharp out for the lad, and his coat-tails flying out behind, and him spattered wi' mud all ower, face and all! I tho't I should ha' dropped doon, and killed myself wi' laughing
un
un, is schoolmeasther
I can't bear the sight of him, John
Coom
un first, Tilly, didn't thou
I couldn't help knowing Fanny Squeers, John
she was an old playmate of mine, you know
Weel
dean't I say so, lass? It's best to be neighbourly, and keep up old acquaintance loike; and what I say is, dean't quarrel if 'ee can help it. Dinnot think so, Mr Nickleby
Certainly
and you acted upon that principle when I meet you on horseback on the road, after our memorable evening
Sure-ly
Wa'at I say, I stick by
And that's a fine thing to do, and manly too
though it's not exactly what we understand by "coming Yorkshire over us" in London. Miss Squeers is stopping with you, you said in your note
Yes
Tilly's bridesmaid; and a queer bridesmaid she be, too. She wean't be a bride in a hurry, I reckon
For shame, John
The groom will be a blessed mun
He'll be in luck, he will
You see, Mr Nickleby
that it was in consequence of her being here, that John wrote to you and fixed tonight, because we thought that it wouldn't be pleasant for you to meet, after what has passed
Unquestionably. You were quite right in that
Especially
after what we know about past and gone love matters
We know, indeed
You behaved rather wickedly there, I suspect
O' course she did
She wur always as skittish and full o' tricks as a
Well, as a what
As a woman
Ding! But I dinnot know ought else that cooms near it
You were speaking about Miss Squeers
Oh yes
John ha' done. John fixed tonight, because she had settled that she would go and drink tea with her father. And to make quite sure of there being nothing amiss, and of your being quite alone with us, he settled to go out there and fetch her home
That was a very good arrangement
though I am sorry to be the occasion of so much trouble
Not the least in the world
for we have looked forward to see you -- John and I have -- with the greatest possible pleasure. Do you know, Mr Nickleby
that I really think Fanny Squeers was very fond of you
I am very much obliged to her
but upon my word, I never aspired to making any impression upon her virgin heart
How you talk
No, but do you know that really -- seriously now and without any joking -- I was given to understand by Fanny herself, that you had made an offer to her, and that you two were going to be engaged quite solemn and regular
Was you, ma'am -- was you
was you given to understand that I -- I -- was going to be engaged to an assassinating thief that shed the gore of my pa? Do you -- do you think, ma'am -- that I was very fond of such dirt beneath my feet, as I couldn't condescend to touch with kitchen tongs, without blacking and crocking myself by the contract? Do you, ma'am -- do you? Oh! base and degrading 'Tilda
This is the hend, is it
this is the hend, is it, of all my forbearance and friendship for that double-faced thing -- that viper, that -- that -- mermaid
This is the hend, is it, of all my bearing with her deceitfulness, her lowness, her falseness, her laying herself out to catch the admiration of vulgar minds, in a way which made me blush for my -- for my
Gender
Yes
but I thank my stars that my ma is of the same
Hear, hear
and I wish she was here to have a scratch at this company
This is the hend, is it
of my taking notice of that rubbishing creature, and demeaning myself to patronise her
Oh, come
don't talk such nonsense as that
Have I not patronised you, ma'am
No
I will not look for blushes in such a quarter
for that countenance is a stranger to everything but hignominiousness and red-faced boldness
I say
dra' it mild, dra' it mild
You, Mr Browdie
I pity. I have no feeling for you, sir, but one of unliquidated pity
Oh
No
although I AM a queer bridesmaid, and SHAN'T be a bride in a hurry, and although my husband WILL be in luck, I entertain no sentiments towards you, sir, but sentiments of pity
There you had him
I know what you've got to go through
I know what life is before you, and if you was my bitterest and deadliest enemy, I could wish you nothing worse
Couldn't you wish to be married to him yourself, if that was the case
Oh, ma'am, how witty you are
almost as witty, ma'am, as you are clever. How very clever it was in you, ma'am, to choose a time when I had gone to tea with my pa, and was sure not to come back without being fetched! What a pity you never thought that other people might be as clever as yourself and spoil your plans
You won't vex me, child, with such airs as these
Don't MISSIS me, ma'am, if you please
I'll not bear it. Is THIS the hend
cried John Browdie, impatiently. 'Say thee say out, Fanny, and mak' sure it's the end, and dinnot ask nobody whether it is or not
Thanking you for your advice which was not required, Mr Browdie
have the goodness not to presume to meddle with my Christian name. Even my pity shall never make me forget what's due to myself, Mr Browdie. 'Tilda
I throw you off for ever, miss. I abandon you. I renounce you. I wouldn't
have a child named 'Tilda, not to save it from its grave
As for the matther o' that
it'll be time eneaf to think aboot neaming of it when it cooms
John
don't tease her
Oh! Tease, indeed
Tease, indeed! He, he! Tease, too! No, don't tease her. Consider her feelings, pray
If it's fated that listeners are never to hear any good of themselves
I can't help it, and I am very sorry for it. But I will say, Fanny, that times out of number I have spoken so kindly of you behind your back, that even you could have found no fault with what I said
Oh, I dare say not, ma'am
Best thanks to you for your goodness, and begging and praying you not to be hard upon me another time
I don't know
that I have said anything very bad of you, even now. At all events, what I did say was quite true; but if I have, I am very sorry for it, and I beg your pardon. You have said much worse of me, scores of times, Fanny; but I have never borne any malice to you, and I hope you'll not bear any to me
puss
minx
contemptible creature
Eating
of what his father's enemies has left! It's fit to go and poison you, you unnat'ral boy
It wean't hurt him
Coom, coom, schoolmeasther
dinnot make a fool o' thyself; for if I was to sheake mine -- only once -- thou'd fa' doon wi' the wind o' it
It was you, was it
that helped off my runaway boy? It was you, was it
Me
Yes, it wa' me, coom; wa'at o' that? It wa' me. Noo then
You hear him say he did it, my child
You hear him say he did it
Did it
I'll tell 'ee more; hear this, too. If thou'd got another roonaway boy, I'd do it agean. If thou'd got twonty roonaway boys, I'd do it twonty times ower, and twonty more to thot; and I tell thee more
un, or I'd ha' poonded thee to flour when thou told an honest mun hoo thou'd licked that poor chap in t' coorch
An honest man
Ah! an honest man
honest in ought but ever putting legs under seame table wi' such as thou
Scandal
Two witnesses to it; Wackford knows the nature of an oath, he does; we shall have you there, sir. Rascal, eh
Very good. I should say that was worth full twenty pound at the next assizes, without the honesty, sir
Soizes
thou'd betther not talk to me o' 'Soizes. Yorkshire schools have been shown up at 'Soizes afore noo, mun, and it's a ticklish soobjact to revive, I can tell ye
As for you
see if I ain't down upon you before long. You'll go a kidnapping of boys, will you? Take care their fathers don't turn up -- mark that -- take care their fathers don't turn up, and send 'em back to me to do as I like with, in spite of you
I am not afraid of that
Ain't you
Now then, come along
I leave such society, with my pa, for Hever
I am defiled by breathing the air with such creatures. Poor Mr Browdie! He! he! he! I do pity him, that I do; he's so deluded. He! he! he!-- Artful and designing 'Tilda
Here, waither
there's no ganging oot to neeght, noo, to fetch anybody whoam, and ecod, we'll begin to spend the evening in airnest
scoundrel
insolent puppy
Why, what's the matter
Hallo
this is somebody in disguise, this is
Room for the eldest son of the Emperor of Roosher, gen'l'men
A mere nothing
Oh, indeed!-- Wasn't it though?-- Nothing, eh?-- He called that nothing, did he? Lucky for him if he found it nothing
Let me see him do it again
Let me see him do it again. That's all
Let me hear you make those remarks again
and I'll knock that head of yours in among the wine-glasses behind you there
No one need trouble himself to stir
I am going to remain in the house all night, and shall be found here in the morning if there is any assault to answer for
What did you strike him for
Ah! what did you strike him for
You inquired just now what was the matter here. The matter is simply this. Yonder person, who was drinking with a friend in the coffee-room when I took my seat there for half an hour before going to bed, (for I have just come off a journey, and preferred stopping here tonight, to going home at this hour, where I was not expected until tomorrow,) chose to express himself in very disrespectful, and insolently familiar terms, of a young lady, whom I recognised from his description and other circumstances, and whom I have the honour to know. As he spoke loud enough to be overheard by the other guests who were present, I informed him most civilly that he was mistaken in his conjectures, which were of an offensive nature, and requested him to forbear. He did so for a little time, but as he chose to renew his conversation when leaving the room, in a more offensive strain than before, I could not refrain from making after him, and facilitating his departure by a kick, which reduced him to the posture in which you saw him just now. I am the best judge of my own affairs, I take it
if anybody here thinks proper to make this quarrel his own, I have not the smallest earthly objection, I do assure him
Let him take care, that's all
He don't knock me about for nothing, I can tell him that. A pretty state of things, if a man isn't to admire a handsome girl without being beat to pieces for it
My dear girl
Nonsense, sir
No, but listen to me
If admiration of a pretty face were criminal, I should be the most hopeless person alive, for I cannot resist one. It has the most extraordinary effect upon me, checks and controls me in the most furious and obstinate mood. You see what an effect yours has had upon me already
Oh, that's very pretty
but
Yes, I know it's very pretty
I said so, you know, just this moment. But beauty should be spoken of respectfully -- respectfully, and in proper terms, and with a becoming sense of its worth and excellence, whereas this fellow has no more notion
I am sure I have seen that fellow before
Indeed
I am certain of it
Where can I have -- stop!-- yes, to be sure -- he belongs to a register-office up at the west end of the town. I knew I recollected the face
That's odd enough
I am much obliged to you for your kind advocacy of my cause when it most needed an advocate
Perhaps you'll do me the favour to let me know where I can thank you
Mr Frank Cheeryble
Surely not the nephew of Cheeryble Brothers, who is expected tomorrow
I don't usually call myself the nephew of the firm
but of the two excellent individuals who compose it, I am proud to say I AM the nephew. And you, I see, are Mr Nickleby, of whom I have heard so much! This is a most unexpected meeting, but not the less welcome, I assure you
But it's a most extraordinary thing about that register-office fellow
Is it likely that this nephew can know anything about that beautiful girl? When Tim Linkinwater gave me to understand the other day that he was coming to take a share in the business here, he said he had been superintending it in Germany for four years, and that during the last six months he had been engaged in establishing an agency in the north of England. That's four years and a half -- four years and a half. She can't be more than seventeen -- say eighteen at the outside. She was quite a child when he went away, then. I should say he knew nothing about her and had never seen her, so HE can give me no information. At all events
there can be no danger of any prior occupation of her affections in that quarter; that's quite clear
That Mr Frank and Mr Nickleby should have met last night
that those two young men should have met last night in that manner is, I say, a coincidence, a remarkable coincidence. Why, I don't believe now
that there's such a place in all the world for coincidences as London is
I don't know about that
but
Don't know about it, Mr Francis
Well, but let us know. If there is any better place for such things, where is it? Is it in Europe? No, that it isn't. Is it in Asia? Why, of course it's not. Is it in Africa? Not a bit of it. Is it in America? YOU know better than that, at all events. Well, then
where is it
I was not about to dispute the point, Tim
I am not such a heretic as that. All I was going to say was, that I hold myself under an obligation to the coincidence, that's all
Oh! if you don't dispute it
that's another thing. I'll tell you what though. I wish you had. I wish you or anybody would. I would so put that man down
so put that man down by argument
We may consider ourselves, brother Ned
very fortunate in having two such young men about us as our nephew Frank and Mr Nickleby. It should be a source of great satisfaction and pleasure to us
Certainly, Charles, certainly
Of Tim
I say nothing whatever, because Tim is a mere child -- an infant -- a nobody that we never think of or take into account at all. Tim, you villain, what do you say to that, sir
I am jealous of both of 'em
and mean to look out for another situation; so provide yourselves, gentlemen, if you please
Mr Nickleby
I -- I -- am anxious, my dear sir, to see that you are properly and comfortably settled in the cottage. We cannot allow those who serve us well to labour under any privation or discomfort that it is in our power to remove. I wish, too, to see your mother and sister: to know them, Mr Nickleby, and have an opportunity of relieving their minds by assuring them that any trifling service we have been able to do them is a great deal more than repaid by the zeal and ardour you display.-- Not a word, my dear sir, I beg. Tomorrow is Sunday. I shall make bold to come out at teatime, and take the chance of finding you at home; if you are not, you know, or the ladies should feel a delicacy in being intruded on, and would rather not be known to me just now, why I can come again another time, any other time would do for me. Let it remain upon that understanding. Brother Ned, my dear fellow, let me have a word with you this way
I wonder who's got that spice-box
It used to stand in the left-hand corner, next but two to the pickled onions. You remember that spice-box, Kate
Perfectly well, mama
I shouldn't think you did, Kate
talking about it in that cold and unfeeling way! If there is any one thing that vexes me in these losses more than the losses themselves, I do protest and declare
that it is to have people about me who take things with such provoking calmness
My dear mama
why do you say what I know you cannot seriously mean or think, or why be angry with me for being happy and content? You and Nicholas are left to me, we are together once again, and what regard can I have for a few trifling things of which we never feel the want? When I have seen all the misery and desolation that death can bring, and known the lonesome feeling of being solitary and alone in crowds, and all the agony of separation in grief and poverty when we most needed comfort and support from each other, can you wonder that I look upon this as a place of such delicious quiet and rest, that with you beside me I have nothing to wish for or regret? There was a time, and not long since, when all the comforts of our old home did come back upon me, I own, very often -- oftener than you would think perhaps -- but I affected to care nothing for them, in the hope that you would so be brought to regret them the less. I was not insensible, indeed. I might have felt happier if I had been. Dear mama
I know no difference between this home and that in which we were all so happy for so many years, except that the kindest and gentlest heart that ever ached on earth has passed in peace to heaven
Kate my dear, Kate
I have so often thought
of all his kind words -- of the last time he looked into my little room, as he passed upstairs to bed, and said "God bless you, darling." There was a paleness in his face, mama -- the broken heart -- I know it was -- I little thought so -- then
the two Mr Cheerybles
quite coloured
know thyself
Gone out of town
A mistake of yours. Go back again
No mistake
Not even going; gone
Has he turned girl or baby
I don't know
but he's gone
And WHERE has he gone
France
Danger of another attack of erysipelas -- a worse attack -- in the head. So the doctors ordered him off. And he's gone
And Lord Frederick
He's gone too
And he carries his drubbing with him, does he
pockets his bruises, and sneaks off without the retaliation of a word, or seeking the smallest reparation
He's too ill
Too ill
Why I would have it if I were dying; in that case I should only be the more determined to have it, and that without delay -- I mean if I were he. But he's too ill! Poor Sir Mulberry! Too ill
There is some spell about that boy
Circumstances conspire to help him. Talk of fortune's favours! What is even money to such Devil's luck as this
This Hawk will come back, however
and if I know the man (and I should by this time) his wrath will have lost nothing of its violence in the meanwhile. Obliged to live in retirement -- the monotony of a sick-room to a man of his habits -- no life -- no drink -- no play -- nothing that he likes and lives by. He is not likely to forget his obligations to the cause of all this. Few men would; but he of all others? No, no
That Mr Squeers; has he been here
He was here last night. I left him here when I went home
I know that, fool, do I not
Has he been here since? Was he here this morning
No
If he comes while I am out -- he is pretty sure to be here by nine tonight -- let him wait. And if there's another man with him, as there will be -- perhaps
let him wait too
Let 'em both wait
Ay
Help me on with this spencer, and don't repeat after me, like a croaking parrot
I wish I was a parrot
I wish you were
I'd have wrung your neck long ago
You would hardly have known me from my voice, I suppose, Mr Nickleby
No
Though there is something in that, that I remember now
There is little in me that you can call to mind as having been there eight years ago, I dare say
Quite enough
More than enough
If I had remained in doubt about YOU, Mr Nickleby
this reception, and YOUR manner, would have decided me very soon
Did you expect any other
No
You were right
and as you feel no surprise, need express none
Mr Nickleby
will you hear a few words that I have to say
I am obliged to wait here till the rain holds a little
If you talk, sir, I shall not put my fingers in my ears, though your talking may have as much effect as if I did
I was once in your confidence
Well
as much in your confidence as you ever chose to let anybody be
Ah
that's another thing, quite another thing
Don't let us play upon words, Mr Nickleby, in the name of humanity
Of what
Of humanity
I am hungry and in want. If the change that you must see in me after so long an absence -- must see, for I, upon whom it has come by slow and hard degrees, see it and know it well -- will not move you to pity, let the knowledge that bread; not the daily bread of the Lord's Prayer, which, as it is offered up in cities like this, is understood to include half the luxuries of the world for the rich, and just as much coarse food as will support life for the poor -- not that, but bread, a crust of dry hard bread, is beyond my reach today -- let that have some weight with you, if nothing else has
If this is the usual form in which you beg, sir
you have studied your part well; but if you will take advice from one who knows something of the world and its ways, I should recommend a lower tone; a little lower tone, or you stand a fair chance of being starved in good earnest
Yesterday was my first day in London
It would have been better for you, I think, if it had been your last also
I have been seeking you these two days, where I thought you were most likely to be found
and I met you here at last, when I had almost given up the hope of encountering you, Mr Nickleby
I am a most miserable and wretched outcast, nearly sixty years old, and as destitute and helpless as a child of six
I am sixty years old, too
and am neither destitute nor helpless. Work. Don't make fine play-acting speeches about bread, but earn it
How
Where? Show me the means. Will you give them to me -- will you
I did once
you scarcely need ask me whether I will again
It's twenty years ago, or more
since you and I fell out. You remember that? I claimed a share in the profits of some business I brought to you, and, as I persisted, you arrested me for an old advance of ten pounds, odd shillings, including interest at fifty per cent, or so
I remember something of it
What then
That didn't part us
I made submission, being on the wrong side of the bolts and bars; and as you were not the made man then that you are now, you were glad enough to take back a clerk who wasn't over nice, and who knew something of the trade you drove
You begged and prayed, and I consented
That was kind of me. Perhaps I did want you. I forget. I should think I did, or you would have begged in vain. You were useful; not too honest, not too delicate, not too nice of hand or heart; but useful
Useful, indeed
Come. You had pinched and ground me down for some years before that, but I had served you faithfully up to that time, in spite of all your dog's usage. Had I
Had I
You had had your wages
and had done your work. We stood on equal ground so far, and could both cry quits
Then, but not afterwards
Not afterwards, certainly, nor even then, for (as you have just said) you owed me money, and do still
That's not all
That's not all. Mark that. I didn't forget that old sore, trust me. Partly in remembrance of that, and partly in the hope of making money someday by the scheme, I took advantage of my position about you, and possessed myself of a hold upon you, which you would give half of all you have to know, and never can know but through me. I left you -- long after that time, remember -- and, for some poor trickery that came within the law, but was nothing to what you money-makers daily practise just outside its bounds, was sent away a convict for seven years. I have returned what you see me. Now, Mr Nickleby
what help and assistance will you give me; what bribe, to speak out plainly? My expectations are not monstrous, but I must live, and to live I must eat and drink. Money is on your side, and hunger and thirst on mine. You may drive an easy bargain
Is that all
It depends on you, Mr Nickleby, whether that's all or not
Why then, harkye, Mr --, I don't know by what name I am to call you
By my old one, if you like
Why then, harkye, Mr Brooker
and don't expect to draw another speech from me. Harkye, sir. I know you of old for a ready scoundrel, but you never had a stout heart; and hard work, with (maybe) chains upon those legs of yours, and shorter food than when I "pinched" and "ground" you, has blunted your wits, or you would not come with such a tale as this to me. You a hold upon me! Keep it, or publish it to the world, if you like
I can't do that
That wouldn't serve me
Wouldn't it
It will serve you as much as bringing it to me, I promise you. To be plain with you, I am a careful man, and know my affairs thoroughly. I know the world, and the world knows me. Whatever you gleaned, or heard, or saw, when you served me, the world knows and magnifies already. You could tell it nothing that would surprise it, unless, indeed, it redounded to my credit or honour, and then it would scout you for a liar. And yet I don't find business slack, or clients scrupulous. Quite the contrary. I am reviled or threatened every day by one man or another
but things roll on just the same, and I don't grow poorer either
I neither revile nor threaten
I can tell you of what you have lost by my act, what I only can restore, and what, if I die without restoring, dies with me, and never can be regained
I tell my money pretty accurately, and generally keep it in my own custody
I look sharply after most men that I deal with, and most of all I looked sharply after you. You are welcome to all you have kept from me
Are those of your own name dear to you
If they are
They are not
They are not. If you had come as a common beggar, I might have thrown a sixpence to you in remembrance of the clever knave you used to be; but since you try to palm these stale tricks upon one you might have known better, I'll not part with a halfpenny -- nor would I to save you from rotting. And remember this, 'scape-gallows
that if we meet again, and you so much as notice me by one begging gesture, you shall see the inside of a jail once more, and tighten this hold upon me in intervals of the hard labour that vagabonds are put to. There's my answer to your trash. Take it
Humph
these people look pretty well. They can't last long; but if I know of their going in good time, I am safe, and a fair profit too. I must keep them closely in view; that's all
Hallo here. Stop
What's the matter? Here am I. Didn't you hear me knock
Oh! Mr Nickleby, sir
Go up, for the love of Gracious. Master's been and done it again
Done what
what d'ye mean
I knew he would if he was drove to it
I said so all along
Come here, you silly wench
and don't carry family matters to the neighbours, destroying the credit of the establishment. Come here; do you hear me, girl
What is the matter here
He's poisoned himself
Send for a doctor
He's dying
He isn't, he's only pretending
Mr Nickleby
by what chance you came here, I don't know
Demnition sweetness
I will, however
say before you, and before everybody here, for the first time, and once for all, that I never will supply that man's extravagances and viciousness again. I have been a dupe and a fool to him long enough. In future, he shall support himself if he can, and then he may spend what money he pleases, upon whom and how he pleases; but it shall not be mine, and therefore you had better pause before you trust him further
And I insist on being separated and left to myself
If he dares to refuse me a separation, I'll have one in law -- I can -- and I hope this will be a warning to all girls who have seen this disgraceful exhibition
Why do you say all this before so many listeners
You know you are not in earnest
I AM in earnest
Well, but consider
It would be well to reflect. A married woman has no property
Not a solitary single individual dem, my soul
I am quite aware of that
and I have none. The business, the stock, this house, and everything in it, all belong to Miss Knag
That's quite true, Madame Mantalini
Very true, indeed, Madame Mantalini -- hem -- very true. And I never was more glad in all my life, that I had strength of mind to resist matrimonial offers, no matter how advantageous, than I am when I think of my present position as compared with your most unfortunate and most undeserved one, Madame Mantalini
Demmit
Will it not slap and pinch the envious dowager, that dares to reflect upon its own delicious
Miss Knag, sir
is my particular friend
old' and 'ordinary
Nickleby
you have been made a witness to this demnition cruelty, on the part of the demdest enslaver and captivator that never was, oh dem! I forgive that woman
Forgive
I do forgive her, Nickleby
You will blame me, the world will blame me, the women will blame me; everybody will laugh, and scoff, and smile, and grin most demnebly. They will say, "She had a blessing. She did not know it. He was too weak; he was too good; he was a dem'd fine fellow, but he loved too strong; he could not bear her to be cross, and call him wicked names. It was a dem'd case, there never was a demder." But I forgive her
You may put away those fooleries now, and live by your wits again
Demmit, Nickleby, you're not serious
I seldom joke
Good-night
No, but Nickleby
I am wrong, perhaps
I hope so. You should know best. Good-night
Oho
sets the wind that way so soon? Half knave and half fool, and detected in both characters? I think your day is over, sir
Are they here
Been here half an hour
Two of them? One a fat sleek man
Ay
In your room now
Good
Get me a coach
A coach! What, you -- going to -- eh
I don't know though
any good that I could have done by going too. He would have seen me if I had. Drive THERE! What can come of this? If I had only known it yesterday I could have told -- drive there! There's mischief in it. There must be
As we gang awa' fra' Lunnun tomorrow neeght, and as I dinnot know that I was e'er so happy in a' my days, Misther Nickleby, Ding! but I WILL tak' anoother glass to our next merry meeting
The call MUST originate with me, my dear
that's indispensable. The fact is, my dear, that it's necessary there should be a sort of condescension on my part, and that I should show this young person that I am willing to take notice of her. There's a very respectable-looking young man
who is conductor to one of the omnibuses that go by here, and who wears a glazed hat -- your sister and I have noticed him very often -- he has a wart upon his nose, Kate, you know, exactly like a gentleman's servant
Have all gentlemen's servants warts upon their noses, mother
Nicholas, my dear, how very absurd you are
of course I mean that his glazed hat looks like a gentleman's servant, and not the wart upon his nose; though even that is not so ridiculous as it may seem to you, for we had a footboy once, who had not only a wart, but a wen also, and a very large wen too, and he demanded to have his wages raised in consequence, because he found it came very expensive. Let me see, what was I -- oh yes, I know. The best way that I can think of would be to send a card, and my compliments, (I've no doubt he'd take 'em for a pot of porter,) by this young man, to the Saracen with Two Necks. If the waiter took him for a gentleman's servant, so much the better. Then all Mrs Browdie would have to do would be to send her card back by the carrier (he could easily come with a double knock), and there's an end of it
My dear mother
I don't suppose such unsophisticated people as these ever had a card of their own, or ever will have
Oh that, indeed, Nicholas, my dear
that's another thing. If you put it upon that ground, why, of course, I have no more to say, than that I have no doubt they are very good sort of persons, and that I have no kind of objection to their coming here to tea if they like, and shall make a point of being very civil to them if they do
rather high in her notions
Mr Browdie
is the best- humoured, the kindest and heartiest creature I ever saw. If I were oppressed with I don't know how many cares, it would make me happy only to look at him
He does seem indeed, upon my word, a most excellent creature, Kate
most excellent. And I am sure that at all times it will give me pleasure -- really pleasure now -- to have you, Mrs Browdie, to see me in this plain and homely manner. We make no display
I am very much obliged to you, I am sure, ma'am
Late
It must be some mistake
We know nobody who would come here at this hour
Stay
Before that boy says a word, hear me
Hear me, I say
and not him
Say what thou'st gotten to say then, sir
and tak' care thou dinnot put up angry bluid which thou'dst betther try to quiet
I should know YOU
by his looks
Don't speak to him
I will not have it. I will not hear him. I do not know that man. I cannot breathe the air that he corrupts. His presence is an insult to my sister. It is shame to see him. I will not bear it
Stand
Then let him instantly retire
I am not going to lay hands upon him, but he shall withdraw. I will not have him here. John, John Browdie, is this my house, am I a child? If he stands there
looking so calmly upon those who know his black and dastardly heart, he'll drive me mad
There's more to say and hear than thou think'st for
I tell'ee I ha' gotten scent o' thot already. Wa'at be that shadow ootside door there? Noo, schoolmeasther, show thyself, mun; dinnot be sheame-feaced. Noo, auld gen'l'man, let's have schoolmeasther, coom
Have you done enjoying yourself, sir
Pratty nigh for the prasant time, sir
I can wait
Take your own time, pray
Now, ma'am, listen to me. I don't imagine that you were a party to a very fine tirade of words sent me by that boy of yours, because I don't believe that under his control, you have the slightest will of your own, or that your advice, your opinion, your wants, your wishes, anything which in nature and reason (or of what use is your great experience?) ought to weigh with him, has the slightest influence or weight whatever, or is taken for a moment into account
For this reason
I address myself to you, ma'am. For this reason, partly, and partly because I do not wish to be disgraced by the acts of a vicious stripling whom I was obliged to disown, and who, afterwards, in his boyish majesty, feigns to -- ha! ha!-- to disown ME, I present myself here tonight. I have another motive in coming: a motive of humanity. I come here
to restore a parent his child. Ay, sir
to restore a parent his child; his son, sir; trepanned, waylaid, and guarded at every turn by you, with the base design of robbing him some day of any little wretched pittance of which he might become possessed
In that, you know you lie
In this, I know I speak the truth. I have his father here
Here
Do you hear that? Here! Didn't I tell you to be careful that his father didn't turn up and send him back to me? Why, his father's my friend; he's to come back to me directly, he is. Now, what do you say -- eh!-- now -- come -- what do you say to that -- an't you sorry you took so much trouble for nothing? an't you? an't you
You bear upon your body certain marks I gave you
and may talk in acknowledgment of them as much as you please. You'll talk a long time before you rub them out, Mr Squeers
How little did I think of this here joyful meeting, when I saw him last! Oh, how little did I think it
Be composed, sir
you have got him now
Got him! Oh, haven't I got him! Have I got him, though
Yes, here he is, flesh and blood, flesh and blood
Vary little flesh
What was it
that made me take such a strong interest in him, when that worthy instructor of youth brought him to my house? What was it that made me burn all over with a wish to chastise him severely for cutting away from his best friends, his pastors and masters
It was parental instinct, sir
That's what it was, sir
the elevated feeling, the feeling of the ancient Romans and Grecians, and of the beasts of the field and birds of the air, with the exception of rabbits and tom-cats, which sometimes devour their offspring. My heart yearned towards him. I could have -- I don't know what I couldn't have done to him in the anger of a father
It only shows what Natur is, sir
un, is Natur
She is a holy thing, sir
I believe you
I should like to know how we should ever get on without her. Natur
is more easier conceived than described. Oh what a blessed thing, sir, to be in a state of natur
If you are this boy's father
look at the wreck he is, and tell me that you purpose to send him back to that loathsome den from which I brought him
Scandal again
Recollect, you an't worth powder and shot, but I'll be even with you one way or another
Stop
Let us cut this matter short, and not bandy words here with hare-brained profligates. This is your son, as you can prove. And you, Mr Squeers, you know this boy to be the same that was with you for so many years under the name of Smike. Do you
Do I
Don't I
Good
a very few words will be sufficient here. You had a son by your first wife, Mr Snawley
I had
and there he stands
We'll show that presently
You and your wife were separated, and she had the boy to live with her, when he was a year old. You received a communication from her, when you had lived apart a year or two, that the boy was dead; and you believed it
Of course I did
Oh the joy of
Be rational, sir, pray
This is business, and transports interfere with it. This wife died a year and a half ago, or thereabouts -- not more -- in some obscure place, where she was housekeeper in a family. Is that the case
That's the case
Having written on her death-bed a letter or confession to you, about this very boy, which, as it was not directed otherwise than in your name, only reached you, and that by a circuitous course, a few days since
Just so
Correct in every particular, sir
And this confession
is to the effect that his death was an invention of hers to wound you -- was a part of a system of annoyance, in short, which you seem to have adopted towards each other -- that the boy lived, but was of weak and imperfect intellect -- that she sent him by a trusty hand to a cheap school in Yorkshire -- that she had paid for his education for some years, and then, being poor, and going a long way off, gradually deserted him, for which she prayed forgiveness
The school was Mr Squeers's
the boy was left there in the name of Smike; every description was fully given, dates tally exactly with Mr Squeers's books, Mr Squeers is lodging with you at this time; you have two other boys at his school: you communicated the whole discovery to him, he brought you to me as the person who had recommended to him the kidnapper of his child; and I brought you here. Is that so
You talk like a good book, sir, that's got nothing in its inside but what's the truth
This is your pocket-book
the certificates of your first marriage and of the boy's birth, and your wife's two letters, and every other paper that can support these statements directly or by implication, are here, are they
Every one of 'em, sir
And you don't object to their being looked at here, so that these people may be convinced of your power to substantiate your claim at once in law and reason, and you may resume your control over your own son without more delay. Do I understand you
I couldn't have understood myself better, sir
There, then
Let them see them if they like; and as those are the original papers, I should recommend you to stand near while they are being examined, or you may chance to lose some
Dear Nicholas
can this be really the case? Is this statement true
I fear it is
What say you, John
You will observe, ma'am
that this boy being a minor and not of strong mind, we might have come here tonight, armed with the powers of the law, and backed by a troop of its myrmidons. I should have done so, ma'am, unquestionably, but for my regard for the feelings of yourself, and your daughter
You have shown your regard for HER feelings well
Thank you
Your praise, sir, is commendation, indeed
Well
what's to be done? Them hackney-coach horses will catch cold if we don't think of moving; there's one of 'em a sneezing now, so that he blows the street door right open. What's the order of the day? Is Master Snawley to come along with us
No, no, no
No. Pray, no. I will not go from you with him. No, no
This is a cruel thing
Do parents bring children into the world for this
Do parents bring children into the world for THOT
Never you mind
Never I mind
no, nor never nobody mind, say'st thou, schoolmeasther. It's nobody's minding that keeps sike men as thou afloat. Noo then, where be'est thou coomin' to? Dang it, dinnot coom treadin' ower me, mun
Now
have the goodness to follow your friend
I want my son
Your son
chooses for himself. He chooses to remain here, and he shall
You won't give him up
I would not give him up against his will, to be the victim of such brutality as that to which you would consign him
if he were a dog or a rat
Knock that Nickleby down with a candlestick
and bring out my hat, somebody, will you, unless he wants to steal it
I am very sorry, indeed
I am very sorry, indeed, for all this. I really don't know what would be best to do, and that's the truth. Nicholas ought to be the best judge, and I hope he is. Of course, it's a hard thing to have to keep other people's children, though young Mr Snawley is certainly as useful and willing as it's possible for anybody to be; but, if it could be settled in any friendly manner -- if old Mr Snawley, for instance, would settle to pay something certain for his board and lodging, and some fair arrangement was come to, so that we undertook to have fish twice a week, and a pudding twice, or a dumpling, or something of that sort -- I do think that it might be very satisfactory and pleasant for all parties
You, sir
are an unnatural, ungrateful, unlovable boy. You won't let me love you when I want to. Won't you come home, won't you
No, no, no
He never loved nobody
He never loved me; he never loved Wackford, who is next door but one to a cherubim. How can you expect that he'll love his father? He'll never love his father, he won't. He don't know what it is to have a father. He don't understand it. It an't in him
Your romance, sir
is destroyed, I take it. No unknown; no persecuted descendant of a man of high degree; but the weak, imbecile son of a poor, petty tradesman. We shall see how your sympathy melts before plain matter of fact
You shall
And trust me, sir
that I never supposed you would give him up tonight. Pride, obstinacy, reputation for fine feeling, were all against it. These must be brought down, sir, lowered, crushed, as they shall be soon. The protracted and wearing anxiety and expense of the law in its most oppressive form, its torture from hour to hour, its weary days and sleepless nights, with these I'll prove you, and break your haughty spirit, strong as you deem it now. And when you make this house a hell, and visit these trials upon yonder wretched object (as you will; I know you), and those who think you now a young-fledged hero, we'll go into old accounts between us two, and see who stands the debtor, and comes out best at last, even before the world
So deeply rooted does this horror of the man appear to be
that I can hardly believe he really is his son. Nature does not seem to have implanted in his breast one lingering feeling of affection for him, and surely she can never err
My dear sir
you fall into the very common mistake of charging upon Nature, matters with which she has not the smallest connection, and for which she is in no way responsible. Men talk of Nature as an abstract thing, and lose sight of what is natural while they do so. Here is a poor lad who has never felt a parent's care, who has scarcely known anything all his life but suffering and sorrow, presented to a man who he is told is his father, and whose first act is to signify his intention of putting an end to his short term of happiness, of consigning him to his old fate, and taking him from the only friend he has ever had -- which is yourself. If Nature, in such a case, put into that lad's breast but one secret prompting which urged him towards his father and away from you, she would be a liar and an idiot
The same mistake presents itself to me, in one shape or other, at every turn
Parents who never showed their love, complain of want of natural affection in their children; children who never showed their duty, complain of want of natural feeling in their parents; law-makers who find both so miserable that their affections have never had enough of life's sun to develop them, are loud in their moralisings over parents and children too, and cry that the very ties of nature are disregarded. Natural affections and instincts, my dear sir, are the most beautiful of the Almighty's works, but like other beautiful works of His, they must be reared and fostered, or it is as natural that they should be wholly obscured, and that new feelings should usurp their place, as it is that the sweetest productions of the earth, left untended, should be choked with weeds and briers. I wish we could be brought to consider this, and remembering natural obligations a little more at the right time, talk about them a little less at the wrong one
I dare say you are surprised, my dear sir, that I have listened to your recital with so little astonishment. That is easily explained. Your uncle has been here this morning
Yes
here, in this room. He would listen neither to reason, feeling, nor justice. But brother Ned was hard upon him; brother Ned, sir, might have melted a paving-stone
He came to
To complain of you
to poison our ears with calumnies and falsehoods; but he came on a fruitless errand, and went away with some wholesome truths in his ear besides. Brother Ned, my dear My Nickleby -- brother Ned, sir, is a perfect lion. So is Tim Linkinwater; Tim is quite a lion. We had Tim in to face him at first, and Tim was at him, sir, before you could say "Jack Robinson
How can I ever thank you for all the deep obligations you impose upon me every day
By keeping silence upon the subject, my dear sir
You shall be righted. At least you shall not be wronged. Nobody belonging to you shall be wronged. They shall not hurt a hair of your head, or the boy's head, or your mother's head, or your sister's head. I have said it, brother Ned has said it, Tim Linkinwater has said it. We have all said it, and we'll all do it. I have seen the father -- if he is the father -- and I suppose he must be. He is a barbarian and a hypocrite, Mr Nickleby. I told him, "You are a barbarian, sir." I did. I said, "You're a barbarian, sir." And I'm glad of it, I am VERY glad I told him he was a barbarian, very glad indeed
The subject is at an end for the present
Don't revive it by a single word. I am going to speak upon another subject, a confidential subject, Mr Nickleby. We must be cool again, we must be cool
I am about to employ you, my dear sir, on a confidential and delicate mission
You might employ many a more able messenger, sir
but a more trustworthy or zealous one, I may be bold to say, you could not find
Of that I am well assured
well assured. You will give me credit for thinking so, when I tell you that the object of this mission is a young lady
A young lady, sir
A very beautiful young lady
Pray go on, sir
I am thinking how to do so
You accidentally saw a young lady in this room one morning, my dear sir, in a fainting fit. Do you remember? Perhaps you have forgotten
Oh no
I -- I -- remember it very well indeed
SHE is the lady I speak of
She is the daughter
of a lady who, when she was a beautiful girl herself, and I was very many years younger, I -- it seems a strange word for me to utter now -- I loved very dearly. You will smile, perhaps, to hear a grey-headed man talk about such things. You will not offend me, for when I was as young as you, I dare say I should have done the same
I have no such inclination, indeed
My dear brother Ned
was to have married her sister, but she died. She is dead too now, and has been for many years. She married her choice; and I wish I could add that her after-life was as happy as God knows I ever prayed it might be
If trial and calamity had fallen as lightly on his head, as in the deepest truth of my own heart I ever hoped (for her sake) it would, his life would have been one of peace and happiness
It will be enough to say that this was not the case; that she was not happy; that they fell into complicated distresses and difficulties; that she came, twelve months before her death, to appeal to my old friendship; sadly changed, sadly altered, broken-spirited from suffering and ill-usage, and almost broken- hearted. He readily availed himself of the money which, to give her but one hour's peace of mind, I would have poured out as freely as water -- nay, he often sent her back for more -- and yet even while he squandered it, he made the very success of these, her applications to me, the groundwork of cruel taunts and jeers, protesting that he knew she thought with bitter remorse of the choice she had made, that she had married him from motives of interest and vanity (he was a gay young man with great friends about him when she chose him for her husband), and venting in short upon her, by every unjust and unkind means, the bitterness of that ruin and disappointment which had been brought about by his profligacy alone. In those times this young lady was a mere child. I never saw her again until that morning when you saw her also, but my nephew, Frank
My nephew, Frank, I say
encountered her by accident, and lost sight of her almost in a minute afterwards, within two days after he returned to England. Her father lay in some secret place to avoid his creditors, reduced, between sickness and poverty, to the verge of death, and she, a child,-- we might almost think, if we did not know the wisdom of all Heaven's decrees -- who should have blessed a better man, was steadily braving privation, degradation, and everything most terrible to such a young and delicate creature's heart, for the purpose of supporting him. She was attended, sir
in these reverses, by one faithful creature, who had been, in old times, a poor kitchen wench in the family, who was then their solitary servant, but who might have been, for the truth and fidelity of her heart -- who might have been -- ah! the wife of Tim Linkinwater himself, sir
If I had been poor
if I had been poor, Mr Nickleby, my dear sir, which thank God I am not, I would have denied myself (of course anybody would under such circumstances) the commonest necessaries of life, to help her. As it is, the task is a difficult one. If her father were dead, nothing could be easier, for then she should share and cheer the happiest home that brother Ned and I could have, as if she were our child or sister. But he is still alive. Nobody can help him; that has been tried a thousand times; he was not abandoned by all without good cause, I know
Cannot she be persuaded to
To leave him
Who could entreat a child to desert her parent? Such entreaties, limited to her seeing him occasionally, have been urged upon her -- not by me -- but always with the same result
Is he kind to her
Does he requite her affection
True kindness, considerate self-denying kindness, is not in his nature
Such kindness as he knows, he regards her with, I believe. The mother was a gentle, loving, confiding creature, and although he wounded her from their marriage till her death as cruelly and wantonly as ever man did, she never ceased to love him. She commended him on her death-bed to her child's care. Her child has never forgotten it, and never will
Have you no influence over him
I, my dear sir! The last man in the world. Such are his jealousy and hatred of me, that if he knew his daughter had opened her heart to me, he would render her life miserable with his reproaches; although -- this is the inconsistency and selfishness of his character -- although if he knew that every penny she had came from me, he would not relinquish one personal desire that the most reckless expenditure of her scanty stock could gratify
An unnatural scoundrel
We will use no harsh terms
but accommodate ourselves to the circumstances in which this young lady is placed. Such assistance as I have prevailed upon her to accept, I have been obliged, at her own earnest request, to dole out in the smallest portions, lest he, finding how easily money was procured, should squander it even more lightly than he is accustomed to do. She has come to and fro, to and fro, secretly and by night, to take even this; and I cannot bear that things should go on in this way, Mr Nickleby, I really cannot bear it
He knows me
and he knows my brother Ned. Neither of us would do. Frank is a very good fellow -- a very fine fellow -- but we are afraid that he might be a little flighty and thoughtless in such a delicate matter, and that he might, perhaps -- that he might, in short, be too susceptible (for she is a beautiful creature, sir; just what her poor mother was), and falling in love with her before he knew well his own mind, carry pain and sorrow into that innocent breast, which we would be the humble instruments of gradually making happy. He took an extraordinary interest in her fortunes when he first happened to encounter her; and we gather from the inquiries we have made of him, that it was she in whose behalf he made that turmoil which led to your first acquaintance
Well; then you see
that HE wouldn't do. Tim Linkinwater is out of the question; for Tim, sir, is such a tremendous fellow, that he could never contain himself, but would go to loggerheads with the father before he had been in the place five minutes. You don't know what Tim is, sir, when he is aroused by anything that appeals to his feelings very strongly; then he is terrific, sir, is Tim Linkinwater, absolutely terrific. Now, in you we can repose the strictest confidence; in you we have seen -- or at least I have seen, and that's the same thing, for there's no difference between me and my brother Ned, except that he is the finest creature that ever lived, and that there is not, and never will be, anybody like him in all the world -- in you we have seen domestic virtues and affections, and delicacy of feeling, which exactly qualify you for such an office. And you are the man, sir
The young lady, sir
Does -- is -- is she a party to this innocent deceit
Yes, yes
at least she knows you come from us; she does NOT know, however, but that we shall dispose of these little productions that you'll purchase from time to time; and, perhaps, if you did it very well (that is, VERY well indeed), perhaps she might be brought to believe that we -- that we made a profit of them. Eh? Eh
Why should I
why should I throw difficulties in the way of this benevolent and high-minded design? What if I do love and reverence this good and lovely creature. Should I not appear a most arrogant and shallow coxcomb if I gravely represented that there was any danger of her falling in love with me? Besides, have I no confidence in myself? Am I not now bound in honour to repress these thoughts? Has not this excellent man a right to my best and heartiest services, and should any considerations of self deter me from rendering them
No
Madeline, who is this? What does anybody want here? Who told a stranger we could be seen? What is it
I believe
You always believe
What is it
See that the money is right, Madeline
Open the paper, my dear
It's quite right, papa, I'm sure
Here
Let me see. What are you talking about, Madeline? You're sure? How can you be sure of any such thing? Five pounds -- well, is THAT right
Quite
Ring the bell, ring the bell
Tell her to get it changed, to get me a newspaper, to buy me some grapes, another bottle of the wine that I had last week -- and -- and -- I forget half I want just now, but she can go out again. Let her get those first, those first. Now, Madeline, my love, quick, quick! Good God, how slow you are
He remembers nothing that SHE wants
It is no matter at all
No matter! what do you mean, sir
No matter! Do you think you bring your paltry money here as a favour or a gift; or as a matter of business, and in return for value received? D -- n you, sir, because you can't appreciate the time and taste which are bestowed upon the goods you deal in, do you think you give your money away? Do you know that you are talking to a gentleman, sir, who at one time could have bought up fifty such men as you and all you have? What do you mean
I merely mean that as I shall have many dealings with this lady, if she will kindly allow me, I will not trouble her with such forms
Then I mean, if you please, that we'll have as many forms as we can, returned the father. 'My daughter, sir, requires no kindness from you or anybody else. Have the goodness to confine your dealings strictly to trade and business, and not to travel beyond it. Every petty tradesman is to begin to pity her now, is he? Upon my soul! Very pretty. Madeline, my dear, give him a receipt; and mind you always do so
When
when shall I call again
When you're requested to call, sir, and not before. Don't worry and persecute. Madeline, my dear, when is this person to call again
Oh, not for a long time, not for three or four weeks; it is not necessary, indeed; I can do without
Why, how are we to do without
Three or four weeks, Madeline! Three or four weeks
Then sooner, sooner, if you please
Three or four weeks
Madeline, what on earth -- do nothing for three or four weeks
It is a long time, ma'am
YOU think so, do you
If I chose to beg, sir, and stoop to ask assistance from people I despise, three or four months would not be a long time; three or four years would not be a long time. Understand, sir, that is if I chose to be dependent; but as I don't, you may call in a week
I don't know whether I do right in asking you, sir
but pray, pray, do not mention to my poor mother's dear friends what has passed here today. He has suffered much, and is worse this morning. I beg you, sir, as a boon, a favour to myself
You have but to hint a wish
and I would hazard my life to gratify it
You speak hastily, sir
Truly and sincerely
if ever man spoke truly yet. I am not skilled in disguising my feelings, and if I were, I could not hide my heart from you. Dear madam, as I know your history, and feel as men and angels must who hear and see such things, I do entreat you to believe that I would die to serve you
Forgive me
if I seem to say too much, or to presume upon the confidence which has been intrusted to me. But I could not leave you as if my interest and sympathy expired with the commission of the day. I am your faithful servant, humbly devoted to you from this hour, devoted in strict truth and honour to him who sent me here, and in pure integrity of heart, and distant respect for you. If I meant more or less than this, I should be unworthy his regard, and false to the very nature that prompts the honest words I utter
There go the three-quarters past
and my dinner time's two. He does it on purpose. He makes a point of it. It's just like him
I don't believe he ever had an appetite
except for pounds, shillings, and pence, and with them he's as greedy as a wolf. I should like to have him compelled to swallow one of every English coin. The penny would be an awkward morsel -- but the crown -- ha! ha
Five minutes to three
Here he is
and somebody with him. Now it'll be "Stop till this gentleman's gone." But I won't. That's flat
Noggs
where is that fellow, Noggs
The dog has gone to his dinner, though I told him not
Humph
Not at all, Mr Nickleby, oh not at all! All places are alike to me, sir. Ah! very nice indeed. Oh! very nice
And how have you been
I haven't seen you for -- oh! not for
Not for a long time
It was a narrow chance that you saw me now, for I had only just come up to the door as you turned the corner
I am very lucky
So men say
Come, Gride
what's in the wind today
Aha! you're a bold man, Mr Nickleby
Oh dear, dear, what a bold man you are
Why, you have a sleek and slinking way with you that makes me seem so by contrast
I don't know but that yours may answer better, but I want the patience for it
You were born a genius, Mr Nickleby
Deep, deep, deep. Ah
Deep enough
to know that I shall need all the depth I have, when men like you begin to compliment. You know I have stood by when you fawned and flattered other people, and I remember pretty well what THAT always led to
Ha, ha, ha
So you do, so you do, no doubt. Not a man knows it better. Well, it's a pleasant thing now to think that you remember old times. Oh dear
Now then
what's in the wind, I ask again? What is it
See that now
He can't even keep from business while we're chatting over bygones. Oh dear, dear, what a man it is
WHICH of the bygones do you want to revive
One of them, I know, or you wouldn't talk about them
He suspects even me
Even me! Oh dear, even me. What a man it is! Ha, ha, ha! What a man it is! Mr Nickleby against all the world. There's nobody like him. A giant among pigmies, a giant, a giant
I must humour him though
he must have his way -- a wilful man, as the Scotch say -- well, well, they're a wise people, the Scotch. He will talk about business, and won't give away his time for nothing. He's very right. Time is money, time is money
He was one of us who made that saying, I should think
Time is money, and very good money too, to those who reckon interest by it. Time IS money! Yes, and time costs money; it's rather an expensive article to some people we could name, or I forget my trade
What a man it is
What would you say to me, if I was to tell you that I was -- that I was -- going to be married
I should tell you
that for some purpose of your own you told a lie, and that it wasn't the first time and wouldn't be the last; that I wasn't surprised and wasn't to be taken in
Then I tell you seriously that I am
And I tell you seriously
what I told you this minute. Stay. Let me look at you. There's a liquorish devilry in your face. What is this
I wouldn't deceive YOU, you know
I couldn't do it, I should be mad to try. I, I, to deceive Mr Nickleby! The pigmy to impose upon the giant. I ask again -- he, he, he!-- what should you say to me if I was to tell you that I was going to be married
To some old hag
No, No
Wrong, wrong again. Mr Nickleby for once at fault; out, quite out! To a young and beautiful girl; fresh, lovely, bewitching, and not nineteen. Dark eyes, long eyelashes, ripe and ruddy lips that to look at is to long to kiss, beautiful clustering hair that one's fingers itch to play with, such a waist as might make a man clasp the air involuntarily, thinking of twining his arm about it, little feet that tread so lightly they hardly seem to walk upon the ground -- to marry all this, sir, this -- hey, hey
This is something more than common drivelling
The girl's name
Oh deep, deep! See now how deep that is
He knows I want his help, he knows he can give it me, he knows it must all turn to his advantage, he sees the thing already. Her name -- is there nobody within hearing
Why, who the devil should there be
I didn't know but that perhaps somebody might be passing up or down the stairs
or but that your man might have come back and might have been listening outside. Clerks and servants have a trick of listening, and I should have been very uncomfortable if Mr Noggs
Curse Mr Noggs
and go on with what you have to say
Curse Mr Noggs, by all means
I am sure I have not the least objection to that. Her name is
Well
what is it
Madeline Bray
Bray
Bray -- there was young Bray of --,no, he never had a daughter
You remember Bray
No
Not Walter Bray! The dashing man, who used his handsome wife so ill
If you seek to recall any particular dashing man to my recollection by such a trait as that
I shall confound him with nine-tenths of the dashing men I have ever known
Tut, tut. That Bray who is now in the Rules of the Bench
You can't have forgotten Bray. Both of us did business with him. Why, he owes you money
Oh HIM
Ay, ay. Now you speak. Oh! It's HIS daughter, is it
I knew you couldn't forget him, when you came to think for a moment
You were right
But old Arthur Gride and matrimony is a most anomalous conjunction of words; old Arthur Gride and dark eyes and eyelashes, and lips that to look at is to long to kiss, and clustering hair that he wants to play with, and waists that he wants to span, and little feet that don't tread upon anything -- old Arthur Gride and such things as these is more monstrous still; but old Arthur Gride marrying the daughter of a ruined "dashing man" in the Rules of the Bench, is the most monstrous and incredible of all. Plainly, friend Arthur Gride, if you want any help from me in this business (which of course you do, or you would not be here), speak out, and to the purpose. And, above all, don't talk to me of its turning to my advantage, for I know it must turn to yours also, and to a good round tune too, or you would have no finger in such a pie as this
What a man it is
Now
for the little plan I have in my mind to bring this about; because, I haven't offered myself even to the father yet, I should have told you. But that you have gathered already? Ah! oh dear, oh dear, what an edged tool you are
Don't play with me then
You know the proverb
A reply always on the tip of his tongue
He is always prepared! Oh dear, what a blessing to have such a ready wit, and so much ready money to back it
I have been backwards and forwards to Bray's lodgings several times within the last six months. It is just half a year since I first saw this delicate morsel, and, oh dear, what a delicate morsel it is! But that is neither here nor there. I am his detaining creditor for seventeen hundred pounds
You talk as if you were the only detaining creditor
I am another for nine hundred and seventy-five pounds four and threepence
The only other, Mr Nickleby
The only other. Nobody else went to the expense of lodging a detainer, trusting to our holding him fast enough, I warrant you. We both fell into the same snare; oh dear, what a pitfall it was; it almost ruined me! And lent him our money upon bills, with only one name besides his own, which to be sure everybody supposed to be a good one, and was as negotiable as money, but which turned out you know how. Just as we should have come upon him, he died insolvent. Ah! it went very nigh to ruin me, that loss did
Go on with your scheme
It's of no use raising the cry of our trade just now; there's nobody to hear us
It's always as well to talk that way
whether there's anybody to hear us or not. Practice makes perfect, you know. Now, if I offer myself to Bray as his son-in- law, upon one simple condition that the moment I am fast married he shall be quietly released, and have an allowance to live just t'other side the water like a gentleman (he can't live long, for I have asked his doctor, and he declares that his complaint is one of the Heart and it is impossible), and if all the advantages of this condition are properly stated and dwelt upon to him, do you think he could resist me? And if he could not resist ME, do you think his daughter could resist HIM? Shouldn't I have her Mrs Arthur Gride -- pretty Mrs Arthur Gride -- a tit-bit -- a dainty chick -- shouldn't I have her Mrs Arthur Gride in a week, a month, a day -- any time I chose to name
Go on
Go on. You didn't come here to ask me that
Oh dear, how you talk
Of course I didn't, I don't pretend I did! I came to ask what you would take from me, if I prospered with the father, for this debt of yours. Five shillings in the pound, six and- eightpence, ten shillings? I WOULD go as far as ten for such a friend as you, we have always been on such good terms, but you won't be so hard upon me as that, I know. Now, will you
There's something more to be told
Yes, yes, there is, but you won't give me time
I want a backer in this matter; one who can talk, and urge, and press a point, which you can do as no man can. I can't do that, for I am a poor, timid, nervous creature. Now, if you get a good composition for this debt, which you long ago gave up for lost, you'll stand my friend, and help me. Won't you
There's something more
No, no, indeed
Yes, yes, indeed. I tell you yes
Oh
You mean something more, as concerns myself and my intention. Ay, surely, surely. Shall I mention that
I think you had better
I didn't like to trouble you with that, because I supposed your interest would cease with your own concern in the affair
That's kind of you to ask. Oh dear, how very kind of you! Why, supposing I had a knowledge of some property -- some little property -- very little -- to which this pretty chick was entitled; which nobody does or can know of at this time, but which her husband could sweep into his pouch, if he knew as much as I do, would that account for
For the whole proceeding
Now, let me turn this matter over, and consider what I ought to have if I should help you to success
But don't be hard
Don't be too hard upon me. It's a very small property, it is indeed. Say the ten shillings, and we'll close the bargain. It's more than I ought to give, but you're so kind -- shall we say the ten? Do now, do
If you married this girl without me
you must pay my debt in full, because you couldn't set her father free otherwise. It's plain, then, that I must have the whole amount, clear of all deduction or incumbrance, or I should lose from being honoured with your confidence, instead of gaining by it. That's the first article of the treaty. For the second, I shall stipulate that for my trouble in negotiation and persuasion, and helping you to this fortune, I have five hundred pounds. That's very little, because you have the ripe lips, and the clustering hair, and what not, all to yourself. For the third and last article, I require that you execute a bond to me, this day, binding yourself in the payment of these two sums, before noon of the day of your marriage with Madeline Bray. You have told me I can urge and press a point. I press this one, and will take nothing less than these terms. Accept them if you like. If not, marry her without me if you can. I shall still get my debt
I have no appetite now
I've had MY dinner
I don't know who she may be, or what she may be
but I pity her with all my heart and soul; and I can't help her, nor can I any of the people against whom a hundred tricks, but none so vile as this, are plotted every day! Well, that adds to my pain, but not to theirs. The thing is no worse because I know it, and it tortures me as well as them. Gride and Nickleby! Good pair for a curricle. Oh roguery! roguery! roguery
There he sits, Mr Bray
What if he has had the ill- fortune to be one cause of your detention in this place? I have been another; men must live; you are too much a man of the world not to see that in its true light. We offer the best reparation in our power. Reparation! Here is an offer of marriage, that many a titled father would leap at, for his child. Mr Arthur Gride, with the fortune of a prince. Think what a haul it is
My daughter, sir
as I have brought her up, would be a rich recompense for the largest fortune that a man could bestow in exchange for her hand
Precisely what I told you
Precisely what made me consider the thing so fair and easy. There is no obligation on either side. You have money, and Miss Madeline has beauty and worth. She has youth, you have money. She has not money, you have not youth. Tit for tat, quits, a match of Heaven's own making
Matches are made in Heaven, they say
If we are married, it will be destiny, according to that
Then think, Mr Bray
think what a stake is involved in the acceptance or rejection of these proposals of my friend
How can I accept or reject
It is for my daughter to accept or reject; it is for my daughter. You know that
True
but you have still the power to advise; to state the reasons for and against; to hint a wish
To hint a wish, sir
I am her father, am I not? Why should I hint, and beat about the bush? Do you suppose, like her mother's friends and my enemies -- a curse upon them all!-- that there is anything in what she has done for me but duty, sir, but duty? Or do you think that my having been unfortunate is a sufficient reason why our relative positions should be changed, and that she should command and I should obey? Hint a wish, too! Perhaps you think, because you see me in this place and scarcely able to leave this chair without assistance, that I am some broken-spirited dependent creature, without the courage or power to do what I may think best for my own child. Still the power to hint a wish! I hope so
Pardon me
you do not hear me out. I was about to say that your hinting a wish, even hinting a wish, would surely be equivalent to commanding
Why, of course it would
If you don't happen to have heard of the time, sir, I tell you that there was a time, when I carried every point in triumph against her mother's whole family, although they had power and wealth on their side, by my will alone
Still
you have not heard me out. You are a man yet qualified to shine in society, with many years of life before you; that is, if you lived in freer air, and under brighter skies, and chose your own companions. Gaiety is your element, you have shone in it before. Fashion and freedom for you. France, and an annuity that would support you there in luxury, would give you a new lease of life, would transfer you to a new existence. The town rang with your expensive pleasures once, and you could blaze up on a new scene again, profiting by experience, and living a little at others' cost, instead of letting others live at yours. What is there on the reverse side of the picture? What is there? I don't know which is the nearest churchyard, but a gravestone there, wherever it is, and a date, perhaps two years hence, perhaps twenty. That's all
I speak plainly
because I feel strongly. It's my interest that you should marry your daughter to my friend Gride, because then he sees me paid -- in part, that is. I don't disguise it. I acknowledge it openly. But what interest have you in recommending her to such a step? Keep that in view. She might object, remonstrate, shed tears, talk of his being too old, and plead that her life would be rendered miserable. But what is it now
What is it now, I say
or what has it a chance of being? If you died, indeed, the people you hate would make her happy. But can you bear the thought of that
No
I should imagine not, indeed
If she profits by anybody's death
let it be by her husband's. Don't let her have to look back to yours, as the event from which to date a happier life. Where is the objection? Let me hear it stated. What is it? That her suitor is an old man? Why, how often do men of family and fortune, who haven't your excuse, but have all the means and superfluities of life within their reach, how often do they marry their daughters to old men, or (worse still) to young men without heads or hearts, to tickle some idle vanity, strengthen some family interest, or secure some seat in Parliament! Judge for her, sir, judge for her. You must know best, and she will live to thank you
Hush! hush
I hear her at the door
A sudden spasm
He is quite well now
Madeline
it was nothing
But you had that spasm yesterday, and it is terrible to see you in such pain. Can I do nothing for you
Nothing just now. Here are two gentlemen, Madeline, one of whom you have seen before. She used to say
that the sight of you always made me worse. That was natural, knowing what she did, and only what she did, of our connection and its results. Well, well. Perhaps she may change her mind on that point; girls have leave to change their minds, you know. You are very tired, my dear
I am not, indeed
Indeed you are. You do too much
I wish I could do more
I know you do, but you overtask your strength. This wretched life, my love, of daily labour and fatigue, is more than you can bear, I am sure it is. Poor Madeline
You will communicate with us again
Yes, yes
In a week. Give me a week
One week
from today. Good-morning. Miss Madeline, I kiss your hand
We will shake hands, Gride
You mean well, no doubt. I an bound to say so now. If I owed you money, that was not your fault. Madeline, my love, your hand here
Oh dear! If the young lady would condescent! Only the tips of her fingers
What does he say, what does he say? What does the giant say to the pigmy
What does the pigmy say to the giant
He doesn't know what to say
He hopes and fears. But is she not a dainty morsel
I have no great taste for beauty
But I have
Oh dear! How handsome her eyes looked when she was stooping over him! Such long lashes, such delicate fringe! She -- she -- looked at me so soft
Not over-lovingly, I think
Did she
No, you think not
But don't you think it can be brought about? Don't you think it can
Did you mark his telling her she was tired and did too much, and overtasked her strength
Ay, ay. What of it
When do you think he ever told her that before? The life is more than she can bear. Yes, yes. He'll change it for her
D'ye think it's done
I am sure it's done
He is trying to deceive himself, even before our eyes, already. He is making believe that he thinks of her good and not his own. He is acting a virtuous part, and so considerate and affectionate, sir, that the daughter scarcely knew him. I saw a tear of surprise in her eye. There'll be a few more tears of surprise there before long, though of a different kind. Oh! we may wait with confidence for this day week
I will keep my word, as I have pledged it to her
This is no common trust that I have to discharge, and I will perform the double duty that is imposed upon me most scrupulously and strictly. My secret feelings deserve no consideration in such a case as this, and they shall have none
Positively the last appearance of Mr Vincent Crummles of Provincial Celebrity
Nonsense
It can't be
Cheers, Tears, and Laughter
Surely it must be the same man
There can't be two Vincent Crummleses
You were always a favourite of hers, Johnson
always were from the first. I was quite easy in my mind about you from that first day you dined with us. One that Mrs Crummles took a fancy to, was sure to turn out right. Ah! Johnson, what a woman that is
I am sincerely obliged to her for her kindness in this and all other respects
But where are you going
Haven't you seen it in the papers
No
I wonder at that
It was among the varieties. I had the paragraph here somewhere -- but I don't know -- oh, yes, here it is
The talented Vincent Crummles, long favourably known to fame as a country manager and actor of no ordinary pretensions, is about to cross the Atlantic on a histrionic expedition. Crummles is to be accompanied, we hear, by his lady and gifted family. We know no man superior to Crummles in his particular line of character, or one who, whether as a public or private individual, could carry with him the best wishes of a larger circle of friends. Crummles is certain to succeed
Here's another bit
This is from the notices to correspondents, this one
Philo-Dramaticus. Crummles, the country manager and actor, cannot be more than forty-three, or forty-four years of age. Crummles is NOT a Prussian, having been born at Chelsea." Humph
that's an odd paragraph
Very
I can't think who puts these things in. I didn't
I am astonished to hear this news
Going to America! You had no such thing in contemplation when I was with you
No
I hadn't then. The fact is that Mrs Crummles -- most extraordinary woman, Johnson
Oh
The prospect of an addition to your family
The seventh addition, Johnson
I thought such a child as the Phenomenon must have been a closer; but it seems we are to have another. She is a very remarkable woman
I congratulate you
and I hope this may prove a phenomenon too
Why, it's pretty sure to be something uncommon, I suppose
The talent of the other three is principally in combat and serious pantomime. I should like this one to have a turn for juvenile tragedy; I understand they want something of that sort in America very much. However, we must take it as it comes. Perhaps it may have a genius for the tight-rope. It may have any sort of genius, in short, if it takes after its mother, Johnson, for she is an universal genius; but, whatever its genius is, that genius shall be developed
Timberry won't be long
He played the audience out tonight. He does a faithful black in the last piece, and it takes him a little longer to wash himself
A very unpleasant line of character, I should think
No, I don't know
it comes off easily enough, and there's only the face and neck. We had a first-tragedy man in our company once, who, when he played Othello, used to black himself all over. But that's feeling a part and going into it as if you meant it; it isn't usual; more's the pity
I see by the bills that you have been ill, sir
I hope you are none the worse for your exertions tonight
But no matter, no matter. Come
Why this is indeed a joy I had not looked for
Nor I
It is by a mere chance that I have this opportunity of seeing you, although I would have made a great exertion to have availed myself of it
Here is one whom you know
and here another -- and another
And how is your friend, the faithful Digby
Digby
Oh yes. He's quite -- what am I saying?-- he is very far from well
How
I fear
that your better-half would be more struck with him now than ever
What mean you
Whence comes this altered tone
I mean that a dastardly enemy of mine has struck at me through him, and that while he thinks to torture me, he inflicts on him such agonies of terror and suspense as -- You will excuse me, I am sure
I should never speak of this, and never do, except to those who know the facts, but for a moment I forgot myself
I am happy to know a gentleman of such great distinction
Sir
you're very welcome, I'm sure. The honour is reciprocal, sir, as I usually say when I dramatise a book. Did you ever hear a definition of fame, sir
I have heard several
What is yours
When I dramatise a book, sir
THAT'S fame. For its author
Oh, indeed
That's fame, sir
So Richard Turpin, Tom King, and Jerry Abershaw have handed down to fame the names of those on whom they committed their most impudent robberies
I don't know anything about that, sir
Shakespeare dramatised stories which had previously appeared in print, it is true
Meaning Bill, sir
So he did. Bill was an adapter, certainly, so he was -- and very well he adapted too -- considering
I was about to say
that Shakespeare derived some of his plots from old tales and legends in general circulation; but it seems to me, that some of the gentlemen of your craft, at the present day, have shot very far beyond him
You're quite right, sir
Human intellect, sir, has progressed since his time, is progressing, will progress
Shot beyond him, I mean
in quite another respect, for, whereas he brought within the magic circle of his genius, traditions peculiarly adapted for his purpose, and turned familiar things into constellations which should enlighten the world for ages, you drag within the magic circle of your dulness, subjects not at all adapted to the purposes of the stage, and debase as he exalted. For instance, you take the uncompleted books of living authors, fresh from their hands, wet from the press, cut, hack, and carve them to the powers and capacities of your actors, and the capability of your theatres, finish unfinished works, hastily and crudely vamp up ideas not yet worked out by their original projector, but which have doubtless cost him many thoughtful days and sleepless nights; by a comparison of incidents and dialogue, down to the very last word he may have written a fortnight before, do your utmost to anticipate his plot -- all this without his permission, and against his will; and then, to crown the whole proceeding, publish in some mean pamphlet, an unmeaning farrago of garbled extracts from his work, to which your name as author, with the honourable distinction annexed, of having perpetrated a hundred other outrages of the same description. Now, show me the distinction between such pilfering as this, and picking a man's pocket in the street: unless, indeed, it be, that the legislature has a regard for pocket-handkerchiefs, and leaves men's brains, except when they are knocked out by violence, to take care of themselves
Men must live, sir
That would be an equally fair plea in both cases
but if you put it upon that ground, I have nothing more to say, than, that if I were a writer of books, and you a thirsty dramatist, I would rather pay your tavern score for six months, large as it might be, than have a niche in the Temple of Fame with you for the humblest corner of my pedestal, through six hundred generations
Now, Tim
All charged, sir, and waiting for a toast
We were a very happy little company, Johnson
You and I never had a word. I shall be very glad tomorrow morning to think that I saw you again, but now I almost wish you hadn't come
What! Are you going too
Going
Lord ha' mercy, what do you think they'd do without me
He is the most attentive young man I ever saw, Kate
Attentive, mama
Bless my heart, Kate
what a colour you have got; why, you're quite flushed
Oh, mama! what strange things you fancy
It wasn't fancy, Kate, my dear, I'm certain of that
However, it's gone now at any rate, so it don't much matter whether it was or not. What was it we were talking about? Oh! Mr Frank. I never saw such attention in MY life, never
Surely you are not serious
Not serious
why shouldn't I be serious? I'm sure I never was more serious. I will say that his politeness and attention to me is one of the most becoming, gratifying, pleasant things I have seen for a very long time. You don't often meet with such behaviour in young men, and it strikes one more when one does meet with it
Oh! attention to YOU, mama
oh yes
Dear me, Kate
what an extraordinary girl you are! Was it likely I should be talking of his attention to anybody else? I declare I'm quite sorry to think he should be in love with a German lady, that I am
He said very positively that it was no such thing, mama
Don't you remember his saying so that very first night he came here? Besides
why should WE be sorry if it is the case? What is it to us, mama
Nothing to US, Kate, perhaps
but something to ME, I confess. I like English people to be thorough English people, and not half English and half I don't know what. I shall tell him point-blank next time he comes, that I wish he would marry one of his own country-women; and see what he says to that
Pray don't think of such a thing, mama
not for the world. Consider. How very
Well, my dear, how very what
I saw nothing of him
but I saw that dear old soul Mr Linkinwater
Taking his evening walk, and coming on to rest here, before he turns back to the city, I'll be bound
I should think he was
especially as young Mr Cheeryble was with him
Surely that is no reason why Mr Linkinwater should be coming here
Why I think it is, my dear
For a young man, Mr Frank is not a very great walker; and I observe that he generally falls tired, and requires a good long rest, when he has come as far as this. But where is my friend
He has not been run away with again, has he
Ah! where is Mr Smike
he was here this instant
Well now
he is the strangest creature! Last Tuesday -- was it Tuesday? Yes, to be sure it was; you recollect, Kate, my dear, the very last time young Mr Cheeryble was here -- last Tuesday night he went off in just the same strange way, at the very moment the knock came to the door. It cannot be that he don't like company, because he is always fond of people who are fond of Nicholas, and I am sure young Mr Cheeryble is. And the strangest thing is, that he does not go to bed; therefore it cannot be because he is tired. I know he doesn't go to bed, because my room is the next one, and when I went upstairs last Tuesday, hours after him, I found that he had not even taken his shoes off; and he had no candle, so he must have sat moping in the dark all the time. Now, upon my word
when I come to think of it, that's very extraordinary
I hope
that this unaccountable conduct may not be the beginning of his taking to his bed and living there all his life, like the Thirsty Woman of Tutbury, or the Cock-lane Ghost, or some of those extraordinary creatures. One of them had some connection with our family. I forget, without looking back to some old letters I have upstairs, whether it was my great-grandfather who went to school with the Cock-lane Ghost, or the Thirsty Woman of Tutbury who went to school with my grandmother. Miss La Creevy, you know, of course. Which was it that didn't mind what the clergyman said? The Cock-lane Ghost or the Thirsty Woman of Tutbury
The Cock-lane Ghost, I believe
Then I have no doubt
that it was with him my great-grandfather went to school; for I know the master of his school was a dissenter, and that would, in a great measure, account for the Cock-lane Ghost's behaving in such an improper manner to the clergyman when he grew up. Ah! Train up a Ghost -- child, I mean
I am so sorry Nicholas is not at home
Kate, my dear, you must be both Nicholas and yourself
Miss Nickleby need be but herself
I -- if I may venture to say so -- oppose all change in her
Then at all events she shall press you to stay
Mr Linkinwater says ten minutes, but I cannot let you go so soon; Nicholas would be very much vexed, I am sure. Kate, my dear
though I never saw her look better, certainly
Has she then failed in her truth, the beautiful maid I adore
This must be some drunken fellow
No thief would announce his presence thus
Yes
Small-clothes certainly, and -- and -- rough grey stockings, too. Do you know him, ma'am
Kate, my dear
you will have the goodness, my love, to explain precisely how this matter stands. I have given him no encouragement -- none whatever -- not the least in the world. You know that, my dear, perfectly well. He was very respectful, exceedingly respectful, when he declared, as you were a witness to; still at the same time, if I am to be persecuted in this way, if vegetable what's-his-names and all kinds of garden-stuff are to strew my path out of doors, and gentlemen are to come choking up our chimneys at home, I really don't know -- upon my word I do NOT know -- what is to become of me. It's a very hard case -- harder than anything I was ever exposed to, before I married your poor dear papa, though I suffered a good deal of annoyance then -- but that, of course, I expected, and made up my mind for. When I was not nearly so old as you, my dear, there was a young gentleman who sat next us at church, who used, almost every Sunday, to cut my name in large letters in the front of his pew while the sermon was going on. It was gratifying, of course, naturally so, but still it was an annoyance, because the pew was in a very conspicuous place, and he was several times publicly taken out by the beadle for doing it. But that was nothing to this. This is a great deal worse, and a great deal more embarrassing. I would rather, Kate, my dear
I would rather, I declare, have been a pig- faced lady, than be exposed to such a life as this
He gives me great pain
great pain; but don't hurt a hair of his head, I beg. On no account hurt a hair of his head
Oh! yes, yes
I know who it is. Pray don't be rough with him. Is he hurt? I hope not. Oh, pray see if he is hurt
He is not, I assure you
He is not hurt in the least
Don't let him come any nearer
Oh, no, he shall not
You see I have him secure here. But may I ask you what this means, and whether you expected, this old gentleman
Oh, no
of course not; but he -- mama does not think so, I believe -- but he is a mad gentleman who has escaped from the next house, and must have found an opportunity of secreting himself here
Kate
I am surprised at you
Dear mama
I am surprised at you
upon my word, Kate, I am quite astonished that you should join the persecutors of this unfortunate gentleman, when you know very well that they have the basest designs upon his property, and that that is the whole secret of it. It would be much kinder of you, Kate, to ask Mr Linkinwater or Mr Cheeryble to interfere in his behalf, and see him righted. You ought not to allow your feelings to influence you; it's not right, very far from it. What should my feelings be, do you suppose? If anybody ought to be indignant, who is it? I, of course, and very properly so. Still, at the same time, I wouldn't commit such an injustice for the world. No
this gentleman will understand me when I tell him that I repeat the answer I gave him the other day; that I always will repeat it, though I do believe him to be sincere when I find him placing himself in such dreadful situations on my account; and that I request him to have the goodness to go away directly, or it will be impossible to keep his behaviour a secret from my son Nicholas. I am obliged to him, very much obliged to him, but I cannot listen to his addresses for a moment. It's quite impossible
I have nothing more to say
I really cannot say anything more
Very good
then bring in the bottled lightning, a clean tumbler, and a corkscrew
Aha
I see her now; I see her now! My love, my life, my bride, my peerless beauty. She is come at last -- at last -- and all is gas and gaiters
She is come
Cormoran and Blunderbore! She is come! All the wealth I have is hers if she will take me for her slave. Where are grace, beauty, and blandishments, like those? In the Empress of Madagascar? No. In the Queen of Diamonds? No. In Mrs Rowland, who every morning bathes in Kalydor for nothing? No. Melt all these down into one, with the three Graces, the nine Muses, and fourteen biscuit-bakers' daughters from Oxford Street, and make a woman half as lovely. Pho! I defy you
I am sure
that it's a great relief, under such trying circumstances as these, to have anybody else mistaken for me -- a very great relief; and it's a circumstance that never occurred before, although I have several times been mistaken for my daughter Kate. I have no doubt the people were very foolish, and perhaps ought to have known better, but still they did take me for her, and of course that was no fault of mine, and it would be very hard indeed if I was to be made responsible for it. However, in this instance, of course, I must feel that I should do exceedingly wrong if I suffered anybody -- especially anybody that I am under great obligations to -- to be made uncomfortable on my account. And therefore I think it my duty to tell that gentleman that he is mistaken, that I am the lady who he was told by some impertinent person was niece to the Council of Paving-stones, and that I do beg and entreat of him to go quietly away, if it's only for
for MY sake
Avaunt! Cat
Sir
Cat
Puss, Kit, Tit, Grimalkin, Tabby, Brindle! Whoosh
I'll attend to mama
I am not at all frightened. But pray take him away: pray take him away
Kate
is he gone
I shall never forgive myself, Kate
Never! That gentleman has lost his senses, and I am the unhappy cause
YOU the cause
I, my love
You saw what he was the other day; you see what he is now. I told your brother, weeks and weeks ago, Kate, that I hoped a disappointment might not be too much for him. You see what a wreck he is. Making allowance for his being a little flighty, you know how rationally, and sensibly, and honourably he talked, when we saw him in the garden. You have heard the dreadful nonsense he has been guilty of this night, and the manner in which he has gone on with that poor unfortunate little old maid. Can anybody doubt how all this has been brought about
I should scarcely think they could
I should scarcely think so, either
Well! if I am the unfortunate cause of this, I have the satisfaction of knowing that I am not to blame. I told Nicholas, I said to him, "Nicholas, my dear, we should be very careful how we proceed." He would scarcely hear me. If the matter had only been properly taken up at first, as I wished it to be! But you are both of you so like your poor papa. However, I have MY consolation, and that should be enough for me
I really thought it had not been half an hour
They must have been pleasant thoughts, Kate
to make time pass away like that. What were they now
Why, Kate
let me see your face. No? Ah! that was but a glimpse; that's scarcely fair. A longer look than that, Kate. Come -- and I'll read your thoughts for you
Poor fellow
what can be the cause of all this
And have you not been to bed
N -- n -- no
Why not
I could not sleep
You are not well
I am better, indeed. A great deal better
Then why do you give way to these fits of melancholy
or why not tell us the cause? You grow a different creature, Smike
I do; I know I do
I will tell you the reason one day, but not now. I hate myself for this; you are all so good and kind. But I cannot help it. My heart is very full; you do not know how full it is
Ring the Bull
Rooge-a-nore from Paris! Gentlemen, make your game and back your own opinions -- any time while the ball rolls -- rooge-a-nore from Paris, gentlemen, it's a French game, gentlemen, I brought it over myself, I did indeed!-- Rooge-a-nore from Paris -- black wins -- black -- stop a minute, sir, and I'll pay you, directly -- two there, half a pound there, three there -- and one there -- gentlemen, the ball's a rolling -- any time, sir, while the ball rolls!-- The beauty of this game is, that you can double your stakes or put down your money, gentlemen, any time while the ball rolls -- black again -- black wins -- I never saw such a thing -- I never did, in all my life, upon my word I never did; if any gentleman had been backing the black in the last five minutes he must have won five-and-forty pound in four rolls of the ball, he must indeed. Gentlemen, we've port, sherry, cigars, and most excellent champagne. Here, wai-ter, bring a bottle of champagne, and let's have a dozen or fifteen cigars here -- and let's be comfortable, gentlemen -- and bring some clean glasses -- any time while the ball rolls!-- I lost one hundred and thirty-seven pound yesterday, gentlemen, at one roll of the ball, I did indeed!-- how do you do, sir
will you take a glass of sherry, sir?-- here, wai-ter! bring a clean glass, and hand the sherry to this gentleman -- and hand it round, will you, waiter?-- this is the rooge-a-nore from Paris, gentlemen -- any time while the ball rolls!-- gentlemen, make your game, and back your own opinions -- it's the rooge-a-nore from Paris -- quite a new game, I brought it over myself, I did indeed -- gentlemen, the ball's a-rolling
Ah! Hawk
How d'ye do, old fellow
And how are you now, old fellow, hey
Quite well, quite well
That's right
How d'ye do, Verisopht? He's a little pulled down, our friend here. Rather out of condition still, hey
He's in very good condition; there's nothing the matter with him
Upon my soul I'm glad to hear it
Have you just returned from Brussels
We only reached town late last night
Now, upon my life
it's an uncommonly bold and game thing in Hawk to show himself so soon. I say it advisedly; there's a vast deal of courage in it. You see he has just rusticated long enough to excite curiosity, and not long enough for men to have forgotten that deuced unpleasant -- by-the-bye -- you know the rights of the affair, of course? Why did you never give those confounded papers the lie? I seldom read the papers, but I looked in the papers for that, and may I be
Look in the papers
tomorrow -- no, next day, will you
Upon my life, my dear fellow, I seldom or never read the papers
but I will, at your recommendation. What shall I look for
Good day
I won't give him a case of murder to read
but it shall be something very near it if whipcord cuts and bludgeons bruise
And wha-at's to be done tomorrow
Stop
I want to speak to you in earnest. Don't turn back. Let us walk here, a few minutes
What have you to say to me, that you could not say yonder as well as here
Hawk
tell me; I must know
MUST know
Whew! Go on. If you must know, of course there's no escape for me. Must know
Must ask then
and must press you for a plain and straightforward answer. Is what you have just said only a mere whim of the moment, occasioned by your being out of humour and irritated, or is it your serious intention, and one that you have actually contemplated
Why, don't you remember what passed on the subject one night, when I was laid up with a broken limb
Perfectly well
Then take that for an answer, in the devil's name
and ask me for no other
If I remember what passed at the time you speak of, I expressed a strong opinion on this subject, and said that, with my knowledge or consent, you never should do what you threaten now
Will you prevent me
Ye-es, if I can
A very proper saving clause, that last
and one you stand in need of. Oh! look to your own business, and leave me to look to mine
This IS mine
I make it mine; I will make it mine. It's mine already. I am more compromised than I should be, as it is
Do as you please, and what you please, for yourself
Surely that must content you! Do nothing for me; that's all. I advise no man to interfere in proceedings that I choose to take. I am sure you know me better than to do so. The fact is, I see, you mean to offer me advice. It is well meant, I have no doubt, but I reject it. Now, if you please, we will return to the carriage. I find no entertainment here, but quite the reverse. If we prolong this conversation, we might quarrel, which would be no proof of wisdom in either you or me
Let me go
he struck me! Do you hear? I say, he struck me. Have I a friend here? Who is this? Westwood. Do you hear me say he struck me
I hear, I hear
Come away for tonight
I will not, by G
A dozen men about us saw the blow
Tomorrow will be ample time
It will not be ample time
Tonight, at once, here
What is this, my lord
Have blows passed
ONE blow has
I struck him. I proclaim it to all here! I struck him, and he knows why. I say, with him, let this quarrel be adjusted now. Captain Adams
let me speak with you, I beg
This is an awkward affair, Adams
Very
a blow has been struck, and there is but one course, OF course
No apology, I suppose
Not a syllable, sir, from my man, if we talk till doomsday
The original cause of dispute, I understand, was some girl or other, to whom your principal applied certain terms, which Lord Frederick, defending the girl, repelled. But this led to a long recrimination upon a great many sore subjects, charges, and counter-charges. Sir Mulberry was sarcastic; Lord Frederick was excited, and struck him in the heat of provocation, and under circumstances of great aggravation. That blow, unless there is a full retraction on the part of Sir Mulberry, Lord Frederick is ready to justify
There is no more to be said
but to settle the hour and the place of meeting. It's a responsibility; but there is a strong feeling to have it over. Do you object to say at sunrise
Sharp work
however, as this seems to have been a long time breeding, and negotiation is only a waste of words, no
Something may possibly be said, out of doors, after what passed in the other room, which renders it desirable that we should be off without delay, and quite clear of town
What do you say to one of the meadows opposite Twickenham, by the river- side
Shall we join company in the avenue of trees which leads from Petersham to Ham House, and settle the exact spot when we arrive there
We shall just have comfortable time, my lord
to call at my rooms for a case of pistols, and then jog coolly down. If you will allow me to dismiss your servant, we'll take my cab; for yours, perhaps, might be recognised
Shivering
You are cold
Rather
It does strike cool, coming out of those hot rooms. Wrap that cloak about you. So, so; now we're off
He's gone
His blood on his own head
He brought this upon himself, and forced it upon me
Captain Adams
I call you to witness that this was fairly done. Hawk, we have not a moment to lose. We must leave this place immediately, push for Brighton, and cross to France with all speed. This has been a bad business, and may be worse, if we delay a moment. Adams, consult your own safety, and don't remain here; the living before the dead; goodbye
The snuff-coloured suit
Did I look well in snuff-colour? Let me think
They always put in "young
but songs are only written for the sake of rhyme, and this is a silly one that the poor country-people sang, when I was a little boy. Though stop -- young is quite right too -- it means the bride -- yes. He, he, he! It means the bride. Oh dear, that's good. That's very good. And true besides, quite true
The bottle-green
the bottle-green was a famous suit to wear, and I bought it very cheap at a pawnbroker's, and there was -- he, he, he!-- a tarnished shilling in the waistcoat pocket. To think that the pawnbroker shouldn't have known there was a shilling in it! I knew it! I felt it when I was examining the quality. Oh, what a dull dog of a pawnbroker! It was a lucky suit too, this bottle-green. The very day I put it on first, old Lord Mallowford was burnt to death in his bed, and all the post-obits fell in. I'll be married in the bottle-green. Peg. Peg Sliderskew -- I'll wear the bottle-green
Was that you a calling, or only the clock a striking? My hearing gets so bad, I never know which is which; but when I hear a noise, I know it must be one of you, because nothing else never stirs in the house
Me, Peg, me
You, eh
And what do YOU want
I'll be married in the bottle-green
It's a deal too good to be married in, master
Haven't you got anything worse than this
Nothing that'll do
Why not do
Why don't you wear your every-day clothes, like a man -- eh
They an't becoming enough, Peg
Not what enough
Becoming
Becoming what
Not becoming too old to wear
Not smart enough! I want to look as well as I can
Look
If she's as handsome as you say she is, she won't look much at you, master, take your oath of that; and as to how you look yourself -- pepper-and-salt, bottle-green, sky-blue, or tartan-plaid will make no difference in you
You're in a funny humour, an't you, Peg
Why, isn't it enough to make me
I shall, soon enough, be put out, though, if anybody tries to domineer it over me: and so I give you notice, master. Nobody shall be put over Peg Sliderskew's head, after so many years; you know that, and so I needn't tell you! That won't do for me -- no, no, nor for you. Try that once, and come to ruin -- ruin -- ruin
Oh dear, dear, I shall never try it
not for the world. It would be very easy to ruin me; we must be very careful; more saving than ever, with another mouth to feed. Only we -- we mustn't let her lose her good looks, Peg, because I like to see 'em
Take care you don't find good looks come expensive
But she can earn money herself, Peg
she can draw, paint, work all manner of pretty things for ornamenting stools and chairs: slippers, Peg, watch-guards, hair-chains, and a thousand little dainty trifles that I couldn't give you half the names of. Then she can play the piano, (and, what's more, she's got one), and sing like a little bird. She'll be very cheap to dress and keep, Peg; don't you think she will
If you don't let her make a fool of you, she may
A fool of ME
Trust your old master not to be fooled by pretty faces, Peg; no, no, no -- nor by ugly ones neither, Mrs Sliderskew
You're a saying something you don't want me to hear
I know you are
Oh dear! the devil's in this woman
I said I trusted everything to you, Peg. That was all
You do that, master, and all your cares are over
WHEN I do that, Peg Sliderskew
they will be
Take up all loose stitches in the bottle-green with the best black silk. Have a skein of the best, and some new buttons for the coat, and -- this is a good idea, Peg, and one you'll like, I know -- as I have never given her anything yet, and girls like such attentions, you shall polish up a sparking necklace that I have got upstairs, and I'll give it her upon the wedding morning -- clasp it round her charming little neck myself -- and take it away again next day. He, he, he! I'll lock it up for her, Peg, and lose it. Who'll be made the fool of there, I wonder, to begin with -- eh, Peg
She's half a witch, I think
But she's very frugal, and she's very deaf. Her living costs me next to nothing; and it's no use her listening at keyholes; for she can't hear. She's a charming woman -- for the purpose; a most discreet old housekeeper, and worth her weight in -- copper
Ah! Mr Noggs
My good friend, Mr Noggs, what news do you bring for me
A letter. From Mr Nickleby. Bearer waits
Won't you take a -- a
A chair
No
Thankee
Answer
Bearer waits
True
Yes -- yes; I almost forgot, I do declare
I thought you were forgetting
Quite right to remind me, Mr Noggs. Oh, very right indeed
Yes. I'll write a line. I'm -- I'm -- rather flurried, Mr Noggs. The news is
Bad
No, Mr Noggs, thank you; good, good. The very best of news. Sit down. I'll get the pen and ink, and write a line in answer. I'll not detain you long. I know you're a treasure to your master, Mr Noggs. He speaks of you in such terms, sometimes, that, oh dear! you'd be astonished. I may say that I do too, and always did. I always say the same of you
That's "Curse Mr Noggs with all my heart!" then, if you do
GRIDE. 'I saw Bray again this morning, and proposed the day after tomorrow (as you suggested) for the marriage. There is no objection on his part, and all days are alike to his daughter. We will go together, and you must be with me by seven in the morning. I need not tell you to be punctual. 

'Make no further visits to the girl in the meantime. You have been there, of late, much oftener than you should. She does not languish for you, and it might have been dangerous. Restrain your youthful ardour for eight-and-forty hours, and leave her to the father. You only undo what he does, and does well. 

'Yours, 

'RALPH NICKLEBY
Do you see anything particular, Mr Noggs
Only a cobweb
Oh! is that all
No
There's a fly in it
There are a good many cobwebs here
So there are in our place
and flies too
That's it, Mr Noggs
Will you -- will you take a little drop of something -- just a taste
You never tasted this
It's EAU-D'OR -- golden water. I like it on account of its name. It's a delicious name. Water of gold, golden water! O dear me, it seems quite a sin to drink it
Stop, stop; don't drink it yet
it was given to me, twenty years ago, and when I take a little taste, which is ve -- ry seldom, I like to think of it beforehand, and tease myself. We'll drink a toast. Shall we drink a toast, Mr Noggs
Ah
Look sharp. Bearer waits
Why, then, I'll tell you what
we'll drink -- he, he, he!-- we'll drink a lady
THE ladies
No, no, Mr Noggs
A lady. You wonder to hear me say A lady. I know you do, I know you do. Here's little Madeline. That's the toast. Mr Noggs. Little Madeline
Madeline
and God help her
You've been a long time
HE was a long time
Bah
Give me his note, if he gave you one: his message, if he didn't. And don't go away. I want a word with you, sir
He'll be sure to come
why of course, I know he'll be sure to come. What need to say that? Noggs! Pray, sir, what man was that, with whom I saw you in the street last night
I don't know
You had better refresh your memory, sir
I tell you
that I don't know. He came here twice, and asked for you. You were out. He came again. You packed him off, yourself. He gave the name of Brooker
I know he did
what then
What then? Why, then he lurked about and dogged me in the street. He follows me, night after night, and urges me to bring him face to face with you; as he says he has been once, and not long ago either. He wants to see you face to face, he says, and you'll soon hear him out, he warrants
And what say you to that
That it's no business of mine, and I won't. I told him he might catch you in the street, if that was all he wanted, but no! that wouldn't do. You wouldn't hear a word there, he said. He must have you alone in a room with the door locked, where he could speak without fear, and you'd soon change your tone, and hear him patiently
An audacious dog
That's all I know
I say again, I don't know what man he is. I don't believe he knows himself. You have seen him; perhaps YOU do
I think I do
Well
don't expect me to know him too; that's all. You'll ask me, next, why I never told you this before. What would you say, if I was to tell you all that people say of you? What do you call me when I sometimes do? "Brute, ass!" and snap at me like a dragon
He is an idle ruffian
a vagabond from beyond the sea where he travelled for his crimes; a felon let loose to run his neck into the halter; a swindler, who has the audacity to try his schemes on me who know him well. The next time he tampers with you, hand him over to the police, for attempting to extort money by lies and threats,-- d'ye hear?-- and leave the rest to me. He shall cool his heels in jail a little time, and I'll be bound he looks for other folks to fleece, when he comes out. You mind what I say, do you
I hear
Do it then
and I'll reward you. Now, you may go
I was thinking of you, at that moment
That's right
and I of you. I couldn't help coming up, tonight. I say, I think I am going to find out something
And what may that be
I don't know what it may be, I don't know what it may not be
it's some secret in which your uncle is concerned, but what, I've not yet been able to discover, although I have my strong suspicions. I'll not hint 'em now, in case you should be disappointed
I disappointed
am I interested
I think you are
I have a crotchet in my head that it must be so. I have found out a man, who plainly knows more than he cares to tell at once. And he has already dropped such hints to me as puzzle me -- I say, as puzzle me
And that reminds me
that you never told me the young lady's real name
Madeline
Madeline
What Madeline? Her other name. Say her other name
Bray
It's the same
Sad story! Can you stand idly by, and let that unnatural marriage take place without one attempt to save her
What do you mean
marriage! are you mad
Are you? Is she? Are you blind, deaf, senseless, dead
Do you know that within one day, by means of your uncle Ralph, she will be married to a man as bad as he, and worse, if worse there is? Do you know that, within one day, she will be sacrificed, as sure as you stand there alive, to a hoary wretch -- a devil born and bred, and grey in devils' ways
Be careful what you say
For Heaven's sake be careful! I am left here alone, and those who could stretch out a hand to rescue her are far away. What is it that you mean
I never heard her name
Why didn't you tell me? How was I to know? We might, at least, have had some time to think
What is it that you mean
Stop him
He'll be doing something desperate; he'll murder somebody. Hallo! there, stop him. Stop thief! stop thief
Stop thief
I will go straight to Bray's
I will see this man. If there is a feeling of humanity lingering in his breast, a spark of consideration for his own child, motherless and friendless as she is, I will awaken it
You will not
You will not, indeed
Then
I will act upon my first impulse, and go straight to Ralph Nickleby
By the time you reach his house he will be in bed
I'll drag him from it
Tut, tut
Be yourself
You are the best of friends to me, Newman
I have made head against many trials; but the misery of another, and such misery, is involved in this one, that I declare to you I am rendered desperate, and know not how to act
There seems no ray of hope
The greater necessity for coolness, for reason, for consideration, for thought
Where are the brothers
Both absent on urgent business, as they will be for a week to come
Is there no way of communicating with them? No way of getting one of them here by tomorrow night
Impossible
the sea is between us and them. With the fairest winds that ever blew, to go and return would take three days and nights
Their nephew
their old clerk
What could either do, that I cannot
With reference to them, especially, I am enjoined to the strictest silence on this subject. What right have I to betray the confidence reposed in me, when nothing but a miracle can prevent this sacrifice
Think
Is there no way
There is none
Not one. The father urges, the daughter consents. These demons have her in their toils; legal right, might, power, money, and every influence are on their side. How can I hope to save her
Hope to the last
Always hope; that's a dear boy. Never leave off hoping; it don't answer. Do you mind me, Nick? It don't answer. Don't leave a stone unturned. It's always something, to know you've done the most you could. But, don't leave off hoping, or it's of no use doing anything. Hope, hope, to the last
You read me a good lesson, Newman, and I will profit by it. One step, at least, I may take -- am bound to take indeed -- and to that I will apply myself tomorrow
What is that
Not to threaten Ralph? Not to see the father
To see the daughter, Newman
To do what, after all, is the utmost that the brothers could do, if they were here, as Heaven send they were! To reason with her upon this hideous union, to point out to her all the horrors to which she is hastening; rashly, it may be, and without due reflection. To entreat her, at least, to pause. She can have had no counsellor for her good. Perhaps even I may move her so far yet, though it is the eleventh hour, and she upon the very brink of ruin
Bravely spoken
Well done, well done! Yes. Very good
And I do declare
that in this effort I am influenced by no selfish or personal considerations, but by pity for her, and detestation and abhorrence of this scheme; and that I would do the same, were there twenty rivals in the field, and I the last and least favoured of them all
You would, I believe
But where are you hurrying now
Homewards
Do you come with me, or I shall say good-night
I'll come a little way, if you will but walk: not run
I cannot walk tonight, Newman
I must move rapidly, or I could not draw my breath. I'll tell you what I've said and done tomorrow
He's a violent youth at times
and yet like him for it. There's cause enough now, or the deuce is in it. Hope! I SAID hope, I think! Ralph Nickleby and Gride with their heads together! And hope for the opposite party! Ho! ho
You ungrateful child
after I have gone through what I have, this night, for your good
I can't help it, ma
my hair WILL grow
Don't talk to me, you naughty thing
don't! Even if I was to trust you by yourself and you were to escape being run over, I know you'd run in to Laura Chopkins
and tell her what you're going to wear tomorrow, I know you would. You've no proper pride in yourself, and are not to be trusted out of sight for an instant
I wouldn't ask you, Mr Noggs
if I didn't know what a good, kind-hearted creature you are; no, not for worlds. I am a weak constitution, Mr Noggs, but my spirit would no more let me ask a favour where I thought there was a chance of its being refused, than it would let me submit to see my children trampled down and trod upon, by envy and lowness
You won't get shaved here, my man
Why not
We don't shave gentlemen in your line
Why, I see you a shaving of a baker, when I was a looking through the winder, last week
It's necessary to draw the line somewheres, my fine feller
We draw the line there. We can't go beyond bakers. If we was to get any lower than bakers, our customers would desert us, and we might shut up shop. You must try some other establishment, sir. We couldn't do it here
Is anything the matter
Matter, sir
The plug of life is dry, sir, and but the mud is left
Let me be shaved
It shall be done before Morleena; it IS Morleena, isn't it
Yes
Kenwigses have got a boy, haven't they
Yes
Is it a nice boy
It ain't a very nasty one
Susan Kenwigs used to say
that if ever she had another boy, she hoped it might be like me. Is this one like me, Mr Noggs
I should be glad to have somebody like me, somehow
before I die
You don't mean to do that, yet awhile
Let me be shaved
Were the Kenwigses very much overpowered, Mr Noggs, by that news
What news
That about -- my -- being
Married
Ah
It made ma cry when she knew it
but we kept it from her for a long time; and pa was very low in his spirits, but he is better now; and I was very ill, but I am better too
Would you give your great-uncle Lillyvick a kiss if he was to ask you, Morleena
Yes; uncle Lillyvick, I would
but not aunt Lillyvick. She's not an aunt of mine, and I'll never call her one
Kenwigs
shake hands
Sir
the time has been, when I was proud to shake hands with such a man as that man as now surweys me. The time has been, sir
when a wisit from that man has excited in me and my family's boozums sensations both nateral and awakening. But, now, I look upon that man with emotions totally surpassing everythink, and I ask myself where is his Honour, where is his straight-for'ardness, and where is his human natur
Susan Kenwigs
don't you say anything to me
She is not equal to it, sir
What with the nursing of a healthy babby, and the reflections upon your cruel conduct, four pints of malt liquor a day is hardly able to sustain her
I am glad
that the baby is a healthy one. I am very glad of that
My pleasantest feeling, all the time that child was expected
was a thinking, "If it's a boy, as I hope it may be; for I have heard its uncle Lillyvick say again and again he would prefer our having a boy next, if it's a boy, what will his uncle Lillyvick say? What will he like him to be called? Will he be Peter, or Alexander, or Pompey, or Diorgeenes, or what will he be?" And now when I look at him; a precious, unconscious, helpless infant, with no use in his little arms but to tear his little cap, and no use in his little legs but to kick his little self -- when I see him a lying on his mother's lap, cooing and cooing, and, in his innocent state, almost a choking hisself with his little fist -- when I see him such a infant as he is, and think that that uncle Lillyvick, as was once a-going to be so fond of him, has withdrawed himself away, such a feeling of wengeance comes over me as no language can depicter, and I feel as if even that holy babe was a telling me to hate him
Uncle
to think that you should have turned your back upon me and my dear children, and upon Kenwigs which is the author of their being -- you who was once so kind and affectionate, and who, if anybody had told us such a thing of, we should have withered with scorn like lightning -- you that little Lillyvick, our first and earliest boy, was named after at the very altar! Oh gracious
Was it money that we cared for
Was it property that we ever thought of
No
I scorn it
So do I
and always did
My feelings have been lancerated
my heart has been torn asunder with anguish, I have been thrown back in my confinement, my unoffending infant has been rendered uncomfortable and fractious, Morleena has pined herself away to nothing; all this I forget and forgive, and with you, uncle, I never can quarrel. But never ask me to receive HER, never do it, uncle. For I will not, I will not, I won't, I won't, I won't
Susan, my dear
consider your child
Yes
I will consider my child! I will consider my child! My own child, that no uncles can deprive me of; my own hated, despised, deserted, cut-off little child
I never shall ask anybody here to receive my -- I needn't mention the word; you know what I mean. Kenwigs and Susan, yesterday was a week she eloped with a half-pay captain
Eloped with a half-pay captain
basely and falsely eloped with a half-pay captain. With a bottle-nosed captain that any man might have considered himself safe from. It was in this room
that I first see Henrietta Petowker. It is in this room that I turn her off, for ever
Out of affection and regard for you, Susan and Kenwigs
and not out of revenge and spite against her, for she is below it, I shall, tomorrow morning, settle upon your children, and make payable to the survivors of them when they come of age of marry, that money that I once meant to leave 'em in my will. The deed shall be executed tomorrow, and Mr Noggs shall be one of the witnesses. He hears me promise this, and he shall see it done
And now
give me some supper. This took place twenty mile from town. I came up this morning, and have being lingering about all day, without being able to make up my mind to come and see you. I humoured her in everything, she had her own way, she did just as she pleased, and now she has done this. There was twelve teaspoons and twenty-four pound in sovereigns -- I missed them first -- it's a trial -- I feel I shall never be able to knock a double knock again, when I go my rounds -- don't say anything more about it, please -- the spoons were worth -- never mind -- never mind
When I see that man
when I see that man as mingling, once again, in the spear which he adorns, and see his affections deweloping themselves in legitimate sitiwations, I feel that his nature is as elewated and expanded, as his standing afore society as a public character is unimpeached, and the woices of my infant children purvided for in life, seem to whisper to me softly, "This is an ewent at which Evins itself looks down
Now, sir, what do you want? Name your errand here, quickly, if you please, for my daughter and I are busily engaged with other and more important matters than those you come about. Come, sir, address yourself to your business at once
Madeline
my love, what are you doing
Miss Bray expects an inclosure perhaps
My employer is absent from England, or I should have brought a letter with me. I hope she will give me time -- a little time. I ask a very little time
If that is all you come about, sir
you may make yourself easy on that head. Madeline, my dear, I didn't know this person was in your debt
A -- a trifle, I believe
I suppose you think now
that, but for such pitiful sums as you bring here, because my daughter has chosen to employ her time as she has, we should starve
I have not thought about it
You have not thought about it
You know you HAVE thought about it, and have thought that, and think so every time you come here. Do you suppose, young man, that I don't know what little purse-proud tradesmen are, when, through some fortunate circumstances, they get the upper hand for a brief day -- or think they get the upper hand -- of a gentleman
My business
is with a lady
With a gentleman's daughter, sir
and the pettifogging spirit is the same. But perhaps you bring ORDERS, eh? Have you any fresh ORDERS for my daughter, sir
Oh
These are the orders, are they
Since you insist upon the term, sir, yes
Then you may tell your master
that my daughter, Miss Madeline Bray, condescends to employ herself no longer in such labours as these; that she is not at his beck and call, as he supposes her to be; that we don't live upon his money, as he flatters himself we do; that he may give whatever he owes us, to the first beggar that passes his shop, or add it to his own profits next time he calculates them; and that he may go to the devil for me. That's my acknowledgment of his orders, sir
And this is the independence of a man who sells his daughter as he has sold that weeping girl
There
you have your message and can retire -- unless you have any further -- ha!-- any further orders
I have none
nor, in the consideration of the station you once held, have I used that or any other word which, however harmless in itself, could be supposed to imply authority on my part or dependence on yours. I have no orders, but I have fears -- fears that I will express, chafe as you may -- fears that you may be consigning that young lady to something worse than supporting you by the labour of her hands, had she worked herself dead. These are my fears, and these fears I found upon your own demeanour. Your conscience will tell you, sir, whether I construe it well or not
For Heaven's sake
Remember, sir, he is ill
Ill
Ill! Ill! I am bearded and bullied by a shop-boy, and she beseeches him to pity me and remember I am ill
Oh
that this slender chance might not be lost, and that I might prevail, if it were but for one week's time and reconsideration
You are charged with some commission to me, sir
Do not press it now, I beg and pray you. The day after tomorrow; come here then
It will be too late -- too late for what I have to say
and you will not be here. Oh, madam, if you have but one thought of him who sent me here, but one last lingering care for your own peace of mind and heart, I do for God's sake urge you to give me a hearing
A hearing
I ask you but to hear me: not me alone, but him for whom I speak, who is far away and does not know your danger. In the name of Heaven hear me
Leave me, sir, pray
I cannot, will not leave you thus
I have a duty to discharge; and, either here, or in the room from which we have just now come, at whatever risk or hazard to Mr Bray, I must beseech you to contemplate again the fearful course to which you have been impelled
What course is this you speak of, and impelled by whom, sir
I speak of this marriage
of this marriage, fixed for tomorrow, by one who never faltered in a bad purpose, or lent his aid to any good design; of this marriage, the history of which is known to me, better, far better, than it is to you. I know what web is wound about you. I know what men they are from whom these schemes have come. You are betrayed and sold for money; for gold, whose every coin is rusted with tears, if not red with the blood of ruined men, who have fallen desperately by their own mad hands
You say you have a duty to discharge
and so have I. And with the help of Heaven I will perform it
Say rather with the help of devils
with the help of men, one of them your destined husband, who are
I must not hear this
This evil, if evil it be, has been of my own seeking. I am impelled to this course by no one, but follow it of my own free will. You see I am not constrained or forced. Report this
to my dear friend and benefactor, and, taking with you my prayers and thanks for him and for yourself, leave me for ever
Not until I have besought you, with all the earnestness and fervour by which I am animated
to postpone this marriage for one short week. Not until I have besought you to think more deeply than you can have done, influenced as you are, upon the step you are about to take. Although you cannot be fully conscious of the villainy of this man to whom you are about to give your hand, some of his deeds you know. You have heard him speak, and have looked upon his face. Reflect, reflect, before it is too late, on the mockery of plighting to him at the altar, faith in which your heart can have no share -- of uttering solemn words, against which nature and reason must rebel -- of the degradation of yourself in your own esteem, which must ensue, and must be aggravated every day, as his detested character opens upon you more and more. Shrink from the loathsome companionship of this wretch as you would from corruption and disease. Suffer toil and labour if you will, but shun him, shun him, and be happy. For, believe me, I speak the truth; the most abject poverty, the most wretched condition of human life, with a pure and upright mind, would be happiness to that which you must undergo as the wife of such a man as this
I will not disguise from you, sir -- though perhaps I ought -- that I have undergone great pain of mind, and have been nearly broken- hearted since I saw you last. I do NOT love this gentleman. The difference between our ages, tastes, and habits, forbids it. This he knows, and knowing, still offers me his hand. By accepting it, and by that step alone, I can release my father who is dying in this place; prolong his life, perhaps, for many years; restore him to comfort -- I may almost call it affluence; and relieve a generous man from the burden of assisting one, by whom, I grieve to say, his noble heart is little understood. Do not think so poorly of me as to believe that I feign a love I do not feel. Do not report so ill of me, for THAT I could not bear. If I cannot, in reason or in nature, love the man who pays this price for my poor hand, I can discharge the duties of a wife: I can be all he seeks in me, and will. He is content to take me as I am. I have passed my word, and should rejoice, not weep, that it is so. I do. The interest you take in one so friendless and forlorn as I, the delicacy with which you have discharged your trust, the faith you have kept with me, have my warmest thanks: and, while I make this last feeble acknowledgment, move me to tears, as you see. But I do not repent, nor am I unhappy. I am happy in the prospect of all I can achieve so easily. I shall be more so when I look back upon it, and all is done, I know
Your tears fall faster as you talk of happiness
and you shun the contemplation of that dark future which must be laden with so much misery to you. Defer this marriage for a week. For but one week
He was talking, when you came upon us just now, with such smiles as I remember to have seen of old, and have not seen for many and many a day, of the freedom that was to come tomorrow
of the welcome change, the fresh air: all the new scenes and objects that would bring fresh life to his exhausted frame. His eye grew bright, and his face lightened at the thought. I will not defer it for an hour
These are but tricks and wiles to urge you on
I'll hear no more
I have heard too much -- more than I should -- already. What I have said to you, sir, I have said as to that dear friend to whom I trust in you honourably to repeat it. Some time hence, when I am more composed and reconciled to my new mode of life, if I should live so long, I will write to him. Meantime, all holy angels shower blessings on his head, and prosper and preserve him
There is no retreat
no withdrawing! All regret will be unavailing, and deep and bitter it must be. What can I say, that will induce you to pause at this last moment? What can I do to save you
Nothing
This is the hardest trial I have had. Have mercy on me, sir, I beseech, and do not pierce my heart with such appeals as these. I -- I hear him calling. I -- I -- must not, will not, remain here for another instant
If this were a plot
a plot, not yet laid bare by me, but which, with time, I might unravel; if you were (not knowing it) entitled to fortune of your own, which, being recovered, would do all that this marriage can accomplish, would you not retract
No, no, no! It is impossible; it is a child's tale. Time would bring his death. He is calling again
It may be the last time we shall ever meet on earth
it may be better for me that we should never meet more
For both, for both
The time will come when to recall the memory of this one interview might drive me mad. Be sure to tell them, that you left me calm and happy. And God be with you, sir, and my grateful heart and blessing
Well-a-day
Well-a-day now, this is all my library, but it's one of the most entertaining books that were ever written! It's a delightful book, and all true and real -- that's the best of it -- true as the Bank of England, and real as its gold and silver. Written by Arthur Gride. He, he, he! None of your storybook writers will ever make as good a book as this, I warrant me. It's composed for private circulation, for my own particular reading, and nobody else's. He, he, he
It's a large sum to Mr Nickleby
Aha, Peg
what is it? What is it now, Peg
It's the fowl
A beautiful bird
With a rasher of ham, and an egg made into sauce, and potatoes, and greens, and an apple pudding, Peg, and a little bit of cheese, we shall have a dinner for an emperor. There'll only be she and me -- and you, Peg, when we've done
Don't you complain of the expense afterwards
I am afraid we must live expensively for the first week
and then we must make up for it. I won't eat more than I can help, and I know you love your old master too much to eat more than YOU can help, don't you, Peg
Don't I what
Love your old master too much
No, not a bit too much
Oh, dear, I wish the devil had this woman
love him too much to eat more than you can help at his expense
At his what
Oh dear! she can never hear the most important word, and hears all the others
At his expense -- you catamaran
There's the bell
Ay, ay; I know that
Then why don't you go
Go where
I ain't doing any harm here, am I
There's a change come over you, Mrs Peg
What it means I don't quite know; but, if it lasts, we shan't agree together long I see. You are turning crazy, I think. If you are, you must take yourself off, Mrs Peg -- or be taken off. All's one to me
Thieves! thieves
Robbers! Murder
What is the matter
Keep off
Is it a man or a -- a
For what do you take me, if not for a man
Yes, yes
it is a man, and not a spirit. It is a man. Robbers! robbers
For what are these cries raised? Unless indeed you know me, and have some purpose in your brain
I am no thief
What then, and how come you here
what is your name, and what do you want
My name you need not know
I came here, because I was shown the way by your servant. I have addressed you twice or thrice, but you were too profoundly engaged with your book to hear me, and I have been silently waiting until you should be less abstracted. What I want I will tell you, when you can summon up courage enough to hear and understand me
Good God! I don't stand up to have you at an advantage
Listen to me. You are to be married tomorrow morning
N -- n -- no
Who said I was? How do you know that
No matter how
I know it. The young lady who is to give you her hand hates and despises you. Her blood runs cold at the mention of your name; the vulture and the lamb, the rat and the dove, could not be worse matched than you and she. You see I know her
You and another man, Ralph Nickleby by name, have hatched this plot between you
You pay him for his share in bringing about this sale of Madeline Bray. You do. A lie is trembling on your lips, I see
You pay yourself by defrauding her. How or by what means -- for I scorn to sully her cause by falsehood or deceit -- I do not know; at present I do not know, but I am not alone or single-handed in this business. If the energy of man can compass the discovery of your fraud and treachery before your death; if wealth, revenge, and just hatred, can hunt and track you through your windings; you will yet be called to a dear account for this. We are on the scent already; judge you, who know what we do not, when we shall have you down
If you were a man to whom I could appeal with any hope of touching his compassion or humanity
I would urge upon you to remember the helplessness, the innocence, the youth, of this lady; her worth and beauty, her filial excellence, and last, and more than all, as concerning you more nearly, the appeal she has made to your mercy and your manly feeling. But, I take the only ground that can be taken with men like you, and ask what money will buy you off. Remember the danger to which you are exposed. You see I know enough to know much more with very little help. Bate some expected gain for the risk you save, and say what is your price
You think
that the price would not be paid. Miss Bray has wealthy friends who would coin their very hearts to save her in such a strait as this. Name your price, defer these nuptials for but a few days, and see whether those I speak of, shrink from the payment. Do you hear me
And even if money were to be had
I'd have that dainty chick for my wife, and cheat YOU of her, young smooth-face
I hear you
Help here! Help! Help
What are you doing
I'll cry robbers, thieves, murder, alarm the neighbourhood, struggle with you, let loose some blood, and swear you came to rob me, if you don't quit my house
I will
Wretch
YOU'LL bring your threats here, will you
You, the disappointed lover? Oh dear! He! he! he! But you shan't have her, nor she you. She's my wife, my doting little wife. Do you think she'll miss you? Do you think she'll weep? I shall like to see her weep, I shan't mind it. She looks prettier in tears
Villain
One minute more
and I'll rouse the street with such screams, as, if they were raised by anybody else, should wake me even in the arms of pretty Madeline
You hound
If you were but a younger man
Oh yes
If I was but a younger man it wouldn't be so bad; but for me, so old and ugly! To be jilted by little Madeline for me
Hear me
and be thankful I have enough command over myself not to fling you into the street, which no aid could prevent my doing if I once grappled with you. I have been no lover of this lady's. No contract or engagement, no word of love, has ever passed between us. She does not even know my name
I'll ask it for all that. I'll beg it of her with kisses
Yes, and she'll tell me, and pay them back, and we'll laugh together, and hug ourselves, and be very merry, when we think of the poor youth that wanted to have her, but couldn't because she was bespoke by me
If she ever turns pettish or ill-humoured, I'll taunt her with that spark
She'll little think I know about him; and, if I manage it well, I can break her spirit by this means and have her under my thumb. I'm glad nobody came. I didn't call too loud. The audacity to enter my house, and open upon me! But I shall have a very good triumph tomorrow, and he'll be gnawing his fingers off: perhaps drown himself or cut his throat! I shouldn't wonder! That would make it quite complete, that would: quite
Top bolt
bottom bolt, chain, bar, double lock, and key out to put under my pillow! So, if any more rejected admirers come, they may come through the keyhole. And now I'll go to sleep till half-past five, when I must get up to be married, Peg
Faugh
Wedding indeed! A precious wedding! He wants somebody better than his old Peg to take care of him, does he? And what has he said to me, many and many a time, to keep me content with short food, small wages, and little fire? "My will, Peg! my will!" says he: "I'm a bachelor -- no friends -- no relations, Peg." Lies! And now he's to bring home a new mistress, a baby-faced chit of a girl! If he wanted a wife, the fool, why couldn't he have one suitable to his age, and that knew his ways? She won't come in MY way, he says. No, that she won't, but you little think why, Arthur boy
I can't think how he can have picked up what he knows
unless I have committed myself -- let something drop at Bray's, for instance -- which has been overheard. Perhaps I may. I shouldn't be surprised if that was it. Mr Nickleby was often angry at my talking to him before we got outside the door. I mustn't tell him that part of the business, or he'll put me out of sorts, and make me nervous for the day
Well, and what then
Oh! nothing more
He tried to frighten you
and you WERE frightened I suppose; is that it
I frightened HIM by crying thieves and murder
Once I was in earnest, I tell you that, for I had more than half a mind to swear he uttered threats, and demanded my life or my money
Oho
Jealous too
Dear now, see that
Why do you make those grimaces, man
you ARE jealous -- and with good cause I think
No, no, no; not with good cause, hey? You don't think with good cause, do you
Do you though, hey
Why, how stands the fact
Here is an old man about to be forced in marriage upon a girl; and to this old man there comes a handsome young fellow -- you said he was handsome, didn't you
No
Oh
I thought you did. Well! Handsome or not handsome, to this old man there comes a young fellow who casts all manner of fierce defiances in his teeth -- gums I should rather say -- and tells him in plain terms that his mistress hates him. What does he do that for? Philanthropy's sake
Not for love of the lady
for he said that no word of love -- his very words -- had ever passed between 'em
He said
But I like him for one thing, and that is, his giving you this fair warning to keep your -- what is it?-- Tit-tit or dainty chick -- which?-- under lock and key. Be careful, Gride, be careful. It's a triumph, too, to tear her away from a gallant young rival: a great triumph for an old man! It only remains to keep her safe when you have her -- that's all
What a man it is
Yes; to keep her safe, that's all. And that isn't much, is it
Much
Why, everybody knows what easy things to understand and to control, women are. But come, it's very nearly time for you to be made happy. You'll pay the bond now, I suppose, to save us trouble afterwards
Oh what a man you are
Why not
But nobody would pay you interest for it either, you know
Besides which
you haven't the money about you, and you weren't prepared for this, or you'd have brought it with you; and there's nobody you'd so much like to accommodate as me. I see. We trust each other in about an equal degree. Are you ready
One would think
that there was a funeral going on here, and not a wedding
He, he
you are so -- so very funny
I need be
for this is rather dull and chilling. Look a little brisker, man, and not so hangdog like
Yes, yes, I will
But -- but -- you don't think she's coming just yet, do you
Why, I suppose she'll not come till she is obliged
and she has a good half-hour to spare yet. Curb your impatience
I -- I -- am not impatient
I wouldn't be hard with her for the world. Oh dear, dear, not on any account. Let her take her time -- her own time. Her time shall be ours by all means
Hush
She was very ill last night. I thought she would have broken her heart. She is dressed, and crying bitterly in her own room; but she's better, and quite quiet. That's everything
She is ready, is she
Quite ready
And not likely to delay us by any young-lady weaknesses -- fainting, or so forth
She may be safely trusted now
I have been talking to her this morning. Here! Come a little this way
Look at that man
This seems a cruel thing, after all
What seems a cruel thing
This marriage
Don't ask me what. You know as well as I do
Look at him. Does it not seem cruel
No
I say it does
It is a cruel thing, by all that's bad and treacherous
You see what a dry, shrivelled, withered old chip it is
If he were younger, it might be cruel, but as it is -- harkee, Mr Bray, he'll die soon, and leave her a rich young widow! Miss Madeline consults your tastes this time; let her consult her own next
True, true
I couldn't do anything better for her than advise her to accept these proposals, could I? Now, I ask you, Nickleby, as a man of the world; could I
Surely not
I tell you what, sir; there are a hundred fathers, within a circuit of five miles from this place; well off; good, rich, substantial men; who would gladly give their daughters, and their own ears with them, to that very man yonder, ape and mummy as he looks
So there are
And so I told her, both last night and today
You told her truth
and did well to do so; though I must say, at the same time, that if I had a daughter, and my freedom, pleasure, nay, my very health and life, depended on her taking a husband whom I pointed out, I should hope it would not be necessary to advance any other arguments to induce her to consent to my wishes
I must go upstairs for a few minutes, to finish dressing. When I come down, I'll bring Madeline with me. Do you know, I had a very strange dream last night, which I have not remembered till this instant. I dreamt that it was this morning, and you and I had been talking as we have been this minute; that I went upstairs, for the very purpose for which I am going now; and that as I stretched out my hand to take Madeline's, and lead her down, the floor sunk with me, and after falling from such an indescribable and tremendous height as the imagination scarcely conceives, except in dreams, I alighted in a grave
And you awoke, and found you were lying on your back, or with your head hanging over the bedside, or suffering some pain from indigestion
Pshaw, Mr Bray! Do as I do (you will have the opportunity, now that a constant round of pleasure and enjoyment opens upon you), and, occupying yourself a little more by day, have no time to think of what you dream by night
Mark my words, Gride, you won't have to pay HIS annuity very long. You have the devil's luck in bargains, always. If he is not booked to make the long voyage before many months are past and gone, I wear an orange for a head
Wake up
and be something like life, man, will you? They are here. Urge those dry old bones of yours this way. Quick, man, quick
The man that came to me last night
The man that came to me last night
I see
I know! I might have guessed as much before. Across my every path, at every turn, go where I will, do what I may, he comes
Away
Away! What brings you here? Liar, scoundrel, dastard, thief
I come here
to save your victim if I can. Liar and scoundrel you are, in every action of your life; theft is your trade; and double dastard you must be, or you were not here today. Hard words will not move me, nor would hard blows. Here I stand, and will, till I have done my errand
Girl
retire! We can use force to him, but I would not hurt you if I could help it. Retire, you weak and silly wench, and leave this dog to be dealt with as he deserves
I will not retire
You will do him no hurt that he will not repay. You may use force with me; I think you will, for I AM a girl, and that would well become you. But if I have a girl's weakness, I have a woman's heart, and it is not you who in a cause like this can turn that from its purpose
And what may your purpose be, most lofty lady
To offer to the unhappy subject of your treachery, at this last moment
a refuge and a home. If the near prospect of such a husband as you have provided will not prevail upon her, I hope she may be moved by the prayers and entreaties of one of her own sex. At all events they shall be tried. I myself, avowing to her father from whom I come and by whom I am commissioned, will render it an act of greater baseness, meanness, and cruelty in him if he still dares to force this marriage on. Here I wait to see him and his daughter. For this I came and brought my sister even into your presence. Our purpose is not to see or speak with you; therefore to you we stoop to say no more
Indeed
You persist in remaining here, ma'am, do you
Now, Gride, see here
This fellow -- I grieve to say my brother's son: a reprobate and profligate, stained with every mean and selfish crime -- this fellow, coming here today to disturb a solemn ceremony, and knowing that the consequence of his presenting himself in another man's house at such a time, and persisting in remaining there, must be his being kicked into the streets and dragged through them like the vagabond he is -- this fellow, mark you, brings with him his sister as a protection, thinking we would not expose a silly girl to the degradation and indignity which is no novelty to him; and, even after I have warned her of what must ensue, he still keeps her by him, as you see, and clings to her apron-strings like a cowardly boy to his mother's. Is not this a pretty fellow to talk as big as you have heard him now
And as I heard him last night
as I heard him last night when he sneaked into my house, and -- he! he! he!-- very soon sneaked out again, when I nearly frightened him to death. And HE wanting to marry Miss Madeline too! Oh dear! Is there anything else he'd like? Anything else we can do for him, besides giving her up? Would he like his debts paid and his house furnished, and a few bank notes for shaving paper if he shaves at all? He! he! he
You will remain, girl, will you
to be hauled downstairs like a drunken drab, as I swear you shall if you stop here? No answer! Thank your brother for what follows. Gride, call down Bray -- and not his daughter. Let them keep her above
If you value your head
stay where you are
Mind me, and not him, and call down Bray
Mind yourself rather than either of us, and stay where you are
Will you call down Bray
Remember that you come near me at your peril
He is dead
Stand off
if this is what I scarcely dare to hope it is, you are caught, villains, in your own toils
How did this happen
Who is the owner of this house
I represent this lady's nearest friends, as her servant here knows, and must remove her from this dreadful scene. This is my sister to whose charge you confide her. My name and address are upon that card, and you shall receive from me all necessary directions for the arrangements that must be made. Stand aside, every one of you, and give me room and air for God's sake
Who says so
I
Hush, hush
Hear what he says
Ay
hear what he says. That both your debts are paid in the one great debt of nature. That the bond, due today at twelve, is now waste paper. That your contemplated fraud shall be discovered yet. That your schemes are known to man, and overthrown by Heaven. Wretches, that he defies you both to do your worst
This man
this man claims his wife, and he shall have her
That man claims what is not his, and he should not have her if he were fifty men, with fifty more to back him
Who shall prevent him
I will
By what right I should like to know
By what right I ask
By this right. That, knowing what I do, you dare not tempt me further
and by this better right; that those I serve, and with whom you would have done me base wrong and injury, are her nearest and her dearest friends. In their name I bear her hence. Give way
One word
Not one
I will not hear of one -- save this. Look to yourself, and heed this warning that I give you! Your day is past, and night is comin' on
My curse, my bitter, deadly curse, upon you, boy
Whence will curses come at your command? Or what avails a curse or blessing from a man like you? I tell you, that misfortune and discovery are thickening about your head; that the structures you have raised, through all your ill-spent life, are crumbling into dust; that your path is beset with spies; that this very day, ten thousand pounds of your hoarded wealth have gone in one great crash
'Tis false
'Tis true, and you shall find it so. I have no more words to waste. Stand from the door. Kate, do you go first. Lay not a hand on her, or on that woman, or on me, or so much a brush their garments as they pass you by!-- You let them pass, and he blocks the door again
Bless my heart, Kate
if the Mr Cheerybles don't want this young lady to be married, why don't they file a bill against the Lord Chancellor, make her a Chancery ward, and shut her up in the Fleet prison for safety?-- I have read of such things in the newspapers a hundred times. Or, if they are so very fond of her as Nicholas says they are, why don't they marry her themselves -- one of them I mean? And even supposing they don't want her to be married, and don't want to marry her themselves, why in the name of wonder should Nicholas go about the world, forbidding people's banns
I don't think you quite understand
Well I am sure, Kate, my dear, you're very polite
I have been married myself I hope, and I have seen other people married. Not understand, indeed
I know you have had great experience, dear mama
I mean that perhaps you don't quite understand all the circumstances in this instance. We have stated them awkwardly, I dare say
That I dare say you have
That's very likely. I am not to be held accountable for that; though, at the same time, as the circumstances speak for themselves, I shall take the liberty, my love, of saying that I do understand them, and perfectly well too; whatever you and Nicholas may choose to think to the contrary. Why is such a great fuss made because this Miss Magdalen is going to marry somebody who is older than herself? Your poor papa was older than I was, four years and a half older. Jane Dibabs -- the Dibabses lived in the beautiful little thatched white house one story high, covered all over with ivy and creeping plants, with an exquisite little porch with twining honysuckles and all sorts of things: where the earwigs used to fall into one's tea on a summer evening, and always fell upon their backs and kicked dreadfully, and where the frogs used to get into the rushlight shades when one stopped all night, and sit up and look through the little holes like Christians -- Jane Dibabs, SHE married a man who was a great deal older than herself, and WOULD marry him, notwithstanding all that could be said to the contrary, and she was so fond of him that nothing was ever equal to it. There was no fuss made about Jane Dibabs, and her husband was a most honourable and excellent man, and everybody spoke well of him. Then why should there by any fuss about this Magdalen
Her husband is much older; he is not her own choice; his character is the very reverse of that which you have just described. Don't you see a broad destinction between the two cases
My dear
how do you find yourself tonight? I hope you are better
Almost well, mama
Kate
My son Nicholas has just come home, and I have come, according to custom, my dear, to know, from your own lips, exactly how you are; for he won't take my account, and never will
He is later than usual to-night
Nearly half an hour
Well, I never saw such people in all my life as you are, for time, up here
I declare I never did! I had not the least idea that Nicholas was after his time, not the smallest. Mr Nickleby used to say -- your poor papa, I am speaking of, Kate my dear -- used to say, that appetite was the best clock in the world, but you have no appetite, my dear Miss Bray, I wish you had, and upon my word I really think you ought to take something that would give you one. I am sure I don't know, but I have heard that two or three dozen native lobsters give an appetite, though that comes to the same thing after all, for I suppose you must have an appetite before you can take 'em. If I said lobsters, I meant oysters, but of course it's all the same, though really how you came to know about Nicholas
We happened to be just talking about him, mama; that was it
You never seem to me to be talking about anything else, Kate, and upon my word I am quite surprised at your being so very thoughtless. You can find subjects enough to talk about sometimes, and when you know how important it is to keep up Miss Bray's spirits, and interest her, and all that, it really is quite extraordinary to me what can induce you to keep on prose, prose, prose, din, din, din, everlastingly, upon the same theme. You are a very kind nurse, Kate, and a very good one, and I know you mean very well; but I will say this -- that if it wasn't for me, I really don't know what would become of Miss Bray's spirits, and so I tell the doctor every day. He says he wonders how I sustain my own, and I am sure I very often wonder myself how I can contrive to keep up as I do. Of course it's an exertion, but still, when I know how much depends upon me in this house, I am obliged to make it. There's nothing praiseworthy in that, but it's necessary, and I do it
You are quite right, mother
quite right. He is a fine fellow
Good-looking, too
Decidedly good-looking
What may you call his nose, now, my dear
Call it
Ah
what style of nose? What order of architecture, if one may say so. I am not very learned in noses. Do you call it a Roman or a Grecian
Upon my word, mother
as well as I remember, I should call it a kind of Composite, or mixed nose. But I have no very strong recollection on the subject. If it will afford you any gratification, I'll observe it more closely, and let you know
I wish you would, my dear
Very well
I will
He is very much attached to you, Nicholas, my dear
Hem
I don't know about that, my dear, but I think it is very necessary that somebody should be in his confidence; highly necessary
I am sure, my dear Nicholas, how you can have failed to notice it, is, to me, quite extraordinary; though I don't know why I should say that, either, because, of course, as far as it goes, and to a certain extent, there is a great deal in this sort of thing, especially in this early stage, which, however clear it may be to females, can scarcely be expected to be so evident to men. I don't say that I have any particular penetration in such matters. I may have; those about me should know best about that, and perhaps do know. Upon that point I shall express no opinion, it wouldn't become me to do so, it's quite out of the question, quite
I think it my duty, Nicholas, my dear
to tell you what I know: not only because you have a right to know it too, and to know everything that happens in this family, but because you have it in your power to promote and assist the thing very much; and there is no doubt that the sooner one can come to a clear understanding on such subjects, it is always better, every way. There are a great many things you might do; such as taking a walk in the garden sometimes, or sitting upstairs in your own room for a little while, or making believe to fall asleep occasionally, or pretending that you recollected some business, and going out for an hour or so, and taking Mr Smike with you. These seem very slight things, and I dare say you will be amused at my making them of so much importance; at the same time, my dear, I can assure you (and you'll find this out, Nicholas, for yourself one of these days, if you ever fall in love with anybody; as I trust and hope you will, provided she is respectable and well conducted, and of course you'd never dream of falling in love with anybody who was not), I say, I can assure you that a great deal more depends upon these little things than you would suppose possible. If your poor papa was alive, he would tell you how much depended on the parties being left alone. Of course, you are not to go out of the room as if you meant it and did it on purpose, but as if it was quite an accident, and to come back again in the same way. If you cough in the passage before you open the door, or whistle carelessly, or hum a tune, or something of that sort, to let them know you're coming, it's always better; because, of course, though it's not only natural but perfectly correct and proper under the circumstances, still it is very confusing if you interrupt young people when they are -- when they are sitting on the sofa, and -- and all that sort of thing: which is very nonsensical, perhaps, but still they will do it
With whom
What! OUR Kate! My sister
Lord, Nicholas
whose Kate should it be, if not ours; or what should I care about it, or take any interest in it for, if it was anybody but your sister
Dear mother
surely it can't be
Very good, my dear
Wait and see
I am very much disturbed by what you tell me
though I yet hope you may be mistaken
I don't understand why you should hope so
I confess; but you may depend upon it I am not
What of Kate
Why that, my dear
is just the point upon which I am not yet satisfied. During this sickness, she has been constantly at Madeline's bedside -- never were two people so fond of each other as they have grown -- and to tell you the truth, Nicholas, I have rather kept her away now and then, because I think it's a good plan, and urges a young man on. He doesn't get too sure, you know
Dear mother
don't you see that if there were really any serious inclination on the part of Mr Frank towards Kate, and we suffered ourselves for a moment to encourage it, we should be acting a most dishonourable and ungrateful part? I ask you if you don't see it, but I need not say that I know you don't, or you would have been more strictly on your guard. Let me explain my meaning to you. Remember how poor we are
No
and for that reason poverty should engender an honest pride, that it may not lead and tempt us to unworthy actions, and that we may preserve the self-respect which a hewer of wood and drawer of water may maintain, and does better in maintaining than a monarch in preserving his. Think what we owe to these two brothers: remember what they have done, and what they do every day for us with a generosity and delicacy for which the devotion of our whole lives would be a most imperfect and inadequate return. What kind of return would that be which would be comprised in our permitting their nephew, their only relative, whom they regard as a son, and for whom it would be mere childishness to suppose they have not formed plans suitably adapted to the education he has had, and the fortune he will inherit -- in our permitting him to marry a portionless girl: so closely connected with us, that the irresistible inference must be, that he was entrapped by a plot; that it was a deliberate scheme, and a speculation amongst us three? Bring the matter clearly before yourself, mother. Now, how would you feel, if they were married, and the brothers, coming here on one of those kind errands which bring them here so often, you had to break out to them the truth? Would you be at ease, and feel that you had played an open part
Why, to be sure, that would place HIM in a better situation with them
but we should still be open to the same suspicions; the distance between us would still be as great; the advantages to be gained would still be as manifest as now. We may be reckoning without our host in all this
and I trust, and almost believe we are. If it be otherwise, I have that confidence in Kate that I know she will feel as I do -- and in you, dear mother, to be assured that after a little consideration you will do the same
My dear sir, no time must be lost. This lad shall not die, if such human means as we can use can save his life; neither shall he die alone, and in a strange place. Remove him tomorrow morning, see that he has every comfort that his situation requires, and don't leave him; don't leave him, my dear sir, until you know that there is no longer any immediate danger. It would be hard, indeed, to part you now. No, no, no! Tim shall wait upon you tonight, sir; Tim shall wait upon you tonight with a parting word or two. Brother Ned, my dear fellow, Mr Nickleby waits to shake hands and say goodbye; Mr Nickleby won't be long gone; this poor chap will soon get better, very soon get better; and then he'll find out some nice homely country-people to leave him with, and will go backwards and forwards sometimes -- backwards and forwards you know, Ned. And there's no cause to be downhearted, for he'll very soon get better, very soon. Won't he, won't he, Ned
See
they are at the corner of the lane still! And now there's Kate, poor Kate, whom you said you couldn't bear to say goodbye to, waving her handkerchief. Don't go without one gesture of farewell to Kate
I cannot make it
Do you see her now? Is she there still
Yes, yes
There! She waves her hand again! I have answered it for you -- and now they are out of sight. Do not give way so bitterly, dear friend, don't. You will meet them all again
In heaven. I humbly pray to God in heaven
Who said it was, man
Who said it was
You looked as if you thought I was to blame
Pshaw
I blame him for not living an hour longer. One hour longer would have been long enough. I blame no one else
N -- n -- no one else
Not for this mischance
I have an old score to clear with that young fellow who has carried off your mistress; but that has nothing to do with his blustering just now, for we should soon have been quit of him, but for this cursed accident
The coach
We came in a coach. Is it waiting
Ten thousand pounds! He said ten thousand! The precise sum paid in but yesterday for the two mortgages, and which would have gone out again, at heavy interest, tomorrow. If that house has failed, and he the first to bring the news!-- Is the coach there
Yes, yes
It's here. Dear, dear, what a fiery man you are
Come here
We mustn't make a show of being disturbed. We'll go down arm in arm
But you pinch me black and blue
My house
Oh dear! my house
True
I have not observed the way we came. I should like a glass of water. You have that in the house, I suppose
You shall have a glass of -- of anything you like
It's no use knocking, coachman. Ring the bell
How's this
Peg is so very deaf
Oh dear! Ring again, coachman. She SEES the bell
I am almost afraid to go in, I declare
Suppose she should be murdered. Lying with her brains knocked out by a poker, eh
Suppose she were
I tell you, I wish such things were more common than they are, and more easily done. You may stare and shiver. I do
The hag is out, on some preparation for your wedding festivities, I suppose
See here! I destroy the bond; we shall never need it now
How now
Robbed! robbed
Robbed! of money
No, no, no. Worse! far worse
Of what then
Worse than money, worse than money
She had better have stolen money -- all my money -- I haven't much! She had better have made me a beggar than have done this
Done what
Done what, you devil's dotard
There is something missing, you say
What is it
Papers, deeds. I am a ruined man. Lost, lost! I am robbed, I am ruined! She saw me reading it -- reading it of late -- I did very often -- She watched me, saw me put it in the box that fitted into this, the box is gone, she has stolen it. Damnation seize her, she has robbed me
Of WHAT
Of what
She don't know what it is; she can't read
There's only one way in which money can be made of it, and that is by taking it to her. Somebody will read it for her, and tell her what to do. She and her accomplice will get money for it and be let off besides; they'll make a merit of it -- say they found it -- knew it -- and be evidence against me. The only person it will fall upon is me, me, me
Patience
Hear reason. She can't have been gone long. I'll call the police. Do you but give information of what she has stolen, and they'll lay hands upon her, trust me. Here! Help
No, no, no
I can't, I daren't
Help! help
No, no, no
I tell you no. I daren't, I daren't
Daren't make this robbery public
No
Hush! Hush! Not a word of this; not a word must be said. I am undone. Whichever way I turn, I am undone. I am betrayed. I shall be given up. I shall die in Newgate
The worst has happened
the house has failed. I see. The rumour was abroad in the city last night, and reached the ears of those merchants. Well, well
Ten thousand pounds! And only lying there for a day -- for one day! How many anxious years, how many pinching days and sleepless nights, before I scraped together that ten thousand pounds!-- Ten thousand pounds! How many proud painted dames would have fawned and smiled, and how many spendthrift blockheads done me lip-service to my face and cursed me in their hearts, while I turned that ten thousand pounds into twenty! While I ground, and pinched, and used these needy borrowers for my pleasure and profit, what smooth-tongued speeches, and courteous looks, and civil letters, they would have given me! The cant of the lying world is, that men like me compass our riches by dissimulation and treachery: by fawning, cringing, and stooping. Why, how many lies, what mean and abject evasions, what humbled behaviour from upstarts who, but for my money, would spurn me aside as they do their betters every day, would that ten thousand pounds have brought me in! Grant that I had doubled it -- made cent. per cent.-- for every sovereign told another -- there would not be one piece of money in all the heap which wouldn't represent ten thousand mean and paltry lies, told, not by the money-lender, oh no! but by the money-borrowers, your liberal, thoughtless, generous, dashing folks, who wouldn't be so mean as save a sixpence for the world
The time has been when nothing could have moved me like the loss of this great sum. Nothing. For births, deaths, marriages, and all the events which are of interest to most men, have (unless they are connected with gain or loss of money) no interest for me. But now, I swear, I mix up with the loss, his triumph in telling it. If he had brought it about,-- I almost feel as if he had,-- I couldn't hate him more. Let me but retaliate upon him, by degrees, however slow -- let me but begin to get the better of him, let me but turn the scale -- and I can bear it
Well, Mr Squeers
how do YOU do
Why, sir
I'm pretty well. So's the family, and so's the boys, except for a sort of rash as is a running through the school, and rather puts 'em off their feed. But it's a ill wind as blows no good to nobody; that's what I always say when them lads has a wisitation. A wisitation, sir, is the lot of mortality. Mortality itself, sir, is a wisitation. The world is chock full of wisitations; and if a boy repines at a wisitation and makes you uncomfortable with his noise, he must have his head punched. That's going according to the Scripter, that is
Mr Squeers
Sir
We'll avoid these precious morsels of morality if you please, and talk of business
With all my heart, sir
and first let me say
First let ME say, if you please.-- Noggs
I did. Go to your dinner. And go at once. Do you hear
It an't time
My time is yours, and I say it is
You alter it every day
It isn't fair
You don't keep many cooks, and can easily apologise to them for the trouble
Begone, sir
I have reason to suspect that fellow
Therefore, until I have thought of the shortest and least troublesome way of ruining him, I hold it best to keep him at a distance
It wouldn't take much to ruin him, I should think
Perhaps not
Nor to ruin a great many people whom I know. You were going to say
Why, what I was a-going to say, sir, is, that this here business regarding of that ungrateful and hard-hearted chap, Snawley senior, puts me out of my way, and occasions a inconveniency quite unparalleled, besides, as I may say, making, for whole weeks together, Mrs Squeers a perfect widder. It's a pleasure to me to act with you, of course
Of course
Yes, I say of course
but at the same time, when one comes, as I do now, better than two hundred and fifty mile to take a afferdavid, it does put a man out a good deal, letting alone the risk
And where may the risk be, Mr Squeers
I said, letting alone the risk
And I said, where was the risk
I wasn't complaining, you know, Mr Nickleby
Upon my word I never see such a
I ask you where is the risk
Where the risk
Why, it an't necessary to mention. Certain subjects is best awoided. Oh, you know what risk I mean
How often have I told you
and how often am I to tell you, that you run no risk? What have you sworn, or what are you asked to swear, but that at such and such a time a boy was left with you in the name of Smike; that he was at your school for a given number of years, was lost under such and such circumstances, is now found, and has been identified by you in such and such keeping? This is all true; is it not
Yes
that's all true
Well, then
what risk do you run? Who swears to a lie but Snawley; a man whom I have paid much less than I have you
He certainly did it cheap, did Snawley
He did it cheap
yes, and he did it well, and carries it off with a hypocritical face and a sanctified air, but you! Risk! What do you mean by risk? The certificates are all genuine, Snawley HAD another son, he HAS been married twice, his first wife IS dead, none but her ghost could tell that she didn't write that letter, none but Snawley himself can tell that this is not his son, and that his son is food for worms! The only perjury is Snawley's, and I fancy he is pretty well used to it. Where's your risk
Why, you know
if you come to that, I might say where's yours
You might say where's mine
you may say where's mine. I don't appear in the business, neither do you. All Snawley's interest is to stick well to the story he has told; and all his risk is, to depart from it in the least. Talk of YOUR risk in the conspiracy
I say
don't call it that! Just as a favour, don't
Call it what you like
but attend to me. This tale was originally fabricated as a means of annoyance against one who hurt your trade and half cudgelled you to death, and to enable you to obtain repossession of a half-dead drudge, whom you wished to regain, because, while you wreaked your vengeance on him for his share in the business, you knew that the knowledge that he was again in your power would be the best punishment you could inflict upon your enemy. Is that so, Mr Squeers
Why, sir
in a measure it was
What does that mean
Why, in a measure means," returned Squeers, 'as it may be, that it wasn't all on my account, because you had some old grudge to satisfy, too
If I had not had
do you think I should have helped you
Why no, I don't suppose you would
I only wanted that point to be all square and straight between us
How can it ever be otherwise
Except that the account is against me, for I spend money to gratify my hatred, and you pocket it, and gratify yours at the same time. You are, at least, as avaricious as you are revengeful. So am I. Which is best off? You, who win money and revenge, at the same time and by the same process, and who are, at all events, sure of money, if not of revenge; or I, who am only sure of spending money in any case, and can but win bare revenge at last
Now
hear the design which I have conceived, and which I must -- I say, must, if I can ripen it -- have carried into execution. No advantage can be reaped from this deed, whatever it is, save by the girl herself, or her husband; and the possession of this deed by one or other of them is indispensable to any advantage being gained. THAT I have discovered beyond the possibility of doubt. I want that deed brought here, that I may give the man who brings it fifty pounds in gold, and burn it to ashes before his face
Yes; but who's to bring it
Nobody, perhaps, for much is to be done before it can be got at
But if anybody -- you
whether one hundred pound was the highest that Mr Nickleby could go
whether he couldn't go another fifty
But how are you to get at the woman
that's what it is as puzzles me
I may not get at her at all
but I'll try. I have hunted people in this city, before now, who have been better hid than she; and I know quarters in which a guinea or two, carefully spent, will often solve darker riddles than this. Ay, and keep them close too, if need be! I hear my man ringing at the door. We may as well part. You had better not come to and fro, but wait till you hear from me
Good
I say! If you shouldn't find her out, you'll pay expenses at the Saracen, and something for loss of time
Well
yes! You have nothing more to say
Now
come what come may, for the present I am firm and unshaken. Let me but retrieve this one small portion of my loss and disgrace; let me but defeat him in this one hope, dear to his heart as I know it must be; let me but do this; and it shall be the first link in such a chain which I will wind about him, as never man forged yet
Well, this is a pretty go, is this here! An uncommon pretty go! Here have I been, a matter of how many weeks -- hard upon six -- a follering up this here blessed old dowager petty larcenerer
and Dotheboys Hall a-running itself regularly to seed the while! That's the worst of ever being in with a owdacious chap like that old Nickleby. You never know when he's done with you, and if you're in for a penny, you're in for a pound
I never see
un in our line, but it would have been too limited for him; his genius would have busted all bonds, and coming over every obstacle, broke down all before it, till it erected itself into a monneyment of -- Well, I'll think of the rest, and say it when conwenient
The pigs is well
the cows is well, and the boys is bobbish. Young Sprouter has been a-winking, has he? I'll wink him when I get back. "Cobbey would persist in sniffing while he was a-eating his dinner, and said that the beef was so strong it made him."-- Very good, Cobbey, we'll see if we can't make you sniff a little without beef. "Pitcher was took with another fever,"-- of course he was --"and being fetched by his friends, died the day after he got home,"-- of course he did, and out of aggravation; it's part of a deep-laid system. There an't another chap in the school but that boy as would have died exactly at the end of the quarter: taking it out of me to the very last, and then carrying his spite to the utmost extremity. "The juniorest Palmer said he wished he was in Heaven." I really don't know, I do NOT know what's to be done with that young fellow; he's always a-wishing something horrid. He said once, he wished he was a donkey, because then he wouldn't have a father as didn't love him! Pretty wicious that for a child of six
It's a long time to have been a-lingering in London
and this is a precious hole to come and live in, even if it has been only for a week or so. Still, one hundred pound is five boys, and five boys takes a whole year to pay one hundred pounds, and there's their keep to be substracted, besides. There's nothing lost, neither, by one's being here; because the boys' money comes in just the same as if I was at home, and Mrs Squeers she keeps them in order. There'll be some lost time to make up, of course. There'll be an arrear of flogging as'll have to be gone through: still, a couple of days makes that all right, and one don't mind a little extra work for one hundred pound. It's pretty nigh the time to wait upon the old woman. From what she said last night, I suspect that if I'm to succeed at all, I shall succeed tonight; so I'll have half a glass more, to wish myself success, and put myself in spirits. Mrs Squeers, my dear, your health
But what's the use of tapping
She'll never hear. I suppose she isn't doing anything very particular; and if she is, it don't much matter, that I see
Well, my Slider
Is that you
Ah! it's me, and me's the first person singular, nominative case, agreeing with the verb "it's", and governed by Squeers understood, as a acorn, a hour; but when the h is sounded, the a only is to be used, as a and, a art, a ighway
At least, if it isn't, you don't know any better, and if it is, I've done it accidentally
Well, my Slider
I hear you
I've come according to promise
So they used to say in that part of the country I come from
but I think oil's better
Better than what
No
of course not
I never saw such a monster as you are
Do you see this? This is a bottle
I see it
Well, and do you see THIS
This is a glass
See here, then
I fill the glass from the bottle, and I say "Your health, Slider," and empty it; then I rinse it genteelly with a little drop, which I'm forced to throw into the fire -- hallo! we shall have the chimbley alight next -- fill it again, and hand it over to you
YOUR health
She understands that, anyways
Now then, let's have a talk. How's the rheumatics
What's the reason
what's the reason of rheumatics? What do they mean? What do people have'em for -- eh
Measles, rheumatics, hooping-cough, fevers, agers, and lumbagers
is all philosophy together; that's what it is. The heavenly bodies is philosophy, and the earthly bodies is philosophy. If there's a screw loose in a heavenly body, that's philosophy; and if there's screw loose in a earthly body, that's philosophy too; or it may be that sometimes there's a little metaphysics in it, but that's not often. Philosophy's the chap for me. If a parent asks a question in the classical, commercial, or mathematical line, says I, gravely, "Why, sir, in the first place, are you a philosopher?"--"No, Mr Squeers," he says, "I an't." "Then, sir," says I, "I am sorry for you, for I shan't be able to explain it." Naturally, the parent goes away and wishes he was a philosopher, and, equally naturally, thinks I'm one
That's the time of day
You look twenty pound ten better than you did
Twenty pound ten better
than you did that day when I first introduced myself. Don't you know
Ah
but you frightened me that day
Did I
well, it was rather a startling thing for a stranger to come and recommend himself by saying that he knew all about you, and what your name was, and why you were living so quiet here, and what you had boned, and who you boned it from, wasn't it
But I know everything that happens in that way, you see
Nothing takes place, of that kind, that I an't up to entirely. I'm a sort of a lawyer, Slider, of first-rate standing, and understanding too; I'm the intimate friend and confidential adwiser of pretty nigh every man, woman, and child that gets themselves into difficulties by being too nimble with their fingers, I'm
Ha, ha, ha
and so he wasn't married after all, wasn't he. Not married after all
No
that he wasn't
And a young lover come and carried off the bride, eh
From under his very nose
and I'm told the young chap cut up rough besides, and broke the winders, and forced him to swaller his wedding favour which nearly choked him
Tell me all about it again
let's hear it all again, beginning at the beginning now, as if you'd never told me. Let's have it every word -- now -- now -- beginning at the very first, you know, when he went to the house that morning
He's a treacherous old goat
and cozened me with cunning tricks and lying promises, but never mind. I'm even with him. I'm even with him
More than even, Slider
you'd have been even with him if he'd got married; but with the disappointment besides, you're a long way ahead. Out of sight, Slider, quite out of sight. And that reminds me
if you want me to give you my opinion of them deeds, and tell you what you'd better keep and what you'd better burn, why, now's your time, Slider
There an't no hurry for that
Oh! very well
it don't matter to me; you asked me, you know. I shouldn't charge you nothing, being a friend. You're the best judge of course. But you're a bold woman, Slider
How do you mean, bold
Why, I only mean that if it was me, I wouldn't keep papers as might hang me, littering about when they might be turned into money -- them as wasn't useful made away with, and them as was, laid by somewheres, safe; that's all
but everybody's the best judge of their own affairs. All I say is, Slider, I wouldn't do it
Come
then you shall see 'em
I don't want to see 'em
don't talk as if it was a treat. Show 'em to somebody else, and take their advice
And now you're up, my Slider
bolt the door
Now you see
what's of no use we'll burn; what we can get any money by, we'll keep; and if there's any we could get him into trouble by, and fret and waste away his heart to shreds, those we'll take particular care of; for that's what I want to do, and what I hoped to do when I left him
I thought
that you didn't bear him any particular good-will. But, I say, why didn't you take some money besides
Some what
Some money
I do believe the woman hears me, and wants to make me break a wessel, so that she may have the pleasure of nursing me. Some money, Slider, money
Why, what a man you are to ask
If I had taken money from Arthur Gride, he'd have scoured the whole earth to find me -- aye, and he'd have smelt it out, and raked it up, somehow, if I had buried it at the bottom of the deepest well in England. No, no! I knew better than that. I took what I thought his secrets were hid in: and them he couldn't afford to make public, let'em be worth ever so much money. He's an old dog; a sly, old, cunning, thankless dog! He first starved, and then tricked me; and if I could I'd kill him
All right, and very laudable
But, first and foremost, Slider, burn the box. You should never keep things as may lead to discovery. Always mind that. So while you pull it to pieces (which you can easily do, for it's very old and rickety) and burn it in little bits, I'll look over the papers and tell you what they are
There
you poke the pieces between the bars, and make up a good fire, and I'll read the while. Let me see, let me see
Ha, ha, ha
What's that writing about, eh
Nothing particular
It's only an old lease, as well as I can make out. Throw it in the fire
This
is a bundle of overdue acceptances and renewed bills of six or eight young gentlemen, but they're all MPs, so it's of no use to anybody. Throw it in the fire
This
seems to be some deed of sale of the right of presentation to the rectory of Purechurch, in the valley of Cashup. Take care of that, Slider, literally for God's sake. It'll fetch its price at the Auction Mart
What's the next
Why, this
seems, from the two letters that's with it, to be a bond from a curate down in the country, to pay half a year's wages of forty pound for borrowing twenty. Take care of that, for if he don't pay it, his bishop will very soon be down upon him. We know what the camel and the needle's eye means; no man as can't live upon his income, whatever it is, must expect to go to heaven at any price. It's very odd; I don't see anything like it yet
What's the matter
Nothing
only I'm looking for
Here you are
bonds -- take care of them. Warrant of attorney -- take care of that. Two cognovits -- take care of them. Lease and release -- burn that. Ah! "Madeline Bray -- come of age or marry -- the said Madeline"-- here, burn THAT
I've got it
I've got it! Hurrah! The plan was a good one, though the chance was desperate, and the day's our own at last
Even here
we used to loiter before we knew what death was, and when we little thought whose ashes would rest beneath; and, wondering at the silence, sit down to rest and speak below our breath. Once, Kate was lost, and after an hour of fruitless search, they found her, fast asleep, under that tree which shades my father's grave. He was very fond of her, and said when he took her up in his arms, still sleeping, that whenever he died he would wish to be buried where his dear little child had laid her head. You see his wish was not forgotten
What is that
If I can redeem it, or hope to do so, you know I will
I am sure you will
Promise me that when I die, I shall be buried near -- as near as they can make my grave -- to the tree we saw today
Good Heaven, what is this
Be calm; you have been dreaming
No, no, no
Hold me tight. Don't let me go. There, there. Behind the tree
This is nothing but your fancy
nothing else, indeed
I know better. I saw as plain as I see now
Oh! say you'll keep me with you. Swear you won't leave me for an instant
Do I ever leave you
Lie down again -- there! You see I'm here. Now, tell me; what was it
Do you remember
do you remember my telling you of the man who first took me to the school
Yes, surely
I raised my eyes, just now, towards that tree -- that one with the thick trunk -- and there, with his eyes fixed on me, he stood
Only reflect for one moment
granting, for an instant, that it's likely he is alive and wandering about a lonely place like this, so far removed from the public road, do you think that at this distance of time you could possibly know that man again
Anywhere -- in any dress
but, just now, he stood leaning upon his stick and looking at me, exactly as I told you I remembered him. He was dusty with walking, and poorly dressed -- I think his clothes were ragged -- but directly I saw him, the wet night, his face when he left me, the parlour I was left in, and the people that were there, all seemed to come back together. When he knew I saw him, he looked frightened; for he started, and shrunk away. I have thought of him by day, and dreamt of him by night. He looked in my sleep, when I was quite a little child, and has looked in my sleep ever since, as he did just now
That's well
The sleep has done you good
I have had such pleasant dreams
Such pleasant, happy dreams
Of what
I shall soon be there
I am not afraid to die
I am quite contented. I almost think that if I could rise from this bed quite well I would not wish to do so, now. You have so often told me we shall meet again -- so very often lately, and now I feel the truth of that so strongly -- that I can even bear to part from you
You say well
and comfort me very much, dear fellow. Let me hear you say you are happy, if you can
I must tell you something, first. I should not have a secret from you. You would not blame me, at a time like this, I know
I blame you
I am sure you would not. You asked me why I was so changed, and -- and sat so much alone. Shall I tell you why
Not if it pains you
I only asked that I might make you happier, if I could
I know. I felt that, at the time
You will forgive me; I could not help it, but though I would have died to make her happy, it broke my heart to see -- I know he loves her dearly -- Oh! who could find that out so soon as I
Now
I am happy
What is this
that hangs over me, and I cannot shake off? I have never pampered myself, and should not be ill. I have never moped, and pined, and yielded to fancies; but what CAN a man do without rest
Night after night comes and goes, and I have no rest. If I sleep, what rest is that which is disturbed by constant dreams of the same detested faces crowding round me -- of the same detested people, in every variety of action, mingling with all I say and do, and always to my defeat? Waking, what rest have I, constantly haunted by this heavy shadow of -- I know not what -- which is its worst character? I must have rest. One night's unbroken rest, and I should be a man again
This is strange
noon, and Noggs not here! What drunken brawl keeps him away? I would give something now -- something in money even after that dreadful loss -- if he had stabbed a man in a tavern scuffle, or broken into a house, or picked a pocket, or done anything that would send him abroad with an iron ring upon his leg, and rid me of him. Better still, if I could throw temptation in his way, and lure him on to rob me. He should be welcome to what he took, so I brought the law upon him; for he is a traitor, I swear! How, or when, or where, I don't know, though I suspect
But there is a gentleman, sir
below, who was standing at the door when I came in, and he says
What says he
I told you I would see nobody
He says
that he comes on very particular business which admits of no excuse; and I thought perhaps it might be about
About what, in the devil's name
You spy and speculate on people's business with me, do you
Dear, no, sir! I saw you were anxious, and thought it might be about Mr Noggs; that's all
Saw I was anxious
they all watch me, now. Where is this person? You did not say I was not down yet, I hope
Well
I'll see him. Go you to your kitchen, and keep there. Do you mind me
Humph
This is an unexpected favour, sir
And an unwelcome one
an unwelcome one, I know
Men say you are truth itself, sir
You speak truth now, at all events, and I'll not contradict you. The favour is, at least, as unwelcome as it is unexpected. I can scarcely say more
Plainly, sir
Plainly, sir
I wish this conference to be a short one, and to end where it begins. I guess the subject upon which you are about to speak, and I'll not hear you. You like plainness, I believe; there it is. Here is the door as you see. Our way lies in very different directions. Take yours, I beg of you, and leave me to pursue mine in quiet
In quiet
To pursue HIS way in quiet
You will scarcely remain in my house, I presume, sir, against my will
or you can scarcely hope to make an impression upon a man who closes his ears to all that you can say, and is firmly and resolutely determined not to hear you
Mr Nickleby, sir
I come here against my will, sorely and grievously against my will. I have never been in this house before; and, to speak my mind, sir, I don't feel at home or easy in it, and have no wish ever to be here again. You do not guess the subject on which I come to speak to you; you do not indeed. I am sure of that, or your manner would be a very different one
Shall I go on
Oh, by all means, if you please
Here are walls to speak to, sir, a desk, and two stools: most attentive auditors, and certain not to interrupt you. Go on, I beg; make my house yours, and perhaps by the time I return from my walk, you will have finished what you have to say, and will yield me up possession again
Not a word. I tell you, sir, not a word. Virtuous as you are, you are not an angel yet, to appear in men's houses whether they will or no, and pour your speech into unwilling ears. Preach to the walls I tell you; not to me
I am no angel, Heaven knows
but an erring and imperfect man; nevertheless, there is one quality which all men have, in common with the angels, blessed opportunities of exercising, if they will; mercy. It is an errand of mercy that brings me here. Pray let me discharge it
I show no mercy
and I ask none. Seek no mercy from me, sir, in behalf of the fellow who has imposed upon your childish credulity, but let him expect the worst that I can do
HE ask mercy at your hands
ask it at his, sir; ask it at his. If you will not hear me now, when you may, hear me when you must, or anticipate what I would say, and take measures to prevent our ever meeting again. Your nephew is a noble lad, sir, an honest, noble lad. What you are, Mr Nickleby, I will not say; but what you have done, I know. Now, sir, when you go about the business in which you have been recently engaged, and find it difficult of pursuing, come to me and my brother Ned, and Tim Linkinwater, sir, and we'll explain it for you -- and come soon, or it may be too late, and you may have it explained with a little more roughness, and a little less delicacy -- and never forget, sir, that I came here this morning, in mercy to you, and am still ready to talk to you in the same spirit
This
from its wildness, should be another of those dreams that have so broken my rest of late. In mercy to me! Pho! The old simpleton has gone mad
No
he is not indeed, and I don't think he will be at home for a very long time; that's more
Do you know who I am
Oh yes, I know you very well; too well, perhaps, and perhaps he does too, and sorry am I that I should have to say it
Tell him that I saw him through the window-blind above, as I crossed the road just now, and that I would speak to him on business
Do you hear
I hear
I knew this woman was a hypocrite, in the way of psalms and Scripture phrases
but I never knew she drank before
Stop! You don't come in here
You have said more than enough to him on business, before now. I always told him what dealing with you and working out your schemes would come to. It was either you or the schoolmaster -- one of you, or the two between you -- that got the forged letter done; remember that! That wasn't his doing, so don't lay it at his door
Hold your tongue, you Jezebel
Ah, I know when to hold my tongue, and when to speak, Mr Nickleby
Take care that other people know when to hold theirs
You jade
if your husband has been idiot enough to trust you with his secrets, keep them; keep them, she-devil that you are
Not so much his secrets as other people's secrets, perhaps
not so much his secrets as yours. None of your black looks at me! You'll want 'em all, perhaps, for another time. You had better keep 'em
Will you
will you go to your husband and tell him that I know he is at home, and that I must see him? And will you tell me what it is that you and he mean by this new style of behaviour
No
I'll do neither
You set me at defiance, do you
Yes
Hush
Go away, go away
Come down
Go a -- way
Don't speak to me, don't knock, don't call attention to the house, but go away
I'll knock, I swear, till I have your neighbours up in arms
if you don't tell me what you mean by lurking there, you whining cur
I can't hear what you say -- don't talk to me -- it isn't safe -- go away -- go away
Come down, I say. Will you come down
No -- o -- o -- oo
How is this
that they all fall from me, and shun me like the plague, these men who have licked the dust from my feet? IS my day past, and is this indeed the coming on of night? I'll know what it means! I will, at any cost. I am firmer and more myself, just now, than I have been these many days
My name's Nickleby
I know it
Which of your firm was it who called on me this morning
Mr Charles
Then, tell Mr Charles I want to see him
You shall see
you shall see, not only Mr Charles, but Mr Ned likewise
I want to speak to you, who spoke to me this morning
I have no secrets from my brother Ned, or from Tim Linkinwater
I have
Mr Nickleby, sir
the matter upon which my brother Charles called upon you this morning is one which is already perfectly well known to us three, and to others besides, and must unhappily soon become known to a great many more. He waited upon you, sir, this morning, alone, as a matter of delicacy and consideration. We feel, now, that further delicacy and consideration would be misplaced; and, if we confer together, it must be as we are or not at all
Well, gentlemen
talking in riddles would seem to be the peculiar forte of you two, and I suppose your clerk, like a prudent man, has studied the art also with a view to your good graces. Talk in company, gentlemen, in God's name. I'll humour you
Humour
He'll humour us! He'll humour Cheeryble Brothers! Do you hear that? Do you hear him? DO you hear him say he'll humour Cheeryble Brothers
Tim
pray, Tim, pray now, don't
As nobody bids me to a seat
I'll take one, for I am fatigued with walking. And now, if you please, gentlemen, I wish to know -- I demand to know; I have the right -- what you have to say to me, which justifies such a tone as you have assumed, and that underhand interference in my affairs which, I have reason to suppose, you have been practising. I tell you plainly, gentlemen, that little as I care for the opinion of the world (as the slang goes), I don't choose to submit quietly to slander and malice. Whether you suffer yourselves to be imposed upon too easily, or wilfully make yourselves parties to it, the result to me is the same. In either case, you can't expect from a plain man like myself much consideration or forbearance
Very well, sir
Very well. Brother Ned, will you ring the bell
Charles, my dear fellow! stop one instant
It will be better for Mr Nickleby and for our object that he should remain silent, if he can, till we have said what we have to say. I wish him to understand that
Quite right, quite right
This is a good beginning
Oh! this is a good beginning. You are candid, honest, open-hearted, fair-dealing men! I always knew the real worth of such characters as yours! To tamper with a fellow like this, who would sell his soul (if he had one) for drink, and whose every word is a lie. What men are safe if this is done? Oh, it's a good beginning
I WILL speak
Hallo, you sir -- old Nickleby!-- what do you mean when you talk of "a fellow like this"? Who made me "a fellow like this"? If I would sell my soul for drink, why wasn't I a thief, swindler, housebreaker, area sneak, robber of pence out of the trays of blind men's dogs, rather than your drudge and packhorse? If my every word was a lie, why wasn't I a pet and favourite of yours? Lie! When did I ever cringe and fawn to you. Tell me that! I served you faithfully. I did more work, because I was poor, and took more hard words from you because I despised you and them, than any man you could have got from the parish workhouse. I did. I served you because I was proud; because I was a lonely man with you, and there were no other drudges to see my degradation; and because nobody knew, better than you, that I was a ruined man: that I hadn't always been what I am: and that I might have been better off, if I hadn't been a fool and fallen into the hands of you and others who were knaves. Do you deny that
Gently
you said you wouldn't
I said I wouldn't
don't tell me! Here, you Nickleby! Don't pretend not to mind me; it won't do; I know better. You were talking of tampering, just now. Who tampered with Yorkshire schoolmasters, and, while they sent the drudge out, that he shouldn't overhear, forgot that such great caution might render him suspicious, and that he might watch his master out at nights, and might set other eyes to watch the schoolmaster? Who tampered with a selfish father, urging him to sell his daughter to old Arthur Gride, and tampered with Gride too, and did so in the little office, WITH A CLOSET IN THE ROOM
Aha
you mind me now, do you? What first set this fag to be jealous of his master's actions, and to feel that, if he hadn't crossed him when he might, he would have been as bad as he, or worse? That master's cruel treatment of his own flesh and blood, and vile designs upon a young girl who interested even his broken- down, drunken, miserable hack, and made him linger in his service, in the hope of doing her some good (as, thank God, he had done others once or twice before), when he would, otherwise, have relieved his feelings by pummelling his master soundly, and then going to the Devil. He would -- mark that; and mark this -- that I'm here now, because these gentlemen thought it best. When I sought them out (as I did; there was no tampering with me), I told them I wanted help to find you out, to trace you down, to go through with what I had begun, to help the right; and that when I had done it, I'd burst into your room and tell you all, face to face, man to man, and like a man. Now I've said my say, and let anybody else say theirs, and fire away
Go on, gentlemen, go on! I'm patient, you see. There's law to be had, there's law. I shall call you to an account for this. Take care what you say; I shall make you prove it
The proof is ready
quite ready to our hands. The man Snawley, last night, made a confession
Who may "the man Snawley" be
and what may his "confession" have to do with my affairs
I told you this morning
that I came to you in mercy. How far you may be implicated in this last transaction, or how far the person who is now in custody may criminate you, you best know. But, justice must take its course against the parties implicated in the plot against this poor, unoffending, injured lad. It is not in my power, or in the power of my brother Ned, to save you from the consequences. The utmost we can do is, to warn you in time, and to give you an opportunity of escaping them. We would not have an old man like you disgraced and punished by your near relation; nor would we have him forget, like you, all ties of blood and nature. We entreat you -- brother Ned, you join me, I know, in this entreaty, and so, Tim Linkinwater, do you, although you pretend to be an obstinate dog, sir, and sit there frowning as if you didn't -- we entreat you to retire from London, to take shelter in some place where you will be safe from the consequences of these wicked designs, and where you may have time, sir, to atone for them, and to become a better man
And do you think
and do you think, you will so easily crush ME? Do you think that a hundred well-arranged plans, or a hundred suborned witnesses, or a hundred false curs at my heels, or a hundred canting speeches full of oily words, will move me? I thank you for disclosing your schemes, which I am now prepared for. You have not the man to deal with that you think; try me! and remember that I spit upon your fair words and false dealings, and dare you -- provoke you -- taunt you -- to do to me the very worst you can
I say, young fellow, you've been and done it now; you have
What's the matter with your head
Why, your man, your informing kidnapping man, has been and broke it
that's what's the matter with it. You've come at last, have you
Why have you not sent to me
How could I come till I knew what had befallen you
My family
my daughter, as is at that age when all the sensibilities is a- coming out strong in blow -- my son as is the young Norval of private life, and the pride and ornament of a doting willage -- here's a shock for my family! The coat-of-arms of the Squeerses is tore, and their sun is gone down into the ocean wave
You have been drinking
and have not yet slept yourself sober
I haven't been drinking YOUR health, my codger
so you have nothing to do with that
What should I get by sending to you
To be known to be in with you wouldn't do me a deal of good, and they won't take bail till they know something more of the case, so here am I hard and fast: and there are you, loose and comfortable
And so must you be in a few days
They can't hurt you, man
Why, I suppose they can't do much to me, if I explain how it was that I got into the good company of that there ca-daverous old Slider
who I wish was dead and buried, and resurrected and dissected, and hung upon wires in a anatomical museum, before ever I'd had anything to do with her. This is what him with the powdered head says this morning, in so many words: "Prisoner! As you have been found in company with this woman; as you were detected in possession of this document; as you were engaged with her in fraudulently destroying others, and can give no satisfactory account of yourself; I shall remand you for a week, in order that inquiries may be made, and evidence got. And meanwhile I can't take any bail for your appearance." Well then, what I say now is, that I CAN give a satisfactory account of myself; I can hand in the card of my establishment and say, "I am the Wackford Squeers as is therein named, sir. I am the man as is guaranteed, by unimpeachable references, to be a out-and-outer in morals and uprightness of principle. Whatever is wrong in this business is no fault of mine. I had no evil design in it, sir. I was not aware that anything was wrong. I was merely employed by a friend, my friend Mr Ralph Nickleby, of Golden Square. Send for him, sir, and ask him what he has to say; he's the man; not me
What document was it that you had
What document? Why, THE document
The Madeline What's-her-name one. It was a will; that's what it was
Of what nature, whose will, when dated, how benefiting her, to what extent
A will in her favour; that's all I know
and that's more than you'd have known, if you'd had them bellows on your head. It's all owing to your precious caution that they got hold of it. If you had let me burn it, and taken my word that it was gone, it would have been a heap of ashes behind the fire, instead of being whole and sound, inside of my great-coat
Beaten at every point
Ah
at the delightful village of Dotheboys near Greta Bridge in Yorkshire, youth are boarded, clothed, booked, washed, furnished with pocket-money, provided with all necessaries, instructed in all languages living and dead, mathematics, orthography, geometry, astronomy, trigonometry -- this is a altered state of trigonomics, this is! A double 1 -- all, everything -- a cobbler's weapon. U-p-up, adjective, not down. S-q- u-double e-r-s-Squeers, noun substantive, a educator of youth. Total, all up with Squeers
I tell you, once again
they can't hurt you. You shall have an action for false imprisonment, and make a profit of this, yet. We will devise a story for you that should carry you through twenty times such a trivial scrape as this; and if they want security in a thousand pounds for your reappearance in case you should be called upon, you shall have it. All you have to do is, to keep back the truth. You're a little fuddled tonight, and may not be able to see this as clearly as you would at another time; but this is what you must do, and you'll need all your senses about you; for a slip might be awkward
Oh
That's what I'm to do, is it? Now then, just you hear a word or two from me. I an't a-going to have any stories made for me, and I an't a-going to stick to any. If I find matters going again me, I shall expect you to take your share, and I'll take care you do. You never said anything about danger. I never bargained for being brought into such a plight as this, and I don't mean to take it as quiet as you think. I let you lead me on, from one thing to another, because we had been mixed up together in a certain sort of a way, and if you had liked to be ill- natured you might perhaps have hurt the business, and if you liked to be good-natured you might throw a good deal in my way. Well; if all goes right now, that's quite correct, and I don't mind it; but if anything goes wrong, then times are altered, and I shall just say and do whatever I think may serve me most, and take advice from nobody. My moral influence with them lads
is a tottering to its basis. The images of Mrs Squeers, my daughter, and my son Wackford, all short of vittles, is perpetually before me; every other consideration melts away and vanishes, in front of these; the only number in all arithmetic that I know of, as a husband and a father, is number one, under this here most fatal go
As I supposed from his not sending
This fellow, I plainly see through all his tipsy fooling, has made up his mind to turn upon me. I am so beset and hemmed in, that they are not only all struck with fear, but, like the beasts in the fable, have their fling at me now, though time was, and no longer ago than yesterday too, when they were all civility and compliance. But they shall not move me. I'll not give way. I will not budge one inch
Mr Nickleby, there is terrible news for you, and I am sent to beg you will come with me directly
Come where
To our house, where you came this morning. I have a coach here
Why should I go there
Don't ask me why, but pray come with me
Another edition of today
No, no
it is only that you may hear something that has occurred: something very dreadful, Mr Nickleby, which concerns you nearly. Do you think I would tell you so or come to you like this, if it were not the case
You had better hear this now, than at any other time
it may have some influence with you. For Heaven's sake come
What -- what have you to say to me -- more than has been said already
Who's that yonder
One who has conveyed to us, within these two hours, the intelligence which caused our sending to you
Let him be, sir, let him be for the present
More riddles
Well, sir
Now, what is this? If I am brought from home at this time of night, let it be for something. What have you got to tell me
Is my niece dead
You don't mean to tell me
that her brother's dead? No, that's too good. I'd not believe it, if you told me so. It would be too welcome news to be true
Shame on you, you hardened and unnatural man
Prepare yourself for intelligence which, if you have any human feeling in your breast, will make even you shrink and tremble. What if we tell you that a poor unfortunate boy: a child in everything but never having known one of those tender endearments, or one of those lightsome hours which make our childhood a time to be remembered like a happy dream through all our after life: a warm-hearted, harmless, affectionate creature, who never offended you, or did you wrong, but on whom you have vented the malice and hatred you have conceived for your nephew, and whom you have made an instrument for wreaking your bad passions upon him: what if we tell you that, sinking under your persecution, sir, and the misery and ill-usage of a life short in years but long in suffering, this poor creature has gone to tell his sad tale where, for your part in it, you must surely answer
If you tell me
if you tell me that he is dead, I forgive you all else. If you tell me that he is dead, I am in your debt and bound to you for life. He is! I see it in your faces. Who triumphs now? Is this your dreadful news; this your terrible intelligence? You see how it moves me. You did well to send. I would have travelled a hundred miles afoot, through mud, mire, and darkness, to hear this news just at this time
And HE brought you the intelligence, did he
and sat there, no doubt, to see me prostrated and overwhelmed by it! Ha, ha, ha! But I tell him that I'll be a sharp thorn in his side for many a long day to come; and I tell you two, again, that you don't know him yet; and that you'll rue the day you took compassion on the vagabond
You take me for your nephew
it would be better for you, and for me too, if I were he indeed
What does this fellow here? Do you know he is a convict, a felon, a common thief
Hear what he has to tell you. Oh, Mr Nickleby, hear what he has to tell you, be he what he may
That boy
that these gentlemen have been talking of
That boy
Whom I saw, stretched dead and cold upon his bed, and who is now in his grave
Who is now in his grave
Was your only son, so help me God in heaven
Gentlemen
I offer no excuses for myself. I am long past that. If, in telling you how this has happened, I tell you that I was harshly used, and perhaps driven out of my real nature, I do it only as a necessary part of my story, and not to shield myself. I am a guilty man
Among those who once had dealings with this man, gentlemen -- that's from twenty to five-and-twenty years ago -- there was one: a rough fox-hunting, hard-drinking gentleman, who had run through his own fortune, and wanted to squander away that of his sister: they were both orphans, and she lived with him and managed his house. I don't know whether it was, originally, to back his influence and try to over-persuade the young woman or not, but he
used to go down to the house in Leicestershire pretty often, and stop there many days at a time. They had had a great many dealings together, and he may have gone on some of those, or to patch up his client's affairs, which were in a ruinous state; of course he went for profit. The gentlewoman was not a girl, but she was, I have heard say, handsome, and entitled to a pretty large property. In course of time, he married her. The same love of gain which led him to contract this marriage, led to its being kept strictly private; for a clause in her father's will declared that if she married without her brother's consent, the property, in which she had only some life interest while she remained single, should pass away altogether to another branch of the family. The brother would give no consent that the sister didn't buy, and pay for handsomely; Mr Nickleby would consent to no such sacrifice; and so they went on, keeping their marriage secret, and waiting for him to break his neck or die of a fever. He did neither, and meanwhile the result of this private marriage was a son. The child was put out to nurse, a long way off; his mother never saw him but once or twice, and then by stealth; and his father -- so eagerly did he thirst after the money which seemed to come almost within his grasp now, for his brother- in-law was very ill, and breaking more and more every day -- never went near him, to avoid raising any suspicion. The brother lingered on; Mr Nickleby's wife constantly urged him to avow their marriage; he peremptorily refused. She remained alone in a dull country house: seeing little or no company but riotous, drunken sportsmen. He lived in London and clung to his business. Angry quarrels and recriminations took place, and when they had been married nearly seven years, and were within a few weeks of the time when the brother's death would have adjusted all, she eloped with a younger man, and left him
It was then that I became acquainted with these circumstances from his own lips. They were no secrets then; for the brother, and others, knew them; but they were communicated to me, not on this account, but because I was wanted. He followed the fugitives. Some said to make money of his wife's shame, but, I believe, to take some violent revenge, for that was as much his character as the other; perhaps more. He didn't find them, and she died not long after. I don't know whether he began to think he might like the child, or whether he wished to make sure that it should never fall into its mother's hands; but, before he went, he intrusted me with the charge of bringing it home. And I did so
He had used me ill -- cruelly -- I reminded him in what, not long ago when I met him in the street -- and I hated him. I brought the child home to his own house, and lodged him in the front garret. Neglect had made him very sickly, and I was obliged to call in a doctor, who said he must be removed for change of air, or he would die. I think that first put it in my head. I did it then. He was gone six weeks, and when he came back, I told him -- with every circumstance well planned and proved; nobody could have suspected me -- that the child was dead and buried. He might have been disappointed in some intention he had formed, or he might have had some natural affection, but he WAS grieved at THAT, and I was confirmed in my design of opening up the secret one day, and making it a means of getting money from him. I had heard, like most other men, of Yorkshire schools. I took the child to one kept by a man named Squeers, and left it there. I gave him the name of Smike. Year by year, I paid twenty pounds a-year for him for six years; never breathing the secret all the time; for I had left his father's service after more hard usage, and quarrelled with him again. I was sent away from this country. I have been away nearly eight years. Directly I came home again, I travelled down into Yorkshire, and, skulking in the village of an evening-time, made inquiries about the boys at the school, and found that this one, whom I had placed there, had run away with a young man bearing the name of his own father. I sought his father out in London, and hinting at what I could tell him, tried for a little money to support life; but he repulsed me with threats. I then found out his clerk, and, going on from little to little, and showing him that there were good reasons for communicating with me, learnt what was going on; and it was I who told him that the boy was no son of the man who claimed to be his father. All this time I had never seen the boy. At length, I heard from this same source that he was very ill, and where he was. I travelled down there, that I might recall myself, if possible, to his recollection and confirm my story. I came upon him unexpectedly; but before I could speak he knew me -- he had good cause to remember me, poor lad!-- and I would have sworn to him if I had met him in the Indies. I knew the piteous face I had seen in the little child. After a few days' indecision, I applied to the young gentleman in whose care he was, and I found that he was dead. He knows how quickly he recognised me again, how often he had described me and my leaving him at the school, and how he told him of a garret he recollected: which is the one I have spoken of, and in his father's house to this day. This is my story. I demand to be brought face to face with the schoolmaster, and put to any possible proof of any part of it, and I will show that it's too true, and that I have this guilt upon my soul
Unhappy man
What reparation can you make for this
None, gentlemen, none! I have none to make, and nothing to hope now. I am old in years, and older still in misery and care. This confession can bring nothing upon me but new suffering and punishment; but I make it, and will abide by it whatever comes. I have been made the instrument of working out this dreadful retribution upon the head of a man who, in the hot pursuit of his bad ends, has persecuted and hunted down his own child to death. It must descend upon me too. I know it must fall. My reparation comes too late; and, neither in this world nor in the next, can I have hope again
I am sure
I have lost the best, the most zealous, and most attentive creature that has ever been a companion to me in my life -- putting you, my dear Nicholas, and Kate, and your poor papa, and that well-behaved nurse who ran away with the linen and the twelve small forks, out of the question, of course. Of all the tractable, equal-tempered, attached, and faithful beings that ever lived, I believe he was the most so. To look round upon the garden, now, that he took so much pride in, or to go into his room and see it filled with so many of those little contrivances for our comfort that he was so fond of making, and made so well, and so little thought he would leave unfinished -- I can't bear it, I cannot really. Ah! This is a great trial to me, a great trial. It will be comfort to you, my dear Nicholas, to the end of your life, to recollect how kind and good you always were to him -- so it will be to me, to think what excellent terms we were always upon, and how fond he always was of me, poor fellow! It was very natural you should have been attached to him, my dear -- very -- and of course you were, and are very much cut up by this. I am sure it's only necessary to look at you and see how changed you are, to see that; but nobody knows what my feelings are -- nobody can -- it's quite impossible
It hurts me so
to see him come back alone. I can't help thinking what he must have suffered himself. I wouldn't mind so much if he gave way a little more; but he bears it so manfully
Why, so I should
should I not
Yes, yes
and bless you for a good creature! but this does seem at first to a simple soul like me -- I know it's wrong to say so, and I shall be sorry for it presently -- this does seem such a poor reward for all you have done
Nay
what better reward could I have, than the knowledge that his last days were peaceful and happy, and the recollection that I was his constant companion, and was not prevented, as I might have been by a hundred circumstances, from being beside him
To be sure
it's very true, and I'm an ungrateful, impious, wicked little fool, I know
I came to tell you how glad I am to see you home again
But I can't tell you how glad I am to see you, Kate
We have been wearying so for your return
mama and I, and -- and Madeline
You said in your last letter that she was quite well
Has nothing been said, since I have been away, about any future arrangements that the brothers have in contemplation for her
Oh, not a word
I can't think of parting from her without sorrow; and surely, Nicholas, YOU don't wish it
No, Kate, no, I do not. I might strive to disguise my real feelings from anybody but you; but I will tell you that -- briefly and plainly, Kate -- that I love her
Nobody must know this but you. She, last of all
Dear Nicholas
Last of all; never, though never is a long day. Sometimes, I try to think that the time may come when I may honestly tell her this; but it is so far off; in such distant perspective, so many years must elapse before it comes, and when it does come (if ever) I shall be so unlike what I am now, and shall have so outlived my days of youth and romance -- though not, I am sure, of love for her -- that even I feel how visionary all such hopes must be, and try to crush them rudely myself, and have the pain over, rather than suffer time to wither them, and keep the disappointment in store. No, Kate! Since I have been absent, I have had, in that poor fellow who is gone, perpetually before my eyes, another instance of the munificent liberality of these noble brothers. As far as in me lies, I will deserve it, and if I have wavered in my bounden duty to them before, I am now determined to discharge it rigidly, and to put further delays and temptations beyond my reach
Before you say another word, dear Nicholas
you must hear what I have to tell you. I came on purpose, but I had not the courage. What you say now, gives me new heart
Come, you foolish girl
why, Kate, Kate, be a woman! I think I know what you would tell me. It concerns Mr Frank, does it not
Yes
And he has offered you his hand, perhaps, since I have been away
is that it? Yes. Well, well; it is not so difficult, you see, to tell me, after all. He offered you his hand
Which I refused
Yes; and why
I told him
all that I have since found you told mama; and while I could not conceal from him, and cannot from you, that -- that it was a pang and a great trial, I did so firmly, and begged him not to see me any more
That's my own brave Kate
I knew you would
He tried to alter my resolution
and declared that, be my decision what it might, he would not only inform his uncles of the step he had taken, but would communicate it to you also, directly you returned. I am afraid
I am afraid I may not have said, strongly enough, how deeply I felt such disinterested love, and how earnestly I prayed for his future happiness. If you do talk together, I should -- I should like him to know that
And did you suppose, Kate, when you had made this sacrifice to what you knew was right and honourable, that I should shrink from mine
Oh no! not if your position had been the same, but
But it is the same
Madeline is not the near relation of our benefactors, but she is closely bound to them by ties as dear; and I was first intrusted with her history, specially because they reposed unbounded confidence in me, and believed that I was as true as steel. How base would it be of me to take advantage of the circumstances which placed her here, or of the slight service I was happily able to render her, and to seek to engage her affections when the result must be, if I succeeded, that the brothers would be disappointed in their darling wish of establishing her as their own child, and that I must seem to hope to build my fortunes on their compassion for the young creature whom I had so meanly and unworthily entrapped: turning her very gratitude and warmth of heart to my own purpose and account, and trading in her misfortunes! I, too, whose duty, and pride, and pleasure, Kate, it is to have other claims upon me which I will never forget; and who have the means of a comfortable and happy life already, and have no right to look beyond it! I have determined to remove this weight from my mind. I doubt whether I have not done wrong, even now; and today I will, without reserve or equivocation, disclose my real reasons to Mr Cherryble, and implore him to take immediate measures for removing this young lady to the shelter of some other roof
Today? so very soon
I have thought of this for weeks, and why should I postpone it? If the scene through which I have just passed has taught me to reflect, and has awakened me to a more anxious and careful sense of duty, why should I wait until the impression has cooled? You would not dissuade me, Kate; now would you
You may grow rich, you know
I may grow rich
ay, and I may grow old! But rich or poor, or old or young, we shall ever be the same to each other, and in that our comfort lies. What if we have but one home? It can never be a solitary one to you and me. What if we were to remain so true to these first impressions as to form no others? It is but one more link to the strong chain that binds us together. It seems but yesterday that we were playfellows, Kate, and it will seem but tomorrow when we are staid old people, looking back to these cares as we look back, now, to those of our childish days: and recollecting with a melancholy pleasure that the time was, when they could move us. Perhaps then, when we are quaint old folks and talk of the times when our step was lighter and our hair not grey, we may be even thankful for the trials that so endeared us to each other, and turned our lives into that current, down which we shall have glided so peacefully and calmly. And having caught some inkling of our story, the young people about us -- as young as you and I are now, Kate -- may come to us for sympathy, and pour distresses which hope and inexperience could scarcely feel enough for, into the compassionate ears of the old bachelor brother and his maiden sister
Am I not right, Kate
Quite, quite, dear brother; and I cannot tell you how happy I am that I have acted as you would have had me
You don't regret
N -- n -- no
I don't regret having done what was honourable and right, of course; but I do regret that this should have ever happened -- at least sometimes I regret it, and sometimes I -- I don't know what I say; I am but a weak girl, Nicholas, and it has agitated me very much
What man
would not be sufficiently rewarded for any sacrifice of fortune by the possession of such a heart as Kate's, which, but that hearts weigh light, and gold and silver heavy, is beyond all praise? Frank has money, and wants no more. Where would it buy him such a treasure as Kate? And yet, in unequal marriages, the rich party is always supposed to make a great sacrifice, and the other to get a good bargain! But I am thinking like a lover, or like an ass: which I suppose is pretty nearly the same
Ah! Mr Nickleby
God bless you! how d'ye do? Well? Say you're quite well and never better. Do now
Quite
Ah
you look tired though, now I come to look at you. Hark! there he is, d'ye hear him? That was Dick, the blackbird. He hasn't been himself since you've been gone. He'd never get on without you, now; he takes as naturally to you as he does to me
Dick is a far less sagacious fellow than I supposed him, if he thinks I am half so well worthy of his notice as you
Why, I'll tell you what, sir
it's a very extraordinary thing about that bird, that the only people he ever takes the smallest notice of, are Mr Charles, and Mr Ned, and you, and me
And you and me, sir, and you and me
I am a bad one at putting off anything I am interested in. I didn't mean to ask you, but I should like to hear a few particulars about that poor boy. Did he mention Cheeryble Brothers at all
Yes
many and many a time
That was right of him
that was very right of him
And he mentioned your name a score of times
and often bade me carry back his love to Mr Linkinwater
No, no, did he though
Poor fellow! I wish we could have had him buried in town. There isn't such a burying-ground in all London as that little one on the other side of the square -- there are counting-houses all round it, and if you go in there, on a fine day, you can see the books and safes through the open windows. And he sent his love to me, did he? I didn't expect he would have thought of me. Poor fellow, poor fellow! His love too
Come, come, my dear sir
we must not be cast down; no, no. We must learn to bear misfortune, and we must remember that there are many sources of consolation even in death. Every day that this poor lad had lived, he must have been less and less qualified for the world, and more and more unhappy in is own deficiencies. It is better as it is, my dear sir. Yes, yes, yes, it's better as it is
I have thought of all that, sir
I feel it, I assure you
Yes, that's well
that's well. Where is my brother Ned? Tim Linkinwater, sir, where is my brother Ned
Gone out with Mr Trimmers, about getting that unfortunate man into the hospital, and sending a nurse to his children
My brother Ned is a fine fellow, a great fellow
He will be overjoyed to see you, my dear sir. We have been speaking of you every day
To tell you the truth, sir, I am glad to find you alone
for I am anxious to say something to you. Can you spare me a very few minutes
Surely, surely
Say on, my dear sir, say on
I scarcely know how, or where, to begin
If ever one mortal had reason to be penetrated with love and reverence for another: with such attachment as would make the hardest service in his behalf a pleasure and delight: with such grateful recollections as must rouse the utmost zeal and fidelity of his nature: those are the feelings which I should entertain for you, and do, from my heart and soul, believe me
I do believe you
and I am happy in the belief. I have never doubted it; I never shall. I am sure I never shall
Your telling me that so kindly
emboldens me to proceed. When you first took me into your confidence, and dispatched me on those missions to Miss Bray, I should have told you that I had seen her long before; that her beauty had made an impression upon me which I could not efface; and that I had fruitlessly endeavoured to trace her, and become acquainted with her history. I did not tell you so, because I vainly thought I could conquer my weaker feelings, and render every consideration subservient to my duty to you
Mr Nickleby
you did not violate the confidence I placed in you, or take an unworthy advantage of it. I am sure you did not
I did not
Although I found that the necessity for self-command and restraint became every day more imperious, and the difficulty greater, I never, for one instant, spoke or looked but as I would have done had you been by. I never, for one moment, deserted my trust, nor have I to this instant. But I find that constant association and companionship with this sweet girl is fatal to my peace of mind, and may prove destructive to the resolutions I made in the beginning, and up to this time have faithfully kept. In short, sir, I cannot trust myself, and I implore and beseech you to remove this young lady from under the charge of my mother and sister without delay. I know that to anyone but myself -- to you, who consider the immeasurable distance between me and this young lady, who is now your ward, and the object of your peculiar care -- my loving her, even in thought, must appear the height of rashness and presumption. I know it is so. But who can see her as I have seen, who can know what her life has been, and not love her? I have no excuse but that; and as I cannot fly from this temptation, and cannot repress this passion, with its object constantly before me, what can I do but pray and beseech you to remove it, and to leave me to forget her
Mr Nickleby
you can do no more. I was wrong to expose a young man like you to this trial. I might have foreseen what would happen. Thank you, sir, thank you. Madeline shall be removed
If you would grant me one favour, dear sir, and suffer her to remember me with esteem, by never revealing to her this confession
I will take care
And now, is this all you have to tell me
No
it is not
I know the rest
When did it come to your knowledge
When I reached home this morning
You felt it your duty immediately to come to me, and tell me what your sister no doubt acquainted you with
I did
though I could have wished to have spoken to Mr Frank first
Frank was with me last night
You have done well, Mr Nickleby -- very well, sir -- and I thank you again
No, no, he had done quite right
Frank is a heedless, foolish fellow
a very heedless, foolish fellow. I will take care that this is brought to a close without delay. Let us say no more upon the subject; it's a very painful one to me. Come to me in half an hour; I have strange things to tell you, my dear sir, and your uncle has appointed this afternoon for your waiting upon him with me
Waiting upon him! With you, sir
Ay, with me
Return to me in half an hour, and I'll tell you more
I am trampled down and ruined. The wretch told me true. The night has come! Is there no way to rob them of further triumph, and spurn their mercy and compassion? Is there no devil to help me
I want Mr Nickleby
What with him
That's not Mr Nickleby's voice, surely
Yes
detain him till tomorrow; then let them bring him here -- him and my nephew -- and come themselves, and be sure that I will be ready to receive them
At what hour
At any hour
In the afternoon, tell them. At any hour, at any minute. All times will be alike to me
I know its meaning now
and the restless nights, the dreams, and why I have quailed of late. All pointed to this. Oh! if men by selling their own souls could ride rampant for a term, for how short a term would I barter mine tonight
Lie on
with your iron tongue! Ring merrily for births that make expectants writhe, and marriages that are made in hell, and toll ruefully for the dead whose shoes are worn already! Call men to prayers who are godly because not found out, and ring chimes for the coming in of every year that brings this cursed world nearer to its end. No bell or book for me! Throw me on a dunghill, and let me rot there, to infect the air
How's this
The gentleman say they can't make anybody hear, and have been trying these two hours
And yet he came home last night
for he spoke to somebody out of that window upstairs
It's very odd
he's hiding behind the door! Look
Now, my dears
what does THIS mean
What do YOU mean, mother
I say, my dear
what does this invitation to dinner mean? What is its intention and object
I conclude it means, that on such a day we are to eat and drink in their house, and that its intent and object is to confer pleasure upon us
And that's all you conclude it is, my dear
I have not yet arrived at anything deeper, mother
Then I'll just tell you one thing
Tea and supper, perhaps
I wouldn't be absurd, my dear, if I were you
because it's not by any means becoming, and doesn't suit you at all. What I mean to say is, that the Mr Cheerybles don't ask us to dinner with all this ceremony for nothing. Never mind; wait and see. You won't believe anything I say, of course. It's much better to wait; a great deal better; it's satisfactory to all parties, and there can be no disputing. All I say is, remember what I say now, and when I say I said so, don't say I didn't
It's a very extraordinary thing
a most extraordinary thing, that they should have invited Miss La Creevy. It quite astonishes me, upon my word it does. Of course it's very pleasant that she should be invited, very pleasant, and I have no doubt that she'll conduct herself extremely well; she always does. It's very gratifying to think that we should have been the means of introducing her into such society, and I'm quite glad of it -- quite rejoiced -- for she certainly is an exceedingly well-behaved and good- natured little person. I could wish that some friend would mention to her how very badly she has her cap trimmed, and what very preposterous bows those are, but of course that's impossible, and if she likes to make a fright of herself, no doubt she has a perfect right to do so. We never see ourselves -- never do, and never did -- and I suppose we never shall
Have you seen Madeline, my dear
since she left your house
No, sir
Not once
And not heard from her, eh? Not heard from her
I have only had one letter
I thought she would not have forgotten me quite so soon
Ah
Poor dear! what do you think of this, brother Ned? Madeline has only written to her once, only once, Ned, and she didn't think she would have forgotten her quite so soon, Ned
Oh! sad, sad; very sad
Well, well
go into that room, my dear -- that door yonder -- and see if there's not a letter for you from her. I think there's one upon the table. You needn't hurry back, my love, if there is, for we don't dine just yet, and there's plenty of time. Plenty of time
We took the liberty of naming one hour before the real dinner-time, ma'am, because we had a little business to speak about, which would occupy the interval. Ned, my dear fellow, will you mention what we agreed upon? Mr Nickleby, sir, have the goodness to follow me
Young men
shake hands
I need no bidding to do that
Nor I
I wish to see you friends -- close and firm friends -- and if I thought you otherwise, I should hesitate in what I am about to say. Frank, look here! Mr Nickleby, will you come on the other side
This
is a copy of the will of Madeline's maternal grandfather, bequeathing her the sum of twelve thousand pounds, payable either upon her coming of age or marrying. It would appear that this gentleman, angry with her (his only relation) because she would not put herself under his protection, and detach herself from the society of her father, in compliance with his repeated overtures, made a will leaving this property (which was all he possessed) to a charitable institution. He would seem to have repented this determination, however, for three weeks afterwards, and in the same month, he executed this. By some fraud, it was abstracted immediately after his decease, and the other -- the only will found -- was proved and administered. Friendly negotiations, which have only just now terminated, have been proceeding since this instrument came into our hands, and, as there is no doubt of its authenticity, and the witnesses have been discovered (after some trouble), the money has been refunded. Madeline has therefore obtained her right, and is, or will be, when either of the contingencies which I have mentioned has arisen, mistress of this fortune. You understand me
Now, Frank
you were the immediate means of recovering this deed. The fortune is but a small one; but we love Madeline; and such as it is, we would rather see you allied to her with that, than to any other girl we know who has three times the money. Will you become a suitor to her for her hand
No, sir. I interested myself in the recovery of that instrument, believing that her hand was already pledged to one who has a thousand times the claims upon her gratitude, and, if I mistake not, upon her heart, that I or any other man can ever urge. In this it seems I judged hastily
As you always, do, sir
as you always do. How dare you think, Frank, that we would have you marry for money, when youth, beauty, and every amiable virtue and excellence were to be had for love? How dared you, Frank, go and make love to Mr Nickleby's sister without telling us first what you meant to do, and letting us speak for you
I hardly dared to hope
You hardly dared to hope! Then, so much the greater reason for having our assistance! Mr Nickleby, sir, Frank, although he judged hastily, judged, for once, correctly. Madeline's heart IS occupied. Give me your hand, sir; it is occupied by you, and worthily and naturally. This fortune is destined to be yours, but you have a greater fortune in her, sir, than you would have in money were it forty times told. She chooses you, Mr Nickleby. She chooses as we, her dearest friends, would have her choose. Frank chooses as we would have HIM choose. He should have your sister's little hand, sir, if she had refused it a score of times; ay, he should, and he shall! You acted nobly, not knowing our sentiments, but now you know them, sir, you must do as you are bid. What! You are the children of a worthy gentleman! The time was, sir, when my dear brother Ned and I were two poor simple-hearted boys, wandering, almost barefoot, to seek our fortunes: are we changed in anything but years and worldly circumstances since that time? No, God forbid! Oh, Ned, Ned, Ned, what a happy day this is for you and me! If our poor mother had only lived to see us now, Ned, how proud it would have made her dear heart at last
Bring in my little Kate
Bring her in, Ned. Let me see Kate, let me kiss her. I have a right to do so now; I was very near it when she first came; I have often been very near it. Ah! Did you find the letter, my bird? Did you find Madeline herself, waiting for you and expecting you? Did you find that she had not quite forgotten her friend and nurse and sweet companion? Why, this is almost the best of all
Come, come
Frank will be jealous, and we shall have some cutting of throats before dinner
Then let him take her away, Ned, let him take her away. Madeline's in the next room. Let all the lovers get out of the way, and talk among themselves, if they've anything to say. Turn 'em out, Ned, every one
Well, Tim Linkinwater, sir
now the young folks are happy, sir
You didn't keep 'em in suspense as long as you said you would, though
Why, Mr Nickleby and Mr Frank were to have been in your room for I don't know how long; and I don't know what you weren't to have told them before you came out with the truth
Now, did you ever know such a villain as this, Ned
did you ever know such a villain as Tim Linkinwater? He accusing me of being impatient, and he the very man who has been wearying us morning, noon, and night, and torturing us for leave to go and tell 'em what was in store, before our plans were half complete, or we had arranged a single thing. A treacherous dog
So he is, brother Charles
Tim is a treacherous dog. Tim is not to be trusted. Tim is a wild young fellow. He wants gravity and steadiness; he must sow his wild oats, and then perhaps he'll become in time a respectable member of society
Don't cry
I must
No, don't
Please don't; pray don't
I am so happy
Then laugh
Do laugh
Do laugh
or I'll cry
Why should you cry
Because I'm happy too
We are both happy, and I should like to do as you do
I knew
that you would be pleased with this scene
It was very thoughtful and kind to remember me
Nothing could have delighted me half so much
It's a pleasant thing
to people like us, who have passed all our lives in the world alone, to see young folks that we are fond of, brought together with so many years of happiness before them
Ah
that it is
Although
although it makes one feel quite solitary and cast away. Now don't it
It's almost enough to make us get married after all, isn't it
Oh, nonsense
We are too old
Not a bit
we are too old to be single. Why shouldn't we both be married, instead of sitting through the long winter evenings by our solitary firesides? Why shouldn't we make one fireside of it, and marry each other
Oh, Mr Linkinwater, you're joking
No, no, I'm not. I'm not indeed
I will, if you will. Do, my dear
It would make people laugh so
Let 'em laugh
we have good tempers I know, and we'll laugh too. Why, what hearty laughs we have had since we've known each other
So we have
It has been the happiest time in all my life; at least, away from the counting-house and Cheeryble Brothers
Do, my dear! Now say you will
No, no, we mustn't think of it
What would the brothers say
Why, God bless your soul
you don't suppose I should think of such a thing without their knowing it! Why they left us here on purpose
I can never look 'em in the face again
Come
let's be a comfortable couple. We shall live in the old house here, where I have been for four-and-forty year; we shall go to the old church, where I've been, every Sunday morning, all through that time; we shall have all my old friends about us -- Dick, the archway, the pump, the flower-pots, and Mr Frank's children, and Mr Nickleby's children, that we shall seem like grandfather and grandmother to. Let's be a comfortable couple, and take care of each other! And if we should get deaf, or lame, or blind, or bed-ridden, how glad we shall be that we have somebody we are fond of, always to talk to and sit with! Let's be a comfortable couple. Now, do, my dear
There an't such another woman in all London! I KNOW there an't
Newman Noggs
Ah! Newman, your own Newman, your own old faithful Newman! My dear boy, my dear Nick, I give you joy -- health, happiness, every blessing! I can't bear it -- it's too much, my dear boy -- it makes a child of me
Where have you been
What have you been doing? How often have I inquired for you, and been told that I should hear before long
I know, I know
They wanted all the happiness to come together. I've been helping 'em. I -- I -- look at me, Nick, look at me
You would never let ME do that
I didn't mind what I was, then. I shouldn't have had the heart to put on gentleman's clothes. They would have reminded me of old times and made me miserable. I am another man now, Nick. My dear boy, I can't speak. Don't say anything to me. Don't think the worse of me for these tears. You don't know what I feel today; you can't, and never will
Kate, my dear
you don't really mean to tell me that this is actually true about Miss La Creevy and Mr Linkinwater
Indeed it is, mama
Why, I never heard such a thing in my life
Mr Linkinwater is a most excellent creature
and, for his age, quite young still
For HIS age, my dear
yes; nobody says anything against him, except that I think he is the weakest and most foolish man I ever knew. It's HER age I speak of. That he should have gone and offered himself to a woman who must be -- ah, half as old again as I am -- and that she should have dared to accept him! It don't signify, Kate; I'm disgusted with her
Oh come away
they are quarrelling. You'll be hurt
Wait one instant, Kate. Let us hear if there's anything the matter
Hush
You nasty, idle, vicious, good-for-nothing brute
why don't you turn the mangle
So I am, my life and soul
I am always turning. I am perpetually turning, like a demd old horse in a demnition mill. My life is one demd horrid grind
Then why don't you go and list for a soldier
you're welcome to
For a soldier
For a soldier! Would his joy and gladness see him in a coarse red coat with a little tail? Would she hear of his being slapped and beat by drummers demnebly? Would she have him fire off real guns, and have his hair cut, and his whiskers shaved, and his eyes turned right and left, and his trousers pipeclayed
Dear Nicholas
you don't know who that is. It's Mr Mantalini I am confident
Do make sure! Peep at him while I ask the way
Come down a step or two. Come
Oh you false traitor
False! Oh dem! Now my soul, my gentle, captivating, bewitching, and most demnebly enslaving chick-a-biddy, be calm
I won't
I'll tear your eyes out
Oh! What a demd savage lamb
You're never to be trusted
you were out all day yesterday, and gallivanting somewhere I know. You know you were! Isn't it enough that I paid two pound fourteen for you, and took you out of prison and let you live here like a gentleman, but must you go on like this: breaking, my heart besides
I will never break its heart, I will be a good boy, and never do so any more; I will never be naughty again; I beg its little pardon
it is all up with its handsome friend! He has gone to the demnition bow-wows. It will have pity? It will not scratch and claw, but pet and comfort? Oh, demmit
Demmit
it's little Nickleby! Shut the door, put out the candle, turn me up in the bedstead! Oh, dem, dem, dem
Halloa
Wa'et be the matther noo? Be the toon a-fire? Ding, but thoumak's t noise eneaf
I might ha' knowa'd
You know it then
They were talking aboot it, doon toon, last neeght
but neane on 'em seemed quite to un'erstan' it, loike
After various shiftings and delays
he has been sentenced to be transported for seven years, for being in the unlawful possession of a stolen will; and, after that, he has to suffer the consequence of a conspiracy
Whew
No, no, no, a conspiracy connected with his school; I'll explain it presently
Thot's reeght
explain it arter breakfast, not noo, for thou be'est hoongry, and so am I; and Tilly she mun' be at the bottom o' a' explanations, for she says thot's the mutual confidence. Ha, ha, ha! Ecod, it's a room start, is the mutual confidence
raa'ther a tidy sart
Tell'ee wa'at though
un has reached school today, the old 'ooman wean't have a whole boan in her boddy, nor Fanny neither
Oh, John
Ah! and Oh, John agean
Thot's true
I should ne'er ha' thought o' thot
I must return tomorrow
but I mean to dine with you today, and if Mrs Browdie can give me a bed
Bed
Ye be noice chaps
What's to do here, thou yoong dogs
Squeers is in prison, and we are going to run away
We won't stop, we won't stop
Weel then, dinnot stop
who waants thee to stop? Roon awa' loike men, but dinnot hurt the women
Hurrah
Hurrah
Weel, hurrah loike men too. Noo then, look out. Hip -- hip,-- hip -- hurrah
Hurrah
Hurrah! Agean;' said John. 'Looder still
Anoother
un
Hurrah
Noo then
un! Hurrah
Very well, Mr Browdie
you've been and excited our boys to run away. Now see if we don't pay you out for that, sir! If my pa IS unfortunate and trod down by henemies, we're not going to be basely crowed and conquered over by you and 'Tilda
Noa
thou bean't. Tak' thy oath o' thot. Think betther o' us, Fanny. I tell 'ee both, that I'm glod the auld man has been caught out at last -- dom'd glod -- but ye'll sooffer eneaf wi'out any crowin' fra' me, and I be not the mun to crow, nor be Tilly the lass, so I tell 'ee flat. More than thot, I tell 'ee noo, that if thouneed's t friends to help thee awa' from this place -- dinnot turn up thy nose, Fanny, thoumay's t -- thou'lt foind Tilly and I wi' a thout o' old times aboot us, ready to lend thee a hond. And when I say thot, dinnot think I be asheamed of waa't I've deane, for I say again, Hurrah! and dom the schoolmeasther. There
Cheeryble and Nickleby
</text>
