<text>
said I, 'my child
I know that, sir
I am afraid it is a very long way, for I came from there to-night
Alone
Oh, yes, I don't mind that, but I am a little frightened now, for I had lost my road
And what made you ask it of me? Suppose I should tell you wrong
I am sure you will not do that
you are such a very old gentleman, and walk so slow yourself
Come
I'll take you there
Who has sent you so far by yourself
Someone who is very kind to me, sir
And what have you been doing
That, I must not tell
Why, bless thee, child
how couldst thou miss thy way? What if I had lost thee, Nell
I would have found my way back to YOU, grandfather
never fear
You must be tired, sir
how can I thank you
By taking more care of your grandchild another time, my good friend
More care
more care of Nelly! Why, who ever loved a child as I love Nell
I don't think you consider
I don't consider
I don't consider her! Ah, how little you know of the truth! Little Nelly, little Nelly
it always grieves me to contemplate the initiation of children into the ways of life, when they are scarcely more than infants. It checks their confidence and simplicity -- two of the best qualities that Heaven gives them -- and demands that they share our sorrows before they are capable of entering into our enjoyments
It will never check hers
But -- forgive me for saying this -- you are surely not so very poor
She is not my child, sir
Her mother was, and she was poor. I save nothing -- not a penny -- though I live as you see, but
she shall be rich one of these days, and a fine lady. Don't you think ill of me because I use her help. She gives it cheerfully as you see, and it would break her heart if she knew that I suffered anybody else to do for me what her little hands could undertake. I don't consider
why, God knows that this one child is there thought and object of my life, and yet he never prospers me -- no, never
Foolish Nell
She always laughs at poor Kit
A long way, wasn't it, Kit
Why, then, it was a goodish stretch, master
Of course you have come back hungry
Why, then, I do consider myself rather so, master
Ah
you don't know what you say when you tell me that I don't consider her
You must not attach too great weight to a remark founded on first appearances, my friend
No
no. Come hither, Nell
Do I love thee, Nell
Say -- do I love thee, Nell, or no
Why dost thou sob
Is it because thou know'st I love thee, and dost not like that I should seem to doubt it by my question? Well, well -- then let us say I love thee dearly
Indeed, indeed you do
Kit knows you do
Nobody isn't such a fool as to say he doosn't
She is poor now
but I say again that the time is coming when she shall be rich. It has been a long time coming, but it must come at last; a very long time, but it surely must come. It has come to other men who do nothing but waste and riot. When WILL it come to me
I am very happy as I am, grandfather
Tush, tush
thou dost not know -- how should'st thou
One moment, sir
Now, Kit -- near midnight, boy, and you still here! Get home, get home, and be true to your time in the morning, for there's work to do. Good night! There, bid him good night, Nell, and let him be gone
Good night, Kit
Good night, Miss Nell
And thank this gentleman
but for whose care I might have lost my little girl to-night
No, no, master
that won't do, that won't
What do you mean
I'd have found her, master
I'd have found her. I'll bet that I'd find her if she was above ground, I would, as quick as anybody, master. Ha, ha, ha
I haven't seemed to thank you, sir, for what you have done to-night, but I do thank you humbly and heartily, and so does she, and her thanks are better worth than mine. I should be sorry that you went away, and thought I was unmindful of your goodness, or careless of her -- I am not indeed
But
may I ask you a question
Ay, sir
What is it
This delicate child
with so much beauty and intelligence -- has she nobody to care for her but you? Has she no other companion or advisor
No
no, and she wants no other
But are you not fearful
that you may misunderstand a charge so tender? I am sure you mean well, but are you quite certain that you know how to execute such a trust as this? I am an old man, like you, and I am actuated by an old man's concern in all that is young and promising. Do you not think that what I have seen of you and this little creature to-night must have an interest not wholly free from pain
Sir
Those are not mine, my dear
No
they are grandfather's
But he is not going out to-night
Oh, yes, he is
And what becomes of you, my pretty one
Me! I stay here of course. I always do
Sleep soundly, Nell
and angels guard thy bed! Do not forget thy prayers, my sweet
No, indeed
they make me feel so happy
That's well; I know they do; they should
Bless thee a hundred times! Early in the morning I shall be home
You'll not ring twice
The bell wakes me, even in the middle of a dream
Stay here of course
I always do
You interrupted us at a critical moment
this fellow will murder me one of these days. He would have done so, long ago, if he had dared
Bah! You would swear away my life if you could
we all know that
I almost think I could
If oaths, or prayers, or words, could rid me of you, they should. I would be quit of you, and would be relieved if you were dead
I know it
I said so, didn't I? But neither oaths, or prayers, nor words, WILL kill me, and therefore I live, and mean to live
And his mother died
and this is Heaven's justice
Justice or no justice
here I am and here I shall stop till such time as I think fit to go, unless you send for assistance to put me out -- which you won't do, I know. I tell you again that I want to see my sister
YOUR sister
Ah! You can't change the relationship
If you could, you'd have done it long ago. I want to see my sister, that you keep cooped up here, poisoning her mind with your sly secrets and pretending an affection for her that you may work her to death, and add a few scraped shillings every week to the money you can hardly count. I want to see her; and I will
Here's a moralist to talk of poisoned minds! Here's a generous spirit to scorn scraped-up shillings
A profligate, sir, who has forfeited every claim not only upon those who have the misfortune to be of his blood, but upon society which knows nothing of him but his misdeeds. A liar too
who knows how dear she is to me, and seeks to wound me even there, because there is a stranger nearby
Strangers are nothing to me, grandfather
nor I to them, I hope. The best they can do, is to keep an eye to their business and leave me to mind. There's a friend of mine waiting outside, and as it seems that I may have to wait some time, I'll call him in, with your leave
There. It's Dick Swiveller
Sit down, Swiveller
But is the old min agreeable
But what
what is the odds so long as the fire of soul is kindled at the taper of conwiviality, and the wing of friendship never moults a feather! What is the odds so long as the spirit is expanded by means of rosy wine, and the present moment is the least happiest of our existence
You needn't act the chairman here
Fred
a word to the wise is sufficient for them -- we may be good and happy without riches, Fred. Say not another syllable. I know my cue; smart is the word. Only one little whisper, Fred -- is the old min friendly
Never you mind
Right again, quite right
caution is the word, and caution is the act
Fred
is the old min friendly
What does it matter
No, but IS he
Yes, of course. What do I care whether he is or not
It's a devil of a thing, gentlemen
when relations fall out and disagree. If the wing of friendship should never moult a feather, the wing of relationship should never be clipped, but be always expanded and serene. Why should a grandson and grandfather peg away at each other with mutual wiolence when all might be bliss and concord. Why not jine hands and forgit it
Hold your tongue
Sir
I have brought you up and educated you, Fred; I have put you in the way of getting on in life; you have bolted a little out of course, as young fellows often do; and you shall never have another chance, nor the ghost of half a one
You're as rich as rich can be; you have been at no uncommon expense on my account, you're saving up piles of money for my little sister that lives with you in a secret, stealthy, hugger-muggering kind of way and with no manner of enjoyment -- why can't you stand a trifle for your grown-up relation
Why do you hunt and persecute me, God help me
Why do you bring your prolifigate companions here? How often am I to tell you that my life is one of care and self-denial, and that I am poor
How often am I to tell you
that I know better
You have chosen your own path
Follow it. Leave Nell and me to toil and work
Nell will be a woman soon
and, bred in your faith, she'll forget her brother unless he shows himself sometimes
Take care
that she does not forget you when you would have her memory keenest. Take care that the day don't come when you walk barefoot in the streets, and she rides by in a gay carriage of her own
You mean when she has your money
How like a poor man he talks
And yet
how poor we are, and what a life it is! The cause is a young child's guiltless of all harm or wrong, but nothing goes well with it! Hope and patience, hope and patience
a clincher
Ah
that should be your grandson, neighbour
Say rather that he should not be
But he is
And that
Some friend of his, as welcome here as he
And that
A gentleman who was so good as to bring Nell home the other night when she lost her way, coming from your house
Well, Nelly
Do they teach you to hate me, eh
No, no. For shame. Oh, no
To love me, perhaps
To do neither
They never speak to me about you. Indeed they never do
I dare be bound for that
I dare be bound for that Nell. Oh! I believe you there
But I love you dearly, Fred
No doubt
I do indeed, and always will
but oh! If you would leave off vexing him and making him unhappy, then I could love you more
I see
There -- get you away now you have said your lesson. You needn't whimper. We part good friends enough, if that's the matter
Harkee, Mr
Meaning me
Quilp is my name. You might remember. It's not a long one -- Daniel Quilp
Harkee, Mr Quilp, then
You have some influence with my grandfather there
Some
And are in a few of his mysteries and secrets
A few
Then let me tell him once for all, through you, that I will come into and go out of this place as often as I like, so long as he keeps Nell here; and that if he wants to be quit of me, he must first be quit of her. What have I done to be made a bugbear of, and to be shunned and dreaded as if I brought the plague? He'll tell you that I have no natural affection; and that I care no more for Nell, for her own sake, than I do for him. Let him say so. I care for the whim, then, of coming to and fro and reminding her of my existence. I WILL see her when I please. That's my point. I came here to-day to maintain it, and I'll come here again fifty times with the same object and always with the same success. I said I would stop till I had gained it. I have done so, and now my visit's ended. Come Dick
Stop
Sir
Sir, I am your humble servant
Before I leave the gay and festive scene, and halls of dazzling light, sir
I will with your permission, attempt a slight remark. I came here, sir, this day, under the impression that the old min was friendly
Proceed, sir
Inspired by this idea and the sentiments it awakened, sir, and feeling as a mutual friend that badgering, baiting, and bullying, was not the sort of thing calculated to expand the souls and promote the social harmony of the contending parties, I took upon myself to suggest a course which is THE course to be adopted to the present occasion. Will you allow me to whisper half a syllable, sir
The watch-word to the old min is -- fork
Is what
Is fork, sir, fork
You are awake, sir
Humph
so much for dear relations. Thank God I acknowledge none! Nor need you either
if you were not as weak as a reed, and nearly as senseless
What would you have me do
It is easy to talk and sneer. What would you have me do
What would I do if I was in your case
Something violent, no doubt
You're right there
Here
I brought it myself for fear of accidents, as, being in gold, it was something large and heavy for Nell to carry in her bag. She need be accustomed to such loads betimes thought, neighbor, for she will carry weight when you are dead
Heaven send she may! I hope so
Hope so
neighbour, I would I knew in what good investment all these supplies are sunk. But you are a deep man, and keep your secret close
My secret
Yes, you're right -- I -- I -- keep it close -- very close
And so, neighbour
I'll turn my face homewards, leaving my love for Nelly and hoping she may never lose her way again, though her doing so HAS procured me an honour I didn't expect
I'll be of better cheer, Nell
there must be good fortune in store for thee -- I do not ask it for myself, but thee. Such miseries must fall on thy innocent head without it, that I cannot believe but that, being tempted, it will come at last
When I think
of the many years -- many in thy short life -- that thou has lived with me; of my monotonous existence, knowing no companions of thy own age nor any childish pleasures; of the solitutde in which thou has grown to be what thou art, and in which thou hast lived apart from nearly all thy kind but one old man; I sometimes fear I have dealt hardly by thee, Nell
Grandfather
Not in intention -- no no
I have ever looked forward to the time that should enable thee to mix among the gayest and prettiest, and take thy station with the best. But I still look forward, Nell, I still look forward, and if I should be forced to leave thee, meanwhile, how have I fitted thee for struggles with the world? The poor bird yonder is as well qualified to encounter it, and be turned adrift upon its mercies -- Hark! I hear Kit outside. Go to him, Nell, go to him
A word in your ear, sir
I have been rendered uneasy by what you said the other night, and can only plead that I have done all for the best -- that it is too late to retract, if I could (though I cannot)-- and that I hope to triumph yet. All is for her sake. I have borne great poverty myself, and would spare her the sufferings that poverty carries with it. I would spare her the miseries that brought her mother, my own dear child, to an early grave. I would leave her -- not with resources which could be easily spent or squandered away, but with what would place her beyond the reach of want for ever. you mark me sir? She shall have no pittance, but a fortune -- Hush! I can say no more than that, now or at any other time, and she is here again
Quilp's Wharf
Oh! He was well enough -- nothing much was every the matter with him -- and ill weeds were sure to thrive
Ah
I wish you'd give her a little of your advice, Mrs Jiniwin
nobody knows better than you, ma'am, what us women owe to ourselves
Owe indeed, ma'am
When my poor husband, her dear father, was alive, if he had ever venture'd a cross word to me, I'd have --' The good old lady did not finish the sentence, but she twisted off the head of a shrimp with a vindictiveness which seemed to imply that the action was in some degree a substitute for words. In this light it was clearly understood by the other party, who immediately replied with great approbation, 'You quite enter into my feelings, ma'am, and it's jist what I'd do myself
But you have no call to do it
Luckily for you, you have no more occasion to do it than I had
No woman need have, if she was true to herself
Do you hear that, Betsy
How often have I said the same words to you, and almost gone down my knees when I spoke 'em
but I know that if I was to die to-morrow, Quilp could marry anybody he pleased -- now that he could, I know
Very well
as I said just now, it's very easy to talk, but I say again that I know -- that I'm sure -- Quilp has such a way with him when he likes, that the best looking woman here couldn't refuse him if I was dead, and she was free, and he chose to make love to him. Come
I know you mean me. Let him try -- that's all
Mother knows
that what I say is quite correct, for she often said so before we were married. Didn't you say so, mother
Oh! It's a sensible and proper thing indeed, what Mrs George has said
If women are only true to themselves!-- But Betsy isn't, and more's the shame and pity
Before I'd let a man order me about as Quilp orders her
before I'd consent to stand in awe of a man as she does of him, I'd -- I'd kill myself, and write a letter first to say he did it
Mr Quilp may be a very nice man
and I supposed there's no doubt he is, because Mrs Quilp says he is, and Mrs Jiniwin says he is, and they ought to know, or nobody does. But still he is not quite a -- what one calls a handsome man, nor quite a young man neither, which might be a little excuse for him if anything could be; whereas his wife is young, and is good-looking, and is a woman -- which is the greatest thing after all
If he is
If he is! He is the greatest tyrant that every lived, she daren't call her soul her own, he makes her tremble with a word and even with a look, he frightens her to death, and she hasn't the spirit to give him a word back, no, not a single word
No, Henrietta Simmons, unless I see it with my own eyes and hear it with my own ears, I never will believe it
Go on, ladies, go on
Mrs Quilp, pray ask the ladies to stop to supper, and have a couple of lobsters and something light and palatable
I -- I -- didn't ask them to tea, Quilp
So much the better, Mrs Quilp; these accidental parties are always the pleasantest
What! Not going, ladies, you are not going, surely
And why not stop to supper, Quilp
if my daughter had a mind
To be sure
Why not
There's nothing dishonest or wrong in a supper, I hope
Surely not
Why should there be? Nor anything unwholesome, either, unless there's lobster-salad or prawns, which I'm told are not good for digestion
And you wouldn't like your wife to be attacked with that, or anything else that would make her uneasy would you
Not for a score of worlds
Not even to have a score of mothers-in-law at the same time -- and what a blessing that would be
My daughter's your wife, Mr Quilp, certainly
your wedded wife
So she is, certainly. So she is
And she has has a right to do as she likes, I hope, Quilp
Hope she has
I know she ought to have, Quilp, and would have, if she was of my way of thiniking
Why an't you of your mother's way of thinking, my dear
why don't you always imitate your mother, my dear? She's the ornament of her sex -- your father said so every day of his life. I am sure he did
Her father was a blessed creetur, Quilp, and worthy twenty thousand of some people
twenty hundred million thousand
I should like to have known him
I dare say he was a blessed creature then; but I'm sure he is now. It was a happy release. I believe he had suffered a long time
You look ill, Mrs Jiniwin; I know you have been exciting yourself too much -- talking perhaps, for it is your weakness. Go to bed. Do go to bed
I shall go when I please, Quilp, and not before
But please to do now. Do please to go now
Mrs Quilp
Yes, Quilp
Mrs Quilp
Yes, Quilp
If ever you listen to these beldames again, I'll bite you
Now, Mrs Quilp
I feel in a smoking humour, and shall probably blaze away all night. But sit where you are, if you please, in case I want you
Yes, Quilp
Why dear me
it's day. Open the door, sweet Mrs Quilp
Why, Betsy
you haven't been -- you don't mean to say you've been a
Sitting up all night
Yes she has
All night
Ay, all night. Is the dear old lady deaf
Who says man and wife are bad company? Ha ha! The time has flown
You're a brute
Come come
you mustn't call her names. She's married now, you know. And though she did beguile the time and keep me from my bed, you must not be so tenderly careful of me as to be out of humour with her. Bless you for a dear old lady. Here's to your health
I am much obliged to you
Oh! I'm very much obliged to you
Grateful soul
Mrs Quilp
Yes, Quilp
Help your mother to get breakfast, Mrs Quilp. I am going to the wharf this morning -- the earlier the better, so be quick
Ah
it was not the towel over my ears, I thought it wasn't. I'm a little hunchy villain and a monster, am I, Mrs Jiniwin? Oh
How are you now, my dear old darling
Come, you let me alone
You'll get something you won't like if you don't and so I tell you
You dog
I'll beat you with an iron rod, I'll scratch you with a rusty nail, I'll pinch your eyes, if you talk to me -- I will
You won't do it agin
now
Stand still, you dog
I won't do it again, because I've done it as often as I want. Here. Take the key
Why don't you hit one of your size
Where is there one of my size, you dog
Take the key, or I'll brain you with it
Now, open the counting-house
Now
you mind the wharf. Stand upon your head agin, and I'll cut one of your feet off
Here's somebody for you
Who
I don't know
Ask
Ask, you dog
What, Nelly
Yes
Come in
Come in. Stay. Just look out into the yard, and see whether there's a boy standing on his head
No, sir
He's on his feet
You're sure he is
Well. Now, come in and shut the door. What's your message, Nelly
Halloa here
Nelly
Yes, sir
Do you know what's inside this letter, Nell
No, sir
Are you sure, quite sure, quite certain, upon your soul
Quite sure, sir
Do you wish you may die if you do know, hey
Indeed I don't know
Well
I believe you. Humph! Gone already? Gone in four-and-twenty hours! What the devil has he done with it, that's the mystery
You look very pretty to-day, Nelly, charmingly pretty. Are you tired, Nelly
No, sir. I'm in a hurry to get back, for he will be anxious while I am away
There's no hurry, little Nell, no hurry at all
How should you like to be my number two, Nelly
To be what, sir
My number two, Nelly, my second, my Mrs Quilp
To be Mrs Quilp the second, when Mrs Quilp the first is dead, sweet Nell
to be my wife, my little cherry-cheeked, red-lipped wife. Say that Mrs Quilp lives five year, or only four, you'll be just the proper age for me. Ha ha! Be a good girl, Nelly, a very good girl, and see if one of these days you don't come to be Mrs Quilp of Tower Hill
You shall home with me to Tower Hill and see Mrs Quilp that is, directly
She's very fond of you, Nell, though not so fond as I am. You shall come home with me
I must go back indeed
He told me to return directly I had the answer
But you haven't it, Nelly
and won't have it, and can't have it, until I have been home, so you see that to do your errand, you must go with me. Reach me yonder hat, my dear, and we'll go directly
It's Kit
poor Kit who came with me! Oh, pray stop them, Mr Quilp
I'll stop 'em
I'll stop 'em. Now, my boys, fight away. I'll fight you both. I'll take bot of you, both together, both together
I'll beat you to a pulp, you dogs
I'll bruise you until you're copper-coloured, I'll break your faces till you haven't a profile between you, I will
Come, you drop that stick or it'll be worse for you
you drop that stick
Come a little nearer, and I'll drop it on your skull, you dog
a little nearer -- nearer yet
Never mind
you see if ever I offer to strike anybody again because they say you're an uglier dwarf than can be seen anywheres for a penny, that's all
Do you mean to say, I'm not, you dog
No
Then what do you fight on my wharf for, you villain
Because he said so
not because you an't
Then why did he say
that Miss Nelly was ugly, and that she and my master was obliged to do whatever his master liked? Why did he say that
He said what he did because he's a fool, and you said what you did because you're very wise and clever -- almost too clever to live, unless you're very careful of yourself, Kit
Here's sixpence for you, Kit. Always speak the truth. At all times, Kit, speak the truth. Lock the counting-house, you dog, and bring me the key
Here's Nelly Trent, dear Mrs Quilp
A glass of wine, my dear, and a biscuit, for she has had a long walk. She'll sit with you, my soul, while I write a letter
Mind what I say to you
See if you can get out of her anything about her grandfather, or what they do, or how they live, or what he tells her. I've my reasons for knowing, if I can. You women talk more freely to one another than you do to us, and you have a soft, mild way with you that'll win upon her. Do you hear
Yes, Quilp
Go then. What's the matter now
Dear Quilp
I love the child -- if you could do without making me deceive her
Do you hear me
worm yourself into her secrets; I know you can. I'm listening, recollect. If you're not sharp enough, I'll creak the door, and woe betide you if I have to creak it much. Go
How very often you have come backwards and forwards lately to Mr Quilp, my dear
I have said so to grandfather, a hundred times
And what has he said to that
Only sighed, and dropped his head, and seemed so sad and wretched that if you could have seen him I am sure you must have cried; you could not have helped it more than I, I know. How that door creaks
It often does
But your grandfather -- he used not to be so wretched
Oh, no
so different! We were once so happy and he so cheerful and contented! You cannot think what a sad change has fallen on us since
I am very, very sorry, to hear you speak like this, my dear
Thank you
you are always kind to me, and it is a pleasure to talk to you. I can speak to no one else about him, but poor Kit. I am very happy still, I ought to feel happier perhaps than I do, but you cannot think how it grieves me sometimes to see him alter so
He'll alter again, Nelly
and be what he was before
Oh, if God would only let that come about
but it is a long time now, since he first began to -- I thought I saw that door moving
It's the wind
Began to
To be so thoughtful and dejected, and to forget our old way ot spending the time in the long evenings
I used to read to him by the fireside, and he sat listening, and when I stopped and we began to talk, he told me about my mother, and how she once looked and spoke just like me when she was a little child. Then he used to take me on his knee, and try to make me understand that she was not lying in her grave, but had flown to a beautiful country beyond the sky where nothing died or ever grew old -- we were very happy once
Nelly, Nelly
I can't bear to see one as young as you so sorrowful. Pray don't cry
I do so very seldom
but I have kept this to myself a long time, and I am not quite well, I think, for the tears come into my eyes and I cannot keep them back. I don't mind telling you my grief, for I know you will not tell it to any one again
Then
we often walked in the fields and among the green trees, and when we came home at night, we liked it better for being tired, and said what a happy place it was. And if it was dark and rather dull, we used to say, what did it matter to us, for it only made us remember our last walk with greater pleasure, and look forward to our next one. But now we never have these walks, and though it is the same house it is darker and much more gloomy than it used to be, indeed
Mind you don't suppose
that grandfather is less kind to me than he was. I think he loves me better every day, and is kinder and more afectionate than he was the day before. You do not know how fond he is of me
I am sure he loves you dearly
Indeed, indeed he does
as dearly as I love him. But I have not told you the greatest change of all, and this you must never breathe again to any one. He has no sleep or rest, but that which he takes by day in his easy chair; for every night and neary all night long he is away from home
Nelly
Hush
When he comes home in the morning, which is generally just before day, I let him in. Last night he was very late, and it was quite light. I saw that his face was deadly pale, that his eyes were bloodshot, and that his legs trembled as he walked. When I had gone to bed again, I heard him groan. I got up and ran back to him, and heard him say, before he knew that I was there, that he could not bear his life much longer, and if it was not for the child, would wish to die. What shall I do! Oh! What shall I do
She's tired you see, Mrs Quilp
It's a long way from her home to the wharf, and then she was alrmed to see a couple of young scoundrels fighting, and was timorous on the water besides. All this together has been too much for her. Poor Nell
But you'd better wait, and dine with Mrs Quilp and me
I have been away too long, sir, already
Well
if you will go, you will, Nelly. Here's the note. It's only to say that I shall see him to-morrow or maybe next day, and that I couldn't do that little business for him this morning. Good-bye, Nelly. Here, you sir; take care of her, d'ye hear
You're a keen questioner, an't you, Mrs Quilp
What more could I do
What more could you do
couldn't you have done something less? Couldn't you have done what you had to do, without appearing in your favourite part of the crocodile, you minx
I am very sorry for the child, Quilp
Surely I've done enough. I've led her on to tell her secret she supposed we were alone; and you were by, God forgive me
You led her on! You did a great deal truly
What did I tell you about making me creak the door? It's lucky for you that from what she let fall, I've got the clue I want, for if I hadn't, I'd have visited the failure upon you, I can tell you
But you may thank your fortunate stars -- the same stars that made you Mrs Quilp -- you may thank them that I'm upon the old gentleman's track, and have got a new light. So let me hear no more about this matter now or at any other time, and don't get anything too nice for dinner, for I shan't be home to it
Fred
remember the once popular melody of Begone dull care; fan the sinking flame of hilarity with the wing of friendship; and pass the rosy wine
Fred
Pass the rosy
I'll give you, Fred
a little sentiment appropriate to the occasion. Here's May the
Pshaw
You worry me to death with your chattering. You can be merry under any circumstances
Why, Mr Trent
un, I supose it's better to keep to half of it than none; at all events, I'd rather be merry and not wise, than like you, neither one nor t'other
Bah
With all my heart
In the polite circles I believe this sort of thing isn't usually said to a gentleman in his own apartments, but never mind that. Make yourself at home
Gentlemen, I'll give you, if you please, Success to the ancient family of the Swivellers, and good luck to Mr Richard in particular -- Mr Richard, gentlemen
who spends all his money on his friends and is Bah
Dick
will you talk seriously for two minutes, if I show you a way to make your fortune with very little trouble
You've shown me so many
and nothing has come of any one of 'em but empty pockets
You'll tell a different story of this one, before a very long time is over
You saw my sister Nell
What about her
She has a pretty face, has she not
Why, certainly
I must say for her that there's not any very strong family likeness between her and you
Has she a pretty face
Yes
she has a pretty face, a very pretty face. What of that
I'll tell you
It's very plain that the old man and I will remain at daggers drawn to the end of our lives, and that I have nothing to expect from him. You see that, I suppose
A bat might see that, with the sun shining
It's equally plain that the money which the old flint -- rot him -- first taught me to expect that I should share with her at his death, will all be hers, is it not
I should said it was
Here is a jolly old grandfather
returned the other, 'so we needn't discuss it. Now look here. Nell is nearly fourteen
Fine girl of her age, but small
If I am to go on, be quiet for one minute
Now I'm coming to the point
That's right
The girl has strong affections, and brought up as she has been, may, at her age, be easily influenced and persuaded. If I take her in hand, I will be bound by a very little coaxing and threatening to bend her to my will. Not to beat about the bush (for the advantages of the scheme would take a week to tell) what's to prevent your marrying her
What
I say, what's to prevent
what's to prevent your marrying her
I don't mean marrying her now
say in two year's time, in three, in four. Does the old man look like a long-liver
He don't look like it
but these old people -- there's no trusting them, Fred. There's an aunt of mind down in Dorsetshire that was going to die when I was eight years old, and hasn't kept her word yet. They're so aggravating, so unprincipled, so spiteful -- unless there's apoplexy in the family, Fred, you can't calculate upon 'em, and even then they deceive you just as often as not
Look at the worst side of the question then
Suppose he lives
To be sure
There's the rub
I say
suppose he lives, and I persuaded, or if the word sounds more feasible, forced Nell to a secret marriage with you. What do you think would come of that
A family and an annual income of nothing, to keep 'em on
I tell you
that he lives for her, that his whole energies and thoughts are bound up in her, that he would no more disinherit her for an act of disobedience than he would take me into his favour again for any act of obedience or virtue that I could possibly be guilty of. He could not do it. You or any other man with eyes in his head may see that, if he chooses
It seems improbable certainly
It seems improbable because it is improbable
If you would furnish him with an additional inducement to forgive you, let there be an irreconcilable breach, a most deadly quarrel, between you and me -- let there be a pretense of such a thing, I mean, of course -- and he'll do fast enough. As to Nell, constant dropping will wear away a stone; you know you may trust to me as far as she is concerned. So, whether he lives or dies, what does it come to? That you become the sole inheritor of the wealth of this rich old hunks, that you and I spend it together, and that you get into the bargain a beautiful young wife
I suppose there's no doubt about his being rich
Doubt! Did you hear what he left fall the other day when we were there? Doubt! What will you doubt next, Dick
Come in
Her. Who
Sophy Wackles
Who's she
She's all my fancy painted her, sir, that's what she is
the rosy' and looking gravely at his friend. 'She's lovely, she's divine. You know her
I remember
What of her
Why, sir
between Miss Sophia Wackles and the humble individual who has now the honor to address you, warm and tender sentiments have been engendered, sentiments of the most honourable and inspiring kind. The Goddess Diana, sir, that calls aloud for the chase, is not more particular in her behavior than Sophia Wackles; I can tell you that
Am I to believe there's anything real in what you say
you don't mean to say that any love-making has been going on
Love-making, yes. Promising, no
There can be no action for breach, that's one comfort. I've never committed myself in writing, Fred
And what's in the letter, pray
A reminder, Fred, for to-night -- a small party of twenty, making two hundred light fantastic toes in all, supposing every lady and gentleman to have the proper complement. It must go, if it's only to begin breaking off the affair -- I'll do it, don't you be afraid. I should like to know whether she left this herself. If she did, unconscious of any bar to her happiness, it's affecting, Fred
May the present moment
be the worst of our lives! I like the plan of sending 'em with the peel on; there's a charm in drawing a poato from its native element (if I may so express it) to which the rich and powerful are strangers. Ah! 'Man wants but little here below, nor wants that little long
I hope the eating-house keeper will want but little and that he may not want that little long
I shall be passing present, and I'll call
The waiter's quite helpless. The goods are gone, Fred, and there's an end of it
no trust
Is that a reminder, in case you should forget to call
Not exactly, Fred
I enter in this little book the names of the streets that I can't go down while the shops are open. This dinner today closes Long Acre. I bought a pair of boots in Great Queen Street last week, and made that no throughfare too. There's only one avenue to the Strand left often now, and I shall have to stop up that to-night with a pair of gloves. The roads are closing so fast in every direction, that in a month's time, unless my aunt sends me a remittance, I shall have to go three or four miles out of town to get over the way
There's no fear of failing, in the end
Why, I hope not
I'm in such a state of mind that I hardly know what I write
if you could see me at this minute shedding tears for my past misconduct
It's rather sudden
when the heart of a man is depressed with fears, the mist is dispelled when Miss Wackles appears; she's a very nice girl. She's like the red red rose that's newly sprung in June -- there's no denying that -- she's also like a melody that's sweetly played in tune. It's really very sudden. Not that there's any need, on account of Fred's little sister, to turn cool directly, but its better not to go too far. If I begin to cool at all I must begin at once, I see that. There's the chance of an action for breach, that's another. There's the chance of -- no, there's no chance of that, but it's as well to be on the safe side
If he has any expectations at all or any means of keeping a wife well
he'll state 'em to us now or never
he must tell me so, to-night
Too early, no
Oh, my dear
You must dance with Miss Chegs
She's a nice girl -- and her brother's quite delightful
Quite delightful, is he
Quite delighted too, I should say, from the manner in which he's looking this way
Jealous! Like his impudence
His impudence, Mr Swiviller
Take care he don't hear you, sir, or you may be sorry for it
Oh, pray, Jane
Nonsense
Why shouldn't Mr Cheggs be jealous if he likes? I like that, certainly. Mr Cheggs has a good a right to be jealous as anyone else has, and perhaps he may have a better right soon if he hasn't already. You know best about that, Sophy
Did you speak to me, sir
No, sir, I didn't
have the goodness to smile again, sir. Perhaps you wished to speak to me, sir
No, sir, I didn't do that, either
Perhaps you may have nothing to say to me now, sir
No sir, I haven't
Oh, indeed, sir
I'm glad to hear it. You know where I'm to be found, I suppose, sir, in case you should have anything to say to me
I can easily inquire, sir, when I want to know
There's nothing more we need say, I believe, sir
Nothing more, sir
I've got such news for you
Alick has been saying such things to Sophy. Upon my word, you know, it's quite serious and in earnest, that's clear
What's he been saying, my dear
All manner of things
you can't think how out he has been speaking
My boat is on the shore and my bark is on the sea, but before I pass this door I will say farewell to thee
Are you going
Am I going
Yes, I am. What then
Nothing, except that it's very early
but you are your own master, of course
I would that I had been my own mistress too
before I had ever entertained a thought of you. Miss Wackles, I believed you true, and I was blest in so believing, but now I mourn that e'er I knew, a girl so fair yet so deceiving
I came here
with my bosom expanded, my heart dilated, and my sentiments of a corresponding description. I go away with feelings that may be conceived but cannot be described, feeling within myself that desolating truth that my best affections have experienced this night a stifler
I am sure I don't know what you mean, Mr Swiviller
I'm very sorry if
Sorry, Ma'am
sorry in the possession of a Cheegs! But I wish you a very good night, concluding with this slight remark, that there is a young lady growing up at this present moment for me, who has not only great personal attractions but great wealth, and who has requested her next of kin to propose for my hand, which, having a regard for some members of her family, I have consented to promise. It's a gratifying circumstance which you'll be glad to hear, that a young and lovely girl is growing into a woman expressly on my account, and is now saving up for me. I thought I'd mention it. I have now merely to apologize for trespassing so long upon your attention. Good night
There's one good thing springs out of all this
which is, that I now go heart and soul, neck and heels, with Fred in all his scheme about little Nelly, and right glad he'll be to find me so strong upon it. He shall know all about that to-morrow, and in the mean time, as it's rather late, I'll try and get a wink of the balmy
Two days
two whole, clear, days have passed, and there is no reply. What did he tell thee, Nell
Exactly what I told you, dear grandfather, indeed
True
Yes. But tell me again, Nell. My head fails me. What was it that he told thee? Nothing more than that he would see me to-morrow or next day? That was in the note
Nothing more
Shall I go to him again to- morrow, dear grandfather? Very early? I will be there and back, before breakfast
'Twould be of no use, my dear, no earthly use. But if he deserts me, Nell, at this moment -- if he deserts me now, when I should, with his assistance, be recompensed for all the time and money I have lost, and all the agony of mind I have undergone, which makes me what you see, I am ruined, and -- worse, far worse than that -- have ruined thee, for whom I ventured all. If we are beggars
What if we are
Let us be beggars, and be happy
Beggars -- and happy
Poor child
Dear grandfather
I am not a child in that I think, but even if I am, oh hear me pray that we may beg, or work in open roads or fields, to earn a scanty living, rather than live as we do now
Nelly
Yes, yes, rather than live as we do now
If you are sorrowful, let me know why and be sorrowful too; if you waste away and are paler and weaker every day, let me be your nurse and try to comfort you. If you are poor, let us be poor together; but let me be with you, do let me be with you; do not let me see such change and not know why, or I shall break my heart and die. Dear grandfather, let us leave this sad place to-morrow, and beg our way from door to door
Let us be beggars
I have no fear but we shall have enough, I am sure we shall. Let us walk through country places, and sleep in fields and under trees, and never think of money again, or anything that can make you sad, but rest at nights, and have the sun and wind upon our faces in the day, and thank God together! Let us never set foot in dark rooms or melancholy houses, any more, but wander up and down wherever we like to go; and when you are tired, you shall stop to rest in the pleasantest place that we can find, and I will go and beg for both
Through the door
I'm not quite small enough to get through key-holes. I wish I was. I want to have some talk with you, particularly, and in private. With nobody present, neighbour. Good-bye, little Nelly
Ah
what a nice kiss that was -- just upon the rosy part. What a capital kiss
Such a fresh, blooming, modest little bud, neighbour
such a chubby, rosy, cosy, little Nell
She's so
so small, so compact, so beautifully modelled, so fair, with such blue veins and such a transparent skin, and such little feet, and such winning ways -- but bless me, you're nervous! Why neighbour, what's the matter? I swear to you
I swear to you that I had no idea old blood ran so fast or kept so warm. I thought it was sluggish in its course, and cool, quite cool. I am pretty sure it ought to be. Yours must be out of order, neighbour
I believe it is
There's burning fever here, and something now and then to which I fear to give a name
Once, and once for all, have you brought me any money
No
Then
the child and I are lost
Neighbour
let me be plain with you, and play a fairer game than when you held all the cards, and I saw but the backs and nothing more. You have no secret from me now
You are surprised
Well, perhaps that's natural. You have no secret from me now, I say; no, not one. For now, I know, that all those sums of money, that all those loans, advances, and supplies that you have had from me, have found their way to -- shall I say the word
Aye
say it, if you will
To the gaming-table
your nightly haunt. This was the precious scheme to make your fortune, was it; this was the secret certain source of wealth in which I was to have sunk my money (if I had been the fool you took me for); this was your inexhaustible mine of gold, your El Dorado, eh
Yes
it was. It is. It will be, till I die
That I should have been blinded
by a mere shallow gambler
I am no gambler
I call Heaven to witness that I never played for gain of mine, or love of play; that at every piece I staked, I whispered to myself that orphan's name and called on Heaven to bless the venture;-- which it never did. Whom did it prosper? Who were those with whom I played? Men who lived by plunder, profligacy, and riot; squandering their gold in doing ill, and propagating vice and evil. My winnings would have been from them, my winnings would have been bestowed to the last farthing on a young sinless child whose life they would have sweetened and made happy. What would they have contracted? The means of corruption, wretchedness, and misery. Who would not have hoped in such a cause? Tell me that! Who would not have hoped as I did
When did you first begin this mad career
When did I first begin
When was it, that I first began? When should it be, but when I began to think how little I had saved, how long a time it took to save at all, how short a time I might have at my age to live, and how she would be left to the rough mercies of the world, with barely enough to keep her from the sorrows that wait on poverty; then it was that I began to think about it
After you first came to me to get your precious grandson packed off to sea
Shortly after that
I thought of it a long time, and had it in my sleep for months. Then I began. I found no pleasure in it, I expected none. What has it ever brought me but anxious days and sleepless nights; but loss of health and peace of mind, and gain of feebleness and sorrow
You lost what money you had laid by, first, and then came to me. While I thought you were making your fortune (as you said you were) you were making yourself a beggar, eh? Dear me! And so it comes to pass that I hold every security you could scrape together, and a bill of sale upon the -- upon the stock and property
But did you never win
Never
Never won back my loss
I thought
that if a man played long enough he was sure to win at last, or, at the worst, not to come off a loser
And so he is
so he is; I have felt that from the first, I have always known it, I've seen it, I never felt it half so strongly as I feel it now. Quilp, I have dreamed, three nights, of winning the same large sum, I never could dream that dream before, though I have often tried. Do not desert me, now I have this chance. I have no resource but you, give me some help, let me try this one last hope
See, Quilp, good tender-hearted Quilp
only see here. Look at these figures, the result of long calculation, and painful and hard experience. I MUST win. I only want a little help once more, a few pounds, but two score pounds, dear Quilp
The last advance was seventy
and it went in one night
I know it did
but that was the very worst fortune of all, and the time had not come then. Quilp, consider, consider
that orphan child! If I were alone, I could die with gladness -- perhaps even anticipate that doom which is dealt out so unequally: coming, as it does, on the proud and happy in their strength, and shunning the needy and afflicted, and all who court it in their despair -- but what I have done, has been for her. Help me for her sake I implore you; not for mine; for hers
I'm sorry I've got an appointment in the city
or I should have been very glad to have spent half an hour with you while you composed yourself, very glad
Nay, Quilp, good Quilp
you and I have talked together, more than once, of her poor mother's story. The fear of her coming to poverty has perhaps been bred in me by that. Do not be hard upon me, but take that into account. You are a great gainer by me. Oh spare me the money for this one last hope
I couldn't do it really
though I tell you what -- and this is a circumstance worth bearing in mind as showing how the sharpest among us may be taken in sometimes -- I was so deceived by the penurious way in which you lived, alone with Nelly
All done to save money for tempting fortune, and to make her triumph greater
Yes, yes, I understand that now
but I was going to say, I was so deceived by that, your miserly way, the reputation you had among those who knew you of being rich, and your repeated assurances that you would make of my advances treble and quadruple the interest you paid me, that I'd have advanced you, even now, what you want, on your simple note of hand, if I hadn't unexpectedly become acquainted with your secret way of life
Who is it
that, notwithstanding all my caution, told you? Come. Let me know the name -- the person
Now, who do you think
It was Kit, it must have been the boy; he played the spy, and you tampered with him
How came you to think of him
Yes, it was Kit. Poor Kit
Poor Kit
I think it was Kit who said I was an uglier dwarf than could be seen anywhere for a penny, wasn't it. Ha ha ha! Poor Kit
Bless us
who's that? Oh! It's you, Kit
Yes, mother, it's me
Why, how tired you look, my dear
Old master an't gone out to-night
and so she hasn't been at the window at all
Ah, mother
what a one you are! There an't many such as you, I know
I hope there are many a great deal better, Kit
and that there are, or ought to be, accordin' to what the parson at chapel says
Much he knows about it
Well
your beer's down there by the fender, Kit
I see
my love to you, mother. And the parson's health too if you like. I don't bear him any malice, not I
Did you tell me, just now, that your master hadn't gone out to-night
Yes
worse luck
You should say better luck, I think
because Miss Nelly won't have been left alone
Ah
I wonder what she'd say
if she knew that every night, when she -- poor thing -- is sitting alone at that window, you are watching in the open street for fear any harm should come to her, and that you never leave the place or come home to your bed though you're ever so tired, till such time as you think she's safe in hers
Never mind what she'd say
she'll never know nothing, and consequently, she'll never say nothing
I know what some people would say, Kit
Nonsense
No, but they would indeed. Some people would say that you'd fallen in love with her, I know they would
get out
Speaking seriously though, Kit
for of course I was only in joke just now, it's very good and thoughtful, and like you, to do this, and never let anybody know it, though some day I hope she may come to know it, for I'm sure she would be very grateful to you and feel it very much. It's a cruel thing to keep the dear child shut up there. I don't wonder that the old gentleman wants to keep it from you
He don't think it's cruel, bless you
and don't mean it to be so, or he wouldn't do it -- I do consider, mother, that he wouldn't do it for all the gold and silver in the world. No, no, that he wouldn't. I know him better than that
Then what does he do it for, and why does he keep it so close from you
That I don't know
If he hadn't tried to keep it so close though, I should never have found it out, for it was his getting me away at night and sending me off so much earlier than he used to, that first made me curious to know what was going on. Hark! what's that
It's only somebody outside
It's somebody crossing over here
and coming very fast too. He can't have gone out after I left, and the house caught fire, mother
Miss Nelly! What is the matter
I must not stay a moment
grandfather has been taken very ill. I found him in a fit upon the floor
I'll run for a doctor
I'll be there directly, I'll
No, no
there is one there, you're not wanted, you -- you -- must never come near us any more
What
Never again
Don't ask me why, for I don't know. Pray don't ask me why, pray don't be sorry, pray don't be vexed with me! I have nothing to do with it indeed
He complains and raves of you
I don't know what you have done, but I hope it's nothing very bad
I done
He cries that you're the cause of all his misery
he screamed and called for you; they say you must not come near him or he will die. You must not return to us any more. I came to tell you. I thought it would be better that I should come than somebody quite strange. Oh, Kit, what have you done? You, in whom I trusted so much, and who were almost the only friend I had
I have brought his money for the week
and -- and -- a little more, for he was always good and kind to me. I hope he will be sorry and do well somewhere else and not take this to heart too much. It grieves me very much to part with him like this, but there is no help. It must be done. Good night
Smoke away, you dog
fill your pipe again and smoke it fast, down to the last whiff, or I'll put the sealing-waxed end of it in the fire and rub it red hot upon your tongue
This is the way to keep off fever
this is the way to keep off every calamity of life! We'll never leave off, all the time we stop here -- smoke away, you dog, or you shall swallow the pipe
Shall we stop here long, Mr Quilp
We must stop, I suppose, till the old gentleman up stairs is dead
He he he
oh! very good
Smoke away
Never stop! You can talk as you smoke. Don't lose time
He he he
But if he should get better, Mr Quilp
Then we shall stop till he does, and no longer
How kind it is of you, Sir, to wait till then
Some people, Sir, would have sold or removed the goods -- oh dear, the very instant the law allowed 'em. Some people, Sir, would have been all flintiness and granite. Some people, sir, would have
Some people would have spared themselves the jabbering of such a parrot as you
He he he
You have such spirits
Here's the gal a comin' down
The what, you dog
The gal
Are you deaf
Oh
He's very bad
What a pretty little Nell
Oh beautiful, sir, beautiful indeed
Quite charming
Has she come to sit upon Quilp's knee
or is she going to bed in her own little room inside here? Which is poor Nelly going to do
What a remarkable pleasant way he has with children
upon my word it's quite a treat to hear him
I'm not going to stay at all
I want a few things out of that room, and then I -- I -- won't come down here any more
And a very nice little room it is
Quite a bower! You're sure you're not going to use it; you're sure you're not coming back, Nelly
No
never again! Never again
She's very sensitive
Very sensitive; that's a pity. The bedstead is much about my size. I think I shall make it MY little room
Miss Nell
Yes
what do you want
I have wanted to say a word to you, for a long time
but the people below have driven me away and wouldn't let me see you. You don't believe -- I hope you don't really believe -- that I deserve to be cast off as I have been; do you, miss
I must believe it
Or why would grandfather have been so angry with you
I don't know
I'm sure I never deserved it from him, no, nor from you. I can say that, with a true and honest heart, any way. And then to be driven from the door, when I only came to ask how old master was
They never told me that
I didn't know it indeed. I wouldn't have had them do it for the world
Thank'ee, miss
it's comfortable to hear you say that. I said I never would believe that it was your doing
That was right
Miss Nell
there are new masters down stairs. It's a change for you
It is indeed
And so it will be for him when he gets better
If he ever does
Oh, he'll do that, he'll do that
I'm sure he will. You mustn't be cast down, Miss Nell. Now don't be, pray
He'll be sure to get better now
if you don't give way to low spirits and turn ill yourself, which would make him worse and throw him back, just as he was recovering. When he does, say a good word -- say a kind word for me, Miss Nell
They tell me I must not even mention your name to him for a long, long time
I dare not; and even if I might, what good would a kind word do you, Kit? We shall be very poor. We shall scarcely have bread to eat
It's not that I may be taken back
that I ask the favour of you. It isn't for the sake of food and wages that I've been waiting about so long in hopes to see you. Don't think that I'd come in a time of trouble to talk of such things as them
No, it's not that
it's something very different from that. I haven't got much sense, I know, but if he could be brought to believe that I'd been a faithful servant to him, doing the best I could, and never meaning harm, perhaps he mightn't
Perhaps he mightn't think it over venturesome of me to say -- well then, to say this
This home is gone from you and him. Mother and I have got a poor one, but that's better than this with all these people here; and why not come there, till he's had time to look about, and find a better
You think
that it's very small and inconvenient. So it is, but it's very clean. Perhaps you think it would be noisy, but there's not a quieter court than ours in all the town. Don't be afraid of the children; the baby hardly ever cries, and the other one is very good -- besides, I'd mind 'em. They wouldn't vex you much, I'm sure. Do try, Miss Nell, do try. The little front room up stairs is very pleasant. You can see a piece of the church-clock, through the chimneys, and almost tell the time; mother says it would be just the thing for you, and so it would, and you'd have her to wait upon you both, and me to run of errands. We don't mean money, bless you; you're not to think of that! Will you try him, Miss Nell? Only say you'll try him. Do try to make old master come, and ask him first what I have done. Will you only promise that, Miss Nell
Who's there
O yes
quite well -- why not
Yes
it was Quilp, he knew. Quilp was master there. Of course he might come in
I'm glad to see you well again at last, neighbour
You're quite strong now
Yes
yes
I don't want to hurry you, you know, neighbour
but, as soon as you can arrange your future proceedings, the better
Surely
The better for all parties
You see
the goods being once removed, this house would be uncomfortable; uninhabitable in fact
You say true
Poor Nell too, what would she do
Exactly
that's very well observed. Then will you consider about it, neighbour
I will, certainly
We shall not stop here
So I supposed
I have sold the things. They have not yielded quite as much as they might have done, but pretty well -- pretty well. To-day's Tuesday. When shall they be moved? There's no hurry -- shall we say this afternoon
Say Friday morning
Very good
So be it -- with the understanding that I can't go beyond that day, neighbour, on any account
Good
I shall remember it
on Friday morning. I shall remember it
Forgive you -- what
Oh grandfather, what should I forgive
All that is past, all that has come upon thee, Nell, all that was done in that uneasy dream
Do not talk so
Pray do not. Let us speak of something else
Yes, yes, we will
And it shall be of what we talked of long ago -- many months -- months is it, or weeks, or days? which is it Nell
I do not understand you
It has come back upon me to-day, it has all come back since we have been sitting here. I bless thee for it, Nell
For what, dear grandfather
For what you said when we were first made beggars, Nell. Let us speak softly. Hush! for if they knew our purpose down stairs, they would cry that I was mad and take thee from me. We will not stop here another day. We will go far away from here
Yes, let us go
Let us begone from this place, and never turn back or think of it again. Let us wander barefoot through the world, rather than linger here
We will
we will travel afoot through the fields and woods, and by the side of rivers, and trust ourselves to God in the places where He dwells. It is far better to lie down at night beneath an open sky like that yonder -- see how bright it is -- than to rest in close rooms which are always full of care and weary dreams. Thou and I together, Nell, may be cheerful and happy yet, and learn to forget this time, as if it had never been
We will be happy
We never can be here
No, we never can again -- never again -- that's truly said
Let us steal away to-morrow morning -- early and softly, that we may not be seen or heard -- and leave no trace or track for them to follow by. Poor Nell! Thy cheek is pale, and thy eyes are heavy with watching and weeping for me -- I know -- for me; but thou wilt be well again, and merry too, when we are far away. To-morrow morning, dear, we'll turn our faces from this scene of sorrow, and be as free and happy as the birds
Which way
what's the matter
The key
the door-key -- that's the matter. D'ye know anything of it
How should I know anything of it, sir
How should you
You're a nice lawyer, an't you? Ugh, you idiot
whether he wanted any more
There's plenty more of it at the same shop
a large and extensive assortment always on hand -- country orders executed with promptitude and despatch -- will you have a little more, Sir -- don't say no, if you'd rather not
I thought it was somebody else
why didn't you say who you were
Why didn't you say who YOU were
instead of flying out of the house like a Bedlamite
It was you that -- that knocked
was it
Yes, I am the man
That lady had begun when I came, but she knocked too soft, so I relieved her
Humph
I thought it was your fault! And you, sir -- don't you know there has been somebody ill here, that you knock as if you'd beat the door down
Damme
that's why I did it. I thought there was somebody dead here
You came for some purpose, I suppose
What is it you want
I want to know how the old gentleman is
and to hear from Nell herself, with whom I should like to have a little talk. I'm a friend of the family, sir -- at least I'm the friend of one of the family, and that's the same thing
You'd better walk in then
Go on, sir, go on. Now, Mrs Quilp -- after you, ma'am
Now, Mrs Quilp
go you up stairs, if you please, to Nelly's room, and tell her that she's wanted
You seem to make yourself at home here
I AM at home, young gentleman
Empty, you fool
I give you my word, Quilp
that I have been into every room and there's not a soul in any of them
And that
explains the mystery of the key
It's a strange way of going
very strange not to communicate with me who am such a close and intimate friend of his! Ah! he'll write to me no doubt, or he'll bid Nelly write -- yes, yes, that's what he'll do. Nelly's very fond of me. Pretty Nell
For indeed
we knew that they'd go away to-day, but not that they'd go so early, or so quietly. But they have their reasons, they have their reasons
Where in the devil's name are they gone
And what
what do you mean by moving the goods
That I have bought 'em, Sir
Eh? What then
Has the sly old fox made his fortune then, and gone to live in a tranquil cot in a pleasant spot with a distant view of the changing sea
Keeping his place of retirement very close, that he may not be visited too often by affectionate grandsons and their devoted friends, eh
I say nothing, but is that your meaning
Well
I suppose it's of no use my staying here
Not the least in the world
You'll mention that I called, perhaps
And say
say, sir, that I was wafted here upon the pinions of concord; that I came to remove, with the rake of friendship, the seeds of mutual violence and heart-burning, and to sow in their place, the germs of social harmony. Will you have the goodness to charge yourself with that commission, Sir
Certainly
Will you be kind enough to add to it, Sir
that that is my address, and that I am to be found at home every morning. Two distinct knocks, sir, will produce the slavey at any time. My particular friends, Sir, are accustomed to sneeze when the door is opened, to give her to understand that they ARE my friends and have no interested motives in asking if I'm at home. I beg your pardon; will you allow me to look at that card again
Oh! by all means
By a slight and not unnatural mistake, sir
I had handed you the pass- ticket of a select convivial circle called the Glorious Apollers of which I have the honour to be Perpetual Grand. That is the proper document, Sir. Good morning
Come here, you sir
Well, so your old master and young mistress have gone
Where
Do you mean to say you don't know where
Where have they gone, eh
I don't know
Come
let's have no more of this! Do you mean to say that you don't know they went away by stealth, as soon as it was light this morning
No
You don't know that
Don't I know that you were hanging about the house the other night, like a thief, eh? Weren't you told then
No
You were not
What were you told then; what were you talking about
Oh
Then, I think they'll come to you yet
Do you think they will
Aye, I think they will
Now, when they do, let me know; d'ye hear? Let me know, and I'll give you something. I want to do 'em a kindness, and I can't do 'em a kindness unless I know where they are. You hear what I say
Here's a bird! What's to be done with this
Wring its neck
Oh no, don't do that
Give it to me
Oh yes, I dare say
Come! You let the cage alone, and let me wring its neck will you? He said I was to do it. You let the cage alone will you
Give it here, give it to me, you dogs
Fight for it, you dogs, or I'll wring its neck myself
Goodness gracious, Kit, what is the matter, what have you been doing
Never you mind, mother
I'm not hurt, don't you be afraid for me. I've been a fightin' for a bird and won him, that's all. Hold your noise, little Jacob. I never see such a naughty boy in all my days
You have been fighting for a bird
Ah! Fightin' for a bird
and here he is -- Miss Nelly's bird, mother, that they was agoin' to wring the neck of! I stopped that though -- ha ha ha! They wouldn't wring his neck and me by, no, no. It wouldn't do, mother, it wouldn't do at all. Ha ha ha
Let me see
I think I'll hang him in the winder, because it's more light and cheerful, and he can see the sky there, if he looks up very much. He's such a one to sing, I can tell you
And now, mother
before I rest any more, I'll go out and see if I can find a horse to hold, and then I can buy some birdseed, and a bit of something nice for you, into the bargain
the ghost
I wonder
if one of these gentlemen knew there was nothing in the cupboard at home, whether he'd stop on purpose, and make believe that he wanted to call somewhere, that I might earn a trifle
I beg your pardon, sir
I'm sorry you stopped, sir. I only meant did you want your horse minded
I'm going to get down in the next street
If you like to come on after us, you may have the job
Will you go on, sir
or are we to wait here for you till it's too late for our appointment
Oh you naughty Whisker
Fie upon you! I'm ashamed of such conduct
Witherden -- Notary
oh, delicious
oh, fragrant, indeed
I brought it in honour of the occasion, Sir
Ah! an occasion indeed, ma'am, an occasion which does honour to me, ma'am, honour to me
I have had many a gentleman articled to me, ma'am, many a one. Some of them are now rolling in riches, unmindful of their old companion and friend, ma'am, others are in the habit of calling upon me to this day and saying, "Mr Witherden, some of the pleasantest hours I ever spent in my life were spent in this office -- were spent, Sir, upon this very stool"; but there was never one among the number, ma'am, attached as I have been to many of them, of whom I augured such bright things as I do of your only son
Oh dear
How happy you do make us when you tell us that, to be sure
I tell you, ma'am
what I think as an honest man, which, as the poet observes, is the noblest work of God. I agree with the poet in every particular, ma'am. The mountainous Alps on the one hand, or a humming-bird on the other, is nothing, in point of workmanship, to an honest man -- or woman -- or woman
Anything that Mr Witherden can say of me
I can say, with interest, of him, I am sure
It's a happy circumstance, a truly happy circumstance
to happen too upon his eight-and-twentieth birthday, and I hope I know how to appreciate it. I trust, Mr Garland, my dear Sir, that we may mutually congratulate each other upon this auspicious occasion
Marrying as his mother and I did, late in life, sir, after waiting for a great many years, until we were well enough off -- coming together when we were no longer young, and then being blessed with one child who has always been dutiful and affectionate -- why, it's a source of great happiness to us both, sir
Of course it is, I have no doubt of it
It's the contemplation of this sort of thing, that makes me deplore my fate in being a bachelor. There was a young lady once, sir, the daughter of an outfitting warehouse of the first respectability -- but that's a weakness. Chuckster, bring in Mr Abel's articles
You see, Mr Witherden
that Abel has not been brought up like the run of young men. He has always had a pleasure in our society, and always been with us. Abel has never been absent from us, for a day; has he, my dear
Never, my dear
except when he went to Margate one Saturday with Mr Tomkinley that had been a teacher at that school he went to, and came back upon the Monday; but he was very ill after that, you remember, my dear; it was quite a dissipation
He was not used to it, you know
and he couldn't bear it, that's the truth. Besides he had no comfort in being there without us, and had nobody to talk to or enjoy himself with
That was it, you know
I was quite abroad, mother, quite desolate, and to think that the sea was between us -- oh, I never shall forget what I felt when I first thought that the sea was between us
Very natural under the circumstances
Mr Abel's feelings did credit to his nature, and credit to your nature, ma'am, and his father's nature, and human nature. I trace the same current now, flowing through all his quiet and unobtrusive proceedings.--- I am about to sign my name, you observe, at the foot of the articles which Mr Chuckster will witness; and placing my finger upon this blue wafer with the vandyked corners, I am constrained to remark in a distinct tone of voice -- don't be alarmed, ma'am, it is merely a form of law -- that I deliver this, as my act and deed. Mr Abel will place his name against the other wafer, repeating the same cabalistic words, and the business is over. Ha ha ha! You see how easily these things are done
Young Snob
There
I'm coming here again next Monday at the same time, and mind you're here, my lad, to work it out
Thank you, Sir
I'll be sure to be here
Dear grandfather
only that this place is prettier and a great deal better than the real one, if that in the book is like it, I feel as if we were both Christian, and laid down on this grass all the cares and troubles we brought with us; never to take them up again
No -- never to return -- never to return
Thou and I are free of it now, Nell. They shall never lure us back
Are you tired
are you sure you don't feel ill from this long walk
I shall never feel ill again, now that we are once away
Let us be stirring, Nell. We must be further away -- a long, long way further. We are too near to stop, and be at rest. Come
I can do nothing for myself, my darling
I don't know how it is, I could once, but the time's gone. Don't leave me, Nell; say that thou'lt not leave me. I loved thee all the while, indeed I did. If I lose thee too, my dear, I must die
God save you, master
are you travelling far
Yes, Sir, a long way
From London
Sit thee down, master, in the elbow chair
How far is it to any town or village
A matter of good five mile, my dear
but you're not going on to-night
Yes, yes, Nell
Further on, further on, darling, further away if we walk till midnight
There's a good barn hard by, master
or there's travellers' lodging, I know, at the Plow an' Harrer. Excuse me, but you do seem a little tired, and unless you're very anxious to get on
Yes, yes, we are
Further away, dear Nell, pray further away
We must go on, indeed
We thank you very much, but we cannot stop so soon. I'm quite ready, grandfather
God bless you
Didn't you stop to rest at a cottage yonder
Yes, sir
Ah! They asked me to look out for you
I'm going your way. Give me your hand -- jump up, master
Why do you come here to do this
Why you see
we're putting up for to-night at the public-house yonder, and it wouldn't do to let 'em see the present company undergoing repair
No
why not, eh? why not
Because it would destroy all the delusion, and take away all the interest, wouldn't it
Good
Are you going to show 'em to-night? are you
That is the intention, governor
and unless I'm much mistaken, Tommy Codlin is a calculating at this minute what we've lost through your coming upon us. Cheer up, Tommy, it can't be much
I don't care if we haven't lost a farden, but you're too free. If you stood in front of the curtain and see the public's faces as I do, you'd know human natur' better
Ah! it's been the spoiling of you, Tommy, your taking to that branch
When you played the ghost in the reg'lar drama in the fairs, you believed in everything -- except ghosts. But now you're a universal mistruster. I never see a man so changed
Never mind
I know better now, and p'raps I'm sorry for it
Look here; here's all this judy's clothes falling to pieces again. You haven't got a needle and thread I suppose
I have a needle, Sir, in my basket, and thread too. Will you let me try to mend it for you? I think I could do it neater than you could
N -- no further to-night, I think
If you're wanting a place to stop at
I should advise you to take up at the same house with us. That's it. The long, low, white house there. It's very cheap
These two gentlemen have ordered supper in an hour's time
and your best plan will be to sup with them. Meanwhile you shall have a little taste of something that'll do you good, for I'm sure you must want it after all you've gone through to-day. Now, don't look after the old gentleman, because when you've drank that, he shall have some too
Were you his mother
I was his wife, my dear
You wonder to hear me say that
You're not the first. Older folk than you have wondered at the same thing before now. Yes, I was his wife. Death doesn't change us more than life, my dear
Do you come here often
I sit here very often in the summer time
I used to come here once to cry and mourn, but that was a weary while ago, bless God
I pluck the daisies as they grow, and take them home
I like no flowers so well as these, and haven't for five-and-fifty years. It's a long time, and I'm getting very old
And where are you going to-day
Indeed I hardly know -- we have not determined yet
We're going on to the races
If that's your way and you like to have us for company, let us travel together. If you prefer going alone, only say the word and you'll find that we shan't trouble you
We'll go with you
Nell -- with them, with them
Objection
Now be gracious for once, Tommy, and say that you'd rather they went with us. I know you would. Be gracious, Tommy
Trotters
you're too free
Why what harm can it do
No harm at all in this particular case, perhaps
but the principle's a dangerous one, and you're too free I tell you
Well, are they to go with us or not
Yes, they are
but you might have made a favour of it, mightn't you
Short
Trotters
master
It's Grinder's lot, an't it
Yes
Come on then
Let's have a look at you. I thought it was you
Bound for the races, I see
So are we. How are you, Short
Practice
No
Why, the fact is
that we are going the longest way, because then we could stop for the night, a mile and a half on. But three or four mile gained to-night is so many saved to-morrow, and if you keep on, I think our best way is to do the same
Where's your partner
Here he is
and he'll see his partner boiled alive before he'll go on to-night. That's what he says
Well, don't say such things as them, in a spear which is dewoted to something pleasanter
Respect associations, Tommy, even if you do cut up rough
Rough or smooth
rough or smooth, I won't go further than the mile and a half to-night. I put up at the Jolly Sandboys and nowhere else. If you like to come there, come there. If you like to go on by yourself, go on by yourself, and do without me if you can
All alone
All alone as yet
but we shall have more company to-night I expect. Here one of you boys, carry that show into the barn. Make haste in out of the wet, Tom; when it came on to rain I told 'em to make the fire up, and there's a glorious blaze in the kitchen, I can tell you
What is it
It's a stew of tripe
and cow-heel
and bacon
and steak
and peas, cauliflowers, new potatoes, and sparrow-grass, all working up together in one delicious gravy
At what time will it be ready
It'll be done to a turn
it'll be done to a turn at twenty-two minutes before eleven
Then
fetch me a pint of warm ale, and don't let nobody bring into the room even so much as a biscuit till the time arrives
What a delicious smell
Who are they
Don't you know
Not I
They're no good, I suppose
They're no harm
Depend upon that. I tell you what -- it's plain that the old man an't in his right mind
If you haven't got anything newer than that to say
you'd better let us fix our minds upon the supper, and not disturb us
Here me out, won't you
It's very plain to me, besides, that they're not used to this way of life. Don't tell me that that handsome child has been in the habit of prowling about as she's done these last two or three days. I know better
Well, who DOES tell you she has
can't you think of anything more suitable to present circumstances than saying things and then contradicting 'em
I wish somebody would give you your supper
for there'll be no peace till you've got it. Have you seen how anxious the old man is to get on -- always wanting to be furder away -- furder away. Have you seen that
Ah! what then
This, then
He has given his friends the slip. Mind what I say -- he has given his friends the slip, and persuaded this delicate young creetur all along of her fondness for him to be his guide and travelling companion -- where to, he knows no more than the man in the moon. Now I'm not a going to stand that
YOU'RE not a going to stand that
Here's a world to live in
I
am not a-going to stand it. I am not a-going to see this fair young child a falling into bad hands, and getting among people that she's no more fit for, than they are to get among angels as their ordinary chums. Therefore when they dewelope an intention of parting company from us, I shall take measures for detaining of 'em, and restoring 'em to their friends, who I dare say have had their disconsolation pasted up on every wall in London by this time
Short
it's possible that there may be uncommon good sense in what you've said. If there is, and there should be a reward, Short, remember that we're partners in everything
Your people don't usually travel in character, do they
It must come expensive if they do
No
no, it's not the custom with us. But we've been playing a little on the road to-day, and we come out with a new wardrobe at the races, so I didn't think it worth while to stop to undress. Down, Pedro
I've got a animal here
a animal here, wot I think you know something of, Short
Ah
let's have a look at him
Here he is
He was once a Toby of yours, warn't he
No, my dear, no, not an atom from anybody's hand but mine if you please. That dog
lost a halfpenny to-day. He goes without his supper
You must be more careful, Sir
Come here. Now, Sir, you play away at that, while we have supper, and leave off if you dare
Now, gentlemen
The dog whose name's called, eats. The dogs whose names an't called, keep quiet. Carlo
How's the Giant
Rather weak upon his legs
I begin to be afraid he's going at the knees
That's a bad look-out
Aye! Bad indeed
Once get a giant shaky on his legs, and the public care no more about him than they do for a dead cabbage stalk
What becomes of old giants
They're usually kept in carawans to wait upon the dwarfs
The maintaining of 'em must come expensive, when they can't be shown, eh
It's better that, than letting 'em go upon the parish or about the streets," said Mr Vuffin. 'Once make a giant common and giants will never draw again. Look at wooden legs. If there was only one man with a wooden leg what a property he'd be
So he would
That's very true
Instead of which
if you was to advertise Shakspeare played entirely by wooden legs
I don't suppose you would
This shows, you see
un -- as left his carawan some year ago and took to carrying coach-bills about London, making himself as cheap as crossing-sweepers. He died. I make no insinuation against anybody in particular
but he was ruining the trade;-- and he died
I know you do, Jerry
I know you remember it, Jerry, and the universal opinion was, that it served him right. Why, I remember the time when old Maunders as had three-and-twenty wans -- I remember the time when old Maunders had in his cottage in Spa Fields in the winter time, when the season was over, eight male and female dwarfs setting down to dinner every day, who was waited on by eight old giants in green coats, red smalls, blue cotton stockings, and high-lows: and there was one dwarf as had grown elderly and wicious who whenever his giant wasn't quick enough to please him, used to stick pins in his legs, not being able to reach up any higher. I know that's a fact, for Maunders told it me himself
What about the dwarfs when they get old
The older a dwarf is, the better worth he is
a grey-headed dwarf, well wrinkled, is beyond all suspicion. But a giant weak in the legs and not standing upright!-- keep him in the carawan, but never show him, never show him, for any persuasion that can be offered
What is the matter
Nothing's the matter, my dear
I'm your friend. Perhaps you haven't thought so, but it's me that's your friend -- not him
Not who
Short, my dear. I tell you what
for all his having a kind of way with him that you'd be very apt to like, I'm the real, open-hearted man. I mayn't look it, but I am indeed
Short's very well, and seems kind
but he overdoes it. Now I don't
Take my advice
don't ask me why, but take it. As long as you travel with us, keep as near me as you can. Don't offer to leave us -- not on any account -- but always stick to me and say that I'm your friend. Will you bear that in mind, my dear, and always say that it was me that was your friend
Say so where -- and when
O, nowhere in particular
I'm only anxious that you should think me so, and do me justice. You can't think what an interest I have in you. Why didn't you tell me your little history -- that about you and the poor old gentleman? I'm the best adviser that ever was, and so interested in you -- so much more interested than Short. I think they're breaking up down stairs; you needn't tell Short, you know, that we've had this little talk together. God bless you. Recollect the friend. Codlin's the friend, not Short. Short's very well as far as he goes, but the real friend is Codlin -- not Short
Yes
It's me -- Short
I only wanted to say that we must be off early to-morrow morning, my dear, because unless we get the start of the dogs and the conjuror, the villages won't be worth a penny. You'll be sure to be stirring early and go with us? I'll call you
Grandfather, don't look at those I talk of, and don't seem as if I spoke of anything but what I am about. What was that you told me before we left the old house? That if they knew what we were going to do, they would say that you were mad, and part us
I know that was what you told me. You needn't speak, dear. I recollect it very well. It was not likely that I should forget it. Grandfather, these men suspect that we have secretly left our friends, and mean to carry us before some gentleman and have us taken care of and sent back. If you let your hand tremble so, we can never get away from them, but if you're only quiet now, we shall do so, easily
How
Dear Nelly, how? They will shut me up in a stone room, dark and cold, and chain me up to the wall, Nell -- flog me with whips, and never let me see thee more
You're trembling again
Keep close to me all day. Never mind them, don't look at them, but me. I shall find a time when we can steal away. When I do, mind you come with me, and do not stop or speak a word. Hush! That's all
Halloa! what are you up to, my dear
Codlin's the friend, remember -- not Short
Making some nosegays
I am going to try and sell some, these three days of the races. Will you have one -- as a present I mean
Tom Codlin's the friend, by G
See, what a pretty face
I think they must certainly come to-morrow, eh mother
They have been gone a week. They surely couldn't stop away more than a week, could they now
For the matter of that
you speak true and sensible enough, as you always do, mother. Still, I do consider that a week is quite long enough for 'em to be rambling about; don't you say so
Quite long enough, Kit, longer than enough, but they may not come back for all that
Then what do you think, mother, has become of 'em? You don't think they've gone to sea, anyhow
Not gone for sailors, certainly
But I can't help thinking that they have gone to some foreign country
I say
don't talk like that, mother
I am afraid they have, and that's the truth
It's the talk of all the neighbours, and there are some even that know of their having been seen on board ship, and can tell you the name of the place they've gone to, which is more than I can, my dear, for it's a very hard one
I don't believe it
Not a word of it. A set of idle chatterboxes, how should they know
They may be wrong of course
I can't tell about that, though I don't think it's at all unlikely that they're in the right, for the talk is that the old gentleman had put by a little money that nobody knew of, not even that ugly little man you talk to me about -- what's his name -- Quilp; and that he and Miss Nell have gone to live abroad where it can't be taken from them, and they will never be disturbed. That don't seem very far out of the way now, do it
Now, Sir, will you ha' the goodness to go on; this is not the place
Oh dear, such a naughty Whisker" cried the old lady. 'After being so good too, and coming along so well! I am quite ashamed of him. I don't know what we are to do with him, I really don't
Why, bless me
the lad is here! My dear, do you see
I said I'd be here, Sir
I hope you've had a pleasant ride, sir. He's a very nice little pony
My dear
This is an uncommon lad; a good lad, I'm sure
I'm sure he is
A very good lad, and I am sure he is a good son
precious deep
Well, boy
you came to work out that shilling;-- not to get another, hey
No indeed, sir
I never thought of such a thing
Father alive
Dead, sir
Mother
Yes, sir
Married again -- eh
Now
I am not going to give you anything
Thank you, sir
But
perhaps I may want to know something more about you, so tell me where you live, and I'll put it down in my pocket-book
Stand still
Wo-a-a
We are here before you, you see, Christopher
Yes, sir
The gentleman's been kind enough, my dear
to ask me whether you were in a good place, or in any place at all, and when I told him no, you were not in any, he was so good as to say that
That we wanted a good lad in our house
and that perhaps we might think of it, if we found everything as we would wish it to be
You see, my good woman
that it's necessary to be very careful and particular in such a matter as this, for we're only three in family, and are very quiet regular folks, and it would be a sad thing if we made any kind of mistake, and found things different from what we hoped and expected
don't cry, mother, I shall soon be better
Well, mother
I think my fortune's about made now
I should think it was indeed, Kit
Six pound a year! Only think
Ah
There's a property
Please God we'll make such a lady of you for Sundays, mother! such a scholar of Jacob, such a child of the baby, such a room of the one up stairs! Six pound a year
Hem
What's that about six pound a year? What about six pound a year
Who said he was to have six pound a year
Did the old man say it, or did little Nell say it? And what's he to have it for, and where are they, eh
Don't be frightened, mistress
Your son knows me; I don't eat babies; I don't like 'em. It will be as well to stop that young screamer though, in case I should be tempted to do him a mischief. Holloa, sir! Will you be quiet
Mind you don't break out again, you villain
or I'll make faces at you and throw you into fits, I will. Now you sir, why haven't you been to me as you promised
What should I come for
I hadn't any business with you, no more than you had with me
Here, mistress
When did his old master come or send here last? Is he here now? If not, where's he gone
He has not been here at all
I wish we knew where they have gone, for it would make my son a good deal easier in his mind, and me too. If you're the gentleman named Mr Quilp, I should have thought you'd have known, and so I told him only this very day
Humph
That's what you tell this gentleman too, is it
If the gentleman comes to ask the same question, I can't tell him anything else, sir; and I only wish I could, for our own sakes
Yes
that was the object of the present expedition. I fancied it possible -- but let us go ring fancy's knell. I'll begin it
You seem disappointed
A baffler, Sir, a baffler, that's all
I have entered upon a speculation which has proved a baffler; and a Being of brightness and beauty will be offered up a sacrifice at Cheggs's altar. That's all, sir
I am disappointed myself
out of mere friendly feeling for them; but you have real reasons, private reasons I have no doubt, for your disappointment, and therefore it comes heavier than mine
Why, of course it does
Upon my word, I'm very sorry, very sorry. I'm rather cast down myself. As we are companions in adversity, shall we be companions in the surest way of forgetting it? If you had no particular business, now, to lead you in another direction
there is a house by the water-side where they have some of the noblest Schiedam -- reputed to be smuggled, but that's between ourselves -- that can be got in all the world. The landlord knows me. There's a little summer-house overlooking the river, where we might take a glass of this delicious liquor with a whiff of the best tobacco -- it's in this case, and of the rarest quality, to my certain knowledge -- and be perfectly snug and happy, could we possibly contrive it; or is there any very particular engagement that peremptorily takes you another way, Mr Swiveller, eh
Is it good
is it strong and fiery? Does it make you wink, and choke, and your eyes water, and your breath come short -- does it
Does it
why, man, you don't mean to tell me that you drink such fire as this
No
Not drink it! Look here. And here. And here again. Not drink it
Give us a toast
a woman, a beauty. Let's have a beauty for our toast and empty our glasses to the last drop. Her name, come
If you want a name
here's Sophy Wackles
Sophy Wackles
Miss Sophy Wackles that is -- Mrs Richard Swiveller that shall be -- that shall be -- ha ha ha
Ah
you might have said that a few weeks ago, but it won't do now, my buck. Immolating herself upon the shrine of Cheggs
Poison Cheggs, cut Cheggs's ears off
I won't hear of Cheggs. Her name is Swiveller or nothing. I'll drink her health again, and her father's, and her mother's; and to all her sisters and brothers -- the glorious family of the Wackleses -- all the Wackleses in one glass -- down with it to the dregs
Well
you're a jolly fellow, but of all the jolly fellows I ever saw or heard of, you have the queerest and most extraordinary way with you, upon my life you have
Stop
That's the thing, that's the thing. It can be brought about, it shall be brought about. There's my hand upon it; I am your friend from this minute
What! do you think there's still a chance
A chance
a certainty! Sophy Wackles may become a Cheggs or anything else she likes, but not a Swiveller. Oh you lucky dog! He's richer than any Jew alive; you're a made man. I see in you now nothing but Nelly's husband, rolling in gold and silver. I'll help you. It shall be done. Mind my words, it shall be done
But how
There's plenty of time
and it shall be done. We'll sit down and talk it over again all the way through. Fill your glass while I'm gone. I shall be back directly -- directly
Here's sport
sport ready to my hand, all invented and arranged, and only to be enjoyed. It was this shallow-pated fellow who made my bones ache t'other day, was it? It was his friend and fellow-plotter, Mr Trent, that once made eyes at Mrs Quilp, and leered and looked, was it? After labouring for two or three years in their precious scheme, to find that they've got a beggar at last, and one of them tied for life. Ha ha ha! He shall marry Nell. He shall have her, and I'll be the first man, when the knot's tied hard and fast, to tell 'em what they've gained and what I've helped 'em to. Here will be a clearing of old scores, here will be a time to remind 'em what a capital friend I was, and how I helped them to the heiress. Ha ha ha
Why don't you come and bite me, why don't you come and tear me to pieces, you coward
You're afraid, you bully, you're afraid, you know you are
I don't think there's hardly a chance of his really losing it, but carriers are under great temptation to pretend they lose things, no doubt
No doubt about it
upon my word, mother, I don't think it was right to trust it to itself. Somebody ought to have gone with it, I'm afraid
We can't help it now
but it was foolish and wrong. People oughtn't to be tempted
YOU know you must keep up your spirits, mother, and not be lonesome because I'm not at home. I shall very often be able to look in when I come into town I dare say, and I shall send you a letter sometimes, and when the quarter comes round, I can get a holiday of course; and then see if we don't take little Jacob to the play, and let him know what oysters means
I hope plays mayn't be sinful, Kit, but I'm a'most afraid
I know who has been putting that in your head
that's Little Bethel again. Now I say, mother, pray don't take to going there regularly, for if I was to see your good-humoured face that has always made home cheerful, turned into a grievous one, and the baby trained to look grievous too, and to call itself a young sinner (bless its heart) and a child of the devil (which is calling its dead father names); if I was to see this, and see little Jacob looking grievous likewise, I should so take it to heart that I'm sure I should go and list for a soldier, and run my head on purpose against the first cannon-ball I saw coming my way
Oh, Kit, don't talk like that
I would, indeed, mother, and unless you want to make me feel very wretched and uncomfortable, you'll keep that bow on your bonnet, which you'd more than half a mind to pull off last week. Can you suppose there's any harm in looking as cheerful and being as cheerful as our poor circumstances will permit? Do I see anything in the way I'm made, which calls upon me to be a snivelling, solemn, whispering chap, sneaking about as if I couldn't help it, and expressing myself in a most unpleasant snuffle? on the contrary, don't I see every reason why I shouldn't? just hear this! Ha ha ha! An't that as nat'ral as walking, and as good for the health? Ha ha ha! An't that as nat'ral as a sheep's bleating, or a pig's grunting, or a horse's neighing, or a bird's singing? Ha ha ha! Isn't it, mother
I suppose you're Christopher,sir
I'm afraid you've rung a good many times perhaps
but we couldn't hear you, because we've been catching the pony
Left an infant by my parents, at an early age
cast upon the world in my tenderest period, and thrown upon the mercies of a deluding dwarf, who can wonder at my weakness! Here's a miserable orphan for you. Here
is a miserable orphan
Then
let me be a father to you
You have deceived an orphan, Sir
I! I'm a second father to you
You my father, Sir
Being all right myself, Sir, I request to be left alone -- instantly, Sir
What a funny fellow you are
Go, Sir
Go, deceiver, go, some day, Sir, p'r'aps you'll waken, from pleasure's dream to know, the grief of orphans forsaken. Will you go, Sir
I'm as sharp
as sharp as a ferret, and as cunning as a weazel. You bring Trent to me; assure him that I'm his friend though i fear he a little distrusts me (I don't know why, I have not deserved it); and you've both of you made your fortunes -- in perspective
That's the worst of it
These fortunes in perspective look such a long way off
But they look smaller than they really are, on that account
You'll have no conception of the value of your prize until you draw close to it. Mark that
D'ye think not
Aye, I do; and I am certain of what I say, that's better
You bring Trent to me. Tell him I am his friend and yours -- why shouldn't I be
There's no reason why you shouldn't, certainly
and perhaps there are a great many why you should -- at least there would be nothing strange in your wanting to be my friend, if you were a choice spirit, but then you know you're not a choice spirit
I not a choice spirit
Devil a bit,sir
A man of your appearance couldn't be. If you're any spirit at all,sir, you're an evil spirit. Choice spirits
are quite a different looking sort of people, you may take your oath of that,sir
I don't defend myself, Fred
but the fellow has such a queer way with him and is such an artful dog, that first of all he set me upon thinking whether there was any harm in telling him, and while I was thinking, screwed it out of me. If you had seen him drink and smoke, as I did, you couldn't have kept anything from him. He's a Salamander you know, that's what he is
Why, let me see
It must be a matter of nearly two years since we were first acquainted
Nearer three, I think
Nearer three
How fast time flies. Does it seem as long as that to you, Mrs Quilp
Yes, I think it seems full three years, Quilp
Oh indeed, ma'am
you have been pining, have you? Very good, ma'am
It seems to me but yesterday that you went out to Demerara in the Mary Anne
but yesterday, I declare. Well, I like a little wildness. I was wild myself once
I thought you'd come back directly, Fred. I always thought that
And when the Mary Anne returned with you on board, instead of a letter to say what a contrite heart you had, and how happy you were in the situation that had been provided for you, I was amused -- exceedingly amused. Ha ha ha
I always will say
that when a rich relation having two young people -- sisters or brothers, or brother and sister -- dependent on him, attaches himself exclusively to one, and casts off the other, he does wrong
It's very true
that your grandfather urged repeated forgiveness, ingratitude, riot, and extravagance, and all that; but as I told him "these are common faults." "But he's a scoundrel," said he. "Granting that," said I (for the sake of argument of course), "a great many young noblemen and gentlemen are scoundrels too!" But he wouldn't be convinced
I wonder at that, Mr Quilp
Well, so did I at the time
but he was always obstinate. He was in a manner a friend of mine, but he was always obstinate and wrong-headed. Little Nell is a nice girl, a charming girl, but you're her brother, Frederick. You're her brother after all; as you told him the last time you met, he can't alter that
He would if he could, confound him for that and all other kindnesses
But nothing can come of this subject now, and let us have done with it in the Devil's name
Agreed
agreed on my part readily. Why have I alluded to it? Just to show you, Frederick, that I have always stood your friend. You little knew who was your friend, and who your foe; now did you? You thought I was against you, and so there has been a coolness between us; but it was all on your side, entirely on your side. Let's shake hands again, Fred
It's as well not to say more than one can help before our worthy friend
Is it a bargain between us, Fred? Shall he marry little rosy Nell by-and-by
You have some end of your own to answer, of course
Of course I have, dear Fred
It's retaliation perhaps; perhaps whim. I have influence, Fred, to help or oppose. Which way shall I use it? There are a pair of scales, and it goes into one
Throw it into mine then
It's done, Fred
It's in the scale from this time, and turns it, Fred. Mind that
Where have they gone
He has feigned it often enough to me, of late
Oh! and to me too
Which is more extraordinary, as I know how rich he really is
I suppose you should
I think I should indeed
We are quite safe now, and have nothing to fear indeed, dear grandfather
Nothing to fear
Nothing to fear if they took me from thee! Nothing to fear if they parted us! Nobody is true to me. No, not one. Not even Nell
Oh! do not say that
for if ever anybody was true at heart, and earnest, I am. I am sure you know I am
Then how
how can you bear to think that we are safe, when they are searching for me everywhere, and may come here, and steal upon us, even while we're talking
Because I'm sure we have not been followed
Judge for yourself, dear grandfather: look round, and see how quiet and still it is. We are alone together, and may ramble where we like. Not safe! Could I feel easy -- did I feel at ease -- when any danger threatened you
True, too
What noise was that
A bird
flying into the wood, and leading the way for us to follow
Speak to him, dear
I am almost afraid to disturb him
He does not seem to see us. Perhaps if we wait a little, he may look this way
If you could direct us anywhere,sir
we should take it very kindly
You have been walking a long way
A long way, Sir
You're a young traveller, my child
Aye, Sir
and the stay and comfort of my life
Come in
Yes
That's beautiful writing, my dear
Very, Sir
is it yours
Mine
I couldn't write like that, now-a-days. No. They're all done by one hand; a little hand it is, not so old as yours, but a very clever one
A little hand indeed
Far beyond all his companions, in his learning and his sports too, how did he ever come to be so fond of me! That I should love him is no wonder, but that he should love me
I hope there is nothing the matter,sir
Not much, my dear
I hoped to have seen him on the green to-night. He was always foremost among them. But he'll be there to-morrow
Has he been ill
Not very. They said he was wandering in his head yesterday, dear boy, and so they said the day before. But that's a part of that kind of disorder; it's not a bad sign -- not at all a bad sign
If he could lean upon anybody's arm, he would come to me, I know
He always came into the garden to say good night. But perhaps his illness has only just taken a favourable turn, and it's too late for him to come out, for it's very damp and there's a heavy dew. it's much better he shouldn't come to-night
My favourite scholar
It is a little hand to have done all that, and waste away with sickness. It is a very, very little hand
No
no better. They even say he is worse
I am very sorry for that, Sir
for my part
I hope it's not so. I don't think he can be worse
If the journey you have before you is a long one
and don't press you for one day, you're very welcome to pass another night here. I should really be glad if you would, friend
I shall be glad to have your young companion with me for one day. If you can do a charity to a lone man, and rest yourself at the same time, do so. If you must proceed upon your journey, I wish you well through it, and will walk a little way with you before school begins
What are we to do, Nell
say what we're to do, dear
Have you many scholars, sir
Are the others clever, sir
Good boys
good boys enough, my dear, but they'll never do like that
I think, boys
that I shall give an extra half-holiday this afternoon
You must promise me first
that you'll not be noisy, or at least, if you are, that you'll go away and be so -- away out of the village I mean. I'm sure you wouldn't disturb your old playmate and companion
Then pray don't forget, there's my dear scholars
what I have asked you, and do it as a favour to me. Be as happy as you can, and don't be unmindful that you are blessed with health. Good-bye all
Thank'ee, Sir
good-bye, Sir
It's natural, thank Heaven
I'm very glad they didn't mind me
Oh, dame
is it so bad as this
He's going fast
my grandson's dying. It's all along of you. You shouldn't see him now, but for his being so earnest on it. This is what his learning has brought him to. Oh dear, dear, dear, what can I do
Do not say that I am in any fault
I am not hurt, dame. No, no. You are in great distress of mind, and don't mean what you say. I am sure you don't
I do
I mean it all. If he hadn't been poring over his books out of fear of you, he would have been well and merry now, I know he would
I hope I always was. I meant to be, God knows
Who is that
I am afraid to kiss her, lest I should make her ill. Ask her to shake hands with me
You remember the garden, Harry
and how pleasant it used to be in the evening time? You must make haste to visit it again, for I think the very flowers have missed you, and are less gay than they used to be. You will come soon, my dear, very soon now -- won't you
What's that
The boys at play upon the green
Shall I do it
Please wave it at the window
Tie it to the lattice. Some of them may see it there. Perhaps they'll think of me, and look this way
Good fortune and happiness go with you
I am quite a solitary man now. If you ever pass this way again, you'll not forget the little village-school
We shall never forget it, sir
nor ever forget to be grateful to you for your kindness to us
I have heard such words from the lips of children very often
but they were soon forgotten. I had attached one young friend to me, the better friend for being young -- but that's over -- God bless you
Hey
Yes, to be sure -- Who won the Helter-Skelter Plate, child
Won what, ma'am
The Helter-Skelter Plate at the races, child -- the plate that was run for on the second day
On the second day, ma'am
Second day! Yes, second day
Can't you say who won the Helter-Skelter Plate when you're asked the question civilly
I don't know, ma'am
Don't know
why, you were there. I saw you with my own eyes
And very sorry I was
to see you in company with a Punch; a low, practical, wulgar wretch, that people should scorn to look at
I was not there by choice
we didn't know our way, and the two men were very kind to us, and let us travel with them. Do you -- do you know them, ma'am
Know 'em, child
Know them! But you're young and inexperienced, and that's your excuse for asking sich a question. Do I look as if I know'd 'em, does the caravan look as if it know'd 'em
No, ma'am, no
I beg your pardon
Come nearer, nearer still
Are you hungry, child
Not very, but we are tired, and it's -- it IS a long way
Well, hungry or not, you had better have some tea
I suppose you are agreeable to that, old gentleman
Set 'em out near the hind wheels, child, that's the best place
Now hand up the teapot for a little more hot water, and a pinch of fresh tea, and then both of you eat and drink as much as you can, and don't spare anything; that's all I ask of you
Yes, Missus
How did you find the cold pie, George
It warn't amiss, mum
And the beer
is it passable, George
It's more flatterer than it might be
but it an't so bad for all that
Have you nearly finished
Wery nigh, mum
I hope I haven't hurried you, George
If you have
we must make up for it next time, that's all
We are not a heavy load, George
That's always what the ladies say
If you see a woman a driving, you'll always perceive that she never will keep her whip still; the horse can't go fast enough for her. If cattle have got their proper load, you never can persuade a woman that they'll not bear something more. What is ' the cause of this here
Would these two travellers make much difference to the horses, if we took them with us
They'd make a difference in course
Would they make much difference
They can't be very heavy
The weight o' the pair, mum
Well, child
how do you like this way of travelling
That's the happiness of you young people
You don't know what it is to be low in your feelings. You always have your appetites too, and what a comfort that is
There, child
read that
Jarley's WAX-WORK
Read it again
Jarley's Wax-Work
That's me
I am Mrs Jarley
One hundred figures the full size of life
The only stupendous collection of real wax-work in the world
Now exhibiting within
Jarley's unrivalled collection
The Royal Family are the patrons of Jarley
Believe me if all Jarley's wax-work so rare
Over the water to Jarley
If I had a donkey
Never go into the company of a filthy Punch any more
after this
I never saw any wax-work, ma'am
Is it funnier than Punch
Funnier
It is not funny at all
Oh
It isn't funny at all
It's calm and -- what's that word again -- critical? -- no -- classical, that's it -- it's calm and classical. No low beatings and knockings about, no jokings and squeakings like your precious Punches, but always the same, with a constantly unchanging air of coldness and gentility; and so like life, that if wax-work only spoke and walked about, you'd hardly know the difference. I won't go so far as to say, that, as it is, I've seen wax-work quite like life, but I've certainly seen some life that was exactly like wax-work
Is it here, ma'am
Is what here, child
The wax-work, ma'am
Why, bless you, child, what are you thinking of? How could such a collection be here, where you see everything except the inside of one little cupboard and a few boxes? It's gone on in the other wans to the assembly-rooms, and there it'll be exhibited the day after to-morrow. You are going to the same town, and you'll see it I dare say. It's natural to expect that you'll see it, and I've no doubt you will. I suppose you couldn't stop away if you was to try ever so much
I shall not be in the town, I think, ma'am
Not there
Then where will you be
I -- I -- don't quite know. I am not certain
You don't mean to say that you're travelling about the country without knowing where you're going to
What curious people you are! What line are you in? You looked to me at the races, child, as if you were quite out of your element, and had got there by accident
We were there quite by accident
We are poor people, ma'am, and are only wandering about. We have nothing to do;-- I wish we had
You amaze me more and more
Why, what do you call yourselves? Not beggars
Indeed, ma'am, I don't know what else we are
Lord bless me
I never heard of such a thing. Who'd have thought it
And yet you can read. And write too, I shouldn't wonder
Yes, ma'am
Well, and what a thing that is
I can't
And the old gentleman too
for I want to have a word with him. Do you want a good situation for your grand-daughter, master? If you do, I can put her in the way of getting one. What do you say
I can't leave her
We can't separate. What would become of me without her
I should have thought you were old enough to take care of yourself, if you ever will be
But he never will be
I fear he never will be again. Pray do not speak harshly to him. We are very thankful to you
but neither of us could part from the other if all the wealth of the world were halved between us
If you're really disposed to employ yourself
there would be plenty for you to do in the way of helping to dust the figures, and take the checks, and so forth. What I want your grand-daughter for, is to point 'em out to the company; they would be soon learnt, and she has a way with her that people wouldn't think unpleasant, though she does come after me; for I've been always accustomed to go round with visitors myself, which I should keep on doing now, only that my spirits make a little ease absolutely necessary. It's not a common offer, bear in mind
it's Jarley's wax-work, remember. The duty's very light and genteel, the company particularly select, the exhibition takes place in assembly-rooms, town-halls, large rooms at inns, or auction galleries. There is none of your open-air wagrancy at Jarley's, recollect; there is no tarpaulin and sawdust at Jarley's, remember. Every expectation held out in the handbills is realised to the utmost, and the whole forms an effect of imposing brilliancy hitherto unrivalled in this kingdom. Remember that the price of admission is only sixpence, and that this is an opportunity which may never occur again
Now, child
We are very much obliged to you, ma'am
and thankfully accept your offer
And you'll never be sorry for it
I'm pretty sure of that. So as that's all settled, let us have a bit of supper
Common Stage Waggon
Faster, sirrah
faster
It's a dreadful heavy load, Sir
I've come on very fast, considering
YOU have come fast, considering
you creep, you dog, you crawl, you measure distance like a worm. There are the chimes now, half-past twelve
Come on then
or I shall be too late. Faster -- do you hear me? Faster
Because it does you good
when you're tired, to sleep as long as ever you can, and get the fatigue quite off; and that's another blessing of your time of life -- you can sleep so very sound
Have you had a bad night, ma'am
I seldom have anything else, child
I sometimes wonder how I bear it
The wan will come on to bring the boxes
Boh
What, Mr Slum
Lot! who'd have thought of seeing you here
Pon my soul and honour that's a wise remark. Who would have thought it! George, my faithful feller, how are you
I came here
Pon my soul and honour
what a devilish classical thing this is! by Gad, it's quite Minervian
It'll look well enough when it comes to be finished
Well enough
Will you believe me when I say it's the delight of my life to have dabbled in poetry, when I think I've exercised my pen upon this charming theme? By the way -- any orders? Is there any little thing I can do for you
It comes so very expensive, sir
and I really don't think it does much good
Hush! No, no
No fibs. I'll not hear it. Don't say it don't do good. Don't say it. I know better
I don't think it does
Ha, ha
you're giving way, you're coming down. Ask the perfumers, ask the blacking-makers, ask the hatters, ask the old lottery-office-keepers -- ask any man among 'em what my poetry has done for him, and mark my words, he blesses the name of Slum. If he's an honest man, he raises his eyes to heaven, and blesses the name of Slum -- mark that! You are acquainted with Westminster Abbey, Mrs Jarley
Yes, surely
Then upon my soul and honour, ma'am, you'll find in a certain angle of that dreary pile, called Poets' Corner, a few smaller names than Slum
I've got a little trifle here, now
a little trifle here, thrown off in the heat of the moment, which I should say was exactly the thing you wanted to set this place on fire with. It's an acrostic -- the name at this moment is Warren, and the idea's a convertible one, and a positive inspiration for Jarley. Have the acrostic
I suppose it's very dear
Five shillings
Cheaper than any prose
I couldn't give more than three
And six
Come. Three-and-six
That
is an unfortunate Maid of Honour in the Time of Queen Elizabeth, who died from pricking her finger in consequence of working upon a Sunday. Observe the blood which is trickling from her finger; also the gold-eyed needle of the period, with which she is at work
That, ladies and gentlemen
is jasper Packlemerton of atrocious memory, who courted and married fourteen wives, and destroyed them all, by tickling the soles of their feet when they were sleeping in the consciousness of innocence and virtue. On being brought to the scaffold and asked if he was sorry for what he had done, he replied yes, he was sorry for having let 'em off so easy, and hoped all Christian husbands would pardon him the offence. Let this be a warning to all young ladies to be particular in the character of the gentlemen of their choice. Observe that his fingers are curled as if in the act of tickling, and that his face is represented with a wink, as he appeared when committing his barbarous murders
If I know'd a donkey
Your ears ought to be better than other folks' at any rate, if you make so little of the chance of being struck blind
What were you going past for, eh
We didn't see the house, sir, till we heard you calling
No wonder
with this lightning in one's eyes, by-the-by. You had better stand by the fire here, and dry yourselves a bit. You can call for what you like if you want anything. If you don't want anything, you are not obliged to give an order. Don't be afraid of that. This is a public-house, that's all. The Valiant Soldier is pretty well known hereabouts
Is this house called the Valiant Soldier, Sir
I thought everybody knew that
There an't many men
who would ventur' to cross Jem Groves under his own roof. There's only one man, I know, that has nerve enough for that, and that man's not a hundred mile from here neither. But he's worth a dozen men, and I let him say of me whatever he likes in consequence -- he knows that
hold his noise and light a candle
needn't waste his breath in brag, for most people knew pretty well what sort of stuff he was made of
Nell, they're -- they're playing cards
Don't you hear them
Look sharp with that candle
it's as much as I can do to see the pips on the cards as it is; and get this shutter closed as quick as you can, will you? Your beer will be the worse for to-night's thunder I expect. -- Game! Seven-and-sixpence to me, old Isaac. Hand over
Do you hear, Nell, do you hear them
I haven't seen such a storm as this
since the night when old Luke Withers won thirteen times running on the red. We all said he had the Devil's luck and his own, and as it was the kind of night for the Devil to be out and busy, I suppose he was looking over his shoulder, if anybody could have seen him
Ah
for all old Luke's winning through thick and thin of late years, I remember the time when he was the unluckiest and unfortunatest of men. He never took a dice-box in his hand, or held a card, but he was plucked, pigeoned, and cleaned out completely
Do you hear what he says
Do you hear that, Nell
Bear witness
that I always said it; that I knew it, dreamed of it, felt it was the truth, and that it must be so! What money have we, Nell? Come! I saw you with money yesterday. What money have we? Give it to me
No, no, let me keep it, grandfather
Let us go away from here. Do not mind the rain. Pray let us go
Give it to me, I say
Hush, hush, don't cry, Nell. If I spoke sharply, dear, I didn't mean it. It's for thy good. I have wronged thee, Nell, but I will right thee yet, I will indeed. Where is the money
Do not take it
Pray do not take it, dear. For both our sakes let me keep it, or let me throw it away -- better let me throw it away, than you take it now. Let us go; do let us go
Give me the money
I must have it. There -- there -- that's my dear Nell. I'll right thee one day, child, I'll right thee, never fear
Now old gentleman
Do you know either of us? This side of the screen is private, sir
No offence, I hope
But by G --, sir, there is offence
when you intrude yourself upon a couple of gentlemen who are particularly engaged
I had no intention to offend
I thought that
But you had no right to think, sir
What the devil has a man at your time of life to do with thinking
Now bully boy
can't you let him speak
Ah, to be sure, can't you let him speak, Isaac List
Can't I let him speak
Yes, I can let him speak, Jemmy Groves
Well then, do it, will you
Who knows
but the gentleman may have civilly meant to ask if he might have the honour to take a hand with us
I did mean it
That is what I mean. That is what I want now
I thought so
Then who knows but the gentleman, anticipating our objection to play for love, civilly desired to play for money
Oh! That indeed
if that's what the gentleman meant, I beg the gentleman's pardon. Is this the gentleman's little purse? A very pretty little purse. Rather a light purse
but enough to amuse a gentleman for half an hour or so
We'll make a four-handed game of it, and take in Groves
Come, Jemmy
Come; and we may be so happy
We WILL be happy
Let me go, Nell. The means of happiness are on the cards and the dice. We must rise from little winnings to great. There's little to be won here; but great will come in time. I shall but win back my own, and it's all for thee, my darling
God help us
Oh! what hard fortune brought us here
Hush
Fortune will not bear chiding. We must not reproach her, or she shuns us; I have found that out
Now, mister
If you're not coming yourself, give us the cards, will you
I am coming
Sit thee down, Nell, sit thee down and look on. Be of good heart, it's all for thee -- all -- every penny. I don't tell them, no, no, or else they wouldn't play, dreading the chance that such a cause must give me. Look at them. See what they are and what thou art. Who doubts that we must win
The gentleman has thought better of it, and isn't coming
I'm sorry the gentleman's daunted -- nothing venture, nothing have -- but the gentleman knows best
Why I am ready. You have all been slow but me
I wonder who is more anxious to begin than I
See the curse of poverty, Nell
If I could have gone on a little longer, only a little longer, the luck would have turned on my side. Yes, it's as plain as the marks upon the cards. See here -- and there -- and here again
Put them away
Try to forget them
Try to forget them
To forget them! How are we ever to grow rich if I forget them
No, no, Nell
they must not be forgotten. We must make amends for this as soon as we can. Patience -- patience, and we'll right thee yet, I promise thee. Lose to-day, win to-morrow. And nothing can be won without anxiety and care -- nothing. Come, I am ready
Do you know what the time is
And a rainy night
The Valiant Soldier, by James Groves. Good beds. Cheap entertainment for man and beast
It's very late
Two good beds, one-and-sixpence; supper and beer one shilling; total two shillings and sixpence
If I had had but that money before -- If I had only known of it a few minutes ago
We will decide to stop here if you please
I think that's prudent
You shall have your suppers directly
Will you give me the change here, if you please
No
nobody
Good night
God bless him
I see too well now, that they would indeed part us if they found us out, and shut him up from the light of the sun and sky. He has only me to help him. God bless us both
Grandfather
do you think they are honest people at the house yonder
Why
Do I think them honest -- yes, they played honestly
I'll tell you why I ask
I lost some money last night -- out of my bedroom, I am sure. Unless it was taken by somebody in jest -- only in jest, dear grandfather, which would make me laugh heartily if I could but know it
Who would take money in jest
Those who take money, take it to keep. Don't talk of jest
Then it was stolen out of my room, dear
But is there no more, Nell
no more anywhere? Was it all taken -- every farthing of it -- was there nothing left
Nothing
We must get more
we must earn it, Nell, hoard it up, scrape it together, come by it somehow. Never mind this loss. Tell nobody of it, and perhaps we may regain it. Don't ask how;-- we may regain it, and a great deal more;-- but tell nobody, or trouble may come of it. And so they took it out of thy room, when thou wert asleep
Poor Nell, poor little Nell
Not a word about it to any one but me
no, not even to me
for it can do no good. All the losses that ever were, are not worth tears from thy eyes, darling. Why should they be, when we will win them back
Let them go
Let them go, once and for ever, and I would never shed another tear if every penny had been a thousand pounds
Well, well
she knows no better. I ought to be thankful of it
But listen to me
will you listen to me
Aye, aye, I'll listen
a pretty voice. It has always a sweet sound to me. It always had when it was her mother's, poor child
Let me persuade you, then -- oh, do let me persuade you
to think no more of gains or losses, and to try no fortune but the fortune we pursue together
We pursue this aim together
Whose image sanctifies the game
Have we been worse off
since you forgot these cares, and we have been travelling on together? Have we not been much better and happier without a home to shelter us, than ever we were in that unhappy house, when they were on your mind
She speaks the truth
It must not turn me, but it is the truth; no doubt it is
Only remember what we have been since that bright morning when we turned our backs upon it for the last time
only remember what we have been since we have been free of all those miseries -- what peaceful days and quiet nights we have had -- what pleasant times we have known -- what happiness we have enjoyed. If we have been tired or hungry, we have been soon refreshed, and slept the sounder for it. Think what beautiful things we have seen, and how contented we have felt. And why was this blessed change
We haven't had
more than eight of Miss Monflathers's young ladies all the time we've been here, and there's twenty-six of 'em, as I was told by the cook when I asked her a question or two and put her on the free-list. We must try 'em with a parcel of new bills, and you shall take it, my dear, and see what effect that has upon 'em
You're the wax-work child, are you not
Yes, ma'am
And don't you think you must be a very wicked little child
to be a wax-work child at all
Don't you know
that it's very naughty and unfeminine, and a perversion of the properties wisely and benignantly transmitted to us, with expansive powers to be roused from their dormant state through the medium of cultivation
Don't you feel how naughty it is of you
to be a wax-work child, when you might have the proud consciousness of assisting, to the extent of your infant powers, the manufactures of your country; of improving your mind by the constant contemplation of the steam-engine; and of earning a comfortable and independent subsistence of from two-and-ninepence to three shillings per week? Don't you know that the harder you are at work, the happier you are
How doth the little
Eh
Who said that
The little busy bee
It was Miss Edwards who did that, I KNOW
Now I am sure that was Miss Edwards
Is it not
a most remarkable thing, Miss Edwards, that you have an attachment to the lower classes which always draws you to their sides; or, rather, is it not a most extraordinary thing that all I say and do will not wean you from propensities which your original station in life have unhappily rendered habitual to you, you extremely vulgar-minded girl
I really intended no harm, ma'am
It was a momentary impulse, indeed
An impulse
I wonder that you presume to speak of impulses to me
I am astonished
I suppose it is an impulse which induces you to take the part of every grovelling and debased person that comes in your way
But I would have you know, Miss Edwards
that you cannot be permitted -- if it be only for the sake of preserving a proper example and decorum in this establishment -- that you cannot be permitted, and that you shall not be permitted, to fly in the face of your superiors in this exceedingly gross manner. If you have no reason to feel a becoming pride before wax-work children, there are young ladies here who have, and you must either defer to those young ladies or leave the establishment, Miss Edwards
You will not take the air to-day, Miss Edwards
Have the goodness to retire to your own room, and not to leave it without permission
She has passed me without any salute
She has actually passed me without the slightest acknowledgment of my presence
As for you, you wicked child
tell your mistress that if she presumes to take the liberty of sending to me any more, I will write to the legislative authorities and have her put in the stocks, or compelled to do penance in a white sheet; and you may depend upon it that you shall certainly experience the treadmill if you dare to come here again. Now ladies, on
I am a'most inclined
to turn atheist when I think of it
For which of us is best off, I wonder
she or me! It's only talking, when all is said and done, and if she talks of me in the stocks, why I can talk of her in the stocks, which is a good deal funnier if we come to that. Lord, what does it matter, after all
Get me money
I must have money, Nell. It shall be paid thee back with gallant interest one day, but all the money that comes into thy hands, must be mine -- not for myself, but to use for thee. Remember, Nell, to use for thee
Are you sure you're happy, sister
Quite happy now
But always
Ah, sister, why do you turn away your face
I shall come to you early every morning
Are we going from this place directly, ma'am
Look here, child
That'll inform you
For now that the schools are gone, and the regular sight-seers exhausted
we come to the General Public, and they want stimulating
So be in time, be in time, be in time
Remember that this is Jarley's stupendous collection of upwards of One Hundred Figures, and that it is the only collection in the world; all others being imposters and deceptions. Be in time, be in time, be in time
BRASS, Solicitor
First floor to let to a single gentleman
Have you nearly done, Sammy
No
It would have been all done though, if you had helped at the right time
Oh yes, indeed
you want my help, don't you? -- YOU, too, that are going to keep a clerk
Am I going to keep a clerk for my own pleasure, or because of my own wish, you provoking rascal
What do you taunt me about going to keep a clerk for
What do you taunt me, after three hours' talk last night, with going to keep a clerk for
All I know is
that if every one of your clients is to force us to keep a clerk, whether we want to or not, you had better leave off business, strike yourself off the roll, and get taken in execution, as soon as you can
Have we got any other client like him
Have we got another client like him now -- will you answer me that
Do you mean in the face
Do I mean in the face
Look here -- Daniel Quilp, Esquire -- Daniel Quilp, Esquire -- Daniel Quilp, Esquire -- all through. Whether should I take a clerk that he recommends, and says, "this is the man for you," or lose all this, eh
But I know what it is
You're afraid you won't have as long a finger in the business as you've been used to have. Do you think I don't see through that
The business wouldn't go on very long, I expect, without me
Don't you be a fool and provoke me, Sammy, but mind what you're doing, and do it
If I determined that the clerk ought not to come, of course he wouldn't be allowed to come. You know that well enough, so don't talk nonsense
Hallo
is there anybody at home? Is there any of the Devil's ware here? Is Brass at a premium, eh
Ha, ha, ha
Oh, very good, Sir! Oh, very good indeed! Quite eccentric! Dear me, what humour he has
Is that my Sally
Is it Justice with the bandage off her eyes, and without the sword and scales? Is it the Strong Arm of the Law? Is it the Virgin of Bevis
What an amazing flow of spirits
Upon my word, it's quite extraordinary
Open the door
I've got him here. Such a clerk for you, Brass, such a prize, such an ace of trumps. Be quick and open the door, or if there's another lawyer near and he should happen to look out of window, he'll snap him up before your eyes, he will
There she is
there is the woman I ought to have married -- there is the beautiful Sarah -- there is the female who has all the charms of her sex and none of their weaknesses. Oh Sally, Sally
Bother
Hard-hearted as the metal from which she takes her name
Why don't she change it -- melt down the brass, and take another name
Hold your nonsense, Mr Quilp, do
I wonder you're not ashamed of yourself before a strange young man
The strange young man
is too susceptible himself not to understand me well. This is Mr Swiveller, my intimate friend -- a gentleman of good family and great expectations, but who, having rather involved himself by youthful indiscretion, is content for a time to fill the humble station of a clerk -- humble, but here most enviable. What a delicious atmosphere
Mr Swiveller
being pretty well accustomed to the agricultural pursuits of sowing wild oats, Miss Sally, prudently considers that half a loaf is better than no bread. To be out of harm's way he prudently thinks is something too, and therefore he accepts your brother's offer. Brass, Mr Swiveller is yours
I am very glad, Sir
very glad indeed. Mr Swiveller, Sir, is fortunate enough to have your friendship. You may be very proud, Sir, to have the friendship of Mr Quilp
I suppose
that Mr Swiveller enters upon his duties at once? It's Monday morning
At once, if you please, Sir, by all means
Miss Sally will teach him law, the delightful study of the law
she'll be his guide, his friend, his companion, his Blackstone, his Coke upon Littleton, his Young Lawyer's Best Companion
He is exceedingly eloquent
he has an extraordinary flow of language. Beautiful, really
With Miss Sally
and the beautiful fictions of the law, his days will pass like minutes. Those charming creations of the poet, John Doe and Richard Roe, when they first dawn upon him, will open a new world for the enlargement of his mind and the improvement of his heart
Oh, beautiful, beautiful! Beau-ti-ful indeed
It's a treat to hear him
Where will Mr Swiveller sit
Why, we'll buy another stool, sir
We hadn't any thoughts of having a gentleman with us, sir, until you were kind enough to suggest it, and our accommodation's not extensive. We'll look about for a second-hand stool, sir. In the meantime, if Mr Swiveller will take my seat, and try his hand at a fair copy of this ejectment, as I shall be out pretty well all the morning
Walk with me
I have a word or two to say to you on points of business. Can you spare the time
Can I spare the time to walk with you, sir? You're joking, sir, you're joking with me
I'm ready, sir, quite ready. My time must be fully occupied indeed, sir, not to leave me time to walk with you. It's not everybody, sir, who has an opportunity of improving himself by the conversation of Mr Quilp
I am going out
Very good, ma'am
And don't hurry yourself on my account to come back, ma'am
If anybody comes on office business, take their messages, and say that the gentleman who attends to that matter isn't in at present, will you
I will, ma'am
I shan't be very long
I'm sorry to hear it, ma'am
I hope you may be unexpectedly detained, ma'am. If you could manage to be run over, ma'am, but not seriously, so much the better
So I'm Brass's clerk, am I
Brass's clerk, eh? And the clerk of Brass's sister -- clerk to a female Dragon. Very good, very good! What shall I be next? Shall I be a convict in a felt hat and a grey suit, trotting about a dockyard with my number neatly embroidered on my uniform, and the order of the garter on my leg, restrained from chafing my ankle by a twisted belcher handkerchief? Shall I be that? Will that do, or is it too genteel? Whatever you please, have it your own way, of course
Quilp offers me this place, which he says he can insure me
Fred, who, I could have taken my affidavit, would not have heard of such a thing, backs Quilp to my astonishment, and urges me to take it also -- staggerer, number one! My aunt in the country stops the supplies, and writes an affectionate note to say that she has made a new will, and left me out of it -- staggerer, number two. No money; no credit; no support from Fred, who seems to turn steady all at once; notice to quit the old lodgings -- staggerers, three, four, five, and six! Under an accumulation of staggerers, no man can be considered a free agent. No man knocks himself down; if his destiny knocks him down, his destiny must pick him up again. Then I'm very glad that mine has brought all this upon itself, and I shall be as careless as I can, and make myself quite at home to spite it. So go on my buck
and let us see which of us will be tired first
Come in
Don't stand upon ceremony. The business will get rather complicated if I've many more customers. Come in
Oh, please
will you come and show the lodgings
Why, who are you
Oh, please will you come and show the lodgings
said Dick. 'Tell 'em to call again
Oh, but please will you come and show the lodgings
It's eighteen shillings a week and us finding plate and linen. Boots and clothes is extra, and fires in winter-time is eightpence a day
Why don't you show 'em yourself? You seem to know all about 'em
Miss Sally said I wasn't to, because people wouldn't believe the attendance was good if they saw how small I was first
Well, but they'll see how small you are afterwards, won't they
Ah! But then they'll have taken 'em for a fortnight certain
and people don't like moving when they're once settled
This is a queer sort of thing
What do you mean to say you are -- the cook
Yes, I do plain cooking
I'm housemaid too; I do all the work of the house
I suppose Brass and the Dragon and I do the dirtiest part of it
I believe, sir
that you desire to look at these apartments. They are very charming apartments, sir. They command an uninterrupted view of -- of over the way, and they are within one minute's walk of -- of the corner of the street. There is exceedingly mild porter, sir, in the immediate vicinity, and the contingent advantages are extraordinary
What's the rent
One pound per week
I'll take 'em
The boots and clothes are extras
and the fires in winter time are
Are all agreed to
Two weeks certain
are the
Two weeks
Two years. I shall live here for two years. Here. Ten pounds down. The bargain's made
Why you see
my name is not Brass, and
Who said it was? My name's not Brass. What then
The name of the master of the house is
I'm glad of it
it's a good name for a lawyer. Coachman, you may go. So may you, Sir
Take down the bill
and let nobody call me till I ring the bell
This is a most remarkable and supernatural sort of house
She-dragons in the business, conducting themselves like professional gentlemen; plain cooks of three feet high appearing mysteriously from under ground; strangers walking in and going to bed without leave or licence in the middle of the day! If he should be one of the miraculous fellows that turn up now and then, and has gone to sleep for two years, I shall be in a pleasant situation. It's my destiny, however, and I hope Brass may like it. I shall be sorry if he don't. But it's no business of mine -- I have nothing whatever to do with it
one of these days
Good morning, Mr Richard
Sally found you a second-hand stool, Sir, yesterday evening, in Whitechapel. She's a rare fellow at a bargain, I can tell you, Mr Richard. You'll find that a first-rate stool, Sir, take my word for it
It's rather a crazy one to look at
You'll find it a most amazing stool to sit down upon, you may depend
It was bought in the open street just opposite the hospital, and as it has been standing there a month of two, it has got rather dusty and a little brown from being in the sun, that's all
I hope it hasn't got any fevers or anything of that sort in it
One of the legs is longer than the others
Then we get a bit of timber in, Sir
Ha, ha, ha! We get a bit of timber in, Sir, and that's another advantage of my sister's going to market for us. Miss Brass, Mr Richard is the
Will you keep quiet
How am I to work if you keep on chattering
What an uncertain chap you are
Sometimes you're all for a chat. At another time you're all for work. A man never knows what humour he'll find you in
I'm in a working humour now
so don't disturb me, if you please. And don't take him
off his business. He won't do more than he can help, I dare say
done it
Done what, ma'am
Do you know
that the lodger isn't up yet -- that nothing has been seen or heard of him since he went to bed yesterday afternoon
Well, ma'am
I suppose he may sleep his ten pound out, in peace and quietness, if he likes
Ah! I begin to think he'll never wake
It's a very remarkable circumstance
really, very remarkable. Mr Richard, you'll remember, if this gentleman should be found to have hung himself to the bed-post, or any unpleasant accident of that kind should happen -- you'll remember, Mr Richard, that this ten pound note was given to you in part payment of two years' rent? You'll bear that in mind, Mr Richard; you had better make a note of it, sir, in case you should ever be called upon to give evidence
We can never be too cautious
There is a deal of wickedness going about the world, a deal of wickedness. Did the gentleman happen to say, Sir -- but never mind that at present, sir; finish that little memorandum first
Oh, this is the memorandum, is it
Very good. Now, Mr Richard, did the gentleman say anything else
No
Are you sure, Mr Richard
that the gentleman said nothing else
Devil a word, Sir
Think again, Sir
it's my duty, Sir, in the position in which I stand, and as an honourable member of the legal profession -- the first profession in this country, Sir, or in any other country, or in any of the planets that shine above us at night and are supposed to be inhabited -- it's my duty, Sir, as an honourable member of that profession, not to put to you a leading question in a matter of this delicacy and importance. Did the gentleman, Sir, who took the first floor of you yesterday afternoon, and who brought with him a box of property -- a box of property -- say anything more than is set down in this memorandum
Come, don't be a fool
No
Pooh, pooh! Deuce take it, Mr Richard, how dull you are
Did he say anything about his property? -- there
That's the way to put it
Did he say, for instance
I don't assert that he did say so, mind; I only ask you, to refresh your memory -- did he say, for instance, that he was a stranger in London -- that it was not his humour or within his ability to give any references -- that he felt we had a right to require them -- and that, in case anything should happen to him, at any time, he particularly desired that whatever property he had upon the premises should be considered mine, as some slight recompense for the trouble and annoyance I should sustain -- and were you, in short
were you induced to accept him on my behalf, as a tenant, upon those conditions
Certainly not
Why then, Mr Richard
it's my opinion that you've mistaken your calling, and will never make a lawyer
Not if you live a thousand years
Mr Richard
this man's not up yet. Nothing will wake him, sir. What's to be done
I should let him have his sleep out
Sleep out
why he has been asleep now, six- and-twenty hours. We have been moving chests of drawers over his head, we have knocked double knocks at the street-door, we have made the servant-girl fall down stairs several times (she's a light weight, and it don't hurt her much,) but nothing wakes him
Perhaps a ladder
and getting in at the first- floor window
But then there's a door between; besides, the neighbours would be up in arms
What do you say to getting on the roof of the house through the trap-door, and dropping down the chimney
That would be an excellent plan
if anybody would be --' and here he looked very hard at Mr Swiveller
There are his boots, Mr Richard
Very obstinate-looking articles they are too
I can't see anything but the curtain of the bed
Is he a strong man, Mr Richard
Keep the stairs clear. I should be more than a match for him, of course, but I'm the master of the house, and the laws of hospitality must be respected. -- Hallo there! Hallo, hallo
Have YOU been making that horrible noise
I have been helping, sir
How dare you then
Eh
Is my peace nothing
Is their peace nothing, sir
I don't wish to hold out any threats, sir -- indeed the law does not allow of threats, for to threaten is an indictable offence -- but if ever you do that again, take care you're not sat upon by the coroner and buried in a cross road before you wake. We have been distracted with fears that you were dead, Sir
and the short and the long of it is, that we cannot allow single gentlemen to come into this establishment and sleep like double gentlemen without paying extra for it
Indeed
Yes, Sir, indeed
an equal quantity of slumber was never got out of one bed and bedstead, and if you're going to sleep in that way, you must pay for a double-bedded room
Come here, you impudent rascal
Can you drink anything
a modest quencher
Hot water --' said the lodger, handing it to Mr Swiveller with as much coolness as if he had a kitchen fire before him -- 'extraordinary rum -- sugar -- and a travelling glass. Mix for yourself. And make haste
The man of the house is a lawyer, is he not
The woman of the house -- what's she
A dragon
Wife or Sister
Sister
So much the better
he can get rid of her when he likes
I want to do as I like, young man
to go to bed when I like, get up when I like, come in when I like, go out when I like -- to be asked no questions and be surrounded by no spies. In this last respect, servants are the devil. There's only one here
And a very little one
And a very little one
Well, the place will suit me, will it
Yes
Sharks, I suppose
Let them know my humour
If they disturb me, they lose a good tenant. If they know me to be that, they know enough. If they try to know more, it's a notice to quit. It's better to understand these things at once. Good day
I beg your pardon
When he who adores thee has left but the name
What do you mean
But the name
has left but the name -- in case of letters or parcels
I never have any
Or in the case anybody should call
Nobody ever calls on me
If any mistake should arise from not having the name, don't say it was my fault, Sir
Oh blame not the bard
I'll blame nobody
Swiveller, I know I can rely upon you
Swiveller, you are my friend, and will stand by me I am sure
It's of no use asking the dragon
I suspect if I asked any questions on that head, our alliance would be at an end. I wonder whether she is a dragon by-the-bye, or something in the mermaid way. She has rather a scaly appearance. But mermaids are fond of looking at themselves in the glass, which she can't be. And they have a habit of combing their hair, which she hasn't. No, she's a dragon
Where are you going, old fellow
To dinner
To dinner
that's another circumstance. I don't believe that small servant ever has anything to eat
Sammy won't be home
Now
I'd give something -- if I had it -- to know how they use that child, and where they keep her. My mother must have been a very inquisitive woman; I have no doubt I'm marked with a note of interrogation somewhere. My feelings I smother, but thou hast been the cause of this anguish, my -- upon my word
I should like to know how they use her
And by Jove
she's going to feed the small servant. Now or never
Are you there
Yes, ma'am
Go further away from the leg of mutton, or you'll be picking it, I know
Do you see this
yes
Then don't you ever go and say
that you hadn't meat here. There, eat it up
Now, do you want any more
No
You've been helped once to meat
no
Come
this is two days without a Punch. I'm in hopes he has run through 'em all, at last
Why are you in hopes
What harm do they do
Here's a pretty sort of a fellow
Now here's an aggravating animal
Well, what harm do they do
What harm
Is it no harm to have a constant hallooing and hooting under one's very nose, distracting one from business, and making one grind one's teeth with vexation? Is it no harm to be blinded and choked up, and have the king's highway stopped with a set of screamers and roarers whose throats must be made of -- of
Brass
Ah! of brass
Is that no harm
There's another
There's another
and if I could get a break and four blood horses to cut into the Marks when the crowd is at its thickest, I'd give eighteen-pence and never grudge it
I wish I only knew who his friends were
if they'd just get up a pretty little Commission de lunatico at the Gray's Inn Coffee House and give me the job, I'd be content to have the lodgings empty for one while, at all events
Both of you
I want to talk to you. Come both of you
replied the other. 'Tell him so. What should I go and talk for
Don't you see the gentleman's got a bottle and glass up there
And couldn't you have said so at first
Now, what are you waiting for? Are you going to keep the gentleman expecting us all day? haven't you no manners
Now, my men
you have done very well. What will you take? Tell that little man behind, to shut the door
Shut the door, can't you
You might have knowed that the gentleman wanted the door shut, without being told, I think
cranky
You're pretty well browned by the sun, both of you
Have you been travelling
To fairs, markets, races, and so forth, I suppose
Yes, sir
pretty nigh all over the West of England
I have talked to men of your craft from North, East, and South
but I never lighted on any from the West before
It's our reg'lar summer circuit is the West, master
that's where it is. We takes the East of London in the spring and winter, and the West of England in the summer time. Many's the hard day's walking in rain and mud, and with never a penny earned, we've had down in the West
Let me fill your glass again
Much obleeged to you sir, I think I will
I'm the sufferer, sir, in all the travelling, and in all the staying at home. In town or country, wet or dry, hot or cold, Tom Codlin suffers. But Tom Codlin isn't to complain for all that. Oh, no! Short may complain, but if Codlin grumbles by so much as a word -- oh dear, down with him, down with him directly. It isn't his place to grumble. That's quite out of the question
Codlin an't without his usefulness
but he don't always keep his eyes open. He falls asleep sometimes, you know. Remember them last races, Tommy
Will you never leave off aggravating a man
You may as well drop the subject, Tom
It isn't particular agreeable to the gentleman, I dare say
Then you shouldn't have brought it up
and I ask the gentleman's pardon on your account, as a giddy chap that likes to hear himself talk, and don't much care what he talks about, so that he does talk
You are the two men I want
the two men I have been looking for, and searching after! Where are that old man and that child you speak of
Sir
The old man and his grandchild who travelled with you -- where are they? It will be worth your while to speak out, I assure you; much better worth your while than you believe. They left you, you say -- at those races, as I understand. They have been traced to that place, and there lost sight of. Have you no clue, can you suggest no clue, to their recovery
Did I always say, Thomas
that there was sure to be an inquiry after them two travellers
YOU said
Did I always say that that 'ere blessed child was the most interesting I ever see? Did I always say I loved her, and doated on her? Pretty creetur, I think I hear her now. "Codlin's my friend," she says, with a tear of gratitude a trickling down her little eye; "Codlin's my friend," she says -- "not Short. Short's very well," she says; "I've no quarrel with Short; he means kind, I dare say; but Codlin," she says, "has the feelings for my money, though he mayn't look it
Good Heaven
have I found these men at last, only to discover that they can give me no information or assistance! It would have been better to have lived on, in hope, from day to day, and never to have lighted on them, than to have my expectations scattered thus
Stay a minute
A man of the name of Jerry -- you know Jerry, Thomas
Oh, don't talk to me of Jerrys
How can I care a pinch of snuff for Jerrys, when I think of that 'ere darling child? "Codlin's my friend," she says, "dear, good, kind Codlin, as is always a devising pleasures for me! I don't object to Short," she says, "but I cotton to Codlin." Once
she called me Father Codlin. I thought I should have bust
A man of the name of Jerry, sir
wot keeps a company of dancing dogs, told me, in a accidental sort of way, that he had seen the old gentleman in connexion with a travelling wax-work, unbeknown to him. As they'd given us the slip, and nothing had come of it, and this was down in the country that he'd been seen, I took no measures about it, and asked no questions -- But I can, if you like
Is this man in town
Speak faster
No he isn't, but he will be to-morrow, for he lodges in our house
Then bring him here
Here's a sovereign a-piece. If I can find these people through your means, it is but a prelude to twenty more. Return to me to-morrow, and keep your own counsel on this subject -- though I need hardly tell you that; for you'll do so for your own sakes. Now, give me your address, and leave me
taking a sight
Woa-a-a-a-a-a
Pull up, Snobby
You're wanted inside here
Has Mr Abel forgotten anything, I wonder
Ask no questions, Snobby
but go and see. Woa-a-a then, will you? If that pony was mine, I'd break him
You must be very gentle with him, if you please
or you'll find him troublesome. You'd better not keep on pulling his ears, please. I know he won't like it
young feller
Oh! come in, Christopher
Is that the lad
That's the lad
He fell in with my client, Mr Garland, sir, at this very door. I have reason to think he is a good lad, sir, and that you may believe what he says. Let me introduce Mr Abel Garland, sir -- his young master; my articled pupil, sir, and most particular friend:-- my most particular friend, sir
Your servant, sir
Yours, sir, I'm sure
You were wishing to speak to Christopher, sir
Yes, I was. Have I your permission
By all means
My business is no secret; or I should rather say it need be no secret here
It relates to a dealer in curiosities with whom he lived, and in whom I am earnestly and warmly interested. I have been a stranger to this country, gentlemen, for very many years, and if I am deficient in form and ceremony, I hope you will forgive me
No forgiveness is necessary, sir;-- none whatever
I have been making inquiries in the neighbourhood in which his old master lived
and I learn that he was served by this lad. I have found out his mother's house, and have been directed by her to this place as the nearest in which I should be likely to find him. That's the cause of my presenting myself here this morning
I am very glad of any cause, sir
which procures me the honour of this visit
Sir
you speak like a mere man of the world, and I think you something better. Therefore, pray do not sink your real character in paying unmeaning compliments to me
Hem
You're a plain speaker, sir
And a plain dealer
It may be my long absence and inexperience that lead me to the conclusion; but if plain speakers are scarce in this part of the world, I fancy plain dealers are still scarcer. If my speaking should offend you, sir, my dealing, I hope, will make amends
If you think, my lad, that I am pursuing these inquiries with any other view than that of serving and reclaiming those I am in search of, you do me a very great wrong, and deceive yourself. Don't be deceived, I beg of you, but rely upon my assurance. The fact is, gentlemen
that I am in a very painful and wholly unexpected position. I came to this city with a darling object at my heart, expecting to find no obstacle or difficulty in the way of its attainment. I find myself suddenly checked and stopped short, in the execution of my design, by a mystery which I cannot penetrate. Every effort I have made to penetrate it, has only served to render it darker and more obscure; and I am afraid to stir openly in the matter, lest those whom I anxiously pursue, should fly still farther from me. I assure you that if you could give me any assistance, you would not be sorry to do so, if you knew how greatly I stand in need of it, and what a load it would relieve me from
Not by inquiry
I live there
Live at Brass's the attorney's
Aye
I entered on his lodgings t'other day, chiefly because I had seen this very board. it matters little to me where I live, and I had a desperate hope that some intelligence might be cast in my way there, which would not reach me elsewhere. Yes, I live at Brass's -- more shame for me, I suppose
That's a mere matter of opinion
He is looked upon as rather a doubtful character
Doubtful
I am glad to hear there's any doubt about it. I supposed that had been thoroughly settled, long ago. But will you let me speak a word or two with you in private
I'll not detain you any longer now
You shall hear from me again. Not a word of this, you know, except to your master and mistress
Mother, sir, would be glad to know
Glad to know what
Anything -- so that it was no harm -- about Miss Nell
Would she? Well then, you may tell her if she can keep a secret. But mind, not a word of this to anybody else. Don't forget that. Be particular
I'll take care, sir
Thankee, sir, and good morning
Hallo
who is that
He called to see my Governor this morning
beyond that, I don't know him from Adam
At least you know his name
All I know, my dear feller
is, that he is the cause of my having stood here twenty minutes, for which I hate him with a mortal and undying hatred, and would pursue him to the confines of eternity if I could afford the time
He is a very nice gentleman, Sir
and that's all I know about him
It's hard work
What do you say to some beer
We'll drink our friend what's-his-name
that was talking to you this morning, you know -- I know him -- a good fellow, but eccentric -- very -- here's what's-his-name
He lives in my house
at least in the house occupied by the firm in which I'm a sort of a -- of a managing partner -- a difficult fellow to get anything out of, but we like him -- we like him
I must be going, sir, if you please
Don't be in a hurry, Christopher
we'll drink your mother
Thank you, sir
An excellent woman that mother of yours, Christopher
Who ran to catch me when I fell, and kissed the place to make it well? My mother. A charming woman. He's a liberal sort of fellow. We must get him to do something for your mother. Does he know her, Christopher
Humph
this is queer. Nothing but mysteries in connection with Brass's house. I'll keep my own counsel, however. Everybody and anybody has been in my confidence as yet, but now I think I'll set up in business for myself. Queer -- very queer
Christopher, here's your money, and you have earned it well
Barbara, here's yours, and I'm much pleased with you
Here's blessing you, ma'am, as a good lady, and you, sir, as a good gentleman, and Barbara, my love to you, and here's towards you, Mr Christopher
And we are both widows too
We must have been made to know each other
I haven't a doubt about it
And what a pity it is we didn't know each other sooner
But then, you know, it's such a pleasure
to have it brought about by one's son and daughter, that it's fully made up for. Now, an't it
Now don't, mother
As handsome as her
Double as handsome
Oh Christopher! I'm sure she was the beautifullest creature ever was
Nonsense
She was well enough, I don't deny that; but think how she was dressed and painted, and what a difference that made. Why YOU are a good deal better looking than her, Barbara
Oh Christopher
You are, any day
and so's your mother
sir
a pot of beer
Sir, did you address that language to me
Pot o' beer, sir? Yes, sir
Well, Christopher
and so you have made a new friend, eh
I beg your pardon, Sir
You have made a new friend, I hear from Mr Abel
at the office
Oh! Yes Sir, yes. He behaved very handsome, Sir
I'm glad to hear it
He is disposed to behave more handsomely still, though, Christopher
Indeed, Sir! It's very kind in him, but I don't want him to, I'm sure
He is rather anxious
to have you in his own service -- take care what you're doing, or you will fall down and hurt yourself
To have me in his service, Sir
Why, Sir, I don't think he can be in earnest when he says that
Oh! But he is indeed
And he has told Mr Abel so
I never heard of such a thing
I wonder at him; that I do
You see, Christopher
this is a point of much importance to you, and you should understand and consider it in that light. This gentleman is able to give you more money than I -- not, I hope, to carry through the various relations of master and servant, more kindness and confidence, but certainly, Christopher, to give you more money
Well
after that, Sir
Wait a moment
That is not all. You were a very faithful servant to your old employers, as I understand, and should this gentleman recover them, as it is his purpose to attempt doing by every means in his power, I have no doubt that you, being in his service, would meet with your reward. Besides
besides having the pleasure of being again brought into communication with those to whom you seem to be very strongly and disinterestedly attached. You must think of all this, Christopher, and not be rash or hasty in your choice
He has no right to think that I'd be led away to go to him, sir
Does he think I'm a fool
He may, perhaps, Christopher, if you refuse his offer
Then let him, sir
what do I care, sir, what he thinks? why should I care for his thinking, sir, when I know that I should be a fool, and worse than a fool, sir, to leave the kindest master and mistress that ever was or can be, who took me out of the streets a very poor and hungry lad indeed -- poorer and hungrier perhaps than even you think for, sir -- to go to him or anybody? If Miss Nell was to come back, ma'am
why that would be another thing, and perhaps if she wanted me, I might ask you now and then to let me work for her when all was done at home. But when she comes back, I see now that she'll be rich as old master always said she would, and being a rich young lady, what could she want of me? No, no
she'll never want me any more, and bless her, I hope she never may, though I should like to see her too
There's the pony, sir
Whisker, ma'am (and he knows so well I'm talking about him that he begins to neigh directly, Sir)-- would he let anybody come near him but me, ma'am? Here's the garden, sir, and Mr Abel, ma'am. Would Mr Abel part with me, Sir, or is there anybody that could be fonder of the garden, ma'am? It would break mother's heart, Sir, and even little Jacob would have sense enough to cry his eyes out, ma'am, if he thought that Mr Abel could wish to part with me so soon, after having told me, only the other day, that he hoped we might be together for years to come
Oh
ask the messenger to walk this way
At the same time, Christopher
if the gentleman should want to borrow you now and then for an hour or so, or even a day or so, at a time, we must consent to lend you, and you must consent to be lent. -- Oh! here is the young gentleman. How do you do, Sir
Hope I see you well sir
Hope I see YOU well, ma'am. Charming box' this, sir. Delicious country to be sure
You want to take Kit back with you, I find
I have got a chariot-cab waiting on purpose
A very spanking grey in that cab, sir, if you're a judge of horse-flesh
Mizzler, one of us two tells a lie, and I'm not the man
Mizzler, you know where I'm to be found, and damme, sir, find me if you want me
And now that the nag has got his wind again
I'm afraid I must cut my stick
Christopher
I have found your old master and young mistress
No, Sir! Have you, though
Where are they, Sir? How are they, Sir? Are they -- are they near here
A long way from here
But I am going away to-night to bring them back, and I want you to go with me
Me, Sir
The place
indicated by this man of the dogs, is -- how far from here -- sixty miles
From sixty to seventy
Humph! If we travel post all night, we shall reach there in good time to-morrow morning. Now, the only question is, as they will not know me, and the child, God bless her, would think that any stranger pursuing them had a design upon her grandfather's liberty -- can I do better than take this lad, whom they both know and will readily remember, as an assurance to them of my friendly intentions
Certainly not
Take Christopher by all means
I beg your pardon, Sir
but if that's the reason, I'm afraid I should do more harm than good -- Miss Nell, Sir, she knows me, and would trust in me, I am sure; but old master -- I don't know why, gentlemen; nobody does -- would not bear me in his sight after he had been ill, and Miss Nell herself told me that I must not go near him or let him see me any more. I should spoil all that you were doing if I went, I'm afraid. I'd give the world to go, but you had better not take me, Sir
Another difficulty
Was ever man so beset as I? Is there nobody else that knew them, nobody else in whom they had any confidence? Solitary as their lives were, is there no one person who would serve my purpose
IS there, Christopher
Not one, Sir
Yes, though -- there's my mother
Did they know her
Know her, Sir! why, she was always coming backwards and forwards. They were as kind to her as they were to me. Bless you, Sir, she expected they'd come back to her house
Then where the devil is the woman
Why isn't she here? Why is that woman always out of the way when she is most wanted
Now, if she should be out
and I not able to find her, this impatient gentleman would be in a pretty taking. And sure enough there's no light, and the door's fast. Now, God forgive me for saying so, but if this is Little Bethel's doing, I wish Little Bethel was -- was farther off
Me
She's at -- at Little Bethel, I suppose
Then pray tell me where it is
for I have come on a pressing matter, and must fetch her out, even if she was in the pulpit
And now I'm here
how am I ever to get at her, or persuade her to come out! I might as well be twenty miles off. She'll never wake till it's all over, and there goes the clock again! If he would but leave off for a minute, or if they'd only sing
If I must do it openly, I must
Hush, mother
Come along with me, I've got something to tell you
Where am I
In this blessed Little Bethel
Blessed indeed
Oh, Christopher, how have I been edified this night
Yes, yes, I know
but come along, mother, everybody's looking at us. Don't make a noise -- bring Jacob -- that's right
Stay, Satan, stay
This gentleman says you're to stay, Christopher
Stay, Satan, stay
Tempt not the woman that doth incline her ear to thee, but harken to the voice of him that calleth. He hath a lamb from the fold
He beareth off a lamb, a precious lamb! He goeth about, like a wolf in the night season, and inveigleth the tender lambs
No, I don't. He's my brother
He's MY brother
He isn't
How can you say such a thing? And don't call me names if you please; what harm have I done? I shouldn't have come to take 'em away, unless I was obliged, you may depend upon that. I wanted to do it very quiet, but you wouldn't let me. Now, you have the goodness to abuse Satan and them, as much as you like, Sir, and to let me alone if you please
Oh Kit
what have you done! I never can go there again -- never
I'm glad of it, mother. What was there in the little bit of pleasure you took last night that made it necessary for you to be low-spirited and sorrowful tonight? That's the way you do. If you're happy or merry ever, you come here to say, along with that chap, that you're sorry for it. More shame for you, mother, I was going to say
Hush, dear
you don't mean what you say I know, but you're talking sinfulness
Don't mean it? But I do mean it
I don't believe, mother, that harmless cheerfulness and good humour are thought greater sins in Heaven than shirt-collars are, and I do believe that those chaps are just about as right and sensible in putting down the one as in leaving off the other -- that's my belief. But I won't say anything more about it, if you'll promise not to cry, that's all; and you take the baby that's a lighter weight, and give me little Jacob; and as we go along (which we must do pretty quick) I'll give you the news I bring, which will surprise you a little, I can tell you. There -- that's right. Now you look as if you'd never seen Little Bethel in all your life, as I hope you never will again; and here's the baby; and little Jacob, you get atop of my back and catch hold of me tight round the neck, and whenever a Little Bethel parson calls you a precious lamb or says your brother's one, you tell him it's the truest things he's said for a twelvemonth, and that if he'd got a little more of the lamb himself, and less of the mint-sauce -- not being quite so sharp and sour over it -- I should like him all the better. That's what you've got to say to him, Jacob
There's only ten minutes now, mother
There's a bandbox. Throw in what you want, and we'll be off directly
With four horses I declare
Well you ARE going to do it, mother! Here she is, Sir. Here's my mother. She's quite ready, sir
That's well
Now, don't be in a flutter, ma'am; you'll be taken great care of. Where's the box with the new clothing and necessaries for them
Here it is
In with it, Christopher
All right, Sir
Quite ready now, sir
Then come along
They went away
on foot with nobody to speak to them or say a kind word at parting, and they'll come back, drawn by four horses, with this rich gentleman for their friend, and all their troubles over! She'll forget that she taught me to write
Well, are you going
You were in a mighty hurry a minute ago. Go, if you like. You're your own master, I hope
Don't vex him
he didn't mean any offence
You keep me poor, and plunder me, and make a sport and jest of me besides
Ye'll drive me mad among ye
Confound you, what do you mean
Keep you poor! You'd keep us poor if you could, wouldn't you? That's the way with you whining, puny, pitiful players. When you lose, you're martyrs; but I don't find that when you win, you look upon the other losers in that light. As to plunder
Damme, what do you mean by such ungentlemanly language as plunder, eh
You yourself were speaking of plunder just now, you know. Don't be so violent with me. You were, were you not
Not of plundering among present company! Honour among -- among gentlemen, Sir
Don't be hard upon him, Jowl
He's very sorry for giving offence. There -- go on with what you were saying -- go on
I'm a jolly old tender-hearted lamb, I am
to be sitting here at my time of life giving advice when I know it won't be taken, and that I shall get nothing but abuse for my pains. But that's the way I've gone through life. Experience has never put a chill upon my warm-heartedness
I tell you he's very sorry, don't I
and that he wishes you'd go on
Does he wish it
Ay
Go on, go on. It's in vain to fight with it; I can't do it; go on
I go on then
where I left off, when you got up so quick. If you're persuaded that it's time for luck to turn, as it certainly is, and find that you haven't means enough to try it (and that's where it is, for you know, yourself, that you never have the funds to keep on long enough at a sitting), help yourself to what seems put in your way on purpose. Borrow it, I say, and, when you're able, pay it back again
Certainly
if this good lady as keeps the wax-works has money, and does keep it in a tin box when she goes to bed, and doesn't lock her door for fear of fire, it seems a easy thing; quite a Providence, I should call it -- but then I've been religiously brought up
You see, Isaac
you see, Isaac, strangers are going in and out every hour of the day; nothing would be more likely than for one of these strangers to get under the good lady's bed, or lock himself in the cupboard; suspicion would be very wide, and would fall a long way from the mark, no doubt. I'd give him his revenge to the last farthing he brought, whatever the amount was
But could you
Is your bank strong enough
Strong enough
Here, you Sir, give me that box out of the straw
Do you see this
Do you hear it? Do you know the sound of gold? There, put it back -- and don't talk about banks again, Isaac, till you've got one of your own
My advice
is plain -- I have given it, in fact. I act as a friend. Why should I help a man to the means perhaps of winning all I have, unless I considered him my friend? It's foolish, I dare say, to be so thoughtful of the welfare of other people, but that's my constitution, and I can't help it; so don't blame me, Isaac List
I blame you
not for the world, Mr Jowl. I wish I could afford to be as liberal as you; and, as you say, he might pay it back if he won -- and if he lost
You're not to take that into consideration at all
But suppose he did (and nothing's less likely, from all I know of chances), why, it's better to lose other people's money than one's own, I hope
Ah
the pleasures of winning! The delight of picking up the money -- the bright, shining yellow-boys -- and sweeping 'em into one's pocket! The deliciousness of having a triumph at last, and thinking that one didn't stop short and turn back, but went half-way to meet it! The -- but you're not going, old gentleman
I'll do it
I'll have it, every penny
Why, that's brave
and I respect you for having so much young blood left. Ha, ha, ha! Joe Jowl's half sorry he advised you now. We've got the laugh against him. Ha, ha, ha
He gives me my revenge, mind
mind -- he stakes coin against coin, down to the last one in the box, be there many or few. Remember that
I'm witness
I'll see fair between you
I have passed my word
and I'll keep it. When does this match come off? I wish it was over.-- To-night
I must have the money first
and that I'll have to-morrow
Why not to-night
It's late now, and I should be flushed and flurried
It must be softly done. No, to-morrow night
Then to-morrow be it
A drop of comfort here. Luck to the best man! Fill
God be merciful to us
and help us in this trying hour! What shall I do to save him
So
it's done at last. He wanted more persuading than I expected. It's three weeks ago, since we first put this in his head. What'll he bring, do you think
Whatever he brings, it's halved between us
We must make quick work of it
and then cut his acquaintance, or we may be suspected. Sharp's the word
What's this
I have had a dreadful dream
A dreadful, horrible dream. I have had it once before. It is a dream of grey-haired men like you, in darkened rooms by night, robbing sleepers of their gold. Up, up
Not to me
not to me -- to Heaven, to save us from such deeds! This dream is too real. I cannot sleep, I cannot stay here, I cannot leave you alone under the roof where such dreams come. Up! We must fly
There is no time to lose; I will not lose one minute
Up! and away with me
To-night
Yes, to-night
To-morrow night will be too late. The dream will have come again. Nothing but flight can save us. Up
I have saved him
In all dangers and distresses, I will remember that
Holloa
What's the matter here
We were only asleep, Sir
We have been walking all night
A pair of queer travellers to be walking all night
One of you is a trifle too old for that sort of work, and the other a trifle too young. Where are you going
Yes, that was the place
Where have you come from
I thought somebody had been robbing and ill-using you, might be
That's all. Good day
Did you call to me
You may go with us if you like
We're going to the same place
You've got a very pretty voice, a very soft eye, and a very strong memory
the voice and eye I've got evidence for, and the memory's an opinion of my own. And I'm never wrong. Let me hear a song this minute
I don't think I know one, sir
You know forty-seven songs
Forty-seven's your number. Let me hear one of 'em -- the best. Give me a song this minute
We must sleep in the open air to-night, dear
and to-morrow we will beg our way to some quiet part of the country, and try to earn our bread in very humble work
Why did you bring me here
I cannot bear these close eternal streets. We came from a quiet part. Why did you force me to leave it
Because I must have that dream I told you of, no more
and we must live among poor people, or it will come again. Dear grandfather, you are old and weak, I know; but look at me. I never will complain if you will not, but I have some suffering indeed
Ah! poor, houseless, wandering, motherless child
has all my agony of care brought her to this at last! Was I a happy man once, and have I lost happiness and all I had, for this
If we were in the country now
Speak again
do I know the voice
No
we are strangers, and having no money for a night's lodging, were going to rest here
How came you to think of resting there
Or how
do you come to want a place of rest at this time of night
Our misfortunes
are the cause
Do you know
how wet she is, and that the damp streets are not a place for her
I know it well, God help me
What can I do
I can give you warmth
nothing else. Such lodging as I have, is in that house
but she is safer and better there than here. The fire is in a rough place, but you can pass the night beside it safely, if you'll trust yourselves to me. You see that red light yonder
It's not far
Shall I take you there? You were going to sleep upon cold bricks; I can give you a bed of warm ashes -- nothing better
This is the place
Don't be afraid. There's nobody here will harm you
I feared you were ill
The other men are all in motion, and you are so very quiet
They leave me to myself
They know my humour. They laugh at me, but don't harm me in it. See yonder there -- that's my friend
The fire
It has been alive as long as I have
We talk and think together all night long
It's like a book to me
the only book I ever learned to read; and many an old story it tells me. It's music, for I should know its voice among a thousand, and there are other voices in its roar. It has its pictures too. You don't know how many strange faces and different scenes I trace in the red-hot coals. It's my memory, that fire, and shows me all my life
Yes
it was the same when I was quite a baby, and crawled about it, till I fell asleep. My father watched it then
Had you no mother
No, she was dead. Women work hard in these parts. She worked herself to death they told me, and, as they said so then, the fire has gone on saying the same thing ever since. I suppose it was true. I have always believed it
Were you brought up here, then
Summer and winter
Secretly at first, but when they found it out, they let him keep me here. So the fire nursed me -- the same fire. It has never gone out
You are fond of it
Of course I am. He died before it. I saw him fall down -- just there, where those ashes are burning now -- and wondered, I remember, why it didn't help him
Have you been here ever since
Ever since I came to watch it; but there was a while between, and a very cold dreary while it was. It burned all the time though, and roared and leaped when I came back, as it used to do in our play days. You may guess, from looking at me, what kind of child I was, but for all the difference between us I was a child, and when I saw you in the street to-night, you put me in mind of myself, as I was after he died, and made me wish to bring you to the fire. I thought of those old times again, when I saw you sleeping by it. You should be sleeping now. Lie down again, poor child, lie down again
I know little of the country
for such as I, pass all our lives before our furnace doors, and seldom go forth to breathe. But there are such places yonder
And far from here
Aye surely. How could they be near us, and be green and fresh? The road lies, too, through miles and miles, all lighted up by fires like ours -- a strange black road, and one that would frighten you by night
We are here and must go on
Rough people -- paths never made for little feet like yours -- a dismal blighted way -- is there no turning back, my child
There is none
If you can direct us, do. If not, pray do not seek to turn us from our purpose. Indeed you do not know the danger that we shun, and how right and true we are in flying from it, or you would not try to stop us, I am sure you would not
God forbid, if it is so
I'll direct you from the door, the best I can. I wish I could do more
Two days and nights
He said two days and nights we should have to spend among such scenes as these. Oh! if we live to reach the country once again, if we get clear of these dreadful places, though it is only to lie down and die, with what a grateful heart I shall thank God for so much mercy
We shall be very slow to-day, dear
my feet are sore, and I have pains in all my limbs from the wet of yesterday. I saw that he looked at us and thought of that, when he said how long we should be upon the road
It was a dreary way he told us of
Is there no other road? Will you not let me go some other way than this
Places lie beyond these
where we may live in peace, and be tempted to do no harm. We will take the road that promises to have that end, and we would not turn out of it, if it were a hundred times worse than our fears lead us to expect. We would not, dear, would we
No
No. Let us go on. I am ready. I am quite ready, Nell
What would you have here
Charity. A morsel of bread
Do you see that
That's a dead child. I and five hundred other men were thrown out of work, three months ago. That is my third dead child, and last. Do you think I have charity to bestow, or a morsel of bread to spare
Here, woman
here's your deaf and dumb son. You may thank me for restoring him to you. He was brought before me, this morning, charged with theft; and with any other boy it would have gone hard, I assure you. But, as I had compassion on his infirmities, and thought he might have learnt no better, I have managed to bring him back to you. Take more care of him for the future
And won't you give me back MY son
Won't you give me back MY son, Sir, who was transported for the same offence
Was he deaf and dumb, woman
Was he not, Sir
You know he was not
He was
He was deaf, dumb, and blind, to all that was good and right, from his cradle. Her boy may have learnt no better! where did mine learn better? where could he? who was there to teach him better, or where was it to be learnt
Peace, woman
your boy was in possession of all his senses
He was
and he was the more easy to be led astray because he had them. If you save this boy because he may not know right from wrong, why did you not save mine who was never taught the difference? You gentlemen have as good a right to punish her boy, that God has kept in ignorance of sound and speech, as you have to punish mine, that you kept in ignorance yourselves. How many of the girls and boys -- ah, men and women too -- that are brought before you and you don't pity, are deaf and dumb in their minds, and go wrong in that state, and are punished in that state, body and soul, while you gentlemen are quarrelling among yourselves whether they ought to learn this or that? -- Be a just man, Sir, and give me back my son
You are desperate
and I am sorry for you
I AM desperate
and you have made me so. Give me back my son, to work for these helpless children. Be a just man, Sir, and, as you have had mercy upon this boy, give me back my son
She is quite exhausted
You have taxed her powers too far, friend
She is perishing of want
I never thought how weak and ill she was, till now
I should give her
a tea-spoonful, every now and then, of hot brandy and water
Why, that's exactly what we've done, sir
I should also
I should also
put her feet in hot water, and wrap them up in flannel. I should likewise
give her something light for supper -- the wing of a roasted fowl now
Why, goodness gracious me, sir, it's cooking at the kitchen fire this instant
You may then
give her a glass of hot mulled port wine, if she likes wine
And a toast, Sir
Ay
And a toast -- of bread. But be very particular to make it of bread, if you please, ma'am
I assure you, my good lady
that I have told you the plain truth. As I hope to be saved, I have told you the truth
Why then, I do believe you are in earnest
and I'm very sorry I have teazed you. But curiosity you know is the curse of our sex, and that's the fact
You should question me for half-a-dozen hours at a sitting, and welcome, and I would answer you patiently for the kindness of heart you have shown to-night, if I could
As it is, please to take care of her in the morning, and let me know early how she is; and to understand that I am paymaster for the three
It makes me unhappy even in the midst of all this kindness' said the child, 'to think that we should be a burden upon you. How can I ever thank you? If I had not met you so far from home, I must have died, and he would have been left alone
We'll not talk about dying
and as to burdens, I have made my fortune since you slept at my cottage
Indeed
Oh yes
I have been appointed clerk and schoolmaster to a village a long way from here -- and a long way from the old one as you may suppose -- at five-and-thirty pounds a year. Five-and-thirty pounds
I am very glad
so very, very glad
I am on my way there now
They allowed me the stage-coach-hire -- outside stage-coach-hire all the way. Bless you, they grudge me nothing. But as the time at which I am expected there, left me ample leisure, I determined to walk instead. How glad I am, to think I did so
How glad should we be
Yes, yes
certainly, that's very true. But you -- where are you going, where are you coming from, what have you been doing since you left me, what had you been doing before? Now, tell me -- do tell me. I know very little of the world, and perhaps you are better fitted to advise me in its affairs than I am qualified to give advice to you; but I am very sincere, and I have a reason (you have not forgotten it) for loving you. I have felt since that time as if my love for him who died, had been transferred to you who stood beside his bed. If this
is the beautiful creation that springs from ashes, let its peace prosper with me, as I deal tenderly and compassionately by this young child
This child
Has this child heroically persevered under all doubts and dangers, struggled with poverty and suffering, upheld and sustained by strong affection and the consciousness of rectitude alone! And yet the world is full of such heroism. Have I yet to learn that the hardest and best-borne trials are those which are never chronicled in any earthly record, and are suffered every day! And should I be surprised to hear the story of this child
We shall be sure to succeed
The cause is too good a one to fail
See -- here's the church
and that old building close beside it, is the school- house, I'll be sworn. Five-and-thirty pounds a-year in this beautiful place
I must leave you somewhere for a few minutes
I have a letter to present, and inquiries to make, you know. Where shall I take you? To the little inn yonder
Let us wait here
The gate is open. We will sit in the church porch till you come back
A good place too
Be sure that I come back with good news, and am not long gone
Are you comfortable
Quite, Sir, thank you
Are you sure? An't you cold
It is a little chilly, Sir
I knew it
She wants some brandy and water! Of course she does. How could I forget it? Hallo! Stop at the next inn, and call out for a glass of hot brandy and water
You're faint
I see what's the matter with you, ma'am. You're faint
Thank you, sir, I'm not indeed
I know you are. I'm sure of it. I drag this poor woman from the bosom of her family at a minute's notice, and she goes on getting fainter and fainter before my eyes. I'm a pretty fellow! How many children have you got, ma'am
Two, sir, besides Kit
Boys, ma'am
Yes, sir
Are they christened
Only half baptised as yet, sir
I'm godfather to both of 'em. Remember that, if you please, ma'am. You had better have some mulled wine
I couldn't touch a drop indeed, sir
You must
I see you want it. I ought to have thought of it before
This is the place
Drive to the wax-work
What's this
Is anything the matter here
A wedding Sir, a wedding
Hurrah
Here's another wedding
The world has gone mad, I think
Stand back here, will you, and let me knock
Now, sir, what do you want
Who has been married here, my friend
I have
You! and to whom in the devil's name
What right have you to ask
What right
A right you little dream of. Mind, good people, if this fellow has been marrying a minor -- tut, tut, that can't be. Where is the child you have here, my good fellow. You call her Nell. Where is she
Where is she
What news have you brought me? What has become of her
I ask YOU where she is? What do you mean
Oh sir
If you have come here to do her any good, why weren't you here a week ago
She is not -- not dead
No, not so bad as that
I thank God
Let me come in
You see in me, good people
one to whom life itself is not dearer than the two persons whom I seek. They would not know me. My features are strange to them, but if they or either of them are here, take this good woman with you, and let them see her first, for her they both know. If you deny them from any mistaken regard or fear for them, judge of my intentions by their recognition of this person as their old humble friend
I always said it
I knew she was not a common child! Alas, sir! we have no power to help you, for all that we could do, has been tried in vain
Where shall we drive you, sir
You may drive me
to the
inn
Any room will do
Let it be near at hand, that's all
Close here, sir, if you please to walk this way
Would the gentleman like this room
He's quite welcome to it. He's as welcome as flowers in May, or coals at Christmas. Would you like this room, sir? Honour me by walking in. Do me the favour, pray
Goodness gracious me
only think of this
Would you do me the honour
I prefer being alone
Oh
Why it was only last night, sir
that I left him in Little Bethel
Indeed
When did that person come here, waiter
Come down by the night-coach, this morning, sir
Humph! And when is he going
Can't say, sir, really. When the chambermaid asked him just now if he should want a bed, sir, he first made faces at her, and then wanted to kiss her
Beg him to walk this way
I should be glad to exchange a word with him, tell him. Beg him to come at once, do you hear
Your servant, sir
I encountered your messenger half-way. I thought you'd allow me to pay my compliments to you. I hope you're well. I hope you're very well
Christopher's mother
Such a dear lady, such a worthy woman, so blest in her honest son! How is Christopher's mother? Have change of air and scene improved her? Her little family too, and Christopher? Do they thrive? Do they flourish? Are they growing into worthy citizens, eh
Mr Quilp
We two have met before
Surely
Oh surely, sir. Such an honour and pleasure -- it's both, Christopher's mother, it's both -- is not to be forgotten so soon. By no means
You may remember that the day I arrived in London, and found the house to which I drove, empty and deserted, I was directed by some of the neighbours to you, and waited upon you without stopping for rest or refreshment
How precipitate that was, and yet what an earnest and vigorous measure
I found
you most unaccountably, in possession of everything that had so recently belonged to another man, and that other man, who up to the time of your entering upon his property had been looked upon as affluent, reduced to sudden beggary, and driven from house and home
We had warrant for what we did, my good sir
we had our warrant. Don't say driven either. He went of his own accord -- vanished in the night, sir
No matter
He was gone
Yes, he was gone
No doubt he was gone. The only question was, where. And it's a question still
Now, what am I to think
of you, who, plainly indisposed to give me any information then -- nay, obviously holding back, and sheltering yourself with all kinds of cunning, trickery, and evasion -- are dogging my footsteps now
I dogging
Why, are you not
Were you not a few hours since, sixty miles off, and in the chapel to which this good woman goes to say her prayers
She was there too, I think
I might say, if I was inclined to be rude, how do I know but you are dogging MY footsteps. Yes, I was at chapel. What then? I've read in books that pilgrims were used to go to chapel before they went on journeys, to put up petitions for their safe return. Wise men! journeys are very perilous -- especially outside the coach. Wheels come off, horses take fright, coachmen drive too fast, coaches overturn. I always go to chapel before I start on journeys. It's the last thing I do on such occasions, indeed
In the name of all that's calculated to drive one crazy, man
have you not, for some reason of your own, taken upon yourself my errand? don't you know with what object I have come here, and if you do know, can you throw no light upon it
You think I'm a conjuror, sir
If I was, I should tell my own fortune -- and make it
Ah! we have said all we need say, I see
Pray leave us, if you please
Willingly
Most willingly. Christopher's mother, my good soul, farewell. A pleasant journey -- back, sir. Ahem
Oho
Oho! Are you there, my friend? In-deed
You are there, are you, my friend
I am suspected and thrown aside, and Kit's the confidential agent, is he? I shall have to dispose of him, I fear. If we had come up with them this morning
I was ready to prove a pretty good claim. I could have made my profit. But for these canting hypocrites, the lad and his mother, I could get this fiery gentleman as comfortably into my net as our old friend -- our mutual friend, ha! ha!-- and chubby, rosy Nell. At the worst, it's a golden opportunity, not to be lost. Let us find them first, and I'll find means of draining you of some of your superfluous cash, sir, while there are prison bars, and bolts, and locks, to keep your friend or kinsman safely. I hate your virtuous people
ah! I hate 'em every one
How are you, Christopher
All right, Christopher. Mother's inside
Why, how did he come here, mother
I don't know how he came or why, my dear
but he has been a terrifying of me out of my seven senses all this blessed day
He has
You wouldn't believe it, that you wouldn't
but don't say a word to him, for I really don't believe he's human. Hush! Don't turn round as if I was talking of him, but he's a squinting at me now in the full blaze of the coach-lamp, quite awful
Oh, he's the artfullest creetur
But come away. Don't speak to him for the world
Yes I will, mother. What nonsense. I say, sir
You let my mother alone, will you
How dare you tease a poor lone woman like her, making her miserable and melancholy as if she hadn't got enough to make her so, without you. An't you ashamed of yourself, you little monster
Monster
Ugliest dwarf that could be seen anywhere for a penny -- monster -- ah
You show her any of your impudence again
and I tell you what, Mr Quilp, I won't bear with you any more. You have no right to do it; I'm sure we never interfered with you. This isn't the first time; and if ever you worry or frighten her again, you'll oblige me (though I should be very sorry to do it, on account of your size) to beat you
Ha
What's this! Do they entertain visitors while I'm away
A light in the passage
A very soft knock; and, by your leave, my lady, I may yet steal upon you unawares. Soho
You'll throttle me, master
Let go, will you
Who's up stairs, you dog
Tell me. And don't speak above your breath, or I'll choke you in good earnest
Will you answer me
What's going on, above
You won't let one speak
They -- ha, ha, ha!-- they think you're -- you're dead. Ha ha ha
Dead
No. Do they? Do they really, you dog
They think you're -- you're drowned
You was last seen on the brink of the wharf, and they think you tumbled over. Ha ha
Not a word
Not a sound, not so much as a creaking board, or a stumble against a cobweb. Drowned, eh, Mrs Quilp! Drowned
If I could poison that dear old lady's rum and water
I'd die happy
Ah
Who knows but he may be looking down upon us now! Who knows but he may be surveying of us from -- from somewheres or another, and contemplating us with a watchful eye! Oh Lor
I can almost fancy
that I see his eye glistening down at the very bottom of my liquor. When shall we look upon his like again? Never, never
the next we are there
in the silent tomb. To think that I should be drinking his very rum! It seems like a dream
The search has been quite unsuccessful then
Quite, master. But I should say that if he turns up anywhere, he'll come ashore somewhere about Grinidge to-morrow, at ebb tide, eh, mate
Then we have nothing for it but resignation
nothing but resignation and expectation. It would be a comfort to have his body; it would be a dreary comfort
Oh, beyond a doubt
if we once had that, we should be quite sure
With regard to the descriptive advertisement
It is a melancholy pleasure to recall his traits. Respecting his legs now
Crooked, certainly
Do you think they WERE crooked
I think I see them now coming up the street very wide apart, in nankeen' pantaloons a little shrunk and without straps. Ah! what a vale of tears we live in. Do we say crooked
I think they were a little so
Legs crooked
Large head, short body, legs crooked
We'll not say very crooked, ma'am
Let us not bear hard upon the weaknesses of the deceased. He is gone, ma'am, to where his legs will never come in question. -- We will content ourselves with crooked, Mrs Jiniwin
I thought you wanted the truth
That's all
Bless your eyes, how I love you
There she goes again. Nothing but punch
This is an occupation
which seems to bring him before my eyes like the Ghost of Hamlet's father, in the very clothes that he wore on work-a-days. His coat, his waistcoat, his shoes and stockings, his trousers, his hat, his wit and humour, his pathos and his umbrella, all come before me like visions of my youth. His linen
his linen which was always of a particular colour, for such was his whim and fancy -- how plain I see his linen now
You had better go on, sir
True, ma'am, true
Our faculties must not freeze with grief. I'll trouble you for a little more of that, ma'am. A question now arises, with relation to his nose
Flat
Aquiline
Aquiline, you hag. Do you see it? Do you call this flat? Do you? Eh
Oh capital, capital
Excellent! How very good he is! He's a most remarkable man -- so extremely whimsical! Such an amazing power of taking people by surprise
Not yet, Sampson
Not just yet
Oh very good indeed
Ha ha ha! Oh exceedingly good! There's not another man alive who could carry it off like that. A most difficult position to carry off. But he has such a flow of good-humour, such an amazing flow
Good night
Good night, sir, good night
This is a joyful occasion indeed, extremely joyful. Ha ha ha! oh very rich, very rich indeed, remarkably so
Have you been dragging the river all day, gentlemen
And yesterday too, master
Dear me, you've had a deal of trouble. Pray consider everything yours that you find upon the -- upon the body. Good night
So you thought I was dead and gone, did you
Indeed, Quilp
I'm very sorry
Who doubts it
You very sorry! to be sure you are. Who doubts that you're VERY sorry
I don't mean sorry that you have come home again alive and well
but sorry that I should have been led into such a belief. I am glad to see you, Quilp; indeed I am
How could you go away so long, without saying a word to me or letting me hear of you or know anything about you
How could you be so cruel, Quilp
How could I be so cruel! cruel
Because I was in the humour. I'm in the humour now. I shall be cruel when I like. I'm going away again
Not again
Yes, again. I'm going away now. I'm off directly. I mean to go and live wherever the fancy seizes me -- at the wharf -- at the counting-house -- and be a jolly bachelor. You were a widow in anticipation. Damme
I'll be a bachelor in earnest
You can't be serious, Quilp
I tell you
that I'll be a bachelor, a devil-may-care bachelor; and I'll have my bachelor's hall at the counting-house, and at such times come near it if you dare. And mind too that I don't pounce in upon you at unseasonable hours again, for I'll be a spy upon you, and come and go like a mole or a weazel. Tom Scott -- where's Tom Scott
Here I am, master
Wait there, you dog
to carry a bachelor's portmanteau. Pack it up, Mrs Quilp. Knock up the dear old lady to help; knock her up. Halloa there! Halloa
Snug
Beautifully snug! Call me at eight, you dog
I've got a country-house like Robinson Crusoe," said the dwarf, ogling the accommodations; 'a solitary, sequestered, desolate-island sort of spot, where I can be quite alone when I have business on hand, and be secure from all spies and listeners. Nobody near me here, but rats, and they are fine stealthy secret fellows. I shall be as merry as a grig among these gentry. I'll look out for one like Christopher, and poison him -- ha, ha, ha! Business though -- business -- we must be mindful of business in the midst of pleasure, and the time has flown this morning, I declare
my pet, my pupil, the apple of my eye, hey, hey
Oh you're there, are you
how are you
How's Dick
How's the cream of clerkship, eh
Why, rather sour, sir
Beginning to border upon cheesiness, in fact
What's the matter
Has Sally proved unkind. "Of all the girls that are so smart, there's none like --" eh, Dick
Certainly not
none like her. She's the sphynx of private life, is Sally B
You're out of spirits
What's the matter
The law don't agree with me
It isn't moist enough, and there's too much confinement. I have been thinking of running away
Bah
Where would you run to, Dick
Perhaps you'd like a bit of cake
You're quite welcome to it. You ought to be, for it's of your making
What do you mean
What should you say this was
It looks like bride-cake
And whose should you say it was
Whose
Not
Yes
the same. You needn't mention her name. There's no such name now. Her name is Cheggs now, Sophy Cheggs. Yet loved I as man never loved that hadn't wooden legs, and my heart, my heart is breaking for the love of Sophy Cheggs
Now, I hope you're satisfied, sir
and I hope Fred's satisfied. You went partners in the mischief, and I hope you like it. This is the triumph I was to have, is it? It's like the old country-dance of that name, where there are two gentlemen to one lady, and one has her, and the other hasn't, but comes limping up behind to make out the figure. But it's Destiny, and mine's a crusher
Ha
It will be our turn to giggle soon. And that reminds me -- you spoke of young Trent -- where is he
That's unfortunate
for I came, in fact, to ask you about him. A thought has occurred to me, Dick; your friend over the way
Which friend
In the first floor
Yes
Your friend in the first floor, Dick, may know him
No, he don't
Don't! No, because he has never seen him
but if we were to bring them together, who knows, Dick, but Fred, properly introduced, would serve his turn almost as well as little Nell or her grandfather -- who knows but it might make the young fellow's fortune, and, through him, yours, eh
Why, the fact is, you see
that they HAVE been brought together
Have been
Through whose means
Through mine
Didn't I mention it to you the last time you called over yonder
You know you didn't
I believe you're right
No. I didn't, I recollect. Oh yes, I brought 'em together that very day. It was Fred's suggestion
And what came of it
Why, instead of my friend's bursting into tears when he knew who Fred was, embracing him kindly, and telling him that he was his grandfather, or his grandmother in disguise (which we fully expected), he flew into a tremendous passion; called him all manner of names; said it was in a great measure his fault that little Nell and the old gentleman had ever been brought to poverty; didn't hint at our taking anything to drink; and -- and in short rather turned us out of the room than otherwise
That's strange
So we remarked to each other at the time
but quite true
Have been brought together, eh
My friend has stolen a march upon me. It led him to nothing, and therefore is no great matter, save in the intention. I'm glad he has lost his mistress. Ha ha! The blockhead mustn't leave the law at present. I'm sure of him where he is, whenever I want him for my own purposes, and, besides, he's a good unconscious spy on Brass, and tells, in his cups, all that he sees and hears. You're useful to me, Dick, and cost nothing but a little treating now and then. I am not sure that it may not be worth while, before long, to take credit with the stranger, Dick, by discovering your designs upon the child; but for the present we'll remain the best friends in the world, with your good leave
Halloa
Oh, Quilp
How you frightened me
I meant to, you jade
What do you want here? I'm dead, an't I
Oh, please come home, do come home
we'll never do so any more, Quilp, and after all it was only a mistake that grew out of our anxiety
Out of your anxiety
Yes, I know that -- out of your anxiety for my death. I shall come home when I please, I tell you. I shall come home when I please, and go when I please. I'll be a Will o' the Wisp, now here, now there, dancing about you always, starting up when you least expect me, and keeping you in a constant state of restlessness and irritation. Will you begone
I tell you no
No. If you dare to come here again unless you're sent for, I'll keep watch-dogs in the yard that'll growl and bite -- I'll have man-traps, cunningly altered and improved for catching women -- I'll have spring guns, that shall explode when you tread upon the wires, and blow you into little pieces. Will you begone
Do forgive me. Do come back
No-o-o-o-o
Not till my own good time, and then I'll return again as often as I choose, and be accountable to nobody for my goings or comings. You see the door there. Will you go
return in an hour
There's a servant, I suppose
She'll do
Oh please will you leave a card or message
Eh
Oh please will you leave a card or message
I'll write a note
and mind your master has it directly he comes home
How are you
Do they use you ill here? is your mistress a Tartar
Where do you come from
I don't know
What's your name
Nothing
Nonsense
What does your mistress call you when she wants you
A little devil
But please will you leave a card or message
You're fond of the beauties of nature
Is this charming, Brass? Is it unusual, unsophisticated, primitive
It's delightful indeed, sir
Cool
N-not particularly so, I think, sir
Perhaps a little damp and ague-ish
Just damp enough to be cheerful, sir
Nothing more, sir, nothing more
And Sally
Does she like it
She'll like it better
when she has tea; so let us have it, and don't bother
Sweet Sally
Gentle, charming, overwhelming Sally
He's a very remarkable man indeed
He's quite a Troubadour, you know; quite a Troubadour
A word
before we go farther. Sally, hark'ee for a minute
Business
Very private business. Lay your heads together when you're by yourselves
Certainly, sir
I'll take down the heads if you please, sir. Remarkable documents
most remarkable documents. He states his points so clearly that it's a treat to have 'em! I don't know any act of parliament that's equal to him in clearness
I shall deprive you of a treat
Put up your book. We don't want any documents. So. There's a lad named Kit
Kit
Kit! Ha! I've heard the name before, but I don't exactly call to mind -- I don't exactly
You're as slow as a tortoise, and more thick-headed than a rhinoceros
He's extremely pleasant
His acquaintance with Natural History too is surprising. Quite a Buffoon, quite
Don't let's have any wrangling
I've showed you that I know him, and that's enough
She's always foremost
I don't like Kit, Sally
Nor I
Nor I
Why, that's right
Half our work is done already. This Kit is one of your honest people; one of your fair characters; a prowling prying hound; a hypocrite; a double- faced, white- livered, sneaking spy; a crouching cur to those that feed and coax him, and a barking yelping dog to all besides
Fearfully eloquent
Quite appalling
Come to the point
and don't talk so much
Right again
always foremost! I say, Sally, he is a yelping, insolent dog to all besides, and most of all, to me. In short, I owe him a grudge
That's enough, sir
No, it's not enough, sir
will you hear me out? Besides that I owe him a grudge on that account, he thwarts me at this minute, and stands between me and an end which might otherwise prove a golden one to us all. Apart from that, I repeat that he crosses my humour, and I hate him. Now, you know the lad, and can guess the rest. Devise your own means of putting him out of my way, and execute them. Shall it be done
It shall, sir
Then give me your hand
Sally, girl, yours. I rely as much, or more, on you than him. Tom Scott comes back. Lantern, pipes, more grog, and a jolly night of it
You see those two old houses
Yes, surely
I have been looking at them nearly all the time you have been away
And you would have looked at them more curiously yet, if you could have guessed what I have to tell you
One of those houses is mine
It is a very beautiful place
I almost feared you thought otherwise
You shivered when we first came in, as if you felt it cold or gloomy
It was not that
Indeed I cannot tell you what it was, but when I saw the outside, from the church porch, the same feeling came over me. It is its being so old and grey perhaps
A peaceful place to live in, don't you think so
Oh yes
A quiet, happy place -- a place to live and learn to die in
A place to live, and learn to live, and gather health of mind and body in
for this old house is yours
Ours
Ay
for many a merry year to come, I hope. I shall be a close neighbour -- only next door -- but this house is yours
There's a small allowance of money
It is not much, but still enough to live upon in this retired spot. By clubbing our funds together, we shall do bravely; no fear of that
Heaven bless and prosper you
Amen, my dear
and all of us, as it will, and has, in leading us through sorrow and trouble to this tranquil life. But we must look at MY house now. Come
Well, well
Let it be as you desire. She is very young
Old in adversity and trial, sir
God help her. Let her rest, and forget them
But an old church is a dull and gloomy place for one so young as you, my child
Oh no, sir
I have no such thoughts, indeed
I would rather see her dancing on the green at nights
than have her sitting in the shadow of our mouldering arches. You must look to this, and see that her heart does not grow heavy among these solemn ruins. Your request is granted, friend
You are Mr Marton, the new schoolmaster
I am, sir
You come well recommended, and I am glad to see you. I should have been in the way yesterday, expecting you, but I rode across the country to carry a message from a sick mother to her daughter in service some miles off, and have but just now returned. This is our young church-keeper? You are not the less welcome, friend, for her sake, or for this old man's; nor the worse teacher for having learnt humanity
She has been ill, sir, very lately
Yes, yes. I know she has
There have been suffering and heartache here
Indeed there have, sir
You will be happier here
we will try, at least, to make you so. You have made great improvements here already. Are they the work of your hands
Yes, sir
We may make some others -- not better in themselves, but with better means perhaps
Let us see now, let us see
As good a set of fellows, Marton, as you'd wish to see
but I don't let 'em know I think so. That wouldn't do, at all
This first boy, schoolmaster
is John Owen; a lad of good parts, sir, and frank, honest temper; but too thoughtless, too playful, too light-headed by far. That boy, my good sir, would break his neck with pleasure, and deprive his parents of their chief comfort -- and between ourselves, when you come to see him at hare and hounds, taking the fence and ditch by the finger-post, and sliding down the face of the little quarry, you'll never forget it. It's beautiful
Now, look at that lad, sir
You see that fellow? Richard Evans his name is, sir. An amazing boy to learn, blessed with a good memory, and a ready understanding, and moreover with a good voice and ear for psalm-singing, in which he is the best among us. Yet, sir, that boy will come to a bad end; he'll never die in his bed; he's always falling asleep in sermon-time -- and to tell you the truth, Mr Marton, I always did the same at his age, and feel quite certain that it was natural to my constitution and I couldn't help it
But if we talk of examples to be shunned
if we come to boys that should be a warning and a beacon to all their fellows, here's the one, and I hope you won't spare him. This is the lad, sir; this one with the blue eyes and light hair. This is a swimmer, sir, this fellow -- a diver, Lord save us! This is a boy, sir, who had a fancy for plunging into eighteen feet of water, with his clothes on, and bringing up a blind man's dog, who was being drowned by the weight of his chain and collar, while his master stood wringing his hands upon the bank, bewailing the loss of his guide and friend. I sent the boy two guineas anonymously, sir
You are better
Ay surely
I'm thankful to say, much better
YOU will be quite well soon
With Heaven's leave, and a little patience. But come in, come in
It is but one room you see. There is another up above, but the stair has got harder to climb o' late years, and I never use it. I'm thinking of taking to it again, next summer, though
I warrant now
that you think all those are used in making graves
Indeed, I wondered that you wanted so many
And well you might. I am a gardener. I dig the ground, and plant things that are to live and grow. My works don't all moulder away, and rot in the earth. You see that spade in the centre
The very old one -- so notched and worn? Yes
That's the sexton's spade, and it's a well-used one, as you see. We're healthy people here, but it has done a power of work. If it could speak now, that spade, it would tell you of many an unexpected job that it and I have done together; but I forget 'em, for my memory's a poor one. -- That's nothing new
It always was
There are flowers and shrubs to speak to your other work
Oh yes. And tall trees. But they are not so separate from the sexton's labours as you think
No
Not in my mind, and recollection -- such as it is
Indeed they often help it. For say that I planted such a tree for such a man. There it stands, to remind me that he died. When I look at its broad shadow, and remember what it was in his time, it helps me to the age of my other work, and I can tell you pretty nearly when I made his grave
But it may remind you of one who is still alive
Of twenty that are dead, in connexion with that one who lives, then
wife, husband, parents, brothers, sisters, children, friends -- a score at least. So it happens that the sexton's spade gets worn and battered. I shall need a new one -- next summer
Ah
People never learn. They never learn. It's only we who turn up the ground, where nothing grows and everything decays, who think of such things as these -- who think of them properly, I mean. You have been into the church
I am going there now
There's an old well there
right underneath the belfry; a deep, dark, echoing well. Forty year ago, you had only to let down the bucket till the first knot in the rope was free of the windlass, and you heard it splashing in the cold dull water. By little and little the water fell away, so that in ten year after that, a second knot was made, and you must unwind so much rope, or the bucket swung tight and empty at the end. In ten years' time, the water fell again, and a third knot was made. In ten years more, the well dried up; and now, if you lower the bucket till your arms are tired, and let out nearly all the cord, you'll hear it, of a sudden, clanking and rattling on the ground below; with a sound of being so deep and so far down, that your heart leaps into your mouth, and you start away as if you were falling in
A dreadful place to come on in the dark
What is it but a grave
What else! And which of our old folks, knowing all this, thought, as the spring subsided, of their own failing strength, and lessening life? Not one
Are you very old yourself
I shall be seventy-nine -- next summer
You still work when you are well
Work! To be sure. You shall see my gardens hereabout. Look at the window there. I made, and have kept, that plot of ground entirely with my own hands. By this time next year I shall hardly see the sky, the boughs will have grown so thick. I have my winter work at night besides
Some gentlefolks who are fond of ancient days, and what belongs to them
like to buy these keepsakes from our church and ruins. Sometimes, I make them of scraps of oak, that turn up here and there; sometimes of bits of coffins which the vaults have long preserved. See here -- this is a little chest of the last kind, clasped at the edges with fragments of brass plates that had writing on 'em once, though it would be hard to read it now. I haven't many by me at this time of year, but these shelves will be full -- next summer
It's a good thing
I am very glad they pass the church
I'm sorry to see there is this to do
I heard of no one having died
She lived in another hamlet, my dear
Three mile away
Was she young
Ye-yes' said the sexton; not more than sixty-four, I think. David, was she more than sixty-four
What's the matter now
How old was Becky Morgan
Becky Morgan
Yes
you're getting very deaf, Davy, very deaf to be sure
I saw last night what they had put upon the coffin -- was it seventy-nine
No, no
Ah yes, it was though
For I remember thinking she was very near our age. Yes, it was seventy-nine
Are you sure you didn't mistake a figure, Davy
What
Say that again
He's very deaf. He's very deaf indeed
are you sure you're right about the figures
Oh quite
Why not
He's exceedingly deaf
I think he's getting foolish
You were telling me
about your gardening. Do you ever plant things here
In the churchyard
Not I
I have seen some flowers and little shrubs about
there are some over there, you see. I thought they were of your rearing, though indeed they grow but poorly
They grow as Heaven wills
and it kindly ordains that they shall never flourish here
I do not understand you
Why, this it is
They mark the graves of those who had very tender, loving friends
I was sure they did
I am very glad to know they do
Aye
but stay. Look at them. See how they hang their heads, and droop, and wither. Do you guess the reason
No
Because the memory of those who lie below, passes away so soon. At first they tend them, morning, noon, and night; they soon begin to come less frequently; from once a day, to once a week; from once a week to once a month; then, at long and uncertain intervals; then, not at all. Such tokens seldom flourish long. I have known the briefest summer flowers outlive them
I grieve to hear it
Ah! so say the gentlefolks who come down here to look about them
but I say otherwise. "It's a pretty custom you have in this part of the country," they say to me sometimes, "to plant the graves, but it's melancholy to see these things all withering or dead." I crave their pardon and tell them that, as I take it, 'tis a good sign for the happiness of the living. And so it is. It's nature
Perhaps the mourners learn to look to the blue sky by day, and to the stars by night, and to think that the dead are there, and not in graves
Perhaps so
It may be
Whether it be as I believe it is, or no
I'll make this place my garden. It will be no harm at least to work here day by day, and pleasant thoughts will come of it, I am sure
Did you call
I have been thinking, Davy
that she
must have been a deal older than you or me
Seventy-nine
I tell you that I saw it
Saw it
aye, but, Davy, women don't always tell the truth about their age
That's true indeed
She might have been older
I'm sure she must have been. Why, only think how old she looked. You and I seemed but boys to her
She did look old
You're right. She did look old
Call to mind how old she looked for many a long, long year, and say if she could be but seventy-nine at last -- only our age
Five year older at the very least
Five
Ten. Good eighty-nine. I call to mind the time her daughter died. She was eighty-nine if she was a day, and tries to pass upon us now, for ten year younger. Oh! human vanity
It's chilly, sitting here, and I must be careful -- till the summer
What
He's very deaf, poor fellow
Good-bye
Ah
He's failing very fast. He ages every day
Nell here
It does me good to see you in the air and light. I feared you were again in the church, where you so often are
Feared
Is it not a good place
Yes, yes
But you must be gay sometimes -- nay, don't shake your head and smile so sadly
Not sadly, if you knew my heart. Do not look at me as if you thought me sorrowful. There is not a happier creature on earth, than I am now
It's God's will
What
All this
all this about us. But which of us is sad now? You see that I am smiling
And so am I
smiling to think how often we shall laugh in this same place. Were you not talking yonder
Yes
Of something that has made you sorrowful
What was it
Come. Tell me what it was
I rather grieve -- I do rather grieve to think
that those who die about us, are so soon forgotten
And do you think
that an unvisited grave, a withered tree, a faded flower or two, are tokens of forgetfulness or cold neglect? Do you think there are no deeds, far away from here, in which these dead may be best remembered? Nell, Nell, there may be people busy in the world, at this instant, in whose good actions and good thoughts these very graves -- neglected as they look to us -- are the chief instruments
Tell me no more
Tell me no more. I feel, I know it. How could I be unmindful of it, when I thought of you
There is nothing
no, nothing innocent or good, that dies, and is forgotten. Let us hold to that faith, or none. An infant, a prattling child, dying in its cradle, will live again in the better thoughts of those who loved it, and will play its part, through them, in the redeeming actions of the world, though its body be burnt to ashes or drowned in the deepest sea. There is not an angel added to the Host of Heaven but does its blessed work on earth in those that loved it here. Forgotten! oh, if the good deeds of human creatures could be traced to their source, how beautiful would even death appear; for how much charity, mercy, and purified affection, would be seen to have their growth in dusty graves
Yes
it is the truth; I know it is. Who should feel its force so much as I, in whom your little scholar lives again! Dear, dear, good friend, if you knew the comfort you have given me
A good man
a kind man. Surely he will never harm us, Nell. We are safe here, at last, eh? We will never go away from here
She needs rest
too pale -- too pale. She is not like what she was
Ha
to be sure -- when? How many weeks ago? Could I count them on my fingers? Let them rest though; they're better gone
Much better, dear
We will forget them; or, if we ever call them to mind, it shall be only as some uneasy dream that has passed away
Hush
no more talk of the dream, and all the miseries it brought. There are no dreams here. 'Tis a quiet place, and they keep away. Let us never think about them, lest they should pursue us again. Sunken eyes and hollow cheeks -- wet, cold, and famine -- and horrors before them all, that were even worse -- we must forget such things if we would be tranquil here
Thank Heaven
for this most happy change
I will be patient
humble, very thankful, and obedient, if you will let me stay. But do not hide from me; do not steal away alone; let me keep beside you. Indeed, I will be very true and faithful, Nell
I steal away alone! why that
would be a pleasant jest indeed. See here, dear grandfather, we'll make this place our garden -- why not! It is a very good one -- and to-morrow we'll begin, and work together, side by side
It is a brave thought
Mind, darling -- we begin to-morrow
A kind office
Have you done all that, this morning
It is very little, sir
to what we mean to do
Good work, good work
But do you only labour at the graves of children, and young people
We shall come to the others in good time, sir
What now
What is the matter
She is not one yet
No, no. Not yet
You must not be one, dear Nell
We can't see them. They never come to play with us, or talk to us. Be what you are. You are better so
I do not understand you
Tell me what you mean
Why, they say , replied the boy, looking up into her face, that you will be an Angel, before the birds sing again. But you won't be, will you? Don't leave us Nell, though the sky is bright. Do not leave us
She cannot bear the thought
You will not go. You know how sorry we should be. Dear Nell, tell me that you'll stay amongst us. Oh! Pray, pray, tell me that you will
Only look at me, Nell
and tell me that you'll stop, and then I shall know that they are wrong, and will cry no more. Won't you say yes, Nell
After a time
Why would you go, dear Nell? I know you would not be happy when you heard that we were crying for your loss. They say that Willy is in Heaven now, and that it's always summer there, and yet I'm sure he grieves when I lie down upon his garden bed, and he cannot turn to kiss me. But if you do go, Nell
be fond of him for my sake. Tell him how I love him still, and how much I loved you; and when I think that you two are together, and are happy, I'll try to bear it, and never give you pain by doing wrong -- indeed I never will
And a good little friend he is, too
When his elder brother died -- elder seems a strange word, for he was only seven years old -- I remember this one took it sorely to heart
It has given him something of a quiet way, I think
though for that he is merry enough at times. I'd wager now that you and he have been listening by the old well
Indeed we have not
I have been afraid to go near it; for I am not often down in that part of the church, and do not know the ground
Come down with me
I have known it from a boy. Come
This is the place
Give me your hand while you throw back the cover, lest you should stumble and fall in. I am too old -- I mean rheumatic -- to stoop, myself
A black and dreadful place
Look in
It looks like a grave itself
It does
I have often had the fancy
that it might have been dug at first to make the old place more gloomy, and the old monks more religious. It's to be closed up, and built over
We shall see
on what gay heads other earth will have closed, when the light is shut out from here. God knows! They'll close it up, next spring
The birds sing again in spring
Spring! a beautiful and happy time
It has always been the same with me
always. 'Twas ever thus -- from childhood's hour I've seen my fondest hopes decay, I never loved a tree or flower but 'twas the first to fade away; I never nursed a dear Gazelle, to glad me with its soft black eye, but when it came to know me well, and love me, it was sure to marry a market-gardener
And this
is life, I believe. Oh, certainly. Why not! I'm quite satisfied. I shall wear
I shall wear this emblem of woman's perfidy, in remembrance of her with whom I shall never again thread the windings of the mazy; whom I shall never more pledge in the rosy; who, during the short remainder of my existence, will murder the balmy. Ha, ha, ha
laughing like a fiend
You're devilish early at this pestiferous old slaughter-house
Rather
Rather
Won't you come in
All alone. Swiveller solus. "'Tis now the witching
Hour of night
When churchyards yawn
And graves give up their dead
Well, and how are you my buck
I was forced to come into the City upon some little private matters of my own, and couldn't pass the corner of the street without looking in, but upon my soul I didn't expect to find you. It is so everlastingly early
All's Well
And what's the news
The town's as flat, my dear feller
as the surface of a Dutch oven. There's no news. By-the-bye, that lodger of yours is a most extraordinary person. He quite eludes the most vigorous comprehension, you know. Never was such a feller
What has he been doing now
By Jove, Sir
that man is an unfathomable. Sir, that man has made friends with our articled clerk. There's no harm in him, but he is so amazingly slow and soft. Now, if he wanted a friend, why couldn't he have one that knew a thing or two, and could do him some good by his manners and conversation. I have my faults, sir
No, no
Oh yes I have, I have my faults, no man knows his faults better than I know mine. But
I'm not meek. My worst enemies -- every man has his enemies, Sir, and I have mine -- never accused me of being meek. And I tell you what, Sir, if I hadn't more of these qualities that commonly endear man to man, than our articled clerk has, I'd steal a Cheshire cheese, tie it round my neck, and drown myself. I'd die degraded, as I had lived. I would upon my honour
Not contented, Sir
with making friends with Abel, he has cultivated the acquaintance of his father and mother. Since he came home from that wild-goose chase, he has been there -- actually been there. He patronises young Snobby besides; you'll find, Sir, that he'll be constantly coming backwards and forwards to this place: yet I don't suppose that beyond the common forms of civility, he has ever exchanged half-a-dozen words with me. Now, upon my soul, you know
this is altogether such a low-minded affair, that if I didn't feel for the governor, and know that he could never get on without me, I should be obliged to cut the connection. I should have no alternative
As to young Snob, sir
you'll find he'll turn out bad. In our profession we know something of human nature, and take my word for it, that the feller that came back to work out that shilling, will show himself one of these days in his true colours. He's a low thief, sir. He must be
Come in
Is the gentleman at home
I mean the gentleman up-stairs
Is he at home
Why
Because if he is, I have a letter for him
From whom
From Mr Garland
Oh
Then you may hand it over, Sir. And if you're to wait for an answer, Sir, you may wait in the passage, Sir, which is an airy and well-ventilated apartment, sir
Thank you
But I am to give it to himself, if you please
Didn't I see somebody for me, come in
Yes, Sir
Certainly, Sir
Then where is he
He's here, sir
Now young man, don't you hear you're to go up-stairs? Are you deaf
Didn't I tell you so
What do you think of that
Well, Mr Richard
How are we this morning? Are we pretty fresh and cheerful sir -- eh, Mr Richard
Pretty well, sir
That's well
Ha ha! We should be as gay as larks, Mr Richard -- why not? It's a pleasant world we live in sir, a very pleasant world. There are bad people in it, Mr Richard, but if there were no bad people, there would be no good lawyers. Ha ha! Any letters by the post this morning, Mr Richard
Ha
no matter. If there's little business to-day, there'll be more to-morrow. A contented spirit, Mr Richard, is the sweetness of existence. Anybody been here, sir
Only my friend
May we ne'er want a
Friend
or a bottle to give him
Only somebody to the lodger
Oh indeed
Somebody to the lodger eh? Ha ha! May we ne'er want a friend, or a -- Somebody to the lodger, eh, Mr Richard
Yes
With him now
With him now
Ha ha! There let 'em be, merry and free, toor rul rol le. Eh, Mr Richard? Ha ha
Oh certainly
And who
who is the lodger's visitor -- not a lady visitor, I hope, eh, Mr Richard? The morals of the Marks you know, sir -- "when lovely women stoops to folly"-- and all that -- eh, Mr Richard
Another young man, who belongs to Witherden's too, or half belongs there
Kit, they call him
Kit, eh
Strange name -- name of a dancing- master's fiddle, eh, Mr Richard? Ha ha! Kit's there, is he? Oh
Will you have the goodness, Mr Richard
just to step over to Peckham Rye with that? There's no answer, but it's rather particular and should go by hand. Charge the office with your coach-hire back, you know; don't spare the office; get as much out of it as you can -- clerk's motto -- Eh, Mr Richard? Ha ha
Kit
how do you do
You are not to go, if you please, Kit
You are to step in here, if you please. Dear me, dear me! When I look at you
I am reminded of the sweetest little face that ever my eyes beheld. I remember your coming there, twice or thrice, when we were in possession. Ah Kit, my dear fellow, gentleman in my profession have such painful duties to perform sometimes, that you needn't envy us -- you needn't indeed
I don't, sir
though it isn't for the like of me to judge
Our only consolation, Kit
is, that although we cannot turn away the wind, we can soften it; we can temper it, if I may say so, to the shorn lambs
Shorn indeed
Pretty close
On that occasion, Kit
on that occasion that I have just alluded to, I had a hard battle with Mr Quilp (for Mr Quilp is a very hard man) to obtain them the indulgence they had. It might have cost me a client. But suffering virtue inspired me, and I prevailed
He's not so bad after all
I respect you, Kit
I saw enough of your conduct, at that time, to respect you, though your station is humble, and your fortune lowly. It isn't the waistcoat that I look at. It is the heart. The checks in the waistcoat are but the wires of the cage. But the heart is the bird. Ah! How many sich birds are perpetually moulting, and putting their beaks through the wires to peck at all mankind
Well, well
this is wide of the bull's-eye. You're to take that, if you please
For yourself
From
No matter about the person they came from
Say me, if you like. We have eccentric friends overhead, Kit, and we mustn't ask questions or talk too much -- you understand? You're to take them, that's all; and between you and me, I don't think they'll be the last you'll have to take from the same place. I hope not. Good bye, Kit. Good bye
May I come in
Oh yes, you may come in
Ahem
Why, yes
I should say as good as done
Ha ha
Here's the pony again! Most remarkable pony, extremely docile, eh, Mr Richard, eh sir
The old gentleman again
a very prepossessing old gentleman, Mr Richard -- charming countenance sir -- extremely calm -- benevolence in every feature, sir. He quite realises my idea of King Lear, as he appeared when in possession of his kingdom, Mr Richard -- the same good humour, the same white hair and partial baldness, the same liability to be imposed upon. Ah! A sweet subject for contemplation, sir, very sweet
Admirably groomed, Kit
does you great credit -- amazingly sleek and bright to be sure. He literally looks as if he had been varnished all over
that Mr Brass will not find many like him
A beautiful animal indeed
Sagacious too
Bless you
he knows what you say to him as well as a Christian does
Does he indeed
Dear me
I little thought the first time I saw him, Sir
that I should come to be as intimate with him as I am now
Ah
A charming subject of reflection for you, very charming. A subject of proper pride and congratulation, Christopher. Honesty is the best policy. -- I always find it so myself. I lost forty-seven pound ten by being honest this morning. But it's all gain, it's gain
A man
who loses forty-seven pound ten in one morning by his honesty, is a man to be envied. If it had been eighty pound, the luxuriousness of feeling would have been increased. Every pound lost, would have been a hundredweight of happiness gained. The still small voice, Christopher
is a-singing comic songs within me, and all is happiness and joy
Oh! I didn't mean any harm indeed, upon my word I didn't
It's so very dull, down-stairs, Please don't you tell upon me, please don't
Tell upon you
Do you mean to say you were looking through the keyhole for company
Yes, upon my word I was
How long have you been cooling your eye there
Oh ever since you first began to play them cards, and long before
Well -- come in
Here -- sit down, and I'll teach you how to play
Oh! I durstn't do it
ud kill me, if she know'd I come up here
Have you got a fire down-stairs
A very little one
Miss Sally couldn't kill me if she know'd I went down there, so I'll come
Why, how thin you are! What do you mean by it
It ain't my fault
Could you eat any bread and meat
Yes? Ah! I thought so. Did you ever taste beer
I had a sip of it once
Here's a state of things
She never tasted it -- it can't be tasted in a sip! Why, how old are you
I don't know
There
First of all clear that off, and then you'll see what's next
Next
take a pull at that; but moderate your transports, you know, for you're not used to it. Well, is it good
Oh! isn't it
Now
those are the stakes. If you win, you get 'em all. If I win, I get 'em. To make it seem more real and pleasant, I shall call you the Marchioness, do you hear
Then, Marchioness
fire away
With which object in view, Marchioness
I shall ask your ladyship's permission to put the board in my pocket, and to retire from the presence when I have finished this tankard; merely observing, Marchioness, that since life like a river is flowing, I care not how fast it rolls on, ma'am, on, while such purl on the bank still is growing, and such eyes light the waves as they run. Marchioness, your health. You will excuse my wearing my hat, but the palace is damp, and the marble floor is -- if I may be allowed the expression -- sloppy
The Baron Sampsono Brasso and his fair sister are (you tell me) at the Play
Ha
'Tis well. Marchioness!-- but no matter. Some wine there. Ho
Do they often go where glory waits 'em, and leave you here
Oh, yes; I believe you they do
Miss Sally's such a one-er for that, she is
Such a what
Such a one-er
They sometimes go to see Mr Quilp
they go to a many places, bless you
Is Mr Brass a wunner
Not half what Miss Sally is, he isn't
Bless you, he'd never do anything without her
Oh! He wouldn't, wouldn't he
Miss Sally keeps him in such order
he always asks her advice, he does; and he catches it sometimes. Bless you, you wouldn't believe how much he catches it
I suppose
that they consult together, a good deal, and talk about a great many people -- about me for instance, sometimes, eh, Marchioness
Complimentary
Humph
Would it be any breach of confidence, Marchioness, to relate what they say of the humble individual who has now the honour to
Miss Sally says you're a funny chap
Well, Marchioness
that's not uncomplimentary. Merriment, Marchioness, is not a bad or a degrading quality. Old King Cole was himself a merry old soul, if we may put any faith in the pages of history
But she says
that you an't to be trusted
Why, really Marchioness
several ladies and gentlemen -- not exactly professional persons, but tradespeople, ma'am, tradespeople -- have made the same remark. The obscure citizen who keeps the hotel over the way, inclined strongly to that opinion to-night when I ordered him to prepare the banquet. It's a popular prejudice, Marchioness; and yet I am sure I don't know why, for I have been trusted in my time to a considerable amount, and I can safely say that I never forsook my trust until it deserted me -- never. Mr Brass is of the same opinion, I suppose
But don't you ever tell upon me, or I shall be beat to death
Marchioness
the word of a gentleman is as good as his bond -- sometimes better, as in the present case, where his bond might prove but a doubtful sort of security. I am your friend, and I hope we shall play many more rubbers together in this same saloon. But, Marchioness
it occurs to me that you must be in the constant habit of airing your eye at keyholes, to know all this
I only wanted
to know where the key of the safe was hid; that was all; and I wouldn't have taken much, if I had found it -- only enough to squench my hunger
You didn't find it then
But of course you didn't, or you'd be plumper. Good night, Marchioness. Fare thee well, and if for ever, then for ever fare thee well -- and put up the chain, Marchioness, in case of accidents
This Marchioness
is a very extraordinary person -- surrounded by mysteries, ignorant of the taste of beer, unacquainted with her own name (which is less remarkable), and taking a limited view of society through the keyholes of doors -- can these things be her destiny, or has some unknown person started an opposition to the decrees of fate? It is a most inscrutable and unmitigated staggerer
These rubbers
remind me of the matrimonial fireside. Cheggs's wife plays cribbage; all-fours likewise. She rings the changes on 'em now. From sport to sport they hurry her to banish her regrets, and when they win a smile from her, they think that she forgets -- but she don't. By this time, I should say
by this time, I should say, the iron has entered into her soul. It serves her right
Away with melancholy
I say
you haven't seen a silver pencil-case this morning, have you
I didn't meet many in the street
I saw one -- a stout pencil-case of respectable appearance -- but as he was in company with an elderly penknife, and a young toothpick with whom he was in earnest conversation, I felt a delicacy in speaking to him
No, but have you
Seriously, you know
What a dull dog you must be to ask me such a question seriously
Haven't I this moment come
Well, all I know is
that it's not to be found, and that it disappeared one day this week, when I left it on the desk
Halloa
I hope the Marchioness hasn't been at work here
There was a knife too
of the same pattern. They were given to me by my father, years ago, and are both gone. You haven't missed anything yourself, have you
It's a very unpleasant thing, Dick
but between you and me -- between friends you know, for if Sammy knew it, I should never hear the last of it -- some of the office- money, too, that has been left about, has gone in the same way. In particular, I have missed three half-crowns at three different times
You don't mean that
Be careful what you say, old boy, for this is a serious matter. Are you quite sure? Is there no mistake
It is so, and there can't be any mistake at all
Then by Jove
I am afraid the Marchioness is done for
Mr Richard, sir, good morning! Here we are again, sir, entering upon another day, with our bodies strengthened by slumber and breakfast, and our spirits fresh and flowing. Here we are, Mr Richard, rising with the sun to run our little course -- our course of duty, sir -- and, like him, to get through our day's work with credit to ourselves and advantage to our fellow- creatures. A charming reflection sir, very charming
You're out of spirits, sir
Mr Richard, sir, we should fall to work cheerfully, and not in a despondent state. It becomes us, Mr Richard, sir, to
Dear me
you too! Is anything the matter? Mr Richard, sir
This is a most extraordinary and painful circumstance -- Mr Richard, sir, a most painful circumstance. The fact is, that I myself have missed several small sums from the desk, of late, and have refrained from mentioning it, hoping that accident would discover the offender; but it has not done so -- it has not done so. Sally -- Mr Richard, sir -- this is a particularly distressing affair
No, Mr Richard, sir
I will not take it up. I will let it lie there, sir. To take it up, Mr Richard, sir, would imply a doubt of you; and in you, sir, I have unlimited confidence. We will let it lie there, Sir, if you please, and we will not take it up by any means
I've hit it
Well
Go on, will you
Why
hasn't there been somebody always coming in and out of this office for the last three or four weeks; hasn't that somebody been left alone in it sometimes -- thanks to you; and do you mean to tell me that that somebody isn't the thief
What somebody
Why, what do you call him -- Kit
Mr Garland's young man
To be sure
Never
Never. I'll not hear of it. Don't tell me
I'll never believe it of him. Never
I say
that he's the thief
I say
that he is not. What do you mean? How dare you? Are characters to be whispered away like this? Do you know that he's the honestest and faithfullest fellow that ever lived, and that he has an irreproachable good name? Come in, come in
Is the gentleman up-stairs, sir, if you please
Yes, Kit
Yes Kit, he is. I am glad to see you Kit, I am rejoiced to see you. Look in again, as you come down-stairs, Kit. That lad a robber
with that frank and open countenance! I'd trust him with untold gold. Mr Richard, sir, have the goodness to step directly to Wrasp and Co
sneered Sampson, flushed and heated with his wrath. 'Am I blind, deaf, silly; do I know nothing of human nature when I see it before me? Kit a robber! Bah
Is anything the matter, sir
Matter
No. Why anything the matter
You are so very pale
that I should hardly have known you
Pooh pooh! mere fancy
Never better, Kit, never better in all my life. Merry too. Ha ha! How's our friend above-stairs, eh
A great deal better
I'm glad to hear it
thankful, I may say. An excellent gentleman -- worthy, liberal, generous, gives very little trouble -- an admirable lodger. Ha ha! Mr Garland -- he's well I hope, Kit -- and the pony -- my friend, my particular friend you know. Ha ha
I have been thinking, Kit
that I could throw some little emoluments in your mother's way -- You have a mother, I think? If I recollect right, you told me
Oh yes, Sir, yes certainly
A widow, I think? an industrious widow
A harder-working woman or a better mother never lived, Sir
Ah
That's affecting, truly affecting. A poor widow struggling to maintain her orphans in decency and comfort, is a delicious picture of human goodness.-- Put down your hat, Kit
Thank you Sir, I must be going directly
Put it down while you stay, at any rate
I was thinking, Kit, that we have often houses to let for people we are concerned for, and matters of that sort. Now you know we're obliged to put people into those houses to take care of 'em -- very often undeserving people that we can't depend upon. What's to prevent our having a person that we CAN depend upon, and enjoying the delight of doing a good action at the same time? I say, what's to prevent our employing this worthy woman, your mother? What with one job and another, there's lodging -- and good lodging too -- pretty well all the year round, rent free, and a weekly allowance besides, Kit, that would provide her with a great many comforts she don't at present enjoy. Now what do you think of that? Do you see any objection? My only desire is to serve you, Kit; therefore if you do, say so freely
How can I see any objection to such a kind offer, sir
I don't know how to thank you sir, I don't indeed
Why then
Why then, it's done
Done, I say
Ha ha! and so you shall find Kit, so you shall find. But dear me
what a time Mr Richard is gone! A sad loiterer to be sure! Will you mind the office one minute, while I run up-stairs? Only one minute. I'll not detain you an instant longer, on any account, Kit
Oh
There goes your pet, Sammy, eh
Ah! There he goes
My pet, if you please. An honest fellow, Mr Richard, sir -- a worthy fellow indeed
Hem
I tell you, you aggravating vagabond
that I'd stake my life upon his honesty. Am I never to hear the last of this? Am I always to be baited, and beset, by your mean suspicions? Have you no regard for true merit, you malignant fellow? If you come to that, I'd sooner suspect your honesty than his
She drives me wild, Mr Richard, sir
she exasperates me beyond all bearing. I am heated and excited, sir, I know I am. These are not business manners, sir, nor business looks, but she carries me out of myself
Why don't you leave him alone
Because she can't, sir
because to chafe and vex me is a part of her nature, Sir, and she will and must do it, or I don't believe she'd have her health. But never mind
never mind. I've carried my point. I've shown my confidence in the lad. He has minded the office again. Ha ha! Ugh, you viper
He has minded the office again
he has had my confidence, and he shall continue to have it; he -- why, where's the
What have you lost
Dear me
the note, Mr Richard, sir, the five-pound note -- what can have become of it? I laid it down here -- God bless me
What
Gone! Now who's right? Now who's got it? Never mind five pounds -- what's five pounds? He's honest, you know, quite honest. It would be mean to suspect him. Don't run after him. No, no, not for the world
Is it really gone though
Upon my word, Mr Richard, Sir
I fear this is a black business. It's certainly gone, Sir. What's to be done
Don't run after him
Don't run after him on any account. Give him time to get rid of it, you know. It would be cruel to find him out
Stop
Not so fast sir. You're in a hurry
Yes, I am
I -- I -- can hardly believe it
but something of value is missing from the office. I hope you don't know what
Know what! good Heaven, Mr Brass
you don't suppose
No, no
I don't suppose anything. Don't say I said you did. You'll come back quietly, I hope
Of course I will
Why not
To be sure
Why not? I hope there may turn out to be no why not. If you knew the trouble I've been in, this morning, through taking your part, Christopher, you'd be sorry for it
And I am sure you'll be sorry for having suspected me sir
Come. Let us make haste back
Certainly
the quicker, the better. Mr Richard -- have the goodness, sir, to take that arm. I'll take this one. It's not easy walking three abreast, but under these circumstances it must be done, sir; there's no help for it
Now, you know
if this is a case of innocence, it is a case of that description, Christopher, where the fullest disclosure is the best satisfaction for everybody. Therefore if you'll consent to an examination
it will be a comfortable and pleasant thing for all parties
Search me
But mind, sir -- I know you'll be sorry for this, to the last day of your life
It is certainly a very painful occurrence
very painful. Nothing here, Mr Richard, Sir, all perfectly satisfactory. Nor here, sir. Nor in the waistcoat, Mr Richard, nor in the coat tails. So far, I am rejoiced, I am sure
Here's a handkerchief
No harm in that sir
No harm in a handkerchief Sir, whatever. The faculty don't consider it a healthy custom, I believe, Mr Richard, to carry one's handkerchief in one's hat -- I have heard that it keeps the head too warm -- but in every other point of view, its being there, is extremely satisfactory -- extremely so
In the hat
Under the handkerchief, and tucked beneath the lining
And this
is the world that turns upon its own axis, and has Lunar influences, and revolutions round Heavenly Bodies, and various games of that sort! This is human natur, is it! Oh natur, natur! This is the miscreant that I was going to benefit with all my little arts, and that, even now, I feel so much for, as to wish to let him go! But
I am myself a lawyer, and bound to set an example in carrying the laws of my happy country into effect. Sally my dear, forgive me, and catch hold of him on the other side. Mr Richard, sir, have the goodness to run and fetch a constable. The weakness is past and over sir, and moral strength returns. A constable, sir, if you please
We had better
get to the office while there's a magistrate sitting. I shall want you to come along with us, Mr Brass, and the
The lady, eh
Ah
Yes -- the lady. Likewise the young man that found the property
Mr Richard, Sir
A sad necessity. But the altar of our country sir
You'll have a hackney-coach, I suppose
Be so good as send for one, will you
But, hear me speak a word
Hear me speak a word. I am no more guilty than any one of you. Upon my soul I am not. I a thief! Oh, Mr Brass, you know me better. I am sure you know me better. This is not right of you, indeed
I give you my word, constable
words be blowed
Quite true, constable
Strictly correct. I give you my oath, constable, that down to a few minutes ago, when this fatal discovery was made, I had such confidence in that lad, that I'd have trusted him with -- a hackney-coach, Mr Richard, sir; you're very slow, Sir
Who is there that knows me
that would not trust me -- that does not? ask anybody whether they have ever doubted me; whether I have ever wronged them of a farthing. Was I ever once dishonest when I was poor and hungry, and is it likely I would begin now! Oh consider what you do. How can I meet the kindest friends that ever human creature had, with this dreadful charge upon me
And he can hardly believe it, either
nor nobody will. I wish I could doubt the evidence of my senses, but their depositions are unimpeachable. It's of no use cross-examining my eyes
they stick to their first account, and will. Now, Sarah, I hear the coach in the Marks; get on your bonnet, and we'll be off. A sad errand! a moral funeral, quite
Mr Brass
do me one favour. Take me to Mr Witherden's first
Do
My master's there. For Heaven's sake, take me there, first
Well, I don't know
How do we stand in point of time, constable, eh
Aha
Where now, Brass? where now? Sally with you too? Sweet Sally! And Dick? Pleasant Dick! And Kit! Honest Kit
He's extremely cheerful
Very much so! Ah, sir -- a sad business! Never believe in honesty any more, sir
Why not
Why not, you rogue of a lawyer, why not
Bank-note lost in our office sir
Found in his hat sir -- he previously left alone there -- no mistake at all sir -- chain of evidence complete -- not a link wanting
What
Kit a thief! Kit a thief! Ha ha ha! Why, he's an uglier-looking thief than can be seen anywhere for a penny. Eh, Kit -- eh? Ha ha ha! Have you taken Kit into custody before he had time and opportunity to beat me! Eh, Kit, eh
Is it coming to that, Kit
Ha ha ha ha! What a disappointment for little Jacob, and for his darling mother! Let him have the Bethel minister to comfort and console him, Brass. Eh, Kit, eh? Drive on coachey, drive on. Bye bye, Kit; all good go with you; keep up your spirits; my love to the Garlands -- the dear old lady and gentleman. Say I inquired after 'em, will you? Blessings on 'em, on you, and on everybody, Kit. Blessings on all the world
Sir
my name is Brass -- Brass of Bevis Marks, Sir. I have had the honour and pleasure, Sir, of being concerned against you in some little testamentary matters. How do you do, sir
My clerk will attend to any business you may have come upon, Mr Brass
Thank you Sir
thank you, I am sure. Allow me, Sir, to introduce my sister -- quite one of us Sir, although of the weaker sex -- of great use in my business Sir, I assure you. Mr Richard, sir, have the goodness to come foward if you please -- No really
really Sir, I must, under favour, request a word or two with you, indeed
Mr Brass
I am engaged. You see that I am occupied with these gentlemen. If you will communicate your business to Mr Chuckster yonder, you will receive every attention
Gentlemen
Gentlemen, I appeal to you -- really, gentlemen -- consider, I beg of you. I am of the law. I am styled "gentleman" by Act of Parliament. I maintain the title by the annual payment of twelve pound sterling for a certificate. I am not one of your players of music, stage actors, writers of books, or painters of pictures, who assume a station that the laws of their country don't recognise. I am none of your strollers or vagabonds. If any man brings his action against me, he must describe me as a gentleman, or his action is null and void. I appeal to you -- is this quite respectful? Really gentlemen
Well, will you have the goodness to state your business then, Mr Brass
Sir
I will. Ah Mr Witherden! you little know the -- but I will not be tempted to travel from the point, sir, I believe the name of one of these gentlemen is Garland
Of both
In-deed
But I might have known that, from the uncommon likeness. Extremely happy, I am sure, to have the honour of an introduction to two such gentlemen, although the occasion is a most painful one. One of you gentlemen has a servant called Kit
Both
Two Kits
Dear me
One Kit, sir
who is employed by both gentlemen. What of him
This of him, sir
That young man, sir, that I have felt unbounded and unlimited confidence in, and always behaved to as if he was my equal -- that young man has this morning committed a robbery in my office, and been taken almost in the fact
This must be some falsehood
It is not possible
I'll not believe one word of it
Mr Witherden, sir, YOUR words are actionable, and if I was a man of low and mean standing, who couldn't afford to be slandered, I should proceed for damages. Hows'ever, sir, being what I am, I merely scorn such expressions. The honest warmth of the other gentleman I respect, and I'm truly sorry to be the messenger of such unpleasant news. I shouldn't have put myself in this painful position, I assure you, but that the lad himself desired to be brought here in the first instance, and I yielded to his prayers. Mr Chuckster, sir, will you have the goodness to tap at the window for the constable that's waiting in the coach
Is it not possible
that this note may have found its way into the hat by some accident,-- such as the removal of papers on the desk, for instance
It's very distressing
immensely distressing, I am sure. When he comes to be tried, I shall be very happy to recommend him to mercy on account of his previous good character. I did lose money before, certainly, but it doesn't quite follow that he took it. The presumption's against him -- strongly against him -- but we're Christians, I hope
I suppose
that no gentleman here can give evidence as to whether he's been flush of money of late, Do you happen to know, Sir
He has had money from time to time, certainly
But that, as he always told me, was given him by Mr Brass himself
Yes to be sure
You can bear me out in that, Sir
Eh
The money you know, the half-crowns, that you gave me -- from the lodger
Oh dear me
This is a bad case, I find; a very bad case indeed
What! Did you give him no money on account of anybody, Sir
I give him money, Sir
Oh, come you know, this is too barefaced. Constable, my good fellow, we had better be going
What
Does he deny that he did? ask him, somebody, pray. Ask him to tell you whether he did or not
Did you, sir
I tell you what, gentlemen
he'll not serve his case this way, and really, if you feel any interest in him, you had better advise him to go upon some other tack. Did I, sir? Of course I never did
Gentlemen
Master, Mr Abel, Mr Witherden, every one of you -- he did it! What I have done to offend him, I don't know, but this is a plot to ruin me. Mind, gentlemen, it's a plot, and whatever comes of it, I will say with my dying breath that he put that note in my hat himself! Look at him, gentlemen! see how he changes colour. Which of us looks the guilty person -- he, or I
You hear him, gentlemen
you hear him. Now, does this case strike you as assuming rather a black complexion, or does it not? Is it at all a treacherous case, do you think, or is it one of mere ordinary guilt? Perhaps, gentlemen, if he had not said this in your presence and I had reported it, you'd have held this to be impossible likewise, eh
in which case
though we certainly don't expect it -- nobody will be better pleased than we
Now then
come on
Where to, Sir
Wisitors
Now, ladies, ladies
I'd advise you not to waste time like this. It's allowanced here, you know. You mustn't let that child make that noise either. It's against all rules
I'm his poor mother, sir
and this is his brother, sir. Oh dear me, dear me
Well
It can't be helped you know. He ain't the only one in the same fix. You mustn't make a noise about it
Oh! my darling Kit
that I should see my poor boy here
You don't believe that I did what they accuse me of, mother dear
I believe it
I that never knew you tell a lie, or do a bad action from your cradle -- that have never had a moment's sorrow on your account, except it was the poor meals that you have taken with such good humour and content, that I forgot how little there was, when I thought how kind and thoughtful you were, though you were but a child!-- I believe it of the son that's been a comfort to me from the hour of his birth until this time, and that I never laid down one night in anger with! I believe it of you Kit
Why then, thank God
and I can bear it, mother! Come what may, I shall always have one drop of happiness in my heart when I think that you said that
this editor is a comical blade -- a funny dog
I have brought him a little something to eat
If you please, Sir, might he have it
Yes,-- he may have it. There's no rule against that. Give it to me when you go, and I'll take care he has it
No, but if you please sir -- don't be angry with me sir -- I am his mother, and you had a mother once -- if I might only see him eat a little bit, I should go away, so much more satisfied that he was all comfortable
Time's up
Now for the next party
This is Christopher Nubbles, isn't it, that come in last night for felony
Then here's your beer
What are you looking at? There an't a discharge in it
I beg your pardon
Who sent it me
Why, your friend
You're to have it every day, he says. And so you will, if he pays for it
My friend
You're all abroad, seemingly
There's his letter. Take hold
gainst the ills of mortality. Talk of the cordial that sparkled for Helen! HER cup was a fiction, but this is reality (Barclay and Co
R. S
It must be Mr Richard Swiveller. Well, its very kind of him, and I thank him heartily
A treacherous place to pick one's steps in, of a dark night
I believe that boy strews the ground differently every day, on purpose to bruise and maim one; unless his master does it with his own hands, which is more than likely. I hate to come to this place without Sally. She's more protection than a dozen men
What's he about, I wonder
drinking, I suppose,-- making himself more fiery and furious, and heating his malice and mischievousness till they boil. I'm always afraid to come here by myself, when his account's a pretty large one. I don't believe he'd mind throttling me, and dropping me softly into the river when the tide was at its strongest, any more than he'd mind killing a rat -- indeed I don't know whether he wouldn't consider it a pleasant joke. Hark! Now he's singing
The worthy magistrate, after remarking that the prisoner would find some difficulty in persuading a jury to believe his tale, committed him to take his trial at the approaching sessions; and directed the customary recognisances to be entered into for the pros-e-cu-tion
He's dreadfully imprudent
Horribly imprudent. I wish he was dumb. I wish he was deaf. I wish he was blind. Hang him
I wish he was dead
Come in
How do you do to-night sir
Ha ha ha! How do you do sir? Oh dear me, how very whimsical! Amazingly whimsical to be sure
Come in, you fool
and don't stand there shaking your head and showing your teeth. Come in, you false witness, you perjurer, you suborner of evidence, come in
He has the richest humour
the most amazing vein of comicality! But isn't it rather injudicious, sir
What
What, Judas
Judas
He has such extraordinary spirits! His humour is so extremely playful! Judas! Oh yes -- dear me, how very good! Ha ha ha
Do you know it
Do you see the likeness
Eh
Now I look at it again, I fancy I see a -- yes, there certainly is something in the smile that reminds me of -- and yet upon my word I
Is it like Kit -- is it his picture, his image, his very self
Is it the exact model and counterpart of the dog -- is it -- is it -- is it
Excellent indeed
He he! Oh, very good Sir. You know
he's quite a remarkable man -- quite
Sit down
I bought the dog yesterday. I've been screwing gimlets into him, and sticking forks in his eyes, and cutting my name on him. I mean to burn him at last
Ha ha
Extremely entertaining, indeed
Come here
What's injudicious, hey
Nothing Sir -- nothing. Scarcely worth mentioning Sir; but I thought that song -- admirably humorous in itself you know -- was perhaps rather
Yes
rather what
Just bordering, or as one may say remotely verging, upon the confines of injudiciousness perhaps, Sir
Why
Why, you know, sir
the fact is, sir, that any allusion to these little combinings together, of friends, for objects in themselves extremely laudable, but which the law terms conspiracies, are -- you take me, sir?-- best kept snug and among friends, you know
Eh
What do you mean
Cautious, exceedingly cautious, very right and proper
Mum, sir, even here -- my meaning, sir, exactly
YOUR meaning exactly, you brazen scarecrow,-- what's your meaning
Why do you talk to me of combining together? Do I combine? Do I know anything about your combinings
No no, sir -- certainly not; not by any means
if you so wink and nod at me
I'll spoil the expression of your monkey's face, I will
Don't put yourself out of the way I beg, sir
You're quite right, sir, quite right. I shouldn't have mentioned the subject, sir. It's much better not to. You're quite right, sir. Let us change it, if you please. You were asking, sir, Sally told me, about our lodger. He has not returned, sir
No
Why not
Why, sir
he -- dear me, Mr Quilp, sir
What's the matter
You have forgotten the water, sir
And -- excuse me, sir -- but it's burning hot
But first
have a drop yourself -- a nice drop -- a good, warm, fiery drop
Why, sir
if there was such a thing as a mouthful of water that could be got without trouble
There's no such thing to be had here
Water for lawyers! Melted lead and brimstone, you mean, nice hot blistering pitch and tar -- that's the thing for them -- eh, Brass, eh
Ha ha ha
Oh very biting! and yet it's like being tickled -- there's a pleasure in it too, sir
Drink that
Toss it off, don't leave any heeltap, scorch your throat and be happy
beautiful indeed
The lodger
what about him
He is still, sir
stopping with the Garland family. He has only been home once, Sir, since the day of the examination of that culprit. He informed Mr Richard, sir, that he couldn't bear the house after what had taken place; that he was wretched in it; and that he looked upon himself as being in a certain kind of way the cause of the occurrence.-- A very excellent lodger Sir. I hope we may not lose him
Yah
Never thinking of anybody but yourself -- why don't you retrench then -- scrape up, hoard, economise, eh
Why, sir
upon my word I think Sarah's as good an economiser as any going. I do indeed, Mr Quilp
Moisten your clay, wet the other eye, drink, man
You took a clerk to oblige me
Delighted, sir, I am sure, at any time
Yes, Sir, I did
Then now you may discharge him
There's a means of retrenchment for you at once
Discharge Mr Richard, sir
Have you more than one clerk, you parrot, that you ask the question? Yes
Upon my word, Sir
I wasn't prepared for this
How could you be
when I wasn't? How often am I to tell you that I brought him to you that I might always have my eye on him and know where he was -- and that I had a plot, a scheme, a little quiet piece of enjoyment afoot, of which the very cream and essence was, that this old man and grandchild (who have sunk underground I think) should be, while he and his precious friend believed them rich, in reality as poor as frozen rats
I quite understood that, sir
Thoroughly
Well, Sir
and do you understand now, that they're not poor -- that they can't be, if they have such men as your lodger searching for them, and scouring the country far and wide
Of course I do, Sir
Of course you do
Of course do you understand then, that it's no matter what comes of this fellow? of course do you understand that for any other purpose he's no man for me, nor for you
I have frequently said to Sarah, sir
that he was of no use at all in the business. You can't put any confidence in him, sir. If you'll believe me I've found that fellow, in the commonest little matters of the office that have been trusted to him, blurting out the truth, though expressly cautioned. The aggravation of that chap sir, has exceeded anything you can imagine, it has indeed. Nothing but the respect and obligation I owe to you, sir
Practical, sir, practical
but still extremely pleasant -- immensely so
Hearken to me, will you
or I'll be a little more pleasant, presently. There's no chance of his comrade and friend returning. The scamp has been obliged to fly, as I learn, for some knavery, and has found his way abroad. Let him rot there
Certainly, sir. Quite proper.-- Forcible
Extremely forcible
I hate him
and have always hated him, for family reasons. Besides, he was an intractable ruffian; otherwise he would have been of use. This fellow is pigeon-hearted and light-headed. I don't want him any longer. Let him hang or drown -- starve -- go to the devil
By all means, sir
When would you wish him, sir, to -- ha, ha!-- to make that little excursion
When this trial's over
As soon as that's ended, send him about his business
It shall be done, sir
by all means. It will be rather a blow to Sarah, sir, but she has all her feelings under control. Ah, Mr Quilp, I often think, sir, if it had only pleased Providence to bring you and Sarah together, in earlier life, what blessed results would have flowed from such a union! You never saw our dear father, sir?-- A charming gentleman. Sarah was his pride and joy, sir. He would have closed his eyes in bliss, would Foxey, Mr Quilp, if he could have found her such a partner. You esteem her, sir
I love her
You're very good, Sir
I am sure. Is there any other order, sir, that I can take a note of, besides this little matter of Mr Richard
None
Let us drink the lovely Sarah
If we could do it in something, sir, that wasn't quite boiling
perhaps it would be better. I think it will be more agreeable to Sarah's feelings, when she comes to hear from me of the honour you have done her, if she learns it was in liquor rather cooler than the last, Sir
Good bye, Sir
Good bye, Sir
Won't you stop all night
Do stop all night
I couldn't indeed, Sir
If you'd have the goodness to show me a light, so that I may see my way across the yard, sir
To be sure
Be careful how you go, my dear friend. Be sure to pick your way among the timber, for all the rusty nails are upwards. There's a dog in the lane. He bit a man last night, and a woman the night before, and last Tuesday he killed a child -- but that was in play. Don't go too near him
Which side of the road is he, sir
He lives on the right hand
but sometimes he hides on the left, ready for a spring. He's uncertain in that respect. Mind you take care of yourself. I'll never forgive you if you don't. There's the light out -- never mind -- you know the way -- straight on
I am for the prisoner, my Lord
And I'm against him, my Lord
Here I am -- full of evidence -- Tap me
Mr Swiveller
Pray sir, where did you dine yesterday
Aye, sir, where did you dine yesterday -- was it near here, sir
To be sure. Yes. just over the way
Alone, sir
says Mr Swiveller, who has not caught the question --'Alone, sir
did you dine alone? Did you treat anybody, sir? Come
says Mr Swiveller with a smile
says Mr Brass's gentleman, with a nod of the head, insinuating that the dock is Mr Swiveller's legitimate sphere of action; 'and attend to me. You were waiting about here, yesterday, in expectation that this trial was coming on. You dined over the way. You treated somebody. Now, was that somebody brother to the prisoner at the bar
Yes or No, sir
But will you allow me --' --'Yes or No, sir
Yes it was
And a very pretty witness YOU are
Really Mr Garland
for a person who has arrived at your time of life, you are, to say the least of it, singularly indiscreet, I think
He never did it
Well
I won't contradict you. It's all one, now, whether he did it or not
Some friend will rise up for us, mother
I am sure. If not now, before long. My innocence will come out, mother, and I shall be brought back again; I feel confidence in that. You must teach little Jacob and the baby how all this was, for if they thought I had ever been dishonest, when they grew old enough to understand, it would break my heart to know it, if I was thousands of miles away.-- Oh! is there no good gentleman here, who will take care of her
change
Mr Richard, sir
Good evening
Money
Ha ha! To be sure, Mr Richard, to be sure, sir. All men must live. You haven't change for a five-pound note, have you sir
No
Oh
here's the very sum. That saves trouble. You're very welcome I'm sure.-- Mr Richard, sir
You needn't
trouble yourself to come back any more, Sir
Eh
You see, Mr Richard
the fact is, that a man of your abilities is lost, Sir, quite lost, in our dry and mouldy line. It's terrible drudgery -- shocking. I should say, now, that the stage, or the -- or the army, Mr Richard -- or something very superior in the licensed victualling way -- was the kind of thing that would call out the genius of such a man as you. I hope you'll look in to see us now and then. Sally, Sir, will be delighted I'm sure. She's extremely sorry to lose you, Mr Richard, but a sense of her duty to society reconciles her. An amazing creature that, sir! You'll find the money quite correct, I think. There's a cracked window sir, but I've not made any deduction on that account. Whenever we part with friends, Mr Richard, let us part liberally. A delightful sentiment, sir
I'm dreaming
that's clear. When I went to bed, my hands were not made of egg-shells; and now I can almost see through 'em. If this is not a dream, I have woke up, by mistake, in an Arabian Night, instead of a London one. But I have no doubt I'm asleep. Not the least
Very remarkable
I never dreamt such a real cough as that before. I don't know, indeed, that I ever dreamt either a cough or a sneeze. Perhaps it's part of the philosophy of dreams that one never does. There's another -- and another -- I say!-- I'm dreaming rather fast
Queerer still
I came to bed rather plump than otherwise, and now there's nothing to lay hold of. I'll take another survey
It's an Arabian Night; that's what it is
I'm in Damascus or Grand Cairo. The Marchioness is a Genie, and having had a wager with another Genie about who is the handsomest young man alive, and the worthiest to be the husband of the Princess of China, has brought me away, room and all, to compare us together. Perhaps
the Princess may be still -- No, she's gone
Two for his heels
Arabian Night, certainly
they always clap their hands instead of ringing the bell. Now for the two thousand black slaves, with jars of jewels on their heads
so glad, she didn't know what to do
Marchioness
be pleased to draw nearer. First of all, will you have the goodness to inform me where I shall find my voice; and secondly, what has become of my flesh
I begin to infer, from your manner, and these appearances, Marchioness
that I have been ill
You just have
And haven't you been a talking nonsense
Oh
Very ill, Marchioness, have I been
Dead, all but
I never thought you'd get better. Thank Heaven you have
Three weeks to-morrow
Three what
Weeks
three long, slow weeks
Marchioness
how's Sally
What, haven't you seen her lately
Seen her
Bless you, I've run away
And where do you live, Marchioness
Live
Here
Oh
And so
you have run away
Yes
and they've been a tizing of me
Been -- I beg your pardon
what have they been doing
Been a tizing of me -- tizing you know -- in the newspapers
Aye, aye
advertising
Tell me
how it was that you thought of coming here
Why, you see
when you was gone, I hadn't any friend at all, because the lodger he never come back, and I didn't know where either him or you was to be found, you know. But one morning, when I was
Was near a keyhole
Well then
when I was near the office keyhole -- as you see me through, you know -- I heard somebody saying that she lived here, and was the lady whose house you lodged at, and that you was took very bad, and wouldn't nobody come and take care of you. Mr Brass, he says, "It's no business of mine," he says; and Miss Sally, she says, "He's a funny chap, but it's no business of mine;" and the lady went away, and slammed the door to, when she went out, I can tell you. So I run away that night, and come here, and told 'em you was my brother, and they believed me, and I've been here ever since
This poor little Marchioness has been wearing herself to death
No I haven't
not a bit of it. Don't you mind about me. I like sitting up, and I've often had a sleep, bless you, in one of them chairs. But if you could have seen how you tried to jump out o' winder, and if you could have heard how you used to keep on singing and making speeches, you wouldn't have believed it -- I'm so glad you're better, Mr Liverer
Liverer indeed
It's well I am a liverer. I strongly suspect I should have died, Marchioness, but for you
The doctor
said you was to be kept quite still, and there was to be no noise nor nothing. Now, take a rest, and then we'll talk again. I'll sit by you, you know. If you shut your eyes, perhaps you'll go to sleep. You'll be all the better for it, if you do
Just gone half after six
Marchioness
what has become of Kit
Has he gone
his mother -- how is she,-- what has become of her
But, if I thought
that you'd keep quiet, and not put yourself into another fever, I could tell you -- but I won't now
Yes, do
It will amuse me
Oh! would it though
I know better than that. Wait till you're better and then I'll tell you
Oh there's no worst in it
It hasn't anything to do with you
Has it anything to do with -- is it anything you heard through chinks or keyholes -- and that you were not intended to hear
Yes
In -- in Bevis Marks
Conversations between Brass and Sally
Yes
But if you begin to do that
I'll leave off. And so I tell you
You can't leave off, till you have gone on
And do go on, there's a darling. Speak, sister, speak. Pretty Polly say. Oh tell me when, and tell me where, pray Marchioness, I beseech you
Well! Before I run away, I used to sleep in the kitchen -- where we played cards, you know. Miss Sally used to keep the key of the kitchen door in her pocket, and she always come down at night to take away the candle and rake out the fire. When she had done that, she left me to go to bed in the dark, locked the door on the outside, put the key in her pocket again, and kept me locked up till she come down in the morning -- very early I can tell you -- and let me out. I was terrible afraid of being kept like this, because if there was a fire, I thought they might forget me and only take care of themselves you know. So, whenever I see an old rusty key anywhere, I picked it up and tried if it would fit the door, and at last I found in the dust cellar a key that did fit it
They kept me very short
Oh! you can't think how short they kept me! So I used to come out at night after they'd gone to bed, and feel about in the dark for bits of biscuit, or sangwitches that you'd left in the office, or even pieces of orange peel to put into cold water and make believe it was wine. Did you ever taste orange peel and water
If you make believe very much, it's quite nice
but if you don't, you know, it seems as if it would bear a little more seasoning, certainly. Well, sometimes I used to come out after they'd gone to bed, and sometimes before, you know; and one or two nights before there was all that precious noise in the office -- when the young man was took, I mean -- I come upstairs while Mr Brass and Miss Sally was a-sittin' at the office fire; and I tell you the truth, that I come to listen again, about the key of the safe
There was him and her
here it is -- Quilp's own five-pound note. We'll agree that way, then," he says. "Kit's coming to-morrow morning, I know. While he's up-stairs, you'll get out of the way, and I'll clear off Mr Richard. Having Kit alone, I'll hold him in conversation, and put this property in his hat. I'll manage so, besides," he says, 'that Mr Richard shall find it there, and be the evidence. And if that don't get Christopher out of Mr Quilp's way, and satisfy Mr Quilp's grudges," he says, "the Devil's in it." Miss Sally laughed, and said that was the plan, and as they seemed to be moving away, and I was afraid to stop any longer, I went down-stairs again.-- There
How could it be
I was almost afraid to think about it, and hoped the young man would be let off. When I heard 'em say they had found him guilty of what he didn't do, you was gone, and so was the lodger -- though I think I should have been frightened to tell him, even if he'd been there. Ever since I come here, you've been out of your senses, and what would have been the good of telling you then
Marchioness
if you'll do me the favour to retire for a few minutes and see what sort of a night it is, I'll get up
You mustn't think of such a thing
I must indeed
Whereabouts are my clothes
Oh, I'm so glad -- you haven't got any
Ma'am
I've been obliged to sell them, every one, to get the things that was ordered for you. But don't take on about that
You're too weak to stand, indeed
I am afraid
that you're right. What ought I to do! what is to be done
I suppose
I suppose there's nothing left -- not so much as a waistcoat even
No, nothing
It's embarrassing
in case of fire -- even an umbrella would be something -- but you did quite right, dear Marchioness. I should have died without you
Woa then
Oh! you're a precious creatur
I wish I had the rewarding of you -- I do
What has he been doing
He's enough to fret a man's heart out
He is the most wicious rascal -- Woa then, will you
He'll never stand still, if you call him names
He's a very good fellow if you know how to manage him. This is the first time he has been out, this long while, for he has lost his old driver and wouldn't stir for anybody else, till this morning. The lamps are right, are they? That's well. Be here to take him to-morrow, if you please. Good night
I say, Sir
God bless me, what is this
Don't be frightened, Sir
Oh I've run such a way after you
What do you want with me
How did you come here
I got in behind
Oh please drive on, sir -- don't stop -- and go towards the City, will you? And oh do please make haste, because it's of consequence. There's somebody wants to see you there. He sent me to say would you come directly, and that he knowed all about Kit, and could save him yet, and prove his innocence
What do you tell me, child
The truth, upon my word and honour I do. But please to drive on -- quick, please! I've been such a time gone, he'll think I'm lost
See! It's the room up there
Come
An't it nice to see him lying there so quiet
Oh! you'd say it was, if you had only seen him two or three days ago
Why, how is this
You have been ill
Very
Nearly dead. You might have chanced to hear of your Richard on his bier, but for the friend I sent to fetch you. Another shake of the hand, Marchioness, if you please. Sit down, Sir
I have sent for you, Sir
but she told you on what account
She did. I am quite bewildered by all this. I really don't know what to say or think
You'll say that presently
Marchioness, take a seat on the bed, will you? Now, tell this gentleman all that you told me; and be particular. Don't you speak another word, Sir
You have heard it all, and you'll not forget it. I'm too giddy and too queer to suggest anything; but you and your friends will know what to do. After this long delay, every minute is an age. If ever you went home fast in your life, go home fast to-night. Don't stop to say one word to me, but go. She will be found here, whenever she's wanted; and as to me, you're pretty sure to find me at home, for a week or two. There are more reasons than one for that. Marchioness, a light! If you lose another minute in looking at me, sir, I'll never forgive you
That's right
and hearty of him; and I honour him from this time. But get some supper and a mug of beer, for I am sure you must be tired. Do have a mug of beer. It will do me as much good to see you take it as if I might drink it myself
Strew then, oh strew, a bed of rushes. Here will we stay, till morning blushes. Good night, Marchioness
And that is
that you answer me this question truly, before I take a bit or drop. Is it too late
For completing the work you began so well last night
No. Set your mind at rest on that point. It is not, I assure you
You see this fellow -- can I help this
No. Certainly not
Gentlemen
you'll excuse me. Men who have been brought so low as I have been, are easily fatigued. I am fresh again now, and fit for talking. We're short of chairs here, among other trifles, but if you'll do me the favour to sit upon the bed
What can we do for you
if you could make the Marchioness yonder, a Marchioness, in real, sober earnest
I'd thank you to get it done off-hand. But as you can't, and as the question is not what you will do for me, but what you will do for somebody else who has a better claim upon you, pray sir let me know what you intend doing
It's chiefly on that account that we have come just now
for you will have another visitor presently. We feared you would be anxious unless you knew from ourselves what steps we intended to take, and therefore came to you before we stirred in the matter
Gentlemen
I thank you. Anybody in the helpless state that you see me in, is naturally anxious. Don't let me interrupt you, sir
Then, you see, my good fellow
that while we have no doubt whatever of the truth of this disclosure, which has so providentially come to light
Meaning hers
Meaning hers, of course. While we have no doubt of that, or that a proper use of it would procure the poor lad's immediate pardon and liberation, we have a great doubt whether it would, by itself, enable us to reach Quilp, the chief agent in this villany. I should tell you that this doubt has been confirmed into something very nearly approaching certainty by the best opinions we have been enabled, in this short space of time, to take upon the subject. You'll agree with us, that to give him even the most distant chance of escape, if we could help it, would be monstrous. You say with us, no doubt, if somebody must escape, let it be any one but he
Yes
certainly. That is if somebody must -- but upon my word, I'm unwilling that Anybody should. Since laws were made for every degree, to curb vice in others as well as in me -- and so forth you know -- doesn't it strike you in that light
When she finds how much we know, and how we know it
and that she is clearly compromised already, we are not without strong hopes that we may be enabled through her means to punish the other two effectually. If we could do that, she might go scot-free for aught I cared
Pray ma'am
take a chair
You did not expect to see me
I didn't think much about it
I supposed it was business of some kind or other. If it's about the apartments, of course you'll give my brother regular notice, you know -- or money. That's very easily settled. You're a responsible party, and in such a case lawful money and lawful notice are pretty much the same
I am obliged to you for your good opinion
and quite concur in these sentiments. But that is not the subject on which I wish to speak with you
Oh
Then just state the particulars, will you? I suppose it's professional business
Why, it is connected with the law, certainly
Very well
My brother and I are just the same. I can take any instructions, or give you any advice
As there are other parties interested besides myself
we had better confer together. Miss Brass is here, gentlemen
Miss Brass
we professional people understand each other, and, when we choose, can say what we have to say, in very few words. You advertised a runaway servant, the other day
Well
what of that
She is found, ma'am
She is found
Who found her
We did, ma'am -- we three. Only last night, or you would have heard from us before
And now I have heard from you
what have you got to say? Something you have got into your heads about her, of course. Prove it, will you -- that's all. Prove it. You have found her, you say. I can tell you (if you don't know it) that you have found the most artful, lying, pilfering, devilish little minx that was ever born.-- Have you got her here
No, she is not here at present
But she is quite safe
Ha
she shall be safe enough from this time, I warrant you
I hope so
Did it occur to you for the first time, when you found she had run away, that there were two keys to your kitchen door
Two keys
one of which gave her the opportunities of roaming through the house at nights when you supposed her fast locked up, and of overhearing confidential consultations -- among others, that particular conference, to be described to-day before a justice, which you will have an opportunity of hearing her relate; that conference which you and Mr Brass held together, on the night before that most unfortunate and innocent young man was accused of robbery, by a horrible device of which I will only say that it may be characterised by the epithets which you have applied to this wretched little witness, and by a few stronger ones besides
Come, come, Miss Brass
you have great command of feature, but you feel, I see, that by a chance which never entered your imagination, this base design is revealed, and two of its plotters must be brought to justice. Now, you know the pains and penalties you are liable to, and so I need not dilate upon them, but I have a proposal to make to you. You have the honour of being sister to one of the greatest scoundrels unhung; and, if I may venture to say so to a lady, you are in every respect quite worthy of him. But connected with you two is a third party, a villain of the name of Quilp, the prime mover of the whole diabolical device, who I believe to be worse than either. For his sake, Miss Brass, do us the favour to reveal the whole history of this affair. Let me remind you that your doing so, at our instance, will place you in a safe and comfortable position -- your present one is not desirable -- and cannot injure your brother; for against him and you we have quite sufficient evidence (as you hear) already. I will not say to you that we suggest this course in mercy (for, to tell you the truth, we do not entertain any regard for you), but it is a necessity to which we are reduced, and I recommend it to you as a matter of the very best policy. Time
in a business like this, is exceedingly precious. Favour us with your decision as speedily as possible, ma'am
I am to accept or reject at once, am I
Yes
Excuse me
Wait a bit
Sarah
hold your tongue if you please, and let me speak. Gentlemen, if I could express the pleasure it gives me to see three such men in a happy unity of feeling and concord of sentiment, I think you would hardly believe me. But though I am unfortunate -- nay, gentlemen, criminal, if we are to use harsh expressions in a company like this -- still, I have my feelings like other men. I have heard of a poet, who remarked that feelings were the common lot of all. If he could have been a pig, gentlemen, and have uttered that sentiment, he would still have been immortal
If you're not an idiot
hold your peace
Sarah, my dear
He shuns me
even when I would, as I may say, heap coals of fire upon his head. Well! Ah! But I am a falling house, and the rats (if I may be allowed the expression in reference to a gentleman I respect and love beyond everything) fly from me! Gentlemen -- regarding your conversation just now, I happened to see my sister on her way here, and, wondering where she could be going to, and being -- may I venture to say?-- naturally of a suspicious turn, followed her. Since then, I have been listening
If you're not mad
stop there, and say no more
Sarah, my dear
I thank you kindly, but will still proceed. Mr Witherden, sir, as we have the honour to be members of the same profession -- to say nothing of that other gentleman having been my lodger, and having partaken, as one may say, of the hospitality of my roof -- I think you might have given me the refusal of this offer in the first instance. I do indeed. Now, my dear Sir
suffer me to speak, I beg
If you will do me the favour
to look at this, you will naturally inquire, in your own minds, how did I get it. If you look from that, to my face, you will wonder what could have been the cause of all these scratches. And if from them to my hat, how it came into the state in which you see it. Gentlemen
to all these questions I answer -- Quilp
I say
that I answer to all these questions,-- Quilp -- Quilp, who deludes me into his infernal den, and takes a delight in looking on and chuckling while I scorch, and burn, and bruise, and maim myself -- Quilp, who never once, no never once, in all our communications together, has treated me otherwise than as a dog -- Quilp, whom I have always hated with my whole heart, but never so much as lately. He gives me the cold shoulder on this very matter as if he had had nothing to do with it, instead of being the first to propose it. I can't trust him. In one of his howling, raving, blazing humours, I believe he'd let it out, if it was murder, and never think of himself so long as he could terrify me. Now
What does all this lead to?-- what should you say it led me to, gentlemen?-- could you guess at all near the mark
To be short with you, then, it leads me to this. If the truth has come out, as it plainly has in a manner that there's no standing up against -- and a very sublime and grand thing is Truth, gentlemen, in its way, though like other sublime and grand things, such as thunder-storms and that, we're not always over and above glad to see it -- I had better turn upon this man than let this man turn upon me. It's clear to me that I am done for. Therefore, if anybody is to split, I had better be the person and have the advantage of it. Sarah, my dear, comparatively speaking you're safe. I relate these circumstances for my own profit
Now, gentlemen, I am not a man who does things by halves. Being in for a penny, I am ready, as the saying is, to be in for a pound. You must do with me what you please, and take me where you please. If you wish to have this in writing, we'll reduce it into manuscript immediately. You will be tender with me, I am sure. I am quite confident you will be tender with me. You are men of honour, and have feeling hearts. I yielded from necessity to Quilp, for though necessity has no law, she has her lawyers. I yield to you from necessity too; from policy besides; and because of feelings that have been a pretty long time working within me. Punish Quilp, gentlemen. Weigh heavily upon him. Grind him down. Tread him under foot. He has done as much by me, for many and many a day
And this
this is my brother, is it! This is my brother, that I have worked and toiled for, and believed to have had something of the man in him
Sarah, my dear
Yes, you pitiful dastard
I understand you. You feared that I should be beforehand with you. But do you think that I would have been enticed to say a word! I'd have scorned it, if they had tried and tempted me for twenty years
He he
You think so, Sarah, you think so perhaps; but you would have acted quite different, my good fellow. You will not have forgotten that it was a maxim with Foxey -- our revered father, gentlemen -- "Always suspect everybody." That's the maxim to go through life with! If you were not actually about to purchase your own safety when I showed myself, I suspect you'd have done it by this time. And therefore I've done it myself, and spared you the trouble as well as the shame. The shame, gentlemen
if there is any, is mine. It's better that a female should be spared it
Gentlemen
I will justify the tenderness with which I know I shall be treated; and as, without tenderness, I should, now that this discovery has been made, stand in the worst position of the three, you may depend upon it I will make a clean breast. Mr Witherden, sir, a kind of faintness is upon my spirits -- if you would do me the favour to ring the bell and order up a glass of something warm and spicy, I shall, notwithstanding what has passed, have a melancholy pleasure in drinking your good health. I had hoped
to have seen you three gentlemen, one day or another, with your legs under the mahogany in my humble parlour in the Marks. But hopes are fleeting. Dear me
As you are so much better
I may venture to communicate to you a piece of news which has come to me professionally
Certainly, sir. I hope it's not anything of a very disagreeable nature, though
if I thought it so, I should choose some better time for communicating it
Let me tell you, first, that my friends who have been here to-day, know nothing of it, and that their kindness to you has been quite spontaneous and with no hope of return. It may do a thoughtless, careless man, good, to know that
I have been making some inquiries about you
little thinking that I should find you under such circumstances as those which have brought us together. You are the nephew of Rebecca Swiveller, spinster, deceased, of Cheselbourne in Dorsetshire
Deceased
Deceased. If you had been another sort of nephew, you would have come into possession (so says the will, and I see no reason to doubt it) of five-and-twenty thousand pounds. As it is, you have fallen into an annuity of one hundred and fifty pounds a year; but I think I may congratulate you even upon that
Sir
you may. For, please God, we'll make a scholar of the poor Marchioness yet! And she shall walk in silk attire, and siller have to spare, or may I never rise from this bed again
Only me, Quilp
Only you
And what brings you here, you jade? How dare you approach the ogre's castle, eh
I have come with some news
Don't be angry with me
Is it good news, pleasant news, news to make a man skip and snap his fingers
Is the dear old lady dead
I don't know what news it is, or whether it's good or bad
Then she's alive
and there's nothing the matter with her. Go home again, you bird of evil note, go home
I have brought a letter
Toss it in at the window here, and go your ways
or I'll come out and scratch you
No, but please, Quilp -- do hear me speak
Please do
Speak then
Be quick and short about it. Speak, will you
It was left at our house this afternoon
by a boy who said he didn't know from whom it came, but that it was given to him to leave, and that he was told to say it must be brought on to you directly, for it was of the very greatest consequence.-- But please
please let me in. You don't know how wet and cold I am, or how many times I have lost my way in coming here through this thick fog. Let me dry myself at the fire for five minutes. I'll go away directly you tell me to, Quilp. Upon my word I will
I'm glad you're wet
I'm glad you're cold. I'm glad you lost your way. I'm glad your eyes are red with crying. It does my heart good to see your little nose so pinched and frosty
Oh Quilp
How cruel it is of you
Did she think I was dead
Did she think she was going to have all the money, and to marry somebody she liked? Ha ha ha! Did she
So! That little job being disposed of
I'll read my letter. Humph
I ought to know this writing. Beautiful Sally
Sammy has been practised upon, and has broken confidence. It has all come out. You had better not be in the way, for strangers are going to call upon you. They have been very quiet as yet, because they mean to surprise you. Don't lose time. I didn't. I am not to be found anywhere. If I was you, I wouldn't either. S. B., late of B. M
If I had him here. If I only had him here
Oh Quilp
what's the matter? Who are you angry with
I should drown him
Too easy a death, too short, too quick -- but the river runs close at hand. Oh! if I had him here! just to take him to the brink coaxingly and pleasantly,-- holding him by the button-hole -- joking with him,-- and, with a sudden push, to send him splashing down! Drowning men come to the surface three times they say. Ah! To see him those three times, and mock him as his face came bobbing up,-- oh, what a rich treat that would be
Quilp
what has gone wrong
Such a bloodless cur
I thought his cowardice and servility were the best guarantee for his keeping silence. Oh Brass, Brass -- my dear, good, affectionate, faithful, complimentary, charming friend -- if I only had you here
There
Take her home. Don't come here to-morrow, for this place will be shut up. Come back no more till you hear from me or see me. Do you mind
As for you
ask no questions about me, make no search for me, say nothing concerning me. I shall not be dead, mistress, and that'll comfort you. He'll take care of you
But, Quilp? What is the matter? Where are you going? Do say something more
I'll say that
and do that too, which undone and unsaid would be best for you, unless you go directly
Has anything happened
Oh! Do tell me that
Yes
No. What matter which? I have told you what to do. Woe betide you if you fail to do it, or disobey me by a hair's breadth. Will you go
I am going, I'll go directly; but
answer me one question first. Has this letter any connexion with dear little Nell? I must ask you that -- I must indeed, Quilp. You cannot think what days and nights of sorrow I have had through having once deceived that child. I don't know what harm I may have brought about, but, great or little, I did it for you, Quilp. My conscience misgave me when I did it. Do answer me this question, if you please
It will be a good night for travelling anonymously
Stay. We may look better here. This is too hospitable and free
The fence between this wharf and the next is easily climbed
There's a back lane, too, from there. That shall be my way out. A man need know his road well, to find it in this lovely place to-night. I need fear no unwelcome visitors while this lasts, I think
Oh Sampson
good worthy creature -- if I could but hug you! If I could only fold you in my arms, and squeeze your ribs, as I COULD squeeze them if I once had you tight -- what a meeting there would be between us! If we ever do cross each other again, Sampson, we'll have a greeting not easily to be forgotten, trust me. This time, Sampson, this moment when all had gone on so well, was so nicely chosen! It was so thoughtful of you, so penitent, so good. oh, if we were face to face in this room again, my white-livered man of law, how well contented one of us would be
There's Sally
the woman has spirit, determination, purpose -- was she asleep, or petrified? She could have stabbed him -- poisoned him safely. She might have seen this coming on. Why does she give me notice when it's too late? When he sat there,-- yonder there, over there,-- with his white face, and red head, and sickly smile, why didn't I know what was passing in his heart? It should have stopped beating, that night, if I had been in his secret, or there are no drugs to lull a man to sleep, or no fire to burn him
And this, like every other trouble and anxiety I have had of late times, springs from that old dotard and his darling child -- two wretched feeble wanderers! I'll be their evil genius yet. And you, sweet Kit, honest Kit, virtuous, innocent Kit, look to yourself. Where I hate, I bite. I hate you, my darling fellow, with good cause, and proud as you are to-night, I'll have my turn. -- What's that
So soon
And so eager! I am afraid I shall disappoint you. It's well I'm quite prepared. Sally, I thank you
If they would knock again
the sound might guide me! Come! Batter the gate once more
If I could find a wall or fence
I should know which way to turn. A good, black, devil's night this, to have my dear friend here! If I had but that wish, it might, for anything I cared, never be day again
Yes
Barbara
it's only Kit;' and Barbara says (with her eyes closed all the time) 'Oh! but is it him indeed
To be sure it is, my dear; there's nothing the matter now
she'll do now
Not at all
We have hardly had time to shake hands, Barbara
for shame
For a journey, sir
In company with me and my friend in the next room. Can you guess its purpose
Oh yes. I think you do already
Try
Miss Nell
Try again
The place of their retreat is indeed discovered
at last. And that is our journey's end
Happy she is, beyond all doubt
And well, I -- I trust she will be soon. She has been weak and ailing, as I learn, but she was better when I heard this morning, and they were full of hope. Sit you down, and you shall hear the rest
In the meantime
you have a great need of rest; for such a day as this would wear out the strongest man. Good night, and Heaven send our journey may have a prosperous ending
You have not been home so long, Christopher
You have not been home so long, that you need to be glad to go away again, I should think
But for such a purpose
To bring back Miss Nell! To see her again! Only think of that! I am so pleased too, to think that you will see her, Barbara, at last
You'll say she has the sweetest and beautifullest face you ever saw, I know
I'm sure you'll say that
What's the matter, Barbara
Nothing
Barbara
you're not cross with me
Why, I do
Of course I do
No, but Barbara
let us part friends. I was always thinking of you, in my troubles. I should have been a great deal more miserable than I was, if it hadn't been for you
I am telling you the truth, Barbara, upon my word, but not half so strong as I could wish
When I want you to be pleased to see Miss Nell, it's only because I like you to be pleased with what pleases me -- that's all. As to her, Barbara, I think I could almost die to do her service, but you would think so too, if you knew her as I do. I am sure you would
I have been used, you see
to talk and think of her, almost as if she was an angel. When I look forward to meeting her again, I think of her smiling as she used to do, and being glad to see me, and putting out her hand and saying, "It's my own old Kit," or some such words as those -- like what she used to say. I think of seeing her happy, and with friends about her, and brought up as she deserves, and as she ought to be. When I think of myself, it's as her old servant, and one that loved her dearly, as his kind, good, gentle mistress; and who would have gone -- yes, and still would go -- through any harm to serve her. Once, I couldn't help being afraid that if she came back with friends about her she might forget, or be ashamed of having known, a humble lad like me, and so might speak coldly, which would have cut me, Barbara, deeper than I can tell. But when I came to think again, I felt sure that I was doing her wrong in this; and so I went on, as I did at first, hoping to see her once more, just as she used to be. Hoping this, and remembering what she was, has made me feel as if I would always try to please her, and always be what I should like to seem to her if I was still her servant. If I'm the better for that -- and I don't think I'm the worse -- I am grateful to her for it, and love and honour her the more. That's the plain honest truth, dear Barbara, upon my word it is
Snobby's in this, I see, Sir
I thought he wasn't in the last trip because it was expected that his presence wouldn't be acceptable to the ancient buffalo
To whom, Sir
To the old gentleman
Our client prefers to take him now
There is no longer any need for that precaution, as my father's relationship to a gentleman in whom the objects of his search have full confidence, will be a sufficient guarantee for the friendly nature of their errand
Ah
Pon my soul, an amazing little creature
Good bye
Are you a good listener
Like most other men, I suppose
I can be, if I am interested; and if not interested, I should still try to appear so. Why do you ask
I have a short narrative on my lips
and will try you with it. It is very brief
There were once two brothers, who loved each other dearly. There was a disparity in their ages -- some twelve years. I am not sure but they may insensibly have loved each other the better for that reason. Wide as the interval between them was, however, they became rivals too soon. The deepest and strongest affection of both their hearts settled upon one object. 'The youngest -- there were reasons for his being sensitive and watchful -- was the first to find this out. I will not tell you what misery he underwent, what agony of soul he knew, how great his mental struggle was. He had been a sickly child. His brother, patient and considerate in the midst of his own high health and strength, had many and many a day denied himself the sports he loved, to sit beside his couch, telling him old stories till his pale face lighted up with an unwonted glow; to carry him in his arms to some green spot, where he could tend the poor pensive boy as he looked upon the bright summer day, and saw all nature healthy but himself; to be, in any way, his fond and faithful nurse. I may not dwell on all he did, to make the poor, weak creature love him, or my tale would have no end. But when the time of trial came, the younger brother's heart was full of those old days. Heaven strengthened it to repay the sacrifices of inconsiderate youth by one of thoughtful manhood. He left his brother to be happy. The truth never passed his lips, and he quitted the country, hoping to die abroad. 

'The elder brother married her. She was in Heaven before long, and left him with an infant daughter. 

'If you have seen the picture-gallery of any one old family, you will remember how the same face and figure -- often the fairest and slightest of them all -- come upon you in different generations; and how you trace the same sweet girl through a long line of portraits -- never growing old or changing -- the Good Angel of the race -- abiding by them in all reverses -- redeeming all their sins -- 

'In this daughter the mother lived again. You may judge with what devotion he who lost that mother almost in the winning, clung to this girl, her breathing image. She grew to womanhood, and gave her heart to one who could not know its worth. Well! Her fond father could not see her pine and droop. He might be more deserving than he thought him. He surely might become so, with a wife like her. He joined their hands, and they were married. 

'Through all the misery that followed this union; through all the cold neglect and undeserved reproach; through all the poverty he brought upon her; through all the struggles of their daily life, too mean and pitiful to tell, but dreadful to endure; she toiled on, in the deep devotion of her spirit, and in her better nature, as only women can. Her means and substance wasted; her father nearly beggared by her husband's hand, and the hourly witness (for they lived now under one roof) of her ill-usage and unhappiness,-- she never, but for him, bewailed her fate. Patient, and upheld by strong affection to the last, she died a widow of some three weeks' date, leaving to her father's care two orphans; one a son of ten or twelve years old; the other a girl -- such another infant child -- the same in helplessness, in age, in form, in feature -- as she had been herself when her young mother died. 

'The elder brother, grandfather to these two children, was now a broken man; crushed and borne down, less by the weight of years than by the heavy hand of sorrow. With the wreck of his possessions, he began to trade -- in pictures first, and then in curious ancient things. He had entertained a fondness for such matters from a boy, and the tastes he had cultivated were now to yield him an anxious and precarious subsistence. 

'The boy grew like his father in mind and person; the girl so like her mother, that when the old man had her on his knee, and looked into her mild blue eyes, he felt as if awakening from a wretched dream, and his daughter were a little child again. The wayward boy soon spurned the shelter of his roof, and sought associates more congenial to his taste. The old man and the child dwelt alone together. 

'It was then, when the love of two dead people who had been nearest and dearest to his heart, was all transferred to this slight creature; when her face, constantly before him, reminded him, from hour to hour, of the too early change he had seen in such another -- of all the sufferings he had watched and known, and all his child had undergone; when the young man's profligate and hardened course drained him of money as his father's had, and even sometimes occasioned them temporary privation and distress; it was then that there began to beset him, and to be ever in his mind, a gloomy dread of poverty and want. He had no thought for himself in this. His fear was for the child. It was a spectre in his house, and haunted him night and day. 

'The younger brother had been a traveller in many countries, and had made his pilgrimage through life alone. His voluntary banishment had been misconstrued, and he had borne (not without pain) reproach and slight for doing that which had wrung his heart, and cast a mournful shadow on his path. Apart from this, communication between him and the elder was difficult, and uncertain, and often failed; still, it was not so wholly broken off but that he learnt -- with long blanks and gaps between each interval of information -- all that I have told you now. 

'Then, dreams of their young, happy life -- happy to him though laden with pain and early care -- visited his pillow yet oftener than before; and every night, a boy again, he was at his brother's side. With the utmost speed he could exert, he settled his affairs; converted into money all the goods he had; and, with honourable wealth enough for both, with open heart and hand, with limbs that trembled as they bore him on, with emotion such as men can hardly bear and live, arrived one evening at his brother's door
The rest
I know
Yes
we may spare ourselves the sequel. You know the poor result of all my search. Even when by dint of such inquiries as the utmost vigilance and sagacity could set on foot, we found they had been seen with two poor travelling showmen -- and in time discovered the men themselves -- and in time, the actual place of their retreat; even then, we were too late. Pray God, we are not too late again
We cannot be
This time we must succeed
I have believed and hoped so
I try to believe and hope so still. But a heavy weight has fallen on my spirits, my good friend, and the sadness that gathers over me, will yield to neither hope nor reason
That does not surprise me
it is a natural consequence of the events you have recalled; of this dreary time and place; and above all, of this wild and dismal night. A dismal night, indeed! Hark! how the wind is howling
This is the place, gentlemen
Let us go on
and leave this good fellow to wake them, if he can. I cannot rest until I know that we are not too late. Let us go on, in the name of Heaven
'Tis hard weather this
and not a night to call me up in. My trade is not of that kind that I need be roused from bed. The business on which folks want me, will keep cold, especially at this season. What do you want
I would not have roused you, if I had known you were old and ill
Old
How do you know I am old? Not so old as you think, friend, perhaps. As to being ill, you will find many young people in worse case than I am. More's the pity that it should be so -- not that I should be strong and hearty for my years, I mean, but that they should be weak and tender. I ask your pardon though
if I spoke rather rough at first. My eyes are not good at night -- that's neither age nor illness; they never were -- and I didn't see you were a stranger
I am sorry to call you from your bed
but those gentlemen you may see by the churchyard gate, are strangers too, who have just arrived from a long journey, and seek the parsonage-house. You can direct us
I should be able to
for, come next summer, I have been sexton here, good fifty years. The right hand path, friend, is the road.-- There is no ill news for our good gentleman, I hope
What is that
Has my dream come true? Pray speak to me, whoever that is, awake and up
Poor boy
how goes it, darling
Has my dream come true
But no, that can never be! How could it be -- Oh! how could it
I guess his meaning
To bed again, poor boy
Ay
I knew it could never be, I felt too sure of that, before I asked! But, all to-night, and last night too, it was the same. I never fall asleep, but that cruel dream comes back
Try to sleep again
It will go in time
No no, I would rather that it staid -- cruel as it is, I would rather that it staid
I am not afraid to have it in my sleep, but I am so sad -- so very, very sad
What light is that
It is surely
in the ruin where they live. I see no other ruin hereabouts
They cannot
be waking at this late hour
Master
Dear master. Speak to me
This is another!-- How many of these spirits there have been to-night
No spirit, master. No one but your old servant. You know me now, I am sure? Miss Nell -- where is she -- where is she
They all say that
They all ask the same question. A spirit
Where is she
Oh tell me but that,-- but that, dear master
She is asleep -- yonder -- in there
Thank God
Aye! Thank God
I have prayed to Him, many, and many, and many a livelong night, when she has been asleep, He knows. Hark! Did she call
I heard no voice
You did. You hear her now. Do you tell me that you don't hear THAT
Nor that
Can any body know that voice so well as I? Hush! Hush
She is still asleep
You were right. She did not call -- unless she did so in her slumber. She has called to me in her sleep before now, sir; as I have sat by, watching, I have seen her lips move, and have known, though no sound came from them, that she spoke of me. I feared the light might dazzle her eyes and wake her, so I brought it here
She is sleeping soundly
but no wonder. Angel hands have strewn the ground deep with snow, that the lightest footstep may be lighter yet; and the very birds are dead, that they may not wake her. She used to feed them, Sir. Though never so cold and hungry, the timid things would fly from us. They never flew from her
Why dost thou lie so idle there, dear Nell
when there are bright red berries out of doors waiting for thee to pluck them! Why dost thou lie so idle there, when thy little friends come creeping to the door, crying "where is Nell -- sweet Nell?"-- and sob, and weep, because they do not see thee. She was always gentle with children. The wildest would do her bidding -- she had a tender way with them, indeed she had
Her little homely dress,-- her favourite
She will miss it when she wakes. They have hid it here in sport, but she shall have it -- she shall have it. I would not vex my darling, for the wide world's riches. See here -- these shoes -- how worn they are -- she kept them to remind her of our last long journey. You see where the little feet went bare upon the ground. They told me, afterwards, that the stones had cut and bruised them. She never told me that. No, no, God bless her! and, I have remembered since, she walked behind me, sir, that I might not see how lame she was -- but yet she had my hand in hers, and seemed to lead me still
She was not wont to be a lie-abed; but she was well then. We must have patience. When she is well again, she will rise early, as she used to do, and ramble abroad in the healthy morning time. I often tried to track the way she had gone, but her small footstep left no print upon the dewy ground, to guide me. Who is that? Shut the door. Quick!-- Have we not enough to do to drive away that marble cold, and keep her warm
Another night, and not in bed
I hoped you would be more mindful of your promise to me. Why do you not take some rest
Sleep has left me
It is all with her
It would pain her very much to know that you were watching thus
You would not give her pain
I am not so sure of that, if it would only rouse her. She has slept so very long. And yet I am rash to say so. It is a good and happy sleep -- eh
Indeed it is
Indeed, indeed, it is
That's well!-- and the waking
Happy too. Happier than tongue can tell, or heart of man conceive
He will hear me
I am sure. He will hear either me or you if we beseech him. She would, at all times
I will hear any voice she liked to hear
I love all she loved
I know you do
I am certain of it. Think of her; think of all the sorrows and afflictions you have shared together; of all the trials, and all the peaceful pleasures, you have jointly known
I do. I do. I think of nothing else
I would have you think of nothing else to-night -- of nothing but those things which will soften your heart, dear friend, and open it to old affections and old times. It is so that she would speak to you herself, and in her name it is that I speak now
You do well to speak softly
We will not wake her. I should be glad to see her eyes again, and to see her smile. There is a smile upon her young face now, but it is fixed and changeless. I would have it come and go. That shall be in Heaven's good time. We will not wake her
Let us not talk of her in her sleep, but as she used to be when you were Journeying together, far away -- as she was at home, in the old house from which you fled together -- as she was, in the old cheerful time
She was always cheerful -- very cheerful
There was ever something mild and quiet about her, I remember, from the first; but she was of a happy nature
We have heard you say
that in this and in all goodness, she was like her mother. You can think of, and remember her
Or even one before her
it is many years ago, and affliction makes the time longer, but you have not forgotten her whose death contributed to make this child so dear to you, even before you knew her worth or could read her heart? Say, that you could carry back your thoughts to very distant days -- to the time of your early life -- when, unlike this fair flower, you did not pass your youth alone. Say, that you could remember, long ago, another child who loved you dearly, you being but a child yourself. Say, that you had a brother, long forgotten, long unseen, long separated from you, who now, at last, in your utmost need came back to comfort and console you
To be to you what you were once to him
to repay your old affection, brother dear, by constant care, solicitude, and love; to be, at your right hand, what he has never ceased to be when oceans rolled between us; to call to witness his unchanging truth and mindfulness of bygone days, whole years of desolation. Give me but one word of recognition, brother -- and never -- no never, in the brightest moment of our youngest days, when, poor silly boys, we thought to pass our lives together -- have we been half as dear and precious to each other as we shall be from this time hence
If we were knit together then
what will be the bond between us now! Our love and fellowship began in childhood, when life was all before us, and will be resumed when we have proved it, and are but children at the last. As many restless spirits, who have hunted fortune, fame, or pleasure through the world, retire in their decline to where they first drew breath, vainly seeking to be children once again before they die, so we, less fortunate than they in early life, but happier in its closing scenes, will set up our rest again among our boyish haunts, and going home with no hope realised, that had its growth in manhood -- carrying back nothing that we brought away, but our old yearnings to each other -- saving no fragment from the wreck of life, but that which first endeared it -- may be, indeed, but children as at first. And even
even if what I dread to name has come to pass -- even if that be so, or is to be (which Heaven forbid and spare us!)-- still, dear brother, we are not apart, and have that comfort in our great affliction
You plot among you to wean my heart from her. You never will do that -- never while I have life. I have no relative or friend but her -- I never had -- I never will have. She is all in all to me. It is too late to part us now
When I die, put near me something that has loved the light, and had the sky above it always
It is not
it is not on earth that Heaven's justice ends. Think what earth is, compared with the World to which her young spirit has winged its early flight; and say, if one deliberate wish expressed in solemn terms above this bed could call her back to life, which of us would utter it
God bless you
God help him
Neighbour
how is it that the folks are nearly all in black to-day? I have seen a mourning ribbon or a piece of crape on almost every one
Why, you yourself -- you wear the colour too
Windows are closed that never used to be by day. What does this mean
We must go back
We must see what this is
No, no
Remember what you promised. Our way is to the old green lane, where she and I so often were, and where you found us, more than once, making those garlands for her garden. Do not turn back
Where is she now
Tell me that
Do you not know
Did we not leave her, but just now
True. True. It was her we left -- was it
Do you -- do you bury any one to-day
No, no! Who should we bury, Sir
Aye, who indeed! I say with you, who indeed
It is a holiday with us, good Sir
We have no work to do to-day
Why then, I'll go where you will
You're sure of what you tell me? You would not deceive me? I am changed, even in the little time since you last saw me
Go thy ways with him, Sir
and Heaven be with ye both
I am quite ready
Come, boy, come
She will come to-morrow
She will come to-morrow
Lord! Let her come to-morrow
she always laughs at Kit
</text>
